a oe
Pie “ iW an jl

ie am

ANNUAL REPORT OF THE
BOARD OF REGENTS OF

THE SMITHSONIAN
INSTITUTION

SHOWING THE

OPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES, AND
CONDITION_OF THE, INSTITUTION
PORE EWE ARP ENDED: JUNE 30

oil

(Publication 4062)

UNITED STATES
GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE
WASHINGTON : 1952

For sale by the Superintendent of Documents, U. S. Government Printing Office

Washington 25, D.C. - Price $3.00 (Buckram)
LETTER OF TRANSMITTAL

SMITHSONIAN InsTITUTION,
Washington, December 20, 1951.

To the Congress of the United States:

In accordance with section 5593 of the Revised Statutes of the
United States, I have the honor, on behalf of the Board of Regents,
to submit to Congress the annual report of the operations, expendi-
tures, and condition of the Smithsonian Institution for the year ended
June 30,1951. I have the honor to be,

Respectfully,
A. Wermore, Secretary.
II
CONTENTS

Bistrot cials tt teu n ess SS RE ths See a ee ee Le
ren erastAvemengn cs. -stwee Iie eee os PS Se eee k Sek
Rherkistablishmen tise at fee £22 owe aes eee a eke eee
Mines GardlOnm Nepeligns 5 Mamet en Cele ee sil Oh ek eset s
HANAN CeS oes es aE ee eect Se See eee oe ee eee ees
Ap PLOpriaiions = 4 0235. fem on se tee pee oe ee ce a ee
WESILOts =e ee ere see teen aye Ete 8 ee ee Ses
Eighteenth annual James Arthur lecture on the sun______-_-_-------_--
Opening of Adams-Clementicollection.<_©=22-2...._--.-_.-.---4 Laue
Mecmonalciiiss Sette ob ae telt on fi tyottert! 0 yt edt nn tad ener
Summary of the year’s activities of the branches of the Institution_______
PICA CONS 4 seep i Raabe ee ee 2 oe ee be) ote + Cope SA Sat,
MERU Voy Oe yak Sake oh artes ee Rey Raabe ty + faire So lnjaeres Wey
Appendix 1. Report on the United States National Museum__--_-____-_-_-
2. Report on the: National Gallery ofvArt<. 2 (4212/5) esives 52

3. Report on the National Collection of Fine Arts____________

4. @eport, on thes reer’ Gallery <of \Artsdi222o2s teas Sop eo

5. Report on the Bureau of American Ethnology_-__-_-_-_----

6. Report on the International Exchange Service___-_-_-_-_--

7. Report on the National Zoological Park____-______-_------

8. Report on the Astrophysical Observatory_-___-_-_---_----

9. Report on the National Air Museum-_--_-____-_-_-_-_------

10. Report on the Canal Zone Biological. Area____-__-_--------

(ie eRe pOruON. LOAM DrAty ss. Sere et ee a soot one

12 Sve porsO0 pUDMCAWONS 2— 22.2 =U S22 oe be hee oe

Report of the executive committee of the Board of Regents____---------

GENERAL APPENDIX

Stormy weather on the sun, by Walter Crr Roberts_________-__-_-----_-
An appraisal of cloud seeding as a means of increasing precipitation, by

PAG sya eT OMS GO eye ee eS a Ota ee
On Kinstein’s new theory, by Leopold Infeld__...-._........--.-..=-=--
Some results in the field of high-pressure physics, by P. W. Bridgman__--
Wittssomicseby.ATunUnis WoaUtene = ee 22) nee ee ee ee
The industrial applications of atomic energy, by M. L. Oliphant__--_-_--_~
Some prospects in the field of electronics, by V. K. Zworykin_--—----___-_-
The new chemical elements, by Saul Dushman_______________~_- Phe “al
The insides of metals, by Carl A. Zapffe__________--_- a es nee
Atomic weapons against cancer, by E. N. Lockard_____-__--------- wee.
Enzymes: Machine tools of the cellular factory, by B. A. Kilby-_ ----_-_--
mhevague ar America, by Austin H, Clark...........--.-=......----=

tg
fy
oa
o

NTA ONoR WwW WH <

163

175
189
199
213
223
235
245
253
263
273
287
IV ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

The mechanics of snakes, by Alfred Leutscher-------------------------
Hormones and the metamorphosis of insects, by V. B. Wigglesworth __---
Utilizing our soil resources for greater production, by Robert M. Salter___
The carbon—14 method of age determination, by Frank H. H. Roberts, Jr-
River Basin Surveys: The first five years of the Inter-Agency Archeological

and Paleontological Salvage Program, by Frank H. H. Roberts, Jr_- --
Artificial lighting in America: 1830-1860, by C. Malcolm Watkins- -_---_-
The development of the halftone screen, by Jacob Kainen---_----------
The artist and the atom, by Peter Blanc. ..=------+=-c222--<<=8222222

LIST OF PLATES

Secretary’s report:
Pistesubiies =. S25. N22 SU eS A ea Tee ee Leen spaeve
Platesion 4.2225 222s 28 one ei ho ie cert Sey oe

Stormy weather on the sun (W. O. Roberts): Plates 1, 2-_______._-____-

Ultrasonics (Laufer) ?Platesia3 -sda0 Sete te se orbs we ee Ba ee

Bapeironics:{Zmorykin) =, Plates 4 0. 292. oe ee DL ee

Insides of metals (Zapffe): Plates 1-4

Beaymen (cbs)? Plates: 0.80. fp yaseiok. fet ede eet

Pauns of America (Clark)s Plates I-82) 02 eit. @. ade a ae es

Mechanics of snakes (Leutscher): Plates 1-3___________.._.-_____-_--_--

Hormones and the metamorphosis of insects (Wigglesworth): Plates 1-4__

Utilizing our soil resources (Salter): Plate li_J.c22 0 eth selse see Lee

River Basin Surveys (F. H. H. Roberts): Plates 1-10

Artificial lighting (Watkins): Plates 1-8

Halftone screen.(Kainen) : Plates dal2oiwsses soph eR

Artist and the atom (Blanc): Plates 1-5

Page
303
313
319
335

351
385
409
427
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

June 30, 1951

Presiding Officer ex officio.— HArky S. TRUMAN, President of the United States.

Chancellor.—Frepv M. Vinson, Chief Justice of the United States.
Members of the Institution:
Harry S. TRUMAN, President of the United States.
ALBEN W. BARKLEY, Vice President of the United States.
Frep M. Vinson, Chief Justice of the United States.
Dean C. ACHESON, Secretary of State.
JOHN W. SNYDER, Secretary of the Treasury.
GEORGE C. MARSHALL, Secretary of Defense.
J. Howarp McGratu, Attorney General.
JESSE M. DonaLpson, Postmaster General.
Oscar CHAPMAN, Secretary of the Interior.
CHARLES F’, BRANNAN, Secretary of Agriculture.
CHARLES SAWYER, Secretary of Commerce.
Maovrice Torin, Secretary of Labor.
Regents of the Institution:
Frep M. Vinson, Chief Justice of the United States, Chancellor.
ALBEN W. Bark Ley, Vice President of the United States.
Wa LtTeER F.. Grorcr, Member of the Senate.
CLinton P. ANDERSON, Member of the Senate.
LEVERETT SALTONSTALL, Member of the Senate.
CLARENCE CANNON, Member of the House of Representatives.
JOHN M. Vorys, Member of the House of Representatives.
E. E. Cox, Member of the House of Representatives.
Harvey N. Davis, citizen of New Jersey.
ARTHUR H. Compton, citizen of Missouri.
VANNEVAR Bush, citizen of Washington, D. C.
Rosert V. FLEMING, citizen of Washington, D. C.
JEROME C. HuNSAKER, citizen of Massachusetts.
Executive Committee—RoseRtT V. FLEMING, chairman, WVANNEVAR
CLARENCE CANNON.
Secretary.— ALEXANDER WETMORE.
Assistant Secretaries —JoHN B. GRar, J. L. Keppy.
Administrative assistant to the Secretary.—Mrs. LoutsE M. PEARSON.
Treasurer.—J. D. Howarp.
Chief, editorial division—Paut H. OEHser.
Librarian.—Mrs. Leta F. CLarx.
Administrative accountant—Tuomas F. CLarkK.
Superintendent of buildings and labor.—L. L. OLIver.
Assistant Superintendent of buildings and labor.—CHARLES C. SINCLAIR.
Personnel Officer.—Jack B. NewMAN.
Chief, division of publications.—L. BE. CoMMERFORD.
Property, supply, and purchasing officer—ANTHONY W. WILDING.
Photographer.—F. B. KestNner.

BusH,
vI ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM

Director.—A. REMINGTON KELLOGG.

Chief, office of correspondence and records.—Hrtena M. WEIss.
Editor.—Joun S. LE.

Associate librarian.—Mrs. EvisasetH H. GAZIN.

SCIENTIFIC STAFF

DEPARTMENT OF ANTHROPOLOGY :
Frank M. Setzler, head curator; A. J. Andrews, exhibits preparator ;
W. W. Taylor, Jr., collaborator in anthropology.

Division of Archeology: Waido R. Wedel, curator ; Clifford Evans, Jr., asso-
ciate curator; Mrs. M. ©. Blaker, museum aide; J. Townsend Russell, Jr.,
honorary assistant curator of Old World archeology.

Division of Ethnology: H. W. Krieger, curator; J. C. Ewers, associate cu-
rator; C. M. Watkins, associate curator; R. A. Elder, Jr., assistant curator.

Division of Physical Anthropology: T. Dale Stewart, curator; M. T. Newman,
associate curator.

Associate in Anthropology: Neil M. Judd.

DEPARTMENT OF ZOOLOGY :
Waldo L. Schmitt, head curator; W. L. Brown, chief exhibits preparator ;
Mrs. Aime M. Aw], scientific illustrator.

Associates in Zoology: T. 8. Palmer, W. B. Marshall, A. G. Boéving, C. R.
Shoemaker, W. K. Fisher, Austin H. Clark.

Collaborator in Zoology: R. 8. Clark.

Collaborator in Biology: D. C. Graham.

Division of Mammals: D. H. Johnson, associate curator; H. W. Setzer, asso-
ciate curator; Charles O. Handley, Jr., assistant curator; A. Brazier How-
ell, collaborator; Gerrit S. Miller, Jr., associate.

Division of Birds: Herbert Friedmann, curator; H. G. Deignan, associate
curator; Alexander Wetmore, custodian of alcoholic and skeleton collec-
tions; Arthur C. Bent, collaborator.

Division of Reptiles and Amphibians: Doris M. Cochran, associate curator.

Division of Fishes: Leonard P. Schultz, curator; E. A. Lachner, associate
curator; W. T. Leapley, Robert H. Kanazawa, museum aides.

Division of Insects: Edward A. Chapin, curator; R. E. Blackwelder, asso-
ciate curator; W. D. Field, associate curator; O. L. Cartwright, associate
curator; Grace B. Glance, associate curator; Sophy Parfin, assistant cura-
tor; W. L. Jellison, collaborator.

Section of Hymenoptera: W. M. Mann, assistant custodian; Robert A.
Cushman, assistant custodian.

Section of Diptera: Charles T. Greene, assistant custodian.

Section of Coleoptera: L. L. Buchanan, specialist for Casey collection.

Division of Marine Invertebrates: ¥,. A. Chace, Jr., curator; P. L. Ig, asso-
ciate curator; Frederick M. Bayer, assistant curator; Mrs. L. W. Peterson,
museum aide; Mrs. Harriet Richardson Searle, collaborator; Max M. Ellis,
collaborator; J. Perey Moore, collaborator; Mrs. Mildred S. Wilson, col-
laborator in copepod Crustacea.

Division of Mollusks: Harald A, Rehder, curator; Joseph P. E. Morrison,
associate curator; R. Tucker Abbott, associate curator; W. J. Byas, mu-
seum aide; P. Bartsch, associate.

Section of Helminthological Collections: Benjamin Schwartz, collabo-
rator.

-
SECRETARY’S REPORT Vil

DEPARTMENT OF BOTANY (NATIONAL HERBARIUM) :

Jason R. Swallen, head curator.

Division of Phanerogams: A. C. Smith, curator; E. C. Leonard, associate
curator; HE. H. Walker, associate curator; Lyman B. Smith, associate
curator; Velva E. Rudd, assistant curator; EH. P. Killip, research associate.

Division of Ferns: C. V. Morton, curator.

Division of Grasses: Ernest R. Sohns, associate curator; Agnes Chase, F. A.
McClure, research associates.

Division of Cryptogams: C. V. Morton, acting curator; Paul §. Conger, asso-
ciate curator; John A. Stevenson, custodian of C. G. Lloyd mycological
collections and honorary curator of Fungi; W. T. Swingle, custodian of
Higher Algae; David Fairchild, custodian of Lower Fungi.

DEPARTMENT OF GEOLOGY :

W. F. Foshag, head curator; J. H. Benn, museum aide; Jessie G. Beach,
aide.

Division of Mineralogy and Petrology: W. F. Foshag, acting curator; E. P.
Henderson, associate curator; G. S. Switzer, associate curator; F. E.
Holden, museum technician; Frank L. Hess, custodian of rare metals and
rare earths.

Division of Invertebrate Paleontology and Paleobotany: Gustav A. Cooper,
curator; A. R. Loeblich, Jr., associate curator; David Nicol, associate
curator; Arthur L. Bowsher, associate curator; W. T. Allen, museum aide;
J. Brookes Knight, research associate in paleontology.

Section of Invertebrate Paleontology: T. W. Stanton, custodian of
Mesozoie collection; J. B. Reeside, Jr., custodian of Mesozoic collec-
tion; Preston Cloud, research associate.

Section of Paleobotany: Roland Brown, research associate.

Division of Vertebrate Paleontology: C. L. Gazin, curator; D. H. Dunkle, asso-
ciate curator; W. D. Crockett, scientific illustrator; F. L. Pearce, A. C.
Murray, exhibits preparators.

Associates in Mineralogy: W. T. Schaller, S. H. Perry, J. P. Marble.

Associates in Paleontology: T. W. Vaughan, R. S. Bassler.

DEPARTMENT OF ENGINEERING AND INDUSTRIES:

Frank A. Taylor, head curator.

Division of Engineering: Frank A. Taylor, acting curator.

Section of Civil and Mechanical Engineering: Frank A. Taylor, in charge.

Section of Marine Transportation: Frank A. Taylor, in charge.

Section of Electricity: K. M. Perry, associate curator.

Section of Physical Sciences and Measurement: Frank A. Taylor, in
charge.

Section of Land Transportation: S. H. Oliver, associate curator.

Division of Crafts and Industrics: W. N. Watkins, curator; E. A. Avery,

William E. Bridges, museum aides; F. L. Lewton, research associate.

Section of Textiles: Grace L. Rogers, assistant curator.

Section of Wood Technology: William N. Watkins, in charge.

Section of Manufactures: W. N. Watkins, in charge.

Section of Agricultural Industries: W. N. Watkins, in charge.
Division of Medicine and Public Health: G. S. Thomas, associate curator.
Division of Graphic Arts: J. Kainen, curator; E. J. Fite, assistant curator.

Section of Photography: A. J. Wedderburn, Jr., associate curator.
vill ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

DEPARTMENT OF HISTORY:
Mendel L. Peterson, acting head curator.
Divisions of Military History and Naval History: M. L. Peterson, associate
curator; J. R. Sirlouis, assistant curator.
Division of Civil History: Margaret W. Brown, assistant curator.
Division of Numismatics: 8. M. Mosher, associate curator.
Division of Philately: Franklin R. Bruns, Jr., assistant curator.

NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART

Trustees:
Frep M. Vinson, Chief Justice of the United States, Chairman.
DEAN CGC. Acueson, Secretary of State.
JouN W. Snyper, Secretary of the Treasury.
ALEXANDER WETMORE, Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.
Samvet H. Kress.
Ferpinanp LAMMOT BELIN.
DuNCAN PHILLIPS.
CHESTER DALE.
Paut MELLON.
President.—SAMUEL H. KREss.
Vice President.—FERDINAND LAMMOT BELIN.
Secretary-Treasurer.—HUNTINGTON CAIRNS.
Director.—Davip HB. FINLEY.
Administrator.—Harry A. McBrIpeE.
General Counsel. HUNTINGTON CAIRNS.
Chief Curator.—JOHN WALKER.
Assistant Director.—MACGILL JAMES.

NATIONAL COLLECTION OF FINE ARTS

Director—Tuomas M. Becas.

Curator of ceramics.—P. V. GARDNER.

Erhibits preparators—G. J. Martin, RowLANpD LYOon.
Assistant librarian.—ANNa M. Linx.

FREER GALLERY OF ART

Director.—A. G. WENLEY.

Assistant Director. —Joun A. Porr.

Assistant to the Director.—Burns A. Stupss.

Associate in Near Eastern art.—RicHARD ETTINGHAUSBEN.
Assistant in research. H anoxp P. Stern.

Research associate—Grace DUNHAM GUEST.

BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY

Director.—Matrurew W. StTrRiine.
Associate Director.—Franxk H. H. Rozerts, Jr.
Senior ethnologists—H. B. Cottins, Jr., Joun P. HaArRiIneton, W. N. FENTON.

Collaborators —Francres DeNsMorE, JoHN R. Swanton, A. J. WARING, Jr.
Editor—M. HELEN PALMER.

Assistant librarian.—Mir1aAM B. KetcHum.

Scientific illustrator.—B. G. ScHuMACHER.

Archives assistant—Mar W. Tucker.

INSTITUTE OF SocrAL ANTHROPOLOGY.—G. M. Foster, Jr., Director.
River Basin Surveys.—Frank H. H. Roserts, Jr., Director.
SECRETARY'S REPORT

INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGE SERVICE
Chief.—D. G. WILLIAMS.
NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK

Director.—WILLIAM M. MANN.
Assistant Director.—ERNEST P. WALKER.
Head Keeper.—F RANK QO. LOWE.

ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY

Director.—LoyaL B. ALDRICH.

Assistant librarian.—MAaRJORIE R. KUNZE.

DIVISION OF ASTROPHYSICAL RESEARCH :
Chief.—WILLIAM H. Hoover.
Instrument makers.—ANDREW KRAMER, D. G. Tapert, J. H. Harrison.
Research associate-—CHARLES G. ABBOT.

DIVISION OF RADIATION AND ORGANISMS:
Chief.—R. B. WiTHROW.
Plant physiologists.—LEONARD PrIcg, V. B. ELstap, AtIcgE P. WiTHROW.
Chemist.—EMANUEL HorowItTz.

NATIONAL AIR MUSEUM

Advisory Board:

ALEXANDER WETMORE, Chairman.

Mas. GEN. DonaLp L. Putt, U. 8S. Air Force.

Rear ApM. T. S. Comps, U. S. Navy.

GROVER LOENING.

WILLIAM B. Stout.
Assistant to the Secretary for the National Air Musewm.—Caru W. MITMAN.
Curator.—P. E. GARBER.
Associate curators.—R. C. STROBELL, W. M. MALE.
Museum aide——WintTHROP S. SHAW.

CANAL ZONE BIOLOGICAL AREA

Resident Manager.—JAMES ZETEK.

IX
- A 7
ik wn sek es i

Bias, EAPLOOIOON.. 1av torTAY

THO os wi
TiC!

ett iZ wilt

— ars iG. a
atiprerd) t¢pisiseb a
TAMERS] JAGIO YN saSTeA orev L- .
dere ~ ; - . aca yy
nora ait, i. i, \r3 SereT ct rman ween A—eoduee
a i ies ere j

we r 30
roansk 1D ee ~~ PIV IO2an

MP ut ne , Trak. [-
NTI W ORO,

. JAWOITAY;

,Wwrpeh ¥ coat q oe
ween ATY sulomeT a ge ae ee
dl @IARO wad Ret am

ean) A a ea, tae
 SRIMGOT wavont?-
avers Macy |
\ qian oat of taentetes euro
aaaaasd) Of I 4 oy He

DO. f{--~.¢ 2104 wining
Wine 2 somal —-, Shin as
JOIN: Gv

3 OR LAVA i

S aru

aL FOr

i

a

wwatl— en sao

2 Pat i
Wit Wi Perk. ey. D. ees
( Bhearoes: i¢ iy

ao oad sACrR
phea inte: = San 8 vie | <a

.

Awe ineogpah i

SO Rasctnte. ne Se

: As ‘une wi a ainhesk a. Me

-
‘
7
£

=
Report of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution
ALEXANDER WETMORE
For the Year Ended June 30, 1951

To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution:

GENTLEMEN: I have the honor to submit herewith my report
showing the activities and condition of the Smithsonian Institution
and its branches during the fiscal year ended June 30, 1951.

GENERAL STATEMENT

The lengthy discussions and debates among both scientists and
legislators that preceded the creation of the National Science Founda-
tion, on May 10, 1950, are reminiscent of the ten-year deliberations
more than a century ago that culminated in the establishment of
the Smithsonian Institution. James Smithson, the English benefactor
who bequeathed half a million dollars to the United States of America
to found at Washington “an institution for the increase and diffusion
of knowledge among men,” had been dead 17 years before our Govern-
ment decided what form the “institution” was to take or even to
accept the gift. Finally, on August 10, 1846, President James K. Polk
signed the bill that created the Smithsonian Institution, our first
“national science foundation.” With that act, which was actively
supported by John Quincy Adams, Joel R. Poinsett, and other
science-minded leaders of the day, our Government formally recog-
nized that science is a matter of national concern, and as a nation
we committed ourselves to the Jeffersonian idea that science is a
legitimate function of government.

Today, in the wake of the atom bomb, no one dares question that
concept. Present-day exigencies have forced us to recognize that
there are certain types of scientific investigation which are essential
to our national security and that these must not be left to haphazard
and uncertain backing of private individuals and organizations, no
matter how worthy or well-meaning. They must be publicly and
continuously financed so long as science continues to be so strategically
integrated with our politics, economics, and social well-being. The
statement that “this is the age of science” has taken on deeper and
more somber implications.
2 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

Throughout the 105 years since it was established, the Smithsonian
Institution has seen and has been a part of the development of this
national attitude toward science. It has witnessed and sometimes
aided the establishment of many great and potent scientific agencies,
such as the National Academy of Sciences, the National Research
Council, the National Bureau of Standards, the National Advisory
Committee for Aeronautics, and others that came into being during
World War II. The Institution itself has undergone many changes
and vicissitudes: it has survived four major wars, several panics and
depressions, and controversies that seemed important at the time.
But its one continuing purpose has been, and is, to serve sclence—not
merely American science but all science—in a way that its founder
Smithson might have envisioned. It has endeavored not to compete
but to serve as a sort of catalyst to complement and cooperate in the
work of other agencies, Government and non-Government alike,
and to support worthy projects that otherwise might languish. The
unique character of its status—as a privately endowed institution
and at the same time a ward of the United States Government—has
given it a freedom of action backed by authority that has proved
fortunate and has increased its usefulness.

In the early days of its existence the Institution carried on its re-
search programs largely by subsidizing the work of scientists not on
its own staff and by publishing the results of their work. Sources of
such aid to American scientists were then extremely limited, and the
favor that this practice found can well be understood. Gradually,
however, the activities of the Institution became channelized as they
expanded, and “bureaus” grew up around the Institution, each with
its own staff specializing in the work of its particular field. These
are now ten in number, as follows: United States National Museum,
National Gallery of Art (with separate board of trustees), National
Collection of Fine Arts, Freer Gallery of Art, Bureau of American
Ethnology, International Exchange Service, National Zoological
Park, Astrophysical Observatory, National Air Museum, and Canal
Zone Biological Area. Most of these branches are now supported by
Government funds although remaining under Smithsonian direction.
At present, nearly all the research and exploration of the Institution
is done through these bureaus, notably the United States National
Museum, the Bureau of American Ethnology, and the Astrophysical
Observatory.

Curtailment of the Government’s nondefense spending since the
Korean crisis has prevented the Institution from proceeding with
some of its long-term programs, such as the modernization of museum
SECRETARY’S REPORT 3

exhibits, construction of urgently needed new buildings, and purchase
of modern instruments and equipment for its laboratories. The de-
mands made upon our buildings, as has been pointed out in previous
reports, are little short of incredible: the annual number of visitors
is rapidly approaching the 3,000,000 mark, and the increase of the
collections in the fields of natural history, industry, history, and
aeronautics has long since crowded all available storage space. It
should be emphasized that the Institution has no desire to expand its
activities inordinately or to add functions unjustified by normal de-
mands. At the same time the public expects certain services from the
Federal Government, through the Smithsonian, in maintaining the
priceless collections in the National Museum and in the art galleries
under the Institution’s care and in making them available for exhibit
and study. These are services that have long been entrusted to the
Smithsonian; they fall in that category of activities aimed at the
cultural and scientific advancement of all the people, and hence their
support by Federal appropriations of funds is proper and justifiable.
Smithsonian administrators, therefore, are duty bound to do every-
thing in their power to obtain adequate support for the irreplaceable
treasures in their custody, even in times of national emergency.

In the pages that follow the director of each of the bureaus under
Smithsonian direction presents his detailed report for the year (Ap-
pendices 1-10). Included also are the reports of the Librarian and
the Chief of the Editorial Division (Appendices 11 and 12).

THE ESTABLISHMENT

The Smithsonian Institution was created by act of Congress in
1846, in accordance with the terms of the will of James Smithson,
of England, who in 1826 bequeathed his property to the United States
of America “to found at Washington, under the name of the Smithso-
nian Institution, an establishment for the increase and diffusion of
knowledge among men.” In receiving the property and accepting
the trust, Congress determined that the Federal Government was
without authority to administer the trust directly, and, therefore,
constituted an “establishment” whose statutory members are “the
President, the Vice President, the Chief Justice, and the heads of
the executive departments.”

THE BOARD OF REGENTS

There were no changes in the personnel of the Board of Regents
during the year. One vacancy still exists in the class of citizen re-
gents. The roll of regents at the close of the fiscal year, June 30,
4 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

1951, was as follows: Chief Justice Fred M. Vinson, Chancellor;
Vice President Alben W. Barkley; members from the Senate: Walter
F. George, Clinton P. Anderson, Leverett Saltonstall; members from
the House of Representatives; Clarence Cannon, John M. Vorys,
E. E. Cox; citizen members: Harvey N. Davis, Arthur H. Compton,
Vannevar Bush, Robert V. Fleming, and Jerome C. Hunsaker.

The regular annual meeting of the Board was held in the Regents’
Room on January 12, 1951. The Secretary presented his annual re-
port covering the activities of the Institution and its bureaus, includ-
ing the financial report of the Executive Committee, for the fiscal
year ended June 30, 1950, and this was accepted by the Board. The
usual resolution authorized the expenditure by the Secretary of the
income of the Institution for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1952.

The Secretary announced that he would reach retirement age in
June 1951 and brought to attention the question of the selection of a
successor. Accordingly, the Chancellor appointed a Special Com-
mittee to make recommendation in this connection. Dr. Wetmore
agreed to serve until a successor had been chosen.

Concerning the Gellatly art collection, the Secretary reported that
under date of February 28, 1950, the office of the Attorney General
informed the Institution that the Supreme Court had denied Mrs.
Gellatly’s petition for a writ of certiorari to review the decision of the
United States Court of Appeals. This long controversy of more than
20 years apparently has come to an end, with result favorable to the
Smithsonian.

On the evening of January 11, 1951, preceding the annual meeting,
an informal dinner meeting of the Board was held in the Main Hall
of the Smithsonian Institution, with the Chancellor, Chief Justice
Fred M. Vinson, presiding. This occasion gave opportunity for mem-
bers of the Smithsonian staff to make a fuller presentation of the
scientific work of the Institution than was practicable at the regular
meeting the next day.

. On May 3, 1951, a special meeting of the Board of Regents was held
in the Regents’ Room with the Chancellor presiding, concerned with
the operation of the Institution, including the extension of tenure of
office of the Secretary. .

FINANCES

A statement on finances, dealing particularly with Smithsonian pri-
vate funds, will be found in the report of the Executive Committee of
the Board of Regents, page 154.
SECRETARY’S REPORT : 5
APPROPRIATIONS

Funds appropriated to the Institution for the fiscal year ended June
30, 1951, totaled $2,700,000, obligated as follows:

Mane’ seme ntae ean ee eee eee en eee $57, 322
United *States™National®™ Museum==-* 2 ot 781, 754
Bureausof American) Wthnology====—_- 5 57, 297
Astrophysicala@bservatoryeae ee ee ee 127, 188
INationali Collection or MinesArtsi tse" = 2 Se ee es ee 48, 852
Nationale Age MSC UIE ees ee ee eB ee ae 182, 931
Canals Zone: BiologicalyArea == 66 2) ee 18, 000
International Exchange Service_______________________ 70, 388
Maintenance and operation of buildings.____-________ 927, 919
General’ services=___ 2 ees Se, ee J) ap eee 316, 483
Estimated savings__.______ eo te EE Ml a 11, 866
hmpound edwelunds Se. eee ele ee 100, 000

MAO FE Us el en ee ees 2,700, 000

Of this total $100,000 was impounded by the Bureau of the Budget
through direction of the Congress.

In addition, $1,170,000 was appropriated to the National Gallery of
Art, a bureau of the Institution but administered by a separate board
of trusteees; and $636,000 was provided in the District of Columbia
appropriation act for the operation of the National Zoological Park.

Besides these direct appropriations, the Institution received funds
by transfer from other Federal agencies, as follows:

From the State Department, from the appropriation International
Information and Educational Activities, 1951, a total of $92,740 for
the operation of the Institute of Social Anthropology, including the
issuance of publications resulting from its work.

From the National Park Service, Department of Interior, $309,949
for archeological projects in connection with the River Basin Surveys.

VISITORS

Visitors to the Smithsonian buildings during the year 1950-51 to-
taled 2,867,544, an all-time record of attendance and about a 10-percent
increase over the previous year. July 1950 was the month of largest
attendance, with 383,919 visitors; May 1951 was the next largest, with
362,443. A summary of attendance records for the five buildings is
given in table 1. These do not include 3,460,400 visitors estimated at
the National Zoological Park and 1,503,148 at the National Gallery of
Art,
6 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

TABLE 1.—Visitors tothe Smithsonian buildings during the year ended June 30, 1951
a ag a ee a na Lh a ee

Smith- Arts and Natura Freer
Year and month sonian Industries | History Aree Gallery Tota
Building | Building | Building of A

1950
sty ce = boo 22S 6) -.--=- 77, 651 189, 476 85, 020 23, 365 8, 407 383, 919
UAT eS ae eee 69, 703 170, 219 83, 630 20,780 8, 104 352, 436
Lu eae se ee Se eae 45, 092 94, 608 53, 219 13, 956 5, 836 202, 711
Onotober. s22222 et _-. 225-5 32, 806 77, 964 56, 120 14, 079 4, 404 185, 373
INOVeRmper 22-255 _-....-..--- 26, 995 59, 334 43, 146 10, 913 3, 510 143, 898
DUG DELS 3 sooo ace anne 16, 224 32, 851 27, 448 7, 331 2, 281 86, 135

1951
PORUEEY eet ceee a =a oS. oe 18, 960 40, 600 31, 891 8, 912 2, 652 103, 015
Ry ea ee Se ae eee 23, 521 46, 924 39, 181 10, 936 3, 030 123, 592
Miarons— esse cse=- eee 45, 016 102, 411 66, 355 18, 527 5, 047 237, 356
YS: | Re eS ee 70, 480 160, 948 89, 012 23, 476 6, 919 350, 835
ee ee 65, 533 169, 949 99, 362 21, 696 5, 903 362, 443
Vinhe(: Be ke ea ee eee rs ae ee 64, 129 158, 706 82, 742 23, 452 6, 802 335, 831

| 656,110 | 1,303, 990 757, 126 187, 423 62, 895 2, 867, 544

1 Building closed September 6 through 28, 1950, during installation of the Bell X-1.
EIGHTEENTH ANNUAL JAMES ARTHUR LECTURE ON THD SUN

In 1931 the Institution received a bequest from James Arthur, of
New York, a part of the income from which was to be used for an
annual lecture on some aspect of the study of the sun.

The eighteenth Arthur lecture was delivered in the auditorium of
the Natural History Building on March 22, 1951, by Dr. Walter Orr
Roberts, astrophysicist and director of the High Altitude Observa-
tory, Boulder, Colo. The subject of Dr. Roberts’s address was
“Stormy Weather on the Sun.” This lecture is published in full in
the General Appendix of the present Report of the Board of Regents
(p. 163).

OPENING OF ADAMS-CLEMENT COLLECTION

Exercises were held in the Arts and Industries Building on the
afternoon of April 18, 1951, formally opening a collection of memo-
rabilia of the Adams family given to the Institution on June 1, 1950,
by Miss Mary Louisa Adams Clement, of Warrenton, Va., a descend-
ant through her mother of John Adams, second President of the
United States, and of John Quincy Adams, sixth President. The
collection contains nearly 600 heirlooms pertaining to the Adamses
and their descendants, including 15 portraits by Gilbert Stuart, Ed-
ward Dalton Marchand, Pieter van Huffel, Thomas H. Hull, Asher
B. Durand, John Trumbull, and other artists; a good representation
of period costumes and jewelry; china, glassware, and silver; books
and family letters; and numerous miscellaneous items. The gift is
SECRETARY’S REPORT 7

one of the most important historically to come to the Institution in
recent years. The portraits have been assigned to the National Col-
lection of Fine Arts; the remaining objects to the Department of
History, United States National Museum. At present those portions
of the Adams-Clement Collection chosen for public display are ex-
hibited in the west hall of the Arts and Industries Building. It is
expected that changes and substitutions in the exhibit will be made as
the documentation of the specimens proceeds. The donor died on
September 23, 1950, unfortunately before the formal opening of the
collection. At the ceremonies the speakers were Mrs. Katharine Mc-
Cook Knox, art historian; Maj. Gen. U. 8S. Grant, 3d, president of the
American Planning and Civic Association; Dr. Remington Kellogg,
director of the United States National Museum; and Dr. Alexander
Wetmore, Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.

MEMORIAL GIFTS

In memory of their mother, Alice Pike Barney (1860-1931), Wash-
ington artist and civic leader, Natalie Clifford Barney and Laura
Dreyfus-Barney have given the Institution a fund of $15,000 and also
a collection of 224 paintings by Mrs. Barney, 54 pictures by other
artists, and many sculptures and objects of art. The art material is
to be used as the nucleus of a collection for loan in the interests of art
education in the United States and will be known as the Alice Pike
Barney Loan Collection. The fund, to be known as the Alice Pike
Barney Memorial Fund, will be used by the National Collection of
Fine Arts to maintain the loan collection and to organize and circulate
traveling art exhibitions in this country.

Also received during the year was a bequest of $15,000 from the late
George H. Stephenson, of Philadelphia, for the purpose of executing
an appropriate memorial to Brig. Gen. William Mitchell (1879-1936),
of military-aviation fame. Plans for the memorial are being insti-
tuted through the National Air Museum.

SUMMARY OF THE YEAR’S ACTIVITIES OF THE BRANCHES OF THE
INSTITUTION

National Museum.—The increment to the national collections, dis-
tributed among the Museum’s six departments, this year aggregated
more than 303,000 objects, bringing the catalog entries to a total of
52,617,298. Some of the year’s more noteworthy accessions included:
In anthropology, fine collections of Colonial furniture and utensils,
further archeological material from Neolithic sites in Honshu, Japan,
and a collection of wooden objects representing the native culture of a
village in northeastern New Guinea; in zoology, a large lot of mam-

981445—52 2

8 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

mals, birds, and marine invertebrates from Labrador and Newfound-
land; several accessions of Central American birds; a comprehensive
collection of fishes, crustaceans, mollusks, and miscellaneous inverte-
brates from the Gulf of Mexico; several large and important collec-
tions of insects, and several thousand marine invertebrates and shells
from the vicinity of Point Barrow, Alaska; in botany, gifts of plants
especially from Alaska, Honduras, Peri, México, Venezuela, and
Colombia, and more than 16,500 plants received in exchanges with
other institutions; in geology, 22 minerals heretofore unrepresented in
the Museum, 7 meteorites, fossil invertebrates and plants from several
important localities, and fossil vertebrate material from Panama and
the western United States; in engineering and industries, a collection
of historical electronic and electrical apparatus, a complete technical
exhibit of the halftone process, and an exhibit telling the story of
modern surgical sutures; and in history, a model of the battleship
Missouri and the Adams-Clement Collection of memorabilia pertain-
ing to the families of John Adams and John Quincy Adams.

Members of the staff conducted field work in Cuba, Panama, Costa
Rica, Honduras, Colombia, South Africa and Southern Rhodesia.
British North Borneo, Okinawa, Alaska, and many sections of the
United States. The Museum issued 26 publications.

National Gallery of Art.—Slightly more than one and a half million
visitors were recorded at the Gallery for the year, about 684,000 less
than for 1949-50. Accessions as gifts, loans, or deposits totaled 4,044,
nearly 1,700 more than last year. On March 17, 1951, the Gallery cele-
brated its tenth anniversary at a special opening of an exhibition of
paintings and other works of art acquired since 1945 by the Samuel
H. Kress Foundation. Over 24,000 invited guests attended. Eight
special exhibits were held at the Gallery during the year. Special
traveling exhibitions of prints from the Rosenwald Collection were
circulated to eight galleries and museums in this country, and exhibi-
tions from the “Index of American Design” were shown 55 times in
20 States and the District of Columbia. The volume on “The Index
of American Design” was published and placed on sale during the
year. Progress was made on the second volume of “Masterpieces of
American Painting from the National Gallery of Art.’ More than
37,000 persons attended the Gallery’s special tours and the “Picture
of the Week” talks. The Sunday afternoon lectures in the auditorium
and the Sunday evening concerts in the garden courts were continued.
The Eighth Annual American Music Festival was held at the Gallery
in April.

. National Collection of Fine Arts —The Smithsonian Art Commis-
sion met on December 5, 1950, and accepted for the National Collection
15 paintings (part of the Adams-Clement gift to the Smithsonian
Institution), 5 miscellaneous oil paintings, 50 miniatures by American
SECRETARY’S REPORT 9

and foreign artists, and several items of Austrian, Dutch, French,
Swedish, and Bohemian glass. Eight miniatures were acquired
through the Catherine Walden Myer fund. A gift in memory of
Alice Pike Barney (1860-1931), Washington artist, brought the In-
Stitution a collection of 278 paintings, to be used as the nucleus of a
loan collection, and a fund of $15,000 to be used in maintaining the
collection and in organizing and circulating traveling art-appreciation
exhibits in this country. Sixteen special exhibits were held during
the year, one of the most noteworthy being the Centennial Anniversary
Exhibition of Paintings by Thomas Wilmer Dewing. Also of special
interest was the opening, on February 23, of the Albert Pinkham
Ryder Room of the John Gellatly Collection, exhibiting together the
17 Ryders in the collection. 7

Freer Gallery of Art.—The Freer collections were enhanced by the
accession of Chinese paintings, pottery, and bronzes; Japanese paint-
ings; and Persian metalwork. The cleaning and restoration of the
Whistler Peacock Room were completed, and the room was reopened
to the public on October 13, 1950. The staff members devoted their
time to the study of new accessions and of objects contemplated for
purchase and to general research in the field of Oriental and Islamic
art. Reports were made on 2,377 objects. ‘Two members of the staff
spent parts of the year pursuing research projects in other countries:
John A. Pope studied Chinese porcelain collections in Tehran and
Istanbul, and Dr. Richard Ettinghausen began a year’s trip to the
Near East, studying in Egypt, Iran, Iraq, and Afghanistan. Vis-
itors to the Gallery totaled 62,895 persons. The Gallery issued
five publications during the year and assisted in the publication of the
final number of Avs Zslamica, under Dr. Ettinghausen’s editorship.

Bureau of American Ethnology.—Ethnologists and archeologists
on the Bureau staff continued their respective researches, Director
Stirling in Panama, Dr. Collins in the Canadian Arctic, Dr. Harring
ton in Montana and México, and Dr. Fenton in New Mexico, Cali-
fornia, and Montana. Dr. Frank H. H. Roberts, Jr., continued as
director of the River Basin Surveys, a unit of the Bureau now in its
sixth year of operation, and completed the collection of the first volume
of River Basin Surveys papers. Since the beginning of the River
Basin Surveys field work 2,894 archeological sites have been located
and recorded, and 545 of these have been recommended for excavation
or additional testing. This year’s excavation work covered 20 reser-
voir areas in 10 States, with 26 excavating parties in the field.

The Institute of Social Anthropology, an autonomous unit of the
Bureau financed through transfer of funds from the Department of
State, carried on its research and teaching programs in Brazil, Co-
lombia, Guatemala, México, and Pert.
10 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

The archival material of the Bureau was enriched by the addition
of the original catalog (in Powell’s handwriting) of the photographic
negatives made on Maj. John W. Powell’s famous expedition down
the Grand Canyon of the Colorado.

International Exchange Service.—As the official agency for the ex-
change with other countries of governmental, scientific, and literary
publications, the Exchange Service handled 1,011,000 packages of
such publications (total weight, 788,773 pounds) for transmission,
or about the same as during the previous year. As last year, no ship-
ments were made to China or Rumania, but consignments are moving
to all other countries. The number of sets of United States official
publications sent abroad in exchange for similar publications of other
countries is now 102 (61 full and 41 partial sets). Eighty-five copies
of the Federal Register and 92 of the Congressional Record are also
sent abroad through the Exchange Service.

National Zoological Park.—This year brought the largest attend-
ance in the history of the Zoo—an estimated total of 3,460,400 visitors,
or at the average rate of more than 9,000 a day. At the close of the
fiscal year, there were 2,813 animals in the Zoo collections, the ad-
ditions during the year (1,768) almost exactly balancing the losses
and removals (1,776). Among the more unusual accessions, some rep-
resenting species never before shown in this Zoo, were 17 Santa Marta
tinamous from Colombia; a splendid example of the black-headed
python of Australia; a rare native wild goat from Crete; specimens
of the large Meller’s chameleon from Africa; three-banded armadillos
from central South America; and six Labrador lemmings. In all,
217 creatures were born or hatched at the Zoo—62 mammals, 57 birds,
and 98 reptiles.

Astrophysical Observatory.—The Observatory continued its studies
of solar radiation at its two high-altitude field stations at Table Moun-
tain, Calif., and Montezuma, Chile. At Table Mountain a method is
being developed for determining by spectrobolometric measurements
the quantity of ozone in the upper atmosphere. The textile-exposure
studies at the Montezuma station for the Office of the Quartermaster
General were terminated in May. In cooperation with the Meteorolog-
ical Division, Chemical Corps, at Camp Detrick, Md., some work was
done on the problem of improving the melikeron, an instrument de-
veloped some years ago by the Observatory to measure outgoing ra-
diation from earth to space. Two silver-disk pyrheliometers were
constructed and furnished at cost, one to the Government of Israel
and the other to the Air Force’s Research Laboratories at Cambridge,
Mass. The division of radiation and organisms, following a 2-year
period of setting up specialized equipment and facilities, and new
electronic instruments, has begun a series of biochemical investiga-
SECRETARY’S REPORT 11

tions of photomorphogenesis in green plants which promise interest-
ing results.

National Air Museum.—A number of outstanding accessions were
received by the National Air Museum during the year. Foremost
among these were the Bell X-1, the world’s first supersonic, man-
carrying airplane, which has been installed on exhibit in the Aircraft
Building; and a duplicate example of the world’s first successful super-
sonic ram-jet engine and its rocket booster. In all, 99 specimens,
including four full-sized aircraft, were recorded from 30 sources.
Inasmuch as over two-thirds of the Air Museum’s collection of full-
sized aircraft are in storage, providing and maintaining storage fa-
cilities remain a serious problem; and toward the end of the year
this became aggravated when the Museum was ordered to vacate its
storage facility at Park Ridge, Il, to make way for aircraft manu-
facture. The National Air Museum Advisory Board met on June 28,
1951, with this problem a primary concern. During the year, by means
of a special exhibit, shown first in the Navy Department and then
in the Pentagon Building, the Museum marked the fortieth anni-
versary of Naval Airplane Carrier Operations.

Canal Zone Biological Area.—Contract was let during the year
for constructing a new laboratory building of modest design at the
Barro Colorado Island station. Thirty-three scientists made use of
the island’s facilities during the period, carrying on studies in various
fields of biology. Some of the research projects under way are worth
noting: An exhaustive study of the spiders of the region; a checklist
of Barro Colorado Island birds; investigation of the population den-
sity and social organization of the island’s howler monkeys; a study
of the light-sensitive structures of animals; corrosion and deteriora-
tion tests; and studies of fungi. The resident manager continued his
long-term termite-resistance tests and his fruit-fly studies.

PUBLICATIONS

Throughout the entire history of the Smithsonian, publications have
constituted the Institution’s principal medium for the “diffusion of
knowledge,” one of the two basic functions of the organization as
prescribed by James Smithson, the founder. The Institution issues
eight regular series of publications and six others that appear less
frequently. Embodying the results of researches of the Smithsonian
staff and collaborators, these publications are distributed free to more
than a thousand libraries, both here and abroad, as well as to a large
list of educational and scientific organizations and specialists in var-
ious fields. In all, 123,401 copies of Smithsonian publications were
distributed this year.
12 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

During the past year, 61 publications appeared under the Smith-
sonian imprint. Outstanding among these were Part 11 of “Birds of
North and Middle America,” by Herbert Friedmann; another volume
of “A Monograph of the Existing Crinoids,” by Austin H. Clark;
volume 6 of the “Handbook of South American Indians” ; “The North-
ern and Central Nootkan Tribes,” by Philip Drucker; and two mono-
graphs of the Institute of Social Anthropology. A complete list of
the year’s publications will be found in the report of the chief of the
editorial division, appendix 12.

Smithsonian tables.—It has long been the practice of the Institution
to assist students and research workers by publishing compilations of
tables useful in all kinds of technical, industrial, and scientific work.
Since 1852, when the first edition of Prof. Arnold Guyot’s “Meteoro-
logical and Physical Tables” was published by the Institution, thou-
sands of copies of the Smithsonian tables have been distributed
throughout the world. These volumes, which have fallen in four
categories (meteorological, physical, mathematical, and geographi-
cal), have been kept revised and reprinted as new data in these fields
became available. During the present year, three volumes of these
tables were in process:

The sixth revised edition of the Smithsonian Meteorological Tables,
prepared by Robert J. List, of the U. S. Weather Bureau, was ex-
pected to be off the press before the end of the calendar year 1951.

The manuscript for the ninth revised edition of the Smithsonian
Physical Tables, compiled under the direction of Dr. W. E. Forsythe,
of Cleveland, was completed during the year and submitted for print-
ing estimates.

The Institution accepted the manuscript for a new volume in the
mathematical series: Smithsonian Logarithmic Tables, prepared by
G. W. Spenceley, Rheba M. Spenceley, and E. R. Epperson, of Miami
(Ohio) University. These tables present 23-decimal-place values of
natural and common logarithms and will be published by the Institu-
tion under a grant from the Research Corporation of New York.

LIBRARY

The library of the Institution received 52,685 publications during
the year, mostly by gifts and through exchanges with other organiza-
tions and institutions. The largest single gift of the year was in the
field of philately—a collection of about 500 books and periodicals pre-
sented by Malcolm Macgregor, of Bronxville, N. Y., which were
assigned to the philatelic sectional library in the Department of
History.

Statistics compiled by the librarian show that the staff entered
17,854 periodical parts, circulated 11,869 books and periodicals, ar-
SECRETARY'S REPORT 13

ranged 465 new exchanges, cataloged 6,992 volumes and pamphlets,
added 29,981 cards to shelflists and catalogs, transferred 19,016 pub-
lications to the Library of Congress, prepared 1,250 volumes for
binding, and repaired 1,300 volumes in the National Museum. At the
close of the year the library’s holdings totaled 932,740 volumes (ex-
clusive of incomplete volumes of serials and separates and reprints
from serials). More than half of these are housed in the Library of
Congress as the Smithsonian Deposit.
Respectfully submitted.
ALEXANDER Wermore, Secretary.
APPENDIX 1
Report on the United States National Museum

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the condi-
tion and operations of the United States National Museum for the
fiscal year ended June 30, 1951:

BUILDINGS AND EQUIPMENT

Construction began on the conversion of the southwest court in the
Arts and Industries Building to a modern storage facility, and $80,295
was obligated from funds appropriated for this purpose. The sum
of $47,013 was allotted for the construction of storage cases and
drawers, and outside contracts were let for building the wooden
frames for these; the mechanical shops of the Institution will cover
the frames with sheets of thin steel. Steel racks to provide accessi-
bility to the stacks of large-sized drawers, totaling about 3,500, are
now being fabricated by the maintenance and operation division.

COLLECTIONS

More than 303,000 specimens were incorporated into the national
collections and distributed among the six departments during the
year, as follows: Anthropology, 15,396; zoology, 225,638; botany,
38,603 ; geology, 16,723 ; engineering and industries, 3,073; and history,
3,716. Most of the accessions were acquired as gifts from individuals
or as transfers from Government departments and agencies. The
complete report on the Museum, published as a separate document,
includes a detailed list of the year’s acquisitions, of which the more
important are summarized below. Catalog entries in all departments
now total 32,617,298. It may be noted that the annual increment of
specimens varies from a quarter to three-quarters of a million objects,
depending upon the number of large collections obtained.

Anthropology.—Household furniture, ceramics, glassware, pewter,
wrought-iron and brass utensils, woodenware, folk paintings, em-
broideries, and textiles used by residents of New England during the
period 1630 to 1840, which had been assembled by Dr. and Mrs. Arthur
M. Greenwood at Time Stone Farm, Marlborough, Mass., have now
been added to the national collections. Another outstanding addition
to the ceramic and cultural collections is the gift by Mrs. Lura

14
SECRETARY'S REPORT 15

Woodside Watkins of 314 earthenware utensils, which were excavated
at 20 documented New England potteries in existence between 1687
and the late 1880’s. Colonial utensils and Indian artifacts from
Kicotan, Va., one of the earliest English settlements in America,
were presented by Alvin W. and Joseph B. Brittingham.

From Maj. Howard A. MacCord, U.S. Army, 413 specimens of stone
artifacts, pottery, and other materials from various Neolithic sites
on the island of Honshu, Japan, were received.

Gen. and Mrs. David G. Barr and Patty Barr presented a black
silk cape with fur collar and lining of golden-haired monkey skins,
worn by a Manchu emperor. Lt. Col. Clifford Lee Smires gave a col-
lection of wooden objects, including a ceremonial staff, wooden bow],
bamboo arrows, shell trumpet, decorated wooden drums, and carved
and decorated wood utensils, which were obtained from the natives
of a village near Aitape, northeastern New Guinea.

Casts of fossil apelike hominoids from East Africa, one a replica of
a nearly complete skull of Proconsul africanus and the others replicas
of bones belonging to australopithecines, were presented by the
American Institute of Human Paleontology and the Wenner-Gren
Foundation for Anthropological Research.

Zoology.—Six unusually fine chamois from the Bavarian Alps were
presented by the collector, Capt. Kimberly Brabson, U. S. Army.
Maj. Robert Traub, a member of the scrub-typhus unit organized by
the United States Army Medical Service, forwarded 88 mammals from
Malaya and 57 reptiles and amphibians from Selangor. More than
200 arboreal mammals, collected by Dr. H. C. Clark and associates in
connection with research on jungle yellow fever at the Gorgas
Memorial Laboratory in Panama and México, were presented to the
division of mammals. Drs. Robert Rausch and Everett L. Schiller,
Arctic Health Research Center, United States Public Health Service,
transferred 58 Alaskan mammals. During the summer cruise of the
Blue Dolphin, conducted by Commander David G. Nutt under the
auspices of the Arctic Institute of North America, Charles O. Hand-
ley, Jr., collected for the Museum 194 mammals and 201 birds from
Labrador and Newfoundland; and to the national collections were
also added approximately 1,500 marine invertebrates.

Income from the W. L. Abbott bequest financed the ornithological
field work of M. A. Carriker, Jr., in Colombia, and the Smithsonian
private funds that of Dr. A. Wetmore and W. M. Perrygo in Panama.
The Colombian collection comprised 3,480 bird skins, 53 skeletons, 2
sets of eggs, and 1 nest; the Panamanian, 526 bird skins, 6 skeletons,
and 6 carcasses in alcohol. In addition, 393 bird skins from Denmark
and 344 from British Columbia were purchased from private funds.
Especially worthy of mention this year are the 453 skins and 29 skele-
16 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

tons of birds from South Africa and Southern Rhodesia, including 59
species new to the Museum, which were collected by Dr. Herbert
Friedmann. Other accessions of importance were 28 bird skins from
the South Australian Museum; 5 Pacific Island birds from Peabody
Museum, Yale University; 117 skins of Portuguese East African
birds from Museu Dr. Alvaro de Castro, Lourengo Marques; 188
Japanese bird skins from Col. L. R. Wolfe; 219 sets of eggs from
Venezuela and Trinidad collected by Robert N. Berryman; and 692
skins, 35 sets of eggs, and 28 nests from Alaska transferred to the
Museum through Dr. Laurence Irving by the Arctic Health Research
Center, United States Public Health Service.

Among the accessions worthy of note received by the division of
reptiles and amphibians were 35 specimens from Korea presented by
William E. Old, Jr.; 71 Indian reptiles, including two species of
Uropeltis, from the School of Tropical Medicine, Calcutta, India;
70 reptiles and amphibians collected by Harry Hoogstraal, mostly in
Kenya, Africa; and 15 reptiles and amphibians from Saudi Arabia, a
gift of Set. Edward Murray.

The fishery investigations conducted by Stewart Springer on the
Fish and Wildlife Service vessel Oregon resulted in the transfer
to the Museum of one of the most comprehensive collections of fishes,
crustaceans, mollusks, and miscellaneous invertebrates ever made in
the deeper waters of the Gulf of Mexico. As exchanges, there were
received from the Applied Fisheries Laboratory, University of Wash-
ington, through Drs. Lauren R. Donaldson and Arthur D. Welander,
144 fishes, including a number of types of new species, from the
Marshall Islands; from Rhodes University College, through Dr. J.
L. B. and Margaret M. Smith, 91 fishes from Knysna Estuary, Cape
Province, South Africa; and from the University of Hawaii, through
Dr. William A. Gosline, 43 Hawaiian fishes, including several types.
While studying the poisonous fishes of Micronesia, Dr. Eugenie Clark
made a collection of 3,730 fishes, which she presented to the division
of fishes.

The most important accessions received by the division of insects
were transfers from the Bureau of Entomology and Plant Quarantine,
totaling 66,498 insects, of which 18,498 were derived from the Alaska
insect project. The gift to the U.S. Bureau of Entomology and Plant
Quarantine by Dr. Albert R. Shadle of his lifetime collection of nearly
5,400 insects and transferred to the Museum, along with Egger’s col-
lection of bark beetles, and over 1,900 Egyptian insects obtained by
Curtis Sabrosky, likewise enhanced the usefulness of the national col-

lections. As a gift, the Museum acquired the collection of H. G.
Barber, consisting of 32,151 bugs and beetles.
SECRETARY’S REPORT ry

In the course of an ecological survey in the vicinity of Point Barrow,
Alaska, Prof. G. FE. MacGinitie, formerly director of the Arctic Re-
search Laboratory, and Mrs. MacGinitie, assembled nearly 7,500 mis-
cellaneous invertebrates and approximately 1,600 marine shells, and
through their active interest these collections came to the Museum as
a transfer from the Office of Naval Research.

As gifts, the division of marine invertebrates received nearly 3,000
crayfishes and other fresh-water invertebrates collected in Indiana
and the TVA region by Dr. Rendell Rhoades; 367 specimens of
sponges, including 98 types, collected in Micronesia by Dr. M. W. de
Laubenfels while participating in the scientific investigations spon-
sored by the Pacific Science Board, National Research Council; and
437 miscellaneous invertebrates dredged off the west coast of Florida,
a gift of Dr. J. Brookes Knight. <A selected series of more than 5,000
copepods and other marine invertebrates were collected for the Mu-
seum in Puget Sound, Wash., by Associate Curator Paul L. Ig. As
an exchange with Dr. R. Zariquiey A., Barcelona, the Museum received
a selected set of decapod crustaceans from the Mediterranean coast
of Spain. Types and paratypes of a number of invertebrates were
received as gifts.

Most noteworthy of the 208 accessions received during the year by
the division of mollusks were 275 marine forms from Malindi, pre-
sented by the Kenya Colony Game Department, Nairobi, through R.
Teague; nearly 2,000 land mollusks from Cuba, a gift from Sr. Oscar
Acalde Ledoén, of Cienfuegos; 604 land and fresh-water mollusks from
Panama and Ecuador, transferred by Dr. James Zetek, Canal Zone
Biological Area; 105 Japanese mollusks from the Zoological Institute,
Kyoto University; and the types and paratypes of several recently
described mollusks. Types of parasitic nematodes, annelids, trema-
todes, and cestodes were received from several specialists.

Several interesting echinoderms, including a specimen of Asterias
westita, described by Thomas Say in 1825 and not seen heretofore since
then, were accessioned this year from the Institute of Fisheries
Research, University of North Carolina.

Botany—C. V. Morton, curator, division of ferns, collected 2,610
plants in Honduras and 851 in West Virginia and Michigan for the
National Herbarium. Justice William O. Douglas presented a col-
lection of 184 mounted plants from Lebanon, and 825 plants obtained
in Alaska and the Aleutian Islands by Dr. Louis H. Jordal were trans-
ferred from the Office of Naval Research, Department of the Navy.
Other gifts included 2,234 plants from the Museo de Historia Natural
“Javier Prado,” Lima, Peri; 662 Mexican plants from the University
of Washington; and 522 Venezuelan plants from Brother Ginés. As
exchanges, the National Herbarium received 16,645 specimens, of
18 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

which 1,814 were from the Instituto de Ciencias Naturales, Bogota,
Colombia; 1,509 were from Gray Herbarium, collected in Newfound-
land and eastern United States; 1,043 from the California Academy of
Sciences, collected in California and western United States: 795
Canadian Arctic plants from the Department of Agriculture, Ottawa ;
595 from the New York Botanical Garden, collected in Kashmir;
1,273 Hawaiian and Pacific Islands plants from the Bernice P. Bishop
Museum; and 689 southern Brazilian plants from Fundacién Miguel
Lillo, Tucuman, Argentina.

Geology.—Twenty-two minerals hitherto unrepresented were added
to the mineralogical collection, of which three were received as gifts
and nineteen were acquired through exchange.

The 13 specimens of euclase from Ouro Preto, Minas Gerais, Brazil,
purchased under the Roebling fund, comprise some of the finest known
specimens of this mineral. The Canfield bequest provided the funds
for the purchase of vanadinite crystal groups from México, two Bra-
zilian tourmaline crystals, a large and perfectly formed manganotani-
lite and simpsonite from Brazil, proustite crystals from Chile, a fine
group of quartz crystals from Japan, and an opalized cedar cone
from Nevada.

An unusual 71.20-carat aquamarine from Ceylon was purchased
under the Chamberlain fund for the gem collection, and a very fine
110.8-carat pink tourmaline from Manchuria under the Roebling fund.
A collection of Japanese cultured pearls, consisting of 2 strands and
395 individual pearls, were received as a gift from K. Mikimoto & Co.,
Ltd. Other additions to the collection included uranium and vana-
dium ores from Utah; chrome ores from Pakistan; manganese ores
from India; and tin and tungsten ores from Burma.

The meteorite collection again benefited by the continuing interest
of Dr. Stuart H. Perry, who donated seven meteorites, one of which
was an iron recently found at Mayodan, N. C., weighing 15.46 kilo-
grams. A small sample of the Maziba, Uganda, Africa, meteorite was
presented by John S. Albanese.

Many noteworthy specimens of fossil invertebrates and plants came
to the division of invertebrate paleontology and paleobotany as gifts,
including 719 slides of types of Mesozoic and Cenozoic ostracods and
Foraminifera from Dr. C. I. Alexander; 20 holotype and paratype
Tertiary Foraminifera from P. Bronnimann; 1,000 upper Miocene
invertebrates from S. E. Crumb; 200 Triassic invertebrates from the
European Alps, presented by Dr. Franco Rasetti; 600 British Paleo-
zo1¢ and Mesozoic invertebrates from Alwyn Williams; and 900 late
Tertiary plants from Credo, Colo., presented by the late Belle K.
Stewart.

More than 100 Mississippian and Pennsylvanian crinoids from Ok-
Jahoma were purchased under the Springer fund from Harrell L.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 19

Strimple. As in previous years, the income from the Walcott fund
financed paleontological field work which resulted in the acquisition of
additional invertebrate fossil materials by Dr. G. Arthur Cooper
and W. T. Allen from western Texas and by Dr. Cooper from Virginia
and ‘Tennessee.

Transfers from the United States Geological Survey include, among
others, upper Paleozoic invertebrates from the Brooks Range of
Alaska, fresh-water mollusks, and ammonites. Exchanges brought to
the Museum seeds of Tertiary plants from Germany; lower Ordovi-
cian brachiopods from Norway; Cretaceous and Tertiary Forminifera
from Sweden, France, Italy, Algeria, and Cuba; Permian fusulinid
Foraminifera from Tunisia; and Jurassic and Recent Foraminifera
from Germany.

Material sufficient for the mounting of a skeleton of the giant
ground sloth, Megatherium, which was excavated by Dr. C. L. Gazin
and Franklin Pearce in Panama, constitutes the most noteworthy ad-
dition to the vertebrate fossil collection. Beautifully preserved mid-
dle Eocene fish were found in the Green River shales of Colorado,
Utah, and Wyoming by Dr. D. H. Dunkle and Franklin Pearce. The
field work in Panama and that on fossil fishes was financed from the
income of the Walcott fund. Some 80 fossil mammals from the Wind
River Eocene of Wyoming and from the Oligocene of Montana and
North Dakota, collected by Dr. T. E. White and transferred to the
Museum by River Basin Surveys, deserve special mention.

Engineering and industries—The section of wood technology re-
ceived 345 samples of woods of Surinam by exchange from the Hout
Instituut, Netherlands. In textiles, 407 wooden blocks used as braid-
ing and embroidery patterns in the nineteenth century were presented
by Edna Plummer, and 15 coverlet drafts of the period 1831-53 by
Lelah Allison. E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Co., Inc., prepared and
presented an exhibit showing the manufacture, properties, and ver-
satility of nylon yarn.

The National Bureau of Standards transferred a collection of 155
pieces of historical electronic and electrical apparatus, including a
radiosonde and a radiosonde transmitter. Early electrical measuring
instruments developed by Europeans and Americans were presented
by the Weston Electrical Instrument Corp. The American Screw Co.
donated 13 inventors’ models and machines illustrating the develop-
ment of wood-screw-making machinery in the transition from hand-
fed, individually operated machines to the hopper-fed, semiautomatic
machines,

The most important accession by the division of graphic arts was
a gift from the Sun Chemical Corp., through the Lithographers Na-
tional Association, of 23 lithographs of the Fuchs and Lang collection
of historical lithographs. A complete technical exhibit of the half-
20 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

tone process was presented by R. R. Donnelley & Sons Co. The section
of photography accessioned a collection of 71 fine pictorial photo-
eraphs made by members of the American Society of Photographic
Art and representing work in control process printing by many noted
photographers.

An exhibit entitled “The Story of Modern Surgical Sutures,” do-
nated by Davis & Geck, Inc., depicts in full color the development
of sutures from their source through the various stages of manutfac-
turing, research, and testing into actual use in the operating room.

History—The Adams-Clement collection, the gift of the late Mary
Louisa Adams Clement, of costumes, jewelry, portraits, silverware,
china, books, and papers belonging to the families of John Adams
and John Quincy Adams, constitutes the most important accession
received by the division of civil history.

The naval collections were increased by the deposit by the Depart-
ment of the Navy of scale models of the battleship Missour?, the cruiser
Brooklyn of the Spanish-American War period, an LSM and an LCI.

The medal press and tools used by Edward Stabler, diesinker and
seal engraver of Sandy Spring, Md., 1794-1888, were acquired by the
division of numismatics as a gift from Mrs. Maurice J. Stabler.

Recently issued stamps, totaling some 900 in number, were trans-
ferred to the division of philately by the Universal Postal Union and
the United States Post Office Department.

EXPLORATION AND FIELD WORK

Following the conclusion of the conference convened by the Cuban
Ministry of Education at Habana on problems of Caribbean archeol-
ogy and ethnology, H. W. Krieger visited several historical Taino
Indian village sites, notably Vigia and Barajagua, in the province of
Oriente, eastern Cuba. On June 14, Dr. Waldo R. Wedel was detailed
to the Smithsonian River Basin Surveys to supervise the excavation
of a stratified Arikara village site near Pierre, S. Dak.

In connection with his studies on distribution and variation in the
bird life of southern Central America and northern South America,
Dr. Alexander Wetmore, Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution,
made his seventh expedition to the Republic of Panama, accompanied
by W. M. Perrygo of the U. S: National Museum. The men located
at the beginning of March on Cerro Campana, the first mountain of
size found to the west of the depression through which the Panama
Canal crosses the Isthmus. The work here served to extend the known
range of a number of mountain forms of birds from Veraguas and
Chiriqui to this southern outpost of the great mountain chain that
comes down through Central America. Additional collections were
made from E] Valle in the Province of Coclé, where forest still remains
SECRETARY’S REPORT 21

on mountain shoulders around the valley. The field studies terminated
at the beginning of April, when administrative matters recalled Dr.
Wetmore to Washington.

Under the income of the W. L. Abbott fund, M. A. Carriker, Jr.,
continued ornithological collections in northern Colombia from De-
cember to the end of the fiscal year. The work this season extended
into the difficult and poorly known area of the western slopes of the
Choeé in the northwestern part of the country. From Buenaventura
Mr. Carriker went to the lower Rio San Juan where he made important
collections at Punto Muchimbo. On January 19 he moved to Nuquf, on
the Pacific coast at the mouth of the Rio Nuqui, and later continued
inland to a base at the highest point to be reached by canoe travel
in the foothills of the Baud6 Mountains. His collections covered the
area from the river to the crest of the range. Maps of the region are
incorrect, as the altitudes are lower than recorded and the summit is
a narrow steep-sided ridge without extensive level ground. In March
Mr. Carriker traveled farther north to Jurubidé where again he lo-
cated inland at the end of canoe navigation whence he had access to
the Baudé range. The work here terminated early in April, and the
party returned to Medellin. The latter part of the season was devoted
to the region in the vicinity of Sonson near the Rio Magdalena. The
collections made this year represent more than 400 species of birds, a
number of forms being new to the National Museum series.

Grants from the Guggenheim Foundation, the American Philo-
sophical Society, and special research funds of the Smithsonian Insti-
tution enabled Dr. Herbert Friedmann to devote 5 months to a study
of the habits and life histories of the honey-guides and parasitic
weaverbirds in South Africa and Southern Rhodesia. At the request
of the U. S. Army Medical Department Graduate School, Dr. David
H. Johnson was detailed to accompany a medical research unit en-
gaged in an intensive study of the mammalian and other hosts involved
in the transmission of scrub typhus, and part, at least, of this field
study will be carried on in the vicinity of Mount Kinabalu, British
North Borneo. Under a cooperative arrangement with the Office of
Naval Research, Dr. Henry W. Setzer departed from Washington for
the Arctic Research Laboratory at Point Barrow, Alaska, on June 3
to make an ecological survey during the summer months of the mam-
mals inhabiting the Arctic slope of Alaska. O.L. Cartwright made an
intensive study of the insect fauna in the vicinity of the Inter-Amer-
ican Institute at Turrialba, Costa Rica.

During March and April, C. V. Morton was the guest of the Escuela
Agricola Panamericana, of the United Fruit Co., located at
El] Zamorano in a mountain valley some 25 miles from Tegucigalpa,
Honduras. Collecting trips for ferns were made to the cloud forest
22 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

on the summit of Mount Uyuca and to other areas in the departments
of Morazin and El Paraiso. While collecting in the cloud-forest area
of the San Juancito Mountains, Mr. Morton was the guest of the
New York and Honduras Rosario Mining Co. Another longer trip
was made to Lake Yojoa, in the departments of Santa Barbara and
Cortés, and to the mountains near Siquatepeque, Comayagua. On
May 31 Dr. E. H. Walker departed from Washington for Okinawa
in response to a request made to the Pacific Science Board, National
Research Council, by the Department of the Army for the assignment
of a botanist to make a 4-months’ study of the flora of the Ryukyu
Islands.

The program of investigations undertaken by the department of
geology and financed for the most part from income of the Walcott
bequest, involved field work in Alaska, California, Utah, Wyoming,
Colorado, Texas, Virginia, Tennessee, and Panama. Dr. George S.
Switzer completed field studies relating to the genesis of iron ores in
the Iron Springs district of southwestern Utah. During the early
part of the summer of 1950, Dr. G. Arthur Cooper and W. T. Allen
continued field work on the Wolfcamp formation, the lowest portion
of the Permian beds in the Glass Mountains of west Texas. Later
in the summer Dr. Cooper visited Blacksburg, Va., where, accom-
panied by Dr. B. N. Cooper, of the Virginia Polytechnic Institute, he
spent several days collecting Ordovican fossils from the Catawba
Valley section. Subsequently a thick sequence of Ordovician rocks
was examined by Dr. Cooper and Dr. R. B. Neuman, of Gatlinsburg,
Tenn., during a brief visit to the west side of the Great Smoky Moun-
tains. Under a contract between the Office of Naval Research and
the Smithsonian Institution, Dr. A. R. Loeblich, Jr., assembled a
large collection of living Arctic foraminiferal faunas near Point Bar-
row, Alaska, during the summer of 1950. With the assistance of Max
B. Payne, of Bakersfield, Calif., Dr. Loeblich, late in April and in
May 1951, obtained foraminiferal samples from the Moreno and
Panoche formations in Fresno County, Calif., and with Dr. Edward
Bailey, of the U. S. Geological Survey, in the Franciscan series in
Santa Clara County, Calif.

In the summer of 1950, Dr. D. H. Dunkle and F. L. Pearce made
careful stratigraphic collections of fossil plants, invertebrates, fishes,
and mammals in the Green River shales of Colorado, Utah, and
Wyoming. Early in 1951, Dr. C. L. Gazin and his assistant, F. L.
Pearce, returned to the interior of western Panamé to continue with
the investigation of the Pleistocene fauna of that area. Most of the
skeletal remains excavated belonged to the giant ground sloth,
Megatherium, but, in addition, fragmentary remains were found of a
peccary, a giant armadillo, and a bird. The field work in Panamé
SECRETARY'S REPORT 23

this year was restricted to large springs near the town of Pesé. As in
the previous year, the expedition was carried on in cooperation with
the Panamanian Government, and in particular with the Museo
Nacional de Panama.

At the invitation of Dr. George Crile, Jr., Mendel L. Peterson,
associate curator of military and naval history, during the first two
weeks of June 1951 participated in the investigation of ships wrecked
during the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries off the Florida Keys.
Two boats equipped with air compressors for use with diving equip-
ment and a large water pump attached to a jet hose for clearing sand
from objects found on the sea bottom were utilized in this underwater
exploration. Many interesting relics from one British ship, including
iron cannon barrels, 6- and 12-pound shot, fragments of Chinese porce-
lain and pottery, pieces of rum bottles, clay pipes, and remnants of a
silver-trimmed jar, were brought to the surface.

VISITORS

An increase of 246,340 visitors to the Museum buildings was re-
corded over the previous year, the totals being 2,617,226 for 1951 and
2,370,886 for 1950. July 1950 was the month of the largest attendance
with 352,147 visitors; May 1951 was the next largest with 334,844.
Attendance records for the three buildings show the following num-
bers of visitors: Smithsonian Building, 556,110; Arts and Industries
Building, 1,303,990; Natural History Building, 757,126. The average
daily number of visitors was 7,190. During the past 10 years more
than 19,445,000 visitors have viewed the exhibits in these three
buildings.

CHANGES IN ORGANIZATION AND STAFF

On October 30, 1950, Dr. Clifford Evans, Jr., whose particular field
of interest is Latin America, was appointed associate curator in the
division of archeology.

After 42 years of association with the institution, Austin H. Clark
retired from active service as curator of the division of echinoderms
on December 31, 1950. During his incumbency the collection of echino-
derms grew to be the largest, and, except for east Atlantic and Med-
iterranean areas, by far the most representative in the world. Charles
O. Handley, Jr., was appointed assistant curator in the division of
mammals on November 28, 1950.

After being associated with the National Herbarium for 82 years,
Ellsworth P. Killip, head curator since the organization of the de-
partment of botany, retired at his own request on September 30, 1950,
and to this vacancy Jason R. Swallen, who had served as curator,

981445—52——3
24 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

division of grasses, was promoted on December 10, 1950. Other
changes in that department were the resignation of Dr. George A.
Llano, associate curator, division of cryptogams, on February 8, 1951,
and the appointment of Dr. Ernest R. Sohns as associate curator,
division of grasses, on June 1, 1951.

Arthur L. Bowsher, ado oie curator, division of invertebrate
paleontology and paleobotany, returned to the Museum rolls on
August 1, 1950, from temporary transfer to the U. 8. Geological Sur-
vey for special stratigraphic and paleontologic studies in the
Mississippian rocks of northern Alaska in connection with exploration
for oil in Naval Petroleum Reserve No. 4.

On June 21, 1951, the department of engineering wind industries lost
by retirement Fred 0. Reed, associate curator in charge of the sections
of manufactures and dericattaral industries, after 28 years of service.

Charles Carey, acting head curator, department of history, re-
tired at his own request on November 30, 1950, after 30 years of
government service. Mrs. Catherine L. Manning, assistant curator,
division of philately, retired January 31, 1951, after 27 years in that
division, having reached the statutory age limit. Franklin R. Bruns,
Jr., philatelic staff columnist for the New York World Telegram
and Sun, was appointed on February 9, 1951, to succeed Mrs. Manning.

Respectfully submitted.

Remineton Keuroae, Director.

Dr. A. Wermore,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 2

Report on the National Gallery of Art

Sir: I have the honor to submit, on behalf of the Board of Trustees,
the fourteenth annual report of the National Gallery of Art, for the
fiscal year ended June 30, 1951. This report is made pursuant to the
provisions of section 5 (d) of Public Resolution No. 14, Seventy-fifth
Congress, first session, approved March 24, 1937 (50 Stat. 51).

ORGANIZATION

The statutory members of the Board of Trustees of the National
Gallery of Art are the Chief Justice of the United States, the Secre-
tary of State, the Secretary of the Treasury, and the Secretary of the
Smithsonian Institution, ex officio. The five general trustees con-
tinuing in office during the fiscal year ended June 80, 1951, were
Samuel H. Kress, Ferdinand Lammot Belin, Duncan Phillips, Chester
Dale, and Paul Mellon. The Board of Trustees held its annual
meeting on May 1, 1951. Mr. Kress was reelected President and Mr.
Belin Vice President, to serve for the ensuing year. Donald D.
Shepard continued to serve during the year as Adviser to the Board.

All the executive officers of the Gallery continued in office during
the year:

Huntington Cairns, Secretary-Treasurer.
David Kh. Finley, Director.

Harry A. McBride, Administrator.
Huntington Cairns, General Counsel.
John Walker, Chief Curator.

Macgill James, Assistant Director.

The three standing committees of the Board, as constituted at the
annual meeting on May 1, 1951, were as follows:

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE

Chief Justice of the United States, ex officio, Fred M. Vinson, Chairman.
Samuel H. Kress, Vice Chairman.

Ferdinand Lammot Belin.

Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, Dr. Alexander Wetmore.

Paul Mellon.

wo
or
26 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951
FINANCE COMMITTEE

Secretary of the Treasury, ex officio, John W. Snyder, Chairman.
Samuel H. Kress, Vice Chairman.

Ferdinand Lammot Belin.

Chester Dale.

Paul Mellon.
ACQUISITIONS COMMITTEE

Samuel H. Kress, Chairman.

Ferdinand Lammot Belin, Vice Chairman.
Duncan Phillips.

Chester Dale.

David E. Finley, ex officio.

On June 30, 1951, the Government employees on the staff of the
National Gallery of Art numbered 308, which is the same number
as on June 80, 1950. The United States Civil Service regulations
govern the appointment of employees paid from appropriated public
funds.

APPROPRIATIONS

For the fiscal year ended June 30, 1951, the Congress of the United
States appropriated for the National Gallery of Art the sum of
$1,179,000 to be used for salaries and expenses in the operation and
upkeep of the Gallery, the protection and care of works of art acquired
by the Board of Trustees, and all administrative expenses incident
thereto as authorized by section 4 (a) of Public Resolution No. 14,
Seventy-fifth Congress, first session, approved March 24, 1987 (50
Stat. 51). Of this appropriation $25,000 was reserved under section
1214 of the General Appropriation Act 1951, Public Law No. 759,
Kighty-first Congress, approved September 6, 1950, by the terms of
which the Bureau of the Budget was required to save a total of
$550,000,000 from the funds included in the general appropriation
bill for the fiscal year 1951. Of the available balance of $1,154,000
the following expenditures and encumbrances were incurred:

PRGSONiL Servicek =. 9. ee gee le $1, 004, 628. 36
Printing and reproduction..2 2-2 ee ee 8, 335. 41
supplies, equipment, eic..-.-..- == 8 ae ee 140, 976. 59
PHhounsiied balance: =o ps4 ee 59.64

1010 NO a fat aa nt Re ane al 1, 154, 000. 00

In the fiscal year 1950, the National Capital Sesquicentennial Com-
mission transferred $25,000 to the Gallery to be used for expenses in-
curred in connection with the “Makers of History in Washington,
1800-1950” exhibition which ran for the period from June 29, 1950, to
November 19, 1950. A total of $23,868.94 was spent on the exhibition,
and the balance of $1,131.06 was returned to the United States Treas-
SECRETARY’S REPORT aa

ury Department for the account of the National Capital Sesquicen-
tennial Commission.
ATTENDANCE

There were 1,503,148 visitors to the National Gallery of Art during
the fiscal year 1951—a daily average of 4,141. From March 17, 1941,
when the National Gallery of Art was opened to the public, to June 30,
1951, the number of visitors totaled 18,761,417.

TENTH ANNIVERSARY CELEBRATION

On March 17, 1951, the tenth anniversary of the opening of the
National Gallery of Art, a special night opening was held from 9
until midnight, and on that occasion an exhibition of paintings and
sculpture and Renaissance bronzes acquired by the Samuel H. Kress
Foundation from 1945 to 1951 was placed on view for the first time.
The number of guests attending was 24,550.

ACCESSIONS

There were 4,044 accessions by the National Gallery of Art, as gifts,
loans, or deposits, during the fiscal year. Most of the paintings and
a number of the prints were placed on exhibition.

PAINTINGS

On October 17, 1950, the Board of Trustees accepted a painting,
“Portrait of a Man,” attributed to Justus Sustermans, from Mrs.
Charles Baird and Mrs. Gerhard H. Dieke. The Board on December
6, 1950, accepted four paintings: “Madonna and Child with Saint
Peter and Saint Stephen,” Sienese School, c. 1400, and “Portrait of
a Man with a Dog” by Cariani, from Samuel L. Fuller; “Thomas
Paine” by Jarvis, from Miss Marian B. Maurice; and an anonymous
gift of a portrait of Chief Justice Fred M. Vinson by Thomas E.
Stephens. The Board accepted three paintings on May 1, 1951: from
Mrs. Albert J. Beveridge, “Madame Dietz-Monin” by Degas; from
the estate of Mrs. Julia Marlowe Sothern, a portrait of Mrs. Sothern
by Irving R. Wiles; and from Mrs. Richard Southgate, “A Scholar
of Merton College, Oxford” by Joseph Highmore. At the same time
the Board accepted from the estate of Sam A. Lewisohn “The Bathers”
by Gauguin, “Oarsmen at Chatou” by Renoir, and “Mending the
Harness” by Ryder. During the year the Board received “Woman
with a Cat” by Renoir from Mrs. Benjamin E. Levy.

DECORATIVE ARTS

The Board of Trustees on May 1, 1951, accepted a Gobelins tapestry
representing Apollo and Daphne from Lewis Einstein.
28 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951
PRINTS AND DRAWINGS

On October 17, 1950, the Board of Trustees accepted from David
Keppel an engraving, “Portrait of Gellius de Bouma, Minister at
Zutphen,” by Cornelis Visscher. The Board on December 6, 1950,
accepted 1,295 Historical Portrait Prints from Lessing J. Rosenwald.
On the same date the Board approved the addition of 46 etchings by
Alphonse Legros to the gift by George Matthew Adams of prints and
drawings by Legros and other works of art. On December 6, 1950,
the Board accepted 295 prints and drawings and again on December
28, 1950, 779 prints and drawings from Lessing J. Rosenwald to be
added to his gift to the Gallery; and also during February the Board
received from Mr. Rosenwald 10 old-master drawings from the
Liechtenstein Collection. The Board on May 1, 1951, accepted an
engraving of a portrait of Augustus Stellingwerf, First Lord Admiral
of Friesland, by Blooteling after van der Helst, from David Keppel,
and a collection of 14 prints of historical portraits from Hermann
Wunderlich.

EXCHANGE OF WORKS OF ART

An October 17, 1950, the Board of Trustees accepted the offer of
Lessing J. Rosenwald to exchange the Delacroix etching “Rencontre
de Cavaliers Maures” for a superior impression of the same work; and
on December 6, 1950, the Board also accepted Mr. Rosenwald’s offer to
exchange a Renoir etching, “La Danse 4 la Campagne,” for a superior
impression of the same work.

WORKS OF ART ON LOAN

During the fiscal year 1951 the following works of art were received
on loan by the National Gallery of Art:

From Artist
Mrs. Robert Brookings, Washington, D. C.:
Isabel: Vall6é.o32.. 02) Sku ae seit Reigns Sargent.
Chester Dale, New York, N. Y.:
Duco wath ted Haire oon ec Op nsentncbes Bellows.
Rae EPONOOT SRL mere oes DES Ne ee el Antonis Mor.
PesiRoRaty WMO ee ee eee Stuart.
Samuel L. Fuller, New York, N. Y.:
Portrait of & Lady________ $00 1G. otetee gate Salviati.
Matlonnaidnd Childioca$i af te tl) tn Sienese School, Early XIV
Century.
Sorwa oro Man. 2.2 eee Spanish School.
Portrait of a Man and Boy_____-_____________ Tintoretto.

William H. Jeffreys, New York, N. Y.:
mp sOueowe Wamily _. 2a ee eee eee oe Hogarth.
SECRETARY'S REPORT 29

From Artist
Samuel H. Kress Foundation, New York, N. Y.:
The Expectant Madonna with Saint Joseph____- Amiens, School of.
The’ Adoration, ofthe Mapi---* 2222222 221 =. Angelico, Fra; and Lippi,
Fra Filippo.
Portrait of a Young Lute Player____.-=-------- Bacchiacca.
Daphne Found Asleep by Apollo____---------- Bartolommeo di Giovanni.
Daphne Fleeing from Apollo__---------------- Bartolommeo di Giovanni.
Portrait, olay Manyofavetters2- - Bassano, Jacopo.
An Episode from the Life of Publius Cornelius Bellini, Giovanni.
Scipio.
Portraitio: asbearded, Man-_ = _— Bellini, Giovanni.
Emtrancestoyareal aces: 0 sey see Bellotto, Bernardo.
Salnu anthony Abbots soe. a ya ge Benaglio, Francesco.
Passion Of @ur Lordy _ 20222222) st - _..-- Benvenuto di Giovanni.
Deathand the} Misers “Fey os ek ee Bosch, Hieronymus.
The Virgin Adoring Her Child. _..-.._..-.--=- Botticelli.
Queen: Christina of. Sweden. _....-...----.-=--: Bourdon, Sebastien.
The Resurrection.of Lazarus-..........._..-_-- Bramantino.
ihe Gatherint of anna" 222 <2... = 8 Bramantino.

The Apparition of Christ among the Apostles... Bramantino.

Madonna and Child with the Infant Saint John Bronzino, Agnolo.
the Baptist.

Landscape with the Temptation of Saint Anthony Bruegel, Pieter, the Elder.
Abbot.

Landscape with the Martyrdom of Saint Bruegel, Pieter, the Elder.
Catherine of Alexandria.

The Prazzetia ow ence... -- ot 2 Canaletto.

Hebacito el: San, vierco. 242-552. 22 22252 lll et Canaletto.

Mandscapesiee. 2.09.2. = 2c 2 Pa Carracci, Annibale.

Venus Adorned by the Graces_________---___-- Carracci, Annibale.

The Dream of Saint Catherine of Alexandria____ Carracci, Lodovico.

Ome nea alo 3 sere os es ee ne rl Champagne, Philippe de.

The Attentive Nurse_____._-____--- ips og AD WEL be Chardin, Jean-Baptiste-
Siméon.

wPiemnIt Chen ialdas=: ooo lo aos ooo a see Chardin, Jean-Baptiste-
Siméon.

Hatt: Peet eter ee es a ss a te Chardin, Jean-Baptiste-
Siméon.

A Dono Ape Cisg eye. 25.282 teen Christus, Petrus.

Madonna and Child with Two Angels_________- Cimabue, School of.

Landscape with Merchants___.___________-_-_- Claude Lorrain.

Madonna snd Ghildye --oo2t2 10 oie 23. ee Cranach, Lucas, the
Elder.

Madonna and Child Enthroned, Surrounded by Daddi, Bernardo,
Angels and Saints.
The Presentation and Marriage of the Virgin, Diana, Benedetto.

Annunciation.
Portrarh GpayClereyman oo cost oe ed pee Diirer, Albrecht.
Madonna and Child Rev., Lot and His Diirer, Albrecht.
Daughters.

Dona Polyxena Spinola Guzman de Leganes__-_ Dyck, Sir Anthony van.
30 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

From Artist
Samuel H. Kress Foundation, New York, N. Y.—Continued
Partraie of aa eS ee ene eee oe Emilian Master, XV
Century.

The Assumption of the Virgin---.------------- Fei, Paolo di Giovanni.
Madonna and Child with Saint Francis__-_------ Florentine School, c. 1440.
Poriraty OF 8 VAN on ot eee Florentine School, c. 1475.
Mai ADLnONy Or EROUS* 222 ooo ee Foppa, Vincenzo.
Altobello Averoldo of Brescia_-_--------------- Francia, Francesco.
Madonna in Glory with Infant Christ_-_------- Garofalo.
The Coronation of the Virgin. -@-..-. 222 -42--2 Ghirlandaio, Domenico.
The Peruzzi Altarpiéce_ 2222-224. 2252--Ls-5 Giotto and Assistants.

Crucifixion with Scenes from the Passion and Giotto, School of.

from the Life of John the Baptist.
Bambi verome Cemilent <0 0 oo S oe ee Gossaert, Jan (Mabuse).
Dance of Salome and Beheading of Saint John Gozzoli, Benozzo.

the Baptist.

The Adoration of the Magio- 22. oo 2 ee Hispano-Dutch Master,
Late XV Century.

TRG, Paar Wo OAL Re oo 2 oS ee Hispano-Flemish Master.

Christ amone the Doctors. 2-22. Bees Ss Hispano-Flemish Master.

Monsietrrnidreotte sce. 22 ie ie ss eee ig Ingres, Jean-Auguste Do-
minique.

Pope Pius VII in the Sistine Chapel__________- Ingres, Jean-Auguste Do-
minique.

Madonna and Child Enthroned______________- Jacopo del Casentino.

ihe Pienio atcer the Hunt... _....__.-_./ _ ae Lancret, Nicolas.

AC Brench.Interior= = —. 2s eS Le Nain, Louis.

Portrait ofa°Young Lady=~. oso sc ee Leonardo da Vinci Studio.

Saint Jerome in His Study___________________- Lippi, Filippino.

Saint veronie sn! | 8 _ n+ ~~~ SOR Lotto, Lorenzo.

Christ. Blessing "12 7. -- EI SSa se 50 SATIOO,, Luca di Tomme.

‘Theé- Christ’ Child’ Blessing. - Mantegna, Andrea.

Penurery ot a Naito Oe 3 2 ones oo sa ns tone es Mantegna, Andrea.

A Miracle of Saint Benedict__________________ Marmion, Simon, Studio
of.

Porrainign Wine we fo On) a ee Master of the Archinto
Portrait.

The Madonna of Humility__.__.._-______.__._ Master of the Bucking-
ham Palace Madonna.

The lelosed Garden”... “an on Flt Master of Flemalle, Studio
of.

Saint John the Baptist Meets Two Pharisees_.__. Master of the Life of
A Saint John the Baptist.
Birth, Naming, and Circumcision of Saint John Master of the Life of

the Baptist. Saint Jobn the Baptist.
The Obsequies of Saint Anthony Abbot________ Master of the Osservanza
Altarpiece.
The Conversion of an Arion by Saint Remy____ Master of St. Gilles.
The Baptin of Clovis.f2 2 bea sol ..vaa VasteromsteGilled:
Mary Queen bf Heaven. Master of the Saint Luey

Legend.

SECRETARY’S REPORT

3]

From Artist
Samuel H. Kress Foundation, New York, N. Y.—Continued

hes C ruciimiGnreeetet 2-6 232 oS. 2 Matteo di Giovanni.

he (Mapibetore;sMerod 9-22. oo aS 3-2 Matteo di Giovanni.

Portraitiol aeMiahe)) a eee Seo oo eS oe e =e Mazzola, Filippo.

Saint Verosies 4-27 - 44in6_-btede Oboe bel Memling, Hans.

Bietaee. fae bien ot hee th ce Meee She Moretto da Brescia.

Portrait of a Gentleman in Black.-_ ~~ -- ee Moroni, Giovanni Bat-
tista.

Portraitwoivas Manis ----------.- belated North Italian School
(probably).

Ghristhamong the-Doctors..-.---..--------<: Orley, Bernart van.

The /Marriageiof the Virgin...-2.2--=---------- Orley, Bernart van.

Thee Erimmphtof Caesar... _..--.------------ Palma Vecchio.

Rebeccacatstha Well = S22 t5 22-552. - Pellegrini, Giovanni An-
tonio.

Elijah Taken up in a Chariot of Fire......----- Piazzetta, Giovanni Bat-
tista.

Young Man in Oriental Costume-_---_-_-------- Piazzetta, Giovanni Bat-
tista.

The Feeding of the Child Jupiter_.....-------- Poussin, Nicolas.

Holy, Bamily onithe)Steps--..-------.-------- Poussin, Nicolas. ~

Sainteparntholomew =." = 2 =~ -- 220 on oH === Ribera, Jusepe de.

‘The Old uBridges a2. =! 232- Seee e  S Robert, Hubert.

Portraitiof a,Man,in Armor...-222-22-2-4+.5-¢ Romanino, Girolamo.

Coral. Fishing inAfrica._.-—-.---- Een! A Lee Rosa, Salvatore.

ROntrath otmaw Mian 22022522 == bese ne Rosso.

Pontraitonal Knight. -..- 2. -.2-.-.5--5---3s-~ Savoldo, Giovanni Girol-
amo.

(The, Adoration.ot,the Child-_.......-.......-- Salvoldo, Giovanni Girol-
amo.

Cardinal Bandinello Sauli, His Secretary andtwo Sebastiano del Piombo.

Geographers.

Portrait of a Young Woman as Mary Magdalen. Sebastiano del Piombo.
The Adoration of the Shepherds with Saint John Sienese School, c. 1440.

the Baptist and Saint Bartholomew.

allyson te ae ent Signorelli, Luca.

The Flight into Egypt and Christ among the Signorelli, Luca.
Doctors.

Saint George and the Dragon----------------- Sodoma.

BishoprAlvise Grimani oo 2 2o We en Strozzi, Bernardo.

Saint Lawrence Giving the Treasures of the Strozzi, Bernardo.
Church to the Poor.

Apolig:Pursuingadaphne 2280 wie oe Pep Tiepolo, Giovanni Battista.
The saeriiice of Iphigenia: - +2205 522-2 flu Tiepolo, Giovanni Battista.
The Circumcision of the Children___-.--------- Tiepolo, Giovanni Battista.
Venetian Lady in Domino and Tricorne- - - - - -- - Tiepolo, Giovanni Battista.
The*Apotheosisot Orazio Portos_—2*s..- = 4 = Tiepolo, Giovanni Battista.
Portrait of a Member of the Contarini Family__. Tintoretto.

Portrait of a Procurator of Saint Mark’s- - - ---- Tintoretto.

Portrait of a Young Lady as Venus Binding the ‘Titian.
Eyes of Cupid.
32 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

From Artist
Samuel H. Kress Foundation, New York, N. Y.—Continued
Ranuccio Farnese: ~= 2225 oS eee Titian.
Alessandro Alberti with a Page__-.------------ Titian, Northern Follower
of.

Annunciate Virgin, Archangel Gabriel, Saint Tura, Cosimo.
Francis, Bishop Saint Maurelius.

‘The Piapenation of Christ... 2S Umbrian School, ec. 1505.

ne oly Parte. << oe at oo eee Venetian School, c. 1500.

The Countess of Schoenfeld___-.-------------- Vigee-Lebrun, Elizabeth.

(LCS gk as Dh! | Sh ee See epee eens Bordone, Paris.

The Deposition 6f Christ... 2-2-2 Greco, El (Domenico

Theotokopulos).

"Phetise 228 (NCU eR Se rc ceeeae see Bernini, Giovanni
Lorenzo, School of.

CO eae See nee os See a Se Bouchardon, Edme,

Aiono'or Liyeient. 2. 2.23 os 8 19 SOR Candido, Elia.

ACR RC CHANG See a oa ee ee Clodion (Claude Mickel).

AGBacchantee. oo) #242 ise n SE Clodion (Claude Michel).

A Bacchante with Cluster of Grapes in Left Hand. Clodion (Claude Michel).

Madame Royale as an Infant._.__....._.....-. Clodion (Claude Michel).

Poetry ane Masies >. 2 ons a ccc cossss se Clodion (Claude Michel).

Ao VeRO ee eee. 3 > so tec ass see oes Clodion (Claude Michel).

Gin zee Ven eee Soe ae ose bssekasc sess Coysevox, Antoine.

Pinilipe; ‘Dire Orleans: «3 2<22222s4-s+222 Oe Coysevox, Antoine.

Madame de Pompadour as the Venus of the Doves. Falconet, Etienne-
Maurice.

SEG ATONE S oe a srs re aes Franco-Portuguese
School.

Apolo. ane Mars yas! = 29222-25222. 222R0INE Michelangelo, attributed
to.

The’ Muse Calliope... °*. 2 UCR Cie oiose Birk a Pajou, Augustin.

OE ALO et nae a A a ae AME 8 pee VEE PE BR LO Sy EY. Robert le Lorrain.

The Dew. oe reese: | GES A Se VIB, 2s RID" Robert le Lorrain.

Punting and Scalprures 2". ses Aofw 2ompaqane Tassaert, Jean-Pierre-
Antoine.

C, 8. Gulbenkian, Lisbon, Portugal: ;

3 rare books (from the Wilmerding Collection).
Robert Woods Bliss, Washington, D. C.:

26 objects of Pre-Columbian art.

LOANED WORKS OF ART RETURNED

The following works of art on loan were returned during the fiscal
year 1951:

To Artist
Copley Amory, Washington, D. C.:
Elizabeth Copley (Mrs. Gardiner Greene) ___-___ Copley.
Selt-Portrany 220i * cite inrigiag) wilt te Copley.
Chester Dale, New York, N. Y.:
Le Chevalier Louis Eusebe de Montour_________ Carle (Charles-Andre)

Van Loo.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 33

WORKS OF ART LENT

During the fiscal year 1951 the Gallery lent the following works of
art for exhibition purposes:

To Artist
Birmingham Museum of Art, Birmingham, Ala.:
GeCrre ei ee re en ee Gilbert Stuart.
MrsaGeorgereoloek 52) 4 ). 9225 - weboscs— Gilbert Stuart.
ATINeW SAPRSOW: 34 154 46 ee Sees oo ease us Thomas Sully.
Fogg Art Museum, Cambridge, Mass.:
Costume Study (drawing)- - == 228s sss: Diirer.
Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York, N. Y.:
Young VW Oia 11 WW hates 2 te tay seb 2s Robert Henri.
Philadelphia Museum of Art, Philadelphia, Pa.:
‘ShesDead: Voresdorss =. Hee San hee ees 3s Manet.
ALG AN CORE ee ee ees ee Se ee ee Renoir.
[a Bessel 24 (i012 20 ley ry Fe he de ee ae a Gilbert Stuart.
AUTOR UST a> Cy ig Ser eee ee ae a eS eS Whistler.
Drawings:
SN ae ee ee eee ee eee be fee Se Boucher.
CORDIC SEER eee Ss en ee ee ee SS Diirer.
[PLL ein 72d Fy {tee Oe ae ee ee Moreau le Jeune.
Elieser and Rebecca at the Well_---------- Rembrandt.

Colonial Williamsburg and the College of William
and Mary, Williamsburg, Va.:

Hioniyg baurens= o. 69-65 Ae ee ed J. 8S. Copley.

PR OUIASB Laine oe ee. eee SS Pee ee Jarvis.

Bena EeArriNOne — else oe ee See Se C. W. Peale.

SROFET HG ECHUTELG IN) a ee Gilbert Stuart.

Alexander Hanmiion. £52222 S225 Sea se John Trumbull.
EXHIBITIONS

During the fiscal year 1951 the following exhibitions were held at
the National Gallery of Art:

Rosenwald Collection. Exhibition of recent accessions of prints and drawings
in the Lessing J. Rosenwald Collection. Continued from previous fiscal year
through October 15, 1950.

‘Makers of History in Washington, 1800-1950.” Exhibition Celebrating the
Sesquicentennial of the Establishment of the Federal Government in the City
of Washington. Continued from previous fiscal year through November 19,
1950.

Paintings from the Gulbenkian Collection. Lent for an indefinite period to the
National Gallery of Art for exhibition by C. S. Gulbenkian. Opened October 8,
1950.

Canadian Paintings. Exhibition of Canadian paintings arranged by the Na-
tional Gallery of Canada. October 29 through December 10, 1950.

“Vollard, Connoisseur.” Exhibition of prints from the Lessing J. Rosenwald
Collection. December 17, 1950, through April 15, 1951.

Kress Collection. Exhibition of paintings, sculpture, and bronzes for the
Tenth Anniversary of the National Gallery of Art. Opened March 17, 1951.
34 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

Flower Prints, Original Botanical Drawings, and Color-Plate Books. Bxhibi-
tion from the collection of Mrs. Roy A. Hunt. April 22 through June 10, 1951.

American Paintings from the Collection of the National Gallery of Art. Opened
June 17, 1951.

The following exhibitions were displayed in the cafeteria corridor
of the National Gallery of Art during the fiscal year 1951:

Folk Sculpture and Folk Painting. Index of American Design. Water-color
renderings. Continued from previous fiscal year through August 1, 1950.

Prints by Mary Cassatt. Rosenwald Collection and gift of Miss Elisabeth
Achelis. August 2 through October 15, 1950.

Popular Art in the United States. Index of American Design. Water-color
renderings. October 16, 1950, through January 14, 1951.

Portraits of Stuart and Tudor Times. Rosenwald Collection and gift of Wil-
lis E. Ruffner. January 15 through April 23, 1951.

Etchings by Whistler. Gift of Mr. and Mrs. J. Watson Webb. April 24
through June 24, 1951.

Engravings by William Blake. Gift of anonymous donor. Opened June 25,
1951.

TRAVELING EXHIBITIONS

Rosenwald Collection.—Special exhibitions of prints from the
Rosenwald Collection were circulated to the following places during
the fiscal year:

Philadelphia Museum of Art, Philadelphia, Pa.:

38 drawings.
October 1950.

University of Minnesota Art Gallery, Minneapolis, Minn.:
3 prints.

October 1950.

American Federation of Arts, Washington, D. C.:
50 prints for circulation by the Federation.
October 1950.

Columbia Museum of Art, Columbia, S. C.:

40 Hogarth and Rowlandson prints.
October 1950.

Philadelphia Art Alliance, Philadelphia, Pa.:

8 prints.
November 1950.

Smith College Museum of Art, Northampton, Mass.:

34 prints.
December 1950.

Pasadena Art Institute, Pasadena, Calif.:

11 Toulouse-Lautree prints.
January 1951.

University of Pennsylvania Museum, Philadelphia, Pa.:
1 water color.

April 1951.
SECRETARY'S REPORT 35

Index of American Design.—During the fiscal year 1951 exhibitions
from this collection were shown in the following States:

Number of

State exhibitions
Aricansas) 35 Sim mie bree Le AML? REPELS fe let 1
Californiatt Sister eieiye iiss Vey Spree bre ee 4
Connecticuts--—-45 475 el = 9 3 nee ee 8
Disiniet.or Coumpia. = 2 8 a 8 5
IDYS ER TRE Me ah a el a ae OR Re es iets: 1
Hioridawess ee eee eee yes eeee ee 2
Dinos = sttyket Sse bees k eek i a We BS 1
Indiana tant itr ises tyeare treerehs old Ve ot tis 1
SGM iG Raye ee ee ee Ye 1
JN: (ai ba Wan cnet 2, ne Crk 2 = Da eed Same en Sah 1
Miassachusettsmate. Sere se 2 ere bse) ASS ot die 2
SAS Li(C) ETT ce ecm a Sg mT ea ea 2
IMinnesotaer=te espe aot UNE Sat Bee ee A 1
MESS OUT Nes eae ee cote ee es Sn ene 2
New Hanmipsiires (7 Ses Seve? 2 9M See 1
ING We ORK ies 11h SST) RE ae 8
NortheDakotasus + euila= Mbsorw ths Siete ]
Oni Ofte F482 edie Lae Vs fo. Poe i ere 4
Pennsylvania ot a <_ Se s2522) eet ead sk 5
ANS C/E MEN Bech rece ere ee Se a ee ee ee SES 3
LORCA TED. SPN a RRS RETO TS VEN TNE ir ena A A 1

Two exhibitions from this collection were circulated in Europe
during the fiscal year.

CURATORIAL ACTIVITIES

The Curatorial Department accessioned 2,457 new gifts to the Gal-
lery during the fiscal year. Advice was given in the case of 305 works
of art brought to the Gallery for opinion, and 41 visits to other col-
lections were made by members of the staff in connection with prof-
fered works of art. About 300 paintings were studied and con-
sidered for possible acquisition. A total of 1,311 inquiries requiring
research were answered. During the year, 10 individual lectures
were given by members of the curatorial staff, both at the Gallery
and elsewhere. In addition, Miss Elizabeth Mongan conducted a
seminar with Robert Walker for Swarthmore College; and Charles
M. Richards gave two courses in art history under the auspices of the
Department of Agriculture. Perry B. Cott served as chairman of
the Medieval section of the Symposium of the College Art Association
held at Dumbarton Oaks; Mr. Richards presented reports to the
American Association of Museums meeting in Philadelphia on “Pres-
ervation of Essential Records during an Emergency” and “Sugges-
tions for a Work of Art Shipping Label.” He served on two com-
mittees of the Association, acting as chairman of one. During the
year Miss Katharine Shepard was elected secretary of the Washington
Society, Archaeological Institute of America.
36 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

Special installations were prepared for the European Paintings
from the Gulbenkian Collection, lent by C. S. Gulbenkian, Esq., and
for Paintings and Sculpture from the Kress Collection acquired by
the Samuel H. Kress Foundation, 1945-1951.

The cataloging and filing of photographs in the George Martin
Richter Archives continued to make progress, with the gradual en-
largement of the collection. Also, about 100 additional catalog notes
were prepared for the new catalog of paintings in the National
Gallery.

Further activities of the department are indicated under the head-
ing “Publications.”

RESTORATION AND REPAIR OF WORKS OF ART

Necessary restoration and repair of works of art in the Gallery’s
collections were made by Francis Sullivan, resident restorer to the
Gallery. All work was completed in the restorer’s studio in the
Gallery.

PUBLICATIONS

During the year Huntington Cairns contributed an article on the
late American philosopher, Morris R. Cohen, to the Rivista Inter-
nazionale di Filosofia del Diritto; reviews of “Styles in Painting,”
by Paul Zucker, “Impressionists and Symbolists,” by Lionello Ven-
turi, and “Painting in France, 1895-1949,” by San Lazzaro, to the
Yale Review; and the foreword to “Morals and Law: the Growth of
Aristotle’s Legal Theory,” by Max Hamburger. He also delivered
a series of eight lectures at the Johns Hopkins University on “The
Theory of Criticism.”

The book “Paintings from America,” by John Walker, published
by Penguin Books, Ltd., appeared during this year, and Mr. Walker’s
book review of “Landscape into Art,” by Sir Kenneth Clark, was
published in the December 1950 number of Burlington Magazine.
Also, Mrs. John Shapley contributed an article, “A Predella Panel
by Benozzo Gozzoli,” to the Gazette des Beaux-Arts, 1950.

An illustrated catalog of European Paintings from the Gulbenkian
Collection was prepared by Mrs. John Shapley and was issued for
the opening of the Gulbenkian exhibition on October 8, 1950. An illus-
trated catalog of Paintings and Sculpture from the Kress Collection
acquired by the Samuel H. Kress Foundation, 1945-1951, was com-
piled by William E. Suida, curator of research of the Samuel H. Kress
Foundation, in collaboration with the Curatorial Department, with
foreword by Mr. Finley and introduction by Mr. Walker, for the open-
ing of the Tenth Anniversary Exhibition, March 17 , 1951. Perry B.

Cott completed a catalog of the Kress Renaissance bronzes for the same
opening.
SECRETARY'S REPORT 37

Progress was made on the second volume of “Masterpieces of Paint-
ing from the National Gallery of Art” by Huntington Cairns and John
Walker; and work on Erwin O. Christensen’s second Decorative Arts
Handbook, “Objects of Medieval Art,” and his third Decorative Arts
Handbook, “Jewels and Rock Crystals,” approached completion.

During the past fiscal year the Publications Fund added 8 new
11-x-14’’ color reproductions to the large group already available,
and 5 more plates of the new Kress paintings were completed and
ready for use; 17 additional new plates in this size were on order.
Portfolio No. 2 on “The Life of Christ,” containing fifteen 11—x-14’’
color reproductions and accompanying text, was issued. An exchange
of 11-x-14”’ prints with the Metropolitan Museum in New York was
also instituted.

The long-awaited book entitled “The Index of American Design,”
with a foreword by Erwin O. Christensen, was published during the
fiscal year and received wide acclaim. A new type of publication, a
guidebook to the Italian paintings, is now on order.

About 3,000 copies of the catalog for the Sesquicentennial Exhibi-
tion, put on sale a year ago, were sold; and during the exhibition of
Canadian paintings over 300 catalogs as well as portfolios and maga-
zines were distributed.

A new set of Index of American Design playing cards was made
available; and three recordings by the National Gallery Symphony
Orchestra were put on sale for the first time.

EDUCATIONAL PROGRAM

The attendance for the General, Congressional, and Special Tours,
and for the “Picture of the Week,” was more than 37,000 for the fiscal
year. The Sunday afternoon lectures in the auditorium, by members
of the staff and visiting lecturers, continue to be a popular activity
of the Education Office. Three Sunday afternoon programs were
given over to the showing of educational art films.

The work of the Department has been extended by circulating the
black-and-white film strip of 300 paintings from the Gallery’s collec-
tion; by lending slides and the film “The National Gallery of Art.”

The monthly Calendar of Events announcing all the Gallery activi-
ties, including notices of exhibitions, new publications, lectures, gal-
lery talks, tours, and concerts, was mailed to approximately 4,700
persons each month.

LIBRARY

The most important contributions to the Library this year were
the books, pamphlets, periodicals, and subscriptions purchased out of
the fund presented to the National Gallery of Art by Paul Mellon.
These included the collection of 2,775 art sales catalogs dating from
38 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

1727 through 1948 purchased from Martinus Nijhoff at The Hague, a
collection containing several rare manuscript catalogs. Gifts in-
cluded 145 books, pamphlets, and periodicals, while 700 books, etc.,
were received on exchange from other institutions. During the year
375 persons other than the Gallery staff have used the Library for
research either in person or by phone.

INDEX OF AMERICAN DESIGN

During the fiscal year, 603 examples from the Index were repro-
duced in various magazines while 284 were borrowed for use in forth-
coming publications. Of the 630 persons visiting the Gallery for the
purpose of studying Index material, 567 were new users. In all, 948
photographs of Index material were sent out for use by designers,
possible publication, for research, study, etc., and for publicity; and
413 slides of Index renderings were used in connection with lectures.

Mr. Christensen, as a member of the faculty of the Seminar in
American Culture, New York State Historical Association, Coopers-
town, N. Y., participated in lecture courses, panel discussions, and
classes.

CARE AND MAINTENANCE OF THE BUILDING

During the past year, the Gallery building and grounds and me-
chanical equipment were maintained at the high standard established
in the past. Considerable redecorating work was done, including the
painting of several galleries and offices. Flowering plants, totaling
3,294 in number, and valued at approximately $6,975, were grown in
the moats and used for decoration of the Garden Courts.

The condenser water, chilled-water, and dehumidifier pumps, and
the fountain and sump pumps were overhauled; all air-conditioning
equipment was inspected, serviced, and repairs made; two refrigera-
tion machines were completely overhauled; new lawn sprinklers
were installed in the space between the sidewalk and Constitution
Avenue, east of the service entrance; 12 sections of skylight, repre-
senting an area of more than 5,000 square feet, were completely
overhauled ; an azalea storage frame was constructed in the southwest
moat with surplus building tile; a contract was entered into in June
1951 for the raising to the original level of the granite and marble
platforms at the Mall entrance which had settled and created a poten-
tial hazard to the public.

CONSTRUCTION OF NEW GALLERIES AND OFFICES

Work under the contract accepted June 24, 1949, for completing 12
galleries in the east end of the building was completed on July 15,
SECRETARY'S REPORT 39

1950; and work under the contract awarded March 10, 1950, for the
completion of five offices with a slide storage room in the west wing
on the ground floor for the Educational Office, was completed in
December 1950.

A contract was entered into on July 31, 1950, for the completion of
five galleries in the west end of the building. It was anticipated that
the work on these galleries would be completed early in 1951; however,
completion has been greatly delayed because of the difficulty en-
countered in obtaining the quality of oak flooring called for in the
specifications. Private funds were made available for these purposes.

CONSTRUCTION—STORAGE FACILITIES

A contract was entered into on March 1, 1951, to build a storage
room adjacent to the Gallery building in the southeast moat. Work
is progressing satisfactorily, and it is expected that this project will
be completed by late summer.

A contract was entered into on March 2, 1951, to build a storage
building and reconstruct a cottage on the site of Randolph-Macon
Woman’s College, Lynchburg, Va. This work is also progressing
satisfactorily and, unless unforeseen delays occur, will be completed
in the late autumn of 1951. Both of these projects are being carried
out with private funds advanced for these purposes.

OTHER ACTIVITIES

Forty-five Sunday evening concerts were given in the Garden
Courts during the fiscal year. The Eighth Annual American Music
Festival was held in April, featuring 22 works by American com-
posers. Most of the concerts were broadcast in their entirety by radio
station WCFM, Washington. The National Gallery Orchestra also
made four long-playing records for WCFM Recording Corporation,
recording works by Mozart, Handel, and Ives.

The Photographic Laboratory of the Gallery produced 12,593
prints, 818 black-and-white slides, and 1,723 color slides during
the fiscal year, in addition to 2,110 negatives, as well as X-rays, infra-
red and ultraviolet photographs.

A total of 2,298 press releases and 21,000 invitations for exhibitions
at the Gallery were issued during the fiscal year, while 222 permits to
copy paintings and 214 permits to photograph were issued. Also
416 releases on current weekly activities of the Gallery were sent to
the Washington newspapers, radio station WGMS, and the weekly
guidebook, “This Week in the Nation’s Capital.”

During the year, a group of German leaders in the field of art and
other educational and cultural endeavors, toured the United States,

981445—52 4

40 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

first visiting the National Gallery of Art, where itineraries for their
trips were arranged by the Assistant Director’s office.

Also, during the year, two Austrian leaders—one a museum official,
the other an artist—visited the Gallery and were accorded the same
help in making plans for their tour of this country.

OTHER GIFTS

Gifts of books on works of art and related material were made
to the Gallery by Paul Mellon and others. Gifts of money during
the fiscal year 1951 were made by the A. W. Mellon Educational and
Charitable Trust.

AUDIT OF PRIVATE FUNDS OF THE GALLERY

An audit of the private funds of the Gallery has been made for the
fiscal year ended June 30, 1951, by Price, Waterhouse & Co., public
accountants, and the certificate of that company on its examination
of the accounting records maintained for such funds will be forwarded
to the Gallery.

Respectfully submitted.

Hontineron Catrns, Secretary.

Tue SECRETARY,

Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 3

Report on the National Collection of Fine Arts

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the activ-
ities of the National Collection of Fine Arts for the fiscal year ended
June 30, 1951:

THE SMITHSONIAN ART COMMISSION

The twenty-eighth annual meeting of the Smithsonian Art Com-
mission was held in the Regents’ Room of the Smithsonian Building
on Tuesday, December 5, 1950. The members present were: Paul
Manship, chairman; Alexander Wetmore, secretary (member, ex of-
ficio) ; John Nicholas Brown, George H. Edgell, David E. Finley,
Gilmore D. Clarke, Archibald G. Wenley, Lloyd Goodrich, John
Taylor Arms, Robert Woods Bliss, and George Hewitt Myers. John
EK. Graf, Assistant Secretary, Smithsonian Institution, Thomas M.
Beggs, Director, National Collection of Fine Arts, and Paul V.
Gardner, curator of ceramics, National Collection of Fine Arts, were
also present.

The resignations of William T. Aldrich and Gifford Beal as mem-
bers of the Commission were submitted and accepted with regret.
The Commission recommended to the Board of Regents Lawrence
Grant White to succeed Mr. Aldrich, and Andrew Wyeth to succeed
Mr. Beal. The Commission recommended the reelection of John
Taylor Arms and Gilmore D. Clarke for the usual 4-year period.
The following officers were elected for the ensuing year: Paul
Manship, chairman; Robert Woods Bliss, vice chairman, and Dr.
Alexander Wetmore, secretary. The following were elected mem-
bers of the executive committee for the ensuing year: David E. Finley,
chairman, Robert Woods Bliss, Gilmore D. Clarke, and George
Hewitt Myers. Paul Manship, as chairman of the Commission, and
Dr. Alexander Wetmore, as secretary of the Commission, are ex-
officio members of the executive committee.

Mr. Beggs reported that the reorganization of the permanent col-
lection progressed steadily during the year as further work of in-
dividual artists and various types of artistic work were assembled.
Seventeen paintings by Albert Pinkham Ryder, N. A. (1847-1917),
have been installed in a gallery to be known as the Ryder Room of
the Gellatly Collection. Meissen, Worcester, and Sévres porcelains

41
42 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

have been grouped by Mr. Gardner for systematic display in the Pell
Collection. Two additional storage rooms with movable screens and
air conditioning are being provided for the better maintenance of
the collections.

Mr. Gardner explained briefly the progress made in a project in-
volving spectrochemical analysis of ancient glass, the purpose being
to associate known types with the time and location of their manu-
facture and to trace ancient trade routes and material sources. An
initial group of specimens lent by two museums has been turned over
to the National Bureau of Standards for qualitative analysis, the
results of which are to be interpreted in collaboration with Ray Smith,
of the Archeological Institute of America.

The Secretary outlined briefly further legal action relative to the
Gellatly Collection under which the United States Supreme Court
had ruled that there were no grounds for reopening the case. He also
mentioned briefly tentative suggestions relative to the art collections
in connection with present threats of war.

The Commission accepted as a whole the 15 paintings of the Adams-
Clement Collection, gift of Miss Mary Louisa Adams Clement in
memory of her mother, Louisa Catherine Adams Clement, with dis-
cretionary powers to be exercised by the National Collection of Fine
Arts in regard to the showing of the individual pictures:

Oil portrait, Mary Louisa Adams, by Asher B. Durand.

Oil portrait, Georgianna Frances Adams, by Asher B. Durand.

Oil portrait, John Adams, by Edward Dalton Marchant.

Oil portrait, George Washington, by Edward Dalton Marchant.

Oil portrait, John Adams, by Gilbert Stuart.

Oil portrait, Joshua Johnson, attributed to John Trumbull.

Oil portrait, Mrs. Joshua Johnson, attributed to John Trumbull.

Oil portrait, John Quincy Adams, by Pieter van Huffel.

Oil portrait, Mrs. John Quincy Adams, by undetermined artist.

Oil portrait, Little Girl (one of the Adams children), by undetermined artist.

Water-color portrait, Mary Louisa Adams, by undetermined artist.
Miniature, Joshua Johnson, by Thomas H. Hull.

Miniature, Boy in Peasant Costume, by Mary Louisa Adams Clement.
Miniature, Portrait of a Young Woman, by Mary Louisa Adams Clement.
Miniature, Louisa Catherine Adams Clement, by Mary Louisa Adams Clement.

The following objects were also accepted:

Oil portrait, Miss Mildred Lee, by S. Seymour Thomas. Gift of the artist.

Oil portrait, Col. William Shakespeare King, by George Catlin. Gift of Daniel
Packard King and Allene Packard King, through Mrs. Harry Lazelle King.

Oil portrait, Townsend Bradley Martin, by Abbott H. Thayer, N. A. Gift of
Mrs. Grosvenor Backus.

Oil painting, Great Western, by William Marsh. Gift of Mrs. Alfred Born-
mann, in memory of her father, Frederick Boesen.

Oil painting, Street Shrine, by Jerome Myers, N. A. Henry Ward Ranger
bequest.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 43

Fourteen pieces of modern glass including Austrian, Dutch, French, and
Swedish. Gift of Mr. and Mrs. Hugh J. Smith, Jr.

Four items of Bohemian glass. Gift of Mrs. John EB. Lodge.

A collection of 50 miniatures by American and foreign artists. Gift of Mrs.
Henry L. Milmore.

THE CATHERINE WALDEN MYER FUND

Hight miniatures, water color on ivory unless otherwise stated,
were acquired from the fund established through the bequest of the
late Catherine Walden Myer, as follows:

71, August Fricke, by Henry Elouis; from Edmund Bury, Philadelphia, Pa.

72. A Member of the Washington Family, attributed to James Peale; from
the estate of H. W. A. Cooke (L. B. Alexander, executor), through Mrs. J. H.
Reiter.

73. Zachariah F. Johnston, by undetermined artist; from Conrad Reid, Wash-
ington, D. C.

74. Mrs. Frances Barton Stockton, by Hugh Bridport.

75. Mrs. John McCluney, by James Peale.

%6. Portrait of a Gentleman, by James Peale.

77. Dr. Joseph Glover, by Charles Fraser.

(Numbers 74 through 77 were acquired from the Mr. and Mrs. Norvin Green
Sale, Parke-Bernet Galleries, Inc., New York City.)

78. Rev. William White, D. D. (Bishop of Pennsylvania, 1747-1836), enamel,
by William Birch; from Katharine Woodward, Middleburg, Va.

STUDY COLLECTION

The following were accepted by the Smithsonian Institution for the
Study Collection of the National Collection of Fine Arts:

Ten pieces of Sévres (4 cups and saucers, 1 sugar bowl without cover, 1 cream
pitcher), and eight pieces of Worcester type (2 small pitchers, 1 sugar bowl
with cover, 2 bonbon dishes, 1 cup and saucer), the gift of Mrs. John E. Lodge.

An Oriental ceramic, Ch’ien Lung (1736-1795) vase with base, the gift of
Mrs. James W. Rickey.

A piece of stained glass from one of the shattered windows of the demolished
cathedral at Verdun, France, period of World War J, was transferred from the
division of military and naval history, Department of History, United States
National Museum.

ALICE PIKE BARNEY LOAN COLLECTION

On January 1, 1951, a collection of approximately 224 paintings by
Alice Pike Barney (1860-1931), well-known Washington artist, social
worker, and civic leader, 54 pictures by other artists, together with
many sculptures and objects of art, was presented to the Smithsonian
Institution by her daughters, Natalie Clifford Barney and Laura
Dreyfus-Barney. This collection is to be used by the National Collec-
tion of Fine Arts as the nucleus of a loan collection for the embellish-
ment of Federal buildings and for lending to museums, libraries,
44 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

colleges, and other educational institutions for the development of
public appreciation of art in this country.

An oil painting, Old Woman and Child, by Hendrik Maarten
Krabbe, was given by Mrs. Edith Newlands Johnston and Mrs. Wil-
liam B. Johnston for use as a loan to museums, libraries, and colleges.

ALICE PIKE BARNEY MEMORIAL FUND

A generous fund has also been given to the Smithsonian Institution
by Natalie Clifford Barney and Laura Dreyfus-Barney for the use of
the National Collection of Fine Arts in maintaining the Alice Pike
Barney Loan Collection and in organizing and circulating traveling
exhibitions for the development of art appreciation in the United
States.

TRANSFERS ACCEPTED

A full-length plaster cast of the statue of George Washington, ex-
ecuted by William J. Hubbard from the original statue in marble by
Jean Antoine Houdon, was-transferred from the United States Capitol
on July 21, 1950.

Seventeen oil paintings, ten oil sketches, and ten crayon studies of
Arctic and Antarctic scenes, by Frank W. Stokes, were transferred
from the United States National Museum on August 1, 1950.

An oil portrait, Alexandre Dumas, by William H. Powell, A. N. A.,
was transferred from the Public Library of the District of Columbia
on August 17, 1950.

An oil, Your Forests, Your Fault, Your Loss, by James Montgom-
ery Flagg, was transferred from the United States Forest Service on
October 13, 1950.

TRANSFERS TO OTHER DEPARTMENTS

Twelve medals awarded to Edmund C. Tarbell, N. A. (1862-1938),
given by the heirs of Edmund C. and Emeline Tarbell, were accepted
for the Smithsonian Institution and transferred to the division of
numismatics, Department of History, United States National Museum,
June 29, 1951.

LOANS ACCEPTED

Three pieces of Bohemian glass were lent by Mrs. John E. Lodge,
Washington, D. C., on July 17, 1950.
A silver sugar bowl and a silver cream pitcher, made by William

Thompson, were lent by William E. Huntington, Washington, D. C.,
on October 20, 1950.
SECRETARY'S REPORT 45

A bronze, Destiny of the Red Man, by Adolph A. Weinman, was
lent by the R. W. Norton Art Foundation, Shreveport, La., on Decem-
ber 7, 1950.

Two oils, portraits of Charles If and the Earl of Lauderdale, by
undetermined artists, were lent by Lady Ross of Balnagown Castle,
Ross-shire, Scotland, on March 22, 1951.

WITHDRAWALS BY OWNERS

Two oils, portraits of Lady Mary Ross and the late Sir Charles
W. A. Ross, by Andrew Somerville, lent by the Bruce Corporation
(Litd.), of Kildary, Scotland, and Wilmington, Del., through Sir
Charles Ross on December 2, 1926, and one miniature, portrait of the
8th Baronet, Sir Charles Ross, by E. C. Thomson, lent by Lady Ross
on April 4, 1949, were withdrawn by Lady Ross for shipment to Bal-
nagown Castle, Ross-shire, Scotland, on March 21, 1951.

LOANS TO OTHER MUSEUMS AND ORGANIZATIONS

Two oils, Moonrise at Ogunquit, by Hobart Nichols, and The Storm,
by Ludwick Backhuysen, were lent to the Bureau of the Budget on
July 27, 1950, for a period not to exceed 4 years. (The Storm was
returned on March 28, 1951.)

Twenty-five booklets of sketches on the protective coloration in the
Animal Kingdom, by Abbott H. Thayer, and a bird model used by
him were lent to Mrs. Mary Fuertes Boynton, Trumansburg, N. Y.,
on December 7, 1950, for lecture purposes. (Returned January 8,
1951.)

Two Japanese cloisonné vases were lent to Howard University on
January 15, 1951, to be used as exhibition material in connection with
a series of lectures on Asia and the Asians, January 15 through 30,
1951. (Returned January 31, 1951.)

Oil, Fired On, by Frederic Remington, was lent to the Denver Art
Museum on February 9, 1951, for an exhibition, “Life in America,”
held in its new Schleier Gallery, March 4 to April 30, 1951. (Re-
turned May 14, 1951.)

Bronze, Field Artillery, by Herbert Haseltine, with pedestal, was
lent at the request of the owner, Hon. Robert Woods Bliss, to The
Baltimore Museum of Art on April 6, 1951, to be included in the
special exhibition of “Sculpture of Herbert Haseltine,’ April 16
through June 3, 1951. (Returned June 6, 1951.)

Three water colors, Ancient Castle, by Georgette Agutte, Sketch
of a Village, by Albert Lebourg, and The Windmill, by Guillaume
Tronchet, and one drawing, colored crayon and pencil, Landscape,
46 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

by Henri Le Sidaner, were lent to the Bureau of the Budget on May
16, 1951, for a period not to exceed four years.

Nine oil paintings, Elf Ground, by George Inness; At Nature’s
Mirror, by Ralph A. Blakelock; Spring, by Alexander H. Wyant;
Indian Summer, by John Francis Murphy ; The Return from the Fold,
by Elliott Daingerfield; Lower Ausable Pond, by Homer D. Martin;
Cliffs of the Upper Colorado River, Wyoming Territory, by Thomas
Moran; In Jamaica, by William H. Holmes (owned by Glenn J.
Martin) ; and October, by Robert C. Minor (owned by the United
States National Museum), were lent to Howard University on April 24,
1951, to be included in the May Festival from May 1 to June 15, 1951.
(Returned June 20, 1951.)

LOANS RETURNED

Oil, portrait of Commodore Stephen Decatur, by Gilbert Stuart,
lent to the Truxtun-Decatur Naval Museum on April 27, 1950, to be
included in their first exhibition, was returned on September 26, 1950.

Three oil paintings, Gen. John J. Pershing, by Douglas Volk; Ad-
miral William S. Sims, by Irving R. Wiles; and Gen. William T.
Sherman, by George P. A. Healy; and one marble bust of Alexander
Graham Bell, by Moses W. Dykaar, lent to the National Gallery of
Art on May 22, 1950, to be included in the Sesquicentennial celebra-
tion, “Makers of History in Washington, 1800-1950,” were returned
November 27, 1950.

THE HENRY WARD RANGER FUND

The paintings purchased by the Council of the National Academy
of Design from the fund provided by the Henry Ward Ranger bequest,
which, under certain conditions, are prospective additions to the
National Collection of Fine Arts, are as follows:

Title Artist Date of purchase

126. New Lebanon Railroad Louis Bouche, N. A. (1896- )_ Mar. 19, 1951
Station.
127. The City—No. 2________ Ralph Gleitsmann (1910- )- Mar. 19, 1951
Se. Perbees Xavier Gonzalez (1899- )<= Mar. 19, 1951
129. Four Houses___________ Antonio P. Martino, N. A. Mar. 19, 195]
(1902- yi

SR Albert John Pucci (1920- ). Mar. 19, 1951
131. Paris (water color)______ William A. Smith, A. N. A___. Mar. 19, 1951
132. Farm in Essex__________ Gifford Beal, N. A (1879- )- May 7, 1951
133. Nine Men______________ Joseph Hirsch (1910- )_._.. May 7, 1951

134. Rabbit Island, Hawaii Millard Sheets, N. A (1907- ). May 7, 1951
(water color).

135. Blacksmith Shop (water John Alonzo Williams, N. A. May 7, 1951
color). (1869- }e

136. cara Beams (water Andrew Wyeth, N.A(1917- ). May 7, 1951
color).
SECRETARY'S REPORT 47

Since it is a provision of the Ranger bequest that the paintings pur-
chased by the Council from this fund and assigned to American art
institutions may be claimed by the National Collection of Fine Arts
during the 5-year period beginning 10 years after the death of the
artist represented, five paintings were recalled for action of the Smith-
sonian Art Commssion at its meeting on December 5, 1950.

One painting, listed earlier in this report, was accepted by the
Commission to become a permanent accession.

The following four paintings were returned to the institutions to
which they were originally assigned by the National Academy of
Design, as indicated.

No. 19. East Coast, Dominica, British West Indies, by Frederick J. Waugh,
N. A. (1861-1940), assigned to the Museum of History, Science, and Art, Los
Angeles County Museum, Los Angeles, Calif.

No. 87. Eagle Lake, by Jonas Lie, N. A. (1880-1940), assigned to the Iowa
Memorial Union, State University of Iowa, Iowa City, Iowa.

No. 99. Easterly Coming, by Charles H. Woodbury, N. A. (1864-1940), as-
signed to the Society of Liberal Arts, Joslyn Memorial Art Museum, Omaha,
Nebr.

No. 118. Fifteenth Century French Madonna and Child, by Harry W. Watrous,
N. A. (1857-1940), assigned to the Coker College for Women, Hartsville, S. C.

THE NATIONAL COLLECTION OF FINE ARTS REFERENCE LIBRARY

In all, 280 publications (173 volumes and 107 pamphlets) were
accessioned during the year; 671 parts of periodicals were entered in
the periodical record; and 17 volumes and 45 pamphlets (serials)
were entered in the catalog. The total accessions in the National
Collection of Fine Arts Library now number 12,026.

INFORMATION SERVICE

The requests of 1,629 visitors received special attention, as did many
similar requests by mail and phone. During the year 1,285 art works
were submitted for identification.

The members of the staff served as judges or as members of juries
of selection and award for a number of exhibitions held in and around
Washington.

SPECIAL EXHIBITIONS

Sixteen special exhibitions were held during the year as follows:

July 1 through 25, 1950—Exhibition of 56 paintings of Ancient Egyptian
Monuments, by Joseph Lindon Smith, held under the patronage of His Excel-
lency Mohamed Kamil Abdul Rahim Bey, Ambassador of Egypt. <A catalog was
provided. This exhibition opened on June 8.

August 6 through 28, 1950.—Exhibition of Ceramic Art by The Kiln Club of
Washington, consisting of 62 pieces by local ceramic artists and 75 pieces by
outstanding artists in this and other countries, lent by the artists themselves or
48 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

by embassies and collectors. The technique of throwing on the potter’s wheel
was demonstrated. A catalog was privately printed.

August 6 through 28, 1950.—Exhibition of 31 pieces of sculpture by the Wash-
ington Sculptors Group. Gallery talks and demonstrations were given.

September 8 through 24, 1950.—Exhibition of Pictorial Art of the American
Indian: A Living Tradition, from the collections of the Philbrook Art Center and
the Department of Anthropology of the United States National Museum, con-
sisting of 158 paintings, drawings, and other examples of graphic art.

October 8 through 29, 1950.—The Eighth Annual Exhibition of The Artists’
Guild of Washington, consisting of 86 oils and sculpture. A catalog was
privately printed.

November 5 through 26, 1950—The Thirteenth Metropolitan State Art Contest,
held under the auspices of the District of Columbia Chapter, American Artists
Professional League, assisted by the Entre Nous Club, consisting of 333 paintings,
sculpture, prints, ceramics, and metalcraft. A catalog was privately printed.

December 10 through 29, 1950—The Fifty-fourth Annual Exhibition of the
Washington Water Color Club, consisting of 174 water colors, etchings, and
drawings. A catalog was privately printed.

February 8 through 27, 1951—The Fifty-ninth Annual Exhibition of the Society
of Washington Artists, consisting of 47 paintings and 7 pieces of sculpture. A
catalog was privately printed.

February 23, 1951.—The opening of the Albert Pinkham Ryder Room of the
John Gellatly Collection.

March 8 through 28, 1951—Memorial Exhibition of 84 oil paintings and
pastels by Alice Pike Barney (1860-1931). A catalog was published.

March 9 through 29, 1951.—EXxhibition of 48 paintings and sculpture by artists
from El Salvador, sponsored by the Ambassador of El Salvador to the United
States, Dr. Héctor David Castro, under the auspices of the Pan American Union.
A catalog was privately printed.

April 18, 1951.—The opening of an exhibition of the Adams-Clement Collection
given by the late Mary Louisa Adams Clement to the National Collection of
Fine Arts and the Department of History of the United States National Museum,
in the west hall of the Arts and Industries Building.

May 6 through 30, 1951—The Highteenth Annual Exhibition of The Miniature
Painters, Sculptors and Gravers Society of Washington, D. C., consisting of
180 examples. A catalog was privately printed.

May 17 through July 1951.—A Centennial Anniversary Exhibition of Paintings
by Thomas Wilmer Dewing, N. A. (1851-1938). Twenty paintings were shown
in the Natural History Building and twenty-one in the Freer Gallery of Art.
A list was mimeographed.

June 7 through 27, 1951.—The Second Annual Exhibition of the Florida Artist
Group, consisting of 24 paintings. A catalog was privately printed.

June 8 through 26, 1951.—An exhibition of 147 Swiss posters, held under the
patronage of His Excellency Charles Bruggmann, Minister of Switzerland, and

the auspices of the American Federation of Arts. A eatalog was privately
printed.

Respectfully submitted.

Tuomas M. Braas, Director.
Dr. A. Wermore,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 4

Report on the Freer Gallery of Art

Sir: I have the honor to submit the thirty-first annual report on the
Freer Gallery of Art for the year ended June 30, 1951.

THE COLLECTIONS

Additions to the collections by purchase were as follows:

50.7.

50.9.

50.10.

50.17.

50.18.

51.2.

51.5.

51.6.

51.7.

BRONZE

Chinese, Chou dynasty (1122-256 B. C., early). A ceremonial vessel of
the type fang ting. Design cast in relief and intaglio, the latter filled
in with black substance. Inside one side a 41-character inscription.
0.263 x 0.246 x 0.107.

Chinese, Shang dynasty (ca. 1766-1122 B. C.). A ceremonial weapon of
the type ko, inlaid with turquoise. Protruding bottle horns. 0.096 x 0.411.

Chinese, Chou dynasty (1122-256 B. C., late). Gilt bronze plaque inlaid
with jade, turquoise, carnelian, and silver. Relief design of fabulous
animals sporting among waves. 0.028 x 0.095.

Chinese, Chou dynasty (1122-256 B. C., late). Incense burner of the
type hsiang-lu. Decorations incised, gilded, and inlaid with gold; open-
work cover; powdery gray-green patina. 0.107 x 0.103.

Chinese, Chou dynasty (1122-256 B. C., early). A ceremonial vessel of
the type fang tsun. Design cast in high and low relief. Twelve-char-
acter inscription cast inside bottom. 0.279 x 0.290. (Illustrated.)

Chinese, Han dynasty (207 B. CA. D. 220). A cylindrical covered box
of the type lien. Incised designs on sides and cover; removable tray
inside. Loose ring on cover, and three very low feet. 0.142 x 0.155.

Chinese, Han dynasty (207 B. C.—A. D. 220). A cylindrical vessel of the
type lien with cover missing. Design of fabulous beasts in landscape
east in high and low relief and incised ; two loose ring handles on sides;
three feet in form of bears. 0.177 x 0.255.

Chinese, Han dynasty (207 B. C.—A. D. 220). Garment hook, kou, inlaid
with turquoise. A tiger, a water-buffalo head, and a snake head in
relief. 0.217.

Chinese, Chou dynasty (1122-256 B. C., late). Statuette in two parts:
(1) figure of a dancing man in nomad costume with belt and dagger,
with upraised arms; (2) a small bear crouched on top of a pole the
lower end of which is socketed to fit the man’s right arm. 0.164 over all.

METALWORK

Persian, 10th-11th century. A silver bottle of globular shape with flaring
foot and tall; straight neck. Decoration includes birds, animals, and in-
scriptions in relief with niello and gilding. 0.249x 0.120. (Illustrated.)

49
50.21.

50.11.

50.19.

50.20.

50.23.

50.25.

50.12.

50.13.

50.14.

50.15.

50.16.

50.22,

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

Persian, 10th century. A silver bowl of shallow form with no foot.
Decorated inside with two bands of inscription surrounding an eagle
in the center, all incised in the metal. 0.043 x 0.239.

Persian, 12th—-13th century. A bracelet made in eight links; gold decorated
with filigree and niello outlining birds, floral scrolls, and inscriptions.
Stones missing. 0.197 x 0.030.

PAINTING

Chinese, Ch‘ing dynasty (A. D. 1644-1912). Scroll painting by Wu Tan
dated in correspondence with A. D. 1675. Landscape in ink and color
on paper ; inscription, artist’s signature, and two seals on painting ; label,
four inscriptions, and seven seals on mounting. 0.179 x 2.614.

Chinese, Ch‘ing dynasty (A. D. 1644-1912). Scroll painting by Wang Hui
(1632-1717). Landscape in ink and color on paper; eight seals on
painting; three inscriptions and seven seals on mounting. 0.384 x 7.435.

Chinese, Yiian dynasty (A. D. 1260-1868). Scroll painting by Chu Te-jun
dated in correspondence with A. D. 13864. Landscape in ink and color
on paper, signature, 45 seals, and 2 inscriptions on the painting; 68 seals
and 26 inscriptions on the mounting. 0.283 x 2.112.

Japanese, Kamakura period (A. D. 1186-1334). Portrait by Fujiwara
Nobuzane (1176-1268) of Onakatomi no Yoritomo; one of a set of 86
poets painted in ink and colors on paper; inscription on painting.
0.279 x 0.511. (Illustrated.)

. Japanese, Kamakura period (A. D. 1186-1884). Portrait by Fujiwara

Nobuzane (1176-1268) of the poetess Saigu no Nyogo; one of a set of
36 poets painted in ink and colors on paper; inscription on painting.
0.279 x 0.511.

Japanese, Kamakura period (A. D. 1186-1834). Portrait by Fujiwara
Nobuzane (1176-1268) of Minamoto no Kintada; one of a set of 36
poets painted in ink and colors on paper; inscription on painting.
0.279 x 0.511.

POTTERY

Chinese, Sung dynasty (A. D. 960-1279). Chiin ware bottle with pear-
shaped body and tall, slightly flaring neck; gray-blue glaze with purple
splashes. 0.280 x 0.128.

Chinese, Chou dynasty (1122-256 B. C., late). Figure of a horse; soft,
dark-brown clay with polished black surface; traces of red pigment.
0.080 x 0.092. :

Chinese, Chou dynasty (1122-256 B. C., late). Figure of a dancing woman;
soft, dark-brown clay with polished black surface ; traces of red pigment.
0.107.

Chinese, Chou dynasty (1122-256 B. ©., late). Figure of a standing
woman; soft, dark-brown clay with polished black surface; traces of
red pigment. 0.081. ‘

Chinese, Chou dynasty (1122-256 B. ©., late). Figure of a warrior; soft,
dark-brown clay with polished black surface; traces of red pigment.
0.068.

Chinese, Ch‘ing dynasty (A. D. 1644-1912). Peach-bloom vase of slender
form with flaring lip and deep narrow foot; 6-character mark of the
K‘ang-hsi period (A. D. 1662-1722). 0.150 x 0.053.

Chinese, Sung dynasty (A. D. 960-1279). Southern kuan ware vase of
bottle shape with glassy, crackled glaze of mottled brown. 0.139 x 0.088.
51.1.

51.3.

SECRETARY'S REPORT 51

Chinese, Sung dynasty (A. D. 960-1279). Bowl of chien type from Yii
Chou, Honan; ferruginous glaze running from reddish brown to deep
glossy black. 0.085 x 0.148.

Chinese, Ming dynasty (A. D. 1368-1644, early). Bowl of Yung-lo type;
white porcelain decorated with floral designs in underglaze blue; iron-
red wash on unglazed base. 0.157 x 0.410.

Chinese, Ming dynasty (A. D. 1868-1644). Bowl of white porcelain with
floral designs reserved in white against a ground of underglaze blue;
6-character mark of the Hsiian-té period (A. D. 1426-1435) on base.
0.087 x 0.187.

REPAIRS TO THE COLLECTION

A total of 114 objects were cleaned, resurfaced, remounted or re-
paired as follows:

American spainibin g9 78s Se ens ele es ee ee 108
Chinesespaintings nepaired= = ss.s* eer se ee 2
Chinese potteryarepaineds =" 72 2h ee a 2
Japanese Pottery repaired. es ess 2 ee ees af
Fersian pottery; repained 23515 =s. 2-2 22a ae ee 1

This includes the final work of cleaning and restoration of the
Whistler Peacock Room mentioned in the last three annual reports.
The room was reopened to the public on October 18, 1950. Work on
the Peacock Room and on all other American paintings was carried
out as before by John and Richard Finlayson of Boston.

CHANGES IN EXHIBITIONS

Changes in exhibitions totaled 907 as follows:

American art:

Oil paintings _____ ene eae ee es ee 108
P'S Ce S eee eee ES eB Nee i Re 91 ASR ne ee Se 31
SUVCEDOMIUSp se 2 = ee ea ee es ee aes Sa se 2
AYE TES eS CON Ke SY SAP a Sp A NS a ala
Chinese art:
STO ZC eee eee oe eee Vereen ie of Os Lee Be 292
PLEA We SSR sa SEIS rh pete FB 08D NR a a 300
Hu ese 0) Cea eS IE «ORT SS ee eee ee a +
MTC Ca WOT Kes ee een ee ee ee 52
OCCT yes a EL eee ON a oe oe! Pe ene 35
Stone gsculptun esi te = is Foe eevee en Se 34
Japanese art:
ACH TESCULp LUC meee ele So ee ee es eee 2
Tacs Wtay nna yTa| 4 Soe enc 008 ole Ree a pal ORE ES as eet ot eee ate eee 34
PO CEST yaar ere Fee Ses lee ae ayes 2 et ee 2
LIBRARY

During the year the following work was accomplished in the library:
Accessions of all kinds including books, pamphlets, periodicals,
study material, and photographs, 780; cataloging of all kinds, includ-
52 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

ing cards typed and filed, 4,096; binding, labeling, repairing, and
mounting, 496. Mr. Freer’s letters from Canfield, Dewing, Metcalf,
Thayer, Tryon, and other artists represented in the collection were
arranged chronologically and listed on cards which were filed; this
project is continuing and these letters will be indexed in the future.
Cataloging was completed of the collection of rare books purchased
by Mr. Freer in the Orient; and two bibliographies were prepared
for publication. Work continued on the major project of indexing
both the English and Japanese editions of the Japanese periodical
Kokka.

PUBLICATIONS

Five publications of the Gallery were issued during the year:

Ettinghausen, Richard: Studies in Muslim Iconography, I. The Unicorn. Occa-
sional Papers, vol. I, No. 3. 8S. I. Publ. 3993. September 1950.

Freer Gallery of Art Pamphlet, revised edition. September 1950.

Gallery Book VIII—The Art of India. October 1950.

Steindorff, George: A Royal Head from Ancient Egypt. Occasional Papers, vol.
I, No.5. S. I. Publ. 4022. February 1951.

The Whistler Peacock Room. An illustrated pamphlet containing a brief
description and history of the Peacock Room decorated by James A. McNeill
Whistler. 8S. I. Publ. 4024. April 1951.

Papers by staff members in outside publications were as follows:

Pope, John A.: Ming blue-and-white at Philadelphia. Oriental Art, vol. 3, No.
1 (1950), pp. 21-27.

Selected Chinese antiquities from the collection of Gustav Adolf, Crown

Prince of Sweden, by Nils Palmgren. (A review.) ‘The Far Eastern Quar-

terly, vol. 10, No. 1 (Nov. 1950), pp. 85-89.

Letter from the Near East. Harvard Journal of Asiatic Studies, vol. 13,
Nos. 3 and 4 (Dec. 1950), pp. 558-564.

Wenley, A. G.: Selected Chinese antiquities from the collection of Gustav
Adolf, Crown Prince of Sweden, by Nils Palmgren. (A review.) The Journal
of the American Oriental Society, vol. 69, No. 3 (Oct./Dec. 1949), pp. 238-239.

REPRODUCTIONS

During the year the photographic laboratory made 3,809 prints,
433 glass negatives, and 189 lantern slides.

BUILDING

The cabinet shop has been kept busy with the usual work of making
necessary equipment, doing repair work on the collections and mak-
ing minor repairs on the building. A temporary painter made a
small start on the long-accumulated backlog of work in the redecora-

tion of the exhibition galleries and painting other parts of the
building.
Secretary's Report, !951.—Appendix 4

 daueettinws wget x RS

adn Waa Mgy eh ag Ah? eg
‘ aie dea ldainieiaiadn a
be TN wine

bs

ae

r

Aid

SERS

Sa

[REE ERE eh aS
PA Ee Meir

fe

OF ART

GALLER\.

FREER

COLLECTION OF THE

ADDITION TO THE

RECENT
Secretary's Report, 1951.—Appendix 4 PLATE 2

50.18

RECENT ADDITION TO THE COLLECTION OF THE FREER GALLERY OF ART
SECRETARY'S REPORT 53

At the end of the year work was begun on the construction of a
technical research laboratory in the west end of the building.

The firm of Keally and Patterson, architects, of New York, com-
pleted a survey of the building with a view to modernization of the
lighting throughout, air conditioning, and effecting structural changes
for enlarging the library and adding much-needed office space. Plans
were also drawn for a proposed addition to the building. All this
work was preliminary in nature.

ATTENDANCE

The Gallery was open to the public from 9 to 4: 30 every day except
Christmas Day. The total number of visitors to come in the main
entrance was 62,895. ‘The weekday total was 49,893, and the Sunday
total 18,002. The highest monthly attendance was in July, 8,407, and
the lowest was in December, 2,281.

There were 1,471 visitors to the office during the year.

HERZFELD ARCHIVE

Mrs. Charlotte Bradford, sister of the late Ernst Herzfeld, pre-
sented to the Herzfeld Archive additional squeezes, plans, maps, draw-
ings, ete., executed by Professor Herzfeld.

STAFF ACTIVITIES

The work of the staff members has been devoted to the study of new
accessions, of objects contemplated for purchase, and to general re-
search within the collections of Chinese, Japanese, Persian, Arabic,
and Indian materials. Reports, oral or written, were made upon 2,377
objects as follows: Belonging to private individuals, 1,552; belonging
to dealers, 705; at other museums, 120. In all, 289 photographs of ob-
jects were examined, and 242 Oriental language inscriptions were
translated for visitors. By request, 10 groups met in the exhibition
galleries for docent service by staff members; the total attendance
was 208. ‘Two members of the staff spent parts of the year engaged in
research projects outside the United States as follows:

During the summer months of 1950, Mr. Pope traveled to the Near
Kast to study the uniquely important Chinese porcelain collections in
Tehran and Istanbul. In Iran, additional material was examined in
Mashhad and Isfahan; and passing through Europe to and from the
Near East provided an opportunity to see important Chinese ceramics
in museums and private collections in Bristol, Cirencester, Oxford,
London, Paris, Amsterdam, and Leeuwarden, as well as scattered ex-
amples in Rotterdam, Rome, Faenza, Venice, and Ziirich.
54 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

In October Dr. Ettinghausen began a year’s study trip to the Near
East. After a month in Europe, he proceeded to Cairo where he
studied for two months. A brief stop was made in Baghdad en route
to Iran where he spent four months studying and visiting the impor-
tant sites and monuments. At the end of the year he was continuing
his work in Afghanistan.

By invitation the following lectures were given outside the Gallery

by staff members:

1950

Noy. 5. Mr. Pope addressed the fall meeting of the Far Eastern Ceramic
Group in the Brooklyn Museum on “Notes on Chinese Ceramics in
the Near East.” (Illustrated.) Attendance, 40.

Dec. 7. Mr. Pope addressed the Washington Society of the Archaeological In-
stitute of America at the Coreoran Gallery of Art on “Chinese
Porcelain in Europe and the Near Hast.” (Illustrated.) At-
tendance, 40.

Jan. 8. Dr. Ettinghausen addressed the faculty of art, Faruk I University,
Alexandria, Egypt, on “Animal Lore in Moslem Art.” (Tllustrated.)
Attendance, 60.

Jan. 9. Dr. Wittinghausen addressed the Société Royale d’Archéologie of Alex-
andria, Egypt, on “Moslem Art in the West from the Middle Ages
to Modern Times.” (Illustrated.) Attendance, 75.

Jan. 11. Mr. Pope addressed the annual dinner of the Smithsonian Board of
Regents, giving a brief account of his findings in the Near East.
Attendance, 25.

Jan. 17. Dr. Ettinghausen addressed the U. S. Offices of Information and
Educational Exchange, at the U. 8. Embassy, Cairo, Egypt, on “Ani-
mal Lore in Moslem Art.” (Illustrated.) Attendance, 75.

Jan, 22. Mr. Pope addressed the Fine Arts Group of the Special Libraries As-
sociation in the Whittall pavilion of the Library of Congress, on
“Chinese Porcelain in Europe and the Near East.” (Illustrated.)
Attendance, 25.

Mar. 6. Dr. Ettinghausen addressed a group at the Tehran University, Tehran,
Iran, on “Science and Fiction in Islamic Art.” (Illustrated). At-
tendance, 120.

Mar. 27, Mr. Pope addressed the Far Hastern Art and Archaeology Section of
the annual meeting of the Far Eastern Association at Philadelphia
on “Two Kamakura Kongorikishi.” (Illustrated.) Attendance,
60.

During the year 7 members of the staff made a total of 16 trips
outside of Washington on official business.

Members of the staff held honorary posts and undertook additional
duties outside the Gallery as follows:

Mr. Wenley: Trustee, Hermitage Foundation, Norfolk, Va.
Chairman of the Louise Wallace Hackney Scholarship Com-
mittee of the American Oriental Society.
Trustee, Textile Museum of the District of Columbia.
Member, Visiting Committee, Dumbarton Oaks Research Li-
brary and Collection.
Mr. Wenley—Cont.

Mr. Pope:

Dr, Ettinghausen:

SECRETARY'S REPORT 55

Member, Smithsonian Art Commission.

Research Professor of Oriental Art, University of Michigan.

Member, Committee of Expert Examiners, U. S. Civil Service
Commission, for the Smithsonian Institution.

President, Far Eastern Ceramic Group.

Art Editor, Far Eastern Quarterly.

Member, Two Advisory Selection Committees for Fulbright
Awards in Fine Arts and Architecture, under the Con-
ference Board of Associated Research Councils. (One
meeting in New York, one in Washington, both ad hoc.)

Editor, Bibliography of the Near East prepared by the Com-
mittee on Near Eastern Studies, American Council of
Learned Societies.

Editor, Ars Islamica.

Respectfully submitted.

A. G. Wentry, Director.

Dr. A. Wermore,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.

981445—52—__5
APPENDIX 5
Report on the Bureau of American Ethnology

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the field
researches, office work, and other operations of the Bureau of Ameri-
ean Ethnology during the fiscal year ended June 30, 1951, conducted
in accordance with the Act of Congress of April 10, 1928, as amended
August 22, 1949, which provides for continuing “independently or in
cooperation anthropological researches among the American Indians
and the natives of lands under the jurisdiction or protection of the
United States and the excavation and preservation of archeologic

remains.”
SYSTEMATIO RESEARCHES

Dr. M. W. Stirling, Director of the Bureau, left Washington early
in January to continue the program of archeological work in Panama
inaugurated in 1948 in cooperation with the National Geographic
Society. En route, he made stops of several days each in México,
Guatemala, El Salvador, and Costa Rica to study and photograph
archeological collections in those countries. In Panama the primary
objective was an archeological reconnaissance on the relatively un-
explored Atlantic coast of Panama lying between the Canal Zone and
the Chiriqui lagoon. It was here in 1502 that Columbus attempted
to establish the first European colony on the American mainland.
Three river systems in this region were explored— the Rio Salud,
Rio Indio, and Rio Coclé del Norte. The latter is the largest river
on the Panama north coast. Columbus found this region inhabited
by Indians who wore gold ornaments and who did not live in villages
but in single houses separated from one another by considerable dis-
tances. Dr. Stirling’s archeological work confirmed this observation.
The archeological remains consisted primarily of pottery and stone
objects removed from the refuse deposits where the houses had stood.
Near the coast the pottery was simple in style, unpainted, and with a
limited variety of forms. Near the headwaters of the rivers the
pottery became more elaborate as a result of influences from the high
culture centers that existed in pre-Columbian times on the Pacific
side of the divide. On concluding this survey, in the latter part of
March, the expedition established headquarters at La Pintada in the
Pacific drainage opposite the headwaters of the Coclé del Norte, where
additional excavations were undertaken with the intention of estab-

56
SECRETARY’S REPORT 57

lishing the relation between the prehistoric cultures of the two re-
gions. Dr. Robert Rands accompanied Dr. Stirling in the field as
archeological assistant.

Dr. Frank H. H. Roberts, Jr., Associate Director of the Bureau
and Director of the River Basin Surveys, devoted most of his time
during the year to the management and direction of the River Basin
Surveys. In October he went to Lincoln, Nebr., to inspect the Missouri
Basin headquarters. Accompanied by Paul L. Cooper, field director,
he then proceeded to the Fort Randall Reservoir area near Chamber-
lain, S. Dak., and visited a number of archeological sites that were
being tested by one of the field parties. From Chamberlain he went
to Pierre, S. Dak., and inspected the investigations being carried on
in the area of the Oahe Dam. Dr. Roberts also went to several other
sites that will be flooded by the Oahe Reservoir and discussed with
Mr. Cooper plans for excavation projects at those locations when field
work got under way in the spring months. After returning to the
headquarters at Lincoln, Dr. Roberts went to Colorado where early
in November he spent two days at the Lindenmeier site seeking char-
coal that could be used for carbon-14 dating. He also spent two days
testing a rock shelter near Livermore, which had been reported to
contain materials belonging to the Folsom complex. Dr. Roberts
found considerable evidence of occupancy of the shelter by recent In-
dians but saw nothing to indicate the older horizon. In April he
went to Clarksville, Va., where excavations were under way in sites
that will be flooded by the Buggs Island Reservoir. In May he went
to Evanston, Ill., to attend the annual meeting of the Society for
American Archaeology, of which he was President, and then pro-
ceeded to Lincoln, Nebr., where he assisted in the preparation of plans
for the summer field season in the Missouri Basin. From Lincoln
he went to Oklahoma and spent several days visiting sites in the
Tenkiller Ferry Reservoir and observing the excavations that were
being made by a River Basin Surveys’ party near Tahlequah.

At the beginning of the fiscal year Dr. Henry B. Collins, anthropolo-
gist, left for a second season of field work on Cornwallis Island in the
Canadian Arctic. As in the two preceding years the work was con-
ducted under the joint auspices of the Smithsonian Institution and
the National Museum of Canada. Dr. Collins and his assistant, Walter
K. Taylor, anthropology student at the University of Toronto, were
flown by the Royal Canadian Air Force from Montreal to the Reso-
lute Bay weather station on Cornwallis Island, stopping en route at
Churchill on Hudson Bay. The excavations yielded a large collection
of the Thule culture material, most of it from in and around an
unusually large stone and whalebone house at the site designated as
M 1, a mile from the weather station. Just to the rear of this house
was a small and inconspicuous house ruin, indicated only by a shal-
58 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

low depression in the ground, which turned out to be the oldest Thule
structure thus far found in the central or eastern Arctic. The artifacts
from this house were identical with those from the earliest Thule sites
in Alaska. The house had evidently been occupied very briefly, for
perhaps only one or two years, by some of the first Thule migrants
from Alaska, who in all likelihood had then continued on their way
to northwest Greenland. A similar shallow depression nearby yielded
Dorset objects, the first indication that this early but little-known
Eskimo culture had reached Cornwallis Island. Three culture stages
are thus represented at Resolute—Dorset, early Thule, and developed
Thule. The first two were probably represented by only a few families
who lived there for very short periods. The last stage was of much
longer duration, probably a century or more, during which time the
population was probably to be numbered in the hundreds. In June
1951 Mr. Taylor returned to Resolute to complete some of the excava-
tions that had to be left unfinished the preceding August.

Dr. Collins was reelected to the board of governors of the Arctic
Institute for a 3-year term, and also for a 1-year term as treasurer of
the organization. He continued to serve as chairman of the directing
committee that planned and supervised the bibliography and roster
projects on which the Arctic Institute has been engaged for the past
four years under contract with the Office of Naval Research. The
Roster of Arctic Specialists, containing biographical data on Amer-
ican and Canadian citizens having expert knowledge of the Arctic
regions, was completed and turned over to the agencies that had spon-
sored and financed the work—U. S. Departments of the Army, Navy,
Air Force, and Defense Research Board of Canada. The first five vol-
umes of the Arctic Bibliography were also completed and delivered to
the Government Printing Office through the Department of the Army,
which had contributed additional funds for its publication. Prepared
under the direction of Miss Marie Tremaine with a staff including
expert bibliographers, translators, and scientists working at the Li-
brary of Congress and other libraries in the United States and Canada,
the Arctic Bibliography is one of the most comprehensive regional
bibliographies ever assembled and should be a useful research tool
for scientists and others interested in the North.

At the beginning of the fiscal year, Dr. John P. Harrington was
on the Crow Indian Reservation in southern Montana conducting lin-
guistic studies. Dr. Harrington found in connection with his studies
that the word Missouri, formerly thought to mean “large canoe” or
“wooden canoe,” means simply “canoe” and, as applied since aboriginal
times to the Missouri River, means by implication the navigated river.
Dr. Harrington also obtained detailed information concerning the
Mandan coracle or bull boat from Crowsheart, an Indian 94 years
of age. An article was completed on this subject. On December 19,
SECRETARY'S REPORT 59

Dr. Harrington returned to Washington, D. C., and spent the time
until March 9 writing reports on his field work. On this date he left
for México in order to resume his studies on the Maya language. At
the end of the fiscal year he was in Mexico City continuing this work.

Commencing July 1, Dr. William N. Fenton, having completed an
assignment for the Indian Service at Taos Pueblo, conducted a survey
of manuscripts relating to the ethnohistory of eastern Indians in the
Henry E. Huntington Library at San Marino, Calif. The latter re-
search, carried out with the aid of grants from the research funds
of the American Philosophical Society, was published in the Proceed-
ings of the American Philosophical Society, vol. 95, No. 8.

Factions are a peculiar feature of American Indian political organi-
zation that has yet to be worked out for the country as a whole. Some
ideas about political structure and methods of field work, which Dr.
Fenton developed over a long period of field and library study among
the Six Nations, were this past year transferred to the study of Indian
self-government, which is riddled with factional disputes, in three
divergent tribal cultures—T aos, Klamath, and Blackfeet. Each field
situation was unique and required adjusting techniques, but the main
principles hold. Field work was completed at Klamath Indian Agency
in August, and the situation at Blackfeet Agency in Montana was
explored during September. On returning to Washington late in
September, at the request of the Indian Bureau Dr. Fenton drafted
a comprehensive plan for the study of the Blackfeet problem by a
team of social-science specialists who would be drawn from several
disciplines including anthropology.

RIVER BASIN SURVEYS
(Report prepared by Frank H. H. Roserrs, Jr.)

Instituted in the fall of 1945 as a unit of the Bureau of American
Ethnology, the River Basin Surveys were organized to carry into
effect a memorandum of understanding between the National Park
Service and the Smithsonian Institution. The memorandum per-
tains to the salvage of archeological and paleontological remains that
would otherwise be lost as a result of numerous projects for flood
control and irrigation, hydroelectric installations, and navigation
improvements in the river basins of the United States. The field
work was started in July 1946 and has continued since that date.
During the entire period of operations the investigations have been
conducted as an interagency program with full cooperation on the
part of the Smithsonian Institution, the National Park Service, and
the Bureau of Reclamation of the Interior Department, and the Corps
of Engineers of the Department of the Army. In addition, numerous
non-Federal institutions scattered throughout the various States have
60 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

aided in the work. The program in the last fiscal year was financed
by a transfer of $174,375 to the Smithsonian Institution by the Na-
tional Park Service. Those funds were derived in part from the
National Park Service and in part from the Bureau of Reclamation.
The money from the Bureau of Reclamation was for use in the Mis-
souri Basin, while that from the National Park Service was for use in
all other areas throughout the United States. Because the appro-
priations for the previous year became available so late in the field
season, a substantial carry-over ($185,574) increased the 1951 funds
so that a much larger series of investigations was possible than would
otherwise have been the case.

Activities during the year consisted of reconnaissance or surveys for
the purpose of locating archeological sites or paleontological deposits
that will be flooded or otherwise destroyed by construction work and
in the excavation of sites located by previous surveys. In all, 45
reservoir basins located in 13 States and scattered over 8 river basins
were visited by survey parties. In addition one lock project and four
canal areas were examined. Excavations were completed or were
under way at the end of the fiscal year in 20 reservoir areas in 10
States. During the course of the year there were 26 excavating
parties in the field. Eight of the excavation projects were in areas
where digging was done in previous years, but the remainder were
new undertakings. When the fiscal year closed, the total of the res-
ervoir areas where surveys had been made or excavations carried on
since the beginning of actual field work in July 1946 was 225 located
in 25 States. During the course of the work 2,894 archeological sites
have been located and recorded, and of that number 545 have been
recommended for excavation or additional testing. Preliminary
appraisal reports were completed for all the reservoirs surveyed, and
14 reports were mimeographed for limited distribution to the co-
operating agencies. This makes a total of 134 such reports issued
since the start of the program. In some cases a series of reservoirs is
included in a single report covering a subbasin, and for that reason
the total number of reports is less than that of the reservoirs. The
excavations made during the fiscal year brought the total for areas
where such work has been done to 33. The results of some of that
work have been published as technical reports in various scientific
journals, and one Bulletin of the Bureau of American Ethnology con-
taining eight such papers is now in press. That Bulletin inaugurates
a new series, to be called “River Basin Surveys Papers” and designed
as an outlet for the reports resulting from the interagency archeologi-
cal salvage program. Paleontological surveys have been made in
115 reservoir areas, 70 being those where archeological work has also
been done. The remaining 45 in due course will be investigated by
SECRETARY'S REPORT 61

archeological parties. The over-all total of reservoirs visited, includ-
ing those where archeological work still needs to be done, is 270.

The reservoirs investigated for archeological remains as of June 30,
1951, have the following distribution by States: California, 20; Colo-
rado, 24; Georgia, 4; Idaho, 11; Illinois, 2; Iowa, 3; Kansas, 7; Ken-
tucky, 1; Louisiana, 1; Minnesota, 1; Montana, 14; Nebraska, 27; New
Mexico, 1; North Dakota, 18; Ohio, 2; Oklahoma, 7; Oregon, 26; Penn-
sylvania, 2; South Dakota, 9; Tennessee, 1; Texas, 15; Virginia, 2;
Washington, 11; West Virginia, 2; Wyoming, 19. Excavations since
the start of the program have been made in: California, 5; Colorado,
1; Georgia, 1; Kansas, 1; Montana, 1; Nebraska, 1; New Mexico, 1;
North Dakota, 4; Oklahoma, 2; Oregon, 3; South Dakota, 5; Texas, 7;
Virginia, 1; Washington, 8; Wyoming, 38.

The River Basin Surveys received extensive cooperation during the
year from the National Park Service, the Bureau of Reclamation, the
Corps of Engineers, and numerous State and local institutions.
Guides and transportation were furnished staff men in the field at a
number of projects, while at others office and laboratory space was
provided. In several cases labor and mechanical equipment were con-
tributed by the construction agency. Had it not been for the assist-
ance provided in that way, it would not have been possible for the
River Basin Surveys’ men to accomplish as much as they did. As in
past years, the National Park Service served as the liaison between
the various agencies and provided the Smithsonian Institution with
the necessary information concerning the locations of the proposed
dams and reservoirs and also their priorities. In addition, the Na-
tional Park Service carried the responsibility for budgeting the costs
of the program and for procuring the funds.

General supervision and direction of the work in California, Geor-
cia, Kentucky, Oklahoma, Pennsylvania, and Virginia were from the
main office in Washington. The program in the Columbia Basin was
directed from a field headquarters and laboratory at Eugene, Oreg.;
that in the Missouri Basin was under the supervision of a field office
and laboratory at Lincoln, Nebr.; and that in Texas was under the
field office at Austin. All the materials collected by the survey and
excavation parties in those three areas were processed at the field lab-
oratories. In addition, the collections made in Georgia were processed
at a laboratory at Athens.

Washington office—The main headquarters of the River Basin Sur-
veys continued under the direction of Dr. Frank H. H. Roberts, Jr.
Joseph R. Caldwell, Carl F. Miller, and Ralph §. Solecki, archeolo-
gists, were based on that office, although Caldwell spent the entire
year in Georgia, and Solecki took leave of absence to join an expedition
going to the Near East. Dr. Theodore E. White, paleontologist, di-
62 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

vided his time between the Washington office, the Missouri Basin, and
the Texas area.

Mr. Caldwell spent the early months of the fiscal year working on
his report on the results of the excavations completed during the pre-
vious year at the Allatoona Reservoir. In November he proceeded to
the Buford Reservoir area on the Chattahoochee River northeast of
Atlanta where he carried on a survey until April 6. In the latter part
of April Mr. Caldwell made an investigation at the site of Fort Char-
lotte in McCormick County, S. C., to determine what work might be
necessary to obtain full information about it before it is flooded by the
waters of the Clark Hill Reservoir. From Fort Charlotte Mr. Cald-
well returned to his field base at Athens where he prepared a manu-
script “The Booger Bottom Mound: A Forsyth Period Site in Hall
County, Georgia.”

At the beginning of the year, Carl F. Miller was carrying on ex-
cavations at a site on the east bank of the Roanoke River near Clarks-
ville, Va. He continued operations there until August 4, when he
returned to Washington. During the months spent in the office, Mr.
Miller worked on his section of the report on the excavations at the
Allatoona Reservoir in Georgia. On February 28 he returned to
Clarksville and resumed investigations in the Buggs Island Reservoir
area. Those operations continued until June 20, when he proceeded
to Bassett, Va., and made a survey at the Philpott Reservoir on the
Smith River. He returned to Washington on June 30. During such
times as the Director was absent from the Washington office, Mr.
Miller served as Acting Director of the River Basin Surveys.

Ralph S. Solecki devoted the early months of the year to the com-
pletion of reports on work done previously. In October he made a
brief investigation of the area at Morgantown, W. Va., where a new
navigation lock was under construction. From there he proceeded to
the Conemaugh Reservoir on the Conemaugh River in western Penn-
sylvania, where he made a reconnaissance of the area that will be
flooded. From the Conemaugh project he proceeded to the East
Branch Reservoir basin on the Clarion River, also in Pennsylvania.
After completing the survey of that area, he returned to Washington
and completed his report on the field investigations.

Dr. Theodore E. White spent the winter and early spring months
in Washington studying the materials he had collected during the
summer field season and in the preparation of a manuscript “Prelim-
inary Analysis of the Fossil Vertebrates of the Canyon Ferry Reser-
voir Area.” In April he went to Texas where he collected fossils from
the Lavon Reservoir on the East Fork of the Trinity River in Tarrant
County and from the Garza-Little Elm Reservoir on the Elm Fork of
the same river in Denton County. In June Dr. White proceeded from
SECRETARY’S REPORT 63

Texas to Lincoln, Nebr., and resumed his activities in the Missouri
Basin.

California.—At the beginning of the fiscal year a party under the
direction of Franklin Fenenga was excavating a site in the Terminus
Reservoir area on the Kaweah River, in Tulare County. That work
was continued until August 1, and upon its completion detailed in-
formation had been obtained about a small village consisting of 14
houses and 38 distinct milling places. The site was important be-
cause it provided an opportunity to study the remains left by a group
of people who occupied the region in historic times and concerning
whom there is an extraordinarily complete ethnographic record. The
lower end of the Kaweah Canyon was formerly occupied by a small
band of the Yokut Indians known as the Wukchumne or Wickchamni.
Correlations of the data from both the ethnological and archeological
sources of information will make it possible to prepare an archeolog-
ical report containing an almost unique amount of information on
the function and significance of the artifacts and the various features
of the site. Many items of the material culture previously known only
through tradition are now represented by actual objects recovered
during the archeological researches.

Upon the completion of the digging at the Terminus Reservoir,
Mr. Fenenga moved his party to the Folsom Reservoir located on the
American River, in Eldorado County, where excavations were carried
on from August 3 to September 16. About 75 percent of the site was
investigated. The returns were small in that only a single burial
and 214 artifacts were found. The burial was that of a child about
12 years old and had no accompanying offerings. The artifacts con-
sist for the most part of stone and, as most of them are unspecialized
forms making functional identifications or comparisons with objects
from other sites difficult, they are not particularly significant. A
small series of arrow points, about half of which were made from
a native opal, will be useful in the matter of correlation with other
sites, but at present there is so little material available for study from
that particular region that conclusions are not warranted. Until
more data are obtained, it will not be possible to give a reasonably
complete picture of the material culture of the people who occupied
the site.

Two field parties excavated at the Cachuma Reservoir on the Santa
Ynez River, in Santa Barbara County. One of them, under Albert D.
Mohr, worked from August 1 to September 12, while the other, under
Martin Baumhoff, worked from April 8 until May 18. The first party
excavated in a site that contained evidence of three cultures previously
described by David Banks Rogers. They are the Oak Grove, Hunting,
and “Chumash.” The evidence obtained there substantiated the re-
64 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

ported sequence for the Santa Barbara area. It also indicated that
two phases each of the last two periods might be defined as the result
of further work. The same party also did some testing in another
site which apparently represents a single late period that extended
into early historic times.

The party under Mr. Baumhoff concentrated its efforts at the second
site where Mr. Mohr worked and obtained considerable additional
information from it. Preliminary study of the artifacts indicates
that the occupation is attributable to the Canaliio. There is evidence
of trading activities in the form of tubular beads from the San Joaquin
Valley and potsherds similar to the pottery made by the Yokuts of
that region and the western Paiutes. No house remains were found,
but there were scattered piles of stones that appear to have been inten-
tiona) rather than accidental, and in one case there was a pear-shaped
pit 12 feet 8 inches long, 6 feet 3 inches wide, and 1 foot 3 inches in
depth, which had been lined with slabs of shale and was filled with
rocks of all sizes. The function of the pit has not been determined.
It was at first thought that the feature may have been a sweat house,
but the nature of the shale lining was such that it probably would
not have withstood the heating necessary for sweat-house purposes.
Additional work is needed at the Cachuma Reservoir in order to gain
a better understanding of the aboriginal history of the area.

Columbia Basin.—W ork in the Columbia Basin was continued under
the supervision of the field headquarters at Eugene, Oreg., where
laboratory and office space were provided by the University of Oregon.
Joel L. Shiner served as acting field director throughout the year.
Activities in that area consisted of a survey of six reservoir projects
and excavations in four areas where preliminary reconnaissance work
had already been completed. The John Day Reservoir basin on the
John Day River, in Oregon,’ was examined by Robert Farrell and
Stuart Peck during the first two weeks in July. The party found 88
sites and recommended testing or more extended excavations for 8 of
them. From the John Day Reservoir, Peck and Farrell proceeded
to the Hells Canyon Reservoir on the Snake River, in Oregon-Idaho,
where they found 22 sites, of which 4 were recommended for investiga-
tion. The latter survey was completed the middle of August. During
July George L. Coale and Octavio Romano surveyed the area to be
flooded by the Albeni Falls Reservoir on the Pend Oreille River, in
northern Idaho. They found 13 sites and recommended the testing of
5. Construction work on the dam has progressed to such an extent
that the indicated work may not be possible at that location. From
the Albeni Falls area, Coale and Romano proceeded to the Katka
and Libby Reservoir projects on the Kootenai River, in Idaho and
Montana, where they made a preliminary reconnaissance. The Katka
Dam is located in Idaho, but the reservoir will extend upstream into
SECRETARY'S REPORT 65

Montana. The survey of the Katka area located and recorded 14
sites, of which one was recommended for excavation. Three others,
however, were found to be worthy of testing. The Libby area contains
11 archeological sites, and because so little is known of the archeology
of the Kootenai Indians, 6 of the 11 were recommended for further
study. Extensive excavation would not be required at any of them,
however. John M. Campbell spent July and August making a survey
of the Priest Rapids Reservoir basin. The Priest Rapids Dam is to
be built in the Columbia River just below the rapids and will create
a pool area 56 miles long. The district to be flooded is an important
one from the standpoint of the aboriginal occupation of the area,
and 74 sites were found there. Of that number, 29 are considered
to be of high archeological significance. The sites consist of those
with well-preserved house pits, the remains of open camps, cave shel-
ters, burial grounds, and various groups of pictographs. The region
is one that was occupied by several different Indian groups, and know]l-
edge from it should have an important bearing on a large section of
the Plateau Culture area.

At the start of the fiscal year a party under the direction of Douglas
Osborne, consulting archeologist, was continuing excavations at a site
on the Washington side of the Columbia River near Mottinger in the
McNary Reservoir basin. The site was that of a postcontact village
and probably was the location of that visited by Robert Stuart in 1812.
During the course of the digging three house pits and one mat lodge
were uncovered, and three additional house pits were tested. The
house pits were circular, and if the identification of the village is
correct it would indicate that the circular earth lodge was in use in
that area at a later date than most anthropologists have believed. The
artifacts obtained were not numerous, which is a condition found at
most of the places worked in the McNary basin. In addition to abo-
riginal stone and bone implements and shell ornaments, a variety of
European goods was obtained. Several of the house pits gave evi-
dence of several separate occupations, which may indicate that the
village was not lived in continuously but was revisited from time to
time, perhaps by the same group of people. The remains of the long
narrow mat house, which was a popular form of multifamily dwelling
during the historical period in that area, agree closely with the de-
scriptions of such houses given by the Umatilla Indians to ethnological
investigators in previous years. One complete burial was recovered
at that location. Late in July Mr. Osborne transferred his party to
a site near Cold Springs on the Oregon side of the river where he dug
four house pits in the remains of a small village. During periods of
high water the site appears to be located on an island, as a portion
of the river flows through an old channel and separates it from high
ground to the south. The village was situated on the side nearest
66 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

the main channel and consisted of two distinct groups of houses. The
largest group was centered about 500 feet downstream from the
smaller one. An almost identical condition had previously been noted
at another site where work was done during the summer of 1949, but
thus far no explanation for such a division has been found. The pits
at. this particular location were also circular in form and indicated
a single occupation. The lack of well-developed midden or refuse
areas implies that the village must have been short-lived or that par-
ticular care was taken to throw refuse into or near the river. Trade
goods were scarce at this site, which would seem to indicate that it
should be dated as slightly earlier than the time of the first contact
with the Whites or just prior to 1800. The Lewis and Clark map shows
the “island” but does not indicate the presence of a village or at least
the existence of houses. It would appear that the village had been
abandoned and had fallen into ruin before 1805. The most important
contribution from the excavations at these sites is the verification of
data secured at other locations in the McNary, particularly with re-
spect to the size and shape of the former houses and their artifact asso-
ciations; also, it was indicated that, while fishing was the primary
source of subsistence, hunting actually played a larger part in the econ-
omy than previously supposed. Mr. Osborne also completed the exca-
vation of a house pit at a site 1 mile downstream where work was done
the previous summer, and in addition located and removed 17 burials
from Sheep Island in the middle of the river about equidistant from
the other three sites. Some work had been done previously at that lo-
cation by Thomas R. Garth, who was then with the National Park
Service. Osborne, who was under a temporary appointment as con-
sulting archeologist, completed his investigations the end of August
and returned to his regular duties at the Washington State Museum.

Richard D. Daugherty and his party continued the excavations
started near the end of the previous fiscal year at the O’Sullivan Reser-
voir near Ephrata, Wash., and completed the investigations on Sep-
tember 2. They spent the summer season at a small village site close to
a larger one where Daugherty did some work in the summer of 1948.
During the current year two large circular house pits were dug, and
the remains of a rectangular mat dwelling were uncovered. A series
of cairns that had formerly contained burials was also studied. The
graves had been systematically rifled by local collectors, however, and
little could be learned other than that the piles of stone had covered
the remains of cremations. Information pertaining to the house
types agreed with that from the previous digging, and from that data
it will be possible to draw a number of conclusions about the dwellings
of the area. Not a single item was found suggesting White contact,
but the similarity of the artifacts to those from other sites in the
region where there was association with contact material suggests that
SECRETARY’S REPORT 67

the occupancy was not long prior to the time the first white men reached
the area. In general the artifacts consist of projectile points, various
types of scrapers, knives, drills, hammerstones, sinkers, pendants,
grinding stones and pestles, stone pipes, bone awls and points, bone
flaking tools, gaming pieces, and beads. While carrying on his excava-
tions, Daugherty also tested a site in the Lind Coulee where materials
attributable to the Paleo-Indian occur. The site is outside the reser-
voir basin but is along the course of lateral and distribution-system
canals, and as Lind Coulee is to be used as a wasteway for them the
archeological remains will ultimately be destroyed.

A party under the direction of Samuel J. Tobin was excavating in
a large rock shelter in the Equalizing Reservoir basin southwest of the
town of Grand Coulee, Wash., at the start of the fiscal year. The
work was carried on through July. Evidence obtained there was that
the shelter was not a regular dwelling place but rather a spot where
small parties probably camped from time to time. Three distinct
levels of occupation were found, but apparently no great length of
time intervened between each level, and the materials suggest that
the same cultural group was involved throughout. The chief signifi-
cance of the shelter is that a considerable amount of dry material such
as is rarely found in open sites was obtained. Included in it are
cordage, fragments of bow staves, arrow or spear shafts, textile frag-
ments, matting, and pieces of basketry. Nonperishable artifacts are
projectile points, bone implements and beads, and shell beads. The
rear wall of the shelter was decorated with pictographs, some made
with white paint and others in red. Analysis of the dry materials
should throw considerable light on that phase of the material culture
of the people in the area. Present indications are that the shelter
may well have been occupied by either the Nespelem or their eastern
neighbors the Sanpoil. Although contact objects were lacking below
the surface, it is difficult to assign either a historic or a pre-Columbian
age to the site.

The beginning of the fiscal year found a party under George A.
Cheney digging in village remains along the Columbia River in the
basin to be flooded by the Chief Joseph Reservoir. The work con-
tinued through July and August and into early September. In
August Tobin’s party was shifted to that project to assist in the in-
vestigations. The work in September was a cooperative effort, the
Washington State Museum providing the necessary labor. At the
end of the season 42 house pits located in 7 sites had been dug and
accompanying trash mounds examined. Good information was ob-
tained concerning the house type, and indications are that there was
no particular village pattern. The structures do not seem to have
been grouped, but at all the sites were strung along a terrace above
the river in sheltered areas well back from the water. The artifacts
68 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

recovered consisted in the main of stone projectile points, blades,
scrapers, hammers, pestles, pipes, choppers, and bow] fragments. The
evidence in general appears to show that a single cultural level was
represented at all the sites investigated. The area is one, however,
where the river has done considerable scouring and shifting, and it
is possible that older materials may have been destroyed. Though
many of the data from the Chief Joseph Reservoir supplement those
reported by earlier workers for the Upper Columbia-Grand Coulee
Reservoir, there are some marked differences in certain artifact cate-
gories. Considerable light will be thrown on the archeology of that
portion of the Columbia Basin when studies on the materials from
the Chief Joseph Reservoir are completed.

On April 2 Joel L. Shiner started excavations at a site in the McNary
Reservoir where a cultural layer had been discovered underneath a
thick stratum of wind-deposited volcanic ash. The site, which was
reported to the River Basin Surveys in January by Thomas R. Garth,
represented a single occupation by a group of Indians having a simple
culture and, except for the projectile points, very crude tools. Some
100 artifacts, including hammerstones and choppers in addition to the
points, were found there. Large numbers of animal bones, many of
them burned, and mussel shells were present in the midden. There
were no indications, however, of any type of habitation. The culture
probably represents a fairly early horizon in the Columbia Basin, but
its proper place in the sequence for the area cannot be determined
definitely until the volcanic ash is correlated with one of the known
eruptions in the region or the burned bones have been dated by the
carbon-14 method. Typologically the artifacts appear to be of re-
spectable age.

At the end of April Mr. Shiner moved his party to the site of a
former fishing village at the mouth of the Walla Walla River and
carried on excavations there until the middle of May. Most of the
digging was done in a midden deposit adjacent to the house remains,
and a good series of artifacts was obtained. That is one of the few
locations where enough material was found to make possible a satis-
factory statistical study of the types of artifacts. The village appar-
ently was occupied just prior to and during the first coming of the
white man. A large number of burials had been present at one time,
but the locality had been so thoroughly dug by local collectors that
only scattered bones were found by Shiner’s party.

During the year seven preliminary reports were completed and
mimeographed at the Eugene office. Specimens from the various
surveys were processed and cataloged and the photographs taken by
the various parties were cataloged and filed. Because of the situation
with respect to funds for the following fiscal year, it was necessary to
close the Eugene office on June 30, 1951.
SECRETARY'S REPORT 69

Georgia.—Field work in Georgia was carried on from a base of
operations furnished by the University of Georgia at Athens. The
main investigations during the year were of a survey nature. From
November 14 to April 6 a reconnaissance was made of the area that
will be inundated by the proposed Buford Reservoir on the Chatta-
hoochee River. From April 23 to 28 a brief reconnaissance was made
in the Clark Hill Reservoir, on the Savannah River, for the purpose
of locating the remains of Fort Charlotte.

The Buford Reservoir basin occupies a large intermediate section
of north-Georgia terrain lying between the Allatoona Reservoir area
on the Etowah River and the north-Oconee drainage. The region is
one that is virtually unknown archeologically, and it should contain
significant data as far as a proper understanding of cultural develop-
ments in that part of Georgia is concerned. The preliminary survey
located 46 sites in the area to be flooded. Included in the group are
29 that appear to represent a rather early prepottery period. There
is some evidence that this group of sites may be somewhat older than
the Stallings Island Prepottery Culture. A larger proportion of
sites belong to the Woodstock period than was found to be the case
during the investigations at the Allatoona Reservoir. The larger
number of early sites indicates either that there was a sizable popula-
tion in the district or that it was occupied over a long span of time.
Extensive investigation of a number of the sites should give an answer
in that respect. Two large previously unrecorded mounds were also
noted, and some test digging was done in them. One gave evidence
of having been erected over a small natural knoll, and the outlines of
a small square house with a bench, bed, or throne at one end were
found on its summit. The mound appears to represent a rather late
and previously unknown complex which probably is pre-Lamar in
age. The other mound apparently is one of the oldest artificial struc-
tures thus far found in Georgia. It differs from previously recognized
types of eastern mounds in that it was not accretional and probably
was not intended for burial purposes. Neither does it seem to have
been a temple platform or domiciliary mound. Evidence obtained
during the course of testing it and adjacent areas suggests that it
probably belongs in the Forsyth Period, which falls into the general
category known as the Burial Mound I Period. In many ways the
mound suggests similarities to the well-known Swift Creek Mound.
One postulation as to its function is that it may have been erected for
ceremonial purposes even though there are no traces of a structure on
its summit. A simple earthen platform without a structure would be
the logical beginning in the development of the eastern temple-mound
complex.

In addition to the pre-Columbian sites, the survey found a number
attributable to the historic Cherokee. The latter are located for the
70 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

most part along the course of the old Federal Road, which passed
through the Cherokee country to the Tennessee settlements. A brief
study was made of the Vann House which was built between 1805
and 1813 to serve as an inn for people traveling along the Federal
Road and stands on a high knoll overlooking the Chattahoochee River
about 114 miles from the present town of Oscarville. It is one of
the few Indian country taverns still standing. In its present form
the structure shows several periods of enlargement, but the old original
portion is readily discernible, and careful study of it should produce
interesting data on the nature of the taverns of the period when built.

The search for the remains of Fort Charlotte, in the Clark Hill
Reservoir area, showed that it was located on the South Carolina
side of the Savannah River, but inasmuch as it will be inundated by
the Clark Hill Reservoir, the dam for which is being built in Georgia,
investigation of the site is considered to be a part of the Georgia
project. Fort Charlotte, built in 1765 as one of the Colonial defenses
against the Cherokee Indians, was seized on July 12, 1775, by South
Carolina troops—one of the first overt acts of defiance by the rebellious
Colonies against the British Government. It continued to be occupied
by Colonial troops until the close of the Revolutionary War. Because
of the lack of accurate information about the actual physical character
of the fort and the fact that certain phases of its history correlate
with Indian activities in that area, it is hoped that all remaining
evidence pertaining to it can be retrieved from the site before it is
inundated.

Kentucky—During the period April 16 to May 18 Douglas W.
Schwartz, field assistant, made a reconnaissance and carried on limited
test excavations in the basin to be flooded by the proposed Celina
Reservoir on the Cumberland River, in southern Kentucky. He lo-
cated 24 archeological sites, representing a number of cultural periods;
further work in the area probably would make it possible to establish
a sequence for them. Excavations in six major sites have been recom-
mended, but inasmuch as all of them are above the pool line there is
no immediate urgency for their investigation. Their location is such,
however, that after the reservoir is filled they may be subject to some.
wave action and will be easily available to unauthorized diggers.
Consequently, plans should be made for additional work in that
district.

The survey in the Celina area was done in cooperation with the
University of Kentucky, which furnished Mr. Schwartz with the
necessary transportation and provided him with office and laboratory
space for working over his material. Dr. William S. Webb, head
of the university’s department of anthropology, assisted Mr. Schwartz
in an advisory capacity.
SECRETARY'S REPORT Tt

Missouri Basin.—Activities in the Missouri Basin continued to be
supervised and directed from the field headquarters at the University
of Nebraska in Lincoln. Paul L. Cooper served as acting field di-
rector from July 1 until October 3, when he was made field director
for the Missouri Basin program. The operations in the Missouri
Basin shifted in character during the course of the year. Where
previously most of the activities had been concerned with preliminary
surveys, a larger number of excavating parties were sent into the field
and greater emphasis was placed on the actual salvage of materials
from sites that eventually will be inundated.

From July 3 to November 21 a two-man archeological survey party
headed by Robert L. Shalkop made preliminary reconnaissance of the
Apex, Brenner, Clark Canyon, Gibson, Kelley, Landon, Nilan, and
Wilson Reservoirs in Montana; the Middle Fork and South Fork proj-
ects in Wyoming; and the Narrows in Colorado. The party also re-
visited the Keyhole Reservoir area in Wyoming and the Moorhead
and Yellowtail projects whose basins occur in both Montana and Wyo-
ming. ‘The Shalkop party located and recorded 127 new sites. From
August 12 to November 3 a two-man party led by George Metcalf in-
vestigated the area of the Fort Berthold Reservation in the Fort Gar-
rison area in North Dakota, locating and recording 55 new sites. Dur-
ing October a two-man reconnaissance party under Richard Page
Wheeler visited 10 potential reservoirs in the Niobrara subbasin in
Nebraska. The party found a total of 41 archeological sites. Robert
B. Cumming, Jr., and an assistant carried out a reconnaissance of the
Ashton Reservoir area in the Lower Platte basin in Nebraska from
November 7 to 15 and at the same time examined the sites of the Sar-
gent, Woods Park, and Ashton Feeder canals. Since only one archeo-
logical site was found by Cumming’s party, the area does not ap-
pear to have had much aboriginal occupation. This party also inves-
tigated an ossuary that had been uncovered at the Cushing dam site.
During the period June 5 to 9, Franklin Fenenga and an assistant sur-
veyed the Lovewell Reservoir area on White Rock Creek in northern
Kansas and recorded six archeological sites. On June 19 Fenenga
and an assistant proceeded to Wyoming and by the end of the fiscal
year had made surveys at the Bull Creek, Smith, Buffalo Bill, Tri-
angle Park, Willow Park, and Red Gulch Reservoirs. Five sites were
found in the Bull Creek Reservoir and one large workshop area, which
may be relatively old, was discovered in the Red Gulch Reservoir.
None of the other projects visited contained archeological
manifestations.

At the beginning of the fiscal year a party under the direction of
Richard Page Wheeler was excavating at the Long site in the Angos-
tura Reservoir basin on the Cheyenne River in South Dakota. That

981445—52——6
72 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

work, which had been started in the previous year, continued until
July 19, when the Wheeler party moved to the Boysen Reservoir area
in Wyoming. The Long site is of particular interest because it repre-
sents one of the early hunting-culture occupations in the Plains area.
The material from it is limited in quantity, but the blades, scrapers,
and projectile points probably can be correlated with some of the types
from other hunting cultures and will aid materially in filling in the
gaps in present knowledge about the prehistory of the western Plains.
Charcoal obtained from unprepared hearths has been dated by Dr.
W. F. Libby by the carbon-14 method and shows that the occupation
at the Long site was in the interval from 7,073 +300 to 7,715 +740 years
before the present.

The Wheeler party began work in the Boysen Reservoir area on the
Big Horn River near Shoshoni, Wyo., on July 20 and continued oper-
ations until September 20. During that period a number of sites were
tested, and fairly extensive excavations were carried out at three loca-
tions. Most of the sites were in the open and proved to be the remains
of camps rather than of villages. One small rock shelter was found to
contain considerable refuse material as well as various types of arti-
facts and broken animal bones. One crevice burial, discovered on a
butte top overlooking the reservoir area, presumably belonged to the
historic period as a number of porcelain beads and a short coil of iron
were sifted from the sand that lay directly below the crevice. ‘Two of
the sites examined probably are late prehistoric, while the others are
older, perhaps considerably older. In addition to the excavating
work, the Wheeler party photographed and sketched many petro-
glyphs and made extensive surface collections from numerous occupa-
tional sites, several of which were newly discovered while the digging
was going on.

On June 21 Wheeler and his field assistant, J. M. Shippee, returned
to Wyoming and started excavations at the only known pottery site
in the Keyhole Reservoir area on the Belle Fourche River near Moor-
croft. By the end of the fiscal year they had dug three shallow test
areas across the site and recovered a series of artifacts consisting of
stone and bone implements and a variety of potsherds. The apparent
absence of dwellings of any kind, the shallowness of the middenlike
deposits, and the character of the material found there suggest that
the site, which covers approximately 30 acres, was a late prehistoric
or protohistoric hunting camp. The work there had not yet progressed
sufficiently to make possible the correlation of the remains with one of
the historic tribes known to have inhabited that part of Wyoming.

The largest excavation operations in the Missouri Basin during
the year were those in the Oahe Reservoir area on the main stem of
the Missouri River near Pierre, S. Dak. A party under the super-
vision of Donald J. Lehmer was digging in the remains of a large
SECRETARY'S REPORT 73

fortified village near the Oahe dam site on July 1 and continued at
that location until October, when it was shifted to another fortified
village a short distance farther downstream. At the first location,
called the Dodd site, the remains of 21 earth lodges, 27 cache pits,
and 16 miscellaneous features were uncovered. In addition, 8 test
trenches and 27 test pits were dug. The Dodd site is of particular in-
terest because of the fact that three types of houses were found there,
and there was definite stratigraphic evidence for a sequence of the
various forms. The latest structures at the location had been circular
earth lodges, while the earlier ones were rectangular. There appar-
ently were two types of rectangular earth lodge, the oldest being
smaller and with a somewhat different pole arrangement than the later
ones. Although it has not been established beyond question, it appears
that the circular houses were those built by the Arikara, while the
rectangular ones are attributable to the Mandan. Several thousand
specimens, consisting of potsherds, stone, bone, shell, and metal arti-
facts, were found during the digging, and the analysis of that mate-
rial should be a definite contribution to the archeology of the area.
At the second location, known as the Phillips Ranch site, 5 earth lodges
and 46 cache pits had been cleared and one test trench dug across the
fortification ditch when weather conditions brought the activities to
a close on November 26. The structures at the Phillips Ranch site
were circular and appear to correlate with those of the final period
at the Dodd site. Mr. Lehmer returned to the Phillips Ranch site on
June 20 and resumed his excavation program. It was still under way
at the close of the fiscal year. During the short period involved one
house was completely cleared and another started. The presence of
a palisade inside the fortification ditch surrounding the site was es-
tablished, and the overburden from the northeast quadrant of the
area was stripped away, revealing a number of features lying outside
the houses.

Additional work in the Oahe area got under way in June when a
party under the direction of Dr. Waldo R. Wedel, who was detailed to
the River Basin Surveys from the U. S. National Museum, began ex-
cavations at the Cheyenne River village site, about 45 miles north of
the Dodd site. The Cheyenne River village is one of the largest and
best preserved of the fortified sites along the Missouri River, although
a portion of it has been carried away by the encroaching stream. It
apparently was occupied for a considerable period and probably con-
tains several components. By the end of the fiscal year one earth lodge
had been uncovered, the work on a second was nearly completed, and
digging had started on a third. One cache pit had been cleaned and
another located. Two test trenches excavated across the moat had
shown that the original bottom was about 6 feet below the present
surface. The artifact yield from the investigations was proving
74 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

highly satisfactory, and the artifacts should give a well-rounded pic-
ture of the material culture of the former occupants of the village,
as well as indicating their relationship to other peoples in that portion
of the Plains.

Early in July a party led by Thomas R. Garth started investigating
historic sites in the area to be affected by the Fort Randall Reservoir
in South Dakota. They spent a short time examining the site of old
Fort Randall, across the river from Pickstown, but devoted most of
the field season to work in the vicinity of Chamberlain. Extensive
but unsuccessful efforts were made to locate the site of Fort Recovery,
an early fur-trading post. The remains of other trading posts and
military establishments were found, however, and partially investi-
gated. Included in that group are Fort Hale, Fort Brule, Fort Look-
out trading post, Fort Lookout military post, and the Whetstone
Agency. At Fort Hale there was evidence of a large building that
probably had been a trading post, two smaller buildings, and indica-
tions of a stockade. There was also evidence that there had been an
earlier Indian occupancy of the site. At Fort Lower Brule the re-
mains of a cabin 45 feet long were uncovered, and an 18-by-12-
foot cellar was excavated. An abandoned well was also investigated,
and about 30 “snow snakes,” some of which were decorated with
geometric and some with realistic designs, were recovered. “Snow
snakes” were frequently made from bison ribs and in some cases were
equipped with feathers stuck to two wooden pegs inserted in one end
of the bone. Objects of this type were generally used in playing a
rather simple game, which consisted of sliding them along the frozen
crust or in a rut in the snow. The players chose sides, and when a
“snake” outdistanced all on the other side it counted as a point. The —
remains of the fur-trading post, presumably adjacent to the military
post, were found, and an Indian earth lodge was located while the
area was being tested for the historic remains. The Garth party
also located 29 new Indian sites in the Chamberlain area.

Further work was started in the Fort Randall Reservoir area on
June 3 when a party under the supervision of Robert B. Cumming,
Jr., began excavations at Indian sites near the mouth of Platte Creek.
Work was started at the Oldham site, an earth-lodge village, and at
the close of the fiscal year the remains of one house had been un-
covered and a second was in the process of excavation. Efforts to
trace the fortification ditch that had surrounded the village had not
been wholly successful because surface indications of a large part of
that feature had been completely obliterated by cultivation. How-
ever, it was hoped that subsequent digging would make it possible to
follow its entire course.

At the beginning of the year a party under the direction of G.
Ellis Burcaw was excavating at the Rock Village located in the Gar-
SECRETARY'S REPORT 75

rison Reservoir basin, near Hazen, N. Dak., a few miles above the dam
site. Rock Village was reputedly occupied in the late eighteenth
century by the Hidatsa. During the field season, which terminated
November 3, five house floors had been uncovered and a number of
other features investigated. A party under the direction of Donald
D. Hartle resumed work at that location early in June. Additional
house floors were being uncovered and a number of cache pits had been
cleaned of their accumulated debris. The artifact yield was proving
satisfactory and the specimens should add to the picture of the Plains
culture as a whole. Rock Village is particularly interesting because
it presumably was the most northerly of the fortified earth-lodge vil-
lages belonging to the period preceding the replacement of aboriginal
material culture by trade goods obtained from the white man.

A second party, under the direction of G. H. Smith, was sent to
the Garrison Reservoir in June to study the site of Fort Stevenson, one
of the important military posts in that area during the period 1867
to 1883. The post was located a few miles above the dam site on
the left side of the Missouri River. By the end of the year the founda-
tions of the post hospital had been traced and excavations had been
started on the site of the south barracks. There is considerable docu-
mentary information about Fort Stevenson, but knowledge of the
post will be considerably broadened by the study of its actual location
and remains,

At the beginning of the fiscal year excavations were being conducted
at the Tiber Reservoir on the Marias River in Montana by a party
under the supervision of W. D. Enger. Two of the sites investigated
were occupation levels attributable to a simple hunting culture. They
were characterized for the most part by hearths; charcoal; bones from
bison, deer, and smaller mammals; and scattered chips of stone with an
occasional artifact. The cultural levels began approximately 2 to 4
feet beneath the present surface, and in one of them a rock-ringed
hearth about 2 feet in diameter was found 714 feet below the surface.
The yield from both sites was small, but there is sufficient evidence
to indicate that the area was not heavily populated and that the peo-
ple were dependent for the most part on the hunt for their subsistence.
Other sites examined, but not extensively dug, included tipi-ring
clusters, bison kills, and surface camp sites. Sites such as that con-
taining the deeply buried hearth may contribute important informa-
tion on the rate of deposition in the area in question. When materials
from the low level are correlated with those from other districts, it
may be possible to determine the lapse of time since the fire pits were
built and used.

Paleontological and geological investigations were continued in
the Missouri Basin during the year. In the summer of 1950 a party
under Dr. Theodore E. White explored Tertiary deposits in reservoir
76 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

areas in Montana and North Dakota and Cretaceous deposits in South
Dakota. Work in the Lewis and Clark and Broadwater Counties in °
Montana where the Tertiary stratigraphy has been imperfectly known
since its discovery in 1904 by the late Dr. Earl Douglass definitely
established the presence of Lower and Middle Oligocene and Lower
and Middle Miocene in that area. In North Dakota the investigations
demonstrated that the Cannonball Marine member of the Fort Union
formation has a much greater areal distribution than was formerly
supposed. Other activities consisted of rapid surveys of proposed
reservoir projects in Nebraska and Colorado. Investigations in Mon-
tana were resumed in June of 1951.

Laboratory activities at the field headquarters in Lincoln during
the year included the processing and cataloging of specimens; the
processing of records, including the indexing and filing of photo-
graphs; and the preparation and mimeographing of preliminary re-
ports for distribution to the cooperating agencies. The specimens
processed, numbering 84,255, came from 371 sites distributed over 18
reservoirs and other projects. In all, 11,764 reflex copies of records
were made. Color transparencies totaling 651 were cataloged. Black-
and-white photographic negatives numbering 1,707 were made, and
7,507 contact prints were processed. In addition, 197 8-by-10’’ en-
largements were made. The drawings, tracings, and maps prepared
for use in the various reports numbered 469.

Several exhibits were prepared interpreting the salvage program
and the prehistory of the Missouri Basin area. One of them was dis-
played at the Eighth Conference for Plains Archeology, while another
was placed in the windows of the Surveys’ quarters in downtown
Lincoln. <A series of lantern slides illustrating the salvage program,
particularly with respect to Nebraska, for use in an automatic pro-
jector, was prepared in cooperation with the University of Nebraska
State Museum and was installed in the latter institution.

G. Ellis Burcaw, archeologist, was in charge of a field party exca-
vating at the Rock Village in the Garrison Reservoir, N. Dak., at
the start of the fiscal year. He continued his activities there until late
in October and returned to the field headquarters at Lincoln on Novem-
ber 8 where he worked on his field report covering the summer’s
activities.

Paul L. Cooper, field director, devoted most of his time to manage-
ment problems and general supervision of the field office and labora-
tory. He made numerous trips to inspect and consult with field parties
and served in an advisory capacity to the Region Two office of the
National Park Service at Omaha, Nebr., in the matter of preparing

agreements for cooperative projects carried on by State and local
institutions in the Missouri Basin.
SECRETARY'S REPORT Th

Robert B. Cumming, Jr., archeologist, served as laboratory super-
visor at the Lincoln headquarters from July 1 to November 6. During
such times as the director was absent from the office, Mr. Cumming
assumed administrative responsibility for the Lincoln office. After
November 6 Mr. Cumming took over the duties of a field archeologist,
conducting surveys in the Ashton Reservoir area and carrying on ex-
cavations in the Fort Randall Reservoir basin. During the winter
months he wrote a preliminary report on the results of his survey
work and assisted with the preparation of a preliminary report on
the Oahe Reservoir. He also prepared a report on the physical anthro-
pology of skeletal material excavated at the Massacre Creek site,
Nebr., by the Nebraska State Historical Society, a cooperating insti-
tution. At the close of the year he was supervising the excavations
at the Oldham site near Platte, S. Dak.

Walter D. Enger, Jr., archeologist, was engaged in a series of exca-
vations at the Tiber Reservoir on the Marias River in Montana at
the beginning of the fiscal year. The party under his supervision con-
tinued its activities until September 16, when it returned to the Lincoln
‘headquarters.

Franklin Fenenga, archeologist, reported to the headquarters at
Lincoln, Nebr., on October 26 and served as laboratory supervisor
from November 6 to June 1, when he was assigned to duty in the field.
Early in June he made a survey of the Lovewell Reservoir area in
Kansas and in the latter part of the month made a preliminary recon-
naissance of six potential reservoir areas in Wyoming. During the
winter months in Lincoln he wrote preliminary archeological recon-
naissance appraisals of the Sun River basin and the Jefferson River
basin which were issued in mimeograph form. He also prepared sur-
vey reports for the following reservoir projects: Keyhole, Yellowtail,
Narrows, Moorhead, Fort Randall, and Lovewell. In addition, Mr.
Fenenga wrote “A Historical Analysis of Anthropological Interests
in the Psychological Sciences,” for publication in the Proceedings of
the Nebraska Academy of Sciences. In November Fenenga was elected
editor of the Plains Conference News Letter.

Thomas R. Garth, archeologist, joined the River Basin Surveys on
July 2 by transfer from the National Park Service. On July 17 a
party under his supervision began a series of investigations of historic
sites in the Fort Randall area. That work continued until late in
October, when he turned his attention to a survey of the area in the
vicinity of Chamberlain, S. Dak., for the purpose of locating Indian
sites. He completed his reconnaissance and returned to the Lincoln
office on November 7. On November 27 he was detailed to the Na-
tional Park Service to complete reports on work he had previously
done at the Whitman Mission and Fort Walla Walla in Washington.
78 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

He returned to duty with the River Basin Surveys on February 27,
when he prepared a report on the results of his activities in the Fort
Randall area.

Donald D. Hartle worked at the Oahe Reservoir as assistant to
Donald J. Lehmer from the beginning of the fiscal year until Decem-
ber 1. During February and March he was employed on a Texas
project. On April 17 he was appointed archeologist and from then
until June 1 assisted in the laboratory at Lincoln. He then proceeded
to the Rock Village site in the Garrison Reservoir, N. Dak., where he
started a series of excavations which were still under way on June 30.

Donald J. Lehmer, archeologist, was in active supervision of the
excavations at the Oahe Reservoir in South Dakota from July 1 until
December 1. From the latter date until March he worked at the
Lincoln office preparing the report on the results of his investigations
at the Dodd site. In March he was transferred from the Missouri
Basin headquarters to a project in Oklahoma, where he remained until
the first of June, when he returned to the Lincoln headquarters. On
June 20 he proceeded to the Oahe Reservoir and resumed excavations
at the site where he was working when the field season ended the pre-
vious November. That work was continuing at the end of the fiscal
year. While at Lincoln Mr. Lehmer completed a paper giving pre-
liminary descriptions of the pottery types found at the Dodd site.

George Metcalf, field and laboratory assistant, was at the Angostura
Reservoir in South Dakota assisting Richard Page Wheeler at the
beginning of the fiscal year. On July 10 he returned to the Lincoln
office, where he worked on material obtained during the course of
excavations at the Medicine Creek Reservoir. On August 12 he pro-
ceeded to the Garrison Reservoir and joined the party under G. Ellis
Bureaw. From August 22 until October 18 he carried on a reconnais-
sance of the area around the Fort Berthold Indian Reservation and
located and recorded 55 sites, including historic buildings, the remains
of earth-lodge villages, camp areas, deeply buried hearths, tipi-ring
sites, burial sites, and one reputed battleground. After completing
the survey he remained at the Rock Village excavation assisting Mr.
Burcaw until the end of the field season, when he returned to Lincoln.
During the winter months he assisted in the processing and analysis
of materials from the various excavations and helped to prepare sec-
tions of some of the reports on the previous season’s work. On June 1
he left Lincoln for the Garrison Reservoir to assist in the work at the
Rock Village. At the end of the fiscal year he was continuing his
activities at that location.

James M. Shippee, field and laboratory assistant, was at the field
headquarters in Lincoln until July 17, when he left to join the excavat-
ing party at the Angostura Reservoir in South Dakota. He assisted
in the activities there and accompanied the party when it moved to
SECRETARY’S REPORT 79

the Boysen Reservoir in Wyoming, returning with it to Lincoln in
September. During the period September 28 to October 30 he as-
sisted in the survey in the Niobrara River subbasin in Nebraska and
from November 7 to 15 aided in the examination of the Ashton Res-
ervoir area and the region adjacent to the Sargent, Woods Park, and
Ashton Feeder canals. He also assisted in the salvage of the burials
uncovered by activities at the Cushing dam site. During the winter
months he devoted his time to the restoration of pottery vessels from
the Boysen and Oahe Reservoirs and assisted in other laboratory
duties. On June 21 he accompanied the excavating party that was
sent to the Keyhole Reservoir in Wyoming and was occupied there
at the end of the fiscal year.

George H. Smith joined the River Basin Surveys staff as archeolo-
gist on May 2. Until June 4 he devoted his time to a study of the
problems centering about historic sites in the Fort Randall, Oahe, and
Garrison Reservoirs, and in familiarizing himself with the work
already accomplished in those areas. He also made a quick trip to
the Oahe and Garrison Reservoirs in company with M. J. Mattes and
R. H. Mattison, historians of the National Park Service. On June 11
a party under his supervision began excavations at the site of Fort
Stevenson, and at the close of the fiscal year he was still engaged
in that activity.

At the beginning of the year Richard Page Wheeler, archeologist,
was in charge of a party excavating at the Angostura Reservoir in
South Dakota. In July he and his party moved to the Boysen Reser-
voir in Wyoming, where they carried on excavations until September
20. Wheeler then returned to the headquarters at Lincoln and from
September 28 through October 30 directed the survey of 10 "shart
reservoir sites in the Niobrara River subbasin in northern Nebraska.
Returning to the field headquarters, he spent the winter months
completing his report on the Niobrara survey and working on detailed
technical reports on his investigations in the Angostura and Boysen
areas. On June 21 he left for the Keyhole Reservoir near Moorcroft,
Wyo., where he began a series of excavations which were actively
under way at the end of the fiscal year. In April Mr. Wheeler was
elected chairman of the anthropology section of the Nebraska
Academy of Sciences to serve for 1952.

On July 1 Dr. Theodore E. White, paleontologist, was investigating
deposits in the Canyon Ferry Reservoir. From there he proceeded
to the Garrison Reservoir and subsequently to the Fort Randall
Reservoir. At all three locations he collected fossils and continued
his studies of the geology of the various areas. From September 22
to 29 he made a rapid survey of 10 proposed reservoir projects in the
Niobrara River subbasin in Nebraska. The completion of that task
in so short a time was made possible through the cooperation of Morris
80 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

Skinner of the Frick Laboratories who is thoroughly familiar with
the area. From October 8 to 14 Dr. White examined Pliocene de-
posits in the Bonny Reservoir in northeastern Colorado. From No-
vember until June he was engaged in work elsewhere. Returning to
the Missouri Basin on June 17, he proceeded to the Canyon Ferry
Reservoir in Montana to continue his search for fossils. Nearly 100
specimens were collected, including forms previously unknown from
the area. Those from the Oligocene deposits consisted of marsupials,
insectivores, rodents, and small artiodactyls. The larger animals,
such as the rhinoceroses, are represented only by fragments. The
material obtained from the Miocene deposits consists of large oreo-
donts, beavers, rabbits, and small rodents. While at the Lincoln
office Dr. White prepared a paper, “Observations on the Butchering
Technique of Some Aboriginal Peoples,” which was presented before
the Eighth Annual Conference for Plains Archeology held at Lincoln
late in November.

Oklahoma.—During the fiscal year both surveys and excavations
were carried on in Oklahoma. From July 1 to August 10 Leonard
G. Johnson and James G. Smith, field assistants, made a reconnais-
sance of the Gaines Creek Reservoir on Gaines Creek, a tributary of
the South Canadian, in eastern Oklahoma. They located 52 archeo-
logical sites, most of which indicate temporary occupation despite the
fact that at two locations there were mounds, and at other places vil-
lages seemed to have existed. Most of the sites in the Gaines Creek
area were found on high ground above the high-water mark, but a
number of those that will be flooded appear to be of some significance,
and excavations have been recommended for six of them. In addi-
tion to the aboriginal remains, the former location of one historic
settlement, North Fork Town, was established. The Gaines Creek
Reservoir constitutes part of an alternate plan that has been prepared
for that area. One plan calls for a single large reservoir to be known
as the Eufaula. The other calls for three smaller projects which in
the main will inundate approximately as large an area as the one
reservoir. In view of that situation the surveys have been carried on
from the standpoint of the three smaller reservoirs but extending the
investigations sufficiently beyond their limits to take in the one large
project. The other two smaller reservoirs, the Canadian and the
Onapa, were surveyed during previous years. At that time the Ca-
nadian was found to involve 41 archeological sites and the Onapa 25.
With the results of the Gaines Creek survey, it now is evident that a
total of 118 sites will be included in the Eufaula basin if the one large
project is carried through. If only one or two of the smaller reser-

ig are completed, the archeological salvage needs will, of course,
e less.
SECRETARY'S REPORT 81

After completing their studies at the Gaines Creek project, John-
son and Smith proceeded to the Optima Reservoir area on the North
Canadian (Beaver) River in Texas County. The dam for the project
is to be erected just above the confluence of the North Canadian and
Coldwater Creek and will flood areas along both streams. ‘Three sites
were found along the North Canadian and one along Coldwater Creek.
In all cases they were found to be above the high-water line, and there
is no urgency with respect to excavating them. Site 3 lies at the
upper end of the basin that will be flooded along the North Canadian,
and investigation at some future date has been recommended.

The excavations made in Oklahoma were in the area to be flooded
by the Tenkiller Ferry Reservoir on the Ilinois River near Tahlequah.
Some testing was done at two locations, but most of the work was at a
third, known as the Cookson site, where a party under the direction
of Donald J. Lehmer dug 6 houses, 4 graves, 2 hearths, and 31 cache
pits. ‘Two components were isolated. The early one was character-
ized by rectangular houses with four center posts and trench en-
trances, while the later was characterized by rectangular houses with
two center posts and indications of a bench along the north wall.
There was no evidence of an entryway for these houses. The projec-
tile points accompanying the early horizon fall within the range that
is considered typical of Archaic and early Woodland in the Southeast.
They also are common in the material from the prepottery Grove
Focus in northeastern Oklahoma. Associated potsherds indicate a
ware similar to the utility forms from the Spiro components. The
latter ware in itself cannot be limited to an early horizon, but the
small amount found in the excavations of the early component sug-
gests that pottery was just beginning to appear in the complex. Stone
artifacts in the late horizon differ somewhat from those of the earlier.
Slate hoes and double-bitted axes are absent and projectile points are
predominately small. The pottery associated with the late horizon is
a shell-tempered ware which usually is decorated. The total complex
has certain similarities to Orr’s Fort Coffee Focus, but it probably will
warrant being set up as a separate focus. The houses of the early
horizon are similar to those considered typical of the early Spiro
component, while those of the late horizon are quite similar to those
for the late Spiro component.

The work at the Tenkiller Ferry was completed at the end of May,
and Mr. Lehmer returned to the Missouri Basin headquarters at Lin-
coln. Throughout the period of the activities in Oklahoma, both for
the surveys and the excavations, Dr. Robert E. Bell, of the University
of Oklahoma, aided the field parties in the capacity of a consultant,
and the University of Oklahoma cooperated in the loan of equipment
and in making office space available to the men when they were in
Norman.
82 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

Pennsylvania.—Investigations in Pennsylvania consisted of two sur-
vey projects. During October a reconnaissance was made of the Cone-
maugh River Reservoir in Indiana and Westmoreland Counties and
of the East Branch Reservoir on the Clarion River in Elk and McKean
Counties. The dam for the Conemaugh Reservoir, situated near Tun-
nelton, is scheduled for completion by December 1951. The reservoir
will flood approximately 21 miles of the Conemaugh River and 11
miles of one of its larger branches, the Black Lick Creek. Within
the pool area eight archeological sites were located. Of this group
only one was deemed worthy of further exploration and excavation.
It covers about 10 acres and is located on one of the larger terrace
bottoms above the river near an old fording place. An Indian trail,
the Venango, is supposed to have crossed the river at that point.
The East Branch Reservoir apparently is located in a district where
there was little aboriginal occupation because no archeological sites
were found there. This probably may be attributed to the fact that
the reservoir will fill a narrow V-shaped valley which was not suitable
for Indian inhabitation. The surveys in Pennsylvania were made by
Ralph §. Solecki.

Texas—The River Basin Surveys in Texas continued to operate
from the base and headquarters furnished by the department of an-
thropology of the University of Texas at Austin. Robert L. Stephen-
son was in charge from July 1 until April 15, when he was granted
an extended leave of absence. Edward B. Jelks then assumed direc-
tion of the project. During the fiscal year surveys were begun and
completed in the Ferrell’s Bridge Reservoir on Cypress Creek in north-
east Texas and in the Granite Shoals Reservoir on the Colorado River
in central Texas. Excavations were continued and brought to comple-
tion in two field sessions in the Lavon Reservoir on the East Fork of
the Trinity River, while the first field session at Garza-Little Elm
Reservoir on the Elm Fork of the Trinity resulted in the excavation
of two sites and the brief testing of three others. Excavations were
also started and brought to completion in three sites in the Falcon
Reservoir on the Rio Grande. The excavation of two sites and testing
of three others were completed in the Belton Reservoir on the Leon
River in central Texas.

The excavations started the previous year in the Lavon Reservoir
were completed on August 2, with recommendation for additional
excavation to be undertaken during the spring of 1951. The work
there included excavation of over 40 percent of the large circular
pit in the Hogge Bridge site as well as several test squares and several
deep-strata squares outside the pit. The purpose for which the pit
was built is still unknown, but it was determined that the site is a pure
component of the newly delineated Wylie Focus. This is a culture
complex probably overlapping the latter part of Gibson aspect and
SECRETARY'S REPORT 83

the early part of Fulton aspect times in the Caddoan area and is coeval
with the Henrietta Focus of the southern Plains area. It is not a part
of either of those complexes but apparently an independent culture
in contact with both and dating probably between 1300 and 1500.

Excavations were started in three archeological sites in the Falcon
Reservoir on February 9. Donald D. Hartle was appointed temporary
field archeologist for this project, and, under the supervision of Mr.
Stephenson, he dug two historic sites and one deeply buried site.
No positive evidence of Indian occupation was found in the two his-
toric sites, which consisted of two and four stone-house ruins, re-
spectively. Both probably may be referred to the Early to Middle
Spanish Colonial period in the area. In the prehistoric site, a bull-
dozer was used for half a day and an area 20 feet by 40 feet was un-
covered to an average depth of 12 feet below the surface, exposing an
extensive occupation area which was excavated by hand in arbitrary
6-inch levels to an additional depth of 18 inches. Large quantities of
workshop refuse and 200 artifacts were recovered from the level. The
stratigraphic profile provided by the 12-foot trench wall revealed two
additional occupation levels at depths from the surface of approxi-
mately 4 and 7 feet, respectively.

In the Ferrell’s Bridge Reservoir, E. O. Miller and E. H. Moorman
conducted a survey from January 29 to February 16 and from April
9 to 21. During that survey 34 archeological sites were located and
recorded. Five of them contain smal] artificial earth mounds; the
remainder are open occupational areas. Six of the sites have been
recommended for further excavation.

The Belton Reservoir, surveyed the preceding year and recom-
mended for no further excavation, was later found to contain two
previously unknown archeological sites meriting some investigation.
Mr. Miller and Mr. Moorman, who had located the sites, spent the
periods December 11 to 13 and February 28 to March 2 in brief
excavations of the Urbantke site and the Grimes-Houy site. In addi-
tion, they made extensive tests in three other nearby sites. It was
found that the Urbantke site contained considerably more pottery
than most of the sites in the area. The artifact analysis showed con-
siderable similarity to the three rock shelters excavated the previous
year in the Whitney Reservoir area. The excavations at the Grimes-
Houy site uncovered 10 burials, and analysis of the artifacts and site
features indicates a relatively late date. It possibly was a Comanche
burial site.

The second season of excavations at the Lavon Reservoir was begun
on March 12 and continued until May 4. The work included further
digging in the Hogge Bridge site and extensive excavations in the
Branch and Campbell Hole sites. In order to determine quickly the
stratigraphic profile involved in the large circular pits in those sites,
84 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

a bulldozer was used for a total of 2214 hours. This provided exten-
sive stratigraphic trenches through the pit and the midden areas in
the Branch and Hogge Bridge sites and one long exploratory trench
in the Campbell Hole site. The use of a bulldozer for this work proved
very satisfactory, and little material damage was done to the artifacts
or the features encountered.

The first field session at the Garza-Little Elm Reservoir was begun
on May 7 and continued until June 18. Extensive excavations were
completed in the Lake Dallas and Ledbetter sites and brief tests were
made at the Pease and Craft sites. One of the few large Archaic sites
in this area, the Lake Dallas site, yielded artifacts that should be
valuable in the integration of the Archaic complexes of northeast
Texas. At the Ledbetter site—one of the most extensive local examples
of the later agriculture-pottery period—an interesting group of arti-
facts was found that suggests contacts with both the Caddoan peoples
to the east and the peoples who lived to the west and southwest.

At the Granite Shoals Reservoir, surveyed during February and
March by Robert H. Humphreys, 12 archeological sites were located
and recorded. They are all open occupational areas along the narrow
valley of the Colorado River. None are extensive or deeply stratified,
and since some information is on record from sites both upstream and
downstream from this project no further investigations are recom-
mended. Such evidence as was found during the reconnaissance and
testing indicated that the Granite Shoals region probably was occu-
pied by people of the Round Rock and Uvalde Foci over a period of
many centuries.

Dr. Theodore E. White spent the first 2 weeks in April in the
Austin laboratory identifying the faunal remains from the archeologi-
cal excavations of the Whitney, Lavon, Belton and Falcon Reservoirs.
During the remainder of April and the first week of May, he collected
fossils from the Upper Cretaceous deposits of the Lavon Reservoir.
He devoted most of May to investigations at the Garza-Little Elm
Reservoir, where he located and collected several vertebrate specimens
of Pleistocene age. They included a bison skull, a turtle, and a horse
jaw.

When he was not in the field, Robert L. Stephenson, archeologist,
devoted his time to analysis and study of the archeological materials
from the Lavon and Whitney Reservoirs and in organizing and pro-
gramming the work for the various field parties sent out from the
Austin headquarters. He completed an article on “Culture Chronol-
ogy in Texas,” which was published in American Antiquity, and fin-
ished a paper, “The Hogge Bridge Site and the Wylie Focus,” for
publication in the same periodical.

Edward B. Jelks, archeologist, assisted Mr. Stephenson in the field
and laboratory throughout the year until April 15, when he took
SECRETARY'S REPORT 85

over supervision of the Texas project. He spent most of the remainder
of the year in the field at the Lavon and Garza-Little Elm excavations.
He prepared a “Field Manual for Beginners in Central Texas Arche-
ology,” which was mimeographed and distributed to amateur archeolo-
gists who had requested guidance. As a result of historical research
undertaken to supplement archeological investigation at the Stans-
bury site in the Whitney Reservoir, he prepared a paper, “Indians of
the Central Brazos Area,” which was presented at the annual meeting
of the Texas Historical Association on April 27.

EK. O. Miller and E. H. Moorman served as field and laboratory assist-
ants throughout the year. They participated in the investigations in
the Lavon and Garza-Little Elm Reservoirs, began and completed the
excavations in the Belton Reservoir, and carried on the survey of
Ferrell’s Bridge Reservoir. The remainder of their time was spent in
the laboratory in Austin cataloging and tabulating the materials from
the various field projects and preparing a report on their survey of
the Ferrell’s Bridge Reservoir.

Asa result of the financial status of the River Basin Surveys’ work
in the Texas area, the Austin office was closed on June 30.

Virginia—Field work in Virginia during the year included the
survey of one reservoir area and the excavation of a number of sites
inanother. On July 1,Carl F. Miller was digging at a site immediately
east of Clarksville, Va., on the east bank of the Roanoke River in
the Buggs Island Reservoir. Stripping operations there had destroyed
a large part of the site before information was received about the
work under way. Consequently, it was possible to salvage material
from only two small portions of the site. From those areas 77 burials
with their accompanying artifacts were recovered, and various midden
pits, as well as the remains of a rectangular structure, were uncovered.
That project was completed early in August. On February 28, excava-
tions in the Buggs Island area were resumed, and from then until
June 20, digging was carried on at nine different sites. At one there
was stratification showing that it was first occupied during the pre-
ceramic times and had continued in use until about the middle of the
ceramic period, when it was abandoned. Two of the sites investi-
gated were on Occaneechi Island near Clarksville. One of them con-
tained heavy cultural deposits consisting of both Indian and European
materials. Unfortunately, there had been so much disturbance by the
later occupation that it was difficult to obtain satisfactory evidence
from it, although a good series of artifacts was found. The second
site on the island was one of the largest thus far examined in the basin.
Iorty-four burials were found there representing all types from fully
flexed to partial cremation. The burned floor area of a large rec-
tangular structure measuring 35 by 15 feet was uncovered. The house
had five distinct floor levels interspersed with layers of clean sand.
86 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

Whether that indicated five separate occupations of the structure or
remodeling activities during the course of a long-continued tenancy
is not known, but further study of the data obtained from the digging
may throw light on the subject. The structure had been built over
a number of burials, and after it was abandoned other graves were
dug through the floor, showing that the site continued to be inhabited
after the dwelling had burned. A number of the burials were accom-
panied by turtle carapaces, which undobutedly were placed there as
funerary offerings. They do not seem to have been used as food
receptacles, for in every instance they were inverted. Possibly they
may have had totemic significance and were placed with the dead to
indicate that the individual was a member of the turtle clan. A good
pottery series obtained from the site should fill certain gaps in the se-
quence for the area. ‘The work on Occaneechi Island indicates that it
was not the place where the village mentioned by Lederer, who visited
it in 1670, was located and that previous identification of it as such was
inerror. The current investigations indicate that the Occaneechi vil-
lage probably was on another island lying some distance downstream
from the one that now bears that name.

It had been hoped that at two of the sites, where fluted points and
other artifacts suggestive of the eastern variant of the Folsom com-
plex had been picked up from the surface, some remnants of the de-
posits belonging to that period would still be intact. The excava-
tions showed, however, that the sites had suffered extensive erosion
and that the artifacts previously found there were simply float ma-
terial that remained when the deposits were carried away. Addi-
tional work still remains to be done at the Buggs Island Reservoir.
The survey was made at the Philpott Reservoir during the last week
in June. The archeological manifestations found there are so
closely related to those in the Buggs Island area that no additional
work will be required. Materials gathered from the surface are so
similar to those from Buggs Island sites that they could not be recog-
nized if placed in the same collections.

West Virginia.—The only work done in West Virginia during the
year was the brief survey made at the site of the new navigation
lock at Morgantown. Examination of the area involved by the con-
struction disclosed that practically no new lands will be inundated
by the project. The water there is to be kept within the limits of
the river channel, which has rather steep and confining banks. Rail-
roads parallel the channel on both sides, and any archeological remains
that may have been there at one time were long since destroyed. No
further investigations are necessary at that project.

Cooperating institutions —Various State and local institutions co-
operated with the River Basin Surveys during the year. Space for
field offices and laboratories for units of the Surveys were provided
SECRETARY’S REPORT 87

by the Universities of Nebraska, Oregon, Georgia, and Texas. The
Universities of Oklahoma and Kentucky furnished temporary bases
of operations for the parties working in their States. The University
of Oklahoma took over the responsibility for the excavation of sites
in the Fort Gibson Reservoir, and the University of Georgia con-
tinued making surveys along the Flint River in the southern part of
that State. The University of Missouri and the Missouri Archeologi-
cal Society continued to make surveys in a number of proposed reser-
voir areas and carried on excavations in others. The University of
Arkansas also made surveys and did some digging in reservoir areas
in that State. In June, parties with which the River Basin Surveys
were cooperating began excavations in the McNary Reservoir and at
Lind Coulee in Washington. The McNary party came from the Uni-
versity of Washington at Seattle; that at Lind Coulee from the Wash-
ington State College at Pullman.

The program developed by the National Park Service late in the
previous year whereby various scientific agencies carried on salvage
work in proposed reservoir areas continued throughout fiscal year
1951. On the basis of agreements between the agencies concerned
and the National Park Service, certain funds were made available
to the agencies to help finance specified investigations. The River
Basin Surveys served in a consultative and advisory capacity only in
the carrying out of that program. Agreements were made, how-
ever, with the University of Nebraska, the Nebraska State Museum,
the Nebraska State Historical Society, the University of Kansas, the
University of South Dakota, the North Dakota Historical Society,
the University of Wyoming, and the University of Montana for work
in the Missouri Basin. Similar agreements were made with the
University of Mississippi for a survey of the Grenada Reservoir in
that State, with the University of Oklahoma for excavations at the
Eufaula Reservoir, with the University of Texas for excavations at
the Falcon Reservoir, with the Museum of New Mexico at the Chamita
Reservoir, with the University of California for excavations at the
Farmington Reservoir, and with the University of Washington for
work in the McNary area. The final results of the work accomplished
under those agreements will be published by the institutions con-
cerned, but they will correlate with and augment the information
obtained by the River Basin Surveys.

INSTITUTE OF SOCIAL ANTHROPOLOGY
(Report prepared by G. M. Foster)

General statement.—The objectives of the Institute of Social
Anthropology are anthropological research on the community life of
rural peoples of Latin America and the training of Latin American

981445527
88 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

nationals in the methods and principles of modern social anthropol-
ogy. The purpose is to inform both the social scientist and layman
in the United States concerning little-known peoples of other parts
of the world and to build up in various Latin American countries a
corps of professionally trained scientists and friends.

During the past year the Institute was financed by transfers of
funds from the Department of State, totaling $92,740, from the appro-
priation “International Information and Educational Activities,
1951.” As in the previous year, long-term planning has been done on
a very tentative basis because of budget uncertainties for the future.
Nevertheless, a full program was maintained in all countries, and
work on a short-term basis was initiated in Guatemala. The year in
review has seen increasing interest on the part of the Institute in a
more direct application of anthropological knowledge and techniques
to the practical problems of social and economic change that face
Latin American countries. Accordingly, for the first time an at-
tempt was made to enlist Institute personnel in a common research
problem in all four countries in which programs have been maintained
for several years for the purpose of pointing up some of the types of
contributions anthropologists can make to “action” programs of eco-
nomic and social betterment in so-called underdeveloped areas. It
was decided that an analysis of American-sponsored technical-aid
programs, with a history of several years of successful operations,
might reveal common operational problems, the solution of which
might be facilitated by anthropological counseling. After reviewing
a number of programs, it was decided that health centers developed by
the Institute of Inter-American Affairs in cooperation with the Min-
istries of Health of México, Colombia, Peri, and Brazil would be the
most satisfactory subjects. Two centers in each country, one urban and
one rural, were selected, and during March and April the operations
of these centers were studied, particularly in relationship to the basic
cultures of the peoples served. A dual goal was envisaged: (1) that
of determining, if possible, what may be the common factors that
favor and factors that inhibit the introduction and acceptance of ideas
and habits new to the ethnic groups in question; (2) that of pointing
up difiiculties in going projects, and making remedial suggestions.
A 100-page mimeographed report was prepared, which outlined the
theoretical basis for the work, described the work of health centers,
discussed salient aspects of indigenous culture that were affected by
this work, and made suggestions as to how utilization of anthropologi-
cal knowledge would increase the effectiveness of such work. One
hundred copies were sent to the Institute of Inter-American Affairs,
and plans made to distribute additional copies to various national and

international organizations carrying out a wide variety of technical-
aid programs,
SECRETARY'S REPORT 89

Major activities in each of the field offices, and in Washington, were
as follows:

Brazil—Drs. Donald Pierson, sociologist, and Kalervo Oberg, social
anthropologist, continued their research and teaching activities in
cooperation with the Escola Livre de Sociologia e Politica in Sao
Paulo. Dr. Pierson’s administrative duties as dean of the graduate
division occupied much of histime. In addition, he gave three courses
in sociology and guided independent and graduate research. In Feb-
ruary 1951, he directed an intensive course on rural life in Brazil,
sponsored by several ministries of the state of Sao Paulo, to about 70
persons who are government employees and administrators in various
offices. Dr. Pierson continued to develop plans for extensive social-
science research as a part of the Brazilian Government’s plan for eco-
nomic and social development of the Sao Francisco River Valley.
This planning came to a head with an offer from the National Com-
mission of the Sao Francisco Valley to transfer $27,000 to a fund to
be directed by Dr. Pierson for intensive socioethnological study and
analysis of the problems of industrialization and settlement in this
enormous area.

Dr. Oberg returned to SAo Paulo in July 1950, via Lima, after a
period of consultation in the United States. While in Lima he visited
and consulted with Ozzie Simmons, Institute representative in that
country. During the fall, and a part of the spring, he gave courses
in anthropology as usual at the Escola. During March and April
he carried out health-center investigations at Colatina, in the Rio
Doce Valley, and Cameta, at the mouth of the Tocantins River in the
Amazon basin. A lengthy report covering this work was submitted
to the local offices of the Institute of Inter-American Affairs. In
April Dr. Oberg represented the Smithsonian Institution and the
United States Government in Rio de Janeiro at the Second Annual
National Indian Week. At the end of the year plans were being
completed to lend Dr. Oberg for a 6-week period to the Institute of
Inter-American Affairs for additional anthropological work in
Chonin, in Minas Gerais.

Colombia.—Because of the budgetary uncertainties it was necessary
to discontinue the Colombian program in 1949. A new memorandum
of understanding was agreed upon in November 1950 by the Ministry
of Foreign Affairs of Colombia and the United States Department of
State whereby it was agreed that future Smithsonian Institution ac-
tivities in Colombia would be in collaboration with the Instituto
Etnoldégico Nacional in Bogota, directed by Licenciado Luis Duque
Gomez, rather than with the Popayaén branch of the Instituto, as in
former years. Charles J. Erasmus joined the staff of the Institute of
Social Anthropology in the fall of 1950 to take charge of this program.
Mr. Erasmus has given a general course in ethnography at the Insti-
90 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

tuto Etnoldégico as a part of the regular curriculum of this organiza-
tion. A number of Colombian towns and villages were surveyed for
possible field work, and final decision was made on the village of Kota,
about 20 kilometers to the north of Bogoté. This is a typical mestizo
village of the Savanna of Bogota, representative of much of rural
Colombian life, and conveniently close to Bogota so that short vacation
periods as well as long field periods are possible. During March and
April Mr. Erasmus devoted his time to the health-center research
described in the introduction, working in the Ricuarte barrio of
Bogota, and in the Magdalena River port of La Dorada.

Guatemala.—Late in 1950, upon the request of Dr. Antonio Gou-
baud-Carrera, Guatemalan Ambassador to the United States, the tem-
porary detail of an Institute ethnologist to Guatemala became pos-
sible. Accordingly, Richard N. Adams joined the staff, arriving in
that country in December. In the seven months at his disposal Dr.
Adams gave a general course in the Instituto de Antropologia e His-
toria. A series of special lectures was also given to personnel of the
Instituto Indigenista. Dr. Adams also supervised field research in
several villages, including La Magdalena, near Guatemala City, in
which the Central American Institute of Nutrition is carrying out
long-range investigations. This work was designed to shed light on
the cultural factor in a program aimed at bettering the nutritional
and general health practices of the peoples concerned, and in gather-
ing data applicable to similar projects in other Central American
countries. Because of budgetary limitations it was, unfortunately,
necessary to drop Dr. Adams from the Institute staff at the end of the
fiscal year. Fortunately, it was possible to make arrangements for
him to continue his Guatemalan work by means of a Department of
State specialist grant.

México—During the fall of 1950 Dr. Isabel T. Kelly, Institute rep-
resentative, continued preparation of the second volume on the Tajin
Totonac Indians, the first volume of which was sent to the printer in
June 1950. In March 1951 she participated in health-center analyses,
studying the Beatriz Velasquez Aleman Center in Mexico City, and
that in the suburb of Xochimilco. Late in the winter she made a recon-
naissance trip through the Sierra de Puebla and selected the highland
Totonac village of San Marcos Eloxochitlan for field work. In April
a 3-month period of field work was initiated, in which five students
from the Escuela Nacional de Antropologia participated. This study
of a highland Totonac community will, among other things, in con-
junction with the lowland Tajin Totonac afford data on the relation-
ship of environment to culture.

Dr. William Wonderly joined the Institute in March 1951 to teach
linguistics at the Escuela Nacional. This was the first time that lin-
guistics had been taught in México under Institute of Social Anthro-
SECRETARY'S REPORT O]

pology auspices since Dr. Stanley Newman left three years ago. Two
courses were given, one on general linguistics and the other on mor-
phology and syntax.

Perti.—Ozzie G. Simmons continued his teaching activities at the
Instituto de Estudios Etnolégicos in Lima. Field studies, in which
several Peruvian students participated, were initiated in the non-
Indian village of Lunahuana, in the upper Cafete Valley, south of
Lima. This work, when completed in 1951, will still further broaden
our knowledge of contemporary Peruvian rural culture, which already
includes the villages of Moche (Gillin), Sicaya (Tschopik, Muelle,
and Escobar), and Vira (Holmberg and Muelle). During April Mr.
Simmons carried out his part of the health-center investigations,
studying the Lima center in Rimac barrio, and the center in Chim-
bote, on the north coast of Pert.

Washington.—Dr. Gordon R. Willey served as Acting Director of
the Institute until September, at which time he went to Harvard Uni-
versity as Bowditch Professor of Mexican and Central American
Archeology and Ethnology.

Dr. George M. Foster returned in September from a year’s field
trip to Spain to resume duties as Director of the Institute. While in
Spain, Dr. Foster worked with Dr. Julio Caro Baroja, director of the
Museo del Pueblo Espajiol in Madrid, making a general survey, based
on printed sources and field studies, of Spanish ethnography. Dr.
Foster’s part of the work was oriented toward the historical and theo-
retical problems involved in the carrying of Spanish culture to the
New World, and its assimilation with native American culture. This
work was planned to give added depth and background to the
continuing studies of Institute and cooperating Latin American
personnel.

Dr. Foster made a month’s trip in March to Guatemala, Colombia,
and Pert, for the purpose of consulting with Institute field personnel,
and appraising the new Guatemalan project as well as the newly
opened Bogota office. Consultations were also held with heads of the
participating national institutions in all three countries. Dr. Foster
spent much of the month of June in assembling the health center’s
report.

EDITORIAL WORK AND PUBLICATIONS

There were issued one Annual Report and two Bulletins (one a
volume of the Handbook of South American Indians), and two Pub-
lications of the Institute of Social Anthropology, as listed below:

Sixty-seventh Annual Report of the Bureau of American Ethnology, 1949-50.
i1i+25 pp. 1951.

Bulletin 143. Handbook of South American Indians. Julian H. Steward,
editor. Volume 6, Physical anthropology, linguistics, and cultural geography
of South American Indians. xiii+-715 pp., 47 pls., 3 figs., 18 maps. 1950.
92 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

Bulletin 144. The northern and central Nootkan tribes, by Philip Drucker.
ix+480 pp., 5 pls., 28 figs., 8 maps. 1951.

Institute of Social Anthropology Publ. No. 11. Quiroga: A Mexican municipio,
by Donald D. Brand, assisted by José Corona Nufiez. v+242 pp., 35 pls.,
4maps. 1951.

Institute of Social Anthropology Publ. No. 12. Cruz das Almas: A Brazilian
village, by Donald Pierson, with the assistance of Levi Cruz, Mirtes Brandio
Lopes, Helen Batchelor Pierson, Carlos Borges Teixeira, and others. x-+226 pp.,
20 pls., 18 figs., 2 maps. 1951.

The following publications were in press at the close of the fiscal
year:

Bulletin 145. The Indian tribes of North America, by John R. Swanton.

Bulletin 146. Chippewa child life and its cultural background, by Sister
M. Inez Hilger.

Bulletin 147. Journal of an expedition to the Mauvaises Terres and the
Upper Missouri in 1850, by Thaddeus B. Culbertson. Edited by John Francis
McDermott.

Bulletin 148. Arapaho child life and its cultural background, by Sister
M. Inez Hilger.

Bulletin 149. Symposium on diversity in Iroquois culture. Edited by
William N. Fenton.

No. 1. Introduction: The concept of locality and the program of Iroquois
research, by William N. Fenton.

No. 2. Concepts of Jand ownership among the Iroquois and their neighbors,
by George S. Snyderman.

No. 3. Locality as a basic factor in the development of Iroquois social
structure, by William N. Fenton.

No. 4. Some psychological determinants of culture change in an Iroquoian
community, by Anthony F. C. Wallace.

No. 5. The religion of Handsome Lake: Its origin and development, by
Merle H. Deardorff.

No, 6. Local diversity in Iroquois music and dance, by Gertrude P. Kurath.

No. 7. The Feast of the Dead, or Ghost Dance at Six Nations Reserve,
Canada, by William N. Fenton and Gertrude P. Kurath.

No. 8. Iroquois women, then and now, by Martha Champion Randle.

Bulletin 150. The modal personality of the Tuscarora Indians, as revealed
by the Rorschach test, by Anthony Ff. C. Wallace.

Bulletin 151. Anthropological Papers, Numbers 33-42.

No. 33. “Of the Crow Nation,” by Edwin Thompson Denig. With bio-
graphical sketch and footnotes by John C. Ewers.

No. 34. The water lily in Maya art: A complex of alleged Asiatic origin,
by Robert L. Rands.

No. 35. The Medicine Bundles of the Florida Seminole and the Green
Corn Dance, by Louis Capron.

No. 36. Technique in the musie of the American Indian, by Frances
Densmore.

No. 37. The belief of the Indian in a connection between song and the
supernatural, by Frances Densmore.

No. 88. Aboriginal fish poisons, by Robert F. Heizer.

No, 39, Aboriginal navigation off the coasts of Upper and Baja California,
by Robert F. Heizer and William C, Massey.

No. 40. Exploration of an Adena Mound at Natrium, W. Va., by Ralph S.
Solecki.
SECRETARY'S REPORT 93

Bulletin 151. Anthropological Papers, Numbers 33-42—Continued

No. 41. The Wind River Shoshone Sun Dance, by D. B. Shimkin.

No. 42. Current trends in the Wind River Shoshone Sun Dance, by Fred
W. Voget.

Bulletin 152. Index to Schooleraft’s “Indian Tribes of the United States,”
compiled by Frances S. Nichols.

Bulletin 153. La Venta, Tabasco: A study of Olmec ceramics and art, by
Philip Drucker.

Bulletin 154. River Basin Surveys Papers. Inter-Agency Archeological Sal-
vage Program. Numbers 1-6.

No.1. Prehistory and the Missouri Valley Development Program: Summary
report on the Missouri River Basin Archeological Survey in 1948, by
Waldo R. Wedel.

No. 2. Prehistory and the Missouri Valley Development Program: Summary
report on the Missouri River Basin Archeological Survey in 1949, by
Waldo R. Wedel.

No. 3. The Woodruff Ossuary, a prehistoric burial site in Phillips County,
Kans., by Marvin F. Kivett.

No. 4. The Addicks Dam site:

I. An archeological survey of the Addicks Dam basin, Southeast Texas,
by Joe Ben Wheat.
II. Indian skeletal remains from the Doering and Kobs Sites, Addicks
Reservoir, Texas, by Marshall T. Newman.
No. 5. The Hodges site:
I. Two rock shelters near Tucumcari, N. Mex., by Herbert W. Dick.
II. Geology of the Hodges site, Quay County, N. Mex., by Sheldon Judson.

No. 6. The Rembert mounds, Elbert County, Ga., by Joseph R. Caldwell.

Appendix. List of River Basin Surveys reports published in other series.

Bulletin 155. Settlement patterns in the Viri Valley, Perf, by Gordon R.
Willey.

Institute of Social Anthropology Publ. No. 13. The Tajin Totonac: Part 1.
History, subsistence, and technology, by Isabel Kelly and Angel Palerm.

Institute of Social Anthropology Publ. No. 14. The Indian caste of Peru,
1795-1950: A population study based upon tax records and census reports, by
George Kubler.

Institute of Social Anthropology Publ. No. 15. Indian tribes of Northern Mato
Grosso, Brazil, by Kalervo Oberg. With appendix by Marshall Newman on
“Anthropometry of the Umotina, Nambicuara, and Iranxe.”

Institute of Social Anthropology Publ. No. 16. Penny capitalism: A Guate-
malan Indian economy, by Sol Tax.

Publications distributed totaled 22,377 as compared with 19,116
for the fiscal year 1950.
LIBRARY

One hundred twenty-three volumes were added to the library of
the Bureau, bringing the total accessions as of June 80, 1951, to 34,961.

ARCHIVES

Manuscript material has been made available to research workers
both in the office and through the furnishing of microfilm copies. The
94 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

major project accomplished during the year was the classification of
the great collection of Iroquois material assembled by J. N. B. Hewitt.

The addition of five new metal storage cabinets greatly improved
the conditions for protecting the manuscripts. Since more cabinets
could not be obtained, another method of storage for the material in the
archives annex was developed. Using heavy cardboard filing boxes,
graded to size, does away with the wrappings formerly used and makes
the material much easier to consult.

A method of preserving the rare Indian drawings in the collections
by the process of lamination was adopted on advice from the preserva-
tion division of the National Archives.

Through the librarian of the Geological Survey, the collections have
been enriched by the addition of the original catalog of the photo-
graphic negatives made on the famous Grand Canyon expedition of
J. W. Powell. This list in Major Powell’s handwriting, removes all
doubt as to the identification of the pictures made by J. K. Hillers
and E. O. Beaman. The original negatives have long constituted an
important sector of the Bureau’s Indian photographic archives.

COLLECTIONS

Ace. No.

185184. Archeological materials and skeletal remains of 7 individuals from the
Addicks Reservoir, on South Mayde Creek in Harris County, 16 miles
west of Houston, Tex., collected 1947 by Joe Ben Wheat, River Basin
Surveys.

187265. Archeological materials from 12 sites in Tenkiller Ferry Reservoir area,
located on the Illinois River about 13 miles above its confluence with
the Arkansas River and about 7 miles northwest of Vian, in Sequoyah
and Cherokee Counties, Okla., collected by David J. Wenner, Jr., River
Basin Surveys.

187266. Archeological materials surface-collected from 2 sites in the Hulah
Reservoir area on Caney River about 15 miles northwest of Bartles-
ville, near Hulah, northeastern Osage County, Okla., collected in 1947
by David J. Wenner, Jr., River Basin Surveys.

187267. Archeological materials surface-collected from 17 sites in the Fort Gibson
Reservoir area, a Corps of Engineers water-control project on the
Grand (Neosho) River, beginning 7.7 miles above its mouth and in-
cluding portions of Wagoner, Cherokee, and Mayes Counties, Okla.,
collected in 1947 by David J. Wenner, Jr., River Basin Surveys.

187539. Archeological material from Postecontact Eskimo sites on Itkillik Lake
and at Anaktuvuk Pass in the Brooks Range, northwestern Alaska,
collected during the summer of 1949 in the Colville Basin by Arthur
Bowsher and Dr. George Llano.

187540. Archeological material, mainly stonework, from the West Fork Reservoir,
Lewis County, W. Va., collected in April 1948 by Ralph Solecki, River
Basin Surveys.

187541. Archeological material from Bluestone Reservoir area, on the New River,
100 miles south of Charleston, between Hinton and Narrows, W. Va.;
in Giles County, Va.; Monroe and Summers Counties, W. Va., collected
March-May 1948 by Ralph S. Solecki, River Basin Surveys.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 95

187542. Archeological materials from a mound at Natrium, Marshall County, W.
Va., collected by Ralph S. Solecki during December 1948 and January
1949.

187742. Approximately 80 fossil mammals from the Boysen Reservoir area of
Wyoming, the Canyon Ferry Reservoir area of Montana, and the
Garrison Reservoir area of North Dakota, collected by Dr. T. E. White,
River Basin Surveys.

188194. (Through Dr. F. H. H. Roberts, Jr.) 4 specimens, including Creodont
skull from the Paleocene of North Dakota, Plesiosaur skull, fish and
a marine turtle from the Pierre Cretaceous, collected by Dr. T. E.
-White at the Fort Randall Reservoir area in South Dakota, River
Basin Surveys.

188807. (Through Dr. Paul L. Cooper) 4 fresh-water mussels from Hitchcock
County, Nebr., River Basin Surveys.

189103. Archeological material, mostly potsherds, from Utivé, Panama, collected
by Dr. Matthew W. Stirling.

189439. Archeological materials from Round Bottom site on the Travis farm
about 3% miles south of Moundsville, Marshall County, W. Va., col-
lected, with the exception of 3 celts presented by Mr. Travis, by Ralph
S. Solecki during December 1948 and January 1949.

191092. 23 lizards, 6 snakes, 13 frogs, 10 marine invertebrates, and insect speci-
mens from Panama, collected by Dr. Matthew W. Stirling and party
during the 1951 Smithsonian Institution-National Geographic Society
Expedition.

188344. (Through Dr. Henry B. Collins, Jr.) Approximately 250 spiders, 27
springtails, and 1 parasitic wasp from Cornwallis Island, Canadian
Arctic, collected by Dr. Collins in summer of 1950 on National Museum
of Canada-Smithsonian Institution Expedition.

MISCELLANEOUS

During the year Dr. Frances Densmore, Dr. John R. Swanton, and
Dr. Antonio J. Waring, Jr., continued as collaborators of the Bureau.

Information was furnished during the year by members of the
Bureau staff in reply to numerous inquiries concerning the American
Indians, past and present, of both continents. Requests from teach-
ers of primary and secondary grades and from Scout organizations
continue to increase and indicate a rapidly growing interest in the
American Indians throughout the country. Various specimens sent to
the Bureau were identified and data on them furnished for their
owners.

Respectfully submitted.

M. W. Stietine, Director.
Dr. A. Wrrmore,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 6

Report on the International Exchange Service

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the activi-
ties of the International Exchange Service for the fiscal year ended
June 30, 1951:

The Smithsonian Institution is the official United States agency
for the exchange with other nations of governmental, scientific, and
literary publications. The International Exchange Service, initiated
by the Smithsonian Institution in the early years of its existence for
the interchange of scientific publications between learned societies
and individuals in the United States and those of foreign countries,
serves as a means of developing and executing in part the broad
and comprehensive objective, “the diffusion of knowledge.” It was
later designated by the United States Government as the agency for
the transmission of official documents to selected depositories through-
out the world, and it continues to execute the exchanges pursuant
to conventions, treaties, and other international agreements.

Although the weight of the packages received for transmission
during the year decreased by 438,314 pounds to the total of 788,773
pounds, the number of packages increased by 1,375 to the total of
1,011,000—the greatest number of packages received during any year
of the existence of the International Exchange Service.

The average weight of the individual package decreased to 12.46
ounces, approximately the same as the 13-ounce average of 1950. The
majority of the publications now being transmitted are current pub-
lications rather than large lots of accumulated publications. The
publications received from both the foreign and domestic sources for
shipment are classified as shown in the following table:

Classification Packages Weight
Number Number Pounds Pounds

United States parliamentary documents sent abroad___ 681083) |israete) tees 204, Sbbnjaeteeee ee
Publications received in return for pailiamentary

COCHIMENtS. see ees es RIAD 2a0F I | ne ee TRO SS |e a ak 18,175
United States departmental documents sent abroad____ 257; O42 emo wneie: eee 220; 210) || Soemereenes
Publications received in return for departmental

MLOGHIUBI Stet ates see en ee nl oe i ee 8/0135). tet ee 17, 455
Miscellaneous scientific and literary publications

SEBO DLOAU co asac seem a ces re son oe Ae eies Seen 1640805122225 ee 204 808 ieee eater so ce

Miscellaneous scientific and literary publications
received from abroad for distribution in the United

SSDS eee Steak beans eo Et i et aR wa eg Be MS ASO) errs te 93, 706
Lf SF ee pe fall ey oS A le RD li tek 943, 535 67, 465 659, 437 129, 336
(rand togal soos ek ees. Sos ene a) 1,011, 000 788, 773

ee ee eee

96
SECRETARY’S REPORT 97

The packages of publications are forwarded to the exchange bureaus
of foreign countries by freight or, where shipment by such means
is impractical, to the addressees by direct mail. The number of boxes
shipped to the foreign exchange bureaus was 2,884, only 5 less than
for the previous year. Of these boxes 765 were for depositories of
full sets of United States Government documents, these publications
being furnished in exchange for the official publications of foreign
governments which are received for deposit in the Library of Con-
gress. The number of packages forwarded by mail and by means
other than freight was 190,690.

The reduction in transportation costs, accomplished by exporting
through Baltimore rather than New York and first effected in 1947,
is being gradually neutralized by steadily increasing transportation
rates. The increasing freight and postal rates are primarily respon-
sible for the 145,727 pounds of publications that remained unshipped
at the end of the fiscal year.

No shipments are being made to either China or Rumania. Pub-
lications intended for addresses in Formosa and formerly sent through
the Chinese Exchange Bureau at Nanking are now forwarded by
direct mail.

FOREIGN DEPOSITORIES OF GOVERNMENTAL DOCUMENTS

The number of sets of United States official publications received
by the Exchange Service for transmission abroad in return for the
official publications sent by foreign governments for deposit in the
Library of Congress is now 102 (61 full and 41 partial sets), listed
below. Changes that occurred during the year are shown in the
footnotes.

DEPOSITORIES OF FULL SETS

ARGENTINA: Divisi6n Biblioteca, Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores y Culto,
Buenos Aires.’

AUSTRALIA: Commonwealth Parliament and National Library, Canberra.
New SoutH WALES: Public Library of New South Wales, Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Parliamentary Library, Brisbane.

SoutH AUSTRALIA: Public Library of South Australia, Adelaide.

TASMANIA: Parliamentary Library, Hobart.

Victoria: Publie Library of Victoria, Melbourne.

WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Public Library of Western Australia, Perth.
Austria: Administrative Library, Federal Chancellery, Vienna.
BeiciumM: Bibliothéque Royale, Bruxelles.

BraZIL: Biblioteca Nacional, Rio de Janiero.

BuLGARIA: Bulgarian Bibliographical Institute, Sofia.

BurMA: Government Book Depot, Rangoon.

1Changed from Direccién de Investigaciones, Archivo, Biblioteca y Legislacién Extran
jero.
98 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

CanapA: Library of Parliament, Ottawa.
MAnNIToBA: Provincial Library, Winnipeg.
Ontario: Legislative Library, Toronto.
Quesec: Library of the Legislature of the Province of Quebec.
CryLon: Department of Information, Government of Ceylon, Colombo.
CHILE: Biblioteea Nacional, Santiago.
Curina: Ministry of Education, National Library, Nanking, China.’
Perrine: National Library of Peiping.’
CotomprA: Biblioteca Nacional, Bogota,
Costa Rica: Biblioteca Nacional, San José.’
Cura: Ministerio de Estado, Canje Internacional, Habana.
CzECHOSLOVAKIA: Bibliothéque de l’Assemblée Nationale, Prague.
DenMARK: Institut Danois des Echanges Internationaux, Copenhagen.
Eayrr: Bureau des Publications, Ministére des Finances, Cairo.
FINLAND: Parliamentary Library, Helsinki.
FRANCE: Bibliothéque Nationale, Paris.
GERMANY: Offentliche Wissenschaftliche Biblothek, Berlin.
Parliamentary Library, Bonn.
GREAT BRITAIN:
ENGLAND: British Museum, London.
Lonpon: London School of Economics and Political Science. (Depository
of the London County Council.)
Houneary: Library of Parliament, Budapest.
Inp1aA: National Library, Calcutta.
Central Secretariat Library, New Delhi.‘
INDONESIA: Ministry for Foreign Affairs, Djakarta.
IRELAND: National Library of Ireland, Dublin.
IsRAEL: Government Archives and Library, Hakirya.
IraLy: Ministerio della Publica Istruzione, Rome.
JAPAN: National Diet Library, Tokyo:
Mexico: Secretaria de Relaciones Exteriores, Departamento de Informacién para
el Extranjero, Mexico, D. F.
NETHERLANDS: Royal Library, The Hague.
NEw ZEALAND: General Assembly Library, Wellington.
Nokway: Utenriksdepartmentets Bibliothek, Oslo.
Peru: Seccién de Propaganda y Publicaciones, Ministerio de Relaciones Ex-
teriores, Lima.
PHILIPPINES: Bureau of Public Libraries, Department of Education, Manila.
POLAND: Bibliothéque Nationale, Warsaw.
PoRTUGAL: Biblioteca Nacional, Lisbon.
Sparn: Biblioteca Nacional, Madrid.
SWEDEN: Kungliga Biblioteket, Stockholm.
SWITZERLAND: Bibliothéque Centrale Fédérale, Berne.
TURKEY: Department of Printing and Engraving, Ministry of Education,
Istanbul.
Union oF South Arrica: State Library, Pretoria, Transvaal.
Union or Sovier SoctaList REPUBLICS: All-Union Lenin Library, Moscow 115.
UnitEp NAtTiIons: Library of the United Nations, Geneva, Switzerland.
Urucuay: Oficina de Canje Internacional de Publicaciones, Montevideo.

2 Suspended.

* Changed from Oficina de Depésito y Canje Internacional de Publicaciones,
« Added during year.

5 Receives two sets,
SECRETARY’S REPORT 99

VENEZUELA: Biblioteca Nacional, Caracas.
YuGosiavia: Bibliografski Institut, Belgrade.® °

DEPOSITORIES OF PARTIAL SETS

AFGHANISTAN: Library of the Afghan Academy, Kabul.

ANGLO-EaYpPTIAN SuDAN: Gordon Memorial College, Khartoum.*

Botrv1a: Biblioteca del Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores y Culto, La Paz.
BRAZIL;

Minas Gerais: Directoria Geral de Estatistica em Minas, Bello Horizonte.
BritisH Gurana: Government Secretary’s Office, Georgetown, Demerara.
CANADA?

ALBERTA: Provincial Library, Edmonton.

BritisH CoLumpta: Provincial Library, Victoria.

New Brunswick: Legislative Library, Fredericton.

NEWFOUNDLAND: Department of Provincial Affairs, St. John’s."

Nova ScortA: Provincial Secretary of Nova Scotia, Halifax.

SASKATCHEWAN: Legislative Library, Regina.

DoMINICAN REPUBLIC: Biblioteca de la Universidad de Santo Domingo, Ciudad
Trujillo.

Ecuabor: Biblioteca Nacional, Quito.

EL SALVADOR:

Biblioteca Nacional, San Salvador.

Ministerio de Relaciones EXxteriores, San Salvador.
GREECE: National Library, Athens.

GUATEMALA: Biblioteca Nacional, Guatemala.
Hartt: Bibliothéque Nationale, Port-au-Prince.
HONDURAS:

Biblioteca y Archivo Nacionales, Tegucigalpa.

Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Tegucigalpa.
IcELAND: National Library, Reykjavik.

INDIA:

Braark AND ORISSA: Revenue Department, Patna.

Bompay: Undersecretary to the Government of Bombay, General Depart-

ment, Bombay.

UNITED PROVINCES OF AGRA AND OUDH:

University of Allahabad, Allahabad.
Civil Secretariat, Council House, Lucknow.
West BENGAL: Library, West Bengal Legislative Secretariat, Assembly
House, Calcutta.
Iran: Imperial Ministry of Education, Tehran.
Iraq: Public Library, Baghdad.
JAMAICA: Colonial Secretary, Kingston.
University College of the West Indies, St. Andrews.
LigrriA: Department of State, Monrovia.
MaLaya: Federal Secretariat, Federation of Malaya, Kuala Lumpur.
Matta: Minister for the Treasury, Valleta.
NICARAGUA: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Managua.
PAKISTAN : Chief Secretary to the Government of Punjab, Lahore.
PANAMA: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Panama.
PARAGUAY: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Seccién Biblioteca, Asuncién.

*Changed from Ministére de l’Education.
7™Changed from Department of Home Affairs.
100 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

ScorLanp: National Library of Scotland, Edinburgh.

Sram: National Library, Bangkok.

SinGaPorE: Chief Secretary, Government Offices, Singapore.
VATICAN City: Biblioteca Apostolica Vaticana, Vatican City, Italy.

INTERPARLIAMENTARY EXCHANGE OF THE OFFICIAL JOURNAL

There are now being sent abroad 85 copies of the Federal Register
and 92 copies of the Congressional Record. This is an increase over
the preceding year of 2 copies of the Federal Register and 5 copies
of the Congressional Record. The countries to which these journals
are being forwarded are given in the following list:

DEPOSITORIES OF CONGRESSIONAL RECORD AND FEDERAL REGISTER

ARGENTINA ?
Biblioteca del Congreso Nacional, Buenos Aires.
Biblioteca del Poder Judicial, Mendoza.*
Camara de Diputados, Oficina de Informacion Parliamentaria, Buenos Aires.
Boletin Oficial de la Republica Argentina, Ministerio de Justica e Instruc-
cidn Publica, Buenos Aires.
AUSTRALIA:
Commonwealth Parliament and National Library, Canberra.
New SourH WaAtgEs: Library of Parliament of New South Wales, Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Chief Secretary’s Office, Brisbane.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Library of Parliament of Western Australia.
BRAZIL:
Biblioteca da Camera dos Deputados, Rio de Janeiro.
Secretaria de Presidencia, Rio de Janeiro.‘ °
AMAZONAS: Archivo, Biblioteca e Imprensa Publica, Maniéos.
Bawia: Governador do Hstado da Bahia, S&o0 Salvador.
Espirito SANTO: Presidencia do Estado do Espirito Santo, Victoria.
Rio GRANDE DO Sut: Imprensa Oficial do Estado, Porto Alegre.
SERGIPE: Biblioteca Publica do Estado de Sergipe, Aracaju.
SAo PAULO: Imprensa Oficial do Estada, Sio0 Paulo.
Britisi Honpuras: Colonial Secretary, Belize.
CANADA:
Library of Parliament, Ottawa.
Clerk of the Senate, Houses of Parliament, Ottawa.
CryLon: Ceylon Ministry of Defense and External Affairs, Colombo.‘ ®
CUBA:
Biblioteca del Capitolio, Habana.
Biblioteca Publica Panamericana, Habana.®
House of Representatives, Habana.
CZECHOSLOVAKIA: Library of the Czechoslovak National Assembly, Prague.’
Eeypt: Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Egyptian Government, Cairo.’
Ex Satvapor: Library, National Assembly, San Salvador.

8 Federal Register only.
® Congressional Record only.
SECRETARY'S REPORT 101

IWRANCE:
Bibliothéque Assemblée Nationale, Paris.
Bibliothéque Conseil de la République, Paris.
Library, Organization for European Economic Cooperation, Paris.°
Publiques de l’Institute de Droit Comparé, Université de Paris, Paris.‘
Research Department, Council of Europe, Strasbourg.’
Service dé la Documentation Etrangére, Assemblée Nationale, Paris.*

GERMANY: Bibliotek der Instituts fiir Weltwirtschaft an der Universitiit Kiel,
Kiel-Wik.*
Archiv, Deutscher Bundesrat, Bonn.‘
Der Bayrische Landtag, Munich.’ ”
Deutscher Bundesrat, Bonn.’
Deutscher Bundestag, Bonn.?
GREAT BRITAIN:
House of Commons Library, London.®
Printed Library of the Foreign Office, London.
Royal Institut of International Affairs, London.‘ ®
GREECE: Bibliothéque, Chambre des Députés Hellénique, Athens.
GUATEMALA: Biblioteca de la Asamblea Legislativa, Guatemala.
Halt: Bibliothéque Nationale, Port-au-Prince.
Honpuras: Biblioteca del Congreso Nacional, Tegucigalpa.
INDIA:
Civil Secretariat Library, Lucknow, United Provinces.®
Indian Council of World Affairs, New Delhi.’
Legislative Assembly Library, Lucknow, United Provinces.
Legislative Department, Simla.
Parliament Library, New Delhi.’
INDONESIA: Provisional Parliament of East-Indonesia, Macassar, Celebes.
IRELAND: Dail Eireann, Dublin.
TRATY?2
Biblioteca Camera dei Deputati, Rome.
Biblioteca del Senato della Republica, Rome.
European Office, Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations,
Rome.*
International Institute for the Unification of Private Law, Rome.*
JAPAN: Library of the National Diet, Tokyo.
MEXIco:
Direcci6n General Informacién, Secretaria de Gobernacién, Mexico, D. F.
Biblioteca Benjamin Franklin, Mexico, D. F.
AGUASCALIENTES: Gobernador del Estado de Aguascalientes, Aguascalientes.
CAMPECHE: Gobernador del Estado de Campeche, Campeche.
CuraPpas: Gobernador del Estado de Chiapas, Tuxtla Gutierrez.
CHIHUAHUA: Gobernador del Estado de Chihuahua, Chihuahua.
COAHUILA: Periddico Oficial del Estado de Coahuila, Palacio de Gobierno,
Saltillo.
Corima: Gobernador del Estado de Colima, Colima.
Dvuranco: Gobernador Constitucional del Estado de Durango, Durango,
GuaNasuaAro: Secretaria General de Gobierno del Estado, Guanajuato.
GUERRERO: Gobernador del Estado de Guerrero, Chilpancingo.
JALISCO: Biblioteca del Estado, Guadalajara.
Lower CALIFORNIA: Gobernador del Distrito Norte, Mexicali.

10 Three copies.
102 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

Mextco—Continued
México: Gaceta del Gobierno, Toluca.
MicHoachn: Secretaria General de Gobierno del Estado de Michoacin,
Morelia.
MoreLos: Palacio de Gobierno, Cuernavaca.
NayAkitT: Gobernador de Nayarit, Tepic.
Nvevo Leon: Biblioteca del Estado, Monterrey.
OAXACA: Periéddico Oficial, Palacia de Gobierno, Oaxaca.
Pursra: Secretarfa General de Gobierno, Puebla.
QUERETARO: Secretaria General de Gobierno, Seccién de Archivo, Querétaro.
San Luis Potos{: Congreso del Estado, San Luis Potosf.
Srmnatoa: Gobernador del Estado de Sinaloa, Culiacan.
Sonora: Gobernador del Estado de Sonora, Hermosillo.
Tapasco: Secretaria de Gobierno, Sessién 3a, Ramo de Prensa, Villahermosa.
TAMAULIPAS: Secretaria General de Gobierno, Victoria.
TLAXCALA: Secretaria de Gobierno del Estado, Tlaxcala.
Veracruz: Gobernador del Estado de Veracruz, Departamento de Gober-
nacién y Justicia, Jalapa.
YucaTANn : Gobernador del Estado de Yucatan, Mérida.
NETHERLANDS: Koninklijke Bibliotheek, The Hague.’
New ZEALAND: General Assembly Library, Wellington.
Norway: Library of the Norwegian Parliament, Oslo.
PAKISTAN: Punjab Legislative Assembly Department, Lahore.
Peru: Camara de Diputados, Lima.
PoLaND: Ministry of Justice, Warsaw.*
PorTUGAL: Secretaria de Assembla National, Lisbon.’
SWITZERLAND: Bibliothéque, Bureau International du Travail, Geneva.*
Library, United Nations, Geneva.
International Labor Office, Geneva.”
UNION OF SOUTH AFRICA:
CAPE oF Goop Hors: Library of Parliament, Cape Town.
TRANSVAAL: State Library, Pretoria.
Union oF Sovier SociaLtist RePuslics: Fundamental’niia Biblioteka, Ob-
shchestvennykh Nauk, Moscow.®
Urvuevay: Diario, Oficial, Calle Florida 1178, Montevideo.
VENEZUELA: Biblioteca del Congreso, Caracas.

FOREIGN EXCHANGE AGENCIES

Exchange publications for addresses in the countries listed below
are forwarded by freight to the exchange agencies of those countries.
Exchange publications for addresses in other countries are forwarded
directly to the addresses by mail.

LIST OF AGENCIES

AustTrRIA: Austrian National Library, Vienna.

BELGIuM : Service des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque Royale de Belgique,
Bruxelles.

CHINA: Bureau of International Exchange, National Central Library, Nanking.”

CZECHOSLOVAKIA: Bureau of International Exchanges, National and University
Library, Prague.

u Two copies.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 103

Denmark: Institut Danois des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque Royale,
Copenhagen K,

Ecyper: Government Press, Publications Office, Bulaq, Cairo.

FINLAND: Delegation of the Scientific Societies of Finland, Kasiirngatan 24,
Helsinki.

FRANCE: Service des Echanges Internationaux, Biblioth@que Nationale, 58 Rue
de Richelieu, Paris.

GERMANY: Notgemeinschaft der Deutschen Wissenschaft, Bad Godesberg.

GREAT BRITAIN AND IRELAND: Wheldon & Wesley, 83/84 Berwick Street, London,
Weel.

HuneAary: Hungarian Libraries Board, Ferenciektere 5, Budapest, IV.

InpIA: Superintendent of Government Printing and Stationery, Bombay.

INDONESIA: Department of Cultural Affairs and Education, Djakarta.

ISRAEL: Jewish National and University Library, Jerusalem.

ITaty: Ufficio degli Scambi Internazionali, Ministero della Publica Instruzione,
Rome.

JAPAN: Division of International Affairs, National Diet Library, Tokyo.

NETHERLANDS: International Exchange Bureau of the Netherlands, Royal Li-
brary, The Hague.

NEw SoutH WALES: Public Library of New South Wales, Sydney.

New ZEALAND: General Assembly Library, Wellington.

Norway: Service Norvégien des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque de l’Uni-
versité Royale, Oslo.

PHILIPPINES: Bureau of Public Libraries, Department of Education, Manila.

PoLAND: Service Polonais des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque Nationale,
Warsaw.

PortuesL: Seccio de Trocas Internacionais, Biblioteca Nacional, Lisbon.

QUEENSLAND: Bureau of Exchanges of International Publications, Chief Secre-
tary’s Office, Brisbane.

RuMANIA: Ministére de la Propagande Nationale, Service des Kehanges Inter-
nationaux, Bucharest.”

SoutrH AUSTRALIA: South Australian Government Exchanges Bureau, Govern-
ment Printing and Stationery Office, Adelaide.

Spain: Junta de Intercambio y Adquisicién de Libros y Revistas para Bibliote-
cas Ptblicas, Ministerio de Educaci6n Nacional, Avenida Calvo Sotelo 20,
Madrid.

SWEDEN: Kungliga Biblioteket, Stockholm.

SwiTzERLAND: Service Suisse des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque Cen-
trale Fédérale, Palais Fédéral, Berne. *

TASMANIA: Secretary of the Premier, Hobart.

TURKEY: Ministry of Education, Department of Printing and Engraving,
Istanbul.

UNION or SouTH AFrica: Government Printing and Stationery Office, Cape Town,
Cape of Good Hope.

Union oF Sovier Soctattst ReEPusLics: Bureau of Book Exchange, State Lenin
Library, Moscow 19.

VicroriA: Publie Library of Victoria, Melbourne.

Western AUSTRALIA: Public Library of Western Australia, Perth.

YuGostaviA: Bibliografski Institut FNRJ, Belgrade.

Respectfully submitted.

Dr. A. WreTmorg,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.

D. G. WruiaMs, Chief.

981445—52——_8
APPENDIX 7

Report on the National Zoological Park

Sir: Transmitted herewith is a report on the operations of the
National Zoological Park for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1951.

During the year 1,768 individual animals were added to the collec-
tion by gifts, deposits, purchases, exchanges, births, and hatchings.
Among the accessions were many rare specimens never before shown
in this Zoo. The addition of new kinds of animals enhances the value
of the collection, which is maintained not only for exhibition, but for
research and education, thus fostering the Smithsonian’s established
purpose of “the increase and diffusion of knowledge.”

Valuable opportunities for research are afforded students of biology,
particularly vertebrate zoology, as well as artists, photographers, and
writers. Only methods of study that do not endanger the welfare
of animals or the safety of the public are permitted.

Services of the staff included answering in person or by phone, mail,
and telegraph questions regarding animals and their care and trans-
portation; furnishing to other zoos and other agencies, public and
private, information regarding structures for housing animals; co-
operating with other agencies of Federal, State, and municipal gov-
ernments in research work; and preparing articles for publication.

The stone restaurant building, which was constructed in the Park
in 1940, is leased at $23,052 a year. This money is deposited in the
general fund of the United States Treasury. The concessionaire
serves meals and light refreshments and sells souvenirs.

VISITORS

The estimated numbet of visitors was 3,460,400, an increase of
22,7381 over the previous year. This was the largest attendance in
the history of the Zoo and was probably due to a combination of cir-
cumstances, such as the continued high employment in the Wash-
ington area, increase in travel accompanying the general economic
prosperity, and the frequency with which the Zoo was able to announce
the addition of interesting specimens to the collection.

Before the war, early days of the week had relatively low attend-
ance, with an increasing number of visitors the latter portion of the
week and very large crowds on Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays.
Now the variation in attendance on the different days is much less.
There is also a considerable increase in attendance in the mornings.

104
SECRETARY’S REPORT 105
ESTIMATED NUMBER OF VISITORS FOR FISCAL YEAR 1951

Jaly: “(1950 pesos lee 452; 5007|*Webruary 222-4 20) ibis 193, 600

AT SUSE: SS etree ht _tetv ers 470000 March x. 2s = ete, 3 263, 200
September-222 25 eee 290° COO; |Aprile = aff 28 = 25 oe 391, 300
October 2s 2222 ee 2 sees ee 296,000 Maye 2. Soo sek Be TS 418, 500
November 22 2222-2522 TSGHOUOI PIU esas eee eee ee 350, 700
December!= 2 ee ee 64, 150 ——_——_—__—_.
Januarys (Gl9bw)) sss a eee 112, 200 Notalee ae ae a eee 3, 460, 400

Groups came to the Zoo from schools in Canada, Cuba, Haiti, and
29 States, some as far away as Maine, Florida, Oklahoma, Kansas,
and North Dakota. There was an increase of 167 groups and 138,445
individuals in groups over last year.

NUMBER OF GROUPS FROM SCHOOLS

Number | Number Number | Number
Stato of groups | in groups State of groups | in groups

——— ee) ee) ee

Aba ma® S22 ess Se eee ll 362) |\#Miississip pice ere. eee oes 4 121
ATE ANISASS ee Ce nian eee A ee 1 15:4] ONGISSOUTIE seas ee oee eee ee 1 18
Canadarets ne Snel oan ee 2 TAG News Jerseyess. 22.2 eee a 17 1, 160
Connecticut: =-4-4_ 3-422" _- 12 Bala iNew, Work: +e". . man ot 104 5, 487
Cubateee. ee ie or 4 742 North Caroling: <-- 2. — 2 so. oe 195 7, 125
Delaware tore ee a 14 6135 |ONorth Wakotas:otes=2---os2ee 1 42
District of Columbia_-_-._-__-- 128 Bx68ONO hig: 22 eho ee Sere <a Soe 52 5, 784
OG dase te eee te 7 634 |} Oklahoma._-_.._---- ES ae ache 2 36
Georgia: 228 eV Ce eee Sk 36 4,265" ebennsylvaniae.—2-_2_-222"e.. - 241 12, 993
ETAT pIE oe eee 1 23> | Rhodedsland=2-22-2- 2252222. 1 182
Dlingisees Sees Se ee ae 2 64 |} South Carolina......-..__.-.- 78 2, 379
Indignaess. -- 2s 2 see eee 10 OTS si |ehennessee 24-22 as 2 41 1, 699
KANSAS cae ee eee ee 4 A 2AoVAPCInNi a= ae se oe Sey ee 512 26, 09@
Kontuckysti 2. 2205. 4 eee 10 SSI sWestivirginias =. 2 4 63 3, 556
Maine sa te oe han 5 6 oO Lal eWisconsin#22=-- 252 een ee 4 135
Miaryland2! otitis se Eh heed 541 31, 839 eee
Massachusetts__..........---- 12 656 Total 4 less et 2, 140 115, 998
Michigans ~-2 =e. 2 ae 23 1, 515

About 2 p. m. each day the cars then parked in the Zoo are counted
by the Zoo police and listed according to the State, Territory, or
country from which they came. This is, of course, not a census of the
cars coming to the Zoo but is valuable in showing the percentage of
attendance, by States, of people in private automobiles. Many of the
District of Columbia, Maryland, and Virginia cars come to the Zoo to
bring guests from other States. The tabulation for the fiscal year
1951 is as follows:

Percent Percent
Mary] andi aos $22 eee a. Sa Or BPO Os ee ee 1.9
Washineton Dr ©22=52—2 = Se 237 WiWwese Vareinias == sss Ss 1.5
TVA Lin he se eo a ae ee SPO ShibNGW <JeLseyi os ae oe 1.4
Pennsylyvanige sa. = eee Ou PROD ie 2 oe ee ee eee ee 1.0
Neéw,? Yorki= +222 BORE: 1) o'7) | Massachusettsoe eee ee 1.0
North «Caroling 22.3422 ney Pon eCalifornigqn a=. feyhs wee esses 0.8
106 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

The cars that made up the remaining 11.5 percent came from every
one of the remaining States, as well as from Alaska, Austria, Bahamas,
Belgium, Canada, Canal Zone, Cuba, England, Germany, Guam,
Guatemala, Hawaii, Holland, Japan, Mexico, Newfoundland, Nica-
ragua, Okinawa, Philippines, Puerto Rico, some of the South American
Republics, and Switzerland.

THE EXHIBITS

Specimens for exhibition are acquired by gift, deposit, purchase,
exchange, births, and hatchings and are removed by death, exchange,
or return of those on deposit. Although depositors are at liberty to
remove their specimens, many leave them permanently.

As in any colony of living things, there is a steady turn-over, and
so the exhibits are constantly changing. Thus, the inventory list of
specimens in the collection on June 30 of each year does not show all
the kinds of animals that were exhibited during the year; sometimes
creatures of outstanding interest at the time they were shown are no
longer in the collection at the time the list is prepared.

The United States National Museum is given first choice of all
specimens that die in the Zoo. If they are not desired for the Museum
they are then made available to other scientific institutions or scien-
tific workers. Thus, the value of the specimen continues long after
it is dead.

ACCESSIONS

During the year there were 267 accessions comprising 862 individual
animals received as gifts or deposits. These included an unusual
number of interesting specimens.

OUTSTANDING ACQUISITIONS

There were received 88 different kinds of animals that either had
never before been exhibited in this Zoo or are such rare specimens that
they are outstanding additions.

One of these is the Agrimi goat, “Kri Kri” (Capra aegagrus cret-
ensis),a choice male specimen of a very rare native wild goat of Crete.
This was a gift to the United States Government from the Greek Gov-
ernment, through the Economic Cooperation Administration and the
State Department.

A single specimen of toucan (Ramphastos), which is as yet un-
identified, was received from Colombia. This bird had never been
exhibited formerly in the National Zoological Park, and it is appar-
ently rare in the wild, as well as in collections.

Seventeen specimens of the Santa Marta tinamou (Crypturellus
noctivagus idoneus) were also received from Colombia. These were
new to the Zoo collection, and they are large enough and so conspic-
SECRETARY'S REPORT 107

uously marked as to be choice exhibits. They have hitherto been
considered rare.

Specimens of the large Meller’s chameleon (Chamaeleon melleri)
were received from J. D. Handman, of Nyasaland, Africa. These
are rare in collections, and their size, conspicuous coloration, and a
peculiarly shaped projection on the end of the nose make them showy
exhibition animals. Mr. Handman also sent such rarities as giant
wingless crickets (Znyaliopsis petersz) , quaint blesmols (Cryptomys),
and numerous reptiles.

A splendid specimen of the black-headed python (Aspidites melano-
cephalus) of Australia was received. This is a large snake that had
never before been in the Zoo collection.

The three-banded armadillos (Tolypeutes tricinctus) received from
central South America are interesting little creatures not much larger
than a good-sized grapefruit. They are the first this Zoo has ever
exhibited.

A pair of the large burrowing gopherlike tuco-tuco (Ctenomys sp.),
also from central South America, makes an interesting exhibit and the
first of its kind the Zoo has had.

Six Labrador lemmings (Dicrostonyx hudsonius), likewise the first
that have been exhibited here, were received from the Arctic Institute
of North America through Dr. Graham Rowley, T. H. Manning, and
Dr. A. L. Washburn.

The big black-bellied hamsters (Cricetus cricetus) of eastern Europe
are striking contrasts to the much smaller and better-known golden
hamsters that have become so popular as pets. Efforts are being made
to breed these. None have previously been exhibited in the Zoo.

Three large mouselike creatures (Mfastomys coucha) , new to the col-
lection, are particularly interesting because they are used in Africa
as laboratory animals and are now being tried out in the United States
for research work. They were turned over to the Zoo by the Army
Medical Center.

Three specimens of the rarely found little burrowing frog (Cera-
tophrys calcarata) of Colombia were received. These, also, are new
to the collection.

Other animals that, though not the first of their kind in the Zoo,
are sufficiently rare or interesting to be noteworthy include a pencil-
tailed tree mouse (Chiropodomys gliroides) from the Malay Penin-
sula; hairy armadillos (Chaetophractus villosus); least marmoset
(Callithriz pygmaea) ; two of the rare and peculiar maned or crested
rat (Lophiomys imhausi) of Africa; white-tailed Colobus monkey
(Colobus polykomos) ; potto (Perodicticus potto) ; brush-tailed porcu-
pines (Atherurus africanus) ; young mandrills (Mandrillus sphing) ;
shoebill stork (Balaeniceps rex) ; black-necked swan (Cygnus melan-
coriphus) ; a king vulture (Sarcorhamphus papa) ; quetzals (Pharo-
108 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

machus mocino) ; fer-de-lance snakes (Bothrops lanceolatus) ; king
cobra (Vaja hannah); Gaboon viper (Bitis gabonica) ; Australian
copperhead snake (Denisonia superba) ; the little burrowing snake
(Typhlops) from Africa; and coconut crabs (Birgus latro), which
were a gift to us from the Governor of Guam.

The Army Medical Center, through its various workers, has con-
tinued to turn over to the Zoo interesting animals no longer needed
in their work. Through Maj. Robert Traub, of the Research and
Graduate School, there was received a very fine collection of rodents
from Kuala Lumpur, Malay Peninsula. There were six different
species of the genus Rattus, which included a very small richly colored
rat, and a large somber-colored one, as well as other intermediate
forms. These rats are of particular interest as they are being studied in
connection with human diseases. Also received through Major Traub
were three species of the inconspicuously marked squirrels of the
Callosciurus group, the long-pointed-nose Malayan ground squirrel
(Lariscus), another of the queer little pencil-tailed tree mice (Chzro-
podomys), and three excellent specimens of the slow loris (Wycticebus
coucang).

E. M. Blocker, of the Fresno (Calif.) Zoo, presented two California
jack rabbits, which were particularly desirable additions as they have
rarely been available to the National Zoo.

Dr. Gabriel Ospina Restrepo, Director of the Instituto Nacional de
Antropologia Social de Colombia, Bogota, Colombia, kindly presented
the Zoo with two pygmy marmosets. These are the smallest of the
marmosets and, being rare in collections, are especially desirable
additions.

It has been possible to acquire many of these rarities for the Zoo
through the use of air transportation to bring animals quickly from
their native haunts, and by maintaining contacts with persons in
remote regions who are interested in collecting specimens. By a con-
tinuance of these methods it is hoped to bring to the American public
more interesting creatures that have not heretofore been available
for study alive.

DEPOSITORS AND DONORS AND THEIR GIFTS
(Deposits are marked *)
Acorn Pet and Gift Shop, Washington, D. C., yellow and blue macaw.*
Adams, E., Bethesda, Md., copperhead snake.
Adams, T. M., Arlington, Va., ring-necked snake, 10 common newts.
Alford, John N., Saegerton, Pa., white ring-necked pheasant.
Alston, Gene, Washington, D. C., wood turtle, painted turtle, 2 box turtles.
Altizer, David H., Washington, D. C., white rabbit.
Anderson, A. William, Takoma Park, Md., rabbit.
Animal Rescue League, Washington, D. C., 2 white king pigeons.
Arctic Institute of North America, through Dr, Graham Rowley, T. H. Manning,
and Dr. A. L. Washburn, 6 lemmings.
Secretary's Report, 1951.—Appendix 7 PLATE 3

a ee ee oer
1. THREE-BANDED ARMADILLO (TOLYPEUTES TRICINCTUS)

Almost completely closed for protection against enemies. ‘The large, somewhat
triangular shield at the right is the top of the head, and the slightly smaller
triangular member studded with tubercules is the tail. (Photograph by
Ernest P. Walker.)

2. THREE-BANDED ARMADILLO UNROLLED, READY FOR WALKING

Most of the time it touches only the tips of the very strong claws of its front feet
to the ground. (Photograph by Ernest P. Walker.)
Secretary's Report, 1951.—Appendix 7 PLATE 4

4

1. MELLER’S CHAMELEON (CHAMAELEON MELLERI), FROM NYASALAND, AFRICA

A large chameleon with prehensile tail and a hornlike projection on the end of
the snout. It can change color at will and move its eyes independently.

6 7 3

2. TINY FROGS IN THE NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK

Left, striped African tree frog (Afrizalus fornasinii Bianconi); center, black and
green frog (Dendrobates tintoria) from South America, commonly known as the
arrow-poison frog; right, yellow atelopus (Atelopus varius cruciger). a delicate

translucent lemon-colored frog from the Panama region. (Photograph by
Ernest P. Walker.)
SECRETARY’S REPORT

DEPOSITORS AND DONORS AND THEIR GIFIS—continued

Armstrong, Brig. Gen. Clare H., Camp Stewart, Ga., 2 Rosella parakeets.*

Army Medical Center, Washington, D. C., 3 agoutis; through Mr. Rogers, 3
Mastomys coucha; through Maj. Robert Traub, Research and Graduate School,
Asiatic squirrel,* large spiny-backed tree rat,* 2 Rajah tree rats,* 2 Bower’s
tree rats,* Whitehead’s tree rat,* Rattus canus malasia,* Callosciurus caniceps,*
Callosciurus notatus,* Malayan ground squirrel,* pencil-tailed tree rat,* pencil-

tailed tree mouse,* 3 slow loris.*

Badger, June, Middleburg, Va., and Cochran, Dr. Doris, National Museum, Wash-
ington, D. C., corn snake,* southern ribbon snake,* legless lizard,* Cumberland

turtle,* false map turtle,* 2 musk turtles,* 3 Japanese newts.*

Baird, Bill, National Park Service, Washington, D. C., 2 copperhead snakes.

Bailey, Mrs. H. E., College Park, Md., 3 red-shouldered hawks.
Bailey, Lee, Washington, D. C., barn owl.

Baker, Judd O., Washington, D. C., opossum.

Baker, Patricia, Lake Forest, Il., ring-necked snake.
Barfield, Gordon, Cabin John, Md., rabbit.

Baxter, Mr., Washington, D. C., brown capuchin monkey.
Belcher, James E., Bethesda, Md., ground hog.

Bentz, Sgt., and Reeves, Sgt. E., Washington, D. C., loon.
Black, Maj. BE. L., Ft. MeNair, Washington, D. C., horned lizard.
Blocker, E. M., Fresno, Calif., 2 California jack rabbits.
Boose, Mrs., Arlington, Va., opossuin.

Boyle, John, III, Washington, D. C., skunk.

Bresman, Commander J., Rockville, Md., great horned owl.
Brown, G.S., Silver Spring, Md., white rabbit.

Brown, Mrs. I., Arlington, Va., Pekin duck.

Brown, Mrs. M., Washington, D. C., 2 rabbits.

Brown, Russell L., Washington, D. C., horseshoe crab.
Bryant, Terrell W. W., Takoma Park, Md., 3 crows.
Bunnell, Miss T. J., Baltimore, Md., mynah.

Burtt, Robert A., Arlington, Va., 3 opossums.

Butler, Mrs. P. E., Fairfax, Va., opossum,

Castle, Guy, Oxon Hill, Md., great horned owl.

Chappelle, Susan, Washington, D. C., rabbit.

Cherry, Zeal, Kearneysville, W. Va., 4 ring-necked pheasants.
Clifford, Happa, Washington, D. C., blue jay.

Colpin, Dr. H. L., Washington, D. C., red fox.

Cox, Charles G., Jr., Spokane, Wash., hawk. °

Cross, James, Rockville, Md., pilot snake.

Dahlgren, Daniel, New Alexandria, Va., 2 horned lizards.
Daniel, R. O., Washington, D. C., albino opossum.

Davis, Floyd, Washington, D. C., woodchuck.

de Murguiondo, Victor, Jr., Washington, D. C., 2 barn owls.
Denham, Mrs. W. L., Vienna, Va., 3 horned lizards.
DeVore, Warren, Washington, D. C., horned lizard.

Diggs, Mrs. Thomas I., Washington, D. C., rabbit.

Dillion, Mrs. J. J., Washington, D. C., 2 opossums.

Dillon, Kathleen and Mike, Washington, D. C., red hen.
Dix, Michael, Washington, D. C., pilot black snake.
Donallon, Mrs. H., Washington, D. C., 7 hamsters.

Dore, Richard, Arlington, Va., Pekin duck.

Drusback, F. W., Bethesda, Md., pilot snake.
110 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

DEPOSITORS AND DONORS AND THEIR GirTs—continued

Ducharme, Leon C., Washington, D. C., skunk.

Dunlap, R. Peter, Chevy Chase, Md., and Gilpin, Kenny, Bethesda, Md., bald
eagle.

Duvall, Mrs. F., Seat Pleasant, Md., red fox.

Edwards, J. E., Washington, D. C., 4 red foxes.

Ehrwantrout, Edw., Takoma Park, Md., horned lizard.

Eshenbough, P. H., Washington, D. C., Pekin duck.

Espey, Mrs. H. Clay, Jr., Washington, D. C., snapping turtle.

Eubank, Gerald A., Washington, D. C., 2 Pekin ducks.

Evans, C. P., Washington, D. C., gray fox.

Evans, James, Green Acres, Md., Pekin duck,

Fawcett, Arthur F., Washington, D. C., corn snake.

Fenton, John W., McLean, Va., 7 black Pekin ducks.*

Fine, C. B., Silver Spring, Md., robin.

Fish and Wildlife Service, U. S. Department of the Interior, through E. R. Atkin-
son, Tappahannock, Va., bald eagle; through Dr. Gardiner Bump, Washington,
D. C., 2 southern Pacific swamp hens (gallinule) ; through Harvey O. Edwards,
Ely, Nev., 3 western bobcats, 2 pumas; through Vernon Ekedahl, Willows,
Calif., 5 cackling geese, 4 lesser snow geese, whistling swan, pintail duck, mal-
lard duck, 4 snow geese; through Patuxent Wildlife Research Refuge, Laurel,
Md., 6 pairs bobwhite quails, 2 pairs ring-necked pheasants; through Leonard
Llewellyn, 6 copperhead ‘snakes; through J. W. Wolfley, Orlando, Fla., 87
black-bellied tree ducks; Branch of Game Management, Washington, D. C.,
whistling swan.

Fisher, Charlie J., Washington, D. C., alligator.

Fisher, F. B., Washington, D. C., 2 Cumberland turtles.

Fisher, Mrs. J., Alexandria, Va., Pekin duck.

Foster, Mrs., Washington, D. C., white rabbit.

Funk, David, Bethesda, Md., black-widow spider.

Gantt, A. E., Arlington, Va., yellow-headed parrot.

Gatti, Mrs. S. A., Washington, D. C., canary, grass parakeet, zebra finch.

Gaver, Gordon, Thurmont, Md., 2 hog-nosed snakes, rainbow boa,* coral snake,*
2 tegu lizards,* 3 Gila monsters,* 3 timber rattlesnakes,* copperhead snake,
2 fox snakes,* corn snake,* bull snake,* king cobra,* 5 Siamese cobras,* 6
cape cobras,* cottonmouth,* Indian rock python,* regal python,* 2 boa con-
strictors,* Mexican water moccasin,* mangrove snake,* Gaboon viper,* Javan
macaque.*

Gebhardt, Richard J., Arlington, Va., American crow.

Geisler, Lloyd G., Washington, D. C., horned lizard.

Geletner, Mr., Washington, D. C., 8 canaries.

Gillogly, C. O., Washington, D. C., false chameleon.

Gladding, Robert, Washington, D. C., Holbrook king snake.

Gollan, John R., Washington, D. C., Pekin duck.

Graham, Brig. Gen. Wallace H., Washington, D. C., ariel toucan.

Graybill, L., Cabin John, Md., 3 Pekin ducks.

Greek Government, through Economic Cooperation Administration and State
Department, Agrimi goat.

Green, Austin R., Greenbelt, Md., snowy owl.

Greeson, BH. L., Arlington, Va., 3 golden-mantled ground squirrels.

Griffin, Mr. and Mrs. Roy D., Silver Spring, Md., rabbit.

Guffy, Pat, Washington, D. C., box turtle.

Hamlet, John N., Pritchardville, S. ©., king vulture,* 2 hairy armadillos.*
SECRETARY’S REPORT ig

DEPOSITORS AND DONORS AND THEIR GIFTS—continued

Handman, J. D., Nyasaland, Africa, hinged-back tortoise, puff adder, giant
wingless crickets, Meiler’s chameleon, blesmols.

Hanson, Chas., Alexandria, Va., chain king snake.

Harris, Mrs. E. C., Falls Church, Va., black-widow spider.

Harris, Frank H. E., Washington, D. C., squirrel monkey.

Harris, L., Jr., Washington, D. C., great horned owl.”

Harris, Lester E., Jr., Takoma Park, Md., 4 timber rattlesnakes.

Harris, Mrs. L. H., Washington, D. C., 2 starlings.

Hathaway, H. F., Silver Spring, Md., 110 hamsiers.

Hechler, Mrs. Carrie, West Reading, Pa., yellow-naped parrot.

Henderson, R. S., Jr., Washington, D. C., 4 chipmunks.

Higgins, Emily, Kensington, Md., Pekin duck.

Hill, C. C., Bethesda, Md., 2 horned lizards.

Hope, A. R., Washington, D. C., rabbit.

Hopkins, P., Washington, D. C., 8 alligators, 2 Cumberland turtles.

Hopwood, Thomas, McLean, Va., 3 horned lizards.

Howe, E. H., Falls Church, Va., raccoon.

Hoyer, Mrs. Edgar, Kensington, Md., 2 raccoons.

Humbert, Roy, Eustis, Fla., 4 giant anolis, 6 anolis (sp.).

Humphries, Roy, Covington, Va., 2 black racers,* 2 milk snakes,* 2 corn snakes,*
6 timber rattlesnakes,* corn snake, 6 water snakes, 3 garter snakes.

lliff, R. G., Dunn Loring, Va., hog-nosed snake.

Infantile Paralysis Foundation, through John N. Hamlet, Javan macaque.

Ingham, Rex, Ruffin, N. C., mangabey,* agouti,* palm civet,* magpie,* green
macaw,* blue-fronted parrot,* 3 zebra finches,* 2 cacomistles.*

Jellison, Dr. W., Federal Security Agency, Hamilton, Mont., rubber boa, western
bull snake.

Jenches, Mr. and Mrs. E. K., Washington, D. C., diamondback turtle.

Jenkins, Jimmie, Arlington, Va., garter snake.

Jenkins, Murdock, Washington, D. C., bull frog.

Jessup, G. L., Washington, D. C., 2 pilot snakes.

Johns Hopkins School of Hygiene and Public Health, Baltimore, Md., through
Dr. A. Howe, 7 chimpanzees.*

Johnson, Mr. and Mrs. C. R., Washington, D. C., horned lizard.

Johnson, J. R., Washington, D. C., bald eagle.

Johnston, Mrs. Morgan, Washington, D. C., mockingbird.

Jolley, Edward M., Rockville, Md., pilot snake, rattlesnake, black snake, pilot
black snake, 2 gray foxes, copperhead snake.

Jones, Mrs. C., Washington, D. C., Pekin duck.

Jones, W. J., Washington, D. C., rabbit.

Kane, Lorraine, Kensington, Md., Pekin duck.

Kidwell, Guss, David Taylor Model Basin, Carderock, Md., copperhead snake.

Kinstler, Wm. A., Baltimore, Md., 2 alligators, 2 snapping turtles.

Kremkau, Omer G., Bethesda, Md., black snake.

Lachey, Harry T., Brookmont, Md., skunk, Pekin duck.

Langford, Steven, Washington, D. C., musk turtle, 4 hamsters.

Law, Charles E., Alexandria, Va., worm snake.

Lease, A. W., Arlington, Va., 2 raccoons.

Leebrick, Frank, Washington, D. C., opossum.

Leigh, J. F., Washington, D. C., rabbit.

Lewis, Lt. Garner L., Medical Corps, U. S. Navy, 7 hamsters.

Liebert, John G., Bethesda, Md., rabbit.
112 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

DEPOSITORS AND DONORS AND THEIR GIFTS—continued

Locke, R. L., Jr., Washington, D. C., horned lizard.

Lomax, E. G., Falls Church, Va., 4 Pekin ducks.

Lumpkin, H. H., Annapolis, Md., killdeer.

Lynch, Phillips L., Falls Church, Va., 2 Pekin ducks.

Marfield, W. T., Arlington, Va., 16 hamsters.

Marshall, Otis, Washington, D. C., 2 rabbits.

McCary, Mrs., Washington, D. C., 2 gray squirrels.

McDonald, James, Washington, D. C., box turtle.

McInnes, J. S., Raleigh, N. C., 4 Canada geese.

McKlan, F. E., Bethesda, Md., copperhead snake.

Middlekauff, A. I., Washington, D. C., 2 gray squirrels.

Miller, Kenneth, Wheaton, Md., brown water snake.

Miller, Ronnie and Kennie, Silver Spring, Md., Ford, Bobbie and Jackie, and
Caserta, Mario and Benito, Wheaton, Md., hog-nosed snake, Blanding’s turtle.

Millingham, Elaine, Arlington, Va., eastern skunk.

Milne, Robbie, and Beeman, Deane, Bethesda, Md., box turtle, snapping turtle.

Monahan, J. P., Falls Church, Va., mourning dove.

Montminy, Clarence, Washington, D. C., great horned owl.

Morris, D. H., Washington, D. C., opossum and 10 babies.

Morrison, Mrs. R., Westmoreland Hills, D. C., Pekin duck.

Mount, William, Indianhead, Md., marbled salamander.

National Capital Parks, through Hvan A. Haynes and Robert Shepherd, Wash-
ington, D. C., black-crowned night heron.

National Park Service, through A. E. Demaray, Director, and Edmund B. Rogers,
Yellowstone National Park, American elk; through Arthur Faweett, Luray,
Va., copperhead snake.

Nebel, John, B., Silver Spring, Md., barred owl.

Neves, Zeuxis Ferreiro, Brazilian Embassy, Washington, D. C.. copperhead
snake. t

Newcomb, Mr. and Mrs. O., Arlington, Va., 2 opossums.

New York Zoological Society, New York, N. Y., Australian tiger snake, Australian
red-bellied black snake, Australian copperhead snake; through Brayton Eddy,
6 fer-de-lance snakes.

Orr, Mrs. O. C., Washington, D. C., Pekin duck.

O’Shea, Chad, and Haster, William, Alexandria, Va., chicken snake.

Page, John C., Washington, D. C., tarantula.

Paricer, A., Washington, D. C., 2 Pekin ducks.

Park Police, D. C., Washington, D. C., Pekin duck.

Paulling, John M., Falls Church, Va., brown capuchin.

Peeles, Mrs. Tyrus, Hyattsville, Md., red fox.

Perkins, F. 8., Compton, Md., black snake.

Peruvian Embassy, Washington, D. C., barred owl.

Philadelphia Zoological Society, 2 rococo toads.

Pindell, Charles, Washington, D. C., 2 hamsters.

Porter, C. B., Washington, D. C., skunk.

Prescott, John W., Washington, D. C., woodcock.

Preston, John H., Mt. Pleasant, Pa., 3 cross foxes.

Privo, Marcel, Alexandria, Va., king snake.

Pullin, William A., Washington, D. C., raccoon.

Raditick, D., Washington, D. C., copperhead snake, 3 green snakes, 2 ring-necked
snakes, water snake, garter snuke.
SECRETARY'S REPORT Lk

DEPOSITORS AND DONORS AND THEIR GIFTS—continued

Rageot, Roger, Washington, D. C., eastern weasel,* flying squirrel,* 2 wood-
peckers.

Randel, Capt. Hugh, Panama, C. Z., yellow atelopus.

Rasser, John, Colmar Manor, Md., green snake.

Restrepo, Dr. Gabriel Ospina, Director, Instituto Nacional de Antropologia Social
de Colombia, Bogoté, Colombia, 2 pygmy marmosets.

Rhodericks, R. M., Washington, D. C., rabbit.

Richardson, Robert, Alexandria, Va., 2 Pekin ducks.

Ringgold, Robert, Seat Pleasant, Md., red fox.

Robert, Mrs. Evie, Washington, D. C., 2 leopard cubs.*

Rohrbaugh, A. B., Chevy Chase, Md., sparrow hawk.

Schnegg, Paul, Barranquilla, Colombia, 2 black-bellied tree ducks, 2 coral snakes,
2 capybaras.

Schultz, Theodore A., Washington, D. C., 2 copperhead snakes.

Seegers, Scott, McLean, Va., blue jay.*

Seward, Miss M. W., Arlington, Va., 2 Pekin ducks.

Shadle, Cebert A., McLean, Va., barred owl.

Shaw, Mrs. R. F., Arlington, Va., Chinese mantis.

Sherier, James, Alexandria, Va., 7 horned lizards.

Sherwood Elementary School (children of), through Mrs. Mary R. Heffner and
Mrs. Millet Genetti, Sandy Springs, Md., 4 cottontail rabbits.

Shoemaker, Lula, Alexandria, Va., screech owl.

Skinner, Carlton, Governor of Guam, 7 coconut crabs.

Smith, Thomas, Middleburg, Va., rhesus monkey.

Smith, Wm., Silver Spring, Md., Pekin duck.

Solman, Mary Louise and Spike, Beltsville, Md., rabbit.

Sparks, Pete, Washington, D. C., banded krait,* 2 Russell’s vipers,* 2 spectacled
cobras.*

Sparks, Mrs. Richard, Alexandria, Va., chipmunk.

Stearn, Larry, Bethesda, Md., Pekin duck.

Stephenson, Kathy, Washington, D. C., Pekin duck.

Stone, Sue and Sally, Arlington, Va., horned lizard.

Stoop, Frances, Washington, D. C., flying squirrel.

Straight, David and Michael, Alexandria, Va., garter snake.

Stripe, Mrs. Carol, Bethesda, Md., gray squirrel.

Suter, Courtney, Washington, D. C., horned lizard.

Sutherland, A. L., Jr., Arlington, Va., DeKay’s snake.

Terrell, Marlynn M., Washington, D. C., Pekin duck.

Thomas, Mrs. J. W., College Park, Md., flying squirrel.

Thorne, Mrs. E. N., Fullerton, Md., white-throated capuchin.

Tingley, F. S., Washington, D. C., white rabbit.

Trans-Lux Theater, Washington, D. C., 2 lion cubs.*

Troolnick, Mrs. Doris, Burke, Va., pilot black snake, garter snake.

Turner, Robert, Charlotte, N. C., great horned owl.

Turner, S. M., Washington, D. C., turtle.

Vann, Nina, Olney, Md., skunk.

Warfield, Miss, Washington, D. C., 2 horned lizards.*

Warren, C. W., Fairfax, Va., raccoon.

Washington, Bufford S., Washington, D. C., 40 golden hamsters.

Webb, J. B., Bethesda, Md., 2 white rabbits.

Weber, R. C., Arlington, Va., red-bellied turtle.
114 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

DEPOSITORS AND DONORS AND THEIR GIFTS—continued

Weeks, Ben T., Booneville, Miss., 2 rat snakes.

Wilkie, D., Arlington, Va., white rabbit.

Williams, Frank, Washington, D. C., South American opossum.
Williams, Robert, Jr., Washington, D. C., 3 guinea pigs.

Wilson, J. A., Washington, D. C., 2 barred owls.

Wolski, Jos. H., Detroit, Mich., Massasauga rattlesnake, 8 fox snakes,
Wright, Mrs. Marion, Washington, D. C., Pekin duck.

Wyatt, Walter, Washington, D. C., canary, 2 eanary-siskin hybrids.
Young, Mrs. Lottie, Silver Spring, Md., 50 guinea pigs.

Zimmerman, Mrs. Dorothy, Arlington, Va., red fox.

BIRTHS AND HATCHINGS

MAMMALS

Scientific name Common name Number

Ammotragus lervia....------------ Wotidad cf zedge. 282 sth see 6
Aeteles geoffroyi vellerosus.---------- Spider monkey_.___-.-_-.------ 1
PR IPNR ers te Britichipark: CattlezcUsA.0_ SL 2u 5
Bubalus bubalis: 20 oo. 2 ee Water buffalo_______ goles eat a.. 1
Camelus bactrianus....-.---------- Bactrianicamelsi.2 ocuinoor ae Ju i
Canis latrans 2. 2 hddes 1h casies CoyotessseS 2hose Izu Joule i
Cercopithecus aethiops sabaeus X C. Hybrid green guenon X vervet 1

a. pygerythrus. guenon.
Corie Nt RPO 2. os che a Japanese deersncuce ust eet 3
Choeropsis liberiensis_...---------- Pygmy hippopotamus__________- 2
Cryptomys lugards_.....-.2skU2e-& Blesmolat os it Sueeeeo eset 4
Cuniculus paca... -.-.-------+-- Paeis-.+ 1) 1 aotentte oUF otitt 3
a Brown fallow deer.........-..-- 3
; Se White fallow deer_........_...- 4
Erythrocebus patas......:-..~.--=- Patas monkeys. cleat] ceeed 1
ERED sen a eo oa ions c..-cetegissolt_ dio! . aoe 5
Giraffa camelopardalis.___-.-.------ Nubian. girafie-<th<¢ =fo0.5o> 6 2
Hydropotes inermis.... - .-=---=-Lest Chinese water deer...........-- 2
Lama glama guanicoe__------------ GUARACOn & . tceciiite Bree Giasdh 4 1
DEQMOSDOCOR Ee =e ao a a ee Alpacas. $24— sha see9. fone). aed 1
Leontocebus rosalia..._ .=.. -<.= tes Golden, or lion-headed, marmoset. 2
Odocoileus virginianus_-__.-------- Virpiniadleers.<u2 2.2% 8 2 Be 4
Ofecyon megalotze..... =~. dcebac Big-eared fox.._---_--  dopiee tt 2
Papio hamadryas...-...<_ 4s<ra22— Hamadryas baboon_-_-___-.----- 1
Thalarctos maritimus X Ursus Hybrid bear----.-.------------ 5
middendor fi.
LOTS TEs a ee eo ae Silver, for << 20th aateat eek f
BIRDS

Anas.platyrhynchos_.. ........==-. Mallard dttck! .esuciigsa? 4 = 22
Anas platyrhynchos X A. p. domestica. Hybrid mallard-Pekin___.___---- 2
Branta. canadensie...-~ =... Rebel Canada, goose_wsnuuiipa well! 6
eerae Gite io os Blackwswancu._o¥_xetie8 TL 2. 2
Gaus gallus... 22s gueed cote Red) junglefowl2c 2. GteBeil sexe 2
Nycticoraz nycticoraz hoacili____.--- Black-crowned night heron------ 16
ea a, ee ea Peafowls-2*: 52. semana. Of 2
Taeniopygia castanotis_._._._..__.----- Hebravtinch 2224.0 eee ee 2
Tigrisoma lineatum.......--.=--..- Tiger bitteniec 25s 3
SECRETARY’S REPORT 115

REPTILES
Scientific name Common name Number
Agkiatrodon mokeson- —. ~.- =. -_- Copperhead snake______________ 10
Agkisinodom Prscwaorus=-- 2 == = Cottonmouth moceasin__________ i:
SECTS TON SELMAIES SE see ee en ee Pr 2ader= ss ee See eA 33
Constrictor constrictor_.._.....------ Boa constrictorg 2! 222 2 tela 22 54

It is particularly gratifying that the original pair of big-eared
foxes (Otocyon megalotis) produced their second litter and raised
them successfully, and that three young were hatched from the eggs
laid by the original pair of tiger bitterns (Zigrisoma lineatum).

STATUS OF THE COLLECTION

Species or - Species or Indi-
Class subspecies | Individuals Class subspecies | viduals
Mammals... 3.2--2*-_ = _ = 233 (24a\elnsects::2os2 2-5 oe 2 103
Birdgtts S00 Sarit 332 15.1600) Mrellnsks 2 2)' 721 9002.22 11
Reptiles! se. 3 hh 215s 119 529 —————$_|—__
Amphibians= 02-8 — = - 21 101 Oval sateen ss soon 730 2, 813
Fish! erin ne 21 185
SUMMARY
Amimalsionjhand. uly, LOnO: 1822 oo ee es 2; 821
AceessiOns during: (hel Veale. 6. eo a Pe a et cette elec 1, 768
Total number of animals in collection during the year___________- 4,589
Removals for various reasons such as death, exchanges, return of animals
OMdeposibielebartt: 5th sai Sa a JE E ed eee web e 1, 776
in.collection/on, June:o0 105 Mees oes oe eo ae 2, 813

MAINTENANCE AND IMPROVEMENTS

In July 1950 a portion of the arched acoustical block ceiling in the
large-mammal house fell. The building was immediately closed to
the public, and the Public Buildings Administration was requested
to make a study of the condition to determine the extent of the neces-
sary repairs and how best to do them. On their advice a deficiency
appropriation of $63,000 was obtained, and the work of repairing the
entire ceiling was undertaken under a contract handled by the Public
Buildings Administration. Most of the work was completed by June
30, 1951.

Progress was made during the year in repairing and improving
buildings, cages, roads, and walks. New bear cages were built in the
line above the reptile house; 2,000 linear feet of 7-foot fence around
four deer and mountain-sheep paddocks were replaced; the steel frame
of the silver-gull cage was repaired and painted, and the cage was
re-covered with new wire fabric; the wolf and fox cages were exten-
sively repaired; a new shelter house was constructed for the wild hog;
116 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

a 6-foot concrete sidewalk, 600 feet in length, was constructed along
the base of lion-house hill between the mechanical shops and the cross
roads; 7,800 square feet of bituminous surfacing was laid between
walks and roads to prevent erosion; 900 linear feet of cement copings
for roads and walks were constructed; electric hot-water heaters were
installed in the small-mammal house, reptile house, monkey house,
lion house, mechanical shops and Director’s office to provide hot water
at locations where it had not previously been available; the wooden
park benches were extensively repaired and painted; 60 table tops
and legs, 12 bench legs with arms, and 24 table tops were cast of
concrete; and a new waterproof electric cable with lamps was installed
in the underground steam conduit from the central heating plant to the
large-mammal house.
NEEDS OF THE ZOO

Replacement of antiquated structures that have long since ceased
to be suitable for the purposes for which they are used is still the
principle need of the Zoo. The more urgently needed buildings are:
(1) A new administration building to replace the 146-year-old historic
landmark which is now in use as an office building for the Zoo but
which is neither suitably located nor well adapted for the purpose;
(2) a new building to house antelopes and other medium-sized hoofed
animals that require a heated building; and (8) a fireproof service
building for receiving shipments of animals, quarantining animals,
caring for animals in ill health or those that cannot be placed on
exhibition.

Respectfully submitted.

W. M. Mann, Director.

Dr. A. Wrermorzr,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 8

Report on the Astrophysical Observatory

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the opera-
tions of the Astrophysical Observatory for the fiscal year ended
June 30, 1951:

The two divisions of the Astrophysical Observatory, the division
of astrophysical research engaged in the study of solar radiation
and the division of radiation and organisms concerned with radiation
effects on organisms, report improvement in instrumentation and in
results obtained,

Dr. R. B. Withrow, chief of the division of radiation and organisms,
with a staff of six research men, has augmented the program outlined
in last year’s report to include a new biochemical investigation of
photomorphogenesis in green plants, under contract with the Atomic
Energy Commission.

Dr. Withrow’s division occupies offices in the tower of the Smith-
sonian building, with laboratories in the west end of the basement.
The laboratories, recently completely reconditioned, form an excel-
lent setting for the specialized work of the division.

The division of astrophysical research and part of the shop fa-
cilities occupy a group of small structures just south of the Smith-
sonian Building. These buildings were this year sheathed in asbestos
shingles, not only to improve their appearance but also to make them
warmer in winter and cooler in summer.

On February 24 and 25, 1951, the Director attended a conference
at the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, Boston, on “The Sun
in the Service of Man.” The stimulating program and discussions
emphasized one fact—that man must learn to make better use of the
energy received daily from the sun if he is to avoid hunger and dis-
comfort in the not too distant future. Sixty years ago this fact was
uppermost in the mind of Samuel P. Langley when he founded the
Astrophysical Observatory.

DIVISION OF ASTROPHYSICAL RESEARCH

Two high-altitude field stations for solar observations—at Monte-
zuma, Chile, and Table Mountain, Calif.—have continued in operation
throughout the year. Reestablishment of a third station was still
uncertain at the close of the fiscal year, inasmuch as the requested

117
118 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

funds had not been provided. Clark Mountain, near the Nevada
border in southern California, a region whose annual precipitation
averages about 3 inches, has been chosen as the best available location
in North America for this proposed station.

W. H. Hoover, chief of the division, conducted special studies at
the Table Mountain station during October and November 1950. He
returned to the station at the close of the fiscal year to continue these
studies.

Dr. W. E. Forsythe, of Cleveland, Ohio, who during the past 214
years has prepared the ninth revised edition of the Smithsonian Physi-
cal Tables, submitted his completed manuscript on June 1, 1951.

Work in Washington.—As in previous years, the monthly solar-
constant records from the two field stations have been checked, com-
puted when necessary, and final corrections applied.

Four reports have been submitted to the Office of the Quartermaster
General summarizing the radiation observations made at Montezuma,
Chile, during the year. These observations, a part of the textile-
exposure work under contract with the Quartermaster Department
and referred to in previous reports, were completed May 10. The
Quartermaster Department has indicated a desire to start a new series
of studies at Montezuma and also at the proposed Clark Mountain
station.

Some years ago the Observatory developed an instrument, called
the melikeron, to measure outgoing radiation from the earth to space.
Several of these instruments have been used with fair success by the
United States Weather Bureau and others, and it has been the hope
to improve the melikeron and make it a more sensitive recording
instrument. Inasmuch as the Meteorological Division, Chemical
Corps, Camp Detrick, Md., is interested in the same general problem,
it was arranged to work cooperatively. At the close of the year a new
instrument was being assembled and undergoing preliminary tests
and calibration at Camp Detrick.

During the year two silver-disk pyrheliometers were built, cali-
brated, and sold at cost as follows:

8. I. No. 83 to the Government of Israel, Jerusalem.

8. I. No. 85 to the Air Force, Cambridge Research Laboratories, Cam-

bridge, Mass.

A third pyrheliometer was lent to the Radiological Defense Labora-
tory, San Francisco, Calif., and three new orders were received. It is
a satisfaction to note the continued demand for Smithsonian pyrheli-
ometers. Since Dr. Abbot designed the silver-disk instrument 40 years
ago, over 100 have been built. Eighty-four have been sold to interested
institutions: 34 are in various parts of Europe, 19 in North America,
10 in South America, 14 in Asia and Australia, and 7 in Africa. In
SECRETARY’S REPORT 119:

consequence the Smithsonian standard scale of radiation has been
made available throughout the whole world.

Dr. Abbot, research associate since his retirement from administra-
tive work, continues his special studies, and Dr. Henryk Arctowski
continues his researches concerning solar and terrestrial atmospheres.

Work in the field—tlast year’s report mentioned the new concrete
observing tunnel on Table Mountain, Calif., about 100 feet west of
the old tunnel, in which the spectrobolometric equipment formerly
used at Tyrone, N. Mex., had been set up. This gave duplicate equip-
ment in the two tunnels, and at the beginning of the year a series of
simultaneous observations was in progress, observing through iden-
tical skies. The series continued for 40 observing days, including 8
long-method days. Detailed comparisons of the observations showed
satisfactory agreement. One unexpected difference persisted through
the observations, namely, the ratio of the galvanometer deflections
for successive wavelengths changed progressively through the spec-

. .o¢2,, old tunnel deflection Kn: =
trum. The ratio = are Gi SteREGts started at about 1.150 in the violet

end and decreased to 0.960 in the red end. These differences in de-
flections are compensated for by the transmission factors, which are
regularly determined for each individual spectrobolometer and the
deflections altered accordingly.

Following this series of observations, the stellite mirrors in the new
tunnel were replaced by aluminized mirrors. As expected, this mate-
rially increased the deflections in the new tunnel—a gain of twofold
in the red end and approximately fivefold in the violet end. A second
series of simultaneous observations, one tunnel with stellite mirrors
and the other with aluminized, is now in progress.

Mr. Hoover took with him to Table Mountain a specially built
double spectroscope with rock-salt prisms, designed to measure the
ozone absorption in the infrared, between 9 and 10 microns wavelength.
This was mounted and tested in the new tunnel.

A new and important project has developed at Table Mountain, re-
sulting from a paper published in 1931 by Dr. Oliver R. Wulf, of the
United States Weather Bureau and the California Institute of
Technology, on the determination of ozone by spectrobolometric meas-
urements (Smithsonian Misc. Coll., vol. 85, No. 9). Dr. Wulf has
long felt that a method could be developed for daily measurement of
the quantity of ozone in the upper atmosphere from the Smithsonian
solar-constant records. He bases his method on the relatively weak
Chappuis absorption bands in the yellow-orange region of the visible
spectrum. Dr. Wulf fortunately was able to spend some days on
Table Mountain, working on the details of his method. On February
1, 1951, the Table Mountain staff started the required daily measure-
ments. Preliminary results look promising, and the method will be

981445—52—9

120 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

strengthened as more data accumulate. It is hoped that a daily de-
termination from our bolographs of the quantity of ozone in the upper
atmosphere may become a regular part of our records at the Table
Mountain station.

DIVISION OF RADIATION AND ORGANISMS
(Report prepared by R. B. WirHRow)

During the past 2 years the division of radiation and organisms has
been setting up specialized equipment and facilities for an investiga-
tion of the plant photochemical reactions involving photomorpho-
genesis, which is a light reaction controlling the growth and develop-
ment of higher plants, and photoperiodism which is another light
reaction controlling the flowering of many higher plants. Wave-
lengths in the red end of the spectrum from about 600 to 700 my are
the most effective in producing these responses.

The first experimentation has involved photomorphogenesis as it
pertains to the effect of red light on leaf expansion and pigment forma-
tion in seedlings of bean and corn. In the dark, a young bean seedling
develops with a sharp bend just below the bud, called a plumular hook,
and the leaves fail to develop beyond a very immature stage. With
very low intensities of red light, leaf expansion occurs quite rapidly,
nodes develop from the bud, and the plant form approaches normal.
Heretofore, with such developmental reactions there has always been
associated other photochemical reactions as chlorophyll synthesis
and photosynthesis.

Since the elucidation of the biochemistry of photomorphogenesis
is greatly complicated by the simultaneous occurrence of other light-
controlled reactions, an attempt has been made to induce photomor-
phogenesis independently of other light processes. Special dyed gel-
atin light filters have been prepared which have a sharp cut-off at
about 730 mp, so that they transmit only wavelengths longer than the
cut-off, but strongly absorb the shorter wavelengths. In bean it has
been found possible to cause almost complete development of leaves
and the first few internodes without any measurable synthesis of
chlorophyll; thus photomorphogenesis has been excited with only the
most minute traces of chlorophyll synthesis, no photosynthesis, and no
phototropic reaction. From this it is evident that the photomorpho-
genic reaction has an action spectrum that goes a little farther into
the infrared than that of the other photochemical reactions.

By using the 436 my line from a mercury arc isolated with a blue
filter, it has been possible to produce bean plants in which the leaf
development occurred to a very small degree, but yet considerable
chlorophyll synthesis took place. The blue-treated plants had
roughly 10,000 times as much chlorophyll as the 730-myp-treated
SECRETARY’S REPORT 21

plants. It is thus concluded that protochlorophyll and chlorophyll
as photoactivating pigments are probably not associated with photo-
morphogenesis and that some other pigment must be present which is
causing this reaction.

Pigment analysis showed that the corn and bean plants treated with
radiation in the range from 730 to about 1,000 mp developed from 50
to 100 percent more protochlorophyll, carotenoids, and, in the case of
bean, anthocyanin pigments per unit of fresh tissue than those kept
in the dark. On a per-plant basis, the increase varied from 200 to
300 percent depending upon temperature and intensity.

Higher plants can grow “normally,” the normal being considered
the growth form of a sunlight-grown plant, when a balanced spectrum
involving the proper proportions of blue and red radiation are pres-
ent. At moderate intensities of blue light, where there is sufficient
photosynthesis, growth is rather poor with most higher plants, and the
plants appear short and stunted. In red light of the same energy,
growth is rapid but the plants are tall and weak-stemmed. Since
the alga Chlorella pyrenoidosa is a standard test object that has been
studied in relation to photosynthesis and can be grown rapidly and
reproductively under precisely controlled conditions, it was consid-
ered desirable to test whether growth of Chlorella is dependent upon
the red-light reaction necessary for the growth of higher plants.
Chlorella cultures were grown under blue radiation from a mercury
lamp isolated at 435.8 mp, and the red cultures were grown in an
incandescent band from 635 to 670 mp. Results thus far indicate that
Ohlorella is not dependent upon the same photomorphogenic red-light
reactions as the higher plants, since growth in the blue-treated cul-
tures is similar to that in the red-treated cultures when equal quantum
energies are used. However, there is evidence that the blue cultures
contain more chlorophyll. Thus growth with Chlorella appears to be
dependent entirely upon the rate of supply of the products of photo-
synthesis. The other photochemical reactions do not appear to be
limiting as in higher plants.

Gas-exchange studies made in a Warburg manometric apparatus
have indicated that in Chlorella there is no detectable increase in
respiration rate with radiation of wavelengths beyond 730 mp and
there is, likewise, no photosynthesis. Thus these radiations that pro-
duce such marked growth reactions in higher plants produce no
measurable reactions in Chlorella.

A second phase of the research has dealt with the effect of growth
regulators on salt uptake and water exchange by plants. The par-
ticular reference plant used was black valentine bean and the growth
regulator was ammonium 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetate acid. The up-
take of salts was measured continuously by a recording electronic
122 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

conductance bridge especially designed for the purpose. Absorption
of various nitrates, chlorides, and sulfates of potassium, calcium, and
magnesium was studied. The results indicate that there is a marked
reduction in salt uptake when the plants are treated with NH,-2,4-D
and that this reduction is concomitant with a reduction in growth and
does not precede it. With all salts except potassium and calcium
nitrates, the reduced uptake does not appear until 24 to 48 hours after
application of the regulator. In the case of potassium and calcium
nitrate the effect begins within the first 24 hours.

It was also found that water absorption was markedly reduced when
either the bud or primary leaf of bean was treated with NH,-2,4-D,
the greater reduction occurring when the leaf was treated. The re-
duction was not related to an effect on a root mechanism since it oc-
curred on excised shoots to the same magnitude as in whole plants. A
rapid weighing technic showed that the loss of water from the plant
treated with NH,-2,4-D was considerably less than for plants not so
treated, indicating that transpiration is greatly reduced by treatment
with 2,4—-D.

During the year a contract was assigned to the division by the
Atomic Energy Commission to study the effect of radiation on the
growth and development of plants. A contract renewal was awarded
by the Biological Department, Chemical Corps, Camp Detrick, Md.,
to continue physiological studies of the effect of growth regulators on
plants.

Respectfully submitted.

L. B. Atpricn, Director.

Dr. A. Wermore,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 9

Report on the National Air Museum

Sim: [have the honor to submit the following report on the activities
of the National Air Museum for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1951:

HIGHLIGHTS

Because of the tense international situation this year the National
Air Museum encountered difficult obstacles in the conduct of its op-
erations. As the program progressed, rumor of the reuse of war
plants became fact, and before the close of the year the Air Museum
was ordered to vacate its storage facility at Park Ridge, Ill., to make
way for aircraft manufacture. Despite such deterrent factors, how-
ever, all normal functions of the bureau were carried on, including
the maintenance of the exhibited collections in Washington, the opera-
tion of the storage facility near Chicago, the survey for aeronautical
museum material, and the conducting of the bureau’s informational
services.

Although new material added to the aeronautical collections was
less in quantity than usual, the quality equaled that received in former
years. Joremost on the list of 99 objects received was the Bell X-1
supersonic airplane, considered by many to be the greatest forward
step in aeronautics since the Wright Brothers’ invention of the Actty
Hawk. The acquisition of this important addition to the aeronautical
collections and notes of other worthwhile items received are further
described under the heading “Accessions and Events.”

ADVISORY BOARD

This year one meeting of the Advisory Board of the National Air
Museum was held, on June 28, 1951, called primarily to consider the
problem of the required removal of the Air Museum’s collections stored
in the former Douglas bomber manufacturing plant, Park Ridge, Ill.
The Board formally reaffirmed its belief in the great historical and
technical value of the collections and directed that all possible care be
taken to effect the preservation of the aircraft and other components
of the collections. In this connection, the wholehearted cooperation
of the Departments of the Navy and Air Force was assured.

123
124 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

Changes in the composition of the Advisory Board were announced
as follows: Lt. Gen. K. B. Wolfe, United States Air Force, on retiring
from active duty was succeeded by Maj. Gen. Donald L. Putt, United
States Air Force. Rear Adm. A. M. Pride, Bureau of Aeronautics,
Department of the Navy, upon assignment away from Washington was
succeeded by Rear Adm. Thomas S. Combs.

STEPHENSON BEQUEST

Public Law 722, by which the National Air Museum was established
August 12, 1946, authorized the Smithsonian Institution to accept as
a gift from George H. Stephenson, of Philadelphia, Pa., an appro-
priate statue of Brig. Gen. William Mitchell. Mr. Stephenson died
on July 17, 1949, leaving a bequest of $15,000 to the Smithsonian for
the proposed memorial. This has been accepted following a feasible
interpretation of the bequest under agreement between the Smith-
sonian and the executors of the Stephenson Estate, with approval of
the Orphan’s Court of Philadelphia County. Toward the close of this
fiscal year, the bequest was received, and plans for the memorial were
initiated.

CURATORIAL ACTIVITIES

The curator, Paul E. Garber, reports on the year’s work as follows:
In an effort to alleviate the crowded condition of the aeronautical
displays, provide space for the bureau’s laboratory and shop, and
permit the exhibition of some of the new and timely accessions, many
exhibits were moved and rearranged this year. In addition, several
important items in the collections were removed from exhibition and
carefully stored.

Since its organization, the workshop facilities of the bureau had
been contained in small rooms in two buildings. Operations were
hampered, and it was decided to convert a portion of the exhibition
area in the Aircraft Building into a single laboratory. Some of the
exhibition space lost by this transaction was regained by the construc-
tion of display cases recessed into the exterior walls of the new shop,
and the condition of the bureau’s reference files and library was im-
proved by extending these units into one of the old shops. Another
major readjustment was the concentration of all aircraft engines in
“engine row” along the north side of the Aircraft Building. The en-
gines have been chronologically arranged and provided with improved
exhibition stands, better labeling, and a protective railing. This con-
centration provided floor space for the display of a portion of a full-
sized fuselage of a current United States Air Force fighter, the Re-
public F-84 thunderjet, a type now in service in Korea.
SECRETARY'S REPORT 125

The installation of the Bell supersonic X-1 was a major project.
Unlike aircraft generally, the X—1 was built as an integral structure
without the usual attachments and fittings that permit assembly or
disassembly. As its size did not permit its movement into the mu-
seum’s exhibition hall through existing entrances, a 30-foot length of
wall was removed from the side of the Aircraft Building to allow the
X-1 to be placed inside the building. In this undertaking the bureau
had the cooperation of United States Air Force personnel and equip-
ment and of the Bell Aircraft Corp.

Two of the full-sized aircraft—the Spad XIII, World War I
fighter, and the F-5-L, World War I Naval patrol bomber—received
extensive repairs. The exhibition of the Wright Brothers’ Wind
Tunnel was improved by adding a copy of the bench grinder, fan, and
belt, which provided the wind current, and the small truck used to
launch the original Kitty Hawk.

ACCESSIONS AND EVENTS

The outstanding accession of the year was the Bell supersonic air-
plane X-1 noted above. This was formally presented to the Air Mu-
seum by Gen. Hoyt S. Vandenberg on behalf of the United States Air
Force and accepted by Dr. Alexander Wetmore, Secretary of the
Smithsonian, on August 26, 1951, at Logan Airport, Boston, Mass.,
during the National Air Fair. Participating in the ceremony were
Lawrence D. Bell, president of Bell Aircraft Corp. which constructed
the airplane, Lovell Lawrence, Jr., president of Reaction Motors, Inc.,
makers of the rocket engine which powered the X—1, and Capt. Charles
E. Yeager, United States Air Force, who first piloted the X—1 through
the sonic barrier on October 14, 1947.

A second accession of note was a duplicate of the first ram-jet engine
to achieve thrust over drag and attain supersonic speed. This type of
jet engine was developed for the United States Navy by the Johns
Hopkins University Applied Physics Laboratory, Silver Spring, Md.
The first successful demonstration occurred on June 13, 1945, when a
speed of about 1,500 miles an hour was attained. The original engine
was lost in the ocean off Island Beach, N. J., where the experiment
took place, but a duplicate composed of original parts, sectioned to
show construction and operation details, was prepared for the Na-
tional Air Museum. Its presentation was made at a ceremony held
in the Aircraft Building on November 29, 1951, in which Rear Adm.
A. G. Nobel, Chief of the Bureau of Ordnance, United States Navy,
Dr. R. E. Gibson, Director of the Laboratory, and his associate, Dr.
Wilbur H. Goss, participated. Carl W. Mitman, Assistant to the Sec-
retary for the National Air Museum, accepted the gift.
126 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

An outstanding aeronautical event celebrated during the year was
the fortieth anniversary of Naval Airplane Carrier Operations.
Such operations were instituted on January 18, 1911, by Eugene Ely,
an associate of Glenn H. Curtiss, pioneer aircraft manufacturer, when
he landed upon and took off from a special deck platform constructed
on the U.S. S. Pennsylvania anchored in San Francisco Harbor. That
successful experiment demonstrated the utility of the aircraft carrier,
which proved to be such a vital factor in World War II. To mark the
anniversary the Museum obtained a scale model of the old U.S. S.
Pennsylvania and constructed on its stern deck a scale reproduction of
the special landing platform and arresting gear used by Ely. Upon
this a model of his airplane was placed illustrating the moment of suc-
cessful landing. The Museum meanwhile had acquired by transfer
from the Department of the Navy an early Curtiss airplane engine
identified as the one that powered Eugene Ely’s airplane on this his-
toric occasion. The engine was procured through Don Coe, Buffalo,
N. Y. These two accessions, together with a series of photographs
illustrating carrier development from 1911 to the present, were com-
bined attractively into a special exhibit which, for the anniversary,
was placed first in the foyer of the Navy Department and later ex-
hibited in the Pentagon. The exhibit is now permanently incorpo-
rated in the Museum’s collections.

Three full-sized aircraft of historical or technical significance were
added to the collections, in addition to the Bell X-1. They are the
trans-Isthmian tractor airplane, designed, constructed, and flown
across Panama in 1913 by the renowned pilot Robert C. Fowler; the
Northrop F-61 of World War II origin believed to be the first type
of American fighter designed specifically for night operations; and
the McDonnell helicopter Whirlaway, the first twin-engined helicopter
and prototype of the heavy lift designs now under development.
These three aircraft are in storage until a museum building is
provided.

Among the aircraft engines added, the original Pratt & Whitney
Wasp engine No. 1, which in 1925 laid the foundation for that com-
pany’s development of radial engines, is outstanding. In addition,
two sectionalized and operating Wright radial engines of World
War II era, received from the Navy, help both student and layman
to understand the workings of this complicated type of internal-
combustion engine. Guided missiles, also received from the Navy,
not only furnish important examples of both German and American
types, but also provide, in their engines, forms of jet propulsion that
supplement the types shown in the Museum’s engine display. A
series of miniature engines as used on model airplanes is of particular
interest to younger flyers. A unique addition to the propeller collec-
SECRETARY'S REPORT 127

tion was received from Stanford University, namely, the experimental
test model of a controllable pitch propeller embodying features de-
veloped in 1918 by Dr. W. F. Durand and his associate, Dr. E. P.
Lesley. Dr. Durand has made many important contributions to
aeronautics.

Other accessions worthy of note are an original oil portrait of
Wilbur Wright done from life by J. A. Herve Mathe, received from
Gen. Frank P. Lahm, U. S. A. (ret.), and his sister, Mrs. Frank
Parker; and the Harmon Trophy established by Clifford B. Harmon
in memory of the Lafayette Escadrille of World War I and awarded
for outstanding accomplishments in aeronautics. The Air Museum
is recognized as a logical repository for renowned trophies.

A full list of the year’s accessions is presented at the close of this
report.

STORAGE

With more than two-thirds of the collection of full-sized aircraft
in storage because of the lack of an adequate building, storage-facility
operations loom large in the bureau’s management. The principal
storage facility during 1951, as in the previous 2 years, was the former
Douglas DC-4 plant at Park Ridge, Ill. The program of operations
there concerns the guarding, preservation, and cataloging of aircraft,
engines, and components, and their preparation for eventual shipment
to Washington. Other programs include evaluation of specimens,
screening and salvaging of material, research on design details of
aeronautical items, and special informational services. All opera-
tions were advanced during the year with the result that of the 82
full-sized aircraft on a retained status, 33 had been boxed for ship-
ment, 11 had been disassembled for boxing, 27 were ready for dis-
assembly, and 11 were assembled and made flyable. Of the 106
engines only 5 remained unboxed. About 5,000 components are now
boxed, but many of the containers require repair.

Technical research by the staff resulted in the selection and segrega-
tion of a number of details of aircraft construction which are being
prepared for display. These include samples of Japanese wing-rib
stitching, a German rocker box hold-down fitting, a German saw-
toothed entering edge from an He-177 wing for severing cables of
barrage balloons, a German cable clamp, German pulley, and other
items believed in each instance to incorporate features that are of
interest to designers and engineers.

Informational service included furnishing data on aircraft details
to pilots and mechanics servicing airplanes of types similar to those
in the collection, guided tours of the collection for groups of United
States Air Force personnel studying design features of foreign air-
craft, loans of significant specimens for official educational and re-
128 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

cruiting displays, and preparation of special exhibitions for Armed
Forces Day.

To record historical and design details of specimens, the staff de-
vised and installed a special card-index system, and by the close of
the year cards had been prepared for all aircraft, engines, parachutes,
and flight clothing. This information will expedite the preparation
of permanent records at the Washington office. The operation of
the storage facility this year was under the immediate supervision of
the associate curator, Walter Male. His staff consisted of two clerks,
three mechanics, two carpenters, and four guards. Space occupied
by the stored collections, office, and shop at Park Ridge remained at
147,600 square feet throughout the year.

Naval aircraft being retained for the Museum are stored at the Naval
Base, Norfolk, Va. Additions during the year included several en-
gines and the McDonnell Whirlaway helicopter. Donors who are as-
sisting the Museum by storage of significant aircraft include Howard
Hughes with his transcontinental record holder of 1937, and Stanley
Hiller with one of his early coaxial helicopters. During the year,
storage at Washington was relieved by shipping to Park Ridge two
aircraft, six engines, and a quantity of components, models, and other
items which had been removed from exhibition to relieve congestion.

COOPERATIVE PROJECTS AND INFORMATIONAL SERVICES

Assistance to other Government departments included: for the State
Department, furnishing historical data on rigid airships; and for the
Department of Justice, tracing development of various types of con-
nectors and handles used in parachute harnesses, and checking cockpit
installations as adapted to blind-flying operations. This research was
in connection with patent priority investigations. The Museum pro-
vided and assisted in posing models of aircraft and items of insignia
and flight clothing for a motion picture being prepared for the Air
Force. The use of identifying marks and insignia on aircraft was
traced for the heraldic office of the Air Force, and one of its historical-
research analysts was assisted in preparation of data on the Wright
Brothers. At the request of Kirtland Air Force Base, a Japanese
fighter airplane, Oscar, was made available from the excess examples
stored at Park Ridge. .

The Department of the Navy consulted the Museum to determine
details of one of its early Curtiss aircraft—the Triad of 1911. This
information was supplied from photographs and texts in the Faurote
collection of Curtiss data acquired several years ago. The Naval
Bureau of Ordnance Laboratory was lent a scale model of the Curtiss
SB2C for use in preparing a larger model, and the Bureau of Navi-
gation was assisted in identifying an early bubble sextant adapted
SECRETARY’S REPORT 129

for aerial navigation. The Navy’s research workers investigating
rocket propulsion were given information regarding some of the basic
work performed by Robert Goddard by reference to the collection of
Goddard rockets and apparatus in the Museum.

The spectacular employment of helicopters in the Korean war was
the subject of a meeting called by the Public Relations Office of the
Navy’s Bureau of Aeronautics at which the curator furnished data
on types and assisted in planning a display and flight program held
later in the year in Washington under the direction of the Aviation
Industries Association. The National Advisory Committee for Aero-
nautics received assistance in editing articles on the scientific aspects
of the Wright Brothers’ accomplishments. One of the flight projects
being conducted by that Committee required the use of an F-61 North-
rop Black Widow, a night fighter developed during World War II.
Use of the Museum’s example was requested; it was flight-conditioned
and lent to the N. A. C. A. for this important purpose.

Both the Air Force and the Navy were aided in the preparation of
educational exhibits for Armed Forces Day displays involving use
of Museum material. The Naval Historical Foundation was assisted
in the preparation of a Naval aviation historical exhibit at the Trux-
tun-Decatur Naval Museum in Washington. Two airlines—United
and Capital—celebrated anniversaries this year and requested assist-
ance from the Museum in planning their programs and displays. Pratt
& Whitney Aircraft required basic information on cooling of aircraft
engines and were gratified to find helpful examples in Museum ma-
terial; this company was also assisted in making available to the
Museum of Science in Boston an early example of their Wasp engine.
The compilers of the Aircraft Year Book again called upon the Mu-
seum while preparing their review of the year’s accomplishments,
and many authors, artists, and modelmakers were helped in various
projects.

The National Aeronautic Association again appointed the curator
a member of their committee that selected the annual recipient of the
Brewer Trophy, awarded for advancing the interests of air youth
education; the recipient was Lt. Comdr. John Burton. The Institute
of Aeronautical Sciences was lent one of the rockets from the Robert
Goddard collection, with approval of the Daniel and Florence Guggen-
heim Foundation, which prepared the original exhibition.

During the year the curator by request lectured on the history of
aeronautics before several church, school, Boy Scout, and business
organizations; and he and other members of the staff conducted a
number of special tours of the collection for special groups including
four large units of Air Force and Naval officers studying aeronautical
history, structural characteristics, and aircraft recognition features.
130 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

Each year the Air Museum receives, in addition to its accessions,
very helpful assistance from many sources. Particular acknowledg-
ment this year is accorded to the United States Air Force for trans-
porting the X-1 supersonic airplane from Boston to Washington; to
the Bell Aircraft Corp. for preparing this plane for exhibition; and
to the National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics for furnishing
data on its flights. The United States Air Force also supplied a crew
to assist the Museum’s exhibits workers in dismantling the DeHav-
illand-4 to make room for the X-1. The United States Air Force
and Republic Aviation cooperated in preparing for exhibition the
cockpit and nose portion of the F-84 thunderjet previously men-
tioned. The Navy furnished a crew to move the F9C-2 Akron fighter
airplane and to move, repair, and paint the hull of the transatlantic
NC-+4. William B. Stout, Advisory Board member, constructed a
replica of his Sky Car fuselage and fitted it to the existing units of
this famous plane previously in the Museum’s custody, thus restoring
it to its original appearance.

The reference files, which constitute a valuable source of informa-
tion used in preparation of labels for specimens, for research by the
staff, and in answering inquiries from visitors and correspondents,
were greatly improved during the year by important donations. The
Consolidated Vultee Aircraft Corp. gave a collection of 44 framed
photographs of aircraft produced by this company and its associates ;
Mr. and Mrs. W. S. Clime, of Old Lyme, Conn., presented photo-
graphs, articles, and clippings relative to the flights at Fort Myer, Va.,
in 1908-09 by the Wright Brothers; Joseph M. Gwinn, Jr., of Buffalo,
N. Y., forwarded data on the Gwinn Aircar of 1937; Miss Elsa
Needham, of Washington, D. C., gave photographs of lighter-than-air
eraft; R. M. Kinderman, of Hazlet, N. J., 1,744 items, mainly aero-
nautical journals dating from 1911 to 1940 including several complete
volumes; Benjamin Kohn, of Washington, D. C., photographs of
the first World Flight, 1924, and the Good Will Flight to Latin
America in 1926-27; Alois Schlachter, of Fort Lauderdale, Fla.,
photographs of prominent aeronautical personages, and material
associated with Zeppelin airship operations; Mrs. Clara Studer, of
Elmhurst, N. Y., author of “Sky Storming Yankee,” the source
material used in writing this biography of Glenn Hammond Curtiss;
and from other sources, photographs, scrapbooks, trade journals,
books, and reference items to expand this very useful fund of aero-
nautical knowledge.
SECRETARY’S REPORT bl
SURVEY

The Air Museum’s survey for potential aeronautical material was
pursued as in former years and included the following trips:

North Merritt, L. I., August 21, by Stephen L. Beers, associate curator, to check
authenticity of a Thomas Morse S4C advanced trainer of World War I.

Dayton, Ohio, September 4-9, by Robert C. Strobell, associate curator, to examine
Air Force material at Wright Patterson Vield.

St. Louis, Mo., October 28, by Paul E. Garber, curator, to examine airship parts
offered by Mrs. Hazel Jelinek.

Annapolis, Md., December 1, by Paul E. Garber, curator, to inspect aircraft
engines and training aids available at the Naval Academy.

Quantico, Va., November 9, by Paul E. Garber, curator, to inspect jet engines
available at the Marine Corps Air Base.

Hazlet, N. J., January 27-28, by Robert C. Strobell, associate curator, to inspect
and procure reference material.

Pine Orchard, Conn., May 14-16, by Paul E. Garber, curator, to examine papers
and drawings on Gallaudet aircraft.

Wilkes-Barre-Scranton Airport, Pa., June 1, by Robert C. Strobell, associate
curator, to check condition of a Curtiss P-40 Warhawk.

Dayton, Ohio, June 5-8, by Robert C. Strobell, associate curator, to inspect air-
craft equipment at Wright Patterson Field.

LIST OF ACCESSIONS

During the year, 99 specimens were recorded from 30 sources.
Those received from other Government departments were acquired
by transfer; all others, except those identified as loans in the following
list, were gifts:

AGRICULTURE, DEPARTMENT OF, Washington D. C.: Two 2-bladed wooden airplane
propellers of the World War I era, embodying experimental use of adhesives
developed by the Forest Products Laboratory (N. A. M. 701).

Arr Forcrk, DEPARTMENT OF, Washington, D. C.: The Bell X—1 rocket-propelled
airplane, first man-carrying aircraft to achieve supersonic flight, Capt. Charles
Yeager, pilot, October 14, 1947 (N. A. M. 697); a Northrop F-61-C Black
Widow airplane developed during World War II as a night fighter (N. A. M.
703) ; (through Col. Frank Kurtz) a large framed map of the Pacific area and
the Americas, showing the flights of the Boeing B-17-D bomber Swoose
(N. A. M. 716).

Air Force, 65TH FIGHTER SQUADRON, 57TH FicHTER Group, Shaw Air Force Base,
Sumter, S. C.: (Through Maj. James C. Hare, U. S. A. F.) An insignia panel
“bar front” inscribed with names of airmen and their victories attained with
this unit in World War II (N. A. M. 696).

AMERICAN LEGION AUXILIARY, New York City: (Through Mrs. Willis Reed, Mrs.
Harold Taylor, and Miss Felicity Buranelli). The original bronze plaque of
Amelia Earhart, sculptured for the Medal-of-the-Month Club by Brenda Put-
nam (N. A. M. 714).

Cure, Mr. AND Mrs. WINFIELD Scort, Old Lyme, Conn.: An American flag flown
from Wright Brothers’ 1908 military plane (N. A. M. 699).
132 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

Coppr1na, Lr. G. B., U. S. A. F., c/o 684th AC&W Sqdn., Paine Field, Everett, Wash. :
A collection of model aircraft engines and propellers (N. A. M. 702, loan).

Detta UnirormMs, New York City: (Through Howard Zeimer) A pilot’s cap of the
type worn by personnel of commercial airlines, U. S., 1950 (N. A. M. 706).

Ev.iis, FRANK H., Hollyburn P. O., West Vancouver, British Columbia: Three
models of pioneer airplanes built and flown in Canada, 1910-14 (N. A. M. 711).

Fow Ler, Ropert C., San Jose, Calif.: Fowler airplane, 19138, built and flown by
donor on first flight across Isthmus of Panama (N. A. M. 694).

GRUMMAN AIRCRAFT ENGINEERING Corp., Bethpage, L. I., N. Y.: Three models
(1:16) of Grumman airplanes participating in the Korean war (N. A. M. 709}.

HARMON INTERNATIONAL TropHies, New York, N. Y.: (Through Clifford B. Har-
mon Trust) An annual award trophy for the most outstanding contributions
to the science of flying during the preceding year (N. A. M. 700).

JELINEK, Mrs. HazeL SHAw, St. Louis, Mo.: Airship parts from a dirigible of
about 1907 (N. A. M. 719).

JoHNs Hopkins UNIvEersITy APPLIED PHysics LAsoraTory, Silver Spring, Md.:
A duplicate example of world’s first successful supersonic ram-jet engine and
its rocket booster (N. A. M. 698).

LAauM, Bria. GEN. FRANK P., U. S. A. (RetT.), AND Mrs. FRANK PARKER, LaJolla,
Calif.: A life-size oil portrait of Wilbur Wright painted during life in 1908 by
J. A. Herve Mathe (N. A. M. 691, loan).

LocKHEED AIRCRAFT Corp., Burbank, Calif.: (Through Robert E. Gross, presi-
dent) A model of Lockheed F-80 Shooting Star of type flown by Lt. Russell E.
Brown, U.S. A. F., in winning first jet airplane combat, Korea, 1950 (N. A. M.
715).

McDoNNELL AIRCRAFT CorP., St. Louis, Mo.: The twin-engined helicopter XHJD
Whirlaway (N. A. M. 718).

MEREDITH, CAPT. SPENCER B., Arlington, Va.: An original German ribbon para-
chute test model and a German engine injector, World War II (N. A. M. 717).

Navy, DEPARTMENT OF, BUREAU OF AERONAUTICS, Washington, D. C.: Two early
Curtiss aircraft engines; one used by Eugene Ely in his landing on and take
off from the U. S. 8. Pennsylvania, 1911; the other from a Curtiss flying boat of
1912 (N. A. M. 710) ; the original Pratt & Whitney Wasp engine No. 1 developed
in 1925 (N. A. M. 720) ; four guided missiles: 2 U. S. Naval—a KAN-2 Little Joe
and KUZN-1 Gorgon—and 2 German of World War IJ—an HS-298 and an
X—4, and 12 component parts for guided missiles (N. A. M. 712).

Navy, DEPARTMENT oF, Unitepn States NAvAL AcapEMy, Annapolis, Md.: Six
Naval training devices comprising cutaway examples of Wright aeronautical
engines, types R2600 and R33d0, and panels showing details of auxiliary equip-
ment (N. A. M. 704).

REPUBLIC AVIATION CorP., Farmingdale, L. I., N. Y.: Model (1:58) of a U. S.
Air Force Republic F—84 thunderjet single-seat jet fighter, 1947 (N. A. M. 707).

ROBINSON, Mrs. PEARLE T., Washington, D. C.: A sterling-silver trophy awarded
by the Washington Air Derby Association for outstanding contributions to
the cause of private flying in the District of Columbia area (N. A. M. 693, loan).

Sranrorp UNIversItTy, Stanford, Calif.: (Through Lr. W. F. Durand and Dr.
Elliott G. Reid) An early test model of an adjustable pitch propeller incor-
porating the features developed by Profs. W. F. Durand and E. P. Lesley at
Stanford University in 1918 (N. A. M. 705).

SHort, V. Roxor, Westbrook, Conn.: Model (1:24) Sikorsky XR-4 helicopter,
1942, and a pattern model (1:72) of a Spitfire, British World War II fighter
(N. A. M. 708).
SECRETARY’S REPORT 133

Unitep States NationNaL MuseuM, Washington, D. C.: Scale exhibition model
of the U.S.S. Pennsylvania, which was used in the first airplane carrier opera-
tion, San Francisco Bay, January 18, 1911 (modified in National Air Museum
shop to show stern landing platform and scale model of Ely’s Curtiss airplane)
(N. A. M. 718).

Wate, H. Roy, Washington, D. C.: An aviation poster printed in 1912, advertis-
ing flights by the donor at Florence, 8S. C., in a Burgess-Wright aeroplane
(N. A. M. 695).

WRIGLEY, PuHivip K., Chicago, Ill.: A model (1:16) of the Verville flying boat,
1915, used for training and reconnaissance service at Great Lakes Naval Train-
ing Station during World War I (N. A. M. 692).

Respectfully submitted.
Cart W. Mirman,
Assistant to the Secretary for the National Air Musewn.

Dr. A. Wermorr,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 10

Report on the Canal Zone Biological Area

Sir: It gives me pleasure to present herewith the annual report on
the Canal Zone Biological Area for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1951.

IMPROVEMENTS

A contract was awarded for the construction of a new 2-story build-
ing to provide much-needed space for laboratory expansion. ‘Two of
the eight rooms on the ground floor will be used for photographic
work; another will be a general dry room provided with heaters; and
the others will be ‘for laboratory work, toilets, and showers. The eight
upper-floor rooms will house the library, herbarium, card-index rec-
ords, laboratory glassware, microscopes, incubators, chemicals, and
other scientific apparatus. With each room a unit by itself, it will be
easier to control humidity and temperature, and most of the rooms
will have dehumidifiers. The roof, an inverted-V type, will be of alu-
minum and will have gutters to collect the rain water and direct its
flow into a large concrete water-storage tank, to be constructed. This
reservoir is urgently needed because the other large one, of creosoted
timber, is badly deteriorated.

During the year the new addition to the building for deterioration
and corrosion tests, started last year, was completed, and the interior
was remodeled. The building for the resident manager and the fore-
man’s former building (now a dormitory) were thoroughly bat-
proofed.

All the trails were inspected to determine their general condition
and to note any markers that might be missing. Four students from
Cristé6bal—Larry Cox, Andrew Bleakley, Jr., John Delaney, and Don
Smith, Jr.—were recommended for this task by Scout Master Richard
D. Cox, and to them was entrusted this important job, which they did
extremely well. In addition, they kept a record of the animals they
saw. A number of markers and posts will have to be replaced, but
on the whole the trails are in excellent condition.

CONDITION OF BUILDINGS

The main laboratory building remains in satisfactory condition, but
eventually should be converted into one with less fire hazard. The
134
SECRETARY’S REPORT 135

Haskins library building is in excellent condition, but should have
better humidity controls.

The resident manager’s house is in excellent condition, and the Bar-
bour cottage, the Z-M—A house below the main building, and the house
formerly occupied by the foreman are all in satisfactory condition for
the present. ‘They should be provided with dry closets, but our pres-
ent supply of electric current is not sufficient for this.

The kitchen and storeroom, though somewhat small for present
needs, are in good shape but still remain a fire hazard. It is proposed
to rebuild this unit of concrete blocks. The two buildings for the cook
and laborers are serviceable.

All the generators are in bad shape and cannot be operated on a
24-hour basis. This is a serious handicap to our food refrigeration.

The floating equipment is in good condition.

MOST URGENT NEED

The generation of electric current on the island is not only expensive,
but it is impossible to insure an adequate and constant supply. To
the high cost of the necessary daily attention to the generators, the
constant hauling of fuel, and periodic overhaul and repairs must be
added the loss incurred by spoilage of food, damage to books, and
deterioration of scientific equipment due to a drop in the voltage or
complete failure of the supply of current. Also, because of the
deterioration and corrosion caused by the high humidity in the Trop-
ics, the life of a generator on the island is, at best, only 8 or 9 years.
The present installation is urgently in need of new units; but new gen-
erators will not solve the problem, as the high operating cost will
continue, and in 8 years new units will again be required.

A very careful study of the problem has been made, in consultation
with electrical engineers of the Panama Canal and the armed forces.
The logical solution would be to tap the transmission line of the
Panama Canal, install transformers at Frijoles, lay an underwater
cable to the island, and there install transformers to step down the
voltage to 115-230. This would insure the island an adequate and
dependable supply of electricity at a cost of 2 cents for the first 100
kilowatts and 114 cents for each additional 100 kilowatts. At this
very substantial reduction in the cost of current, the system would
pay for itself in 10 or 12 years.

SCIENTISTS AND THEIR STUDIES

During the year 383 scientists came to the island. High cost of
transportation to the Canal Zone still deters many from coming to the
Area.

9814455210
136 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

Dr. A. M. Chickering, chairman of the division of science and
mathematics at Albion College, Michigan, continued his research on
spiders, collecting a large series for further study. This is his fifth
visit to the island for this purpose. In Turtox News for May 1951
Dr. Chickering published an interesting account of his explorations
in the Canal Zone and Panama, particularly on Barro Colorado
Island. His estimate of 1,200 species of spiders on the island is
indicative of the variety of species in other groups that may be
expected to exist. During the past 12 years he has published 15
papers on the spiders of this general area, one on the Salticidae
covering 474 pages.

Dr. Eugene Eisenmann, of New York City, returned again to
resume his studies of the birds of the island. He prepared an an-
notated list of the birds definitely known to inhabit the island, cov-
ering 306 species, which is to be published by the Smithsonian Insti-
tution. In this he includes reference to the many other scientists
who have studied the bird life of the island. This will be the first
published list of birds of the Area to bring together all available
records. The obvious gaps should stimulate interest and further
study.

Dr. Frank A. Hartman, research professor of physiology, Ohio
State University, a recognized authority on the adrenals of verte-
brates, returned for a more extended stay. With the aid of his assist-
ants, Harry Beckman, a graduate-school assistant, and Ratibor and
Armageddon Hartmann from Chiriqui, he collected and preserved
what is probably the most extensive and comprehensive series of adre-
nals ever brought together. Half of the total of 1,447, from birds,
mammals, reptiles, and amphibians, are from the Canal Zone, and the
rest from the Volcan area of Chiriqui Province. About 200 skins, as
well as whole animals in formaldehyde, were prepared, the former
for identification and the latter for future anatomical studies. Care-
ful drawings were made of the adrenals and also of the thyroids of
birds. The preserved adrenals and thyroids will be used for extensive
histological and cytological studies. The bird skins will be placed
in the U. S. National Museum.

Dr. Bernard Lowy, of the botany department of the State Uni-
versity of Iowa, spent several months on the island studying princi-
pally the fungi, making large collections and many observations and
taking many notes and photographs (more and more essential in
mycology). Of Myxomycetes and Phycomycetes he collected more
than 70 species and made a thorough study of his specialty, the
Auricularias. He also collected much material from the Ascomycetes,
the Basidiomycetes, and the Fungi Imperfecti, as well as lichens,
mosses, and liverworts—the last two groups being exceptionally pro-
lific. Of the Meliolales more than a hundred species have been de-
SECRETARY’S REPORT 137

scribed from the island. Dr. Lowy was most fortunate in obtaining
excellent specimens of Cordiceps. He was not limited by his special
interest in the fungi, but collected also many of the higher plants, and
obtained rich material and notes particularly on the unique saprophyte
Ophiomeris panamensis and the very rare achloriferous Apodanthes
flacourtiae of the family Rafilesiaceae, known only from the island,
growing on Xylosoma.

Dr. Nicholas E. Collias, of the zoology department of the University
of Wisconsin, spent several months studying the population density
and social organization of the island’s howler-monkey clans, for
comparison with the studies made 18 years ago by Dr. Carpenter.
He had with him as collaborator Charles Southwick, graduate student
of the University of Wisconsin, Department of Wild Life Manage-
ment. The study showed significant changes in the number of indi-
viduals, location and size of the clans, reduced sex ratio, and proportion
of young in each clan. Detailed studies of the daily locations and
movements of the Lutz clan were made over an extended period,
preliminary to the census. The task was much greater than it would
seem at first, and suggests the desirability of asking scientists who are
on the island, with time to do so, to make similar observations of this
particular clan. These data should, over a period of years, yield
information that may explain why there are such significant changes.

During his stay Dr. Collias also definitely identified 123 species of
birds, including several new to the island list. Charles Southwick,
who assisted Dr. Collias, made significant observations on many of
the other mammals. In this work the two covered the entire island.

Dr. Lorus J. Milne, professor of zoology, and Dr. Margery Milne,
assistant professor of zoology, of the University of New Hampshire,
came to the island to study the light-sensitive structures of animals,
particularly the invertebrates. While on the island and in its vicinity,
they exposed more than 3,000 feet of 16-mm. Kodachrome movies, and
a large number of 35-mm. color stills and 4-x-5 black and whites,
which comprised a well-documented account of the plants and animals
of this part of the American humid Tropics. They also had the oppor-
tunity to study in great detail the rare Peripatus.

Dr. Hazel R. Ellis, head of the biology department of Keuka Col-
lege, Keuka Park, N. Y., spent considerable time on the island study-
ing the bird life, particularly nesting habits and songs. Although she
noted 76 species, her interest was not in the number of different kinds
of birds, but rather in observing how they live and behave. In detail
she studied the fruit crow (Querula purpurata) , of whose habits little
is known. She also made lengthy notes on the nests of the tinamou,
Hicks’s seedeater, the double-toothed kite, the boat-tailed flycatcher,
the tityra, the spotted antbird, and the Nicaraguan hermit humming-
bird. Dr. Ellis also made observations on most of the more common
138 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

mammals and on the plants, particularly those that are used by birds.

Robert M. Laughlin, student at Princeton University, came for an
extended stay and made many interesting observations. He dis-
covered the nest of the double-toothed kite not previously noted. Also,
he added the second-known record of the red-thighed dacnis. During
his stay he identified 96 species of birds. He also made observations
on eight of the mammals and took back with him about 500 moths and
other insects for further study.

Dr. Serge Korff, professor of physics, New York University, and
Mrs. Korff, revisited the island, on their return from the Fifth South
American Congress of Chemistry, to continue their observations on
plants and animals.

Robert Lewis Cumming, student at the University of Florida, spent
considerable time on the island during which he made a very thorough
study of the dragonflies and damselflies, increasing the number of
species previously recorded to 38, including a number new to science.
He made careful notes on the ecology of the Odonata. In addition
he added valuable data on the mammals and birds.

Dr. Car] Koford, of the Museum of Vertebrate Zoology, University
of California, and Mrs. Koford spent a week on the island en route
to Perti, where they will spend about a year in research work. Dr.
Koford was interested mainly in the vultures, and Mrs. Koford spe-
cialized on the bats.

Dr. John H. Davis, professor of botany, University of Florida,
returning from New Zealand, visited the island to acquaint himself
with the flora of the humid American Tropics, particularly its ecologi-
cal aspects. He was so impressed with the plant life, and with the
facilities the island offers for study, that he plans to make it possible
for students of his university to study there. While at Barro Colo-
rado, he made a good collection of plants.

Ross Robbins, botanist at the Auckland University, on transfer to a
similar post in the University College of the West Indies, in Jamaica,
accompanied Dr. Davis, to observe the tropical flora and, in particular,
to make a good collection of mosses, which are his special field. Both
he and Dr. Davis were greatly impressed with the opportunities for
research offered by the island.

Dr. Francis J. Ryan, associate professor of zoology, Columbia Uni-
versity, and Mrs. Ryan, spent a short time on the island while en route
to the Fifth International Congress on Microbiology at Rio de Janeiro.
Their objective was to get acquainted with the plant and animal life
of the humid Tropics preparatory to a return later for more extended
research.

Ledlie I. Laughlin, associate director of admissions to Princeton
University, came, with his son Robert, to observe the birds and mam-
mals of the Tropics in their natural environment.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 139

Dr. R. T. Scholes, of the medical staff of Gorgas Hospital, and
Mrs. Scholes, spent considerable time on the island studying the bird
life and added many valuable records which will be incorporated in
Dr. Eisenmann’s list of the birds. They took a splended series of
Kodachrome photographs, part of them with a long-range telephoto
lens.

M. Francois Edmond-Blanc and Mme. M. C. Brot, from France,
visited the island to study at close range the birds peculiar to the
American humid Tropics.

Dr. C. C. Soper, director of the Tropical Research Laboratory of
Eastman Kodak Co., continued and expanded this firm’s exposure
tests, assisted by Paul Hermle, physicist, and Ismael Olivares, micro-
biologist. The results are most gratifying and emphasize the need
of such tests to study the rate of deterioration and corrosion. After
10 years, the importance of this work is more and more evident, and
Barro Colorado Island is particularly well suited for these studies
and for the evaluation of biocides.

Dr. Walter F. Clark, of the Research Laboratories of Eastman
Kodak Co. at Rochester, and an authority on infrared photography,
revisited the island for his annual inspection and conferences con-
nected with the tests under way. He also did considerable experi-
mental color photography, particularly under difficult conditions.

Dr. Alexander Wetmore, Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution,
revisited the island and held conferences with the resident manager
on plans for the future of the Area, proposed improvements, and
details of the new building, and solution of the problem of an adequate
supply of electricity. As in the past, W. M. Perrygo, of the U.S.
National Museum, accompanied him.

John E. Graf, Assistant Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution,
likewise revisited the island and held conferences with the resident
manager, particularly regarding the plans for the new building and
the matter of electricity. He held conferences with electrical engi-
neers of the Panama Canal, with Dr. Soper of the Tropical Research
Laboratory of Eastman Kodak Co., and others, and made a thorough
inspection of the island installations and facilities, discussed opera-
tions, and worked on plans for further improvements and expansion.

Thomas F. Clark, administrative accountant of the Smithsonian
Institution, made a special trip to the island to establish the required
procedure to be followed in advertising for bids for the new building,
the inclusion of additional provisos in the specifications, the opening
of the bids, the awarding of the contract, the various bonds required,
and other details.

The resident manager continued his special research problems,
particularly the long-term termite-resistance tests, and completed his
forty-third report. He also continued the fruit-fly studies, particu-
140 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

larly in regard to population, fluctuations, and host-fruit relations.
The new building just erected embodies the very latest improvements
in termite protection, bat-proofing, and (with a more dependable and
adequate supply of electricity) humidity-temperature control for the
protection of the library, herbarium, microscopes, balances, and other
delicate laboratory apparatus. In addition he made a detailed study
of the problem of electricity sources, evaluating the pros and cons of
generators on the island, both Diesel and others, and the use of current
from the Panama Canal line—the logical and economical solution,
as set forth earlier in this report. The Bureau of Entomology and
Plant Quarantine tests with soil poisons were continued. The large
Berlese funnel was kept in operation and yielded an abundance of rare
insects, mites, and other forms difficult to find in any other way.

The following quotation from a letter from the late Dr. Thomas
Barbour to President Hopkins of Dartmouth College, June 17, 1931,
aptly defines the general purpose of the Canal Zone Biological Area:

“T don’t think I have ever received a letter that warmed the cockles
of my heart more immediately than did your letter of June 15th
* * *, No man ever goes to Barro Colorado Island without being
a more inspiring teacher on his return. This remark has been made
to me by men connected with over a dozen institutions. I emphasize
this feature because so much has been said of the opportunities for
research that I sometimes feel that the opportunity for just the plain
broadening of man’s mental horizon has not always been sufficiently
emphasized.”

VISITORS

There were fewer visitors this year than the year before. Among
numerous others were the following: The Honorable John M. Vorys,
Member of Congress from Ohio and a Regent of the Smithsonian
Institution, with his family; Col. Standley Carpenter, in charge of
the army malaria work on the Isthmus; Marvin Keenan, in charge
of the army’s sanitation; The Honorable Monett Davis, Ambassador
to Panama, with his family; several Boy Scout and Girl Scout troops
with their leaders, and also a large group of these leaders; Irving
Johnson and members of the Yankee, students from LaSalle College
and Miramar College of Panama, with their professors; Frank E.
Masland, Jr., and family; members of the Balboa Camera Club; Dr.
John B. Chadwick of Gorgas Hospital; several groups of high-school
students from Panama and their teachers; Dr. J. Russell Smith, of
Colombia University ; Dr. Norman Elton, director of the Gorgas Board
of Health Laboratory and members of his staff; a large group from
the Cristébal High School; William E. Lundy of Balboa, Don Biery
SECRETARY'S REPORT 141

and other members of the Institute of Inter-American Affairs, and
members of the staff of the United States Embassy; Ambassador
Mariani of Italy with his family; Dr. David Potter, of Clark Uni-
versity; members of the student class of the Balboa Junior College
under the leadership of Prof. George O. Lee; and William Burgoyne.

The outstanding scientific event of the year was the week-long Con-
ference on Corrosion and Deterioration, in which the island partici-
pated, and which was attended by a host of delegates from the United
States. More than 40 of the delegates visited the island as part of
the program.

RAINFALL

In 1950, during the dry season, rains of 0.01 inch or more fell on
30 days (84 hours), and during the wet season (8 months) on 207 days
(947 hours) ; a total for the year of 237 days (1,031 hours). Rainfall
was 7.44 inches above the 26-year station average. November and
December were the rainiest months (54 days, 352 hours), 41.64 inches,
36.3 percent of the year’s total. The dry season, while below average,
was considerably wetter than that of 1949.

TABLE 1—Annual rainfall, Barro Colorado Island, C. Z.

Year Total inches Station average
1925: Mae Be NOSIS. 0 & GL Sess
O26 sete feu 118. 22 1138. 56
2 PAT | oe ees 116. 36 114. 68
NO 28 ee ee 101. 52 111. 35
1 ho) 9 eres 87. 84 106. 56
NOS0S = s-saee a 76. 57 101. 51
HOSS et 123. 30 104. 69
LO82con S-e25 113. 52 105. 76
1933" so See oe 101. 73 105. 32
W345 2 122. 42 107. 04
NOS See ean 1438. 42 110. 35
L9SG22 28 522525 93. 88 108. 98
19372628 22 124. 13 110. 12
1938- -4e--d 117. 09 110. 62
NURS Ses eee 115. 47 110. 94
Ch ee ae 86. 51 109. 43
NO Aree eee 91. 82 108. 41
19423 eee ee 111. 10 108. 55
NO4AZwue tien s o 120. 29 109. 20
1944052 see 111. 96 109. 30
OA baa sess 120. 42 109. 84
1O4AGEessesos25 87. 38 108. 81
OO aap gegen 77. 92 107. 49
OAS Eee aaa 83. 16 106. 43
1940 aotetees= 114. 86 106. 76
142 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

TABLE 2.—Comparison of 1949 and 1950 rainfall, Barro Colorado Island, C. Z.

(inches)
Total Accumu-
Month Station Years of | Excess or lated

average record deficiency | excess or

1949 1950 deficiency
JANGATV Rs oe 2 soe oe Shae 0. 70 0. 20 173 25 —1.53 —1.53
WOBTUSEY at noon eee ease .07 1.87 1, 20 25 +. 67 —. 86
Marebe: 5 25.:' sepecct eat 11 . 48 1. 28 25 —.80 —1.66
[Nol Rae eee ae eee 90 2.7 2. 73 26.452 2c ae —1.66
WEA Y sone ano a 2e- can anassee 11.97 7.86 10. 78 26 —2. 92 —4, 58
NUNC nea e cee 15. 57 14. 66 11. 41 26 +3. 25 —1.33
PUG aoe ese tee ee ee eas 13.38 12.37 11.71 26 +. 66 —.67
Avipnste ss 2 ok eee 9.99 11.48 12.31 26 —.83 —1. 50
September s.29. 25-6225 n aes 7.11 7. 20 10. 03 26 —2. 83 —4,33
Octo bers es =o ee 14.45 14.02 13.16 26 -++0. 86 —3. 47
INOV6HIDOR: 3222. 2222 sas-e ens 32. 76 24.19 19, 58 26 +4. 61 +1.14
Wecemberss.£22)_f22 22 455s it 7.85 17.45 11.15 26 +6. 30 +7. 44
SW CBDso- 2: sans aeonacesces 114. 86 114. 51 LUCA UY Gol fe eee a seine | [ee ee +7. 44
Dry. Seasons) ee tt 1.78 5. 28 (te a Se Se | ene ey —1.66
Wiel SGaSON =~. <5 = sckaase 255 113. 08 109. 23 1001S |e cee cee neces |Seccuateeees +9. 10

FISCAL REPORT

During the fiscal year 1951, $10,781.87 in trust funds was available.
Of this amount $10,555.97 was spent, leaving a balance of $225.90.
In addition to this, $583.80 is still on deposit, representing local
collections.

The following items are paid out of trust funds: Food, freight,
and express, salaries and wages, office expenses, parts and repairs to
automobile, parts and repairs to floating equipment and to generators,
and sundry bills for general upkeep. Food represented 32.5 percent
of the total expended, and salaries and wages 57.4 percent.

During the year $868.50 was collected as fees from scientists,
$126.50 more than the previous year.

Despite the rising costs of food, wages, and other items, which were
higher than the previous year, the laboratory has not yet increased
its per-diem charge to scientists for meals and lodging and has con-
tinued to give a 25-percent discount to those who come from institu-
tions that sustain table subscriptions.

The following institutions continued their support to the laboratory
through the payment of table subscriptions:

Hastman Kodak Go: == =" 230 ee ee ee $1, 000. 00
New. York Zoologieal Society s2=—-=-——--— —=—- ss s=..— 300. 00
American Museum of Natural History_---_----_-_-__--_- 300. 00
Smithsonian Fustitution.222- 2252 20 A ae 300. 00

It is most gratifying to again record donations from Dr. Eugene
Eisenmann of New York.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 143

In addition to its table subscription, the Smithsonian Institution
contributed $5,500 from its private funds, which is included in the
$10,781.87 in trust funds, mentioned above. Other expenditures
amounting to $1,341.38, made from Washington, bring the total
Smithsonian contribution from private funds to $7,141.38.

The Smithsonian Institution further allotted $18,000 from Govern-
ment-appropriated funds, of which the sum of $13,100 was expended
for the new permanent building.

ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

We wish to express our appreciation for the whole-hearted coopera-
tion of the various units of the Panama Canal and the Panama Rail-
road Co., to become united at the start of the new fiscal year as the
Panama Canal Company, a corporation. We look forward to the
same cordial relations with the new organization. We also wish to
acknowledge especially the assistance of the Governor of the Panama
Canal, Brig. Gen. F. K. Newcomer and his staff; Alton White and
his Dredging Division; the various units of the Commissary Division;
the Panama Railroad officials and employees; the Municipal Engi-
neer; and Maj. George Herman, Chief of the Police Division and the
able men under him. The police have cooperated regularly in the
suppression of poaching, which is always a problem, though this
trespass on the island is not so great as might be expected.

Respectfully submitted.

James ZetTEK, Resident Manager.

Dr. A. WETMORE,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 11

Report on the Library

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the activities
of the Smithsonian Library for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1951:

The 52,685 publications received in the library during the year came
from 91 foreign countries, dominions, colonies, and protectorates, as
well as from the United States. Access to this world-wide literary
coverage of scientific and cultural progress in its own special subject
fields, so important to the work of all branches of the Smithsonian
Institution, is made possible largely by the cordial exchange relations
maintained between the Institution and the academies and learned
societies, the universities, museums, art galleries, observatories, and
other scientific and cultural organizations both at home and abroad.
This year 465 new exchanges were arranged, and 8,227 books, pam-
phlets, and periodical parts were received as the gratifying result of
576 special requests sent to issuing agencies for publications needed to
fill gaps in our collections.

Although the larger number of the library’s acquisitions were ex-
change publications, gifts were also numerous, and 9,552 volumes,
pamphlets, and periodicals came from many generous friends both in
and outside the Institution. The largest single gift of the year, a
collection of some 500 books and periodicals on philately, presented by
Malcolm Macgregor, of Bronxville, N. Y., is an especially noteworthy
addition to the philatelic sectional library in the Department of
History.

Most of the 2,111 volumes purchased during the year were recent
publications, but a few were some of the older out-of-print works
needed for reference in the Museum and the Bureau of American
Ethnology, which fortunately came into the market at reasonable
prices. Subscriptions for 348 periodicals not obtainable by exchange
were also purchased.

The grand total of 19,016 publications transferred to the Library of
Congress included 5,321 currently received volumes and periodicals
recorded and marked as permanent additions to the Smithsonian
Deposit there. Others were 1,526 doctoral dissertations mostly from
foreign universities, and 12,169 documents and miscellaneous publica-
tions on subjects having no immediate bearing on the work of the
Institution.

144
SECRETARY'S REPORT 145

Noteworthy publications among the 3,859 transferred to other scien-
tific libraries of the Government were 604 medical dissertations sent to
the Army Medical Library.

Cataloging and entry of current accessions of books and periodicals
were kept up, but with difficulty under the serious handicap of under-
staffing.

The number of volumes cataloged was 6,991, and 29,981 cards were
filed in catalogs and shelflists. Periodical entries numbered 17,854.

There was little opportunity to continue the much-needed work of
correlating and unifying entries in the periodical records with those
in the catalog, but some progress was made in the last quarter toward
completing this project.

An important piece of work completed by the staff was the check-
ing of Smithsonian serial holdings for inclusion in the forthcoming
Supplement to the Union List of Serials in Libraries of the United
States and Canada, consisting mostly of new titles published in the
years 1944-49. The library reported holdings of 478 of the titles listed
in the checking edition, and added 19 new titles not appearing in
the checklist. This cooperative undertaking on the part of the prin-
cipal libraries of this country and Canada results in the continuation
of one of the library’s most useful and time-saving bibliographical
tools.

Small withdrawals were frequently made from the collection of
duplicates, and 2,415 pieces from among the titles specially wanted
by participating libraries of the United States Book Exchange were
sent to the stockpile at that center for exchange credit.

With funds allotted for binding, 1,250 volumes, mostly periodicals,
were prepared for binding and sent to the Government Printing
Office. In the Museum library, 1,300 old books and pamphlets, some
of them irreplaceable, were repaired. There continues to be a large
backlog of binding and repair.

The library’s service to readers and research workers, both in and
outside the Institution, its primary reason for being, is so full of
intangibles that statistics of circulation and such other countable
records as it is possible to keep, where there are so many decentralized
units without immediate library supervision, can do little more than
suggest the actual work and time required to produce the right pub-
lication or to answer a question accurately.

The reference use of the library was increasingly heavy in all its
_branches, and answers to 17,688 reference questions were given, many
of them requiring hours of painstaking research among out-of-the-
way sources.

Loan-desk records show that 11,869 publications were borrowed by
members of the staff of the Institution and by 101 different Govern-
146 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

ment, university, and other libraries throughout the country to which
1,493 books and periodicals were sent as interlibrary loans.

The library, in turn, borrowed 1,398 books from the Library of
Congress, many of which were Smithsonian Deposit copies, and 297
publications were borrowed from other libraries, chiefly from the
Geological Survey, the Department of Agriculture, and the Army
Medical Library.

Overcrowding and understafling continue to be the library’s most
serious unsolved problems. To find shelf room for new books in
stacks, branches, and sectional libraries already taxed beyond their
normal capacity requires continuous contrivance of makeshift arrange-
ments and rearrangements.

SUMMARIZED STATISTICS

Accessions
Total recorded
volumes

Volumes June 80, 1951

Astrophysical Observatory (including Radiation and
\ Og 12 2 CSC i nel Pe ie a ae Slee Miner” eet is 248 13, 821
Bureau of American Ethnology__......---.-.--------- 123 34, 961
National Air? Museums 22220! AVS leh eee Ieee 84 210
National Collection of Fine Arts__.._...-....---------- 280 12, 455
Nationals Mase urate: Stes Se eg sete eas a eh 3 3, 430 249, 831
ia tioncale On lOOIGHE aan tes 5 2 es a 3 4,199
Smithsonian Deposit at the Library of Congress-_------- 1, 195 583, 475
SHMUHEODIAN TO NICE - tn oe ae. iw SS Set. 340 33, 788
Total a: 222 beeeus ele eee be et A 5, 703 932, 740

Neither incomplete volumes of serial publications, nor separates
and reprints from serial publications are included in these figures.

Hechanges

New exchangeés arranged. - 22-2 = ee eae eee es tek ops 465
178 of these were assigned to the Smithsonian Deposit in the Library
of Congress.
Specially requested publications received____________-_____--__-------- 8, 227
991 of these were obtained to fill gaps in Smithsonian Deposit sets.

Cataloging

Volumes and pamphlets cataloged__-.___-________--___------_-------- 6, 992

Cards:added to catalogs and: shelflists=-22— 2220-2 32 ae eS 29, 981
Periodicals

Periodical ‘parts“entered 22202) a beh a Sows es ees eee 17, 854
Oirculation

oans of,-books)and periodicals: 22 ese ee ee 11, 869

Circulation of books and periodicals in the sectional libraries of the
Museum is not counted except in the Division of Insects.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 147

Binding

Respectfully submitted.

Lema F. Cuarx, Librarian.
Dr. A. WETMORE,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 12
Report on Publications

Sm: I have the honor to submit the following report on the publi-
cations of the Smithsonian Institution and its branches for the year
ended June 30, 1951:

The Institution published during the year 6 papers in the Smith-
sonian Miscellaneous Collections, 1 Annual Report of the Board of
Regents and pamphlet copies of 16 articles in the Report appendix,
1 Annual Report of the Secretary, and 2 special publications.

The United States National Museum issued 1 Annual Report, 19
Proceedings papers, 4 Bulletins, and 2 Contributions from the United
States National Herbarium.

The Bureau of American Ethnology issued 1 Annual Report, 2 Bul-
letins, and 2 Publications of the Institute of Social Anthropology.

The Freer Gallery of Art issued 2 Occasional Papers and 2 special
publications.

Of the publications there were distributed 123,401 copies, which
included 8 volumes and separates of Smithsonian Contributions to
Knowledge, 13,237 volumes and separates of Smithsonian Miscel-
laneous Collections, 21,972 volumes and separates of Smithsonian An-
nual Reports, 2,907 War Background Studies, 4,829 Smithsonian spe-
cial publications, 31 reports and 190 sets of pictures of the Harriman
Alaska Expedition, 52,876 volumes and separates of National Museum
publications, 16,560 publications of the Bureau of American Eth-
nology, 5,817 publications of the Institute of Social Anthropology,
26 catalogs of the National Collection of Fine Arts, 1,985 volumes and
pamphlets of the Freer Gallery of Art, 8 Annals of the Astrophysical
Observatory, 2,452 reports of the American Historical Association,
and 503 miscellaneous publications not published by the Smithsonian
Institution (mostly Survival Manuals).

In addition, 28,427 picture pamphlets, 76,193 guide books, 24,566
natural-history and art post cards, 29,342 sets of photo cards and
picture post cards, 46 sets of North American Wild Flowers, and 6
volumes of Pitcher Plants were distributed.

SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS

In this series there were issued 1 paper in volume 111 and title page
and table of contents to the volume, and 4 papers in volume 116, as
follows:

148
SECRETARY’S REPORT 149

VOLUME 111

No. 18. Tree growth and rainfall—a study of correlation and methods, by
Waldo S. Glock. 47 pp., 7 figs. (Publ. 4016.) Oct. 25, 1950.
Title page and table of contents. (Publ. 4023.) Dec. 18, 1950.

VOLUME 116

No. 1. Comparative studies on the jaws of mandibulate arthropods, by R. EB.
Snodgrass. 85 pp., 25 figs. (Publ. 4018.) Nov. 16, 1950.

No. 2. Remains of land mammals from the Miocene of the Chesapeake Bay
region, by C. Lewis Gazin and R. Lee Collins. 21 pp., 7 figs. (Publ. 4019.)
Oct. 12, 1950.

No. 4. Precipitation and temperature in Washington, D. C., for 1950 and
1951, by C. G. Abbot. 6 pp., 2 figs. (Publ. 4045.) Mar. 1, 1951.

No. 6. A new species of the Jurassic brachiopod genus Septirhynchia, by
Helen M. Muir-Wood and G. Arthur Cooper. 6 pp., 2 pls. (Publ. 4047.) June
5, 1951.

SMITHSONIAN ANNUAL REPORT

Report for 1949.—The complete volume of the Annual Report of
the Board of Regents for 1949 was received from the Public Printer
on August 24, 1950:

Annual Report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution show-
ing the operations, expenditures, and condition of the Institution for the year
ended June 30, 1949. ix-+422 pp., 82 pls., 24 figs. (Publ. 3996.)

The general appendix contained the following papers (Publs.
3997-4012) :

The formation of stars, by Lyman Spitzer, Jr.

The origin of the earth, by Thornton Page.

The 200-inch Hale telescope and some problems it may solve, by Edwin Hubble,

The determination of precise time, by Sir Harold Spencer Jones.

The elementary particles of physics, by Carl D. Anderson.

Recent advances in virus research, by Wendell M. Stanley.

Ground-water investigations in the United States, by A. N. Sayre.

Modern soil science, by Charles E. Kellogg.

Time in evolution, by F. E. Zeuner.

More about animal behavior, by Ernest P. Walker.

The breeding habits of weaverbirds: a study in the biology of behavior patterns,
by Herbert Friedmann.

New Zealand, a botanist’s paradise, by Egbert H. Walker.

The archeological importance of Guatemala, by A. V. Kidder.

Excavations at the prehistoric rock-shelter of La Colombiére, by Hallam L.
Movius, Jr.

Ronne Antarctic research expedition, 1946-1948, by Commander Finn Ronne.

The state of science, by Karl T. Compton.

Report for 1950.—The Report of the Secretary, which included the
financial report of the executive committee of the Board of Regents,
and which will form part of the Annual Report of the Board of
Regents to Congress, was issued January 8, 1951:
150 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

Report of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution and financial report
of the executive committee of the Board of Regents for the year ended June 30,
1950. ix+161 pp., 2 pls. (Publ. 4020.)

SPECIAL PUBLICATIONS

Brief guide to the Smithsonian Institution. 8th edition. 80 pp., illus. [Mar.
1, 1951.)
The Smithsonian Institution: A description of its work. 166 pp. January
1951.
PUBLICATIONS OF THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM

John S. Lea was appointed editor of the National Museum on
November 13, 1950. The Museum issued during the year 1 Annual
Report, 19 Proceedings papers, 4 Bulletins, and 2 papers in the Con-
tributions from the United States National Herbarium, as follows:

ANNUAL REPORT

Report on the progress and condition of the United States National Museum
for the year ended June 30, 1950. iii+141 pp. Jan. 10, 1951.

PROCEEDINGS : VOLUME 98

Title page, table of contents, list of illustrations, and index. Pp. i-xi, 523-553.
Apr. 17, 1951.
PROCEEDINGS: VOLUME 100

No. 3269. Some new gastropods of the family Clausiliidae from the Philip-
pine Islands and Siam, by F. J. Loosjes. Pp. 589-545, figs. 51-53. Nov. 13, 1950.
No. 3270. Three new species of fishes of the genus Cirrhitus (family Cir-
rhitidae) from the Indo-Pacific, by Leonard P. Schultz. Pp. 547-552, pl. 13.
July 25, 1950.
PROCEEDINGS : VOLUME 101

No. 3271. A revision of the beetles of the genus Myochrous, by Doris Holmes
Blake. Pp. 1-64, pls. 1-8. Dec. 27, 1950.

No. 3272. The oceanic crabs of the genera Planes and Pachygrapsus, by
Fenner A. Chace, Jr. Pp. 65-103, figs. 1-8. Jan. 30, 1951.

No. 3273. New marine isopods, chiefly from northern California, with notes
on related forms, by Robert J. Menzies. Pp. 105-156, figs. 9-33. Feb. 13, 1951.

No. 3274. The helminth parasites of birds, III: Dicrocoeliid trematodes from
North American birds, by J. Fred Denton and Elon EB. Byrd. Pp. 157-202, figs.
34-40. Mar. 6, 1951.

No. 3275. The mites of the subfamily Haemogamasinae (Acari: Laelaptidae),
by Hugh L. Keegan. Pp. 203-268, figs. 41-55. Feb. 2, 1951.

No. 3276. A new Caribbean coral of the genus Chrysogorgia, by Frederick M.
Bayer. Pp. 269-2738, figs. 56, 57, pl. 9. Feb. 18, 1951.

No. 3277. Revision of the North American grasshoppers of the Conalcaea com-
plex, by Ashley B. Gurney. Pp. 275-304, figs. 58-65, pls. 10,11. Feb. 2, 1951.

No. 3278. Fleas from the Upper Sonoran zone near Albuquerque, N. Mex., by
Lelia Ann Williams and C. Clayton Hoff. Pp. 305-313, fig. 66. Jan. 22, 1951.

No. 3279. Some digenetic trematodes, including eight new species, from ma-
SECRETARY'S REPORT 1 5t-

rine fishes of La Jolla, Calif., by Harold W. Manter and Harley J. Van Cleave.
Pp. 315-340, pls. 12, 138. Mar. 28, 1951.

No. 3280. Parasitic Crustacea from Bimini, Bahamas, by A. S. Pearse. Pp.
341-372, figs. 67-77. Feb. 2, 1951.

No. 3281. New and little-known bees of the family Andrenidae from California,
by P. H. Timberlake. Pp. 3738-414. Apr. 23, 1951.

No. 3282. The actinian fauna of the Gulf uf California, by Oskar Carlgren.
’p. 415-449, figs. 78-84, pl. 14. May 17, 1951.

No. 3283. Notes on chrysomelid beetles of the subfamily Chlamisinae, with
descriptions of new species, by F. Monroés. Pp. 451-463. figs. 85-90. June 5,
1951.

No. 3284. Notes on a herpetological collection from Oaxaca and other loealities
in Mexico, by Frederick A. Shannon. Pp. 465-454, figs. 91-93. May 17. 1951.

No. 3285. Chaetodon tinkeri, a new species of buttertiytish (Chaetodontidae)
from the Hawaiian Isiands, by Leonard P. Schultz. Vp. 485-483, fig. 94, pl. 15.
June 15, 1951.

No. 3286. Moths of the genus Paramulona Hampson, by William D. Field. Pp.
489-496, figs. 95-96. May 17, 1951.

BULLETINS

50, part 11. Birds of North and Middle America. Families Cathartidae,
Accipitridae, Pandionidae, Falconidae, by Herbert Friedmann. Pp. i—xiii, 1-793,
61 figs. Sept. 29. 1950.

82. A monograph of the existing crinoids. Volume 1, The comatulids. Part
4c.—Superfamily Tropiometrida (the families Thalassometridae and Charitome-
tridae), by Austin Hobart Clark. Pp. i-vi, 1-383, 32 pls. Aug. 16, 1950.

100, volume 14, part 4. Copepods gathered by the United States fisheries
steamer Albatross from 1887 to 1909, chiefly in the Pacific Ocean, by Charles
Branch Wilson. Pp. i-ix, 141-441, pls. 2-86. Oct. 17, 1950.

199. An annotated checklist and key to the reptiles of Mexico exclusive of the
snakes, by Hobart M. Smith and Edward H. Taylor. Vp. i-v, 1-253. Oct. 16,
1950.

CONTRIBUTIONS FROM TILE UNITED STATES NATIONAL HERBARIUM

VOLUME 29

Part 10. Studies in the Bromeliaceae, XVI, by Lyman B. Smith. Pp. i-viii,
429-520, figs. 37-76. June 20, 1951.

VOLUME 31

Part 1. The Acanthaceae of Colombia, I, by Emery C. Leonard. Pp. i-vi, 1-117,
figs. 1-40. June 8, 1951.

PUBLICATIONS OF THE BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY

The editorial work of the Bureau continued under the immediate
direction of the editor, M. Helen Palmer. During the year there were
issued 1 Annual Report, 2 Bulletins, and 2 Publications of the Institute
of Social Anthropology, as follows:

9824455211
152 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

ANNUAL REPORT

Sixty-seventh Annual Report of the Bureau of American Ethnology, 1949-50.
ii+25 pp. 1951.
BULLETINS

148. Handbook of South American Indians. Julian H. Steward, editor.
Volume 6, Physical anthropology, linguistics, and cultural geography of South
American Indians. xiii+-715 pp., 47 pls., 3 figs., 18 maps. 1950.

144. The northern and central Nootkan tribes, by Philip Drucker. ix-+480 pp.,
5 pls., 28 figs., 8 maps. 1951.

PUBLICATIONS OF THE INSTITUTE OF SOCIAL ANTHROPOLOGY

No. 11. Quiroga: A Mexican municipio, by Donald D. Brand, assisted by José
Corona Niifiez. v-+242 pp., 35 pls., 4 maps. 1951.

No. 12. Cruz das Almas: A Brazilian village, by Donald Pierson, with the
assistance of Levi Cruz, Mirtes Brandao Lopes, Helen Batchelor Pierson, Carlos
Borges Teixeira, and others. x-+226 pp., 20 pls., 13 figs.,2 maps. 1951.

PUBLICATIONS OF THE FREER GALLERY OF ART

OCCASIONAL PAPERS : VOLUME 1

No. 2. Studies in Muslim Iconography. I. The unicorn, by Richard Etting-
hausen. 209 pp., 49 pls., 5 figs. (Publ. 3993.) [Sept. 13], 1950.

No. 5. A royal head from ancient Egypt, by George Steindorff. 30 pp., 29 pls.
(Publ. 4022.) [Feb. 23], 1951.

SPECIAL PUBLICATIONS

The Peacock Room. 22 pp., 8 pls. (Publ. 4024.) [Apr. 24], 1951.
The Freer Gallery of Art of the Smithsonian Institution. 16 pp., illus. [Sept.
5], 1950.

REPORT OF THE AMERICAN HISTORICAL ASSOCIATION

The annual reports of the American Historical Association are
transmitted by the Association to the Secretary of the Smithsonian
Institution and are by him communicated to Congress, as provided
by the act of incorporation of the Association. The following report
volume was issued this year:

Annual Report of the American Historical Association for 1949. Vol. 1, Pro-
ceedings (including list of members). [Feb. 23], 1951.

REPORT OF THE NATIONAL SOCIETY, DAUGHTERS OF THE
AMERICAN REVOLUTION

The manuscript of the Fifty-third Annual Report of the National
Society, Daughters of the American Revolution, was transmitted to
Congress, in accordance with law, February 16, 1951.
SECRETARY'S REPORT 153
APPROPRIATION FOR PRINTING AND BINDING

The congressional appropriation for printing and binding for the
past year was entirely obligated at the close of the year. The ap-
propriation for the coming fiscal year ending June 30, 1952, totals
$103,000, allotted as follows:

General administration (Annual Report of the Board of Regents; Annual

ReDOrC OT; CHE RSeCreltAny,) 22 enon eee $18, 500
National Phases =e Se Se a et 41, 700
Buread. or American uLnnologys oes... At OT 1S a 2 I O9 So 16, 000
Neidio aT Alp Mireur SBS a oh ae 500
Service divisions (Annual Report of the American Historical Associa-

tion; blank forms; binding; Museum print shop)__-________-_____ 26, 300

Ota s =o eee est are were rene ate eee ease) EEE ICU Ie Sid SEL @ 103, 000

Respectfully submitted.
Paut H. Orussrr, Chief, Editorial Division.
Dr. A. Wermorge,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
Report of the Executive Committee of the Board of
Regents of the Smithsonian Institution

For the Year Ended June 30, 1951

To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution:

Your executive committee respectively submits the following report
in relation to the funds of the Smithsonian Institution, together with
a statement of the appropriations by Congress for the Government
bureaus in the administrative charge of the Institution.

SMITHSONIAN ENDOWMENT FUND

The original bequest of James Smithson was £104,960 8s. 6d.—
$508,318.46. Refunds of money expended in prosecution of the claim,
freights, insurance, and other incidental expenses, together with pay-
ment into the fund of the sum of £5,015, which had been withheld
during the lifetime of Madame de la Batut, brought the fund to
the amount of $550,000.

Since the original bequest, the Institution has received gifts from
various sources, the income from which may be used for the general
work of the Institution. These, including the original bequest, plus
savings, are listed below, together with the income for the present
year.

ENDOWMENT FUNDS

(Income for the unrestricted use of the Institution)

Partly deposited in the United States Treasury at 6 percent and partly invested
in stocks, bonds, and other holdings

Income present
Fund Investment year

|

Parent fund (original Smithson bequest, plus accumulated savings) ----- $728, 892. 35 $43, 723. 84

Subsequent bequests, gifts, and other funds, partly deposited in the
U.S. Treasury and ey ae vested in the consolidated fund:

Avery, Robert S., and Lydia, bequest fund____..______.___._________ 54, 519. 88 2, 957. 51
Mudowmontdwnid 4.28 Peek soo h os a Re es eT 357, 054. 42 18, 143. 43
Havel Drscsibeduest tunds =. 502 2 eee ee eed Ae i 500. 00 30.00
Hachenberg, George P. and Caroline, bequest fund__________________ 4, 125. 69 215. 60
Hamilton; Janes, aquest lund ee ee eee 2.914. 11 171. 64
Henry, Caroline, bequest fund_...__- 1, 240. 69 64. 84
Hodgkins, Thomas G. (general gift) _- 144, 757. 84 8, 567. 35
Porter, Henry Kirke, memoria! fund_-_- 293. 793. Al 15, 353. 23
Rhees, William Jones, bequest fund_______._________ 1,075. 30 60. 80
Sanford, George H., memorial fund ._.__...._____.__._._____.______- 2,013. 22 113. 72
Witherspoon, Thomas A., memorial fund 132. 384. 70 6, 918. 23
Special! fund, stock in reorganized closed banks 2, 280. 00 160. 00

POLIS eo ee Sa re ts ee ee eee 998, 661. 46 52, 756. 35

Grand total’. 4 Ae eres ee re ee eee 1, 727, 553. 81 96, 480. 19

154
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 155

The Institution holds also a number of endowment gifts, the income
of each being restricted to specific use. These, plus accretions to date,
are listed below, together with income for the present year.

Income present

Fund Investment year
Abbott, William 1.., fund, for investigations in biology ._........_-_-___- $102, 000. 03 $5, 454.18
Arthur, James, fund, for investigations and study of the sun and annual
lecture On‘SAMG: 5 Sebere oh eet he hy: eae et eee: ay Bei ye. 41,026. 74 2, 128. 28
Bacon, Virginia Purdy, fund, for ‘traveling scholarship to investigate
fauna of countries other than the United States. - = 51,395. 43 2, 6648.19
Baird, Lucy H1., fund. for creating a memorial to Secretary Baird. Sb ey 24. 698. 96 1, 281. 28
Barney, Alice Pike, memorial fund. for collecting of paintings and pastels
and for encouragement of American artistic endeavor .. 15.003. 00 194. 68
Barstow, Frederick D., fund, for purchase of animals for National Zoo-
logical TI cou ae Sane Open IOR 5 T7747 The a Ps eT) 1,025. 61 53. 24
Canfield Collection fund, for increase and care ef the Canfield collection
ofsminerals eee 5-90 ag Pe SN ee cee ek 39, 235. 36 2,035. 36
Casey, Thomas 1, fund. for maintenance of the Casey collection and
promotion of researches relating to Coleoptera. ._...------------------- 10, 409. 93 540.03
Chamberlain, Francis Lea, fund, for increase and promotion of Isaac Lea
collection of gems and mollusks. et et 28, 888. 18 1, 498, 58
Eickemeyer, Florence Brevoort, fund, for preservation and exhibition
of the photographic collection of Rudolph Eickemevyer, Jr_. 11,005.19 570. 90
Hillyer, Virgil, fund, for increase and care of Virgil Hillyer collection of
Nlehuing chica. A Shoe nis she ee eae omen SE I aM ee ts 6, 742.03 349. 75
Hitchcock, Albert S., library fund, for care of the Hitchcock ‘Agrosto-
logical Library ____- 1, 618. 69 83.98
Hodgkins fund, specific, “for increase and diffusion of more exact knowl-
edge in regard to nature and properties of atmospheric air. __- 100. 000. 00 6,000. 00
Hrdlitka, AleS and Marie, fund, to further researches in physical anthro-—
pology ‘and publication in connection therewith __......_.__..____-___. 29. 507.97 1, 454. 72
Hughes. Bruce, fund, to found Hughes alcove. ___._--.-__-----__-_-__- 19, 635, 92 1, 018. 64
Long, Annette and Edith C., fund, for upkeep and preservation of Long
collection of embroideries, laces, and ctextiles|..2-- tee eee ee 557,92 28. 92
Maxwell, Mary E., fund, for care and exhibition of Maxwell collection ___ 20, 121. 36 1,043. 81
Myer, Catherine Ww alden, fund for purchase of first class works of art for
use and benefit of the National Collection of Fine Arts_ 19, 445. 54 1,008. 75
Pell, Cornelia Livingston, fund, for maintenance of Alfred Duane Pell
collect i tone SR aE OF eae ee ee ee 7, 604.90 394. 47
Poore, Lucy T. and George W., fund. for general use of the Institution
when principal amounts to $230, (4,4 Vere oo Mie healed atic 133, 628. 36 6, 873. 21
Rathbun. Richard, memoria! fund, for use of division of U. S. National
Miuseum)containine Crushaceae 4.) eens eek ee ee 10, 910. 80 565. 99
Reid, Addison T., fund, for founding chair in biology, in memory of
Asher TIS! 22 sore ae ERNE Re 30, 428. 58 1, 659. 43
Roebling Collection fund, for care, ‘improvement, and increase of Roebling
collectiontafiminerals: Se be Se 123, 806. 84 6, 422. 58
Rollins, Miriam and William, fund, for investigations in physics. and
chemistry eae Se eee ah MeO A PERS 2 is ee a ee 96. 323. 74 5, 002. 23
Smithsonian employ ees’ retirement fund__._............................ 31, 068. 11 1, 709. 97
Springer, Frank, fund, fur care and increase of Springer collection and
library pian eimenien 21 enema! Vines SIRT BS) ee ea en, “Eee 18. 396. 23 954.32
Strong, Julia D., bequest fund, for benefit of the National Collection of
mG rArt see S98 ey ae ee a ew 10, 256. 81 532. 08
Walcott, Charles D and Mary Vaux, research fund, for development of
geological and paleontological studies and publishing results thereof___- 379, 146. 59 21,055. 94
Younger, Helen Waleott. fund, held in trust___...__...__.----_--__------ 46, 611.40 3,061. 10
Zerbee, Frances Brincklé, fund, for endowment of aquaria_-_------------ 973. 07 50. 48
TOGA] Rete eee eee eae PUM ME Sete eet ad SAVE E eRe eee ete Nes 4 1, 411, 471.49 75, 693. 09

FREER GALLERY OF ART FUND

Karly in 1906, by deed of gift, Charles L. Freer, of Detroit, gave to
the Institution his collection of Chinese and other Oriental objects of
art, as well as paintings, etchings, and other works of art by Whistler,
Thayer, Dewing, and other artists. Later he also gave funds for con-
struction of a building to house the collection, and finally in his will,
probated November 6, 1919, he provided stock and securities to the
estimated value of $1,958,591.42, as an endowment fund for the
operation of the Gallery.
156 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

The above fund of Mr. Freer was almost entirely represented by
20,465 shares of stock in Parke, Davis&Co. As this stock advanced in
value, much of it was sold and the proceeds reinvested so that the fund

now amounts to $6,613,510.49 in selected securities.

SUMMARY OF ENDOWMENTS

Invested endowment for general purposes__------------------- $1, 727, 553.
Invested endowment for specific purposes other than Freer
endowment we ese eS sb ae ae ey oe ae eat 1, 411, 471.
Total invested endowment other than Freer endowment__ 3, 139, 025.
Freer invested endowment for specific purposes____--__--------- 6, 618, 510.
Total invested endowment for all purposes__-_---------- 9, 752, 535.
CLASSIFICATION OF INVESTMENTS
Deposited in the U. S. Treasury at 6 percent per annum, as
authorized in the U. S. Revised Statutes, sec. 5591__-..-.---- $1, 000, 000.
Investments other than Freer endowment (cost or
market value at date acquired):
Bonds. 245.44 ae. ee eee eee $753, 835. 36
Stocksi est Se aie. sad. So bee ae oe 1, 331, 894. 91
Real estate and first-mortgage notes____---- 15, 735. 87
Uninvested capital. 2252 eo ee ee 37, 559. 16
————_—_—— 2, 139, 025.
Total investments other than Freer endowment- -------- 3, 189, 025.
Investments of Freer endowment (cost or market
value at date acquired):
TBO) 06 (ofeeey ae 4 <n ER (Pie ea eT OE Sh Wy eb pr eae $3, 771, 391. 04
LOCKS ep eet ER 8 ee re are 2, 744, 854. 10
Wninvestedwapital= 4... = sot. ce econ ws 97, 265. 35
———_—————__ 6, 618, 510.
Totalinvestmenieh 2522: see eke Cae ane ct 9, 752, 535.

CASH BALANCES, RECEIPTS, AND DISBURSEMENTS DURING
FISCAL YEAR 1951!

Cash: balance:on band. June 30, 1950. = == 2-222 se anes $379, 650.
Receipts, other than Freer endowment:
Income from investments_._____.___---------- $181, 228. 23
Gifts and contributions. 2-02 = -2 eee 105, 577. 76
palestor publicauons.\4 252 Sar eee ce oe 54, 417. 31
Miscellaneous ss 222 ON SoS 2. Ls 7, 929. 79
Proceeds from real-estate holdings. _..__.---- 31, 780. 02
U. S. Government and other contracts (net) - - 11, 156. 48
Payroll withholdings and refunds of advances (net) - 2, 409. 60
Total receipts other than Freer endowment------------- 394, 499.

81
49

30
49

79

00

30

30

49

79

13

19

1 This statement does not include Government appropriations under the administrative charge of the

Institution.
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE

Receipts from Freer endowment:
Purchase and sale of securities. ____________~_
Income from investments__.-.-....-.-.-.---
Othenreceipts= 454 4-Se jae soe ete os 3S

Total receipts from Freer endowment- ------

Disbursements other than Freer endowment:
Ad ministiailone. so eeeen ee eee eee eee
Bublicatigns sso = weer eee ey eas fe = 2) a
SOS EA a ee a me eg
Custodian fees and similar incidentals_._____~-
Miscellaneous® 22206) ee ee eee eee eee
IRGSCAT CHOSE Bee ae Saree Meets Soe Sak
S Ee Retirement. System_ Lvs see2es 224.14 22
Purchase and sale of securities (net) ____-----

COMMITTEE

$69, 513. 78
307, 957. 19
3, 236. 03

$64, 209. 68
17, 624. 45
542. 40

3, 000. 32
1, 808. 52
140, 267. 09
3, 617. 40
85, 079. 40

Total disbursements other than Freer endowment--_--_---

Disbursements from Freer endowment:
Salaries e eae. eee lr meade ets tS
Purchases for collections_____......---------
Custodian fees and similar incidentals. ____--_-
IMiscellaneouss =. S=ee— seis See See soe le

Total disbursements from Freer endowment_-_
Investment of current funds in U. 8. bonds__--_-___~-

OCH epee ee hk ee ee Be eo
ASSETS
Cash:
United States Treasury cur-
rent account__._______-- $407, 159. 91
In banks and on hand_____~_ 129, 049. 11
536, 209. 02
Less uninvested endowment
RUNS ye tes Bet ee ee 134, 824. 51

Investments—at book value:
Endowment funds:
Freer Gallery of Art:
Stocks and bonds__ $6, 516, 245. 14
Uninvested capital_ 97, 265. 35

$92, 049. 03
158, 600. 00

$401, 384. 51

11, 798. 34
600, 778. 01

1, 154, 856. 32

157

$380, 707. 00

316, 149. 26

301, 751. 28
746. 76

618, 647. 30
536, 209. 02

1, 154, 856. 32

—_— $1, 013, 60. 866

6, 613, 510. 49
158 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

Investments at book value other
than Freer:

Stocks and bonds______-__~- $2, 085, 730. 27
Real-estate and mortgage

NOLES = fee eee eee ao 15, 735. 87
Uninvested capital________- 37, 559. 16

Special deposit in U. S.
Treasury at 6 _ percent
MLeLrests= aa ee eee 1, 000, 000. 00
——————— $3, 1389, 025. 30
$9, 752, 535. 79

10, 766, 496. 65
UNEXPENDED FUNDS AND ENDOWMENTS

Unexpended funds:

Income from Freer Gallery of Art endowment___---------- $411, 474. 66
Income from other endowments:
Restricted sarteers ee ok apa $206, 749. 64
Generale, 5.2 Se gee tet ope > 124, 014. 09
a 330, 763. 73
Giltaimad antes Ree ess Leo ee Se eee 271, 722. 47

1, 013, 960. 86
Endowment funds:

reer CallerguteArt-= eo 2 oe $6, 613, 510. 49
Other:
Restrictede2os25 5 -22= $1, 411, 471. 49

General: aconte SiSst 2s 1, 727, 553. 81
—___————_ 3, 189, 025. 30
9, 752, 535. 79

10, 766, 496. 65

The practice of maintaining savings accounts in several of the
Washington banks and trust companies has been continued during
the past year, and interest on those deposits amounted to $637.64.

In many instances, deposits are made in banks for convenience in
collection of checks, and later such funds are withdrawn and de-
posited in the United States Treasury. Disbursement of funds is
made by check signed by the Secretary of the Institution and drawn
on the United States Treasury.

The foregoing report relates only to the private funds of the
Institution.

The Institution gratefully acknowledges gifts from the following:
Laura D. Barney, to establish Alice Pike Barney Memorial Fund, for the mainte-

nance and increase of the Alice Pike Barney collection of paintings and puastels

and for the encouragement of American artistic endeavor.

Estate of George H. Stephenson, for securing bust of Brig. Gen. William L.
Mitchell.
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 159

National Geographie Society, additional funds for expedition to western Panama.

Neosho Grant, for Research in Material Culture, to be used for describing and
analyzing Blackfoot ceremonial objects in the Denver Art Museum and to
obtain additional data from the Indians on the Blood Reservation in Alberta,
Canada.

Research Corporation, to cover costs of publication of an edition of the Spenceley
23-place logarithmic tables.

Rockefeller Foundation, Institute of Social Anthropology-Sio Paulo Fund, to-
ward support of the Institution's joint program with the Escola Livre de Socio-
logia e Politica de Sio Paulo, in research, training, publications, and transla-
tions in the social sciences.

Rockefeller Foundation, for mounting mites on slides for classification and filing.

The following appropriations were made by Congress for the Gov-
ernment bureaus under the administrative charge of the Smithsonian
Institution for the fiscal year 1951:

SallanieshandeexPpenses* ssa aa a a ee en eee ee 2, 700,000. 00
Nationale Zoolozicaly Parks. 2-5 oes 22 ee es a nen eee 63%, 000. 00

In addition, funds were transferred from other departments of the
Government for expenditure under the direction of the Smithsonian
Institution as follows:

International Information and Educational Activities (transferred
to the Smithsonian Institution from the State Department) —---~ $92, 740. 00
Working Fund, transferred from the National Park Service, Interior
Department, for archeological investigations in river basins
throughoutathesUnitedt Statess= =e. nee 174, 375. 00

The Institution also administers a trust fund for partial support
of the Canal Zone Biological Area, located on Barro Colorado Island
in the Canal Zone.

The report of the audit of the Smithsonian private funds follows:

WASHINGTON, D. C., September 7, 1951
To THE Boarp OF REGENTS,
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,
Washington 25, D. C.

We have examined the accounts of the Smithsonian Institution relative to its
private endowment funds and gifts (but excluding the National Gallery of Art
and other departments, bureaus or operations administered by the Institution
under Federal appropriations) for the year ended June 30, 1951. Our examina-
tion was made in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards, and
accordingly included such tests of the accounting records and such other auditing
procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances.

The Institution maintains its accounts on a cash basis and does not accrue in-
come and expenses. Land, buildings, furniture, equipment, works of art, living and
other specimens and certain sundry property are not included in the accounts of
the Institution.

In our opinion, the accompanying financial statements present fairly the posi-
tion of the private funds and the cash investments thereof of the Smithsonian
Institution at June 30, 1951 (excluding the National Gallery of Art and other
160 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

departments, bureaus or operations administered by the Institution under the
Federal appropriations) and the cash receipts and disbursements for the year
ended, in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles applied on
a basis consistent with that of the preceding year.
Prat, Marwick, MircHett & Co.
Respectfully submitted.
Rosert V. Fiemine,
VANNEVAR Bush,
CLARENCE CANNON,
Executive Committee.
GENERAL APPENDIX

to the

SMITHSONIAN REPORT FOR 1951

161
ADVERTISEMENT

The object of the GENERAL APPENDIx to the Annual Report of the
Smithsonian Institution is to furnish brief accounts of scientific dis-
covery in particular directions; reports of investigations made by
staff members and collaborators of the Institution; and memoirs of a
general character or on special topics that are of interest or value to
the numerous correspondents of the Institution.

It has been a prominent object of the Board of Regents of the
Smithsonian Institution from a very early date to enrich the annual
report required of them by law with memoirs illustrating the more
remarkable and important developments in physical and biological
discovery, as well as showing the general character of the operations
of the Institution; and, during the greater part of its history, this
purpose has been carried out largely by the publication of such papers
as would possess an interest to all attracted by scientific progress.

In 1880, induced in part by the discontinuance of an annual sum-
mary of progress which for 30 years previously had been issued by
well-known private publishing firms, the Secretary had a series of
abstracts prepared by competent collaborators, showing concisely the
prominent features of recent scientific progress in astronomy, geology,
meteorology, physics, chemistry, mineralogy, botany, zoology, and
anthropology. This latter plan was continued, though not altogether
satisfactorily, down to and including the year 1888.

In the report of 1889, a return was made to the earlier method of
presenting a miscellaneous selection of papers (some of them original)
embracing a considerable range of scientific investigation and discus-
sion. This method has been continued in the present report for 1951.

162
Stormy Weather on the Sun’

By WALTER ORR ROBERTS

Superintendent of the High Altitude Observatory, Boulder, Colo.

[With 2 plates]

Astronomy has come a long way from the heyday of ancient Greece
when Socrates admonished the astronomers to stick to their proper
business, the calendar, and advised them that “speculators on the
universe and on the laws of heavenly bodies are no better than mad-
men.” Instruments to observe the sun, likewise, have progressed
far beyond the simple pinhole viewer with which Fabricius watched
the sunspots.

But for all our progress, the sun worries us yet with the many un-
solved riddles of its behavior. We no longer hold, with Aristotle,
that the sun and moon are living beings. But we are still at a loss
to explain many features of its behavior, such as the fact that the
sun’s equator rotates faster than its higher latitudes.

To solve these diverse problems, many of our greatest astronomers
from Galileo’s day to the present have devoted major portions of their
scientific careers to the study of the sun and the features of its at-
mosphere. The growth of our knowledge has been vastly encouraged
by such people as C. G. Abbot of the Smithsonian Institution, G. E.
Hale of Mount Wilson Observatory, Father Secchi of the Vatican,
Sir Norman Lockyer, Robert R. McMath, L. d’Azambuja, C. E. Saint-
John, Bernard Lyot, and many others. And in the course of their
work astronomers have given the name of the sun to a whole class
of new astronomical instruments, such as helioscopes, pyrheliometers,
spectroheliographs, heliometers, heliostats, coronagraphs. As the
years pass, increasingly powerful tools of modern science are brought
to bear upon the sun. And the riddles of its behavior are gradually
yielding to analysis.

The clues to a great number of the mysteries of solar behavior
seem to be locked up in the sun’s atmosphere—in the phenomena that
become spectacularly visible during total solar eclipse. And it is

1Bighteenth James Arthur lecture, given under the auspices of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion on March 22, 1951.

163
164 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

for this reason that astronomers trek to distant parts of the globe
from solar eclipse to solar eclipse, and from year to year. From time
immemorial eclipses have interested men. In ancient times they were
greeted by mystic rites, and engendered fear and uncertainty in the
people visited by them.

As with the products of modern science, the results of the ancient
science of eclipse prediction gave to its users information of vast
political significance. And so it was, according to Prof. S. A. Mit-
chell in his book Eclipses of the Sun, that an ancient Chinese imperial
edict charged the court astronomers with the responsibility for pre-
dicting all solar eclipses. It appears, however, that in approximately
2000 B. C. the astronomers Hsi and Ho let their calendars fall into
disorder, became dead drunk, and then were caught unawares by
the occurrence of a solar eclipse. For this it seems that the un-
fortunate royal astronomers were put to death. Modern astronomers,
happily, have an easier time. They predict their eclipses with auto-
matic calculators, and, furthermore, have devised many types of
astronomical instruments with which to observe the eclipse features
of the sun by artificial means.

At a total eclipse, features of the sun that are normally invisible
show up spectacularly. By extensive study of these eclipse features,
modern astronomers are making great progress in attacking the un-
solved problems of the sun. But let me turn first to a discussion
of some of the basic facts about the sun.

The sun interests astronomers particularly because it is the near-
est star to earth. It is the only star close enough for them to study
in great detail. All other stars in the sky appear as mere pinpoints
of light, even in the most powerful telescopes. But on the sun, in-
dividual features are readily distinguishable, and we can gain a rela-
tively intimate view of what goes on in a rather typical star.

As far as we on earth are concerned, the sun is distinguished pri-
marily by proximity. By comparison with the other stars, it is a
rather undistinguished body. It is neither extremely large nor
strikingly small. It is midway within our realm of experience as
to brightness, color, chemical composition, and many other char-
acteristics. Fortunately for us it is also a very stable star, not
partaking of the violent excursions that characterize some of the stars
we have studied in detail. The sun is a mere 93 million miles away.
The nearest other star we know of is more than 200,000 times farther
from us. Its proximity makes the sun by far the most important
source of energy available to man. This tremendous available reserve
of heat, light, and other radiations provides a climate and environ-
ment favorable for life as we know it here on the earth.
STORMY WEATHER ON THE SUN—W. O. ROBERTS 165

The sun is an enormously large sphere of gas. Nowhere within
it do we know of solids or liquids. Its diameter is approximately
864,000 miles. ‘The visible surface or “photosphere” glows with an
intense yellow-white light. The temperature of the photosphere, ac-
cording to several independent methods of estimation, is about 6,000°
K. (centigrade absolute). But as you go down toward the center of
the enormous sphere of gas, the temperature mounts rapidly ; probably
near the center it reaches values as high as 25,000,000° K. There near
the nucleus the pressures reach perhaps to tens of millions of tons per
square inch, and the gaseous material is compressed till its density is
probably more than 10 times that of a bar of iron. Our knowledge
of the interior conditions depends upon theoretical researches of the
very highest quality carried out by such people as Lane, Eddington,
Jeans, Russell, and Chandrasekhar, just to mention a few of the many
who have worked profitably in this field of analysis. It is here in the
depths that the atomic energy derived from nuclear fusion supplies
the sun with its heat. It is here in the depths that the fuel hydrogen
is “burned” by atomic fusion, leaving the ash, helium, as the end
product.

Lying directly on the surface, and cooled by processes as yet not
fully understood, are the giant sunspots. These huge, dark, irregular
spots fluctuate in size and number with the also-mysterious 11-year
solar cycle. They are the focus of extensive and intense magnetic
fields from which are emitted potent corpuscular streams that fly
out into space. Perhaps even cosmic rays are born in or near these
giant blemishes on the sun’s smooth face.

The transition layer between the spotted surface of the sun and the
solar atmosphere has many interesting properties. It may seem queer
that a body like the sun, which is entirely gaseous, can have a sharply
defined edge, so that it shows up in a telescope just as clearly as though
it were the edge of the moon. Yet this is the way the edge of the sun
looks. The theory of this behavior and of the rapid transitions of
the opacity of the sun’s gases near the surface layers has been studied
by many investigators, including E. A. Milne of England, who recently
died after a brilliant and useful scientific career. At the edge of the
sun, a mere 20 miles or so carries us from regions where the gases are
nearly opaque out to the tenuous and transparent gases that charac-
terize the solar atmosphere. This short distance carries us from the
dense regions, where the spectrum of the sun consists of a continuum of
light of all colors, out to the region where the gases show the bright line
spectrum that is characteristic of tenuous gases. Much of the success of
modern solar astrophysics depends upon observations of the spectrum
lines of the nearly transparent atmosphere, and also of the absorption
spectrum formed just above the opaque surface of the sun by the rela-
166 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

tively cool gases of the transitional layer to which we ascribe the term
“reversing layer.”

It is the transparent gaseous region above the opaque photospheric
surface that shows so spectacularly at eclipses. The radiating gases
of this zone, shining both by faint continuous light and by intense
monochromatic light, form one of the principal realms of study for
modern astrophysical devices, and comprise the objective of most of
the work of astronomers who travel to distant lands to be present at
the brief moments of total eclipse.

The intercession of the moon between the earth and the sun at a
total eclipse gives us a unique opportunity to observe the faint atmos-
pheric gases above the sun without the overpoweringly distracting
effects of the light of the photosphere. Normally, the light from the
face of the sun so intensely illuminates the atmosphere of the earth
that the gases above the surface of the sun make no impression at all
upon our viewing instruments. But at eclipse we are unhindered by
this normal handicap, and are able to take photographs and spectro-
grams that reveal the very remarkable characteristics of the sun’s
atmosphere.

The very transparency of the atmosphere makes it accessible to
study. Wecan see through it, and thus we can study what goes on in
it. By virtue of the fact that its light is radiated, for the most part, in
cliscrete lines of the spectrum, we can study any one constituent of its
gaseous atmosphere quite independently from the others. The interior
workings of the sun are screened off from view by the very opacity of
the photosphere of the sun, so that we cannot glimpse beneath the su-
perficial markings of the sunspots and the other surface features, such
as the faculae, and the granulations. To be sure, we study the surface
markings in all possible detail, and have learned many remarkable
things from these studies—as, for example, the completely unexplained
equatorial acceleration discovered many years ago by the English
astronomer Carrington. This baffling acceleration causes the sun’s
equator to turn a full revolution in a shorter time than do the higher
solar latitudes. People in the path of a total eclipse become acutely
aware in the final minutes before totality of the rapid diminution of the
brightness of the sunlight illuminating the landscape. But the truly
spectacular phenomena do not appear until the final climax, known
technically as “second contact,” when the moon finally cuts out all
the light from the photosphere, leaving only the atmosphere in view.
The first thing that one sees is the striking effect of the “Baily’s Beads,”
which result from the tiny portions of the bright photosphere that
shine through the depressions of the moon’s surface where there are
craters with low areas in the line of sight. Then immediately fol-
lowing comes the brilliant “chromospheric flash.”
STORMY WEATHER ON THE SUN—W. 0. ROBERTS 167

This brilliant flash of light was first described in detail by a Cap-
tain Stannyan, who traveled to an eclipse in Berne, Switzerland,
around the year 1700. For some time astronomers believed it to
be a glow in the lunar atmosphere. Many years later, Sir Norman
Lockyer, at the suggestion of his friend, Dr. Sharpey, attached the
name “chromosphere” to this solar layer, because, in his words, “it is
the region in which all the various and beautiful color phenomena are
seen.” The flash of red light results from the bright emission of
the spectral line Ha of hydrogen glowing intensely in the thin layer
of incandescent gases of the chromosphere.

This chromosphere, transparent in some colors, opaque in others, is
one of the principal objects of modern solar research. In it are
tied up many of the problems of the definition and evaluation of
solar temperatures. Because of it and the need to understand its phys-
ical properties, large radio receivers of special design operating at
radar frequencies and designed to pick up the radio emanations
of the chromosphere, will, for example, travel to Khartoum in the
Anglo-Egyptian Sudan, for the eclipse of February 25, 1952, just as
they traveled to Attu Island in 1950. With these receivers, scientists
from the Naval Research Laboratory will make temperature determi-
nations for comparison with optical measurements that will be made
simultaneously at the eclipse. In the past there have been great
discrepancies between optical temperature determinations and those
made from radio observations. This shows that we have here a
major problem worthy of careful study.

The chromospheric flash lasts a mere 2 or 3 seconds. After that,
the chromosphere gases remain obscured until just a second or two
before the end of totality. Then all the phenomena appear again in
reverse order. During the totality, which may last from a few seconds
to nearly 8 minutes, many other features of the sun’s atmosphere can
be studied. The principal of these are the solar prominences and
corona. They differ greatly in appearance and physical composition.

The prominences are huge clouds of solar atmospheric gases, extend-
ing high above the photosphere. They exhibit fascinating, jagged,
irregular shapes that change rapidly but that display regularities
that astrophysicists look upon today as revealing clues to their expla-
nation. They, like the chromosphere, shine with an intense rosy
color—characteristic of the Hea line of the spectrum of incandescent
hydrogen, one of their principal chemical constituents. Plate 1, figure
1, shows a typical solar prominence of large dimension at the south-
west limb of the sun on June 4, 1946. The prominences consist of
gases probably nearly identical in composition with the chromosphere,
even though the proportions of the various constituents probably
differ.

981445—52

12

168 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

The giant prominence clouds are supported in delicate equilibrium
against the powerful forces of gravitation, more than 25 times as
potent as terrestrial graviation. What holds the prominences up has
long been a matter of major astronomical concern. Now it seems that
we can say, thanks to the recent work of Donald H. Menzel, of the
Harvard College Observatory, that they are supported in large part
by the magnetic fields of the sun. We can also say that the thousands
of tons of gaseous hydrogen, helium, and other gases in the promi-
nences are constrained to move generally parallel to the lines of force
of the magnetic fields of the solar atmosphere. Menzel’s work indi-
cates that prominences probably become luminescent as they are af-
fected by powerful compressive forces generated in the presence of
streams of prominence gases. The reason for the very complex shape
and appearance of the prominences is to be found, according to the
new theory, in the complex structure of the magnetic fields surround-
ing sunspots. Initial deformities in the magnetic fields may be fur-
ther aggravated by the gravitational and other forces that also af-
fect prominences, once they come into being. Menzel’s new theories
have resulted in part from his extensive studies of prominence motion
pictures, most of them photographed at our High Altitude Observa-
tory station at Climax, Colo.

The corona, on the other hand, surrounds the eclipsed sun like a
giant halo; it radiates a soft pearly-white light. Today we know
that the corona is no simple phenomenon, but that it consists of sev-
eral components. Recent work has carried us far toward under-
standing the different constituents of the corona, while, on the other
hand, spectroscopic studies have told much in detail about the ele-
ments from which originate the bright-line spectrum that makes up
a significant part of the corona’s light.

It was a mere 11 years ago that the distinguished Swedish astron-
omer Bengt Edlén first succeeded in establishing that the long-known
lines of the coronal spectrum arise from gaseous iron, nickel, and
calcium, at fantastically high temperatures. The story of the iden-
tification of these lines of the spectrum, long believed due to some
mysterious nonterrestrial element called “coronium,” is a fascinating
one, but too long for telling here.

The coronal gases described above form one of the three principal
components of the corona, but they do not explain its soft pearly-
white light. That, in turn, is not simple either. Researches of the
postwar years have succeeded in identifying it as consisting of at
least two components, the so-called “electron corona” and the “dust
corona.” One of these is not solar, in the strictest sense. The former
is made of streams of electrons in the sun’s atmosphere which are so
numerous as to scatter the brilliant sunlight that passes through them,
STORMY WEATHER ON THE SUN—W. 0. ROBERTS 169

so that even though the bright face of the sun is obscured, some of
its light is scattered toward us from the clouds of electrons near the
sun. The electrons move so fast that the well-known absorption
lines of the spectrum of sunlight are smoothed away by the Doppler
effect. Also the light scattered by the electrons is polarized, in exact
and gratifying accordance with optical theory.

The “dust corona,” on the other hand, has recently been deduced
independently by van de Hulst of Holland and Allen of Australia.
These two astrophysicists agree in attributing it to particles between
the sun and the earth. Of course, they cannot be too near the sun,
because there the particles would all be vaporized by the heat. The
dust corona, then, is not really a part of the sun at all. It is a sort
of dust halo only apparently radiating from the sun and is perfectly
symmetrical, unlike the electron corona, which exhibits pronounced
streamers in some directions and which changes in shape with changes
in solar activity as the electron streams change their density.

Measurement of the absolute brightness, the spectrum, the inten-
sity changes, the brightness in different colors, the relations of coro-
nal structure to surface features—these and many other important
scientific problems provide the incentives for eclipse research.

But eclipses are rare events, and their locations often difficult to
reach. Weather vagaries increase the hazards of eclipse observing.
On the average, less than one total eclipse a year takes place on the
earth, and even then it lasts for just a few minutes at any given loca-
tion. It is expensive and risky, however valuable, to travel to eclipses
for scientific studies.

Thus, it is no wonder that many famous astronomers have tradi-
tionally directed their efforts to observing the atmosphere of the sun
without total eclipses. The first real success came in Guntoor, India,
on August 19, 1868, when P. C. Jules Janssen, of France, the day
after a famous solar eclipse that he had gone to India to observe,
first placed the slit of a powerful spectroscope at the very edge of the
sun and looked successfully for the appearance of the lines of the
spectrum of solar prominences at the sun’s edge. Today many
observatories operate spectroheliographs that are the direct descend-
ants of Janssen’s experiment. Most notable are those at the McMath-
Hulbert Observatory in Michigan, at Mount Wilson in California,
at Greenwich in England, at Meudon in France, and at Kodaikanal
in India.

Nor is it any wonder that the success of Janssen, soon duplicated
independently by Lockyer of England, stimulated others to try to
observe the coronal spectrum by similar means. Today we know why
the corona did not yield to the same method but withheld its feeble
light from noneclipse research until the brilliant efforts of Bernard
Lyot of France were crowned with success in 1930.
170 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

Lyot invented an entirely new type of solar telescope—the Lyot
coronagraph. It permits the unwanted light from the sun’s face to
be excluded from the final viewing eyepiece or film of the telescope,
but allows the light from the corona to come through undiminished.
The photographs of solar phenomena illustrating this article are all
taken with the Lyot-type coronagraph of the High Altitude Observ-
atory of Harvard University and the University of Colorado at
Climax, Colo. Figure 1 illustrates the principles of the corona-
graph and explains in brief terms why it works. The coronagraph
is one of the most important new research instruments developed
during our century, and it ranks in importance with the classic work
of Lockyer and Janssen.

Today, scattered throughout the world, are coronagraphs of the
Lyot type. These permit their users to photograph prominences
and corona on all suitably clear days. I say “suitably” because the
standards of clarity are stringent. Coronagraphs have to be located
at high elevations in the mountains, and the slightest trace of atmos-
pheric dust or smoke blanks out their operation.

But what of the results from the operation of the instruments de-
rived from the pioneering of Janssen and of Lyot? The results make
up a major part of our knowledge of the sun and its variability.
Let me touch briefly on a few of these areas of knowledge.

First of all, perhaps, in potential practical importance for man is
our growing knowledge of the influences of the sun on the weather.
At the Smithsonian Institution, for example, pioneering work has
long gone on. Other groups as well have devoted much effort to the
problem. Not only have C. G. Abbot, H. H. Clayton, H. C. Willett,
and others worked intensively on these problems, but the more recent
work of a man-and-wife team, the Duells, has uncovered a most un-
expected direct relationship between certain outbursts of solar activ-
ity and the trend of barometric pressures at terrestrial stations. This
problem has just been made the subject of over a year of most inten-
sive study by Richard A. Craig, of the Harvard College Observatory,
working closely with us at the High Altitude Observatory. In spite
of the fact that the field of solar-terrestrial correlation studies is one
filled with pitfalls, Craig seems to have demonstrated beyond ques-
tion the reality of the fact that solar activity tends to have a direct
and statistically significant effect on terrestrial atmospheric pressure
changes.

We have long known, from the pioneering studies of A. E. Douglass
of Arizona, the relationship between tree-growth rings and sunspot
activity. In fact, the relationship now gives us one of the main meth-
ods of dating the wood of Indian pueblo ruins. The cause? Still
unknown. And, of course, the relation between sunspot activity
STORMY WEATHER ON THE SUN—W. 0. ROBERTS 71

guider lens

diaphragm A

dust. ~

cap

objective
lens

photoelectric
VY quider

field lens
occulting disk diaphragm B

35 mm

scale in feet camera

Ficure 1.—The operating principles of the coronagraph are illustrated in this schematic
diagram of the High Altitude Observatory coronagraph. Lyot, inventor of the corona-
graph, found that sunlight scattered into the image of an ordinary telescope from the
following sources rendered such telescopes useless for artificial eclipse photography:

(1) Diffraction of light from the edges of the objective lens cell.

(2) Reflection from the second face of the objective lens to the first, and then a second
reflection back into the instrument.

(3) Diffraction around dust particles and imperfections of the objective lens.

Any one of the three sources is enough, usually, to render an ordinary telescope useless
for coronal photography. The first two may be eliminated completely and simply. The
third may be reduced by employing the very highest skill in making the telescope objective
and in cleaning it. Diffraction at the edges of the objective lens can be eliminated by
placing a diaphragm (A) with a sharp edge in front of the objective, and by means of the
field lens focusing an image of this diaphragm (thus focusing the diffracted light) on
diaphragm B, just in front of the camera lens. If diaphragm B is slightly smaller than the
image of diaphragm A, all scattered light from the first source will be eliminated. The
multiple reflections from the objective form a small image of the sun very near the objective
lens. This small image, since it lies near diaphragm A, will then be focused by the field
lens at a position near diaphragm B. If a small opaque screen is placed on the camera
lens, at its center, the small solar image formed by multiple reflections will be focused
upon it by the field lens, and thus prevented from reaching the 35-mm. camera film.

In normal operation the coronagraph, thus, works as follows: The objective lens images
the sun and its corona at the position of the occulting disk; at that point the light from
the face of the sun is blocked by the occulting disk. The camera lens then images the
artificially eclipsed sun on the 35-mm. camera film. In an alternative arrangement, a
mirror located beyond the field lens can be used to direct the image into the spectrograph.
172 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

and the outbreak of “northern lights,” as well as erratic disturbances
to the aiming of delicate compasses, has been a matter of widespread
knowledge for perhaps a century or more. With the advent of radio
we have learned that the passage of a large spot group past the central
meridian of the sun generally heralds by about one day the onset of
poor long-distance radio reception. In recent years the origin of
many seemingly cyclical phenomena have been blamed on the sunspots.
Such things, for example, as business cycles and the quality of wines
have been suspected of cyclical variations in phase with the sunspot
changes. Most of these speculative suspected correlations I regard
as inadequately substantiated.

More recently we have gained undeniable evidence of a whole gamut
of new and unexpected influences of sun on earth. Theory tells us
that these new influences ought to be intimately associated with the
solar atmosphere, even though our observational studies have not yet
revealed the clues that allow us to explain what we observe. The work
of the Australian radio-scientists Pawsey, Yabsley, Payne-Scott, Wild,
and others, supplemented by work in England by Ryle, in France by
Denisse, in the United States by Reber, Burrows, Hagen, and by still
others, has indicated to us that the sun is, at times, a powerful trans-
mitter of very short-wave radio pulses, sometimes thousands of times
as powerful as we seem to be able to explain. Here is one of the most
fertile new fields of research. And it has potential significance of a
most practical sort. One scientist, Kiepenheuer of the Fraunhofer In-
stitute in Germany, even. goes so far as to speculate tentatively that
substantial effects on the rate of growth of plants and animals may
occur when the solar radiations at radio wavelengths of about 1 meter
grow abnormally intense.

The known effects on radio reception have given birth to a whole
science of radio-propagation prediction and analysis. Work of this
sort makes up one of the main tasks of the Central Radio Propagation
Laboratory of the National Bureau of Standardsin Washington. The
activity of the sun is the principal sustaining source not only of the
radio-reflecting layers so intensively studied at that laboratory but also
of the day-to-day and hour-to-hour changes in the character of those
layers predicted at the National Bureau of Standards. The sun, ac-
cording to the studies done there, behaves in a far more complex fashion
than a simple luminous sphere of gas at the established solar surface
temperature of 6,000° Kelvin. Brilliant prominences known as “solar
flares” for example, can send radiation to the earth with the velocity
of light that in turn can cause a complete blackout of long-distance
radio communications on the entire sunlit hemisphere of the earth—
the well-known “Dellinger effect” first noted by the pioneer in radio
propagation analysis, J. H. Dellinger.
STORMY WEATHER ON THE SUN—W. 0. ROBERTS 173

The coronagraph of the High Altitude Observatory has been op-
erated at Climax ever since it was first established there in 1940 by
Donald H. Menzel. This instrument has played a modest but import-
ant role in our study of thesun. For example, work conducted jointly
by Alan Shapley, then of the Department of Terrestrial Magnetism of
the Carnegie Institution of Washington, and myself in the years of the
last war, led us to uncover a new relationship between the bright re-
gions of the sun’s coronal emission as determined from spectra of the
sun’s limb (see pl. 1, fig. 2) and the behavior of magnetic storms, with
their associated aurorae, erratic compass-aiming, and the related dis-
turbances of radio communications. We found that during the years
of minimum sunspot activity, whenever a region of very bright coronal
emission passed the east edge of the sun, moved along by the 27-day ro-
tation of the sun, it tended to produce magnetic storms 2 or 3 days later.
These storms thus occurred when the coronal emission presumably re-
sponsible for the disturbance was still located in the east half of the
sun’s face. So far, we are at a loss to explain why the corona should
be in this preferred location on the sun at the time of producing its
maximum effects.

Another discovery made with the Climax coronagraph was that of
the tiny chromospheric spicules. These spicules are tiny jetlike prom-
inences of very short lifetime and very simple structure. I first noted
these tiny prominences in 1942, and found them to be most pronounced
in the regions of the poles of the sun, where the normal prominence
activity is very minor. The spicules seemed to be consistently directed
outward, along radii from the center of the sun. A typical spicule,
like that shown in plate 2, forms as a little bubble which then bursts
and jets outward to a height of perhaps 10,000 miles. The entire life-
time of a spicule lasts only something like 4 minutes on the average.
The spicules seem the only major evidence of prominence activity that
transports mechanical energy consistently in the outward direction
through the solar surface to the atmosphere of the sun. We think
that perhaps their role in the heating of the sun’s corona may be sig-
nificant. Also from the Climax coronagraph have come many thou-
sands of feet of motion-picture films of prominences. These films,
similar to the excellent pictures taken with the spectroheliograph at
the McMath-Hulbert Observatory, and taken by means of the motion-
picture technique developed by McMath, show very graphically the
violence of the behavior of the gigantic solar “storms” that charac-
terize solar “weather.” These motion-picture films, as I have already
stated, form the main body of observational material used by Menzel
in deriving his new theories for the activity of the stormy atmosphere
of the sun.
174 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

And finally, just to mention a few of the major new fields of work
with the Climax coronagraph, we are paying great attention to the
regions from which a still-unidentified line of the sun’s corona comes.
This unidentified line is the yellow coronal line at 5694 A. This is
the only major line of the coronal spectrum that is still not certainly
identified. Edlén has stated that it may be calcium in a very high
state of ionization. If Edlén’s identification is correct, it demands
the highest temperature of all the lines of the sun’s corona, up in the
millions of degrees Kelvin. But the remarkable thing that our spec-
trograms show, and that is also confirmed in the observations of Wald-
meier with the coronagraph in Switzerland, is that the yellow coronal
line is excited in close association with certain very intensely active
and rapidly moving prominences. ‘These prominences associated
with the yellow coronal line are invariably of special form known as
the “sunspot” type. It seems highly likely that the excitation of
the yellow coronal line is in some way related to the formation of the
explosive solar flares that produce instantaneous and drastic influences
on long-distance radio communications over the entire sunlit hemi-
sphere of the earth whenever they are very large. At the present time
we have a program of work under way that should lead us to definite
conclusions about this strange relationship between the sun’s corena
and the activity of its prominences. Just where this work will finally
take us we do not yet know.

For the astronomer, the basic science of the physical conditions of
the solar atmosphere is fully as interesting as the applications. And
so today a host of people work daily at the study of the temperatures,
pressures, gas densities, and other physical conditions of the sun’s
chromosphere, corona, and prominences. From their research will
come ever-expanding knowledge. No matter how improbable it may
seem today, this knowledge will rapidly find practical application
in some new activity of importance to man. If only we can stabilize
sufficiently the political affairs of our planet, we have a long and
profitable time ahead of us for the exploration of the nearest star,
our sun.
Smithsonian Report, 1951.—W. O. Roberts PLATE

1. Large eruptive prominence of June 4, 1946, photographed in hydrogen light, 6563 A
The prominence is shown rising in an enormous arch above the edge of the artificially
eclipsed sun. The immense cloud of hydrogen rose to a height of hundreds of thousands

of miles in less than 2 hours.

SPECTRUM OF WEST LIMB
l2 FEBRUARY 1947

Fe x D3 He Fe XIV
6563 A 6374A 5876 A 5303 A

PROM. COR. PROM. COR.

Sections from a spectrogram of the limb of the sun showing emissio! S
corona and of prominences. The emission spectra at the bottom of the
from an intensely disturbed region of the sun’s surface. The region displays abi

bright emission from the red coronal line (6374 A) as well as spectra trom a hig!
prominence associated with a sunspot group.
Smithsonian Report, 1951.—W. O. Roberts

Typical behavior of a single chromospheric spicule. The total lifetime is shown in pictures
1 through 9. The average spicule passes through all these stages in but 4 or 5 minutes.
A spicule usually is brightest in its early development, at about frame 4. The spicule
shown here is larger and longer-lived than average. The actual elapsed times of the
successive frames shown are, in minutes, 0, 2, 3, 5, 7, 9, 11, 13, 17.

S ? b b] ? ?
An Appraisal of Cloud Seeding as a Means

of Increasing Precipitation’

By Henry G. Houcuton

Massachusetts Institute of Technology

Tue tremendous economic implications of the artificial control of
rainfall have led to overoptimistic statements in the public press and
to ill-advised commercial applications of rain-making techniques by
persons who do not possess the necessary technical qualifications.
These events have been viewed with concern by all responsible mete-
orologists. It is unfortunate that much of the money which has been
spent by public and private agencies in an effort to increase precip-
itation in specific areas has contributed so little to our scientific under-
standing of the processes involved. Without adequate scientific
information it is impossible to determine, with any assurance, the
economic value of cloud seeding or to prescribe the most favorable
conditions and procedures.

As in the case of all scientific research, the several groups and
individuals who are working in this field have criticized one another’s
experiments and interpretations. This normal scientific interchange
has been unduly accentuated by the glare of publicity which has caused
some of those concerned to be more dogmatic than is justifiable in
view of the present incomplete information. In the view of the public
the meteorological world has been divided into believers and non-
believers. This is an unfortunate and ridiculous concept. The fact
is simply that the information at hand is not sufficient to permit an
unequivocal conclusion regarding the possibilities of the artificial
control of precipitation.

It is the purpose of this paper to assess the seeding techniques for
stimulating precipitation on the basis of present scientific information
and to point out the more significant gaps in our knowledge. The
writer has not been associated with any of the research groups in this
field but has kept himself informed through the literature and per-
sonal contact with many of the active investigators. For the sake of

1 Reprinted by permission from the Bulletin of the American Meteorological Society,
vol. 32, No. 2, February 1951.

175
176 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

brevity and continuity no specific references will be made to papers
and reports describing the results of seeding experiments. The sum-
mary of the results as required for the present discussion is well known
to most readers. Those who wish to read the original accounts are
referred to the excellent bibliography recently published (1).2 It is
not the intent of the writer to attempt to refute or support specific
claims of individuals; rather it is proposed to survey the subject as
impersonally as possible. Lack of complete information makes the
inclusion of certain personal opinions of the writer inevitable.

METHODS AND RESULTS

Modern rain making owes its origin to the discovery by Schaefer (2)
that the insertion of dry ice or any object colder than about —40° C.
into a supercooled water-drop cloud converts the cloud to ice crystals.
Later Vonnegut (3) showed that the same result could be obtained by
introducing tiny crystals of silver iodide, which are presumed to act
as sublimation nuclei because of the dimensional similarity of the
crystal lattices of silver iodide and ice. The mechanism by which dry
ice forms ice crystals is still in debate, as is the whole problem of
sublimation nuclei, but it is a demonstrable fact that either agent will
convert a supercooled cloud to an ice cloud. Knowledge of the mech-
anism of ice- crystal formation is desirable, however, for an estimate
of the number of ice crystals created by a known amount of the
nucleating agent.

The application of the nucleating agents to rain making is based on
the Bergeron-Findeisen ice-crystal theory of precipitation. Accord-
ing to this theory, all moderate to heavy precipitation is initiated by
the appearance of a few ice crystals in a supercooled cloud. By virtue
of the fact that the vapor pressure over ice is less than that over water
at temperatures below freezing, the ice crystals grow by sublimation
at the expense of the supercooled water drops. If the number of ice
crystals is very small compared to the number of water drops, the ice
crystals will become large enough to fall. After further growth by
sublimation and collision they leave the cloud as precipitation ele-
ments. It was suggested that many natural supercooled clouds do
not release precipitation because of a failure by nature to provide ice
crystals. The use of the newly discovered methods for producing
ice crystals in a supercooled cloud to initiate precipitation in such
clouds was a logical step.

The reported results of cloud-seeding experiments have been quite
diverse. Ina vast majority of the tests there has been visible evidence
of the transformation of supercooled clouds to ice crystals. It seems
safe to conclude that the occasional absence of such effects has been

2 Numbers in parentheses refer to bibliography at end of this article.
CLOUD SEEDING—HOUGHTON Hid

due to poor observing conditions or to the choice of a cloud which
either was not sufficiently supercooled or was already composed of ice
crystals. Nucleation of stratiform clouds often leads to the produc-
tion of “valleys” or “canyons” and occasionally to the formation of
holes through which the ground may be seen. Holes seem to occur
most often when the cloud deck is relatively thin. The effect of the
seeding is observed to progress laterally from the seeding line, often
reaching a width of 1 to 2 miles in 30 to 50 minutes. Precipitation
in the form of virga is a common observation, but only rarely does
any precipitation reach the surface from stratiform clouds.

The observational evidence on the effects of seeding cumulus clouds
is extremely varied. Again there is evidence that seeding converts the
supercooled portions to ice crystals, but observation is much more
difficult. It appears that some cumulus clouds dissipate when seeded,
some are little affected, and, occasionally, accelerated vertical develop-
ment results. Reports on precipitation range from none to very heavy.
It is extremely difficult to say whether the precipitation results from
seeding or from natural processes independent of the seeding. Obser-
vations made in a few cases of the elapsed time between seeding and the
appearance of the precipitation are reasonably consistent, suggesting
a cause-and-effect relationship. The data suggest that small cumulus
clouds are usually partially or completely dissipated by seeding. It
appears that the seeding of more active cumulus clouds often results in
virga or light precipitation and, vely occasionally, in heavier pre-
cipitation. Claims have been made that the seeding of large cumulus
clouds under proper conditions may lead to the development of wide-
spread precipitation. Very few cases of this type have been reported.

Langmuir (4) has suggested that “warm” clouds, in which the ice
nuclei can have no effect, may be induced to precipitate by seeding
them with water. The injected water drops grow as they fall by
colliding with the cloud drops. If the cloud is deep and wet with
strong updrafts the drops may grow to such size that they will rupture.
The broken portions might then be carried up in the updraft so that
the process would become self-sustaining. The conditions requisite
for the operation of this process are likely to be those that lead to
natural precipitation. A few tests of water seeding have been made
but results are still inconclusive. There is little question that injected
water drops will grow by collision and fall out as rain but there is
reason to doubt that the continuing process visualized by Langmuir
can operate except in clouds that are ready to release precipitation
from natural causes. Because of the lack of adequate tests of this
method and the more widespread interest in seeding with ice nuclei,
no further discussion of the water-seeding process will be undertaken
here.
178 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

ARTIFICIAL NUCLEI

Taken by itself the observational evidence, reviewed very briefly
above, does not constitute an adequate basis for a sound appraisal of
the potentialities of the cloud-seeding techniques. It is the purpose
of this paper to amplify and supplement the observational evidence
with the aid of existing knowledge of cloud physics and synoptic
meteorology. It is considered that both the laboratory and flight ex-
periments prove beyond any reasonable doubt that dry ice and silver
iodide will both convert a supercooled water cloud to an ice-crystal
cloud. The only necessary condition is that the cloud temperature be
a few degrees below the freezing point. For silver iodide, Vonnegut
(5) states that the maximum temperature is near —4° C.; dry ice has
been shown to cause ice crystals to appear at —0.7° C. (6), but the
temperature should be low enough to allow an appreciable difference
between the vapor pressures over water and ice. There is no reason to
doubt that ice crystals will grow in a supercooled cloud. The size
attained by the crystals is dependent on their number, the initial liquid
water content of the cloud, the temperature and the depth of the super-
cooled portion of the cloud. It is an essential feature of the Bergeron-
Findeisen precipitation theory that the number of ice crystals be small
compared to the number of supercooled drops; otherwise the terminal
size of the ice crystals would be of the same order as that of the cloud
drops and no precipitation would ensue. There is no satisfactory
information on the number of ice crystals produced by dry ice. The
estimate of Langmuir (7) that one pellet of dry ice forms 10’* ice
nuclei would imply concentrations of the order of 10° nuclei/cm* even
if the nuclei produced by a few pounds of dry ice were distributed
through several cubic miles of cloud. Quantitative estimates of the
number of nuclei produced by silver-iodide generators have been made,
but it is nearly impossible to estimate their concentration in the cloud
after release. Atmospheric seeding experiments have resulted in the
formation of precipitation elements with a wide range of seeding
rates. The inference is either that a much smaller number of nuclei
is formed than has been estimated or that there is a marked selective
action such that only a small fraction of the nuclei become ice crystals.
If the latter is true, the situation would be analogous to natural con-
densation in which only a small fraction of the total number of con-
densation nuclei become cloud drops. It is not intended to imply that
overseeding is impossible, but it appears that this has seldom been an
important factor in the seeding experiments which have been reported.
When dry-ice pellets are dropped the initial seeding is in a vertical
plane from which the ice crystals appear to diffuse laterally. It
would be expected that the concentration of “seeds” would be a maxi-
mum at the center and would decrease rapidly on either side. If
CLOUD SEEDING—HOUGHTON 179

overseeding occurs anywhere it should be found along the seeding line,
There is no convincing evidence of overseeding in this region.

It may be concluded that it is often possible to release some precipi-
tation from supercooled clouds by seeding them. The pertinent ques-
tion is how much precipitation can be released in this way which would
not fall from natural causes. If the answer to this in unfavorable,
it is still important to know whether the time of release of precipita-
tion and the total precipitation can be altered by seeding.

Unless the seeded cloud is replenished, the upper limit to the pre-
cipitation is determined by the total liquid water contained in a verti-
cal column through the cloud. Measurements indicate that a liquid
water content of 1 g/m is rather a high value. If all the water in a
cloud 10,000 feet deep of this water content were deposited as rain,
the total rainfall would be about one-eighth of an inch. This is
clearly an overestimate, since it is not likely that all the water could be
precipitated and some would evaporate before reaching the ground.
Most clouds would contain less water than has been assumed in this
example. It is concluded that, unless the cloud is continuously re-
plenished, the precipitation released by seeding will be very light
and the cloud will be partially or completely dissipated by the re-
moval of its water. Stratiform clouds have released practically no
precipitation when seeded, as would be expected in view of their small
total water content.

THERMODYNAMIC EFFECTS

It is next in order to consider the ways in which seeding might
stimulate the growth and replenishment of the cloud. The phase
transformation induced by the seeding releases the latent heat of fu-
sion and the latent heat of sublimation of the water vapor which
sublimes as a result of the lower equilibrium vapor pressure over
ice. The exact value of the resultant temperature rise of the air
depends on the initial temperature, the air density, and the liquid
water content, but for a typical case it is of the order of 1° C. It is
important to note that this heating occurs only in the supercooled
portion of the cloud and that the temperature rise ordinarily increases
with elevation. To be really effective the heating should occur in
the lower part of the cloud and below the cloud base. Unless there
is a temperature inversion of 1° C. or more, the heating will produce
accelerated vertical motion in the supercooled portion with a maxi-
mum near the cloud top. As a consequenee, there will be horizontal
inflow above the freezing level. It is probable that a small pressure
fall will ensue with a correspondingly small horizontal inflow into
the column below the freezing level. None of these effects will induce
additional vertical motion below the freezing level since they do not
180 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

provide buoyancy forces in the lower levels. Air cannot be “sucked”
up but must be driven up by a force applied to each element of the
air column. There will be a tendency for the supercooled portion of
the cloud to separate from the portion below the freezing level. Un-
less the environment above this level is very moist and the lapse rate
steep, it is doubtful that there will be any marked growth of the upper
portion of the cloud. If there is to be an acceleration of the cloud
development as a result of the heat released by seeding, a natural
convective circulation must be active in the lower layers. If this
natural convection has been terminated somewhere above the freezing
level by a small inversion or a slightly stable lapse rate, the heat re-
leased by seeding may extend the convective activity upward. This
requires rather special conditions. It may be remarked that a tempera-
ture rise of 1° C. in the upper portion of a cloud is not very impressive
when viewed on an adiabatic chart. The evaporation of the solid
carbon-dioxide pellets will cause the cooling of the air through which
they pass. This will cause localized subsidence, but in view of the
small amounts of carbon dioxide used this cooling will have little
effect after the first few seconds.

An effect similar to the heating discussed above will result if the
liquid water of the supercooled cloud is caused to precipitate. This
removal of mass will result in an upward accleration. It is easy to
show that the removal of 1 g of water per cubic meter will cause the
same vertical acceleration as a temperature rise of about 0.8° C. Note,
however, that the falling precipitation will impose a downward accel-
eration on the lower levels of the cloud. This downward acceleration
will increase as the precipitation elements grow in their fall through
thecloud. It is believed that this downward force of the precipitation
is partly responsible for the downdraft in a mature thunderstorm.
The convective circulation in a thunderstorm is strong enough to main-
tain an upward motion in part of the cloud in spite of the downdraft.
It is hard to see how the release of precipitation from a seeded cloud
can increase the convective circulation.

It is reasonable to conclude that seeding only rarely will stimulate
the vertical development of acloud. In the vast majority of cases dis-
sipative effects are to be expected. These conclusions seem to be borne
out by the results of cloud-seeding tests.

ARTIFICIAL VERSUS NATURAL NUCLEI

The basic premise of the method for the release of precipitation by
seeding is that there is often an insufficient number of natural nuclei of
sublimation or crystallization present in supercooled clouds to initiate
precipitation by the Bergeron-Findeisen mechanism. The regular
existence of supercooled clouds in the atmosphere supports this as-
CLOUD SEEDING—HOUGHTON 181

sumption. Present knowledge of the concentration and properties of
natural nuclei of crystallization and sublimation is incomplete. Super-
cooled clouds are much more frequent than ice-crystal clouds down to
about —10° to —15° C. At lower temperature ice-crystal clouds be-
come more and more frequent although supercooled clouds have been
reported at temperatures at least as low as —35° C. Measurements
of the number of ice crystals appearing in an expansion chamber by
Findeisen and Schultz (8) have indicated that the first crystals appear
in the neighborhood of —7° C. The number of crystals formed was
found to increase slowly as the temperature was lowered. At a tem-
perature variously reported to be from —82° to —42° C. a very large
increase in the number of crystals occurs. Thus, this experimental
evidence is in general accordance with the observed temperature distri-
bution of supercooled clouds. The nuclei introduced by seeding are
active at temperatures of about —5° C. and below. It is well to point
out here that it is not at all certain that ice crystals are a necessary pre-
requisite for natural precipitation. Moderate rain often falls from
tropical clouds that do not extend to the freezing level. The mech-
anism responsible for such precipitation presumably can operate also
in a supercooled cloud although the ice-crystal mechanism is more
effective if the ice crystals are present.

The vertical development of convective clouds is often terminated
by an inversion. If the temperature at the top of such a cloud were
below —5° C. but still not low enough to activate the natural ice nuclei,
seeding might release rain that otherwise would not fall. From the
prior discussion it is evident that the precipitation could be substantial
only if the cloud were also deep and in active development. This is
the most interesting case considered so far. It is difficult to estimate
the frequency of occurrence of the requisite combination of conditions
from the data that are available. Certainly many convective clouds
are topped by inversions at a temperature level of between, say, —5°
and —20° C. but how many of them remain in active development after
they reach the inversion and in how many cases is there a lack of natu-
ral freezing nuclei? Even though it might not be possible to secure
data on the freezing nuclei, a well-designed observational program
should help to answer these questions.

It is of interest to consider whether continuous seeding would be
required to maintain precipitation in the case discussed above. It
has been suggested that when snow crystals are once formed they shed
tiny splinters as they fall, which then serve as very effective sublima-
tion nuclei. If this happens, the process would tend to be self-per-
petuating, after the initial seeding, as long as the circulation was such
as to carry the splinters into the updrafts. Information on splinter-
ing is very incomplete and no definite conclusions can be drawn. It
182 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

seems probable that the effectiveness of this process depends on the
form of the snow crystals; the dendritic (feathery) type would ap-
pear to be a much better source of splinters than the columnar and
tabular forms. It has been stated that natural snow often appears to
fall from below the —10° C. level, thus suggesting that something like
the splintering process is active. A more careful study of this might
yield some useful clues, particularly if samples of the snow crystals
could be obtained. If splintering does not occur, continuous seeding
would be required.

SEEDING OF PRECIPITATING CLOUDS

It is next in order to consider the possibility that seeding will alter
the timing or the total amount of precipitation that falls from a
cloud which is about to release precipitation from natural causes.
It is almost impossible to answer this by means of individual seeding
experiments. An objective answer might be obtained by seeding all
potential rain clouds over a well-defined area for a long period of
time (a year or more) and then comparing the precipitation in the
area to that in similar control areas. Even here, there are pitfalls
and the experiment should be very carefully designed in advance by
a competent statistician-meteorologist team.

Evidence has been presented above that the activation temperatures
of the artificially introduced ice nuclei are higher than those of most
of the natural ice nuclei. If an active cloud, which is about to release
precipitation by natural processes, is seeded, the onset of precipitation
may be advanced by the time interval which would be required for
the cloud to grow from the temperature level corresponding to the
activation of the artificial seeds to that of the natural ice nuclei. The
vertical distance between these levels might be of the order of 2 km.
The corresponding time interval might range from say 20 minutes
for an active cumulus to a few hours for frontal cloud systems. This
might provide a means for increasing the precipitation in a selected
area from a given cloud even though the total precipitation from the
cloud were not changed. The net increase of precipitation in a given
area from a large number of clouds would be small because only a
few of them would be in the proper stage of development as they
approached the area. It is possible that the seeding would decrease
the precipitation from the cloud by causing the precipitation elements
to form at a lower level, thus decreasing the total water condensed in
the cloud. It may be concluded that although the time of precipita-
tion may be advanced it would be difficult to obtain any practical ad-
vantage from this prospect except under very special circumstances.

Because of inadequate knowledge of natural precipitation processes
it is not possible to make an unequivocal statement as to whether or
CLOUD SEEDING—HOUGHTON 183

not it is possible to increase the rainfall from a precipitating cloud
by seeding it. Precipitation requires vertical motion and the conse-
quent condensation of water vapor followed by a process which con-
verts the condensed water vapor into larger elements which can fall to
to the ground. A “precipitation efficiency” might be defined as the
ratio of the rainfall to the mass of water vapor in the rising current.
An efficiency of 100 percent could be achieved only if all the water
vapor were condensed and all the condensate were converted to pre-
cipitation. The “precipitation efficiency” can be considered as the
product of a “condensation efficiency” and the efficiency with which
the condensate is converted to precipitation elements. The condensa-
tion efficiency is determined primarily by how far the water vapor
is lifted. The efficiency of conversion of the condensate to precipita-
tion depends on the temperature at which the ice nuclei operate and
on their number. The condensate which is not converted to precipi-
tation finds its way into the downward circulation required by con-
tinuity and is evaporated. Seeding provides ice nuclei which are
active at a lower elevation (higher temperature) than the natural
ice nuclei. If there is an insufficient number of natural ice nuclei
which are active at or above the lowest temperature in the cloud,
seeding might increase the precipitation by reducing the amount of
condensate which would otherwise be lost in the descending branch
of the circulation (increase in the efficiency or conversion). On
the other hand, if there is a sufficient number of natural ice nuclei
which are active at temperatures found within the cloud, seeding
may reduce the precipitation by causing the precipitation mechanism
to operate at a lower level in the cloud where less of the water vapor
will have been condensed (decrease of the condensation efficiency).
Finally, if the splintering mechanism is a regular and effective natural
means of nucleating clouds once precipitation has started, seeding
will have no effect since splinters of ice are the best possible ice nuclei.
Lack of knowledge on the number and type of natural ice nuclei and
on the importance of the splintering effect leaves the answer in doubt.
It is the opinion of the writer that a significant fraction of the con-
densed cloud water is often lost by evaporation in the downward
branches of the circulation. If true, this suggests that the precipi-
tation. can be increased by seeding if the proper number of nuclei
can be introduced in the right place.

It has been suggested that silver-iodide nuclei may be effective at
a considerable distance from the point of release. ‘There is no doubt
that the particles can be transported for considerable distances by
the winds. The particles will diffuse laterally and vertically, thus
infecting an increasing volume of air with a corresponding decrease in
concentration. It is not known with certainty how long the silver-

9814455218
184 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

iodide particles will retain their nucleating ability. The chance
that the nuclei will encounter the proper conditions is evidently
increased by permitting them to diffuse and cover considerable areas.
On the other hand, this makes the task of assessing the results exceed-
ingly difficult. There is little to gain from this technique at least
until more adequate information is available on the effects of seeding
individual clouds under carefully determined meteorological condi-

tions.
LARGE-SCALE EFFECTS

The general conclusion reached so far is that seeding may induce
significant amounts of precipitation only under rather special con-
ditions which are very close to or identical with those that lead to
natural precipitation. Suppose that these conditions are met and
the cloud or clouds are seeded. Under the most ideal conditions the
seeding may result in enhanced convective activity and the release
of precipitation. The amount of precipitation is limited by the
large-scale horizontal transport of water vapor into the area. This
can be increased only by the creation or intensification of a circulation
the size of a cyclone. There is no evidence that local convective ac-
tivity will lead to cyclogenesis. In fact, widespread convective
activity often breaks out in an area characterized by flat pressure
gradients without any subsequent effect on the pressure distribution.
Tt must be admitted that knowledge of the causes and mechanism of
cyclogenesis is incomplete but there is evidence that changes in the
upper troposphere and stratosphere are important. It is difficult
to imagine any influence of seeding at these heights. This is con-
sistent with other evidence which strongly suggests that the location
of cyclogenetical areas is largely determined by the large-scale hemi-
spheric circulation patterns rather than by local effects. If seeding
increases the amount of precipitation it will also result in a proportion-
ate increase in the latent heat released. If a substantial increase in
precipitation could be produced over a large area the latent energy
released would doubtless have an effect on the circulation pattern
though not necessarily in the region of increased rainfall. Natural
precipitation anomalies are much larger than those which might
conceivably be produced by seeding, but even in such cases the effect
of the release of latent energy on the circulation is not clear. In
any discussion of a net increase of rainfall over large areas it is im-
portant to remember that precipitation is only one segment of the
hydrologic cycle. An increase in rainfall requires increased evapo-
ration and a greater transport of water vapor. It may be concluded
that there is little prospect that cloud seeding will produce large-
scale effects in the atmosphere.
CLOUD SEEDING—HOUGHTON 185

The hope that large-scale effects might result from seeding is based
in part on the assumption that large segments of the atmosphere are
often in a metastable condition such that a small impulse will suffice
to release the instability. A logical corollary of this theory is that
the point at which the activity will start spontaneously is indetermi-

nate, but that a small artificial impulse may be sufficient to initiate
the release of the instability at a predetermined point. If this princi-
ple of indeterminancy i is correct, it sets a basic limit on the precision
with which it is possible to eben weather. Most meteorologists
will agree that this principle often seems to hold in the development of
such small-scale phenomena as thunderstorms and tornadoes. This
may be due, of course, to the fact that the scale of these phenomena
is small compared to the spacing of the observations. In the case of
large-scale phenomena there is no real evidence in favor of the inde-
terminancy principle. To be sure, many errors are made in forecasts,
but these appear to be explicable in retrospect when adequate data
are available. The motion of such disturbances seems to be contin-
uous without the erratic behavior to be expected from the indetermi-
nancy principle. Studies of the motion and development of cyclones
strongly suggests a dependence on the large-scale fields of motion
and temperature. These large-scale variations appear to be of much
more importance than any small-scale, accidental differences.

SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS

The principal conclusions reached in this paper may be summa-
rized as follows:

1. Seeding of supercooled clouds with dry ice or silver iodide will
convert the clouds to ice-crystal clouds if the temperature is below
about —5°C.

2. Seeding of an inactive cloud will not induce an important
amount of precipitation.

3. Seeding a cloud will not accelerate the growth of the cloud
unless there is active vertical motion below the freezing level and
the environment above the freezing level is moist and only slightly
stable. Partial or complete dissipation is more likely due to the
lifting-off and drying-out of the top of the cloud and the downward
force exerted by the falling hydrometeors.

4. Seeding of an active cloud which does not quite reach the
activation temperature of the natural ice nuclei may release useful
precipitation.

5. It appears possible to advance the onset of precipitation from
a cloud that is about to precipitate from natural causes by seeding it.

6. The possibility of increasing precipitation initiated by natural
processes by seeding cannot be determined because of incomplete
186 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

information about natural precipitation processes. There is at
least some possibility that the precipitation can be increased in cer-
tain cases.

7. The conditions under which it appears possible that seeding
might cause, or increase, precipitation are almost or exactly the
same as those required for the natural release of precipitation.

8. Inasmuch as the most favorable conditions for the augmenta-
tion of precipitation by seeding are almost or exactly the same as
those requisite for natural precipitation, definitive results cannot
be expected from isolated seeding experiments.

9. On the basis of present physical knowledge and synoptic ex-
perience there appears to be no prospect that large-scale effects can
be produced by seeding.

In view of the above conclusions it is considered that attempts at
the practical application of cloud-seeding techniques: to increase nat-
ural rainfall are premature. The entire problem is still in the
research stage, and any funds available should be devoted to research
on the basic mechanisms involved. Useful research results cannot be
expected from personnel without extensive training and experience
in cloud physics and synoptic meteorology.

It is the opinion of the writer that not enough attention has been
paid to the meteorological factors in most of the past cloud-seeding
experiments. It is believed that this omission is in large part respon-
sible for some of the diametrically opposed conclusions of certain
workers in this field.

There are two general approaches to further research in this field:
full-scale experimentation with a properly designed experimental
plan and adequate meteorological data; and detailed studies of cloud
physics, both in the laboratory and in the free atmosphere. If
possible, both approaches should be prosecuted simultaneously. The
second plan is less expensive than the first and promises more funda-
mental results. However, the full-scale experimental trials must be
made in the end since a complete knowledge of cloud physics would
still leave out some important meteorological factors.

In some quarters it is argued that cloud seeding has been a failure
and that further experimentation is unwarranted in view of the high
cost. It must be admitted that the high hopes of weather control
proclaimed by the popular press have not been realized. Nevertheless,
the demonstration that several cubic miles of supercooled cloud can be
converted to ice crystals with a few ounces or pounds of suitable
material is extremely spectacular in the light of previous efforts to
control meteorological processes. This should be sufficient to stim-
ulate further investigation. It is quite possible that further funda-
mental discoveries lie ahead which will not be uncovered unless the
CLOUD SEEDING—HOUGHTON 187

research is allowed to proceed. It is indeed unfortunate that public-
ity and argument have clouded the immediate issue, but this must
not be allowed to obscure the long-range scientific view.

i;

a)

REFERENCES

METEOROLOGICAL ABSTRACTS AND BIBLIOGRAPHY.
1950. Vol. 1, pp. 175-205. (The most important papers listed therein appear
to be: C-121, C-122, C-129, C-131, C-140, C-147, C-148, C-149,
C-150, C-161, C-165, C-171, C-172, C-178, C-176, C-183, C—189,
C-190, C-196, and C—204.)

. SCHAEFER, V. J.

1946. The production of ice crystals in a cloud of supercooled water drop-
lets. Science, vol. 104, pp. 457-459, Nov. 15.

. VONNEGUT, B.

1947. The nucleation of ice formation by silver iodide. Journ. Appl. Phys.,
vol. 18, pp. 598-595, July.

. LANGMUIR, I.

1948. The production of rain by a chain reaction in cumulus clouds at tem-
peratures above freezing. Journ. Meteorol., vol. 5, pp. 175-192,
October.

. VONNEGUT, B.

1950. Experiments with silver iodide smokes in the natural atmosphere.
Bull. Amer. Meteorol. Soc., vol. 31, pp.151-157, May.

. Squizes, P., and SMITH, EH. J.

1949. The artificial stimulation of precipitation by means of dry ice. Aus-
tralian Journ. Sci. Res., A. Phys. Sci., vol. 2, pp. 2382-245.

. LANGMuUiR, I.

1946. Memorandum on introduction of ice nuclei into clouds. General
Electric Res. Lab., Schenectady, N. Y., Aug. 16.

. FINDEISEN, W., and ScHULTZ, G.

1944, Experimentelle Untersuchungen tiber die atmosphirische Histeilchen-
bildung I. Forsch. u. Erfarhrb. Reichs. Wetterd., Ser. A, No. 27,
Berlin.
eo

. Pas oui tots } “7 nds
Maght tna wi rulkaseg.

Ce a, thowe rep hays

pon rabercsis 7 er rit, fae ae bb

pace per ica extonsiv econ ad arrprenitedt
are RHA vache hapa OE |

i wm tha pay Uy r

eeaaitae ee he, . ‘lite RAL E Ie in
: ieee her. Sard of bbe Geomtealty coe A pose

ison ool to
| Be ta oer re REPOS

stil? leavin dg tronic
‘he Beaig neshiopuay is aaaaey re

<-eigad, bia ein hin? ae
CPR, TH: eae Deas Saat ol
On Einstein’s New Theory’

By Leopoup INFELD

Physics Institute, Warsaw, Poland

In 1905, when our century was still young, Einstein was 26 and
a clerk in the Swiss patent office. In that year he wrote a paper
that changed the face of science. It contained the basic ideas of
Special Relativity Theory and revolutionized the concepts of space
and time. Einstein was the first man on our planet to deduce the
relation between mass and energy—a simple but fundamental relation
that, 40 years later, led to the discovery and utilization of atomic
energy. Thus, 45 years ago, the first Einstein revolution in science
was accomplished.

If Einstein had done nothing since then, his name would live for
centuries in the history of science. Yet only 10 years later, around
1915, Einstein finished his work on General Relativity Theory. Here,
for the first time since Newton, a new theory of gravitation was formu-
lated. This theory explains how the earth attracts the moon, how the
planets move around each other; it explains the structure of our
universe. As a logical system, Einstein’s theory of gravitation is
superior to Newton’s old theory. Whenever the conclusions of New-
ton’s and Einstein’s theories differ, observation—the supreme judge
of all physical theories—seems to favor Einstein’s. Thus, 35 years
ago, the second Einstein revolution in science was accomplished.

The characteristic feature of Einstein’s genius is his complete in-
dependence of mind. He accepts no man’s dogma; he thinks for
himself, always and about everything. From 1918 to 1949, for over
30 years, he has worked on one of the deepest and most diflicult
problems in science: to find a theory that would embrace the large-
scale phenomena (as his old theory of gravitation did) and, at the
same time, the small-scale phenomena concerning the elementary
particles of which atoms are built. Many scientists believed (and
still believe) that so ambitious a plan can never be realized—that the

1 Reprinted by permission from the American Scholar, Autumn 1950. At the time this
article was written Dr. Infeld was Professor of Applied Mathematics at the University
of Toronto.

189
190 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

laws that govern the suns and the nebulae are different from those
that govern the electrons in the atom, that no unifying principle
embracing both is, or ever will be, possible. Yet on this very problem,
Einstein has thought incessantly, finding solutions and rejecting them
because they did not satisfy his high standards of logical simplicity
and beauty. While discussing a theory, Einstein would often re-
mark to me: “Could God have created the world this way?” A good
physical theory, Einstein feels, must reflect the beauty and the glory
of the universe.

In 1949, Einstein was 70 years old. In this year, he believes, he
found the solution for which he strove for 30 years. The results of
his last two decisive steps appeared, one in the Canadian Journal of
Mathematics (published for the Canadian Mathematical Congress
by the University of Toronto Press), the other in a third edition of
“The Meaning of Relativity” (published by the Princeton University
Press).

Did Einstein solve the great problem of finding one law for the
large- and small-scale phenomena? It may be a Jong time before
mathematical analysis and observation pronounce their verdict—
before we find the treasures hidden in Einstein’s new equations. No
one yet knows whether the third Einstein revolution in science has
been accomplished.

THE ELECTROMAGNETIC FIELD

To understand, even in general terms, the problem on which Ein-
stein has worked for 30 years, we must go back to the nineteenth
century, to the times of James Clerk Maxwell, who was the first to
create a successful field theory.

From the broadcasting antenna to my radio receiver, the radio
wave—that is, the electromagnetic wave—spreads with the velocity
of light. From the atoms in a neon tube to my eye, optical rays—
that is, an electromagnetic wave—spread with the velocity of light.
Radio and optical waves are governed by the same laws, expressed
by Maxwell’s equations. They tell us how the electromagnetic wave,
or, as we say nowadays, the electromagnetic field, changes in space
and time and what its physical properties are. Maxwell’s theory is
a field theory because it considers changes in time and in our three-
dimensional space. It is very different from a mechanical theory
that deals with such problems as the motion of the moon around the
earth. In a mechanical theory, the particles and their motion are
important; in a field theory, the important factors are changes of a
field in space and time.

If we analyze a piece of gossip we may be interested in the speed
with which this gossip spreads and how far it penetrates. ‘These
EINSTEIN’S NEW THEORY—INFELD 191

would be the “field” aspects of the “gossip phenomenon.” On the
other hand, we may be interested in the men who carry the gossip and
in the mechanics of their actions. These would be the “mechanical”
aspects of the gossip phenomenon.

Yet, in describing the electromagnetic phenomena in the nineteenth
and early twentieth centuries, we did not use the field concepts alone.
Electrons—that is, negatively charged particles—produce an electro-
magnetic field while in motion. Thus, in Maxwell’s theory, and later
in Lorentz’s theory, we still find a mixture of the field and particle
aspects. Particles (electrons) move in an electromagnetic field and
influence the field by their motion. Yet it is the field aspect that is
the new and predominant feature of Maxwell’s theory.

The electromagnetic field is characterized at each point of space by
two arrows or vectors. One of these represents the electric field, the
other the magnetic field. But an arrow can be described by its three
projections upon three mutually perpendicular axes. (An arrow in
a plane is characterized by two projections, in a three-dimensional
space by three.) Thus the field at each point (remember that there are
two arrows) is represented by six numbers, three denoting the electric
and three denoting the magnetic field. These numbers change from
one point to another. These two arrows, and therefore the six num-
bers, change at the same point from one moment to another. Max-
well’s equations tell us the laws of this change. Or: the electro-
magnetic field is characterized by six functions of space and time.
Maxwell’s equations tell us how these functions change in space and
time.

THE GRAVITATIONAL FIELD

We can now characterize in general terms at least one aspect of
Einstein’s second revolution: it did for gravitational phenomena
what Maxwell’s theory did for electromagnetic phenomena.

Newton’s theory of gravitation follows the mechanical pattern.
Particles (moon, earth) are attracted by other particles (earth, sun).
In it there is no place for the concept of field, the scenery of which is
all of space. There is no place for a gravitational field spreading
through space in time.

Einstein’s theory of gravitation is not an improved version of New-
ton’s theory; it is an entirely new theory based upon new assumptions,
logically more satisfactory than those of Newton. Yet, the results,
which can be tested by observation, are very similar in the two theories.
There is a great area of agreement and a small area of disagreement.
The most famous new phenomenon, predicted by Einstein’s theory
only, is that of light rays bending while passing near the edge of the
sun. Indeed, it was this phenomenon, discovered during a solar
192 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

eclipse, when one can see stars near the darkened sun, that started the
great fame of the Relativity Theory and its creator. Another dif-
ference between the two theories concerns the motion of planets around
thesun. The discrepancy between results deduced by the two theories
is small, yet detectable in the case of Mercury, the planet nearest the
sun. Whenever such disagreement exists, and whenever experiment
can pronounce its verdict, it seems (to put it cautiously) to favor Ein-
stein’s theory of gravitation. But the importance of Einstein’s
achievement lies rather in the beauty and simplicity of his theory
than in the discovery of new phenomena.

The gravitational field in Einstein’s theory is characterized by
10 functions changing in space and time. They play a role similar
to that of the six functions in Maxwell’s theory. Einstein’s gravi-
tational equations tell us how these functions change in space and
time. '

We remember that in the electromagnetic theory, we have a mixture
of field and particle concepts. The field is produced by the electrons
and their motion. Similarly, in Einstein’s original theory, the gravi-
tational field is produced by the bodies (stars and nebulae) and their
motion. Thus, comparing Maxwell’s and Einstein’s theories, we have
the following analogy:

Electromagnetic field — Gravitational field
Charged particles ==, Gravitational masses
Motion of charged particles - Motion of gravitational masses

Our analogy is not complete, and in some respects even misleading.
We must now mention one novel feature of Einstein’s field equations.
The appearance of any form of energy is accompanied by a gravi-
tational field. The gravitational field is influenced not only by the
moving gravitational masses but also by the electromagnetic field
itself, because such a field represents energy. ‘Thus the sources of a
gravitational field lie in moving masses, in moving charges, and in
the electromagnetic field. A pure gravitational field can exist without
an electromagnetic field. But a pure electromagnetic field cannot
exist without a gravitational field.

PHYSICS AND GEOMETRY

Let us now adopt the view of 1920 (when the structure of Rela-
tivity Theory was finished), without which we cannot understand
what happened later. We see one essential difference between the
gravitational and the electromagnetic field: the gravitational field
is a geometrical field ; the electromagnetic field is a physical field.

The understanding of the gravitational field as a geometric field
is the result of one of the greatest and most revolutionary ideas that
EINSTEIN'S NEW THEORY—INFELD 193

ever entered physics. It is impossible to grasp the importance of
Kinstein’s achievement without being aware of this point. We know
the properties of a Euclidean space from our high-school days:
through a point outside a line, we can draw one, and only one, line
parallel to the given one. But since the nineteenth century we know
that Euclidean geometry is only one of the many possible geometries.
The simplest case of a non-Euclidean geometry would be, for example,
the one experienced by two-dimensional creatures living on the surface
of asphere. They would find that a journey “straight ahead” (that
is, along a great circle for you) leads them to their point of departure;
that the ratio of the circumference of a circle to its diameter is smaller
than 7x.

The background of our physical events is a four-dimensional world.
There is nothing mysterious about it. Every event, like the death
of Julius Caesar, is characterized by the “place” and time in which
it took place. The “place” of an event is characterized by three num-
bers; hence, together with time, we have four. The totality of all
possible events forms one four-dimensional world. All this has been
known and successfully applied since 1908 when the great mathe-
matician H. Minkowski gave the beautiful four-dimensional mathe-
matical form to Einstein’s Special Relativity Theory.

Yet General Relativity Theory goes one important step farther.
We ask: Is our four-dimensional world flat, like the plane in two
dimensions? Or is it curved, like a curved surface of two dimensions?
The difficulty with these questions is that, whereas we can easily
visualize a two-dimensional flat or curved space, it is difficult to do
so if the space is four-dimensional. But where our intuition stops,
mathematics does not. Even before Einstein’s time, the mathematics
describing many-dimensional curved space was known, though it
developed fully only under the impetus of relativity. The develop-
ment of this branch of mathematics is connected with the names of
Gauss, Lobachevski, Bolyai, Riemann, Ricci, Levi-Civita, and others.
Let us say here only that a four-dimensional space is characterized
by 10 functions; that, once we know these functions, we know the
geometry of such a space; we know whether such a space is curved
and how its geometry changes from point to point.

In my room I ean characterize the position of the end of my pencil
by quoting its distances from the ceiling and two perpendicular walls.
Or, generally, the position of a point is designated by three numbers
in a given coordinate system. In a town, the names of streets and
house numbers form two coordinates denoting with sufficient accuracy
the positions of its inhabitants on a piece of a surface (at least when
they stay at home). Similarly, in our four-dimensional world of
events, we must have a coordinate system so as to name the four
194 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

coordinate numbers that denote an event. But besides these, we need
10 functions that tell us whether the world we describe (in a given
but arbitrary coordinate system) is flat or not flat, or, as we often
say, Euclidean or Riemannian.

We can now formulate Einstein’s great and new idea: The 10 func-
tions that characterize the geometry of our four-dimensional world
are the same 10 functions that characterize the gravitational field.
A world without masses, without electrons, without an electromagnetic
field, isan empty world. Such an empty world is flat. But if masses
appear, if charged particles appear, if an electromagnetic field ap-
pears, then a gravitational field appears too. If the gravitational
field appears, then our world becomes curved. Its geometry is
Riemannian—that is, non-Euclidean.

Thus the same 10 functions characterize the metric and the gravi-
tational field. The word “metric” indicates the connection between
these 10 functions and the geometry of our world. The word “grav-
itational” indicates that the same 10 functions describe the gravita-
tional phenomena of our world. The fact that we can use either or
both of these words indicates that the physical gravitational field
has its geometric counterpart. Physics—as far as the gravitational
field is concerned—is reflected as geometry. The geometry of our
world and the gravitational field are shaped, formed, by moving
masses, moving electric charges, and by the electromagnetic field.
Thus the connection

Physics «<— Geometry

exists only for the gravitational field. We repeat: The gravitational
field is a geometric field too; the electromagnetic field is a purely
physical field.

About 1920, General Relativity Theory presented a curious mixture
of geometry and physics. To understand Einstein’s later endeavors,
we must understand his reason for dissatisfaction with the structure
of field theories as they were then known. Thus, in Maxwell’s
equations we have:

Given: Charges and their motion
Unknown: The electromagnetic field
In Einstein’s relativity theory, we have:

Given: Masses and their motion
Unknown: The gravitational or metrical field

In relativity theory, the given and unknown form a strange mixture.
Mass, energy has no geometrical counterpart. But the field has!

THE TWO SINS

General Relativity Theory was born because of Einstein’s dissat-
isfaction with the classical theory of gravitation. The new theory was
EINSTEIN’S NEW THEORY—INFELD 195

born because of his dissatisfaction with General Relativity Theory,
a weak point of which was the artificial mixture of geometric and
physical concepts. But another weak point is perhaps still more
important. Both the electromagnetic and the gravitational theories
are dualistic theories. In both of these theories, we have sources of
the field (charges, particles) and the field itself. Thus we see in both
theories a mixture of two concepts: matter and field. It would be
philosophically much more satisfactory if we were able to build a
unitary theory based on only one of these concepts. The triumphs
of field theory were too great to allow us to abandon the field concept.
Hence, Einstein’s aim was to build a pure field theory. In such a
theory we would have only field concepts and equations of the field.

But we could argue: How can we be satisfied with field equations
alone? We know that matter is as real as the stone on which we
stumble. The supporter of the unitary field view would say that the
existence of what is known as matter should be deduced from the field
equations alone. What is regarded as matter is situated in regions in
which the field is especially strong. Motion of matter means that the
regions in which the field is especially strong change with time.
Hence, a resting electron has to be represented in a unitary eleetro-
magnetic theory by a small region, inside which the field is very strong,
and outside which it dies out quickly. Such a region, with a strong
but finite field, represents concentrated energy—that is, matter.

A good field theory describes and interprets matter in terms of strong
fields. Hence, from the point of view of logical simplicity, great prog-
ress would be achieved if both Maxwell’s theory and General Relativ-
ity Theory were to change into a pure field theory. Such a theory
would deal only with the concepts of the electromagnetic field, charac-
terized by 6 functions, and of the gravitational field, characterized
by 10 functions. But the laws of these fields would have to be changed.
Unlike Maxwell’s theory and General Relativity Theory, such new
theories would have to admit solutions representing matter. The old
theories failed to do that.

But even if we were to succeed in formulating a pure field theory,
such a theory would still be tainted with another fault. We saw, in
the old theories, that the gravitational field was a geometrical field too,
but the electromagnetic field was a purely physical field. ‘This divi-
sion is again artificial, and, according to Einstein, a satisfactory theory
ought to have the following features:

1. It ought to be a pure field theory.

2. In it, electromagnetic and gravitational fields ought to be treated
on the same footing—that is, both should characterize the geometry
of our universe.
196 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

So Einstein tried to remove the fault of a double dualism from our
theories; the dualism of field-matter and the dualism of physics-geom-
etry—that is, the dualism of electromagnetic versus gravitational field.
He believed that a search for a simple geometry of our universe, but
more general than that of Riemannian geometry, would lead us to pure
field equations that describe electromagnetic and gravitational phenom-
ena. More than that, such a theory, if successful, should disclose to us
the properties of elementary particles from which atoms are built, and
at the same time explain the motion of planets, stars, and galaxies.

THE END OF THE SEARCH?

Einstein believes that he may have solved this great problem. In-
deed, his new theory is fully a unitary theory. In it only the field
appears, no sources of the field. The existence of matter will have to
be deduced from the field equations by finding solutions that repre-
sent great concentrations of the field. The new theory is a purely
geometrical theory. Whereas the electromagnetic field is character-
ized, in Maxwell’s theory, by 6 functions; whereas the gravitational
field is characterized in Einstein’s old theory by 10 functions—in the
new theory, the metrical field is characterized by 16 (10+6) func-
tions. To put this in technical language: the electromagnetic field
is characterized by an antisymmetric tensor with 6 components, the
gravitational field by a symmetric tensor with 10 components, and
the geometry of the new Einstein world by a general tensor of the
second order with 16 (6+10) components.

In General Relativity Theory, the Einstein field equations char-
acterized the Riemannian geometry of our world. But the geometry
of our world, according to Einstein’s new theory, is a non-Rieman-
nian geometry, and Einstein’s new field equations characterize this
new non-Riemannian geometry of our world. Every concept that
appears in the new theory has its geometrical image. The distinc-
tion between purely physical concepts and those with a geometrical
interpretation is gone. The distinction between matter and field is
gone too. There is only the field that is both geometrical and physical.
There are only the field equations that represent the geometry of
our world and the laws of physics.

THE TEST OF THE NEW THEORY

For weak fields, we regain from the new theory the laws of the
old theories—that is, Maxwell’s and the gravitational equations. This
must be so, because every new theory must explain the phenomena
that the abandoned theory explained. As always, so here, the dis-
carded theory appears as a first approximation to the new one.
EINSTEIN’S NEW THEORY—INFELD 197

Although Einstein’s new theory has many attractive features, we
do not yet know whether it is a successful unitary field theory; we do
not know whether it contains solutions that can be interpreted as
elementary particles. We know that the old Maxwell and Einstein
theories did not give solutions of field equations that could be re-
garded as particles. In the old theories, the existence of matter had
to be assumed independently. Will the new theory succeed where
the old theories failed? This is a crucial question, and we do not as
yet know the answer.

But the situation is still more complicated. The modern develop-
ment of physics concerns quantum laws which are valid inside the
atom. It is not clear whether, and in what way, such laws could be
deduced from Einstein’s field theory. Yet one should not be too
skeptical. Ejinstein’s work has always met temporarily with skep-
ticism because his genius was ahead of his times. This happened
twice, and it may have happened again at the turn of our half-
century.
reo coty aid Pir ioc homer tt
fe atin oat! plone he an ear ae Oe inelat Jey
lymmos oont [ile ai woitentie odt dug
sek Hide kimonos adiaydg to Jugot
ve Ribas modtody, inaly Joa ee dh, ass.
ay; Oh NMifgeds bhai, ssvio rat spk: Les heb
waufisanrgsaa’, Yoox ecavrla, send. nove. aiateuil *: Snotiqnde
f, (aint aid So. basa, any exisiog atch aempned dempnly
Apc, ediaeheehtthaaiel gamut, Rati ths hie cra
. ‘pspiay ~ W ktipoas the evr ede, Fatis a is
at Manwall: SREY, a he oy LOI wer Pee cianss of beet, rane <onn)
Breer one pre! 3 A Dilber wih hacdly by 0 Davia ine
qiwe theta, thiy’ patsont hele peewee ke Fup, AAs: 8) dios
bors, The pais this La. Perganton tbat rags nee aboot neatietia: Rell”
is. rhmrauieeion! tw en. anyway lean, wish -5 sompanentit ‘the
greviniionuy: Soke Bey: a Syren ie fealoads tgs LE "Seven Coens, aid
Rie petty <f che pow Rinsieig: World yy. s peueral ‘tenner ofthe
penal wiles Watts: TE, (4 + 18) raion
Sar Chenere) Batelivity. Pheory, the inate: Ble nguptions chat
BEN bin aniston Bebrqoiey af jus wiatd, . vd the eeotietry
Cee Pen Wott, Brewing to Beaton’ pow thoyty tea nde ieee
Rie pavineisy, aad Tanabein’s pew fet! equavenn: shateceerige tie
scale Rit Rive : grainy. of, ggte erord, Every vondeph thay
potas in the née. theorec bag ita cwrnnirical jniage. Ths apatite
~ Hetween purely picysies) consbpte dad thoes. witha yponteesh
Scart ti gowis. The distingined hatween mbites an alae
souk toon | Thay ony the fell thot iw boUngeninebricnd wn ptypmleny, |
Phete ake baly the. fehd jequatinna ma thas Didier ie iss hetiaber i On
Tana uel A plicit. | nah

ne a Paci Paar OM wey, eine stow wid eo

| as a oe eae
© oy Sia arebaganmagebrettafas >: ts .

Some Results in the Field of High-Pressure
Physics’

By P. W. BripcmMan

Department of Physics, Harvard University

In ruts article I shall describe some of the physical phenomena that
are produced in various materials when exposed to high hydrostatic
pressures. Pressure is not usually thought of as having any impor-
tant effect on the properties of materials, and indeed under the ordi-
nary conditions in which human beings live it does not. The effect
of temperature is usually far more important for us, for temperature
changes may produce such important results as the conversion of ordi-
nary liquid water to solid ice or gaseous steam. One reason for the
comparative unimportance of pressure is that the variations of pres-
sure that we can easily produce are, so far as the molecules are con-
cerned, not large. Under pressures that are large for the molecules,
changes may be produced quite as drastic as those brought about by
changes of temperature. For example, water may not only be frozen
solid by the application of pressure alone, but pressure is capable of
producing seven different kinds of ice, something that mere alteration
of temperature is unable to accomplish.

The pressures that are large enough to affect molecules are in gene-
ral of the order of thousands of atmospheres, and it is with such pres-
sures that we shall be concerned here. To set the scale, a thousand
atmospheres, or some 15,000 pounds per square inch, is approximately
the pressure at the deepest part of the ocean, produced by a column
of water 6 miles high. Two thousand atmospheres is approximately
the pressure in the explosion chamber of a large gun. From the cos-
mic point of view, the importance of understanding the effects of
pressures of this magnitude is obvious, because all except a small frac-
tion of 1 percent of the matter in the universe exists under pressures
greater than 1,000 atmospheres.

In extending scientific measurements into the realm of pressures of
this magnitude, various technological problems are encountered.
There is in the first place the problem of preventing leakage of the
liquid by which pressure is transmitted. This problem may be solved

1 Reprinted by permission from Endeavour, vol. 10, No. 38, April 1951.
981445—52——14 199
200 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

by designing the packing in such a way that the pressure in it is main-
tained automatically, by the liquid pressure itself, at a level higher
by a fixed percentage than that in the liquid. The principle will be
clear from figure 1, which illustrates the packing on the end of a
piston by which pressure is generated. A piston packed in this way

FREE SPACE

—
w
7)
%)
ww
>
wi
[4
2
”
My
4
a.

Ficure 1.—Application to a piston of the principle by which the pressure in the packing
is automatically maintained at a pressure greater by a fixed percentage than the pressure
in the liquid. Leaks therefore cannot occur.

cannot leak, so that all one needs to do to produce any desired pres-
sure is to push the piston into the pressure vessel with the necessary
force. The force driving the piston is most advantageously obtained
from a hydraulic press or some other form of hydraulic intensifier.

“Any desired pressure” is, however, obviously subject to several
limitations, in particular the strength of the containing vessel and of
the piston. It might perhaps be thought at first that the strength
of the containing vessel could be increased indefinitely, merely by
making the walls of the vessel of unlimited thickness. This unfortu-
nately is not so, for even an infinitely thick vessel has only a finite
strength. The reason for this is that stress and strain are concen-
trated at the inner parts, so that the outer parts do not do their
HIGH-PRESSURE PHYSICS—BRIDGMAN 201

proportionate share in supporting the pressure. In practice it turns
out that the limit for heavy cylinders of the best heat-treated steels
is about 15,000 atmospheres; this may be increased for brief operations
to 20,000 or more. Still higher pressures can perhaps be achieved
by shrinking hoops onto the vessel, as in a well-known method of gun
construction, but even with such vessels the upper limit yet reached,
in some experiments by Newitt, is in the neighborhood of 30,000 atmos-
pheres. While the pressure vessel is reaching its limit the piston also
is reaching its limit, the upper limit for the compressive strength of
any steel now available being also in the neighborhood of 30,000
atmospheres.
|

Ficure 2.—Simple method of giving external support to a pressure vessel by using the
thrust on the piston, which produces internal pressure to push the whole vessel into a
supporting conical sleeve.

To reach higher pressures, a radical change in design is necessary.
For the piston, however, it is sufficient to change the material of
which it is made to carboloy, which has a compressive strength more
than twice that of the best steels. Carboloy is a product of powder
metallurgy, and is a sintered aggregate of tungsten carbide cemented
with a small amount of cobalt as binder. To obtain greater strength in
the pressure vessels more elaborate methods are necessary. In all my
experiments it has involved giving the pressure vessel some sort of ex-
ternal support to counteract the effect of the internal pressure. The
simplest way of doing this is to make the vessel conical on the outside
surface and to push the entire pressure vessel into a conical supporting
sleeve as internal pressure increases. The vessel may be pushed into its
sleeve in various ways. The simplest is to let the thrust that drives
the piston drive the vessel also into its sleeve; a method of doing this
202 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

is indicated in figure 2. Alternatively, the pressure vessel may be
forced into its sleeve by an independent hydraulic press coupled in
the proper ratio to the press which produces the internal pressure.
The choice of method depends on the size of the apparatus, and is
determined by various factors such as friction, which we cannot dis-
cuss here. The limit to the pressures that have been used in the
laboratory in apparatus constructed with conical external support
has been about 50,000 atmospheres. At this pressure a new limiting
effect appears: this is the incipient extrusion of the pressure vessel
through the supporting sleeve by the thrust, or some other sort of
fracture of the vessel due to the thrust.

To reach yet higher pressures, the vessel must receive still more
effective support. This may be given by immersing the pressure
vessel in a liquid which is itself exposed to high hydrostatic pressure.
In this way the pressure vessel receives complete support over its en-
tire external surface. This proves effective enough to extend the
range from 50,000 to 100,000 atmospheres. The external supporting
pressure necessary for this extension may be between 25,000 and
30,000 atmospheres.

So large an extension of range, from 50,000 to 100,000 atmospheres,
by a supporting pressure of only 25,000 atmospheres, would not be
possible if it were not for the change in the properties of steel and
carboloy produced by a pressure of 25,000 atmospheres. Under this
pressure, steel becomes much more ductile and also stronger. Car-
boloy becomes stronger in compression and loses its brittleness, so
that carboloy pistons can be subjected to pressures of 100,000 atmos-
pheres or even more. Carboloy also increases in tensile strength, so
that the pressure vessel itself may be constructed of this material,
supported on the outside by a shrunk-on steel jacket. The apparatus
is indicated schematically in figure 3; it is in fact an arrangement of
one pressure vessel inside another. Theoretically, any extension what-
ever of the pressure range would be possible by this method, by
making a nest of pressure vessels, each one containing a successively
higher pressure supporting the vessels within. Although theoreti-
cally possible, no feasible method of constructing more than the first
apparatus in such a series has been found.

It may appear paradoxical that at these very high pressures the
problem which at first restricted experiments, namely the problem
of preventing leak of the pressure-transmitting medium, has entirely
disappeared. The reason for this is that at these pressures fluids no
longer exist; all normal liquids or gases are frozen solid by the pres-
sure. Al] the elements ordinarily gaseous, except helium, have been
solidified at 50,000 atmopsheres, and there is good reason to think that
at 100,000 atmospheres helium, too, freezes solid. In this region, pres-
HIGH-PRESSURE PHYSICS—-BRIDGMAN 203

sures have to be transmitted by soft solids and can be only approxi-
mately hydrostatic. Fortunately there are soft solids, such as tin or
preferably indium, of which the plastic shearing strength is low, so
that pressure fails to be hydrostatic by only a few percent. It is,

j y}
yl /
Y Y}
y y
Y Y
Y y
l
yj U;

A
Tit

HIGH-PRESSURE
HIGH-PRESSURE VESSEL
PISTONS

TD nL

iSSSSSASSSDS {|

Ficure 3.—Diagram of apparatus by which pressures of 100,000 atmospheres can be real-
ized. The high-pressure vessel is completely immersed in a liquid (shaded), which is
itself subjected to pressure and thus supports it. The thrust on the high-pressure pistons
is determined by measuring the change of electrical resistance of the “grid” which re-
ceives the thrust.

however, not so easy to find a solid insulator which is sufliciently
yielding at 100,000 atmospheres to be also a good pressure transmitter.

For every successive increase in the pressure range a price has to
be paid in a diminution in the size of apparatus, which in turn limits
the sort of experiment that can be made. The vessel in which a
204 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

pressure of 100,000 atmospheres is generated is, on the inside, only
1.6 mm. in diameter and 8.0 mm. long. In this apparatus, volume
changes can be measured with fair precision, and the volume changes
of a large number of substances have been determined. Still higher
pressures can be reached, but, at this stage, on a scale so small that
little research of scientific value has been done. The principle by
which these higher pressures may be reached is that used in making
hardness measurements by pressing a Brinell ball or a diamond
cone into the material being tested. Stresses very much higher than
normal may be supported over small areas if the surrounding mate-
rial is unstressed and so can support the highly stressed region.
With an arrangement of this sort, in which a short carboloy cone
is pressed against a flat carboloy block, the whole combination being
mounted within a chamber at 30,000 atmospheres so that there is
additional support by hydrostatic pressure, pressures in excess of
400,000 atmospheres have been realized at the point of contact of the
cone. However, not much use can be made of these very high pres-
sures, except to achieve the negative result of showing that certain
transformations that might perhaps be expected are not in fact
produced. In particular, graphite is not transformed into diamond
by such a pressure at room temperature, although it is the thermo-
dynamically stable form.

All the pressures mentioned so far have been static pressures.
Dynamically, as in the explosion of shaped charges, it is possible to
reach very much higher pressures, measured in millions of atmos-
pheres. This is doubtless the ultimate method of getting high pres-
sures (except by the use of atomic bombs), and a beginning is now
being made. The difficulties, however, to say nothing of the expense,
are immense, and progress will probably be slow. The problem of
measuring the pressures and temperatures reached by such methods
is itself an exceedingly formidable one, and for the present the only
method seems to be to extrapolate results obtained by static methods
in lower ranges. Thus the results that can be obtained by the static
methods outlined above will probably continue to have their useful-
ness for some considerable time.

Having now discussed the various methods of achieving high pres-
sures we may turn to a consideration of some of the effects produced.
The simplest of these effects, although by no means the simplest to
measure, is the diminution of volume which all substances suffer
under pressure. A general feature of the volume changes produced
by hydrostatic pressure is that they are reversible, so that when pres-
sure is released the volume recovers its original value. In other
words, there is no elastic limit or fracture point. This is strikingly
different from what happens when change of shape is produced by
HIGH-PRESSURE PHYSICS—BRIDGMAN 205

the application of powerful forces other than hydrostatic pressure.
Most apparent exceptions can be explained by the closing of flaws
in the materials. There are some other apparent exceptions, due to
a phase of greater thermodynamic stability than the original being
produced by pressure. In such cases, however, the new phase created
shows no permanent change when pressure is again applied and re-
leased. The reason for the failure of hydrostatic pressure to produce
permanent changes is to be sought in the atomic constitution of
matter. The specific volume of a substance depends only on the
nature of the atoms (or molecules) of which it is composed ; neglect-
ing isotopes, there is only one kind of iron atom, for example, not
one kind before it has been compressed and another kind after-
ward. This suggests that if pressures could be applied which were
high enough to change the atoms themselves we might expect per-
manent changes of volume. Ordinarily, however, atomic transmuta-
tion is not brought about by pressure only, and we therefore have
perfect volume elasticity.

In the realm of terrestrial pressures, within which the atoms remain
unaltered, at least three classes of effect must be considered. In the
first place there is the gaseous range. Here compressibilities are very
high, volume being approximately inversely proportional to pressure.
The mechanism is a kinetic one, pressure being exerted by the collision
of the molecules with the walls of the container. Pressure is twice as
high at half the volume because there are approximately twice as many
collisions per unit area of the walls. This effect cannot, however, per-
sist over any considerable range of pressure, because eventually the
molecules begin to interfere with each other through being pushed too
closely together. When this happens a new effect occurs. Increasing
pressure now pushes the molecules progressively more closely together
until all the empty spaces between them are squeezed out and the mole-
cules are effectively in contact. This is the sort of thing that occurs in
the compression of liquids under ordinary conditions, or in the com-
pression of gases under such high pressures that their density ap-
proaches that of liquids. This effect is characterized by a compressi-
bility that falls off rapidly with decreasing volume, for at first the
empty spaces can be squeezed smaller with comparative ease, but when
the molecules are nearly in complete contact this possibility is greatly
reduced. The third effect now begins, namely, the deformation of the
molecules or atoms themselves after they have been squeezed into effec-
tive contact. It is with this that we are primarily concerned in the
compression of solids. Modern knowledge of the atom as a system of
electrons and nucleus, depicting the atom as consisting almost entirely
of empty space pervaded by an intense field of force, makes compre-
hensible a high degree of deformability under pressure in the atom it-
206 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

self. According to this picture, atoms with the most complicated elec-
tronic structures should be capable of a higher degree of compression
than those with less complicated structures. This is exactly what is
found. For example, nitrogen, in the region in which interference be-
tween the molecules begins and the ideal gas laws lose their validity,
loses its compressibility much more rapidly than does helium, because
the molecules of nitrogen are larger and are more quickly brought into
contact. Atstill higher pressures, however, when the vacant spaces be-
tween molecules have been largely squeezed out, nitrogen becomes more
compressible than helium, because the molecule of nitrogen is larger
and more complex than that of helium, and therefore possesses the
possibility of undergoing a greater degree of compression.

It is, of course, to be understood that there is no sharp dividing line
between these three mechanisms by which a substance responds to an
external pressure by losing volume; at any instant all three mechanisms
are present together. It is the relative importance of the three mech-
anisms which changes with increasing pressure. It has already been
suggested that at still higher pressures the atoms themselves may begin
to break. Asa result of its complex structure an atom may conceiv-
ably break in many ways. It is quite possible that what happens may
not be anything like as catastrophic and irreversible as the change we
ordinarily associate with breaking; it may merely be a rearrangement
of the electrons in their orbits, and there is no reason why such a rear-
rangement should not be reversible. At pressures higher than those
yet reached in the laboratory, amounting perhaps to several millions of
atmospheres, we may expect all sorts of detailed changes of this kind to
be produced in atoms. In the laboratory, two instances have already
been found of an inner rearrangement presumably due to pressure.
The element cesium, which is the most compressible of the metals,
undergoes an abrupt change of volume at 45,000 atmospheres. This
change is large—17 percent—and there seems to be no explanation for
it in terms of the ordinary lattice structure of the metal, because it is
highly probable that below 45,000 atmospheres the lattice is already
in the close-packed, face-centered cubic arrangement. It would seem
that pressure could not make a more closely packed arrangement than
one which is already close-packed. The explanation seems to be that
a rearrangement of the electronic orbits within the atoms is brought
about by pressure. The details have been worked out in a recent paper
by Sternheimer ; he shows that an electronic transition from a 6s zone
to a 5d zone exactly accounts for all the experimental facts. Metallic
cerium is doubtless a similar case; it shows an abrupt volume change
at 7,000 atmospheres, of the same order of magnitude as that which
occurs in cesium. In the case of cerium it has been shown by ingen-
ious experiments at the University of Chicago that both above and
HIGH-PRESSURE PHYSICS—BRIDGMAN 207

below the discontinuity the lattice arrangement is the same face-
centered, close-packed arrangement. The presumption is therefore
again that there must be an inner electronic change, although the theo-
retical details have not yet been worked out.

In figure 4 the volume changes of some of the ordinary solid elements
are shown as a function of pressure in the range up to 100,000 atmos-
pheres. There is a great variability in compressibility. The most

eee
Wee ea

\

Niet)
y

EES

es Aes

ea
Eee
AEE

ieee
li

Nr Belek
Tesh
pes a ost

eis ea

eal et

Teo
ve

Ficure 4.—The change of relative volume of a number of substances shown as a function
of pressure up to 100,000 kg./cm.? (metric atmospheres).

compressible element shown in the diagram is cesium, which at
100,000 atmospheres is compressed to 37 percent of its initial volume.
The least compressible substance is probably carbon in the form of
diamond, which under the same pressure is compressed only to 98.2
percent of its initial volume. The diagram indicates that for most
substances the loss of volume is far from being linearly related to
the pressure; the lines are strongly curved, showing that the com-
pressibility drops off with increasing pressure. ‘This is the same effect
as we noted for liquids, but it ison a different and much more exten-
208 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

sive scale. It must mean that inside the atom there is some sort of mu-
tual interference between the electronic orbits, analogous to the inter-
ference between atoms or molecules that occurs in liquids. The neces-
sity for the nonlinearity in the relation between pressure and volume is
obvious, for, if it were not so, volumes would eventually become nega-
tive at sufficiently high pressure. Thus it can be calculated that if
the compressibility of cesium continued at its initial rate, the metal
would be squeezed out of existence altogether by a pressure of only
14,000 atmospheres.

Although every volume-pressure curve must eventually be convex
toward the pressure axis, there may be an opposite curvature over
considerable pressure ranges. There is no mechanical or thermo-
dynamical reason why compressibility should not in some circum-
stances increase with increasing pressure. Examples of this are in
fact known; the most striking is perhaps quartz glass. Its com-
pressibility increases with pressure over a wide range. Such be-
havior cannot, however, continue indefinitely, and sooner or later
there must be a reversal. Experiment shows that the reversal occurs
at a pressure of 35,000 atmospheres, where the volume is still far above
zero, being in fact 89.3 percent of its initial value. Above 35,000, com-
pressibility decreases in the normal way with rising pressure. The
abnormality ceases so abruptly at 35,000 that there is a cusp on the
pressure-volume curve. It is asif there were some special mechanism
responsible for the abnormality, which abruptly goes out of action at
35,000 atmospheres. A plausible mechanism would assume some-
thing in the nature of lenticular cavities in the structure, which are
squeezed flat at 35,000 atmospheres.

The pressure-volume curves in figure 4 contain several examples
of discontinuities. These are due to transitions of one kind or another.
In most cases they are ordinary polymorphic transitions resulting
from a change in the crystal lattice. The proof that they represent
transitions of this sort is usually indirect and presumptive, but in
some instances direct proof can be given. One method is by X-ray
analysis of the new phase while it is under pressure. Another is to
follow the transition to atmospheric pressure by suitably changing
the temperature, and then to establish the nature of the transition at
atmospheric pressure by some convenient method not subject to the
limitations of high-pressure measurements.

It will be seen from figure 4 that in some cases a substance may
show more than one discontinuity. One of the most interesting of
such substances is bismuth. At atmospheric pressure, bismuth is
abnormal in many ways; in particular it is one of the few substances
which, like water, expand when they freeze. Thermodynamics de-
mands that for substances of this sort the effect of pressure should be
HIGH-PRESSURE PHYSICS—BRIDGMAN 209

to lower the melting point. This effect was found for water compar-
atively early; the agreement between the experimentally determined
and the theoretically calculated lowering of the freezing point was in
fact one of the early triumphs of the then young science of thermo-
dynamics. Much later, I found that the melting point of bismuth is
similarly lowered by application of pressure, as would be expected.
What, it may be asked, can we expect to be the ultimate course of the
freezing curve of water as we raise pressure indefinitely? In the
case of water, it is found experimentally that, at first, increasing
pressure only accentuates the effect, for at higher pressures the ab-
normal increase of volume on freezing becomes larger, and therefore
the melting point is depressed at a continually accelerating rate. One
would expect that this could not continue indefinitely, and in fact it
does not. It was Tammann who first found how water extricates
itself from its dilemma. At —22° C. and 2,200 atmospheres ordinary
ice abruptly gives up the unequal struggle and collapses into a new
kind of ice, a very large decrease of volume occurring at the same time.
In fact, the decrease of volume is so large that the new solid has a
smaller volume than the liquid from which it freezes. This means
that the melting point of the new form of ice increases with rising pres-
sure. Not only this, but, as the pressure continues to rise, the new
ice discovered by Tammann eventually becomes unstable in its turn
and is replaced by a succession of others, with still smaller volumes
and more rapidly rising melting points. In all, seven kinds of ice have
so far been discovered. The last of these may be heated without melt-
ing to the temperature of melting solder, provided a pressure of 45,000
atmospheres is applied.

By analogy, it was expected that a new kind of bismuth would
appear at high pressures to replace the ordinary abnormal bismuth,
and that the melting point of the new bismuth would rise with pres-
sure. Search for this hypothetical bismuth was diligently made by
workers in the high-pressure field, but for a long time with no success.
Eventually the new modification was found, but at a pressure con-
siderably higher than had been anticipated, namely at 25,000 atmos-
pheres, more than 10 times the pressure which produces the analogous
transition in ice. Furthermore, there are still other transitions of
bismuth at even higher pressures, as there are for ice. Figure 4
shows transitions at 45,000, 65,000, and 90,000 atmospheres, in addi-
tion to the one already mentioned at 25,000 atmospheres. In reality,
the transition at 25,000 is double, there being two transitions so close
together—within a thousand atmospheres of each other—that it would
have been confusing to try to separate them in the diagram. Thus
altogether there are five known transitions of bismuth, or six poly-
morphic modifications of the solid. This is the same as the known
210 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

number of stable modifications of ice, so that the two substances
would seem to be quite closely parallel.

There are two other fairly well-known elements which, like bismuth,
are abnormal in that they expand on freezing. These are antimony
and gallium. The same question arises with respect to them: will
they also have other modifications under pressure, and will the melt-
ing-point curve of the new modification rise instead of fall? Of
these two substances antimony is in many respects much like bismuth:
chemically it is closely related, and it crystallizes in the same system.
Figure 4 shows that it, too, has a transition under pressure but at a
pressure more than three times that of bismuth—85,000 atmospheres
instead of 25,000. It may well be, therefore, that bismuth and anti-
mony are analogous in their polymorphic behavior. Proof of this
must, however, wait until higher pressures can be eommanded in the
laboratory for it would appear that the pressure scale of the phe-
nomena in antimony is more than three times as great as the scale for
bismuth. Also the melting point of antimony is much higher than
that of bismuth, so that it has not been possible to find experimentally
whether the melting point of the new antimony is raised by pressure.

The other abnormal element, gallium, proves to fall into line as
well, and here the pressure scale is fortunately smaller. A new gal-
lium appears at a pressure of about 12,000 atmospheres, and the
melting point rises with pressure. Gallium and water are parallel in
that gallium has a high-pressure modification which is totally unstable
thermodynamically with respect to the other modifications; similarly
there is a totally unstable form of ice that appears at temperatures
below 0° C. and at pressures above 4,000 atmospheres.

Considering all three substances—water, bismuth, and gallium—
it would thus appear that pressure ultimately wipes out the ordinary
abnormal forms and they become normal, at least to the extent that
their melting point rises with increasing pressure.

Figure 4 shows another example of polymorphism induced by pres-
sure; barium possesses two transitions and three modifications. Poly-
morphism is indeed a phenomenon commonly encountered in high-
pressure research. Among the several hundred substances that I have
examined, about one-third show polymorphic transitions. The phase
diagrams of most of these substances have been examined, and it is
possible to show how the pressure at which a transition occurs changes
with temperature. Study of these phase diagrams reveals that many
of the modifications found under pressure are quite new, in that they
do not occur at atmospheric pressure at any temperature. Further-
more, there seems to be no tendency for the phenomenon to exhaust
itself as the pressure range is increased; on a statistical basis, the
probability that pressure will produce a new modification in an un-
HIGH-PRESSURE PHYSICS—BRIDGMAN DANI

known substance is proportional to the pressure. The significance of
this in geophysics is obvious; it means that the probability is that the
materials in the earth’s crust occur there in forms with which we are
not familiar in the laboratory, and therefore have unfamiliar physical
properties. This implies that it is hazardous to infer the composi-
tion of the earth’s crust from such evidence about its properties as is
given by the velocity of propagation of seismic disturbances. Un-
certainty with regard to inferences of this sort can be removed only
by specific and detailed knowledge.

The transitions discussed thus far have been characterized by
thermodynamic reversibility ; when the pressure is removed the sub-
stance reverts to its original condition, unless by chance it is hindered
at comparatively low temperatures by internal viscosity. In addition
to these reversible transitions there are a few examples known of
essentially irreversible transitions produced by pressure. Here the
substance is converted into a new form by the application of pressure;
this new form is then permanently retained and is thermodynamically
stable when the pressure is removed. ‘The transformation of yellow
phosphorus into black by a pressure of 12,000 atmospheres at 200° C.
is an example that has been known for a long time. The same transi-
tion may be made to occur at room temperature by 30,000 or 40,000
atmospheres. At still higher pressures—60,000 atmospheres or so—
the more stable red or violet phosphorus may be transformed into the
same black variety. Another example is carbon disulfide. This sub-
stance, ordinarily a highly volatile liquid, is slowly transformed at
175° C. and 40,000 atmospheres into a permanent black solid, denser
than the elements from which it is constructed.

The theory of these irreversible transitions is even less well under-
stood than that of the reversible polymorphic transitions, and indeed,
as far as I know, no example has ever been worked out theoretically.
Until we have some theoretical basis for knowing what to expect,
we must contemplate the possibility that any of the materials of
daily life can, by sufficient pressure, be pushed over a potential hill
into some entirely unknown form possessing new, and perhaps desir-
able, properties.
J
A] ate gx y

io... pomencekmreneiteora werner
oan ja

y . Ra

: come Mitek Ai Hi oat
ia dota ‘bse WEE ait ‘aan sith vaneless
Pci ‘il bavdrr Bl perhetanrsey Ot] reoidan's CHE tis: Ver Shiki Bbasits
Badin at aids Vite peli. Biss bitin , ‘aligs rien | ie ae es borate:

Tai a TOT Uarixitii qd Rotaaqeeioy Ayat eae

ea weict’ ete wat Bath went Ene eT Udi AVL Be 4

‘add Rapint hime wif BARB HM 2 4 Ori aaa Obdiz BAe, sie

ual Beto in Uiqa BAY ed t¥ wad w bol B38 igi Bais

Silber eho: ay dt fin Binder | Riaen ota: risit ef et TASPUUA Li

| iy to tortatiroreds adhe porelns eh. Ea ik ‘abt ;

"i “Ey Oe {ir aipiateporits 00025 T5 oA ro ait eed wont ot if Ph i
aldiReLt Asie sai re’ SOY AOL. F) “1% bef te ded aud Satta
0, Oe ca boo qa pisltety: tps d Pues Ya Shih" of i'd
ios H ead qaciney CO0 Sioa itiees tty ollgid (ie sa” svt
“ete ositt  fisites hain ndy ond wah Sati palate’ to} 4 |
* shnie Bit” ‘Aba ne Bie) Hy Bhiyi awa forth Ore, Cal yaa
.) Peaereheaety PAS vt aE hy a raloy, As Pais i & qi dniteia a
eat ils ae Si naringedy ‘a ‘Epi evabilty rash 000 HOOF hv ‘

toi rs ¥ pee ata = Se ies ate tthe bo ah oie hts
i fa

| ae riisivae will 6! seers
eid Eatin, Fat “g¥0. ‘Doi ,
Saino eileen baa, eo ae :

pers; ja) + oe

om - war “aps ty sate
Pars Stak art, ke’ pt {
: a

ao ad yeti

as Nae me at teu 44 sbi rieccinde

veil ew carp. 1 her iw abies 2

A hse ps RUSE Rag il eis
its ha Loa ne. will pag
Ultrasonics’

By ARTHUR R. LAUFER

Assistant Professor of Physics, University of Missouri

[With 3 plates]

Some 3,000 years ago, according to the Old Testament, Joshua, the
son of Nun, led the Israelites over the river Jordan into the promised
land. And then, once each day for 6 days, seven priests carrying seven
trumpets made of rams’ horns circled the walled city of Jericho. And
on the seventh day the priests circled the walls seven times, and on the
seventh time the priests blew a loud blast on the trumpets, and the Isra-
elites shouted a loud shout, and the walls of Jericho fell down flat.
Thus must history reach back into antiquity to find the first allusion to
the use of sound energy for a purpose other than hearing.

Thirty centuries later, in the field of ultrasonics, spectacular use is
again being made of “sound” energy. Although inaudible to the hu-
man ear, ultrasonic “sound” waves have all the physical properties of
audible sound waves, differing only in frequency. But it is this dif-
ference in frequency, and the consequent concentration of energy,
which lead to the very different effects obtainable with ultrasonic
waves.

Audible sounds, or sonic waves, range in frequency from about 20
cycles per second to about 20 kilocycles per second. Ultrasonic
waves are defined as vibrational or “sound” waves which have a fre-
quency higher than 20 kilocycles. Whether inaudible vibrational
waves should be called sound waves is a debatable issue, depending for
its resolution on the definition of sound on a physical or on a psycho-
logical basis. Not many years ago the waves now known as ultrasonic
went under the name of supersonic. This latter name left a lasting
impression in the field of radio. Although radio waves are electro-
magnetic rather than sound waves, the intermediate frequency used in
the most popular type of radio receiver was in the “supersonic” fre-
quency range and led to the designation of this receiver as a supersonic
heterodyne, or, more briefly, a superheterodyne receiver. When the

1 Reprinted by permission from Physics Today, vol. 3, No. 8, August 1950.
213
214 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

aviation industry appropriated the word supersonic to refer to veloci-
ties greater than that of sound, physicists were forced to devise the
word ultrasonic for frequencies higher than those of audible sound.
To retain its original meaning the superheterodyne receiver should
today be called ultraheterodyne!

PROPERTIES

The properties which give rise to the unusual effects of ultrasonic
waves follow from principles common to all wave phenomena. In a
given medium the wavelength of a wave is inversely proportional to
the frequency, so a high frequency implies a short wavelength.
Furthermore, the directional character of wave propagation is a
function of the wavelength. Suppose that a vibrating circular piston
is used to generate sound waves. If the frequency is low the waves
spread out from the source in all directions and bend around corners.
As the frequency is raised the waves begin to assume directional
characteristics, that is, more of the wave energy is propagated in
certain directions than in others and bending becomes less pro-
nounced. At high frequencies most of the wave energy is concen-
trated in a truncated cone. The angle of the cone is a function of the
ratio of the wavelength of the wave to the diameter of the piston
source ; the smaller the ratio, the smaller the angle of the cone. Waves
of high frequency, or short wavelength, will therefore be propagated
essentially in a given direction with negligible bending. Ultrasonic
waves have been generated at frequencies as high as 500 megacycles,
corresponding to a wavelength in air equal to that of visible red light.
Such ultrasonic radiation has all the directional properties of a beam
of light. Unfortunately, the attenuation of the radiation is also pro-
portional to the frequency, or rather to the square of the frequency,
so that sharply defined beams cannot be propagated over long dis-
tances. Nevertheless, even at frequencies as low as 20 kilocycles,
beams of ultrasonic waves are well enough defined to be used in sub-
marine detection.

The intensity of radiation being defined as the energy passing
through a unit area per unit time, it is apparent that the concentration
of ultrasonic radiation into a cone makes it possible to produce beams
of very high intensity. During the past decade ultrasonic sources
have been made to generate as much as 50 watts per square centimeter,
and beams of radiation have been focused to yield intensities as high
as 5,000 watts per square centimeter. These magnitudes become im-
pressive when compared with the intensities of familiar audible
sounds. Ata distance of 2 meters from a trumpeter the sound inten-
sity is about one-millionth of a watt per square centimeter. If all the
sound energy generated by a full symphony orchestra could be concen-
ULTRASONICS—LAUFER 215

trated in a point source, at a distance of 2 meters the intensity would
be about 1 ten-thousandth of a watt per square centimeter which is
the threshold of pain for the human ear. [If all the residents of New
York City (population about 7 million) were to speak at the same
time, the total power they would generate would be just about enough
to light a 60-watt lamp. Obviously, the intensities attainable with
ultrasonic waves are enormous in comparsion with those in the audible
range. The phenomena discovered in the field of ultrasonics are the
direct result of the short wavelength and the concomitant high inten-
sity of ultrasonic waves,

EARLY GENERATORS

The first man-made generator of sustained ultrasonic waves was
designed as long ago as 1883, when a forced-air whistle reached the
frequency of 25 kilocycles. Nature, however, anticipated the work
of man by endowing the bat with an ultrasonic generator of its own.
Using the vocal cords in its larynx, the bat generates and emits sound
waves in pulses of 2-milliseconds duration at a rate of about 30 per
second. The frequency in each pulse ranges from about 30 to 100
kilocycles. Reflections received by the bat’s ears indicate the location
of obstacles, and, in this radarlike manner, ultrasonic radiation is used
by the bat to guide itself in flight.

Following the forced-air whistle, a tuning fork with tines only
several millimeters in length was developed near the end of the last
century, with a frequency ranging as high as 90 kilocycles. Both the
whistle and the fork, however, yielded frequencies which could not be
controlled accurately and output powers which were relatively small.
There was but little further progress in the development of ultrasonic
generators until the first World War when Prof. Paul Langevin,
director of the School of Physics and Chemistry in Paris, was re-
quested by the French Government to devise some method of detecting
submarines to combat the U-boat menace.

A few years earlier, following the 77tanic disaster, an Englishman
named L. F. Richardson suggested that a hydraulic whistle be used
to locate underwater navigational hazards such as icebergs through
the echo of a narrow beam of ultrasonic waves, but experiment proved
his apparatus to be ineffective. Then, in 1915, a Russian engineer
named Chilowski proposed that ultrasonic vibrations be excited in a
mica condenser by a Poulsen are and that the radiation from the
vibrating condenser be used for underwater detection. Prof. Lange-
vin tested and then developed Chilowski’s idea to such an extent that
a transmission range of 2,000 yards in the Seine River was attained
early in 1916, despite the fact that the frequency stability and power
output of the generator still left much to be desired. Shortly there-

981445—52——15
216 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

after, two unrelated scientific discoveries were combined by Langevin
to provide for the first time a dependable source of ultrasonic waves
of controllable frequency and intensity. To replace the inherently
unstable Poulsen arc, Langevin chose the newly developed and far
more stable vacuum-tube oscillator. To replace the mica condenser
he chose a piezoelectric crystal.

Previously, the piezoelectric effect had had no practical application.
A French apothecary, Pierre de la Seignette, of La Rochelle, in 1672
discovered the crystal known as Rochelle salt. In 1880, Pierre and
Jacques Curie found that mechanical stresses produced electric charges
on the faces of a Rochelle-salt crystal. The inverse of this piezoelec-
tric (pressure electricity) effect was theoretically predicted by Lipp-
mann in 1881 and experimentally verified by the Curies the following
year—a voltage applied across the crystal produced a change in the
thickness of the crystal. Although it was later discovered that many
other crystals, including quartz, had this same property, the piezo-
electric effect remained nothing more than a scientific curiosity until
1917. In that year Langevin, who became acquainted with the effect
while a student in the laboratory of the Curie brothers, applied the
output of a vacuum-tube oscillator across a quartz crystal to produce
the first stable, powerful generator of ultrasonic waves.

Today Langevin’s generator, with relatively minor improvements,
remains the best source of ultrasonic radiation of precisely controllable
frequency and intensity. The high-frequency voltage output of a
vacuum-tube oscillator is applied to electrodes on opposite faces of
a properly cut crystal. When the oscillator frequency is adjusted
to the natural resonant frequency of the crystal, powerful mechanical
vibrations result, and a beam of ultrasonic waves is radiated through
the medium surrounding the crystal. In addition to quartz and
Rochelle salt, a number of other natural and synthetic crystals may be
employed to serve particular applications.

LATER GENERATORS

During the decade following the first World War, progress in ultra-
sonics again slowed to a snail’s pace except for certain classified mili-
tary developments in underwater signaling and the development of
the magnetostriction oscillator in 1925 by G. W. Pierce. Pierce used
a ferrous-metal rod as the core of a solenoid which was energized by
an alternating current. As the result of magnetostriction, the fer-
rous rod periodically changed its length in the alternating magnetic
field and a beam of ultrasonic waves was radiated from the end of
the vibrating rod. This magnetostriction generator is widely used
today, but is limited in the range of frequencies it can generate. For
high frequencies the length of the ferrous rod required for resonance
ULTRASONICS—-LAUFER PAGE

becomes too short for practical use, limiting the output of this gen-
erator to a maximum frequency of about 60 kilocycles. For higher
frequencies the piezoelectric generator has no contender.

It was not until 1930 that nonmilitary ultrasonic research received
its first real impetus as the result of the work of R. W. Wood and
A. L. Loomis. Wood, who attributed his interest in the subject to
the demonstrations he witnessed in Langevin’s laboratory at Toulon,
imbued Loomis with his own enthusiasm. Alfred Loomis, a wealthy
amateur (in the French sense of the word) in the physical sciences,
helped Wood set up an elaborate laboratory at Tuxedo Park, N. Y.,
where they undertook the first serious, comprehensive study of the
physical and biological effects of ultrasonic radiation.

Their apparatus consisted of a disk of quartz resting upon a lead
plate at the bottom of a shallow dish filled with transformer oil. The
upper surface of the quartz was covered by a thin metal foil, and the
foil and the lead plate were connected to the output of a 2-kilowatt
vacuum-tube oscillator. The oscillator was an imposing affair indeed !
Consisting of two huge Pliotron tubes, a huge bank of oil condensers,
a variable condenser 6 feet high and 2 feet in diameter, and an induc-
tion coil, it delivered upwards of 50,000 alternating volts to the quartz
transducer.

When the quartz was excited near its resonant frequency, a mound
of oil was raised several centimeters above the oil level in the dish
and appeared to be in violent agitation. A thermometer immersed
in the oil showed only a moderate rise in temparature, but a finger
immersed in the oil experienced a scalding pain of considerable
severity. When a test tube containing paraffin and water was held
in the oil bath, a rapid dispersion of the paraffin in the water took
place, yielding a suspension of unusual permanence. Blood corpus-
cles and other cells of animal or vegetable tissues immersed in a bath
in contact with the oil were violently disrupted, and frogs and
small fish were quickly killed. A tapering glass rod, half a milli-
meter in diameter at the tip, with its butt immersed in the oil, trans-
mitted ultrasonic vibrations of such intensity that a chip of wood
smoked and emitted sparks when pressed against the tip, the rod
burning its way rapidly through the wood. If a glass plate was
substituted for the wood, the rod drilled its way through the plate
throwing out the displaced material in the form of a fine powder or
minute fused globules of glass. The heating occurred only at the
point of contact, the remainder of the glass rod being quite cold.
These and a host of other new and interesting effects discovered by
Wood and Loomis pointed out the path which has since led into fields
of the most surprising variety, interest, and practical importance.
218 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

A TOOL FOR RESEARCH

A discovery of particular importance was made in 1932 at the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology. During the course of a lec-
ture, Prof. Peter Debye discussed Brillouin’s theory of the dispersion
of light and X-rays by heat motion treated as a system of elastic waves
at which Bragg reflections take place. Debye predicted that the
periodic variations in density in a liquid traversed by ultrasonic waves
would give rise to the diffraction of light traversing the ultrasonic
field. Prof. F. W. Sears, who happened to be in the audience, im-
mediately thereafter set up the experiment. He immersed a quartz
plate with metallic electrodes in a glass trough, of rectangular cross
section, filled with carbon tetrachloride, and applied a radio-frequency
voltage to the crystal, thus sending a train of ultrasonic waves down
the trough. A source of monochromatic light, a slit, and a lens were
so arrranged that a parallel beam of light was sent through the liquid
perpendicular to the path of the sound waves. After passage through
the trough the light was gathered by another lens and, true to the
prediction of Debye, formed, instead of a single image of the slit, a
beautiful series of its diffraction images. Thus was born the Debye-
Sears effect.

The ultrasonic waves in the liquid set up regions of strong compres-
sion and rarefaction with different indices of refraction of light.
These regions act like a phase grating (echelon) to produce the vari-
ous diffraction images. From the spacing of the images and the wave-
length of the light the sound wavelength can be determined, which,
together with the frequency of the sound, permits the determination
of the velocity of the sound in the liquid. The measurement of the
velocity of ultrasonic waves in a given medium by this method, and
by interferometric and pulse methods, permits the determination of
various molecular properties which are of interest to both the physi-
cist and the chemist. For example, these measurements permit the
determination of the adiabatic compressibility, which, in turn, per-
mits the computation of the specific heat at constant volume, otherwise
calculable only by means of complicated thermodynamic relations.
From such measurements the relation between the compressibility
and the concentration of solutions was determined, permitting the
test of a number of interesting questions in the modern theory of
electrolytes. Theory predicted that the molar compressibility of
electrolytes should vary as the square root of the molar concentration,
a prediction that was confirmed by these ultrasonic methods. The
measured variation of the velocity of sound with frequency, not pre-
dicted by classical theory, leads to a determination, via quantum statis-
tics, of the lifetimes of the excited vibrational states of various atoms
and the collision efficiency for excitation.
ULTRASONICS—-LAUFER 219

Ultrasonic waves are also used to set up space transmission gratings
in transparent solids, which then scatter light in the way that crystal
atoms scatter X-rays, resulting in diffraction patterns similar to those
of X-ray Laue patterns. Measurements made on these patterns permit
the evaluation of the longitudinal and shear velocities of sound in the
solid, and hence of the elastic constants of the medium. Similar
measurements permit the determination of the photoelastic constants
of the material with greater precision and far less work than was en-
tailed in the older interferometric methods. It should be clear from
the foregoing that ultrasonic research can be expected to be of use to
the molecular physicist, who ordinarily relies upon light or intense
electric and magnetic fields to produce disturbances which he can
measure. In ultrasonics he has a new agent, a mechanical one, with
which to work.

As the intensity of the ultrasonic waves in the liquid-diffraction cell
is increased, more and more light is forced from the zero order into the
diffracted images, and at a certain sound intensity all the light is re-
moved from the zero order. If a slit is used to permit only the zero
order light to pass, the amount of light passing through the slit can be
controlled by the intensity of the ultrasonic waves. Ultrasonic celis,
which thus act as light valves, have been used as the light-modulating
element in sound-on-film recording systems and in the British Scoph-
ony system of television. Furthermore, if stationary ultrasonic waves
are set up in the cell by reflection, the diffraction effect is intermittent,
with double the frequency of the sound, the sound-wave grating being
created and destroyed twice each cycle. Light passing through the
exit slit is then modulated with this frequency and can be used to give
stroboscopic illumination with considerably better light output, sum-
pler construction, and lower electrical losses than the widely used Kerr
cell. A drawback, however, is the fact that the modulation frequency
depends upon the resonant frequency of the particular crystal used
and hence is not continuously variable. Still another slight change
in the optical system, the addition of a lens to focus the central plane of
the cell on a screen, permits the actual shape of the sound beam to be
made visible. Very clear photographs of the reflection, refraction,
and interference of ultrasonic waves can thus be obtained.

A FEW APPLICATIONS

Since the pioneer work of Wood and Loomis, each year has seen new
progress in ultrasonics. University and industrial laboratories inves-
tigated the potentialities of the new field from various directions.
Navy interest in sonar also stimulated ultrasonic research, and both the
Navy and the Army Signal Corps sponsored investigations of the prop-
erties and effects of high-frequency sound. The results of these inves-
tigations indicate the unusually wide applicability of ultrasonics.
218 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

A TOOL FOR RESEARCH

A discovery of particular importance was made in 1932 at the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology. During the course of a lec-
ture, Prof. Peter Debye discussed Brillouin’s theory of the dispersion
of light and X-rays by heat motion treated as a system of elastic waves
at which Bragg reflections take place. Debye predicted that the
periodic variations in density in a liquid traversed by ultrasonic waves
would give rise to the diffraction of light traversing the ultrasonic
field. Prof. F. W. Sears, who happened to be in the audience, im-
mediately thereafter set up the experiment. He immersed a quartz
plate with metallic electrodes in a glass trough, of rectangular cross
section, filled with carbon tetrachloride, and applied a radio-frequency
voltage to the crystal, thus sending a train of ultrasonic waves down
the trough. A source of monochromatic light, a slit, and a lens were
so arrranged that a parallel beam of light was sent through the liquid
perpendicular to the path of the sound waves. After passage through
the trough the light was gathered by another lens and, true to the
prediction of Debye, formed, instead of a single image of the slit, a
beautiful series of its diffraction images. Thus was born the Debye-
Sears effect.

The ultrasonic waves in the liquid set up regions of strong compres-
sion and rarefaction with different indices of refraction of light.
These regions act like a phase grating (echelon) to produce the vari-
ous diffraction images. From the spacing of the images and the wave-
length of the light the sound wavelength can be determined, which,
together with the frequency of the sound, permits the determination
of the velocity of the sound in the liquid. The measurement of the
velocity of ultrasonic waves in a given medium by this method, and
by interferometric and pulse methods, permits the determination of
various molecular properties which are of interest to both the physi-
cist and the chemist. For example, these measurements permit the
determination of the adiabatic compressibility, which, in turn, per-
mits the computation of the specific heat at constant volume, otherwise
calculable only by means of complicated thermodynamic relations.
From such measurements the relation between the compressibility
and the concentration of solutions was determined, permitting the
test of a number of interesting questions in the modern theory of
electrolytes. Theory predicted that the molar compressibility of
electrolytes should vary as the square root of the molar concentration,
a prediction that was confirmed by these ultrasonic methods. The
measured variation of the velocity of sound with frequency, not pre-
dicted by classical theory, leads to a determination, via quantum statis-
tics, of the lifetimes of the excited vibrational states of various atoms
and the collision efficiency for excitation.

ULTRASONICS—-LAUFER 219

Ultrasonic waves are also used to set up space transmission gratings
in transparent solids, which then scatter light in the way that crystal
atoms scatter X-rays, resulting in diffraction patterns similar to those
of X-ray Laue patterns. Measurements made on these patterns permit
the evaluation of the longitudinal and shear velocities of sound in the
solid, and hence of the elastic constants of the medium. Similar
measurements permit the determination of the photoelastic constants
of the material with greater precision and far less work than was en-
tailed in the older interferometric methods. It should be clear from
the foregoing that ultrasonic research can be expected to be of use to
the molecular physicist, who ordinarily relies upon light or intense
electric and magnetic fields to produce disturbances which he can
measure. In ultrasonics he has a new agent, a mechanical one, with
which to work.

As the intensity of the ultrasonic waves in the liquid-diffraction cell
is increased, more and more light is forced from the zero order into the
diffracted images, and at a certain sound intensity all the light is re-
moved from the zero order. If a slit is used to permit only the zero
order light to pass, the amount of light passing through the slit can be
controlled by the intensity of the ultrasonic waves. Ultrasonic celis,
which thus act as light valves, have been used as the light-modulating
element in sound-on-film recording systems and in the British Scoph-
ony system of television. Furthermore, if stationary ultrasonic waves
are set up in the cell by reflection, the diffraction effect is intermittent,
with double the frequency of the sound, the sound-wave grating being
created and destroyed twice each cycle. Light passing through the
exit slit is then modulated with this frequency and can be used to give
stroboscopic illumination with considerably better light output, sim-
pler construction, and lower electrical losses than the widely used Kerr
cell. A drawback, however, is the fact that the modulation frequency
depends upon the resonant frequency of the particular crystal used
and hence is not continuously variable. Still another slight change
in the optical system, the addition of a lens to focus the central plane of
the cell on a screen, permits the actual shape of the sound beam to be
made visible. Very clear photographs of the reflection, refraction,
and interference of ultrasonic waves can thus be obtained.

A FEW APPLICATIONS

Since the pioneer work of Wood and Loomis, each year has seen new
progress in ultrasonics. University and industrial laboratories inves-
tigated the potentialities of the new field from various directions.
Navy interest in sonar also stimulated ultrasonic research, and both the
Navy and the Army Signal Corps sponsored investigations of the prop-
erties and effects of high-frequency sound. The results of these inves-
tigations indicate the unusually wide applicability of ultrasonics.

220 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

A pulse technique has been developed for the location of flaws in
metals and other solid materials. A crystal is used to send a short
pulse of ultrasonic waves into the object to be tested. ‘The same crystal
is used (through the direct piezoelectric effect) to receive reflections
of the primary pulse. The amplified electrical output of the crystal,
portrayed on the screen of a cathode-ray oscilloscope, depicts the pri-
mary pulse and all reflected pulses. Reflections caused by flaws permit
the presence and location of imperfections to be detected. This tech-
nique possesses advantages over X-ray testing in that the equipment
is portable, and far greater depths of material can be penetrated.
Masses of raw materials can be tested to avoid the machining of de-
fective material, and periodic fatigue checks can easily be made on
parts which are under strain as they work without the dismantling of
the machinery. One major rubber company tests its entire output of
tires by such ultrasonic methods.

The violent agitation produced by high-intensity sound waves has
a marked dispersive effect on solids and liquids in liquids, producing
true colloidal solutions and fine emulsions. By means of ultrasonic
irradiation while in the molten state, alloys can be produced of metals
such as iron and lead which are ordinarily not miscible in the liquid
state. New bearing materials have been made in this way. By such
means it has also been possible to produce photographic emulsions of
improved homogeneity, stability, and sensitivity. The homogeniza-
tion of milk through ultrasonic irradiation is today an industrial
process. The coarse crystals of sulfathiazole have been broken down
by ultrasonics to form a creamy emulsion which can be injected through
fine hypodermic needles, a technique which was previously impossible.

In spite of the fact that ultrasonic waves have this strong dispersive
effect on hydrosols, their effect on aerosols is exactly the opposite—
namely, coagulation. Irradiation by intense high-frequency sound
causes almost immediate agglomeration and precipitation of the solid
and liquid particles in mist and smoke. At an installation in Kings-
mill, Tex., this technique is used to recover carbon black from a smoke-
stack. At the Naval Landing Aids Experiment Station, Arcata,
Calif., intense sound has been used in this way to turn heavy fog to
rain. *

Chemical reactions can also be influenced by ultrasonic irradiation.
Certain reactions are accelerated, and even depolymerization can be
brought about. The chain molecule of starch has been broken down
into several fragments to produce dextrine, and gum arabic and
gelatine have been decomposed. The aging of whiskey by ultrasonics
has been proposed, inasmuch as in the aging process there is a gradual
change in the structure of complex molecules, a change which perhaps
could be accomplished much more rapidly by sound irradiation.
ULTRASONICS—LAUFER 221

The biological effects of ultrasonic waves are of particular interest.
In several cases the radiation has produced marked diminution in the
virulence of bacteria. Yeast cells lose their power of reproduction,
luminous bacteria lose their luminosity, and the mosaic virus of to-
bacco is powerfully deactivated. However, the growth of colon bacilli
cannot be influenced even by long exposure to high-intensity sound.
The bacteria in milk can be destroyed, permitting pasteurization at
low temperatures. Experiments undertaken by sugar refiners show
that the enzymes in sugar syrup can be destroyed to retard the inver-
sion of sucrose into glucose. Food decay has been halted for as much
as several weeks, indicating the possibility of sterilization of canned
foods through ultrasonics. The time required for the germination of
seeds has been changed, genes have been made to mature at abnormally
fast rates, and in some cases genes have been altered to yield unusual
mutations.

At the Pennsylvania State College Acoustical Laboratory an ultra-
siren was used to kill roaches, mosquitoes, and mice. Laboratory
workers who were exposed to the sound reported unusual fatigue,
occasional loss of equilibrium even when wearing ear protectors, and
a disagreeable tickling sensation in the mouth and nose. At another
university, an attempt is being made to focus ultrasonic waves inside
living tissue in order to produce the destruction of cells in localized
regions. The treatment of deep-seated tumors with X-rays irradiates
not only the tumor but the intervening tissues as well. Focused ultra-
sonic radiation may possibly avoid the over-all destructiveness of
X-rays. Only further research can show whether this technique is
feasible.

Whereas the field of ultrasonics is a logical extension of low-fre-
quency acoustics, the higher-frequency range provides a new tool
which can bring new aspects of nature into view. It is rare for a
physical phenomenon to have found within a few decades such wide
application in science and industry. In a broad survey such as the
foregoing, it is manifestly impossible to portray the great variety of
detail which has been developed in ultrasonic research, and only a
few of the interesting problems and applications have been mentioned.
Nonmilitary research in this field is still in its infancy, and many of
the observed effects have as yet no adequate explanation. Ultrasonics
today, a broad and beckoning field for research, holds forth the promise
of exciting new discoveries just beyond the horizon.
i ue er eat idl yer ent!
2 ghpituabrscas ba, oe ih
oF artie ata agtgry-2ikhchon ris anaes
i lisad yolos loykiry nahh. a2i0 me.
ohare wis aaa siglo
as rey olinsinus Wes ht nih sii sag
0 Rowe erate, “aka ve naan
ee port adts ba, tas oh hagortepbat
ng ¥ fers Leb. Uodr hy a Su 5 +
=f oe arn HD to, gi ss iaparade $3]
%
sn pipes PB arue i: 1 |
‘st aovennnie Ted G0 ia, 5 sod at ees enemn Lier nk

ie a a ra Dre " q ae <

rit v8, qos al barisetaes hp egal iMag
aisiodesE. .onir., hare» 0lluepe sth: easing!

Pete as es Hh apy
pO Jere pit belsoqed Damme adss
f ee) PUM ogsivsiy tha ore id _stoekss

"© ae ikon cist if tts § brn i 13 pen Rea:

bc nbs iit be See ot Choe yeas, iso ok, bs

be Hasi if nant ie alt: ) wet id NET 3 apres sift
ceri “nate ibprit gv ai %, dain.

= Wi norris fonirioL:,.liow 2% ens aid 3

Lae igen ND bE art hr Ags
f : Ao PeeHor! 1} {eS 54 ¢ oe Hens iS ' od i
os

ye ee satietual isl soritouly,

*
‘
ae
tw.
Ca
x

| ; ne hivorrct ‘ Pier *% xt

A Pei ays 4 y Taft ? § ee : a ie he :

oe TOR Sars Aa de Heke Of Botres

be ar Bose) ai (os ys eM) ane #hy veo fi: hidtiw }
E ante rem Ly ae

34) Yoy LR, bao i. oh.

th. Beizg Yds cae aah, ft

pants Mit ta
2 padao.. Dats clerve ea oftrogar'p |
pi ; re oe <7 ;

iit Hegel hisim aned over! anoileokgge

| pie it A

?

it " . ¢
. % Vit Oe ) chi Bit
‘tog ms ye f 4 ii ff PP
, t vations} ot SiR;
ey Pe au . N j ve ‘yf
Behe Vig 98 a ofapion mo
- iF ory
j ARTI 8
#1 ye aif: A> *P ‘ ‘Y
ty
‘© - ¢
im an é “
1 ca 7
ae ie
pe i ey" “, ’ a
~"— be at . > wi.
Smithsonian Report, 195!.—Laufer

Ultrasonic waves, coming from the tiny whistle on the « the J-s
flected onto the table by the concave metal disk. The ridges, formed
show the standing waves formed by reflections from the table top and C

General Electric Co.
Smithsonian Report, 1951.—Laufer PLATE 2

Carrier Voltage

0
§ 0:

[oo

The Debye-Sears light-diffraction effect. Parallel light is beamed at right angles through
a cell containing a liquid in which standing ultrasonic waves have been formed by a vibrat-
ingcrystal. The alternate regions of compression and expansion form a kind of diffraction
grating, but the extent to which light is passed to each of the various orders depends on
the amplitude of the standing waves and hence on the voltage applied to the crystal.
This photograph shows the diffraction spectra produced by ten megacycle waves in water.
The upper narrow-line spectra are obtained by using a narrow-slit aperture for the light
which crosses the cell. ‘The lower broad spectra are made with a very wide slit which
is used in light valving. Note that at 100 volts little or no light is left in the center (or
zero) order. Courtesy Bell Laboratories Record.
Smithsonian Report, 1951.—Laufer

1. Five solid glass marbles suspended in space by sound waves from a hig
sonic siren which are beamed against a reflecting board. Courtesy Harold K. Schilling,
Pennsylvania State College.

2. Transmission of a wide ultrasonic beam through aluminum wedges of increasing
[Transmission occurs only where the wedge thickness is such as to give internal res
Courtesy Bell Laboratories Record.
The Industrial Applications of
Atomic Energy’

By M. L. OLIPHANT

Professor of Physics, University of Birmingham, England ®

Any attempt to forecast the ways in which atomic energy will
be applied for the good of mankind is as unreal as to prophesy the
future of a 5-year-old child. It is certain that the new source of
power will be applied in ways that cannot now be envisaged. It is
possible that a scientist who has spent his life in the study of nuclear
physics and the unexpected and monstrous child to which it gave
birth after 50 years as a purely academic discipline, is as much entitled
as anyone to guess how it will develop in the years ahead, but, as a
parent of a “problem” child, he is as unlikely to guess correctly.
Fortunately for me the blanket of secrecy that covers some aspects
of development in this field has been pulled aside, by official declassi-
fication of information, by the reports and news releases of the United
States Atomic Energy Commission, and by the statements of American
senators, sufficiently for a picture of the general lines of thinking and
experimenting to be available.

ARTIFICIALLY RADIOACTIVE SUBSTANCES

In the early days of public knowledge of atomic energy much was
said and written about the great value of the radioactive byproducts
in medicine, agriculture, chemistry, and other branches of scientific
investigation. The advances in our knowledge of natural processes
which can be gained in this way are very real, and scientists all over
the world are using the materials made available through the Ameri-
can and British atomic-energy projects. However, the total amount
of radioactive material required to satisfy all needs is so trivial in
relation to what can be produced that it can provide no economic
justification for the development of atomic energy. All the radio-

17Trueman Wood Lecture, delivered at the meeting of the Royal Society of Arts, Wed-
nesday, March 8, 1950. Reprinted by permission from the Journal of the Royal Society of
Arts, vol. 98, No. 4819, April 21, 1950.

2 Now at the Australian National University, Canberra, Australia.

223
224 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

active materials needed could be produced at a very small fraction
of the cost by means of cyclotrons and other tools of nuclear physics;
and their use in research was widespread and growing long before
they were made available from atomic-energy reactors. Probably
scientists were apt to stress the importance of these substances be-
cause their consciences were uneasy after Hiroshima and Nagasaki,
and they welcomed an aspect of atomic energy, the humane and intel-
lectual implications of which would offset some of the horrors of
atomic warfare. Official releases of information used the facts about
them because they were nonsecret and made a good story. These ma-
terials, which were available more than 10 years before the realization
of the release of atomic energy, cannot justify the development of
the atomic bomb or the colossal sums spent on atomic energy. Justi-
fication must, and I believe will, come from applications of atomic
energy of immensely greater economic and industrial significance.

INDUSTRIAL POWER

The most obvious and the most important application of atomic
energy that we can envisage at the moment is the production of in-
dustrial power. The tactical or strategic applications of atomic
energy in warfare, some of which have received attention in the press,
form no part of this lecture, for they are anything but economic and
represent merely a diversion of effort from development of greater
and more permanent human value. Accordingly, I shall not discuss
such special problems as the use of atomic energy for the propulsion
of submarines or for the acceleration away from the earth of the
so-called “space ships” with which some enthusiasts propose to develop
luxury holiday traffic between the planets. I propose to confine my-
self to the possibility of generating, in large fixed reactors, industrial
power which is distributed as electrical energy.

I want to emphasize that the users of industrial power in factory,
office, or home, will notice no difference whatever from their present
use of electricity derived from water power or coal. Atomic-energy
reactors will merely replace the furnaces of power stations burning
coal. The most noticeable difference at the generating station will
be the absence of coal dumps, coal-handling equipment, coal wagons
or barges, ash-disposal systems, and smoking chimneys. The boilers
and steam turbines, the electric generators and other equipment will
remain, though the boilers and turbines might later be replaced by
heat exchangers and gas turbines. Thus the successful application
of atomic energy will pass almost unnoticed by most people except
that there may be fewer interruptions of supply; restrictions on the
use of electricity may be replaced by a positive urge to use it, and
electric clocks will really tell the time.
ATOMIC ENERGY—OLIPHANT 995

It seems to me that all industrial power should be distributed as
electrical energy, except for some special purposes where gas is essen-
tial, and that there is no excuse whatever for the use of solid fuel in
thehome. The average efficiency of domestic appliances burning coal
does not approach the over-all efficiency of generation and distribu-
tion of electric power, and there are important reasons why efli-
ciency should not be the only criterion of choice. Anyone who has
considered the dirt and grime created by the distribution of coal and
its use in the home, the domestic drudgery it causes, and the fog that
it brings in winter, must agree that from the viewpoint of the house-
wife without domestic help, the all-electric house is essential, if she
is to share the 40-hour week of her husband. Those who advocate
the use of solid fuel in central-heating systems or in open fires are
either well supplied with domestic servants or oblivious to the elemen-
tary rights of womenfolk.

The cost of coal for the generation of electricity is only part of the
cost of electric power. Where industrial power costs one penny for
a kilowatt-hour, the coal will cost about one-third of a penny and the
cost of generation and distribution will account for the other two-
thirds. If the coal were free, the cost of electric power would be
reduced by less than 30 percent. Distribution costs fall rapidly as
the average load on a system increases. That is why electricity is
cheaper in towns than it is in the country. Thus, the complete elec-
trification of the country and the abolition of domestic heating by
solid fuel would so increase the load factor on the distribution system
that the cost of electricity would fall. If atomic fuel proves cheaper
than coal, and we will see that this may well be the case, the price of
electricity would be appreciably reduced still further.

WHAT IS ATOMIC ENERGY?

The name “atomic energy” isa misnomer. The energy obtained from
burning coal or other fuel is more properly called atomic energy since
it arises from the combination of the atoms of carbon and hydrogen
in the fuel with atoms of oxygen in the air. This chemical energy re-
sults from the hooking together of atoms of carbon or hydrogen and
atoms of oxygen, to produce carbon dioxide or water. The “hooks,”
or chemical bonds, arise from the interaction of the outermost electrons
(negative charges of electricity), which form the relatively soft and
tenuous “skin” of the atoms. The energy set free when coal is burnt
is considerable, 1 pound of coal liberating 3-4 kilowatt-hours of heat
which, by use of steam turbines in an electrical-generating station, will
produce about 1 kilowatt-hour of electricity, i. e., 144 horsepower for
an hour. Approximately two-thirds of the heat produced in burning
coal in a power station is wasted, mainly to warm the water from the
226 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

river or cooling tower, owing to the unfortunate inefficiency of the heat
engines.

Heat energy is simply violent agitation of the atoms of which sub-
stances are made. These heat motions are random in direction and
amount and can only be converted into organized motion, such as the
rotation of machinery, i. e., into useful power, by means of heat en-
gines. It is an immutable law of nature that the transformation of
heat into useful power can be carried out only by processes that waste
the larger part of the heat energy.

The inner parts of atoms are the seat of forces far greater in mag-
nitude than those associated with the outer “chemical” part. An atom
is similar to a solar system, with a minute sun, or nucleus, at the
center, surrounded by satellite electrons. Approximately 100 million
atoms placed side by side measure 1 inch, and the nucleus of an atom
is so small that 1 million million nuclei placed side by side are needed
to measure 1 inch. Yet this minute nucleus contains all the positive
electric charge and practically the whole of the mass of the atom.
Despite its small size, physical science has gained, by indirect meth-
ods, a great deal of information about its properties and structure.
The existence of the nucleus was discovered by Lord Rutherford when
he held the Chair of Physics in Manchester, and its properties were
unraveled by him and his collaborators in Manchester and Cambridge.
In fact, nuclear physics, the study of this minute world, is a peculiarly
British creation, and remained so until the successful release of nu-
clear energy and the colossal expenditure necessary to provide the
equipment for research in this field, moved the center of achievement
to the United States. Those of us who worked in this fruitful field
of human intellectual endeavor harbor nostalgic feelings for the days
when it was of purely academic interest and work was stimulated by
the knowledge of the structure of matter which it brought, rather
than by the desire to make bigger and better atomic bombs or to pro-
vide the world with a new source of power.

We believe the nucleus to be built up from entities to which we give
the name “elementary” or “fundamental” particles, because, at the
present time, we are unable to demonstrate that they possess any sign
of structure. This belief may be as mistaken as the idea of the Vic-
torian scientist that atoms themselves were elementary particles that
had existed as hard, round billiard balls ever since they were created.
The elementary particles in the nucleus are protons, which carry a
positive charge of electricity, and neutrons, which have no electric
charge. The forces holding these particles together are very large
indeed, many orders of magnitude greater than the forces holding to-
gether the atoms of ordinary matter. If the atoms in a spider web
were held together as strongly as the component parts of the nucleus,
a single thread would support a battleship. The number of protons
ATOMIC ENERGY—OLIPHANT D7,

present in a nucleus determines its positive electric charge and hence
the number of electrons which must rotate about it in order that the
atom, as a whole, may be electrically neutral. Thus the number of
protons determines what the atom is—if 1, the atom is hydrogen; if 8,
oxygen; if 92, uranium. The number of neutrons varies, so that there
may be several kinds of atoms of a given substance, called isotopes.
For example, hydrogen has 3 isotopes, the nuclei of which contain 1
proton with 0, 1, or 2 neutrons, while uranium has 2 principle isotopes
of mass 235 and 238 times the mass of elementary hydrogen, con-
sisting of 92 protons with 1438 or 146 neutrons.

The protons and neutrons in a nucleus may be altered in number
by bombarding with energetic charged particles, which can penetrate
inside against the repulsive forces due to the electric charge, or
neutrons may be added with greater ease since these do not experience
electrical repulsion. If the number of protons is changed, the atom
transforms into some other substance, and modern methods of al-
chemy, using cyclotrons and other accelerators to produce atomic
projectiles, enable us to change one substance into another at will,
though not yet in commercial quantities.

Since the nuclear constituents are so tightly bound together, addi-
tion of particles to a nucleus leads, in general, to a release of energy
corresponding to this binding force. The energy released for every
atom undergoing a nuclear transformation is a million or more times
greater than the energy released in chemical combination. Thus, if
the nuclei of 4 atoms of hydrogen could be made to combine to produce
the nucleus of a helium atom, the energy released by 1 pound of hydro-
gen undergoing the reaction would be equivalent to 100 million kilo-
watt-hours, as compared with 3 or 4 kilowatt-hours produced by

burning 1 pound of coal. We shall return to this possibility later.
' The element uranium is the heaviest and most complex of the sub-
stances existing in the earth. Elements with more than 92 protons in
the nucleus are too unstable to have survived since the earth cooled
down about 3,000 million years ago. When a neutron is captured by
one of the two isotopes of uranium, the transformations which take
place differ from these occurring in other elements. The rarer isotope
of mass 235 undergoes a process that is called fission, splitting into
two large fragments which separate with great velocity, the energy
released being about 10 million kilowatt-hours for 1 pound of U**
undergoing fission.

The U?* atom, after absorption of a neutron, splits into two atoms
of simpler structure and smaller mass, which separate with high veloc-
ity, their energy being dissipated as heat in the surrounding atoms
with which they collide. In addition, several neutrons are set free,
and if the surounding material is also U*%*, these neutrons will be
absorbed and will produce several fresh fissions. Thus it is clear that
228 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

in a mass of U** large enough to absorb the neutrons from a fission
process taking place at the center, a chain process can build up, and
since the neutrons are moving with high velocity, the number of fission
processes taking place multiplies with great rapidity. A mass of U?*
in which this chain process will just take place is said to be of critical
size, and the greater the extent to which the mass exceeds the critica]
size, the more rapid is the multiplication, so that if the critical size is
exceeded appreciably an atomic explosion takes place. The critical
mass for U** is officially stated to be between 2 and 400 pounds, and
since it is a very dense substance this corresponds with a sphere of
metal less than 12 inches in diameter. Since the neutrons released
with high velocity in the fission process are absorbed directly, a nuclear
chain reaction of this type is called a fast fission process.

THE FAST NEUTRON REACTOR

If the mass of uranium 235 consists of two pieces, either of which
alone is smaller than the critical mass, and these are brought together
slowly and cautiously, it is possible to find a position where the system
is so little above the critical size that the energy release builds up very
slowly. The two pieces of uranium metal will then be heated and we
can arrange an automatic mechanism that pulls them apart if they
get too hot or brings them together if they cool off, so maintaining
them in a red-hot condition. The heat given off can be transferred
to water or to gas and can be converted into useful power in a heat
engine. This is the simplest type of nuclear reactor that can give
useful power. However, there are a number of difficulties.

Uranium 235 can be separated from natural uranium, of which it
forms 1 part in 140, only by very elaborate and expensive physical proc-
esses. Uranium metal is very active chemically and must be protected
from attack by the cooling water or gas. Very large numbers of neu-
trons escape from the outer surface of the uranium, together with a
quantity of radiation, akin to X-rays. These must be absorbed in thick
shields of concrete to prevent lethal danger to living things in the
neighborhood. The amount of heat that can be abstracted from pieces
of metal with so small a surface is small, and in practice it is necessary
to increase the cooling area greatly and use a larger mass of fissionable
material. The problems of control must be solved in such a way as to
eliminate all risk of explosion. The charge of U** must be removed
periodically and treated chemically to remove the accumulated fission
products and to add fresh U***, and this involves serious problems of
engineering and of handling the highly radioactive material.

PLUTONIUM

The principal isotope of uranium, U**, behaves in a different way
when it absorbs a neutron. Instead of undergoing fission it changes,
ATOMIC ENERGY—OLIPHANT 229

by a process involving the radioactive emission of two negative elec-
trons, into a new chemical element, with 94 protons in the nucleus,
which has been called plutonium. This substance, which does not
exist in the natural state, is a metal that undergoes slowly a radioactive
change into U**, but this change is so slow, requiring 10,000 years or
more to be half completed, that for all practical purposes plutonium is
a normal metal. It undergoes fission when it absorbs a neutron of
any energy and hence can replace U** as a nuclear fuel.

SLOW NEUTRON REACTORS

The capture of neutrons by the much more plentiful U** prevents the
establishment of a chain process with natural uranium. There is, how-
ever, an ingenious way out of this difficulty, which enables reacting
systems to be built using natural uranium. U** does not capture neu-
trons that are moving with less than a certain minimum velocity.
- Neutrons can be slowed down by passage through materials like pure
carbon or heavy water, which do not absorb neutrons at all readily.
The particles then make collisions with atoms of carbon or of heavy
hydrogen, handing over to the struck atom at each collision a part of
their energy. By placing rods of uranium in a geometrical pattern,
which can be calculated, in a mass of pure graphite, it is possible to
arrange that fission neutrons escaping from the relatively thin rods
without appreciable absorption wander around in the graphite for a
considerable time, making many collisions and losing most of their
velocity. When they do again wander into a uranium rod they are, in
general, moving too slowly to be absorbed by the U***, and hence ignore
it. However, they are very readily captured by the rarer U*** atoms,
giving rise to fission.

In order that a chain reaction may be produced, a slow neutron re-
actor of this type must also be above a certain critical size, where the
number of neutrons lost from the outer surface is less than half the
number generated within the pile by the chain reaction. The critical
size is large and even a small slow neutron reactor will contain many
tons of uranium and hundreds or thousands of tons of carbon as pure
graphite. The many neutrons escaping from the outer surface are, to
some extent, reflected back by a thick layer of graphite placed around
the reactor, while the remainder, together with the accompanying
X-rays, which are so harmful to living matter, must be absorbed in the
walls of a massive concrete enclosure. The energy set free in the fission
process in the uranium rods appears as heat, which can be removed
by passing gas or water over them. Here again it is necessary to coat
the uranium with a protective layer of corrosion-resistant metal that
does not absorb neutrons readily, aluminum being employed at present
in the absence of a better material.
230 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

The slow neutron reactor has some advantages over the fast neutron
reactor, but it suffers also from severe limitations which are not present
in the fast reactor. The large mass and surface of the uranium allows
very large quantities of heat to be extracted, so that the total power
output of a large reactor can be of the order of 1 million kilowatts
of heat. However, it is not yet practicable to remove this heat at a
temperature high enough for eflicient heat engines to be operated from
the steam or gas which carries away the energy. This is due to the
limited corrosion resistance of aluminum. The development of coat-
ings of beryllium, or the use of less reactive gases such as helium, for
cooling, would permit the production of useful power, but no reactor
is yet operating under these conditions. There are also other grave
difficulties due to the changes in the properties of materials under
the action of fast neutrons. These technological problems will be
solved, but they take time and great effort to achieve a completely
satisfactory answer. A far more serious problem is that in a slow:
neutron reactor it is possible to use only a small fraction of the U*
present in the rods. Inevitable impurities in the materials and the
accumulated products of fission “poison” the reaction by absorbing
neutrons. The former set a lower limit to the concentration of U**
in the rods at which the reactor will operate, and this is only slightly
less than the concentration in natural uranium. The uranium must
be removed periodically and be subjected to an elaborate and costly
chemical process involving solution of the rods in acid, chemical
purification, and reduction to metal again. The whole of the initial
chemical operations must be carried out by remote control in concrete
or lead enclosures which absorb the harmful radiations coming from
the highly radioactive fission products. These fission products, equiv-
alent in activity to many tons of radium, must be disposed of in some
way, and this is one of the most difficult problems of all. If they are
thrown down a disused mine or buried they may reappear in the under-
ground water supply with disastrous results. The uncertainty of
ocean currents renders it hazardous to dump them into the sea, even
into the deep sea when sealed in containers. The radioactivity decays
away in time, some of it relatively quickly, some much more slowly,
so that if the fission products are stored in vats underground they
will, in the course of a generation or two, become harmless. However,
the storage capacity required to deal with the radioactive waste prod-
ucts of a large reactor is so huge that provision of the necessary under-
ground vats becomes an immense undertaking.

All these difficulties are very real and must not be underestimated.
However, they are technological difficulties with which modern applied
science is accustomed to deal, and are none of them insuperable.
Their solution is certain if the necessary effort is made, and many of
ATOMIC ENERGY—OLIPHANT 231

them are being attacked vigorously in both America and Great Britain,
though, in the present state of international tension, they must take
a position subordinate to the development and manufacture of atomic
weapons.

CONTROL OF NUCLEAR REACTORS

If a nuclear reactor is operating at a constant power level the number
of fissions taking place each second must be constant. In the systems
we have considered so far the number of fissions taking place in 1
second must increase rapidly. We have indicated that a fast neutron
reaction can be controlled by moving the component parts so that more
or less of the neutrons escape from the surface. This control is ren-
dered easier because some of the neutrons set free escape a fraction
cf a second after the fission process itself. This means that if the
system is just larger than the critical size, the multiplication proceeds
rather slowly. The component parts of a slow neutron reactor are
too large and bulky to be moved in this way, so the system is controlled
by pushing into the interior of the reactor rods of cadmium or of boron,
which have the property of absorbing neutrons readily, so robbing the
chain process of the number of neutrons required to keep it going.
There is no difficulty about controlling completely the rate of energy
release in a reactor, so that the chance of the process running away and
giving rise to an explosion is so small as to be entirely ruled out. Very
elaborate precautions are taken to prevent the escape of radioactive
materials or of harmful radiations, and workers in an atomic-energy
plant and those who live in the neighborhood are not subjected to any

abnormal risks.
“BREEDER” REACTORS

The picture of the production of atomic energy for industrial pur-
poses that we have drawn so far is not encouraging. The fast neutron
reactors require rather concentrated fissile material as atomic fuel,
and this is very difficult and expensive to produce. ‘The slow neutron
reactors utilize only a very small fraction of the rarer isotope of ura-
nium and produce about the same quantity of plutonium. Much more
than this must be achieved if atomic energy is to compete successfully
with coal as a source of power. Fortunately the way out is clear,
though it has not yet been achieved in practice, and the solution brings
with it the possibility of using thorium, as well as uranium, as a
nuclear fuel.

On the average a fission process releases several neutrons, say three.
If it is assumed that there are in the reactor no impurities or materials
of construction (other that uranium) that absorb neutrons, the three
fission neutrons can be utilized in the following way. At constant
power output one of these neutrons must produce a fresh fission by
absorption into the nucleus of another fissile atom. A second neutron

981445—52 16

232 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

can be captured by uranium of mass 238 to produce an atom of plu-
tonium, thus replacing the atom of fuel that has been used. The
third neutron can be absorbed by a second U*** atom giving another
plutonium atom. Thus a reactor operating in this way should pro-
duce more nuclear fuel than is burnt and is called a “breeding” reactor.
The breeding process should make it possible to utilize the whole of
the uranium, the plentiful U?** as well as the scarce U?*. If the excess
neutrons are absorbed in thorium instead of U**, a new fissile material
which can replace U** or plutonium is produced by a process very
similar to that which produces plutonium. We can represent this
process by the nuclear equation

ae p-7
232 1 233* 230% ¢ 4, 233
Th +n — Th 4—» Pa +—> U

90 i) 90 91 92

The thorium nucleus absorbs a neutron producing a radioactive
isotope of thorium of mass 233. This emits a negative electron, or
8-particle, transforming into a radioactive form of protoactinium,
which emits a further B-particle to give an isotope of uranium of mass
233. U** is a fissile substance which can be used as a fuel in nuclear
reactors. ‘Thus, in time, it should be possible to change over from
uranium to the more plentiful thorium as fuel for the production of
nuclear power.

The design of a successful breeding reactor depends upon the elimi-
nation from the reactor of materials that capture an appreciable frac-
tion of the neutrons without contributing to the production of power
or of fresh fissile material. There are reasons why this may prove to
be more practicable with the fast neutron reactors than with those
using slow neutrons, partly because the smaller mass of fissile material
in the reactor can be prepared in a state of higher purity, partly
because there is no moderator, but principally because the essential
materials of mechanical construction and the cooling fluid which can
be used in a fast neutron reactor are not so restricted in properties.
The most important of the factors to which answers have yet to be
found is the extent to which the materials in the reactor retain their
physical properties of strength, etc., when the atoms of which they
consist are continually stirred up and knocked out of place by collisions
with fast neutrons.
ra EXPERIMENTAL PROGRAM IN U. §. A.

The Atomic Energy Commission in the United States has announced
the construction of two types of experimental breeding reactor and a
materials-testing reactor. The first of these is designed to test the
practical feasibility of breeding with fast neutrons and to investigate
ATOMIC ENERGY—OLIPHANT 233

the application of liquid metals to the removal of fission-produced
heat at high temperatures. The second will produce significant
amounts of electric power from a reactor using neutrons in the inter-
mediate range of energies, and at the same time will determine whether
breeding is possible under these conditions. The heat will be re-
moved with liquid metal, and power will be generated from this by
conventional means. These breeder reactors, together with the ma-
terials-testing reactor, are estimated to cost about 70 million dollars.
The Ministry of Supply has not yet announced plans in Britain for
work on breeder reactors upon which the future of atomic energy for
useful purposes clearly depends.

ECONOMIC COST OF NUCLEAR POWER

It is not easy to estimate, as yet, the economic cost of nuclear power.
The energy derived from 1 pound of uranium, completely utilized in
a breeder reactor, is equivalent to that produced by burning 1,500 tons
of coal. The cost of uranium is about 1,000 times the cost of coal.
This leaves a factor of about 3,000 to cover the cost of converting the
uranium to a form suitable for use in a reactor and the greater cost
of a nuclear reactor over a coal furnace. In the absence of precise
data it is possible only to guess the ultimate answer. You will find
that many British scientists and engineers of repute believe that the
cost will always be too great for atomic energy to compete with coal
as a source of power, and that the new form of energy is of purely
military and scientific interest. I do not share this view. I feel
confident that atomic energy has a very important part to play in the
production of industrial power and that the cost will ultimately be
found to be competitive with, and probably much less than, the cost
of power from other sources. The time required to reach this stage of
development is unlikely to be less than 10 to 15 years and clearly it
depends on the relative efforts devoted to the military and industrial
objectives. Uranium is more widespread in occurrence than was
thought to be the case and, with the development of methods for ex-
tracting it from low-grade ores, there should be sufficient available to
provide a great contribution to the power resources of the world if it
is not used for the manufacture of military weapons.

HYDROGEN AS A NUCLEAR FUEL

Finally, we must consider the possibility that industrial power may
one day be produced from hydrogen. Long before the discovery of
the fission process it was realized that under conditions of extremely
high temperature and pressure, such as exist in the interior of the sun
and stars, hydrogen nuclei, or protons, might combine to give nuclei
of heavier elements, and that because the component parts of heavier
234 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

nuclei are very tightly bound together, sufficient energy would be
released to maintain the temperature of the star. If it were possible
to find a method by which heavier atoms could be synthesized from
hydrogen at will and under controlled conditions, very large amounts
of energy would be available. Thus, if four atoms of hydrogen con-
dense to form an atom of helium, the energy set free is about 5 million
times as great as that produced when an atom of carbon is burnt. In
other words, 1 pound of hydrogen transformed into helium would
produce about 100 million kilowatt-hours of heat energy, or about
130 million horsepower for an hour. Thus hydrogen as nuclear fuel
would be about 10 times as good, weight for weight, as uranium.
There are possible ways in which an explosive reaction of this type can
be produced by utilizing the very high temperature and pressures
developed in the explosion of an atomic bomb, but so far there is no
clue to a method for bringing about the reaction in a controllable
way. However, it is interesting to speculate on the possibility that
nuclear scientists may discover how to do this in the future.

There is enough hydrogen in the sea, if it were all converted into
helium, to raise the temperature of the whole earth to at least
1,000,000° C., i.e., over 100 times the temperature of the surface of
the sun. Fortunately for us the possibility of bringing about such
an explosion can be ruled out, if for no other reason than that if it
were possible it would have happened in the past history of the earth.
However, if we accept as the desirable power level for civilization
that every individual should utilize, on the average, 1 kilowatt of
power continuously, we can calculate that 3,000 million inhabitants
of the earth could be supplied with power from the hydrogen of the
sea for 1,000 million million years, or for about a million times the
age of the earth itself. Thus, if this remote possibility is realized,
mankind would have no need to look elsewhere than to the sea for all
the power he can conceivably use in the lifetime of the solar system.

In conclusion I would emphasize that industrial power from
uranium is on the doorstep and will almost certainly be used success-
fully, while power from hydrogen is only a remote possibility in the
light of existing knowledge. In any case, the probability is small
that any nuclear power will be available for useful purposes unless
the problems of war can be solved, and that is a question for all man-
kind and not for the scientist alone. ‘There is danger in all knowledge
of nature. Scientific information can always yield guns as well as
butter. Itisa source of great regret to men of science that their work
is made the basis of the indiscriminate destruction of man and his
civilization, instead of contributing to the well-being of all.
Some Prospects in the Field of Electronics’

By V. K. ZworyKIn

Radio Corporation of America

[With 4 plates]

Tue boundaries of the field of electronics, like those of almost any
branch of technology, are vague. Enclosing within them everything
in which the electron plays a vital function would certainly take in too
much territory, yet restricting the domain of electronics to devices
involving the employment of free electrons only would leave out such
items as crystal triodes and diodes which, by reason of their function,
have been quite generally claimed by workers in electronics.

It must be recognized, however, that until recently the free electron
has been responsible for the role which electronics has come to play in
the modern world. Its extraordinarily large specific charge makes it
possible to impart to it high velocities with the aid of modern electric
fields and to deflect its path with ease by either electric or magnetic
forces. This is the reason for its effective use for the amplification
of rapidly varying currents or voltages and the generation of high-
frequency oscillations in the vacuum tube, for the indication of voltage
and current variations in the oscillograph, and for the generation of
picture signals in the television camera and the reconstruction of the
televised scene in the viewing tube. The same property proves val-
uable in the detection and measurement of light by phototubes and in
the generation of X-rays in X-ray tubes. Finally, in the electron
microscope the scattering properties of matter for fast electrons,
the nature of their interaction with magnetic and electric fields, and
their wave characteristics combine to permit the use of free electrons
to extend the recognition of microscopic detail by two orders of
magnitude.

The history of electronics can conveniently be divided into four
overlapping periods. In the first, ushered in by DeForest’s invention
of the audion and terminated, approximately, by the First World War,
electron currents were controlled in vacuum tubes in much the same
manner as a steam valve controls the flow of steam ina pipe. No more

1 Reprinted by permission from the Journal of the Franklin Institute, vol. 251, No. 1,
January 1951.

235
236 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

attention was paid to the behavior of the individual electrons in the
tube than is customarily expended on the motion of the individual
steam molecules in the valve. The English designation “electron
valve” is singularly fitting for this period.

In the succeeding period, taking up much of the twenties and
thirties, the directed, rather than random, character of electron motion
in vacuum was applied in the cathode-ray tube and for improving the
efficiency of amplifier and oscillator tubes by proper shaping and align-
ing of electrodes. The electrostatic secondary-emission multiplier
phototube, in which secondary electrons are guided from one electrode
to the next by a careful adjustment of electrode shapes, is a typical
product of this epoch.

The third period, beginning some time before the Second World
War, further subdivided the beams of electrons into groups and dealt
primarily with the latter. This subdivision was either on the basis of
time, the electrons being bunched at certain phases of an applied high-
frequency field as in the klystron or magnetron, or of space, as in
image-forming devices; the electron microscope and the image tube are
typical representatives of this group. A somewhat different form of
group selection, on the basis of time and place of injection, occurs in
the betatron.

The fourth period in the development of electronics, in which we
find ourselves at present, is concerned with the control of electrons
within solids. Here, with crystal diodes, transistors, photoconductive
pick-up tubes, etc., we have barely made a beginning. However, in
large part with the aid of the typical products of the preceding periods,
which are at the same time undergoing continous further develop-
ment, this period should prove at least as productive as any of the
earlier ones.

Let us visualize some of the trends in the evolution of the electronic
art in the near future. We may distinguish here between the develop-
ment of new devices and the extension of their practical application.
In the field of amplifying tubes and oscillators we can safely predict
that the stress will continue to be placed more and more on types suit-
able for the very-short-wavelength region of the radio spectrum, where
the time of travel of the electrons can no longer be neglected in com-
parison with a period of oscillation. In oscillators and narrow-band
amplifiers the tube geometry will, as now, for example, in magnetrons
and klystrons, be determined in large part by the frequency of the
oscillation generated or amplified. At the same time, wide-band
amplifying tubes will increasingly be provided by devices in which
energy is exchanged between electron streams and traveling wave
fields, as in the traveling-wave tube, the double-stream tube, and
others. Similar techniques of energy interchange, in reverse direction,
serve to provide high-energy electron beams in linear accelerators.
ELECTRONICS—ZWORYKIN Zod

Concurrently, there will unquestionably be a continued great in-
crease in the application of electronic components in all departments of
life. In heavy industry case-hardening and annealing of metal parts
by radio-frequency currents already plays a large role. Gluing of
plywood, heat detonation of explosive rivets, sealing of metal tubes,
welding of plastic sheet, and dehydration of antibiotics are other
effective uses of radio-frequency heating. In the food industry the
same technique may be employed for the sterilization of packaged foods
and liquids, the blanching of vegetables, and specialized cooking
operations. Food sterilization by bombardment with electrons in the
million-electron-volt range also appears to be a promising field. In
medicine radio-frequency fields may not only be employed for certain
types of therapy but, in addition, the “radio knife,” which seals the
capillaries severed in an incision, is a valuable aid in surgery.

Up to this point we have considered the power output of electronic
devices; of quite as great importance is their employment for analyti-
cal and diagnostic purposes. The use of very-high-energy X-rays for
the detection of flaws in machine parts, facilitated by electron image
amplifiers, will become increasingly standard practice. Similarly,
spectroanalysis of the alloys used for machines and manufactured
products with the aid of automatic recording equipment employing
multiplier phototubes will be much more general than it is at present.
Isotope tracer methods in chemical and metallurgical studies will call
for scintillation counters and other electronic equipment in increasing
numbers.

The same devices will find extended use for diagnosis, therapy, and
research in medicine and biology. Many time-consuming routine
operations, such as the making of blood counts, can certainly be car-
ried out more speedily and accurately by electronic methods. ‘Tele-
vision techniques applied to the study of the variation in skin
potential distribution already hold much promise for the rapid diag-
nosis of brain tumors and heart conditions, yielding information in
much more readily interpreted form than that supplied by the con-
ventional electroencephalograph and electrocardiograph. There can
be little question that the measurement of body potentials and their
variation, made possible by amplifying equipment of high sensitivity,
will prove of increasing value in many other areas of medical diagno-
sis and biological research.

The electron microscope, also, is likely to find not only increasing
use as a research tool in biology, chemistry, and metallurgy, but, on
the basis of research findings, as a diagnostic aid as well. The intro-
duction of smaller, more compact models of the electron microscope,
supplementing the larger research instrument, should prove particu-
larly valuable here, just as in routine chemical tests. At the same
time, fundamental research probing into basic life processes, the
238 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

growth mechanism of crystals, and innumerable other frontier regions
of knowledge will find the electron microscope indispensable.

Even broader in its applications than the electron microscope is the
electronic computing machine. It not only supplies quantitative
answers to problems in fields governed by known laws, however in-
volved their application may be; it also greatly accelerates the dis-
covery of laws governing physical phenomena through the rapid
comparison of the predictions of a hypothesis with actual
measurements.

There are two types of electronic computing machines: the analogue
computer and the digital computing machine. In the former the vari-
ables in the equation to be solved are represented by electrical quan-
tities, such as current or voltage, and the operations occurring in it,
by the characteristics of the circuit and tube elements making up the
computer. Both in principle and in function, the electronic analogue
computer is closely related to the mechanical analogue calculating
device, which, in the form of Bush’s differential analyzer, ushered in
the era of large-scale computing machines.

Examples of electronic analogue computers are MacNee’s differential
analyzer for the solution of ordinary differential equations (1)*; Gold-
berg and Brown’s simultaneous equation solver (2) ; and the numerous
auxiliary circuits employed, in radar technique and elsewhere, to
simplify the presentation of data. By its very nature the applica-
tion of the analogue computer tends to be specialized, its accuracy
limited. Even so, it has proved its usefulness in countless ways, in
a saving of time and effort and the elimination of human error.

By contrast, the digital computing machines are quite universal in
their application and their accuracy is only limited by the number of
significant figures that can be entered on them. As the name implies,
the digital computer deals with numbers represented by a sequence of
digits. The primary difference between the electronic digital com-
puter and the familiar mechanical computing machine is a difference
in the speed with which the electronic machine can perform the ele-
mentary arithmetical operations. This quantitative difference, how-
ever, leads to important qualitative differences: if the time in which
the elementary arithmetical operations are performed is measured in
microseconds, the basic advantage of the high speed of the machine is
lost unless the time of transfer from one operation to the next also
is measured in microseconds. This necessarily eliminates the role of
a human operator from all intermediate operations and even pro-
hibits the employment of mechanical devices in the major portion of

2 Numbers in parentheses refer to references at the end of this paper.
?Eventualky, as in the simultaneous equation solver, a rapidly converging process of
iteration may be employed to achieve results of arbitrary accuracy.
YSA1OS NOILYNOF SNOANVL
“TAWIS AHL :YAaLNdWOD ANSOIWNY SINOYNL9379 Ny Or 4 AdOSSOHXSDICW NOY 19379 3adA1-HS3Q NYS0GOW vy ‘|

. ®>

é

eo:
é

. .

.
3
e
— 3

+

hie 8: Big

2
ee

| 3LWV1d uryAlom7Z ~"16| ‘Oday UeIUOSY IWS
Smithsonian Report, 1951.—Zworykin PLATE 2

1. THE SB-256 TUBE, AN EFFICIENT ELECTRONIC MEMORY

L

2. SIZE REDUCTION AND SIMPLIFICATION IN TELEVISION PICK-UP TUBES: THE
IMAGE ORTHICON AND THE VIDICON
Smithsonian Report, 1951.—Zworykin PLATE

1. AN INDUSTRIAL TELEVISION SYSTEM: CAMERA AND CONTROL UNIT

2. STEREOTELEVISION CAMERA FOR CONVEYING THREE-DIMENSIONAL IMAGES
3Aq
HOVZ OL FISISIA JOVWI ANO ANVW YAANSSEO SH JO S3Aq

3H1 4O LNON4 NI GNY Sa8NL ONIMSIA OML SHL JO LNONG SdODSOUDIW: v'NO aaLNnoW vases

Rape ee, See ec, SAAIOAY NGISIAATALOSHALS: *2 NOISIADTA_L WINLSNGNI ! WOONSSV1D SH NO4 NOISIASIAL *|

vy ALWId

ulyAIOM7Z “1661 ‘yaoday upruosyyIWG
ELECTRONICS—ZWORYKIN 239

the computation process. The human operator only enters in the
setting up of the machine for a given calculation and the reading of
the final results.

To perform its function effectively the electronic digital computer
hence requires, in addition to a group of electronic computing units, a
set of “fast” electronic memories, in which an intermediate result can
be stored until needed for a later operation, as well as a command sys-
tem on which the complete sequence of operations to be performed by
the machine may be recorded. Additional “slow” memories, in the
form of magnetic or punched tape, can be employed, furthermore, for
the storage of large quantities of information, such as tables of func-
tions, which may be fed into the fast electronic memories on order.

Much ingenuity has been expended in devising satisfactory elec-
tronic memories. The essential feature of all electronic memory de-
vices is the presence of elements with two alternative stable states
which are maintained indefinitely unless subjected to new electrical
“writing” impulses. The Eccles-Jordan trigger circuit, containing
two vacuum tubes so connected that, in equilibrium, one tube conducts
while the other is cut off, constitutes such a single element of memory.
More recent devices, such as the cathode-ray tube memory of F. C.
Williams (3) and the SB-256 tube of Rajchman (4) by comparison,
utilize the properties of the secondary emission of insulators to pro-
vide several hundred such elements (corresponding to the storage of
an equal number of binary digits) in a single envelope.

The last few years have seen great advances in the magnitude, scope,
and organization of digital computing machines. These will un-
questionably continue and further expand the role of electronic meth-
ods in science and in our economic organization. It may well be,
however, that electronic computation will achieve its greatest triumphs
through the integration of analogue computing devices, with their
ability to short-circuit extensive numerical calculations in specific
applications, in digital computing systems. In fact, it seems scarcely
thinkable that effective headway can be made with extremely complex
problems such as are encountered in weather prediction unless all
available techniques are combined to best advantage.

Possibly the most striking demonstration of the power of electronics
to the average man has occurred in the field of television. The de-
velopment of this new industry has far outstripped the predictions of
the most extravagant prophets of a few years ago. It requires little
imagination today to foresee for the television set a universality com-
parable to that of the kitchen range or the refrigerator. Numerous
articles have dealt with the probable effect of this new factor on
education, social patterns, and the economy, and I shall make no at-
tempt to add anything to their conclusions. Technically, also, the
240 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

pattern for the future has in large part been established for broadcast
television, with the creation of a sound basis for the smooth change-
over or side-by-side existence of color and black-and-white television
(5). Nevertheless, a host of interesting engineering problems, whose
solution will lead to the simplification and improvement of different
phases of television equipment and television service, remain to be
solved and, to judge by the recent past, will be solved in original
fashion.

There is another aspect of television development that has not
received, and probably will not receive, nearly as much attention as
broadcast television and that may yet, eventually, turn out to be of
even greater significance. This is industrial television—the utiliza-
tion of television techniqués in industry, research, education, com-
merce—in short, in all fields apart from broadcasting. The basic
industrial television system, in the form of a self-contained, cable-
connected link incorporating a television camera and a combined view-
ing and control unit, enables the observer to transfer his vantage
point to dangerous and inaccessible locations; to view simultaneously
several spatially widely separated scenes; or to share an intimate view
with a large number of other observers without mutual interference.
The first condition is realized, for example, in the watching of care-
fully shielded radioactive reactions from a protected point, the check-
ing of engine performance by a camera mounted on the underside of
an automobile chassis, or the observation of the proper filling of the
scoops in strip mining by a camera placed directly above the scoop;
the second, by the simultaneous observation of indicating instruments
at a number of substations from a central station; and the third, in
the watching of surgical operations on television receivers linked to
a camera mounted above the operating table or the presentation of
microslides at high magnification to groups of students; in the last
instance the microscope image is projected directly on the target of the
pick-up tube in the television camera and the enlarged image is either
viewed directly on a home receiver or projected on a screen by a thea-
ter projector.

In all these instances compactness and simplicity of the television
camera are essential requirements. A great step forward in this di-
rection has been the recent development of the vidicon (6), a highly
sensitive television pick-up tube with a photoconductive target. This
tube, though only 1 inch in diameter, is capable of transmitting high-
quality television images at moderate light levels. Furthermore, the
extraordinary simplicity of the vidicon simplifies control of the cam-
era from a distance. In a typical example of present industrial tele-
vision equipment (7), the control unit incorporating a monitoring
kinescope is connected by a 500-foot cable to the camera. This cable
ELECTRONICS—ZWORYKIN 241

not only transmits the video signals from the camera to the kinescope,
but, in the opposite direction, transmits electric power and center-
ing, focusing, and deflection signals from the control unit to the
camera. '

The small dimensions of the new camera tubes also lend themselves
well to their employment in color-television cameras transmitting
simultaneously picture signals for the three primary-color components
of the picture. Perhaps of even greater value in many practical ap-
plications is the observation of objects in three dimensions, made
possible by the employment of a stereotelevision camera. Here two
vidicon tubes, with a pair of objectives controlled by a single focusing
movement, are mounted side by side. In viewing the stereoreceiver
linked to the camera, the eyes of the observer are in effect translated to
the position of the two stereocamera objectives, and, at the same time,
endowed with the greatly increased focusing range or “accommoda-
tion” of the latter.

An example where such three-dimensional observation is partic-
ularly valuable is the presentation of surgical operations to medical
students. Here the relative spatial position of the surgeon’s tools,
the incision, and the organs on which the operation is performed is
of primary importance. The same also applies, of course, wherever
television is employed for instruction in mechanical operations. The
immediacy and flexibility of television demonstrations as compared,
for example, with demonstrations by means of motion-picture film
should render them an exceedingly effective aid in the process of
education,

In the development of networks of television broadcasting stations
we have witnessed the use of microwave links paralleling that of
coaxial cables. In industrial television, too, situations arise which
can only be met by the use of such links, even though this materially
complicates control problems. Examples are the transfer of visual
information from the ground to aircraft and vice versa, for example,
as an aid to navigation, the transmission of scientific data from rockets,
and the sending of astronomical information from balloon-mounted
telescopes at a sufficiently high altitude to escape major atmospheric
disturbances. The extraordinary range of applications of television
is best realized when it is recognized that television does for the sense
of sight what radio and the telephone have done for the sense of
hearing. Insofar as the amount of intelligence acquired by the
average person through vision is incomparably greater than that ac-
quired through hearing, we can safely predict that the revolution
wrought in our lives by television in its various forms may materially
exceed that brought about by the development of means for auditory
communication.
242 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

As I have already mentioned, the most recently developed television
pick-up tube, the vidicon, employs a target consisting of a photocon-
ductive material, that is, a material which conducts electric current
under the influence of light. Employed in a simple photosensitive
cell, such a material does not emit free electrons into space and hence
does not fit into the realm of “electronics” in the narrower sense. Yet,
materials from the larger family of the semiconductors, to which it
belongs, are playing an increasing role in electronic apparatus—not
only as components of tubes utilizing electron beams, such as the
vidicon, but also quite apart from vacuum devices: in the form of
the crystal rectifier and the transistor they fulfill certain requirements
previously met only by vacuum tubes.

Whereas, at present, there is little reason for expecting wholesale
replacement of vacuum tubes by their semiconductor equivalents—
certain basic shortcomings of the latter militate against this eventu-
ality—the crystal elements will not only find increasing use in spe-
clalized apparatus where compactness is of primary importance but
will also be incorporated more and more into the design of more con-
ventional electronic equipment. Here also the trend is toward com-
pactness, as exemplified by the increasing use of printed circuits. In
this connection the crystal diodes and triodes represent but one phase
of a constant search for improved components for electronic appa-
ratus. From another point of view, the intensive preoccupation with
the properties of the solid state, which has led to their discovery
and development, is creating a fund of knowledge that has already
borne rich fruit in the development of efficient phosphors, ferromag-
netic materials, and crystal counters. This is bound to contribute ma-
terially not only to the electronic industry, but all other industries as
well, and to supply effective new tools for scientific investigation.
Whatever the future of electronics may be in the ensuing half century,
it is certain to profit from fundamental research as it has in the past
and to repay its debt generously in the form of instruments and
methods to carry out the tasks of research.

In the past half century electronics has demonstrated its ability to
annihilate distance for both sound and sight. In countless ways it
has aided human safety and relieved man of routine efforts. To the
scientist it has proved itself an indispensable aid in research. No
prophet is needed to state that, in the future, the application of elec-
tronics in these fields will be even wider, its usefulness even greater;
more than that, as the past amply shows, no prophet can have sufficient
imagination to predict, at the present time, just what forms these
further applications, this increased usefulness may take. Yet one
thing is certain: in the future as in the recent past electronics will
ELECTRONICS—ZWORYKIN 243

cooperate with the other branches of science and technology to achieve
the satisfaction of physical needs, the extension of human knowledge,
and the freeing of man’s spirit for creative effort.

REFERENCES
1. MacNee, A. B.
1948. An electronic differential analyzer. Massachusetts Inst. Techn.
Res. Lab. Electronics, Techn. Rep. No. 90. Cambridge.
2. GouDBerG, E. A., and Brown, G. W.
1948. An electronic simultaneous equation solver. Journ. Appl. Phys.,
vol. 19, pp. 839-345.
3. WILLIAMS, F. C,
1949. A storage system for use with binary-digital computing machines.
Journ. Inst. Electr. Eng., vol. 96, No. 3, pp. 81-100.
4. RAJCHMAN, J. A.
The SB-256 memory tube. (To be published in RCA Review.)
5. RCA LAsoratories DIvIsIon.
1949. A six-megacycle compatible high-definition color television system.
RCA Rey., vol. 10, pp. 504-524.
6. WerrM_Er, P. K., Forcur, 8. V., and Goopricn, R. R.
1950. Vidicon—photoconductive camera tube. Electronics, vol. 23, pp.
70-73, May.
7. Wess, R. C., and Morgan, J. M.
1950. Simplified television for industry. Electronics, vol. 23, pp. 70-73,
June.
1 lesstinn q Fonsi sidaead
~ A FR, Feige

Pe *

et as is

ad Riven va

te a“ aes “psion st iB ese i
sOGmae? os sf wah. SR: seein a

in
4 One

ee ecg |

sty reat fie Hho Te;
a LS HG ae 0 i 4 hop

ae + ce 7

Me Pros “

Motretiostt**
et

»

7
aT Se } oe
=" ee sy See PA ;

a,

bee Peli
& Bang: seins

The New Chemical Elements’

By Sau, DusHMAN

=z
ee

Research Consultant, General Electric Research Laboratory, Schenectady, N. Y.

Aun matter, mineral and organic, is made up of combinations or
mixtures of elementary substances known as chemical elements.
Before 1937 about 88 such elements had been found. About 30 of
these elements occur on the earth, in the free or chemically uncombined
state. Examples of such elements are: the gases hydrogen, oxygen,
nitrogen, and argon, which occur in the atmosphere; the metals gold,
platinum, silver, copper, and mercury; and the nonmetals carbon and
sulfur. Each chemical element is made up of infinitesimally small
corpuscles, which were originally designated atoms, because they were
assumed to be indivisible. The atoms of any one element are the
same in size, mass, and chemical properties. If we assign to the atom of
the lightest element (that is, hydrogen) the atomic weight 1, then the
atomic weight of uranium—until 1940 the heaviest known element—
is 238. The diameters of atoms of the different elements vary from
about one hundred-millionth of an inch to about three times that value.

About 50 years ago it was discovered that white-hot metals, when
negatively charged, emit electrons. These have been shown to be
extremely small particles each of which carries a unit charge of
negative electricity and has a mass about 2,000 times smaller than
that of the hydrogen atom. The diameter of the electron is about
one hundred-thousandth of that of an atom. Also, at about the same
time, the phenomenon of radioactivity was discovered; that is, it was
observed that certain high-atomic-weight elements disintegrate
spontaneously into elements of lower atomic weight. ‘Thus it was
recognized during the first decade of the present century that the
atom is not a simple, spherically shaped little mass, without structure,
but must be composed of still more elementary particles, which govern
the observed chemical and physical properties of the different chemical
elements.

1Talk presented at the General Electric Science Forum broadcast on December 27, 1950.
Reprinted by permission from General Electric Review, vol. 54, No. 4, April 1951, with
some revision by the author.

245
246 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

A first approximation to the solution of the problem regarding
the structure of the atom was given, in 1911, by the late Sir Ernest
Rutherford. As a result of a brilliant series of investigations, he
reached the conclusion that the atom consists of a positively charged
nucleus (or core) surrounded by as many electrons as the number of
unit positive charges on the nucleus. This number is known as the
atomic number of an element, and an element of atomic number X
will be referred to in this article as element X. This number varies
in value from 1 for hydrogen to 92 for uranium. Thus the uranium
atom consists of a nucleus having 92 units of positive electricity and
92 electrons, revolving in orbits about the nucleus. Since the mass of
even 92 electrons is about one-fiftieth of 1 percent of the mass of the
uranium atom, it follows that nearly the whole mass of the atom is
concentrated in the nucleus. And yet, since the diameter of the nucleus
is only about one hundred-thousandth of that of the atom, we must
conceive of the atom as an extremely miniature solarlike system in
which most of the volume is just empty space.

The electrons external to the nucleus are arranged in shells or
groups in a manner somewhat similar to the concentric crystal spheres
in which, according to the medieval astronomers, the stars, sun, and
planets were supposed to revolve about the earth as the center of the
universe. With increase in atomic number, that is the charge on
the nucleus, the electrons fill up first the innermost shells, and then the
outer shells. There is a periodicity with increasing atomic number
in the distribution of the electrons which corresponds to the perio-
dicity in chemical and physical properties of the elements that had
been previously observed in the latter half of the nineteenth century.
Thus hydrogen consists of a nucleus of unit +ve charge and an
electron located in the innermost shell. When one more +ve charge
is added to the nucleus, the second electron which is required to
neutralize the added +ve charge on the nucleus goes into the same
shell as that occupied by the electron in the hydrogen atom and thus
forms the atom of helium. With the addition of a third unit of
positive charge to the nucleus the third electron enters into a second
shell and we have the atom of lithium which is atomic number 3.
As more positive charges are added to the nucleus the corresponding
number of electrons enter into the same shell until we reach the atom
of atomic number 10. This element is neon, which is chemically inert
like He. This atom has two electrons in the innermost shell and
eight electrons in the next outer shell. If we add eight more pos-
itive units to the nucleus the added eight electrons fill up a third
shell, and the element of atomic number 18 is argon, which is a chem-
ically inert gas similar to neon and helium. This periodicity of
eight leads to groups of chemically similar elements. Thus the
NEW CHEMICAL ELEMENTS—DUSHMAN 947

elements lithium (atomic number 3), sodium (atomic number 11),
and potassium (atomic number 19) all belong to the alkali metal
group.

The next members of the group of inert gases are krypton (atomic
number 36) and xenon (atomic number 54). Cesium of atomic number
55 (that is, 87+ 18) is a member of the alkali metals group. The
periodicity of 18 is succeeded by a period of 82 elements, so that
radon (radium emanation) of atomic number 86 is the next and last
member of the group of inert gases.

LANTHANIDE SERIES:

gs eae
jes__ledserlesleairol7iy

Figure 1.—Perodic arrangement of elements.

(RARE EARTHS)

This periodicity in the distribution of the electrons in shells corre-
sponds to a periodicity in chemicals and physical properties of the
elements when these elements are arranged in order of increasing
atomic number, as shown in the periodic arrangement of elements,
figure 1.2. Thus we find that the elements fall into eight groups, with
chemically similar elements in each group.

Such an arrangement was first suggested in 1870 by the Russian
chemist Mendeléeff and was based on the arrangement of the elements
in order of increasing atomic weight. With further discovery of
new elements and more accurate determinations of atomic weights

?From Fundamentals of Atomic Physics, by S. Dushman. New York, 1951.
981445—52 17

248 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

it became evident that for some of the elements the order based on
atomic weights did not agree with the order predicted on the basis
of chemical properties. The reason for this discrepancy came after
Rutherford’s suggestion of the nuclear structure of the atom and as
a result of a series of investigations by Moseley and others on the
X-ray spectra of the elements.

Turning now to a consideration of the structure of the nucleus,
it was discovered, in 1934, that besides the electron, and the proton,
which is the nucleus of the hydrogen atom, there also exists in all
the nuclei another elementary particle, the neutron. This particle
has zero charge and a very slightly higher mass than that of the
proton. Our present view, therefore, based on this discovery and a
larger number of observations, is that the nucleus contains both neu-
trons and protons. The number of protons is the same as the atomic
number (that is, the number of extranuclear electrons) and the num-
ber of neutrons is equal to the difference between the atomic mass
and the number of protons.

Since the chemical properties of an element are governed solely by
the atomic number (that is, the number of protons), it is possible to
have two or more kinds of atoms which are chemically inseparable,
but which have different atomic masses. This is because of differences
in the number of neutrons in the nucleus. Such atoms are known
as isotopes. Thus, the nucleus of ordinary hydrogen is designated
the proton; but there is also an isotope of hydrogen of mass 2, the
nucleus of which consists of a proton and a neutron. This nucleus
is designated the deuteron; and while it has the same charge as the
proton, it has about twice the mass of the proton. A large number
of the elements have two or more isotopes, and in the case of the
heavier nuclei, these are radioactive; that is, they decay spontaneously
with emission of high-speed electrons, or gamma rays, or a particles.
The latter are the nuclei of helium atoms and consists of two protons
and two neutrons. Now the very important discovery has been made
that it is possible to transmute nuclei of a radioactive element number
X into nuclei of an element number X+1 or X+2 by bombardment
with protons, deuterons, or helium ions. Since protons and deuterons
have a nuclear charge of one positive unit and alpha particles have
a nuclear charge of two positive units, these particles may be acceler-
ated to very high velocities by means of high voltage in much the
same manner as electrons are speeded up by high voltage in an X-ray
tube. The velocities thus acquired by the positively charged particles
are of the order of one-tenth to one-half of the velocity of light.
Under these conditions, the particles gain sufficient energy to enable
them to penetrate and combine with the nucleus of a bombarded atom
of element number X. The result is an atom of element number X+1
or element number X+2, depending upon whether singly-charged
NEW CHEMICAL ELEMENTS—DUSHMAN PAD

particles or doubly-charged particles are used as bombarding pro-
jectiles. That is, an atom of the bombarded element (number X) is
transmitted into an atom of a totally different chemical element, of
higher atomic number.

It is in this manner that the four elements previously missing below
uranium, and also elements of higher atomic number than uranium,
have been synthesized in recent years.

The first of the elements to be synthesized in this manner (in 1937)
was number 48. Molybdenum is number 42, and by bombarding this
element in a cyclotron with deuterons, the new element, number 43,
was obtained. Since it was the first element produced artificially
or technically, it was designated technetium (Tc). Chemical tests
showed it to be an element chemically similar to manganese, as had
been expected.

In 1938, element number 61 was produced by bombarding neo-
dymium, element number 60, with deuterons. It corresponds to a
long-sought-for element, hitherto missing in the series of 15 rare-
earth elements which occur in the periodic arrangement between
barium (number 56) and hafnium (number 72). This newly dis-
covered element has been designated promethium (Pm).

In 1940, element 85 was produced by bombardment of bismuth,
which is number 83, with high-speed helium ions. The new element
was identified as a member of the same chemical group as chlorine,
bromine, and iodine. Accordingly, it was designated astatine (At),
signifying “unstable.”

Francium (Fr, atomic number 87) was discovered in 1939, as a short-
lived radioactive form that occurs in the decay of other radioactive
elements such as uranium and radium. It corresponds, chemically,
to the long-sought-for element “eka-cesium,” which belongs to the
same alkali group as cesium.

With the synthesis of these four elements all the 92 places in the
periodic arrangement of the elements, beginning with hydrogen and
ending with uranium, were completed. But in the course of the
investigations on the fission of uranium, four new transuranic elements
(that is, elements beyond number 92) were discovered. The first of
these, number 93, was produced in 1940 by irradiating uranium with
deuterons and was designated neptunium (Np), by analogy with the
planet Neptune, which is beyond Uranus.

Element 94 was produced, later in 1940, by bombarding uranium
with « particles. Again, by analogy with Pluto, the outermost of
the planets, this new element was designated plutonium (Pu). Both
neptunium and plutonium are produced in the atomic pile as a result
of the emission of neutrons by the isotope of uranium, of mass 250.

By irradiating plutonium with helium ions, element 96 was syn-
thesized in 1944 and designated curium (Cm). In 1945 the element
250 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

95 was discovered by a group of investgators engaged on the Plu-
tonium Project and designated americium (Am), by analogy with
europium, number 63, which is a member of the rare-earth series.
Theoretically, this new element could be synthesized by bombarding
plutonium with deuterons. Finally, early in 1950, it was announced
by a group associated with Dr. Seaborg, working at the University
of California, in Berkeley, that two elements of still higher atomic
numbers had been synthesized. Element 97 was produced by bom-
barding americium, number 95, with 30- to 35-million-volt energy
helium ions. To this element the name berkelium (Bk) has been
assigned. Element 98 was synthesized, in the same manner, by bom-
barding curium (number 96) with high-speed helium ions, and this
new transmutation product has been designated californium (Cf).

A list of the elements discovered since 1901 is given in the accom-
panying table.

Elements discovered since 1901

Chem- Date of
Name ical aon discov-
symbol ery
TU teh ivi ee ce epi ec ee re Soma a pede an eo ae Lu 71 | 1907-08
IPTOLPACUIMNUUTN Y= =, Skee) ean ee Sent seems eee mmr Pa 91 | 1917-18
ELECT oe a eek See eee ares fre erenaye es Se Hf 72 1922
Feemiumtts : ae AS ene Th PTL Re 75 1925
rome DIU a eee ek ods Peak Sel he teh cea Pm 61 1937
PASH H GOL SeaNeeRe fo) ARNE RMR es re & aeporny Pa DOeay 4 ts eet AaARCrr At 85 1940
(RE EUANCRULUMN ES eae se oe ine ee LA Me team a cs Fr 87 1940
ING po DULINLCT seas ee UM a eT pape be) a Ee Np 93 1940
PUTCO MRS ee) SA A RR! RAPE RES Yi Pana A! Pu 94 1940
Cariuin 22 ek AEE, EA Sd NTT Oa Cm 96 1944
PATIO RI CUUIINNS oe ee a ls Ole oe ls oe apa Am 95 1945
Lefer) fey bh ca ae SE SN a OA SIT eR, Wea nad 2% Bk 97 1950
COP Macey igh Hl tara pelea I ie a a PS LS ceed te Cf 98 1950

In the periodic arrangement of elements (fig. 1) it will be observed
that between Ba (atomic number 56) and Hf (atomic number 72)
there is interposed a group of elements, which are chemically very
similar and are known as the “rare earths” or lanthanide series.
The reason for the occurrence of 15 such chemically similar elements
was deduced from a study of the permissible electron configurations
of the elements. The same reasoning also leads to the prediction
of the existence of the actinide series consisting of elements of atomic
numbers 89 to 103, inclusive. That is, we should discover elements
chemically similar to Bk and Cf of still higher atomic number.

’ From Fundamentals of Atomie Physics, loc. cit.
NEW CHEMICAL ELEMENTS—DUSHMAN 951

Whether any such elements will be discovered of still higher atomic
number is problematical, since all the elements beyond uranium are
unstable—that is, they disintegrate rapidly. The main fact revealed
by the syntheses of the new chemical elements is that the atoms of
the different elements are not really the elemental particles of nature.
Rather, the atoms themselves are constituted of three still more
elementary particles, namely, electrons, protons, and neutrons. We
know, in fact, that in the hottest stars, in which the temperature near
the center is about 100,000,000° C., some of the atoms themselves have
been decomposed into these three elementary particles. Of course,
other particles have been observed, but whether they are essentially
elementary remains to be discovered.

This is certainly not the last word on the whole subject. However,
whatever the future may reveal, we believe that we have made one
more step forward in acquiring some knowledge of that great universe
about us, of which we can be only reverent observers and humble
interpreters.
J 7 bien dius
xy Q .

}
set a nehany Be et adica Se DT atu ws ets ark, os ok

Shae tive arid 4 srruangemnchWat aeoapliet é piaewatte
Sting heiewitns Mea" (ately Sets Pe i.
Ss ehege: thane péeed \s array er el ,

"git 2 Bhovtinctcuhe

oe my potann: for te oany

Ha ean doe ab Bsn
jo “.nt dodo sentaiEe shatlod y
svi bat usta sf TRIE :
ent et iees pened GAPE decid. att 10) GAPE Pa a We

evil boy esa ALCOR De edit paren ier
ate Ox 28k ius ovals envehh @line flee asoaeb eae
seiniteigens Vintgasda 4 | “phariloadtey toad Grail isthe Vio
breach) ar sar iat, iene Ses faa geatiy ade ‘oF nities?” rin
"pasirovew BE abil Storie ded ae brew r diskoulie liriaeay eb att)

sind aba ‘east 6 Sid ‘Sralfed gv faoverr ehert ote edi! 4odesueifer

no tevin dediry dad’ to eghalvors serosa gaitiapos si banwot gale srout,

_ oie _ Heakspcdoniineased bene mmarcest oid 40. eu dioda .

Spantai t

ay i
'
Nha i. Fémk “.} pine
ron 7 Li ri 7”
2 x siobe aru sie 6 Cae
ay A pak +“ an Ae ee en ee eT
tag ~~ $ i he sh va
wer je) «Wee
Phtettivie 2. j COR We Fe Bee a Re
EE OTRCU TIO ss 25.6 255, an tut ch oh S hae dine i ra oi Maree.
Percy > r , ay ,! i i : we, mas " 7 ’
Weise. 32. jee the Sng a a 0 as
facet. e ee va _ or, r A am be i 5 ay “5 % USRRS-. ‘
OS ee Salhi s sur hte AamOe ey 6 a ea

ec ee oe ai awe he gee Roh. ae

Re RN castro ocd eee CA lls lek stuk i? e's a, i
Lise an ” d , : ; URE ee | i Aa 4 . o ¥
elie... ; We ee ey ee i chen. aM ~
Le a hint -ativde tema Ma EAE gael a
; Le ae “4 . tie LAN Pele: Pe oe ee kare
Bie et aT at aah ae
Se, .

~~

iF phepintis Fai
: ayn ap stiesee a
! ane" gm Tnstlvae

oF ens raises abil ie

indie ae Sra es Lilt goltao

arlaenh tron tt si <i
Ti brulee’ Sein

om
cars 2 nel

rhe 4

The Insides of Metals’

By Carw A. ZAPFFE
Metallurgist, Baltimore, Md.

{With 4 plates]

Losr in antiquity are the origins of many methods used for examin-
ing metals, but the epochal discovery of the optical microscope a few
hundred years ago originated the study of metals at high magnifica-
tion. In its early stages, investigation with the microscope was limited
to an exploration of surfaces. This was uninstructive because the
principle service of metals lies in their strength, hence in their in-
ternal constitution. The French scientist de Réaumur in 1722 and
Sweden’s Swedenborg in 1734 advanced the application of the micro-
scope somewhat by studying the surfaces of fractures of metals, which
disclosed some information regarding the manner in which metals
are constituted. However, the difficulty of bringing the microscope
lens close to the jagged surface of a fracture discouraged, for more
than two centuries, these and all later scientists from developing
such an application.

Among students of minerals, the microscope became a tool—and a
great one—principally through the discovery in 1849 by Henry Clifton
Sorby that minerals could be examined by transmitted light if they
were sliced sufficiently thin. This introduced the thin-section tech-
nique, which is the bulwark of the science of petrography and min-
eralogy today.

Metals, in considerable contrast to most minerals, are completely
opaque and do not submit to such thin-section study. Gold leaf has
been beaten so thin that it transmits some light, but this is an excep-
tion which contributes nothing to the problem. It was at the close
of the last century that metallurgists in Europe discovered the method
of polishing and etching the surface of sections cut through metals
to disclose their inner structure, and this has been the means of provid-
ing almost the entire body of technical information on the microscopic
constitution of metals to date.

1 Reprinted by permission from Physics Today, vol. 3, No. 9, September 1950.

253
254 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

POLISH-ETCH METHOD

According to this method, a metal or alloy is simply cut with a saw
through some section intended for study. The saw-cut surface is then
ground flat and further polished with increasingly fine emery papers
and buffing cloths until the polishing scratches are so minute as to
be no longer visible at even relatively high magnification. Such treat-
ment produces, of course, a superficial layer of highly distorted metal
which completely conceals the true internal formations. This layer
is then removed by carefully selected chemical reagents, determined
through much research to provide certain characteristic effects depend-
ing upon the microscopic structure of the metal.

The reagent eats off the thin and disorganized superficial layer and
then attacks the underlying metal—but to a degree dependent upon
subtle differences in composition and structure. The result is a differ-
entiated mottling, whose pattern is characteristic for the condition and
hence is metallurgically informative. This is shown in plate 1, figure
1, for an alloy of equal parts of bismuth and antimony, at a magnifica-
tion of 225 diameters. The specimen was cut with a saw, ground,
polished, and etched with a solution of iron chloride in hydrochloric
acid. The superficial layer was entirely removed, and the underlying
metal was attacked in the elaborate manner shown. The peculiar
light-colored skeletons are known as dendrites because of their tree-
like form, the word coming from the Greek “dendron,” meaning tree.

Dendrites express a uniform peculiarity in the growth of crystals
which causes them to grow from the fluid state in the form of branch-
ing growths. When an alloy—which is a mixture of two or more
metals—solidifies from its liquid, the first solid to construct the den-
drite is richer in the metal having the higher melting point. The
remaining liquid is relatively rich in the metal of low melting point,
and it is this that fills in between the branches of the dendrite. When
an etching reagent is chosen which attacks one of the metals more
than the other, the difference between the trunk and the interbranch
material of the dendrite is made visible by the difference in chemical
attack.
FRACTOGRAPHIC TECHNIQUE

While the polish-etch method has yielded a tremendous amount of
information on the constitution of metals, it also has important limi-
tations. For example, the remarks that have just been given will make
it clear that the polish-etch technique would supply relatively little
information for a pure metal. No constitutional differences exist,
and attack by a chemical reagent would accordingly be uniform.
About the only exception is a preferential attack at the boundaries of
the individual grains and the fact that the separate grains are distin-
INSIDES OF METALS—ZAPFFE 955

guished. Pecularities existing within the grain itself, however, be-
come for the most part unobservable.

About 10 years ago, the centuries-old method of de Réaumur and
Swedenborg was tried again, this time with a fresh attack and with
the benefit of modern improvements in the construction of the micro-
scope. A special fractographic stage was designed which allowed the
investigator to study nascent fracture surfaces, although this time not
by exploring the general appearance of the fracture, but by exploring
detail within the individual fractured grain. Metals are vast com-
posites of minute crystals, called grains, and the older technique had
done little other than view the surface of the entire assemblage. With
modern fractography it is not the forest but the individual tree that
is being observed.

For the past 4 years fractography has been the subject of a special
study in the author’s laboratory, principally under the sponsorship of
the Office of Naval Research, and the research from which this review
stems has been largely conducted by F. K. Landgraf and C. O. Worden.
Many fascinating new features of metals, also other crystals, have been
discovered. Just a few of these will now be given to show the astonish-
ing elaboration to be found within the boundaries of the microscopic
grain itself, and the many significant research fields inviting further
exploration with this new tool.

In plate 1, figure 2, a fractograph of pure metallic bismuth is shown.
The entire field of the photograph belongs to a single grain, as is
proved by the fact that its markings have a common geometric rela-
tionship. If this specimen had been polished and etched, nothing
would appear but a more or less blank surface, the grain boundary
lying outside the field of observation.

On the other hand, one finds in the fractograph a wide assortment
of markings. The most prominent of these are bands which are placed
at exactly 60° with one another, forming equilateral triangles where
all three directions appear. These are now known to be “twins,”
which means that the atoms throughout the region of the twin band
have been forced into a certain special relationship with one another
by the impact which fractured the metal. The fact that these twin
bands lie at exactly 60° to one another is highly significant, for it re-
veals that the fracture has traveled along a special plane in the bismuth
crystal—a crystal face that is the weakest link. This plane is the
so-called basal plane, and is similar to the prominent cleavage plane
that characterizes crystalline graphite, also mica. It has further
been determined that the twin bands are intersections of three sloping
erystallographic planes that form a low pyramid on the basal cleavage
plane.
256 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

Lastly, close observation will show some sharp cleavage edges,
representing profiles of fractures on other crystal planes. ‘The most
prominent of these has been found to be a set also forming a pyramid,
like the twins, but about twice as high. The story of deformation and
fracture for this metal is thus written into the subtle markings on its
fracture facets.

THE FRACTURE OF STEEL SHIPS

From such observations of the path of fracture through the individ-
ual grains in a metal all these deductions can be made, and many more.
A particularly important instance has to do with a problem involving
both the loss of material and human lives.

During the recent war, more than 40 of the welded steel ships made
in this country fractured completely in two, and there were more than
4,000 reported cases of lesser fractures. The problem is one of an
elusive property, simply called toughness, whose identification remains
a great challenge in current metallurgical research.

Two steels, identical in virtually every respect so far as common
analysis is concerned, will behave so differently when placed in service,
such as that of deck plate, as to cause shipwreck in one case and no
trouble whatsoever in the other. Extensive researches conducted in
many laboratories about the country, principally under sponsorship
of the United States Navy, are now showing that the temperature
range in which this change occurs is radically different for different
steels. The fundamental reason for this difference remains unknown.

Nevertheless, fractographic study—as a new tool applied to the
problem—has recently been shown to disclose a clear distinction
between steel that will fail and steel that will not fail in service in
a given range of temperature. Plate 2, figure 1, is a fractograph of
a steel that is known to be tough. At a magnification of 1,000 diam-
eters, an individual grain shows a pattern reminiscent of coral. The
grain itself is very small—only a tiny fraction of the size of the
bismuth crystal in the previous plate 1, figure 2—and there is no
flatness anywhere in the fracture field. When this steel fractured,
here due to a hammer blow at —196° C., the separation was continu-
ally impeded by the observed minute roughness as it traveled through
the metal. The fractograph shows this pattern of roughness visually,
which can therefore be interpreted as a pattern of toughness.

A sharply contrasting fracture facet is shown in plate 2, figure 2,
for steel that is of similar composition to that shown in the previous
figure, but is known by much mechanical testing to be inferior with
respect to toughness. The magnification is the same as before, 1,000
diameters; and the facets are seen to be about equal in size. A
marked difference, however, lies in the comparative smoothness of
INSIDES OF METALS—ZAPFFE 957

the pattern in plate 2, figure 2, which gives visual evidence for the
fact that fracture has traversed the grains in this steel without the
consistent interruption experienced in the tougher steel.

While it is too early to point to useful application of this dis-
covery with respect to the ship-plate problem, the contribution still
being in the research stage, its promise is indicated by the fact that
the contrast between plate 2, figure 1, and plate 2, figure 2, is outstand-
ing, whereas previous microscopic methods have revealed no detectable
changes. In addition, the application of mechanical testing to this
problem has involved the construction of huge testing machines at
great cost, and much of the steel is destroyed in its testing. Frac-
tography requires only a fractured chip and a microscope, and there is
good reason to believe that the information obtained from the chip
serves as well for the entire heat of perhaps 100 tons of steel.

METALS FOR SERVICE AT HIGH TEMPERATURES

In the new and important field of metals for service at very high
temperatures—gas turbines, rockets—there is an application of frac-
tography that can already be described.

A pattern appears in plate 3, figure 1, which has some aspects of a
good detective story, and has proved of great importance in the
production of molybdenum metal. Molybdenum has one of the high-
est known melting points for any metal in the periodic system. At
temperatures of white heat, where the strongest steel has not only
melted, but begins to boil, molybdenum scarcely begins to melt. This
fact simultaneously makes the metal a very attractive one for special
services at high temperature, but one difficult to produce. A special
furnace was finally designed a few years ago which melted molyb-
denum in vacuum by means of an electric are. Castings of promising
size and solidity resulted, but when they were subjected to the diffi-
cult forging operations they would often fracture.

To shorten a long research story, the metallurgists at the Climax
Molybdenum Corp. in Detroit found that fractographic examination
of a small chip broken from the casting with a hammer always re-
flected one of two characteristic patterns. The first was feathery
in its appearance and connoted forgeable metal. The second was
pearly and granular and always meant nonforgeable metal. De-
pending upon the presence of one or the other of these patterns, de-
termined by a brief and simple fractographic examination, the proc-
essing of the ingots was directed either toward forging or remelting.

In the upper portion of the field in plate 3, figure 1, the “feathery”
constituent is clearly visible. These small markings, resembling oat-
heads, are now known to be molybdenum carbide. In the lower half
of this same field is a weedy-looking growth of the fine granular

258 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

material now known to be molybdenum oxide. Both of these intrud-
ing constituents form in the boundaries of the individual grains—
the carbide increasing cohesion, and the oxide destroying it. Here
one is accordingly looking, as a special case, at the external surface
of an individual internal grain—not its internal surface as in previous
figures—and under the remarkable circumstance of finding both of
the counteractive phases present. The carbide and oxide react, of
course, to form carbon oxide gas, which is removed by the vacuum
treatment. Here one can actually visualize the oxide caught in the
act of invading a region of carbide feathers, destroying them as it
advances.
THE MICELLAR THEORY

While such discoveries as the preceding readily lead to practical
applications, a matter of far greater scope and interest is highlighted
by fractographic patterns.

A century and a half ago, a great French mineralogist and crystal-
lographer, Haiiy, established what is now known as the Law of Ra-
tional Indices in crystallography and laid down a description for the
physical constitution of crystals which endured for many years. Haiiy
spoke of the “molécules intégrantes,” which were presumed to be
minute building blocks—perfect microscopic crystals—which fitted
together to comprise the macroscopic crystal. Virtually every scien-
tist of that period accepted the theory that crystals were built of tiny
crystallite units. The impact of atomic theory and space-lattice theory
in the latter nineteenth century, and particularly X-ray diffraction
in 1912, temporarily shattered this picture to replace it with a con-
ventional concept of regular atomic structure extending from the atom
individual up to the boundary of the crystal or grain.

Nevertheless, in the past several decades, this picture of the homoge-
neous atomic lattice has come under sharp criticism from many angles
of research in which crystalline substances persist in showing a mark-
edly subdivided structure on a scale far more minute than the indi-
vidual grain, yet much greater than the atom. Many theories have
been advanced to explain this anomaly, and these can be reviewed in
most current textbooks on physics. It is now becoming widely agreed
that most crystals, if not all, have a finely subdivided structure. The
nature and the origin of that structure, however, constitute one of
the most hotly argued problems in metallurgy and physics today.

Briefly, the principal contention rests upon the question whether
the subdivision results from imperfections and accidental submicro-
scopic cracking, or whether it is a fundamental result of the surfaces
of previous submicroscopic units that come together at the time of
freezing to form the solid.
INSIDES OF METALS—ZAPFFE 259

For the first concept, “dislocations” currently provide the most pop-
ular picture. These are the result of vacant or improperly filled atomic
positions in an otherwise regular lattice; and their propagation and
motion throughout the body of the crystal are believed to develop the
observed subdivided structure.

For both concepts, the term “mosaic” has been widely used, ex-
pressing a picture of a gross form built from small fragments, the
misfits of the mosaic blocks creating the subdivisions in question. The
mosaic block is usually pictured as the result of microcracking, but
it has also been related to a preexistence in the liquid.

Recently a theory has been proposed by the author in which the
mosaic block is described as a micelle specifically originating in the
liquid and having fundamental thermodynamic reasons for its sepa-
rate existence. This word is borrowed from the organic chemists,
and means a small repetitive arrangement of a given atomic or mo-
lecular species, having the form of a tiny crystallite. Such clusters
are believed to be present, according to the micellar theory, in the
liquid and even in the gaseous phase prior to solidification. The
theory particularly postulates their existence within single homoge-
neous phases, such as that of a pure metal. A phenomenon of this
type is known in colloid chemistry, the liquid being called an isocolloid.

As early as 1907, one of the founding scientists of colloid chemistry,
P. P. von Weimarn, proposed a somewhat similar concept, and it has
since been discussed by Alexander in America, Klyatchko in Russia,
and Yoshida in Japan. The present micellar theory, published in
1949, differs in certain respects from those earlier described. It was
designed specifically to explain the problem of imperfection structure
in the solid state.

Without going into any of its technical details, the theory can be
described as postulating the formation of clusters of atoms (or mole-
cules) in the homogeneous liquid state as the result of a balance among
four principal thermodynamic variables: 1, temperature; 2, pressure;
3, composition; and 4, surface tension. The net result is the produc-
tion of a liquid which in effect is a mass of tiny solid particles swim-
ming in their own debris. The size and form of the particles are
determined by thermodynamic and crystallographic factors. When
the temperature is reduced to what is known as the freezing point,
these minute crystallites attach to one another, orienting their own
atomic alignments with respect to one another as far as allowed by
the freezing conditions, and thus form the solid. The mosaic block
is now the micelle; and the subdivisional structure is the result of the
persisting micelle boundaries.

Returning to fractography, plate 3, figure 2, shows the pattern of
a fracture which passed through a grain of cast molybdenum—in
260 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

contrast to plate 3, figure 1, where it traversed the boundary. This
elaborate pattern is believed to represent a frozen record of the growth
pattern during the time that the micelles of the liquid state were
orienting and transfixing to form the solid. The roughly parallel
bands are believed to result from pulsations in the solidifying front.
This metal was cast—it will be recalled from earlier description—
under the conditions of an electric arc at extremely high temperature,
and it solidified in a water-cooled copper crucible. These are violent
freezing conditions for a metal melting near 2620° C. (4750° F.).
The story of solidification read from the fractograph in plate 3,
figure 2, would show this grain to have formed from the upper left
corner toward the lower right, the micelles rotating and orienting with
one another sufficiently to produce a single crystal, but remaining
slightly displaced from one another and misfitted sufficiently to set up
a special pattern of weakness, which then showed itself fracto-
graphically by deflection of the fracture traverse in accord with the
pattern misfit.

Finally, in plate 4, a pair of fractographs adds further description
to the micellar concept, and in addition shows an unusual application
of the fractographic technique. A specimen of plain iron (Armco
ingot iron) was annealed at 1250° C. for 2 hours and slowly cooled
in the furnace to remove effects of previous mechanical strain and
to increase the grain size. The metal was then embrittled by forcing
atomic hydrogen into its structure. This was accomplished by making
the specimen the cathode (negative electrode) in an electrolytic cell.
Iron absorbs hydrogen, but only atomic hydrogen; and, on the sur-
face of the cathode, protonic or atomic hydrogen is deposited by the
electric current passing through the solution—here 10 percent sodium
hydroxide. It is known from extensive research that this atomic
hydrogen enters among the atoms of the iron, probably diffusing
through interatomic interstices, and then later precipitates at certain
well-defined places within the body of the grain—the intermicellar
boundaries, according to the micellar theory. The result is a marked
loss of ductility; and it is said that the metal is suffering from
hydrogen embrittlement.

The iron in plate 4 was fractured while embrittled with hydrogen.
The two fractured halves of the metal were separately mounted on the
microscope, and a fractograph was taken of the same facet on the
two matching halves of the fracture. These two fractographs are
mounted facing each other in plate 4, constituting obverse and reverse
views of the fracture traverse through the single grain. Thus, one
can follow the various markings as they appear to either side of the
fracture. Most markings appear on both sides, but some do not; and
there are provided some informative differences.
INSIDES OF METALS—ZAPFFE 261

However, particular attention is called here to other matters. First
is the fact that the outstanding markings are at exactly 90° to one
another. This is because iron fractures on a crystal plane that can
be described as the face of acube. Just as the hexagonal-rhombohedral
bismuth crystal in plate 1, figure 2, displayed equilateral triangles, so
the cubic iron shows squares and rectangles. Here intersecting
cleavages provide the cubic symmetry, rather than twins. Even the
meandering markings will break down on close observation to show
themselves as minute stepwise composites of 90° markings. The
whole pattern, and particularly these tiny stepwise markings, give
strong expression to an elaborate architecture existing within a single
grain; and they certainly stand as impressive evidence in the favor of
a general micellar theory. Little wonder that Haiiy hypothecated his
“molécules intégrantes.” The grain is visually composed of tiny sub-
grains, or micelles, and without them it would be difficult to explain
the pattern.

A NEW ERA OF ENGINEERING MATERIALS?

Many things must be left unsaid in a brief review of so vast a sub-
ject; but one particular issue follows from all this work which holds
extravagant promise for future developments in engineering and hence
in civilization itself. This is the fact that calculations, using many
different approaches, all agree that the atoms of metals actually cohere
with strengths of the order of several millions of pounds per square
inch. Today the greatest achievement in engineering materials is
of the order of two or three hundred thousand pounds per square inch.
The reason that the observed strengths of materials are so vastly
inferior to the theoretical atomic cohesion is generally agreed to be
the subdivisional structure within the grain. The only thing not yet
agreed upon is the nature and the origin of that substructure. The
type of microscopic study here described greatly increases the infor-
mation on this prize problem of solid-state physics.

For a better understanding of the problem, the micellar theory has
been offered. Right or wrong, the solution is certainly nearer; and,
when the answer is found, it will bring with it a definite possibility
of utilizing a new order of cohesive forces in developing the full
theoretical strength of metals and perhaps other engineering materials.
aie 2 Ot veto 92019. nH) aa hus 4s
oe ‘eatinor ° 908° Yo iaVieog uw Gad godt
om) ‘etig egnbhtoin: #2 wees Yate co: .
a athe 3: sifaix e vgn 93 pee ‘
Ao nde ot itt B58) 8 5 bath fas
aE Bat sodfot vit nin cy Sue's
* Cire Ris 4 0. PaO Y PCH igijarr rats
%. i 4 nti ow ihe ib © : Aitisar's
’ en ee ae ee ‘feu
a a ea ted a Cpted avs

re
ra. | es ¢ = }

iy ror y an nee rn be :
fa? re ; - TOEALHS TALE DAL aK Ave?

Pa > Yo whee doin se ie Wot
me trove aiuld fe aided a pallor: ona" ern hep
Meg thie nbesas cot rh akc at
. wile ae Mig see" is Rei

ee -errarlog: ) ylation sions’ bone awd oat re An:
bp Legtesupe ctequelusog to ednil finer Snisoge! + gO it” .
oe Anivatest pnts sacsied HY das dorsl liloe jestivioni tye
 @ uletbeasupe tog abivog bpaedaiiy’ forbid asia é
’ edie ‘htesy oe). atrs ubsis obiccit ine Abgnowdsd 9

Lia Lait oh begt re ‘elie 181195 5% — veycls dire ear

4
’ wh (dey. “su artic gh TO rail iba acl aici
reiie TomB i: risioideduar tad a viyire oils bite ert
paar | art) enenstorth ie deat hodisdests oted” yhists ron
Geena gpa in 69! ave ctnde: frlge t bar traletonng ©.
oe t : ee + \. * a E fi Pe
and. ng inet Allott th ‘if Samco Is f | afte tae bien srassh
: pe ace! oe 4 eS Te “ an Ley
AMEE GAs ae
i¢ oiy

363
fe
fora ai espiok 9

a8 rtiig ft + KSI

ae
AF
>
a f
r 7
in # t
a et . iy
a
= ¥ ¥ ;
- b :
: AS
i
r 7
ni x ” ro
Pius - Sr)
\ mt ’ v J
Smithsonian Report. 1951.—Zapffe PLATE

9
wen?
>

x
ae

ae
an @ @
eet rl

with a chloride solution. The white skeletonlike forms are det , Te]
phenomenon of growth generally characteristic of all organized matter, from cryst
plant and animal life. They contain excess antimony and resist chemical attack. M
nified 225 times.

5

7 Fractograph -or photomicr

for metallic bismuth. showing geometric n
and fracture. Magnified 35 tin
Smithsonian Report, 1951.—Zapffe PLATE 2

ractograph of a tough steel suitable for such construction as ship plate. The indi-
vidual grain is very small, causing fracture to change its path much more frequently as it
jumps from grain to grain; and the microscopic path through the grain itself is rough and
tortuous, as illustrated visually by this coral-like pattern of toughness. Magnified 1,000
times,

5

2. Fractograph of a steel which, in contrast to that in figure 1 above, lacks toughness and
is unsuited for such applications as ship plate. The facet of this individual grain is com-
paratively smooth, showing much less interruption of the progress of fracture than in
the previous figure. Magnified 1,000 times.

PLATE 3

-Zapffe

Smithsonian Report, 1951.

“x
as F

re
Ss

reveals

num

hg —

aa ie

s so

9... ~ SA
bp &
— Of
0
- UO
D Ho
=~
a of
mC
Femi,
60S
ai 2°
Wee
=
S uw
ahs
TS Sy

solidification

eknt
- Oo
a
ne |
60>
4S
a VY
pC
DN ¢
i
Ys
= Of

me)
x“

S:
ur
x
co

the vacuum treatment.

removed by

Magnified
*soully OOT peylusey\y “OAT EWIOFUI o1P SOOPFINS atisoddo 94} uo SUOTJRIIBA
4Jtoyy pue ‘ulei3 out UIY JIM 91nd} 1Yo1e 9} e10qe\a ue Avydsip ssuly eu eu L ‘9S PALIID 9IQnyd B 2g 0} sty dAoid sojsur 006
dieys eu LL “UOT jo ules 9[Suls e ysnoiyy PSIOACI] OINJIVIT & jo Soo] SUTYOI PUL yqoq SUIMOYS sydeisojovly ISIOAIL pure ISIIAQ()

v 3ALV 1d ayde7—"|¢6| *40day ueiuosyqiwig
Atomic Weapons Against Cancer’

By E. N. Lockarp

Aut over the United States today there is the feeling that the dread
disease of cancer may not remain dreadful much longer, that in 5, 10,
20, or 50 years the ever-increasing number of projects engaged in
cancer research will win the war that has been waged for centuries.
The encouraging signs are many—large budgets, enlistment of
civilians, discoveries, publicity, special buildings, pooling or coordi-
nation of resources, new techniques, and devoted research. The
fighters on this front, like resourceful warriors on the battlefield,
recognize that they cannot safely place sole reliance upon any one
device, but that they must attack with every possible weapon at every
possible point, that now and at every other moment they must work
with every approach that looks even a little promising. But though
they continue to explore all possible means of control, the one factor
that has done most to inspire new hopes of success is the use of radio-
active isotopes. By means of these, atomic energy is being brought
into action as a new weapon in what has been hitherto a losing battle.

We can understand the potential use of radioactive isotopes best
if first we recall some of the things we know about cancer. It now
ranks second only to heart disease as a killer of men and and on the
basis of present mortality rates could be expected to kill 19 million
Americans now alive—or 13 out of 100.

Yet when we attempt to explain the causes of cancer, we are forced
to admit that we do not know why, when, or how the cancer cells staré
multiplying out of or among other cells. Radiation, irritation, chem-
ical compounds, viruses, parasites, and heredity are all concerned;
yet we do not quite know how. But on the aflirmative side we do
know that cancer is a growth, and we know that the units of this
growth are cancer cells, which retain many of the characteristics of
normal cells. We know further that cancer is wild, luxuriant, and
proliferating in its growth, not subject to the mechanism of increase
that regulates the multiplication of normal cells, that it invades with-

1 Reprinted by permission from The Yale Review, vol. 40, No. 1, Autumn 1950 (copyright
Yale University Press), with minor revisions by Dr. Seymour Wollman, National Cancer
Institute.

9814455218 263
264 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

out warning or permission, and that it enjoys an irresponsible, black-
sheep existence among the other cells. Also we know that cancer is
metastatic (changing in its location)—perhaps the most dreadful
fact of all; it is local at first but it spreads; a surgeon may cut it out
in one place and years later find it in half a dozen other places,
metastases of the original site.

The elusiveness of the cancer cell itself, the difficulty of determining
where it resides in the body, and the inability of scientists to detect
what substances of the body are necessary to its growth are factors
that have so far prevented successful control. Moreover, the seeming
impossibility of destroying malignant cells without also destroying
normal cells has obstructed effective treatment of cancer where it is
known to exist.

It is precisely in connection with these factors that the use of
radioactive isotopes—radioisotopes—is so important and encouraging.

The word “isotope” means having the same place, and its use in
this discussion comes from the fact that there are two kinds of atoms
which have the same place in the periodic table used by chemists. One
kind of atom is stable, the other is radioactive.

In order to understand the difference between the two, one must
know a little about present-day nuclear theory. According to this
theory, an atom of an element is like the solar system; it is composed
of a sun (the nucleus) and a group of planets (electrons). But the
nucleus is not quite so simple as the analogy to the sun would suggest,
for it, in turn, is made up of protons and neutrons. So the atom is
composed of—

I, the nucleus (sun), containing
(Ia), protons (which bear a positive electrical charge), and
(Ib), neutrons (which bear no electrical charge), and

II, the electrons (planets) , which bear a negative electrical charge.

In all atoms the number of electrons (II) equals the number of
protons (Ia). This number determines the place of the atom on the
periodic table and is referred to as the “atomic number” of the element.
Where one isotope differs from another is in the number of neutrons
(Ib). Since variation in the number of neutrons results in variation
in the weight of the atom, isotopes of the same element have different
atomic weights, though always having the same atomic number.

Carbon provides a good example. There are five known isotopes of
carbon, but the atomic number for all is the same: 6: This means
that each contains six protons in the nucleus (Ia) and six electrons
outside (II) and that they are all found in the same place in the
periodic table. They differ only in the number of neutrons (Ib) and
consequently in atomic weight. They are written C, C%, C?, C%,
and C*. Here the atomic number is omitted as being understood ;
ATOMIC WEAPONS AGAINST CANCER—LOCKARD 265

otherwise we would write ,C’, ;C“, and so on. The first isotope has
4 neutrons (the difference between 6 and 10), the second 5 , and so on.
Of these 5 isotopes 2 happen to be stable (C* and C**) and 3 radio-
active—that is, constantly disintegrating by giving off rays or particles.
(As it happens, C" is so useful that when one speaks of radioactive
carbon one means C™ and not C” or C™.)

The radioisotopes are chiefly useful in cancer research and diagnosis
because of the way they can be detected in the body. As they decay,
their radiation ionizes gases, changes the charge on electrodes, or
creates electrical pulses. These pulses, to take one example, can be
counted by a Geiger counter or other kinds of counters. Thus, radio-
isotopes can be used to tag a substance before it is introduced into the
body, and when the substance is tagged it can be traced. This tracer
use of radioisotopes has become so famous that it has been called the
most useful research tool since the microscope.

As tracers, the radioisotopes permit both qualitative and quanti-
tative biological analysis. In the former, the compound containing
the radioisotope can be followed wherever it goes no matter what
chemical form it takes; in the latter, the amount of the tagged com-
pound can be measured.

One of the most important problems in cancer research is to deter-
mine what substances of the body are necessary to the growth of
malignant tissue. In this research various compounds are being
tagged with radioisotopes and their uptake by the several kinds of
tumors measured and studied. For example, after radioactive carbon
has been synthesized with cancer-producing hydrocarbons its route
can be traced, by means of the carbon 14, as it creates cancer in the
body of a laboratory animal.

Such tracing experiments make use not only of the detectability of
radioisotopes but also of two other characteristics. One of these is
that a little of a radioisotope goes a long way, so its use involves no
danger of injurious radiation. One gram of carbon 14, for example,
can be diluted one million million times before it is impossible to de-
tect; and one million billionth of an ounce of radiophosphorus is
detectable. Laboratory studies are nevertheless being made to dis-
cover the limits of safe dosage for radioisotopes both in tracing and
in therapy. The other characteristic is that, since the radioisotope
is chemically like the stable isotope, the body accepts the one with the
other. The study of the uptake of tracer doses of radioiodine by the
thyroid gland, for example, is possible because neither animal nor
human organism can tell the isotopes of iodine apart; so the radio-
isotope enters and leaves the thyroid gland just as the stable isotope
does. By adding radioactive iodine to stable iodine, consequently,
and using a Geiger counter against the skin to count the pulses from
266 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

the gamma rays emitted by it, research workers have found that
iodine is concentrated by the thyroid gland. They have also found
how much iodine is absorbed and excreted and at what rate.

Radioisotopes can also produce cancer. This is turned to account
in cancer research by using some of them, strontium 89, for example,
to induce cancer in experimental animals for studies that may throw
light upon cancer in human beings.

In addition to their usefulness in research directed toward increas-
ing our knowledge of cancer and the tissues it destroys, radioisotopes
are being employed in diagnosis, to detect and locate cancer. It has
been difficult, in the past, to estimate the exact location of a brain
tumor by means of external signs on the patient’s body or by X-ray
studies. Now, by injecting radioactive phosphorus in tracer amounts
and relying on the tumor in its rapid growth to take up more of it
than the slow-growing normal tissues surrounding it do, a physician,
using a counter, can compare the radioactivity in different parts of
the brain and locate the tumor more precisely than. before.

The final use of radioisotopes is in therapy, to inhibit or destroy
cancer. A somewhat complex case at the Montefiore Hospital, New
York, involving the use of radioactive iodine, will illustrate both
diagnosis and therapy. In 1923 the patient had his cancerous thyroid
gland removed by surgery. For the 16 years following he was well.
Then he reported to Montefiore with a tumor in his back which, after
surgical removal, turned out to be a metastatic cancer of the thyroid.
The cancerous thyroid gland that had been removed 16 years before
had spread before its removal and was now showing up in another
locality. In the next 4 years it showed up in still other places, metas-
tases that X-ray therapy could not control. By means of tracer doses
of radioiodine, the metastases in skull, lung, ribs, spine, pelvis, and
femur were revealed to be getting worse. Therapeutic doses of radio-
iodine were then resorted to. The patient got better and is still well
today, 5 years after the first radioactive therapy. The radioiodine
saved, or at least prolonged, the patient’s life; it is only fair to add
that most cases are not so fortunate.

In this case, as in all the previous ones mentioned, radioisotopes
were used because of their characteristic behavior as tracers. But in
the therapy of this case, two other characteristics come into play.
One is that radiation has uneven effects upon various kinds of tissue,
and cancerous tissue is generally more susceptible to radiation than
normal tissue. The other is a characteristic which radioisotopes share
with stable isotopes; certain ones have, as elements, an affinity for
certain tissues—phosphorus for bone and iodine for thyroid are ex-
amples. These traits have led to the hope of finding a substance that
will have such an affinity for cancerous tissue that enough of it, radio-
actively impregnated, can be deposited in the cancer to kill it. So
ATOMIC WEAPONS AGAINST CANCER—LOCKARD 2967

far no substance with true specific localization in cancerous tissue has
been discovered, but the localization with radioisotopes is so much
greater than with the older sources of radiation, X-rays, and radiam
which is dangerous to deposit internally, that the administration,
orally or directly into the cancerous tissue, of radioisotopes is now a
recognized method of radiotherapy—and in some few instances, the
most efficacious one.

Today, radioiodine and radiophosphorus have been proved effective
in treating the noncancerous conditions of hyperthyroidism and poly-
cythemia (abnormality of the blood-forming tissues), respectively ;
less effective in treating cancer of the thyroid and leukemia (cancer
of the blood-forming tissues), also respectively. Nor are these the
only elements that can be used; therapy is also possible with radio-
cobalt and radiogold.

The chief value of radiocobalt results from the fact that it resembles
radium, the old standby in the treatment of cancer by radiation, in
that it emits gamma rays; but at the same time it has several advan-
tageous qualities that radium lacks. One important advantage is
price. Whereas radium is so expensive (it costs between $15,000 and
$20,000 a gram) that smaller hospitals borrow it from larger ones,
cobalt 60 is manufactured abundantly enough for free supply to
cancer-research workers and for sale at a low price to paying patients.
Another advantage is application; while radium is contained in non-
pliable tubes, radiocobalt can be made up in pliable shapes. The
most interesting advantage is the ease with which radiocobalt can be
manufactured and stored: ordinary cobalt can be fabricated, before
irradiation, into cobalt wire; after irradiation it can be stored like
thread on a spool; and like thread it can be snipped off in any length
needed. In addition, radiocobalt, if accidentally set free in the body,
does not lodge in the bone as radium does but is quickly excreted. It
can, finally, be handled more safely and with less shielding than
radium.

Radiogold, like radiocobalt, has several advantages over the tradi-
tional types of radiation. In the first place, radiogold can be injected
directly into the malignant tissue; X-rays cannot. And second, be-
cause of a half-life of only 2.7 days, radiogold need not be removed,
as radium needles must.

In order to improve therapy with radioisotopes, scientists are study-
ing the selective pick-up by cancerous tissues of various compounds
that can be synthesized with the radioisotopes of a number of ele-
ments. Cancer is frequent in the organs controlled by sex hormones—
the uterus, the breast, and the prostate gland. Since these organs de-
pend upon known chemical compounds, some sex hormones containing
radioisotopes have been synthesized. Unfortunately, so far no target

268 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

organs have shown sufficient concentrating power to make radioactive
hormones look promising.

Where does medical science get these radioisotopes on which it
increasingly relies? The first source was the cyclotron, or atom-
smashing machine, but this source has now been reduced to a very
minor position by the nuclear reactor, or pile. In certain very limited
respects, the cyclotron can do things which the pile cannot do. It can
use different types of bombarding particles, and because of this
variety in projectiles and diversity in energy, it can make some radio-
isotopes that the pile cannot (sodium 22 and arsenic 74 are examples),
and it can also produce a few radioisotopes better than the pile can
produce them—radioisotopes with a higher specific activity, which
is the ratio of the radioactive atoms to the stable isotopic atoms with
which they are mixed, and carrier-free radioisotopes (isolated from
the stable isotopes). But some of its products are inferior to those
of the pile. For instance, where the pile produces iodine 131 with a
half-life of 8 days, the cyclotron produced iodine 130 with a half-life
of only 12 hours. In terms of research this meant that unless the
research laboratory was near the cyclotron, the iodine 130 would have
radiated away by the time it arrived. But this deficiency was negli-
gible as compared with the one great drawback of the cyclotron—its
limited capacity for production. Atom-smashing cyclotrons have
always been few and far between, and their products few and expen-
sive. A great deal of research which was being planned by medical
and biological men throughout the country had to be held up until
something came along that could produce the desired isotopes in
sufficient abundance to make them cheap enough to buy and available
to all who could use them.

On December 2, 1942, this something appeared when the first self-
sustaining chain reaction was achieved at the University of Chicago
and nuclear fission became a reality. Nuclear reactors were built, of
course, not to produce isotopes, but to provide fissionable material
for the atom bomb and related research. For a time, therefore, cancer
research men could not draw on this potential source of isotopes.
But since the end of World War II, the Atomic Energy Commission
has moved to make its facilities available and has created for the
first time an adequate supply of isotopes. Today, 70 percent of the
radioisotope production schedule at Oak Ridge is directed toward the
study of cancer, with more than 250 research groups using the prod-
ucts. The reason for the excellent production is that the nuclear
reactor has proved to be capable of turning out radioisotopes abun-
dantly and cheaply. The emphasis is on abundantly; the cheapness
follows from that. The abundance is well illustrated by the fact that
only about 1 kilogram of radium had been produced from its discovery
ATOMIC WEAPONS AGAINST CANCER—LOCKARD 269

in 1896 to 1941, whereas since atomic energy was developed we have
had the equivalent in radioactivity of thousands of tons of it.

It so happens, fortunately, that not only can the pile produce in
great quantity but it can also make all the most important radio-
isotopes, including those most helpful in cancer, though the cyclotron
still retains important secondary values as a producer.

The pile can produce a thousand to a million times as great a
quantity of isotopes as the cyclotron can; in contrast to the cyclotron,
which uses different types of bombarding particles, even neutrons, the
pile is exclusively a neutron machine. It uses neutrons in two ways
to manufacture radioactive isotopes. The first way is nuclear fission—
the actual splitting of nuclei. Each nucleus of the target element,
uranium, that is hit by one of the bombarding slow neutrons splits
(fissions) into two or more fragments, in many different ways; thus
many different fission products result. They are radioactive (un-
stable), which means that they will give off energy by the emission of
one kind of particle or another until they reach a stable isotope or are
used up. Strontium 89 is produced in this way and so is iodine 131.
But another practical way of producing iodine 131 is by causing non-
fissionable nuclei to absorb additional neutrons, and this is the second
way of making radioisotopes.

There are three kinds of neutron absorption—simple absorption,
absorption followed by decay into a daughter element, and transmuta-
tion. In all three, special target material is inserted into the nuclear
reactor, which is already in operation with fission of uranium by
neutrons. If, for example, ordinary cobalt (,;Co*®) is inserted into
the pile, it absorbs one of the neutrons flying about and, while re-
maining cobalt (the number of protons and electrons does not change),
becomes cobalt 60, which is radioactive. This is simple neutron ab-
sorption. The product realized is always isotopic with the target
material.

In the second kind of neutron absorption, the material put into the
reactor to be irradiated is not isotopic with the product wanted in the
result, but a different element. A practical method of producing
radioiodine comes here. A stable isotope of tellurium (;.Te*°)
is inserted into the reactor; when it absorbs a neutron it becomes
s2le™, which, being unstable, decays by emitting a beta ray; the
emission of the beta ray involves first the conversion of a neutron
into a proton and an electron and second the ejection of the electron
(beta ray and electron mean the same thing) with the proton staying
in the nucleus; thus the atomic number changes from 52 to 53 (since
there is a gain of the proton) and the atomic weight stays the same
(since the loss of the neutron is balanced by the gain of the proton;
and so 52T'e by beta decay becomes ;;I", a daughter element.
270 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

In the third kind of neutron absorption, called neutron transmuta-
tion, again a target element nonisotopic to the radioactive element
desired is inserted into the operating reactor. A good example is
carbon 14, which is produced in practical quantities by neutron trans-
mutation. Ordinary nitrogen (;N"*) is the target material; absorbing
a neutron, it emits a proton; the loss of the proton drops the atomic
number one place and therefore changes the element; the gain of the
neutron keeps the atomic weight the same; thus ;,N%* is transmuted
into ;C’*.. Similar transmutations are possible with the emission of
alpha particles instead of protons.

This is not the whole story of the production of radioisotopes in
the nuclear reactor by means of neutron bombardment. How the
radioisotope desired is separated from the other fission products or
from stable isotopes is also, to name one aspect, a part of the complete
story. Additional points to remember, however, are that any com-
mon element can be irradiated in the reactor, that what radioisotopes
the reactor cannot make the cyclotron can, and that between them they
account for more than 500 induced radioactivities—every one of the
96 elements has at least one known radioisotope. One point more
and an important one for cancer research is that both the cyclotron
and the reactor, because they use different means and therefore accom-
plish different ends, are needed in the constant experiments being
carried on for new isotopes and for isotopes of varying specific activi-
ties, half-lives, and energies.

The facilities which need to be brought together in order to provide
maximum effectiveness in cancer research are varied indeed. In the
research center itself many kinds of experts are needed—radiological
physicists, biologists, and medical experts who know the effect. of
radioactivity on living things and how to safeguard health; chemists
who can separate cancer-useful products from the other products of
the reactors and can synthesize radioactive chemicals and drugs into
chemically useful compounds; and experimental nuclear physicists
who can select materials for insertion into the reactors. The equip-
ment for producing radioisotopes should also be near at hand, so that
the laboratories will receive quickly those radioisotopes that are so
short-lived that transportation over a distance is impractical. Such
equipment must, of course, include a cyclotron, for the sake of its
distinctive products, and a nuclear reactor or pile.

Here the Atomic Energy Commission is vitally involved, for the
pile is primarily a producer of fissionable materials, and in the words
of the Atomic Energy Act, “all right, title, and interest within or
under the jurisdiction of the United States, in or to any fissionable
material, now or hereafter produced, shall be the property of the
Commission” and “the Commission * * * shall be the exclusive
ATOMIC WEAPONS AGAINST CANCER—LOCKARD PATE |

owner of all facilities for the production of fissionable material
* * * ” Since all fissionable material is produced at the Com-
mission’s national laboratories (Oak Ridge, Brookhaven, and the
Argonne Laboratory in Chicago) or at other laboratories that exe-
cute the program of the Commission (e. g., Los Alamos and the Uni-
versity of California), the availability of isotopes depends upon
the policy of the Commission. There is, furthermore, the explicit
injunction in the Atomic Energy Act that the Commission “exercise
its powers in such manner as to insure the continued conduct of re-
search and development activities” in, among several fields, the “utili-
zation of fissionable and radioactive materials for medical, biological,
health, or military purposes.” In obedience to this provision and
in recognition of the scientific need for its products, the Atomic
Energy Commission is engaged in a cancer program, one part of a
huge program in biology and medicine that is costing several mil-
lions of dollars a year.

This cancer program in general can be divided into four activities.
In the first place, there is free distribution by the AEC of radio-
isotopes to hospitals, medical schools, and clinics. Because the cost
of radioisotopes has held back cancer research, the AEC is making
available to qualified cancer-research workers in this country with-
out cost, save for a small handling charge, all radioisotopes on the
public market. At first the Commission made a free distribution
of three radioisotopes for cancer work: radioactive iodine (I**),
radioactive phosphorus (P%), and radioactive sodium (Na*), the
first two especially valuable. Among the radioisotopes recently de-
clared free, those most valuable in cancer research or therapy are
radioactive carbon (C"), radioactive cobalt (Co), and radioactive
gold (Au**).

Secondly, the Commission gives financial and scientific support to
certain research projects outside its own laboratories. In April of
1949 there were 78 such research studies in biology and medicine.

In the third place, the Commission, through one of its agencies,
is studying the incidence and types of cancer in the survivors of the
bombing of Hiroshima and Nagasaki. So far the studies have not
shown any increase in cancer or in abnormal children, stillbirths, or
miscarriages.

And fourth, the Commission is committed to providing facilities
at its own installations for clinical research in cancer. One such
facility, now being established at the University of Chicago, is part
of what may be described as the first complete and self-sufficing cen-
ter for cancer research.

Never until recently have all these necessary elements—the re-
search laboratory, the cyclotron, and the pile—been brought into
272 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

their ideal relationship, but the Chicago development will unite them
all, and will constitute a unique combination of weapons to increase
the assault on cancer. Physically, four buildings will make up this
center. One of these is the Ion Accelerator Building, which contains
the university’s new 170-inch synchrocyclotron. A second is the
Goldblatt Hospital, named for one of the department-store Goldblatt
brothers who died of cancer; it will make use of, among many things,
the products turned out by the university’s cyclotron. The other two
buildings are to be government-owned but university-operated, and
they are the Argonne National Laboratory (located just outside
Chicago), which contains nuclear reactors, and the Argonne Cancer
Research Hospital, which will make use of the products turned out
by the Laboratory. But the important point is that since the uni-
versity will operate all four, since three of them are on the university
campus and the fourth only 40 minutes away, since two of them are
exclusively concerned with cancer, and since the staff members of all
four will help each other on common problems, the University of
Chicago and the Atomic Energy Commission in combination will
have an installation for attacking cancer such as exists nowhere else
in the world.

Today cancer is being fought on longer fronts and more fronts
than ever before. No one knows by whom or in what research project
the discoveries so long sought after will be made; no one knows even
that they will be made. But men and women all over the country,
in biology, in physics, in chemistry, in medicine, in surgery, in atomic
energy, and in nontechnical capacities, are devoting their time and
money to the chance that they will be made. It hardly seems too
much to hope that in this fight atomic weapons will play an
important—perhaps a decisive—part.
Enzymes: Machine Tools of the
Cellular Factory *

By B. A. KiLBy
Department of Biochemistry, The School of Medicine, University of Leeds, England

[With 1 plate]

Tue first half of the present century has seen biochemistry develop
from a humble servant of physiology into a master science in its own
right. Its vast field of study is the chemistry of all forms of life, from
the simplest bacteria to the higher plants and animals, and in this
study it calls upon the services of almost every other branch of science.
Much attention has been paid to the elucidation of the structure of
the compounds which make up the living cell, and in recent years an
increasing emphasis has been placed on studying how the cell func-
tions. Much is known of the nature of the raw material entering the
factory of the cell and of the products made there, and now the interest
has switched to finding out more about the intricate machinery and
processes which take place inside the factory. The machine tools of
the cell are its enzymes or ferments which enable it to carry out the
remarkable range of chemical reactions that make life possible.

There was a very vigorous discussion during the nineteenth century
concerning the nature of fermentation. Why, it was asked, did
insipid grape juice turn apparently spontaneously into wine—why did
wort change into beer? What was the nature of the scum or sediment,
the yeast, which appeared at the same time? In France, a prize equal
in value to a kilogram of gold was offered in 1800 for the best answer
to the question “What distinguishes substances which act as ferments
from the materials they are capable of fermenting?” Although the
prize was never awarded, its offer did much to stimulate discussion
and controversy, as yeast was considered at that time to be a chemical
byproduct of fermentation, and it was widely believed that it played
no essential part in the process.

About 1837, three workers claimed independently to have shown
that yeast was a living organism and was responsible for fermenta-

1 Reprinted by permission from Discovery, March 1951.
273
274 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

tion. This revolutionary view was received with scorn by orthodox
chemists. Berzelius, the outstanding chemist of the day, reviewed
this work scathingly in his chemical journal, while Wéhler wrote a
sarcastic skit on the whole business which was published by Liebig
in his Annalen. In this, yeast was described as consisting of eggs
which hatched out into minute animals shaped like a distillation
apparatus, into which sugar was taken as food and converted into
alcohol and carbon dioxide, and the whole process could be observed
quite easily under the microscope! Soon after this, Liebig set out
his views on the nature of fermentation. Yeast played no part in his
purely chemical theory which came to be widely held and was taught
for many years afterward. According to Liebig, the nitrogenous
material in fruit juice was a ferment, unstable in the presence of
air, which caused it to undergo a progressive change. While this
change was in progress, the ferment communicated its instability to
the sugar, which then broke down into alcohol and carbon dioxide.
Liebig was able to produce chemical analogies for this; for example.
silver is dissolved readily by nitric acid, but platinum is quite un-
affected, yet an alloy of the two dissolved quite easily and completely.
This was, he said, because the silver, in dissolving, communicated its
instability to the platinum. Louis Pasteur, on the other hand, strongly
opposed these nonvitalistic ideas, and developed his thesis of no fer-
mentation without life. He said that alcoholic fermentation never
occurred “without the simultaneous organization, development, mul-
tiplication of cells or the continued life of cells already formed.” It
was true that Pasteur had to distinguish between what he called the
“organized ferments” as in yeast, and the “unorganized ferments”
(such as pepsin which is secreted into the stomach or ptyalin of saliva,
which breaks down starch), since such unorganized ferments could
be shown to act in a test tube.

After prolonged discussion, during which no new decisive experi-
mental evidence was obtained, the Pasteur-Liebig controversy was
suddenly settled by a fortuitous and lucky observation of Hans and
Eduard Buchner in 1897. This discovery is one of the notable mile-
stones in the long path of physiological chemistry, and many regard
it as marking the beginning of modern biochemistry. The Buchners
had previously found that the cells of bacteria could be disrupted
by grinding with sand, and they extended their technique to yeast
cells. The macerated product obtained in this manner contained
much cell debris and it was very difficult to separate liquid from it,
so they modified the method by adding kieselguhr, an inert and
porous earth, to the yeast cells and sand. After grinding, a mass
that had the consistency of dough was obtained; this was wrapped
in cloth and submitted to a pressure of about 1,500 pounds to the
ENZYMES—KILBY 275

square inch in a hydraulic press. An opalescent brownish-yellow
Juice was obtained which was free from yeast cells, and this was used
for a number of animal experiments. It was not altogether satis-
factory, for it soon putrefied. The nature of the experiments excluded
the addition of the usual antiseptics, and so the Buchners decided
to add sugar as a preservative. To their surprise, fermentation began
immediately, the sugar being converted into alcohol in spite of the
complete absence of living yeast cells.

Pasteur’s thesis was thus disproved. But closer consideration shows
that both Pasteur and Liebig were partly right and partly wrong.
Fermentation could take place in the absence of living organisms,
and it was chemical in nature but not in the way Liebig had thought.
Certain ferments were produced by the living yeast and normally
functioned inside the cell to cause the breakdown of the sugar which
was serving as a food for the yeast. The nature of the yeast used
in making active juice is rather important. Some strains, such as
Munich “bottom” yeast (which rapidly settles to the bottom of fer-
mentation vats) gives active juices, whereas others, including some
Parisian and English “top” yeasts (which form a thick scum on the
surface), give quite inactive juices. It is possible that Pasteur may
have experimented with such a “top” yeast and been unable to prepare
any active extracts. A more fortunate selection might have enabled
him to anticipate the Buchners by more than 30 years.

The production of this active juice meant that it was no longer
necessary to consider the possibility of some mysterious vital force
as being concerned in fermentation. The mystery should be explicable
in purely chemical terms. The juice could be easily made in quantity,
and an immense amount of work has since been done on its properties.
Its activity was originally ascribed to the presence of a ferment called
zymase, but it is now known that the break-down of sugar into alcohol
involves at least 15 separate and successive stages, and almost as many
ferments or enzymes. The unraveling of the intricacies of alcoholic
fermentation and the isolation of many of the intermediate compounds
and separate enzymes are among the great triumphs of biochemistry.
In 1925, Meyerhof published a method for preparing a juice from
muscle which would convert in a test tube glycogen (the animal analog
of starch) into lactic acid, a change that is known to occur in living
muscle and to provide the energy for contraction. This conversion
also has been found to take place in about 15 stages, which, except
for the initial and final ones, are identical with those in yeast. This
is a good example of the essential unity of biochemistry, where living
organisms of widely different character are found to involve the same
biochemical processes, with slight modifications to suit their particular
needs.
276 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

When evidence has been obtained for the existence of some interest-
ing new natural product, one of the first aims of the research worker is
to try and isolate it in the pure state. Stage by stage, inert matter is
removed from the crude product, and the progress of purification can
often be followed by observing an increase in a particular biological
activity per unit weight. If the worker is lucky, he may eventually
obtain the pure material which shows a constant and maximum bio-
logical activity, unchanged after going through the motions of a fur-
ther purification. The research worker is most happy if his product
turns out to be a crystalline solid, as purification by recrystallization is
often one of the easiest techniques, especially if it becomes necessary
to work on a small scale because of scarcity of material. Crystals usu-
ally have well-defined physical properties which are valuable criteria
of purity. As soon as it was realized that biological material, such as
yeast juice or gastric juice from the stomach, probably owed its activi-
ties to the presence of specific enzymes, efforts were made to isolate
these for precise examination. For many years, the final products ob-
tained were noncrystalline solids, and it was suspected that they were
still impure, in spite of showing very high enzymatic activity. These
products consisted largely of protein material, and it has always been
rather difficult to resolve mixtures that contain proteins into pure com-
ponents. However, so consistently was high enzymatic activity in
these final products associated with protein material, that many work-
ers believed that the enzymes were themselves proteins. A German
school, on the other hand, held that the enzyme was really a relatively
simple chemical substance which was absorbed onto the protein mate-
rial which acted as an inert carrier. However, in 1926, the first enzyme
was obtained as crystals and found to be a pure protein. The method
used in this particular case was remarkably simple. There is an
enzyme, urease, which breaks down urea into ammonia, water, and
carbon dioxide. This enzyme is fairly widespread in nature; soya
beans are quite a good source, but the best is the seeds of the jack bean
(Canavalia ensiformis). The ground beans from which the fat has
been extracted are available commercially as a source of urease, under
the name of jack-bean meal. The American chemist Sumner ex-
tracted the meal with 31.6 percent aqueous acetone and filtered the so-
lution in a cold room. After standing overnight, very small octahe-
dral crystals separated out, which were about 730 times as active as the
original meal in splitting urea.

CRYSTALLINE ENZYMES

Since that time about 20 other enzymes have been obtained in crys-
talline form by various workers, but usually only by more elaborate
and more lengthy methods. Attempts to crystallize many other en-
ENZYMES—KILBY pares

zymes have not yet been successful, but this is not a serious handicap to
the biochemist, as he can obtain a great deal of information about the
properties of an enzyme without having the pure material. A solu-
tion or suspension containing a particular enzyme can often be made
quite readily from a suitable source and used to investigate what
changes the enzyme can bring about, how it is affected by heat, different
acidities, poisons, and so on. The biochemist has a wide range of
biological material from which to select a convenient and rich source
of the particular enzyme which interests him; typical examples of the
materials employed are red blood cells, meal worms, mushrooms, bac-
teria, pigeon breast muscle, rat liver, beef pancreas, and horseradish.
All the enzymes that have been obtained pure and crystalline have
shown the properties of proteins, and it would appear that each pure
enzyme is a quite definite chemical compound, a protein with charac-
teristic and constant properties. Some enzymes have a purely protein
structure, but others have, in addition, some relatively simple unit of a
different nature built into the structure as an essential part.

CO-ENZYMES

Other enzymes can function only if certain compounds, called co-
enzymes, are also present. If yeast juice, for example, is placed in a
cellophane bag and washed in a current of water, the co-enzyme passes
through the cellophane because it has a small molecule and is washed
away, while the large protein enzymes are left in the bag. This resid-
ual juice will be found to have lost its power to cause fermentation. If
another sample of yeast juice is boiled, the enzymes are destroyed but
not the heat-stable co-enzyme. This solution is also inactive, but if
the two preparations are mixed, then the combination shows biological
activity again as both enzyme and co-enzyme are present.

A slightly different co-enzyme has been found in red blood cells,
and in 1935 both co-enzymes were shown to contain the substance
nicotinamide built into their structures. Almost exactly at the
same time, Elvehjem and his associates discovered that nicotin-
amide was the vitamin present in diets that would prevent and cure
human pellagra. Thus a memorable link-up occurred between two
of the major lines of biochemical study—of vitamins and nutrition
on the one hand and of enzymology on the other—to their mutual
advantage. It became possible to ascribe a definite biochemical func-
tion to a vitamin, and new light could be thrown on possible chemi-
cal mechanisms of enzyme systems by a study of the chemical prop-
erties of the vitamins.

Another example of a vitamin associated with an enzyme is afforded
by vitamin B,, or aneurin, which prevents beri-beri. In combination
with phosphoric acid this vitamin acts as the co-enzyme for an oxidase,
278 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

an enzyme which breaks down pyruvic acid. If this vitamin is
deficient in the diet, the oxidase cannot function and pyruvic acid
accumulates in the tissues, a change which can be used in the clinical
diagnosis of vitamin B, deficiency. If the vitamin is supplied in the
diet, the pyruvic acid soon disappears.

Several other vitamins have now been identified as parts of the
structure of different co-enzymes or of the nonprotein part of en-
zymes, but not all vitamins have yet been associated with specific
enzyme systems and it is probable that some may function in other
ways.

A LITTLE GOES A LONG WAY

A little enzyme goes a long way—for instance, one part of rennin
is capable of clotting 10 million times its weight of milk—so that
the absolute amounts of enzymes required for the smooth running
of the body may be quite small, and only small amounts of vitamins
will be required for building new enzymes and co-enzymes to make
good the small but continuous loss through general wear and tear.
The body cannot make the vitamins itself and without them some
enzyme systems cannot function. The requirements of vitamins are
thus small but essential, and if not met, the machisery of the whole
body may get disorganized and death may eventually take place.

The substance that is transformed in the presence of an enzyme
is called the substrate. Some enzymes can bring about changes with
a large range of different but related compounds; some lipases, for
example, will bring about the splitting of many different fats. Other
enzymes, such as urease, may be so selective that they will transform
only a single kind of substrate. It is believed that in general before
an enzyme can bring about a reaction, a complex must first be formed
between the enzyme and the substrate. This theory is based largely
upon mathematical analysis of the shapes of reaction-time curves,
but in a few cases, direct experimental evidence to support it has been
obtained. The enzyme peroxidase brings about the oxidation of
certain compounds by hydrogen peroxide. A sharp change in color
of peroxidase occurs when hydrogen peroxide is added to it indicating
the formation of a complex; if a suitable substrate is now added,
oxidation takes place, the hydrogen peroxide is used up, and the
original color of the peroxidase reappears. It is generally accepted
also that this combination with the substrate can only take place at a
special point in the enzyme structure, called the active center. Suc-
cessful formation of a complex may depend on the degree to which
the shapes of the active center and substrate are complementary.
Emil Fischer used the analogy of a lock and key to illustrate this
point. Many substances exist in two forms whose molecular struc-
tures are mirror images of each other (rather like a pair of gloves),
ENZYMES—KILBY 279

and in such cases it is nearly always found that only one form will
work with the enzyme. The two forms of lactic acid are shown in
figure 1, and the enzyme lactic dehydrogenase which removes two
hydrogen atoms to convert lactic acid into pyruvic acid will func-
tion with the naturally occurring form, but not with the other, its
mirror image. The active center might be thought of as a hand and
the lactic acid as a glove, when only one glove of the pair will fit the
hand.
When an enzyme reaction takes place, one may picture the sub-
strate molecule colliding with the active center, forming a complex,
reaction occurring and the products then leaving the center which
is then free for another cycle to take place. The enzyme molecule
(if it has a single active center) can thus deal only with a single

We fe ain

Ficure 1.—Models of the two forms of lactic acid, CH;CH(OH)COOH, which are mirror
images. These models give the best representation that is possible of the actual shape
of molecules. (From Organic Chemistry, by L. F. and M. Fieser.)

molecule of substrate at a time, but the cycle may be repeated very
rapidly; a single molecule of catalase, for instance, can break up
at least 5 million molecules of hydrogen peroxide in a minute. When
measurements are made of the speed of an enzyme reaction in the
presence of increasing amounts of substrate, a curve of the type
shown in figure 2 is usually obtained. This has the form of a ree-
tangular hyperbola. If there is ample substrate, the enzyme is work-
ing full out all the time and increasing the concentration of substrate
has little effect as at A. At low concentrations of substrate, as at
B, the active centers are unoccupied for much of the time, and so
increasing the amount of substrate has a direct and proportional
effect on the speed.
As an analogy, one might consider a crowd of football fans wait-
ing to enter a football ground. The individual fans are the mole-
9814455219
280 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

cules of the substrate, and the turnstiles are the active centers of the
enzyme which transform fans into spectators one at a time. As long
as there are enough people to keep the turnstiles going at full speed,
the rate of change of fans into spectators will be constant and inde-
pendent of the length of the queues; but if only a few people ap-
proach, they will go in without waiting and the rate of conversion
of fans will be directly proportional to the number arriving at the
ground. One might extend the analogy by comparing certain vita-
mins to the oil necessary to lubricate the turnstile mechanism. If
this is lacking, the turnstile will seize up and chaos result.

The number of different enzymes already known is very large, and
new ones are constantly being found. The discovery of penicillin

CONVERSION OF FANS INTO SPEC-

SPEED OF ENZYME REACTION OR OF
TATORS.

CONCENTRATION OF SUBSTRATE OR
NUMBER OF FANS ARRIVING PER
MINUTE AT THE GROUND.

Ficure 2.—Relationship between rate of enzymatic reaction and the substrate concentra-
tion. A similar curve would be obtained by plotting the rate of the “football crowd”
reaction and rate of arrival of fans mentioned in the text.

was followed very quickly by the discovery of penicillinase, the en-
zyme which destroys it.

Every species of plant and animal seems to possess its own set of
enzymes which do not correspond exactly to similar enzymes present
in other species, so that the total number of individual enzymes may
run into many millions. Innumerable compounds occur naturally
in plants and animals and for each there must exist enzymes which
can make and break it down. Enzymes enable living organisms
to carry out a great variety of reactions in dilute aqueous solution
at temperatures between freezing point and blood heat; there is no
need for extremes of acidity or alkalinity. Without using enzymes,
the organic chemist can carry out only some of these changes, and then
often he may have to use higher temperatures, corrosive reagents
and concentrated reagents, and sometimes to exclude water completely.
ENZYMES—KILBY 281

THEORIES OF ENZYME ACTION

In short, life as we know it could not exist without enzymes.

Various theories have been proposed to try and explain how en-
zymes can so modify chemical reactions that they will occur under
such mild conditions. The general idea of the most widely held
theory is as follows: Suppose a molecule, say A-—B, is too firmly
bound together for breakage of the bond between A and B to occur
easily, then if complex formation takes place with an enzyme, the
forces holding the complex together may lead to a redistribution
of forces within A-B such that the linkage is so weakened that
fission can occur and A and B are formed. This idea is shown pic-
torially in figure 3, but it must not be taken too literally.

The substrate molecule approaches the active center
on the enzyme surface.

An enzyme-substrate complex is formed, if*the shapes
and reactivities of the two parts are favorable.

The binding forces lead to the weakening of a chem-
ical bond in the substrate molecule.

Fission occurs, and the two fragments leave the ac-
tive center which is free for another cycle to occur.
The fragments may be highly reactive, and may com-
bine with other substances.

Ficure 3.
282 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

Anything that can inhibit or stop vital enzymes from functioning
smoothly in the organism may lead to its death. The absence of
certain vitamins is one example already mentioned. Heat and ultra-
violet light may produce irreversible changes in the protein mole-
cule, and if this protein is an enzyme, loss of activity results.
Another way in which an enzyme may be inhibited is by some com-
pound reacting chemically with it or forming a stable complex at
the active center, which is then blocked and cannot fulfill its normal
role any longer. One fat man firmly wedged in the turnstile might
stop the “football crowd” reaction.

The highly poisonous nature of some compounds has been correlated
with their ability to “knock out” certain important enzymes, so that
only a small amount of such poisons may be necessary to produce very
serious effects on the well-being of the whole organism. One part of
mercuric chloride in 200 million parts of solution will reduce by half
the efficiency of the enzyme catalase. Cyanide is very efficient at stop-
ping the working of some of the enzymes concerned with oxidation
while some of the highly toxic phosphorus insecticides are extremely
potent inhibitors of cholinesterases (enzymes that play an essential
part in the working of the nervous system of higher animals, and
probably also of insects).

The existence of antienzymes in living systems has been demon-
strated. One of the best examples is shown by the roundworm,
Ascaris, which lives in the animal intestine and escapes being digested
by the enzymes present by producing specific enzymes that neutralize
the effect of specific digestive enzymes. However, if the worms are
placed in dilute solutions of digestive enzymes from plants (such as
ficin from the latex of certain fig trees) , they are digested alive as they
lack specific inhibitors to these unfamiliar enzymes.

An intriguing problem is why digestive enzymes do not attack and
digest the glands producing them, or the intestinal tract into which
they are secreted. One reason may be that such enzymes are usually
secreted in an inactive form, and the active center is “uncovered” later.
The pancreas secretes trypsinogen, which is inactive but is converted
into active trypsin in the intestines. The stomach secretes a mucilage
that coats its walls and probably protects them from the action of
the digestive juice.

When biochemical processes are examined in detail, it is often found
that a change, such as the fermentation of sugar or the oxidation of
acetic acid to carbon dioxide and water, is not achieved by a single
enzyme but by a whole battery of them. There may be a dozen or
more stages, each brought about by a separate enzyme. The substrate
has therefore to move from one enzyme to another, and at each stage
ENZYMES—KILBY 283

some modification in structure occurs. It is difficult to see how this
could take place smoothly and efficiently in the cell if all the enzymes
in a battery were scattered throughout the volume of a cell. One
might suspect that they would be found to be arranged in an orderly
sequence, like the machine tools along the production line of a factory,
so that the material undergoing transformation can pass easily from
one enzyme in the series to the next. Recent discoveries have indi-
cated that this may sometimes be the case. Various small granules
called mitochondria exist in the cytoplasm of cells (the cytoplasm is
the part of a cell outside the nucleus) and most of the enzymes con-
cerned with oxidation appear to be concentrated in these granules,
which may be thought of as the powerhouses of the cell, since the prin-
cipal purpose of oxidation is to release energy. Not a great deal is
known yet about the structure of mitochondria, or how they are
reproduced or of the arrangement of enzymes in them, Handcuffed
together, as it were, the enzymes act as a group and their collective
behavior may differ from the sum of that previously observed for the
individual enzymes that the biochemist has obtained after destruction
of the unit. The study of enzymes began with the living cell and then
progressed to the isolated enzyme. The main aim of this phase, the
classical period of enzyme biochemistry, has been to separate an
enzyme from all others that accompany it; the isolation of crystalline
enzymes marks the triumph of this technique. This phase is so pro-
ductive of results that it will be developed for a long time yet, but at
the same time another approach is being fostered. The aim of this is
not the separation of enzymes from each other but the avoidance of
this in order to obtain intact teams of enzymes and study the activity
of the team.

The activities of enzymes are not the concern merely of the aca-
demic biochemist or the brewer, for enzymes are involved in many
aspects of everyday life. The housewife makes junkets by using
rennet, a preparation containing rennin which converts caseinogen,
a soluble protein of milk, into casein, whose insoluble calcium salts
separate out as the curds. The natural function of this enzyme
(which occurs naturally in the fourth stomach of the calf) is prob-
ably to delay the emptying of the stomach by converting liquid
milk into a jellylike mass.

Meat is hung to make it tender, as animal tissues after death under-
go self-digestion owing to the presence of enzymes which partly
degrade some of the structural material of the tissues. The oxidiz-
ing agents added by millers to flour as “improvers” and in order to
bleach it, inhibit the proteinases of the wheat which, if left active,
would alter the proteins present in the flour and give rise to a less
284 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

satisfactory bread. The rising of dough is due to the action of en-
zymes in the flour and added yeast; these cause break-down of starch
into sugars which the yeast ferments to produce carbon dioxide, the
gas which makes the dough rise, as well as a little alcohol, some or-
ganic acids and materials with pleasing flavors. It is enzymes that
make apples and potatoes go brown after cutting, a change due to
the enzymatic oxidation in air of certain colorless compounds pres-
ent to form pigmented substances. Many industrial processes are
based on enzymatic action; usually living organisms such as yeast,
molds or fungi, are used, as, for example, in the manufacture of
malt vinegar, penicillin, citric acid, and so on} a discussion of these
is rather outside the scope of the present article.

Two examples can, however, be mentioned of industrial processes
that use special enzyme preparations, as opposed to living organisms.
When fruit juices are being manufactured, pectins, which form a
part of the structure of plant cells, may separate out from solution
as gelatinous precipitates and make filtration difficult or spoil the
appearance of the product. (If pectins are present in sufficient
amount, a fairly rigid jelly may result, as in successful jam making.)
Clarification of fruit-juice drinks is now achieved usually by adding
pectinases, enzymes that degrade pectins to soluble products. The
enzyme preparations used are made from certain molds grown for
the purpose. At one stage in leather manufacture, it is necessary to
remove degraded products of hair, glands, and certain tissue proteins
from the hides. This used to be a secret process that involved soak-
ing the hides in a warm suspension of dog dung. The same result
is now achieved more pleasantly by using enzymes prepared from
large-scale cultures of suitable strains of bacteria.

Human life begins with an enzymatic reaction. Spermatozoa lib-
erate hyaluronidase, an enzyme that attacks the envelope around the
egg and allows a single spermatozoon to enter and fertilize it. En-
zymes keep the flame of life burning until death, when enzymatic
decomposition returns the building material to the great store from
which fresh life can draw its raw materials to be assimilated and re-
built into new life forms.

The living cell may be pictured as a remarkable factory, which not
only makes a vast range of different products simultaneously, but
also builds its own extensions, does its own repairs and makes its own
machine tools. Changes in the nature of the raw materials available
or sudden demands for material for new tissue building do not
change the smooth-running efficiency of this factory. An elaborate
control system must be operating that regulates the speed at which
the different machine tools are working and thus which departments
ENZYMES—KILBY 285

must speed up production, and which slow it down. The chemical
regulators of the body are its hormones, and these must almost cer-
tainly act by controlling key enzyme reactions. The first indications
that this may be so have been obtained, and it may well be that the
major development in biochemistry during the next half century
will be a greater understanding of the mechanism of hormone action
in terms of enzyme reactions. Much has been achieved in enzymol-
ogy, but very much yet remains to be done. It would be an over-
confident biochemist who would consider himself worthy of the
kilogram of gold.
Joa Ren yghiaom. Loess ich,

loneusce: ac bovwdiitas rose
siete aap oad sna ene te et

Tada. oer Site) aie aad uh ith ots erate Ray Sa a
Paily-vitcgeer, gam iytlinn, cits Mena, and 6 ORe = dieeaanrenones |

“eee orotate thar urge vb thet parce anti, Spy 4

a

Ke earpliw wind, Livery vn, Ve Met huaed of Mietleet ne:
tit et special eforypte preparations, ws <ipewiat by livingiorganisma, he
Wiser file Painss ace Jain mnoxfectumd, pectin) whishederihlis :
part ofthe atr\otior of -pinuri celle, auny apatate oh, Tran sohitien .

Me wbiinges praiptiates and’ onde thiwten aap ee. ve
Wienprarinds: 6f The product. Slt pasting: ate prmeont, nhs kedledent*

havo waa ity rig Teale wary covet, sey suonese fal joneking.s ts
(uetiiontion ef irvis juice dzintw te new adbiered aeuaily ty addaage:
mare pues, conypned Cha degrade posting do soltibly prodocte othe
goyhis prypaitions usd: ane made frem ‘eortelt. saotde: peownt for
tie peirpas.. At one stage in: leather’ memuteetieg 1 it Neneseap dar:
auitere Gugreded prodiets of Hale, glands. raid vevtpi Geshe gota
Grays Loe edocs.) Tilw need feat & setceb pice thw tnmobyed mila. ;
ipde.the tudes 4 2 wurtn susnenden ‘of dog dings: Che camp tent
& po scitigted one parently by avin omymer propaned fron
Inigereatio quliucas of ae td slowing of tanteriic ee Nh a,
JD fovniax lilt begins with au eneymetio rection! Sperinatpnca Rb ‘
erate byalcronidesa, ow orn that atender the cavelopegeueneaene |
tie -cyt atlows 4 single speminidtomedg ‘piiter and farting 4%: Rae
tyimes keeyy the fate of a techarning wraliceathy phen: enzyuigtio. ©
deqainjeeitiin oeuikan-the babbling material to ths are een:
velinh Troe Iife dom sracr ite raw malice’ tae Sane ks
bole ote mew Min forsan ode ie a ix Pes
te teteg col may bis pletiasiesk 3a % riage frer, hicig

Smithsonian Report, 1951.—Kilby

1. Photomicrograph of pepsin crystals, 80. 2. Photomicrograph of trypsin crystals, X
(From Enzymes, by Sumner and Somers.) 250. (From Crystalline Enzymes, by

Northrop, Kunitz, and Herriott.)

_

eS Heath : aE

3. Photomicrograph of trypsinogen, X 250. 4. Photomicrograph of urease crystals, X 800.
his is the inactive precursor of the digest This enzyme was tl
ive enzyme trypsin. (From Crystallin: tained as crystals. (From £7

Enzymes, by Northrop, Kunitz, and He: Sumner and Son
riott.)
Pane

re Sg ,
Pcl or Segoe Nadine?
. a 4 ise as
=a “eget, P
ay hia! ‘o> eae

on
beg od)
*

The Fauna of America’

By Austin H. CLARK

Associate in Zoology, U. S. National Museum

[With 8 plates]

Euroreans seeing North America for the first time when the forests
were untouched and game was plentiful found many types of animals
familiar to them in Europe, together with others wholly new and
strange. In the South, and especially the Southwest, they saw fewer
familiar creatures and many more unfamiliar ones. To the early
Spanish and Portuguese explorers and conquistadores South America
was a wonderland in every way. The wealth of silver and gold in the
western mountains was matched by the incredible wealth of strange
mammals, queer fishes, and unusual and brilliantly colored birds and
butterflies. Sloths, armadillos, anteaters, opossums, tapirs, hum-
mingbirds, toucans, the giant condor, macaws, the large vivid blue
morpho butterflies, the domesticated llama, alpaca, guinea pig, and
Muscovy duck, and many other types were wholly different from any-
thing they had seen in Europe or in Africa.

GEOLOGICAL HISTORY OF AMERICA

The characteristic features of the American fauna can be under-
stood and appreciated only in the light of its geological and geographi-
cal background. Many millions of years ago in Cretaceous time North
America was broadly connected with northeastern Asia, and in the
south it was joined through Central America with northwestern South
America. A narrow sea extended from the region of the Mackenzie
River Delta in the north to the Gulf of Mexico in the south, covering
Yucatan, most of the Gulf States, southern Georgia, northern Florida,
and the Coastal Plain as far as Cape Cod. Early in the Eocene the
connection with South America was interrupted, and the sea connect-
ing the Gulf of Mexico with the Arctic Ocean disappeared. In the
Miocene, North America became separated from Asia. Later, in the
Pliocene, the connection with South America was reestablished. In

1 Reprinted in somewhat extended form, by permission of the editors, from three articles
published (in Hebrew) in the Encyclopaedia Hebraica, Jerusalem, 1951.

287
288 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

the late Pliocene conditions were essentially as they are today, but
Newfoundland was still united with North America and most of
Florida was submerged. In the Pleistocene, Alaska was again broadly
connected with Asia, and Newfoundland became separated from the
mainland.

In spite of relatively minor changes in the relation of sea and land,
North America has always been essentially an integral part of the
great permanent land mass of the Northern Hemisphere, the nursery
of the world’s land fauna from which at various times in the past
the different animal types spread southward. There is no geological
evidence of any fundamental changes in the relation between the
oceans and the land masses.

A glance at a physical map of the Americas shows that from Guate-
mala to northern Venezuela, including the West Indies, the general
trend of the highlands is east and west in marked contrast to the moun-
tains of North and South America, which run approximately north
and south. Judged solely on the basis of the Recent fauna, Central
America may be defined as the region from the southern end of the
Mexican Plateau to northern Venezuela, including the West Indies.
But there is no geological or paleontological evidence that Central
America was ever a geographical entity apart from tropical America
as a whole. The concept of a hypothetical Antilia including the
Central or Middle American area which, in one form or another, has
been widely used to explain the differentiation and distribution of
animal life in this region has no foundation in fact. Islands now
separate were joined with each other, or with the mainland, but there
was never a large and continuous land mass in the region between
North and South America.

From the uniqueness of its fauna, it is evident that South America
was for a long time wholly or in part isolated from the rest of the
world, and this isolation is emphasized especially by the abundance
in the past of large and bizarre mammals now known only as fossils.
It is generally agreed that the eastern highlands of the Guianas and
Brazil have been above the sea since the Trias, and that at some time
or other in the Tertiary there was an oceanic interconnection along the
Amazon Valley, or a long gulf extending inward from the Atlantic
or Pacific, probably the latter. It is believed that Chile and the Pata-
gonian Andes, which are quite distinct from the more northern Andes,
have been land since very early times, and most students agree that
southern South America was joined through Antarctica with New
Zealand and Australia, at least until the Cretaceous. In the early
Eocene, South America was cut off from North America. Between the
late Eocene and the Pliocene there were various islands between the
two. In the late Pliocene they were again joined, and a considerable
interchange of faunas followed.
FAUNA OF AMERICA—CLARK 289

GEOLOGY AND ZOOLOGY

These geological changes were accompanied by more or less exten-
sive changes in climate over the areas affected. Most important of
these changes were the climatic variations in North America. Before
and during the Tertiary a large part of North America was subtrop-
ical or tropical, and the southern part remained tropical until at
least the late Tertiary. This gradual change from a subtropical and
tropical to a temperate climate had the effect of restricting to the south,
or eliminating completely, many of the elements in the original North
American fauna, a number of which are now found only in tropical
America. With the geographical and climatic changes, various major
and minor centers of evolution appeared throughout the Americas, giv-
ing rise to more or less distinctive types which spread to other areas,
became progressively restricted in their distribution, or disappeared.

The geological history of the different vertebrate groups must be
considered in connection with their present distribution. First to
appear were the fishes, known from the Ordovician; amphibians are
first found in the Upper Devonian, reptiles in the Pennsylvanian,
and mammals probably in the Upper Triassic. The first known birds
are from the Jurassic. Although the genetic rate of evolution may
be independent of environment, an important factor in the evolution
of animal types is the relative stability or instability of the habitat
and its effect on natural selection. The basic ecology of the several
vertebrate groups varies to a greater or lesser degree, though there
is much overlapping, particularly in specilaized forms. Aquatic
habitats are the least variable, and so the fresh-water fishes, especially
in the Tropics, have the most generalized distribution with the nearest
approach to their distribution in the far-distant past. The distribu-
tion of the amphibians is, in general, parallel with that of the fishes.
As a result of the great variability of terrestrial conditions—diurnal
and seasonal—at different times in the past, the distribution of the
reptiles and especially of the mammals reflects present conditions
much more closely than does that of the aquatic and amphibious
groups. In the reptiles, birds, and mammals those types that feed
entirely, or almost entirely, in water are in general more widely and
generally distributed than those that are entirely terrestrial.

Worthy of special mention in the present fauna of America are such
very ancient types as the ganoid fishes of North America, the lungfishes
and osteoglossids of South America, various frogs of South America,
and the ribbed or tailed frog (Ascaphus) of our Northwest related
to Liopelma of New Zealand, and among invertebrates the onycho-
phores (Peripatus and its relatives) of Central and South America
and the West Indies. In North America the paddlefish (Polyodon)
and the alligator, each with a single relative in China; the hellbender

290 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

(Cryptobranchus) related to the giant salamander of Japan; the
shovel-nosed sturgeon (Scaphirhynchus) with relatives in central
Asia; and the mud puppies (Vectwrus) and mud minnows (Umbra)
with relatives in southeastern Europe are localized remnants of types
that in the distant past were widely and generally distributed.

As examples of an animal type abundant and widespread but
now greatly reduced in range and numbers, the camels may be men-
tioned. Camels originated in western North America where they
were formerly abundant and diversified. From this center they
spread to South America and Asia. They have now disappeared
except for four forms in South America and two in Asia, one of
which has been introduced into Africa. Two of the South American
species and both the Asiatic are known only as domesticated animals.

PRESENT-DAY GEOGRAPHY

In Alaska the Arctic barrens of Asia are continued and range
eastward to Ungava and Labrador, increasing in extent eastward,
beyond the mouth of the Mackenzie River, and reaching Churchill
on the western shore of Hudson Bay and nearly to James Bay on the
southeastern shore. The mountains of Alaska run east and west
continuing those of northeastern Asia (the Anadyr and Kolyma
ranges), but in southeastern Alaska and Yukon they turn southeast-
ward, maintaining the same direction to the Guatemalan highlands.
The eastern highlands of North America run from the Gulf of St.
Lawrence to northern Georgia in a southwesterly direction. In the
western mountains arctic, or at least boreal, conditions occur at
increasingly high altitudes to southern California, Arizona, and New
Mexico. In the east less extreme but still northern conditions range
southward in the mountains to northeastern Georgia.

From the Arctic Ocean to the Gulf of Mexico the central part of
North America is low with no natural barriers, so the grasslands, and
in the west the deserts, extend from Mexico and the Gulf far north-
ward into Canada. This absence of barriers facilitates the northern
or southern extension of the ranges of animals so that the distribu-
tional picture over most of the area in certain respects suggests that of
Africa or Australia rather than that of Europe or Asia. Except for
the Rio Grande, the rivers and lakes of North America are all cold, or
at least cool. Nearly all are northern. The Mississippi River with its
tributaries drain an area that is cool to very cold in winter so that its
waters are not suitable for the types of fishes inhabiting the warm low-
land rivers of southern Asia or the fresh waters of Africa or South
America.

Continental Central America is remarkable for the diversity of its
physical conditions. The land includes extensive low areas near sea
FAUNA OF AMERICA—CLARK 291

level and diversified highlands up to 14,000 feet in Guatemala. Arid
regions with cactus grade into dense tropical forests, and these into
pine forests. The islands also are greatly diversified. Some, like the
Bahamas, Antigua, and Barbados, are low and flat, chiefly of coral
formation, but most of the others consist largely or mainly of heavily
forested mountains rising to 9,000 feet in Haiti and more than 7,000
feet in Jamaica.

Most of South America islow. The great chain of the Andes, with an
average height of 11,000 to 12,000 feet, runs close to the western border
with an eastward spur along the Caribbean coast. The Guiana high-
lands separate most of the Orinoco Valley from that of the Amazon,
and in eastern Brazil are the extensive Brazilian highlands. The
lowlands vary from dry and partly barren through areas covered with
rank herbage, permanently or seasonally, to the dense forests of the
Amazon Valley, especially the western half. These forests are unique
in being canopy forests consisting of vast masses of vegetation tied
together with vines and supported by tree trunks, with sparse under-
growth, in many areas flooded during the rainy season.

FAUNA OF NORTH AMERICA

In the treeless high Arctic zone, the southern limits of which are
sometimes north and sometimes south of the Arctic Circle, the animals
of North America are almost wholly circumpolar, as the caribou (rein-
deer), polar bear, Arctic wolf, fox, hare, lemmings, and weasels.
Most characteristic of the mammals of the American Arctic is the
musk ox, now extinct in the Old World, living in the far north from
east of the Mackenzie River to northern Greenland. Of the 65 genera
of birds 60 are circumpolar, including the ptarmigan, gyrfalcon, snowy
owl, snow bunting, and many others. Fresh-water fishes are few—
only some trout; the three-spined stickleback; and the Alaska black-
fish (Dallia) of Alaska and Siberia, which is frozen in the ice for a
considerable part of each year. There are no reptiles or amphibians.
The insects are mostly circumpolar, and as in all regions where con-
ditions are unfavorable for animal life, the Diptera, or two-winged
flies, predominate. Biting flies, especially mosquitoes and black flies
(Simulium), are especially abundant. The butterflies are all familiar
Old World types.

Farther south in the region of the forests there is a marked increase
in animal life. Distinctively American types now appear, there is a
considerable difference between east and west, and in the western
mountains there is a continuation into America of Old World mountain
or alpine forms. Old World animals of general distribution are repre-
sented by the moose, caribou, wolf, foxes, bears, lynxes, wolverines,
martens, weasels, otters, the varying hare, squirrels, and other rodents,
292 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

and shrews, and by the widespread swallowtail butterfly Papilio
machaon. In the western mountains there are wild sheep, the mountain
goat, bears, and the conspicuous large white butterfly Parnassius.
Among American types are the puma, raccoon, skunks, tree porcupines,
American squirrels and other rodents, and the American (Virginia)
type of deer, and, among strictly North American animals, the coyote.

Among the birds of Old World affinities there are in the boreal
region, of general distribution, many ducks, loons, the golden eagle,
raven, crow, Canada jay, hawk-owl, several hawks and falcons, cross-
bills, nuthatches, the magpie, the Bohemian waxwing, and various
smaller species. Among the birds confined to the far northwest, in
Alaska, Cassin’s bullfinch, the red-spotted bluethroat, yellow wagtail,
and willow warbler migrate south in winter through Asia, not through
America.

Distinctively American types of general distribution are the
Canada goose and its varieties, snow geese, the blue goose, ruddy and
other ducks, the little brown crane, several owls, the bald eagle, and
many small birds. Confined to the west are the emperor goose, black
brant, bristle-thighed curlew, wandering tatler, surfbird, and many
small birds. In the central part of the continent are the whooping
crane, Wilson’s phalarope, and some other species. Special mention
must be made of two large families of birds peculiar to America that
reach the boreal region, the American warblers (Parulidae), many of
which breed in the northern forests, and the hummingbirds (Trochil-
idae), of which one, the rufous hummingbird, reaches Alaska, and
another, the ruby-throated hummingbird, is found from Saskatche-
wan to Cape Breton and southward. Many of these strictly American
birds breed far to the northward, but all migrate south in winter.

On Newfoundland many of the animals differ more or less widely
from those on the continent, and some of the characteristic continental
types, such as the moose, elk, and many smaller species, are lacking.
A number of animals on the Labrador peninsula differ from their
relatives west of Hudson Bay or farther south.

Frogs and toads are represented from Alaska to Hudson Bay. A
few snakes, turtles (including the soft-shelled turtle), and salaman-
ders reach the boreal region in southern Canada. Fishes are abun-
dant, though not very diversified, with a number of Old World types
such as trout, grayling (Thymallus), whitefish (Coregonus), and pike
(sox), and some American such as the black bass (Micropterus),
darters (Etheostomidae), and suckers (Catostomidae). In the
streams of the north Atlantic coast lives the Atlantic salmon, now
becoming rare, and in those of the Pacific coast (and of eastern Asia
as well) occur the five species of Pacific salmon (Onchorhynchus),
which, in contrast to the Atlantic salmon, breed only once and die.
FAUNA OF AMERICA—CLARK 293

The insects have increased greatly in variety. Many are from
the Old World, but many are typically American, particularly toward
the south. These last include two types of swallowtail butterflies of
strictly North American groups, Papilio glaucus and its relatives, and
P. troilus.

South of southeastern Canada, the Great Lakes region, and New
England many additional animal types appear. With Old World
affinities are the pikas and badgers in the west and the generally
distributed moles; strictly American are the opossum and various
small hares in the east, the large jack rabbits, prairie dogs, ground
squirrels, kangaroo rats, and other rodents in the west. Strictly North
American are the pronghorn (Antilocapra) of the Western Plains,
the gray fox (Urocyon), and in the northwestern United States the
sewellel (Aplodontia). Still farther south are the generally dis-
tributed spotted skunks, and in the Southwest the tropical armadillo,
peceary, jaguar, ocelot, and cacomixl (Bassariscus), in addition to
most of the types found farther north.

Among the birds a number of northern kinds range down to Georgia
in the mountains in the east and to Mexico in the west, and some in the
lowlands to Florida and the Gulf. Many other bird types appear,
chiefly in the lowlands, such as various rails, the white pelican (in
the west), egrets, herons, doves and pigeons, burrowing owls, pileated
and other woodpeckers, cuckoos, including the western roadrunner
(Geococcyx), numerous wrens, the cardinal, towhee, grosbeaks, the
indigobird and other finches, some brilliau.tly colored, swifts, whip-
poorwills and other goatsuckers, and especially representatives of the
exclusively American families Odontophoridae (American quails),
Meleagrididae (turkeys), Cathartidae (American vultures, including
the giant California condor), Icteridae (American orioles and black-
birds and the meadowlarks, bobolink, and parasitic cowbirds),
Thraupidae (tanagers), Vireonidae (vireos), Mimidae (mockingbird,
thrashers, and catbird), and Tyrannidae (American kingbirds and
flycatchers). Farther south are additional types—the wood ibis
(Mycteria), the only American stork, snakebird (Anhinga), brown
pelican, more finches; in the west several hummingbirds; and the
American family Aramidae (wood rails or courlans). In the extreme
south are a few tropical types such as the white ibis, roseate spoonbill,
caracaras, kites, and some tropical terns.

Toward the south the reptiles increase rapidly in number, first the
snakes and the turtles, later the lizards, the last especially in the west.
The reptiles are quite different from those of Europe and northern
Asia and largely different from those of South America. Most note-
worthy are the snapping turtles, the common snapper reaching 75
pounds and the more southern alligator snapper 150 pounds; the rattle-
294 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

snakes, one of which, the southern diamondback, reaches more than 8
feet in length; the coral snakes of the south; and the iguanoid lizards,
including the curiously flat and broad horned toads, which squirt a
drop of blood from above the eye when alarmed. In the southeast
lives the alligator, and in the extreme south the American crocodile.

Amphibians, especially frogs, tree frogs, toads, and in the moun-
tains salamanders, become abundant. Worthy of mention are the bull
frog, 8 inches long; among the salamanders in the east the hellbender,
2 feet long; several mud puppies, also up to 2 feet long; the congo
snakes (Amphiuwma) with rudimentary legs, up to 3 feet long; and the
mud eels (Stren) with no hind legs, also 3 feet long. North America
is the richest part of the world in salamanders, as South America is
in frogs.

Fishes are very numerous, largely of endemic types such as the nest-
building Centrarchidae, the gars (Lepidosteus), and the bowfin
(Amia). Especially interesting are the cave fishes (Amblyopsidae),
of which four genera with seven blind and colorless species occur in
the subterranean waters in the eastern half of the Mississippi Valley,
and one genus with two normally colored species with fully developed
eyes inhabits the coastal swamps from Virginia to Georgia. These are
evidently the remnants of a once numerous and widespread group.
The North American catfishes (Ameiuridae) and the suckers (Cato-
stomidae) are almost wholly North American, but both families have
a representative or two in eastern Asia.

Insects are exceedingly numerous and diversified; many are of
tropical American types, though some are endemic. There are about
700 different kinds of butterflies, many of which are large and hand-
some. One small butterfly (Feniseca) with African and Asiatic rel-
atives is carnivorous in the early stages. Of other invertebrates, the
fresh-water mussels (Unionidae) are more numerous and diversified
in North America than elsewhere.

FAUNA OF CENTRAL AMERICA

The fauna of the mainland of Central America is predominantly
South American with an admixture of North American types, espe-
cially in the highlands, and a few Antilleam forms. It reflects the
diversity of the geographical features, and minor local variants of
both South and North American animals are abundant. The fauna
of the West Indies is scanty and is composed of types at present largely
unrepresented, or but poorly represented, on the mainland.

Among the mammals of Central America are two species of tapirs
that are quite distinct from all other living tapirs though related to
fossils found in North America, one ranging from Panama to Mexico,
the other found in Guatemala, Nicaragua, and Costa Rica. Spider
Smithsonian Report, 195].—Clark PLATE 1

a

1. TWO YOUNG BULL ELKS ON REFUGE, JACKSON. Wyo.

2. TWO BUCK MULE DEER, NATIONAL BISOl RANGE, MOIESE, MONT.

Photographs by E. P. Haddon, courtesy U. S. Fish anrt Wildlife Service.
Smithsonian Report, 1951.—Clark PLATE 2

1. MOUNTAIN SHEEP, YELLOWSTONE PARK, Wyo.
Photograph by M. P. Skinner, courtesy U. S. Fish and Wildlife Service.

aA . Z

2. MOUNTAIN GOAT (OREAMNOS AMERICANUS), ALASKA

This is really a mountain antelope, closely related to the European chamois. It occurs from
Alaska south to Montana and Idaho in the Rockies and the Coast Range. Photograph
by C. Rhode, courtesy U. S. Fish and Wildlife Service.
Smithsonian Report, 1951.—Clark

MOOSE, HARVEY LAKE,

Photograph by J. Malcolm Greany, courtesy U.

ALASKA

S. Fish and Wildlife Service.

‘QOTAING OJI[P[IAMA pue Ys “S ‘A Asaqinos ‘uoppry “gq “Y Aq ydessoi0yg
“LNOW ‘SSSIOW ‘AS T1VA NOISSIW ‘NOSIG ONISTV GNv NOSIg NO109-7VWHON

*

vy 31V1d Hel" 1661 *qaodayy ueruosyyWg
Smithsonian Report, 195].—Clark PLATE 5

a Ee

1. WILD TURKEY GOBBLER, WICHITA MOUNTAINS WILDLIFE REFUGE, OKLA.
Photograph by Leo K. Couch, courtesy U. S. Fish and Wildlife Service.

EN ag Oe init a se

a

<

Me ?

wo * “ ts
Ste, Ya — he £
ate a #

;

2. CANADA GEESE, LOWER SOURIS MIGRATORY WATERFOWL REFUGE, N. DAK
Photograph by C. J. Henry, courtesy U. S. Fish and Wildlife Service.
"IAIOS IPI Puke Ysty *S "A Asaiinos ‘youd'T *f uyof Aq ydessojoyg
“spuno13 Zunsou sd1Y Mey} 0} Aousnol usnjor MsYyI Wr Is Ady UdsyM YIePY JO IsIY oY IMoge [UN sJoyI UreUTEI Ady,
“J9]UIM YORI SEXO], UOIsvo PUL BULISINOTT JO JsvOd J[NL) dy} UO 9}¥1]UIIUOD 9s903 MOUS PUe 98903 aN]q JO spuesNoY) fo spoipunyy

9 ALV1d A2P[D— 166] ‘Woday wermosyywg
Smithsonian Report, 1951.—Clark PLATE 7

1. ARMADILLO
Courtesy National Zoological Park.

2. MANED WOLF
Courtesy National Zoological Par]
“yled [B15 O[007 [BUOTIE Ny Asoq.In0d

YIdVL NVITNZvVaq

8 31LV1d 4AP[Q—'|G6| ‘40day urtuosyywG
FAUNA OF AMERICA—CLARK 295

monkeys range north to Mexico, howlers to Guatemala, and several
other types, including marmosets, to Costa Rica. Sloths range north
to Mexico. Other mammals now characteristic of South America are
the jaguar, ocelot and other cats, peccary, armadillo, coati, kinkajou,
prehensile-tailed porcupine, agouti and numerous other rodents, and
many bats, including the small blood-feeding vampires. Of very
wide distribution are the puma and otter. Mammals of northern af-
finities, chiefly in Mexico, are the wolf, coyote, deer, raccoon, badger,
hare, squirrel, cacomixl, pouched rat (gopher or quachil) and some
other rodents, and insectivores.

Among the interesting fossil mammals of the West Indies are a
ground sloth (Megalonya), as large as a small bear, from Cuba, and
a very large rodent of the same size (Amblyrhiza) from the very small
islands of Anguilla and St. Martins. These indicate a connection at
some time with continental Central or South America. There are
no fossil mammals known from the West Indies of greater age than
the Pleistocene. Most interesting of the living mammals of the West
Indies are the two species of Solenodon, one on Cuba and one on
Haiti. These are large insectivores with the body about a foot long
with fossil relatives in the Oligocene of North America and living
relatives chiefly in Madagascar, with a few in west Africa.

Confined to the Greater Antilles are the large ratlike mammals
called hutias. The genus Plagiodontia lives only on Haiti. Species
of Capromys with short tails are found in the Bahamas, on Jamaica,
and on Swan Island north of Honduras. Three species with long
tails live on Cuba. A related but distinct type (Procapromys) is
said to occur in the mountains of northern Venezuela. Raccoons occur,
or did occur until recently, on New Providence, Bahamas, Guadeloupe,
and Barbados. ‘The rice rat of Jamaica (Orizomys) is an island rep-
resentative of one on the Honduras Peninsula. Of the 31 genera of
bats living in the West Indies no less than 10 are peculiar to the islands,
7 confined to the Greater Antilles, including the Bahamas, and 3 of
general distribution.

Very distinct from the fauna of the Greater Antilles with its Central
and North American affinities is that of the Lesser Antilles, related
most closely to that of South America. The fauna of Trinidad is that
of adjacent Venezuela. The fauna of Tobago resembles that of Trini-
dad and includes a peccary, opossum, mouse opossum (A/armosc),
small armadillo, paca, agouti, squirrel, spiny rat, and muskrat (J/ega-
lomys). On Grenada, the southernmost of the Lesser Antilles prop-
erly speaking, there is only the opossum (extensively introduced into
the northern islands), mouse opossum (which ranges into the Grena-
dines), agouti, and the small armadillo. There is an introduced
African monkey on Grenada, and another African species on Barbados

981445—52 20

296 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

and St. Kitts. Agoutis occur, or did until recently, on practically
all the islands as far as St. Thomas. Musk rats (Alegalomys) are
found only on Tobago, St. Lucia, and Martinique, with a fossil species
on Barbados. ‘The rice rat in the Lesser Antilles is related to one in
adjacent South America. There is a spiny rat (Loncheres) on Marti-
nique. Manatees, once common in suitable localities along the coasts
and about the larger islands, including Guadeloupe, are now rare.
The West Indian seal, a close relative of the Mediterranean seal, for-
merly common and widely distributed, is now found only on some small
islands off Yucatan. Many West Indian mammals have wholly dis-
appeared since the settlement of the islands by Europeans.

The birds of Central America are very numerous. Nearly all are
of types now found in South America, but there is an extraordinary
number of endemic genera in almost all groups, especially in the hum-
mingbirds, finches, and flycatchers. The best-known bird confined
to Central America and found chiefly in Costa Rica is the quetzal,
the most magnificent of all the colorful trogons. There is a marked
zonal distribution in Central America and, chiefly at the higher alti-
tudes, several North American birds occur, such as evening grosbeaks,
crossbills, goldfinches, and others. Very many North American species
pass the winter in Central America and the West Indies and farther
south. ;

In the West Indies there are 32 genera of birds confined to the
Greater Antilles and 8 to the Lesser. 'T'wo distinct families are wholly
West Indian, the palm chats (Dulidae) of Haiti and the todies (Todi-
dae) of Cuba, Isle of Pines, Jamaica, Puerto Rico, and Haiti. Zonal
distribution is found only on Haiti where the white-winged crossbill,
Andean sparrow, and Antillean goldfinch occur at the higher altitudes.
Some characteristic West Indian birds live on the islands off the Yuca-
tan coast, on Curacao, Aruba, and Bonaire, and on Tobago. Among
the more interesting West Indian birds are Princess Helen’s humming-
bird of Cuba, smallest of all birds, 23% inches in total length; two
genera of Lesser Antillean hummingbirds (Lulampis and Sericotes)
in which both sexes are similarly colored and equally brilliant; a co-
tinga on Jamaica; endemic types of trogons on Cuba and Haiti; and
very distinctive large parrots on St. Vincent and Dominica; other
parrots live on St. Lucia, Dominica, and in the Greater Antilles. In
former times distinctive macaws occurred on Cuba, Jamaica, Guade-
loupe, Dominica, and Martinique, and probably on Haiti. In addition
to these, other West Indian birds have disappeared since the coming
of Europeans.

The reptiles of Central America and the West Indies are numerous.
The turtles are all North American. The family Dermatemydidae,
now confined to Guatemala and adjacent areas, is found as a fossil in
FAUNA OF AMERICA—CLARK 297

North America. Snapping turtles occur in Mexico, Guatemala, and
Ecuador. The large crocodile found in the extreme south of North
America lives on the Central American coast and about the larger West
Indian islands, and there is a small one in Cuba and another in Central
America where caimans also occur in the rivers. Lizards are numer-
ous and diversified with a number of local genera, especially in the
Greater Antilles. Most of them belong to the family Iguanidae.
Some of the herbivorous iguanas reach a length of 5 feet or more.
Snakes are numerous and diversified, with a number of endemic types.
The very poisonous fer-de-lance is found on Martinique and St. Lucia.
Largest of the Central American snakes is the boa constrictor, up to
12 feet long, though seldom more than 7 feet. Frogs are numerous
and varied with several endemic types. Salamanders are found in
Central America and one lives on Haiti. There are no coecilians.

The fishes of Central America are mainly South American, but
several characteristic South American types are absent. Trout range
south to Durango, Mexico, and a few other North American fishes
extend to Guatemala. Among the more interesting fishes are three
ganoids, the North American Lepzdosteus osseus in northeastern
Mexico, Z. tropicus ranging from Mexico to Panama, and ZL. tristoe-
chus, the great alligator gar, found in Mexico and Cuba as well as in
the southern United States. Ofthe more than 100 species of Cichlidae
17 are confined to Lakes Nicaragua and Managua, 6 to Cuba, and 1 to
Barbados. In Lake Nicaragua there are a shark and a sawlish (P7%s-
tis). In the caves of Cuba there are two blindfishes (Lucifuga) be-
longing to a family (Brotulidae) chiefly represented in the oceanic
abysses.

Land snails are extremely varied, and their abundance is one of the
main features of the West Indian fauna. Many endemic types occur,
especially in the Greater Antilles. Those of Cuba are unexcelled for
variety and beauty.

The very numerous butterflies are mostly South American with some
familiar northern types, especially in the Central American highlands.
There are several endemic genera, some confined to the Greater Antil-
les. One genus of curious large butterflies (Anelia) is confined to
Haiti, Cuba, and Central America.

The Onychophora are well represented, with four genera and seven
species in Panama. One genus (Peripatus) occurs on almost every
island from St. Vincent and Barbados to the Virgin Islands, Puerto
Rico, Haiti, and Jamaica, and also in northern Venezuela, Panama,
and Costa Rica. Plicatoperipatus is confined to Jamaica. The South
and Central American genus /'piperipatus lives on Trinidad, Tobago,
and Grenada; and Afacroperipatus, which ranges north to Veracruz,
Mexico, is represented on Trinidad and Haiti. The Andean Oropery-
298 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

patus occurs at Panama and ranges northward to Tepic, Mexico.
There are no Onychophora on Cuba. These curious wormlike animals
belong to a very ancient group known as fossils in the Middle Cam-
brian of British Columbia.

THE FAUNA OF SOUTH AMERICA

The fauna of South America reflects its very early connection with
North America, its later long isolation during which many strange
endemic types developed, now largely extinct, and its reunion with
North America in the Pliocene, permitting the introduction of North
American types of relatively recent origin. In the south it retains
many animal types, especially in the fresh-water fishes and inverte-
brates, that are relics of a very old connection with New Zealand and
Australia and are quite different from any found farther north.

The fauna of South America has essentially the appearance of the
fauna of a large tropical island, the long isolation of which resulted
in the development from generalized stock of a large number of en-
demic types, merged with the fauna of a southern land mass including
New Zealand and Australia, with an intrusion of animal forms that
have arrived from North America since the Pliocene. In spite of very
marked affinities with Africa seen in the aquatic and amphibious ani-
mals especially, there is no necessity for assuming a direct union with
Africa at any time, though there may have been such a union. The
similarity to Africa is most probably due to the conservation of ancient
types once generally distributed which in the northern land masses
have been superseded by others better suited to present conditions that
have been prevented by certain barriers from reaching the southern
continents. Also it is probable that in Africa and especially South
America climatic and meteorological changes have been less extreme,
particularly in the fresh waters, than in the great land masses of the
north, which would favor the persistence of many ancient types.

Perhaps the most characteristic feature of South America is the
canopy forest. Here animals live largely high above the ground.
To keep from falling from the canopy many mammals of widely
different kinds, as opossums, an anteater, porcupines, kinkajous, and
some monkeys, have developed prehensile tails, and the sloths have
cnormous claws. There are no gliding animals, such as we see in
the northern and Old World forests, in Australia, and especially in
the Malayan region. Birds and butterflies are especially numerous
and varied. In the deep shade of the forests live many butterflies
with largely transparent wings and others with vivid colors on the
under side but dull above. A striking feature of the birds and but-
terflies is the extraordinary prevalence of brilliant and often flashing
colors, especially blue. Some of the numerous frogs are also brightly
colored.
FAUNA OF AMERICA—CLARK 299

It is in the western Amazonian region and the eastern Andes that
animal life is most highly diversified. The lowlands are curious
in lacking the herds of large herbivorous mammals so characteristic
of Europe, Asia, North America, and especially Africa. There are
no grazing mammals, and the terrestrial browsers are represented
only by a few small deer. The place of the hoofed animals is taken
iby a great variety of rodents, as it is in Australia by kangaroos,
Except in the northwest, bears and insectivores are absent. The place
of arboreal insectivores is taken chiefly by marmosets, and that of
terrestrial insectivores, as in Australia, by opossums and mice.

Unique among living mammals and confined to tropical America
are the three types of sloths; the uncommon terrestrial giant ant-
eater 4 feet long, the smaller terrestrial anteater, and the arboreal
anteaters; and the various armadillos ranging in size from the little
woolly armadillo (Chlamydophorus) 5 inches long to the rare giant
armadillo (Priodontes) 3 feet long. Exclusively tropical American
except for one species in southern North America are the opossums,
varying from the size of a mouse to that of a large cat. One has
webbed feet and is aquatic. Quite a different type of marsupial is
Caenolestes of Ecuador and adjacent Colombia related to the Aus-
tralian phalangers.

The American monkeys, especially numerous in Peart are quite
different from the Old World monkeys. They are less diversified
and smaller. Some have prehensile tails. The chief types are the
spider monkeys, woolly monkeys, sapajous, and the sluggish howlers,
largest of American monkeys with a stupendous voice; sakis, short-
tailed monkeys, night monkeys with enormous eyes, squirrel monkeys,
and marmosets, smallest of monkeys—some smaller than a rat. One
of the howlers is curious in having the males black, the females
straw yellow.

Very characteristic of South America are the four camels, the
guanaco, vicuiia, llama, and alpaca, the two last known only as domestic
animals. As a group they range from the extreme south to, in the
Andes, Peru and Ecuador. Nearly as characteristic as the camels
are the two tapirs, one in the forests and lowlands of Brazil and
Paraguay, the other in the Andes. These are related to another in
the Malay region, Sumatra, and Borneo.

Largest of the American cats, with a body length of about 4 to 5
feet, is the jaguar, thick-set, powerful, and dangerous, which ranges
from Patagonia to Texas. Nearly as large, but with longer limbs,
not so heavy, and generally tawny in color without distinctive mark-
ings, is the puma, found from Tierra del Fuego to latitude 60° N.
in Canada. ‘There are various smaller cats, some handsomely spotted
or striped, others plain, but no lynxes.
300 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

Dogs are represented by several wolflike foxes, one very large, and
the curious little bush dogs with short legs and tail. The raccoon
family is represented by a raccoon, the coati, and the kinkajou, and
the pigs by the collared and white-lipped peccaries. The deer are
all of the American (Virginia deer) type, mostly small with simple
antlers. One, the pudu of Ecuador, is no larger than a big hare
and has spikelike antlers. The spectacled bear ranges in the Andes
from Colombia to northwestern Argentina. It is more closely related
to the Malayan bear than to any of those now living in North
America. Mustelids (weasels, otters, skunks, and others) are num-
erous. In addition to many insectivorous and fruit-eating types
the bats include the blood-feeding vampires and the fish-catching
bats, largest of American bats, with an expanse of 26 inches or more.
The fish-eating bats have the toes and claws on the hind feet greatly
compressed laterally so as to minimize the resistance of the water
when scooping up small fishes.

Especially characteristic of South America are the extraordinarily
numerous and diversified rodents, including many types not found
elsewhere. Worthy of special mention are the prehensile-tailed
porcupines, cavies (guinea pigs), chinchillas, coypus, pacas, agoutis,
the subterranean tucutucus, squirrels, the capybara, largest of living
rodents, about 4 feet long weighing more than 100 pounds, and
others. Of aquatic mammals the most interesting are the manatees
of the large rivers (also in Africa) and the river dolphins of the
upper Amazon and the estuary of the La Plata (other species occur
in China and India).

Unusually numerous and varied are the birds, of about 2,500 species,
including, besides representatives of families of wide distribution,
about 30 families confined to America, mostly to the Tropics. Among
these are the hummingbirds, toucans, jacamars, woodhewers, cotingas,
manikins, plant-cutters, tanagers, screamers, New World vultures,
including the king vulture and the great Andean condor, curassows
and guans, hoatzins, trumpeters, cariamas, oilbirds, motmots, rheas,
and tinamous. The tinamous are related to the rheas but are very
much smaller and have fully developed wings. Besides these there
are many interesting species in other groups, such as the macaws and
many brightly colored parrots, the powerful harpy eagle, the black-
necked swan, the Muscovy duck, and the flightless steamer duck.

Among the reptiles there are five caimans and three crocodiles.
Most of these are small, but one caiman reaches 20 feet in length and
one crocodile 25 feet. ‘Turtles are represented by snake-necked turtles
(elsewhere only in Australia) of which the most noteworthy is the
curious matamata; the family Pelomedusidae (elsewhere only in
Africa) including the economically important river turtle (Pod-
FAUNA OF AMERICA—CLARK 301

ocnemis), two land tortoises, a snapping turtle in the northwest,
and a few others. There are no soft-shelled turtles. Lizards are
numerous and varied, most of them belonging to the family Iguanidae,
wholly American except for one iguana in Fiji and two in Madagascar.
One of the iguanas, living on the Galapagos Islands, spends most of
the time on land but feeds in the sea on seaweeds. Snakes are numer-
ous and diversified, about as many as in the Indian region though less
varied. Largest are the anacondas, some of which reach nearly or
quite 40 feet in length, and the smaller boas. The poisonous snakes
are the pit vipers, including the rattlesnakes and the dreaded bush-
master, up to 10 feet long, and the brilliant coral snakes related to the
Old World cobras. Burrowing snakes are also found.

The frogs outnumber those of any other region; their affinities are
mainly African. Like the birds they include many bizarre types
such as the horned frogs (Ceratophrys), the Surinam toad (Pipa)
which raises its young in the skin of its back, and many brightly
colored tree frogs, some of which are poisonous, with curious repro-
ductive habits. Salamanders occur only in the northwest. Snake-
like burrowing coecilians are found, chiefly in Ecuador. Toads are
common. One, the giant toad (Bufo marinus), reaches 5 pounds in
weight. I have seen this toad, which looks somewhat like a large
stone, snap up young chickens as smaller toads do insects.

As far as fishes are concerned, no two regions could be more un-
like than South and North America. In number of species the South
American fish fauna is the richest in the world although less than
a quarter of the fresh-water groups are represented. 'The aflinities
are predominantly with Africa. As in Ipdia there is a specialized al-
pine fish fauna. The extreme south agrees with New Zealand and
Tasmania. Among the endemic South American types are the Gym-
notidae, including the dreaded electric eel up to 6 feet long, the most
powerful of electric fishes. The only other electric fish in fresh water
is a catfish in Africa. The lungfish of the swamps (Lepidosiren) is
related to others in Africa, and more remotely to two in Australia.
There are two osteoglossids, one of which, the arapaima, is said to
reach 15 feet in length with a weight of 400 pounds. This is the
largest fresh-water fish in America and, with the possible exception
of the European catfish and a Chinese fish (Psephurus), the largest
in the world. It is unusual among fishes in being a vegetarian.

The characinids, otherwise African, are numerous and diversified.
Among these are the ferocious piranhas or cannibal fishes (Serra-
salmo), perhaps the most dangerous of all fishes. Catfishes are abun-
dant and varied, and many are heavily armored. The largest reach
9 feet in length. Some very small species, scarcely an inch long, live
as parasites in the gill chambers of larger ones. One urinophilous
302 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

species sometimes causes trouble by crawling into the urethra of
bathers. The curious four-eyed fishes have the eyes divided into an
upper and a lower half for simultaneous vision in the air and under
water. There are two small fresh-water flyingfishes, not related to the
marine flyingfishes, and in the rivers formidable sting rays.

The insects and other invertebrates are as diversified as the verte-
brates. Rather more than a third of all known butterflies, including
many endemic groups, are tropical American. Among these an
extraordinarily large number are vividly colored, the most spectacular
being the great metallic blue morphos; but the largest morphos are
dull in color. Then there are the huge owl butterflies (Caligo) and
the noisy whip-crackers (Hamadryas or Ageronia). In the southern
Andes there is a satyrid or wood nymph almost wholly metallic silver
on both surfaces, and a skipper brilliant gold on the under side.
Among other invertebrates the giant bird-catching spider 8 inches
across should be mentioned, together with the giant wasps (Peps?s)
that feed on it and its relatives. The curious onychophores are
especially numerous in Central and South America. Those in the
Tropics belong to a group elsewhere represented only in tropical
Africa, while those in southern South America are related to others in
New Zealand and Australia.

There are many other interesting features connected with the fauna
of the Americas—its origin, diversification at different periods in the
past and in response to present conditions, and the fundamental
changes that have come about since the settlement by Europeans, and
are continuing today with increasing speed. This brief survey, how-
ever, will suffice to bring out the similarities to, and contrasts with,
the corresponding faunas of Eurasia and Africa.
The Mechanics of Snakes’

By ALFRED LEUTSCHER

British Museum (Natural History)

[With 3 plates]

A rrRIENp of mine once tried to get through the customs a snake he
was bringing back with him from the Continent. Four-footed ani-
mals, such as the rabbit and squirrel which he also had with his bag-
gage, were passed by the customs officer without comment. But no
matter how my friend attempted to trace the ancestry of his reptile
pet in terms of lost legs, it had none just then, so that was that.

That serpents are of quadruped descent is not an easy matter to
prove. Their lack of legs was formerly suflicient, even among scientific
circles, to link them with other limbless creatures, such as those amphib-
ians with scales in their skins, called coecilians, and certain limbless
lizards like our native slowworm. There is even no tangible evidence
to show that they ever possessed functional limbs.

Snakes have been claimed from Cretaceous rocks, but such occur-
rence is doubtful. Later fossils from the lower Eocene in America
approach the lizard type in bone structure. Viperlike snakes are
known from the Miocene of France and Germany. More recent snakes
from Egypt are boalike and appear to have been monsters, probably
growing to 60 feet in length. All the above were snakes—that is,
without functional limbs.

There is no “story of the horse” flavor to show for a snake’s evolu-
tion, which is understandable since the skeletons of these creatures are
too delicate and brittle to fossilize well, and the full story of how the
snakes evolved may remain forever a secret.

Circumstantial evidence and comparative anatomy of snakes, how-
ever, indicate that they are undoubted reptiles which, as a class, are
derived from land quadrupeds. A faint clue to the origin of snakes
may be seen in the skeleton of the largest living species, which are of the
more primitive kind. One familiar member of this family (the Boi-
dae), the python, retains a curious relic of the past in the shape of cer-
tain bones lying near the base of the tail. They consist of what are

1 Reprinted by permission from Discovery, December 1950.

303
304 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

thought to be traces of a pelvis and hind limbs. Attached to each fe-
mur there is on the surface of the body a conical, clawlike spur. ‘These
spurs are larger in the male python and no longer function as limbs
but serve as excitor organs when scraped against the female during the
act of mating. Wesee a somewhat similar parallel in the vestigial hind
limbs of certain whales, undoubted mammals which live entirely in
water and whose quadruped ancestors are as much a mystery as those
of snakes.

Serpents superficially resemble worms, for which they may be mis-
taken, but a true worm has no bony jaws, tongue, or well-developed
eyes and is classed with the animals that have no backbone. The
wormlike snakes vary greatly in length, from a 4-inch species like
Glauconia dissimilis to a 30-foot giant like the Malay python (Python
reticulatus). 'Their body may be long and slender, or short and fat,
according to the species.

The backbone of a snake is composed of numerous vertebrae which
are of two kinds—those of the body, which carry each a pair of ribs,
and those of the short tail, which have instead long transverse proc-
esses. The vertebrae are connected by “ball-and-socket” joints which
allow for great flexibility. At the same time, because of certain pro-
jections on each vertebra that lock with the adjacent ones in a kind
of dovetailed joint, a snake’s body possesses a rigidity that is re-
markable for such a delicate mechanism. The slightest blow will
fracture or dislocate a snake’s backbone, yet the animal can twist and
rear into positions impossible in other vertebrates. Many a pet snake
owes its escape from captivity to the strength and suppleness of its
backbone.

The dovetailed jointing to some extent limits the body movements
in the vertical plane but does not interfere with the extensive lateral
play typical of a snake in movement. Illustrations by early natural-
ists and modern cartoonists often depict the progress of snakes and
“sea serpents” in vertical undulations. Such movement is entirely
foreign to snakes and to reptiles in general; it is, in fact, quite impos-
sible, because of the way the backbone is constructed.

The numerous curved ribs which are joined in pairs to the trunk
vertebrae are capable of certain movements. Lateral movement is
seen under certain circumstances, as when the snake is flattening the
body in the sunning attitude or when allowing passage of a meal, which
can be detected as a bulge along the body. No breastbone exists in
snakes to hamper their movements. The movement of the ribs back-
ward and forward was at one time thought to play an important part
in locomotion, but this has recently been questioned. Locomotion is
now thought to operate under muscle action which is visible to the
eye in the movement of the body surface, especially on the lower side.
MECHANICS OF SNAKES—LEUTSCHER 305

In climbing or creeping at a slow pace some snakes are capable of
moving forward in a perfectly straight line. A wave action on the
lower sides of the body, which moves forward in a series of steps, is
caused by successive contractions and relaxations of the muscles
underneath. Attached to the ribs, these muscles operate on the lower
body surface, which in most snakes is covered by a series of broad,
transverse scales, known as shields. ‘These shields correspond in num-
ber to the vertebrae and overlap like roofing slates along their hind
edges. The free borders of the shields grip onto any rough surface or
irregularity over which the snake happens to be passing, and this action
is most apparent along those parts of the body that are in contact with
the ground, rock, or branch. This rectilinear movement has been
compared with that of an earthworm and has often been described as
“a snake walking on its ribs.” Actually, one gets a better analogy
when one visualizes the rowing of a boat. The oar blade which grips
the water corresponds to the ventral shield, the oar is the lever of rib
and muscle, and the ground is the fulerum. Such movement is in
common use in ground snakes, such as our native adder, and arboreal
snakes such as the Aesculapian snake (laphe longissima) of south
Europe (pl. 1, fig.1). This latter, like many of its relatives, has over-
lapping belly shields which bend at a sharp angle along their shorter
sides. This forms a sharp keel which gives an extra grip on the
smallest irregularities on bark or rock over which it climbs.

The feats of climbing displayed by a pet Aesculapian snake in my
collection reveal the high degree of specialization achieved by snakes.
This specimen will climb over the furniture or crawl along the picture
rail in my study, never missing its hold or making a false move. It
can cling by its tail or any part of the body to the buttons of one’s
waistcoat, or hang from a projecting pen fixed into a pocket. When
seeking a new perch it will stretch out its slender body in a horizontal
plane to a third of its length, unsupported in the air, as it reaches over
a gap to secure a fresh hold. The rest of the body, and in particular
the prehensile tail, meanwhile retains a secure grip which it refuses
to relax until the next foothold is secured. If I attempt to pull it free
the grip is tightened. If I stand nearby it may attempt to bridge the
gap in order to reach an arm or shoulder. Should I move slightly it
draws back, remaining on its former perch. This is strongly reminis-
cent of an experienced mountaineer who always makes sure of his
next step before he releases a previous foothold.

Along a tightened rope this snake will hang its body in loops over
each side, edging itself along slowly in a remarkable display of coordi-
nated muscle action in order to maintain its balance. Its “star turn”
is the grip it can maintain when hanging onto an electric-light switch
set into a wall. Here, on the only projection, less than half an inch,
306 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

on a flat, vertical surface of many square feet, it will remain for over
an hour, never relaxing its grip.

A similar grip is used by this pet snake in constricting prey, a habit
best known among boas and pythons. (It is indeed possible for a large
boa or python to constrict and even kill a man, but there is no cause
for alarm when a tamed python is coiled around one’s neck or arm and
commences to exert pressure; it is merely securing a firmer hold in
order to prevent a fall.)

Rectilinear movement takes place at leisurely speed. At moderate
or high speed a snake displays the typical serpentine movement, as it
is called, wherein the body undulates in lateral curves and can thereby
brace itself against projecting obstacles in its path. Without such
projections a snake cannot proceed, as may be shown by placing it on
a highly polished surface.

Where the flow of curves is restricted, as in a narrow tunnel, a
snake may resort to yet a third locomotion called the concertina move-
ment. At intervals along its body are stationary curves that press
firmly against the sides of the tunnel acting as anchors toward which
and away from which the parts in between can be moved. In this way

B Siena « Pareseats © 6

Ficure 1.—Stages, from top to bottom, of concertina movement in a snake moving along
a tunnel. A, Body at rest where it touches the tunnel walls. B, Body in front moy-
ing forward. C, Body behind being drawn up.

it progresses in steps along the tunnel (fig. 1). Frequently a mixture
of both this and rectilineal movement takes place in which the belly
shields at the stationary points along the body grip the underlying
surface.

In some snakes, especially certain vipers and rattlesnakes, a curious
sideways progression occurs. One North American rattlesnake
(Crotalus cerastes), in fact, is named after this peculiarity. It is
called the sidewinder. When side winding a snake proceeds in a direc-
MECHANICS OF SNAKES—LEUTSCHER 307

tion that is at an angle to that in which it is facing. The body does
not follow the course of the head but, as it were, tacks away from a
base line.

In burrowing snakes, of which 7'yphlops is a typical example, there
are no broad belly shields, and the body is uniformly covered with
polished and closely united scales of more or less equal size. This is
also found in the slowworm, a legless lizard that is fond of burrow-
ing. There is no risk of earth particles becoming caught up in the
skin, and the scales play no part in locomotion. Instead, the body
twists and turns in all directions, pushing its curves against resisting
bodies, such as stones, plants, and the walls of burrows to propel itself
forward. In some burrowing snakes (e. g., Vropeltis) the short tail
ends abruptly in a broadened oblique surface, which is covered with
large scales, and this operates somewhat like a digging implement.

The highly poisonous sea snakes, which constitute the subfamily
Hydrophiinae (these are the only “sea serpents” at present recognized
by science), are entirely divorced from the land, being viviparous
and adapted for swimming. They have strongly compressed bodies
and oarlike tails which present a broad surface to the water as they
progress with lateral undulations. This compares with the move-
ment of fishes and is thought to be a relic of their fish ancestry.
Even a land snake, such as the grass snake, will swim in this manner
over a pond—and for that matter “swim” through the grass.

Yet another remarkable feat of some serpents is to be seen in the
action of a “flying” snake. This is much more in the nature of a
glide but is nonetheless extraordinary. The ventral surface can be
pulled in to form a deep concavity, accompanied by a slight flattening
of the body, the kind of flattening one would find if the body were
squashed by a pressure applied above and below. The hollow under
surface gives the snake the necessary buoyancy in the air for its
parachutelike descent into a lower branch, in a glide of some
considerable distance.

In general, snakes that are well able to take care of themselves,
such as the poisonous kinds and the large constrictors, are by nature
sluggish, and many have squat clumsy bodies. They may even possess
peculiar mechanical devices that are used to warn away enemies.
There is, for instance the “hood” of certain cobras produced by the
flattening of the ribs behind the head when the animal is annoyed.
Then there is the warning “rattle” of the American pit viper, or
rattlesnake; the rattle is composed of a series of rounded, horny
sheaths at the end of the tail which is added to with each successive
molt of the skin, and vibrates at high speeds to produce a whirring
sound intimidating to its enemies.
308 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

Defenseless snakes, burrowers and tree-climbers, on the other hand,
are usually slender and built for speed. The record is probably held
by the American black racer (Coluber constrictor), which is said to
attain the speed of a running man.

The fastest of all snake movements, however, may be claimed by
the vipers. Otherwise sluggish, and apt to stand their ground when
attacked, they strike at lightning speed. When time permits, the
rattlesnake or viper will coil the forequarters into the shape of a
watch spring with the head in the center. This can then be shot
forward for about a third, even a half, the length of the body to
produce one of the fastest movements in the reptile world. Only a
few animals, such as the mongoose and some birds, are able to avoid
it, and even these are not always quick enough to avoid the strike
(pl. 1, fig. 2).

This brings us to another part of the snake’s unique machinery,
the jaws. In birds and mammals, man included, there is only one
articulation of the skull bones, the point at which the lower jaw
hinges onto the cranium. In a snake’s skull the bones of the jaws
function as prehensile organs and do not masticate the food. They
are attached to one another and to the cranium by elastic igamentous
tissue, which permits much distortion and wide expansion of the
mouth. This, together with the expansion of ribs and body wall,
allows for the passage of a prey that far exceeds in cross section the
size of the head.

The focal point of the jaw action is at the point where, at the
back of the skull, the two bones called the quadrate and pterygoid
meet the lower jaw (see pl. 2). As the quadrate bone is levered for-
ward by muscle action a thrust is transmitted to both the upper
and lower series of jawbones which possess teeth. These slide over
the meal, hooking on farther forward as the prey is worked down
the gullet. The most noticeable movement is in the lower jaw, the
two halves of which can separate widely at the tips, where normally
they are held in place by elastic ligament. This allows for enormous
expansion of a mouth with normally wide gape that extends to well
beyond the eyes.

Each half of the jaw has independent movement and is pushed
forward alternately to its neighbor in a chewing action as the owner
literally pulls itself over its prey. A copious flow of saliva in the
mouth helps to lubricate the passage of the prey along the gullet.
It is a slow and laborious process, painful to watch. Once the prey
is past the teeth, swallowing is speeded up as the muscles in the body
wall take over, and the meal travels as a visible bulge into the stom-
ach. Prey of large size is usually swallowed head first. By the
mechanized means described above, which is peculiar to snakes, a
MECHANICS OF SNAKES—LEUTSCHER 309

python can swallow a fair-sized deer and a grass snake can engulf
a frog that is twice the diameter of its own head (pl. 3).

The egg-eating snake (Dasypeltis) is capable of tackling a hen’s
egg, which is eaten whole. Certain of its vertebrae have enameled
tips projecting into the gullet. These crush the egg in its passage
toward the stomach. ‘The contents are swallowed and the eggshell
regurgitated as a pellet.

A typical snake’s tooth in its layer of enamel is recurved and
sharply pointed. It is used only for gripping food. Having no
socket, an ordinary tooth is easily broken off but soon replaced; re-
serve teeth grow from the gums lining the inner side of the jaw and
move into position after each accident.

In some serpents certain teeth are modified into poison fangs.
These are larger than the normal teeth but retain the general pat-
tern of prehensile teeth. They are used, however, for injecting the
poison, which is produced in one or other of the modified salivary
glands. As with normal teeth they easily break off, and one method
of defanging a snake is to allow it to strike at a cloth, which is then
jerked away from the closed mouth. But. again, a reserve tooth can
grow into position and replace a fang that has been lost.

In the venomous snakes of the large family Colubridae, in which
the long maxillary bone is fixed, the fangs may lie at the rear end
of this; hence the name of their division, the Opisthoglypha. The
fangs are usually too far back in the mouth and the poison too weak
to make these snakes a real danger to man. The Montpellier snake
(Malpolon monspessulanus) is of this kind. A specimen that once
bit me on the bare arm caused no further discomfort than the pain
of the lacerated skin. On the other hand, one of similar length,
about 2 feet, bit and killed a grass snake in my reptiliary.

It is among their cousins, the division Proteroglypha, or front-
fanged snakes, that we meet the killers. Such are the cobras, kraits,
and mambas. Many of them bite with a bull-dog tenacity; they tend
to hang on and force their fangs into the flesh with a chewing action.
The result is often a severe laceration, and this may be accompanied
by much loss of poison as it leaks out of the wound. Both groups,
front-fanged or back-fanged, have permanently erect fangs in the
fixed maxillary bones.

The whole operation is in many cases a clumsy affair and not
always as swift as one imagines. A rearing cobra may look a fear-
some sight, yet some people will approach and tease it with impunity.

Far more efficient and less wasteful is the poison mechanism of the
family Viperidae, which include the Old World vipers and the New
World rattlesnakes. Here the maxillary bones are short and so placed
that they can rotate on their front axes where they join the prefrontal
310 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

PREFRONTAL SQUAMOSAL

QUADRATE

MAXILLA

RESERVE
FANG

OPERATIVE
FANG

LOWER JAW

Ficure 2.—Skull of rattlesnake, showing the mechanism of the jaw bones in operating the
poison fangs.

bones of the cranium (see fig.2). At rest the maxillaries are so placed
that the fangs, which are firmly fixed to them, point backward and lie
along the roof of the mouth. Protected in this way when not in use,
they may grow to considerable length, sometimes not far short of 3
inches, as in the Gabun viper of Africa.

With the mouth open the viper or rattlesnake brings into operation
a set of muscles that puts the highly mobile jawbones through a series
of lever actions, in such a way that the short maxillary bones are ro-
tated through an angle of about 90°. This brings the fangs into posi-
tion for the lightning thrust that follows (fig. 4). .

The erection of a viper’s fangs is an independent action, not neces-
sarily used only during striking. I have watched an adder yawn to
ease its facial muscles, slowly raising each fang in turn, where no

POISON
DUCT

Ficure 3.—Sketch of partly dissected head of rattlesnake, showing the poison apparatus.
(After Boulenger.)
Smithsonian Report, 1951.—Leutscher PLATE 1

1. The Aesculapian snake, named after Aesculapius, the Greek god of healing. A tree-
climbing constrictor, it is at rest along a branch. ‘This specimen is 3 feet long, but the
species can attain a length of 6 feet. The keels at the edges of the ventral shields are

clearly shown. (Photograph by Lionel Day, F. R. P. S.)

2. Northern viper or adder in a defensive attitude preparatory to striking at an object
waved above its head. (Photograph by Lionel Day, F. R. P. S.)
Smithsonian Report, 1951.—Leutscher PLATE 2

fa | RANSPALATINE
SQUAMOSAL

PTERYGOID
BONE QUADRATE

*,

TRANSPALATINE

PTERYGOID
BONE

QUADRATE SQUAMOSAL

Side (upper) and under view of skull of an anaconda. (Photographs by Lionel Day,

F.R.P.S.)

Smithsonian Report, 1951.—Leutscher PLATE 3

A toad in process of being swallowed by a green grass snake (otherwise known as the green
keelback, Macropisthodon plumbicolor). The snake alternately advances the right and
left sides of its upper jaw, obtains a purchase with its teeth and draws the toad into itself,
or, rather, slips itself over the toad. The swallowing occupies about an hour, and di
gestion has probably begun on the head before the hind legs disappear. (Photographs by

ONC; Edwards; A; R.. P2s:)

MECHANICS OF SNAKES—LEUTSCHER 311

attempt was made to strike. It once took and swallowed a lizard alive,
in which act the fangs remained in the resting position.

The groove along the front edge of the fang, as seen in cobras, is
completed into an internal canal in the Viperidae. In such a canalized
tooth there is an inner opening which appears as a slit at the base of
the fang on the posterior side. This communicates with a duct lead-
ing to the poison sac, which in the viper is a modified salivary gland
lying in the roof of the mouth just below the eye. The outer opening

SQUAMOSAL

w@
Dera

PTERYGOID

FANG

ATTACHED TO MAXILLA

Ficure 4.—Erection of fang caused ,by rotation of the maxilla and the chain of bones
connected to it.

of the fang is set just behind the tip, whose needle sharpness is thereby
not impaired. Venom is stored in the spaces within the sac, upon
which pressure is brought to bear by the flexion of the facial muscles.
These are in close relation with the venom sac, which is squeezed by
the muscles in a kind of wringing action. Venom passes via the duct
that lies over the maxillary bone, into the hollow fang which is pro-
tected by a thick, mucous sheath, and so into the wound. Not a single
drop need be wasted (fig. 3).

In some eases poison is actually thrown from the fang some distance
from its target. In some of the “spitting cobras” the poison may be

981445—52——_21

312 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

ejected with considerable accuracy to a distance of up to 8 feet.
Whether the aim is deliberate is not fully understood. Boulenger
makes the suggestion that the poison is mixed with the snake’s normal
saliva and squirted through an opening in the membranes lining the
mouth which act as lips. If so, then this action would entitle this
cobra to its popular name.

A snake’s fang is a mechanical masterpiece and nature’s parallel to
the hypodermic needle. Like the surgical instrument it is only used
when necessary, for most snakes strike only as a means of defense or
to kill prey. Hair-raising stories of vicious serpents that pursue and
leap at their victims, in other words make a deliberate onslaught, are
usually figments of the imagination. Deliberate attack as opposed
to defense is a rare thing.

The above remarks will make it appear that the life of the lowly
serpent is a matter for compensation, for “what it loses on the round-
abouts it gains on the swings.” It cannot masticate its food, so it
swallows it whole; in this it can put a healthy human appetite to
shame, yet it can, if forced to, starve for over a year. Limbs as such
are missing, so it “walks” on its ribs, swims and grips with its tail, and
climbs on its scales. The outer skin does not grow, so from time to
time is peeled off neatly, even to the scales over the eyes. ‘Taste is poor,
but this is compensated for by a strong sense of smell, in which the
harmless tongue assists by catching the smell particles from the air.
In hearing it is proverbially deaf, but may receive ample warning of
danger from vibrations through solid objects, which reach its sensitive
skin more swiftly than sound can travel through air. Prey it can
tackle and kill with a choice of two methods, poisoning or constriction,
or it can merely swallow it alive.

The customs official, indeed many of us, may well puzzle over this
“limbless quadruped” of the herpetologist, but would no doubt agree
with all the fame and notoriety that it enjoys. It holds a position
unique among animals in being able to attract yet at the same time
repel the observer. Symbol of healing or of evil, feared in one place
and worshiped in another, it is steeped in legend and folklore.

Enemy of man and persecuted unmercifully, the serpent may yet
hold its own in a hostile world for many years to come, owing its
survival to the unique machinery of its skeleton with which, as Sir
Richard Owen once said, “it can out-climb the monkey, out-swim the
fish, out-leap the jerboa, and out-wrestle the athlete.”
Hormones and the Metamorphosis

of Insects’

By V. B. WiccLeswortH

Department of Zoology, University of Cambridge, England

[With 4 plates]

“Those strange and mystical transmigrations that I
have observed in Silk-worms,’ wrote Sir Thomas
Browne, “turned my Philosophy into Divinity. There
is in these works of nature, which seem to puzzle
reason, something Divine, and hath more in it than the
eye of a common spectator doth discover.” Who,
indeed, he says, can fail to wonder “at the operation
of two Souls in those little Bodies?”

THE contemplation of the metamorphosis of insects has always
evoked feelings of mystery. When regarded more closely through
the eyes of the anatomist and the experimental biologist, the super-
ficial mystery is dispelled—to be replaced by deeper mysteries.

Even in that extreme example, metamorphosis in the Lepidoptera,
where the caterpillar is transformed into the chrysalis and the butter-
fly, the rudiments of the organs of the adult or imago—the wings and
legs and so forth—are already present in the young larva as clusters
of undifferentiated cells, the so-called imaginal disks. Throughout
the larval life of these insects (the “endopterygote” insects) the wing
germs grow inward and do not become apparent until they are everted
at pupation.

The fact remains, however, that the strictly adult structures play
no functional part in larval life. Whereas the form of the caterpillar
becomes fully differentiated before it hatches from the egg, the adult
insect persists in an embryonic state until the growth of the caterpillar
is complete and metamorphosis takes place. Indeed, the caterpillar
is not a walking embryo, as some authors have contended, but a fully
differentiated organism which contains within it, in an embryonic
state, the adult butterfly. Metamorphosis consists in the dissolution of

1 Reprinted by permission from Endeavour, vol. 10, No. 37, January 1951.

313
314 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

the organism of the caterpillar and the simultaneous differentiation
and realization of the latent organism of the butterfly which super-
sedes it.

In the development of animals, the stage of visible differentiation
of the parts is preceded by a stage of “determination,” at which,
although all parts outwardly look alike, each is in fact already com-
mitted or determined to form some particular component of the
organism that is to be produced. Development is then said to have
reached the mosaic stage. Determination of the main parts of the
insect body occurs very early in the development of the egg. In some
insects, the fruit fly Drosophila (4)* for example, the mosaic state is
already attained in the germ plasma on the surface of the egg at the
time of laying; that is, before the single nucleus of the egg has even
started to divide. In other insects this may not happen until after
the germ band has formed. If, when the mosaic state is reached,
a part of the determined area is destroyed by burning or by irradiation
with ultraviolet light, the corresponding part of the insect will be
lacking when visible differentiation and development are complete.

The interesting fact about these insects is that, even at this early
stage of development, the larval organism and the adult organisin
are distinct. Elimination of restricted areas of the newly laid egg
of Drosophila results in corresponding deficiencies in the resulting
larva—but the adult fly, when it appears, is perfectly normal. At
this stage the egg is a mosaic in respect of larval characters, but is
still undetermined in respect of the adult characters. But within 7
hours after laying, imaginal determination has taken place; the egg
is now a mosaic in respect of adult characters also, and injuries to
restricted areas at this time become apparent in the adult fly. Indeed,
if they affect organs, such as legs or wings, that are not present in the
larva, the results of these injuries are not visible at all until after
metamorphosis. The same thing is seen in the clothes moth 7’ineola
(5) ; by irradiation at the appropriate moment it is sometimes possible
to obtain a clothes moth with normal limbs developing from a larva in
which one or more legs were completely absent.

Thus, metamorphosis consists in the realization of all those adult or
imaginal characters that remain latent throughout larval life; the
physiological study of metamorphosis consists in the analysis of the
factors by which the manifestation of these imaginal characters is
controlled.

Many diverse hypotheses have been put forward in the past; but
in recent years evidence has accumulated that control is exercised
by means of hormones. For the purpose of experiment it proved
convenient, in the first instance, to use a hemimetabolic insect; that

2 Numbers in parentheses indicate references at end of article.
HORMONES AND INSECTS—WIGGLESWORTH 315

is, an insect which does not show the extreme degree of transforma-
tion from caterpillar to butterfly, but one in which the young stages
are not very unlike the adult, and in which metamorphosis consists
in the development of wings and genital organs and other structural
changes, accomplished without the necessity for an intermediate pupal
stage.

The blood-sucking South American bug Rhodnius, a creature
about 2 centimeters in length when fully grown, has proved a most
useful experimental animal (8, 9, 10,11). All insects grow by under-
going a series of molts, during which the epidermis detaches itself
from the old cuticle, lays down a new and larger cuticle, and then
casts off the old. Like the small bedbug Cimex, Rhodnius molts five
times; in each of its molting stages it requires only one gigantic meal
of blood. It is at the fifth molt that it undergoes metamorphosis
and becomes adult (pl. 1, figs. 1-3).

Molting in Rhodnius is preceded by growth, reorganization, and
the deposition of the cuticle for the next stage. This whole elaborate
process is set in motion by a secretion from certain large modified
nerve cells (neurosecretory cells) situated in the dorsal surface of
the brain. If the bug is decapitated within one day after its great
meal of blood, it fails to molt—although such headless bugs have
remained alive for more than a year (pl. 1, fig. 4). If, however, the
region of the brain containing the secretory cells is transplanted into
the abdomen of one of these decapitated insects it will duly molt; and
surprisingly enough, even if it is a young insect at an early stage of
development, it will undergo metamorphosis and develop into a
diminutive adult. We shall come back to this matter later.

Thus the brain appears to secrete a molting hormone. In Rhodnius
this was believed supposed to act directly upon the growing organs,
but in the caterpillars and chrysalids of moths the process is more com-
plicated. The pupal brain of the silkmoth (14) contains two groups
of cells, apparently producing two different secretions, both of which
must be present if molting is to occur. These secretions do not act
directly upon the tissues but upon another secretory organ, the pro-
thoracic gland, which in turn produces the secretion that is neces-
sary for growth and molting. A similar gland activated by the secre-
tion from the brain has recently been found in Rhodnius (13). The
nature of these substances is not known. There are demonstrable
changes in the blood of insects at the time of molting and pupation,
e. g., increases in the amounts of cytochrome oxidase and cythochrome
C in the pupae of the large silkmoths (14), and the activation of
tyrosinase in the blood of pupating larve of blowflies (2). Whether
any of these substances is to be identified with the hormone itself, or
whether they are merely to be counted among the consequences of
its activity, remains to be decided.
316 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

The implantation of the cells of the brain, which produce the molt-
ing hormone, into the abdomen of the decapitated Rhodnius, results,
as we have seen, in the occurrence of metamorphosis—even in the
young insect whose growth is far from complete. This result sug-
gests that the head produces a second factor which normally prevents
metamorphosis in the young stages. That such a factor exists has
been proved. It has been termed the juvenile hormone, and it is
secreted by a special gland of internal secretion named the corpus
allatum. The corpus allatum lies just behind the brain; it shows
some remarkable resemblances to the glandular part of the pituitary
gland in mammals.

Rhodnius, as we have seen, has five larval stages before it becomes
adult. If the corpus allatum is removed from one of the young
stages and implanted into the abdomen of a fifth-stage larva, when
this molts it turns into a giant or sixth-stage larva instead of under-
going metamorphosis to an adult (pl. 2, fig. 3). Even a seventh-
stage larva has been produced in this way, and some of the sixth-
stage larvae have transformed successfully into giant adults (pl. 2,
fig. 1, and cf. pl. 2, fig. 2).

Conversely, removal of the head of a young Rhodnius when molt-
ing is just beginning causes the body to undergo a precocious meta-
morphosis. It has not been possible to remove the corpus allatum
in the living Rhodnius without undue injury to the head and brain.
This has, however, proved possible in other insects, and the results
obtained in Rhodnius have been amply confirmed. Stick insects,
Diwxippus (6), treated in this way begin to lay eggs while still quite
small. Cockroaches (7) become prematurely adult. Silkworms
(1, 8) turn into tiny pupae which will give rise to tiny moths (pl. 3,
figs. 1-3).

The juvenile hormone is secreted throughout the first four larval
stages of Rhodnius. During the fifth stage it is no longer secreted ;
the corpus allatum of the fifth stage implanted into the abdomen of
another fifth stage does not prevent metamorphosis. In the adult in-
sect, however, this hormone is once more produced. Here it is neces-
sary for the ripening of the eggs. If the adult female is decapitated
after feeding, no eggs are developed; they are developed normally if
the corpus allatum is implanted in the abdomen. Ifthe corpus allatum
of the mature adult is transferred to the abdomen of the fifth-stage
larva, metamorphosis is prevented and a sixth stage is produced.

It is evident that these hormones serve only to control the manifesta-
tion of characters that are latent within the cells. It is therefore not
surprising to find that they are not limited in their action to the insect
species from which they have been derived. The blood of a molting
Rhodnius will induce molting in a decapitated larva of the related
HORMONES AND INSECTS—WIGGLESWORTH 317

genus 7'riatoma (pl. 4, fig. 1, and cf. pl. 2, fig. 4), or even in the bedbug
Cimex. The fifth-stage larva of the bedbug can be prevented from
becoming adult if it is transfused with the blood from a young larva of
Rhodnius containing the juvenile hormone.

Normal development of an insect, with the restraint of metamor-
phosis until growth is complete, and then, at the appropriate moment,
the activation of imaginal differentiation, clearly demands a very nice
timing of events. Thé hormones must be released at the correct time
and in the correct amounts. If these conditions are not satisfied, as
may happen, for example, in some experiments when a corpus allatum
from a young Rhodnius is transplanted into a fifth-stage larva, and the
amount of juvenile hormone present is too small or is produced too late,
metamorphosis is incomplete, and creatures intermediate between lar-
vae and adults are produced (pl. 4, figs. 2,3). Errors of this kind
are not uncommon in nature. Caterpillars with wing lobes and an-
tennae like half-formed pupae may occur; or pupae may have parts
of the body resembling larvae. Such abnormalities are most liable to
appear in hybrids resulting from the crossing of different species.
There can be little doubt that they result from errors in the timing or
the concentration of hormone secretions.

It would seem that the cells of the young insect contain two systems,
one capable of producing the adult insect, the other producing the lar-
val insect. In the presence of the molting hormone alone, the adult
system is activated and metamorphosis occurs. In the presence of both
molting hormone and juvenile hormone, the larval system is activated
and metamorphosis is suppressed. Or perhaps we have to do with a
single system whose activities are modified in alternative directions
depending on the presence or absence of the juvenile hormone. In the
last analysis, the nature of the constituent elements, and the mode of
interaction between the hormones and the potential organism latent in
the tissue cells, are biochemical problems. For the moment we can de-
fine them only in biological terms.

Once the insect has reached the adult state it does not molt again,
save in the most primitive forms. The adult Rhodnius can be induced
to do so if it is joined to a young molting insect so that the blood flows
from one to the other. If atthe same time it is provided with a supply
of juvenile hormone by the implantation of corpora allata, it develops
on its abdomen a type of cuticle which shows unmistakable larval
characters. There has been a partial reversal of metamorphosis, a
partial recovery of youth.

The future of this subject, which is being actively studied in institu-
tions in many parts of the world, clearly lies with the chemist. It
should not prove an insuperable task to discover the nature of the
growth-controlling hormones of insects, and to define the conditions
318 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

of their action. To discover the nature of the substrate upon which
they act, the integrated germ of the organism carried by the living
cells (12), is a problem that touches upon the nature of life itself, and
may well tax the ingenuity of the biochemist for some time to come.

REFERENCES

. Bounuror, J. J. Biol. Bull., Suppl., vol. 24, p. 1, 1938.
. DENNELL, R. Proc. Roy. Soc., ser. B, vol. 136, p. 94, 1949.
Fuxkupa, 8. Journ. Fac. Sci. Tokyo Imp. Univ., 4, vol. 6, p. 477, 1944.
Griay, R. Rey. Suisse Zool., vol. 48, p. 483, 1941.
LuEscHER, M. Rev. Suisse Zool., vol. 51, p. 531, 1944.
PFLUGFELDER, O. Zeitschr. Wiss. Zool., vol. 149, p. 477, 1937.
. ScHARRER, B. Endochrinology, vol. 38, p. 35, 1946.
WiaccLesworrH, V. B. Quart. Journ. Mier. Sci., vol. 77, p. 191, 1934.
. WIGGLESWorTH, V. B. Ibid., vol. 79, p. 91, 1936.
10. WiccLEsworTH, V. B. Journ. Exp. Biol., vol. 17, p. 201, 1940.
B
B

CHARNA WHE

11. WiaGLesworTH, V. Ibid., vol. 25, p. 1, 1948.

12. WiacLtesworrH, V. B. Symposia Soc. Exp. Biol., vol. 2, p. 1, 1948.
13. WiceLeswortH, V. B. Nature, vol. 168, p. 558, 1951.

14, WittraMs, C.M. Growth Symposium, vol. 12, p. 61, 1948.
Smithsonian Report, 1951.—Wigglesworth PLATE 1

Ficure 1.—Rhodnius larva in the 4th Ficure 2.—Rhodnius larva in the 5th
stage, X 4. Stages <3:

Ficure 3.—Rhodnius adult with fully Figure 4.—Sth-stage larva of Rhodnius

developed wings after metamorphosis still alive more than 11 months after

from the 5th-stage larva, X 2.5. decapitation, X 2.
Smithsonian Report, 1951.—Wigglesworth

Figure 1.—Giant adult of Rhodnius re-
sulting from the metamorphosis of a
6th-stage larva, X 2.

Figure 3.—Giant or 6th-stage larva of
Rhodnius resulting from implantation
of the corpus allatum of a young larva
(secreting juvenile hormone). ‘The site
of implantation appears as a scar on the
abdomen. X 2.5.

PLATE 2

Ficure 2.—Ilst-stage Rhodnius joined by

neck to 5th-stage larva, causing dwarf

arable, o< 34

Ficure 4.—Rhodnius larva in 4th stage

decapitated 1 week after feeding and
connected by means of a capillary tube
with another 4th-stage larva decapi-
tated 24 hours after feeding. ‘The
molting hormone from the first insect
causes the second to molt. XX 3.
Smithsonian Report, 195!1.—-Wigglesworth PLATE 3

FicurE 1.—Pupae of the silkworm. a, From larvae in which the corpora allata were
extirpated in the 3d stage; b, from larvae similarly treated in the 4th stage; c, from normal

larvae pupating after the 5th stage. XX 1.5. (After Fukuda.)

a l c

Ficure 2.—Cocoons of silk containing the three pupae shown in figure | (above) 1

(After Fukuda.)

Ficure 3.—Silkmoths derived from the three pupae shown in figure l (above). Natural size

(After Fukuda.)
Smithsonian Report, 1951.—Wigglesworth PLATE 4

Ficure 1—Young larva of Triatoma Figure 2.—Rhodnius with characters in-
(above) decapitated 24 hours after termediate between _ larva and adult
feeding and caused to molt by joining produced by implanting corpus allatum
it to a 5th-stage larva of Rhodnius de- of young larva into abdomen of Sth-
capitated 10 days after feeding. 3. stage larva (cf. pl. 2, fig. 3). X 2.5.

Ficure 3.—Cuticle of abdomen of an adult Rhodnius which had been treated during the
5th stage like the insects shown in plate 2, figure 3, and figure 2 above. It has turned
into a normal adult, but there is a tiny patch of cuticle of larval type, less than 1 mm.
in diameter, overlying the site of implantation of the corpus allatum. X 70.
Utilizing Our Soil Resources For

1

Greater Production

By Rosert M. SALTER ?

[With 1 plate]

In some quarters there is concern as to whether the nation’s soil
resources can support the United States in a position of world leader-
ship. Oursoils are capable. We can be confident of that. The prob-
lem is to manage our soils so as (1) to yield enough crops to meet
current increasing demands, (2) while doing it, to increase soil pro-
ductivity enough to support even higher production on a sustained
basis, and (8) to provide farm families with a high standard of living.

Some popular opinion holds these to be conflicting objectives. I
do not. There is an abundance of scientific evidence, backed by prac-
tical application on farms, to conclude that we can make our soils
produce enough to meet current needs and also to provide for the long
pull. Modern measures for improved soils management contribute
toward both goals simultaneously. The job is to get such measures
into general use on farms—a job that will take much “doing.”

As a backdrop for discussing the various factors involved in this
concept of soil utilization, we need to consider the size of the produc-
tion job, trends in crop production, and the nature of our soil resources.

HOW MUCH PRODUCTION?

No one can predict accurately the production requirements for world
leadership. We do know that the demand for agricultural products
has been increasing at a rapid rate since the summer of 1950 when the
free world took a firm stand in resisting Red aggression. We also
know that food is a potent instrument for winning and retaining
friendship with other free nations. In many instances, food can do
what bombs and bullets cannot accomplish.

1 Reprinted by permission from the Annals of the American Academy of Political and
Social Science, November 1951.

2 At the time this article was written, Dr. Salter was Chief of the Bureau of Plant
Industry, Soils, and Agricultural Engineering, U. S. Department of Agriculture. He is
now Chief of the Soil Conservation Service in the same department.

319
320 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

Military mobilization itself stimulates the rate of crop consumption.
Also, special military needs must be met. Castor oil, for instance, has
become essential to the operation of much modern military equipment.
Already thousands of acres are being diverted to the production of
castor beans, a crop new to American agriculture.

This nation’s huge industrial machine, the greatest in the world,
is leaning more and more on agriculture as a source for raw materials.
Soybeans, for example, are the raw material for more than four hun-
dred manufactured products, ranging from plastics to printing inks.
As industrial production continues to expand, so will the requirements
for agricultural production to support it.

The population of the United States is increasing at the most rapid
rate in thiscentury. Wenownumber 150 million. Population trends
indicate that our numbers may swell to 200 million within a quarter-
century, making 50 million more mouths to feed and backs to clothe.

Nutritional standards for a large segment of our population are
still too low for good health. Recent surveys show that to meet the
minimum dietary standards established by the National Research
Council, 40 percent of the families need more calcium, 20 percent need
more vitamin C and some of the B vitamins, and 10 percent need more
protein and iron. To meet these needs would require increased pro-
duction of fruits, vegetables, milk, eggs, and meat.

Obviously, the future requirements from agriculture will greatly
exceed current production; and demand will grow progressively over
the years.

PRODUCTION TREND IS UP

Already the requirements from agriculture are high. Demand
has increased at a rapid rate during recent years, and production
has kept pace. Farmers are now producing at a record level. Out-
put is running about 40 percent higher than in 1935-39. Production
per hour of farm worker has increased about 50 percent during the
last decade. Per-acre crop yields have increased 30 percent above
prewar.

There is good reason to believe that the present rising trend in
crop production will continue for an indefinite period, because the
forces behind it still have unexpended power. Furthermore, agri-
cultural science is busy developing more new technology.

But let there be no misunderstanding. So far, the biggest con-
tributing factors to the upward trend have been mechanization, im-
proved crop varieties, crop-pest control, and better cultural measures.
Soil improvement, too, has helped on some farms, but hardly enough
to offset soil deterioration on other farms. On many farms soil fer-
tility is still on the downgrade. On our most productive lands in
the Midwest and the Great Plains, for example, exploitive systems
UTILIZING OUR SOIL RESOURCES—SALTER 321

of farming have been followed on most farms since the very begin-
ning of American agriculture. The inherent productivity of the soil
has declined continuously, and is still going down. Gains from pro-
grams for soil conservation and from increased use of chemical fer-
tilizer have not offset losses from soil deterioration.

Reversing the downward trend in soil productivity would give
another sharp rise in crop production. Herein lies one of our great-
est opportunities for expanding the capacity of American agriculture
to produce.

SOIL IS A RENEWABLE RESOURCE

No longer do we consider soil as simple, dead, and sterile matter.
Our modern concept is founded on the understanding that soil under-
goes continuous change—some natural and some man-made.

Soil is made up largely of small mineral particles. Yet chemical
changes are continually in process. Soil contains roots of living
plants, small animals, and billions of microorganisms (bacteria and
fungi). It is made up of a combination of solid inorganic matter,
dead organic matter, living organic matter, water, soluble salts, and
air. Also, climate, vegetation, and topography make for different
patterns of soils. Thousands of different soil types have been iden-
tified. Wide variations occur within a country, and usually the soil
pattern varies on individual farms. Also, there is great variation
in the kinds of crops that different types of soil will grow—and in
their response to management.

Some soils are highly productive in their natural state, while other
virgin soils are relatively unproductive. The degree of inherent
productivity of any soil depends on the natural processes that build
it. Inthe Midwest, for example, the natural building process stocked
most soils with an abundant supply of organic matter and mineral
elements, leaving them highly productive. In the Southeast, on the
other hand, soils were developed under forests in a humid climate
with little freezing and much leaching, leaving the majority of them
acid in reaction, low in organic matter and mineral fertility, and
relatively unproductive.

From our modern understanding of the natural processes that build
and change soils, two points of great significance are evolving:

1. Some soils naturally infertile can be made highly productive.
Many fields once considered “worn out” are yielding crops abundantly,
and some where soil fertility was naturally too low for economic
production are being cropped profitably. In the eastern part of the
United States, the soil is much better today on many farms than it
ever was under natural conditions.

2. Naturally fertile soils that have lost productivity through use
and abuse often can be rejuvenated. While the practical level of
322 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

productivity for economic sustained production on such soils is some-
what lower than in the virgin state, high levels of productivity can
be maintained. Already, productivity is on the “come-back” on many
farms where yields were falling off because of declining soil fertility.

The job we face is one of bringing the greater portion of the
Jand now in use—both naturally fertile and infertile soils—to a
high level of economic production on a sustained basis. We need
to offset soil deterioration, and on many soils go even further—build
them up to higher levels of productivity.

HOW SOILS DETERIORATE

Soils deteriorate through numerous changes, many of which are
not readily visible. Deterioration can be classified into two basic
types, both important but varying as to conditions. The first is actual
removal of soil by erosion—by wind or water. The second includes
changes within the soil itself under cropping—changes hard to detect
on sight. Both processes often go on simultaneously and affect each
other.

Erosion.—The physical removal of soil by erosion or wind blowing
may in extreme cases render the soil totally unsuited to cultivation, as
where severe gullying occurs. The more usual damage, however, is
that resulting from loss of surface soil. In removing the surface soil,
erosion usually exposes soil layers that are more compact and less
favorable for root growth than the original topsoil. Erosion—even
sheet erosion—causes serious fertility losses far greater than the weight
of soil removed might indicate. In most agricultural soils the plant
nutrients—nitrogen and phosphorus particularly—are concentrated
in the surface layers. Losses due to erosion are especially serious for
those two nutrients.

Damage to cultivated land by erosion is a serious problem in much
of the country. Not all soils, however, are subject to erosion, which
naturally is related to the kind of soil and the slope of the land. For
those that are, it is often necessary to check cropping losses and in-
crease fertility before erosion losses can be checked. In any given
instance the relative importance of the factors contributing to erosion
depends upon the type of soil, especially the character of the several
layers or horizons and slopes, the crops grown and their culture, and
the climate.

Cropping.—Soil deterioration through cropping is at least as serious
as losses resulting from erosion. The majority of people, however,
are more fully aware of the damage from erosion. They do not realize
that on an acre of fertile soil growing a cultivated crop such as corn,
the productivity decline from cropping may equal the loss of 20 tons
of topsoil through erosion.
UTILIZING OUR SOIL RESOURCES—SALTER 323

Any agricultural soil, under any cropping system, is undergoing
both improving and depleting processes at the same time. Even under
natural conditions both downgrade and upgrade processes go on, but
they tend to reach a unique equilibrium for each level of natural
environment.

When placed under cultivation, a new environment is created.
Usually the downgrade changes are accelerated, and the soil deteri-
orates. Mineral elements are removed by both crops and drainage,
often faster than new supphes are made available. The annual plant
nutrient removal from United States soils by crops is about three
million tons of potash, nearly two million tons of phosphate, and
over three million tons of nitrogen. Except for phosphate, not nearly
that much is returned. We need to put back much more to build up
responsive soils to a high level of productivity.

Mineral nutrient removals represent only a part of the soil deteri-
oration resulting from cropping. Loss of organic matter is even more
serious. Organic matter is highly important to inherent soil produc-
tivity. The superiority of most productive soils is largely the result
of organic matter. Stable soil humus is a reservoir for about 98 per-
cent of all soil nitrogen, about 50 percent of the phosphorus in surface
soul, and smaller amounts of other nutrients. It makes for good soil
structure essential to proper movement of air and water in the soil.

The importance of organic matter—and the seriousness of its loss—
is better understood when we realize that in the fertile soils of the
Corn Belt each 1 percent of soil organic matter adds about 10 bushels
to the acre-yield of corn. Thus, in soil with 3 percent organic matter,
inherent productivity will account for a yield of about 30 bushels of
corn per acre; while in soil with 6 percent organic matter, inherent
productivity will account for a yield of about 60 bushels per acre.

Organic matter is destroyed through the activity of bacteria and
other microorganisms in the soil. The process is essentially one of
oxidation, and requires air. Each time the soil is stirred, air is intro-
duced and the rate of organic decomposition is speeded up. Nitrogen
and other nutrients are then released to the crop, or made subject to
leaching. This explains why destruction goes on so fast under inter-
tilled crops such as corn.

Organic matter also functions as a binding agent to promote good
aggregation and porosity. As organic matter is depleted, soils be-
come more compact; porosity is less, which means that the soils
become less permeable to air and water; and the soil becomes more
and more susceptible to erosion.

BUILDING SOIL PRODUCTIVITY

If we are to reverse the declining trend on the majority of our soils,
we need to determine for each farm the optimum combinations of
324 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

practices to achieve both conservation and high production—and get
them into use. It is important to understand that most of the steps
required to increase crop yields tend to lessen the effect of soil dete-
rioration from cropping and reduce the erosion hazard.

Seldom can our goal be achieved by a single practice. Instead, in
nearly all areas, a sound program of land use will include a combina-
tion of such practices as adequate liming to control soil reaction, ad-
equate acreage of legumes and grasses in the cropping system, return
of adequate quantities of plant residues, including the proper conser-
vation and use of animal manures, use of adequate amounts of mineral
fertilizer, improved treatment and management of pastures, and spe-
cial erosion-control and water-conservation measures. Cropping sys-
tems and management practices must be adjusted to the capabilities
and needs of local soil types.

Lime.—On most soils east of the Great Plains lime is a basic factor
in building soil productivity. By far the most effective method for
overcoming soil deterioration, brought about by erosion or due to chem-
ical and biological forces, consists in expanding the acreage devoted
to the soil-building sod legumes. The successful establishment of
these legume crops requires a fair abundance of lime in the soil. Only
by liming acid soils can they be made to grow the more efficient
soil-improving legumes.

Despite large increases in the use of liming materials, especially
since the introduction of the Agricultural Conservation Program, the
annual return of lime to soils in the humid area is still far short of that
needed to offset removals by crops and drainage. Farmers are now
applying lime at an annual rate ranging from 25 to 30 million tons,
which is eight to ten times as much as they were applying 15 years ago.
Yet, it still falls far short of needs. Most acid soils need a substantial
application of lime every four or five years. Profitable use can be
made of two to three times the amount now being applied.

Limestone resources of the United States are ample to supply liming
materials at such high levels for hundreds of years.

Legumes and grasses.—The values from including grasses and le-
gumes, especially deep-rooted legumes, in crop rotations have Jong
been recognized. They are our best antidote for the destructive effects
of row-crop cultivation. Yet too few farmers use enough of them.

Long-time field experiments have revealed that each time a full-
season cultivated crop is grown without return of residues, the soil
loses through biological oxidation about 2 percent of its organic matter
and nitrogen. (Erosion frequently causes additional loss.) Under
small grain, the annual loss is about half as great—or 1 percent.

These experiments also show that growing legume sod crops in the
rotation will offset these losses. Gains from a crop of red clover, even

UTILIZING OUR SOIL RESOURCES—SALTER 325

with the hay removed, about offset the losses from a crop of corn. AJ-
falfa and sweet clover are even more effective in contributing organic
matter and nitrogen to the soil. They will almost offset losses from
a crop of both corn and small grain.

Deep-rooted crops are the major factor in maintaining structural
stability and permeability, aeration, and drainage in the deeper soil
layers. In addition to the physical effects, deep-rooted crops feed not
only in the topsoil, but also in the subsoil. An active root system is
about the best defense against nutrient-leaching losses. Decomposition
of root and crop residues of such plants releases into the surface soil
nutrients that come from deeper layers.

On sloping soil subject to erosion, legume and grass mixtures are
better than either legumes or grasses alone. Legumes furnish needed
nitrogen while grass holds the soil from eroding between the crowns
of legume plants.

Grown alone or in combination with grasses, deep-rooted legumes
leave large residues of organic matter and nitrogen within the soil
even when the tops are removed as hay or pasture. They improve soil
tilth and drainage and effectively protect the soil from the erosive
impact of rain. Plowing down a good two-year stand of alfalfa, for
example, will leave in the soil more than 3,000 pounds of dry weight
of roots and 80 pounds of nitrogen per acre.

Critics of this system maintain that it takes too long. They say
that by following this route for building soil productivity we shall
need to sacrifice some immediate production, and that farmer income
will be impaired. Recent research findings suggest otherwise, pro-
vided the cropping system for a farm is planned for an extended
period, such as 5 to 10 years. While the cost of shifting often requires
a temporary economic sacrifice, the new system soon becomes more
profitable than the old.

For example, in a four-year rotation of corn, wheat, alfalfa, alfalfa,
in Ohio, with the use of only moderate levels of mineral fertilizer over
a 13-year period, corn produced an average yield of 68 bushels per acre,
wheat 41.8 bushels, and alfalfa averaged three tons of hay each year.
At current farm prices this would permit realizing a gross return of
more than $100 per acre during each year of the rotation. With
liberal applications of fertilizer, yields were substantially higher. A
farmer following such a system certainly is not sacrificing farm
income. And he is maintaining soil productivity while producing
at a high level.

In straight corn-small-grain rotations, substantial gains can be
realized from the use of legumes as a catch crop with small grain, to
be plowed under the following spring before planting to corn. In-
creases in corn yields as much as 85 bushels per acre are possible under
326 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

a well-managed plan. Many Corn Belt farmers already follow this
practice, but not all of them. Even many who do, fail to realize the
full potentials from the system. Recent experimental evidence
strongly indicates that on many soil types, use of adequate amounts of
mineral nutrients will give a substantial boost to the system.

In the Corn Belt there are at least 7 or 8 million acres of small grain
planted each year without an accompanying legume—where a legume
could be used. Probably on another 7 or 8 million acres, legume
stands are poor or fail because of inadequate fertilization or for other
reasons that could be corrected. In total there are between 10 and 15
million acres of small grain where potentialities from a legume catch
crop are not being realized. Increases in corn yields resulting from
this practice would vary, but a conservative estimate would be from 12
to 15 bushels per acre.

If all such small-grain acreage in the Corn Belt is properly fertilized
and seeded with a legume crop for 1952 and is plowed under as green
manure in the spring of 1953, it can easily increase corn production by
200 million bushels in 1953. Such a system certainly is not sacrificing
immediate production. And the legume crop in such a rotation,
accompanied with the use of adequate fertilization, would about offset
the losses in soil productivity from both the corn and small-grain crops.

Similar gains could be realized from other uses of legumes and
grasses. Recent experiments have shown, for example, that on much
land, improved meadows and pastures can be made to produce as much
total digestible nutrients per acre as high-yielding corn crops, and at
less cost and with less labor.

Animal manures and crop residues——The return of crop residues,
including animal manures, is a highly important factor in building
soil productivity. Much crop residue is now being returned to the
soil, but we are not realizing the full potential from animal manures—
nowhere near it.

One billion tons of manure, the annual product of livestock on
American farms, if completely recovered, carefully preserved, and
efficiently used, should produce six billion dollars’ worth of increase in
crop production. The potential value of this agricultural resource is
three times that of the nation’s wheat crop. The organic-matter con-
tent is twice the soil organic matter destroyed in the growing of the
nation’s grain and cotton crops.

Not more than one-fourth to one-third of the potential crop-produc-
ing and soil-conserving value of animal-manure resources of the coun-
try is now realized on harvested crops. That it is economically feas-
ible to prevent much of this loss has been conclusively demonstrated
both experimentally and by farmers in Europe and in this country.

Animal manure is valuable in several ways. It increases the size of
crops, tends to lessen the effect of destructive crops, and increases the
UTILIZING OUR SOIL RESOURCES—SALTER 327

effect of accumulative crops. Manure also contributes directly to the
humus content of the soil, since it supplies both organic matter and ni-
trogen. Fora given amount of plant nutrient supplied, manure adds
about twice as much to the humus content of the soil as do chemical
fertilizers. About half of the conservation effect of manure arises
from increased residues from the larger crops grown, whereas the other
half represents the direct contribution from the organic matter sup-
plied in the manure itself. Eight tons of manure per acre has half as
much effect on soil productivity as a crop of clover.

I can think of no single improvement in farming practice that would
yield as big dividends in soil conservation and improved soil produc-
tivity as the general adoption of practical and effective measures for
the preservation and use of animal manures.

Chemical fertilizers —The use of chemical fertilizers in farming is
already making a substantial contribution to our productive capacity.
During the last 10 years fertilizer use has increased two and a half
times. Consumption in 1949 totaled 18,542,000 tons compared with
7,912,000 tons in 1939. Fertilizer now accounts for about 25 percent
of the total United States production.

Recent experimental findings suggest hundreds of new opportunities
for increasing crop yields through greater use of fertilizers. Usually
the opportunities are greatest when fertilizer is used in adequate quan-
tities In combination with several other improved practices. The
greatest returns from the use of green-manure legumes, for instance,
come when higher rates of phosphate and potash fertilizers are applied
to the green-manure crop.

Evidence from east of the Great Plains and irrigated areas clearly
indicates that the use of balanced fertilizers on grasslands, in conjunc-
tion with other improved practices, could easily double forage pro-
duction on 250 million acres of grasslands. Other experiments show
that on intensively cultivated crops such as cotton, tobacco, and pota-
toes, where heavy applications of phosphate and potash have been used
over a long period of years, these elements have accumulated in some
soils to a level where continued heavy usage is uneconomical. On much
other land, however, use or heavier use of these elements would increase
yields.

More extensive use of nitrogen fertilizer on crops holds the greatest
of all potentialities among the various fertilizer elements, provided
that nitrogen is not used as a substitute for legumes, manure, and other
sources of organic matter, or to overcultivate sloping erosive soils.
We are just beginning to appreciate the values that can be gained
from heavy applications of nitrogen fertilizers. Agronomists in gen-
eral are raising their sights as to the quantities that can be used
efficiently.

981445—52—_22
328 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

In the Southeast, for example, we have found that with heavy appli-
cations of nitrogen in combination with the use of adapted corn hy-
brids, closer plant spacing, and improved cultural practices, corn can
be made to produce yields comparable to those produced in the Corn
Belt. Farmers in Virginia and North Carolina have doubled their
average corn yields during the past five years under this system. And
many farmers have not yet put it into use.

In my opinion, these States have so far realized only about half of
the gains possible from this system. If the system were applied to all
the present corn acreage in southeastern States, corn production in
that area could be increased at least 250 million bushels annually. This
would require the use of about 325,000 tons more of fertilizer nitrogen.
Increased use of nitrogen fertilizer would also build up soil produc-
tivity. At best, crops recover no more than 60 percent of applied
nitrogen. Some not recovered is lost through leaching, but much of it
becomes fixed in soil humus. ‘This is evident from the fact that farm-
ers harvest bigger crops of oats following corn from fields where
nitrogen fertilizer has been applied.

Our current production of fertilizer nitrogen falls far short of sup-
plying the element in quantities needed for more widespread use.
That situation, however, can be corrected. Since synthetic nitrogen
can be manufactured by fixation of nitrogen from the atmosphere,
supplies are limited only by the capacity of chemical plants to pro-
duce it.

With phosphate and potash, on the other hand, we must depend
on natural deposits to fill our needs. These resources, however, are
adequate. If the present world consumption of phosphates were 8
times greater, the known world reserves would last more than 2,000
years. If the present consumption of potash were 18 times greater,
the known world reserves would last 500 years. And the world has
not been thoroughly explored for these minerals. Here in this coun-
try, for example, we have huge deposits of potash—more difficult to
process than those now being used—that are not now being worked
simply because they cannot be exploited in competition with current
sources.

Conserving water and controlling erosion.—Recently we have ac-
quired much new knowledge about soil-crop-moisture relationships.
Although no successful way has yet been found to produce rain,
methods are being devised to make better use of what nature hands
out. Experiments with various crops have consistently demonstrated
that soil moisture and soil fertility must go hand in hand for the
most effective production. Higher yields, which result from im-
proved soil and crop practices, place a heavier drain on soil moisture.
Practices that conserve water as well as soil have the greatest bearing
on production.
UTILIZING OUR SOIL RESOURCES—SALTER 329

There are real opportunities in making more efficient use of the rain
water that falls on the land. In the humid area—east of the Missis-
sippi—we are losing about one-third of the annual rainfall through
runoff, which underscores the importance of soil and crop practices
that conserve moisture and make more efficient use of it. Numerous
improved tillage and terracing practices that conserve moisture are
already in use. Other practices that will serve this end are now being
developed. Extensive use of such measures can do much to increase
production and reduce losses from erosion.

Farming on the contour, for example, can reduce water runoff and
erosion losses and increase crop yields on millions of acres of sloping
Jand where contouring is not now being practiced. ‘The Soil Con-
servation Service in cooperation with State experiment stations has
gathered much evidence on this point. Reports from Iowa show that
contour farming cuts soil losses in half and raises corn yields as much
as 7.4 bushels per acre. Reports from Illinois show that corn yields
7 bushels per acre more on contoured fields than on fields cultivated
up and down theslope. Work in Illinois, Iowa, and Missouri, showed
between 11 and 12 percent increase in soybean yields from contouring.
Evidence from 10 States shows that average wheat yields were in-
creased 20 percent by contouring.

Of course, the greatest value from conservation practices results
when they are used in combination, as demonstrated by studies in
Indiana. Here, adequate fertilization, liming, return of crop resi-
dues, and contouring in a four-year rotation of corn, soybeans, wheat,
and grass-legume meadow resulted in 34 bushels more corn, 7 bushels
more soybeans, 7 bushels more wheat, and an extra ton of hay, per
acre. Without conservation farming, the soil lost 12.6 percent of the
rainfall during the growing season. Runoff under the conservation
treatment amounts to only 5.1 percent. Thus, the improved measures
saved 7.5 percent more rainfall during the growing season.

There is good opportunity, too, for materially increasing the po-
tentialities of some soils to hold water and grow crops by deepening
the zone of soil in which roots can grow. Most productive soils are
characterized by deep friable surface layers. In this country we have
lost much topsoil through erosion. Furthermore, the soils over a
large area have naturally shallow surface layers.

We are exploring the possibilities of improving the structure and
nutritional qualities of the subsoil as a means of expanding the rooting
zone for plants. Remarkable increases in crop production have been
produced in this way on some soil types. It is not unreasonable to
expect that we could substantially deepen the root zone in many soils
and make available to crops increased quantities of both plant nu-
trients and water through the use of deep-rooted legumes in cropping
330 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

systems, deep tillage, and the incorporation of lime and fertilizer in
the deep soil layers.

We need to make much more extensive use of winter cover crops
on intertilled land. Leaving the ground bare over the winter pro-
motes loss by erosion. For the South in general, adequate cover
crops are available. Still, more than 80 percent of the cultivated
land goes through the winter unprotected. For years we have taken
for granted the bare fields with brown cotton stalks and broom sedge
all the way from Virginia to east Texas. Now, with practices de-
veloped during the last 20 years, fields could be green with growing
crops the year around. Here the agricultural plant can work on
a. 12-month basis, contributing to both soil conservation and increased
production.

SOIL PRODUCTIVITY CONDITIONS BY REGIONS

Again I want to emphasize that no single practice will accomplish
the combined goal of increased production and soil conservation.
The goal can be met only by balanced application of known soil and
crop management techniques in accordance with specific soil charac-
teristics and needs. The complexity of the problem is apparent when
we examine the types of soil and how they deteriorate in various
parts of the United States.

Far West.—The prevention of saline and alkali soil conditions
is one important factor in the conservation of soil productivity in
western irrigation lands. Accumulation of salts in the soil is one
of the most difficult problems. In many instances, salt-laden water
is the only source available for irrigation.

Also, the structure of heavy soils is deteriorating under certain
irrigation and cropping systems, making it difficult to get irrigation
water into the soil. There is increasing evidence, too, that continued
soil productivity will require the maintenance of considerably higher
levels of nitrogen. The use of phosphorus fertilizers is also increas-
ing under irrigation. But for many years to come, the maintenance
of proper salt balance and the conservation of good soil physical
properties must be the most important criteria of good land use
in this area.

Great Plains—In the Great Plains, moisture rather than plant
nutrients has been the primary factor limiting the productive ca-
pacity of the soils. Subsurface tillage, fallowing, and other cul-
tural practices designed to leave crop residues on the soil surface
are used to conserve both soil and water. Protection against soil
blowing is a particularly important step in sound land use here.

Despite improvements in mulching and subsurface tillage, land
use in this area has been primarily exploitive in nature. Although
cropping has not yet generally depleted soil fertility reserves to
UTILIZING OUR SOIL RESOURCES—SALTER 331

limiting values, it is only a matter of time until it will. Continued
cropping to wheat combined with fallowing and row-crop cultiva-
tion has already resulted in the loss of one-third or more of the
organic matter and nitrogen originally present in these rich soils.

So far we have not been able to develop a system that will main-
tain soil organic matter and nitrogen in this area. We still do not
have a legume crop adapted to the 200 million acres of dry land in the
semihumid regions. Productivity cannot be maintained under our
present system. From the standpoint of long-time food and feed sup-
plies in this country, the problem of maintaining the soils in the dry-
land area is one of the most serious we face.

Northeast and north central.—In the northeastern and north cen-
tral States soil deterioration is widely varied. In the Northeast,
where soils were naturally infertile, soil productivity is now on the
upgrade on hundreds of thousands of farms. In the Midwest, how-
ever, prevailing farm practices have led to a progressive decline in
the organic matter and nitrogen content of the soil. In places this
loss has amounted to as much as one-third to one-half of the original
content. And the decline is still going on at rates estimated as high
as 1 percent per year in the middle Corn Belt.

This has the effect of impairing drainage, water infiltration, soil
aeration, and ability of soil to yield up nutrients to crops. Crops
seem to suffer more in dry weather. Many farmers have found it
necessary to install additional tile lines on land that once drained
satisfactorily. On sloping soils, erosion is taking a heavier toll, as
compaction slows intake of water and increases runoff.

Here we know how to manage soils so as to maintain organic
matter and nitrogen. The problem is to get these management prac-
tices into widespread use.

Southeast.—In the southeastern States, conservation and rehabili-
tation of soil resources probably offer as great a challenge—and oppor-
tunity—as anywhere in the country. Soils here were already highly
leached before they were put to agricultural production. High rain-
fall and temperatures continued to favor rapid organic-matter decom-
position and loss of soil minerals by leaching and erosion.

It has been estimated that in the Piedmont region, two-thirds of
the land that has been cultivated has lost part or all of its topsoil,
and in many cases some of the subsoil. Erosion and gullying have
been so severe that thousands of acres have been abandoned for crop
production.

Most of these soils, however, are very responsive to fertilization
and other good management practices. They can serve as excellent
media for plant growth. Climatic conditions that have made these
soils what they are also offer unusual opportunities for increasing
levels of productivity.
aoe ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

RESOURCES ARE ADEQUATE

The soil, water, and fertilizer resources of the United States are
ample to meet all foreseeable requirements of world leadership. In
fact, they are more than ample—provided we use them intelligently.

Farmers are now using 405 million acres of land for the production
of crops. Also, 70 million acres of pasture land are cropped oc-
casionally in long-time rotations. An additional 642 million acres
of open grassland and 350 million acres of woodland are used for
livestock grazing. Over most of this area we can realize both in-
creased production and soil conservation through the application of
available knowledge.

In addition, there are big opportunities for expanding production
by bringing idle or unproductive land into use. Along the east coast
and Gulf States there is a huge area of swampland that could be
drained and put into production. With modern engineering devices,
the water table could be lowered and controlled on much of this area.
Some government and private projects are already under way. There
is every reason to believe that these soils would be highly productive.

On hundreds of thousands of farms throughout the country there
are corners or patches of idle wet land, often several acres in size, that
could be drained and made productive. All they need may be a short
drainage ditch, a tile line, some weed or brush killer, fertilizer or
manure, or a few hours with a bulldozer. The production capacity
of many farms can be increased by putting such idle land to work.

There are thousands of farms in the humid States where water
is available and where the necessary investment in irrigation might
pay. The medium and large rivers and streams in eastern United
States that flow continuously the year around number well over one
hundred. There are millions of acres of well-drained land adjacent
to these streams. Modern engineering would permit tapping these
streams to apply water from them for supplemental irrigation with-
out damming them up. The opportunities for using river water to
supplement rainfall on the rich valley lands of eastern United States
are enormous.

In the arid west, large areas could be freed or kept free from salts,
irrigated from available water supplies, and brought into production.
In the Columbia River Basin, for instance, irrigation farming with
water from Grand Coulee Dam will get under way in 1952. During
the next few years a million new acres are expected to be brought
into production in this project alone. The Bureau of Reclamation
estimates that there are 16,839,000 acres of irrigable new land in the
western States.

Also, in the Southeast, little if anything is being produced on mil-
lions of acres of poor grazing land, unproductive woodland, and low-
UTILIZING OUR SOIL RESOURCES—SALTER 333

yielding cropland. While effective use of this land is a problem of
long standing, recent discoveries suggest tremendous opportunities
for using much of it in the production of milk, beef, and other live-
stock products. Through the introduction and creation of new and
better legumes and grasses and the development of improved fertilizer
and soil-management practices for efficient forage production, much
of this land could be used for efficient livestock production. In
Florida, for example, thousands of acres of flatland originally grow-
ing pine and palmetto have been cleared, limed, fertilized, and seeded,
and are now producing beef cattle profitably. Here alone, several
million acres could be brought into production.

Obviously, there are sizable opportunities for expanding produc-
tion through the development of idle or unproductive land. There
can be no question. Our soil resources are adequate. The job is to
use them intelligently for sustained production with conservation.
This involves two important areas of action: (1) continued and in-
creased effort in crop and soil research to provide additional improved
technology and to give greater precision to our recommendations;
(2) continued and increased effort to coordinate and unify educational
and service programs concerned with production and conservation to
reduce lost motion and to speed adoption of balanced programs for
efficient, abundant, and sustained production on individual farms.
TOT phen
Sia fi

ci ane nai

ah,

- Pe ints ee % ‘tal sigan hee hist sat
“4 a oe ene |} = ayy tein, he it
Smithsonian Report, 195!.—Salter

1. Applying fertilizer to a prepared field. Productive grasses and legumes demand plenty
of plant food. The fertilizer should be applied after the old sod is torn up so that it can
be worked into the seed bed. From New Pastures for Old, by Malcolm H. McVickar,

2. Louisiana white Dutch clover grown on Florida flatwoods soil of a Leon type. Two tons
of ground limestone, 500 pounds of 0-10-10 fertilizer per acre were used. Photograph
taken at Florida Agricultural Experiment Station, Gainesville, Fla.

vod
“<

f

The Carbon-14 Method of Age

Determination’

By Frank H. H. Roserts, Jr.

Associate Director, Bureau of American Ethnology

Durine the period immediately following World War IT an impor-
tant byproduct of research on cosmic rays was the development of a
method whereby the age of certain objects can be determined by
laboratory tests. The latter are based on the carbon-14 content of the
objects, and their results undoubtedly will be extremely useful in ar-
cheology, several branches of geology, oceanography, meteorology, and
related fields where chronology is essential to the solving of many prob-
lems. Previous types of “calendars,” such as tree-ring dating, pollen
analysis, and glacial varves, were helpful in restricted areas but were
not universally applicable. This latest method of age determination
does not suffer from that handicap. For the first time it now appears
that prehistoric dates that are virtually precise can be obtained from
samples from any region in the world. The method has some limita-
tions and an occasional test goes awry, but as the techniques are
improved the age determinations unquestionably will become more
accurate.

Carbon 14, a radioactive heavy form of carbon with an atomic
weight of 14 in contrast to the normal, stable carbon atomic weight of
12, is continually being formed in the upper atmosphere of the earth.
It results from the bombardment of nitrogen-14 atoms by cosmic rays,
streams of neutrons flowing toward the earth from outer space. The
new carbon-14 atoms thus formed, commonly called radiocarbon,
begin an immediate spontaneous disintegration but enough remain to
combine with oxygen to form carbon dioxide which eventually mixes,
in the air that surrounds the earth, with the much larger proportion
of carbon dioxide containing ordinary carbon. All living things
which absorb carbon dioxide from the atmosphere take in some of the
carbon 14 as well as the carbon 12. The proportions between the two

1 Revised by permission, with the addition of new material, from the article “Carbon
14 Dates and Archeology,” in Transactions of the American Geophysical Union, vol. 33,
No. 2, pp. 170-174, 1952.

335
336 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

have been shown experimentally to be constant in all living matter.
The radiocarbon constantly disintegrates, but it is continually replaced
through the life processes which are in exchange with the atmosphere.
When an animal or a plant dies there is no further replacement of
carbon 14. That remaining, however, continues to disintegrate at a
rate that is the same everywhere. For that reason the amount of
radiocarbon still present is in direct proportion to the time that has
elapsed since death occurred, and by measuring the constantly
diminishing rate of disintegration it is possible to calculate the age of
an organic sample.

It is not possible in an article of this nature to explain and discuss
in detail the scientific processes involved in radiocarbon dating, but
the main features in the development of the method should be men-
tioned. In 1934, not long after the discovery of artificial radioactivity,
Dr. A. V. Grosse suggested that the existence of radioactive elements
produced by cosmic rays would be established (Grosse, 1934). Some
10 years later Dr. W. F. Libby, of the Institute of Nuclear Studies of
the University of Chicago, predicted that living matter would be
found to contain natural or “cosmic” carbon 14 (Libby, 1946). The
next year he and Dr. Grosse tested methane gas derived from sewage
and found the expected amount of carbon 14 (Grosse and Libby,
1947). Dr. Libby and his associates then proceeded to demonstrate
experimentally that carbon 14 occurs in the same concentration in all
living matter. In doing this they tested living material from many
parts of the world—from different latitudes, altitudes, and different
geographical situations (Libby, Anderson, and Arnold, 1949). The
materials consisted of wood from Chicago, Mount Wilson, New Mex-
ico, Bolivia, Ceylon, Tierra del Fuego, Panama, Palestine, Sweden,
New South Wales, and North Africa; sea shells from Florida; and seal
oil from the Antarctic.

In the course of the various studies it had been determined that
the half-life of carbon 14 is about 5,568 + 30 years, which means that
one ounce of the material is reduced by decay to half an ounce during
the 5,568-year period and that half of the remainder decays during
the next 5,568 years leaving a quarter of an ounce, etc. (Engelkemeir
and Libby, 1950; Jones, 1948; Miller et al., 1950). Because of this,
Dr. Libby was convinced that the amount of carbon 14 present in any
particular object would be an indication of the age of that object and
proceeded to develop a method for measuring it. This involved the
perfection of a specially constructed and extremely sensitive screen
wall counter, a form of Geiger counter, which would measure the rate
of atomic disintegration of natural carbon 14 without the use of a ther-
mal diffusion column. The problem also included the development of
a complicated chemical separation unit to reduce the carbon 14 to its
CARBON-14 AGE DETERMINATION—F. H. H. ROBERTS 337

purest form. In running tests the samples to be dated are burned,
treated in the separation unit, and then measured in the radiation
counter. The measurements are given on the basis of the carbon-14
disintegrations per minute per gram of carbon. For present-day living
samples the specific activity is 15.3, for samples 5,568 years old it is
7.65, and for samples 11,136 years old it is 3.838. The disintegration
rate is such, however, that the proportion of radiocarbon remaining
after 20,000 years is so small that accurate counting is very difficult
and the effective range may be considered somewhat less than that
age. There is a method for enriching samples which may make possi-
ble the obtaining of dates as far back as 30,000 years, but that at
present appears to be the maximum. The errors in the dates now
being obtained are considered to range from 5 to 10 percent.

When the laboratory equipment was ready Dr. Libby and his
associate, Dr. James R. Arnold, ran a series of tests on samples whose
ages had been fairly accurately established by other means but which
were unknown to them. Material, ranging in age from 1,300 to 4,600
years, from Egyptian tombs, from archeological sites in our own
Southwest, and from redwood trees was provided by different muse-
ums, and it was found that the carbon-14 dates obtained for them
agreed with the known ages within the calculated error of the method.
In making the preliminary tests it was found that the most useful
materials are plant fibers and wood, charcoal, antler, burned bone,
shell, dung, and peat.

Arrangements were then made with a committee representing the
American Anthropological Association and the Geological Society of
America to obtain samples for testing and a grant was made by the
Wenner-Gren Foundation for Anthropological Research (the Viking
Fund) to assist in the support of the program. Archeologists and
geologists began sending in the necessary materials and the series of
tests got under way in the spring of 1949. Announcements of the
dates obtained were made informally from time to time, but it was
not until October 1950 that a lengthy series was made public. That
list was printed in February 1951 in Science, vol. 118, No. 2927, pp.
111-120. An additional list appeared in the same journal, vol. 114,
No. 2960, pp. 291-296 in September of that year. Most of the infor-
mation contained in those articles was also published, with discussions
of its significance, in the Memoirs of the Society for American Arche-
ology, American Antiquity, vol. 17, No. 1, pt. 2, 1951.

The method developed by Dr. Libby and the results obtained indi-
cated so many potential applications for radiocarbon dating that
new laboratories for making carbon-14 measurements have been estab-
lished at Yale University, the University of Michigan, Columbia
University, and the United States Geological Survey. Others are
338 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

contemplated and perhaps even now are under way. The first series
of measurements by the Lamont Geological Observatory at Columbia
University was announced in Science, vol. 114, No. 2970, in November
1951.

From the standpoint of archeology, most of the dates reported thus
far have been fairly satisfactory, but in a number of instances there
appears to be a contradiction between the archeological evidence and
the age obtained from the carbon-14 tests. One factor to be consid-
ered in this connection is that the older material appears to be more
consistent than that of relatively recent times, and even though the
error in the method may make a difference of several hundred years
in the actual chronology, the results are very helpful and will aid
materially in making the syntheses of cultural relationships and devel-
opments that are essential to an understanding of past history. For
many people greatest interest probably attaches to the archeological
remains that fall within what may be called geologic time. The re-
sults in this Early Man category are in some respects as surprising as a
few of those in other fields, but on the whole they are reasonably
satisfactory.

In the United States the age of the well-known Folsom complex
caused considerable comment when the figure pertaining to the type
site was released. As a matter of fact, that discussion has continued
actively to the present. Unfortunately many of the arguments it
produced were not necessary because the announced date was not that
of the culture-bearing horizon of the Folsom complex but that of a
fire pit in the fill of a secondary channel that had cut through the
original deposit of bison bones and artifacts. Such was known at the
time when the first announcement was made, but unfortunately the
explanation accompanying the date was not clear. If, as the geolo-
gists who have examined this site maintained, the cultural stratum was
of very late Pleistocene or early Recent age (Brown, 1929; Bryan,
1937), the date of 4,283+250? years obviously was wrong or else the
geologists were greatly mistaken in their identification of the deposits.
Subsequently material from a Folsom horizon at Lubbock, Tex., was
tested and a carbon-14 date of 9,883+350 years was obtained. The
latter more closely approximates the magnitude estimated for Folsom
on geologic evidence. The deposits at Lubbock, in the opinion of
Dr. E. H. Sellards of the Texas Memorial Museum and his associates,
correlate closely with those at the site in the Black Water Draw near
Clovis, N. Mex., which Dr. Ernst Antevs has identified as belonging
to a pluvial period which he believes corresponds to the end of the
Pleistocene and has estimated the age as being from 10,000 to 13,000

? The errors indicated for all dates are standard deviations based solely on the error of
counting random events. Other errors probably are involved and the true error will be
somewhat greater.
CARBON-14 AGE DETERMINATION—F. H. H. ROBERTS 339

years (Antevs, 1949). It is possible, of course, that some of the ma-
terial at Clovis is older than the Lubbock site, because the Folsom
culture undoubtedly lasted over a reasonably long period. Also, cer-
tain faunal differences suggest a greater age for some of the Clovis
manifestations. The difference between the carbon-14 date and Dr.
Antevs’ estimate is not too great, however, and it seems a fair assump-
tion that the general idea that the Folsom complex is about 10,000
years old is not far out of line.

The late Dr. Kirk Bryan and Dr. Louis L. Ray, after completing
their studies at the Lindenmeier site in northern Colorado, another
Folsom location, estimated its age as from 10,000 to 25,000 years, with
the statement that they believed it nearer the latter than the former
(Bryan and Ray, 1940). ‘Thus far it has not been possible to obtain
charcoal or other material suitable for carbon-14 tests from the cul-
tural level at that location and it is not known if the estimate is too
great or if perhaps the occupation there was earlier than at the simi-
lar sites farther south. Geologically the age appears to be somewhat
older. Bryan and Ray concluded that the occupation at the Linden-
meier site was in Wisconsin III times or late Mankato. Of interest in
this connection is the fact that some early sites on Lime Creek in
western Nebraska have been correlated with the Mankato (Schultz
and Frankfurter, 1949) and carbon-14 dates of 9,524+450, and
10,493 £1,500 have been announced for them. The cultural material
is not Folsom, but projectile points of the types found there have
been collected elsewhere at sites where the characteristically fluted
Folsom type occurs in a lower and older stratum. Dates for the
Mankato, based on materials from other localities, have consistently
run between 11,000 and 12,000, or an average age of 11,400 years before
the present.

Other archeological remains of about the same age on the basis of
carbon-14 dates are Gypsum Cave in Nevada, with an average of
10,455+340 for the 6-foot 4-inch level and an average of 8,527+250
for the 2-foot 6-inch level; the Fort Rock Cave in Oregon, 9,053 +850;
and Palli Aike Cave at the tip of South America, with 8,639+450.
The deposits in Gypsum Cave where the oldest artifacts were found
have been correlated with a dry period immediately following the
Provo Pluvial and the age estimate was placed from 7,000 to 9,000
years ago (Antevs, 1948). In that particular case it appears that the
estimated and the carbon-14 dates are in fairly close agreement.
Archeologically such an age would not be unreasonable, although
there is still some question as to the contemporaneity of the associated
wooden objects and the sloth dung from which the date was obtained.
In connection with the Gypsum Cave dates it might be noted that the
accumulation of material between the 6-foot 4-inch level and the
340 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

2-foot 6-inch level, a depth of a little less than 4 feet, represents
approximately 2,300 years.

The Fort Rock Cave in Oregon is particularly interesting as well
as somewhat puzzling. At that location a large number of fiber
sandals and some basketry were recovered from beneath a layer of
pumice which has been identified with the Newberry eruption that
presumably followed that of the Mount Mazama eruption which pro-
duced Crater Lake (Cressman, Williams, and Kreiger, 1940). The san-
dals were tested and were found to have an average age of 9,053+350,
the oldest actual artifacts thus far dated. If the assumption that
the Newberry eruption followed that of Mount Mazama is correct, it
appears that there was a considerable interval between the time the
sandals were left on the floor of the cave and when they were covered
by the pumice. The Mount Mazama eruption has been dated by a
carbon-14 test of charcoal from a tree killed by the eruption and the
age 6,453+250 was obtained. Williams (1942) had previously
estimated it to be between 4,000 and 7,000, Allison (1946) had placed
it at 12,000 to 14,000, and Hansen (1946), on the basis of pollen stratig-
raphy, suggested 12,500 or somewhat later. The maximum, under
the circumstances, for the Newberry would appear to be somewhat
less than the 6,453+250 of the Mount Mazama and it may well have
been considerably later. The date for the sandals, of course, is not
that for the overlying pumice but it is rather difficult to explain how
they remained on the surface of a cave floor for several millennia
without alteration and then were charred by the heat from the New-
berry pumice (Cressman et al., 1940, p. 68; Cressman, 1942, p. 52;
1943, p. 239). When first announced, the date for the sandals was
thought to indicate a reverse order for the volcanic eruptions. That
is not now considered to be the case however. A subsequent state-
ment to the effect that the dated sandals came from some distance
below the pumice (Cressman, 1951, p. 308) bolsters that opinion.
Archeologically, as well as geologically, the Mount Mazama pumice
is an important feature in Oregon in that it forms a line of demarca-
tion for dating deposits occurring beneath and above it. Once the
age of the Newberry pumice, or pumices (since the prescence of four
cones in the crater and others along the eastern base of the volcano
suggest there may have been several eruptions), has been established
it also will be equally helpful. Hansen estimates the Newberry erup-
tion at between 7,500 and 9,500 and Allison places it at from 11,000
to 12,000, but in view of the Mount Mazama results it would seem that
the carbon-14 date will prove to be considerably less. If the date for
the sandals is correct, it is extremely significant because it shows that
the inhabitants of North America at that time had not only developed
a fine technique in the manufacture of protection for the feet but that
CARBON-14 AGE DETERMINATION—F. H. H. ROBERTS 341

they also were making a highly artistic form of basketry decorated
with a false embroidery. It is possible, of course, that when perish-
able materials belonging in the complex of some of the other cultures
of this period are found an equally high kind of industry will be
revealed.

What may well prove to be one of the most important archeological
sites thus far found in North America from the standpoint of the
sequence and dating of cultures, as well as geologic data, is Danger
Cave near Wendover, Utah. The cultural debris there reaches a
depth of about 14 feet. The midden rests on an old beach of glacial
Lake Stansbury. The beach consists of two feet of sand deposited on
cemented gravels. Charcoal, wood, and mountain-sheep dung were
found in the sand layer. Radiocarbon tests of the dung gave an age
of 11,453 600, while the wood ran 11,151+570. Thus far no results
have been announced for the cultural material and it must be con-
sidered as being an unknown number of years later than the beach,
although the initial occupation may not have been long delayed after
the receding water opened the cave to habitation. The date of the
latter, however, will be extremely useful in geologic studies of the
area. This is particularly so in view of the fact that bat guano mixed
with the gravels of an old beach of Lake Lahontan in the Leonard
rock shelter near Lovelock, Nev., gave a carbon-14 date of 11,199+570.

The close correlation between the beach levels in the two caves is
important in showing that climatic conditions then were such that
there was a pronounced shrinkage in the two lakes. <A similar phe-
nomenon is noted for ancient Lake Texcoco in Mexico where radio-
carbon tests indicate that the late Pleistocene shrinkage apparently
started approximately 11,003+500 years before the present.

In South America two caves in Tierra del Fuego near the eastern
end of the Strait of Magellan yielded material that has given dates
of 10,832+400 and 8,639+450 years. The older of the two dates was
obtained from sloth dung and there apparently were no cultural as-
sociations. The date is important, however, because it has a bearing
on the last ice advance in the area and also the survival of the giant
sloth. It is interesting to note that the date agrees very closely with
the 10,455+340 obtained from similar material from Gypsum Cave
in Nevada. The date for the other cave, called Palli Aike, which con-
tained archeological deposits, was obtained from charred sloth, horse,
and guanaco bones. It is not only important in indicating that man
was present there at a reasonably early time but is also significant be-
cause the material came from hearths on the surface of a layer of
volcanic ash, and as the occupation of the cave apparently followed
closely after the eruption which deposited the ash the date probably
is approximately that for the last major eruption in the adjacent
342 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

group of small volcanoes along the Chilean-Argentine boundary.
Furthermore, it helps to place a land rise of 4214 feet east of the first
narrows of the Strait and recession of a large glacial lake which ex-
posed the rock shelters that were soon occupied by people. In ad-
dition, the date substantiates an estimated age for volcanic ash dis-
tributions in Tierra del Fuego and Patagonia based on pollen analysis
(Bird, 1951).

As is to be expected, dates for archeological sites attributable to
prehistoric man in the Old World are somewhat older than those in
the Western Hemisphere. Charcoal from the famous Lascaux Cave,
considered one of the world’s oldest and most remarkable art galleries,
on the Vézére River near Montignac (Dordogne), France, tested
15,516+900. The charcoal came from occupational deposits in the
northwestern portion of the cave and is thought to represent a Mag-
dalenian level. Thus far, however, it has not been possible to cor-
relate the radiocarbon date with any of the seven or eight art styles
in the magnificent murals on the wall of the cave (Movius, 1951).
Another upper Paleolithic site of Magdalenian times at La Garenne,
St. Marcel (Indre), France, has an interesting series of dates. One
sample consisting of an ashy material mixed with sand, charcoal, and
burned bones tested 15,847+1,200, burned bone collected in and
around a hearth dated 11,109+480, while burned bone from the same
horizon but outside the hearth gave 12,986+560. Of comparable
antiquity is a site at Mufo, Angola, Portuguese West Africa, where a
stone blade associated with carbonized wood was found in a late upper
Pleistocene deposit. Tests made on the wood yielded 11,189+490
years. Not quite so old, but still of considerable age, are two dwell-
ings in Denmark belonging to the late boreal, pollen zone VI. Hazel-
nuts from one of them gave an average of 9,929+3850 years, while
birchwood from the other tested 9,425+540. Materials from a cave
located five miles west of Behshahr at the southeast corner of the Cas-
pian Sea, in Iran, show dates ranging from 8,545+500 to 10,560
+1,200. ‘The deposits in the cave contain Bronze Age, late Neolithic,
Neolithic, late Mesolithic, and Mesolithic. The earlier date pre-
sumably is that of the Mesolithic, while the later was from a zone con-
taining upper Mesolithic artifacts.

In the United States there is a somewhat younger group of cultures
which are represented at various places in the West and Southwest.
They may represent developments out of the older remains previously
mentioned, but on the other hand they may indicate subsequent mi-
grations to the area. That is a problem which still needs to be solved
by the archeologists. Nevertheless there is some significance in the
carbon-14 indications.

Associated with Folsom materials at sites where artifacts were
picked up from the surface were types of points which were given the
CARBON-14 AGE DETERMINATION—F, H. H. ROBERTS 343

name Yuma. The latter became somewhat of a catch-all designation
for points that could not otherwise be identified and has more or less
been replaced by specific site names. The first points of this type
were believed to be contemporaneous with Folsom, but subsequent
work showed that their contemporaneity at best was a very late one
and that they more likely actually represented a subsequent horizon.
In this category are specimens such as those found by Dr. G. L.
Jepsen, of Princeton University, at Sage Creek in Wyoming. The
average date for that material, derived from partially burned bison
bones, is 6,876+250. Other specimens falling in the same category
were found in a site at the Angostura Reservoir in South Dakota.
Charcoal found at the occupation level tested 7,715+740, while simi-
lar material taken from an oval-shaped unprepared hearth dated
7,073+300. Geologic studies at both of those locations have not yet
been completed so it is not known what the conclusions are with re-
spect to their geologic age.

Caves in the Humboldt Valley in Nevada have furnished speci-
mens that have been dated 7,038+350 years, 5,7837+250 years, and
2,482+260 years. These dates were obtained from bat guano and
archeological artifacts. In the cave containing the oldest objects, the
guano layer below the artifact-bearing stratum rested on Pleistocene
gravels and, as previously mentioned, material from the contact tested
11,199+570. Briefly, the evidence there shows that man was present
in that district by 5000 B. C. and that the region was occupied
during the dry Altithermal Period of 4000 B. C. After approxi-
mately 1,500 years’ occupation the region apparently was abandoned
until about 500 B. C. from which time there is an unbroken archeo-
logical record to the present day. The oldest date thus far for Cali-
fornia is 4,052+160, but since Olivella biplicata shell beads were
found at the 7,000-year-old level in one of the caves in Nevada, it
seems evident that there must have been people along the Pacific
coast at that time (Heizer, 1951).

In southeastern Arizona a series of cultural horizons designated
the Cochise yielded carbon-14 dates of 7,756+370 and 6,210+450
for the oldest stage. The next or second stage yielded dates from
4508+ 680 to 4,006 +270, while the third stage gave 2,463+310. From
these dates it is obvious that the sequence of the three stages which
was established on geologic and typological evidence was sound. The
dates themselves, however, are somewhat lower than previous esti-
mates based on climatological studies, particularly in the case of the
first period which is about 2,000 years younger (Sayles and Antevs,
1941). The carbon-14 figures indicate that, contrary to the opinion
of many, the Cochise peoples had not moved into that area prior to
the appearance of hunting peoples of the Folsom type in the region

981445—52 23

344 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

immediately to the east. In that connection it may be pointed out
that the fire pit with a date of 4,283+250 years at Folsom was roughly
contemporaneous with the second stage of the Cochise in Arizona and
the Early Horizon culture in California. In the same category is a
fire pit in the secondary channel fill at the Lindenmeier site with its
5,020+300, Furthermore, the date falls in the same general horizon
as some of the Archaic remains in the eastern part of the United
States, as that of the site of the much-debated Tepexpan Man in
Mexico with its 4,118+300, and of the Huaca Prieta Mound No. 3 in
Peru with 4,044+300.

Bat Cave in Catron County, N. Mex., with dates from 5,931+310
to 1,752+250, falls into this same general period. In some ways the
archeological material from it may not be as important as that found
at other sites, but there is an excellent sequence of artifact types char-
acteristic of different geographical areas and several projectile points
similar to the second stage of the Cochise were found there. The main
significance of Bat Cave is in the light that it throws on the botanizal
problem of the development of maize or Indian corn. From the six
feet of accumulated refuse in the cave a series of shelled cobs, loose
kernels, and various fragments of husks, leaf sheaths, and tassels was
recovered, The specimens from the bottom level to the top show a
distinct evolutionary sequence. The corn from the bottom level is a
primitive variety which was both a popcorn and a form of pod corn,
while that at the top is an essentially modern form. The evolutionary
period required for such changes thus appears to be far shorter than
previously supposed. The sequence also indicates that there were im-
portant factors bearing on the evolutionary process; namely, that
there was a marked reduction in the pressure of natural selection,
that there were mutations from the more to the less extreme forms of
pod corn, that contamination by teosinte modified the corn, and that
crossing produced a high degree of hybridity (Mangelsdorf, 1950).

In the eastern United States the Archaic at Frontenac Island, N. Y..,
gave a date of 4,930+260. A site at Lamoka Lake, N. Y., produced
charcoal which tested 5,383+250, while shell mounds in Kentucky
yielded dates from 4,900+250 to 5,149+800. Geological determina-
tions have not played a particularly important part in the studies of
those sites, although such investigations as were made there would in-
dicate that there was some expectation of reasonable antiquity. Prob-
ably somewhat younger but still falling within that period is the
fishweir at Boston where peat from the Boylston Street site gave a
carbon-14 date of 5,717+500 for the lower peat underlying the weir.
A second date was obtained from a fragment of coniferous wood which
was taken from marine silt overlying the lower peat and the weir. It
was 8,851+390. The weir itself presumably should be younger than
the oldest date but older than the later one. On the basis of climatolog-
CARBON-14 AGE DETERMINATION—F. H. H. ROBERTS 345

ical evidence it had been estimated that the weir was in use just prior to
2000 B. C. (Antevs, 1943). Hence it appears that the people who
built and used the weir may have been contemporaneous with those
who lived at the Frontenac Lake, Lamoka, and Kentucky sites. ‘These
dates from the eastern United States are somewhat older than had
been anticipated and show that migration to that area was relatively
early.

There are some generally comparable dates for the Old World and
as the testing continues there undoubtedly will be more. Wheat and
barley grain from a pit in the Neolithic Fayum A Period in Egypt
gave the age 6,095 + 250, which is about 1,000 years later than originally
estimated by archeologists for the remains found there. Charcoal
from house floors at El-Omari, near Cairo, Egypt, tested 5,256 + 230,
the period represented being tentatively identified as Middle Pre-
dynastic. A slab of wood from a roof beam of the tomb of Vizier
Hemaka of the First Dynasty, at Sakkara, Egypt, ran an average of
4,883 +200 which is in the previously accepted range of 4,700 to 5,100
years for that dynasty. A cypress beam from the tomb of Sneferu
at Meydum, Egypt, tested an average 4,802+210 which is within the
range of error for the age determined from archeological evidence
and the Egyptian calendar. There are other dates of lesser magnitude
for Egypt as well and they agree rather closely with the radiocarbon
results (Braidwood et al., 1951). Fairly well-preserved land-snail
shells from basal levels at Jarmo, Iraq, a Kurdish hill-country site
lying on the flanks of the “Fertile Crescent” north and east of classic
Mesopotamia, tested 6,707+ 3820 years. That site has been considered,
on typological grounds, to be the earliest village remains thus far
excavated in western Asia. The carbon-14 age is about 2,000 years
younger than had been estimated by archeological reasoning. A piece
of charred wood from a Neolithic lakeside settlement at Ehenside
Tarn, England, showed a carbon-14 age of 4,964+300. The conven-
tional dating for such remains has been 4,000 years. Charcoal from
a feature considered to be late Neolithic and to belong to the first phase
of the monument at Stonehenge, England, tested 3,798+275. On the
other side of the world charcoal from part of the structural remains
of a house found in the bottom levels of the Ubayama shell mound,
about 10 miles west of Tokyo, Japan, had an average age of 4,564+ 220.
That is supposed to be the oldest house site in Japan. Charcoal from
a higher level at the same mound showed 4,513 +300.

Curiously enough, Alaska, which should give the oldest archeologi-
cal dates in the Western Hemisphere if the migration theory for the
populating of the New World from northeast Asia is correct, thus far
has shown nothing older than 5,993+280 for a habitation site. That
date was obtained from charcoal and willows from the bottom level
of a cave containing evidence of at least two different cultures. Arti-
346 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

facts from the same level consist of diagonally chipped blades, stone
and bone arrow points, microlithic side-blades, and decorated and
slotted bone. The side-blades and the bone suggest a Mesolithic tra-
dition. The other cultural materials, separated from the former by
more than a meter of debris, are of a type that elsewhere in Alaska has
been found to be approximately 1,000 years old. A base log from a
Paleo-Eskimo house at Cape Denbigh tested 2,016 + 250, while charred
wood from the middle levels of the same site showed 1,460+200.
Spruce wood from a site at Gambell, St. Lawrence Island, yielded
2,258+230. The dates for the Alaskan remains, however, do differ
from archeological conceptions as to their age and as yet there is no
satisfactory explanation for the discrepancy.

There is one interesting series of dates covering a long sequence of
cultures in the Chicama Valley, Peru (Bird, 1951). The range is
from 4,424+ 104 to 2,211+200 and so far as the archeological evidence
is concerned there is nothing which would throw doubt on the validity
of the radiocarbon determinations. The same cannot be said, how-
ever, for dates for certain remains in the United States. The latter
are much younger than many of those in Peru and involve the so-
called Hopewell and Adena cultures. Archeologists had generally
agreed that the Adena and its typologically related cultures preceded
the Hopewell. When three different kinds of organic material com-
prising six samples from Hopewell sites were tested they were found
to be 1,951+200, 2,044 -+ 250, 2,285 -+ 210, and 2,336+250. The Adena
materials, on the other hand, range from 1,168 + 150 to 1,509 +250, and
the related cultures from 6383+150 to 1,2833+250, and 1,158+250 to
1,276+150. Generally speaking radiocarbon shows that Hopewell is
not only older than Adena but antedates it by 1,000 years (Griffin,
1951). Since this is so contrary to the accepted archeological chronol-
ogy, the the results have been sharply questioned. ‘The discrepancy
probably cannot be attributed to the method itself because all the dates
are within the range of carbon-14 determinations that were checked
by samples of known age. Consequently it would seem that either
the archeological concepts need to be changed or the specimens used
in the tests were contaminated.

There are various other dates of anthropological significance now
available but space will permit the consideration of only two more.
They are of particular interest for other than strictly archeological
reasons. A test was made of a sample from a carved wooden lintel
from a building at the ruined Mayan city of Tikal in northern Guate-
mala. ‘The building is believed to have been the sacerdotal palace or
residence for the priests serving a nearby temple. The lintel in ques-
tion formerly spanned an interior doorway and was composed of five
sapote beams. The complete lintel was decorated with an inscription
giving the Maya date 9.15.10.0.0 8 Ahau 3 Mol. The correlation of
CARBON-14 AGE DETERMINATION—F, H. H. ROBERTS 347

the Mayan and Gregorian calendars has long been a source of dispute
and there have been two principal schools of thought in the matter
with a difference of about 260 years in the results obtained. Accord-
ing to the Goodman-Martinez Hernandez-Thompson correlation the
date was June 30, A. D. 741, while in the Spinden correlation it was
August 30, A. D. 481. The radiocarbon age based on the average of
two runs was 1,470+120. The expected result on the basis of the first
correlation method should have been 1,210-1,240. For the second it
should have been 1,470-1,500. As far as this particular sample is
concerned, it appears that the Spinden correlation is the correct one
(Kulp et al., 1951). The other object of special interest to many
people that was subjected to the carbon-14 method was the Book
of Isaiah, the Dead Sea scrolls found in a cave near Ain Fashkha in
Palestine. History and tradition placed the age of the book in the
first or second century before Christ. The linen wrappings that en-
closed the scrolls were used for the radiocarbon sample and gave
1,917+200 as their age. The scrolls probably are somewhat older and
the date of their wrappings may well be that of the time when they
were cached in the cave.

The results from carbon 14 as far as geology is concerned are spotty
because of the difficulty in obtaining suitable material for testing and
because in many instances their stratigraphic position is questionable.
However, certain things are apparent from the work done thus far.
The dates do fall roughly into the same order as the stratigraphic
sequence of the deposits from which the specimens for testing were
collected and their relative chronology is acceptable. On the other
hand, they are for the most part more recent than many geologists
believed would be the case. For example, the Mankato substage of
the Wisconsin glaciation is shown to have gotten under way about
11,400 years ago with the maximum being reached at approximately
11,000. This is somewhat less than half the age previously assumed
for the Mankato and if correct will require considerable revision of
ideas on the part of some students of geochronology. It is interest-
ing to note that radiocarbon dating has confirmed the conclusion,
based on pollen studies, that a series of deposits in Germany, England,
and Ireland were correlated and belonged to the same interval, the
Alleréd. Furthermore, they appear to be correlatives of the Two
Creeks bog in Wisconsin and to show that there was contemporaneous
climatic fluctuation in Europe and North America (Flint, 1951, a, b).
The European dates are: Peat from Wallensen im Hills, northwest
Germany, 11,044+500; lake mud from Neasham, near Darlington in
the extreme north of England, 10,851+630; peat from Hawks Tor,
Cornwall, England, 9,861+500; and lake mud from Knocknacran,
County Monaghan, Ireland, 11,310+720.
348 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

There are older dates for geologic material than those above. Wood
from a peat bed in the Dranse Valley, south of Lake Geneva in France,
is reported as at least 19,000 years old. Wood and peat samples col-
lected between Chambéry and Grenoble in southeastern France are
considered at least 21,000. Wood samples from the Lake Kickapoo
deposits at Wedron, Ill., from the Camden Moraine south of Dayton,
Ohio, from a bank of Skunk Creek in Polk County, Iowa, and from
Vermilion County, Ill., have been reported as older than 17,000 years.
Coaly peat from an exposure along Eagle River north of Anchorage,
Alaska, ran 14,300+600. Partially lignitized wood from the shore of
Tustermana Lake, Kenai Peninsula, Alaska, gave the date 15,800 + 400.
Wood from a depth of 30 to 60 feet along Fairbanks Creek, Alaska,
and associated with extinct mammal bones, dated 12,622+750. <A fos-
sil cedar log dredged from St. Georges Harbor, Bermuda, and repre-
sentative of the extensive forest that once flourished there but has long
been extinct, tested 11,500 700.

Dates derived from pollen analysis and the radiocarbon determina-
tions show a general consistency, but there are some disagreements
which suggest that the stratigraphic position of some of the samples
was not determined properly.’ Also it seems that there may be a
possible source of error in a postdepositional replacement of carbon
14 by carbon 12. Several dates from bogs were mentioned in a previ-
ous paragraph. ‘The results from a series of samples reflecting tree
growth in the eastern United States are interesting in that they show
that the pine phase was reached in West Virginia 9,423+840 years
ago at a time when that region was definitely outside the glaciated area.
The same stage was reached at 8,323+400 in Connecticut, and
7,988 +420 in Minnesota in the region south of the limits reached by
the ice sheet during the Mankato substage. In northern Minnesota the
phase dated 7,128+300. It was still later when similar conditions
prevailed in northern Maine, as the radiocarbon test on material from
Plissey Pond gave the result 5,962+320 (Deevey, 1951). On the
basis of these figures it is easy to visualize the slow spread of pine
growth from south to north during the relatively dry climatic con-
ditions following the retreating ice sheet.

Work on ocean samples has not progressed as far as that in other
lines of research, but what has been done indicates that useful informa-
tion will be forthcoming not only with respect to deposits at the bottom
of the sea but also pertaining to the age and movements of subsurface
currents. Unquestionably as more laboratories are established and
the techniques are perfected other fields will be found where radio-
carbon age determinations will have a definite place. There are, of
course, various aspects of the problem that still need clarification.
For example, it is not known what effect different climatic conditions
may have on samples, whether the carbon-14 content is consistent in
CARBON-14 AGE DETERMINATION—F. H. H. ROBERTS 349

wet and dry areas, or if perhaps the rate of disintegration may be
accelerated or decreased by the nature of the deposits where the object
to be tested was found. However, the results thus far indicate that
the carbon-14 method is valid and, bearing in mind the expectable
error, that a majority of the dates obtained are reasonably accurate.
Improved methods for collecting samples and greater care in avoiding
subsequent contamination probably will sharply reduce the number
of unacceptable determinations.

REFERENCES
ALLIson, I. S. ,
1946. Early Man in Oregon: Pluvial lakes and pumice. Sci. Month., vol. 62,

pp. 638-65.
ANDERSON, E. C., and Lissy, W. F.
1951. World-wide distribution of natural radiocarbon. Phys. Rey., vol. 81,
No. 1, pp. 64-69.
ANTEVS, ERNST.
1943. Review of the Boylston Street fishweir by Frederick Johnson et al.
Amer. Antiq., vol. 8, No. 8, p. 804.
1948. The Great Basin, with emphasis on glacial and post-glacial times;
climatie changes and pre-white man. Univ. Utah Bull., vol. 33,
No. 20, pp. 168-181.
1949. Geology of the Clovis sites. Appendix to Ancient man in North Amer-
ica, by H. M. Wormington. Denver Mus, Nat. Hist., pop. ser. No.
4, 3d ed., revised.
ARNOLD, J. R., and Lipsy, W. F.
1951. Radiocarbon dates. Science, vol. 118, No. 2927, pp. 111-120.
Birp, JUNIUS.
1951. South American radiocarbon dates. Amer. Antig., vol. 17, No. 1, pt.
2, pp. 37-49.
Braipwoop, Rovert J., JACOBSEN, T., PARKER, R. A., and WEINBERG, S.
1951. Radiocarbon dates and their implications in the near and middle east-
ern areas. Amer, Antiq., vol. 17, No. 1, pt. 2, pp. 52-53.
Brown, BARNUM.
1929. Folsom culture and its age, with discussion by Kirk Bryan. Geol.
Soe. Amer. Bull. 40, pp. 128-129.
BRYAN, Kirk.
1937. Geology of the Folsom deposits, in Harly Man, pp. 140-48. Philadelphia.
BrYAN, Kirk, and Ray, Louis lh.
1940. Geologie antiquity of the Lindenmeier site in Colorado. Smithsonian
Misc. Coll., vol. 99, No. 2.
CressMAN, L. S.
1942. Archaeological researches in the northern Great Basin. Carnegie Inst.
Washington Publ. 5388.
1948. Results of recent archeological research in the northern Great Basin
region of south-central Oregon. Proe. Amer. Philos. Soe., vol. 86,
No. 2, pp. 236-246.
1951. Western prehistory in the light of carbon 14 dating. Southwestern
Journ. Anthrop., vol. 7, No. 3, pp. 289-313.
CRESSMAN, L. S., WILLIAMS, H., and Krircrr, A. D.
1940. Early Man in Oregon: Archaeological studies in the northern Great
Basin. Univ. Oregon Monogr., Studies in Anthropology, No. 3,
3

350 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

Dervey, Epwarp §., Jr.
1951. Discussion of the relation of some radiocarbon dates to pollen chro-
nology. Amer. Antiq., vol. 17, No. 1, pt. 2, pp. 56-57.
ENGELKEMETR, A. G., and Linsy, W. F.
1950. End and wall corrections for absolute beta counting in gas counters.
Rev. Sci. Instr., vol. 21, p. 550.
FLINT, RICHARD FOSTER.
1951a. Discussion of the geologic material dated by radiocarbon, a brief.
Amer. Antiq., vol. 17, No.1, pt. 2, pp. 54-55.
1951b. Pin-pointing the past with the cosmic clock. Nat. Hist., vol. 60,
No. 5, pp. 200-206.
GRIFFIN, JAMES B.
1951. Some Adena find Hopewell radiocarbon dates. Amer. Antiq., vol. 17,
No. 1, pt. 2, pp. 26-29.

Grosse, A. V.
1934. An unknown radioactivity. Journ. Amer. Chem. Soc., vol. 56, No. 9,
pp. 1922-24.

Grosse, A. V., and Lipsy, W. F.
1947. Cosmic radiocarbon and natural radioactivity of living matter.
Science, vol. 106, No. 2743, pp. 88-89.

HANSEN, H. P.
1946. Early Man in Oregon: Stratigraphic evidence. Sci. Month., vol. 62,
pp. 48-51.

HEIzErR, RoBErRT F.
1951. An assessment of certain Nevada, California, and Oregon radio-
carbon dates. Amer. Antig., vol. 17, No. 1, pt. 2, pp. 23-25.
JONES, W. M.
1948. A determination of the half-life of carbon 14. Phys. Rev., vol. 76,
p. 885.
Kup, J. LAWERENCE, FEELY, H. W., and TrYON, LANSING EB.
1951. Lamont natural radiocarbon measurements, I. Science, vol. 114, No.
2970, pp. 565-568.
Linsy, W. F.
1946. Atmospheric helium 8 and radiocarbon from cosmic radiation. Phys.
Rey., vol. 69, Nos. 11-12, pp. 671-72.
Lippy, W. F., ANDERSON, E. C., and Arnorp, J. R.
1949. Age determination by radiocarbon content: World-wide assay of
natural radiocarbon. Science, vol. 109, No. 2827, pp. 227-228.
MANGELSDORF, PAUL C.
1950. The mystery of corn. Sci. Amer., vol. 183, No. 1, pp. 20-24, July.
MILLER, W. W., BALLENTINE, R., BERNSTEIN, W. FriepMAN, L., Nier, A. O., and
Evans, R. D.
1950. The half-life of carbon 14 and a comparison of gas phase counter
methods. Phys. Rey., vol. 77, p. 714.
Movivus, HALLAM I.
1951. The Lascaux Cave. Amer. Antiq., vol. 17, No. 1, pt. 2, pp. 50-51.
Say tes, EH. B., and ANTEvS, ERNST.
1941. The Cochise Culture. Medallion Pap. No. 24, Gila Pueblo, Globe,
Ariz.
ScHULTz, C. BERTRAND, and FRANKFURTER, W. D.
1949. The Lime Creek sites, in Proc. 5th Plains Conference for Archeology,
pp. 132-34. Lincoln.
WILLIAMS, H.
1942. The geology of Crater Lake National Forest, Oregon. Carnegie Inst.
Washington Publ. No. 540.
River Basin Surveys: The First Five
Years of the Inter-Agency Archeological

and Paleontological Salvage Program

By Frank H. H. Roserts, Jr.

Associate Director, Bureau of American Ethnology
Director, River Basin Surveys

[With 10 plates]

Late in the autumn of 1944, archeologists throughout the United
States began to realize that the development and expansion of a
nation-wide program for flood control, irrigation, hydroelectric, and
navigation projects by the Federal Government would eventually
destroy many archeological sites in areas where virtually no investi-
gations had been made, and that whole chapters covering thousands
of years of the aboriginal history of North America would be lost
unless some steps were taken to save them. Asa result of suggestions
stemming from various sources, an exploratory meeting of some of
the members of the Committee on Basic Needs in American Archeology
and archeologists stationed in Washington, D. C., was held at the
National Research Council in January 1945. At that time various
plans were suggested for starting a program for the salvaging of
materials from areas which would be involved. No definite action
was taken then, but as an outgrowth of the discussions an independent
committee, the Committee for the Recovery of Archeological Remains,
composed of representatives from the Society for American Archaeol-
ogy, the American Anthropological Association, and the American
Council of Learned Societies, was organized in April of the same
year and undertook a careful study of the problem. Concurrently,
members of the staff of the Smithsonian Institution were working on
a tentative program and discussed the situation with officials in vari-
ous agencies interested in the development of river-basin projects.
During approximately the same period interbureau agreements were
completed between the National Park Service, the Bureau of Reclama-
tion, and the Corps of Engineers for a survey of the recreational

351
352 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

resources of proposed reservoir areas. Since the National Park Serv-
ice is the Federal bureau specifically charged by law with responsi-
bility for the preservation of historical and archeological sites, it
interpreted the agreements for the study of recreational resources to
mean that archeological and paleontological remains should be in-
cluded and was making preliminary preparations for studying them.

Late in the spring of 1945 the Smithsonian Institution and the
National Park Service, through the work of the Committee for the
Recovery of Archeological Remains, were made aware of the common
goal toward which both were striving. This resulted in a series of
conferences which made it apparent that the National Park Service
and the Smithsonian Institution were prepared to cooperate fully
in any general program for the survey and recovery of archeological
and paleontological remains and that the Smithsonian Institution
was prepared to take scientific responsibility for the work to be done.
Eventually a Memorandum of Understanding between the two agen-
cies was prepared and signed, providing in part that the National
Park Service would call to the attention of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion the locations of all the proposed dams and reservoirs and that the
Smithsonian Institution would advise the National Park Service as to
the number and importance of the known archeological or paleonto-
logical sites located within such areas and would recommend such sur-
veys in the field as might be indicated. The National Park Service was
to inform the respective agencies responsible for the construction of
the proposed reservoirs as to the nature and extent of the remains
that would be lost if thorough investigation and excavation was not
undertaken sufficiently in advance of the flooding of the reservoir.
This was the genesis of the Inter-Agency Archeological and Paleon-
tological Salvage Program.

To carry out its part of the Memorandum of Understanding, the
Smithsonian Institution in the fall of 1945 instituted the River Basin
Surveys which was organized as a unit of the Bureau of American
Ethnology. The National Park Service then furnished the River
Basin Surveys with lists of Bureau of Reclamation and Corps of
Engineers projects. On the basis of information available in pub-
lished reports, from correspondence with local societies, museums,
colleges, universities, and interested laymen, areas where surveys
should be started were determined. It was apparent that in many
regions the operations would be a race against time, but because of
its size, the fact that 105 projects had already been authorized and in
many cases were under construction there, because of its importance
to American archeology in general, and since very little was known
about its broader manifestations, the Missouri Basin was chosen as
the first scene of operations. Officials of the National Park Service
RIVER BASIN SURVEYS—F. H. H. ROBERTS 353

presented the case for the Missouri Basin to the Bureau of Reclama-
tion. A preliminary allotment of funds to begin the work was made
by that agency and was transferred through the National Park Serv-
ice to the Smithsonian Institution. The funds were for use in both
Bureau of Reclamation and Corps of Engineers projects.

BEGINNING OF THE WORK

The first actual field work got under way in July 1946, when a field
office was established at Lincoln, Nebr., in quarters provided by the
University of Nebraska, and three parties of two men each made a
rapid reconnaissance covering more than 13,000 miles, visiting 28 top-
priority Bureau of Reclamation projects and 5 Corps of Engineers
reservoirs. In September of the same year the Corps of Engineers
transferred funds through the National Park Service for surveys to
be made outside the Missouri Basin, and field parties were started in
Georgia, Virginia, Texas, and California. The money provided by
the Corps of Engineers was for use in their projects only. The Bu-
reau of Reclamation supplied additional funds in March 1947 for
surveys at its projects in the Columbia-Snake Basin, and work got
under way there the following June. In addition, both agencies
contributed in no small degree to the successful start of the surveys
through their cooperation in other ways. Bureau of Reclamation
personnel and division and district engineers did much to facilitate
the work of the men in the field. In some areas transportation was
provided, in others necessary labor was furnished to aid in emergency
excavations, and elsewhere temporary office space and storage facili-
ties were made available at project headquarters. In the fall of 1947
the Bureau of the Budget ruled that thereafter all requests for ap-
propriations for the archeological and paleontological program should
appear in the Interior Department budget. As a consequence, Mis-
souri Basin funds for all types of projects are carried in the Bureau
of Reclamation item, while those for other areas are provided by the
National Park Service. Furthermore, it was stipulated that the in-
vestigations need not be restricted to Bureau of Reclamation and
Corps of Engineers projects but could also be carried on in those
sponsored by other Federal agencies and by the several States. Even
after it was decided that all the necessary funds were to be provided
through the Interior Department, the Corps of Engineers continued
to contribute to the effort through the loan of equipment, office space,
and transportation.

In subsequent years the program was expanded to cover more and
more areas throughout the country. Field headquarters for the Pa-
cific coast region were set up at Eugene, Oreg., in space made available
by the University of Oregon, and at Austin, Tex., where the Univer-
354 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

sity of Texas provided office and laboratory room. A field base was
also made available at Athens, Ga., by the University of Georgia. By
July 1951, after the program of field work had been going for 5
years, surveys had been completed in 225 reservoir areas situated in 25
States. One lock project and four canal areas were also investigated.
Some 2,894 archeological sites were located and recorded and of that
number 545 have been recommended for excavation or limited testing.
The initial phase of the program called for preliminary surveys to
locate remains with such testing as might be necessary to determine
which of the sites were of prime importance. ‘The next step was that
of extended excavation at those sites which promised particularly in-
formative results in relation to the archeology of neighboring districts
and of the particular area as a whole. Because of the fact that the
program was late in starting, it took the greater part of the first 3
years to catch up with the necessary survey work. In some cases the
construction of dams was so far advanced that they were completed
and were impounding water before survey parties could reach them.
In others surveys were made, but the area went under water before any
digging could be done. As more and more of the regions were sur-
veyed, however, it became possible to start actual digging and by the
end of the 5-year period there were more excavations than surveys in
progress. Digging had been done or was continuing in 33 reservoir
projects in 10 river basins scattered over 15 States. While detailed
analyses of the data and materials from the excavations have not been
completed, it is evident that considerable new knowledge has been ob-
tained and that a much better understanding of aboriginal activities
in the various areas will be forthcoming.

In carrying out the program, the River Basin Surveys was aided in
no small degree by State and local organizations which in some in-
stances actually joined forces with the Surveys’ reconnaissance or ex-
cavation parties and in others assumed full responsibility for specific
projects. During the first 3 years the cost of such assistance was borne
by the cooperating institutions. In the last 2 years of the period, how-
ever, there was a change of policy and a number of local institutions
signed agreements with the National Park Service whereby they were
furnished some funds and excavated sites that had been chosen in ac-
cordance with recommendations of the Smithsonian Institution.

The sites located by the survey parties represent the whole range
of such remains known throughout the United States. There are
localities attributable to occupation by some of the early hunting, food-
gathering peoples, camping places intermittently occupied by later
Indian groups, quarries, bluff and rock shelters, caves giving indica-
tions of inhabitation, villages, artificial mounds, burial grounds, os-
suaries and cairns, and even battlefields. In association with many of
RIVER BASIN SURVEYS—F. H. H. ROBERTS 355

the various kinds of sites are groups of petroglyphs pecked into or
painted on the surface of adjacent large boulders or the faces of neigh-
boring cliffs. The surveys did not confine their efforts to the locating
of strictly aboriginal sites but also noted and recorded places of his-
toric interest such as early trading posts, pioneer forts, and Colonial
and pioneer villages. In many cases there is a definite correlation be-
tween Indian remains and those of the white man, and study of them
undoubtedly will throw considerable light on acculturation problems
and the effects of an advanced civilization on primitive cultures. After
the investigations have been completed and the results are available
there should be a fairly comprehensive story of the history of the abo-
riginal United States from the closing days of the last Ice Age down
to the Indian wars in the Plains area in the late sixties and early seven-
ties. For the late periods there is, of course, considerable documentary
material containing valuable information, but archeological evidence
in many cases will augment and clarify the written records.

OLD REMAINS UNCOVERED

Excavations have been carried on at several locations where it ap-
pears that some of the older Indian groups were present. Along a
small tributary of the Columbia River near Cold Springs, Oreg., in-
dications of a cultural layer lying beneath a strip of wind-blown
volcanic ash were found in the stream bank. Excavations at that
location uncovered traces of a single occupation by a group of Indians
having a simple culture and, except for the projectile points, very
crude tools. There were no indications of any type of habitation.
The people presumably built their fires and cooked their food in the
open. Large numbers of animal bones, many of which were burned,
and many mussel shells were present in the debris. It is apparent
that the people depended about equally on fishing and hunting for
their subsistence. The artifacts consisted largely of hammerstones
and choppers with a fair showing of projectile points. The projectile
points are leaf-shaped with a concave base. They do not have the
side notches or stems such as are common in many parts of the area.
The projectile point represents one of the older types but thus far has
not been definitely correlated with some of the better-known varieties.
The cultural remains probably represent a fairly early stage in the
occupation of the Columbia Basin, but their proper place in the se-
quence for the area will not be known definitely until the volcanic
ash that covered them has been correlated with one of the known
eruptions in that region or until a carbon-14 test has been made on
the burned bones.

Another location where relatively old remains were found was in
the Tiber Reservoir area along the Marias River in Montana. Two
356 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

different sites were excavated there and were found to contain occupa-
tion levels indicative of a simple hunting culture. The materials
obtained from the digging consisted of a small series of artifacts in
association with bones from bison, deer, and smaller mammals. There
were no indications of any form of habitation and the cooking fires
apparently were built for the most part in simple basins in the surface
of the ground, although an example of a rock-ringed hearth was found.
There was nothing to indicate a chronological age for the remains, but
the artifact assemblage suggests that the culture was reasonably old
and that it may well fall within the period that previously has been
considered to constitute a gap between the Paleo-Indians such as are
represented by the Folsom and similar complexes and the later Indian
groups. At one of the Tiber sites there were several occupation levels,
the lowest of which was 714 feet below the present surface. The
strata at that location are such that careful study of their character-
istics may produce helpful data pertaining to the rate of deposition
in that region.

EXCAVATIONS IN ANGOSTURA BASIN

Perhaps the most significant of the early sites excavated by the River
Basin Surveys during the course of the current program is that in
the Angostura Reservoir basin in South Dakota. The Long site, as
it is called, contained deeply buried fireplaces with associated arti-
facts. The projectile points in the artifact assemblage show certain
similarities to types belonging to relatively early horizons in other
regions. Some suggest one of the so-called Yuma forms, others the
Plainview type, and others some of those found in the Pinto Basin
in the Mohave Desert. There are also examples comparable to some
found in the Agate Basin district in eastern Wyoming not far west
from the Angostura site. Probably because of the high gypsum con-
tent of the soil at the Long site, very little has been found to indicate
the type of food used by the people who made the artifacts. Bone is
virtually nonexistent, but the artifact complex bespeaks a heavy re-
liance on hunting, although there may have been some use of ground
seeds and nuts. The cultures containing the implements to which
those of the Long site bear closest resemblance definitely were based
on a hunting form of economy, and it seems logical that such would
be true for the people who roamed the Angostura Basin at the time
the Long site was inhabited. Charcoal from fire pits at the site has
given carbon-14 dates of 7073+300 and 7715+740 years before the
present (Roberts, 1951, p. 21).

Three extremely significant sites belonging to the early period were
found and excavated in the Medicine Creek Reservoir basin in western
Nebraska by the State Museum of Nebraska in cooperation with the
RIVER BASIN SURVEYS—F. H. H. ROBERTS 357

general program. One of them, the Allen site, was located on Medi-
cine Creek, while the other two were on Lime Creek in the same
drainage. At the Allen site there were two occupation levels occur-
ring in the base of a terrace that was provisionally correlated with
the Mankato Substage of the Wisconsin Glacial Stage. The cultural
material began some 20 feet below the present surface and occurred
in a band from 214 to 3 feet thick. The two levels were separated by
an intermediate zone about 114 feet thick, which contained only a
small amount of cultural material. The lowest level was characterized
by the remains of small camp fires, which had been built on the old
surface, large numbers of broken and disarticulated animal bones,
and scattered artifacts consisting of knives, scrapers, blades, abrading
stones, hammerstones, projectile points, and bone implements. The
upper level showed little change in the nature of the artifacts, but
there was a distinct difference in the character of the animal bones
associated with the fireplaces and artifacts which possibly indicates
a significant change in the fauna of the area, possibly as a result of
some change in climatic conditions. The nearest similarities to
groups of elements from the complex at the Allen site thus far noted
are with those from Dead Man Cave in northeastern Utah. Charcoal
obtained from the earliest occupation at the Allen site gave a carbon-14
date of 10,4931,500 years, while some from the upper layer gave a
date of 5,256+350. A tentative geological dating from Dead Man
Cave has placed its first occupancy at approximately 4,000 years ago,
which gives grounds for interesting speculations pertaining to the
similarities between the two cultures (Holder and Wike, 1949).

At the original “Lime Creek discovery” eight cultural horizons have
been located, but in only one has an adequate series of artifacts been
found. The general indications are that the culture is related to that
which produced the Plainview-type points found in western Texas
and other localities throughout the Plains area. The evidence at
Angostura for the association of a Plainview variant with the ma-
terials there, and the date of approximately 7,000 years for that as-
semblage, give a good indication of the age period to which the Lime
Creek points may belong. ‘The other Lime Creek site, some distance
downstream from the first, is one where animal bones and artifacts
occur in a dark gray stratum 4714 feet below the surface of the present
terrace. The so-called Scottsbluff Yuma-type projectile point is
reported to have been found in situ there together with knives,
numerous flakes, end scrapers, leaf-shaped and other blades, and con-
siderable quantities of chippers’ debris. ‘The animal bones represent
some 17 mammalian forms as well as those of birds, reptiles, and
amphibians (Schultz and Frank forter, 1948, 1949). When the carbon-
14 age of 9524+450 years for the site was first announced it was
358 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

received with some incredulity by archeologists because it suggested
that the Scottsbluff Yuma-type point was much older than most had
‘supposed since it was found in other localities whose dates are con-
siderably younger. Undoubtedly some implement forms persisted
over long periods of time but in the present instance the span seemed
too long. Subsequently, however, it was learned that the sample of
charcoal tested came from log fragments found one to two feet below
the level of the cultural material. Hence the artifacts must be an
undetermined number of years younger than the announced date.

Excavations in camp sites were made in a number of reservoir areas.
In most cases the information obtained was not as extensive as might
be desired but does reveal something of the mode of life and habits of
the people who formerly occupied them. The scarcity of material at
such locations is probably attributable to the fact that only temporary
shelters—perhaps brush or other highly perishable structures—were
used and there are no traces of dwellings or habitations. In most
cases such an area is characterized by unprepared basin-shaped
hearths containing charcoal and ashes, midden deposits with chopped
and broken animal bones, chipped-stone debris, and other refuse. Oc-
casionally potsherds and even restorable vessels are found, but they
are not so common as at the sites of more permanent villages. Be-
cause such camping places were occupied only for short periods, or
intermittently, by hunting parties, the amount of material left is
small in comparison with that usually found where substantial vil-
lages were erected. Several sites of that type were examined in the
Angostura Reservoir basin in South Dakota and in the Boysen Reser-
voir area in Wyoming. Most of them appeared to belong to late
prehistoric times, but in one instance in the Boysen basin an early
contact period was represented, as trade beads and bits of iron were
present. No correlations have been made as yet with Indian tribes
known to have been in that portion of the Plains, but when studies
are completed it may be possible to attribute at least some of the sites
to a particular group. The cultural material from them gives a
good idea of the kinds of tools and implements being made just before
or at the time when the first white men reached the area. Further-
more, the information is a contribution because prior to the River
Basin Surveys no systematic investigations had been made in the
Angostura and Boysen regions.

Associated with or adjacent to some of the camping sites are fea-
tures that usually are referred to as tipi rings. The latter are indica-
ted by circles of stones on the surface of the ground. The general
supposition is that the stones were used to hold down the edges
of skin tents or tipis. There has been disagreement over that inter-
pretation, however, as some ethnologists insist that the later Indians
RIVER BASIN SURVEYS—F. H. H. ROBERTS 359

did not anchor their tents in that fashion, and a few archeologists
have reported that there was nothing within the circles to indicate oc-
cupation. In an effort to determine the actual status of sueh mani-
festations, a number were excavated in various localities. It was ex-
pected that a hearth or fire pit would be present near the center of
the circles if tents had actually been placed there. In the Boysen
area those investigated gave no indication of fires and the question
still remains as to whether or not tipis actually stood there. Evi-
dence elsewhere substantiates the tipi-ring concept in that fire basins
were found near the centers of the circles of stones. Occasional un-
excavated examples may be seen with a small circle of stones out-
lining a hearth still showing on the surface. An explanation is still
to be found for those where evidence of occupation is lacking.

ROCK SHELTERS

Rock shelters have been dug in several areas. At the Whitney
Reservoir on the Brazos River in Texas three such sites were investi-
gated. One of them, locally known as Pictograph Cave, showed
that it had been lived in during at least two different periods, the
first being prior to approximately A. D. 1200 and the second occurring
subsequent to that time but also pre-Columbian in age. There was
a well-defined cultural stratigraphy in the shelter, and good data
were obtained pertaining to changes in diet and population density
during the two periods. The early occupation is comparable in
many respects to the Round Rock Focus of the central Texas region
but the second has not yet been correlated with other known remains.
Although Pictograph Cave was a dry shelter and vegetal remains
were preserved in all levels, basketry, matting, cord, or other perish-
able artifacts were not found. That was a curious situation, and
its significance is not altogether clear. According to what is known
about the Indians in the general area, it would seem that such objects
should have been a part of the material culture. The second loca-
tion, known as Buzzard Shelter, is not far distant from the first and
the digging revealed that there also had been two periods of occupa-
tion with considerable general similarity between the cultural se-
quences. However, there were specific differences in artifact types,
and it would appear that the material in the second location repre-
sents slightly different cultural groups. The lower level at Buzzard
Shelter produced specimens that apparently are attributable to a
rather early complex. The upper level correlates fairly well with
what is called the Toyah Focus in central Texas. The third loca-
tion, known as Sheep Cave, was much larger but the cultural se-
quences seem to follow the pattern of the other two. Five flexed
burials were found there, however, and study of the physical type

981445—52 24

360 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

represented should throw some light on the relationships of the
people. Examination of the bones has not yet been completed so
no conclusions are possible at this time. The material in general,
however, does give a much better understanding of the archeology
of that portion of Texas and when correlated with the results of
other excavations in the Whitney basin should round out the story
in a satisfactory manner.

In the Boysen Reservoir area in Wyoming, Birdshead Cave was
found to contain stratified deposits representing seven with possibly
one or two more periods of occupation. There were six district levels
seemingly covering a wide range in time. Differences in faunal ma-
terial suggest that climatic conditions prevailing in the district during
the first occupation were not the same as in subsequent times. Later
levels show varying degrees of change leading to present-day condi-
tions. The artifact yield from the cave was small, but such specimens
as were collected show changes in projectile-point types from top to
bottom. There also was evidence for a shift in the economy through
the several occupations. In the lower levels it appears that the people
were largely dependent upon plant foods supplemented by small game
such as rabbits, squirrels, and conies. In the later levels the economy
was definitely based on the hunting of large herbivorous animals as
is indicated by the presence of bones from antelope, deer, bighorn
sheep, and possibly bison. The presence of steatite vessel fragments,
rabbit-hair cloth, fiber cordage, and pieces of basketry in the upper
levels suggests that there was a late prehistoric occupancy of the
cave by Indians from the Great Basin to the west rather than by
peoples from the Plains lying to the east. This has raised an interest-
ing set of problems pertaining to the long-term interrelationships be-
tween two distinct modes of life in the Western Plains. If the arti-
facts from the various levels in the cave can be correlated with those
from single-occupation sites, it may be possible to determine the
sequence for the open sites in the Boysen Reservoir and the Wind
River basin as a whole. Studies of the material from the various sites
have not progressed sufficiently to establish a relative chronology as
yet (Bliss, 1950).

An interesting rock shelter was investigated at the Equalizing Re-
servoir basin southwest of the town of Grand Coulee, Wash. The
excavations were handicapped by the fact that large blocks of stone
had fallen from the ceiling of the cave and it was necessary to dig
around and beneath them to unearth the archeological remains. The
evidence obtained there indicated that the place was not lived in eon-
tinuously but was one where small groups probably camped from time
to time. Three distinct levels of occupation were found, but it did
not appear that there were lengthy intervals between the periods when
RIVER BASIN SURVEYS—F. H. H. ROBERTS 361

people stayed there. The artifacts suggest that the same cultural
group was involved from first to last. A considerable amount of dry
material such as is rarely present in open sites was obtained. There
are pieces of cordage, sections from arrow and spear shafts, fragments
from bow staves, portions of textiles, matting, and bits of basketry.
Among the objects made from more durable materials are stone projec-
tile points, bone implements and beads, and shell beads. Study of the
specimens made from perishable materials should throw considerable
light on that phase of the arts and industries of the people in the area.
On the basis of the artifact collection as a whole, it would seem that
the shelter probably was occupied by either the Nespelim or their
eastern neighbors, the Sanpoil. There were objects of white manu-
facture on the surface in the cave attributable to picnic parties held
there by modern residents of the region. No such material was found
beneath the surface, yet it is difficult to assign the aboriginal objects
either to historic or pre-Columbian times.

VILLAGH REMAINS

A major part of the excavation program has been concerned with
village remains. In the Columbia Basin digging has been carried on
at village sites in the McNary, O’Sullivan, and Chief Joseph Reservoir
projects. At each of the locations the activities were directed toward
the clearing of house pits and the excavation of midden deposits.
The house remains show that many of the structures were circular to
oval in form, with diameters ranging from 25 to 40 feet, and were
grouped in clusters along the terraces above the river. Because of the
scarcity of timber, the Indians apparently took the main supports
from the structures with them when they moved from place to place.
As a consequence there is little to indicate the type of superstructure.
It probably consisted of a framework of poles to which branches or
mats were lashed. The poles were not embedded in the earth, but
some stability was obtained by heaping dirt against the outside of the
walls. The floors were 2 to 3 feet below the surface near the center
and sloped gradually upward to about the ground level at the rim.
The village patterns were very simple. At most sites the houses were
strung along the river without any particular attempt at formal place-
ment, although in several instances there apparently was a twofold
division, with one group of dwellings being located at one end of the
site and the second group at the other. Where such arrangements
were noted one cluster of house pits generally was smaller than the
other. What significance there may be, if any, to that situation has
not been determined.

At a number of the sites the remains of long, oval, or rectangular
“mat houses” were found. The latter apparently represent a later
362 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

stage of house building than the structures with circular or oval
floors. The “mat house” was a popular form of multifamily dwelling
during the historic period in that area and the oval form found
in the McNary basin agrees closely with the descriptions of such
houses obtained by ethnological investigators working among the
Umatilla Indians in previous years. Most of the villages dug along
the Columbia were occupied just prior to the coming of the white man
in that region or represent the contact period. None of the latter
appear to have been inhabited long after the visit of the Lewis and
Clark expedition. The excavations also have shown that in many
cases hunting actually played a larger part in the economy than
previously supposed. The basic source of food, of course, was
fishing, but that activity did not provide the entire subsistence.
Another interesting fact gained from the excavations was that the
circular form of dwelling persisted into more recent times than had
commonly been supposed. At several locations the excavations were
carried on as cooperative projects of the River Basin Surveys, the
University of Oregon, the University of Washington, and the Wash-
ington State College. In the spring of 1951 materials from the
McNary Reservoir diggings were processed at a laboratory provided
by the University of Washington.

The remains of an interesting small village were uncovered in
the Terminus Reservoir area on the Kaweah River in Tulare County,
Calif. The community had consisted of 14 houses and 3 distinct
milling places. It was located on a well-drained knoll adjacent to
the river. The house remains—with one exception—were found to
consist of roughly circular floors varying from 8 to 16 feet in diam-
eter. The differing structure was oval in form with diameters of
approximately 50 and 20 feet. In the floors of the houses were un-
prepared hearths consisting of lens-shaped deposits of wood ash.
The floors themselves did not give evidence of having been specially
prepared but probably were compacted through use. The upper
parts of the houses were found to have consisted of pole and thatch
superstructures covered with a layer of clay plastering. The fact
that the houses had burned and that the clay was fired sufficiently
to preserve the imprints of the twigs and grass showed the type of
construction. At three different locations adjacent to the village
the exposed bedrock provided places where the women had ground
the acorns and other seeds used for food. At those milling places
there were groups of mortar pits varying in depth from 1 to 9 inches
and from 4 to 10 inches in diameter. The pestles used in the mor-
tars were not present at. the milling places although a few were
found in the course of excavation in the village. The regular ceme-
tery for the village was not located but the remains of eight individuals
RIVER BASIN SURVEYS—F. H. H. ROBERTS 363

were found in the village area. Six of them had been buried, while two
had been cremated. Apparently it was not customary to make funerary
offerings as in only one questionable case was an object found as-
sociated with the human remains.

Evidence pertaining to the economy of the people suggests that
they were primarily dependent upon vegetal food although animal
bones found in the middens indicate that occasional deer, elk, hares,
and rabbits probably supplemented the diet. The people had both
pottery and steatite vessels. The potsherds indicate that the com-
mon ware was that known from ethnographic sources of the Yokuts
and Mono Indians. The fragments of steatite vessels from the site
are from a form that previously has only been reported from the
Santa Barbara coast. Numerous shell beads were found as well as
some made of steatite. The latter material was also used for making
pendants of a variety of forms. In addition there was some trade
material showing contact with the whites. A few glass beads and
a fragment of glazed pottery, probably of Mexican origin, as well
as steel prongs from a fish spear, make it possible to date the village
as having been occupied until about 1850.

The results of the excavation are important because they provide an
opportunity to study the material culture left by a group of people
who occupied the region in historic times and concerning whom there
is an unusually complete ethnographic record. Correlations of the
data from both the ethnological and archeological sources of infor-
mation will throw considerable light on the function and significance
of the artifacts and various features of the site. Items of the mate-
rial cultural previously known only through tradition are now repre-
sented by actual objects. The lower end of the Kaweah Canyon
was formerly occupied by a small band of the Yokut Indians and it
seems extremely probable that the village was inhabited by some
of the same or a closely related people. Information on other vil-
lage types was obtained elsewhere in California as the Archeologi-
cal Survey of the University of California at Berkeley dug some
village sites in the Pine Flat and Isabella Reservoir areas as
a cooperative project.

At the Medicine Creek Reservoir in western Nebraska a party from
the River Basin Surveys excavated in eight village sites. Six of them
belonged to what archeologically is known as the Upper Republican
Aspect, while two were a variant of the Woodland. Evidence at the
Upper Republican sites was that the houses generally were built in
clusters of two to four structures with considerable distance frequently
separating the groups. Because of that fact there is some question
as to whether they should be called villages or simply family
communities. In some cases it would be difficult to determine where
364 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

one village left off and another started. However, there are exam-
ples showing that villages sometimes might contain as many as 18
to 35 or 40 houses. The houses were of the earth-lodge type. The
floors sometimes were on or slightly below the original surface of the
ground, while in other instances they had been excavated to a depth
of 6 to 20 inches. They were roughly rectangular in form. The
superstructure was supported by four to six large posts set at approx-
imately equal distances from the single central fireplace. The outer
walls consisted of a series of smaller posts set in the ground around
the periphery of the floor. Rafters probably extended from the
outer walls to the smoke hole above the fireplace. Brush, grass, and sod
were then placed as a roof cover. The outer walls probably were
enclosed by interwoven willows and grass and seemingly were banked
around the outside with earth. The houses had entranceways extend-
ing outward 8 to 10 feet from a point near the center of one wall.
The entranceways were 2 to 4 feet in width, and their floors usually
were on the same general level as that of the house. Occasionally,
however, the floor of the entrance was excavated below the general
level to facilitate drainage. The entranceways usually opened to
the south but examples were found where they faced the east, south-
east, or southwest. Midden or refuse areas generally were located
at the end and around either side of the entranceway. Outside stor-
age pits were also dug near the entrances, but a more common place
for them was beneath the house floors. After such pits had served
their purpose for the storage of vegetal products they frequently were
used as dumping places for refuse.

Artifacts associated with such houses consist of potsherds, stone
and bone implements, objects of antler, and a limited number of shell
ornaments. The storage pits yielded charred kernels of corn, corn-
cobs, sunflower seeds, charred nuts, and mellon or squash seeds; also
bison bones, fish bones, crayfish, and shells from fresh-water mussels.
The economy obviously was one based primarily on agriculture with
hunting a secondary feature. During the period that the River Basin
Surveys’ work was being done the Nebraska State Historical Society
excavated 14 house remains in 6 Upper Republican village sites in
the Medicine Creek basin, and the material and information obtained
from them is being correlated with that from the other locations.

Evidence from the two village sites where the Woodland variant
occurred shows that the house type was much less developed than that
of the Upper Republican. The dwellings were of the semisubterra-
nean type, with the floors 12 to 18 inches below the ground level. The
superstructure, while fairly permanent, was rather flimsy and prob-
ably had a roof of brush with a grass and bark or skin covering. The
houses were grouped rather closely with a maximum of four to six
RIVER BASIN SURVEYS—F. H. H. ROBERTS 365

in a cluster. The houses did not have a well-defined fireplace basin,
and there was no particular pattern to the location of middens or pits
throughout the general village area. The pottery occurring at such
sites is not plentiful and for the most part represents a rather simple
type. The artifacts also do not show as much variety as those from
Upper Republican sites and for the most part appear to be implements
used for hunting and gathering. Bone beads were very common and
there were other objects made of bone. Shell was also used for the
manufacture of ornaments. The economy was mainly based on
hunting and food gathering. Deer and antelope bones are plentiful,
and while there are some from bison they are not socommon. Large
numbers of bird bones indicate considerable dependence upon small
game. In general the Woodland sites do not indicate as permanent
an occupancy as those of the Upper Republican Aspect. While no
definite stratigraphic evidence was obtained, the general feeling is
that the Woodland sites are older. It is not possible at this time to
correlate the Upper Republican remains with any of the known
tribes such as the Dakota, Pawnee, or Comanche, but this may be
done later. Remains of that culture are believed to date from about
A. D. 1200 to 1500. Because of the seeming affinities of the sites which
are considered a Woodland variant, they have been dated tentatively as
belonging to the general period A. D. 500 to 1200 (Kivett, 1949).
At another location in the Missouri Basin, the Oahe Dam site just
north of Pierre, S. Dak., the remains of an extremely significant vil-
lage were excavated. The village, called the Dodd site, lay in the path
of the approach channel for the dam, and it was necessary to make
investigations there early in the construction program. The excava-
tions at that locality constitute the largest project thus far completed
along the main stem of the Missouri River. The remains of 21 earth
lodges, 27 cache pits, and 16 miscellaneous features were uncovered
there. Unexpectedly three types of houses were found, with definite
stratigraphic evidence for a sequence of the various forms. ‘There
were circular earth lodges and two types of rectangular earth lodges.
The latest structures at the site unquestionably were the circular ones.
The oldest of the rectangular lodges apparently were the smaller ex-
amples which had a somewhat different pole arrangement from the
larger ones. It has not been definitely established as yet, but it
appears fairly certain that the circular houses are attributable to the
Arikara. The rectangular ones have not been tribally identified.
Numerous cache pits were found in association with the various house
remains and from the refuse which many contained several thousand
specimens were recovered. Artifacts were also found on the floors of
many of the structures. The material consists of potsherds and stone,
bone, shell, and metal artifacts. Analysis of the specimens as well as
366 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

of the various animal, bird, and fish bones and vegetable products from
the middens should give a clear picture of the material culture of the
groups that lived there and undoubtedly will make a definite
contribution to the knowledge of the area.

FORTIFIED VILLAGES

A short distance downstream from the Dodd site on the same side of
the river in the construction area for the dam was another known as
the Phillips Ranch site. It consisted of the remains of a fortified
village, of which there were a number along the Missouri River in late
prehistoric and early historic times. The excavations there traced the
moat and palisade that enclosed the village, uncovered the floors of 10
earth lodges, cleared some 90 cache pits, and examined a large section
of the area lying between the houses and the surrounding ditch. The
houses had been circular in form and in many respects were similar to
those of the last period of occupation at the Dodd site. One of the
structures possibly was a “community house.” It was 50 feet in diam-
eter, and the outer wall had consisted of a double row of posts instead
of the usual single row. The entrance was to the east, and on the oppo-
site side of the fire pit against the west wall there was an earth altar.

The artifacts found at the village include a large number of pot-
sherds and numerous objects of bone, shell, stone, glass, and metal, and
a few fragments of basketry. In general it appears that the Phillips
Ranch village represents the stage following the last period at the
Dodd village and belongs to the final occupation of the region by the
sedentary peoples. When the data from the excavations have been
fully analyzed they should give a good picture of the early contact
period. As in the case of the Dodd site, it is evident that the basic
economy of the people was agricultural but that hunting contributed
an important part of the diet; fish from the nearby river also seem to
have been utilized. Work at other fortified village sites in the Oahe
Reservoir and in the Fort Randall Reservoir area farther south has
been started but has not progressed sufficiently to warrant discussion
at this time.

In addition to the excavation of village remains in the Missouri
Basin by parties representing the River Basin Surveys, the Univer-
sity of South Dakota carried on investigations in the Fort Randall
area at the Swanson site on the east side of the Missouri River north
of Chamberlain, at the Scalp Creek site on the south side of the Mis-
souri about 5 miles downstream from the Wheeler Bridge, and in the
Oahe Reservoir area at the Thomas Riggs site on the east bank of the
river approximately 10 miles above the site of the dam. The State
Historical Society of North Dakota investigated the remains of the
historic Fort Berthold Indian village in the Garrison Reservoir area,
RIVER BASIN SURVEYS—F. H. H. ROBERTS 367

The University of Montana also excavated in the Garrison Reservoir.
The University of Wyoming dug sites in both the Boysen and Key-
hole Reservoirs in that State. The Nebraska Historical Society car-
ried on investigations in the Medicine Creek and Swanson Lake
reservoir areas in Nebraska and in the Fort Randall Reservoir in
South Dakota. The Laboratory of Anthropology at the University
of Nebraska excavated a large village at the Harlan County Reservoir
in southern Nebraska. The University of Kansas carried on investi-
gations in the Kanopolis Reservoir in Kansas and in the Fort Randall
Reservoir in South Dakota (see Champe, 1949; Hurt, 1951; Meleen,
1949).

At the Whitney Reservoir on the Brazos River in Texas a historic
Indian village known as the Stansbury site yielded interesting data on
mid-eighteenth- and early nineteenth-century Indian life in that
region. House patterns with compact floor, post holes, central fire
hearth, and bell-shaped cache pits were found. Material from it in-
cludes trade items of French, English, and American origin. At
another location in Texas in the Lavon Reservoir area on the East
Fork of the Trinity River digging was done in the remains of a vil-
lage where there was a large circular pit. There are 11 extensive
village sites in that district, and each of them is characterized by a
similar pit. Such pits are a feature peculiar to the area, and their
real purpose is in question. In an effort to determine their original
function, one of the pits was excavated. It was found to have had
an original diameter of 65 feet and a depth of 10 feet. The dirt from
the original digging had been piled around the periphery, forming
a rim with a diameter of 90 feet from crest to crest. The floor was
slightly concave and there was nothing to indicate that any type of
structure had been erected over it. A burial area was found along the
east rim of the pit and on the inner slope at the south side there was
a grave containing the skeleton of a wolf. The animal had been
intentionally interred and must either have been a village pet or have
had some totemic significance. Until more detailed studies have been
made of the data obtained during the investigations it is not possible
to tell whether the burial area was an integral part of the pit feature
or was incidental to it. It is clear, however, that the pit correlates
with the earliest period of the village and that it remained in use
throughout the occupation of the site. There is no question that the
village andedates any European influence in the area and potsherds
found there suggest that its age probably falls within the period
A. D. 1200 to 1500. An interesting fact about the potsherds is that
all represent trade wares. Apparently there was no local ceramic
industry.
368 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951
EXCAVATIONS IN OKLAHOMA AND GEORGIA

_ At the Tenkiller Ferry Reservoir on the Illinois River in Oklahoma
a River Basin Surveys party excavated in a village area called the
Cookson site. Two stages of occupation were found there. One
was characterized by rectangular houses with four center posts and
trench entrances. The other also had rectangular houses but with
only two center posts and no evidence of entranceways. The second
houses also appeared to have had some form of bench or similar
feature along the north wall. The artifacts associated with the
first type of house, which apparently was the older, consisted of
thick, heavy, single-faced hand grinding stones made from water-
worn cobbles; pitted stones which seemed to have been used as a kind
of muller; slate hoes; chipped double-bitted axes; and large and
heavy projectile points. A small number of potsherds from a thick
clay-tempered ware was associated with the artifact complex.
The materials found in and associated with the other form of house
consisted of thin, two-faced hand grinding stones; the same type of
muller as occurred in the first instance; and small, light arrow points.
Slate hoes and double-bitted axes were missing from the later horizon.
The potsherds accompanying the other artifacts were from a shell-tem-
pered type of ware which for the most part was undecorated. The
first stage represents a complex that culturally is probably fairly
early. The stone artifacts attributed to it fall within the range that
is considered typical of the so-called Archaic and early Woodland
remains in the Southeast. They also are common in sites in north-
eastern Oklahoma that represent a prepottery culture and have been
designated the Grove Focus. The second stage is thought to correlate
with what has been termed the Fort Coffee Focus but certain of its
traits indicate that it probably would warrant being set up as a
separate focus.

The first type of house corresponds to that which is considered
typical of the early Spiro component in the area of the famous
Spiro Mounds which were located on the Arkansas River southeast
from the Tenkiller Ferry area, and the second type of house is
considered similar to one of those in the late Spiro component.
Four graves were found in the village area, and all apparently
belonged to the early period. The cemetery for the later horizon
was not located. The University of Oklahoma carried on a series
of excavations at other sites in the Tenkiller Ferry area subsequent
to the digging done by the River Basin Surveys party, and when all
the results have been correlated there should be considerable infor-
mation about aboriginal developments in that district. The Univer-
sity of Oklahoma also excavated in village remains in the Fort Gibson
and Eufaula Reservoir areas and salvaged considerable material at
both locations,
RIVER BASIN SURVEYS—F. H. H. ROBERTS 369

The Allatoona Reservoir on the Etowah River near Cartersville,
Ga., constitutes one of the most complete units thus far studied by the
River Basin Surveys. Following a preliminary reconnaissance of
the area to be flooded by the reservoir, a series of excavations was
started at a number of village sites. In some cases the villages were
well-developed communities, but in a few instances appeared to have
been of a more rudimentary nature. During the course of the work
11 sites were excavated and 19 were tested. On the basis of the results
from both the surveys and the digging it was possible to outline a
sequence of cultural stages in the Etowah River area. At least 10
and probably 11 different periods were identified. They extended
from the historic Cherokee of about 1755 back to a prepottery phase
when hunting and food gathering comprised the basic sustenance of
the people. The various periods that were determined by the investi-
gations have been named Galt, which is that of the historic Cherokee ;
Brewster and Lamar, which may represent occupations by the Creeks;
Savannah and Etowah, which probably are attributable to the same
Muskogean stock but which have not yet been identified so far as the
specific tribes are concerned; and the Woodstock, which still remains
to be correlated with a definite group but which is significant because
it was characterized by a fortified village with a circular double pali-
sade and bastions. Fortified villages in this part of the country ap-
peared at a much earlier date than in the Missouri Basin. The
Woodstock is the first period where there is evidence for the growing
of corn. The preceding period, which is identified by a distinctive
type of stamped pottery decoration and indications that the people
had become at least semisedentary, has been called the Cartersville.
Preceding the Cartersville stage was one that has been called Acworth.
It was represented by the remains of a village containing some 60
round structures of varying sizes, a number of storage and midden
pits, and a few graves. Definite indications of Hopewellian influences
were present in that horizon. Stone napkin-ring-type ear spools
were found in a grave of that period. Graves were carefully prepared
and bark was placed over and under the dead. The pottery was a
plain, well-polished ware that preceded the introduction of stamped
wares in the area. Preceding the Acworth was a period that is known
as the Kellogg. It was characterized by a semisedentary hunting and
gathering culture. There was considerable use of storage pits and a
variety of acorns and nuts were recovered from them. It seems
that the bow and arrow first appeared in the Allatoona region during
that period. Prior to the Kellogg was a period represented only by
a certain type of projectile point and scattered finds of potsherds from
a fiber-tempered kind of pottery. That period has been designated
Stallings because the points and potsherds are similar to those oc-
curring on Stallings Island in the Savannah River farther east. The
370 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

oldest of the sequences, which tentatively has been designated Pre-
pottery, preceded the Stallings. The Prepottery stage may represent
several periods and cover a long duration of time. Throughout that
stage the people made no pottery, did not have pipes, practiced no
agriculture, and possibly had no houses. At least no evidence was
found to indicate any type of structure. The economy probably was
basically hunting and gathering and the main weapon may have been
a javelin hurled with a spear thrower (Caldwell, 1948).

The University of Georgia dug one site in the Allatoona area and
uncovered the remains of a square earth-covered structure. Rich
midden deposits were found on the floor of the structure and in the
surrounding area outside. Three levels were recognized in the refusé
accumulations. They represented successive groups attributable to
the Lamar, Savannah, and Etowah periods. Considerable informa-
tion was obtained pertaining to the various pottery types for the
different stages and the data make the ceramic picture for the area
much clearer. Originally the site was thought to be one containing
a mound. The excavations, however, showed that to be an erroneous
idea as the feature that had been so identified turned out to be the
remains of the large earth lodge with its associated midden deposits.
The extensive and well-known Etowah Mounds lie some distance
below the Allatoona Dam and were not involved in any of the work
connected with the construction of the reservoir (Sears, 1950).

MOUND EXCAVATIONS

The excavation of large artificial mounds has not been attempted
to any extent thus far. Projects of that nature require such large
crews of workmen and so extensive a program of operations that it has
not been possible to undertake that type of investigation with the
funds available. Some digging has been done in mounds, however.
At the Fort Gibson Reservoir on the Grand (Neosho) River near
Waggoner, Okla., two mounds out of a group of six remained at the
Norman site. Four of the mounds had been investigated by the
University of Oklahoma several years prior to the starting of the
River Basin Surveys. One of the two remaining mounds was the
largest at the site and was connected to an adjacent low mound by a
ramp. Small test excavations had been made in the low mound, but
the large one was virtually intact. It represented a stage in cultural
florescence in the southern United States about which very little is
known, and it was thought that it might be comparable to the famous
Spiro mounds located in an adjacent county, which were destroyed
by treasure hunters about 20 years ago. For that reason thorough
excavation of the remaining mounds and the surrounding village area
had been recommended by the survey party that examined the site.
RIVER BASIN SURVEYS—F. H. H. ROBERTS 371

While the question of funds for doing the work was still under
consideration, a University of Oklahoma summer field party went to
the Norman site and found that nearly all the village area and all
mounds with the exception of the largest double unit had been re-
moved by the bulldozers of the construction contractor. Even the
large double unit had been damaged. The western periphery of the
large mound had been cut away and several feet of the smaller mound
had been removed. With the assistance of the resident and district
engineers of the Corps of Engineers, the University of Oklahoma was
able to have the operations stopped until some archeological work
could be done. The University of Oklahoma field party then pro-
ceeded to excavate portions of several house sites still remaining near
the large mound. While this was under way cooperative arrange-
ments were made between the River Basin Surveys and the University
of Oklahoma whereby excavations were started in the large double
mound.

The initial digging consisted of cutting a trench across the saddle
between the two parts of the unit. The side of the trench toward the
larger mound was then carried forward with the purpose of removing
the entire mound by cutting a continuous vertical face. It soon became
apparent, however, that time would not permit the use of such a tech-
nique and accordingly a 10-foot trench was driven through the north-
south axis of the mound in order to reach its base and to obtain
a complete profile of the structure. Contrary to previous ideas con-
cerning the mound, it yielded very few specimens. It was learned,
however, that its main portion was composed of six superimposed
platforms, which must have been the placements for public buildings.
No complete post-hole patterns were discovered on any of the platform
levels, however. The top of the fifth stage above the base showed that
it had been divided into two nearly equal areas by a single row of posts
and there was evidence of a severe conflagration which undoubtedly
had taken place in pre-Columbian times. The top level contained the
remnants of four human burials. The bones were in such an advanced
stage of decomposition, however, that little remained to indicate their
character or the form of burial that had been followed. The top
level also contained a number of glass beads which presumably indi-
cate a historic contact during the final days of the occupation of the
adjacent village. The information contained in the mound is not
of particular significance in itself but when added to that obtained by
earlier work at the site rounds out the body of data for the area. At
the present time the top of the large mound is the only part of the
Norman site that may be seen above the waters of the Fort Gibson
Reservoir.

Test excavations were made in two mounds in the area to be flooded
by the proposed Buford Reservoir on the Chattahoochee River in
372 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

Georgia. Both mounds were unrecorded previous to the survey made
in that area. One of them gave evidence of having been erected over
a small natural knoll. On its summit were the outlines of a small
square house in which there had been a bench or throne at one end.
The mound appears to represent a rather late and previously unknown
complex which is pre-Lamar in age. The Lamar culture is considered
to belong to the Temple Mound II period which is dated at approx-
imately A. D.1450to1700. Lamar is correlated with the Creek-Chero-
kee peoples and it may well be that the group building that particular
mound were proto-Creeks.

The other mound in the Buford Reservoir may possibly be one of
the oldest artificial structures thus far discovered in Georgia. Con-
trary to other known mounds, it apparently was not intended for
burial purposes and was not accretional; that is, it was not produced
by the gradual accumulation of debris over a large, continuously
inhabited area. Furthermore, it does not seem to have been intended
as a place for domiciliary structures or for a temple platform. All
the evidence thus far tends to show that the mound probably belongs
in the Forsyth Period which in the general category of southeastern
cultures is known as Burial Mound I. The latter period is postulated
as having occurred from A. D. 700 to 900. As far as the present,
mound is concerned, one explanation is that it may have been erected
for ceremonial purposes even though there was no structure on its
summit or the structure was so flimsy that no traces of it remained.
A simple earthen platform without any form of temple on its summit
would be the logical beginning for the developement of that particular
complex.

SMALL BURIAL MOUNDS

Some work was done in small burial mounds. Two of the latter
were dug at the Wheeler Bridge mound site in the Fort Randall
Reservoir area. In one of them there were 12 bundle burials, while
the other contained two or possibly three of the same type. Inas-
much as there were no funerary offerings accompanying any of the
burials and other material in the mounds was scarce, there was noth-
ing to indicate possible cultural relationships for the remains. Mounds
of such type are exceedingly rare along the Missouri River itself but
occur in increasing numbers farther east, particularly in the James
and other lesser stream valleys. The Wheeler Bridge mounds had
been greatly reduced in size as the result of long cultivation. They
were approximately 40 to 50 feet in diameter with circular outline
and rose to a height of about 4 feet. Below each was a rectanguloidal
pit, which had been dug into the underlying surface and the disarticu-
lated bones of several individuals were found in them. The larger
mound had the suggestion of a prepared clay floor, and the pit con-
RIVER BASIN SURVEYS—F. H. H. ROBERTS 373

taining the bones had been covered with logs. An interesting feature
in connection with the leg and arm bones of one of the bundle burials
was the presence of perforations near one end. Such treatment of
bones had not previously been reported from the upper Missouri and
Great Plains region. Not all the individuals represented by the
bones from the mounds had been buried in the pits; some presumably
had been placed there later. The village where the people who built
the burial mounds lived was not located (Cooper, 1949, pp. 309-310).

The University of North Dakota working in cooperation with the
North Dakota State Historical Society excavated two burial mounds
on the east bluff overlooking the left bank of the Sheyenne River
in the Baldhill Reservoir area in North Dakota. Both mounds were
roughly circular in outline and approximately 100 feet in diameter.
They sloped gradually to a truncated conical shape. They were
built almost entirely of top soil and rose to a height of 6 to 7 feet.
Both had had a central rectangular-shaped pit roofed with oak logs
and containing masses of disarticulated human bones. This feature
was similar to the Wheeler Bridge mounds. In addition, in one of
them there was a second and shallower grave pit adjacent to the main
chamber. The second had not been covered with timbers. It con-
tained four more or less articulated and well-preserved adult skele-
tons and fragments from at least two infant skeletons. The four in-
dividuals apparently were buried simultaneously and the infants may
also have been a part of the same interment. In the other mound were
the remains of a burial that probably was placed there long after
the mound had been built. The latter represented a different culture
group (Hewes, 1949).

Artifacts were not numerous in either of the two mounds, and they
are of little help in determining the culture represented. One or two
interesting items were found, however. One of them was a fragment
from the alveolar portion of a human mandible which was ground
flat at the level of the midpoint of the tooth roots. Several teeth
from which the roots had been ground were found nearby. Ata lower
depth a complete upper dental arch and palate, made from a human
maxilla, carefully cut and ground down, was recovered. The object
closely resembles an artificial upper plate. What the purpose of
such altered human jawbones may have been has not been determined,
but they evidently served some specific function or the time and
trouble necessary to make them would not have been spent. It is
difficult to believe that the “upper” could have been intended as a
denture, but such may have been the case. Some toothless Indian
in desperation might have tried to do what European dentists of the
period found a difficult task. Many of the bones from the burial
pits were covered with red ocher, which probably was applied at the
time they were placed there and is a good indication that secondary
374 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

burial was practiced. In general the Baldhill mounds show consider-
able similarity to those in that portion of North Dakota, in northern
Minnesota, and in southern Manitoba. All probably belong to the
same cultural complex. The actual people involved have not been
identified as yet.

Burial in mounds was not the only form of interment practiced
by the aborigines. One interesting form of cemetery, which has
been designated “shell bead ossuary” because of the large number
of beads made from fresh-water and marine shells used as mortuary
offerings, appears to center in the Republican River drainage in
south-central Nebraska. One such feature was excavated in the
Harlan County Reservoir area by a River Basin Surveys party. The
site was complex, for originally a series of pits had apparently been
dug to receive individual or small groups of burials. Subsequently
a large oval basin was excavated in the same area, destroying all but
the bottom portions of the older pits. A large series of secondary
burials was then placed in the basin. The human remains were
disarticulated and scattered, with little regard for orderly arrange-
ment, over the floor of the basin. They were not what is known as
bundle burials. It is possible that the small individual pits may
have been the primary depositories for remains that were later ex-
humed and placed in the basin, but such was not established by the
evidence. The smaller pits may have had some other function. At
various places in the basin there were indications that considerable
burning had occurred and layers of charred twigs and timbers appar-
ently separated the human remains. Some of the human bones and
shell beads that were abundant in the fill were charred. Whether
this indicates that there was some cremation or is attributable to
other reasons is not clear. Since the burials were secondary and all
the soft parts of the body presumably had disappeared prior to
the placing of the bones there, it seems strange that an attempt at
cremation would have been made. On the other hand, there is the
possibility that some of the bodies had not been exposed sufficiently
long to lose all the skin and flesh and that some attempt was made to
remove it before the pit burial was completed. One other suggestion
is that scaffold burials may have been damaged by prairie fires or
had collapsed and subsequently were burned and when the bones were
gathered up and placed in the pit charcoal from the timbers and
grass was thrown in along with the bones. An interesting number
of problems have been raised, and further work in such ossuaries
will no doubt solve some of them.

In addition to the secondary burials in the basin, there was one fully
articulated individual that unquestionably represented a flesh burial.
Tt was in the deeper part of the basin and may have been one of the
original undisturbed interments. The person was an adolescent and
Smithsonian Report, 1951.—F. H. H. Roberts PLATE 1

1. Excavating a hunting-culture camp site at the Angostura project in South Dakota.
The dam under construction in the background has since been completed, and the area
is now flooded.

2. Digging at an early site in the Angostura Basin. It was from this location that charcoal
which dated 7073 +300 years by the carbon-14 method was obtained.
Smithsonian Report. 1951.—F. H. H. Roberts PLATE 2

1. The deep site on Lime Creek, Nebraska, where the remains of an early hunting culture
were found. The workmen are digging at the occupation level.

2. One of the sites in the Tiber Reservoir area in Montana where manifestations of an early
hunting culture occur.
Smithsonian Report, 1951.—F. H. H. Roberts PLATE

1. Excavating in the mouth of Birdshead Cave in the Boysen Reservoir, Wyoming. The
basin seen in the background will eventually be flooded.

5 —~ * As
ad RE

2. Starting excavations at the Terminus Reservoir in Calitornia he locat
house pits are shown by the dark circles o1

Smithsonian Report, 1951.—F. H. H. Roberts PLATE 4

1. Uncovering house floors at the Medicine Creek Reservoir in western Nebraska. The
highway patrol, which was used to strip off the overburden, may be seen to the left of the
lower house.

2. View showing both rectangular and circular house-floor patterns in the remains of a
village in the Oahe Reservoir in South Dakota.
Smithsonian Report, 1951.—-F. H. H. Roberts

1. One of the village sites in the Allatoona Reservoir Area in Georgia. This gave evidence
of numerous structures which were built there at different times. Most of the
structures were circular but a few small rectangular ones were also discovered.

4

2. Starting the trench through the large mound at the Norman site in the Fort Gibson
Reservoir, Oklahoma.
Smithsonian Report, 1951.—F. H. H. Roberts PLATE 6

1. Skeleton with strings of beads found in an ossuary in the Harlan County Reservoir area,

Nebraska.

j

2. Tracing pictographs at the Terminus Reservoir in California.
Smithsonian Report, 1951.—F. H. H. Roberts PLATE 7

2. Series of pictographs in the Boysen Reservoir, Wyoming.

2. Using the bulldozer to remove the overburden from one of the sites in the Angostura
Reservoir. The cultural layer may be seen in the wall of the trench in the right fore-
ground,
Smithsonian Report, 1951.—F. H. H. Roberts

tologists removing a fossil turtle at the Boysen Reservoir, Wyoming. The specimen
has been jacketed to permit handling without damage.

Smithsonian Report, 1951.—F. H. H. Roberts PLATE 9

1. Artifacts found at a village site in the Medicine Creek Reservoir, Nebraska. These
include bone implements, bone fishhooks, arrowheads, carved bones, and the bowls of
stone pipes.

2. Pottery vessels of several characteristic forms manufactured by

inhabitants of southern Virginia. In addition to those for genera
were also made.

Smithsonian Report, 1951.—F. H. H. Roberts

=

Bone and stone artifacts from the Buggs Island Reservoir in Virginia.

RIVER BASIN SURVEYS—F. H. H. ROBERTS 375

the skeleton was semiflexed, lying on its left side. Rows of shell-disk
beads in alignment were around the skeleton in the pelvic area. Other
rows extended up the chest and around the neck. Many of the rows
consisted of beads that were well ground and evenly matched, while
others contained blanks that had been perforated and strung but had
not been given the final smoothing that is typical of a finished bead.
Triangular shell pendants were found in the vicinity of the skull.
In addition to the shell-disk beads there were worked sections from
marine shells. ‘The skeleton was removed intact in a plaster cast and
has been prepared as a special exhibit of one form of burial. As far
as could be determined from the scattered bones, at least 61 individuals
had been placed in the basin and pits. Artifacts associated with the
bones suggest that the people belonged to an early variant of the
Woodland culture.

In the McNary Reservoir basin on the Columbia River two ceme-
teries adjacent to village sites were investigated. At one of them 50
graves were found, while at the other three were 17, as well as traces
of some cremations. At the large cemetery the bodies of many of the
adults were placed in plank cists, a feature that is more or less typical
of the recent Plateau culture. Funerary offerings accompanying the
skeletons consisted of both native artifacts and white trade goods.
The presence of Colonial uniform buttons made as early as 1750 and
the absence of firearms used in that area beginning in 1811 indicate
that the plank cists probably fall within a period slightly after 1750
and prior to 1810. A single burial complex apparently is represented
by the cemetery. The skeletal material is important because thus far
sufficient remains for a study of the physical characteristics of the
people living there have not been available. Furthermore, since the
bones represent a single closely dated sample, they are particularly
useful. In all, 57 individuals are represented by the bones from the
50 graves. Thirty-seven are adults, while the remainder are children
and infants. There is not sufficient knowledge of the physical char-
acteristics of the people of the area to permit tribal identification, but
it seems certain that they belong to one of the middle Columbia
Sahaptin groups. The skulls all show artificial cranial deformation.
In some cases the deformation is only a flattening of the occiput, while
in others the deformation is of the fronto-vertico-occipital variety.
It is interesting to note that the latter occurs more frequently on the
female skulls than on the male and that the female skulls are more
highly deformed. A few pathological changes are indicated by the
skeletons but they are confined for the most part to middle-aged or
older individuals. ‘The chief ailment from which the people appear
to have suffered was of an arthritic nature. Most of the adults show
considerable wearing away of the teeth but dental caries were not

25

981445—52
376 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

common and when they were present apparently were due to the ex-
posure of the tooth pulp through the grinding off of the enamel from
the molar surfaces. Studies of the remains of the 17 individuals
from the other cemetery have not been completed, but in the main
they should show much the same features as the others.

Higher up the Columbia River at many village locations the main
form of burial appears to have been in rock cairns. A large number
of the latter were examined in several reservoir areas, but in virtually
every case it was found that they had been disturbed by curio hunters
and little remained of the contents. Funerary offerings had been re-
moved and the bones scattered and broken so that they are of no value
for study purposes.

At the Buggs Island Reservoir on the Roanoke River in southern
Virginia a relatively large number of burials were found at two sites.
The burials were not in what might properly be termed cemeteries
but were scattered in and around the village areas. In some cases
they were in refuse middens; in others they were found beneath floors
of the houses. At one of the sites just east of Clarksville, Va., 77
burials with accompanying artifacts were exhumed. At another on
Occaneechi Island not far from Clarksville 44 were found. The latter
were interesting because not only were there examples of practically
all forms of body placement ranging from the fully flexed to the ex-
tended, but in addition there was evidence of partial cremations. At
the Occaneechi Island site a number of burials had turtle carapaces as
funerary offerings. In that connection it has been suggested that they
may have had totemic significance and indicated that the owners had
been members of the turtle clan. If such a postulation is correct, that
is the first definite evidence for attempts to designate clan affiliations
in the Southeast. Study of the bones has not been completed but
enough has been done on them to show that useful data will be forth-
coming and that they will provide an excellent source of information
on the physical types of the people living in that area in pre-Colonial
times.

HISTORIC SITES

In comparison with investigations at aboriginal locations, work in
historic sites was not extensive. At the Whitney Reservoir in Texas,
however, studies were made at the Towash Village, the remains of an
early white settlement on the Brazos River dating from the 1840’s to
recent times. The first dam and bridge on the Brazos River were lo-
cated there, and their ruins, as well as those of the old stone store and
church, were still to be seen. Measurements and photographs were
taken in order to make scale drawings of the buildings. The location
and general nature of the other structures pertaining to the community
RIVER BASIN SURVEYS—F. H. H. ROBERTS 377

were also determined, and a fairly complete record will be available for
future reference. The Towash Village, as previously mentioned, was
not far from the Stansbury site, a historic Indian village which also
was excavated. Another historic site studied in the Whitney Reser-
voir basin was that of Fort Graham, a frontier post dating 1849 to
1854. The outlines of one of the buildings, as well as several other
features, were located, and it was determined that the “Village of the
Caddoes,” which was visited by Carl Ferdinand von Roemer, the
German geologist, in 1846, also had been situated there.

The Falcon Reservoir area on the Rio Grande below the village of
Falcon in Starr County, Tex., contains a large variety of both historic
and aboriginal sites. The historic sites, consisting of the ruins of mis-
sions, ranches, and small villages, are attributable to the Spanish, Mex-
ican, Republic of Texas, and American periods. Some preliminary
digging was done in Spanish-Mexican colonial remains, both by the
University of Texas as a cooperative project with the National Park
Service and by a party from the River Basin Surveys. Local tradition
contains little or no information about most of the sites and no mention
is made of them in the better-known histories of the area. The ar-
chives in Mexico City or perhaps in Spain may contain documents
bearing on the colonial communities which once thrived there, but their
former existence presumably was not known until they were found by
survey parties. Preliminary digging has shown that at some of the
colonial sites aboriginal and European sections of the community
existed side by side but remained distinct, while in others the Indian
and white groups intermingled and materials from the different cul-
tures are mixed. Much-merited additional work in the area would
undoubtedly add greatly to the knowledge of the Spanish Southwest
and also would throw needed light on some acculturation problems.

Excavations in historic sites in the Missouri Basin have been confined
mainly to frontier army and trading posts. In the Fort Randall Res-
ervoir area in South Dakota digging was done at the site of Fort Hale
on the west side of the river some distance above the present town of
Chamberlain. Fort Hale probably was occupied during the 1870's.
At that location evidence was found of a large building that probably
had been a trading post and two smaller buildings that may have been
part of the military establishment, and there were traces of a stockade.
There also was evidence for an earlier Indian settlement. In the same
general area but about 4 miles downstream on the same side of the
river was the site of former Fort Lookout, which was both a military
and a trading post. Work there revealed the fact that not only was it
the site of Fort Lookout but that it also was the location for the earlier
Fort Kiowa. Fort Kiowa was established in 1822 and abandoned in
June 1825. Archeological evidence indicated that its abandonment
378 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

may well have been due to the results of fire as some of the structures
unquestionably had burned. Fort Lookout was established at the
same place in November of 1825, although the new post was erected
several hundred feet northeast from the remains of Fort Kiowa, and
was occupied until 1834, when it was abandoned. It was reoccupied
6 years later and again abandoned in 1848. Whether it was built at
the same time as the new fort or somewhat later is not now known, but
the trading post was placed over the ruins of a portion of Fort Kiowa.
The post was discontinued when the fort was abandoned, but the
American Fur Co. revived it in 1846 and continued to operate it until
1851. Digging at the site showed that the location also had been fav-
ored by the Indians. At some time previous to the historic occupation
a group having affiliations with the Upper Republican culture lived
there, and considerably before their tenancy other Indians with a vari-
ant form of Woodland culture had chosen the spot for one of their vil-
lages. Objects recovered during the digging include specimens of the
handiwork of both whites and Indians and the results of their analysis
will give an interesting story of changing cultural materials over a
relatively long period of time.

About 8 miles farther downstream is the location of Lower Fort
Brulé. The latter was occupied 1870 to 1884. The remains of a 2-unit
structure connected by a breezeway were uncovered there, and an 18-
by 12-foot cellar was cleaned of its accumulated debris. From the
latter a large earthenware crock and specimens of metal were recov-
ered. In addition, an abandoned well was excavated, and the refuse
from it was found to contain some 30 “snow snakes.” Some of the
latter had realistic designs scratched into their surfaces, while on
others the decoration was geometric in form. “Snow snakes” usually
were made from the rib bones of bison and were used by the Indians
in playing a rather simple game. The players would slide the objects
along the frozen crust or in a rut in the snow. The main purpose was
to see which of the “snakes” would come nearest to a line marked
across the course or which would attain the greatest distance. Numer-
ous objects attributable to the white occupation of the site were also
found there. X

Farther north along the Missouri River at the Garrison Reservoir
in North Dakota digging was done at the site of Fort Stevenson. The
latter was a typical Missouri River frontier post and was built both to
keep the Missouri River open for navigation and to protect the Fort
Berthold Indians from the Sioux. In addition, the post served as
one of the main points on the overland mail route which ran from St.
Paul to Montana. Although the fort was started in 1867 and was
completed late in 1868 and there are considerable documentary data
about it, useful new information pertinent to the actual character of
RIVER BASIN SURVEYS—F. H. H. ROBERTS 379

the post and certain Indian relationships was obtained in the course
of the work.

While no actual digging has been attempted there as yet, the re-
mains of Fort Charlotte were located in the Clark Hill Reservoir area
along the Savannah River in South Carolina. Plans call for digging
at that site. Fort Charlotte was built in 1765 as one of the Colonial
defenses against the Cherokee Indians. South Carolina troops seized
it on July 12, 1775, and it continued to be occupied by Colonial troops
until the close of the Revolutionary War. An excavation program
was planned for the site because there is lack of accurate information
about the true nature of the fort and also because certain phases of
its history correlate with Indian activities in that area. Materials
obtained there should correlate with those from late aboriginal sites
in Georgia and should provide useful information about the early
Colonial influence on the native cultures.

As the program as a whole progresses, there undoubtedly will be in-
vestigations of comparable remains in other reservoir areas, but the
historic aspects probably will never loom as large as those pertaining
to the aboriginal peoples.

Petroglyphs and rock paintings are found in many of the areas that
will be inundated. Particularly fine examples occur along the Colum-
bia River and in the canyons of its tributaries. Various localities in
California have interesting examples of that form of aboriginal art
and there are numerous locations in the Missouri Basin that have their
characteristic symbols. In some cases the designs and life-form fig-
ures were cut or pecked into the faces of cliffs and large boulders,
while in others they were painted on the flat surfaces of the rocks.
The recording of such examples of aboriginal work constitutes one of
the tasks of preserving information about the Indians, and a number
of methods were employed. In most cases the petroglyphs and rock
paintings were photographed both in black and white and in color.
Scale drawings were also made and, where possible, tracings were
taken from the larger and more complicated groups of figures. In a
vast majority of cases the pictographs probably have no particular
meaning but an occasional symbol may represent a particular deity
or refer to some specific legendary character. When studies have
been completed on the mass of such material being collected, there
should be better understanding of the significance of the pictographs
and rock paintings.

NEW ARCHEOLOGICAL TECHNIQUES

During the progress of the surveys and excavations under the River
Basin Surveys’ program a number of new techniques have been de-
veloped. The most important, perhaps, from the standpoint of exca-
vation, is the use of heavy equipment for the removal of overburden
380 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

from buried cultural layers. When digging was started at the Medi-
cine Creek sites in western Nebraska the time available for recovering
the archeological material was so short that it was deemed necessary
to take rather drastic steps. As a consequence, even though mechani-
cal aids are generally frowned upon by archeologists, bulldozers and
highway-grading machinery lent by the Bureau of Reclamation were
used to strip the sod and other cover from entire sites. As a result, it
was possible to observe the complete village plan, to study village pat-
terns, and to discover small features not readily determinable when
the usual hand-labor methods were employed. The results at Medi-
cine Creek demonstrated the practicability and effectiveness of heavy
equipment in uncovering archeological materials with a minimum of
breakage, and wherever possible the use of such machinery was ex-
tended to other projects. Bulldozers were employed in some of the
digging at the Angostura and Oahe Reservoirs in South Dakota and
at the Falcon and Lavon Reservoirs in Texas. Highway patrols were
found to be very satisfactory in the Tenkiller Ferry Reservoir in
Oklahoma as well as at the Medicine Creek sites. When the over-
burden is removed from a site by such means, a small crew of laborers
can accomplish in a few short weeks what under older methods of
excavation would require many months of effort. Furthermore, when
a village area is uncovered in that way, much more is revealed than
when the work is done by hand labor. In the Southeast, however,
because of differences in the soil and conditions of greater moisture,
heavy equipment has not fulfilled the requirements. In most cases
it tends to crush the underlying material or to bog down.

PALEONTOLOGICAL STUDIES

Paleontological investigations have not played as large a part as
those of an archeological nature in the River Basin Surveys’ program
for two reasons. In the first place, bone deposits are not restricted to
the banks of streams and in many cases similar material may be
found at locations which will not be flooded by the reservoirs. Sec-
ondly, such deposits as are exposed in reservoir basins are not as exten-
sive or aS numerous as the camp and village remains left by the
Indians. Consequently, they do not call for as much work. The
paleontologist as a rule does not sit down and spend long periods
digging at a single bone bed but generally moves about from outcrop
to outcrop to see what has been exposed by erosion and if the prospects
seem good does some collecting. In the course of several seasons’
work, he may revisit the same locality a number of times, spending
only short periods in digging. In the present program, paleonto-
logical and geological studies have been carried on in a large number
of reservoir basins throughout the Missouri drainage and at several
RIVER BASIN SURVEYS—F. H. H. ROBERTS 381

in Texas. While not spectacular in the main, the results obtained
have been quite satisfactory.

In the Missouri Basin the paleontological parties have devoted con-
siderable time to the Cretaceous and Tertiary deposits. In Lewis
and Clark and Broadwater Counties in Montana where the Tertiary
stratigraphy was imperfectly known from the time of its discovery
in 1904 by the late Dr. Earl Douglass, the River Basin Surveys’ work
definitely established the presence of Lower and Middle Oligocene
and Lower and Middle Miocene in the area. In North Dakota it was
shown that the Cannonball Marine member of the Fort Union forma-
tion has a much greater areal distribution than previously supposed.
Investigations of the Eocene deposits in the Big Horn basin in Wy-
oming produced evidence that confirmed previous conclusions of mem-
bers of the United States Geological Survey who mapped the struc-
ture and stratigraphy of that area. Specimens collected there, al-
though for the most part rather fragmentary, were sufficiently well
preserved to establish the age of those beds as belonging to the Lost
Cabin faunal zone of the Lower Eocene, a fact that had not previously
been demonstrated. In the material obtained is the most nearly
complete skull yet found of the primitive insectivore Didelphodus.
Specimens collected from the Oligocene deposits in Montana consist
principally of marsupials, insectivores, rodents, and small artiodac-
tyls. One of the insectivores was found to belong to a problematical
family that previously was not known in deposits later than the
Upper Eocene. Furthermore, the specimen is the best preserved yet
collected and adds many details of the skull and dentition to the
knowledge of that group. The material obtained from the Miocene
deposits consists of large oreodonts, beavers, rabbits, and small ro-
dents. Collecting in the Upper Cretaceous Pierre shale provided
specimens of complete fish, 7’hrissopater; turtles, Archelon; and mosa-
saur skulls.

Paleontological studies outside the Missouri Basin were confined
chiefly to the Garza-Little Elm and Lavon Reservoirs on the Trinity
River. The material from the Lavon area came mainly from the
Upper Cretaceous deposits and consisted of a small mosasaur (uni-
dent) skull and the skull of a large mosasaur (7'ylosaurus?). At the
Garza-Little Elm project a small Pleistocene fauna was collected
from a borrow pit near the west end of the dam. Included in the
material are bison, horse, gopher, and aquatic turtle.

The University of Nebraska State Museum carried on cooperative
paleontological work from the beginning of the interagency pro-
gram. Considerable collecting was done in the area of the Harlan
County Dam in southern Nebraska. Most of the attention of the
Museum field parties was directed to the Pliocene deposits and a
382 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

good range of fossils was collected from them. Fish and reptilian
remains from Cretaceous deposits were salvaged from the core trench
of the dam and also from the borrow pits. The most valuable speci-
mens, however, came from the Republican City Terrace fill and have
proved to be of great assistance in terrace studies of that region.
Several seasons were also spent working fossil quarries in the Medi-
cine Creek Reservoir basin in western Nebraska. The deposits there
were in the Upper Ogallala of the late Pliocene. Specimens col-
lected consisted of the complete skull of a fossil beaver and bones
of insectivores, carnivores, rhinoceroses, perissodactyls, artiodactyls,
and rodents. Those forms reportedly represent the latest Pliocene
assemblage found thus far in the Great Plains region and will be
extremely helpful in establishing the boundary between the Pliocene
and Pleistocene. Parties from the Nebraska State Museum have
also visited reservoir sites in South Dakota and Wyoming and have
been watching erosion areas in those districts for possible bone beds.
The work of that institution has been particularly helpful to geologic
studies in the Missouri Basin.

FUTURE OF THE WORK

Mention has been made of the fact that the Inter-Agency Salvage
Program is shifting from mainly reconnaissance work to more ex-
cavation projects. The next few years should see an even greater
trend in that direction. However, there are still areas where pre-
liminary surveys will need to be made, and new reservoirs undoubt-
edly will be proposed from time to time and the basins involved will
need to be investigated for archeological and paleontological mani-
festations. The next few years should see a marked acceleration in
intensive excavation. In addition to numerous large village sites
in the Missouri and Columbia Basins that should be dug, similar
work will be required at some of the projects in California, Texas,
Oklahoma, Arkansas, Mississippi, Georgia, and a number of States
along the eastern seaboard.

The next step in the program following excavation is that of the
publication of the results. This is perhaps the most important phase
because it will make available to those interested in the subject the
information obtained from the field researches. The third phase
of the program is now getting started. Some of the detailed reports
on work at specific sites are nearing completion and others will
shortly follow. They should appear in print within the next year
or two. Summary articles about the evidence found at some of the
nore significant sites in the Missouri and Columbia Basins, in Calli-
fornia, Texas, Georgia, and Virginia, have already appeared in scien-
tific journals and a series of papers constituting a Bulletin of the
RIVER BASIN SURVEYS—F. H. H. ROBERTS 383

Bureau of American Ethnology is being published. Various co-
operating institutions have published reports on their investigations
in bulletins issued by them.

REFERENCES
Buiss, WEstry L.
1950. Birdshead cave, a stratified site in Wind River Basin, Wyoming.
Amer. Antiq., vol. 15, No. 3, pp. 187-196.
CALDWELL, JosEPH R.
1948. A preliminary report on excavations in the Allatoona Reservoir.
Early Georgia, vol. 1, No. 1.
CHAMPE, JOHN L.
1949. White Cat Village. Amer. Antiq., vol. 14, No. 4, pt. 1, pp. 285-292.
Cooprr, Paut L.
1949. Recent investigations in Fort Randall and Oahe Reservoirs, South
Dakota. Amer. Antiq., vol. 14, No. 4, pt. 1, pp. 800-310.
Hewes, Gorpon W.
1949. Burial mounds in the Baldhill area, North Dakota. Amer. Antiq.,
vol. 14, No. 4, pt. 1, pp. 322-328.
HOoper, PrEsTON, and WIKE, JOYCE.
1949. The Frontier Culture Complex, a preliminary report on a prehistoric
hunters’ camp in southwestern Nebraska. Amer. Antiq., vol. 14,
No. 4, pt. 1, pp. 260-266.
Hurt, WESLEY R., Jr.
1951. Report of the investigation of the Swanson Site 39 Br 16, Brule County,
South Dakota. Archeol. Studies, Cire. No. 3, The State Archeological
Commission, Pierre, S. Dak.
Kiverr, Marvin F.
1949. Archeological investigations in Medicine Creek Reservoir, Nebraska.
Amer. Antiq., vol. 14, No. 4, pt. 1, pp. 278-284.
MELEEN, FE. BE.
1949. A preliminary report on the Thomas Riggs village site. Amer. Antiq.,
vol. 14, No. 4, pt. 1, pp. 310-321.
Roserrs, F. H. H., Jr.,
1951. Radiocarbon dates and early man, pp. 20-22. Im Radiocarbon dating,
a report on the program to aid in the development of the method
of dating. Assembled by Frederick Johnson. Amer. Antiq., vol. 17,
No. 1, pt. 2.
ScHuttz, C. B., and Franxkrorrer, W. D.
1948. Preliminary reports on the Lime Creek sites: New evidence of early
man in southwestern Nebraska. Univ. Nebraska State Mus. Bull.,
vol. 3, No. 4, pt. 2, pp. 48-60.
1949. The Lime Creek sites. Proc. 5th Plains Conference for Archeology,
pp. 132-134.
Sears, WILLIAM H.
1950. Preliminary report on the excavation of an Etowah Valley Site. Amer.
Antiq., vol. 16, No. 2, pp. 1387-142.
6B oc vamnaitom ter SHRRerae,

eitoingiteo vic Tedder p Sonatina) oti vk | :
if thes (Ir RIM B hte from thy Dorney fe a 1 148 itelised oi
raens, however, tetia degm thy Repallivny City Reareens ‘A -sne De ae!
a te te od yes assis ith Larchde ttndies: Gh, amen es site
“wat aa VEE Bate at site bane Si) aisringaintaeolesi- A
pout twer yay bh: MOETAE ALEKS, brafolrs pistAinsinnosite thane q

hte hor Orety ‘ ihe date Eioos: AL stagaT cna

‘lalovaecash, sitootstl odt ai ee TKS: tO, roe preustle ch chloe 9 ;
tous’ Poh af Joy a witgroai) el ;

a
cen

of 13 SACO, aa bayped ‘
ii! i
Nos cat gat de 0A Psst «ibn Rol wean bp ORR 4
Poway wage sme thes { ; a 43reat Pinning a A :

dines, moro siigO, fins Udbinns Jy0F nly ahotisgiiaarad, § ago TOM,
As, ~? [viet Pe 008 a, Lag Brit Rt Low DMA), eh Ao val a

iyi’ te sala As aoe eb eit at eb aoe ist tise ee ;
Ce & sta Shales res 10 “geet ig tag! de BE NBWOORS beds,
Thy work xi insta (2 o8 PRaBIOL AGH bere brtamast rE |
Matilda th hihi Uthuiagileny & .xeigmoD ouyivD 1iinowE ofT CARL x
Af lov .phadA s100th mizarten majeowiltvos ab quina ‘wodand ;
FOTURS OF TR Ratha I ay ss . ice

; :
a

dared ota Or 0 @s af18 frend ao stobhrgiten rat itt S10 Rie Ri
‘fioigblositorA 915% ST OWE OAD (eo UH Ne dao: omen whore: ex |
obVation ‘projects. Lye. 2 = nh 2 sri ddeiesignnioD. » greater y
tread, om Shik Chi pongets se
ina i tio naam dom aubibpie ta auoite mort saizolon
#8 BIS aly, ft Sa OM A BT ov, puadk som

q
a
d
or
d
: a
ey eiil,3 a,’ FHS oe Sys} 7 - i Bi Ke
geben $1 tho Ossins crs
4
a
ls

eesti char atti eee

“apttak AK wie ognliy ayubsl: nobaudip eatin Qroqot using A LORRED ;
peaimbaons, Tipe eet Fem nen re dg OV thteviccation in
ire jr VO - ANU VR ey ne! ee bs
carci ned ihell nt 68-08 f tf. lus, has aaiah sedigs0 “a
‘ean pig: goloyab ail no ol omnt3or nh Br ke shia A
Elo? punk 2 4 poditt Wishor hed Hydeahae NM yada $s Powsgy |
( Mh shome, Atkwnses, Mussimsippe; Geowta, aml @ gun oilitates |
cag thie’ eae stisriy sx adsodied . OM saxrsorcrsan't hag A errER
| wah. 20. 9ouabtw, wav 2 po tie. aly APPA OMT ods ce Wane alONT f BM: 4
(tO. .2i. oft salagrdoi rete els meee ai i

0 a ad
be adIOBD TA Sor eSididr deo waTALS itis ere ie to
iitormaten: babies td trom the field i archeper Picts ph wast

of the piegeil: 2now getting started. \Romact me ae

shart ly follow. They shout Bo aa ; Dee!
it tero. . Sinmaery ariel bons fhe evidedh fondebgnions
more Sigsifionst p Bites = tre ithe Missour: and Cohisbia Basingy:
fornia, Poi, Ge oyring Saad Ping lily eve altady appeaked |
HS joitnalsand atte pee Bee f
Artificial Lighting in America: 1830-1860

By C. Matcoitm WarkINs

Associate Curator, Division of Ethnology, United States National Museum

[With 8 plates]

THE THREE decades from 1830 to 1860 are of special significance in
the history of artificial lighting in America. It was during this
period that radical departures were made from tradition, and profuse
invention paved the way to modern lighting. It was an era of trial
and error, of the search for cheaper fuel and light. It bridged the
gap between the primitive lamp and the mass-produced lighting de-
vice and ended with the adoption of the first refined petroleum fuel.

In its limited sphere this development reflected the larger design
taking shape over the country as a whole. During these years
traditional colonial patterns began to be disrupted by novel forces
whose effects marked the emergence of modern America. Railroads,
factories, cities, and population shifts were the outward indications,
and causes as well, of enormous transformations. The boiling up-
surge of the era impressed foreign visitors to America. Lady Em-
meline Stuart Wortley observed in 1850:

Everything in nature and art almost seems to flourish here. Schools, uni-
versities, manufactories, societies, institutions, appear spreading over the length
and breadth of the land, and all seem on such a gigantic scale, too! Lakes,
forests, rivers, electric telegraphs, hotels, conflagrations, inundations, rows,
roads, accidents, tobacco, Juleps, bowie knives, beards, pistols, &c.! moderation
or littleness appear not to belong to America, where Nature herself leads the
way and seems to abhor both, showing an example of leviathanism in every-
thing, which the people appear well inclined to follow. [Wortley, 1851, p. 33.]

Frederika Bremer observed at about the same time that “to hurl
mountains out of the way, to bore through them and build tunnels, to
move hills into the water as a foundation for roads in places where
this is necessary—all this the Americans regard as nothing at all.
They have indeed the faith to move mountains.” (Benson, 1924,
p. 20.)

Dynamic innovation, however, was silhouetted against a background
of enduring habit. Change, indeed, was as conspicuous in its absence
as in its presence. The static feudal economy of the South, for exam-

385
386 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

ple, emphasized the opposing dynamics of the North’s industrialism.
Let the visiting stranger “pass into Virginia,” wrote Alexander
Mackay in 1847, “and the transition is as great as is the change from
the activity of Lancashire, to the Janguor and inertness of Bavaria”
(Mackay, 1849, p. 67). In New England, the Western Railroad,
boldly conquering the barrier of the Berkshires, brought modern en-
gineering techniques and industrial commerce to the very backyards
of rural traditionalism. In Pennsylvania, Mennonite farmers lighted
their houses with the medieval-style lamps of their Palatine ancestors,
while a few miles away in Philadelphia the latest advances in house-
hold illumination were in daily use. At every hand there were evi-
dences of two contrasting worlds.

In artificial lighting, generally, this duality was as apparent as in
the larger picture. On the one hand were brilliant concentrations
of gas light in theaters and music halls and museums. ‘There were
improved fuels and principles of combustion developed by scientific
experiment in learned institutions. In urban homes new inventions
made the household lamp a vivid contrast to its predecessors. On
the other hand were steadfast marks of enduring habit, which only
gradually were to yield to change and achievement. ‘These were most
evident in those places where isolation, poverty, and ignorance com-
bined to exclude even the simplest improvements. On the frontier
and in cultural backwaters the means for artificial lighting were little
better than what had been available to aboriginal man. In some in-
stances, indeed, these primitive circumstances have survived until
recent times. There are persons living today who can recall seeing
kitchen fat used in a saucer, with a rag for a wick, in backward
sections of the country. Vance Randolph, in his study of the Ozarks,
stated as late as 1931 (p. 27): “Not long ago, however, I visited a
home in which the only artificial light was a ‘slut’—simply a dish full
of grease, with a twisted rag stuck in to serve as a wick.” During
the years we are considering, the Ohio settlers used crude open lamps
of iron and pottery, and in parts of Alabama simple iron lamps were
in use that reportedly still continue their function today.

This negative side of the characteristic duality of the period is
best illustrated in remote parts of the deep South. In 1853 and 1854
Frederick Law Olmsted traveled through that region and recorded
his impressions in valuable detail. Not even a “slut” was in evidence
in the Tennessee slave cabin that he observed on a comparatively
prosperous farm:

The negro cabins were small, dilapidated and dingy, the walls were not chinked,
and there were no windows—which, indeed, would have been a superfluous
luxury, for there were spaces of several inches between the logs, through which

there was unobstructed vision. The furniture in the cabins was of the simplest
and rudest imaginable kind, two or three beds with dirty clothing upon them, a
ARTIFICIAL LIGHTING IN AMERICA—-WATKINS 387

chest, a wooden stool or two, made with an axe, and some earthenware and
cooking apparatus. Everything within the cabins was colored black by
smoke .. . During the evening all the cabins were illuminated by great fires,
and, looking into one of them, I saw a very picturesque family group; a man
sat on the ground making a basket, a woman lounged on a chest in the chimney
corner smoking a pipe, and a boy and two girls sat in a bed which had been
drawn up opposite to her, completing the fireside circle. [Olmsted, 1907, p. 153.]

Such a setting was not restricted to Negroes, however. Allen
Eaton, describing the early cabins of the Tennessee and North Caro-
lina highlands (1937, p. 49) says: “The usual light for the interior
of the house would be firelight from the hearth, supplemented in fair
weather by daylight from the opened door or in rare cases from the so-
called window.” Olmsted, stopping at one meagerly furnished Ala-
bama farmhouse, stated that his host went to bed immediately after
supper and left him alone without a candle. Elsewhere, he found
that candles were the usual source of light. Candlesticks to put them
in, however, were apparently nonexistent. In an Alabama house of
more than the usual appointments he sat in the well-furnished parlor,
“alone in the evening, straining my eyes to read a wretchedly printed
newspaper, till I was offered a bed . . . My host, holding a candle for
me to undress by (there was no candlestick in the house), called to a
boy on the outside to fasten the doors” (Olmsted, 1907, p. 188). This
situation was repeated several times at subsequent stopping places.
“The same Negro was called to serve me as a candlestick at bedtime.
He held the candle until I got into bed,” and later, “The master held
a candle for me while I undressed.”

Even in the rural areas of eastern Virginia, in places that had
earlier known higher standards of luxury, there were instances of
exactly similar conditions. Olmsted, in “A Journey in the Seaboard
Slave States” (1856, pp. 77, 79, 85-86), described a remote farmhouse
in the vicinity of Petersburg, where he spent the night: “It was a
simple, two-story house, very much like those built by the wealthier
class of people in New England villages, from fifty to a hundred
years ago, except that the chimneys were carried up outside the walls.”
The large room on the first floor was wainscoted and had a carved
mantelpiece. “The house had evidently been built for a family of
some wealth, and, after having been deserted by them, had been bought
at a bargain by the present resident, who either had not the capital
or the inclination to furnish and occupy it appropriately.” He was
finally led to his bedroom to retire. He continues:

Into a large room, again, with six windows, with a fire-place, in which a few
brands were smoking, with some wool spread thinly upon the floor in a corner;
with a dozen small bundles of tobacco leaves ; with a lady’s saddle; with a deep
feather-bed, covered with a bright patchwork quilt, on a maple bedstead, and

without a single item of other furniture whatever. Mr. Newman asked if I
wanted a candle to undress by, I said yes, if he pleased, and waited a moment
388 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

for him to set it down: as he did not do so I walked towards him, lifting my
hand to take it. ‘No—I’ll hold it,’ said he, and then I perceived that he had no
candle-stick, but held the lean little dip in his hand: I remembered also that no
eandle had been brought into the “sitting-room,” and that while we were at
supper only one candle had stood upon the table, which had been immediately
extinguished when we rose, the room being lighted only from the fire.

In these surroundings candles were, of course, homemade. In a
one-room cabin in Tennessee Olmsted saw “bunches of candles [hang-
ing] from the rafters” in the manner customary in New England
farm kitchens of a century and more earlier.

Insufficiency of artificial light was not altogether confined to rural
farms in the South, however. Olmsted, in the work just quoted
(1856, pp. 334-336), recounts an amusing episode that occurred in a
stagecoach inn at Fayetteville, N. C. It suggests that the absence of
light may have been related in some cases to the general nature of
things in the old South’s economy and social organization, rather
than to lack of access to the means of good light.

I followed the negro up to number eleven, which was a large back room, in
the upper story, with four beds in it.

“Peter,” said I, “I want a fire made here.”

“Want a fire, sar?’

“Yes, I want you to make a fire.”

“Want a fire, master, this time o’ night?”

“Why, yes! I want a fire! Where are you going with the lamp?”

“Want a lamp, massa?”

“Want alamp? Certainly, I do.”

After about ten minutes, I heard a man splitting wood in the yard, and, in
ten more, Peter brought in three sticks of green wood, and some chips; then,
the little bed-lamp having burned out, he went into an adjoining room, where
I heard him talking to some one, evidently awakened by his entrance to get a
match; that failing, he went for another. By one o’clock, my fire was made.

“Peter,” said I, “are you going to wait on me, while I stay here?’

“Yes, sar; I ’tends to dis room.”

“Very well; take this, and when I leave, I’ll give you another, if you take good
care of me. Now, I want you to get me some water.”

“T’ll get you some water in de morning, sar.”

“I want some to-night—some water and some towels; don’t you think you
can get them for me?”

“T reckon so, massa, if you wants ’em. Want ’em ’fore you go to bed?’

“Yes; and get another lamp.”

“Want a lamp?”

“Yes, of course.”

“Won’t the fire do you?”

“No; bring a lamp. That one won’t burn without filling; you need not try it.”

The water and the lamp came, after a long time.

The following evening, as it grew too cold to write in my room, I went down,
and found Peter, and told him I wanted a fire again, and that he might get
me a couple of candles. When he came up, he brought one of the little bed-
lamps, with a capacity of oil for fifteen minutes’ use. I sent him down again
to the office, with a request to the proprietor that I might be furnished with
ARTIFICIAL LIGHTING IN AMERICA—WATKINS 389

candles. He returned, and reported that there were no candles in the house.

“Then, get me a larger lamp.”

“Ain’t no larger lamps, nuther, sar ;—none to spare.”

“Then go out, and see if you can’t buy me some candles, somewhere.”

“Ain’t no stores open, Sunday, massa, and I don’t know where I can buy ’em.”

“Then go down, and tell the bar-keeper, with my compliments, that I wish
to write in my room, and I would be obliged to him if he would send me a light,
of some sort; something that will last longer, and give more light, than these
little lamps.”

“He won't give you none, massa—not if you hab a fire. Can’t you see by da
light of da fire? When a gentleman hab a fire in his room, dey don’t count
he wants no more light ’n dat.”

“Well, make the fire, and I’ll go down and see about it.”

As I reached the foot of the stairs, the bell rung, and I went in to tea. The
tea-table was moderately well lighted with candles. I waited till the company
had generally left it, and then said to one of the waiters:

“Here are two dimes: I want you to bring me, as soon as you can, two of these
candles to number eleven; do you understand?”

“Yes, sar; I’ll fotch ’em, sar.”

And he did.

Most often, rude conditions in the South were attributable to geo-
graphical isolation, rather than other causes. In Pennsylvania, how-
ever, we find a different kind of isolation that likewise enforced the
survival of primitive forms of lighting. This was the barrier of
language, religion, and culture, all differing from that which pre-
vailed elsewhere. There was a deep-seated traditionalism among the
Pennsylvania Germans, which made the continued use of ancient
forms of copper and iron crusies a congenial habit.

In Germany and Switzerland, at the time of the first German migra-
tions to America, the prevailing lighting devices among the common
people were either simple hanging lamps with slanting metal troughs
to hold the wicks, or merely shallow pans for burning fat or lard. In
Pennsylvania the former came to be called “betty” lamps, or “judies,”
or “kays,” or “frog lamps.” The latter, of Alpine origin, either hung
from hooks or had elaborate wrought-iron standards, in which case
the pans themselves took on a variety of shapes. From these proto-
types the “Dutch” metalsmiths in America developed their own char-
acteristic versions. In collections today there are many examples
bearing the names of such Pennsylvania lamp makers as Peter Derr,
Joseph S. Schmitz, J. Eby, Hurxthal & Co., or J. Boker. So solidly
entrenched was the custom in Pennsylvania of using these ancient
lamp forms that there are numerous instances of their employment
late in the nineteenth century. Henry C. Mercer (1898, p. 7), indi-
cating that the “betty” lamp had sometimes survived up to his day,
gave the following directions for its use:

Thrust the point horizontally into a beam or catch the barb upon a hook, nail
or log crevice, then filling the vessel with lard, light the twisted tow (later
390 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

cotton) wick, laid along the internal trough, so tilted as to allow the oil oozing
from the flame to flow back into the vessel. By the light, brighter than a candle,
work at the loom after dark or fry potatoes at night on the open fire, as David
Getter still does (October 1897), in his log cabin in the hill country of Spring-
field township.

The “betty” lamp was to be found not only in Pennsylvania, but
all along the course of German emigration. Among the Germans
of Ohio it was probably as commonly used in the 1830-60 period as
in Pennsylvania. A lamp in the United States National Museum
collection of heating and lighting devices (No. 345938) is a typical
Pennsylvania example but was used in Arkansas in the early days of
the settlement. Other illustrations of the employment of these devices
in the newly settled areas of the Midwest frequently occur.

In rural regions, not only in the South.and West, but in isolated
parts of the East as well, it is probable that candles more often held
a foremost place. Made of tallow, they were sometimes dipped and
sometimes cast in molds. Hough (1928, p. 18), stated:

In reality the molds represent a method of economy among our ancestors in
that small amounts of fat could be worked up into candles with the molds when
required. Generally on the plantations, where a great many candles were
necessary, sufficient were made for the whole year by dipping, which was far
more expeditious than by molds. Candle dipping was usually coincident with
the butchering of the winter stores of meat, at which time much fat was
accumulated.

Candle dipping was accomplished on a large scale by the use of
revolving candle driers. These devices were especially popular in
Pennsylvania, but they occurred elsewhere, as among the New England
Shakers, where large quantities were produced at one time. They
consisted in each instance of a series of horizontal spokes, like a rim-
less wheel, which revolved on an upright spindle supported on a
waist-high stand. From the end of each spoke was suspended a wooden
disk or square. On the bottom of this were numerous small hooks to
which the candle wicks were tied. When the molten tallow or wax
was prepared by heating it on the surface of a kettle of hot water, a
disk was removed from the drier, the wicks were dipped in the tallow
and withdrawn, and the disk hung back on the drier. The process was
repeated with each drier. By the time the entire series had been
dipped once, the first wicks were sufficiently hard to be dipped again.
Thus, repeated coatings of tallow were allowed to accumulate until the
candles reached the desired size.

Another simpler method of dipping was used in New England.
Here, the wicks were suspended and dipped from long sticks or
“broaches.” Each stick, with a dozen or more wicks, was placed across
a pur of long poles supported at the ends on the backs of two chairs.
The wicks were then dipped successively and repeatedly as with the
revolving drier (Earle, 1898, pp. 85-86). It was necessary, for the
Smithsonian Report, 1951.—Watkins PLATE 1

Three 19th-century iron “betty” lamps: Left, Stamped “FE. Brown”? and “1835,” used in
Washington, D. C. Middle, A typical Pennsylvania-style lamp of the midcentury, from
Newkirk, Okla. Right, Lamp found in the stock of a Philadelphia hardware store in
1898. The harpoonlike hooks were hung on chair backs or from nails or thrust into
chinks in fireplaces.

Left, Iron “hogscraper” candlestick of late 18th or early 19th century. The sharp-edged
base was convenient for scraping bristles from newly slaughtered hogs. Middle, Patent
model for “‘hogscraper” candlestick. Patented by Merriam, Harris, Wheeler & Merriam,
of Poultney, Vt., in 1853. Right, Brass candlestick of style used about 1825-1840.
dure] toqurey ‘y31y “SZ8T-ST8T ynoge ‘sdury] jayuew jo sed ‘aseq polYysIoM ¥ UI poJUNOU pol UOT ue UO

BJO DUG ‘appLyy « ‘OLSI-OO8I INoge ‘dur puey 7fa7 : (410A19 umop pur dn apljs 0} pousisap dur] uly vyszy = -AyuNOD syong ‘puis
-sa1 pasopoue yum dure] ,.o[qeise ,,ue 10J /Q/] Joquozed ysipsuy uspoom pouin} uo dur] ..Aqjeq,, uoIy] ‘appr = IOAIOSaI ZUIZUIMS
$So]IJ UO paseq) Ainjusd yIST Ajiva fo sdury] [lo-sjeym ssvig yum durey prey uoiy Zfa7 :sdurey evlueajAsuusg Ainju99-Y16[-pIy

4

=]

Z 3ALV 1d sutyze j\—'" | 661 *qaodayy uRTUOsy WIG
Smithsonian Report, 1951.—Watkins

Glass whale-oil lamps with enclosed reservoirs and tight-fitting burners were

innovation. The earliest (like that shown at far right) were sin bl
After the mechanical pressing of glass was introduced in 1826,
blown fonts and pressed bases. Second lamp front right was

t

ibout 1830: the others are somewhat later

Glass lamps of about 1830-1860
Emerson, fitted with a stopper-type
with fluid or camphene burner, probably mad«
oil lamp with pewter screw-type whale-oil b

*Ainquas W161 Vfeip 94] posvtolout ‘s puesiy fO UOI}BAOUUT UP ‘sXou

Ajiey “SUISSIUT 10]39fe1 uN pue AdUUIIYD ss¥[s fosn UOUTWIOD -WIYD Sse]o) ‘aSvd JOUING Y¥o Jo oseq 1” S}O|s YBnNosY) poywpe
Joy odAq-][em uly, “/ys2y “uUMOYS JOU ADUATYD sseys S(¢FRT ‘9 SEM IW “swie JOyoRIq IY} YSnoIYI siouing Oj pay puv IMWOAIOsaI
judy ‘wy ‘O Aq pequeied) [io pie] uing 0} pausisap dur] [etqus9 ul pjoy sem Ajddns jlo ayy, ‘“uoIsulyseAA a3100g) Aq
puesiy jo japow qusaieg Yfa7 :dure] pursiy ay} Jo sucisiaA OMT, peuMo AT[PUISIIO ‘aseq sse[s-jnd uO pajunow ‘dwe] puesiy JoTIC

vp AaALVvid SUIYIE A\ —"|66| WOday URTUOsYy WIG
Smithsonian Report, 195].—Watkins PLATE 5

‘

‘sinumbra,” lamps. These embody the Argand burner in combination
with ring-shaped reservoirs (shown at right), designed to minimize amount of shadow.
They were used with chimneys and glass shades of varying shapes, of which the one at

left is most typical. American, about 1830-1840.

Three astral, or

SENT LEMENS |
CABIN

Transfer-printed scene from Staffordshire platter of the “Boston Mails Series,” made by
J. and T. Edwards of Burslem in 1841. A suspension-type astral lamp hangs above the
table in the “‘gentlemen’s cabin.” (Courtesy Mrs. Arthur M. Greenwood.)
(uy ‘doys qug plo eT, Jo Asolinod) “sMOpUIM ay} Us9MJ0q 9]qQ¥R1 dy UO due] [ese Ue
smoys sul0OY MON Op-O}-][9M vB ul JOjIed v fo [eAvIqIod enqovRy} A][NJored sty],

exer &

See

9 3ALVW 1d SUIYIEA\—"[C6| ‘40dayy UerUOS

Smithsonian Report, 1951.—Watkins PLATE 7

Four solar lamps. Usually designed to burn lard oil, these used a modified Argand burner
with a device to shade the flame into a column of light. The shades were often globular,
with engraved designs. ‘The solar lamp was economical and efficient and was especially
popular in the 1840's.

Three patent models of tin lard-burning lamps: Left, Harvey Temlinson’s patent, Geneva
N. Y., September 1, 1843, embodying an Argand burner with copper air tube. Middle
Zebulon Warroll’s patent, Chester Hill, Ohio, February 7, 1842, depending upon gravity
for flow of fuel, the heat from the flame warming the lard in the reservoir. Right, One
of several patents by Robert Cornelius, of Philadelphia, this one dated April 6, 1843. A
ribbon wick with copper conductor strip is the working principle.
Smithsonian Report, 195].—Watkins PLATE 8

Patent models illustrating inventive ingenuity: Left, Rosin lamp, with heater underneath
to keep the rosin fluid, patented by Prentice Sargent, Newburyport, Mass., March 4, 1856.
Middle, Lard lamp patented by Silas B. Terry, Plymouth, Conn., February 24, 1843.
Right, Fluid vapor lamp patented by C. A. Green, Philadelphia, April 21, 1857. The
small burner seen at right superheated the volatile fuel in the large burner, causing it
to vaporize and burn as a gas.

Patent models of lard lamps using pressure to feed fuel to wicks: Left, Tin lard lamp pat-
ented by John Grannis, Oberlin, Ohio, August 25, 1842. A plunger drives lard from
secondary reservoir to primary reservoir and wick. Middle, Maltby and Neal’s lard lamp
patented by Benjamin K. Maltby, Rootstown, Ohio, May 4, 1842. The patented feature
is a pair of perforated copper wick tubes to assure equal distribution of lard into wicks
when pressure is applied, preventing wicks from being displaced. Right, Lard lamp
patented by Thomas Sewell, New York, October 2, 1847. Turning the inner portion of
the base forces the lard upward.
ARTIFICIAL LIGHTING IN AMERICA—WATKINS 391

most satisfactory and economical performance, to allow the candles
to dry and harden for many weeks. Bundles were suspended from
the beams of the kitchen, as described by Olmsted above, or in the
attic.

Candle molds were usually made of tin in a variety of sizes and
combinations. Molds were easier to use, since fewer operations were
involved. That they are to be found on each side of the Mississippi,
in areas settled by people of both German and Anglo-Saxon stock,
indicates that candles were used generally. Their continued use is
attested by the fact that there were occasional inventions of candle
molds during the period under discussion. In 1837 the following
notice was given of a mold exhibited at the Mechanic’s Fair in Boston:

BH. Haywood, of Boston, has produced candle moulds, which open lengthwise,

in halves, and can be curved or cast upon figured moulds, so as to yield spermaceti
or wax candles of beautiful ornamented patterns. (Boston Daily Sentinel and
Gazette, Sept. 25, 1837.)
It is apparent from this that not only the tallow candles of the rural
areas but also the expensive spermaceti candles we usually associate
with aristocratic eighteenth-century surroundings were still in fashion.
Spermaceti is the crystalline wax from the head of the sperm whale
and, though expensive, was unsurpassed as a candle illuminant.

Candlesticks ranged from crude holders of tin and iron, and even
pottery, to those of pewter, brass, and silver. Elaborate electroplated
examples with embossed designs were popular in “elegant” settings
after 1850, while the turned types of brass sticks (essentially like their
eighteenth-century predecessors, except for greater mass and less re-
straint) were for common use. Devices for expelling the stubs of
candles were common by 1830. <A popular barn and kitchen candle-
stick with a slide-style expeller was called a “hog-scraper” because of
its sharp-edged base, adaptable to scraping bristles from newly slaugh-
tered hogs. This remained in use throughout the century and within
recent years has been sold by a large mail-order house with the candle
socket omitted, its adopted function having become its primary pur-
pose. The United States National Museum exhibits a heavy brass
stick with internal expeller which is a patent model of 1840 (No. 251-
722). The Franklin Institute commended an iron candlestick, ex-
hibited in the 1832 Exhibition, as being one that “will compare with
the English both in quality and price.” It is significant that there
were as many as 18 candlesticks patented between 1830 and 1860, as
well as one design for snuffers.

In an apparently characteristic up-State New York farmhouse,
brass candlesticks formed part of the decorative scheme in the best
parlor. Susan Fenimore Cooper described this room in 1851 (“A
Lady,” pp. 157-158) :

981445—52-——26
392 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

It was both parlor and guest chamber at the same time. In one corner stood
a maple bedstead, with a large, plump feather bed on it, and two tiny pillows in
well-bleached cases at the head. The walls of the room were whitewashed, the
wood-work was unpainted, but so thoroughly scoured, that it had acquired a
sort of polish and oak color. Before the windows hung colored paper blinds.
Between the windows was a table, and over it hung a small looking-glass, and a
green and yellow drawing in water colors, the gift of a friend. On one side stood
a cherry bureau.... The mantel-piece was ornamented with peacock’s
feathers, and brass candlesticks, bright as gold; in the fireplace were fresh
sprigs of asparagus. An open cupboard stood on one side, containing the cups
and saucers in neat array, a pretty salt cellar, with several pieces of cracked
and broken crockery, of a superior quality, preserved for ornament rather than
use.

But if we are to see the other side of the picture and observe the
achievements of invention in lighting and that spirit of “leviathanism”
which so impressed Lady Emmeline Stuart Wortley, we must remain
in the cities and urbanized areas of the seaboard. Here important im-
provements had been introduced before the close of the eighteenth
century, and some had been widely adopted in America. Contributing
as much as any one individual to the development of lighting, a Swiss
chemist, Ami Argand, in 1783 had invented the first lamp to be con-
structed on scientific principles of combustion. This embodied a
hollow tube, open at both ends, which extended upward through the
center of the burner. A cylindrical woven wick was fitted tightly
around the tube, and an outer cylinder was placed around this. Oil
from the reservoir was fed into the side of the cylindrical chamber
containing the wick. The hollow tube in the center served to admit
air to the center of the flame, thus increasing combustion and the
amount of light as heat from the flame acted automatically to create
a draft. The draft was further increased by the addition of a glass
chimney. Argand is credited with the first practical use of the lamp
chimney.

Well-to-do Americans, among them Washington and Jefferson, had
installed Argand lamps before 1800, and after that year several modi-
fications and adaptations of Argand’s idea were adopted by city folk
who could afford them. Their greatly superior light, amounting to as
much as 9 candlepower, was considered revolutionary, as we shall see.

More significant from a cultural and economic standpoint, if not
from a technological one, was the widespread adoption of an English
weaver’s invention, John Miles’s “agitable” lamp, patented in England
in 1787. Although apparently but little concerned with scientific
principle, Miles succeeded in designing an eminently simple device
consisting of a container with a hole at the top into which a burner
with one or more vertical wick tubes could be screwed or tightly
fitted. Sperm oil or even common whale oil could be drawn up into
the vertical wicks, and the stopper-type burners minimized the spilling
ARTIFICIAL LIGHTING IN AMERICA—WATKINS 393

of oil. The symmetrical design permitted making handsome lamps
of tin, pewter, brass, and glass, and their simplicity made them eco-
nomical and easy to clean. The whaling industry, already well
established, was able to provide the necessary fuel for these devices,
particularly in the Northeast, their increasing popularity after 1800
having been a basic reason for the expansion of whaling. By 1830
the “common” or whale-oil lamp (as Miles’s lamp came to be called)
had become a standard household device in the East. A large part of
the output of the glass factories in Pittsburgh, Sandwich, and Cam-
bridge consisted of glass whale-oil lamps, while pewterers and tin-
smiths welcomed the new form so admirably adapted to their skills.
However, the light emitted from a whale-oil lamp with a single wick
was not much greater than that of a candle. This lamp had a solid
wick and rarely included a chimney. Its popular appeal was there-
fore attributable to economy, simplicity, and satisfactory appearance.

It is initially surprising that the most radical innovation of all,
though introduced before 1830, was not widely accepted until after the
Civil War. This was illuminating gas, first used for domestic light-
ing by David Melville, of Newport, R. I.,in 1806. Although Melville’s
enthusiasm for gas light led him to install it in a nearby textile mill
as well as in street lamps outside his house, it remained for a long time
anovelty. <Asearly as 1799 or 1800 one Mr. Henfry had demonstrated
gas light in Baltimore, and in 1816 Rembrandt Peale used gas to light
his museum in that city. So successful was it there that the first com-
mercial installation of gas street lights was urged and adopted by the
Baltimore citizenry within the following year. Except for street
lighting in most of the larger cities, gas illumination was confined prin-
cipally to theaters, museums, and other public gathering places.
Elaborate technical requirements and installation problems remained
as hurdles that were difficult to overcome. Gas lighting was still
uncommon in 1843, when the Franklin Institute conducted experiments
to prove its utility. It was concluded that gas could be credited with
giving “bright and continuous light,” cleanliness, and freedom from
variation, smell, smoke, or care, yet “its disadvantage is that it is a
fixed light, and can be used only at points previously determined upon”
(Journal, 1843, ser. 3, vol. 5, p. 105).

The fixtures then used for gas ranged from simple brackets project-
ing from the wall to very elaborate chandeliers. The predominantly
public use of gas during the 1830-60 period accounts largely for the
latter, which are both illustrated and commented upon in contem-
porary literature. The Report on Lamp and Gas Fixtures in the 13th
Annual Exhibit of the Franklin Institute in 1844 describes “the richly
ornamented gas pendants and chandeliers finished in ormolu, the
workmanship of which is exceedingly beautiful, the color faultless,
and the whole such as to satisfy the most fastidious taste, and in com-
394 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

bination with the judicious arrangements of the glass ornaments pro-
duce a very brilliant effect” (Journal, ser. 3, vol. 6, p. 402).

The Cornelius firm of Philadelphia, the largest manufacturer of
lighting devices in America at the time, exhibited two gas chandeliers
at the London International Exhibition of 1851. The Art Journal’s
catalogue of the display comments as follows: “They stood about
fifteen feet and a half high, by six feet wide, having fifteen burners
with plain glass globes, and are rich brass lacquered. The design is
very rich in ornament, and possesses some novelty in the succession of
curves ingeniously and tastefully united: the gas keys represent
bunches of fruit, thus combining beauty with utility” (1851, p. 212).
Such dubious marriages between beauty and utility were to become
increasingly frequent in American lighting devices as the century
wore on.

Gas street lights were simple inverted truncated pyramids of glass
and tin, mounted on posts and enclosing gas jets. Charles Dickens
remarked upon the lights of Broadway in 1842 (p. 103) : “As the eye
travels down the long thoroughfare, dotted with bright jets of gas, it
is reminded of Oxford Street or Piccadilly. Here and there a flight
of broad stone cellar-steps appears, a painted lamp directs you to the
Bowling Saloon, or Ten-Pin Alley ... At other downward flights
of steps, are other lamps, marking the whereabouts of oyster-cellars.”

Public illuminations of a celebrative nature were frequent urban
occurrences in the exuberant years we are considering, and the possi-
bilities of gas light were exploited to the utmost on those occasions.
Gas pipes were sometimes bent to odd shapes, and when perforated
with holes for jets, were mounted on buildings and lighted with im-
pressive effects.

At the Railroad Jubilee held in Boston in 1851 to commemorate the
completion of the railroad between Boston and Montreal, an illumi-
nation “emblematic, not only of present joy, but of bright hope for
the future . . . irradiated the scene,” according to the official account.
“The Tremont House,” it was narrated, “is especially worthy of notice
for the extent and splendor of its illumination. The columns of the
portico were like pillars of flame. Two thousand lights were placed
in the windows, besides which there were two dazzling rosettes of
gas in front. The exhibition called forth the warmest encomiums
of thousands.” The Boston Gas Light Co. naturally made the most
of its product, and we find that “in front of the office of this Com-
pany was seen the word ‘Union,’ in ‘letters of living light,’ supported
by four vines, above all which blazed a single star of dazzling bril-
liancy” (Railroad Jubilee, 1852, p. 188 ff.).

Such public demonstrations were all the more wondrous because
they were unfamiliar. In the ordinary household a meager amount
ARTIFICIAL LIGHTING IN AMERICA—WATKINS 395

of light was the expected thing, and a greater concentration was often
regarded with disfavor under normal circumstances. As early as
1804 the Domestic Encyclopedia had commented on the “superior
utility of lamps,” but “as the light emitted from them is frequently
too vivid for weak or irritable eyes, we would recommend the use of
a small screen” (Mease, 1804, vol. 3, p. 432). Presumably the Argand
lamp, with its unprecedented candlepower, was the basis for this
caution. Count Rumford had stated in 1811 that “no decayed beauty
ought ever to expose her face to the direct rays of an Argand lamp.”
By 1847 this hostility to unusual brilliance was still expressed. The
Franklin Institute Journal in that year (ser. 3, vol. 14, p. 410) re-
marked that “the unpleasant, and to many sights, painful effects of
the naked flame of a candle, lamp or gas-burner, have long been known
and felt.” At almost the same date (August 21, 1847), the Scientific
American observed some extraordinary precautions taken against
glare: “The introduction of gas lights into private houses has been
taken advantage of by the ladies, who under protest against the glare
and uncomfortableness of such bright lights, deliberately spread para-
sols in evening soiree .. . A pink parasol judiciously held between
a lady’s face and a gas burner throws a tender, roseate hue over
the complexion.”

In commonplace surroundings, particularly outdoors, the light af-
forded on ordinary occasions was seldom sufficient to damage one’s
eyesight, all fears to the contrary notwithstanding. Alexander Mac-
kay (1849, pp. 129, 162), looking across the Delaware River, found
the lights of Philadelphia “as few and far between as are those of
London and the Thames.” On the “cold moist platform” of the Wash-
ington railroad station “we stood shivering by the light of one
wretched lamp,” while in front of his hotel there “the solitary lamp
which burned over the door only made darkness visible.” Dickens
remarked upon the “feeble lights” of Harrisburg, which “reflected dis-
mally from the wet ground” (1842, p. 170).

For those who traveled at night, illumination in public conveyances
must have been even more dismal. John S. Kendall in “The Con-
necticut and Passumpsic Rivers Railroad” (1932), states: “Sperm
candles were used at first for lighting the cars, giving way to oil
lamps later. They gave just about light enough to keep passengers
with good eyesight from falling over the seats.” Mackay (1849, p.
36), traveling from Worcester to Norwich, stated, “A solitary lamp
burned at one end of the car.” When the Western Railroad was com-
pleted between Worcester and Springfield, Mass., in 1839, the new
passenger car was equipped with a glass-encased boxlike frame
beside each seat. Passengers placed their own candles in these frames
at first, but because one’s candles did not always fit the socket, the
railroad later furnished them (Ayers, 1944).
396 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

As might be expected, the stagecoach traveler had the ultimate
minimum of light. Mackay (1849, p. 213), about to ride from Mill-
edgeville to Macon, Ga., attempted to examine the vehicle which was
to take him “by the glimmering light of a tin lantern, which had the
peculiarity of never being precisely where it was wanted.”

Steamship lighting was glamorous by contrast. Lady Emmeline
Stuart Wortley (1851, p. 25) voyaged up the Hudson in “a floating
island of painting, marble, gilding, stained glass, velvet hangings,
satin draperies, mirrors in richly carved frames, and sculptured orna-
ments with beautiful vases of flowers, Chinese lamps of various in-
describable forms, arabesques, chandeliers—in short, you might fancy
yourself in Haroun Alraschid’s palace.”

The lighting of churches was usually austere. Many churches had
no lights at all, while others merely had a minimum of light in the
form of simple sconces. The Wells Collection at Old Sturbridge
Village (Sturbridge, Mass.) includes a chandelier from a Baptist
meetinghouse, near Brunswick, Maine, that dates from about 1820.
This consists of a turned wooden central section, radiating spidery
arms of heavy iron wire which support tin candle saucers and are dec-
orated with tin leaves. The same collection exhibits four candelabra,
two in the form of a cross and two in the form of an ellipse, from a
Mennonite church in Pennsylvania. The Rocky Hill Meetinghouse
in Salisbury, Mass., still has three astral lamps suspended from over-
head. These were probably installed about 1830, or slightly earlier.
No other means of artificial light have since disturbed them.

Domestic lighting was seldom brilliant. Harriet Martineau (1838,
vol. 1, p. 37), landing in New York from England in 1838, complained
that in her Broadway boardinghouse bedroom the four bed posts
looked “as if meant to hang gowns and bonnets upon, for there was no
tester. The washstand was without tumbler, glass, soap, or brush
tray. The candlestick had no snuffers.” It is to be concluded that
one candle was supposed to light a whole room.

The refinement of city houses was, of course, in striking contrast
to the crude cabins of the frontier. Mrs. Felton (1842, pp. 36-87),
said that in New York “the number of superb houses is very
great. ... They appear all to be built upon one plan; the chief
feature of which is, that the dining and drawing rooms are situated
on the lower floor, and so arranged, as by throwing open a large pair
of folding doors, to form one splendid apartment. Their furniture
is magnificent in the extreme.”

The lighting for so elaborate a home as these was usually on an
appropriate scale from the standpoint of the appearance of the fix-
tures. In function, however, even the more expensive gas or oil-burn-
ing devices left something to be desired, although they were vastly
ARTIFICIAL LIGHTING IN AMERICA—WATKINS 397

superior to candles and whale-oil lamps. Frederika Bremer in 1849
described the evenings she spent in New York City in the well-fur-
nished home of her American friends, Mr. and Mrs. Downing. Among
her happiest hours, she said, were “those passed in the evening with
my host and hostess, sitting in the little darkened parlor with book-
cases and busts around us, and the fire glimmering in the large fire-
place. There by the evening lamp, Downing and his wife read to me
by turns from their most esteemed American poets” (Benson, 1924,
p. 11). Here is a vivid picture from the home of cultured persons,
where the light of one lamp was sufficient for one individual to read
by, but still so dim as to leave the room “darkened.” The lamps thus
used for parlor tables were commonly “astral” lamps, fitted with
ground-glass shades resting on ring-shaped, or “annular,” reservoirs.
Designed to minimize the amount of shadow cast by the reservoir,
these were modifications of the Argand lamp. They were made of
brass or bronze, as a rule, though sometimes their bases were of pressed
glass. Like the “common” lamps that were used in the less important
parts of the house, astral lamps burned sperm oil.

Miss Leslie in 1840 defined in great detail the types of lamps used
in a well-to-do home, with instructions concerning their use and care.
She pointed out that “lamp shades painted in bright colors are now
considered in very bad taste” and also advised that a separate oil can
should be used for the parlor lamps.

Besides the astral lamps, there were other types that gained favor
for parlor use as inventive activity increased. One was the Carcel, or
“Mechanical,” lamp, invented in France in 1800 but not until con-
siderably later adopted here. The Carcel lamp embodied an elaborate
clockwork which activated a pump that in turn flooded its Argand
burner with oil. It was surely very costly in comparison with other
lamps, but it was by far the most efficient lamp that had yet been
devised for burning viscous fuels. The Franklin Institute conducted
various tests with the Carcel lamp, and the findings must have been in-
fluential in stimulating its use. Among other things, it was found
that the Carcel lamp using fall-strained sperm oils burned with an
intensity of more than twice that of a gas burner, and at only slightly
higher cost. The Journal (18483, ser. 3, vol. 5, p. 105 ff.) observed: “The
Carcel lamps, although from their construction, expensive, give an
exceedingly steady long enduring, and bright light, and are char-
acterized by beauty of form, and total absence of shadow.”

Although the breaking of conventional shackles on illumination was
not always recognizable in terms of increased light, it was manifested
by a growing spate of inventions, which served progress by the trial-
and-error method. Bred in the new atmosphere of mechanical and
scientific advancement, approximately 500 patented inventions were
398 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

recorded in the United States Patent Office between 1830 and 1860
for lighting devices alone. Scarcely 50 had been listed between 1790
and 1830 (Hubbard, 1935). It is true that improvement upon what
was already in existence was a leading motive for this inventive
activity; but there were also underlying economic reasons, of which
one was the state of the whaling industry. Even before the demand
for whale oils had reached its height in the middle 1840’s the whaling
industry, while seeking to supply a growing demand, had found itself
faced with diminishing returns. Whales became scarcer, voyages in
search of them grew longer, and the risks of both the owners and
the crews increased with each voyage. Hohman states (1928, pp.
273, 302, 330), “It was estimated that during the middle years of the
nineteenth century approximately ten percent of all American
whaling vessels made voyages which resulted in a net loss to their
owners.” Between 1846 and 1861 the whole fleet declined from 735
to 514 ships. Meanwhile, the wholesale price of sperm oil fluctuated
upward in increasing peaks. In 1848, to cite an extreme contrast,
the dockside price in New Bedford was 95 cents a gallon, while in
1855 it was $1.70. Earlier than this, however, whale oils had been
expensive, although they could be burned comparatively cheaply in
the simple common lamp. As early as 1821 winter-strained sperm oil
had cost the city of Boston $1.07 a gallon on a contract basis. In 1843
the price of fall-strained oil was quoted by the Franklin Institute
Journal (ser. 3, vol. 5, p. 105 ff.) at 90 cents a gallon, and the winter-
strained variety at $1. It is easy to see why farm folk preferred to
rely on lard and tallow from their own animals.

A few of the inventors sought to improve the efficiency of lamps in-
tended to burn sperm oil. Samuel Rust, of New York, took out
several patents involving the use of ribbon wicks and chimneys to
increase combustion, wick raisers to permit finer adjustments, and
other modifications of the common lamp which sought to improve
its function. In 1831 William Lawrence designed a hanging lamp
with a reservoir in the shape of a hollow truncated cone and with
slanting ribbon-wick burners enclosed in a glass shade. This pro-
vided, in theory at least, proper draft-fed combustion and a good
central light. Closely related in form was Couch & Frary’s lamp
patented two years later.

It remained for Isaiah Jennings in 1830 to patent a new fuel and
thereby make the outstanding contribution to the development of
lighting prior to the discovery of kerosene. His “burning fluid”
combined alcohol and spirits of turpentine in a proportion of eight
to one. It was the first chemically made, volatile illuminating fuel.
The Franklin Institute Journal, a regular commentator and fre-
quently severe critic of new inventions, was enthusiastic: “We have
ARTIFICIAL LIGHTING IN AMERICA—WATKINS 399

seen the above mixture in combination in an Argand’s lamp. The
flame was clear, dense, and brilliant. The light may be made greatly
to exceed that from oil, without the escape of any smoke, and there is
not the slightest odor of turpentine. The patentee says the mixture
is as cheap as spermaceti oil, and that he is making arrangements
which will enable him to afford it at less cost considerably below that
material.” It concluded with an afterthought: “The friends of
temperance will not object to the burning of alcohol” (1831, ser. 2,
vol. 7, pp. 75-76). The Journal did not then foresee the dangers
inherent in the use of so explosive an agent in a common, or even an
Argand, lamp. By 1834 they had reason, as we shall see, to comment
on Samuel Casey’s patented burning compound (one of several
variants of Jennings’s fluid) : “The late fatal accidents resulting from
the use of such ingredients in Jamps will, however, probably put a
final stop to the use of these mixtures, and we have no doubt that a
court of law would now decide that they are not useful, within the
meaning of the statute” (1834, ser. 2, vol. 14, p. 247).

Nevertheless, the cheapness of these fluids and the comparative ex-
cellence of the light afforded by them led to their gradual adoption.
There were several followers in Jennings’s footsteps, among them
Henry Porter, of Bangor, Maine, who added camphor, rosin, and
tincture of curcuma to the formula in 1835. Finally, in 1839, Augus-
tus V. X. Webb of New York began to manufacture distilled turpen-
tine under the name “camphine.” Later (when usually spelled cam-
phene) that became a generic term applied loosely to all the fluids.

The use of undiluted turpentine was not new with Webb, however,
for only a year earlier Luther Jones had patented a lamp for burning
this substance. The lamp was advertised in the Boston Transcript
(November 27, 1839) :

A New and Superior Lamp. Jones’s Patent Reverse Lamp, for burning the

oil of turpentine. For light, this lamp is without a parallel, producing more light
from the same width of wick than any other. The material used in them is per-
fectly harmless. The lamp can be filled at any time without the least danger ;
it costs less than oil, and the lamp is a very excellent one for Stores, Factories,
Work Shops, &e,&e ...
The claims made here for its safety are not supported by the Frank-
lin Institute Journal’s commentator: “So far as experience may serve
as a guide, the lamps for burning spirits of turpentine are not likely
to supersede those for burning oil; there are serious objections to the
use of the former, and amongst them is the inflammability of the
fluid” (1888, ser. 2, vol. 24, p. 323).

The inflammability of the fluid was a factor that came to be reck-
oned with in ever-increasing degrees as these fuels grew in use. Am-
ple evidence can be found in the periodicals of the day. The follow-
ing was printed in the Scientific American for June 19, 1847: “Miss
400 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

Mary Watson was burned to death in Philadelphia last week, while
attempting to fill a fluid lamp when it was burning, and the liquid
taking fire caused the catastrophe. Her mother and brother, who
were in the room, were also badly burned in attempting to save her.”
The same periodical reported on April 27, 1850, “A serious fire took
place at a camphene distillery in our city on last Friday, by which
several of the hands were severely burned. There is scarcely a week
passes over our heads without a number of accidents from the use of
camphene.” The next year this state of affairs was still continuing.
“Two daughters of Alderman Ramass of New Orleans were burned
to death by the explosion of a camphene lamp; two others were also
shockingly burned by the accident” (Gleason’s Drawing Room Com-
panion, July 7, 1851). On September 17, 1853, the Scientific Ameri-
can again commented with some astonishing statistics: “According to
a record kept by Mrs. F. Merriam, there were, during the year ending
September 1st, 1853, some thirty-three fatal explosions, mostly in
the cities of New York, Brooklyn, Williamsburgh, and vicinity, in
which nineteen persons were killed, twenty-three persons fatally or
severely injured, three persons slightly wounded, and some three or
four buildings fired. The preparations alluded to are burning fluid,
camphene, spirit gas, rosin oil, etc.”

Probably the first effort to obviate these dangers was to design a
new burner less dangerous to use than the common whale-o1l burner.
This was made so that its wick tubes extended upward, away from
the fuel, instead of downward. Thus less heat was conducted into
the reservoir from the flame, and the flame itself was a greater dis-
tance from the fluid. Extinguisher caps obviated the dangerous
necessity of blowing out the light. This burner was widely adopted,
as its frequent survival in collections and antique shops indicates. It
was designed to fit the same lamps that had burned whale oil, so
that the difference between a whale-oil lamp and a so-called “cam-
phene” lamp is often distinguishable only by its burner. An undated
advertising card of Marsh & Company’s Patent Oil Manufactory of
Boston, probably printed in the 1840’s, announces “New tubes fitted
to Common Whale Oil Lamps, from 614 to 1214 Cents.”

It may be concluded that the fluid burner was only a relative im-
provement in safety, for most of the recorded accidents occurred after
the burner was in common use. The next moves were therefore to-
ward designing a “safety” lamp that would not explode. This hoped-
for goal was probably never achieved, but the efforts to do so were
numerous. Perhaps the most satisfactory was the one patented by
John Newell, in 1853, consisting of a cylinder of fine wire-gauze screen,
which encased the wick inside the reservoir. Evidently inspired by
the Davy miner’s safety lamp, this was supposed to keep the flame
ARTIFICIAL LIGHTING IN AMERICA—WATKINS 401

from backing into the fuel supply. It was exhibited at the New York
Crystal Palace Exposition in 1854 and was acclaimed by such notable
scientists of the day as Benjamin Silliman. Another, consisting of a
glass reservoir enclosing a metal lining, was patented by Prof. E. N.
Horsford, a Harvard archeologist, and James R. Nichols.

Other improvements in the use of camphene and fluids were designed
to make the flame burn more brightly. One was patented by “Doctor”
Michael Boyd Dyott, a flamboyant Philadelphia manufacturer of
glass, patent medicines, and a burning fluid he called “pine oil.” In
his lamp the fluid was vaporized and burned as a gas. This was fol-
lowed by several other designs which were in effect gas lamps using
vaporized fuel.

The Franklin Institute’s experiments of 1843, already several times
alluded to, led to the conclusion that “camphene possesses a remarkable
intensity and higher lighting power, with a brilliant white flame, and
from its cheapness presents strong claims, on the score of economy,
upon public notice. Its disadvantages are, the great inflammability
of the material, the liability to annoyance from its disagreeable smell,
and the injurious and unendurable smoke which proceeds from the
lamp when out of order, or not properly regulated” (1843, ser. 3, vol. 5,
p. 108 ff.). The brilliance attributed to camphene was, of course, a
matter of comparison and degree. To one used to the single-candle-
power light of a whale-oil burner the light from a fluid burner was a
vast improvement. That the fluids were widely adopted, both (we
may assume) on the basis of their “high lighting power” and “on the
score of economy,” is evident from the large number of surviving
examples.

To what extent the rural population, with its conservatism re-
enforced by a healthy fear of fire, may have taken up the burning
fluids is open to surmise. Certainly most country residents were pre-
pared to welcome a safer substitute than camphene for traditional
lighting devices. Such a substitute was provided by lard from their
own hogs, used in combination with any of the scores of newly in-
vented lard lamps. Most of the lamps designed for burning lard
were crude in appearance and bizarre in function. Few were based
on scientific knowledge, but almost all were concerned with over-
coming the difficulties of burning a semisolid fuel. There were three
basic principles employed in the lamps: (1) Conduction of heat from
the flame to the fuel supply; (2) gravity, usually in combination with
conduction devices; and (3) mechanical pressure.

In 1830 Stephen P. Moorehead sought a patent on a lard lamp hav-
ing copper wires wound around the wick tubes and leading down into
the reservoir. Thus heat from the flame would, in theory, at least,
be carried down to the lard. Moorehead was not the originator of
402 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

this idea, as the Franklin Institute Journal rather waspishly pointed
out. “The task is not an agreeable one,” it commented, “to inform
a person who believes he has drawn a prize, that a small mistake has
been made in his number” (1830, ser. 2, vol. 6, p. 15). It went on to
explain that a lamp made in Philadelphia 20 years earlier had em-
ployed the conduction principle and that another had followed.
What these lamps may have been cannot now be conjectured.

Notwithstanding its lack of originality, the conduction device was
used over and over again, even though the patent claim in each case
was ostensibly for some other feature. Southworth’s patent of 1842
is a case in point, where both a copper wick tube and copper conductor
strip were employed. Even as late as the following year, a chemist
named Campbell Morfit had seen fit publicly to recommend the substi-
tution of copper wick tubes for those of tin.

In 1834 Samuel Davis designed a lard lamp that similarly included
copper parts in the burner. Davis’s directions made it clear that
something more than a copper conductor was needed, however. “If
the lard lamp be cold, and there be no warm lard to start it, hold the
lamp upside down, and with a match let it burn until the burner gets
hot, then set the lamp down and put a little cold lard in the lid around
the wick.” The implications of hardship and difficulty in the simple
act of lighting a lamp—an “improved” one, at that—are most interest-
ing to reflect upon.

Delamar Kinnear, of Circleville, Ohio, patented a lamp in 1850 on
the basis of its shape. In addition to having a wide flat wick for
giving light, it included also a pilot burner from which a conductor
wire descended into the fuel supply. Many of Kinnear’s lamps have
survived, indicating that they enjoyed some degree of success.

The second group of lard lamps depended upon gravity as well
as heat conduction. Dexter S. Chamberlain’s patent of 1854 prescribed
a tilting reservoir in which the oil supply was kept at a constant level
with the wick. The patent model is in the United States National
Museum collection (No. 251802). Moses Woodward’s earlier patent
of 1842 also utilized this principle. Its functioning was described
by the Franklin Institute Journal (1844, ser. 3, vol. 7, p. 252): “The
lard can be burned until it is nearly exhausted, for by the tilting of
the body of the lamp, the lard can be brought near to the ignited part
of the wick.”

The lamps of the third category were probably the least attractive
but the most effective. These employed mechanical pressure devices
to force the lard into the wick. An early and evidently popular ver-
sion was patented by Maltby & Neal, of Middlebury, Ohio, in 1842.
Their handsome patent model of brass with silver name plate (No.
251795) is illustrated in plate 8. Other examples of this lamp in tin
ARTIFICIAL LIGHTING IN AMERICA—WATKINS 403

and brass also are represented in the United States National Museum.

John Grannis’s patent of the same year claimed the application of a
“forcing” pump, or hand plunger, “to the construction and use of
lard Jamps.” Very similar, but embodying a key-propelled worm
shaft with piston instead of a force pump, was Smith & Stonesifer’s
patent of 1854. Another mechanical piston lamp had been previously
patented by Williams & Tew.

Most of the foregoing were crude looking and were more suitable
for use in the farm kitchen than in the city parlor. <A device called
the solar lamp, however, answered all the requirements of “elegance”
demanded by Victorian taste. Capable of burning any viscous oil,
but especially suited to lard oil, the solar lamp was a modified Argand
lamp. Its burner was fitted with a convex plate having a hole in the
center to direct the flame upward in a tall column of light, plus a
tapering glass chimney. It was in every respect a superior lighting
device. Although used for many years previously in England, it was
not introduced in America until 1841. From the Franklin Institute’s
aforementioned experiments of 1843 it was concluded: “The solar
lamp, although not so steady as the Carcel, approaches very nearly,
if it does not equal, that of the Carcel, in intensity. It is compara-
tively cheap, simple in its construction, not liable to get out of repair,
and easily cleansed” (1843, ser. 3, vol. 5, p. 105 ff.). Since its initial
cost was not great, and the cost of lard oil was less than that of sperm
oil, and since the appearance of the solar lamp was agreeable in
“eenteel” surroundings, its success was assured. It probably displaced
many of the less efficient and more expensive astral lamps. The solar
lamp was made by several manufacturers.

Taste in the 1830-60 period was reflected in lighting devices as in
other objects of furnishing. There were to be found handsome execu-
tion of good design on the one hand and esthetic atrocity on the other.
The more expensive the lamp the more ornate and meretricious the
decoration. Hand lamps of pewter and glass were essentially simple,
as were most of the smaller types other than patented lard lamps.
Astral lamps at the beginning of the period usually reflected the
rather severe classicism of the Greek Revival, bronze Ionic columns
and square plinths having been favorite forms for their pedestals.
After the introduction of the solar lamp the multiple-unit assembly
principle led to increasingly incongruous combinations of mass-pro-
duced bases and supporting shafts. Globes for solar lamps became
spheres of frosted glass, etched or engraved with Gothic arches and
arabesques. The classic column gave way to cast-brass fantasies in
pseudorococo, and the marble base was introduced to the lamp for a
long association.

As early as 1833 the tendency of metal workers to outdo themselves
in ornamental excess was already being felt. In the Eighth Exhi-
404 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

Raa aya eare mast 8 =a! IN AIGOS °>>
(Grom SF ae Ni Ra oe ree ceciehanieatianied)
«

R.H.SPALDING, |
: }

Successor to H. Porter, and sole Manufacturer of

PORTER’S PATENT

COMPOSITION BURNING FLUID;

ALSO,

SUPERIOR SANIOENE AND ALCOHOL.

7 a a

MANUFACTURER OF AND DEALER IN

H uid an Oil Chandeliers,

ASTRAL, SOLAR, HANGING AND SIDE LAMPS;
: PORTABLE STUDY LAMPS, OF EVERY DESCHIPTION,
( ) ! GIRANDOLES, CANDELABRAS, HALL LANTERNS ;
*) CHINA, FERRARA AMD BOHEMIAN VASES.

GLOBES, SHADES, GLASS PRISMS, &c. &c. &c.
Wholesale and Retail.
a Nos. 8 and 9 TREMONT ROW, Boston,

OPPOSITE THE HEAD OF HANOVER STREET.
Pes SESS SES EES so.

Ficure 1.—Woodcut advertisement from the Illustrated American Biography, by A. D.
Jones, vol. I, Boston, 1853.

bition of Domestic Manufacturers, sponsored by the Franklin Insti-
tute, the Committee of Judges on Lamps commented that in the
mantel lamps of Cornelius & Company “the brass castings are grace-
ful and durable, and exhibit a great richness of hue... The astral
lamps of the same artists are remarkable for new, original, and deli-
cate forms.” The word “original” is here significant. In the same
ARTIFICIAL LIGHTING IN AMERICA—WATKINS 405

report there is reference to an almost comic example of the outré:
“The Committee were not less pleased with lamps of anthracite coal
from the factory of J. W. and F. Kirk ... The quantity of this
article sold by the makers, indicates the public suffrage in its favour,
and a confidence in its durability, which we were not prepared to
expect” (1833, ser. 2, vol. 13, pp. 92-93).

In 1844, at the Thirteenth Exhibition, there was an increasing em-
phasis on fixtures such as “richly ornamented gas pendants in ormolu”
and “silvered chandeliers and candelabra” (1844, ser. 3, vol. 6, p. 402).
At about this time mantelpiece girandole candelabra were fashion-
able, and Starr & Co. of New York advertised a 3-unit set consisting
of cast-brass human figures on marble bases supporting candle hold-
ers from which cut crystal drops were suspended.

The judges at the Thirteenth Exhibition gave due credit, however,
to some of the simpler devices: “The humbler solar and lard lamps
deserve more than the passing notice which they receive at the hands
of the committee, and will, no doubt, serve to gratify the good taste,
and aid the vision of a far greater number of our fellow citizens,
than will the more showy and expensive chandeliers.”

Like a tidal wave, however, a new discovery in lighting swept
aside everything before it, both in form and function, at the close
of the 1830-60 period. The coup de grace had actually fallen 6
years earlier, when Abraham Gesner of Williamsburg, N. Y., had
patented his “new liquid hydrocarbon, which I denominate ‘kero-
sene’.” The blow was not then immediately felt, for Gesner’s “kero-
sene” was regarded at first as merely another burning fluid. But
the opening up of the Pennsylvania petroleum fields in 1859 marked
the turning point by releasing an abundant source of cheap and
superior fuel. Special burners were developed, and before a decade
had passed the kerosene lamp, in dramatic fashion, had virtually
displaced all its predecessors, except those that burned gas.

With the adoption of kerosene, as well as the increased urban use
of gas, industrialism took command in the field of lighting, just as
it did in so many phases of human activity. The period of 1830-60
had been one of transition between handicraft economy and mass
production and distribution. It had been an era when the individual
tinkerer applied his talents to inventing the mechanisms of a system
which was soon to dispense with his services. Viewed from afar it
appears today fresh and picturesque, with its tortuously conceived
lard lamps being “teased” along in farmhouse kitchens and its naively
“elegant” solar lamps symbolizing artistic progress in countless
parlors. But it had been in fact an earth-shaking era, for it effected
the final transition to a new material environment, not the least part
of which was the conquering of darkness.
406 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

“What miraculous progress and improvement is visible on every
side of the U. S.,” Lady Emmeline Stuart Wortley had exclaimed.
This expressed well the spirit of advance in the art of illumination,
as well as of material progress in general. Every inventive step,
however faltering or unguided, was in the direction of new tech-
niques and discoveries. Every new embellishment in the decoration
of lighting devices, however awful to modern eyes, represented
progress in a growing estheticism. Thus the lamps of this era shone
upon a stirring scene and were themselves symbols of the times,
reflecting and illuminating a dynamic society.

BIBLIOGRAPHY

“A Lapy” [SUSAN FENIMORE CooPER].
1851. Rural hours. New York.
ART JOURNAL, THE.
1851. The industry of all nations. [llustrated catalogue. London.
AYERS, CHARLES Hb.
1944. A brief history of railroad passenger car lighting. Rushlight, vol.
10, No. 4, pp. 55-57.
Benson, ApoupH P. (editor).
1924. America of the fifties: Letters of Frederika Bremer. London.
Boston DatILty SENTINEL AND GAZETTE.
1837. [Issue of September 25.]
Boston TRANSCRIPT.
1839. [Issue of November 27.]
BRYSON, FRANCES.
1950. From the days of iron lamps. Antiques Journ., vol. 6, No. 10, p. 26.
Davis, SAMUEL.
1934. Directions with Davis lard lamp. Rushlight, vol. 1, No. 2.
DICKENS, CHARLES.
1842. American notes. Leipzig.
HARLE, ALICE MORSE.
1898. Homelife in Colonial days. New York.
HaTON, ALLEN H.
1937. Handicrafts of the southern highlands. New York.
FELTON, MRS.
1842. American life: A narrative of two years city and country residence
in the U. S. London.
FoRWARD, ALEXANDER.
1929. Gas supply in the United States. Encycl. Brit., 14th ed., vol. 10,
pp. 49-50.
FRANKLIN INSTITUTE.
1830. Journal, ser. 2, vol. 6, p. 15.
1831. Ibid., vol. 7, pp. 75-76.
1833. Ibid., vol. 13, pp. 92-93.
1834. Ibid., vol. 14, p. 247.
1838. Ibid., vol. 24, p. 323.
18438. Ibid., ser. 8, vol. 5, p. 105 ff.
1844a. Ibid., vol. 6, p. 402.
1844b. Ibid., vol. 7, p. 252.
1847. Ibid., vol. 14, p. 410.
ARTIFICIAL LIGHTING IN AMERICA—WATKINS 407

GLEASON’s DRAWING Room CoMPANION,
1851. [Issue of July 7.]
HoHMAN, ELmMo PAUL.
1928. The American whaleman. New York.
HouGH, WALTER.
1928. Collection of heating and lighting utensils in the United States
National Museum. U.S. Nat. Mus. Bull. 141.
HupparpD, Howarp G.
1935. A complete check list of household lights patented in the United States,
1792-1862.
KENDALL, JOHN §.
1932. The Connecticut and Passumpsic Rivers Railroad. Railway and
Locomotive Hist. Soc. Bull. 49.
MACKAY, ALEXANDER.
1849. The western world, or travels in the U. S. in 1846-47. Ed. 2. London,
MARTINEAU, HARRIET.
1838. Restrospect of western travel. Vol. 1. New York.
MEASE, JAMES.
1804. The domestic encyclopaedia. 1st American ed.; with additions by
A. F. M. Willich.
Mercer, HENry C.
1898. Light and fire making. Doylestown, Pa.
OLMSTED, FREDERICK LAW.
1856. A journey in the seaboard slave States. New York.
1907. A journey in the back country in the winter of 1853-1854, Ed. 2, vol.
1. New York.
RAILROAD JUBILEE, THE.
1852. An account of the celebration commemorative of the opening of rail-
road communication between Boston and Canada. Boston.
RANDOLPH, VANCE.
1931. The Ozarks, an American survival of primitive society. New York.
WatkKIns, C. MALCOLM.
1935. The whale-oil burner; its invention and development. Mag. Antiques,
vol. 28, No. 4, pp. 148-149.
1936. A lamp dealer illustrates his wares. Mag. Antiques, vol. 385, No. 6,
pp. 297-299.
WATKINS, LURA WOODSIDE.
1943. Development of gas lighting. Rushlight, vol. 9, No. 4, pp. 5-8.
WortTLey, LapY EMMELINE STUART.
1851. Travels in the U. S.... during 1849 and 1850. New York.
WYAntT, Mag. L. B.
1840. The etiquette of nineteenth century lamps. (Quoting from Miss Les-
lie’s Housebook.) Mag. Antiques, vol. 30, No. 3, pp. 1138-117.

981445—52

27

TSS. ani ceo Oran: ae
ete ok Cha 18) oars Paani Vikas. ae mr
Sie, OX Lie os wel the aes at eg a3 mi
aty yrete qa ak aunlinkad Hees aM iets! Lr “Heer, mc
nonnae borta ti oft goheatt vs ahyelatle dein wall
rites ened ation vee
deft, estas : |
ros ae a

“tf METRES rs: pe ie &

por seperee is au” Uy pas ret aS rhe) wer
eehnceneiatt Dalby og AScttw jusltogdaod ody ma
‘bbe haga OB 29i51 svltocroousl ra

Rey | Pe 4 cae KARPAY maar Axa.A eH
sobiruy eben POE BL BS ott ai adorn 1 gta Mistsaw odT OAL

he Le”, Rite ie Pei abies, 7 osoutaH aneirrc
EMR Ranks tesla gaa? ORT OW tevierd aster pis) iosnfaortaa it co; a

ney ei ad eae meal,

eA diet Tine aaee iy Sad aodeK Alt Sete Prot

AR, Catunyate W AONE A STA

SPUL~ Acweiat hain gy Ok rasordnad git lcagiar eee neti: Sats gai
= J) 9 5 eye oe Foes weasel do yaliner of Hin sagt BRL 6,
oe, ApcnwoP, +l etitdea.'< ae Reeds ed octrng w
12H, fptowttion abit 40% edo ot Biisnod barca A

ee Heres ‘
iy (twit or lenveie aa
Seon: (na atncaaud » or

' vind selena solic ali

preted & Roto. weuzried ieheutiane ane ikl
a e faerie a ‘eh eng ade Solem, Vi aay pee

WH: xislova apie Bs inhiis@2 mestouk fp adcas st t0et ;
Dewi te se lie Ze Hen thes Pete iy ie hy hora. Be | Ince :

vol tarp inohiterral ait sasusad siotndye vind aor

ein aie, Bates «, tabla REBEL qi b off BS tor: Mp
erage meth.’ aetna, ai xalaph seal o eat
Pats cries reat Pisin iN . Bet
Pye a ic: r i ;
Reise an bag

ole Bui qi,

‘ on aK i a
frarnae Leceauataith usin Sie." e (oe
| BE ying cao Nt spe iB Pee

is TDN ok ie : i

2 fe eo
aba,” eR a ! te

The Development of the Halftone Screen’

By JAcoB KAINEN
Curator of Graphic Arts, U. S. National Museum

[With 12 plates]

Tue tremendous increase in the printing of pictures during the
past half-century constitutes one of the most important chapters in the
history of the graphic arts. While this phenomenal development in
picture printing came about as a result of public demand, the fact
remains that this appetite for pictures could never have been satisfied
had not certain mechanical instruments of reproduction first been
provided. And one of the most indispensable of such instruments
was the halftone screen.

The halftone screen made it possible to translate the tonal values
and gradations of a photograph into dots of varying sizes so that
a plate could be prepared that would reproduce the original by
relief (letterpress) printing. Carried over into lithography and
gravure, the halftone screen made important contributions to these
processes and played a key part in transforming them into giant
industries.

The halftone screen, as it has been universally used since about
1895, is made up of two sheets of glass, each glass being ruled with
parallel lines etched and filled with black pigment and cemented
together at right angles so that the resulting single sheet of glass
shows a series of black lines crossing each other, with transparent
square openings like a fine version of a wire-mesh screen. When
placed before a sensitive plate in a camera the transparent openings
permit the light to pass through in proportion to the light and dark
areas of the object being photographed. Where the light reflected
from the object is low a small amount of light will pass through the
openings, which act like a pinhole camera, and where the illumination
is intense a larger number of rays will reach the sensitive plate.
In this manner the tones of the object to be printed are translated
into dots of varying sizes.

1 Revised and expanded, by permission, from an article entitled ‘“‘The Halftone Screen,”
published as a brochure by R. R. Donnelley & Sons Co., Chicago, Ill.

409
410 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

The halftone screen, however, did not achieve perfection overnight.
Like most mechanical devices it grew slowly from the original idea,
and a long series of trials and errors over a period of four decades
was necessary to bring it up the ladder to practical success. It is
with the more interesting of these efforts that this article is concerned.

The letterpress industry, it should be remembered, produced prac-
tically all reading matter until recent years. Yet as late as the
1880’s, despite the fact that photogravure and collotype (as well as
lithography to a less reliable degree) could reproduce photographs
beautifully by photomechanical means, the letterpress printer still
required the wood engraver to translate photographs and other toned
pictures into engraved blocks. Results were slow, costly, and unre-
liable. They were, moreover, marked by the stylistic idiosyncrasies
of the engraver. Here was letterpress, the most widely used method
of printing, producing all the newspapers, books, and magazines, yet
lacking any good method for producing toned pictures photomechan-
ically to set up in the same form with type. There was good reason
for inventors to work feverishly to satisfy the insistent demand
for a reliable photomechanical relief halftone process. Basing their
work on all that had gone before, they gradually evolved the modern
halftone screen, which was perfected in principle in 1885. By 1891
the difficult business of manufacturing accurate screens was finally
worked out.

In the matter of creating graduated tones, relief printing lagged
considerably behind gravure from the historical standpoint. From
the fifteenth century up to the latter part of the eighteenth, the old-
fashioned woodcut provided the only means by which an illustration
could be printed in the same form with type. This was strictly a
line process, with only a rudimentary suggestion of tone. There
was the chiaroscuro woodcut, of course, which employed separate
blocks for tones, with a key block in line. This method, however,
required several printings and moreover had but a few simple
gradations of tone. Numerous methods existed in gravure, however,
for creating fine lines, dots, cross-hatches, and reticulations which
produced the illusion of tone. These processes, which included line-
engraving, etching, mezzotint, and aquatint, involved the engraving
or etching of sunken lines and dots which were filled with ink, after
which the surface was wiped clean and the plates were printed on a
special engravers’ press which forced the dampened paper into the
sunken ink-holding lines and dots. No type could be used in these
processes. Consequently, when tonal pictures were required for book
purposes, the only solution was to tip in plates printed by gravure.
This was a costly and time-consuming procedure.

In 1784 Thomas Bewick, in England, published his illustrations in
“Select Fables” and demonstrated the practicality of creating tonal
HALFTONE SCREEN—KAINEN 411

effects by engraving on the end-grain of a hard, dense wood, such as
boxwood. With this innovation wood engraving came into univer-
sal use for relief printing, reaching its culmination in the last quarter
of the nineteenth century. At that time, the demand for pictorial
matter in books, magazines, and newspapers reached higher levels than
ever before. It had been increased by developments in photogravure
and collotype—and in lithography, which Alois Senefelder discovered
in Germany in 1798. This process made use of slabs of Bavarian
limestone, which had the property of being sensitive to both grease
and water. The drawing was made on the stone with a crayon or ink
containing grease and pigment and chemically treated to fix the greasy
image and desensitize the remainder of the stone to grease. The stone
was then covered with a thin film of water, which was rejected by
the greasy image but retained by the porous stone. A greasy ink was
applied by a roller and was accepted by the greasy image but rejected
by the damp areas. The original drawing was therefore reconstituted
in printers’ ink and was susceptible of printing under a slight scrap-
ing pressure. Lithography proved to be a versatile process that of-
fered the simplest and most direct method for printing toned pictures
before the advent of photomechanical printing.

The modern halftone would not have been possible, of course, with-
out the invention of photography. In 1839 Daguerre, in Paris, con-
tinuing the work of Niepce, announced the invention of the daguerreo-
type. A little later in the same year Fox Talbot in England reported
on the calotype. Of the two inventions Daguerre’s was the more im-
mediately successful, although Talbot’s unquestionably was the more
important in the long run, since it introduced the use of transparent
negatives. The daguerreotype produced only a single final silver
image on a copper plate. Numerous experimenters immediately be-
gan to etch daguerreotype plates and to use electrodeposition in an
effort to turn them into printable surfaces. Although these attempts
produced interesting results they were basically unsatisfactory and
were soon abandoned.

In 1852 Fox Talbot made another contribution of fundamental im-
portance. It was known, from the observations of Ponton and Bee-
querel, that gelatin, when sensitized with a bichromate salt, has a
propensity to harden under the action of light. Talbot was the first
to make practical use of this phenomenon in patenting the photo-
gravure process, or, as he called it, “photoglyphic engraving.” His
1852 patent, at the same time, laid the basis for practically all future
developments in printing from a photographic image.

The earliest form of the Talbot process involved coating a steel
plate with a mixture of gelatin and bichromate of potash, exposing
it under a positive, washing away the unhardened gelatin, and etching
412 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

with bichloride of platinum. <A coating of acid-resisting resin powder,
as used in the aquatint process, was also used occasionally to provide
a stronger ink-holding tooth.

In his 1852 patent he mentioned the use of two or three sheets of
black gauze, laid across each other obliquely to break up the photo-
graphic image, as well as a suggestion “to manufacture on purpose
some pieces of more delicately woven fabrics, or to cover a sheet of
glass by any convenient method with fine opaque lines to intercept
the light, or with a powder adhering to the glass, consisting of distinct
opaque particles, and very uniformly diffused over the surface. These
things, which I believe have not been heretofore used in the fine arts,
I would denominate photographic screens or veils.” This was the
first known proposal of the modern halftone screen. The division of
graphic arts of the United States National Museum has on display
a glass screen made by Talbot, a positive, in which regular circular
openings appear on a dark ground. The date of this experimental
screen is unknown, but it is likely that it was made about 1860, antici-
pating by three-quarters of a century the Grennell patent of 1935,
which proposed a screen on a similar principle.

The first photomechanical halftones for relief printing (Talbot’s
work was primarily in gravure) were made by Paul Pretsch of Vienna
in 1853 and patented in England in 1854. Pretsch exposed a glass
or metal plate coated with bichromated gelatin in the camera or copy-
ing frame and washed the resulting image in cold water, which
caused the gelatin to swell. Where light rays had exercised hardening
action the gelatin swelled least, and where the gelatin was least ex-
posed to light and remained softest it swelled most. In this manner a
delicate relief was obtained, graduated in height and depth according
to the amount of light absorbed. The reticulated gelatin was then
chemically treated to create a more pronounced grain, after which
an electrotype was made either directly from the swelled gelatin relief
or from a gutta-percha mold. Electrotype plates could be prepared
for either relief or intaglio (gravure) printing. The gravure plates
were extremely good for this early stage. Results in letterpress, while
coarse and far from uniformly successful, were quite creditable as
the first examples of relief printing to be achieved through the use of
photography.

Pretsch’s use of swelled-gelatin molds was widely adopted by suc-
ceeding practitioners in all phases of photomechanical printing up to
the perfection of the modern screen. Alphonse Poitevin of Paris
claimed priority in making use of a swelled reticulated gelatin mold
as a printing surface although there is no evidence to show that he
antedated Pretsch. Poitevin also made use of reticulated gelatin in his
discovery of the collotype process in 1855.
HALFTONE SCREEN—KAINEN 413

Halftones in lithography were obtained as early as 1852, shortly
after the appearance of Talbot’s patent. Lemercier, a Parisian lithog-
rapher, working with Barreswil, Davanne, and Lerebours, sensi-
tized a lithograph stone with asphaltum, exposed it under a negative,
and washed the stone with ether, which removed the unhardened areas
of asphaltum. The stone was then inked and printed in the usual
manner, the grain of the stone providing an ink-holding surface.
Some excellent results were obtained, but the costliness of the process,
together with the low light-sensitivity of asphaltum and the corre-
spondingly long exposures required, made the process impractical.

Poitevin’s 1855 patent, which described the use of bichromated
solutions of gum, gelatin, and albumen (white of egg), marked a great
improvement in photolithography. The sensitized stone was exposed
under a negative, the image was developed under water, with the
undeveloped areas washed away, and the stone was inked and printed.
J. S. Petit, in his “Modern Reproductive Graphic Processes,” 1884,
described substantially the same process, with the exception that the
stone was inked prior to washing, as the process most in use in photo-
lithography at the time. As a matter of fact, the albumen process
was universally used even after halftone screens were adopted in
photolithography and is still in standard use.

The first photolithographic halftones in the United States were
produced by Cutting and Bradford in 1856, although their patent was
dated 1858. The stone or grained zine was coated with a solution of
gum arabic, potassium bichromate, and sugar, exposed in the camera
or under a negative, and developed with a solution of soap. It was
then inked and printed.

In 1857 Asser developed his photolitho transfer process, patented
in 1860, and took the first forward step in the medium since Poitevin.
This involved the sensitizing of sized paper with potassium-bichromate
solution, exposing under a negative, developing the paper, and inking
it. The image was then transferred to stone or zine and printed.
Later workers made extensive use of the transfer method, which was
useful, among other things, in eliminating unnecessary handling of
the heavy stones.

Developing Talbot’s ideas, A. J. Berchtold suggested in 1855 and
1857 a variety of methods for producing screens. These included the
interposition of a transparent paper ruled with crossed lines between
the negative and the sensitized printing plate. Another interesting
idea, set forth in his French patent of 1857, was to cover a glass plate
with an opaque varnish and rule lines across it, which would remove
the varnish at equal intervals and create a series of fine transparent
parallel lines. This screen could then be placed over the photographic
image and exposed for as long a time as that which produced the
414 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

image. The screen was then to be turned at right angles to the orig-
inal direction of the lines and the exposure continued, with less time
given for the second exposure. The screen was then to be turned
diagonally and exposed for a period of still less duration, and a
fourth turning on the opposite diagonal would be shortest of all.
Berchtold stated that the tones in the darkest areas would be composed
of four lines, the next darkest three, two, and one, supplemented as
well by dots where the lines intersected. This process, he stated,
would reproduce the modeling of the original photograph and could
be used for work in relief or typographic printing, gravure, or lith-
ography. Many of his suggestions, which we cannot be sure he him-
self ever developed, were worked out eventually by later experimenters.

The first workable halftone screen was patented in 1865 in this
country by General Frederick von Egloffstein, who also founded the
Heliographic Engraving Co., the first commercial establishment in
the United States for producing photomechanical halftones. Only
Paul Pretsch’s Photogalvanographic Co. of London antedated von
Egloffstein’s organization in the commercial field.

Tn his patent of 1865 von Egloffstein described his screen, or “helio-
graphic and photographic spectrum for producing line-engravings,”
as being a sheet of plate glass covered with an asphaltum ground, as
used in the making of etchings. A diamond point governed by a rul-
ing machine was then traced over the dark ground, removing the
ground and creating transparent lines. A variety of patterns could
be traced, running from perfect parallelism to semicircular rhythms.
Von Egloffstein’s typical screen, however, was a wavy single-line
effect made up of minute dashes. These screens were often extremely
fine, sometimes running to over 400 lines to the inch. Von Egloffstein
exposed his sensitized plate under a screen. His patent describes the
procedure as follows:

The spectrum is thus imprinted upon the varnish previous to its receiving the
photographic image by means of a second exposure to the light. Both images
are thus blended into one, the spectrum giving texture to the photographic image.
Then may follow the ordinary heliographic manipulations of developing the
picture. The photographic image being the last, and for a longer period ex-
posed, overpowers the spectral image, but only so far as to preserve the delicate
half-tints, the spectrum remaining sufficiently strong to serve as a means for
holding printer’s ink when impressions are taken from the plate.

Von Egloffstein sometimes combined two or more screens, and an
examination of his halftones under a glass often reveals a complex
pattern of lines, dots, and dashes. His work was exceptionally good,
but because of his highly exclusive and secretive workshop practices
his business did not prosper. Von Egloffstein never allowed work-
men from one section of his shop to visit another section, fearing that
the details of his processes would become known and that others might
glean the fruits of his labors.
HALFTONE SCREEN—KAINEN 415

It is necessary here to omit mention of some transitional workers,
none of whom had particularly original ideas, and to proceed to
Edward and James Bullock of England, who patented a process in
1866 which was put to use in producing halftones in photolithography.
The Bullocks’ specifications stated :

Our process is to reticulate the negatives, which may be done by placing the
copy of a reticulated or granulated surface face to face with any ordinary
negative, and copying both together through the light, thus producing a trans-
parency from which a negative must be taken, a print from which upon paper
prepared by any of the bichromate and ink processes known in the trade will
have the reticulated or granulated appearance aforementioned. This copy with
the reticulations may be transferred to a stone or zinc plate, and any number of
impressions may be printed off, each bearing the markings or reticulations of
the interposed copy with the lights and shades according to the original negative,
and bearing all the appearance of an engraving or lithograph.

Varying this process, the Bullocks described the use of a transfer
paper, either ordinary or photographic paper, which was coated with
a gelatinous solution :

Upon the paper so prepared is printed a granulated or reticulated pattern of
any character, composed of dots or lines of ink of any kind or colour having the
power partially or completely, according to requirements, of preventing the
light acting on the paper beneath. In this case the specks of ink themselves
form a medium, and by their aid excessive contrasts are avoided and half tones
secured. Such picture when so obtained is passed to a lithographic stone or
zinc plate, and a printed proof produced therefrom .

During the latter part of the 1860’s most experimenters were gen-
erally acquainted with the halftone screen, realized its possibilities,
and attempted to perfect it as a mechanical instrument. The first
worker to produce good practical results was William A. Leggo, of
Canada, who, with George E. Desbarats, patented a process in 1871
which incorporated the use of a screen in contact with a negative.
Before this period, however, Leggo and Desbarats had patented in
1865 a sort of improved Pretsch method of relief halftone, which they
called Leggotype, through the use of a single-line screen and the
swelled-gelatin process. Later, this process was the basis for the
commercially successful Moss process.

Leggo, who was the laboratory worker while Desbarats was the
financial backer, made cross-lined screens through darkened collodion
coatings on glass plates. By the use of these screens they made the
first halftone reproductions to be printed in any periodical. The
first, a portrait of H. R. H. Prince Arthur, appeared in the Canadian
Illustrated News for October 30, 1869, and was printed by lithography.
Tn 1873 Leggo and Desbarats founded the New York Daily Graphic,
which became the first daily newspaper in the United States to use
illustrations in the modern sense—in other words, the first daily
periodical in this country to use photomechanical halftone illustra-
416 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

tions. The inside pages, bearing the illustrations, were printed litho-
graphically, and the remainder of the paper, bearing the bulk of the
text, was printed by letterpress.

It is likely that difficulties in etching the minute dot structure of
relief plates made letterpress less feasible than lithography, at the
time, as a medium for use with the halftone screen. However, lithog-
raphers in general lost interest in obtaining halftone results during
the next two decades. There seemed to be little point in using screens,
which resulted in coarse halftones, when type could not be employed
at the same time. Screenless halftones in lithography could not com-
pare with the finer products of other processes, and so lithographers
concentrated mainly upon line work. After all, excellent halftones
were already obtainable through the photogravure and collotype
processes. The rapid development of collotype, which made use of
principles similar to lithography and which produced finer textures
and gradations, was probably an added factor in the decline of the
photolithographic halftone in the 1870’s. Moreover, the Woodbury
process turned out screenless halftones that were distinguishable
from photographs only because they were richer in tonal value and
finer in detail. In any case the most pressing commercial need for
halftone was as a replacement for wood engraving—in other words,
in letterpress, where little or no progress had been made from Pretsch’s
time to the 1880’s.

In 1866 Sir Joseph Wilson Swan patented his photomezzotint
process, which he claimed was adaptable to typographic (letter-
press), intaglio, and lithographic printing. Swan described a va-
riety of procedures, but most interesting for present purposes were
those in which he suggested the use of screens. One screen was made
by coating a sheet of glass with an opaque etching ground, ruling
through the ground to the surface of the glass, and using it as a
screen for producing halftone negatives. Another process involved
the use of particles of opaque matter either dusted on the negative
or incorporated in a solution of gelatin coated over the negative. Of
particular importance, however, was his suggestion for using a photo-
graphic negative perforated with minute holes. This negative, used
as a screen, would result in a diffusion of light, intense at the center
and shadowy at the periphery of the openings. This idea, the possi-
bilities of which Swan did not realize at the time, anticipated the
principle of modern halftone screens. This English scientist, who
was also of pioneer importance in developing the incandescent light,
made a further contribution to the diffusion of light in halftone screens
in his patent of 1879, which will be discussed later.

Robert Faulkner, in 1872, made the first definite suggestion that a
screen out-of-focus be used to create a finer grain structure. Faulk-
HALFTONE SCREEN—KAINEN 417

ner’s English patent otherwise had very little originality, and the
screens he suggested using were to be of wire, gauze, insect wings,
or other textural materials, but since it did make suggestions for dif-
fusing light, however tentatively, it is worthy of note. Faulkner
suggested shading portions of the object during exposure, or throw-
ing it (the object) “a little out of focus by inclining it more or less
to the plane of the picture, or a lens may be employed which focuses
part but not the whole of the object.”” Faulkner was concerned with
obtaining a greater range of gradation in halftone, striving to create
the effect of distance, transparency, and opacity as in nature, and it
is this preoccupation that gives meaning to his otherwise fruitless
efforts.

With the 1879 patent of Sir Joseph Wilson Swan came the first
glimmerings of the modern idea of spreading light through a screen
for better gradation. Swan stated, “The screen is moved periodically
so that a stronger impression of the lines and a greater number of
crossings are obtained in the shaded portion, or vice versa if a positive
transparency is used.” This idea marked something of a turn in the
road, for, although Berchtold had spoken of turning the screen in
his 1857 patent, his intention had obviously been to create a cross-
grain of lines of equal thickness rather than diffuse the light to obtain
lines of unequal thickness. While at first glance Swan’s idea is almost
identical with that of Berchtold, the fact that certain lines were to be
stronger than others imples a diffusion of light to obtain heavier or
lighter images of the lines on the sensitized plate. These plates, ac-
cording to Swan, could be used for the swelled-gelatin process or for
“photo-etching purposes,” or, in other words, for etched halftone
relief printing.

In 1881 Frederick E. Ives of Philadelphia patented the first really
successful commercial method for creating letterpress halftones.
His method, however, conceived in 1878, was slow and indirect, and
it did not make use of a screen; nevertheless, it did break up the
photographie image into numerous dots of varying size. The Ives
process was based upon a swelled-gelatin relief that was used to make
a hollowed plaster cast. A glass plate having a surface composed
of elastic pyramidical projections was then inked and pressed against
the white plaster. Where the swelled-gelatin impression had left
the plaster deepest, the tips of the pyramids scarcely touched, and
so created fine dots; and, at the other extreme, where the plaster
was highest the pyramids would squeeze flat, creating heavy dots.
Intermediate portions would receive dots proportionate in size to
the varying levels of the plaster. The plaster cast was then photo-
graphed and reproduced as line copy. It has been said that Charles
Petit of Paris patented a similar process in 1879. ‘This is not quite
418 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

accurate—for while Petit’s Similigravure was indeed based upon
a plaster cast produced by the swelled-gelatin method, it employed
a V-shaped graver that moved uniformly over the blackened plaster,
producing white horizontal and vertical lines which in effect created
black dots of varying sizes in the plaster mold. Petit’s method did
not work out too well in practice, while the Ives process, commercially
promoted by the firm of Crosscup & West, was widely used and yielded
some beautiful results.

It should be borne in mind that the mere fact of patenting an
idea, however useful, did not ensure that the inventor was able to
visualize the steps necessary for carrying it out successfully. Other
workers, whose basic ideas were not necessarily original, were able
to bring the unsuccessful ideas of others to fruition. These com-
ments are not directed at Ives in this instance, but at George Meisen-
bach of Germany, who in 1882 patented his halftone process in Eng-
land. Meisenbach, who has often been termed “the father of half-
tone” on the strength of his successful commercialization of cross-
lined letterpress halftone, used single-line screens that were turned
during exposure to obtain cross-lined effects. This idea, as we know,
was previously proposed by Berchtold and Swan; but it is evident
from the quality of his results that Meisenbach eliminated to some
degree the uncertainties of focus that had previously been a barrier
to reliable results. Although in point of time the Ives process ante-
dated Meisenbach’s Autotypie halftones by a year or so, the fact
remains that Meisenbach’s firm was probably the first to achieve
commercial success with relief halftones made through the use of
screens. Meisenbach’s earliest work was in single-line halftone,
with the screens moved slightly during exposure, and it is prob-
able that cross-line results were not obtained until 1883.

Shifting the scene to America and reverting to an earlier date,
we may note that coarse but clear letterpress halftones were made by
Pennington & Co. (National Bureau of Engraving) in 1878 through
the electrotyped reversals of photogravure plates. In the same year
the U. S. Engraving Co. made letterpress prints from single-line
screens. In 1880 Stephen H. Horgan produced a number of single-
line halftones, including the much publicized Shantytown, which
was made from a Leggo screen.

The Mosstype was a popular variety of halftone from about 1885
to the early 1890’s. It was made by the Moss Engraving Co. of
New York through the use of the swelled-gelatin process in conjunc-
tion with single-line screens, although cross-lined effects were ob-
tained also. Since John B. Moss never divulged his methods, it is
conjectured that he made an electrotype from the gelatin relief, as
in the Leggotype and other variations of Pretsch’s process. The dif-
HALFTONE SCREEN

KAINEN 419

ference in Moss’s case was that he added numerous refinements and
was able to achieve good results with a heretofore unsuccessful
process.

During the 1880’s greater efforts than ever before were made to
perfect letterpress halftone, or at least to obtain passable results
to satisfy the increasing demand for illustrations in newspapers and
magazines. Among the processes that achieved a moderate degree
of commercialization was the Luxotype, patented in England in 1883
by Brown, Barnes, and Bell. This process had several variations,
but in its most widely used version a fine wire mesh was pressed
into a moist photograph, embossing and roughening it uniformly.
Under a strong oblique light the cross-lined shadows were deepest in
the dark areas and lightest in the pale sections. A negative was
made, intensified, and printed. The photograph was then used to
make line copy. Needless to say, results were coarse but seemingly
adequate for certain types of publications.

Ficure 1.—Drawing of halftone screen, greatly enlarged.

The perfection of the halftone screen as we know it today was the
result of work carried out independently but at about the same time
by Frederick E. Ives and the Levy brothers, Louis and Max, in Phila-
delphia. Ives in 1885-86 successfully sealed two single-line screens
together at right angles and worked out the relationship of screen dis-
tance and focal length. His notion of the “optical V,” wherein each
aperture in the screen becomes a separate lens admitting varying de-
grees of light, is still the foundation for modern process work. Ad-
mittedly some of his ideas were known before, but it seems incontro-
vertible that Ives first stated them in clear terms and made it possible
420 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

to bridge the gap between theory and practice. Garside and Borland,
in their separate British patents of 1883, had suggested screens to be
placed some distance away from the negative. It is evident that they
had no notion that a proper focus was necessary, and nothing came
of their patents.

The crowning achievement in halftone screens was the Levy prod-
uct, which has been unsurpassed from about 1890 to the present day.
Although Ives had cemented screens together somewhat earlier, his
screens were of the old variety, ruled by a diamond point through
darkened collodion coatings. It was the Levys who created a new
type of screen, made of the finest optical glass, on which dark lines
appeared on a transparent ground. The glass was first coated with
an acid-resisting substance. An improved automatic ruling machine,
invented by Max Levy, made use of a diamond point in cutting the
desired number of lines to the inch on this surface. The fumes of
hydrofluoric acid were then used to etch the lines in the glass. After
the resist was removed, the lines were defined by filling them with a
black substance. Two single-line screens were then cemented together
so that the lines formed right angles, creating a cross-lined screen.
This method, in its essentials, is still used today.

The Levys’ first important patent was granted in 1893, although
their screens had been on the market since about 1890. In any case
their screens were of such fine quality, so apparently flawless in work-
manship, that no other company has been able to dislodge them from
their position of preeminence. During the early period, in particu-
lar, they were almost without competitors.

The matter of manufacturing halftone screens is far more difficult
than it might appear. Glass does not often etch cleanly, and ruling
200 to 400 flawless lines to the inch through asphaltum coatings with a
diamond point requires special knowledge and special equipment.
Until recently the Levy processes were kept secret. While others
tried to manufacture screens of comparable quality, they were unable
for many years to do so, and Levy screens became synonymous with
the finest work in halftone.

The old photogravure process, invented by Fox Talbot j in 1852, had
in the meantime risen to first rank among the tonal printing processes,
at least from the standpoint of quality. It was universally conceded
to be the most “artistic” printing process, and in fact it produced
prints of an unequaled richness and beauty of tone. However, this
process required more hand work than any other method, and conse-
quently it was also the slowest and most expensive printing method.
Nevertheless, it produced such magnificent results that it was widely
employed, both for special plates to be tipped into publications and
for reproducing paintings and other subjects for separate issue.
HALFTONE SCREEN—KAINEN 421

The most important improvement in the process was the contribu-
tion of Karl Klig, of Bohemia, who in about 1875 employed carbon
tissue, a paper coated with pigmented gelatin, originally invented by
Swan, which was sensitized with potassium bichromate and exposed
under a positive. It was then placed face down on a copper plate
coated with minute resin granules which had been made to adhere by
heat, and washed with warm water to dissolve the unhardened gela-
tin and remove the paper backing. The image was thus fixed on the
plate with various densities of bichromated gelatin corresponding to
the variations of tone in the original. When placed in an acid bath
the acid, generally perchloride of iron, etched through the resist to
the degree that the levels of gelatin permitted. The result was a
plate etched in varying depths, a photoaquatint, that when inked and
printed on a copper-plate press reproduced the subject in varying
depths of ink. Klig’s improvement on Talbot’s process was in the use
of carbon tissue, which showed the image clearly in pigmented gela-
tin and which could be firmly fastened to the grains of resin. Klic¢
did not patent this process, which he kept secret for a few years, but
it soon became known and was generally used by gravure platemakers
from that time on.

The greatest improvement in photogravure, from the standpoint of
commerce, was Klic’s invention of the rotogravure process so univer-
sally used today. In about 1894 Klig etched copper cylinders, prob-
ably using a variety of halftone screen and sheets of carbon tissue,
which, after exposure under a positive, were squeegeed to the copper
cylinder, developed, and etched. Klic’s idea was to etch square dots
of equal size but varying depths into the cylinder, which, when filled
with ink and the surface wiped clean with a steel blade, would create
tones depending upon the thicknesses of ink deposited upon the paper.
Letterpress halftone, on the contrary, made use of dots of unequal size
but of uniform color. In rotogravure a thin ink was used so that the
paper showed through in the light tones but less and less as the ink
deposits became heavier.

At a single leap rotogravure became a practical, high-speed process.
It took some years for others to work out a process comparable to
Klic’s, which was employed by the firm he set up in England, the
Rembrandt Intaglio Company. This organization was the first to
make commercial use of the rotogravure process.

Although Kli¢ kept his methods secret, his results clearly indicated
the nature of his general conception of platemaking and printing.
Between 1901 and 1908 Dr. Edouard Mertens, of Berlin, and Charles
W. Saalburg, of East Orange, N. J., succeeded in perfecting the meth-
ods now in use. Saalburg, in 1909, patented the process, which, in its
essentials, is in present use, although he originally used single-line
422 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

screens, exposed twice to create cross-lines, rather than the cross-line
screens now inuse. Saalburg’s firm, the Van Dyck Gravure Company,
also made great advances in color, preparing a four-color rotogravure
page for the Printing Art of June 1908, which is said to be the first
example of machine-printed rotogravure in full color ever used in a
periodical.

¢

xxx
®
x

SS

Figure 2.—Detail of rotogravure halftone screen, greatly enlarged.

In the rotogravure process a special halftone screen is used, one
with opaque squares and transparent lines, a reversal, that is to say,
of the usual screen. This screen is placed in contact with the carbon
tissue, previously sensitized with potassium bichromate. Upon ex-
posure to light the line structure of the screen is hardened on the
tissue, while the dark areas, which prevent the light from reaching
the gelatin, remain soft. A positive of the subject is then placed in
contact with the carbon tissue and exposed again. This time the
light penetrates the previously unexposed gelatin in the square areas
and hardens it in proportion to the amount of light received. The
tissue is then squeegeed to the copper cylinder, developed, and the
unhardened areas and the tissue backing are washed away, after which
the cylinder is etched through the varying levels of the gelatin. The
resulting image is etched beneath the level of the cylinder to varying
depths, with the hardened and unetched lines of the screen forming
walls that remain level with the surface. The cylinder is rotated in
a trough of thin ink, after which a flexible steel blade held in contact
with the cylinder wipes the ink from the surface, allowing the ink to
remain in the wells below. ‘The cylinder rotates through the ink,
the steel “doctor” blade wipes the excess from the surface, and the
image is impressed on paper fed from a cylinder either in separate
sheets or from a continuous web of paper. ‘The entire picture is a
LATE 1

fe

ainen

K

51.

1°

Smithsonian Report

jIBjep ‘ainsy QYysIy

P.O Fas

A LAN

"QJo] JO JUNTAZIB[ Ua

‘YSoul oznes JO SIOAB] [BIBAVS JO pasodulod UsaIOS 9UOJTBY B JO 9Sn dy} YsnoIYyy opeul

LOSIVL KOA AS SJYNAVYSOLOHd

“=

hin

G

‘year

Bsoul

PLATE 2

1.--Kainen

5

Smithsonian Report, 19

‘PE8I ‘UOpuoT ul Yosyorg pus ony vy] op Aq peonpoid ,,‘uosojdxy oy} 104Je BJovO Ul auV_g ,,

HOSL3EYd NVd AG ANOLAIVH A3SaIN13gyY

Smithsonian Report, 1951.—Kainen

PHOTOLITHOGRAPHY BY LEMERC IER

Lemme
Paris,

“Gate of a Romanesque Church,” photographed on stone by
Barreswil, and Davanne and printed by Lemercier in
his asphaltum process.

PLATE 4

Smithsonian Report, 1951.—Kainen

“LGQ1 Ul Jelo1eule'T 03 ssad0id sty
P[OS UIAD}IOg ‘ssad0id usuING[*® S,uIAeyOg ssuoyd,y Aq poqurid yoAydiay porngdjnog

SS3908d S.NIASZLIOd ONISN ‘YAIOYAW]AT] AG AHdVYHYSOHLIIOLOHd

Smithsonian Report, 1951.—Kainen PLATE 5

Bis
£48
ec os bo
yw
ne
n © &
L Sm
kL»
0 -¢ 2g
+
ee ie
Ww mm
z 2&3
Oo = &
DBD
y = SN
6 gk
Wa:
QD wa
Ww OS
ne
i len
a
108) o>

26 oe
PY ane
5 e2F
Ce:
qm
eae ps =
o 98
0 2S
Sve | => et =|
QO O:n
2 ha
ee epi

Sah)

SULT
AR

The

from

IVES

ilftone

ne 1881,

ri

h

Ji

i=

Process

Ives

HALFTONE BY FREDERICK E

Wilson,”

L.
Philadelphia Photographer,

RELIEF

Edward

A

Wi
HA

Smithsonian Report, 1951.—Kainen PLATE 6

a

PHOTOLITHOGRAPHY BY WILLIAM A. LEGGO

‘View of a Church,” made about 1873 through a cross-line screen.
PLATE 7

Smithsonian Report, 1951.—Kainen

"E88T “EZ
a1ydvibojoyd 04
jusme(ddns wor ‘uopuoT “og yorquoastoyy
Aq 9U0ZJTBY OUl[-Ssold ,,“4piByUueg Yeieg

JaquIsAON ‘uopuo'T ‘smaaz

”

HOVSENSASIFAW 39NO0RD AS ANOLAIVH SASIT1S9Y

“HddTIS YSOUl-d1IM jo ost
OY} YSNOIY) ERgyT Ul spBUI odAjOXNT Jo [1ejap paBiR[Uy

OD 71138 8 SANYVG NMOYG AS ANOLATIVH 3SaI135yN

Poa RTE Meer

Beye

PLATE 8

Smithsonian Report, 1951,—Kainen

Wold

‘O68 ‘QT ArBnuee ‘vajD yy, puv puvT oO} Yusuetddns
‘uopuoyT “OD Suyulg OsezUT JpuBIqUIEY oY} Aq oUOPTRY O1[FBJUT VUT][-SSOIO ,,“9UBIOTH ,,

DINM WVM AG AYNAVYHSDOLOHd AYVLOY

et eben. ge

aes
<a

yr

PLATE 9

#

*

nta contact screen making
Research | aboratc

*
> = ©

®
i a a a

dak

ph mage

a
*
1es

*
*

y screen.

densit

= *
> =
pacit
gnetted

&

Pe es eal he
Pa. Se te P
sf *
at,
14

wy
ee

# a3
thy
v4

Detail of plate

vravure

Photo

l.

Smithsonian Report, 195!—Kainen

Smithsonian Report, 195!.—Kainen PLATE 10°

ee oe ee ee ee ee re oe ee ee ad ae a eee ey

=me»ee @®e @ @ se Pe ee ehlUchOOhUhlUcPlhUOm ST FT OB FS © e +
—e @e ene eesee se @2 + *& @ ] ? es 28@ @® @® © © @® «© @
mem «6 © 6.6 © 6 6 6 6 ee 8 8 8 6 8 ee |

1. Relief halftone by Frederick E. Ives. Detail of plate 5, figure 1, greatly enlarged.

2.7
* Sac

26 @
Pre

AS
se € @
« ¢
me

2. Photolithography by William A. Leggo. Detail of plate 6, greatly enlarged.
Smithsonian Report, 1951.—Kainen

a
aeesgqegus
* eeecrvceccedn.

a.
eeccee eo ut
ee

yne. Detail of plate 12, greatly enlarged, showing dots of different
sizes but even intensity of color.

F Hy %
:

“ee

5)

Rotary photogravure by Kar
square dots of equal siz
darker areas, which contributes

but var

t
t
“OS61 ‘IQANO euojsdurazy
yuwg Aq ,‘wnosnyy JPUOHEN *g “fF ‘sulseulsuy fO UOISIAIG 9Y} JO uONda]]0D 9pPAIOLOPY pure siqowoiny ay3

jo so|e1eD,, “861 uljoy[ng unosnyy [PUOTIe NT aS nl WoO "CO6I “‘ajIqowojyne auljoses SE|[Ipey “ouoj]eY feljot ulopoyy]

ie he aay

~ Fs aBaise

2, 3LV1d UaUTe—"|C6| ‘Oday ueiuosyqiuc
HALFTONE SCREEN—KAINEN 423

continuous tone of ink, running from transparency to opacity de-
pending upon the amount of ink in the wells, except for the fine lines
of the screen, which remain without ink, having provided a surface
for the “doctor” blade to wipe.

During the first quarter of the twentieth century numerous screens
were suggested and developed, and many were designed to produce
unusual line patterns and textural effects, but the overwhelming ma-
jority were the cross-lined halftone and rotogravure screens. Another
type of screen that was popular for some years after the turn of the
century was the mezzograph screen, patented by James Wheeler in
England in 1897. This screen contained no pigment and resembled
a sheet of frosted glass. It was made by coating a glass plate with
minute drops of liquid resin, which acted as an acid resist, and etch-
ing with hydrofluoric acid. When the resin was removed the glass
was uniformly pitted and composed of levels of transparency. Used
as a screen in photoengraving, this glass produced a granular struc-
ture in the final printing, which, while sometimes too evident, was
well suited to certain types of subjects.

In 1928 A. Ronald Trist, of England, inventor of the bimetallic
Pantone process of lithographic printing, patented a screen which in
principle anticipated the present variable-opacity or contact screen
developed by Kodak. Trist used an electrically rotated disk in con-
junction with standard screens. By this means he could produce
vignetted densities in transparent celluloid-process films. The re-
sulting screens could then be used for contact printing, being particu-
larly serviceable in his lithographic process.

The variable-opacity or contact screen was developed to correct
some of the shortcomings of the conventional cross-line screen. Con-
trast is often difficult to control, and tone reproduction, consequently,
is often uncertain. Variable-opacity screens are intended to correct
this uncertainty and in addition to take less camera time. Problems
of focal length are overcome since the screens are placed in contact
with the sensitized film. Gradations of light are managed by vari-
ations in dot intensity, the most opaque points being the centers of the
dots, which fade out gradually to translucency at the peripheries.

Several proposed variable-opacity screens led up to the Kodagraph
screens, the first of which was patented in 1942 and 1943. This earlier
Kodagraph screen, orange in color, was used with a continuous-tone
magenta negative placed in contact with Kodalith film. The positives
obtained were composed of dots—like those produced by the Levy
screen—and contrast control was secured by variation in relative
amounts of orange and red light during exposure. The later improved
screen, magenta in color, produced negatives rather than positives.
The screen was used primarily in lithography, but screens for photo-
engraving are now used commercially.

aia Soames in far a ao ta ep on eat
424 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

The halftone plate now used in letterpress printing begins with
a screen placed in the camera at a proper distance from the sensi-
tized film. The image is photographed through the screen, the light
passing through the clear squares so that the original image is broken
up into minute dots of varying sizes depending upon the fineness of
the screen and the amount of light reflected from the copy. The film
negative is then stripped from its celluloid or glass base, placed upon a
piece of clear glass, and exposed to strong light over a copper plate
coated with a solution of bichromated gelatin. Light hardens the
portion of the plate which will eventually become the raised or print-
ing surface. The unhardened gelatin is washed off, exposing the bare
copper for etching. The plate is then etched in several stages with
perchloride of iron, the sides of the dots being dusted with an acid
resist, dragon’s blood, at each stage. The dots in relief, when inked
and printed, recreate the original. This brief summary merely touches
upon some of the most important operations in platemaking and gives
no indication of the skill and care required.

Many important developments, particularily in recent times, have
been omitted because of the necessity for condensation. Nevertheless,
we have touched upon the high points in the growth of the halftone
process, and noted how the development of a reliable screen was the
main factor in finally removing the barriers to cheap, rapid, and faith-
ful reproduction of continuous-tone pictures. The achievements were
not confined to letterpress, as we have seen, but were carried over into
lithography and gravure as well. It was letterpress, however, the
last major process to obtain photomechanical halftones, that began
the era of modern high-speed printing of halftone subjects.

From this beginning sprang great industries, trades, more rapid
means of communication, clearer and more efficient means of education,
and other technical advances that have done so much to give our civili-
zation its distinctive character. Our modern conception of advertis-
ing, for example, with its stimulus to business, leans very heavily upon
the use of the halftone screen. The present wide use of color printing,
with its added attractiveness and veracity, would not have been pos-
sible without the perfection of the halftone screen. It has made
possible the popular and widely circulated picture magazines through
which much entertainment and educational matter is given mass cir-
culation. It serves as an indispensable tool in recording scenes and
events for immediate use in newspapers and in news periodicals. It is
indispensable in preparing such printed advertising as mail-order
catalogs, which serve the public as pictorial department stores. Tech-
nical books, art books, children’s books, posters, calendars, greeting
cards, house organs, fiction and home magazines—these and publica-
tions of a hundred other kinds all derive a great part of their beauty
and effectiveness from the use of halftones.
HALFTONE SCREEN—KAINEN 425

It is possible that the halftone screen will eventually be superseded
by other, more efficient, instrumentalities for obtaining toned pictures
in the printing press. The rise of electronics is already responsible
for a device, in successful although limited commercial use, for ob-
taining coarse and moderately fine halftones without the use of a
screen. The Fairchild Photo-Electric Engraver, the Fairchild bro-
chure states, “is an electro-mechanical device for producing halftone
engravings on plastic material without recourse to photography or the
use of chemicals.” It makes use of an amplifier system by means of
which the tonal details of the photograph to be reproduced are trans-
mitted from the electronic scanning assembly to the engraving assem-
bly. Fine dots are burned into the plastic plate by a heated stylus.
Halftones can be made corresponding to 65-, 85-, and 120-line screens.
At present the Fairchild machine is used chiefly in newspaper work,
where the comparative speed and simplicity of the process is a great
advantage. In any case, whatever the future may hold, the halftone
screen has played and is playing its part in creating a ceaseless flow
of pictorial] material for a worldwide public. This piece of glass
marked by intersecting lines—this delicate screen to which the half-
tone owes its existence—has proved to be one of the truly important
contributions to industry and culture in the modern world.
S sae as eho Pest: fates
Be od ea on

art. Pn a ee + aes: , aia
AUTOS 48), hong, wok potvale, GB i en Dr
peer Baas yore guosktion pine} aat of hae spat Crates
Jo fipeam.o4 seats. wrililegen ge, : Tocem eorocs thy FS slecps ne on
caeannas becwubsgers 9c. 0 lg «qld adh 20, stig Lenk agi °
{een Finke 2s, 1, gid@nen, D tris velirgh apa de es
apis Dateodia ed obalg ‘pial. ont at borigd ote Hob. 200 wxtht,
mora iced? 23s baoceonagn Oban ad aspreongth A.

i AES Ot. Bi ettsigp. Rois, Bh outlogn, bits: vans orld, Spggane de 3

Soe: sh Bh RAIN Asli tu abioils sate his boa. ary eCtI AOR: ph ir
onpitast. iid bios, Tao ailt nayaduele, she AR a
Cia ealogun 4B Qa ee ty Ah TL aa nae saloy ai Den hoyoly peti
z, eaelt, Yee ‘Bp Naish. J pak. opsldisg obs eb hitoge ts. Jetaesan. ea
rr Y

Ri ail. grit lotstyy, hh, Lage, Sheudobs, gids ii eansC
Asndsoc a Tar ant, 1O.0a0, achat bovorg wath

40 ob Gam, rahe ila f TE sot bas eubwl My
ee te eae Fit Sei hae Saat winiwa & bie oven Ds pees, wade :
Pulbiosne bios BO cur inechitene ery Bid achigvyiments oe
net comiinad Lee ether eeu ail “Ww Oo REE ti eri wea >) ereietorest i
Cy 1 are h er (th ia; a. Di pe at Ate vi ee eas niin, jowedua,: thie.
tixss Gyeyaj: yoputes ; ‘0 rit Pais x4) tle Mae? Asai bald atte beets, Hi at it) — a?
Shieh “—t. (608 Et MeN S 4 Ur fa! vty of halfiene rst feo

Sb Pret awe bocitisin yg irae eit dees
ARR OPED station, chmatehael nie CER eE ae cei ae
Mia other Hitiuisiet eta vidgn thtak Wag tlie seb ike AY es Sea A
hates je LLRs eo PW a Ail as hip “ ban Ji itt rik Souer aay ae mat
ney Car eeniiee, whee imal aye . chee, Sead ret y: teil ans xf
weg} Bde ha Liepiie acts He 'E 6 prema wiht mae ALOE
cy 4 ate cision aa Ligeti ten BS an vaya rEg (ea abe Rex ice
site vi (irik. the pawsectio a Phe tra Hatin ‘ wetngti y
we aitely thes 7! th mit aval ‘eidaly siprlated pegcune ae pF vi =
nee -reatgh eedertabonet abel ducati ree ak - os gris TNS Sdubis
” Salakion; Sh eee ae. “aide ane Oe | tes eee
cont wt ri ier pin; eat hia ch ws elt ayericpni a "i
le Sade saith | op a primers: gk
1 Samet pee oe 4
ALS
The Artist and the Atom’

By PETER BLANC

Art Department, American University

{With 5 plates]

Ir 1s a commonplace of contemporary thought that the period of
the last hundred years has been preeminently an age of science. All
fields of intellectual endeavor exhibit signs of the infiltration and
influence of the scientific attitude, and all display scars, indeed open
and still bleeding wounds, inflicted by the penetration of the new
and shocking discoveries, theories, and conceptions of modern science.
The plastic arts have been no exception, and critics and art historians
are at one in perceiving a connection between science and modern
art from the impressionists to date. But the particular aspects of
scientific thought which appear in modern painting and sculpture
have not been analyzed. It is the purpose of this article to establish
that the connection between modern science and modern art les pre-
dominantly in that field of scientific thought which is the most dis-
turbing, and by the same token the most enlightening, to the philo-
sophical thinker : the field of research into the basic composition of the
universe and all that it contains—the theory of atomic matter.

In the early years of the nineteenth century the scientific center of
the world was Paris. In France during the eighteenth century science
had permeated literature—Fontenelle, Voltaire, Buffon—and this con-
nection between science and literature was maintained during the early
nineteenth century largely owing to the constitution of the Académie
des Sciences as part of the Institut. In Germany, on the other hand,
science was merely the handmaiden of philosophy, and science courses
at the universities were taught on the basis of doubtful philosophic
theories. The situation in Germany was more typical of the period
than was that in France, for on the whole the scientists were then
working in obscurity in the laboratory, conducting experiments and
accumulating the mass of data which in the main was not to be synthe-
sized into general principles and disclosed to the public till the last
half of the century.

1 Reprinted by permission from Magazine of Art, vol. 44, No. 4, April 1951. Copyright by
the American Federation of Arts.

427
428 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

But at the midcentury the situation changed. The scientists came
out of the laboratory and took to their writing desks. The period
from 1850 to 1870 saw few new discoveries but witnessed the develop-
ment and clarification of general laws and principles drawn from the
data accumulated during the preceding 50 years. The principles of
the conservation of matter, the law of the dissipation of energy, Dal-
ton’s atomic theory, the theory of evolution, all achieved acceptance
and popularization as scientific books poured from the presses. These
new and revolutionary concepts seized the imagination of the intel-
lectuals, and the new gospel of science spread thoughout Europe,
breaking down the old intellectual isolation of the nations.

The new spirit manifested itself immediately in the form of “real-
ism.” In literature, the scientific method of documentation and ac-
cumulation of evidence found its reflection in the works of Zola and
the Goncourts and in such books as Flaubert’s “Madame Bovary”
(1856). Much the same dispassionate statement of contemporary
facts appears in the painting of Courbet, while the sociological inten-
tion of these writers is paralleled by the more dramatic works of
Daumier. But these artists demonstrate merely the turning point of
artistic expression. Their innovations were in subject matter rather
than in the structural elements of composition or the manner of laying
the paint on the canvas. The impact of scientific developments in
these respects first appears in the work of the impressionists.

One of the main characteristics of impressionism is the laying on
of the paint in small, clearly visible blobs, dots, or curlicues through-
out the entire surface of the canvas. It is this continuous subdivision
of the canvas surface into innumerable tiny dots and particles of
paint, more than any other feature, that distinguishes impressionist
painting from previous styles and it is this characteristic which most
closely concerns us.

One of the few novel scientific theories that had been voiced during
the first half of the nineteenth century was the theory that all forms
of matter—gaseous, liquid, or solid—are composed of innumerable
tiny particles of indestructible, solid, concrete matter. In gases, these
particles were conceived as loosely associated, much like a swarm of
bees, capable of independent movement, collision, and flight; in liquids
they were more closely united, acting much in the manner of grain
pouring down a chute; in solids they were linked together in the man-
ner of a crowd of people holding hands, capable of jostling about to
some degree but incapable of seriously altering their relative positions.
Although numerous scientists of differing nationalities contributed
to this conception, the Englishman John Dalton is generally ac-
knowledged as the father of the theory. In his “New System of Chem-
ical Philosophy” (1808) Dalton first advanced his theory, saying:
THE ARTIST AND THE ATOM—BLANC 4929

There are three distinctions in the kinds of bodies, or three states, which have
more specifically claimed the attention of philosophical chemists, namely, those
which are marked by the term elastic fluids, liquids, and solids. A very famous
instance is exhibited to us in water, of a body, which, in certain circumstances,
is capable of assuming all three states. In steam we recognize a perfectly
elastic fluid, in water a perfect liquid, and in ice a complete solid. These obser-
vations have tacitly led us to the conclusion which seems universally adopted,
that all bodies of sensible magnitude, whether liquid or solid, are constituted
of a vast number of extremely small particles, or atoms of matter bound together
by a force of attraction, which is more or less powerful according to
circumstances. .. .

Dalton was somewhat overoptimistic about the universal adoption
of his atomic theory of matter. The lack of distinction between the
chemical atom (the smallest particle of matter which can enter into
combination) and the physical molecule (the smallest particle which
can exist in a free state and which may consist of one or more atoms)
caused dire confusion and conflict among scientists until the inter-
national convention of chemists held at Karlsruhe in 1860. Only
then, after a debate of fifty-odd years, did Dalton’s atomic theory
achieve universal recognition. It seems more than a coincidence that
during the very decade in which the scientific world recognized that
the universe and all that it contained was composed of tiny dots and
dabs of matter, the impressionists first painted pictures composed
solely of tiny dots and dabs of pigment.

The writer is not suggesting that the impressionists consciously and
deliberately sought to imitate the dance of the atoms when they
painted canvases composed of vibrating particles. Ostensibly their
interest was in light, in the reflections of light, and even in the “reflec-
tions of reflections.” But it cannot be denied that in pursuing this
objective they succeeded in producing paintings which did, in fact,
poetically evoke the image of the world which the scientists had
created, and that they produced these paintings immediately after
that image had been finally accepted by science as factually correct
and had been given widespread publicity in books, articles, and lec-
tures throughout the world. It is more than possible that a less con-
scious and deeper motivation joined with their consciously assumed
purpose to develop the impressionist style of painting. As Pissarro
wrote in 1895:

Impressionist art is still too misunderstood to be able to realize a complete
synthesis .. . I remember that, although I was full of ardor, I didn’t conceive,
even at forty, the deeper side of the movement we followed instinctively. It was
in the air! [Letters to His Son Lucien, New York, 1943.]

What was in the air in the 1860’s was the atomic theory, and it can-
not be seriously doubted that the impressionist painters were familiar
with it, for their interest in science and their scientific studies would
inevitably have brought this new development to their attention.
430 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

The scientific attitude with which the impressionists approached
their art is well known; they themselves did not hesitate to acknowl-
edge their debt to science. Their spokesman, Pissarro, in answer to a
letter from de Bellio arguing that scientific research into the nature —
of color and light, anatomy, and the laws of optics could not help the
artist, replied:

Now everything depends on how this knowledge is to be used. But surely

it is clear that we could not pursue our studies of light with much assurance if
we did not have as a guide the discoveries of Chevreul and other scientists. I
would not have distinguished between local color and light if science had not
given us the hint; the same holds true for complementary colors, ete.
The neoimpressionists, Seurat and Signac, devoted themselves to
scientific research, studying Maxwell’s experiments, Charles Henry’s
treatises, the analyses of light and color made by the American scientist
N. O. Rood, and Chevreul’s color theories. Until he severed his con-
nection with the neoimpressionists, Pissarro used to refer to this group
as the “scientific impressionists” as opposed to Monet, Renoir, and
Sisley whom he scornfully termed the “romantic impressionists.”
Romantic or not, these painters were scientifically minded, too, for
Monet as well as Seurat had studied the optical discoveries of Helm-
holtz and Chevreul. Helmholtz, who was an exponent of Dalton’s
atomic theory, pointed out in a work entitled “On the Relation of
Optics to Painting” a relationship between the atomic theory and the
appearance of certain effects of light. After stating that the turbid
appearance of the earth’s atmosphere is caused by fine transparent
particles of varying density and refrangibility which fill the air,
Helmholtz says:

But science can as yet give no explanation of the turbidity in the higher regions
of the atmosphere which produces the blue of the sky; we do not know whether
it arises from suspended particles of foreign substances, or whether the mole-
cules of air themselves may not act as turbid particles in the luminous ether.

It is hard to believe that this passage could have escaped the eyes
of a painter interested in Helmholtz’s writings. Thus it is altogether
possible that a conscious interest in the effects of light and air joined
forces with a deeper and less conscious reaction to the startling facts of
the atomic structure of the universe to produce the impressionist
manner of painting. And indeed, when we examine the works of the
impressionists, we must admit that in fact they are less expressive
of light and air than they are of a world composed throughout of
dense, vibrating, and homogeneous particles of matter.

At the end of the century painting began to move away from im-
pressionism and, in fact, away from the scientific spirit generally.
Gauguin, indeed, led a one-man crusade against the scientific attitude.
In a letter to Charles Morice dated April 1903, he says:
Asaqinoy ‘OS6I Asay]ey) suosieg Ay Ig AsojINO-)

AY “D1494D J] D]]?P L4dIS TY 3 ), Puy +S) YINUTe Ny suey Aq ydeis0j0ug ‘yostnaq]
WIO1 J *sARI-X Aq Jie JO sajndajow WO} pa pleyory ‘“sipy (uo! ZAQK
a3 -jafa A][eot1jD9]9¢ OYd suoIqd9]9 JO sade1 7 XC9'IIO « OS6I ‘OL “2! [Od uosyoe{ *T

Bites Sc: ~

} 3iv1d que|g—"}66| ‘Wodey ueiuosyqwc
‘od vOTYD Jo a1NINsUyT Wy ‘ouI[eseig “VW plemMpy JO uolqsa][05
"Soul YEEFX SEF MO “ET6T «OF “ON voestaciduy,, “Aysuipuey ATisse *Z ‘saqour %6l X MPT ‘WO “6061 . oMbesg,, “ossestg ojqed ‘[

PE

ec 31V1d ourelg— 166 *qaodayy URTUOsY IWC

Smithsonian Report, 1951.—Blanc PLATE

1. Naum Gabo, “Head of a Woman,” c. 1926. Plastic, 244 x 1914 inches. Collection of
Museum of Modern Art.

2. Jack Tworkov, “‘Green Landscape,” 1949. Oil, 36 x 42 inches. Courtesy Egan Gall
Smithsonian Report, 1951.—Blanc PLATE 4

2. Alexander Calder, ‘‘Mobile,” 1939-1940. Steel wire and sheet aluminum, height 60
inches. Metropolitan Museum of Art.
6F6l “UOIIIT Wd : USVI 1
MOd “JN “AA 1O1j{NoU {

O[D ayi JO sez oy

EL) WSSILe] = Yh
7 %L7 x “It TO ‘OFFI «Sl

TAQ 3

{Ss

uvof “|

G§ 31V1d oui gq —'|C6| ‘4oday uemosyqiwS
se! ae

ar
ae.
A:
eek yr

THE ARTIST AND THE ATOM—BLANC 431

Artists have hopelessly lost their Way in recent years due to physics, chemistry,
mechanics and the study of nature. Having lost their primitive force, and
being out of touch with their instincts, one might say with their imaginations,
they have pursued a hundred paths in search of productive elements which they
lacked the strength to create themselves.

But this rebellion was doomed to failure, for already by 1903 science
was well on the way to developing new “productive elements” to fire
the artist’s imagination.

The new development began with the work of Henri Becquerel in
France in 1895. Becquerel, and later the Curies, discovered that
uranium, radium, and certain other minerals emitted invisible rays
which could move through space and penetrate various materials, even
affecting and destroying living tissues. Experiments with these
alpha, beta, and gamma rays led to the conclusion that they were
actually particles of some kind, a stream of infinitesimally tiny bullets
shooting through space. Further experiments led to the discovery
that radiation of this sort ultimately caused the element radium to
transmute itself in a series of stages to the element lead. Now to
transform an element is to transform its components, 1. e., its atoms.
Consequently the physicists were forced to the revolutionary con-
clusion that the atom was not the imperishable, indivisible billiard
ball, which the nineteenth century had supposed it to be, but was
actually composed of multiple and divisible constituents.

Another line of research simultaneously being pursued by other
scientists related to the effects of passing electrical discharges through
gases. The famous X-ray was discovered by Konrad Rontgen in
Germany in 1895, and during the next few years the Englishman J. J.
Thompson conducted a series of experiments with cathode tubes,
finally reaching the conclusion that electricity itself consisted of infini-
tesimal particles (now known as electrons) 1,840 times lighter than
the lightest known atom, that of the element hydrogen. In 1899
Thompson published his conclusions, saying :

I regard the atom as containing a large number of smaller bodies which I will
call corpuscles. ... In the normal atom, this assemblage of corpuscles forms
a system which is electrically neutral. . . . Electrification of a gas I regard as
due to the splitting up of some of the atoms of the gas resulting in the detach-
ment of a corpuscle from some of the atoms. .. . On this view, electrification
essentially involves the splitting up of the atom, a part of the mass of the atom
getting free and becoming detached from the original atom. [Philosophical
Magazine, ser. 5, vol. 68, p. 565. ]

Thus by the end of the nineteenth century these two lines of experi-
ment had independently resulted in the conclusion that the atom was
not the ultimate form of matter but was itself composed of smaller
subatomic particles, although the manner in which the constituent
parts of the atom were associated was still unknown.
432 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

Investigation of this problem was immediately undertaken by nu-
merous scientists, and by 1903 Lenard in Germany had proved to his
own satisfaction that cathode rays could pass through thousands of
atoms without disturbing their internal organization. The conclu-
sion he reached was that the greater part of the atom must be empty
space, only about 1,000 millionths of the whole being solid matter.
Lenard’s experiments, however, were not accepted as conclusive, and
the investigations were continued by others, finally culminating in
1911 when Rutherford published his well-supported findings that the
atom was in effect constituted on a solar-system basis—tiny electrons
revolving around a nucleus as the planets revolve around the sun,
with the empty spaces between these elements proportionately as huge
as the empty spaces of the solar system.

These dramatic and revolutionary discoveries not only shook natural
science to its foundations but also aroused the greatest interest outside
the narrow world of the physicists. As Eddington has expressed it in
“The Nature of the Physical World”:

When we compare the universe as it is now supposed to be with the universe
as we had ordinarily preconceived it, the most arresting change is not the re-
arrangement of space and time by Einstein but the dissolution of all that we
regard as most solid into tiny specks floating in void. That gives an abrupt
jar to those who think that things are more or less what they seem. The revela-
tion by modern physics of the void within the atom is more disturbing than the
revelation by astronomy of the immense void of interstellar space.

The atom is as porous as the solar system. If we eliminated all the unfilled
space in a man’s body and collected his protons and electrons into one mass, the
man would be reduced to a speck just visible with a magnifying glass,

The repercussions in the field of the plastic arts were immediate,
the first parallel artistic development being analytical cubism.

In 1907, following Lenard’s announcement and while Rutherford
was still engaged in experimental work, Picasso painted his famous
“Demoiselles d’A vignon,” in which for the first time he portrayed parts
of forms and objects as irregular receding and protruding angular
planes. This development was continued in 1908 and 1909 by Picasso
himself, and by Braque with paintings composed largely of the facets
of blocklike forms. In 1908 the name “cubism” was first applied to
this new manner wherein angular planes definitely suggest the project-
ing facets of solid sculptural cubes partially embedded in the canvas.
In the portrait of Braque painted toward the end of 1909, however,
this sense of solidity begins to give way. To quote Alfred Barr in
“Picasso” (1946), “not only the surface is broken into facets but the
facets themselves begin to slip so that the sense of solid sculptural form
so clearly preserved in the ‘Fernande’ seems on the point of disinte-
gration. For the first time the integrity, the unity, of the object is
seriously threatened.” In the “Portrait of Kahnweiler” and the
“Nude” of 1910, this tendency has enormously increased. The facets
THE ARTIST AND THE ATOM—BLANC 433

have “slipped” very definitely, opening up a complex of hollows and
spaces within the object. By 1911—the year in which Rutherford
announced his conclusion that the atom is in fact almost completely a
void—Picasso was painting objects which, though still recognizable
as familiar solids, were represented as largely composed of empty
space.

Again, it is not the writer’s intent to establish that the cubists de-
liberately and consciously sought to exploit or adapt the findings of
contemporary science to their painting. Indeed Picasso has hotly
denied any such intention. But the parallelism of their vision of
matter and the image evoked by contemporary scientific findings, and
the extraordinarily exact chronological coincidence of the develop-
ments, speak for themselves. No man can assert with assurance that
his conscious actions have not been in part provoked by unconscious
considerations, and it is natural to believe that sensitive artists living
in the first decade of the twentieth century were at least subconsciously
influenced by the profoundly disturbing revelations of contemporary
science, provided that they were aware of them. And there is evi-
dence to establish this awareness. It is the testimony of Guillaume
Apollinaire, spokesman of the cubists, that current scientific develop-
ments preoccupied these artists, and that some members of the group,
at any rate, pored over scientific works. Writing in 1918, while the
cubist movement was still strong, Apollinaire said:

Today, scientists no longer limit themselves to the three dimensions of Euclid,
The painters have been led quite naturally, one might say by intuition, to pre-
occupy themselves with the new possibilities of spatial measurement which, in
the language of the modern studios, are designated by the term: the fourth
dimension.

The criterion of pure painting: abstract space. Regarded from the plastic

point of view, the fourth dimension appears to spring from the three known
dimensions: it represents the immensity of space eternalizing itself in all di-
rections at any given moment. It is space itself, the dimension of the infinite.
. .. Finally, I must point out that the fourth dimension—this utopian expression
should be analyzed and explained, so that nothing more than historical interest
may be attached to it—has come to stand for the aspirations and premonitions
of the many young artists who contemplate Egyptian, Negro, and Oceanic
sculptures, meditate on various scientific works, and live in the anticipation of
sublime art. [The Cubist Painters: Aesthetic Meditations. ]
This preoccupation with space seems very natural in a world whose
inhabitants have just been informed that all the familiar objects which
they have habitually considered to be concrete and solid—including
even their own persons—are chiefly constituted of empty space.

But cubism was not the only new art form to develop in this critical
period. The development of nonobjective painting dates from 1912.
The Russian painter Wassily Kandinsky was the first artist who de-
liberately sought to eliminate recognizable objects from the contents
434 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

of his paintings. Kandinsky started life as an economist and stat-
istician. The change-over from what he called “the sciences” to art
was a long and painful process. His first abstract painting appeared
in 1911; a series of nonobjective etchings followed in 1912. His paint-
ing took various directions during his life, but the vast majority of his
works are suggestive of objects suspended in space, reminiscent of
Eddington’s “specks floating in the void.”

In his autobiography, written in 1918 and revised and republished
in Moscow in 1918, Kandinsky gives a full account of the role played
in his development by the atomic discoveries of modern science. After
discussing his work at the University of Moscow in the fields of
political economy, law, and ethnology, and the unsatisfied yearning
to paint that plagued him during this period, he writes:

But in those early days, my artistic powers seemed to me too weak and
insignificant to entitle me to abandon my other studies and lead the life of
an artist ... And at that time, when the Russian social picture was particu-
larly somber, my studies were appreciated by many and I decided to train for
a scientist. ...

It was around that time that two events took place, both of which were to
influence me strongly in my future life. The first was the exhibition of French
Impressionists that was held in Moscow, one of the pictures being The Stack
of Hay by Claude Monet. The second was the production of Wagner’s Lohen-
grin at the Grand Theatre.

Up to this time I was familiar with the realistic school of painting, and—
at that—chiefly with the work of the Russian painters. .. .

And then suddenly, for the first time in my life, I found myself looking at a
real painting. It seemed to me that, without a catalogue in my hand, it would
have been impossible to recognize what the painting was meant to represent.
This irked me, and I kept thinking that no artist has the right to paint in such
a manner. But at the same time, and to my surprise and confusion, I dis-
covered that it captivated and troubled me, imprinting itself indelibly on my
mind and memory down to its smallest detail. But, on the whole, I could
make neither head nor tail of it, and was, therefore, quite incapable of arriv-
ing at the conclusions which later appeared so simple.

But what did become clear to me, was the previously unimagined, unrevealed
and all-surpassing power of the palette. Painting showed itself to me in all
its fantasy and enchantment. And deep inside of me, there was born the
first faint doubt as to the importance of an object as the necessary element
in a painting....

It was in Lohengrin that I felt the supreme incarnation and interpretation
of this vision through music. ...

I could see all my colors, as they came to life before my eyes. Madly, in
raging profusion, they drew themselves in my mind . . . it became totally clear
to me that art in general possessed a far greater power than I ever had imagined.
I also realized that painting possesses the same power as music. It was then
that the impossibility of devoting myself to the seeking of these powers be-
came an even greater torment. The temptation to do so was overwhelming. ...
And just then, one of the most formidable obstacles on the way to the realiza-
tion of my wishes, crumbled and vanished by itself, all thanks to a purely
scientific event. This was the disintegration of the atom.
THE ARTIST AND THE ATOM—BLANC 435

This discovery struck me with terriffic impact, comparable to that of the
end of the world. In the twinkling of an eye, the mighty arches of science lay
shattered before me. All things became flimsy, with no strength or certainty.
I would hardly have been surprised if the stones would have risen in the air
and disappeared. To me, science had been destroyed. [Quoted by Hilla Rebay,
In Memory of Wassily Kandinsky, p. 58, New York, 1945.]

And so Kandinsky, impelled by discoveries concerning the atom,
became the father of nonobjective painting.

Thus we find the two great developments of twentieth-century
painting, abstraction and nonobjectivism, coming into being almost
simultaneously with science’s revelation of the void within the atom—
abstraction achieving its first flower in the work of the analytical
cubists in 1911, the very year of Rutherford’s disclosures, and non-
objective painting making its first appearance in the work of Kan-
dinsky in 1912. It is hardly surprising to find that a third
development, this time in the field of sculpture, followed hard upon
the others.

It is generally considered that the constructivist movement in
sculpture, characterized by the substitution of openwork forms in
place of the closed monolithic form of the sculpture of the past, began
in 1918. Boccioni, Italian painter and sculptor, declared in the
futurist manifesto of 1914: “The circumscribed lines of the ordinary
enclosed statue should be abolished. The figure must be opened up
and fused in space.” Naum Gabo, one of the earliest and best-known
constructivists, has stated this even more simply: “Older sculpture
was created in terms of solids; the new departure was to create in
terms of space.”

Although the new conception of sculpture lagged somewhat behind
painting and unquestionably was derived at least in part from the
cubists, whose work was familiar to both Gabo and his brother, Pevs-
ner, another of the constructivist leaders, Gabo’s own interests lay in
science as well as art. He had studied mathematics, physics, chem-
istry, and engineering at the University of Munich in the years 1909
to 1912. Consequently there can be no doubt that he was well ac-
quainted with the developments in atomic theory that occurred in
this period. Thus it would appear that the constructivist movement
in sculpture, like cubism and nonobjective painting, was carried out
by artists who had access to and were interested in current scientific
discoveries. Under these circumstances, even in the absence of such
direct testimony as Kandinsky’s, the coincidence of three most im-
portant innovations of modern art with the revelation of the Ruther-
ford atom cannot be passed over as accidental.

The theory of atomic matter was not to stand on Rutherford’s con-
clusions, however, for by 1925 the Rutherford solar-system atom had
broken down in the light of observed phenomena. In its place
436 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

Schrédinger, Heisenberg, Dirac, Bohr, and others advanced theories
supported by mathematical and experimental data which reduced
even the tiny floating specks of matter left by Rutherford to insub-
stantiality. Their conclusion was that what the world still conceived
to be material points were in fact nothing but wave systems, “storm
centers of waves or ripples in an imaginary sub-ether.” Matter had
become synonymous with energy. ‘Thus, after a hundred years, the
last trace of Dalton’s hard, solid, indestructible atom disappeared,
and in the scientific world the concept of substance ceased to exist.

Even more puzzling, by 1927 it was found that although the velocity
or momentum of one of the centers of energy to which the electron
had been reduced could be experimentally established, and its position
separately determined in independent experiments, no method of
simultaneously determining position and velocity was available, nor
was any method of accomplishing this conceivable. After a quarter
century, science has still made no advance toward the solution of this
problem. Indeed, scientists have come to believe that the association
of exact position with exact momentum can never be discovered be-
cause there is no such thing in nature; and this result has been accepted
as the “Principle of Uncertainty.” 'The electron, the minutest of
the old material particles, has become merely “something unknown
doing we don’t know what.”

A similar impasse has been reached by way of Einstein’s theory of
relativity, in which the only meaning of matter is a region in the
space-time continuum where the paths through space are curved.
Today science informs us that we live in a world of shadows so
abstract as to make it impossible to form any mental picture of what
is really happening. Indeed, as Harvey-Gibson says in “Two Thou-
sand Years of Science,” “The further science probes into the hidden
recesses of the atomic world, the more obscure and shadowy does ob-
jective reality seem, the less material and tangible does Nature
appear to be.”

Consequently it seems altogether natural that contemporary paint-
ing should depict a shadowy and insubstantial world in which
amorphous objects hang suspended in a state of watchful expectation
and uncertainty. Miro, Gorky, Baziotes, Stamos, the early Matta,
Rothko, and others exhibit quite consistently an extreme state of sus-
pension, and even in sculpture this quality is evident in such work as
Calder’s mobiles. Indeed, suspension in some degree is a chief char-
acteristic of twentieth-century painting, for the solidity of the ground
under one’s feet is a sensation which science has proved meretricious.
The only certainty left to man is that in this universe there exists
some kind of mysterious activity and some even more mysterious
equilibrium. In contrast to those who float and contemplate, others
THE ARTIST AND THE ATOM—BLANC 437

resort to action, searching the void: De Kooning, Pollock, Tomlin, and
Tworkov, to name but a few among many. In the works of all these
painters we find a network of lines, black or white, which give the
impression of darting about the canvas. They are not contours of
objects, they do not model form, they are not mere decoration. Their
quality is movement. More than anything they suggest the track
of some moving object—the wake of a ship, the path of a rocket, the
vapor trails left by an airplane. In sculpture, Lassaw’s “Milky Way”
is roughly analogous. There are not many such phenomena in nature.
But one man-made product of the twentieth century seems closer in
appearance and in spirit to these paintings than any other. It leads
us back to the atom.

No man has ever seen an atom, much less an electron or any other
subatomic “particle.” But the movements of the “particles” through
space, their collision with atoms or parts of atoms, and the explosive
disintegration of the atom when a head-on collision occurs have been
observed and photographed thousands and thousands of times by
means of an apparatus developed by C. T. R. Wilson. This device,
commonly known as the cloud chamber, is simply a box filled with
moisture-saturated air and provided with a glass panel through which
the interior of the box may be observed. When a stream of alpha
rays or other subatomic “particles” is shot into the chamber, sooner
or later one of them is bound to collide with an electron or with the
nucleus of one of the millions of atoms of which the air inside the
chamber is composed. The passage of the “particles” through the
chamber and the consequent fragmentation of the atom produces trails
of gaseous ions on which the excess moisture in the chamber deposits
as a result of condensation. The paths of the “particles” and the
constituents of the shattered atoms are thus defined by chains of
microscopic drops, much as a cannon ball fired through a field of wheat,
though never visible itself, will leave a plainly visible track.

The variety and intricacy of the cloud-chamber tracks are inde-
scribable and far surpass any display of fireworks or any natural
phenomenon of this type, and the closeness of their resemblance to the
paintings of the artists mentioned above speaks for itself. The same
darting quality, the same intricacy of movement and surface confu-
sion, and the same underlying suggestion of pattern and organization
appear in both.

The Wilson cloud chamber and the photographs obtained by its use
have received widespread publicity for several decades, for it is
perhaps the most important aid to the investigation of the atomic
structure of matter that the twentieth century has developed.
Such chambers were demonstrated in elementary physics courses at
leading universities at least as early as 1930, and sample photographs
4388 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

of cloud-chamber collisions are to be found in many modern physics
textbooks. The dramatic quality of these investigations has caught
the public interest, and only a few months ago the discovery of still
another type of subatomic “particle” was publicized by Life magazine
in an article that included numerous large-scale reproductions of
cloud-chamber photographs. Under the circumstances, there is a
reasonable presumption that some of the artists mentioned above were
already familiar with the effects observable in the cloud-chamber when
they began painting in this manner.

Again, it is not suggested that the paintings are a deliberate imita-
tion of the photographs. On the contrary, they are by and large even
more intricate and are freighted with a burden of human emotion
totally lacking in the cloud-chamber views. But the surface simi-
larity is far too great to be lightly dismissed, and the emotional im-
plications in these paintings of the human mind groping for some
state of equilibrium and order in a mysterious, strange, and insub-
stantial universe is too obviously analogous to the state of modern
science to be dismissed. It is not too much to assume that an intuitive
perception of the analogy between the efforts of the scientist on the
physical plane to find order in his shattered world, and the perennial
effort of the artist to find the spiritual order and unity which charac-
terize the work of art, has led the artist to subconscious exploitation
of remembered impressions of cloud-chamber photographs as the
common symbol of this search.

Thus it appears that during the past hundred years the majority
of the important innovations in the plastic arts have occurred simul-
taneously with, or shortly after, revolutionary changes in man’s con-
cept of the constitution of matter. In some cases the artists them-
selves have admitted that the new theories established by the scientists
contributed to their development; others have denied any such con-
scious influence. But the chronological parallelism and the mutuality
of concept and image form overwhelming evidence of the closeness
of the relationship. Whether science influenced art or art influenced
science makes very little difference; for in neither case was the in-
fluence accepted in slavish fashion. The scientist has not become an
artist nor the artist a scientist. They simply share a mutual pre-
occupation—today, a mutual problem; and each approaches it in his
habitual way and from his habitual point of view. The facts suggest
that science was first to establish the new truths about the universe
which were then taken into consideration by the artists. But it is
well to remember that the scientists of each decade built upon the facts
elaborated by their predecessors. In this sense the influences that led
Rutherford to his famous conclusions were identical with the influ-
ences that led the cubists to develop their new expressions of reality.
THE ARTIST AND THE ATOM—BLANC 439

Indeed, in the final analysis, the truth may well be that forces com-
mon to the age and still too close to permit precise identification in-
fluenced scientist and artist alike and led both in independence
of each other to conceptions of the universe that have a startling
correspondence.

Today some complain that modern art is incomprehensible and
confusing, cold and detached, devoid of human warmth and as clin-
ically aloof as the laboratory. This is to attribute to the artist ex-
clusively qualities that man has in fact learned to be intrinsic in the
universe. Art has become abstract only to the extent to which the
world itself has become abstract. By comparison, the material uni-
verse of the nineteenth century was a comfortable and cozy environ-
ment for man. But this security did not last. The concept of the
limitless space of the atom was only the first of a series of shocks
which twentieth-century man was to endure. Today nothing is left
of matter, and every aspect of solidity seems to have become illusion.
Rocks, trees, houses, men and women, all are mere ghosts of their
former selves. All that is left is energy and the void. It is not spirit-
ual confusion, lack of humanity, or morbid preoccupation that leads
the artist to face these facts of life and produce works of art that take
them into account. On the contrary, it would be a cowardly evasion
to ignore them and turn blindly to the past for more reassuring sub-
ject matter. It is the paradox of art today that what is still known as
realism is actually an escape from reality.

The artists, like the scientists, are seeking to find the hidden order
and equilibrium that must exist in this new and ominous world—
different though it may be from our previous comfortable concep-
tions. Man may never be restored to his old position of central im-
portance and security. His relationship with the universe may never
be more intimate than the austere and semireligious acceptance of
mystery which characterizes the thought of so many artists and
scientists today. But scientist and artist alike must continue to
scrutinize and evaluate this awesome spectacle, the one with his
measurements and mathematics, the other with his intuition and imag-
ination, until a solution has been reached.

981445—52——29
ee w aber ye apatheth t Host ha

aa: ed ith ex
trathistobigon itech} aeioamty Mi | ee,
bree. asin: Ons Bf

pailttrty, a, kad isanla aero iaees ce Fost pit)

iy Je iat inetgdad’ momsconk Jar escale 1

busi ellier aeiarrepntor Meet tia ahomutad splaleeuttis

sriloviedy rity diarisa ante i Yo:bisrabs, ebauliandoby.jrova tal

16%, beNtg, yi ti ah ad firdintiaves:at GLA C E oe lalzt OheigK Slang hand ‘ lo
rede ; slaninin’ epee 4 wes onl ae ni aii ; aad sae dash Soparh Var

_

3.00 “aie tasalede epoped enh uve omar
Teciatds, 7 A onde sro 04 ae f

TCA ABR CAIRO Liapetordac-oxt ‘
f dastohith gtisnnss. Bie fe igre

tom 5 Se a {4 i BA a Ss criceht, Si Ato: PGR

(AAD AD GE,AH ert seeders Ate woud
a) ROG saibito a todgaqas gone baa,

Vis [in mest bats bit 1G sae goth

-
= +
r

ot ban iconeure. 26 Stal ai tert, tA ey [
a? Okie ON hicttos1¢ Rarorre ys phe aie * oD bg
res Jolt ing tees PAOD INES 4 ij i Whi: 3 sol oeh si Jina
AowRIA VALS ao «Addl iM i pO atid nO, Maange ONE
doe. natin ero * as ese sult oo -albaild eux, bane ata
ph setomhUUexi/poduy dad) cqhet tra togobe races at
* rhiles eA seater ‘oq sapien a ai

.

aab4y ab bid erii
:

, - a >
» : ae —— 7 ‘ tin
ophilions EAMELOUG SMA. VERE ALAR A od ina dares desl
a i _* » “
a os, TD  SIGBTIOTIAL). EA CEE TU, MATL. wl ¥ Gast. 4
¥ . as ’ «
nF ; PCIE APPT elas sad) aad oe
wie Latiean ty a> 860.0 ovtesery. 9014460
ve 1 u Pe pe er
Syst: . te esting Gisedoalieled abs sii
y : ; paper age PK
Lo ores ) ryt x bre, ate, as 3 mele ote
, ee Ty anes aw
Gas oe CRys,.08+ 40, Pepe Lh ad . otis tones
v4 . tka -
: i PE et ae a oh nae ars 4
A siti, edu i nM : 4 - IASI FIO Ape.
' rs die 4 . > ;
ih itive. ego. iedd .skveioage oe shee nidt, otugl a
’ 7 ; oe ol
- ced PLE Ge eet ae eee ia
RAE DRO BI BEE IDA: olteepizgen lene bag eae
.
hadicoas: wood end sao salah
’ ¢ : 4
f n ie: ;
” ‘ . ‘
i . é a * ~
4
7
ef PAsig? i
a
’ - (. ys ¢
. >
- + . is 4m +
‘ anf . Priag ¥ 4 .
- 4

c+) ; at fir Senhie RAD tonsa dd yi
s * ww e “ 2 .
<4 ‘ a] 4 AY MEATS) ae mS... sf ae ba’ fea. thai dndias

ce
¢ * ‘ ij P a of tet bind
= ib Hh Pee COST (is ye iio -eth
4 > “pa. b oA ¢
t ¥ 57 re yw (i ni 4 i oe)
INDEX

A

Abbot, Charles G., ix, 119
Abbott, R. Tucker, vi
Accessions, 7, 8, 10, 12, 14, 27, 42, 43, 49,
94, 106, 125, 131, 144, 146
Bureau of American Ethnology, 94
Freer Gallery of Art, 49
Library, 12, 144, 146
National Air Museum, 125, 131
National Collection of Fine Arts,
42, 43
National Gallery of Art, 8, 27
National Museum, 7, 14
National Zoological Park, 10, 106
Acheson, Dean C., Secretary of State,
member of the Institution, v, viii
Adams, Richard N., 90
Adams-Clement collection, opening of,
6
Air Museum.
seum.)
Aldrich, Loyal B., Director, Astrophysi-
cal Observatory, ix, 117, 122
Aldrich, William T., 41
Allen, W. 'T., vii, 19, 22
American Ethnology. (See Bureau of.)
Anderson, Clinton P., regent of the In-
stitution, v, 4
Andrews, A. J., Vi
Appropriations, 5, 26, 60, 88, 142, 153, 159
Canal Zone Biological Area, 142
Institute of Social Anthropology,
88, 159
National Gallery of Art, 26
National Zoological Park, 159
Printing and binding, 153
River Basin Surveys, 60, 159
Arctowski, Henryk, 119
Arms, John Taylor, 41
Arthur lecture on the sun, Highteenth
annual, 6, 163
Artist and the atom, The (Peter Blanc),
427

(See National Air Mu-

Astrophysical Observatory, ix, 10, 117
Division of Astrophysical Research,

abi ly¢
Division of Radiation and Organ-
isms, 120

Report, 117

Atom, The artist and the (Peter Blanc),
427

Atomic energy, The industrial applica-
tions of (M. L. Oliphant), 223

Atomic weapons against cancer (E. N.
Lockard), 263

Avery, HE. A., vii

Awl, Mrs. Aime M., vi

B

Bailey, Edward, 22

Barkley, Alben W., Vice President of
the United States, member of the
Institution, v, 4

Barney, Alice Pike, loan collection, 43

Memorial fund, 44

Baroja, Julio Caro, 91

Bartsch, Paul, vi

Bassler, R. S., vii

Baumbhoff, Martin, 63, 64

Bayer, Frederick M., vi

Beach, Jessie G., vii

Beal, Gifford, 41

Beckman, Harry, 136

Beers, Stephen L., 131

Beggs, Thomas M., Director, National
Collection of Fine Arts, viii, 41, 48

Benn, J. H., vii

3ent, Arthur C., vi

Belin, Ferdinand Lammot, Vice Presi-
dent, National Gallery of Art, viii, 25,
26

Bell, Lawrence D., 125

Bell, Robert E., 81

Bequests, 124

Stephenson, George H., 124
Biery, Don, 140
Blackwelder, R. E., vi

441
442

Blaker, Mrs. M. C., vi
Blane, Peter (The artist and the atom),
427
Bleakley, Andrew, Jr., 134
Bliss, Robert Woods, 41
Boving, A. G., vi
Bowsher, Arthur L., vii, 24
Brannan, Charles F., Secretary of Agri-
culture, member of the Institution, v
Bridges, William E., vii
Bridgman, P. W. (Some results in the
field of high-pressure physics), 199
Brot, M. C., Mme., 139
Brown, John Nicholas, 41
Brown, Margaret W., viii
Brown, W. L., vi
Bruns, Franklin R., Jr., viii, 24
Buchanan, L. L., vi
Burcaw, G. Ellis, 74, 76, 78
Bureau of American Ethnology, viii, 9,
56, 151
Archives, 93
Collections, 94
Editorial work and publications, 91,
151
Institute of Social Anthropology, 87
Library, 93
Report, 56
River Basin Surveys, 59
Staff, viii
Systematic researches, 56
Burgoyne, William, 141
Burton, Lt. Comdr. John, 129
Bush, Vannevar, regent of the Institu-
tion, v, 4, 160
Byas, W. J., vi
C
Cairns, Huntington, Secretary-Treas-
urer and General Counsel, National
Gallery of Art, viii, 25, 40
Caldwell, Joseph R., 61, 62
Campbell, John M., 65
Canal Zone Biological Area, ix, 11, 134,
159
Buildings, 134
Fiscal report, 142
Improvements, 134
Rainfall, 141
Report, 134
Scientists and their studies, 135
Visitors, 140
Cancer, Atomic weapons against (E. N.
Lockard), 263

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

Cannon, Clarence, regent of the Institu-
tion, v, 4, 160

Carbon-14 method of age determination,
The (Frank H. H. Roberts, Jr.), 335

Carey, Charles, 24

Carpenter, Col. Standley, 140

Carriker, M. A., Jr., 15, 21

Cartwright, O. L., vi, 21

Chace, F. A., Jr., vi

Chadwick, John B., 140

Chancellor of the Institution (Fred M.
Vinson, Chief Justice of the United
States), v, 4

Chapin, Edward A., vi

Chapman, Oscar, Secretary of the Inte-
rior, member of the Institution, v

Chase, Agnes, vii

Chemical elements,
Dushman), 245

Cheney, George A., 67

Chickering, A. M., 1386

Clark, Austin H., vi, 23

(The fauna of America) , 287

Clark, Mrs. Leila F., Librarian of the
Institution, v, 147

Clark, R. S., vi

Clark, Thomas F., administrative ac-
countant of the Institution, v, 139

Clark, Walter F., 139

Clarke, Gilmore D., 41

Cloud seeding as a means of increasing
precipitation, An appraisal of (Henry
G. Houghton), 175

Coale, George L., 64

Cochran, Doris M., vi

Collias, Nicholas E., 137

Collins, H. B., Jr., viii, 9, 57, 58

Combs, Rear Adm. Thomas §S., ix, 124

Commerford, L. E., chief, Division of
Publications, v

Compton, Arthur H., regent of the In-
stitution, v, 4

Conger, Paul S., vii

Cooper, B. N., 22

Cooper, Gustav A., vii, 19, 22

Cooper, Paul L., 57, 71, 76

Cox, E. E., regent of the Institution,
v, 4

Cox, Larry, 134

Crile, George, Jr., 23

Crockett, W. D., vii

Cumming, Robert B., Jr., 71, 74, 77

Cumming, Robert Lewis, 138

Cushman, Robert A., vi

The new (Saul
INDEX

D

Dale, Chester, viii, 25, 26

Daugherty, Richard D., 66, 67

Davis, Harvey N., regent of the Insti-
tution, v, 4

Davis, John H., 1388

Davis, Monett, 140

Deignan, H. G., vi

Delaney, John, 134

Densmore, Frances, viii, 95

Donaldson, Jesse M., Postmaster Gen-
eral, member of the Institution, v

Dunkle, D. H., vii, 19, 22

Dushman, Saul (The new chemical ele-
ments), 245

E

Edgell, George H., 41
Editorial Division, chief (Paul H. Oeh-
ser): vi ldo
Edmond-Bianec, Francois, 139
Hinstein’s new theory, On (Leopold In-
feld), 189
Hisenmann, Eugene, 136
Hider as Ac, Jr, svi
Electronics, Some prospects in the field
of (V. K. Zworykin), 235
Ellis, Hazel R., 137
Ellis, Max M., vi
Histad, V. B., ix
Elton, Norman, 140
Enger, W. D., 75
Enger, Walter D., Jr., 77
Enzymes: Machine tools of the cellular
factory (B. A. Kilby), 278
Erasmus, Charles J., 89, 90
Ettinghausen, Richard, viii, 54, 55
Evans, Clifford, Jr., vi, 23
Ewers, J. C., vi
Executive Committee of the Board of
Regents, v, 160
Report, 154
Appropriations, 159
Assets, 157
Audit, 159
Cash balances, receipts, and
disbursements, 156
Classification of investments,
156
Freer Gallery of Art fund, 155
Gifts, 158
Smithsonian endowment fund,
154
Summary of endowments, 156

443

Exhibitions, 33, 47
National Collection of Fine Arts, 47
National Gallery of Art, 33

EF

Fairchild, David, vii
Farrell, Robert, 64
Fauna of America, The (Austin H.
Clark), 287
Fenenga, Franklin, 63, 71, 77
Fenton, W. N., viii, 9, 59
Field, W. D., vi
Finances, 4, 154
Appropriations, 5
Report of Executive Committee of
the Board of Regents, 154
Finlayson, John and Richard, 51
Finley, David E., Director, National
Gallery of Art, viii, 25, 26, 41
Fisher, W. K., vi
Fite, E. J., vii
Fleming, Robert V., regent of the In-
stitution, v, 4, 160
Forsythe, W. E., 118
Foshag, W. F., vii
Foster, G. M., Jr., Director, Institute
of Social Anthropology, viii, 87, 91
Freer Gallery of Art, viii, 9, 49, 152, 155
Attendance, 9, 53
Changes in exhibitions, 51
Collections, 49
Endowment fund, 155
Herzfeld Archive, 53
Library, 51
Publications, 152
Repairs to the collection, 51
Report, 49
Staff, viii
Staff activities, 53
Friedmann, Herbert, vi, 16, 21

G

Garber, Paul E., ix, 124, 131

Gardner, Paul V., viii, 41, 42

Garth, Thomas R., 74, 77

Gazin, C. L., vii, 19, 22

Gazin, Mrs. Elisabeth H., vi

George, Walter F., regent of the In-
stitution, v, 4

Gibson, R. E., 125

Glance, Grace E., vi

Goodrich, Lloyd, 41

Goss, Wilbur H., 125

Goubaud-Carrera, Antonio, 90
444

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

Graf, John E., Assistant Secretary of | International Exchange Service, ix, 10,

the Institution, v, 41, 139
Graham, D. C., vi
Grant, Maj. Gen. U. S., 3d, 7
Greene, Charles T., vi
Guest, Grace Dunhan, viii

H

Halftone screen, The development of
the (Jacob Kainen), 409

Handley, Charles O., Jr., vi, 23

Harrington, John P., viii, 9, 58, 59

Harrison, J. H., ix

Hartle, Donald D., 75, 78, 83

Hartman, Frank A., 136

Hartmann, Armageddon, 136

Hartmann, Ratibor, 136

Henderson, E. P., vii

Hermle, Paul, 139

Hess, Frank L., vii

High-pressure physics, Some results in
the field of (P. W. Bridgman), 199

Hiller, Stanley, 128

Holden, F. E., vii

Hoover, William H., ix, 118, 119

Hormones and the metamorphosis of
insects (V. B. Wigglesworth), 313

Horowitz, Emanuel, ix

Houghton, Henry G. (An appraisal of
cloud seeding as a means of increas-
ing precipitation, 175

Howard, J. D., Treasurer of the Insti-
tution, v

Howell, A. Brazier, vi

Hughes, Howard, 128

Humphreys, Robert H., 84

Hunsaker, Jerome C., regent of the
Institution, v, 4

Mig ePS Th. vis Ly.
Index of American Design, 38
Infeld, Leopold (On Kinstein’s new
theory), 189
Insects, Hormones and the metamor-
phosis of (V. B. Wigglesworth), 313
Institute of Social Anthropology, viii,
OSi,..452, 159
Appropriation, 88, 159
Field work, 89
Publications, 152
Report, 87
Washington office, 91

96

Foreign depositories of govern-
mental documents, 97

Foreign exchange agencies, 102

Interparliamentary exchange of
the official journal, 100

Packages received and sent, 96

Report, 96

J

James, Macgill, Assistant Director, Na-
tional Gallery of Art, viii, 25

Jelks, Edward B., 82, 84

Jellison, W. L., vi

Johnson, David H., vi, 21

Johnson, Irving, 140

Johnson, Leonard G., 80, 81

Judd, Neil M., vi

K

Kainen, Jacob, vii
(The development of the halftone
sereen), 409
Kanazawa, Robert H., vi
Keally and Patterson, 53
Keddy, J. L., Assistant Secretary of the
Institution, v
Keenan, Marvin, 140
Kellogg, A. Remington, Director, Na-
tional Museum, vi, 7, 24
Kelly, Isabel T., 90
Kestner, F. B., photographer of the
Institution, v
Ketchum, Miriam B., viii
Kilby, B. A. (Enzymes: Machine tools
of the cellular factory), 273
Killip, E. P., vii, 23
Knight, J. Brookes, vii, 17
Kknox, Mrs. Katherine McCook, 7
Koford, Carl, and Mrs. Koford, 138
Korff, Serge, and Mrs. Korff, 138
Kramer, Andrew, ix
Kress, Samuel H., President, National
Gallery of Art, viii, 25, 26
Krieger, H. W., vi, 20
Kunze, Marjorie R., ix

L

Lachner, E. A., vi

Laufer, Arthur R. (Ultrasonics), 213
Laughlin, Ledlie I., 138

Laughlin, Robert M., 138 r
Lawrence, Lovell, Jr., 125
INDEX

Lea, John S., vi, 150
Leapley, W. T., vi
Lee, George O., 141
Lehmer, Donald J., 72, 738, 78, 81
Leonard, E. C., vii
Leutscher, Alfred (The mechanics of
snakes), 303
Lewton, F. L., vii
Libby, W. F., 72
Library, 12, 144
Bureau of American Ethnology, 93
Freer Gallery of Art, 51
National Collection of Fine Arts, 47
National Gallery of Art, 37
Smithsonian, 12, 144
Accessions, 12, 144, 146
Report, 144
Summarized statistics, 146
Lighting, Artificial, in America: 1830-
1860 (C. Malcolm Watkins), 385
Link, Anna M., viii
Llano, George A., 24
Lockard, E. N. (Atomic weapons against
cancer), 263
Loeblich, A. R., Jr., vii, 22
Loening, Grover, ix
Lowe, Frank O., ix
Lowy, Bernard, 136
Lundy, William E., 140
Lyon, Rowland, viii

M

Male, W. M., ix, 128

Mann, William M., Directer, National
Zoological Park, vi, ix, 116

Manning, Mrs. Catherine L., 24

Manship, Paul, 41

Marble, J. P., vii

Mariani, Ambassador, of Italy, 141

Marshall, George C., Secretary of De-
fense, member of the Institution, v

Marshall, W. B., vi

Martin, G. J., viii

Masland, Frank B., Jr., 140

Mattes, M. J., 79

Mattison, R. H., 79

McBride, Harry A., Administrator, Na-
tional Gallery of Art, viii, 25

McClure, F. A., vii

McGrath, J. Howard, Attorney General,
member of the Institution, v

Mellon, Paul, viii, 25, 26

Members of the Institution, v

Memorial gifts, 7

445

Metals, The insides of (Carl A. Zapffe),
253

Metamorphosis of insects, Hormones
and the (V. B. Wigglesworth), 313

Metcalf, George, 71, 78

Miller, Carl F., 61, 62, 85 —

Miller, E. O., 88, 85

Miller, Gerrit S., Jr., vi

Milne, Lorus J., 137

Milne, Margery, 137

Mitman, Carl W., ix, 125, 133

Mohr, Albert D., 63, 64

Moore, J. Perey, vi

Moorman, E. H., 838, 85

Morrison, Joseph P. E., vi

Morton C. V., vii, 17, 21, 22

Mosher, S. M., viii

Murray, A. C., vii

Myer, Catherine Walden, fund, 43

Myers, George Hewitt, 41

N

National Air Museum, ix, 11, 123

Accessions, list of, 131

Accessions and events, 125

Advisory Board, ix, 123

Cooperative projects and informa-
tional services, 128

Curatorial activities, 124

Highlights, 123

Report, 123

Staff, ix

Stephenson bequest, 124

Storage, 127

Survey, 181

National Collection of Fine Arts, viii,
8, 41

Accessions, 42, 43

Alice Pike Barney loan collection,
43

Alice Pike Barney memorial fund,
44

Catherine Walden Myer fund, 43

Henry Ward Ranger fund, 46

Information service, 47

Library, 47

Loans, 44, 45, 46

Report, 41

Smithsonian Art Commission, 8, 41

Special exhibitions, 47

Staff, viii

Study collection, 43

Transfers, 44

Withdrawals by owners, 45
446

National Gallery of Art, viii, 8, 25
Accessions, 8, 27
Acquisitions committee, 26
Appropriations, 26
Attendance, 8, 27
Audit of private funds of the Gal-
lery, 40
Care and maintenance of the build-
ing, 38
Construction of new galleries and
offices, 38
Construction of storage facilities,
39
Curatorial activities, 35
Decorative arts, 27
Educational program, 37
Exchange of works of art, 28
Executive committee, 25
Exhibitions, 33
Finance committee, 26
Index of American Design, 38
Library, 37
Loans, 28, 32, 33
Officials, viii, 25
Organization, 25
Paintings, 27
Prints and drawings, 28
Publications, 36
Report, 25
Restoration and repair of works of
art, 36
Tenth anniversary celebration, 27
Traveling exhibition, 34
Trustees, viii, 25
National Museum, U. S., vi, 7, 14, 150
Accessions, 7, 14
Buildings and equipment, 14
Changes in organization and staff,
23
Collections, 14
Exploration and field work, 20
Publications, 150
Report, 14
Staff, vi
Visitors, 23
National Zoological Park, ix, 10, 104,
159
Accessions, 10, 106
Appropriation, 159
Births and hatchings, 114
Depositors and donors and their
gifts, 108
Exhibits, 106

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

National Zoological Park—Cont.
Maintenance and improvements,
115
Needs, 116
Report, 104
Staff, ix
Visitors, 10, 104
Neuman, R. B., 22
Newman, Jack B., personnel officer of
the Institution, v
Newman, M. T., vi
Nicol, David, vii
Nobel, Rear Adm. A. G., 125

O

Oberg, Kalervo, 89

Oehser, Paul H., chief, Editorial Divi-
sion, v, 153

Oliphant, M. L. (The industrial applica-
tion of atomic energy), 223

Olivares, Ismael, 139

Oliver, L. L., superintendent of build-
ings and labor, v

Oliver, S. H., vii

Osborne, Douglas, 65, 66

Pr

Palmer, M. Helen, viii, 151
Palmer, T. S., vi
Parfin, Sophy, vi
Payne, Max B., 22
Pearce, Franklin L., vii, 12, 22
Pearson, Mrs. Louise M., administrative
assistant to the Secretary, v
Peat, Marwick, Mitchell & Co., 160
Peck, Stuart, 64
Perry, K. M., vii
Perry, Stuart H., vii, 18
Perrygo, W. M., 15, 20, 139
Peterson, Mrs. L. W., vi
Peterson, Mendel I., viii, 23
Phillips, Duncan, viii, 25, 26
Physics, Some results in the field of
high-pressure (P. W. Bridgman), 199
Pierson, Donald, 89
Pope, John A., viii, 53, 54, 55
Potter, David, 141
Price, Leonard, ix
Price, Waterhouse & Co., 40
Pride, Rear Adm. A. M., 124
Publications, 11, 36, 91, 148
American Historical Association,
Report, 152
INDEX 447

Publications—Cont. logical and Paleontological Salvage
Appropriation for printing and Program (Frank H. H. Roberts, Jr.),
binding, 153 351
Bureau of American Ethnology, $1, | Robbins, Ross, 138
151 Roberts, Frank H. H., Jr., Associate Di-
Annual Report, 152 rector, Bureau of American Ethnol-
Bulletins, 152 ogy; Director, River Basin Surveys,
Institute of Social Anthro- viii, 9, 57, 59, 61
pology, publications, 152 (The carbon-14 method of age de-
Daughters of the American Revolu- termination), 335
tion, Report, 152 (River Basin Surveys: The first
Distribution, 148 five years of the Inter-Agency
Freer Gallery of Art, 152 Archeological and Paleontological
Occasional Papers, 152 Salvage Program), 351
Special publications, 152 | Roberts, Walter Orr, 6
National Gallery of Art, 36 (Stormy weather on the sun), 163
National Museum, 150 Rogers, Grace L., vii
Annual Report, 150 Romano, Octavio, 64
Bulletins, 151 Rudd, Velva E., vii

Contributions from the United | Russell, J. Townsend, Jr., vi
States National Herbarium, | Ryan, Francis J., and Mrs. Ryan, 138
151

Ss
Proceedings, 150
HEaea oh pee Salter, Robert M. (Utilizing our soil
Smi rps tpl 11. 148 resources for greater production), 319
Annual Report, 149 Saltonstall, Leverett, regent of the In-

Miscellaneous Collections, 148 | _ Sttution, v, 4

Speciad, publicetions,.450 merce, member of the Institution, v
Tables, 12 Schall W. T. vii
Publications, Division of, chief (L. HB. as % sce? a Mes :
Commerford), v Schmitt, Waldo L., vi
/ 2
Putt, Maj. Gen. Donald L., ix, 124 Scholes, R. T., and Mrs. Scholes, 139
Schultz, Leonard P., vi
Schumacher, E. G., viii
Sehwartz, Benjamin, vi
Rands, Robert, 57 Schwartz, Douglas W 30 ;
: Searle, Mrs. Harriet Richardson, vi
ee er Secretary of the Institution (Alexander
Reed, Fred C., 24 Secretary of the Institution (/ €

Reeside, J. B., Jr., vil

Regents, Board of, v, 3
Annual meeting, 4
Executive Committee, v, 160

soe tag ay
Report, 154 Arthur lecture,

Establishment, The, 3
Members, v, 4

Finances, 4
Rehder, Harald A., vi

Appropritions, 5
River Basin Surveys, viii, 9, 59, 159 General statement, 1

R

: 42, 125, 139
Report, 1

Appropriation, 60, 159 Library, 12

Cooperating institutions, 86 Memorial gifts, 7

Field work, 63 Publications, 11

Report, 59 Regents, Board of, 3

Washington office, 61 Summary of the year’s activi-
River Basin Surveys: The first five ties, 7

years of the Inter-Agency Archeo- Visitors, 5

Sawyer, Charles, Secretary of Com-

Wetmore), V, Viii, 4, 7, 13, 15, 20, 25,

Adams-Clement Collection,
448

Setzer, Henry W., vi, 21

Setzler, Frank M., vi

Shalkop, Robert L., 71

Shaw, Winthrop S., ix

Shepard, Donald D., 25

Shiner, Joel L., 64, 68

Shippee, James M., 72, 78

Shoemaker, C. R., vi

Simmons, Ozzie G., 89, 91

Sinclair, Charles C., assistant super-
intendent of buildings and labor, v

Sirlouis, J. R., viii

Skinner, Morris, 80

Smith, A. C., vii

Smith, Don, Jr., 134

Smith, George H., 75, 79

Smith, J. Russell, 140

Smith, James G., 80, 81

Smith, Lyman B., vii

Smith, Ray, 42

Smithsonian Art Commission, 8, 41

Snakes, The mechanics of (Alfred
Leutscher), 303

Snyder, John W., Secretary of the
Treasury, member of the Institution,
Vv, viii, 26

Sohns, Ernest R., vii, 24

Soil resources, Utilizing our, for greater
production (Robert M. Salter), 319

Solecki, Ralph S., 61, 62, 82

Soper, C. C., 139

Southwick, Charles, 137

Stanton, T. W., vii

Stephenson, Robert L., 82, 88, 84

Stern, Harold P., viii

Stevenson, John A., vii

Stewart, T. Dale, vi

Stirling, Matthew W., Director, Bureau
of American Ethnology, viii, 9, 56, 95

Stout, William B., ix

Strobell, Robert ©., ix, 131

Stubbs, Burns A., viii

Sun, Stormy weather on the (Walter
Orr Roberts), 163

Swallen, Jason R., vii, 23

Swanton, John R., viii, 95

Swingle, W. T., vii

Switzer, George S., vii, 22

i

Talbert, D. G., ix
Taylor, Frank A., vii
Taylor, Walter E., 57, 58
Taylor, W. W., Jr., vi

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1951

Thomas, G. S., vii

Tobin, Maurice, Secretary of Labor,
member of the Institution, v

Tobin, Samuel J., 67

Truman, Harry §S., President of the
United States, Presiding Officer ex
officio of the Institution, v

Tucker, Mae W., viii

U
Ultrasonics (Arthur R. Laufer), 213

Vy;

Vandenberg, Gen. Hoyt S., 125
Vaughan, T. W., vii
Vinson, Fred M., Chief Justice of the
United States, Chancellor of the In-
stitution, v, viii, 4, 25
Visitors, 5, 8, 9, 10, 27, 58, 104, 140
Canal Zone Biological Area, 140
Freer Gallery of Art, 9, 53
National Gallery of Art, 8, 27
National Zoological Park, 10, 104
Smithsonian buildings, 5
Vorys, John M., regent of the Institu-
tion, v, 4, 140

Ww

Walker, E. H., vii, 22
Walker, Ernest P., ix
Walker, John, Chief Curator, National
Gallery of Art, viii, 25
Waring, Antonio J., Jr., viii, 95
Watkins, C. Malcolm, vi
(Artificial lighting in America:
1880-1860), 385
Watkins, W. N., vii
Webb, William S., 70
Wedderburn, A. J., Jr., vii
Wedel, Waldo R., vi, 20, 73
Weiss, Helena M., vi
Wenley, A. G., Director, Freer Gallery
of Art, viii, 41, 54, 55
Wetmore, Alexander, Secretary of the
Institution, v, vi, viii, ix, 4, 7, 18, 15,
20, 25, 41, 125, 139
Wheeler, Richard Page, 71, 72, 78, 79
White, Lawrence Grant, 41
White, Theodore E., 61, 62, 75, 79, 80, 84
Wigglesworth, V. B. (Hormones and the
metamorphosis of insects), 313
INDEX 449

Wilding, Anthony W., property, supply, ns
and purchasing officer of the Institu-| yeager, Capt. Charles E., 125
tion, v
Willey, Gordon R., 91 Z
Williams, D. G., Chief, International

Zapffe, Carl A. (The insid f ls),
Pechanee Sonica tix 103 apffe, Car (The insides of metals)

Wilson, Mrs. Mildred S., vi mis

Withrow, Alice P., ix Zetek, James, Resident Manager, Canal
Withrow, R. B., ix, 117, 120 Zone Biological Area, ix, 17, 1389, 143
Wolfe, Lt. Gen. K. B., 124 Zoological Park. (See National Zoolog-
Wonderly, William, 90 ical Park.)

Wulf, Oliver R., 119 Zworykin, V. K. (Some prospects in the
Wyeth, Andrew, 41 field of electronics), 235

O
Uae Gi ondas ry i chee

hi : ‘ * 4 aa
Chas (A BO nipome
ites. ihe hokwt,: Oa f
Pie, BSE: Aes Jao resis

é, (eee Yrivgs hie eh

o, ta ; meth, Sn: Pak es Seek x aad

. (et Riear to woh ieit og a Ms sige’ | | enoksonsrtat yi Bo Maat .
BS are oe yO ae’ f] Syne Baha Paris 4
tine). wrote it vomat, slatok ts fe, eu re
Chl GE tT zi ahadé Lenkuotold sans | eet, Dials We eee glia: rus

-walios S fadolts ihe aA). aretlesiaoton: 9 | ORE TLE gh GE jeromd
Vaam MRL RHIANI NF LOO. .A AL wae Pele: /
Sn {. iatleol. i On enti ar r
“aihy ee sats ad be ra tae th tod j SN vist tile 10s |i ; how ¢ Lagee s.db-yotanOy
Sra Ley FB vlagiaarivets to. bl tell f | May: meiban, hye

with. A = vik
he oe C F 4
c ya + ms
“4 ee ta) | Fi ¥
4 .
- ; 7
_
: i ae, ‘
et 1 ’
1
4
Y i ‘ ¥¢
.
: 4
+=
7 J .;
7. '
nf re ¥ o
¢ 5
y
bas
‘ lob a {
: ;
N\ q abs ,
F ‘
i t ‘ she
—
‘ Le
f
= i hi
T *
.
2 : mM
\ 2 ¢
¢ ~
7 J « '
é ’ y : este
‘ _
i ‘ Lot (a d ¥ ms
: Ale. Were tf 2h SL oe
FP) . > é :* > asia oe a riei , y
tb
. A * fs os n
Yj eee ST ipeetie,”
7 b 24 “ *.: ¥
Wl AY. Si at bad |
F +
4, , Z <a
. Weiupnne cote, Ruaees)
ty Paavo =" + Er
: ; Se Ty Se, Viet TY
ni sats } ‘ ro o
eae + aca a
Fh. GS, eh, Ta, ee '
Fj 7 i.
4 pes ‘
‘ wnt Kitard? ie an abe i

ie 4 ty om nit ti
sw] der M,. gy’ whi
Pie: 2.-% ae wf 3
ETE

9088 01421 7574
| ‘

oH
E |

, ‘

*S

—
,
—
— i
a
o
- —
i —
=
CLS
= <%
os —=<te
f .
pecors _—
Myra
OF ho,
of
=

a

“

Suc

