‘s

ey, ; : :
- al = Tae? a * i Bs ‘i pe “)
: é : <2) ; ana ; , ‘ 7 ‘
Tag ; oe ? ie fy net ee Se - eS Fie Fete, oS . ad
3 aS ee ce, Seek ie _ eee 7h ; 4 a ee - : ae ate, En
— eae a i Se ee bom é | . — aa
a § e 3 BD ass ae ian A +h }. ~= , L = e* e — a ow r . ‘ a sro &
. = ry + i
= >
=

“ ro fa me jot head . ; > = sas
—* x $ M = = n

% ue aa, x ® mead b ee " j - . aa ad . =
= oe pals fp, ee oe es BN oe , oe be aaksil
ee a : ee ee poem ieee fed, Cae ; nen oh

“2 eer 7 wo = : Os 4 3 4 = ry a= Z $ ‘

a . a ee Coy me > F ae ; : 3 :

j= z = — test ae oe a

a ee i ' 3 z ? : haa we “* 2 = a oe 3
4 } Fg ae ee » joa eet. r. rs ; - -~ ae, ieee
» Cs - é. ‘ y $ - Ao Sn ee Oe oe = ae > ‘
: ieee Ks: ie ; a 9) <a . rn . - FS a “s . ee ~ - wel
% Res ares, ES te a _ = ae ~ a a No
= oe : _— ~ 3 sh: 5 aw ee > Pema ch <i So pee ‘
; x oe i= z :- a ee es ee Ee
E " ig ie 3 < 1, DE oe hoe * } oe 3 ¥ aig i i ok <5 ER
“a i= Fy % b i ; wi : 5 ~ ~ ae ow, a a Rae "
3 hed hag oh SEY oh WO nd a a aa cee <2 et oe ee a
3 A a", ae ae i ee tH Sai enced 2 + : te Sit lsc
5 noth {> :% i i : k oa . Ps J - os ~ Rated ee ie
b. ed ; Ss Tap be ar. f ; : x a 2 — her . a
; ‘a eee fe . : oo eS r : if pa ee oa —_
. ao ey ss ’
q ~ “ ; 4 - \ 4 +.
* —s — Se” at

Bs
Es
Se ret

{
‘| |
ime Pm: = ;~<
\ CSRS
So ie
”
od JP pare! ~
"ean J pate
a
hy

‘AP ZY

7 Ki
pe pe
¢ } hi hy

ee: o A a

: ey wi a
j oe on i Pe J oe ee
fa p18 88 8 :

te Ye
$

a

.
ri

(hh oe i ee ee ae
P32 218 8 8)
i Be a8

Ye
| oe sy.
wy B E 5 Sd c a a
a " # : - ¥ : ;

a :

_
——-

—_

Ai
it, Ab
i

co -
———

ee

a ae
ee

I sie

wale
om

ei
"

\
y
Wii

hu ‘ We Naat i
in 4 iA

i

i}

Me
j
fh

,
P

i

a! e)
ily Fy ae
TT ikl Lh

4

e
iy
if

‘\
-,

3) All

ire

Had 5 nA iui fee) eee ivi we i j Va 7 Lean iA he i J We
EAU, Yas | Hiei iba LY at fie A a ene AY ti nt ty Wit

Rh)
My he

a i \ bien i ’ q i . i ‘ wr , May i Wwn) Ny me re
ait L I Yay iy ) Ain hye
| . WH)

Hi

Wt y ai q

i) May 4 n 4)
x i i iy 0
ANNUAL REPORT OF THE
BOARD OF REGENTS OF

THE SMITHSONIAN
INSTITUTION

SHOWING THE

OPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES, AND
CONDITION OF THE INSTITUTION
FOR THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30

L92/

( Publication 2927)

UNITED STATES
GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE
WASHINGTON
1928
ADDITIONAL COPIES
OF THIS PUBLICATION MAY BE PROCURED FROM
THE SUPERINTENDENT OF DOCUMENTS
U.8.GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE
WASHINGTON, D. C.
AT

$1.75 PER COPY (BOUND)

LETTER

ACTING SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

SUBMITTING

THE ANNUAL REPORT OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS OF THE
INSTITUTION FOR THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1927

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,
Washington, November 26, 1927.
To the Congress of the United States:

In accordance with section 5593 of the Revised Statutes of the
United States, I have the honor, in behalf of the Board of Regents,
to submit to Congress the annual report of the operations, expendi-
tures, and condition of the Smithsonian Institution for the year
ending June 30, 1927. I have the honor to be,

Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
C. G. Axspor,
Acting Secretary.

IIt
, at K ‘d
the

Ty
, ; 1

Nea i

Bi a
Taba

oe oe

CONTENTS

Page
LEGS, -OEs TTS ET bie pe ees 2g reo le el a nN lat ate nail AO seas IL a nai
See arsie i TStILMtOM st. ON ne il
GEE DEY" ofS ER OU ISH DILUTE 0 ai na a A ST ONY TD Beh NS oa SE il
J PVANEE SENG HEREC van ON co Rel e¥ E25 01] HS ne a ea aR oR DELO a AR Pe 1
enencimee ONS lentil Onsen ere sete nate ee aN ee een ee er 2
TNO EN AY G1EIS) em eps oe ras 2 ed Able Bl aah CEN 2 9 nlp apr Dab gas Od 4
VEb sey GARG HBS Ey BESS $2010 ba ES HG LN la er Soa ga am Ae Ae ne <
Smithsonian-Chrysler HWxpedition to Africa___.____________-___ 7
CHUECENESMNCLOLOSSIS: Im MUnONe == 222 ee ee 9
Minerale Coneciing it Ii Oxd COs esters ee eee a reser ema 10
ED lOMNe Or Terns in sama Ca n= eee eee oe ee ea 10
FATEH OLOSLCA WOT lb 4 Mee ee tan re eee eee eno ee ATL AE a a lay
ATI OP OLOSIGAl SULVC VOL; AlaASKoe cote Sree see ote ea 12
Conterenceron the tuture of the Institution. 2. ee 18
Award of Langley medal to Col. Charles A. Lindbergh______-_--._-_- __ 17
SHEA Cd DSN Deiat hs OD FS aaa Aho th 7 IDR TR 18
TEATU OVER ERT VG oS pees ae tn aa lps i lige ape ete aa ite et Nar al ela 20
TOM SPACE oc Se) i ots Se Sd tao ca rent ls bua Saal tite eR aN A. SEs MARIN ei ata ete ae a 2
we EPC SEMEIL SS ELTA Ba a pe tl el sabe RNs AC Ca Apa Ce Diet a 22,
cue hehe Se ek Dy eave ilk eae Se etre Mealy la ee ae NGE AL i A 25
| ies Let CS MUST Tap Bs FN LS ele eh diel ls ds A SR ae eat SENG Ea Se 25
i Pred ieor -Americn MLInoOlogy 22 Memes Te 26
LITE WA Sy esa eT ROY ad Ml BC) ET fl ld ee AN ape J Eo we 28
JETER OREN By EPH LTE 2G at aT Se TR pc Re legge aed Ot gee a ea 29
PEeTMneRy MUR ORISCRY ALON y 222,55. Sb a 31
International Catalogue of Scientific Literature________________________ 32
Lee Re BYU NIDYE Ny ‘sige! 5 8 CR Rene eR eRe Le YL 0 aR wg eR Soe oe
Appendix 1. Report on the United States National Museum_____________ 36
2 Lepore onwne, National Gallery? of Art: oes See ee ee) 54
oe Reporhon phe hreer > Gallery oreArt. Ses 63
4. Report on the Bureau of American Hthnology______________ 66
5. Report on the International Hxchanges____________________ 80
6. Report on the National Zoological Park -________________. 92
7. Report on the Astrophysical Observatory__________________ 109

8. Report on the International Catalogue of Scientific
HAVE RACING Ss 225 So ae eee De a a ee ieee me a Soe 114
eigveports on: the: libra yee ee ee 116
OP rveport.-on~, publications sees oe a 126

VI CONTENTS

GENERAL APPENDIX

The accomplishments of modern astronomy, by C. G. Abbot------------
Recent developments of cosmical physics, by J. H. Jeans_------------
The evolution of twentieth-century physics, by Robert A. Millikan_--~~-
Isaac Newton, by Prof. Albert Hinstein-___-__---------~----------------
The nucleus of the atom, by J. A. Crowther___------—------------_-----
The centenary of Augustin Fresnel, by E.-M. Antoniadi_-_--_------------
Soaring flight, by Wolfgang Klemperer___-_- J jl = ee eee
The coming of the new coal age, by Edwin KE. Slosson_----------------
Is the earth growing old? By Josef Felix Pompeckj_-_._----_---------
Geolovical’ climates; by Wi. B. SCOth=== sete es 2 ee ee
Geologic romance of the Finger Lakes, by Prof. Herman F. Fairchild_---
Fossil marine faunas as indicators of climatic conditions, by Edwin
Paleontology and human relations, by Stuart Weller
At the’ North Poles by incon: ENsworth] <2. 22-2 eee
Bird banding in America, by Frederick C. Lincoln_-_-_---_-_-__-_--_--_-
The distribution of fresh-water fishes, by David Starr Jordan
The. mind of ani insect, by Roh. Snodgrass-_-8 2 a eee
The evidence bearing on man’s evolution, by AleS Hrdli¢ka_______________
The origins of the Chinese civilization, by Henri Maspero
Archeology in China, by Iiang Chi-Chao__-___ 2-4 ee
Indian villages of Southeast Alaska, by Herbert W. Krieger___________-
The interpretation of aboriginal mounds by means of Creek Indian cus-

COMS, DY) DON RS WaT COn 2s ee
Friedrich Kurz, artist-explorer, by David I. Bushnell, jr_-______________
Note on the principles and process of X-ray examination of paintings,

by: “Alan ‘Burroughs 2 ees oe ee ee
Lengthening of human life in retrospect and prospect, by Irving Fisher__
Charles Doolittle Walcott, by George Otis Smith
William Healey Dall, by C. Hart Merriam
LIST OF PLATES

Modern astronomy (Abbot) : Page

TEMP SSI TU UP Eee NAS Le aD ea Pg Se LS ee ee 166
Augustin Fresnel (Antoniadi) :

TEN bryce: Ta es we eS oe eerie NE) Ltt ann Aly’
Soaring flight (Klemperer) :

PRN RES. Tg Dh Leal ee SR A a fe aS ee ee Cc eee a ee 242
New coal age (Slosson) :

SES TSTE ean eee ge ee ese ek a rae Bs Eh I es Re hae 248
Finger Lakes (Fairchild) :

ESL a espe =p ee er einer ae See Sneek eee 298
At the North Pole (Ellsworth) :

TELS E RS sd I oes ES cae a eee. ie ee ee ee ee ee 330
Bird banding (Lincoln) :

1 PAS ICES STS ee aN a ae ree ee ee eee ee 354
Distribution of fishes (Jordan) :

PEE 6 75 SE ss ek a ce SIRS Le ea Se eR ce ee a 3590

TELE PE SASS Ue ER ze et 6 a ie eee eee Ob eSB Soe CHR ee as hs See ni 366
Indians of Alaska (Krieger) :

TG ISIS 2s) UES Dag a Yc a a NB RCN eNO SOUL NOE nt NE 494
Creek Indian customs (Swanton) :

ECLIPSE) Soa Nein at a ee aS De a RPG ie Ir 506
Friedrich Kurz (Bushnell) :

LES RES! AL BSR 6 SS a Pr) re PRS ES eee BR 512

TENGE ooh a SE RS Te SL Meee es oe Pe ee ee Se ae ae 520
X raying paintings (Burroughs) :

RT Seep op ee a tae ets See ee Lo ee ee ae ce i Pe 584
Waleott (Smith) :

TEA ED He 9a SSP eae a ae Sena ne en aN E Ree ES er ee 555

Sa Ae same ee me es es we Re SS 560
Dall (Merriam) :

Eee ea Lit a Le eee ee ee ee ee SO A 5 ee 563
ANNUAL REPORT{OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS OF THE SMITHSONIAN

INSTITUTION FOR THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1927

SUBJECTS

1. Annual report of the secretary, giving an account of the opera-
tions and condition of the Institution for the year ending June 30
1927, with statistics of exchanges, etc.

2. Report of the executive committee of the Board of Regents,
exhibiting the financial affairs of the Institution, including a state-

:)

ment of the Smithsonian fund, and receipts and expenditures for

the year ending June 30, 1927.

3. Proceedings of the Board of Regents for the fiscal year ending
June 30, 1927.

4. General appendix, comprising a selection of miscellaneous
memoirs of interest to collaborators and correspondents of the Insti-
tution, teachers, and others engaged in the promotion of knowledge.
These memoirs relate chiefly to the calendar year 1927.

Ix
ae le Bi il ee” kt i , ea

oo, | os en "pe

ee ee

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

June 30, 1927

Presiding officer ex officio—CatvIN CooLincE, President of the United States.
Chancellor—WiLLiAM Howarp Tart, Chief Justice of the United States.
Members of the Institution:
CALVIN Coo.LipcGE, President of the United States.
CHARLES G. Dawes, Vice President of the United States.
WILLIAM Howarp Tart, Chief Justice of the United States.
FRANK B. Kettoae, Secretary of State.
ANDREW W. ME Lon, Secretary of the Treasury.
DwicuHTt Fintey Davis, Secretary of War.
JOHN G. SARGENT, Attorney General.
Harry S. New, Postmaster General.
Curtis D. Witpur, Secretary of the Navy.
Hupert Work, Secretary of the Interior.
WILLIAM M. JARDINE, Secretary of Agriculture.
HERBERT CLARK Hoover, Secretary of Commerce.
JAMES JOHN Davis, Secretary of Labor.
Regents of the Institution:
Witt1AM Howarp Tart, Chief Justice of the United States, Chancellor.
CHARLES G. DAwEs, Vice President of the United States.
REED Smoot, Member of the Senate.
Woopsrincre N. Ferris, Member of the Senate.
JosEPH T. Roprnson, Member of the Senate.
ALBERT JOHNSON, Member of the House of Representatives.
R. WALTON Moore, Member of the House of Representatives.
WALTER H. Newton, Member of the House of Representatives.
CHARLES F. CHOATE, Jr., citizen of Massachusetts.
HENRY WHITE, citizen of Washington, D. C.
Rosert 8. Brookines, citizen of Missouri.
Irwin B. LAvGHIIN, citizen of Pennsylvania.
FREDERIC A. DELANO, citizen of Washington, D. C.
DwicHt W. Morrow, citizen of New Jersey.
Executive committee —HENRY WHITE, FREDERIC A. DELANO, R. WALTON Moore.
Acting Secretary.—C. G. ABBOT.
Assistant Secretary.—ALEXANDER WETMORE.
Chief Clerk —Harry W. Dorsey.
Accounting and disbursing agent.—N. W. DorsEy.
Editor—wW. P. Trung.
Librarian.—Witi1amM L. Corsin.
Appointment clerk.—JAMES G. TRAYLOR.
Property clerk.—J. H. Hr.

D.@ |
XII ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1927

NATIONAL MUSEUM

Assistant Secretary (in charge).—ALEXANDER WETMORE.
Administrative assistant to the Secretary—W. DE C. RAVENEL.
Head curators.—WatiErR HouecH, LEONHARD STEJNEGER, Grorce P. MERRILL.
Curators —PAUL BartscH, R. 8S. Basster, T. T. Bertore, Austin H. CiLarK,
KF. W. CiarkKe, F. V. Covitne, Coartes W. GILMorE, WALTER Hovuan, L. O.
Howarp, ALES HrpoLtiéKa, New M. Jupp, H. W. Kriscer, FReperRicK L. LEw-
“pron, Grorce P. Merrriti, Gerrit S. Minter, Jr., CARL W. MiTMAN, ROBERT
Ripaway, WaALpo L. ScHMiTT, LEONHARD STEJNEGER.
Associate curators.—J. M. ALpRIicH, W. R. Maxon, CHARLES EH. Ressrer, CHARLES
W. Ricumonp, J. N. Rosz, PAun C. STANDLEY, DAvip WHITE.
Chief of correspondence and documents.—H. S. BRYANT.
Disbursing agent.—N. W. DoRsEY.
Superintendent of buildings and labor.—J. S. GoLpSMITH.
Hditor—Marcus BENJAMIN.
Assistant Librarian.—IsaBeL L. TOWNER.
Photographer.—ARrtTHUR J. OLMSTED.
Property clerk.—W. A. KNOWLES.
Eingineer.—C. R. DENMARK.
Shipper.—L. E. PErRry.
NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART
Director.—WILLIAM H. HoLMEs.
FREER GALLERY OF ART
Curator.—JOHN FILLERTON LODGE.
Associate curator.—CarL WHITING BISHOP.
Assistant curator.—GRAcE DUNHAM GUEST.
Associate.—KATHARINE NASH RHOADES.
Superintendent. JOHN BUNDY.
BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY

Chief.—J. WALTER FEWKES.

Hthnologists—Joun P. Harrineron, J. N. B. Hewitt, Francis La IFLescue,
TRUMAN MICHELSON, JOHN R. SWANTON.

Archeologist. H. H. Rosrrts, Jr.

Hditor.—STANLEY SEARLES.

Librarian. ELLA LEARY.

Tllustrator.—Dr LANCEY GILL.

INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGES
Acting secretary (in charge).—C. G. ABBOT.
Chief clerk.—C. W. SHOEMAKER.
NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK
Director.—WILLIAM M. MANN.
Assistant director.—A. B. BAKER.
ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY

Director.—C. G. ABBOT.
Research assistant.—F. HE. Fow es, Jr.
Research assistant.—L. B. ALDRICH.

REGIONAL BUREAU FOR THE UNITED STATES, INTERNATIONAL
CATALOGUE OF SCIENTIFIC LITERATURE

Assistant in charge.—Lronarp C. GUNNELL.
REPORT

OF THE

ACTING SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN
INSTITUTION

C. G. ABBoT
FOR THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1927

To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution:

GrntLEMEN: J have the honor to submit herewith my report show-
ing the activities and condition of the Smithsonian Institution and
the Government bureaus under its administrative charge during the
fiscal year ended June 30, 1927. The first 34 pages contain a
summary account of the affairs of the Institution. Appendixes 1 to
10 give more detailed reports of the operations of the United States
National Museum, the National Gallery of Art, the Freer Gallery of
Art, the Bureau of American Ethnology, the International Exchanges,
the National Zoological Park, the Astrophysical Observatory, the
United States Regional Bureau of the International Catalogue of
Scientific Literature, the Smithsonian library, and of the publica-
tions issued under the direction of the Institution.

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

THE ESTABLISHMENT

The Smithsonian Institution was created by act of Congress in
1846, according to the terms of the will of James Smithson, of
England, who in 1826 bequeathed his property to the United States
of America, “to found at Washington, under the name of the Smith-
sonian Institution, an establishment for the increase and diffusion
of knowledge among men.” In receiving the property and accepting
the trust, Congress determined that the Federal Government was
without authority to administer the trust directly, and therefore
constituted an “establishment” whose statutory members are “the
President, the Vice President, the Chief Justice, and the heads of
the executive departments.”

THE BOARD OF REGENTS

The affairs of the Institution are administered by a Board of
Regents whose membership consists of “the Vice President, the
Chief Justice, three Members of the Senate, and three Members of

1
se ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1927

the House of Representatives, together with six other persons other
than Members of Congress, two of whom shall be resident in the
city of Washington, and the other four shall be inhabitants of some
State, but no two of them of the same State.” One of the regents
is elected chancellor by the board; in the past the selection has fallen
upon the Vice President or the Chief Justice; and a suitable person
is chosen by the regents as secretary of the Institution, who is also
secretary of the Board of Regents and the executive officer directly
in charge of the Institution’s activities.

The following changes occurred in the personnel of the board
during the year: The term as a regent of Senator George Wharton
Pepper expired upon his retirement as a Member of the Senate on
March 8, 1927, and Senator Joseph T. Robinson was appointed by the
Vice President to succeed him on March 4, 1927. Senator Reed
Smoot was reappointed a regent by the Vice President on March
4, 1927. |

The roll of the regents at the close of the fiscal year was as follows:
William H. Taft, Chief Justice of the United States, chancellor;
Charles G. Dawes, Vice President of the United States; members
from the Senate, Reed Smoot, Woodbridge N. Ferris, Joseph T.
Robinson; members from the House of Representatives, Albert John-
son, R. Walton Moore, Walter H. Newton; citizen members, Charles
IF. Choate, jr., Massachusetts; Henry White, Washington, D. C.;
Robert S. Brookings, Missouri; Irwin B. Laughlin, Pennsylvania;
Frederic A. Delano, Washington, D. C.; and Dwight W. Morrow,
New Jersey.

GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS

Death of Secretary Walcott—On February 9, 1927, the fourth
secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, Charles Doolittle Walcott,
passed from us. For 20 years Doctor Walcott had successfully
guided the destiny of the Smithsonian, and his death is a severe
blow to the Institution and a great bereavement to his friends and
associates on the staff. This report is not the place to review in
detail the life and work of Doctor Walcott—that will be done later
in a biography to be published in the general appendix to the Annual
Report of the Board of Regents.

Jt has been my privilege to be closely associated with Doctor Wal-
cott during the entire 20 years of his administration. He took a
genuine kindly interest in his associates, rejoiced without any ges-
ture of appropriation in their successes and the growth of their
reputations, and sorrowed in their disappointments and troubles.
From his long life of affairs he was always ready to quote wise or
illustrative passages, so that his counsel was most helpful and saga-
cious. He was highly approachable, even in temper, and exceed-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 3

ingly simple in all his habits. For many years he occupied a leading
place in the business of his church, and he had a strong un-
troubled religious faith, crowned by full confidence in a future life.

Of commanding height and noble features, he was physically every
inch a worthy head of the Institution. A strong and experienced
administrator, of indefatigable industry, he was able not only to
shape its administration but to carry on at the same time his own
world-renowned researches in geology and paleontology. It has been
said that 70 per cent of existing knowledge of Cambrian and Pre-
Cambrian paleontology is due to him, and of this one-half was ac-
quired by him while secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.

The late secretary was a man of the widest interests. He was
prominently in public life in Washington for many years before
coming to the Smithsonian, having served as director of the United
States Geological Survey. At that time, also, he secured the passage
of a law organizing the forest surveys of the country, and organized
and directed for five years the United States Reclamation Service.

He took a leading part in the affairs of the Carnegie Institution
of Washington, which he had been largely instrumental in founding,
and also a leading role in the promotion and encouragement of the
new science of aeronautics, culminating during the World War in
his appointment by President Wilson as a member of the National
Advisory Committee for Aeronautics. During the war he served
as chairman of its executive committee and later as chairman of
the committee itself until his death. He was prominent in the
National Research Council, for several years president of the
National Academy of Sciences, and president of other scientific
societies of national scope.

One of the most important steps taken by Secretary Walcott in
the last years of his administration was the approval of a definite
campaign to increase the endowment funds of the Institution. This
project is mentioned in his last two annual reports, that for 1926
outlining the preliminary steps taken. Although the matter has
perhaps moved more slowly than anticipated, nevertheless very
definite progress has been made, and there is real promise of a suc-
cessful outcome of the project. Doctor Walcott, like Secretary
Langley before him, regarded the totally inadequate income of the
Institution for research and publication as presenting a crisis in its
affairs, and it is earnestly hoped that plans for increasing that
income, so vital to the future work and reputation of the Institu-
tion, may be carried on successfully.

Gifts—¥our especially noteworthy gifts and bequests came to the
Institution during the past year—the Canfield mineralogical collec-
tion, the Roebling mineralogical collection, the John Donnell] Smith
4 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1927

herbarium and botanical library, and the Canu collection of French
Cenozoic and Mesozoic fossils, exceeding 100,000 specimens. ‘The
Canfield collection of minerals came as a bequest from Dr. Frederick
A. Canfield, of New Jersey. It contains some 9,000 minerals, many of
them unique and all of exceptional quality, and to insure its con-
tinued development Doctor Canfield also bequeathed to the Institu-
tion the sum of $50,000, the income from which is to be used for that
purpose. The Roebling mineralogical collection was presented to the
Smithsonian by Mr. John A. Roebling, of Bernardsville, N. J., in
memory of his father, Col. Washington A. Roebling, who died in
July, 1926, willing the mineral collection to his son. The Roebling
collection contains over 16,000 specimens, including practically every
known mineral species. Mr. Roebling also accompanied his gift with
an endowment fund of $150,000 for its development. ‘The John Don-
nell Smith herbarium and botanical library form the most munifi-
cent gift of botanical material ever received by the National Herba-
rium. The Smith herbarium, containing well over 100,000 specimens,
all well preserved and excellently mounted, is particularly rich in Cen-
tral American material, with numerous type specimens of species de-
scribed by Captain Smith in his own extensive botanical researches
on the flora of that region.

Under the terms of the will of the late Catherine Walden Myer,
and by an agreement with the other legatees named in the will, the
Institution has received in cash the sum of $3,649.91 and notes
secured by certain property in Washington amounting to $14,618.
The will stipulated that the income from this bequest should be
used for the purchase of works of art for use and benefit of the
National Gallery of Art.

FINANCES

The permanent investments of the Institution consist of the fol-
lowing:

Total endowment for general or specific purposes (exclusive of

Freer: funds)! v2 ea snp hi ee eed 0 py ee eee ate yon 8 aig $1, 885, 279. 75
Of this total there is deposited in the Treasury of the United
Statessas providedhpyetaw— 2-2-3265) 3 ee ee ee 1, 000, 000. 00

Deposited in the consolidated fund:
Miscellaneous securities, ete., either purchased or acquired by

gift; cost or value at date acquired~_—___4_ 2 3738, 759. 75
Charles D. and Mary Vaux Walcott research fund, stock
Cait) i: wales reas tes Bees vtec: are oi a toe he 11, 520. 00

The sums invested for each specific fund or securities, etc.,
acquired by gift are described as follows:
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY

(oy |

|
SINT TR Cee 8 NG ee $14, 000. 00 $40 456.46 | foe es $54, 456. 46
Warm mrnebureay, Bacol find = 22+ £3: oe eee ie on |. Se 62):272 Ossi t= = ae aan 62, 272. 93
[DUTTA ECE Uh CTC (OE Man eS ee Ebel re te | el aie aN | T2688 009 ec eeme eee 1, 728. 09
LER a 8) 9 OSTA 6 ES Ea el |e a 35; 000::00>|2=== 5222222. 35, 0C0. 00
bapel tipidits seen fo 8 es ee lt eect 0 Ce ae Se es A oe ee 500. 00
PEMD IM IMGs oes oe aes cee 2, 500. 00 500: 00" (bse eo ae 3, 000. 00
eALOMUNe TICHEV TUNG sess toh 2 oe Ser ae ee Seco ase a RE is fh et ak ee 1, 223. 33
Hodgkins fund:
COP TUHGE | Lag. Ove STs TS as a eee 116, 000. 00 375275500) hee ee eS aoe 153, 275. 60
SY aC ELIT Cie pet Ae 2S STD ek 100; 000: OD) hae ee Sea eo net ae a Be 100, 000. 06
Brice Hughes fund - 22-22. cee. < st eeze.3-|----5 eS eee 14,458: 90,)2£ =. sees ses oe 14, 158. 90
Lucy T. and George W. Poore fund__-_--_-_- 26, 670. 00 PANS A8 he: UN Ue aan eas 47, 966. 42
Adisom i ver fund = 22287 6 2 Fe eS See 11, 000. 00 Ls ae Kt pik Se es a 18, 299. 16
UN GGS thine be Se Scns ey hk ee oh 5S0. 00 Oofea4 |=ise2 See. 947. 34
TES) eVE CE OG BPRS SRS Rs OR er ene ae ee eee ees 7150000; 00; [P= so e2 eso 150, 000. 00
Crearre td pamiord 1UnGe- 22 2. 2. 4} are 1, 100. 00 B752 727 hee oe 1, 775. 72
Simippsen ind 2-242 teed st ee a Sk 727, 640. 00 1 SIG AO) esa on Ss 729, 156. 40
Charles D. and Mary Vaux Walcott research
READ ES Se A I ee a i eg eee rd Pyne een a data i (et are $11, 520. 00 11, 520. 00
rites Lema irene. Sew anes  es S 1,000, 000.00 | 373, 759. 75 11, 520.00 | 1,385, 279. 75

The Institution gratefully acknowledges gifts from the following
donors:

Dr. W. L. Abbott, for collecting expedition to Haiti and Santo Domingo.

Mrs. Laura Welsh Casey, further funds for expenses in connection with Casey
collection of Coleoptera.

Mr. Walter Chrysler, further funds for expedition to Africa to collect animals
for National Zoological Park.

Mr. Childs Frick, for explorations in vertebrate paleontology:

National Academy of Sciences, for paleontological researches.

Mrs. Cornelia Livingston Pell, for care of Pell collection.

Mr. John A. Roebling, for the establishment of the Roebling fund for care of
Roebling collection of minerals, and for other purposes.

Mr. Homer E. Sargent, for manuscript on Salish basketry.

Dr. Frank Springer, further funds for publication of volume “American
Silurian Crinoids,” and for other purposes.

Mr. Chas. T. Simpson, for work on West Indian shells.

Mr. H. B. Swales, for purchase of specimens, ete.

‘The Institution has also received contributions from the following
friends for the funds as listed below

Endowment campaign expense fund: Mr. Frederic A. Delano, Mr. Dwight
W. Morrow, Mrs. Mary Vaux Walcott.

Endowment fund: Mr. John Baker, Mr. W. C. Condon, the Gould Co., Mr.
J. Wrank Haan, Mr. Paul Hartley, Mr. S. M. Henrie, Mr. George A. Knapp, Mr.
W. C. Rogers, Mr. H. Seddon, and Mr. Hans Wilkens.

The Institution also received from the estate of Catherine Walden
Myer the sum of $3,649.91, a payment on account of a bequest for
purchase of works of art for use and benefit of the National Gallery -
of Art.

74906—28——2
6 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1927

Freer Gallery of Art.—The invested funds of the Freer beques: are
classified as follows: *

Courtand. rounds: tind eee ey ee ee $365, 441. 13
Court and grounds, maintenance fund________---_--_----------- 78, 953. 36
Curator find ==). eee fos Oe Berne ih fre ae ae ee 316, 830. 25
Residiary legacy a. sik eee ae eB ee ee 3, 410, 655. 87

TT Ob CU este sah DU OG 2s ea tn i em 4, 171, 880. 61

The practice of depositing on time in local trust companies and
banks such revenues as may be spared temporarily has been con-
tinued during the past year, and interest on these deposits has
amounted to $3,813.38. The income during the year for current ex-
penses, consisting of interest on permanent investments and other
miscellaneous sources, amounted to $65,392.21. Revenues and princi-
pal of funds for specific purposes, except the Freer bequest, amounted
to $320,977.75. Revenues on account of Freer bequest amounted to
$249,737.84; amount received from sale of stocks and bonds, $1,152,-
735.58 ; ee a total of $1,788,843.38.

The disbursements, described more fully in the annual conan of
the executive committee, were classed as follows: General objects of
the Institution, $57,518.69; for specific purposes (except the Freer
bequest), $305,220.90; and investments and expenditures pertaining
to Charles L. Freer bequest, $1,358,165.70. The total of balances on
hand June 30, 1927, from all funds and mainly bearing interest on
deposit, was $202,827.49.

The following appropriations were made by Congress for the
Government bureaus under the administrative charge of the Smith-
sonian Institution for the fiscal year 1927:

International Hixchane gece 2 ek ed eae $46, 260
American) Hthn 010 Siy= rh eas 2 a 57, 160
International Catalogue of Scientific Literature__.___.______________ 7, 500
Astrophysical Observatory ..2.22 3-24-5225 ss ye oe 31, 180
Additional ‘assistant Secnetanyes 2) se Pks ae eee ae oe 6, 000
National Museum:
I vbigen DD geMen ate RED. oN nie toal ikierc wk we Sn aeMe tar aie EY ace ooo 2 $23, 730
Heating and? 11s inten eee See see SS aes ee tenn eae 78, 140
Preservation of }collections22. 2.205 8) trot ait e ae 450, 000
ASA OU Tb ovear yy oY Uh sfc eens neg MaDe OB ame Marea WRLey Pe TEER 12, 000
BQOKS ee NN I ai Sean a aon oe ae eg 1, 500
Postage oa Seo ak ee ere 8 ea 450
565, 820
Nwtional (Galles yo ier n iste ae oe a ea ee 29, 381
National’ Zio} OT Gene aires oe ata TTI Oe a ep 178, 199
Printing ‘and! binding Bele eet hihi = ee pee ae ee Cad ee eee 90, 000
pb 1 Maes AM el nome Mate Eth RaW a rah 1, 006, 500

1The sinking fund has been discontinued and each fund credited with its portion of
same.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 7
EXPLORATIONS AND FIELD WORK

More than 30 field expeditions, in which the Smithsonian Institu-
tion took a leading part, went out during the past year. The record
is doubly interesting, in view of the fact that almost no unrestricted
funds for field work were available, each expedition being separately
financed either by the generosity of some friend of the Institution or
through a cooperative arrangement with some other organization
whereby the costs and collections were shared. Such a program of
field work is of necessity more or less haphazard, since each oppor-
tunity presented must be grasped whether or not it fulfills the exact
objects most valuable to the Institution. The more desirable method,
obviously, and the one that would be followed if the Institution had
complete financial independence, would be to map out in advance the
essential expeditions in accordance with a definite plan.

The year’s field work covered such widespread territory that an
enumeration of the countries visited will be of interest. Abroad,
Smithsonian expeditions worked in South West Afrita, East Africa,
Sumatra, China, Alaska, Canada, Mexico, Guatemala, Costa Rica,
Panama, Ecuador, Peru, Chile, Facdaien Haiti, England, France, and
Germany. In the ee hots California, eee and Monts
led with three expeditions each; Washington and Louisiana followed
with two each; and Montana, Eee, New Mexico, Mississippi,
New York, and New Jersey were visited by one expedition each.

Brief extracts from accounts of only a few of the expeditions will
be given here to indicate the nature of the work and its preliminary
results. Accounts of other field work will be found in the reports
on certain of the bureaus under administrative charge of the Insti-
tution, appended hereto, namely, the National Museum, the Bureau
of American Ethnology, and the Astrophysical Observatory. The
Institution also publishes each year an exploration pamphlet, giving
an illustrated summary of them.

SMITHSONIAN-CHRYSLER EXPEDITION TO AFRICA

The outstanding expedition of the year in point of popular in-
terest was the Smithsonian-Chrysler Expedition to Africa to collect
live wild animals for the National Zoological Park, under Smith-
sonian direction. The expedition was financed by Mr. Walter P.
Chrysler, automobile manufacturer, and headed by Dr. W. M. Mann,
director of the National Zoological Park; the other members were
Mr. Stephen Haweis, artist and naturalist; Mr. F. G. Carnochan,
of New York; and Mr. Arthur Loveridge, of the Museum of Com-
parative Zoology at Cambridge. Mr. Charles Charlton was sent by
the Pathé Review to make a motion-picture record of the expedition.
8 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1927

Leaving New York March 20, 1926, the party arrived in Dar-es-
Salaam, Tanganyika Territory, East Africa, on May 5. A license
to collect was received from the governor of the Territory and
headquarters were established at Dodoma, 250 miles inland.

Collecting was successfully carried on for some months at various
localities in the Territory, the animals being sent back to Dodoma
to be held there until the close of the work. One of the cliief de-
siderata was a young rhinoceros, and although adult specimens were
numerous, no young were seen. In the Ja-aida swamp country,
where Doctor Mann went on the search for these animals, the hunt
proved rather exciting. Doctor Mann says:

Altogether we saw 22 rhinos. Our safari was charged once while on the
march, and four times at night rhinos charged through our camp. But in
all of these we failed to locate a single young specimen. Five different
times we crawled into the scrub 30 or 40 feet from a rhino to see if it had
young and were disappointed each time. One locates these rhinos, by the way,
through the tick birds, which make a loud twittering at the approach of any
suspicious object “to the rhino on which they are clustered for the purpose
of eating the ticks which are so abundant on its body. Theoretically they
serve a useful purpose to the rhino by warning him of his enemies. Actually
we found they were useful in leading us to where the rhino were lying, for
we were attracted by the birds to each of the rhinos that we found.

The night charges are simply the result of the stupidity of the rhino. We
eamped usually in the vicinity of water holes, and when the nearsighted
beast came to water late at night or early in the morning he would suddenly
notice that there were fires and natives dbout. Whereupon he would put his
head down and charge through in a Straight line. On these occasions the
natives have a frantie desire to get into the tents to be near the white men
and the guns; the white men, on the other hand, have a frantic desire to get
out of their tents, and the result is a collision at the entrance. Two rhinos
came into our camp the same night.

At Tula, where the expedition next camped in the hope particu-
larly of securing giraffes, animals were abundant.

Two native sultans, Chanzi and Chaduma, joined forces with us for a week,
bringing with them about 500 natives. With the help of these we had the most
successful trip of the expedition. Some of the boys from a mountain near by
had had some experience in netting game. They make a coarse seine of native
rope in sections about 5 feet high and 15 feet long. These were placed in
a row, until they made about 1,000 feet of native fence, one boy hiding behind
each section. The two lots of natives would double over their ends and join
in a circle about a mile in circumference, then closing in toward the net.
The object was to drive animals into the net, but nine times out of ten
they would break through the line. Occasionaily, however, they came straight
on. One day a herd of over 50 impalla was surrounded. This is the most
graceful antelope in Africa and a great leaper. Most of them sailed right
over the net, but five fell short and we got them all. Fortune was with us
as far as impalla were concerned, for it is one of the most delicate animals
to handle, and yet all of ours reached Boston alive and in good condition.

Wart hogs were captured in the same way, and a troop of four were added
to the collection.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 9

Giraffes, however, proved to be very difficult to capture. A young
one was finally separated from the herd and caught, but unfortunately
died from pneumonia soon after. A pair was later obtained, how-
ever, from the Sudan Government. The expedition embarked from
Dar-es-Salaam with about 1,700 live animals, nearly all of which
were safely transported over the long journey to Washington.

This is by far the largest single collection ever brought to the
National Zoological Park, and greatly increases the value and popular
interest of the park’s animal exhibits.

COLLECTING MICROFOSSILS IN EUROPE

Dr. R. 8. Bassler, curator of paleontology in the National Museum,
spent August and September, 1926, in collecting microfossils in
France and Germany and in studying the geology of various classic
localities in those countries. Microfossils have proved to be of the
greatest value in the determination of underground geological struc-
ture, particularly in connection with the location of oil. The National
Museum collections are rich in fossil micro-organisms from the Ameri-
can Mesozoic and Cenozoic rocks, but descriptions of many of these
have never been published because their relationship to European
species was not clear. To obtain the needed European material for
comparison was the primary purpose of Doctor Bassler’s expedition.

The first two weeks were spent in company with Dr. Ferdinand
Canu, of Versailles, the most eminent student of microfossils on the
Continent, who has been the joint author with Doctor Bassler of
several large publications on the American fossil bryozoa. At this
time Doctor Canu presented to the Museum his entire collection of
I’rench Cenozoic and Mesozoic fossils, containing at least a hundred
thousand specimens fully labeled as to horizon and locality.

Doctor Bassler proceeded to the Rhine Valley, where he studied in
succession the broad plain around Strassburg, the valley to Mainz,
and the valley of the Main River from Mainz to Frankfort. In the
Rhine gorge a first-hand knowledge was obtained of the Devonian
stratigraphy of this classic area and important collections of De-
vonian fossils were secured.

Various regions in Germany were studied with profit both in the
amount of good study material secured and in the information re-
garding stratigraphic relationships. The classic Mesozoic region
north of the Hartz Mountains was visited in company with Mr.
Ehrhard Voigt, an enthusiastic student of microfossils at Dessau,
Germany. Mr. Voigt also accompanied Doctor Bassler to other
regions celebrated in German stratigraphy, particularly the potash
areas around Stassfurt, the drift region around Dessau, and other
regions to the north, and finally to the island of Riigen on the Baltic.
10 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1927

At the town of Sassnitz on Riigen were located the “ Kreideschlem-
merei” or chalk-washing establishments. An important industry has
been developed around the use of chalk for various whitening pur-
poses, but the chalk must be pure and free from fossils and flint
fragments. ‘To accomplish this, the chalk is passed through the
washers and all the fine and coarse débris is sieved out and thrown
aside, leaving the water with its dissolved material to settle. In
the pile of débris resulting from such washing many fossils have
been discovered in this area. Not only were many excellent echinoids,
brachiopods, and other large fossils picked up in the dump heap
but literally billions of microfossils were obtained simply by shovel-
ing up several boxes of the fine débris.

MINERAL COLLECTING IN MEXICO

In collaboration with the Mineralogical Museum of Harvard Uni-
versity, Dr. . W. Foshag, of the National Museum, conducted field
work in that part of the plateau of northern Mexico within the
States of Chihuahua, Coahuila, and Durango, for the purpose of
collecting representative minerals from that region. Mexico is very
rich in minerals, producing, for instance, over 40 per cent of the
world’s silver, yet but few mineralogical collections have been made
there. Doctor Foshag was in the field nearly five months, and over
two tons of material was collected and shipped back to Washington.
Cordial cooperation was given by Mexican Government officials and
by American mining engineers in charge of the mines visited.

Some of the interesting features of the trip are described in the
following extracts from Doctor Foshag’s preliminary account:

Sierra Mojada, one of the districts visited, owes its discovery to a band
of smugglers attempting to elude pursuit. The ore bodies extend for a
distance of 6 kilometers along the foot of a limestone cliff 2,500 feet high.
The district is unusual in that lead, zinc, silver, copper, and sulphur have
all been mined here. The great length but shallow depth of these mines
makes it more economical to work them by the old Spanish methods than
by modern ones. Much of the ore is brought to the surface on the backs
of peons, often up ladders made of notched logs, popularly called “ chicken
ladders.” I1t is said that a strong peon will carry loads in excess of 100 kilos
(220 pounds.)

In the northeastern part of the State of Durango, near the village of Mapimi,
is the Ojuela mine—one of the greatest lead mines of the world. Within
this one mine are over 550 miles of tunnels driven to extract the ore. The
camp itself is perched on a steep limestone mountain. Before the town, rises
an almost vertical cliff of Cretaceous limestone 2,000 to 3,000 feet high. It
is in the hills lying at the-base of this cliff that the ore bodies lie.

EXPLORING FOR FERNS IN JAMAICA

Dr. William R. Maxon, associate curator of plants, United States
National Museum, spent June and July, 1926, in botanical collecting
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY a

in the Blue Mountain region of Jamaica. This expedition, made
possible through the cooperation of the American Association for
the Advancement of Science, the New York Botanical Garden, and
the United Fruit Co., had for its specific object the collecting of
material needed in the preparation of an account of the ferns of
Jamaica. The importance of this study is thus explained by Doctor
Maxon:

The ferns of Jamaica were among the first to be described from the New
World, but in many instances the names originally given them came later to
be applied loosely to related but distinet kinds from other regions, with much
resulting confusion. To afford a proper basis for studying the diverse fern
floras of tropical America as a whole, it thus becomes of prime importance
to know thoroughly that of Jamaica, an end that can be attained, naturally,
only with the aid of adequate material.

Of the 500 species of ferns and fern allies described or known from Jamaica,
nearly all are found in recent large collections brought to American herbaria
from that island; yet there are a few collected by Sir Hans Sloane in the
latter part of the seventeenth century, and by Swartz about a hundred years
later, that still are known only from the original specimens preserved in
Huropean museums. Present field work is concerned therefore in the re-
discovery of these “lost” species and of other very rare ones described
more recently, but equally also in the discovery of new kinds, and in assembling
data as to the distribution, characteristic habitats, habits of growth, and
interrelationship of those other species that are comparatively well known.

In all, some 15,000 specimens were collected, which will be of the

greatest assistance in the preparation of the proposed monograph
of the ferns of Jamaica.

ARCHEOLOGICAL WORK IN CHINA

An archeological survey of the Féng River Valley, southern
Shansi, China, was carried out in the early part of 1926 by Dr.
Chi Li, of the Freer Gallery of Art Expedition to China. Carrying
letters of introduction to the governor of Shansi and other influ-
ential officials, and accompanied by Mr. P. L. Yiian, of the Geological
Survey of China, Dr. Chi Li began his trip at T’ai-yiian.

Ancient temples, embellished with iron and stone images, tombs
of emperors whose deeds are lost in the haze of tradition, and
mounds of prehistoric potteries were found, all of which promise a
rich field to the archeologist. An excerpt from Doctor Li’s report
gives something of the fascinating interest of the exploration.

On the 19th we set out to visit the supposed tomb of the Emperor Shun, and
on the way stopped at certain temples in Yiin-ch’éng. In Shansi-t’ung-chih, it
is recorded that the stone pillars of these temples were formerly the palace
Pillars of Wei Hui-wang (3835-370 A. D.), recovered from the ruined city

south of An-i Hsien. Some of them are now used as the entrance pillars in
Ch’én-huang Miao and Hou-t’u Miao, and those of Ch’én-huang Miao certainly
12 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1927

show peculiar features which are worth recording. Two pillars, hexagonal in
section and carved with dragons coiled around them, are found at the entrance.
The left one is especially interesting, because in the claws of the dragon are
grasped two human heads with perfect Grecian features—curly hair, aquiline
and finely chiseled nose, small mouth, and receding cheeks. One head with the
tongue sticking out is held at the mouth of the dragon, while the other is heid
in the talons of one hind leg. It is an unusually fine piece of sculpture in lime-
stone, wonderfully spaced and with the most graceful lines. The right one is
inferior in its workmanship; evidently the two were not executed by the same
hand. I saw 28 of this kind of pillar in the succeeding two days, but most of
them were crude imitations. It is possible, however, that some are of the
ancient type and were made earlier than others. The whole subject is well
worth more detailed study.

ANTHROPOLOGICAL SURVEY OF ALASKA

A reconnaissance of anthropological and archeological matters in
Alaska was undertaken during the spring and summer of 1926 by
Dr. Ale’ Hrdlitka, curator of physical anthropology in the Nationa]
Museum, under the auspices of the Bureau of American Ethnology.
An archeological reconnaissance of Alaska presents many difficulties.
Although Alaska is as large as one-third of the United States, it has
less than 200 miles of good roads; the interior is practicaily impass-
able except for short stretches during the brief summer; and trans-
portation by boat is very hard to obtain and very expensive. ‘The
people of Alaska, however, were found to be most helpful and gener-
ous, and with their help Doctor Hrdlitka was able to overcome many
of the difficulties encountered. When the Bering Sea was reached, he
was fortunate enough to find the revenue cutter Bear willing to help,
and on it he was enabled to inspect the sites of archeological interest
along the Seward Peninsula, the Kotzebue Sound, and through the
Arctic Sea up to Barrow.

The journey led from Vancouver to Juneau, thence to Seward,
Anchorage, Eklutney, Nenana, and Tanandé. From here the route
ied inland from the junction of the Tanana to the mouth of the
Yukon, concluding with the voyage in Bering Sea. _ -

Doctor Hrdlicka collected many artifacts of metal, bone, and ivory,
examined skeletal remains in many old burial places, examined the
differentiation between Eskimo and Indian in physical and cultural
characters, and observed the conditions governing the possibilities
of the Mongoloid migrations through Bering Sea, which are sup-
posed to have populated the Americas. He was convinced that such
migrations were so easy as to have been indeed inevitable, and that
the Eskimo and Indian races trace from a common Mongoloid stem,
having its American dispersal from the Alaskan peninsula. The
ancient Alaskan artifacts discovered point to a high grade of native
art, almost on a par with the high cultures of Mexico, Yucatan, and
Peru.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 13
CONFERENCE ON THE FUTURE OF THE INSTITUTION

An outstanding event in the history of the Institution was the
conference held at the Smithsonian on February 11, 1927, to advise
with reference to the future policy and field of service of the Insti-
tution. The President, the Vice President, members of the Cabinet,
and a group of the foremost American scientists and industrial lead-
ers met under the chairmanship of Chief Justice Wiliam Howard
Taft to hear addresses on the past record and present great possi-
bilities of the Institution, to inspect a specially arranged exhibit in
the main hall of the Smithsonian Building, showing the nature and
scope of the researches and publications at present under way, and
to discuss informally the most promising directions for the future
work of the Smithsonian.

The chancellor, Chief Justice Taft, in opening the conference, re-
viewed briefiy the history of the Institution from 1826, the date of
the making of Smithson’s will, emphasizing the basic soundness of
the charter provided by Congress after eight years of deliberation.
But this charter alone did not make the Smithsonian the leader of
American science in its early years and a world-renowned agency
for the increase and diffusion of knowledge to the present day. The
plan of organization outlined and put into effect by the first secre-
tary, Joseph Henry, did that. His plan has proved to be so wise
and fruitful of great results that it has never been found necessary
to alter it materially. Mr. Taft also emphasized the fact that the
Smithsonian Institution is not and has never been properly con-
sidered a Government Bureau, this popular misconception having
arisen from the fact that the Institution still administers for the
Government seven of the public bureaus, which arose from its early
activities. Mr. Taft concluded his address thus:

Joseph Henry had the vision to understand clearly what Smithson meant his
foundation to be, and the energy and character to make it that. The Smith-
sonian has now come to a time when, without the support of the Nation, it
can no longer continue to be what Henry made it. And yet the need for just
such an Institution as it has been is no less than the need was 80 years ago.
In some respects the unique opportunities are even greater. This Institution
is not the product of a moment; 80 years of the toil of great men have gone
into its making. There is that about it which can not be replaced.

The regents have felt it their duty to reveal to a leading group of representa-
tive American citizens what it is and does, and to advise with them what its
future shall be. For that reason they have invited you here. They wish you
to see the broad and comprehensive scope of the Institution, competing or
interfering with nobody, cooperating with all, reaching the basic problems of
mankind and of the time, with a view to furnishing the information through
which alone they can be solved. They wish you to see what the future possi-

bilities of the Institution are, and if you think them worthy of realization, to
advise us as to how we may go about achieving it.
14 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1927

Following the chancellor’s address, Doctor Abbot, as acting secre-
tary, spoke on “The Smithsonian Institution—Its Activities and
Capacities.” Reviewing the origin and growth of the Government
bureaus which by direction of Congress remain under Smithsonian
direction, he showed how they arose from private Smithsonian initia-
tive, and continued at private Smithsonian cost until they became
large public necessities. The activities of the Institution, past and
present, were brought together under 13 heads, as follows:

1. It carries on original scientific investigations with its own staff.

2. The Institution subsidizes other researches by men not directly
connected with the Institution.

3. It publishes new knowledge, gained by its own and outside
workers, in the form of large memoirs and smaller original papers,
which it distributes free to 1,500 libraries and learned bodies in every
country of the world. :

4. The Smithsonian evolved the International Exchange Service
and is now the official channel for the exchange of scientific intelli-
gence between the United States and the world.

5. For over half a century the Institution has been building up in
the Library of Congress the foremost scientific library in this coun-
try, now totaling nearly 700,000 volumes.

6. It fosters the scientific development of schools, museums, and
institutions through its free distribution of scientific literature, by
the loan of research men, by the gift of over a million specimens, by
the distribution of instruments, and by its advice.

7. The Institution cooperates with every department of our
Government.

8. It answers by mail an average of 8,000 questions a year on
scientific subjects.

9. It gives occasional lectures and courses of lectures and radio
talks.

10. It fosters research by conferring medals of honor on eminent
discoverers.

11. It procures foreign diplomatic and learned recognition and
assistance to expeditions going abroad.

12. It fosters American scientific progress by providing headquar-
ters for the American Association for the Advancement of Science
and the American Association of Museums.

13. It administers seven governmental bureaus in addition to the
Freer Gallery.

The acting secretary next presented in some detail the wonderful
opportunities ahead of the Institution in many lines of scientific
research, using as a concrete example his own field of investiga-
tion, namely, astrophysics. He stated that there was a vast deal
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 4 63)

not yet known about the rays of the sun, which support all life,
make all weather, and directly or indirectly supply all power.
Knowledge of four things about the sun is particularly needed at the
present time:

1. Which rays are best for human health and growth, and at what intensity?
How do these intensities change by day, by year, by altitude, and by latitude?
Physicians come to the Smithsonian now for information on the influence of
sun rays on child health. We can not give them the answer, nor can anyone
else, because the investigations have not been made.

2. What rays and in what intensity promote growth and reproduction in
the great food and otherwise commercially valuable plants? Are useful
modifications of these plants possible by the regulation of radiation? How
do plants use solar energy to make chemical energy, and can we improve
upon their processes and accomplish photosynthesis directly?

8. Can solar rays advantageously be used directly for power?

4, Can studies of solar variation foretell good and bad weather conditions?

The Smithsonian is particularly fitted through its lohg experience
and trained personnel to attack fundamental problems, and is only
restrained from doing so by lack of funds. Examples might be
cited for nearly every branch of science.

The acting secretary concluded his address by calling attention to
the fact that private endowment is essential for a continuous pro-
gram of pure science research, and to the unique strategical position
of the Institution for the most effective increase and diffusion of
knowledge.

After an address by Frederic A. Delano, Regent of the Institution,
emphasizing the great opportunity before the Smithsonian of becom-
ing the motivating head of all governmental, quasi governmental, and
private research work in the field of pure science, and an introduction
to the special exhibits by Assistant Secretary Alexander Wetmore,
the conference viewed the exhibits grouped around the main hall.
These dealt with the present work of the Institution in anthropology,
geology and paleontology, biology, and astrophysics, and also illus-
trated its activities in the diffusion of knowledge through its publica-
tions, its scientific library, its International Exchange Service, and
the International Catalogue of Scientific Literature.

After a luncheon for the conferees, which was attended by the
President of the United States, an informal discussion was held on
the main purpose of the conference, “to advise with reference to the
future policy and field of service of the Smithsonian Institution.”
The chancellor, Mr. Chief Justice Taft, as chairman, turned the direc-
tion of the discussion over to Mr. Dwight W. Morrow, regent of the
Institution, who in turn called upon a few of the distinguished guests
to comment upon the past or the present or the future of the Institu-
tion. The speakers included Dr. John C. Merriam, president of the
Carnegie Institution of Washington; Dr. William Henry Welch,
16 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1927

director emeritus of the School of Hygiene and Public Health of
Johns Hopkins University; Dr. S. W. Stratton, president of the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology; Dr. Simon Flexner, director
of the Rockefeller Institute for Medical Research; Dr. W. W. Camp-
bell, president of the University of California; Dr. Henry Fairfield
Osborn, president of the American Museum of Natural History; Dr.
George EK. Vincent, president of the Rockefeller Foundation; Mr.
Chauncey J. Hamlin, president of the American Association of Mu-
seums; Gen. H. M. Lord, Director of the Bureau of the Budget; and
Senator Reed Smoot.

The very definite concensus of opinion was apparent from the dis-
cussion that the Smithsonian Institution has a most important place
to fill in future as the inspirer and coordinator of research in pure
science as it had been in the past, and that both governmental and
private support should unite in making available more adequate
means to enable it to carry on that worthy mission. Chairman Mor-
row, in closing the discussion, said in part:

I have been deeply impressed with this meeting. I, like Doctor Wexner,
have learned much about the Smithsonian to-day. It is a great honor to be
associated in any way with such an institution. It is a great honor to those
of us on the Board of Regents to have so many distinguished men respond to
Gur invitation to advise with us with reference to the future policy and field
of service of an institution which has had so honorable a past. We are
particularly grateful to those of you who have taken part in the discussion.

In the course of the conference there has been some discussion of the funds
available to the Smithsonian from the Government for those bureaus which
are administered by the Smithsonian and those funds available from the
original endowment of the Smithsonian. I am sure that General Lord is
correct when he tells us that there has been a greater percentage of increase
in the Government appropriations for the bureaus administered by the Smith-
sonian than for the other Government bureaus. We must all remember,
however, the point that Doctor Merriam brought out when he referred very
beautifully to the work designed to be done by the original Smithsonian
Foundation as the “holy of holies.” This “holy of holies” remains pretty
much as it was when John Quincy Adams induced Congress to grant the
charter which makes the work of James Smithson go on. * * *

Now, when one thinks of the splendid history of the Smithsonian Institution,
when we think of what devoted men have been doing and are doing upon
inadequate salaries, it seems to me that the only way to resolve this dispute
as to whether the Smithsonian Institution should be supported by the Gov-
ernment or supported by private benefactions is to get the Government and the
private benefactors into such a state of mind that they will vie with each
other, the benefactors insisting that they should do it all and the Government
insisting that they should do it all.

And in saying good-bye to you, I should like to leave a text in your mind.
* * * You will find the text in one of the earlier chapters of Deuteronomy.
It reads like this:

“Thou shalt not muzzle the ox when he treadeth out the corn.”

That was a practical injunction to a practical people. The ox, who was
doing a real work, should not be muzzled. I offer no apology to the devoted
*

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY | 17

men who have been rendering this Institution service in comparing them to the
cx. The ox has a very ancient and a very honorable lineage. If the historians
are correct, the ox, as a bearer of burdens, goes back much further than the
horse. The ox is perhaps the most ancient burden bearer for mankind. And
the devoted men that have been running this institution, what have they been
doing? They, too, have been bearing the burdens of mankind, the burdens of
the future generations of men.
“Thou shalt not muzzle the ox when he treadeth out the corn.”

AWARD OF LANGLEY MEDAL TO COL. CHARLES A. LINDBERGH

The Langley medal of the Smithsonian Institution has been awarded
only four times since its establishment. The first three awards were
to Wilbur and Orville Wright, to Glenn H. Curtiss, and to Gustave
Eiffel, and on June 11, 1927, the fourth award was made, this time to
Col. Charles A. Lindbergh for his magnificent nonstop flight from
New York to Paris. It thus continues to be characteristically a
medal for pioneers in aeronautics. The award was voted to Colonel
Lindbergh by the Board of Regents upon the recommendation of a
committee of leading aeronautical authorities, and the official notifi-
cation was made to him in person by the acting secretary at the
National Press Club reception in the Washington Auditorium. He
said:

The Smithsonian Institution knows how to appreciate the pioneering work
of brave men. You will recall, as a single example, our honored one-armed
hero, Major Powell, who dared for science the first passage of the uncharted
raging waters of the Grand Canyon of the Colorado, strapped in his boat.
We are not less stirred to admiration by your own daring in the first nonstop
flight from New York to Paris over the boisterous Atlantic through icy clouds
that threatened death.

Nor is the Institution failing to appreciate, sir, the precious results in the
encouragement of aviation, in the strengthening of ties of international friend-
ship, and in the progress of science, which have already begun to flow from your
achievement.

The Smithsonian has in its gift a medal which commemorates the name
of Samuel Pierpont Langley, the third secretary of this Institution. He had
the audacity to believe in the practicability of the art of flying when all men
were ridiculing it; and he adventured his own high reputation as a man of
science to laY the groundwork of exact experiments, and to make pioneering
flights of large models, which demonstrated the soundness of his faith. The
Langley medal has hitherto been presented to Wilbur and Orville Wright, to
Glenn H. Curtiss, and to Gustave Hiffel. Thus it is from all points of view the
medal of pioneers. It is highly fitting that it should now be awarded to you,
sir, the pioneer of audacious, solitary flight to distant shores.

Therefore, acting on the unanimous recommendation of an eminent com-
mittee of award, the regents of the Smithsonian Institution have voted to you
the Langley medal, and have recorded their action in this paper signed by the
chancellor, Mr. Chief Justice Taft, which I now present to you.

The actual medal, in gold, is being struck in Paris. I hope that when it is
received you may do the Institution the honor to appear on some suitable
occasion and receive it in person.
18 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1927

ANNOUNCEMENT OF AWARD BY THE BOARD OF REGENTS

JUNE 4, 1927.

The Langley medal of the Smithsonian Institution was established by the
Board of Regents in 1908 as a tribute to the memory of the late Secretary
Samuel Pierpont Langley and his contributions to the science of aerodromics.

This medal has been awarded—

To Wilbur and Orville Wright on February 10, 1909, “for advancing the
science of aerodromics in its application to aviation by their successful inves-
tigations and demonstrations of the practicability of mechanical flight by man”;

To Glenn H. Curtiss on February 13, 1918, “for advancing the art of aero-
dromics by his successful development of a hydroaerodrome whereby the safety
of the aviator has been greatly enhanced”;

To Gustave Hiffel, of Paris, on February 13, 1913, “for advancing the science
of aerodromics by his researches relating to the resistance of the air in con-
nection with aviation.”

Believing that the achievements of Capt. Charles A. Lindbergh entitled him
to consideration as a recipient of this medal, the acting secretary of the Insti-
tution appointed a committee, which has made the following report:

THE JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY,
Baltimore, Md., June 3, 1927.
The BoarD OF REGENTS, SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,
Washington, D. C.

GENTLEMEN: The committee designated by the Acting Secretary of the
Smithsonian Institution, consisting of Dr. Joseph S. Ames, chairman; Admiral
D. W. Taylor, Dr. S. W. Stratton, and Admiral H. I. Cone, to consider the
award of the Langley medal at this time has unanimously voted that Capt.
Charles A. Lindbergh, for his magnificent nonstop flight from New York to
Paris, is justly entitled to receive this medal, and recommends that it be
awarded to him by the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution.

Very truly yours,
(Signed) JosePpH S. AmEs, Chairman.

The Board of Regents has approved the above recommendation of the com-
mittee, and I take pleasure in announcing that the Langley medal of the
Smithsonian Institution is hereby awarded to Capt. Charles A. Lindbergh for his
flight from New York to Paris, made on May 20 and 21, 1927.

Wo. H. Tart,
Chancellor, Smithsonian Institution.
By the Chancellor:
C. G. Assot, Acting Secretary. °

SMITHSONIAN RADIO TALKS

The series of Smithsonian radio talks over station WRC of the
Radio Corporation of America, begun in 1923, continued during
the year with undiminished popularity. As in previous years, the
program was under the direction of Mr. Austin H. Clark. This is
obviously an effective method of diffusing knowledge of scientific
matters, one of the primary functions of the Institution. An increas-
ing number of the talks have been published as magazine or news-
paper articles, thus insuring their permanent preservation. Because
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 19

of the increasing demands on the time of station WRC, it became
necessary to include the talks on the National Zoological Park, given
last year as a distinct series, in the regular series of Smithsonian
talks. During the Smithsonian-Chrysler Expedition to Africa, under
the direction of Dr. W. M. Mann, letters from Doctor Mann were
read over WRC to keep the public informed of the progress of the
expedition. Twenty-nine talks were presented between November
24, 1926, and June 29, 1927, as follows:

November 24, 1926: Bringing Home Living Animals from Africa. Dr. William
M. Mann, Director, National Zoological Park.

December 1, 1926: Early American Animals—Hlephants and Others. Dr.
James W. Gidley, National Museum.

December 8, 1926: Shooting Stars. Dr. Willard J. Fisher, Harvard College
Observatory (read by Mr. Austin H. Clark).

December 15, 1926: An Observatory Among the Hottentots. Dr. Charles G.
Abbot, assistant secretary, Smithsonian Institution.

December 22, 1926: The Invasion of the Snowy Owl. Dr. Alexander Wetmore,
assistant secretary, Smithsonian Institution.

January 5, 1927: Natural History in Louisiana. Mr. Percy Vicscea, jr., State
biologist of Louisiana.

January 19, 1927: Dialogue between Miss Sarah W. Clark and Dr. William
M. Mann on the subject of his experiences in Africa.

January 26, 1927: The Antarctic Continent. Prof. Sir Douglas Mawson, the
University, Adelaide, South Australia.

February 2, 1927: Some African Reptiles. Miss Doris M. Cochran, Na-
tional Museum.

February 9, 1927: White Ants or Termites. Dr. Thomas E. Snyder, Bureau
of Entomology.

February 23, 1927: The Romance of the Lighthouse Service. Mr. John S.
Conway, Deputy Commissioner of Lighthouses.

Mareh 2, 1927: Oyster Farming. Mr. Herbert F. Prytherch, Bureau of
Fisheries.

March 7, 1927: American Wild Horses. Dr. James W. Gidley, National
Museum.

March 16, 1927: Fishery Products in the Arts and Industries. Mr. Lewis
Radcliff, Deputy Commissioner of Fisheries.

March 21, 1927: Beetles; what they are and what they do. Dr. Edward A.
Chapin, Bureau of Entomology.

March 28, 1927: Watchmakers as Inventors. Mr. Carl W. Mitman, National
Museum.

April 6, 1927: The Study of the Sun. Mr. F. E. Fowle, Astrophysical
Observatory.

April 18, 1927: The Sea. Mr. Austin H. Clark, Smithsonian Institution.

April 20, 1927: Frogs and Toads. Miss Doris M. Cochran, National Museum.

April 27, 1927: The Honey Bee. Mr. James I. Hambleton, Bureau of
Entomology.

May 4, 1927: Mice. Mr. Arthur J. Poole, National Museum.

May 11, 1927: Fossil Footprints in the Grand Canyon. Mr. Charles W.
Gilmore, National Museum.

May 18, 1827: Who owns Potomac Park? Dr. George P. Merrill, National
Museum.
20 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1927

May 25, 1927: Museums. Mr. Chauncey J. Hamlin, president, American
Association of Museums.

June 1, 1927: The Black Hills of South Dakota. Dr. James W. Gidley,
National Museum.

June 8, 1927: Goldfish and Other Aquarium Creatures. Mr. Glen C. Leach,
Bureau of Fisheries.

June 15, 1927: Snakes. Mr. Charles 8S. East, National Museum.

June 22, 1927: The Gold Coast. Mr. Charles H. Knowles, director of agri-
culture, Accra, Gold Coast.

June 29, 1927: The coins of Asia. Mr. T. T. Belote, National Museum.

PUBLICATIONS

The 12 series of publications issued by the Institution and its
branches constitute a chief means of diffusing knowledge, correspond-
ence, exhibitions, and lectures supplementing. The first secretary of
the Smithsonian, Joseph Henry, said:

It is chiefly by the publications of the Institution that its fame is to be spread
through the world, and the monument most befitting the name of Smithson
erected to his memory.

These publications cover nearly every branch of science, although
anthropology, biology, geology, and astrophysics have predominated.
As most of the publications present the results of research in pure
science, the great majority are naturally technical in character. ‘Two
annual publications, however, are intended for the general reader—
the Smithsonian annual report and the Smithsonian exploration
pamphlet.

The Smithsonian annual report has from the first been enriched
with a general appendix made up of a selection of some 30 articles
reviewing in nontechnical language recent advances in all branches
_of science and interesting phases of modern research work. Many
of the articles are reprinted from journals which have little or no
circulation in this country, and would therefore otherwise probably
never be seen by American readers. The following eight titles se-
lected at random from the 30 articles in the general appendix to the
1926 report, which will appear early in the coming autumn, will
indicate the character of these papers:

Influences of sun rays on plants and animals.

Excursions on the planets.

Cold light.

The cause of earthquakes; especially those of the eastern United
States.

How beavers build their houses.

Fragrant butterflies.

Omaha bow and arrow makers.

Preventive medicine.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY pa |

Ten thousand copies are printed of the reports and they are dis-
tributed free as long as the Institution’s quota lasts. The annual
Smithsonian exploration pamphlet is a profusely illustrated account
of the field expeditions in which the institution took part during
the year. Many of the pictures are extremely interesting, forming a
first-hand record of the natural conditions and human activities in
far-off parts of the earth. The exploration pamphlet for 1926, is-
sued in April, 1927, described 35 separate expeditions, many of them
to remote regions such as South West Africa, East Africa, China,
Sumatra, Siam, and the interior of Alaska.

One hundred and eighteen volumes and pamphlets were published
during the past year by the Institution and the Government bu-
reaus under its direction. Of these there were distributed a total of
182,846 copies, which included 24,775 volumes and separates of the
Smithsonian annual reports, 18,199 volumes and separates of the
Smithsonian miscellaneous collections, 17,178 Smithsonian special
publications, 110,580 publications of the National Museum, and
10,711 publications of the Bureau of American Ethnolegy. The
titles of the individual papers are listed in the report of the editor
of the Institution.

Allotments for printing—The congressional allotments for the
printing of the Smithsonian report to Congress and the various
publications of the Government bureaus under the administration
of the Institution were practically used up at the close of the year.
The appropriation for the coming year ending June 30, 1928, tatals
$90,000, allotted as follows:

Annual report to the Congress of the Board of Regents of the Smith-

DAME ad ESTES BK 4 ee eA De ah hc ht A ea aE aha Pa 2 pes eR $10, 5080
RHETT MV SOURI Hee eet bed eo bored Joe 4 be SL aE Lhd A ENS 2 44, 000
nrc pou pAmericanr Bithimolog yes ste lts vy tetvers eth fe errs ye de ates 26, 800
MIO M An Galerva Ol VAT = tae eet ae Fe aot oa 500
Mer naebioM a lbp Gham ees | IS ee eT ee ek ee Se Sy 300
International Catalogue of Scientific Literature______________________ 160
TES ERO VaESL MALAY OS Karen CE NE) Pe i {ee OS ee Sac AE ie, Op alien Si tenia Rte i 300
ENS ICH TONS (et a CO) SEIT Ved COI Vie kes a NA ae the ee ee 500
Annual report of the American Historical Association___.__________ 7, 000

Committee on printing and publication—aAll manuscripts sub-
mitted to the Institution for publication either by members of the
staff or by outside authors are referred for consideration and recom-
mendation to the Smithsonian advisory committee on printing and
publication. The committee also considers matters of publication
policy. During the past year five meetings were held and 83 manu-
scripts were considered and acted upon. The membership of the
committee is as follows: Dr. Leonhard Stejneger, head curator of
biology, National Museum, chairman; Dr. George P. Merrill, head

74906—28-—8
22 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1927

curator of geology, National Museum; Dr. J. Walter Fewkes, chief,
Bureau of American Ethnology; Dr. William M. Mann, director,
National Zoological Park; Mr. W. P. True, editor of the Institu-
tion, secretary; Dr. Marcus Benjamin, editor of the National Mu-
seum; and Mr. Stanley Searles, editor of the Bureau of American
Ethnology.

LIBRARY

The accessions to the libraries of the Institution and its branches,
exclusive of the Bureau of American Ethnology, totaled 9,060. ‘The
outstanding gift of the year was the John Donnell Smith botanical
collection of 1,600 volumes, which will be deposited in the section of
botany of the United States National Museum. This library was
really presented to the Institution in 1905, but until last year only
a part of it had been transferred to Washington. <A catalogue of
the collection was published by the Institution in 1908.

Decided progress was made during the year on the union diction-
ary catalogue, especially in connection with the library of the Astro-
physical Observatory. This catalogue is designed eventually to
include the titles in all the divisions of the Smithsonian library.
Efforts to complete broken sets were continued with excellent results,
thousands of volumes and parts of volumes being received from the
duplicate collection in the Library of Congress and from learned
institutions and societies the world over. The aeronautical library
was made a distinct division of the Smithsonian library during the
year, and was officially designated the Langley Aeronautical Library,
in honor of Samuel Pierpont Langley, third secretary of the Smith-
sonian. Nearly 2,000 volumes were prepared for binding. Material
was lent on a semipermanent basis, as usual, to research institutions,
to aid special work. The most conspicuous loan of this nature was
made to the Johns Hopkins University. Other loans of particular
interest were made to the University of Wisconsin and the California
Academy of Sciences.

NATIONAL MUSEUM

The congressional appropriations for the support of the National
Museum totaled $609,320, an increase of $10,928 over last year. This
increase was of material assistance in the regular work, but larger
appropriations are essential to a fair realization of the Museum’s
possibilities. The amounts granted annually are so nearly used up in
necessary routine expenditures that little remains for exploration and
field work, a vital activity in the proper and balanced development
of the Museum. Many opportunities to acquire valuable and unique
specimens, which could be obtained with comparatively little expense,
are lost each year through lack of an adequate margin of funds to
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 23

cover such cases. This need is the greater since the continual
encroachment of civilization on natural features of the earth is
rapidly bringing about the extermination of many living forms and
the destruction of natural formations. Additional funds are needed
also for a larger scientific staff. Many extensive collections are now
without curators, and in many divisions there should be younger men
in training to take the places of those grown old in the service of the
Museum. Increases in compensation for the entire staff should also
be provided, as the annual efficiency surveys indicate that the
majority of the employees are entitled to increases for which at
present no funds are available.

The Museum received during the year a larger number of additions
to the collections than in any previous year, the total number of new
specimens reaching 402,531. The Museum presented to schools 3,717
specimens during the year, 31,747 duplicates were sent out in
exchange, and 25,000 specimens were loaned to specialists for study.
The year’s important accessions are listed in the report of the assistant
secretary in charge of the Museum, which forms Appendix 1 of this
report. I will mention here but a few of the most interesting
additions.

In anthropology there was received the very important collection
resulting from Mr. M. W. Stirling’s expedition to the interior of
Dutch New Guinea, containing much material previously unknown
to science. Gen. Tasker H. Bliss presented several hundred specimens
of costumes, weapons, weaving, and other native arts from the Philip-
pines. A large collection of pottery and other material resulting
from Mr. N. M. Judd’s excavations at Pueblo Bonito, N. Mex., was
presented by the National Geographic Society. Much valuable
material was added to the anthropological collections through the
work of the Bureau of American Ethnology, notably that of Dr. J.
Walter Fewkes at Eldon Pueblo in Arizona, Dr. AleS Hrdlicka in
Alaska, Mr. H. W. Krieger on the upper Columbia River, and Mr.
H. B. Collins, jr., in Louisiana and Mississippi.

The department of biology received a large number of important
collections, including Siamese mammals, birds, and other forms from
Dr. Hugh M. Smith, a large collection of crustaceans from South
America gathered by Dr. Waldo L. Schmitt, two important collections
of insects from Mr. John D. Sherman and Dr. William Schaus, and
zoological material from A. de C. Sowerby working under the
auspices of Col. R. S. Clark. Mr. B. H. Swales and Dr. C. W.
Richmond each presented valuable collections of birds containing a
number of forms new to the Museum, and Capt. R. A. Bartlett
donated over 700 specimens of marine invertebrates from Greenland.
The botanical collections were enriched by the great gift of Capt.
John Donnell Smith, already mentioned, by 11,000 Jamaican plants,
24 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1927

chiefly ferns, collected by Dr. W. R. Maxon, and 9,500 plants from
Colombia, collected by E. P. Killip and Albert C. Smith.

Of primary importance among the year’s additions to the depart-
ment of geology are the Washington A. Roebling and the Frederick
A. Canfield mineral collections, already mentioned. Exceptionally
fine specimens of minerals and ores from Mexico resulted from
Dr. W. F. Foshag’s expedition to that country. Thirty-five speci-
mens were added to the meteorite section, nine of them new to the
collection. The most important accession to the division of strati-
eraphic paleontology was the collection of 100,000 Mesozoic and
Cenozoic fossils from Europe, presented by Ferdinand Canu, of
Versailles, France. A partial skeleton of a mammoth was presented
by the Venice Co., of Venice, Fla.

The collections of the arts and industries department were in-
creased by over 14,000 specimens. ‘The division of mineral and
mechanical technology received an important exhibit illustrating
the manufacture of artificial abrasive wheels, a large collection of
Patent Office models transferred from the Department of Commerce,
and as an addition to the aircraft exhibits, the Navy seaplane NC-4.
The textile collections were increased by gifts of silks from H. R.
Mallinson & Co. (inc.), 200 hides, skins, and leather products from
the Tanners’ Council of America, and a collection of footwear used
by different peoples, assembled by the late Frank G. Carpenter and
presented by his daughter, Mrs. William Chapin Huntington. The
divisions of medicine, wood technology, and graphic arts each re-
ceived important new material, and the Loeb collection of chemical
types accessioned 175 specimens of rare chemicals. The division of
history received three fragments belonging with the original Star
Spangled Banner, and a white satin evening dress worn by Mrs.
Calvin Coolidge in the White House, for addition to the exhibit of
costumes of the wives of the Presidents.

The Museum was unusually active in exploration during the past
year, many field expeditions having gone out either by means of co-
operative arrangements with other organizations or with funds
supplied by friends of the Smithsonian. ‘These expeditions will be
found briefly described in the Museum report, Appendix 1. The
usual large number of meetings and lectures were held in the
auditorium and lecture rooms of the Museum. The exhibit of the
Smithsonian Institution at the Sesquicentennial in Philadelphia,
including that of the Museum, was shown until the close of the expo-
sition on November 30. The exhibits were very favorably received
by the public. At the conference held on February 11, 1927, in the
Smithsonian Building, the research work of the Museum was
represented by specially prepared exhibits. Visitors to all of the
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 25

Smithsonian and Museum buildings totaled 1,153,212 for the year,
an increase of 50,000 over the preceding year. ‘Ten volumes and 63
separate papers were published during the year, and 110,580 copies
of Museum publications were distributed.

NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART

Although the year has been marked by numerous features and
events of interest, the two great lines of prospective development have
remained practically dormant—these are the erection of a gallery
building and the enhancement of the collections by gift and bequest.
The meagerness of the offerings of art works is doubtless due in
large measure to the well-known fact that exhibition space in the
National Museum is entirely exhausted.

The sixth annual meeting of the National Gallery of Art Com-
mission was held at the Smithsonian Institution on December 7,
1926. After the presentation of the annual report on the gallery’s
activities by the secretary of the commission, a resolution was
adopted favoring the establishment of a national portrait gallery,
with the present collection of war portraits as a nucleus, to form a
unit of the National Gallery of Art. The commission then recom-
mended to the Board of Regents the election of Clarence C. Zantz-
inger, of Philadelphia, to fill a vacancy on the commission. The
acceptance of art works offered to the gallery during the year was
then considered.

Four special exhibitions were held in the gallery during the year,
as follows: 36 oil paintings of Venice, by Herbert Waldron Faulk-
ner; 49 oil paintings and 14 drawings in pen and pencil, by John
Ross Key; 20 portrait drawings in red chalk of members of the
Lafayette Escadrille, by John Elliott; and an architectural model
of an oriental temple, designed and executed by Charles Mason
vemey.

Purchases of paintings from the Henry Ward Ranger fund were
three in number—* Still Life,” by Frank W. Benson; “ Woodland
Nymph,” by Douglas Volk; and “ Man in White,” by Cecilia Beaux.
These were assigned to various institutions and may later be re-
claimed by the National Gallery under certain conditions.

The gallery accepted a number of loans of art works during the
year and several loaned in previous years were recalled by the
owners.

FREER GALLERY OF ART

Additions to the collection include several pieces of ancient Persian
pottery, a thirteenth century Persian painting, and a black schist
image of the Indian god Visnu. During the year 123 objects were
26 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1927

submitted for expert opinion or for translations of their inscriptions,
besides several Chinese and Japanese texts sent for translation.

The most important work in the preservation of the collection con-
sisted in reconditioning the ceiling of the Peacock Room. The
library was increased by the addition of 87 books, 28 periodicals,
and 151 pamphlets.

The total attendance for the year was 110,753. Of this number,
367 came for special study in the library and storage rooms. Over
a thousand photographs and as many gallery publications were sold
during the year. Special mention should be made of the Biblical
manuscripts in the possession of the gallery, photographs of which
can be obtained on order.

In the field the most important single undertaking was the pre-
liminary excavation, under the supervision of Dr. Chi Li, of a
prehistoric site in Shansi Province, China, from which a large
amount of valuable material was recovered. A full report of this
work is being prepared.

BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY

The bureau has continued its ethnological researches among the
American Indians and the excavation and preservation of prehis-
toric Indian structures as authorized by act of Congress. In addi-
tion it has furnished information on anthropological and archeologi-
cal subjects to an ever-increasing circle of correspondents. Dr. J.
Walter Fewkes, chief of the bureau, continued his systematic
researches at Elden Pueblo in Arizona, referred to in last year’s
report. This interesting ruin is the largest in the Flagstaff region
and is closely allied both in masonry and ceramics with the little-
known cliff ruins in northern Arizona and the open-air pueblos
near St. George, Utah. In the cemeteries east and north of the
ruin many skeletons were found, those buried the deepest being sur-
rounded with pottery antedating the glazed pottery of Arizona,
including a large number of bright-red bowls with burnished black
interiors resembling the ware of the lower Gila and California. A
large collection of this pre-Puebloan material was made and is now
in the National Museum.

In June, 1927, the chief made a short reconnoissance in the neigh-
borhood of Greenville, 8. C., which convinced him that the archeol-
ogy of the region is complex and would well repay investigation. He
selected a site for future exploration and examined several fine
collections containing objects of pottery, stone, and clay that have
never been figured or described. He obtained photographs of several
unique specimens.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 27

Dr. John R. Swanton was engaged during the past fiscal year in
the preparation of a bulletin on “The Social and Religious Usages
of the Chickasaw Indians,” and a similar paper relating to the
Choctaw. He also completed a card catalogue of the Timucua words
used in the printed works of Pareja and Morvilla.

Dr. Truman Michelson continued his researches among the Algon-
quian tribes, beginning with the Arapaho of Wyoming, where his
work brought out clearly the divergent character of their language
as compared with other Algonquian tongues. In Chicago he took
the important measurements of all the Blackfoot (Siksika) crania
preserved in the Field Museum of Natural History. These measure-
ments, combined with those of material already in the National
Museum, should permit the determination of a number of disputed
points. In Washington Doctor Michelson prepared for publication
by the bureau a paper entitled “‘ Notes on the Buffalo Dance of the
Thunder Gens of the Fox Indians” and three new Fox texts.

Mr. John P. Harrington spent the year in the Chumash region
of southern California. The Chumash Indians are rapidly taking
up the life and language of the whites, and the gathering of infor-
mation about them is urgent. Mr. Harrington made a very com-
plete linguistic study of the ethnobotany of the Chumash and exca-
vated several rancheria sites which threw new light on the mode of
life of these Indians. He also acted as assistant to Doctor Fewkes
in the excavation of Elden Pueblo and in recording phonographically
the songs of the Hopi Indians.

Mr. J. N. B. Hewitt completed early in the past year the manu-
script “ Iroquoian Cosmology, second part, with introduction and
notes.” He devoted considerable time to work upon the manuscript
report on the Indian tribes of the upper Missouri River made by
Edwin Thompson Denig to the Hon. Isaac Stevens, Governor of
Washington Territory, and in recording lexical and grammatical
material in the language of the Nez Percé Indians of the Shahap-
tian linguistic stock. Mr. Hewitt reports, as custodian of manu-
scripts, that the cataloguing of the manuscripts has been completed
and the cataloguing of the phonographic records of Indian music
begun. On May 8, 1927, Mr. Hewitt went to Brantford, Canada,
where he resumed his researches, studying intensively the rituals,
laws, customs, and chants characteristic of the League of the Iroquois.
He recorded the text and music of several chants.

Dr. F. H. H. Roberts, jr., joined the staff of the bureau November
1, 1926. His winter months were devoted to a study of the ceramics
of the San Juan area of the Southwest. In the spring Dr. Roberts
left Washington for the West, making a study of ceramic forms in
the Museum of the University of Colorado at Boulder, Colo., and
28 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19217

an investigation of certain caves near El Paso, Tex. On May 13,
1927, he left Kil Paso for Chaco Canyon, in northwestern New
Mexico, where excavation was begun on some slab houses. Between
May 17 and June 30, 12 houses, 20 storage cists, and 1 large kiva
were excavated. All of the houses were of the semisubterranean,
single-room type, rectangular or oval in shape, usually about 15 feet
long and 10 feet wide.

Miss I'rances Densmore conducted her researches on Indian music
in a wider field than in any year preceding. She spent five weeks
in Neah Bay, Wash., where more than 140 songs of the Makah
Indians were recorded. From Neah Bay she went to Chilliwack,
British Columbia, where Indians from a wide territory are annually
employed as pickers in the hop fields. More than 125 songs were
recorded. Seven manuscripts on the results of this field work were
submitted to the bureau for publication.

Dr. AleS Hrdlika, curator of physical anthropology in_ the
National Museum, during the spring and summer of 1926 made a
comprehensive anthropological and archeological survey in Alaska
under the auspices of the bureau. Im spite of many difficulties
encountered, particularly in the matter of transportation, the trip
was very successful. The scientific results of this important survey,
bearing on the antiquity of man and the archeology of the Eskimos,
are given briefiy in the report of the bureau.

Dr. Walter Hough, head curator of the department of anthro-
pology, United States National Museum, was detailed to examine
recent excavations at Indian Mound, Tenn., reported by the Hon.
Joseph W. Byrns. Excavations on the summit of the large burial
mound which gives the town its name disclosed several slab-box
burials, a number of skeletons, and a few artifacts. Dr. Hough also
visited a number of village sites, burial mounds, and flint quarries
in the vicinity and collected numerous specimens.

The bureau published during the year Bulletins 82 and 83 and a
list of the publications of the bureau. There were distributed 10,711
copies of bureau publications.

INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGES

The total resources for carrying on the exchange service during
the year were $52,507, including the congressional appropriation
of $46,260. With this sum there were handled by the service a
total of 590,879 packages of governmental, scientific, and literary
publications, including those received from correspondents in this
country for distribution abroad, and those received from foreign
countries for distribution to addresses in the United States. This
number represents an increase of 110,103 packages over last year’s
es

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 29

total, the largest yearly increase in the history of the service. ‘This
increase was due largely to the receipt from the Department of
Agriculture of hundreds of small parcels formerly sent abroad
directly by mail. ‘The total weight of all packages handled was
558,125 pounds.

In accordance with the Brussels convention of 1886, 103 sets of
United States governmental documents are now sent through the
exchange service to depositories abroad—60 full sets and 43 partial
sets. Lithuania and the State of Minas Geraes, Brazil, were added
during the year to receive partial sets. China and Egypt adhered
during the year to the exchange conventions and full sets of govern-
mental documents are now sent to those countries, the Chinese deposi-
tory being the Metropolitan Library in Peking, and the Egyptian
depository the Bureau of Publications of the Ministry of Finances.

The exchange service, in addition to the routine exchanges, makes
every effort, upon request, to assemble special series of publications
needed by its correspondents in this country and abroad. For ex-
ample, among such requests received the past year was one from
the botanical department of the Natural History Museum in Vienna
for certain American botanical publications. Through the efforts
of the service, a considerable part of the material wanted was re-
ceived by the Vienna Museum, for which the director of the botani-
cal department expressed great appreciation.

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK

The year has been a notable one for the park. The largest assem-
blage of animals ever brought to the park at one time was collected in
Africa and brought to Washington by the Smithscnian-Chrysler
Expedition; the number of visitors for the year far exceeded that of
any previous year; and work was started on a new bird house,
which has been badly needed for many years.

The Smithsonian-Chrysler Expedition, financed by Walter P.
Chrysler, succeeded in collecting during four months in Tanganyika
Territory over 1,000 live animals, birds, and reptiles, which were
safely transported to Washington and added to the park exhibits.
Dr. W. M. Mann, director of the park, headed the expedition.
Among the more striking animals brought back were two giraffes,
white-bearded gnu, impalla, reed buck, long-eared fox, greater kudu,
eland, wart hogs, leopards, hyenas, civet cats, blue monkeys, and
purple-faced monkeys, in addition to many smaller mammals, quan-
tities of birds, and numerous reptiles. Acknowledgments of valuable
assistance received by the expedition are given by Doctor Mann in
his report appended hereto.
30 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1927

Additions to the collections from all sources totaled 1,535 ani-
mals, including 104 born and hatched in the park. Among the mam-
mals born were fallow deer, Barasingha deer, European deer, sika
deer, hog deer, American bison, tahr goat, Indian antelope, guanaco,
agouti, paca, Rocky Mountain sheep, EKuropean brown bear, and
rhesus monkey. Losses by death occurred chiefly among animals
either very recently received or that had been in the collection for
a long time. At the close of the year, the collection consisted of
2,401 animals, including 5389 mammals, 1,545 birds, and 317 reptiles
and batrachians. Five hundred and ninety-two different species were
represented.

The number of visitors to the park for the year was 2,867,235, a
record figure. These included 370 schools and classes, totalling
95,000 individuals.

Improvements during the year included a new flight cage, contain-
ing two pools, for gulls, terns, and other water birds; alterations in
the lion house, bird house, and monkey house to accommodate the
animals resulting from the Smithsonian-Chrysler Expedition; the
installation of an electric pump with new and larger pipe connec-
tions for supplying warmed water to the hippo, tapir, and alligator
pools; and a service road to the site of the new bird house.

Construction was begun on the new bird house in the late spring
of 1927, and satisfactory progress was made in grading, laying foun-
dations, and brickwork during the rest of the fiscal year. It is
hoped that the bird collection may be installed in the new building
early in the spring of 1928. ‘This new bird house will form a notable
improvement to the park, and the bird collection, shown under mod-
ern hygienic conditions, will become one of the most impressive
exhibits in the park.

Although the bird house is a step in the right direction, the direc-
tor calls attention to the fact that several other new exhibition build-
ings are urgently needed. The collection of animals is one of the
finest in this country; the park itself provides probably the finest
natural surroundings for a collection of animals of any zoo in the
world; but the buildings are now entirely unsuitable and are con-
tinually unfavorably commented upon by visitors. The three build-
ings most needed are a reptile and batrachian house, a small mammal
house, and a pachyderm house. The reptile house, in particular, is
badly needed immediately ; for although reptiles form the most popu-
lar and instructive exhibit at all zoos, there is no provision whatever
at the National Zoo for their care and proper exhibition.

Attention is called by the director to the fact that nearly all zoo-
logical parks maintain restaurants and refreshment stands, profits
from which are used to purchase new animals. <A limited number of
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 31

such concessions at the National Zoo would not only provide better
service to the public but would make available funds for the purchase
of new specimens for the exhibition collection.

ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY

Work at Washington included preparations for an attempt to
improve on the results of 1923 in measuring the energy-spectra of
certain stars. Work was also begun on a new type of pyrheliometer
for the solar observations, designed to still further reduce errors.

The important work of revision of the solar radiation measure-
ments was continued vigorously during the year. The records from
the Montezuma station from 1923 to date were completely re-reduced,
giving values which may now be considered definitive. The obser-
vations from the Table Mountain station are being similarly treated,
and when completed will permit of the publication of definitive
values from that station also.

The observing station at Table Mountain, Calif., which replaces
that formerly occupied at Mount Harqua Hala, Ariz., has been in
continuous operation throughout the year. Although the number
of days on which solar observations may be made does not greatly
exceed that at Harqua Hala, the quality of those days for observing,
especially from June to September, is vastly superior. The daily
results from the Montezuma, Chile, station have been published on
the United States weather maps of the day following. They have
also been transmitted daily by telegraph to the Argentine Govern-
ment and to the publisher of a monthly meteorological bulletin con-
taining them. The station on Mount Brukkaros, South West Africa,
built and maintained for the Institution by the National Geographic
Society, began daily observations under the direction of Mr. W. H.
Hoover, director, in December, 1926. It is tco soon to decide how
favorable the atmospheric conditions at this new station will be.
For a considerable part of the time they have been first class, and
what unfavorable weather has been experienced, according to old
residents of the region, has been unusual.

Correlations of the variation in solar radiation with other results
have appeared during the year. Doctor Pettit’s observations of
ultra-violet solar radiation are closely in proportion with the changes
found in total solar radiation by the Smithsonian observers. Doctor
Austin has found a very high correlation between changes in the
solar constant and long-range radio reception.

Doctor Abbot has found a remarkable regular periodicity of
2524 months in the solar variation itself, which, with the sun-spot
cycle, accounts for almost the whole change in monthly mean solar
32 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1927

constant results from 1920 to 1927. If this periodicity continues to
show in the coming years, it may be possible to forecast at least
two years in advance the principal solar changes, and whatever may
be found to depend thereon.

INTERNATIONAL CATALOGUE OF SCIENTIFIC
LITERATURE

The United States bureau has continued to collect data for an index
to the scientific publications of this country. Although postwar con-
ditions forced the catalogue to suspend publication in 1921, every -
effort has been made by the 33 countries cooperating in the enter-
prise to keep the organization alive so that publication may be re-
sumed when financial support appears. The latest published list of
the scientific journals of the cooperating nations showed a total of
5,496 titles, and this number has since been greatly increased. ‘The
United States bureau is at present engaged in revising the list for
this country.

A moderate capital fund is all that is needed to enable this great
international undertaking to function fully again. For many years
this was the most comprehensive bibliography of science available to
students and research workers, and nothing has appeared since to
take its place.

NECROLOGY
CHARLES DOOLITTLE WALCOTT

Charles Doolittle Walcott, fourth secretary of the Smithsonian
Institution, died in Washington February 9, 1927. He had served as
secretary for 20 years, and his death is a heavy blow to the Institu-
tion at a critical time in its history, as well as a great personal loss
to his friends and associates. A detailed biographical sketch of
Dector Walcott will be published in the general appendix to the
Annual Report of the Board of Regents, so that here I shall only
very briefly outline his career.

Doctor Walcott was born at New York Mills, N. Y., March 31,
1850, and received his early education in the public schools of Utica
and the Utica Academy. He did not attend a university but received
his training in science from his own field excursions and from books
and association with geologists, His first geological work was done
in the capacity of assistant to James Hall, famous paleontologist, by
whom he was assigned to field researches in Indiana, New York,
Ohio, and Canada successively. In 1879 Professor Hall recom-
mended him to the Director of the Geological Survey, Clarence King,
and as a result he was. made an assistant geologist in the survey. His
first work was the study of geological sections from southern Utah
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 33

to the Grand Canyon in Arizona, and this was followed by successful
researches in Nevada and New England. His announced life work,
however, was in the Cambrian, and this he pursued in the intervals
of special assignments, presenting a review of his Cambrian studies
to the International Geological Congress in London iz 1888. In this
same year he was appointed paleontologist in charge of invertebrate
paleontology in the Geological Survey, and five years later geologist
in charge of geology and paleontology. In 1894 he was made director
of the survey, succeeding Maj. J. W. Powell. This position he held
until 1907, when he came to the Smithsonian as its fourth secretary,
succeeding Samuel Pierpont Langley.

During his directorship of the survey he was extremely active in
public affairs. He was instrumental in the organization of the
Forest Service, the Reclamation Service, and of the Carnegie Insti-
tution of Washington, the last of which he continued to serve
actively until his death.

As secretary of the Smithsonian, Doctor Walcott furthered its
varied activities vigorously and successfully. During his adminis-
tration the new building for the United States National Museum
was brought to completion and opened to the public, and its collec-
tions increased enormously; the Freer Gallery of Art was con-
structed and the great Freer collection installed; the National
Gallery of Art was created a distinct administrative unit under the
Institution, and plans were inaugurated to provide a suitable national
gallery building; and shortly before his death, perhaps the most
important step of his administration was taken—the launching of
a definite attempt to increase the endowment funds of the Institution.
It is greatly to be regretted that he did not live to see the successful
outcome of this project, which is expected to develop in the near
future, for Doctor Walcott had felt keenly for many years the
inadequacy of the present endowment to meet the unequaled cppor-
tunities of to-day to promote the increase and spread of knowledge.

The strenuous duties of secretary of the Smithsonian did not pre-
vent Doctor Walcott from continuing his world-renowned researches
in Cambrian geology and paleontolac gy, and during the 20 years of -
his incumbency he published five large volumes of papers on these
subjects.

Doctor Walcott received nearly all of the honors which science has
to bestow, both in this country and abroad, including many honorary
degrees, fellowships in learned societies, and research medals

As a man, Doctor Walcott earned the lasting friendship and ad-
miration of all those with whom he was closely associated through
his nobility of character, his genial, whole-hearted friendliness, and
his unswerving devotion to the ideals and purposes of the institu-
:
34 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1927

tion which he headed. Doctor Walcott was in every sense a worthy
successor to the three great secretaries who came before him—Henry,
Baird, and Langley.

WILLIAM HEALEY DALL

William Healey Dall, honorary curator of mollusks in the National
Museum since 1880, died on March 27, 1927. He was born in Boston,
August 21, 1845, and became interested in the study of shells at a
very early age. This study he cultivated at every possible oppor-
tunity, with the result that after a long and active career he was
known at the time of his death as America’s leading conchologist,
His researches were not confined to that subject, however, and he pub-
lished noteworthy contributions to paleontology, zoology, meteor-
ology, and nomenclature. He was, in fact, one of the last survivors
of the old school of “all-around ” naturalists, which has practically
disappeared in this day of ultra-specialization.

In 1865 Doctor Dall was put in charge of the scientific work of
the International Telegraph Expedition to Alaska, which resulted
in his exhaustive volume on “Alaska and its Resources,” which for
many years was the standard work on Alaska. In 1871 he joined
the United States Coast Survey and continued his studies in Alaska,
publishing an account of the meteorology of the region and a work
entitled “The Coast Pilot of Alaska.” In 1884 he was appointed a
paleontologist of the United States Geological Survey, which posi-
tion he filled until his death, holding at the same time his honorary
title in the National Museum. During this period he produced hun-
dreds of monographs and smaller papers, chiefly dealing with his
specialty, mollusks. Doctor Dall’s work was recognized internation-
ally by election to American and foreign learned societies and by
many honorary degrees.

FRANK HALL KNOWLTON

Frank Hall Knowlton, custodian of Mesozoic plants in the National
- Museum, died at his home in Ballston, Va., November 22, 1926.
Doctor Knowlton’s first association with the Institution was just after
his graduation from college, when he worked in the Smithsonian
taxidermy shop. Later he was appointed aid, and then assistant
curator, in botany, with charge of the herbarium, the modest be-
oinnings of the present great National Herbarium. At this time
he began his work on fossil plants, and in 1889 was appointed an as-
sistant paleontologist in the United States Geological Survey. He
remained with the survey until his death, at the same time retaining
his honorary position, with the National Museum.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY oD

The full list of Doctor Knowlton’s writings in paleobotany con-
tains over 125 titles, and in addition he published nearly 100 papers
in botany and ornithology. His publications have been of the great-
est value to geology and paleobotany—to the latter, especially his
catalogues of the Mesozoic and Tertiary plants of North America,
which are used by students of the later floras in all countries. Among
zoologists, Doctor Knowlton’s “ Birds of the World” is considered
his most important scientific contribution.

Respectfully submitted.

C. G. Appot, Acting Secretary.
APPENDIX 1
REPORT ON THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the con-
dition and operations of the United States National Museum for the
fiscal year ended June 30, 1927:

The total appropriations for the maintenance of the National
Museum for this period amount to $609,320, an increase of $10,928
above the appropriations for the year 1926. The additional sums
available include $8,918 under the appropriation for preservation
of collections to provide for the following: Two assistants in the
library, and one in the office of the assistant secretary in charge
of the National Museum; the purchase of additional needed sup-
plies; additional freight charges on specimens forwarded to the
Museum; and a small sum for the purchase of specimens. Under
the appropriation for furniture and fixtures an increase of $1,930
covered one minor promotion on the salary roll, and additional funds
to provide housing for new specimens in the collections. Under the
amount allotted for heating and lighting an increase of $580 added
to small sums gained by retrenchment in other expenses permitted
employment of an assistant telephone operator.

The increases that have been indicated have assisted materially in
the work of the Museum, but require considerable addition before
our organization can operate on a proper basis. Wxisting appropria-
tions are taken up so largely with the overhead of routine expendi-
tures that there is little available for exploration and field work, an
important section of our labors. Great additions to our collections
are made annually by many interested friends of the Institution, but
the Museum should have adequate funds to enable it to develop
researches in the field along logical and continuing lines. There
come to the Museum frequent reports of valuable specimens that may
be had if some one competent can go to the spot to obtain them.
Many of these finds are of such nature that they can not be success-
fully handled by inexperienced persons, as unless properly collected
they may not be worth the cost of transportation; whereas when
secured by experienced hands they are highly valuable. At the pres-
ent time much material of this kind is lost, though with comparatively
small expenditure it might be preserved. It may be emphasized that
opportunities for acquiring the rare items essential to a national
museum are annually decreasing due to the changes wrought by en-
croaching civilization on natural features everywhere on the earth’s

36
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 37

surface, with consequent extermination of living things and destruc-
tion of deposits of all kinds. Opportunities now neglected may never
offer again. The National Museum of the United States should be
in proper situation to avail itself fully of all opportunities to acquire
useful materials. .

There is need further for definite addition to the Museum staff.
At the present time a number of divisions in which there are excel-
lent collections are without curators. Proper training of assistants to
handle such collections is a matter that requires years. In a number
of our offices younger men should be now at work that they may be
fitted to carry on investigations for the care of the collections when
those now in charge have gone. Attention may be called also to the
urgent necessity for additional clerical assistance for routine work
in various offices in the four departments under which our collections
are distributed.

The matter of increased compensation for the entire staff, both
scientific and custodial, has become one of first importance. The
reclassification act of July 1, 1924, provided for increased pay at
definite rates if efficiency in the performance of duty is attained.
The annual surveys of efficiency required by law have indicated that
except in a few instances members of the staff have shown such
attention in the performance of assigned) duties as to entitle them to
increases. With no funds available, it has been impossible to make
increases on this basis without additions to the appropriations.

To look ahead to a matter not properly included in the present
report it may be stated that in the appropriation for the year 1928
the Congress allowed additional items for one rate increases for
the majority of the personnel. This step has given a measure of
relief and has had a most favorable reaction on the part of the
employees. Asa result of this readjustment of the salary roll, made
July 1, 1927, the majority of the staff in the fiscal year 1928 are
recelving one rate more than the entrance salary established by law
for the respective grades. To continue the intent of the reclassifica-
tion act, further funds for promotion should be provided until the
salaries of the various groups attain the average established for
each grade. It is earnestly urged that further additions to the
appropriations be made until this object can be attained. To do this
will provide only proper reward for the conscientious performance
of duty, while a better salary status will inevitably react favorably to
the interests of the Museum.

As a national organization the Museum has tremendous seope in
its scientific activities, as it is expected and desired that it shall
maintain collections and be in position to supply information not

74906—28—-4
38 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1927

only in many branches concerned with natural science but also in the
field of history and the manifold phases of industrial development.
In the United States to-day there is an increasing group that is
definitely interested in science and scientific matters, as is shown in a
demand for authentic scientific news on the part of the press, for
photographs of interesting scientific objects for publication, and by
the general attitude of the public. As our country grows the num-
ber of those financially independent who turn to research and in-
vestigation as an avocation or with serious desire to assist in human
knowledge steadily increases. These persons find in scientific
matters both relaxation and inspiration, recreation and_ serious
endeavor. This group now assists tremendously in the furtherance
of scientific development and will be a steadily increasing force in
that direction in the future. From their financial situation these
persons make large contributions toward Federal income in the form
of taxes, so that it would seem logical to make a small part of the
money obtained in this way available for support of the immediate
interests of the contributors in the form of increased appropriations
for the governmental bureaus under direction of the Smithsonian
Institution.
COLLECTIONS

Additions to the collections this fiscal year have been more exten-
sive than in any preceding year with the exception of 1919, as
the total number of specimens received has amounted to 402,531,
the largest additions coming in the departments of biology and geol-
ogy. Material sent for examination and report amounted to 1,371
lots including thousands of specimens. Gifts to schools and other
educational institutions came to 3,717 specimens. As exchanges with
other institutions, 31,747 specimens of duplicate materials were sent
out for which much of value was received. Approximately 25,000
specimens were loaned for study to various specialists.

Following is a digest of the more important accessions for the
year in the various departments and divisions in the Museum.

Anthropology.—A collection of specimens obtained by Mr. M. W.
Stirling during a prolonged exploration in the interior of Dutch
New Guinea has included series of cultural objects entirely new to
the collections. There is contained much previously unknown to
science, secured from various groups of Papuans and from the pyg-
mies of the Nassau Range in the interior of New Guinea. The entire
collection is a gift to the Institution.

Several valuable collections have come through work of the Bureau
of American Ethnology in Alaska, among which may be mentioned
examples of many ancient and modern artifacts secured by Dr. A.
Hrdlitka in the summer of 1926. Gen. Tasker H. Bliss has pre-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 39

sented a collection of several hundred specimens of costumes, weap-
ons, weavings, and other objects of value from the Philippines. A
noteworthy set of painted sketches, head dresses, and other articles
came as a gift from C. H. Heyl, 2d. Mrs. Richard Wainwright pre-
sented a number of interesting baskets and pieces of pottery.

In the division of American archeology there was received a
large collection of pottery and various artifacts as a gift from the
National Geographic Society, representing the material collected
by Mr. N. M. Judd during several seasons of field work at Pueblo
Bonito, N. Mex. Accompanying this, the society forwarded also
material from other sites in New Mexico. The collections of Dr.
J. Walter Fewkes from Eldon Pueblo, near Flagstaff, Ariz., of Mr.
H. W. Krieger from the upper Columbia River, and Mr. H. B. Col-
lins, jr., from Louisiana and Mississippi, during work for the Bureau
of American Ethnology, have resulted in highly valuable material.
The most valuable addition to the exhibits of the division of Old
World archeology is a collection of Jewish religious ceremonial ob-
jects, Maccabean coins, and a number of art works and antiquities
received as a loan from E. Deinard.

In the division of physical anthropology there has come a set
of casts of skeletal remains of early man from Krapina, a collection
of Indian and Eskimo skeletons and skulls from Alaska, and skeletal
material from the lower Mississippi Valley.

Biology—The number of specimens received in this division dur-
ing the fiscal year amounted to more than 197,000 individual speci-
mens. Of especial importance has been an exceedingly valuable
collection of Siamese mammals, birds, reptiles, amphibians, fishes,
insects, mollusks, and marine invertebrates, secured through Dr.
Hugh M. Smith, Director of Fisheries for the Siamese Government.
The Smithsonian-Chrysler Expedition to Africa, under Dr. W. M.
Mann, Director of the National Zoological Park, while planned to
secure living animals, brought back also valuable series of skins of
mammals and birds and other materials for the National Museum.
A South American expedition by Dr. Waldo L. Schmitt, under the
auspices of the Walter Rathbone Bacon Traveling Scholarship, has
brought large collections of crustaceans as well as specimens in
many other groups. Mr. John D. Sherman presented a collection
of about 20,000 water beetles, a highly important addition to the
insect collections. Another large donation was that of about 10,000
moths presented by Dr. William Schaus, honorary assistant curator of
insects. Through the unsettled political situation in China, zoologi-
cal work in that country has been somewhat hampered, but neverthe-
less certain collections have been received from Mr. A. de C. Sowerby,
through the generosity of Col. R. S. Clark.
AO ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1927

Mr. B. H. Swales, honorary assistant curator of birds, presented
176 specimens and 7 skeletons of birds, including 46 species and 4
genera new to the Museum. About 100 of these come from the States
of Parahyba and Ceara, Brazil. Dr. Charles W. Richmond, asso-
ciate curator of birds, presented collections that include nine genera
and six species hitherto lacking in the collections.

The United States Bureau of Fisheries transferred 338 specimens
from various localities, among them the types of seven newly de-
scribed species. Dr. E. A. Chapin of the Bureau of Entomology,
donated a valuable collection of ectoparasites, with other materials.
Capt. R. A. Bartlett presented 776 specimens of marine inverte-
brates, collected off the northwest coast of Greenland during the
summer of 1926.

Among the most important additions in the National Herbarium
there may be noted 9,500 specimens of plants from Colombia, col-
lected for the Museum by Mr. E. P. Killip and Mr. Albert C. Smith,
and 11,000 Jamaican plants, chiefly ferns, secured for the Museum by
Dr. W. R. Maxon in Jamaica. There may be mentioned also the re-
ceipt of 50,000 mounted plants constituting the remaining half of the
John Donnell Smith herbarium, presented to the Smithsonian Insti-
tution in 1905, but until this year retained for study in the custody
of Captain Smith in Baltimore. The value of these collections to
students in American botany can hardly be overestimated.

Geology—tThe year has been one of unprecedented prosperity in
the department of geology; as, although the number of accessions
has not been large, the total number of specimens is overwhelmingly
ereater than last year, 208 accessions with a total of 176,781 speci-
mens being recorded.

Of primary importance are the Washington A. Roebling and
Irederick A. Canfield mineral collections, with their accompany-
ing endowments. The former, gift of Mr. John A. Roebling, com-
prises approximately 16,000 specimens, embracing almost the entire
number of known mineral species, and contains much of interest and
value for exhibition. An endowment of $150,000 was provided by
Mr. Roebling to make additions to this collection and to assist in
research in mineralogy. The Frederick A. Canfield collection, be-
queathed to the Institution, contains upward of 9,000 specimens,
and is notable chiefly for its fine examples of Franklin Furnace min-
erals, although containing in addition much of rare beauty and
value for exhibition and study. An endowment of nearly $50,000
was provided for the upkeep of the collection.

Dr. W. I. Foshag’s exploratory work in northern Mexico in coop-
eration with Harvard University yielded exceptionally fine examples
ot minerals and ores. The series of radium minerals was materially
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 41

increased by the transfer of those purchased for exhibition at the
Sesquicentennial Exposition.

The chief source of material added to the collections in systematic
and applied geology was the United States Geological Survey, nine
sets of specimens illustrative of published reports being among the
transfers. Crystalline masses of white cerussite were donated by
the West Toledo Mining Co., Alta, Utah, and large sphalerite and
galena specimens by Mr. I’. Sansom, of Joplin, Mo.

In the collection of meteorites 35 specimens have been added, an
unusually large number, of which 9 are new to the collection. ‘These
have come mainly from the Roebling and Canfield collections.

A collection of approximately 100,000 specimens of Mesozoic and
Cenozoic fossils from Europe, presented by Ferdinand Canu, of
Versailles, France, constitutes the most important accession in the
division of stratigraphic paleontology. ‘This, supplemented by col-
lections made by members of the staff, gifts of type, and other
valuable material by scientific institutions, universities, and indi-
vidual collectors, as well as important exchanges, has made accessions
in this division unusually noteworthy.

Of fossil vertebrates, the material exhibited at the Sesquicentennial
Exposition consisting of unusual fish, turtle, and reptilian skeletal
remains from the Niobrara Chalk of western Kansas is of chief
importance. A partial skeleton of a large mammoth, discovered and
presented by the Venice Co., of Venice, Fla., is of especial interest.

Aris and indusiries—The collections in this department were
increased by 14,497 specimens during the year. In the section of
mineral and mechanical technology an exhibit showing the method
of manufacture of artificial abrasive wheels with various by-products
is of great importance. There was obtained also the United States
Navy seaplane VC—4, from the Navy Department, as an addition to
the aircraft exhibits. Included with it are several types of airplane
engines. Of the greatest importance in the collections have been the
Patent Office models transferred from the Department of Commerce,
which have added materially to the series illustrating the develop-
ment of various inventions and the progress of modern industry.
These have included patents for practically all divisions of the
department.

The textile collections have had added groups of silks from H. R.
Mallinson & Co. (Inc.), bearing modern designs based in part upon
motifs suggestive of the sea, and including designs representing sea-
weeds, starfish, corals, dolphins, gulls, and so on. <A set of official
standards of the United States for American cotton linters, trans-
ferred from the Bureau of Agricultural Economics, Department of
Agriculture, illustrates the use of fibers obtained during the condi-
42 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1927

tioning of cottonseed for oil extraction by a process of second gin-
ning. The exhibit illustrates use of this material for many purposes.
Over 200 specimens of hides, skins, and leather products received
from the Tanners’ Council of America forms a valuable collection,
illustrating commercial use of leather products. A collection of 95
specimens of footwear, collected by the late Frank G. Carpenter
during his extensive travels, has been presented by Mrs. William
Chapin Huntington.

In the division of medicine an instructive exhibit relating to vision
was received from the American Optometric Association, through
Dr. Thomas H. Martin. A second exhibit, gift of the American
Dental Association, deals with the subject of oral hygiene.

In the section of wood technology the most valuable accession has
been a series of 801 wood samples received as an exchange from Yale
University School of Forestry, through Prof. Samuel J. Record,
coming mainly from various localities in tropical America. New
exhibits in this section have included sets of wood products from the
Mason Fiber Co., and of a new fireplace fuel made from compressed
wood waste by the United Products Co.

To the division of graphic arts there has come a gift of more than
2,000 prints and etched copper plates from Jean Leon Gerome Ferris,
including the work of many famous artists, as well as etchings by
the donor and his father, Stephen J. Ferris. The gift is one of value
and importance. Mr. William Edwin Rudge contributed many
examples of prints and samples of aquatone from his printing estab-
lishment. In the section of photography Miss Lillian M. Fletcher
presented a set of paper negatives made by her father, Abel Fletcher,
about 1845, representing specimens of the earliest paper negatives
made in the United States.

In the Loeb collection of chemical types 175 specimens of rare
chemicals were received. Many new contacts with research workers
in the chemical field promise much new material in coming months.

History.—The Maryland Historical Society presented three frag-
ments belonging with the original Star-Spangled Banner, removed
many years ago by the original owner of the flag. It will be recalled
that this flag was flown over Fort McHenry on September 13 and
14, 1814, and was immortalized by Key in the “Star-Spangled
Banner.”

Mrs. Calvin Coolidge presented a white satin brocaded evening
dress, worn by her in the White House, for the series of costumes
of the wives of the Presidents.

Forty-three United States gold, silver, nickel, and bronze coins
dating from 1920 to 1926, and 81 medieval and modern European
coins were transferred from the Treasury Department. The phila-
telic collection was increased by more than 5,000 specimens, the ma-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 43

jority of which came from the Post Office Department. In addition
there were received further contributions to the precancel postage-
stamp collection, presented by the Precancel Stamp Society through
its president.

EXPLORATIONS AND FIELD WORK

Many valuable specimens and much new information have come
through explorations carried on under special funds available
through friends of the Institution, through a variety of cooperative
arrangements, or to some extent from funds available from the
Museum appropriations.

In anthropology there may be mentioned the field work of Dr.
Ale’ Hrdlitka, curator of physical anthropology, who made an exten-
sive reconnaissance in Alaska as a basis for further archeological and
anthropological investigations in a field that has for many years
been fruitful of results under the leadership of men traveling in the
interests of the Smithsonian Institution. In the spring of 1927 this
work was continued through Mr. H. W. Krieger, curator in the
division of anthropology, who visited certain areas along the Yukon,
and through Mr. H. B. Collins, jr., assistant curator in the same
division, and Mr. T. Dale Stewart, of the division of physical
anthropology, who went north to Nunivak Island, and were engaged
there in exploration of old village sites at the close of the fiscal year.
The results of their work will of necessity be held over until the next ~
report, since the close of June found these men out of close touch
with Washington. Mr. N. M. Judd has continued work at Pueblo
Bonito, N. Mex., as director of the National Geographic Society’s
Pueblo Bonito expedition, the present field season being planned
primarily to permit preparation of a scientific report on the results
of this work. Much valuable material has been presented to the
National Museum by the National Geographic Society as the outcome
of these investigations.

Among the most important expeditions in which the Institution
has cooperated has been that to the interior of Dutch New Guinea,
by Mr. Matthew W. Stirling, formerly assistant curator of ethnology
on the Museum staff, and his associates. The work was carried on
through private means supplied by Mr. Stirling and his companions,
and was finally developed as a joint enterprise with the Dutch Colo-
nial Government. The principal object was to make anthropological
and ethnological studies of the pygmy tribes which it was expected
to find on the higher slopes of the Nassau mountains, with supple-
mental work among the Papuans of the lake plain. After establish-
ing a base camp near the mouth of the Mamberamo River in May, the
party made reconnaissance by means of an airplane taken especially
for that purpose, and then with definite knowledge of the courses
44 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1927

of the streams that traversed the unknown interior pushed ahead
by means of boats up the Mamberamo to the Rouffaar and along
that stream to a point where an overland journey was made into the
country of the pygmies. Travel was hindered by heavy floods and
was beset with many uncertainties through difficulties attendant upon
contact with the Papuans, who were excitable and nervous, and fear-
ful of the intention of the invaders. The pygmies of the mountain
slopes proved friendly and of entirely different disposition, so that
Mr. Stirling and his companions lived among them at ease without
necessity for the constant guard required with the natives of the
lake plain. The party completed its observations in December.
Shipments of specimens to the Museum consisted of 14 large cases
containing thousands of implements from peoples living to-day under
cultural conditions similar to those of the Stone Age elsewhere.
Thanks to the generosity of Mr. Stirling and his companions, the
National Museum now possesses one of the finest collections of the
kind from New Guinea in existence. The work of the party has
been of the highest importance in extending knowledge of one of
‘the few unknown areas remaining on the earth’s surface. The cour-
tesy of the Dutch Colonial Government in cooperating in the scien-
tific work, in providing steamer transportation both for the party
and for subsequent shipments of supplies, and in furnishing guards
to safeguard travel was greatly appreciated, and was of importance
to the success of the expedition.

Dr. Waldo L. Schmitt, curator of marine invertebrates during the
second year of incumbency under the Walter Rathbone Bacon scholar-
ship, continued field studies of the crustacean fauna of South
America, principally on the west coast from Guayaquil, Ecuador, to
Punta Arenas, Chile, including visits to the islands of Juan Fernan-
dez and the Falkland Islands, returning by way of Argentina. The
collections brought to the Museum are far in excess of those of last
year, due in part to a longer period in the field, and include several
genera and one family of crustacea found for the first time on the
west coast of South America.

Dr. Hugh M. Smith, Director of Fisheries of Siam, an honorary
curator of zoology in the Museum, continued field work in Siam.
His explorations have resulted in splendid collections of mammals,
birds, reptiles, amphibians, mollusks, crustaceans, and insects, which
are now being studied with the keenest interest by specialists in the
Museum. He himself will undertake the study of the fishes.

The Smithsonian-Chrysler African Expedition to Tanganyika and
Kenya under Dr. W. M. Mann, Director of the National Zoological
Park, although undertaken to secure living animals, has resulted in
additions to the Museum, since collections of birds, mammals, and
miscellaneous invertebrates, secured at odd times when the naturalists
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 45

of the expedition were not engaged with living animals, were pre-
pared and have been presented to our collections. ‘The collections of
birds preserved for dissection is especially notable.

Dr. Alexander Wetmore, assistant secretary in charge of the
National Museum, traveling under the Swales fund, sailed from
New York on March 22, 1927, for Port au Prince, Haiti. Until the
end of April he carried on field investigations in Haiti and then
crossed to the Dominican Republic, finally sailing north from Puerto
Plata on June 3. Through the interest of Dr. W. L. Abbott, the
Museum is in possession of extensive collections of birds, mammals,
reptiles, amphibians, plants, and other specimens from Hispaniola.
Doctor Wetmore’s work in the field was planned with a view to sup-
plementing Doctor Abbott’s material when necessary and to gather
information on faunal areas and distribution that will be useful
in the preparation of reports on the Abbott collections now under
way. His work in Haiti included investigations in the vicinity of
Port au Prince and the southern peninsula; exploration on the high
La Selle, unknown zoologically until this visit; a trip to the interior
plain at Hinche; a visit to the caves near St. Michel, famous for their
bone deposits; and finally work at Caracol on the north coast. In
the Dominican Republic he worked principally on Samana Bay and
in the high interior in the valley of Constanza. His collections
have included many items of interest, as. among forms already
described are a new species of thrush and a new genus of lizards
from La Selle.

Owing to disturbed conditions in China, the activities of Mr. A. de
C. Sowerby, under the auspices of Col. R. S. Clark, have been greatly
curtailed. In spite of this, however, he has succeeded in sending the
Museum large and valuable collections, especially of reptiles and
fishes which have added notably to our series.

Mr. Clarence R. Shoemaker, assistant curator of marine inverte-
brates, visited the Marine Biological Laboratory, Dry Tortugas, Fla.,
during July and August, 1926, under the auspices of the Carnegie
institution of Washington, for the purpose chiefly of making car-
cinologica! studies. More than 3,300 specimens of marine inver-
tebrates were collected for the Museum.

Dr. Paul Bartsch, curator of mollusks, in 1926 spent August 10
to 21 at the Tortugas, and August 21 to 24 along the Florida Keys,
examining Cerion colonies in continuation of his experiments in
heredity with these organisms.

Dr. J. M. Aldrich, associate curator of insects, before the close of
the fiscal year departed on an expedition to the western part of the
country for the purpose of making collections of insects, principally
Diptera, in regions from which few specimens have been received in
46 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1927

the past. His itinerary was planned to extend to California, return-
ing through Nevada, Yellowstone Park, and the Black Hills.

Capt. R. A. Bartlett, a valued volunteer collector for the Museum,
as a result of explorations off the northwest coast of Greenland in
the summer of 1925, sent in 776 specimens of marine invertebrates.

Dr. W. R. Maxon, associate curator of plants, left Washington in
May, 1926, for Jamaica to collect plants, returning early in the
following August. His explorations, which were made possible by
a grant from the American Association for the Advancement of
Science, and the cooperation of the New York Botanical Garden and
the United Fruit Co., were conducted in the extreme eastern end of
the Blue Mountain Range, and in new areas on some of the high peaks
to the westward. The present collection, which is of large extent, -
with material gathered during several previous trips, comprises
ample series of specimens to show local distribution, altitudinal
range, and habital forms of most of the 500 species of ferns known
to occur in the island. Mr. E. P. Killip, aid, and Mr. Albert C.
Smith, collaborator, left Washington for Colombia in October, 1926,
and returned in April, 1927, spending approximately six months in
collecting plants in the interior regions of that country. The expedi-
tion was organized through the cooperation of the New York Botani-
cal Garden, the Gray Herbarium, the Arnold Arboretum, and Mr.
Oakes Ames, with the National Museum. The greater part of the
work was done in the general vicinity of Bucaramanga, in the De-
partment of Santander, and along the Colombian-Venezuelan border
in the Department Norte de Santander. The present exploration is
the second in which Mr. Killip has participated in preparation for
a report upon the plants of Colombia.

Prof. H. H. Bartlett, honorary collaborator, left last autumn for a
year’s botanical collecting trip in the East Indies. <A considerable
collection has already been received from Formosa and at last reports
excellent results were being: obtained in Sumatra.

Dr. W. F. Foshag, assistant curator of mineralogy and petrology,
was in the field from May 23 to late September, 1926, collecting min-
erals and ores and studying their occurrence at some of the chief
mining centers in Mexico. The localities visited were Los Lamentos,
Santa Eulalia, La Ceja, Placer de Guadalupe, Cuchilla Parada, and
Naica in the State of Chihuahua; Sierra Mojada in the State of
Coahuila; and Velardena and Durango in the State of Durango.
‘This expedition, undertaken in collaboration with Harvard Univer-
sity, was highly successful, due largely to the hearty cooperation of
the Mexican Government officials and American mining engineers in
charge of the properties. Over 2 tons of material were collected,
from which representative sets have been selected for both Harvard
and the National Museum.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 47

A field trip by Dr. R. S. Bassler, curator of stratigraphic paleon-
tology, during August and September, through France and Germany,
included two weeks spent in a study of the Paris Basin in company
with Dr. Ferdinand Canu, of Versailles, France, an eminent student
of microfossils. Doctor Canu, to commemorate his long association
with the paleontological work of the National Museum, presented to
it his entire collection of French Cenozoic and Mesozoic fossils, num-
bering more than 100,000 specimens. Doctor Bassler visited in suc-
cession the Rhine Valley, the Valley of the Main, the Early Tertiary
areas around Miinich, and the classic Mesozoic region north of the
Hartz Mountains.

Dr. C. E. Resser spent August and September in field work in
the Rocky Mountains in continuation of the studies of Cambrian
stratigraphy by the late secretary, Doctor Walcott. He was assisted
by Mr. Erwin R. Pohl, of the paleontological staff, whose special
interest in the Devonian led him to secure good study collections from
these strata whenever encountered.

Under an allotment from the National Academy of Sciences, Mr.
Charles W. Gilmore was again enabled to visit the Grand Canyon of
the Colorado. While the main object of this trip was to assist in the
development of certain educational features of the canyon for the
National Park Service, an opportunity was offered to make further
collections of fossil footprints from the Supai and the Hermit forma-
tions. A noteworthy slab of large size from the latter has the clearly
impressed trackways of no less than three different kinds of animals
on its surface and will make an unusually interesting exhibit.

In the early autumn of 1926 the Venice Co., of Venice, Fla., re-
ported the discovery of fossil remains of a mammoth and cordially
invited the Smithsonian to send and recover the specimen. Dr. J. W.
Gidley was detailed for this work, which occupied 10 days. Though
the skeleton was by no means complete, the portions found were of
sufficient value to amply repay the time and expense required to
collect and preserze them. Later in the fiscal year Doctor Gidley
was again detailed to visit Curtis, Okla., and Sarasota, Fla., to in-
vestigate reported finds of fossil remains. The visit to the first-
mentioned locality yielded remains of various Pleistocene mammals.
At Sarasota and Zolfo Springs, Fla., a good collection representing
a considerable fauna from the west coast was obtained.

BUILDINGS AND EQUIPMENT

Various minor repairs have been necessary to keep the buildings
of the Museum in good condition during the year. In the Natural
History Building the exterior surfaces of the metal window sashes
on the first and second floors have been repainted. Concrete floors
48 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1927

in corridors have also received a coat of paint, and minor repairs
have been made to walls and ceilings in various offices. The range
housing the study collection of birds was painted and at the same
time all the cases were painted white, which has greatly improved
the lighting in this room.

In the Arts and Industries Building worn-out downspouts have
been replaced and parts of the tin roofs given a coat of metallic
paint. New wire screens have been installed and new awnings
placed over the skylight over the café. It was also necessary to re-
paint portions of the walls in several exhibition halls.

In the Smithsonian Building a number of window sashes and
doors have been repaired and painted, and the remodeling of the
disbursing oflice, begun in 1926 as a greater measure of precaution
during the handling of funds, was completed. Various minor re-
pairs that need not be enumerated were necessary.

The roof and the exterior of two sides of the metal Aircraft Build-
ing were painted and the other two sides were touched up where
necessary.

In the heating plant the consumption of coal amounted to 3,329
tons of bituminous coal, an amount slightly less than was used in
1926. All told, the heating plant has been in operation nearly
18 years, during which time a number of major repairs and changes
have been necessary. It is now in excellent condition. The boilers
were inspected by the Steamboat Inspection Service of the United
States, and reported in good condition. The new teed-water con-
nections requested by the inspector the preceding year were changed
to meet his approval. The elevators have been regularly inspected
by the District of Columbia inspector and are equipped with all neces-
sary safeguards to protect passengers. The total electric current pro-
duced amounted to 586,041 kilowatt hours, manufactured at a cost
of 1.97 cents per kilowatt hour, including interest on the plant, de-
preciation, labor, and material. The present production is near
the maximum for the plant as at present constructed. The ice plant
manufactured 368 tens of ice at a cost of $2.49, about 50 per cent
less than the contract price on the general supply schedule, the say-
ing on this item for the year being approximately $1,000.

Labor turnover in connection with the heating, lighting, and power
plant has been greater than ever before, due to the present low scale
of salaries for firemen and under employees, a factor that greatly
handicaps the work.

During the year 13 exhibition cases and bases, 253 pieces of storage,
laboratory and office furniture, and 1,572 drawers of various kinds
were added. These were manufactured mainly in the shops.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 49

MEETINGS AND RECEPTIONS

The lecture rooms and auditorium of the National Museum during
the present year were used for 114 meetings that covered a wide
range of activities. Governmental agencies that utilized these
resources included the Federal Horticultural Board, the Forest Serv-
ice, the Bureau of Plant Industry, the Biological Survey, and the
Iixtension Service of the United States Department of Agriculture,
for various hearings, meetings, and exhibitions of pictures. Mem-
bers of the Fforest Service held a series of meetings during the year
dealing with various phases of their work.

The Smithsonian staff convened on December 16 for an illustrated
lecture on anthropology by Prof. H. D. Skinner, of Otago Univer-
sity, New Zealand. Dr. Walter Hough addressed the art section of
the Twentieth Century Club on January 10.

Scientific societies that met regularly in the building included the
Entomological Society of Washington, the Society for Philosophical
Inquiry, the Anthropological Society of Washington, and the Ameri-
can Horticultural Society. Meetings were held also by the Vivarium
Society, the Wild Flower Preservation Society, the Audubon Society
of the District of Columbia, the Aeronautical Society, the Botanical
Society of Washington, the Washington Society of Engineers, and
the Washington Philatelic Society. The National Association of the
Deaf gave an exhibition of motion pictures of the World War and
two reels in deaf and dumb language. A special class of South-
western College of Winfield, Kans., was convened in these halls, and
the Mississippi Society of Washington occupied the auditorium for
addresses by the Hon. Dennis Murphy, lieutenant governor of Missis-
sippi, and others, the exhibition of motion pictures and a concert.

M. le Prince Ginori Conti, president of the Italian Society of
General and Applied Chemistry, Florence, Italy, spoke before the
International Union of Pure and Applied Chemistry on the utiliza-
tion of geothermal power in Tuscany. The American Institute of
Electrical Engineers and the American Society of Mechanical Engi-
neers held a joint meeting for an address delivered by W. C. L. Elgin,
general manager of the Philadelphia Electrical Co., on the Cono-
wingo hydroelectric development.

The Spanish-American War veterans on January 28 held a recep-
tion in honor of the Ambassador from Cuba, Sefior Dr. Orestes
Ferrara, and Senator R. W. Means, of Colorado, on the anniversity
of the birth of the Cuban patriot, José Marti. There was a patriotic
gathering of American War Mothers on February 10, with voeal
and instrumental music and addresses.

The Masonic clubs of the District of Columbia met in celebration
of Washington’s birthday, when they were addressed by the Hon.
50 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1927

A. M. Free, Member cof Congress from California, on the Life of
George Washington and Masonry.

During the late winter and early spring, series of talks were given
to students of Howard University on various matters of contact
between biological and medical science.

The Fourth National Oratorical Contest and Second International
Oratorical Contest were held in the auditorium on April 9, for
orations by pupils of private and parochial schools in the Wash-
ington Star area. A further meeting held on May 4 was addressed
by three competitors.

Trederal Post, No. 824, Veterans of Foreign Wars, met on May
28 for an annual memorial service. The finals in the third annual
national spelling bee, under the auspices of the Courier-Journal,
Louisville, Ky., and 16 associated newspapers. were held on June 28,
when the first prize was won by Dean Lucas, of West Salem, Ohio.

From April 19 to 21 the District of Columbia Dental Society
occupied the auditorium, lecture rooms, and part of the lobby for
an educational campaign dealing with the care of the teeth. The
exhibits installed were prepared in cooperation with the United
States Public Health Service, United States Army, United States
Navy, Children’s Bureau of the United States Department of Labor,
the division of physical anthropology of the United States National
Museum, the Baltimore College of Dental Surgery of the University
of Maryland, the Public School Dental Clinic of the District of Co-
lumbia Health Department, District of Columbia Dental Hygienist
Association, and the District of Columbia Dental Society.

The Daughters of the American Revolution, conservation and
thrift committee, attended an illustrated lecture by Herbert N.
Wheeler on “ The Lure of the Forest.”

SESQUICENTENNIAL EXPOSITION, PHILADELPHIA

As stated in the report for last year, the Smithsonian Institution
installed an exhibit at the Sesquicentennial Exposition held in Phila-
delphia during the summer and fall of 1926. As the exposition build-
ings were delayed in completion, the Institution did not secure pos-
session of the space assigned to it until late in June, so that, though
part of our material was arranged by June 30, it was not possible to
make complete installation until July. The section assigned to the
Smithsonian was one of the first in the Transportation Building to
be arranged and made ready for display. The exposition continued
until November 380, during which period one or more members of the
staff remained in attendance with the exhibit. The exhibits, which
were described in some detail in the report for last year, attracted
much attention and were favorably received by the public. The

ee ee
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 51

material shown was returned to Washington in December, all in
good condition.

SPECIAL EXHIBITION FOR THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

At the conference of the establishment and Board of Regents of
the Smithsonian Institution on February 11, 1927, called to advise
with prominent Americans with reference to the future policy and
field of service of the Institution, there was arranged in the main
hall of the Smithsonian building a special exhibit to demonstrate
present activities and research. The National Museum, as one of the
major organizations administered by the Smithsonian, was promi-
nently represented through its departments.

For the occasion in question a series of temporary booths was
arranged about the entire hall where tables and cases were utilized
for the exhibition of specimens, and the walls were given over to
charts, diagrams, and photographs. ‘The entire installation was
arranged not as a temporary transfer of cases and materials from the
National Museum but as a demonstration of research activities on the
part of the staff. Each object or each chart displayed, while shown
for its interest, was designed to represent some particular phase of
science, and the whole was planned to show a cross section of exist-
ing researches as developed in the Institution in general.

The department of anthropology was represented by materials to
show recent studies in the anthropology and archeology of the
Columbia River Valleys of Alaska, the lower Mississippi Valley,
and the ancient Indian pueblos of the Southwest, supplemented by
certain matters dealing with Old World archeology, with the evo-
lution of man as a species in the animal kingdom, and with the
development of the modern American since the invasion of the New
World by the Caucasian race.

Projects illustrated in geology and paleontology included studies
in elephants and dinosaurs as representative of ancient vertebrate
life, and illustrations of investigations into the thousands of fossil
species known among the invertebrates, of the highest importance as
indicators of the age of ancient rock strata with their included oils
and minerals. With these were examples of minerals taken from
recent gifts and bequests in the Roebling and Canfield collections, to-
gether with materials to illustrate the formation of soil through the
disintegration of granite and other rock.

The work comprised in the department of biology is so vast
that attempt was made to cover only a few of its various branches.
The section devoted to botany, important as the foundation of agri-
culture, was illustrated by the results of recent explorations on the
plant life of tropical America, and by demonstrations of systematic
52 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1927

studies in various groups of plants. In zoology there were shown
specimens of reptiles, paintings of fishes, insects, birds, mollusks,
mammals, foraminifera, crinoids or sea lilies, and other animals
arranged to demonstrate various researches, some of purely scientific
interest, others of known economic application. With each section
of the exhibits there were in attendance research workers of the
scientific staff to explain them fully. The exhibits proved so popular
that they were thrown open to the public for several days during the
week that followed.

MISCELLANEOUS

The exhibition halls of the National Museum were open during
the year on week days from 9 a. m. to 4.30 p. m., while in
addition the natural history building and the arts and industries
building were open Sunday afternoons from 1.30 to 4.30 p.m. The
exhibition halls were closed only on Christmas Day and New Year’s
Day. Visitors during the year aggregated 1,153,212 persons, an
increase of nearly 50,000 over the previous year. Attendance in the
several buildings was recorded as follows: Smithsonian, 128,868;
arts and industries, 380,430; natural history, 561,286; aircraft, 82,628.
The average daily attendance for week days was 3,263 and for Sun-
days, with only two buildings open, 2,660.

During the year the Museum published 10 volumes and 63 sepa-
rate papers, while its distribution of literature amounted to 110,580
copies of its various books and pamphlets.

Additions to the Museum library have included 2,492 volumes
and 1,299 pamphlets obtained partly by exchange and partly by dona-
tion. A large part of the increase has come from the Library of
Congress, which has generously presented from its duplicates volumes
and parts of volumes needed to complete reference series in the
Museum library. ‘The library staff devoted much attention during
the year to filling in gaps in sets of periodicals, many of them
dating back to the time of the World War when communication with
foreign countries was much interrupted and there was consequent loss
of mail. These efforts have resulted in a highly gratifying condition
in the filling out of many sets. There are at present 37 sectional
libraries maintained as important working units of the main library.

Mr. A. Brazier Howell, corresponding secretary of the American
Society of Mammalogists, well known for his systematic and ana-
tomical studies on mammals, was appointed collaborator in the divi-
sion of mammals on December 11, 1926. Miss Isobel H. Lenman, of
Washington, D. C., who has long been a benefactor of the national
collections, was made a collaborator in ethnology on March 380, 1927.
The appointment of Dr. George Grant MacCurdy as collaborator in
anthropology was extended for one year, and Mr. Albert C. Smith
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 53

was made collaborator in the division of plants for one year from
October 1, 1926. Dr. Joseph A. Cushman, internationally known for
his work on foraminifera, was appointed collaborator in the division
of stratigraphic paleontology for the period of six months beginning
May 10, 1927.

Mr. T. D. Stewart was permanently appointed as aid in the
division of physical anthropology on March 1, 1927. Miss Doris M.
Cochran was promoted from aid to assistant curator in the division
of reptiles and batrachians on the same date. On July 1, 1926, Miss
Margaret W. Moodey, in the division of geology, was advanced from
recorder to aid. Dr. Paul Bartsch, curator of mollusks in the de-
partment of biology, was given added appointment on April 18, 1927,
as curator of Cenozoic invertebrates in the department of geology.

Under the National Museum there were 97 separations from the
service during the fiscal year in question, which amounts to an annual
turnover of 27.3 per cent. Most of this has come among the guard
and mechanical force. The resulting condition is serious, since it has
made it difficult to keep the minor positions filled in a manner neces-
sary for the proper performance of required duties. It is hoped
that the slight advances given in salaries on July 1, 1927, may some-
what alleviate this condition, but further increases should be made
possible to enable the Museum to maintain a permanent staff in the
positions in question.

The Museum was deprived by death of several important members
of its scientific staff, all of whom had long been associated with its
work. First among these was Dr. Charles D. Walcott, secretary of
the Smithsonian Institution and keeper ex officio of the National
Museum, whose death came February 9, 1927. Dr. Frank H. Knowl-
ton, of the Geological Survey, honorary custodian of Mesozoic plants
since 1894, died on November 22, 1926. Dr. Paul Haupt, associate in
historic archeology since 1905, died on February 17, 1926. Dr. Wil-
lam Healey Dall, honorary curator of the division of mollusks and
of Cenozoic invertebrates, who was affiliated with the Smithsonian
Institution and the National Museum for a period of 58 years, died
on March 27, 1927. Another loss by death was that of Mr. Geo. C.
McClain, for over 40 years a member of the mechanical force of the
Nat®nal Museum.

Respectfully submitted.

ALEXANDER WETMORE,
Assistant Secretary.
Dr. Cuartes G. Aggor,
Acting Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
74906—28——_5
APPENDIX 2
REPORT ON THE NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the affairs
of the National Gallery of Art for the year ending June 30, 1927:

Although the year has been marked by numerous features and
events of interest, the two great lines of prospective development have
remained practically dormant—these are the erection of a gallery
building and the enhancement of the collections by gift and bequest.
The meagerness of the offerings of art works is doubtless due in
large measure to the well-known fact that exhibition space in the
National Museum —. entirely exhausted.

THE GALLERY COMMISSION

The sixth annual meeting of the National Gallery Commission
was held in the regents’ room of the Smithsonian Institution, Decem-
ber 7, 1926. The members present were Gari Melchers, chairman;
Frank J. Mather, jr., vice chairman; W. H. Holmes, secretary;
Herbert Adams, James E. Fraser, J. H. Gest, John EK. Lodge, Charles
Moore, James Parmelee, E. W. Redfield, and C. D. Walcott.

The minutes of the preceding meeting were read and approved
and the secretary presented his report on the activities of the gal-
lery for the calendar year. The report touched briefly on affairs
of administration, the offerings of art works by gift and bequest,
the purchase of paintings from the Henry Ward Ranger fund, the
loans and loan exhibits, etc., for the year.

Discussion arose regarding the war portrait collection, and after
the expression of various views, the following resolution was adopted:

Resolved, That the National Gallery Commission looks with favor upon the
establishment of a national portrait gallery (of which the present collection of
war portraits may be regarded as the nucleus) to constitute a separate unit of
the collections of the National Gallery of Art.

Mr. Mather, chairman of the committee on Old World art, spake
informally upon the project initiated at the 1925 meeting of organ-
izing an exhibit of old masters in the gallery, saying that he had
examined most of those owned in Washington and found them in
his opinion not sufficiently representative to make their assemblage
as an exhibit advisable, though he favored such an exhibition of old
masters of the highest quality such as might be assembled by
enlarging the field to be drawn upon.

54

a
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 55

After discussion of numerous topics of interest, the annual elections
were held as provided by the regents’ “ plan.” The present officers
of the commission were reelected, as were also the members of the
executive committee. The three members of the commission whose
terms expire with the close of the present year—Gari Melchers, Her-
bert Adams, and Charles Moore—were recommended to the Board of
Regents for reelection for the ensuing term of four years.

The following resolution provides for filling the vacancy occurring
in the membership of the commission, due to the declination of John
Russell Pope:

Resolved, That the National Gallery Commission hereby recommends to the
Board of Regents the election of Clarence C. Zantzinger, architect, of Philadel-
phia, to fill the vacancy in the membership of the commission, caused by the
declination of Mr. John Russell Pope.

Resolved further, That in the event of the declination of Mr. Zantzinger, the
vacancy be filled by the election of Mr. Charles Borie, architect, of Philadelphia.

At 12 o’clock the commission adjourned and proceeded to the
gallery to consider, as the advisory committee of the gallery, the
acceptance of the art works offered during the year. The result is
as follows: Acceptance for the national portrait collection of the
21 World War portrait sketches by John C. Johansen, name of donor
withheld; acceptance of the portrait of Rear Admiral Robley D.
Evans by August Franzen, N. A., for the same collection, offered by
Horatio S. Rubens; acceptance of a marble bust of Proserpine by
Hiram Powers, offered by Mrs. George Cabot Lodge; acceptance of 16
portraits in red chalk by John Elliott, of members of the Lafayette
Kscadrille and a few others of the American men who fought in the
World War, offered by Mrs. John Elliott as a memorial to her hus-
band; and tentative acceptance for the gallery of the collection of 10
paintings offered, to be known as the “George Buchanan Coale
Collection, Baltimore, Md., 1819-1887,” the final assignment of these
works for record (to the Institution or to the gallery) to be left to
the discretion of the director of the gallery.

SPECIAL EXHIBITIONS HELD IN THE GALLERY

The Herbert Waldron Faulkner Hxhibition—A collection of oil
paintings of Venice from Dawn to Dusk, 36 in number, with 18
panel sketches, by Herbert Waldron Faulkner, was installed on
screens in the middle room of the gallery November 29 to December
12, 1926.

The John Ross Key Memorial Exhibition—A collection of 49 oil
paintings and 14 drawings in pen and pencil, by John Ross Key
(1837-1920) was exhibited as a memorial to the artist by his widow,
Ellenore Dutcher Key, in the central room of the gallery from
56 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1927

January 15 to May 10, 1927. The subjects were largely landscapes
and gardens, among which were numerous effective portrayals of
colonial mansions, located to-day or in the past in Washington and
its vicinity.

The John Elliott Memorial Exhibition—A memorial collection
of 20 portrait drawings in red chalk of members of the Lafayette
Escadrille, with a few others of the American men who fought in
the World War, most of whom lost their lives in the defense of
France before the United States entered the war, by John Elhott
(1858-1925), was exhibited by his widow, Maud Howe Elliott, Febru-
ary 19 to March 13, 1927. Sixteen of these portraits have been
presented to the Smithsonian Institution by Mrs. Elliott while the
others, loans to the exhibition on Mrs. Elliott’s request, were returned
to their respective owners.

The Charles Mason Remey Hahibition—An architectural model
of an oriental temple, designed and executed by Charles Mason
Remey, was exhibited at the north entrance to the gallery for a short
period. A series of photographs illustrating the exterior of the
model, with gardens, terraces, and fountains, were shown.

THE HENRY WARD RANGER FUND

Since the paintings purchased during the year by the council of
the National Academy of Design from the fund provided by the
Henry Ward Ranger bequest are, under certain conditions, prospec-
tive additions to the gallery collections, the list, including the names
of the institutions to which they have been assigned, may be given in
this place.

Title Artist Date of purchase Assignment

BO MSU duife.s. 22 ees Frank W. Benson, N. A--| December, 1926---.| California Palace of the
Legion of Honor, San Fran-
cisco, Calif.

61. Woodland Nymph.-__.| Douglas Volk, N. A-.----- Aprily 92 (eo wees Atlanta Art Association,
Atlanta, Ga.

62. Man in White_-.___-- Cecilia Beaux, N. A-.-----|_---- dof -iae eee The Brooklyn Institute of
Arts and Sciences, Brook-
lyn, N. Y.

ACTIVITIES OF THE AMERICAN FEDERATION OF ARTS, AND THE FEDERATION
OF WOMEN’S CLUBS ;

The American Federation of Arts, and the Federation of Women’s
Clubs continued their work on behalf of the gallery, furthering its
interests with propaganda, lectures with the use of lantern slides and
photographic prints, and circulating exhibits of paintings.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 57

ART WORKS ADDED DURING YEAR

Accessions of art works by the Smithsonian Institution, subject
to transfer to the National Gallery on approval of the advisory com-
mittee of the gallery commission, are as follows:

Twenty-one original studies in oil by John C. Johansen, N. A.,
utilized by Mr. Johansen in the execution of his great work, “ Sign-
ing the Peace Treaty, June 28, 1919,” and in portraits of distinguished
leaders of America and the allied nations in the World War, now
installed in the National Portrait Gallery, received through Mrs.
James ©. Rogerson, the donor’s name being for the present reserved,
here listed as: :

Premier Vittorio Emanuele Orlando, Italy.

Hon. Jules Jusserand, France.

M. Louis-Lucien Klotz, Finance Minister, France.

Hon. Henry White, United States of America.

Premier Georges Clemenceau, France.

General Tasker Bliss, United States of America.

Premier Ignace Jan Paderewski, Poland.

Hon. Frank Lyon Polk, Assistant Secretary of State, United States of
America.

Hon. Harl of Balfour, Great Britain.

Marechal! Joseph Joffre, France. e

M. Stephen Pichon, Foreign Minister, France.

President Woodrow Wilson, United States of America.

Hon. Earl of Balfour, Great Britain, at his home.

Marechal Joseph Joffre, france, at army headquarters, Paris.

Hon. Henry White, United States of America, in room occupied by the
American Peace Conference, Paris.

Field Marshal Harl Douglas Haig, England, at army headquarters, London.

Hon. Bonar Law, Great Britain, at No. 10 Downing Street, London.

Interior of the Salle de Glaces, Palais de Versailles, where the treaty was
signed.

Premier David Lloyd George, Great Britain.

_Premier Ignace Jan Paderewski, Poland, in conference.

Preliminary study for composition of the painting, “Signing the Peace

Treaty, June 28, 1919.”

Bust of “ Proserpine” (marble) by Hiram Powers (1805-1873),
with marble pedestal; and three Japanese panels; presented by Mrs.
George Cabot Lodge, Washington, D. C.

Three busts by Henry Kirke Brown (1814-1886), N. A. 1851,
presented by Mr. H. K. Bush-Brown: Life-size bust in plaster of
Gen. Winfield Scott, modeled from life in Washington about 1858,
used as a study for the equestrian statue of General Scott in Scott
Circle, Washington, D. C.; life-size bust in marble of William Cullen
Bryant (about 1850, before the poet had a full beard) ; life-size bust
of Greco-Roman head modeled in Rome absut 1844 and cast in
bronze in Mr. Brown’s studio in Brooklyn, N. Y., about 1850. This
58 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1927

is one of the first castings made in this country and is of special
interest on this account.

Sixteen portraits in red chalk by John Elliott (1858-1925) of
the original members of the Lafayette Escadrille and a few others
of the American men who fought in the World War. Gift of Mrs.
Maud Howe Elliott, widow of the artist, as a memorial to her hus-
band, for the national portrait collection.

Richard Norton. Richard Stevens Conover, 2d.
Victor Emmanuel Chapman. Georges Thénault.

Norman Prince. Gervais Raoul Lufbery.
Hamilton Coolidge. Edmond Charles Clinton Genet.
Quentin Roosevelt. Alan Seeger.

Paul Pavelka. Hlliot Christopher Cowden.
Bert Hall. William Thaw.

James R. McConnell. Philip Rhinelander.

Mrs. Elliott has added to her gift photographic enlargements of
four similar portraits belonging to the set of 20 shown in her memo-
rial exhibit, the originals of which were loaned by their respective
owners, as follows:

Raynal Cawthorne Bolling (from the United States Steel Corporation).

Richard McCall Elliot, jr. (from Mrs. Richard McCall Elliot, Bryn Mawr, Pa.).

William Halsall Cheney (from Mrs. William H. Schofield, Peterborough,
GI ye

Kiffin Yates Rockwell (from Mrs. Kiffin Rockwell, Asheville, N. C.).

Landscape in oil entitled “ The Brook” (a sketch from nature of
Bouquet River in the Adirondack Mountains) by Clinton Ogilvie
(1836-1900), A. N. A. 1864; and a portrait bust in bronze, on marble
plinth, of Clinton Ogilvie, by Paul Wayland Bartlett (1865-1925),
N. A. 1917; presented by Mr. William Francklyn Paris, of New York
City.

Seven water-color paintings by Henry Bacon (1839-1912), given
in memory of the artist by, his widow, Louisa Lee Bacon, as follows:

The Parthenon, east facade (the Piraeus and hills of Parnassus in the dis-
tance). ;

The Parthenon (west fagade).

The Erechtheum.

General View of the Acropolis at Sunset.

Central Metope of the Frieze of Phidias, Parthenon.

Theater of Dionysus (the violet-crowned Hymettus in the distance).

Temple of Nike Apteros (the Piraeus and Phaleron in the distance).

Centenary medal (bronze) issued in commemoration of the one
hundredth anniversary of the company, presented by the president
and directors of the Baltimore & Ohio Railroad. Mr. Hans Schuier,
director of the Maryland Institute in Baltimore, designed the medal,
which was reproduced direct from his models by the Medallic Art
Co., New York City.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 59

A portrait bust in marble of Dr. Alexander Graham Bell, by
Victor Salvatore; presented to the Institution by the American
Telephone & Telegraph Co., through Walter §. Gifford, president of
the company, upon the occasion of the fiftieth anniversary of the
birth of the telephone.

INSTALLATION OF THE ALFRED DUANE PELL COLLECTION

The Smithsonian Institution was able to avail itself of the services
of Dr. S. W. Woodhouse, jr., associate of the Pennsylvania Museum
and School of Industrial Art, Philadelphia, to identify, classify,
catalogue, and label the porcelain, glassware, silverware, and other
art objects of the Alfred Duane Pell collection. A selection of typi-
cal examples of the various groups is displayed in the Pell alcove of
the National Gallery. The remainder of the collection, comprising
duplicates of the porcelains together with other interesting varieties
of objects, is, due to lack of space in the gallery, installed on the
gallery of the west hall in the arts and industries building of the
National Museum.

The porcelains of this collection are mainly old English, Con-
tinental European, Russian, and Chinese, though there are a few
individual pieces from elsewhere. Probably the most attractive
group comprises 25 examples of pate sur pate by Solon from the
Minton factory. The Worcester factory is represented by many
pieces from the time of Doctor Wall, and his immediate successors
including typical old patterns. From the Sevres factory are examples
from almost the very beginning of the factory down to the latter
part of the nineteenth century, including pieces from the services of
Charles X, Louis XVIII, Louis Philippe, and Louis Napoleon, with
biscuit busts of many French notables. There are many pieces from
old Paris. The Meissen factory is represented by examples of the
older wares as well as by more modern figures and animal pieces.
Groups from Vienna and from the St. Petersburg Imperial Factory
add interest to the collection. The products of the latter were made
exclusively for the royal family. Mention should also be made of the
large group of Chinese blue and white reticulate ware of the
eighteenth century.

LOANS ACCEPTED BY THE GALLERY

Eleven family portraits of the Rosses of Balnagown, Scotland, by
British masters, and three artistic family antiquities, loaned by the
Bruce Corporation (Ltd.), of Kildary, Scotland, and Wilmington,
Del., through Col. Sir Charles Ross, as follows:

Admiral Sir. John Lockhart Ross, by Sir. Joshua Reynolds (1723-1792).
The Hon. Grizel Ross, by William Hogarth (1697-1764).
60 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1927

The late Sir Charles W. A. Ross, by Sir Henry Raeburn (1756-1823)

Miss Grace Lockhart, by Sir Henry Raeburn (1756-1823).

The Earl of Lauderdale, artist undetermined.

Lady Mary Ross (wife of the late Sir Charles W. A. Ross), by Sir Thomas
Lawrence (1769-18380).

Gen. Sir Charles Ross, by George Romney (1734-1802).

Sir William Wallace, artist undetermined.

John Graham of Claverhouse (‘“ Bonnie Dundee”), artist undetermined.

Lucy Walters and the Duke of Monmouth, by Sir Peter Lely (1618-1680).

“Lady Standing by Tombstone,” by Thomas Gainsborough (7?) (1727-1788).

Large silver tray, ‘“ Presented by the two Assurance Companies and Merchants
of London To John Lockhart, Esq., Captain of His Majesty’s Ship Tartar For
his Gallant Service in protecting the Trade of the Nation by taking many French
Privateers, in the years 1756 and 1757.”

Gold cup with separate cover inscribed: ‘‘ Presented by the Society of the
Merchant Venturers of the City of Bristol to Captain John Lockhart, Com-
mander of His Majesty’s Ship Varter for the Important Services He Rendered
to the Trade of that City, by Ably Protecting Her Merchantmen and Distressing
Numerous French Privateers, 1758.”

Chair which belonged to Sir William Wallace (between 1290 and 1310).

a

Classical bust in bronze, lent by Miss Helena Lodge, Washing-
ton, D. C.

Portrait of Thomas Amory, of Boston, by Gilbert Stuart, lent by
Miss Helen Amory Ernst, Washington, D. C.

Sculptured figure of a howling coyote (plaster cast), by Edward
Kemeys, lent by Mrs. Edward Kemeys, to be placed with her col-
lection of similar objects in the temporary possession of the gallery.

Five paintings by French masters, lent by the Hon. and Mrs.
Louis A. Frothingham, North Easton, Mass., as follows:

The Lake (panel), by C. F. Daubigny.

Twilight on the River Oise (panel), by C. F. Daubigny.

The Little Marauders (panel), by Narcisse Diaz.

Groups of dogs, fox hounds (panel), by Narcisse Diaz.

The Setting Sun (canvas), by J. B. C. Corot.

Plaster death mask of Napoleon Bonaparte (signed by Anton
Marchi), described as the orignal death mask of Napoleon, lent by
Mrs. L. R. Hoover, Washington, D. C.

Portrait bust in plaster of President James Monroe, by Margaret
French Cresson (Mrs. William Penn Cresson), lent by Mrs. Cresson,
Washington, D. C.

Portrait of Theophilus Parsons, first chief justice of Massachu-
setts, by Gilbert Stuart, lent by Mr. Theophilus Parsons, his great-
grandson, Washington, D. C.

LOANS BY THE GALLERY

The American Federation of Arts borrowed three paintings for a
special exhibition given by the Carnegie Public Library, Fort
Worth, Tex.: “June,” by John W. Alexander, which has since been
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 61

returned to its place in the gallery; and “ By the River,” by Stephen
Bosnay, and “Schloss Monrepos,” by Hermann Gohler, which are
still being shown on circuit in Texas.

DISTRIBUTIONS

Paintings lent to the gallery have been withdrawn by their owners
during the year as follows:

Portrait of Alexander Hamilton, by John Trumbull; portrait of
Fisher Ames, by Gilbert Stuart; and River Landscape with Cattle,
by Constant Troyon; withdrawn by Mr. John E. Lodge.

Five paintings by Old World masters and four by American
painters: Portrait of Admiral Vernon, by Thomas Gainsborough;
The Ford, by J. B. C. Corot; Garden at Giverny, by Claude Monet;
Saskia as “ Minerva,” by Rembrandt Van Rijn; Children on the
Beach, by T. Sorolla; Sunset, by George Inness; Olive Trees at
Corfu, by John Singer Sargent; portrait of Mrs. Samuel Miller, by
John Wesley Jarvis; and portrait of Sarah Cresson, by Thomas
Sully; withdrawn by Mrs. Breckinridge Long.

Sixteen examples of the works of old masters: Portrait of a boy,
by Sir Henry Raeburn; portrait of an Irish gentleman, by John
Hoppner; portrait of Viscountess Hatton, by Sir Peter Lely; por-
trait of a gentleman, by Sir Godfrey Kneller; portrait of Judith
von Volbergen, by P. Moreelse; landscape, by Richard Wilson;
landscape, by Gainsborough; small landscape, by Gainsborough;
landscape, by Constable; The Doctor’s Visit, by Jan Steen; Scene
in Venice, by Guardi; portrait of Sir Wm. Boothby, by Sir Joshua
Reynolds; portrait of Mrs. Price, by Sir Joshua Reynolds; portrait
of woman, by Drost or Vermeer; Turkish scene, by Diaz; and Grand
Canal, Venice, by Canaletto; withdrawn by Mrs. Marshall Langhorne.

The Annunciation, attributed to Lorenzo Sabbatini; withdrawn by
the Misses McKey, of New York City.

Six paintings and a bas-relief: Madonna and Child, by Fran-
cesco Bissolo; portrait of Mrs. Richard Eaton, by Charles Willson
Peale; Spanish interior, by Juan Galves, 1598; Holy Family, at-
tributed to Francesco Francia; portrait, Man in a Red Coat, attrib-
uted to Thomas Hudson, master of Sir Joshua Reynolds; portrait,
Man Holding a Lily, artist unknown; and portrait, Sarah Redwood
Lee (bronze bas-relief), by Augustus Saint-Gaudens; withdrawn by
Miss Sarah Redwood Lee.

Two portraits of the late President Warren Gamaliel Harding,
by E. Hodgson Smart, lent by the artist, were sent to the United
States Capitol, care Senator Simeon D. Fess, at the request of the
artist.

Portrait group of Mrs. Wheeler and her sons, by Thomas Sully;
withdrawn by Capt. William D. Wheeler, United States Air Corps.

eo
62 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1927

LIBRARY

The gallery library, by gift, purchase, and subscription, has reached
a total of upward of 1,500 volumes, pamphlets, and periodicals.

A portfolio of unframed water color sketches, by William H.
Holmes, has been presented by the artist.

COPYING

Mr. Wilbur Dean Hamilton, of the department of fine arts of the
Massachusetts Normal Art School, Boston, Mass., completed a copy
of the Romney portrait of John Wesley, belonging to the John H.
McFadden collection, which copy is to be placed in the Wesley room
in Lincoln College, Oxford, England. The privilege of making the
copy was granted by the trustees of the collection, which is a loan
to the gallery.

PUBLICATIONS

Holmes, W. H. Report on the National Gallery of Art for the year ending
June 30, 1926. Appendix 2, report of the secretary of the Smithsonian
Institution for the year ending June 30, 1926, pp. 50-60.

Plea for a National Gallery of Art. Art and Archaeology, Vol. XXIII,
No. 2, February, 1927, pp. 50-69. 21 illustrations.

Catalogue of an exhibition of oil paintings of Venice from Dawn to Dusk, by
Herbert Waldron Faulkner, on view in the central room of the National
Gallery, Natural History Building, United States National Museum, Novem-
ber 29 to December 12, 1926. Washington, 1926, pp. 1-2. :

Catalogue of a collection of paintings and drawings by the late John Ross
Key (1887-1920), on view in the central room of the National Gallery,
Natural History Building, United States National Museum, January 15 to
February 6, 1927. Washington, 1927, pp. 1-3.

Catalogue of a memorial collection of drawings in red chalk by John Elliott
(1858-1925) of the original members of the Lafayette Escadrille and a few
others of the American men who fought in the Great War, on view in the
central room of the National Gallery, Natural History Building, United
States National Museum, February 19 to March 13, 1927. Washington,
1927,pp. Ink.

Respectfully submitted.

W. H. Houmss, Director
Dr. Cuaries G. AxBport,
Acting Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 3
REPORT ON THE FREER GALLERY OF ART

Sir: I have the honor to submit the seventh annual report on the
Freer Gallery of Art for the year ending June 30, 1927:

THE COLLECTIONS
Additions to the collections by purchase are as follows:
POTTERY

27.1. Persian bowl, tenth-eleventh century. Sphinx and scroll design carved
in the biscuit. Green and black glaze.

27.2. Persian plate, tenth-eleventh century. Animal design carved in the bis-
cuit. White, aubergine, yellow and green glaze.

27.3. Persian bowl, twelfth—-thirteenth century. Rhages. Decoration painted
in colors and gold on a white glaze.

27.4. Persian (or Mesopotamian) bowl, tenth-eleventh century. Sphinx and
chequer design carved in the biscuit. Green and black glaze.

PAINTING

. Persian, late thirteenth century.
. Two leaves from a Manafi al Hayawan, with paintings in water color and
gold set in the text.
SCULPTURE

27.7. Indian, eleventh-twelfth century. ‘Trivikrama, one of the 24 images of
Visnu. Black schist.

Work within the collection has been carried forward in the section
of Japanese painting and is almost completed at the date of this
report. This work includes the reclassification of paintings, the
translation of the inscriptions and seals upon them, and the recording
of critical opinion. The section of Chinese pottery has also under-
gone an intensive study and a certain amount of revision in order to
keep pace with the knowledge that is slowly being accumulated in
this field.

During the year 123 objects have been submitted for an expert
opinion upon them or for translations of their inscriptions, and
several other Chinese and Japanese texts as well.

Changes in exhibition during the year have involved 4 Japanese
screens, 6 Japanese panels, 2 Whistler pastels, 1 American pottery
vase, 23 Chinese panels and 1 scroll, and 8 Indian paintings.

63
64 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1927

The work of reconditioning the ceiling of the Peacock Room, which
was mentioned in the last annual report, was successfully completed
during the fall and early winter. The cabinet work involved in it
was done in our own shop, and the restoration of the painted surface
under the direction of the restorer employed by the gallery. ‘The
latter also put into safer condition the leather panel with the pea-
cock design at the south end of the room and one painting by D. W.
Tryon. In the oriental section two Chinese panels and two Japanese
screens have been remounted and restored.

Additions to the library by purchase and gift include 37 volumes,
of which 2 are in Japanese; 28 periodicals, and 151 pamphlets. A
list of these accompanies this report as Appendix A (not printed).
Thirteen volumes have been rebound.

The demand for photographs is constant, and in meeting it the
gallery is building up its store of negatives. There are now 1,158
fine-art subjects available for purchase, at cost price, in sizes 5 by 7,
8 by 10, 11 by 14 and 18 by 22; and 24 subjects in post-card form.
In addition to these, the gallery possesses 829 negatives of the Bibli-
cal manuscripts, from which photographs can be obtained on order.
One thousand two hundred and forty-six photographs, 34 lantern
slides, and 1,569 post cards have been sold during the year, and one
rubbing from a Chinese carved stone, which was made to order.
Of the gallery publications, 332 gallery books, 583 descriptive pam-
phlets, 256 Synopsis of History, and 9 floor plans have been sold.

THE BUILDING

For several months the shop was occupied with the tedious and
delicate repair work necessitated by the reconditioning of the ceiling
of the Peacock Room. Other shop work includes the work on exhibi-
tion cases and pedestals, the making of various articles of equipment,
and ordinary repair work.

The most marked change in the appearance of the building has
been occasioned by the substitution of grass plots for the four corner
sections of brick work in the court. It is thought.that this change
will not only yield a greater pleasure to the eye but that it will mate-
rially decrease the amount of radiated heat during the summer
months. A detailed report made by the superintendent is submitted
herewith as Appendix C (not printed).

ATTENDANCE

The gallery has been open every day with the exception of Mon-
days, Christmas Day, and New Year’s Day from 9 until 4.30 o’clock,
and until 12 o’clock on June 11, the day set aside to honor Colonel
Lindbergh on his return from France. The total attendance for
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 65

the year was 110,753. The aggregate Sunday attendance was 81,254,
making an average of 601; the week-day attendance amounted to
79,499, with a daily average of 3807. Of these visitors, 823 came to
the main offices—367 to take advantage of the facilities for study
in the brary and storage rooms; 84 to see the facsimiles of the
biblical manuscripts; 7 to make drawings and sketches; 53 to submit
objects for examination, 142 for general information, and 197 to
examine or purchase photographs. Forty-five persons interested in
museum work made a study of the building and its equipment.
Twenty-four groups of people, representing several schools and
other organizations, were given docent service in the galleries.

FIELD WORK

The most important single undertaking of the past year in the
field was the preliminary excavation of an interesting prehistoric
site in Shansi Province, from which a large amount—76 cases in
all—of valuable material was recovered. This piece of work was
carried out last autumn under the immediate supervision of Dr. Chi
Li, whose full report is now in course of preparation. A general
account of the activities of the field staff is, however, contained in
Appendix B, submitted herewith (not printed).

PERSONNEL

Mr. Herbert E. Thompson, Boston, with his assistants, C. E.
Durham and Alfred Lowe, worked on the preservation of the
Peacock Room and one oil painting.

Mr. Y. Kinoshita, of the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, worked
at the gallery during the winter months on the preservation of
oriental paintings.

Mr. A. G. Wenley, field assistant, spent the winter in study at
the Collége de France, Paris.

Mr. C. W. Bishop, associate curator, has been temporarily recalled
to the gallery.

Respectfully submitted.
J. E. Loner,

Curator, Freer Gallery of Art.
Dr. C. G. Axsgor,

Acting Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 4
REPORT ON THE BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the field
researches, office work, and other operations of the Bureau of Ameri-
can Ethnology during the fiscal year ended June 30, 1927, conducted
in accordance with the act of Congress approved April 22, 1926.
The act referred to contains the following item:

American Ethnology: For continuing ethnological researches among the
American Indians and the natives of Hawaii, the excavation and preservation
of archseologic remains under the direction of the Smithsonian Institution,
including necessary employees, the preparation of manuscripts, drawings, illus-
trations, the purchase of necessary books and periodicals, and traveling ex-
penses, $57,160, of which amount not to exceed $46,000 may be expended for
personal services in the District of Columbia.

The chief, as in former years, has endeavored to use this appropria-
tion as economically as possible, being always conscious that the
amount available is too small to cover the expense of very extensive
field work. His major aim is to make the money go as far as possible
in the advancement of our knowledge of the Indian, and the diffusion
of the information acquired.

Popular interest in anthropology, especially archeology, has in-
creased greatly during the last decade, and each year replies to
queries occupy more of the time of our staff. In spite of the limited
appropriation, the bureau has had more investigators in the field
during the past year than in any similar period of the present régime.

The systematic researches of the chief at Elden Pueblo, begun in
the last fiscal year and treated in the report for 1925-26, were con-
tinued through July and August. All of the exterior walls and
most of the interior rooms were completely excavated, the rough
stone walls of the building showing that it was rectangular in out-
line and included dwellings, storage rooms, and a single kiva. It
extended over a space measuring 145 by 125 feet, oriented approxi-
mately north and south. The standing walls range from 2 to 7 feet
in height. Elden Pueblo is the largest ruin yet excavated in the
Flagstaff region, but there are many others of the same general
character still hidden from the light and demanding attention.
Although the masonry is crude, the pottery of Elden Pueblo is well
made, well decorated, and often highly polished, in a few cases
closely recalling glazed ware which was rarely manufactured in

prehistoric Arizona. Both the masonry and the ceramics of Elden
66
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 67

Pueblo are closely allied to those of the little-known cliff ruins,
Kietsiel and Betatakin, and the open-air pueblos situated near St.
George, Utah. The pueblo shows aflinities with a culture antecedent
to that of Sikyatki and Homolobi, the former being late prehistoric
and the latter post-Columbian.

In the midst of graves forming a cemetery on the east side of
Elden Pueblo were found subterranean walled depressions, which
remind one of those post-Basket Maker rooms or megalithic pit
houses which form such a widespread architectural feature, of archaic
age, in the Southwest.

Abundant human burials were discovered in cemeteries situated
outside the eastern and northern sides. The skeletons were not flexed
but lay at full length, their heads generally turned toward the
east; those buried at the greatest depth were surrounded by burial
offerings, in one instance covered with adobe or hardened clay.
About 500 complete pottery vessels were brought back, half of which
were unbroken. The collection also contains numerous sherds and
other objects, the whole forming the largest collection of pre-
Puebloan material of this epoch in the National Museum. In each
burial was found an average of five to six ceramic objects such as
bowls. This important collection is timely and, for the study of
pueblo chronology, is much better than pottery fragments. The
collection contains some of the oldest types of that southwestern
pottery which was manufactured before the introduction of glazed
ware. ‘The specimens are also older than the yellow-red-brown type
found at Sikyatki and Homolobi. It contains a large number of
bright red bowls with burnished black interiors resembling the Pima
and Papago ware of the Lower Gila and California.

In June, 1927, the chief undertook a short reconnaissance to
Greenville, S. C., to test the desirability of undertaking field work
in the Piedmont region, the archeology of which is little known.
Though the trip was a short one, he was much gratified with the
prospects for intensive work in the locality and hopes in the
autumn to begin elaborate field investigations there. He ex-
amined several fine collections containing pottery, stone, and clay
pipes, and other objects, none of which has ever been figured or
described. He made a number of excursions into the surrounding
country and visited several mounds in the Piedmont region, one of
which was selected for subsequent explorations. Fragments of
pottery picked up on the surface seem to indicate a Cherokee origin.
A fine bowl found near the bank of the Savannah River was of
Middle Mississippi type and resembled effigy vases from Arkansas.
It would seem that the archeology of this region is complex and
would well repay investigation, especially as so little attention has
thus far been given to it.
68 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1927

The chief obtained many excellent photographs of archeological
objects in the collection of Messrs. Thackston and Schwing, of Green-
ville, to whom, as well as to other citizens of the section, he wishes to
express here his thanks for the many kindnesses which he received.
The photographs, made by Dowling of Greenville, include several
unique specimens.

Dr. John R. Swanton, ethnologist, was engaged during the past
fiscal year in reading the proof of his papers on “Social Organiza-
tion and Social Usages of the Indians of the Creek Confederacy ”;
“ Aboriginal Culture of the Southeast”; and the proof of Mr. W. E.
Myer’s paper on “Trails of the Southeast.” These papers are to
appear in the forty-second annual report. Doctor Swanton prepared
a paper of over 200 pages on the “Social and Religious Usages of
the Chickasaw Indians,” which has been accepted for publication,
With the help of Miss Mae Tucker, he completed a card catalogue
of the Timucua words contained in the printed works of Pareja and
Movilla, which he is now engaged in studying and correcting. He
also has in preparation a bulletin on the social and religious usages
of the Choctaw Indians similar to that on the Chickasaw.

During the fiscal year Dr. Truman Michelson, ethnologist, con-
tinued his researches among the Algonquian tribes. In the early
part of the year he began work among the Arapaho of Wyoming.
Although many years ago he pointed out the divergent character of
their language as compared with other Algonquian tongues, the past
season’s work brought this out even more clearly. It can not be
denied that Algonquian elements occur in both the vocabulary and
grammar of the language, even though the phonetic shifts are highly
complex. But certain lexical elements, as well as certain morphologi-
cal traits, must apparently be derived from other sources. From
these preliminary studies it may be said that Arapaho might almost
be called a stock in the making. These circumstances render an ex-
haustive study of the language highly desirable. In Washington
Doctor Michelson prepared for publication by the bureau a manu-
script entitled “ Notes on the Buffalo Head Dance of the Thunder
gens of the Fox Indians.” He also corrected the proofs of Bulletin
85, “ Contributions to Fox Ethnology.”

He furthermore typed the Fox text and English translation of
an account of the wapanowiweni, a text and translation of the same
relating to the mythical origin of a major ceremony of the Thunder
gens, and the Indian text of the Thunder dance of the Bear gens.
All of these, combined with some additional material, will be pre-
sented for publication by the bureau. Doctor Michelson has pre-
pared a brief paper on the St. Lawrence Island Eskimo crania in
the United States National Museum, which is to be printed in the
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 69

American Journal of Physical Anthropology. This proves statisti-
cally that the crania are very uniform, and that, although the cranial
index is higher than that of the eastern Eskimo, this could not be
considered as showing admixture with a broad-headed type. He
spent some time studying the alleged proof of the Australian and
Melanesian affinities of certain American stocks, and found that it
lacks a sound foundation. On his way west Doctor Michelson stopped
in Chicago where he took the important measurements of all the
Blackfoot (Siksika) crania in the Field Museum of Natural History.
The average height of the male skulls is in round numbers 130 milli-
meters. These measurements, when combined with those of material
in the United States National Museum, should be sufficient to settle
a number of disputed points.

Mr. J. P. Harrington, ethnologist, during July and August, as-
sisted the chief in the work at Elden Pueblo, described previously in
this report. The rest of the year was devoted to the preparation for
publication of field data obtained the previous year in the Chumash
region of southern California. The Chumash are fast being accultu-
rated to the languages and mode of life of the Mexican and American
people with whom they are in daily contact and it is important that
what information is still available be made a matter of record with-
out further delay.

Through the cooperation of Mr. Earl V. Shannon, of the division
of mineralogy of the National Museum, the paints used by the Indians
were identified chemically, with interesting results, specimens pur-
chased from living Indians and also those taken from graves being
used for the purpose.

A very complete linguistic study of the ethnobotany of these In-
dians was carried out, with special attention to the ancient designa-
tions of the parts of the plants and their growth development. The
designations of pollen, pistil, stamen, and petal vary widely as we
pass from dialect to dialect, various words used for other concep-
. tions being extended to cover them. This same irregularity has also
been apparent in comparing the nomenclature of plant species.

Mr. Harrington also read proofs of his Kiowa and Picuris papers,
which are now in press. The paper on the Kiowa is important for
the classification of the Pueblo Indian languages. In connection with
the Picuris paper, Miss H. H. Roberts prepared transcriptions and
analyses of Picuris songs which will constitute the most complete
study in existence of the music of this tribe.

Early in 1926, Mr. J. N. B. Hewitt, ethnologist, completed the
manuscript “ Iroquoian Cosmology, Second Part, with Introduction
and Notes.”

74906—28——_6
70 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1927

He has devoted considerable time to work upon the manuscript
report on the Indian tribes of the Upper Missouri made by Edwin
Thompson Denig to the Hon. Isaac Stevens, Governor of Washing-
ton Territory, which has been under consideration for publication by
the bureau for more than 10 years. This report has intrinsic merit,
as it contains much ethnologic information which it is now impos-
sible to obtain because of changed conditions in the life of the tribes
mentioned in it.

Several evenings each week during the autumn and winter Mr.
Hewitt devoted to the recording of lexical and grammatical material
in the language of the Nez Percé Indians of the Shahaptian linguistic
stock of the Powellian classification of Amerindian languages north
of Mexico. In this work Mr. Hewitt was assisted by Mr. Mark
Phinney, an intelligent and well-educated young man of that tribe,
who is employed in the Office of Indian Affairs of the Interior
Department.

This work was undertaken primarily to obtain ampler and more
accurate linguistic material in this language further to elucidate and
confirm certain fundamental conclusions reached by Mr. Hewitt in
1894 in regard to the genetic linguistic relationship of three con-
tiguous northwestern linguistic stocks—namely, the Shahaptian, the
Waiilatpuan, and the Lutuamian—of the Powellian classification of
Amerindian languages north of Mexico. These fundamental con-
clusions were embodied in two formal reports to the director of the
bureau, having been prepared for his especial use and at his behest
as appears in the administrative report of the director for 1894. He
approved the findings of both reports, although the last was not de-
livered until after the administrative report had been written; he
had been verbally informed of what the conclusions would be. ‘The
first of these reports showed genetic linguistic relationship between
the Shaltaptian and the Waiilatpuan linguistic stocks of the Pow-
ellian classification of Amerindian tongues north of Mexico; and
the second showed, likewise, genetic linguistic relationship between.
the Lutuamian stock of languages and the new group, Shahaptian-
Waiilatpuan, established by the findings of the first report. Thus
these two formal reports brought together into one linguistic stock
the Shahaptian, the Waiilatpuan, and the Lutuamian linguistic
stocks of the Powellian classification. To this new grouping of lan-
guages was tentatively assigned the name Shapwatilutan, an
artificial term made up of the initial syllables of the names of the
three combined stocks. Mr. Hewitt has since then found no reason
to change his conclusions in these two reports, and his work with
Mr. Phinney has only strengthened his findings.

As custodian of manuscripts, Mr. Hewitt reports that, with the
exception of a number of cross-references, the cataloguing of the

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 71

manuscripts had been completed at the close of the fiscal year, and
that the cataloguing of the phonograph records of Indian music was
the new work for the year.

On May 8, 1927, Mr. Hewitt went to Brantford, Canada, where he
resumed his researches, studying intensively the rituals, laws, cus-
toms, and chants characteristic of the League of the Iroquois.

In 1896 Chief Seth Newhouse, a Mohawk, showed Mr. Hewitt a
document upon which he had been working for more than 15 years.
It purported to be the constitution and by-laws of the League of
the Iroquois, in the compilation of which Mr. Newhouse had visited
all the Iroquois reservations known to him in both Canada and the
United States. Mr. Newhouse was an exceptionally fiuent speaker
in Mohawk, but instead of recording the material in the Mohawk
tongue he painfully recorded it in picturesque broken English. Mr.
Hewitt realized that the significance of the materials contained in
this document had been lost in the attempted translation and finally
convinced Mr. Newhouse that it was his duty to render the ideas
underlying the English of the document into Mohawk. This he did
in 1898, and the study of this material is one of Mr. Hewitt’s present
occupations.

Mr. Hewitt also recorded a Cayuga version of the Chant Along
the Trails or The Chant of the Roll of the Founders of the Lodge;
a Cayuga version of the chant, Over the Great Forest; the music
scores of the several chants of the condoling and installation rituals
of the league; and an “ Introduction ” in Cayuga and Onondaga to
the second part of the requickening address which is uttered in the
principal place of assembly.

Dr. F¥. H. H. Roberts, jr., archeologist, joined the staff of the
Bureau of American Ethnology on November 1, 1926. His winter
months were devoted to a study of the ceramics of the San Juan area
of the Southwest. Doctor Roberts left Washington April 27 for
Boulder, Colo., where a study of early ceramic forms was made in the
museum of the University of Colorado.

On May 6 he visited El Paso, Tex., for the purpose of investigating
certain caves in a small range of mountains which lie 25 miles north-
east of the city, between El Paso and the far-famed Hueco Tanks.
There are 28 of these natural recesses in the faces of the cliffs, in
nost cases just above the tops of the talus slopes. In general they
open to the west or northwest. Most of them bear traces of Indian
visitors. In the majority of the caves these traces are largely in the
form of pictographs painted on the walls with red pigment. The
pictures are in great part highly conventionalized and geometric in
form. In two instances they were decidedly suggestive of the deco-
rations on pottery from Casas Grandes in northern Mexico.
72 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1927

Three of the caves showed evidences of an occupation extending
over a considerable period, judging from the amount of débris and
ash on the floors. In the course of two hours’ digging, 12 sandals,
a number of spear shafts, a fragment of netting, several pieces of
cord, portions of rabbit sticks, a few beads, and two potsherds were |
found.

The sandals are of a rare and interesting form which is not com-
mon in the better-known portions of the Southwest. A loop of yucca
was twisted to form the edges of the sole and yucca leaves woven
back and forth across this framework. Similar specimens have been
found in caves in portions of west Texas, east of the present site,
and at one or two places in the Mimbres Valley. Two strands of
twisted yucca leaves were fastened together at the toe, running back
about halfway on either side. The sandal was presumably held in
piace by passing the toe portion of the “tie” between two toes.
The spear shafts were rather elaborately decorated with streamers of
yucca fiber. In some instances a small stone point was used; in
others a hardened wood point.

On May 13 Doctor Roberts left El Baso for the Chaco Canyon in
northwestern New Mexico, where excavation was begun on some
slab houses on the top of the south rim of the canyon 9 miles east of
Pueblo Bonito and Chetro Kettle. Between May 17 and June 30,
12 houses, 20 storage cists, and 1 large kiva were excavated.

All of the houses proved to be of the semisubterranean single-
room variety, rectangular or slightly oval in shape, averaging about
15 feet in leneth by about 10 feet in width. They were excavated
21% to 3 feet deep and found to be lined with large slabs of stone,
the whole covered with a pole, brush, and plaster superstructure
supported on four poles in the interior of the house. In practically
all cases there was a small opening to the south, possibly a door.
Many of the features of these houses are similar to those which
are found in, and considered characteristic of, the highly developed
kivas or ceremonial rooms of the communal dwellings of later
periods. The storage cists were small oval or circular pits about 2144
feet deep, lined with stone slabs. Houses and storage cists were
grouped about the kiva, which is the first of its type to be excavated
in the Southwest. The front of the banquette and the wall of the
kiva were made of large slabs of stone; the latter were covered with
a thick coating of adobe plaster.

Potsherds and other objects of the material culture of the builders
of this slab-house village are scarce. The fragments of pottery
found, however, are of the type which in southwestern archeology
has been given the term “ post-Basket Maker.” Doctor Roberts be-
heves them to be from a late phase of the post-Basket Maker culture,
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 73

probably the end of the period and just prior to the beginning of
the pre-Puebloan stage.

Fourteen burials were found and only three had accompanying
mortuary offerings. The latter was, in each case, a bowl. Unfor-
tunately the skeletons were in such a poor state of preservation that
in all but three instances their removal was out of the question. None
of the skulls was deformed, a typical Pueblo trait, and all were
dolichocephals or “longheads.” A detailed map was made.

e SPECIAL RESEARCHES

The research in Indian music was conducted in a wider field during
the past year than in any year preceding. In July, 1926, Miss
Frances Densmore, collaborator in Indian music, returned to Neah
Bay, Wash., to continue her study of the music of the Makah and of
Indians from Vancouver Island who have married members of the
Makah Tribe. More than 140 songs were recorded, including a
group of old songs obtained from a woman of the Quileute Tribe, a
particularly isolated tribe living south of Makah.

An exceptional opportunity for the study of Indian music was
afforded by the celebration of “Makah Day” on August 26 and by
the rehearsals preceding this annual festivity. The program de-
picted the arrival of a visiting tribe and the entertainment which in
the old days would have taken place on such an occasion. The In-
dians who took the part of visitors arrived in a gaily decorated boat
and were formally welcomed and escorted to the place of entertain-
ment, where dances were given by expert Makah dancers. Several of
these dances were dramatic presentations of tribal traditions. For ex-
ample, it was the old belief of the Makah that many sorts of animals,
birds, trees, and rocks were once human beings, and one of the most
important dances was an impersonation of human beings who were
the ancestors of the elk.

The songs recorded at Neah Bay included the songs of the Makah
Day dances, rendered by the leading singers, and songs of the “ imper-
sonation dances” that formed part of the Klokali ceremony. In
these dances they formerly impersonated the wolf, deer, and wild
white geese. An interesting group of Clayoquot songs was addressed
to the sea when the breakers were high and it was said “the sea
always seemed to become calm soon after these songs were sung.” A
phase of music hitherto unstudied in detail was the old composed
song, distinct from the song received in a dream. It appears from
data collected in two localities that physical motion was considered
an aid to musical composition, some musicians composing while
sitting in a swing, others while walking, and others (on the coast of
British Columbia) while riding in a motor boat.
74 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1927

After five weeks at Neah Bay Miss Densmore went to Chilliwack,
British Columbia, where Indians from a wide territory are annually
employed as pickers in the hop fields. An effort was made to obtain
songs of all important classes, from Indians as widely separated as
possible. More than 125 songs were recorded, among the localities
represented being the Nass, Skeena, Thompson, and Fraser Rivers,
Port Simpson, the west coast of British Columbia and the southwest
coast of Vancouver Island. The singers came from a region extend-
ing about 400 miles north and south and about 150 miles east and
west. Two aged medicine men recorded songs which they use at the
present time in treating the sick, and numerous healing songs were
recorded by other Indians. One was for the cure of smallpox; in
another the doctor addressed the seal, grizzly bear, and deer, asking
their help, while the next song contained their favorable response.
The medicine men appreciated the value of the work and recorded
their songs without reluctance.

Mention should be made of the slahal game played often at the
hop camp by a large number of Indians, with crowds of Indian
spectators. ‘The songs and method of playing the game were re--
corded, the players were photographed during a game, and the
bone game implements were loaned for photographic purposes.

Seven manuscripts on the foregoing field work were submitted
to the Bureau of American Ethnology with the following titles:
_ “Songs of the Quileute Indians”; “ Makah and Clayoquot songs for
treating the sick and Makah songs in honor of the dead”; “ Klokali
songs of the Makah Indians”; “Songs of Indians living on the
Sliamey and Homaco Reserves in British Columbia”; “Songs of
Indians living at Port Simpson and on the Skeena and Nass Rivers
in British Columbia ”; “ Makah and Clayoquot songs”; and “ Songs
and dances presented on Makah Day, 1926, at Neah Bay, Wash.”
A paper was also submitted entitled “A comparison between Pawnee
songs and those previously analyzed,” with 18 tables of analysis.
The number of manuscript pages was 178 and the number of tran-
scribed songs 124.

In British Columbia, as in the United States, opportunities for
the study of genuine Indian music are rapidly passing, though there
still remain old people who can sing the ancient songs.

Dr. Ale’ Hrdlitka, curator of physical anthropology, United
States National Museum, made during the spring and summer of
1926 a comprehensive anthropological and archeological survey in
Alaska.

Upon reaching the Seward Peninsula he found himself confronted
with unsurmountable difficulties in the matter of transportation.
The arrival of the Revenue Cutter Bear was a fortunate circum-
stance, for he secured both accommodation and promise of assistance
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 75
in his work. Doctor Hrdlicka left on the Bear July 22 with the
intention of landing where indications might demand; but notwith-
standing certain disadvantages, until the end oi the Bear’s journey
he did not feel justified in leaving the ship.

The trip, barring the storms, ice, etc., was propitious. The ship
stopped at every place of importance along the whole coast up to
Point Barrow. He was given facilities and help to make at least
the most necessary observations and collections.

Scientific results—The whole trip was very useful, and threw a
definite light on a number of important problems in the regions
covered. It suggested definite notions as to what is to be done in
the future, among which are the following:

Antiquity of man—Much that was seen strengthens the probabili-
ties, as well as showing the facilities of Asiatic migrations over and
along the Seward Peninsula, across Bering Sea, and also by way of
the Aleutian Islands. But material evidence of these comings was
not found, and must be very limited, if not completely wanting, for
the following reasons: The comings could have been only by small
numbers of people, and these contingents would effect but small and
temporary settlements along the coasts and perhaps the banks of a
few streams. The reasons were a relative scarcity of the population
in the northeastern parts of Asia, on account of the limited resources
of that region; the more or less nomadic habits of the people, due to
seasonal conditions and the shifting food supply; their dependence
on the sea and rivers for both food and movement, the hinterland
being poor in resources and not favorable for migrations toward
more desirable regions.

Old Eskimo sites—Older abandoned sites of the Eskimo, from
those of small camps with perhaps only two or three “igloos”
to good-sized dead villages, are quite common. They occur as a rule
on, or just above, the low “spits” and beaches of the sea and on the
banks of the rivers or lakes.

The Teller battle field—This consists merely of a tundra plain,
dotted with small lagoons. In its vicinity are at least two, and prob-
ably more, small old sites, with their graves for the most part al-
ready assimilated by the tundra. The plain itself shows, as far as
seen, nothing but moss and other similar vegetation.

The archeological objects that it was possible to secure show: (1)
Contact with Asia; (2) two varieties of decoration, rectilinear
and curvilinear, the latter much superior to the former; (38) exten-
sive trading (“jade,” slate, obsidian); (4) a great differentiation
and variety in places, indicating a rather high culture.

This survey of conditions in the northwestern part of Alaska
indicates the need of prompt work of archeological and anthro-
pological nature in several directions.
76 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1927

Dr. Walter Hough, head curator of anthropology, United States
National Museum, was detailed to examine recent excavations at
Indian Mound, Tenn., reported by the Hon. Joseph W. Byrns.
In the town of Indian Mound is a large burial mound from which
the place derives its name. The mound is much lowered by cultiva-
tion, some of the older settlers affirming that it was several feet
higher than at present.

Through the enterprise of Mr. T. W. Seay, jr., excavations in
the summit of the mound brought to light several slab-box burials, a
number of skeletons, and a few artifacts. From the surface of the
mound and adjoining lots, showing rich, black soil containing arti-
facts, many specimens of stone implements have been picked up.
Through the kindness of Mr. Seay, Doctor Hough visited a num-
ber of village sites, burial mounds, and flint quarries in the neighbor-
hood of Indian Mound and Dover, collecting numerous specimens.

EDITORIAL WORK AND PUBLICATIONS

The editing of the publications of the bureau was continued
through the year by Mr. Stanley Searles, editor, assisted by Mrs.
Frances S. Nichols, editorial assistant. The status of the publica-
tions is presented in the following summary:

PUBLICATIONS ISSUED

Bulletin 82. Archeological Observations North of the Rio Colorado, by Neil M.
Judd. 171 pp., 61 pls., 46 figs.

Bulletin 83. Burials of the Algonquian, Siouan, and Caddoan Tribes West of
the Mississippi, by David I. Bushnell, jr. 1038 pp., 37 pls., 3 figs.

List of Publications of the Bureau of American Ethnology, 46 pp.

PUBLICATIONS IN PRESS OR IN PREPARATION

Forty-first Annual Report. Accompanying papers: Coiled Basketry in British
Columbia and Surrounding Region (Boas, assisted by Haeberlin, Roberts,
and Teit) ; Two Prehistoric Villages in Middle Tennessee (Myer).

Forty-second Annual Report. Accompanying papers: Social Organization and
Social Usages of the Indians of the Creek Confederacy; Religious Beliefs
and Medical Practices of the Creek Indians; Aboriginal Culture of the South-
east (Swanton) ; Indian Trails of the Southeast (Myer).

Forty-third Annual Report. Accompanying papers: The Osage Tribe; Two
Versions of the Child-naming Rite (La Flesche) ; Wawenock Myth Texts
from Maine (Speck); Native Tribes and Dialects of Connecticut (Speck) ;
Picuris Children’s Stories, with Texts and Songs (Harrington) ; Iroquoian
Cosmology—Part II (Hewitt).

Forty-fourth Annual Report. Accompanying papers: Excavation of the Burton
Mound at Santa Barbara, Calif. (Harrington) ; Social and Religious Usages
of the Chickasaw Indians (Swanton); Uses of Plants by the Chippewa
Indians (Densmore) ; Archeological Investigations—II (Fowke).

Bulletin 84. A Vocabulary of the Kiowa Language (Harrington).

Bulletin 85. Contributions to Fox Ethnology (Michelson).

Bulletin 86. Chippewa Customs (Densmore).
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 77
DISTRIBUTION OF PUBLICATIONS

The distribution of the publications of the bureau has been contin-
ued under the immediate charge of Miss Helen Munroe, assisted by
Miss Emma B. Powers. Publications were distributed as follows:

EVOmMAVOlIMES and Sepanatesteet sult tite, i) ov) ate Se eee 1, 474
METS NGIESe DOr Ales we omen) Sea Sl a Aa Aten Sireel Pres Tutaes Byte 7, 289
Caneibyutonss to North, American Wthnology= 9 2 2-5 2 34
MiSCEMANEOUS: OUDIGATIONG se eS Se oe es ee ee ee 1, 914

As compared with the fiscal year ending June 30, 1926, there was a
decrease of 3,079 publications distributed. This was partly due to
the fact that one less publication was distributed to the mailing list
than in the previous year.

Six addresses were added to the mailing list during the year and
31 taken from the list, making a net decrease of 25. The list now
stands at 1,713.

ILLUSTRATIONS

Following is a summary of work accomplished in the illustration
branch of the bureau under the supervision of Mr. DeLancey Gill,
illustrator :

Iilustrations: Photographs retouched and lettered, drawings, ete., pre-

SHancGeand: made ready: for engraving 2. ee 647
Mromiires Made: Maps; Ciasrams, etGs. = ew le Oty ie Se ee 44
Miiuserations” enotaver ss Proot criticized. 22-2 2 516
Colored illustration proofs examined at Government Printing Office___ 10, 500
Photographic prints of archeologic and ethnologic subjects____ Siiieres wlergie 603
TEASE ET RISK TTR GH Fas Sl ce ie ea de bah pe Ns Soe ae REN La Ry as 72
eae taTIMES ILL Gs See eee ee eee ee ea ee ne a Ree ee a gene Serer eee 16
Ouest ADM CuneMlar cements eo 5. eee Eek ee eee ee 6
Halmerollss developed: from field” exposures 2 = = 2-5 5 eee ee ee 24

About 70 per cent of the photographic laboratory work for the
bureau was done by Dr. A. J. Olmsted, of the United States National
Museum; and 50 per cent of the illustration work by Mr. Gill was
for the publications of the various bureaus of the Smithsonian in
cooperation. This arrangement has proved eminently satisfactory
in the past year, with a substantial saving of more than 80 per cent
of the former cost.

LIBRARY

The reference library has continued under the immediate care of
Miss Ella Leary, librarian, assisted by Mr. Thomas Blackwell. The
library consists of 27,141 volumes, about 15,937 pamphlets, and sev-
eral thousand unbound periodicals. During the year 480 books were
accessioned, of which 83 were acquired by purchase and 397 by gift
and exchange; also 3,950 serials, chiefly the publications of learned
societies, were received and recorded, of which only 102 were ob-
78 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1927

tained by purchase, the remainder being received through exchange.
Of pamphlets, 225 were obtained. During the year 288 volumes were
sent to the bindery. The catalogue was increased by the addition
of 1,980 cards. A considerable amount of time was given to pre-
paring bibliographic lists for correspondents. 'The endeavor to sup-
ply deficiencies in the sets of publications of institutions of learning
was continued without remission. Requisition was made on the
Library of Congress during the year for an aggregate of 300 volumes
for official use. The Bureau library was frequently consulted by
officers of other Government establishments.

COLLECTIONS

92528. Collection of archeological and skeletal material (740 specimens) secured
along the Upper Columbia River, Washington, during the spring of
1926 by Herbert W. Krieger.

92528. Skeleton of a shaman (less the skull), 2 femora of another shaman,
and 2 bleached bones from the skeleton of a chief, all Tlinkit, of
Alaska, collected by Dr. A. Hrdlicka.

94202. Small collection of shell beads and bracelets, and stone implements,
obtained from the ruin of Las Trincheras in the Altar districts of
Sonora by S. A. Williams.

94776. Archeological specimens from Arkansas, Colorado, Florida, Kentucky,
and Tennessee, secured by various collectors for the bureau. (25
specimens. )

93522. Anthropological, geological, and biological material collected by Dr.
AleS Hrdli¢ka in Alaska during the summer of 1926. (1,374 speci-
mens. ) .

93607. Material collected during the summer of 1926 in Louisiana and Mis-
sissippi by Henry B. Collins, jr. (286 specimens.)

95011. Ten master records of Hopi Indian songs recorded during the summer of
1926 at the Grand Canyen by Dr. J. Walter Fewkes and two master
records of a speech by William Jennings Bryan.

95372. One carved and painted wooden figure representing a Hopi snake priest.

96091. Four Indian crania from Elden Pueblo, Ariz., and 2 from Montezuma
Canyon, Colo.

96920. Collection of archeological objects gathered for the bureau at Indian
Mound, Tenn., by Dr. Walter Hough.

96921. Archeological material collected for the bureau at Elden Pueblo, Ariz.,
by Dr. J. Walter Fewkes during the summer of 1926.

PROPERTY

Office equipment was purchased to the amount of $123.74.

MISCELLANEOUS

Clerical——The correspondence and other clerical work of the office
has been conducted by Miss May S. Clark, clerk to the chief, assisted
by Mr. Anthony W. Wilding, stenographer. Miss Mae W. Tucker,
stenographer, continued to assist Dr. John R. Swanton in compiling

a a ih ian

— ee
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 79

a Timucua dictionary and Mr. Hewitt in finishing the reclassifying
and cataloguing of the manuscripts in the bureau archives. Miss
Tucker was also engaged in classifying and cataloguing the musical
records in the possession of the bureau. Mrs. Frances S. Nichols
assisted the editor.

Personnel.—Dr. F. H. H. Roberts, jr., archeologist, was appointed
on the staff of the bureau November 1, 1926.

Respectfully submitted.
J. Watrer Fewkes,

Chief, Bureau of American Lthnology.
Dr. C. G. Assgor,
Acting Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 5
REPORT ON THE INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGES

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the opera-
tions of the International Exchange Service during the fiscal year
ending June 30, 1927:

The congressional appropriation allowed for the support of the
system of international exchanges conducted under the direction of
the Smithsonian Institution during the fiscal year 1927 was $46,260,
the same as for the year 1926. In addition, $300 was allotted for
printing and binding. The collections on account of repayments
trom governmental and other establishments amounted to $5,947.24,
making the total available resources for carrying on the service dur-
ing the year, $52,507.24.

The total number of packages handled was 590,879, an ancrease
of 110,103 over the previous year. This is the largest increase in
the number of packages handled during any one year since the
organization of the service in 1850. Leaving out the period during
and immediately after the close of the World War—when the num-
ber of packages handled fluctuated greatly owing to the suspension
and resumption of shipments to certain countries—the other years
in which there were unusually large increases in the number of
packages passing through the service were 1909 (increase 25,777
packages), 1912 (increase 29,794 packages), and 1913 (increase
23,129 packages). ‘The packages handled during the fiscal year 1927
weighed a total of 553,125 pounds, a decrease of 5,368 pounds.

The large number of packages handled during 1927 was in great
measure due to the action of the United States Department of
Agriculture in turning over to the exchange office many hundreds of
small packages for distribution abroad that it formerly sent to their
destinations by mail. That department toward the close of the fiscal
year discontinued sending this material to the Institution and re-
sumed its transmission by mail.

For statistical purposes the packages handled by the exchange
service are divided into several classes. The number and weight of
the packages in these classes are given in the following table:

80

. *
OO a
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 81

Packages Weight

Sent |Received| Sent Received
Pounds | Pounds
United States parliamentary documents sent abroad_---.------ 2205064 aa see 947-055) |==sseceeee
Publications received in return for parliamentary documents_-_-_|____.__-_- (EMH gh ees Seer 23, 020
United States departmental documents sent abroad____-_------ FAS IZI | Soares eS 152; O78! | Zo
Publications received in return for departmental documents____|______--_- by 646) |e a eet 23, 940
Miscellaneous scientific and literary publications sent abroad__|} 106,786 |__-.------ 182, 036) eee eee
Miscellaneous scientific and literary publications received

from abroad for distribution in the United States___..._...--_|__-_-_--_- 32032) os eee 77, 096
UNG) ian ie eat ARE Se ER ee ae ee PU eS eye 2 LAY Obs 2 ee oe 546, 423 44, 456 429, 069 124, 056
ee ee

Grrmele te gill so aoe es re A es | 590, 879 553, 125

Last year 43,783 packages were received from abroad, a substantial
gain over the previous year in the number of packages received from
foreign countries. During the past 12 months, as shown in the
above table, there was a further gain in the number of packages
received from abroad.

Mr. Vittorio Benedetti, chief of the Italian exchange office in
Rome for the past 13 years, severed his connection with that office
on June 30, 1926, and was succeeded by Dr. Guglielmo Passigh,
who is one of the librarians of the Victor Emanuel National Library,
under the direction of which the Italian exchange office is conducted.
Dr. Passigli has been succeeded since by Dr. Vincenzo Fago as
director of the Italian exchange office. The Institution desires to
record here its appreciation of the valuable services rendered the
Smithsonian by Mr. Benedetti, not only in his regular duties as
chief of the exchange office, but in his painstaking efforts to procure
copies of Italian official publications for the Library of Congress
in exchange for the full series of United States governmental docu-
ments sent to Italy. To what extent the services of Mr. Benedetti
were valued by correspondents in his own country may be inferred
from the following extract from a letter addressed to Mr. Benedetti
by an official of the Library of American Studies in Italy:

It is with keen regret that I learn that you have left the exchange office where
for so many years you have rendered such courteous and efficient service in
promoting close intellectual relations between Italy and other countries. The

Library of American Studies found in you a sincere friend and your counsel
was most helpful to us when our organization was in its formative period.

Mr. Benedetti’s interest in the exchange service at large was so
great that shortly after his appointment as chief of the Italian Office
of International Exchanges he made a study of the origin and de-
velopment of the exchanges and wrote an account thereof, a copy of
the manuscript of which he presented to the Institution. So far as
82 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1927

this office is aware, the work was not published, although it contains
much valuable information concerning the exchange service in gen-
eral, giving special attention to the Italian exchanges.

The officials of many other exchange bureaus likewise are render-
ing great service to the cause of science and learning through their
long connection with the exchange service and their devotion to the
work of the diffusion of knowledge among men.

Although the Smithsonian Institution can not undertake to obtain
copies of all publications desired by the large number of correspond-
ents making use of the service, it endeavors to meet these requests as
far as it is practicable. It is desirable, however, that correspondents
themselves take steps to make application for publications they desire
whenever it is possible to do so. Among the requests made during
the year for assistance in obtaining books was one received through
the Austrian Exchange Agency from the botanical department of the
Natural History Museum in Vienna for certain American publica-
tions bearing on botany. The Institution brought the request to the
attention of the proper organizations, and although only a part of the
publications desired were received, the director of the botanical
department expressed his great appreciation of the action taken
by the Institution in the matter.

The total number of boxes required in dispatching exchange con-
signments abroad during the year was 2,608, an increase of 87 over
the number for the preceding year.

Prior to 1926 it was the practice of the Institution to forward the
full series of official documents to depositories at quarterly intervals.
In April of that year that practice was discontinued, and shipments
to the depositories have since been made about once a month. This
change, as was stated in my last report, was made in order to comply
with the request of several depositories that steps be taken to have
the publications forming the regular series of governmental docu-
ments delivered more promptly, so that the information contained
therein would be available for use as shortly after publication as
practicable. These frequent shipments account for the increase of
230 in the number of boxes sent to the depositories—619 in 1927 as
compared with 3889 in 1926.

It is the usual custom of the Institution to send exchange packages
to foreign distributing agencies in boxes by freight. However, in
cases where the packages that accumulate for a particular country
are not of sufficient bulk to warrant their transmission in that man-
ner, they are mailed directly to their destinations without passing
through the foreign agencies. Packages bearing addresses in re-
mote places which can not be reached through existing exchange
bureaus also are forwarded by mail. The number of packages
mailed in 1927 was 62,4832—an increase of 13,345 over the number
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 83

posted during the previous year. The forwarding of this large num-
ber of packages by mail required an expenditure for postage during
the year of $3,000.

The number of boxes sent to each country during the fiscal year
1927 is given in the following table:

Consignments of exchanges forwarded to foreign countries

Country pee Country oe
(BTR ECGN TWEE a OS Ca lel ree he te BS 7k ol ICTS) ao ie Seep See a Sp ee ee Oe I mR AY 11
iS CTRUIN Ts Boks Sik ee ae 4 Netherlands: - see... oan eee 77
PRONE ee oan et = ee ES | 65" |) Newt South. Wales= 22s ¥orr eS sacks er 33
gyal vee See pelea Sse ee BS UNGMRe Coda eee as ee eee oe 19
POS TCP LOTS 42. te re ORVe ees ete legen oe ee AE a ee 49
UCHETEUS UE sy 28 De > ee AON SOS TL see eens ere see ee eee ee 33
(CHENG y c= AGS cae ae ee eae ee PAGAN a EC AB nae 28 SR eo CREE TS AOR SSeS ee 21
(GUS OUST SS 2 eee eee lei seal a eee 08 ||P Poland! =2222 248 Se . SSS es See 2 ee 42
(GteLGVn oy: 3 3 Se ee Ee YS Se rede eee Eee 22s One eall= ss kes 9 ter SESE OS ae ee Se ser 25
Ciogih Rie ee ee cr eee | Ss Quecuslande=soe-0 se ee eee 22
Gyiligic ess Med epee ApS eee fife | IIE ATTI eee ees rer ener a 8 Nae res 13
Pe ZECMOSIOMAKIA- 9 > = 2 eos ee Ee | GS PECUISS Telex ae ee eee Sees 139
LD NATO A ek Sh 2 Re ee eee eee Dill, DOULECMUEStI align. - oan ee. Ya ae aie 23
NEST ST eee ee as See ae eae EAM) | (is) Gy 10s ee Siete See meee Soe Se Se a eee 37
DEI 0) fo Gta A a ee ol ae oe RE Dh. | i SEY G16 Gir eh ese, 5 SiR = oe at OS aa? ee 78
LOS VENT 6 ie 2S Cen eS es Se eee 20a RSWaZenland secon ent oer ato ne 72
LOTTE UIE 016 [Ee Ae SE ae eee © ee Se | LOY] RASS LA Se Seon nce eee enn eee 19
HRC Reee ee eee tees lg AS ie 1845 Union of South tAfrica-: 2asi28e3 7 tae 36
(Cron eks to hye eee ps a ER CE ee ee Bi PEL ONG bab fr diy 9 SOE, 9 GaN ee Beg er Rene we eee 21
Great priisin and Leland. +. 2 ODA AVIORLO ZUG lea re heart ac SS a eee ge 2 19
Perrot nes fe cise teats | Keates miter) ZA WACLOTIA was Sl che ee ne | 50
LEST Ee a en en ee eae 40u|)) Westernvacustrabicn = 2-0) tise 8 2a 25
TG TEL ae Si he ee ee OMe SUP OSA yA aE 3 See SE Pe ne See 17
Fly ieee ae oe see pe a 103 ———
TGR i ak pe es ses ep SO 82 ROCA see ee ens ee | 2, 608
ILA ATEN AtE eo Seer Oe RS Sk Pe ieee ee cg 1

FOREIGN DEPOSITORIES OF UNITED STATES GOVERNMENTAL DOCUMENTS

In accordance with the terms of the convention concluded at
Brussels in March, 1886, and under authority granted by Congress
in resolutions approved March 2, 1867, March 2, 1901, and March 8,
1925, there are now forwarded abroad to certain designated deposi-
tories 103 sets of United States governmental documents—60 of
which are full and 43 partial sets. This is an increase of two dur-
ing the past fiscal year, partial sets being sent to Lithuania and
to the State of Minas Geraes, Brazil.

Information was received during the year that China and Egypt
had adhered to both of the Brussels exchange conventions. Since
1908 a full set of governmental documents has been sent to the
' American Chinese Publication Exchange Department of the Shang-
hai Bureau of Foreign Affairs. When China joined the convention it
requested that the depository be changed to the Metropolitan Library
in Peking.
84 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1927

Since 1905 a partial set of governmental documents has been for-
warded to Egypt, but now that that country has become a party to
the convention, the set has been increased to a full one. The deposi-
tory formerly was the Royal Library, but, at the request of the
Egyptian Government, it has been changed to the Bureau of Publi-
cations of the Ministry of Finances.

At the request of the New Zealand depository—the General As-
sembly Library—the full set of governmental documents that had
been forwarded to that country since 1876 was changed last year
to a partial set. In compliance with a later request, the depository
has again been listed to receive a full set.

A list of the foreign depositories is given below:

DEPOSITORIES OF FULL SETS

ARGENTINA: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Buenos Aires.
Buenos AIRES: Biblioteca de la Universidad Nacional de La Plata, La
Plata. (Depository of the Province of Buenos Aires.)
AUSTRALIA: Library of the Commonwealth Parliament, Canberra.

New SouTH WazEs: Public Library of New South Wales, Sydney.

QUEENSLAND: Parliamentary Library, Brisbane.

SoutH AUSTRALIA: Parliamentary Library, Adelaide.

TASMANIA: Parliamentary Library, Hobart.

Victoria: Public Library of Victoria, Melbourne.

WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Public Library of Western Australia, Perth.
AUSTRIA: Bundesamt fiir Statistik, Schwarzenbergstrasse 5, Vienna I.
Beteium: Bibliothéque Royale, Brussels.

BrRAzIL: Bibliotheca Nacional, Rio de Janeiro.
CANADA: Library of Parliament, Ottawa.

MANITOBA: Provincial Library, Winnipeg.

OntTaARIO: Legislative Library, Toronto.

QursEc: Library of the Legislature of the Province of Quebec, Quebec.
CHILE: Biblioteca del Congreso Nacional, Santiago.

CHINA: Metropolitan Library, Pei Hai, Peking.
CoLoMBIA: Biblioteca Nacional, Bogotaé. ;
Costa Rica: Oficina de Depésito y Canje Internacional de Publicaciones, San
José.
CuBA: Secretaria de Estado (Asuntos Generales y Canje Internacional),
Habana.
CZECHOSLOVAKIA: Bibliothéque de l’Assemblée Nationale, Prague.
DENMARK: Kongelige Bibliotheket, Copenhagen.
Eeypet: Bureau des Publications, Ministére des Finances, Cairo.
Estonia: Riigiraamatukogu (State Library), Reval.
FRANCE: Bibliothéque Nationale, Paris.
Paris: Préfecture de la Seine.
GERMANY: Deutsche Reichstags-Bibliothek, Berlin.
Bapen: Universitiits-Bibliothek, Freiburg. (Depository of the State of
Baden.)

Bavaria: Staats-Bibliothek, Munich.

Prussia: Preussische Staatsbibliothek, Berlin, N. W. 7.

Saxony: Siichsische Landesbibliothek, Dresden—N. 6.

WURTTEMBERG: Landesbibliothek, Stuttgart.

4

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 85

GREAT BRITAIN:
ENGLAND: British Museum, London.
GLascow: City Librarian, Mitchell Library, Glasgow.
Lonpon: London School of EHeonomics and Political Science. (Depository
of the London County Council.)
GREECE: Bibliothéque Nationale, Athens.
Huneary: Hungarian House of Delegates, Budapest.
InpiA: Imperial Library, Calcutta.
TRIsH Free State: National Library of Ireland, Dublin.
IraLy: Biblioteca Nazionale Vittorio Kmanuele, Rome.
JAPAN: Imperial Library of Japan, Tokyo.
Mexico: Biblioteca Nacional, Mexico, D. F.
NETHERLANDS: Bibliotheek van de Tweede Kamer der Staten-Generaal, The
Hague.
New ZeaLanp: General Assembly Library, Wellington.
NorRTHERN IRELAND: Ministry of Finance, Belfast.
Norway: Universitets-Bibliotek, Oslo. (Depository of the Government of
Norway.)
Peru: Biblioteca Nacional, Lima.
PoLaND: Bibliothéque du Ministére des Affaires Ftrangéres, Warsaw.
PorTuGAL: Bibliotheca Nacional, Lisbon.
Russia: Shipments temporarily suspended.
Sparn: Servicio del Cambio Internacional de Publicaciones, Cuerpo Faculta-
tivo de Archiveros, Bibliotecarios y Arquedlogos, Madrid.
SweDEen: Kungliga Biblioteket, Stockholm.
SWITZERLAND: Bibliothéque Centrale Fédérale, Berne.
SWITZERLAND: Library of the League of Nations, Geneva.
TuRKEY: Shipments temporarily suspended.
Union oF SourH Arrica: State Library, Pretoria, Transvaal.
Urucuay: Oficina de Canje Internacional de Publicaciones, Montevideo.
VENEZUELA: Biblioteca Nacional, Caracas.
YucGosLaviA: Ministére des Affaires Etrangéres, Belgrade.

DEPOSITORIES OF PARTIAL SETS
AUSTRIA:

VIENNA: Magistrat der Stadt.
Bo.itviA: Ministerio de Colonizacién y Agricultura, La Paz.
BRAZIL:
Minas GrraAzs: Directoria Geral de Estatistica em Minas, Bello Horizonte,
Minas Geraes.
Rio DE JANEIRO: Bibliotheca da Assemblea Legislativa do Hstado, Nictheroy.
CANADA:
ALBERTA: Provincial Library, Edmonton.
British CoLumMBIA: Legislative Library, Victoria.
NEw Brunswick: Legislative Library, Fredericton.
Nova Scorra: Provincial Secretary of Nova Scotia, Halifax.
Prince Hpwarpd IsLanpD: Legislative Library, Charlottetown.
SASKATCHEWAN: Government Library, Regina.
BRITISH GUIANA: Government Secretary’s Office, Georgetown, Demerara.
BuuLeartA: Ministére des Affaires Etrangéres, Sofia.
Cryton: Colonial Secretary's Office (Record Department of the Library),
Colombo.
Dawnzic: Stadtbibliothek, Free City of Danzig.
DomINICAN ReErusiic: Biblioteca del Senado, Santo Domingo.

74906—28——7
86 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1927

Ecuapor: Biblioteca Nacional, Quito.
FINLAND: Parliamentary Library, Helsingfors.
FRANCE:
ALSACE-LORRAINE: Bibliothéque Universitaire et Régionale de Strasbourg,
Strasbourg.
GERMANY:
BREMEN: Senatskommission ftir Reichs- und Auswiirtige Angelegenheiten.
HameBure: Senatskommission fiir die Reichs- und Auswiirtigen Angelegen-
heiten.
Hesse: Landesbibliothek, Darmstadt.
Ltpreck: President of the Senate.
THURINGIA: Rothenberg-Bibliothek, Landesuniversitait, Jena.
GUATEMALA: Secretary of the Government, Guatemala.
Hartr: Secrétaire d’Htat des Relations Extérieures, Port au Prince.
Honpuras: Secretary of the Government, Tegucigalpa.
IceLaAnD: National Library, Reykjavik. ;
INDIA:
Mapras: Chief Secretary to the Government of Madras, Public Department,
Madras.
UNITED PRovINCES oF AGRA AND OuDH: University of Allahabad, Allahabad.
JAMAICA: Colonial Secretary, Kingston.
LATVIA: Bibliothéque d’Htat, Riga.
LiperIa: Department of State, Monrovia.
LITHUANIA: Ministére des Affaires Kitrangéres, Koyno.
LOURENCO MARQuEz: Government Library, Lourenco Marquez.
MALTA: Minister for the Treasury, Valetta. Z
NEWFOUNDLAND: Colonial Secretary, St. John’s,
NICARAGUA: Superintendente de Archivos Nacionales, Managua.
PANAMA: Secretaria de Relaciones Exteriores, Panama.
PaRaGuay: Seccién Canje Internacional de Publicaciones del Ministerio de
Relaciones Exteriores, Estrella 563, Asuncion.
RuMANIA: Academia Romana, Bucharest.
SaLvApDor: Ministerio de Relaciones Hxteriores, San Salvador.
Sram: Department of Foreign Affairs, Bangkok.
Straits SETTLEMENTS: Colonial Secretary, Singapore.

INTERPARLIAMENTARY EXCHANGE OF OFFICIAL JOURNAL

During the past fiscal year 24 new foreign depositories were added
to the list of those receiving the daily issue of the Congressional
Record. The new depositories are located in the following places:
Brazil—States of Amazonas, Espirito Santo, Sao Paulo, Sao Sal-
vador; Egypt; Germany—States of Mecklenburg-Schwerin, Meck-
lenburg-Strelitz, Schaumburg-Lippe; Gibraltar; Iraq; Mexico—
States of Campeche, Chiapas, Guanajuato, Querétaro, Mexico,
Michoacin, Morelos, Nayarit, Oaxaca, Puebla, Tlaxcala; Spain—
Province of Barcelona; Syria—State of Alaouites, and République
Libanaise.

The total number of copies of the daily issue of the Congressional
Record now forwarded abroad through the Institution is 99. A com-
plete list of the States taking part in this exchange, together with the
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 87

names of the establishments to which the Record is mailed, is given

below:
DEPOSITORIES OF CONGRESSIONAL RECORD
ARGENTINA :
Biblioteca del Congreso Nacional, Buenos Aires.
Camara de Diputados, Oficina de Informaci6én Parlamentaria, Buenos Aires.
Buenos Aires: Biblioteca del Senado de la Provincia de Buenos Aires,
La Plata.
AUSTRALIA :
Library of the Commonwealth Parliament, Canberra.
New South Wales: Library of Parliament of New South Wales, Sydney.
Queensland: Chief Secretary’s Office, Brisbane.
Western Australia: Library of Parliament of Western Australia, Perth.
AustTrRIA: Bibliothek des Nationalrates, Vienna I.
BELGIUM: Bibliothéque de la Chambre des Représentants, Brussels.
Boutvia: Camara de Diputados, Congreso Nacional, La Paz.
BRAZIL:
Bibliotheca do Congresso Nacional, Rio de Janeiro.
Amazonas: Archivo, Bibliotheca e Imprensa Publica, Manios.
Hspirito Santo: Presidencia do Estado do Espirito Santo, Victoria.
Sao Paulo: Bibliotheca Publica do Estado de Sio Paulo, So Paulo.
Sao Salvador: Governador do Estado de Bahia, Sio Salvador.
CANADA:
Library of Parliament, Ottawa.
Clerk of the Senate, Houses of Parliament, Ottawa.
CHINA: Metropolitan Library, Pei Hai, Peking.
Costa Rica: Oficina de Depdsito y Canje Internacional de Publicaciones, San
José.
CuBA:
Biblioteca de la Camara de Representantes, Habana.
Biblioteca del Senado, Habana.
CZECHOSLOVAKIA: Bibliothéque de l’Assemblée Nationale, Prague.
Danzic: Stadtbibliothek, Danzig.
DENMARK: Rigsdagens Bureau, Copenhagen.
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC: Biblioteca del Senado, Santo Domingo.
DutcH Hast INpies: Volksraad van Nederiandsch-Indie, Batavia, Java.
Eeypt: Bureau des Publications, Ministére des Finances, Cairo.
Estonia: Rigiraamatukogu (State Library), Reval.
FRANCE:
Bibliothéque de la Chambre des Députés, au Palais Bourbon, Paris.
Bibliothéque du Sénat, au Palais du Luxembourg, Paris.
GERMANY:
Deutsche Reichstags-Bibliothek, Berlin, N. W. 7.
Anhalt: Anhaltische Landesbticherei, Dessau.
Baden: Universitiits-Bibliothek, Heidelberg.
Braunschweig: Bibliothek des Braunschweigischen Staatsministeriums,
Braunschweig.
Mecklenburg-Schwerin: Staatsministerium, Schwerin.
Mecklenburg-Strelitz: Finanzdepartement des Staatsministeriums, Neu-
strelitz.
Oldenburg: Oldenburgisches Staatsministerium, Oldenburg i. O.
Prussia: Bibliothek des Abgeordnetenhauses, Prinz-Albrechtstrasse 5,
Berlin, S. W. 11.
Schaumburg-Lippe: Schaumburg-Lippische Landesregierung, Biicheburg.
88 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1927

GIBRALTAR: Gibraltar Garrison Library Committee, Gibraltar.

GREAT Britain: Library of the Foreign Office, London.

GREECE: Library of Parliament, Athens.

GUATEMALA: Archivo General del Gobierno, Guatemala.

Hatitr: Secrétaire @’Etat des Relations Mxtérieures, Port-au-Prince.

HonpurAs: Biblioteca del Congreso Nacional, Tegucigalpa.

Huneary: Bibliothek des Abgeordnetenhauses, Budapest.

Inpra: Legislative Department, Simla.

ITAbY:

Biblioteca del Senato del Regno, Rome.
Biblioteca della Camera dei Deputati, Rome.

1RAQ: Chamber of Deputies, Baghdad, Iraq (Mesopotamia).

LATVIA: Library of the Saeima, Riga.

LIBERIA: Department of State, Monrovia.

Mexico: Mexico, Secretaria de la Camara de Diputados, Mexico, D. F.
Aguascalientes: Gobernador del Estado de Aguascalientes, Aguascalientes.
Campeche: Gobernador del Estado de Campeche, Campeche.

Chihuahua: Gobernador del Estado de Chihuahua, Chihuahua.

Chiapas: Gobernador del Estado de Chiapas, Tuxtla Gutierrez.

Coahuila: Periddico Oficial del Estado de Coahuila, Palacio de Gobierno,
Saltillo.

Colima: Gobernador del Estado de Colima, Colima.

Durango: Gobernador Constitucional del Estado de Durango, Durango.

Guanajuato: Secretaria General de Gobierno del Hstado, Guanajuato.

Guerrero: Gobernador del Hstado de Guerrero, Chilpancingo.

Jalisco: Biblioteca del Hstado, Guadalajara. .

Lower California: Gobernador del Distrito Norte, Mexicali, B. C., Mexico.

Mexico: Gaceta del Gobierno, Toluca, Mexico.

Michoacin: Secretaria General de Gobierno del Estado de Michoacan,
Morelia.

Morelos: Palacio de Gobierno, Cuernavaca.

Nayarit: Gobernador de Nayarit, Tepic.

Nuevo Leén: Biblioteca del Hstado, Monterey.

Oaxaca: Periddico Oficial, Palacio de Gobierno, Oaxaca.

Puebla: Secretario General de Gobierno, Zaragoza.

Queretaro: Secretaria General de Gobierno, Seccién de Archivo, Queretaro.

San Luis Potosi: Congreso del Estado, San Luis Potosi.

Sinaloa: Gobernador del Estado de Sinaloa, Culiacan.

Sonora: Gobernador del Estado de Sonora, Hermosillo.

Tabasco: Secretaria General de Gobierno, Seccién 38a, Ramo de Prensa,
Villahermosa.

Tamaulipas: Secretaria General de Gobierno, Victoria.

Tlaxcala: Secretaria de Gobierno del Estado, Tlaxcala.

Vera Cruz: Gobernador del Estado de Vera Cruz, Departamento de
Gobernacion y Justicia, Jalapa.

Yucatén: Gobernador del Hstado de Yucatin, Mérida, Yucatiin.

NEw ZEALAND: General Assembly Library, Wellington.

Peru: Camara de Diputados, Congreso Nacional, Lima.

Norway: Storthingets Bibliothek, Oslo.

PoLanp: Ministére des Affaires Htrangéres, Warsaw.

PorTUGAL: Bibliotheca do Congresso da Republica, Lisbon.

RUMANIA:

Bibliothéque de la Chambre des Députés, Bucharest.
Ministére des Affaires Etrangéres, Bucharest.

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 89

SPAIN:
Biblioteca del Senado, Madrid.
Biblioteca del Congreso de los Diputados, Madrid.
Barcelona: Biblioteca de la Comisiédn Permanente Provincial de Barcelona,
Barcelona.
SWITZERLAND:
Bibliothéque de Assemblée Fédérale Suisse, Berne.
Library of the League of Nations, Geneva.
SYRIA:
Ministére des Finances de la République Libanaise, Service du Matériel,
Beirut.
Governor of the State of Alaouites, Lattaquié.
UNION oF SouTH AFRICA:
Library of Parliament, Cape Town, Cape of Good Hope.
State Library, Pretoria, Transvaal.
Uruguay: Biblioteca de la Camara de Representantes, Montevideo
VENEZUELA: Camara de Diputados, Congreso Nacional, Caracas.
YucosiayiaA: Library of the Skupshtina, Belgrade.

FOREIGN EXCHANGE AGENCIES

Egypt having joined the Brussels Exchange Convention, as pre-
viously stated in this report, the Egyptian Government, in com-
pliance with the stipulations set forth in Article I of the conven-
tion, established the Bureau of Publications in the Ministry of
Finances at Cairo to act as the exchange agency for that country.

The exchange bureau in Yugoslavia was changed during the
year from the Royal Serbian Academy to the Ministry of Foreign
Affairs at Belgrade.

The Dutch Central Scientific Bureau, which acts as the exchange
agency for the Netherlands, has been conducted under the direction
of various scientific organizations, the bureau being since January,
1920, under the Library of the Technical Academy at Delft. The
Dutch Government has now made the Central Scientific Bureau a
subdivision of the Federal organization, and has placed it under the
Royal Library at The Hague, the transfer to take place on January
1, 1928.

A complete list of the foreign exchange agencies or bureaus is
given below. Those agencies in the larger countries and many of
those in the smalier countries forward consignments to the Smith-
sonian Institution for distribution in the United States. Corre-
spondents desiring to make use of any of the exchange agencies in
the transmission of packages to the United States should first com-
municate with the respective bureau in order to ascertain whether
the bureau sends consignments to this country.

LIST OF EXCHANGE AGENCIES
ALGERIA, via France.
ANGOLA, via Portugal.
ARGENTINA: Comisi6n Protectora de Bibliotecas Populares, Calle Cordoba 931,
Buenos Aires.
90 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1927

Austria: Bundesamt fiir Statistik, Schwarzenbergstrasse 5, Vienna I.

AZORES, via Portugal.

BeLcium: Service Belge des Echanges Internationaux, Rues des Longs-Chariots,
46, Brussels.

Boutv1a: Oficina Nacional de Estadistica, La Paz.

Braziu: Servicio de Permutacdes Internacionaes, Bibliotheca Nacional, Rio de
Janeiro.

BritisH CoLonies: Crown Agents for the Colonies, London.

British Gurana: Royal Agricultural and Commercial Society, Georgetown.

BritisH Honpuras: Colonial Secretary, Belize.

BuueARrA: Institutions Scientifiques de 8. M. le Roi de Bulgarie, Sofia.

CANARY ISLANDS, via Spain.

CuILE: Servicio de Canjes Internacionales, Biblioteca Nacional, Santiago.

CHINA: Bureau of International Exchange of Publications, Ministry of Hduca-
tion, Peking.

CoLomsBIA: Oficina de Canjes Internacionales y Reparto, Biblioteca Nacional,
Bogota.

Costa Rica: Oficina de Depdsito y Canje Internacional de Publicaciones, San
José. 1

CZECHOSLOVAKIA: Service Tchécoslovaque des changes Internationaux, Biblio-
théque de l’Assemblée Nationale, Prague 1-79.

Danzic: Amt fiir den Internationalen Schriftenaustausch der Freien Stadt
Danzig, Stadtbibliothek, Danzig.

DENMARK: Kongelige Danske Videnskabernes Selskab, Copenhagen.

DutcH GUIANA: Surinaamsche Koloniale Bibliotheek, Paramaribo.

Ecuapor: Ministerio de Relaciones Hxteriores, Quito.

Eeypt: Bureau des Publications, Ministére des Finances, Cairo.

Estonia: Riigiraamatukogu (State Library), Reval.

FINLAND: Delegation of the Scientific Societies of Finland, Helsingfors.

FRANCE: Service Francais des Echanges Internationaux, 110 Rue de Grenelle,

_ Paris.

GERMANY: Amerika-Insititut, Universitiitstrasse 8, Berlin, N. W. 7.

GREAT BRITAIN AND IRELAND: Messrs. Wheldon & Wesley, 2, 3, and 4 Arthur
St., New Oxford St., London W. C. 2. .

GREECE: Bibliothéque Nationale, Athens.

GREENLAND, via Denmark.

GUATEMALA: Instituto Nacional de Varones, Guatemala,

Harti: Secrétaire d’litat des Relations Extérieures, Port-au-Prince.

HonpurAs: Biblioteca Nacional, Tegucigalpa. :

Hungary: Service Hongrois des Echanges Internationaux, Musée National
Budapest, VIII.

ICELAND, via Denmark.

InpIA: Superintendent of Stationery, Bombay.

IraLty: Ufficio degli Scambi Internaztonali, Biblioteca Nazionale Vittorio
Emanuele, Rome.

JAMAICA: Institute of Jamaica, Kingston.

JAPAN: Imperial Library of Japan, Tokyo.

JAVA, via Netherlands.

Korea: Government General, Seoul.

Latvia: Service des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque d’Etat de Lettonie,
Riga.

LipertA: Bureau of Exchanges, Department of State, Monrovia.

LITHUANIA: Sent by mail.

LOURENGO MARQUEZ, via Portugal.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY Ol

LUXEMBURG, via Belgium.

MApbaGAscark, via France.

MADEIRA, Via Portugal.

MOZAMBIQUE, via Portugal.

NETHERLANDS: Bureau Scientifique Central Néerlandais, Bibliothéque de l’Aca-
démie Technique, Delft. (Beginning January 1, 1928, this bureau will be
under the Royal Library at the Hague.)

New SoutH WALES: Public Library of New South Wales, Sydney.

New ZEALAND: Dominion Museum, Wellington.

Nicaragua: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Managua.

Norway: Universitets-Bibliotek, Oslo.

PALESTINE: Hebrew University Library, Jerusalem.

PANAMA: Sent by mail.

PARAGUAY: Seccién Canje Internacional de Publicaciones del Ministerio de
Relaciones Exteriores, Hstrella 563, Asuncion.

Peru: Oficina de Reparto, Depdsito y Canje Internacional de Publicaciones,
Ministerio de Fomento, Lima.

Potanp: Service Polonais des Hchanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque du Minis-
tére des Affaires Etrangéres, Warsaw.

PortuGAL: Secciio de Trocas Internacionaes, Bibliotheca Nacional, Lisbon.

QUEENSLAND: Bureau of Exchanges of International Publications, Chief Sec-
retary’s Department, Brisbane.

Rumania: Bureau des Echanges Internationaux, Institut Météorologique Cen-
tral, Bucharest.

Russia: Academy of Sciences, Leningrad.

Satvapor: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, San Salvador.

Sram: Department of Foreign Affairs, Bangkok,

SoutH AUSTRALIA: Public Library of South Australia, Adelaide.

Spain: Servicio del Cambio Internacional de Publicaciones, Cuerpo Facultativo
de Archiveros, Bibliotecarios y Arqueélogos, Madrid.

SuMATRA, via Netherlands.

SWEDEN: Kongliga Svenska Vetenskaps Akademien, Stockholm.

SwiTzeRLAND: Service Suisse des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque Cen-
trale Fédérale, Berne.

Syria: American University of Beirut.

TASMANIA: Secretary to the Premier, Hobart.

TRINIDAD: Royal Victoria Institute of Trinidad and Tobago, Port-of-Spain.

TUNIS, via France.

TURKEY: Robert College, Constantinople.

UNION oF SoutH AFrricaA: Government Printing Works, Pretoria, Transvaal.

Urucuay: Oficina de Canje Internacional de Publicaciones, Montevideo.

VENEZUELA: Biblioteca Nacional, Caracas.

VictortA: Public Library of Victoria, Melbourne.

WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Public Library of Western Australia, Perth.

YUGOSLAVIA: Ministére des Affaires Etrangéres, Belgrade.

Respectfully submitted.
C. G. Axngor,
Assistant Secretary,
In Charge of Library and Exchanges.
To the Acting SEcrETary,
SMITHSONIAN InstITuTIon.
APPENDIX 6
REPORT ON THE NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the opera-
tions of the National Zoological Park for the fiscal year ending June
30, 1927:

The appropriation made by Congress for the regular maintenance
of the park was $173,199 and there was the usual allotment of $300
for printing and binding. Of this $124,330 was expended for salaries
and labor in connection with the maintenance of the park, and $28,200
for the purchase of food for the animals.

The collection of animals on exhibition has been considerably in-
creased this year by gifts, purchases, and through original collections
made on the Smithsonian-Chrysler Expedition.

ACCESSIONS

There were added to the park by gift or deposit 180 specimens from
99 different donors.

Notable among these is the pigmy hippopotamus presented by Mr.
Harvey S. Firestone, of Akron, Ohio, to President Coolidge, and a
fine pair of South African lion cubs, presented to the President by
the mayor and citizens of Johannesburg, South Africa, and deposited
in the national collection. The pigmy hippopotamus is the first of
the species ever to be exhibited in the park and the lions fill the long-
felt want for new blood in the lion collection. Mr. Victor Evans de-
posited a splendid specimen of the great anteater which is doing
remarkably well.

Mr. J. Delacour, of Cléres, France, the noted French aviculturist
who visited the National Zoological Park on a trip made through
the States, presented to the collection a male of the very rare
Edward’s pheasant.

The largest addition to the collection ever made at one time was
collected and brought to Washington by the Smithsonian-Chrysler
expedition to Tanganyika Territory. This expedition was made
possible through the generosity of Mr. Walter Chrysler, the auto-
mobile manufacturer, who presented the Smithsonian Institution
with funds for the work. The party consisted of Dr. W. M. Mann;
Mr. Arthur Loveridge, of the Museum of Comparative Zodlogy, at
Cambridge; Mr. Stephen Haweis and Mr. F. G. Carnochan, of New
York City. The latter two were volunteer workers, and in addi-
tion Mr. Carnochan paid his own expenses to and from Africa.

92
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 93

The Pathé Review sent with the party Mr. Charles Charlton to
make a pictorial chronicle of the work of the expedition. The trip
lasted from March to October, and four months were spent in the
field collecting animals.

Before starting, a number of take-down crates for the carriage
of larger animals were made at the shops in the park, under the
direction of Mr. W. H. Blackburne. These proved invaluable in
the field. The United States Marine Corps supplied part of the
field supplies and the Freedmen’s Hospital the necessary medicines.

On arrival at Dar-es-Salaam, His Excellency Sir Donald Cam-
eron, Governor of Tanganyika, presented a license for the collection
of animals and gave instructions to various civil officers to assist the
party in its work. In the field the expedition engaged Mr. George
Runton and afterwards Mr. Charles Goss, both well known African
hunters, as guides and interpreters. Headquarters were made at
Dodoma, 250 miles inland where Mr. Loveridge maintained the base
camp. Mr. Carnochan went farther west to Tabora, Mr. Haweis, to
Mhonde, and Doctor Mann spent a great deal of time on “ safari ”
visiting the region about Lake Manyara and afterwards farther
south, the Tula district. At the end of four months, the party em-
barked with the collection and returned to the States, via Colombo,
arriving at the port of Boston October 24, having suffered compara-
tively small loss among the animals en route.

Among the animals secured, numbers were new to the collection.
Among these, giraffe, white-bearded gnu, impalla, reed buck, and
long-eared fox had never before been exhibited in the park. A
male greater kudu, a female eland (the latter obtained through the
efforts of the game warden, Mr. C. F. M. Swynnerton), a quartet of
wart hogs, five leopards, five hyenas, ratel, and civet cats fill long-felt
gaps in the collection. Among the 70 monkeys brought home were
a group of five blue monkeys, a very rare and desirable species, and
five purple-faced monkeys, both of these new to the history of our
Zoo. From the Sudan Government was secured a splendid speci-
men of a shoebill stork, the second to arrive in America and the
first in Washington.

There was a good series of smaller mammals, such as porcupines,
hedgehogs, genets, five species of mongoose, jackals, etc.

Quantities of birds were brought home, among these a troop of
six crowned cranes and two rare species of lovebirds, Agapornis
personata and Agapornis fischeri, one of them unique in American
collections.

Because of the lack of facilities at the park for housing them,
no especial attempt was made to get reptiles in quantities, but a
dozen African rock pythons, very rare in American collections,
black spitting cobras, Egyptian cobras, and boomslangs were secured,
94 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1927

as well as the curious soft-shelled tortoises and also a cage of 50
chameleons, which made a most attractive exhibit.

During the course of the expedition a series of radio talks were
given at station WRC through arrangement by A. H. Clark so that
the public was kept informed on the progress of the party.

The expedition is indebted to the Governor of Tanganyika for
his generous license to collect, to Messrs. C. F. M. Swynnerton, chief
of the Tanganyika game department, to George Runton and Charles
Goss, and to the Ellerman Steamship Line, to the officers and men
of the steamships Crewe Hall and City of Calcutta for the great
consideration they showed the party and its cargo of animals on its
voyage home, and to Mr. John T. Benson, of Nashua, N. H., United
States agent for Hagenbeck Bros., whose help at Boston greatly
facilitated the landing of the collection.

Since returning from Africa, the director has given a series of
about 50 lectures on the expedition, illustrated by moving pictures,
which were kindly furnished by the Pathé Review.

GIFTS

Mr. H. H. Adams, Washington, D. C., ocelot.

Miss Corinne Allison, Washington, D. C., red fox.

American Consul, Trinidad, West Indies, peccary.

Mr. Robert Anderson, Washington, D. C., Cuban parrot. ~

Miss Bessie K. Arnold, Culpeper, Va., alligator.

Mr. Vernon Bailey, Washington, D. C., two desert turtles.

Mr. Herbert Barber, Washington, D. C., least bittern.

Dr. Thomas Barbour, Cambridge, Mass., two spotted turtles.

Mr. H. G. Bartsch, Washington, D. C., two European hedgehogs.

Mrs. L. B. Batkins, Richmond, Va., two orange-winged parrots.

Mr. Dick Binckel, Washington, D. C., four horned toads.

Mr. J. K. Bishop, Washington, D. C., double yellow-head parrot.

Commander G. E. Brandt, United States Navy, two comb lizards.

Lieut. W. K. Burgess, United States Army, Manila, P. I., 2 jungle fowls,
5 bleeding heart doves, 2 green-winged doves, 2 Java sparrows, 2 black-headed
nun, 2 hanging paroquets.

California Academy of Sciences, three leopard seals.

Mr. R. 8S. Cardon, Washington, D. C., raccoon.

Mr. F. G. Carnochan, New York City, two wood turtles.

Mr. J. C. Carter, Washington, D. C., three canaries.

Mr. F. M. Clark, Washington, D. C., red fox.

Mrs. E. Cocksell, Washington, D. C., double-yellow-head parrot.

President Coolidge, White House, two lions, pigmy hippopotamus.

Mrs. Calvin Coolidge, White House, four paroquets, one duiker.

Mr. EH. L. Crandall, Washington, D. C., margay.

Mr. W. G. Cunningham, Washington, D. C., gray fox.

Mr. H. A. Daniel, Orange, Va., red-tailed hawk.

Mr. J. J. Daniels, Washington, D. C., two alligators.

Mr. A. H. Davin, Palmyra, Va., red fox.

NC ee ee
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 95

Mr. H. F. Davison, Washington, D. C., Cuban parrot.

Mr. J. Delacour, Cléres, France, Edward’s pheasant.

Mr. Milton Derrick, Takoma Park, Md., barred owl.

Mrs. N. Eckhardt, Washington, D. C., ring-neck pheasant.

Mr. F. G. Ellison, Brentwood, Md., two turkey vultures.

Mr. Victor Evans, Washington, D. C., great anteater.

Mr. H. E. Ewing, Washington, D. C., copperhead snake.

U. S. Experiment Farm, Beltsville, Md., great horned owl.

Mr. C. L. Fagan, Rahway, N. J., white-crowned pigeon.

Mrs. J. Farley, Washington, D. C., two grass paroquets.

Mr. C. C. Fisher, Middleburg, Va., banded rattlesnake.

Mr. Edward Foutz, Washington, D. C., skunk.

Mr. F. M. Gaige, Ann Arbor, Mich., Blanding’s terrapin.

Dr. Gavylin, Washington, D. C., pied-billed grebe.

Mr. F. P. Glover, Brentwood, Md., raccoon.

Mr. Granados, Washington, D. C., rough fox.

Mrs. Nancy Hall, Washington, D. C., alligator.

Mr. Oddie Hallson, Bethel, Alaska, three emperor geese.

Mr. R. L. Harrison, Garrett Park, Md., two yellow-fronted parrots.

Mrs. Henderson, Washington, D. C., orange-cheeked waxbill, black-faced
finch.

Mrs. J. H. Himes, Washington, D. C., roseate cockatoo.

Mr. Albert Hochbaum, Washington, D. C., barred owl.

Mr. Carl H. Hubbs, University of Michigan, two leather-back terrapins, two
Blandings terrapins, geographic terrapin.

Mr. J. A. Hyslop, Silver Spring, Md., great horned owl, two pilot snakes.

Messrs. J. A. & C. D. Hyslop & Stanny Rapley, Silver Spring, Md., two copper-
head snakes.

Mr. James Jones, Washington, D. C., screech owl.

Mr. M. W. Knarr, Washington, D. C., marmoset.

Mr. Samuel Kress, Port Limon, Costa Rica, five three-toed sloths.

Lansburgh Sea Food Co., Washington, D. C., alligator.

Mr. Harrison Lee, Bastian, Va., banded rattlesnake.

Mrs. Miles A. Lehhig, McLean, Va., two mocking birds.

Mr. E. Lesche, Washington, D. C., Philippine macaque.

Mr. John C. Letts, Washington, D. C., snowy owl.

Mr. F. T. Lillie, Washington, D. C., barred owl.

Mr. C. Lindheimer, Washington, D. C., two gray-breasted paroquets.

Miss Pauline Marshall, Cocoa, Fla., barn owl.

Mr. HE. C. Mateer, Park Lane, Va., alligator.

Mr. Stephen T. Mather, National Park Service, two cinnamon bears.

Mr. D. W. May, Mayaguez, P. R., horned iguana, Porto Rico boa.

Mr. J. R. McClintock, Washington, D. C., bald eagle.

Mrs. Royal Mead, Washington, D. C., two canaries.

Mr. George Mezitis, Washington, D. C., red-legged partridge.

Misses Alys and Helena Missirian, New Hayen, Conn., sooty mangabey.

Mr. W. Lee Morris, Clarendon, Va., alligator.

Mr. E. E. Pabst, Washington, D. C., osprey.

Mr. HE. R. Paiste, Berwyn, Pa., Canada porcupine.

Mrs. Pass, Washington, D. C., Tovi paroquet.

Mr. HE. M. Perkins, Washington, D. C., banded rattlesnake.

Mr. Walter Peteet, Washington, D, C,, marmoset.
96 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1927

Philadelphia Zoological Garden, Philadelphia, Pa., two Muhlenberg’s turtles.
W. Plesses Jungle Show, pine snake.

Mr. BE. D. Reid, Washington, D. C., blacksnake.

Mr. Lowry Riggs, Rockville, Md., California boa.

Mr. E. H. Sartain, Washington, D. C., woodchuck.

Mrs. C. M. Saxelby, Washington, D. C., fire finch.

Mr. W. Schaub, Fairfax, Va., great horned owl.

Mr. BH. S. Schmid, Washington, D. C., two woodchucks.

Mr. H. Schriver, Cumberland, Md., five golden pheasants.

Mr. Ernest T. Seton, Greenwich, Conn., 3 skunks, 1 opossum, 14 mallards.
Mr. R. A. Shinn, Washington, D. C., diamond rattlesnake.

Mr. T. W. Sine, Maurertown, Va., alligator.

Mrs. Geo. B. Smith, Washington, D. C., red-shouldered hawk.

Mrs. C. F. Spradling, Athens, Tenn., king snake. ™
Mr. H. G. Stevens, Culpeper, Va., rhesus monkey.

Mrs. C. A. Strange, Enterprise, Miss., barred owl.

Mr. Swope, Chevy Chase, Md., pied-billed grebe.

Miss Vivian Torovsky, Washington, D. C., yellow-naped parrot.

Mr. J. G. Updike, Rosslyn, Va., great horned owl.

United States Biological Survey, through G. EH. Holman, one wolf.

Mr. H. EH. Waldron, Washington, D. C., Florida gallinule.

Mrs. Robert M. Ward, Winchester, Va., great horned owl.

Mrs. O. D. Wayland, Washington, D. C., two canaries.

Unknown donors, great blue heron, woodchuck, osprey, turkey vulture.

In addition to animals presented to the park, the office of the
Chief Coordinator has secured a considerable number of useful and
valuable supplies and equipment for which the park authorities are
deeply grateful.

Births——During the year 104 mammals, birds, and reptiles were
born and hatched in the park and added to the collection. Among
the mammals born were fallow deer, Barasingha deer, European
deer, sika deer, hog deer, American bison, tahr goat, Indian antelope,.
guanaco, agouti, paca, Rocky Mountain sheep, eapeueen brown bear,
and rhesus eee

The Rocky Mountain sheep are especially se A a The flock
in the park at the close of the year numbered eight indieienaee of
which six were born in Washington and two of them from parents
also born and raised in the park.

Hachanges.—The most important among the animals received in
exchange were the Mongolian wild horse, mountain zebra, and six
Humboldt penguins.

Purchases.—An anoa, a pair of Chapman zebras, an Indian caracal,
a yaguarundi cat, a young snow leopard, a pair of barbary sheep, a
pair of wallaroos, and a South American condor are the principal
purchases of the year. We were especially fortunate in securing the
snow leopard to fill the place of the one that had died the preceding
year, which was the only specimen of this handsome and remarkable
cat in captivity in the United States.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 97

Removals—One hundred and twenty-eight mammals, birds, and
reptiles were sent away to other zoological gardens during the year.
Among these were a pair of Philippine buffalo, various deer, some
small mammals and birds and reptiles from the Smithsonian-Chrysler
expedition.

Losses by death were mainly of animals that had been long in the
collection or very recently received. Among the former was a Man-
churian tiger, which lived in the park from June, 1918, to March 12,
1927; a cheetah received August 8, 1913, died February 17, 1927; a
mountain sheep that had lived from September 18, 1917, to May 3,
1927; an eland received June 9, 1916, died August 22, 1926; a wild
boar received September 10, 1911, died December 9, 1926; a northern
wild cat received January 15, 1912, died January 28, 1927; a large
male sea lion received August 29, 1916, and died June 13, 1927. Sev-
eral of these have established long records for longevity in captivity
but nevertheless leave great gaps in the collection.

One of a pair of Chapman zebras died through an accident, injur-
ing himself by leaping into the fence. The Humboldt penguin died
of aspergillosis.

The loss in the reptile collection has been larger than in other
groups owing to lack of suitable quarters.

Post-mortem examinations were made in most cases by the patho-
logical division of the Bureau of Animal Industry. The following
list shows the results of autopsies, the cases being arranged by groups:

CAUSES OF DEATH

MAMMALS

Marsupialia: Pneumonia, 2; congestion of lungs, 1; enteritis, 1; infection of
jaw, 1; no cause found, 1.

Carnivora: Tuberculosis, 2; congestion of lungs, 1; gastroenteritis, 3; intestinal
parasites, 1; intestinal obstruction, 3; tumor, 1; softening of brain, 1.

Pinnipedia: Congestion of lungs, 1; gastroenteritis, 2.

Primates: Pneumonia, 1; enteritis, 2; gastroenteritis, 2; intestinal parasites, 1;
nephritis, 1; streptococcic infection, 1; malnutrition, 1; no cause found, 2.
Artiodactyla: Pneumonia, 1; tuberculosis, 1; congestion of lungs, 1; gastro-
enteritis, 8; hepatitis, 1; nephritis, 1; necrophorus infection, 2; tumor, 1;

accident, 2; old age, 3.
BIRDS

Struthioniformes: Aspergillosis, 1; peritonitis, 1.
Rheiformes: Egg-bound, 1; no cause found, 1.
Sphenisciformes: Pneumonia, 1; aspergillosis, 5.
Galliformes: Aspergillosis, 1; hepatitis, 1.
Psittaciformes: Enteritis, 2; no cause found, 1.
Passeriformes: Aspergillosis, 1; no cause found, 1.

The animals lost by death which were of value for museum purposes
were transferred to the United States National Museum for preserva-
98 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1927

tion.

In all, 244 specimens were sent.

This does not include a

number of Tanganyika specimens which died immediately upon

arrival in Washington.
to the Museum.

A number of rare birds’ eggs were also sent

A few mammals especially desired at the Johns Hopkins Medical
School were sent, after death, to that institution.

ANIMALS IN THE COLLECTION JUNE 380, 1927

MAMMALS

MARSUPIALIA

Virginia opossum (Didelphis virgini-
Tasmanian devil (Sarcophilus harrisii) —
Flying phalanger (Petaurus breviceps) -
Brush-tailed rock wallaby (Petrogale

Denieillata) 2 Lake eee ee eS
Wallaroo (Macropus robustus)__-__--
Wombat (Phascolomys mitchelli) _----

CARNIVORA

Kadiak bear (Ursus middendorffi) ----
Alaska Peninsula bear (Ursus gyas)--
Yakutat bear (Ursus dalli) __--------
Kidder’s bear (Ursus kidderi) _-------~
European bear (Ursus arctos) ~-_----
Grizzly bear (Ursus horribilis) __-____
Apache grizzly (Ursus apache) —--____-
Himalayan bear (Ursus thibetanus) —~
Black bear (Huarctos americanus) —---~
Cinnamon bear (Huarctos americanus

Crhnamomunm) 2 eee
Glacier bear (Huarctos emmonsii) —--~
Sun bear (Helarctos malayanus) —~-~--
Polar bear (Thalarctos maritimus)__-
Dineo: (Canis Gin goy a es Se oe ee
Gray wolf (Canis nubilus)—--_-------
Florida wolf (Canis floridanus)—--_~-~
Texas red wolf (Canis rufus)-—--~-----~
Coyote (Canis slatrans) is 45 =
Hybrid coyote (Canis latrans-rufus) ~~
California coyote (Canis ochropus) --~
Black-backed jackal (Canis mesome-

Rough fox (Cerdocyon cancrivorus) —-
Red fox (Valves ful) 2s ee
Silver-black fox (Vulpes fulwa) _--_-_-
European fox (Vulpes vulpes) —-___-__
IE) fox (VV wipes: velon) = Se a
Gray fox (Urocyon cinercoargenteus) —
Busk dog (Icticyon venaticus)—_-_____
Cacomistle (Bassariscus astutus)—_—-~
Raccoon s(Lrocvyon-lotor)\=——
Florida raccoon (Procyon lotor elu-

Gray coatimundi (Nasua narica)_~____
Kinkajou (Potos flavus) ____________
Mexican kinkajou (Potos flavus az-

DE CUS) a as eg ene be

oe bo

ae Ce

BER OTHPHONNHHEA BEE HONE PDD

_
a we CHEE NDHHOQNWH

=

Skunk (Mephitis nigra) --.----_-___—
American badger (Tawvidea tarus).___
Ratel (Mellivora capensis) _—____-_-___
Florida otter (Lutra canadensis vaga)_
Indian civet (Viverra zibetha) ------
East African civet (Viverra civetta
orientalia)._- —="—=- 2 3. eee ee
Palm civet (Paradozurus hermaphro-
@itus) ack ese eee
Egyptian mongoose (Herpestes ichneu-
Mow) Blas Shea 2 te ee eee
Banded mongoose (Herpestes mungo
colomis) S322 5. 2 eee ee ee
Neumann’s genet (Genetta dongalana
NCUMNGNNA) Soo ae a ee
East African genet (Genetta suahe-

Aard-wolf (Proteles cristatus)------_-
Spotted hyena (Crocuta crocuta)—----
East African spotted hyena (Crocuta

crocuta, germingns) ==. =e
Striped hyena (Hyana hyena) —-------
African cheetah (Acinonyx jubatus) _-
ion At elis leo) 22222. ee eee
Bengal tiger (Felis tigris) -_--_---_-_.
Manchurian tiger (felis tigris longi-

pilts) 2scsosohe. be a ee
Leopard (felis pardws) -.- 2-222 555e=
Black leopard (felis pardus)—----__-~-
East African leopard (felis pardus

SUGKENCUS) 2 = Soe eee
Jafuar(hetias once) 22222 eae
Serval (felis serval) 22s2s-*> eee
East African serval (Felis capensis

RhinGet) 22a hee = SUS. eee
Ocelot” (Felis-pardalis) -. 22-2 =e ees
Brazilian ocelot (felis pardalis brasil-

densis) 2-2 3 oes ne Aell 1. Sa
Snow leopard (Felis uncia)_~-_______
Mexican puma (felis azteca) —__-_____
Mountain lion (Felis hippolestes)____
Yaguarundi (Felis yagouaroundi) _____
Indian caracal (Lynz# caracal) _—_______
Canada lynx (Lynx canadensis) —---__
Bay lynx (Lyne rufus)=_
Clouded leopard (Neofelis nebulosa) ——

PINNIPEDIA

Leopard seal (Phoca richardii var.) _-~
San Geronimo harbor seal (Phoca ri-
chard” geronimensts) 22—— =~

a al lad

ne

al tia ion
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY

RODENTIA

Woodchuck (Marmota monar) —--------
Prairie dog (Cynomys ludovicianus) _-
Honduras squirrel (Sciurus boothie) ~~
Albino squirrel (Sciurus carolinensis) —
Flying squirrel (Sciwropterus’ volu-

American beaver (Castor canadensis) __
African porcupine (Hystrix africe-
QUSTI OMS) ea ama Sees See Soe
East African porcupine (Hystriz gale-
(BALA) jp A mt fall a epanties A glare ehcp
Malay porcupine (Acanthion brach-

OTE UA7 Cf seca a age oP EP ee
East African. gray mouse (Graphiurus
Cpee NY Bek ey a ee ee es Se
East African tree mouse (Lemiscomys
SAS) Nee aa a a a eth eR SINS

Viscacha (Lagostomus trichodactylus) —
Central American paca (Cuniculus paca

virgatus)
Sooty agouti (Dasyprocta fuliginosa) __
Speckled agouti (Dasyprocta punctata) —
Azara’s agouti (Dasyprocta azare@)__--
Trinidad agouti (Dasyprocta rubrata) —
Guinea pig (Cavia porcellus)--_-____~
Capybara (Hydrocherus hydrocheris) ~

LAGOMORPHA

Domestic rabbit (Oryctolagus cunicu-

PRIMATES

Zanzibar lemur (Galago garnetti) _-__
Senaar lemur (@alago senaariensis) ~~
Pangani lemur (Galago pangani) -____~
Ring-tailed lemur (Lemur catta)—-----
Red-fronted lemur (Lemur rujifrons)—~—
Black lemur (Lemur macaco)—~__--__
Gray spider monkey (Ateles geoffroyi) —
Humboldt’s woolly monkey (Lagothrizr

TUTE OUTTA) Peta i eI

White-throated capuchin (Cebus ca-
DUCUANIS) ))2t feos pee et ee hte aye ES es
Brown capuchin (Cebus fatuellus)____
Margarita capuchin (Cebus marga-
PAE Ey) Sed cite th aioe NANG IEF nt en
Gelada baboon (Theropithecus ob-
SCUTALS Naa ge ee Cd ett dae

Chacma (Papio porcarius).__._______
Anubis baboon (Papio cynocephalus) __
Olive baboon (Papio neumanni) _-_--_
East African baboon (Papio ibeanus)-—
Mandrill (Papio sphingw)_________-__
Drill (Papio leucopheus)_..-__--_-__-
Moor macaque (Cynopithecus maurus) -
Barbary ape (Simia sylvanus)_ __--_~
Japanese macaque (Macaca fuscata) __
Pig-tailed monkey (Macaca neme-

GE TAIT ae lar ak Se Sates eee Bas
Burmese macaque (Macaca andaman-

Cnsig) Seo WE be ee ele Se eco
Rhesus monkey (Macaca rhesus) —--_-~
Crab-eating macaque (Macaca irus)-—~
Philippine macaque (Macaca syrichta) —
Javan macaque (Macaca mordaa) __--

10

NY HH eH He

OnmrhrF We OCH rH —

ad

Sooty mangabey (Cercocebus  fuligi-
SLOSUS Pee eS ee a nee eee ee eee
Hagenbeck’s mangabey (Cercocebus
hagenbecks) === 26S Sass Sane a
White-collared mangabey (Cercocebus
LOTQUALILS == Se ee eee ee

Green guenon (Lasiopyga callitrichus) —
Johnston’s vervet (Lasiopyga pygery-

CREA IONNSTONA)— ee ee ee es
Sykes’ guenon (Lasiopyga albigula-

De Brazza’s
brazze)
Lesser white-nosed guenon (Lasiopyga

petaurista)
Hanuman monkey (Semnopithecus en-

tellus)
Gray gibbon (Hylobates leuciscus) —_-_
Chimpanzee (Pan satyrus)_-___-____
Orang-utan (Pongo pygmaeus) —------~

guenon  (Lasiopyga

ARTIODACTYLA

Wart hog (Phacocherus ethiopicus)__~
River hog (Potamocherus africanus) _—
Collared peceary (Pecari angulatus) _—_

Pigmy hippopotamus (Chwropsis lib-

CHiCNSI 9) ae ee
Bactrian camel (Camelus bactrianus) —
Arabian camel (Camelus dromedar-

Guanaco (Lama huanachus)_--------~-
lama. (Gena glam@)ji22e 2) eee ee
Reindeer (Rangifer tarandus) —~------_~
Fallow deer (Dama dama) ——--------~
White fallow deer (Dama dama)~----
Axis) deer. (Agisiaris)\ 22 ==) oe
Hog deer (Hyelaphus porcinus)_ -__--~
Sambar (Rusa wnicolor)_--__-_-_-___--
Barasingha (Rucervus duvaucelii)_——_
Burmese deer (Rucervus eldii) __-_-__-
Japanese deer (Sika nippon)—_____-__
Red deer (Cervus elaphus)--__--_--_
Kashmir deer (Cervus. hanglu)—--___~-
Bedford deer (Cervus xanthopygus) —--
American elk (Cervus canadensis) ~---~
Guatemala deer (Odocoileus sp.) ------~
Mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus) —-_--~
Blesbok (Damaliscus albifrons) -~---_-~
White-tailed gnu (Connochetes gnu) _-
Brindled gnu (Connochetes taurinus) —
White-bearded gnu (Connochetes tauri-

nus albejubatus) 2-2 -a L
Lechwe (Onotragus leche) -----------
Sable antelope (Hgocerus niger) —-----
Reed buck (Redunca bohor) ----------
East African impalla (Apyceros me-

lampusrsunrnayele =. Seer Se
Indian antelope (Antilope cervicapra) —
Nilgai (Boselaphus tragocamelus) —--~
East African eland (Taurotragus oryzr

livingstonityees ee ake’ beg
Mountain goat (Oreamnos americanus) —
Tahr (Hemitragus jemlahicus)-----~--
Alpine ibex (Capar. iber)—--_--+---~

to Lie ee)

See CR Ooh WOR Oe Be hb Ol OT Re ee

to & bo me me bh

wow
100

Aoudad (Ammotragus lervia)--------
Rocky Mountain sheep (Ovis canaden-

BUS) ee ee eee
Mouflon (Ovis europeus) —---_-----~~
Greenland musk-ox (Ovibos moschatus

480701) 22Ce2 eS A ee eee
Zebu “(Basin dieus) 3-3. eee
Yak (Poéphagus grunniens) —-_--------
American bison (Bison bison)—---~-~--
Anoa (Anoa@ depressicornis) _-__-_---_-_--
Indian buffalo (Bubalus bubalis)-----

PERISSODACTYLA

Malay tapir (Tapirus indicus) ------~
Brazilian tapir (Tapirus terrestris) —-~

STRUTHIONIFORMES

South African ostrich (Struthio aus-
CF QUES ee et ee ee ee eee
Somaliland ostrich (Struthio molybdo-
DRONES sa ee ee eee ae eee 2
Nubian ostrich (Struthio camelus)__~

RHEIFORMES

Rhea (CRhea americana)

CASUARIIFORMES

Australian cassowary (Casuarius dus-
CN OWS) Soe ee ee
Single-wattled cassowary (Casuarius
wuviappendiculatus) =~ 22 Sees ewe
Sclater’s cassowary (Casuarius phil-

Imu (Dromiceius novehollandie) ___-

SPHENISCIFORMES

Rock-hopper penguin (Catarrhactes
pachyrhynchus) (2 Leo. ease Nees ee

CICONTIFORMES

American white pelican (Pclecanus
CrythrornyuGhos) esa So eee
Huropean white pelican (Pelecanus
onocrotalus) __--__— EEL ee
Roseate pelican (Pelecanus rosecus) ——
Australia pelican (Pelecanus conspic-
At), Bes 25 a. i ses ee

Brown pelican (Pelecanus occiden-
CULE) Ee Se ce Nah gle ge eS
California brown pelican (Pelecanus

californicus) 2422 22323 Se a aes
Vlorida cormorant (Phalacrocoraz aur-
4TU8 \ flOvIMAHUS) Vas ete ote wei b
Brandt’s cormorant (Phalacrocorar
Den Cillataus)) ae ee a A ale bee
Great white heron (Ardea occidentalis) —
Great blue heron (Ardea herodias)__
Goliath heron (Ardea goliath). __
East African heron (Ardea melano-
cepheta).. Lees Bike Sowa PT ee Ek
American egret (Casmerodius egretia)

3

;

|

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1927

Baird’s tapir (Tapirella bairdii) ______
Mongolian horse (Hquus przewalskii) —
Mountain zebra (Hquus zcbra)------_
Chapman’s zebra (Hquus quagga chap-

MOAN) Fe oe a An ec eee
Zebra-horse hybrid (Hquus grevyi-ca-

Di} ae or Se es eS
Zebra-ass hybrid (Zquus grevyi-asinus) —

PROBOSCIDEA

Abyssinian elephant (Lozodontea afri-
CONG, OCY0TI8) ~~ 2 a
Sumatran elephant (Hlephkas sumatra-
NUS) 22250202225 _ 8. 2 eee

BIRDS

Ne

bh bw

lll sell Ol ood

—F

Black-crowned night heron (Nycticorar

NYCTICOLAL WeviIS) 22) eee
Boatbill (Cochlearius cochlearius) —_-
White stork (Ciconia ciconia) _______
Black stork (Ciconia nigra)_——--_____—
Marabou stork (Leptoptilus crument

Shoe-bill (Balaniceps rex) __-___-___
Wood ibis (Mycteria americana) —---~
Sacred ibis (Vhreskiornis ethiopicus) —
Black-headed ibis (Threskiornis melano-

Copnalus) —5 2289s eS eee
Australian ibis (Threskiornis  stricti-

DENN) —22 SS eee
White ibis (Guard alte)
Searlet ibis (Guara rubra) ——-_—-__-___

ANSERIFORMES

Mallard (Anas platyrhynehos) ——__---~
Black duck (Anas rubripes) —-.---_-~
Australian black duck (Anas super-

ciligsa.),—~~=-2 248s he Sues ee
African pintail (Anas erythrorhyn-

CRG) yee FLY ca st rag ae ae Se
Gadwall (Chaulelasmus streperus)—---
Huropean widgeon (Mareca penelope) —
Baldpate (Mareca americana) —~—__-_-~
Green-winged teal (Nettion carolin-

European teal (Nettion crecca) _-_-_--_
Baikal teal (Nettion formosum)__---~
Blue-winged teal (Querquedula dis-

Garganey (Querquedula querquedula) —
Shoveller (Spatula clypeata)—------__
Pintail (Waffle acut@) 225-325 es
Bahaman pintail (Dajfila bahamensis) —
Wood duck (Ai# sponsa) ~~. -22e-
Mandarin duck (Dendronessa galericu-

European pochard (Marila ferina)—--~~
Redhead (Marila americana) —---_-----
Ring-necked duck (Marila collaris) --_-
Tufted duck (Marila fuligula)------~
Lesser scaup duck (Marila affinis) ~~~
Greater scaup duck (Marila marila)—-
Rosy-billed pochard (Metopiana pepo-

aa

-
oR & “1 Go tw bo

_
OHHH OH

rary
eR WREDHwWAS
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY

Hawaiian goose (Nesochen sandvicen-

Greater snow goose (Chen hyperboreus

TUUUCLIUS ea ee a ee ee
Blue goose (Chen cerulescens) —--_---
White-fronted goose (Anser albifrons) —
American white-fronted goose (Anser

aiubirans camel) ——=-—=—=—=—=-—=—
Bean goose (Anser fabalis) _-__----__
Pink-footed goose (Anser braciyrhyn-

CAUs\ ioe Ae Je EA ei ee
Chinese goose (Cygnopsis cygnoides) __
Bar-headed goose (Hulabeia indica) —~--
Canada goose (Branta canadensis) ---
Hutchins’s goose (Branta canadensis

RHEE CUGUILS UB) eee ee eee ee
White-cheeked goose (Branta canaden-

Se OCCLAENLAG) oa— = eee a
Cackling goose (Branta canadensis

LOLI LLAE A ab lol Tied 3 al Eot SURE Ble SE
Brant (Branta bernicla glaucogastra) —~
Barnacle goose (Branta leucopsis) —__~
Emperor goose (Philacte canagica) —-~
Muscovy duck (Cairina moschata) —--~
Pied goose (Anseranas semipalmata) —_
Black-bellied tree duck (Dendrocygna

PEATE AEN UIE ULS)) | a ees et ea ee See
Eyton’s tree duck (Dendrocygna ey-

LAGE S, YJ ete apes epg ae the Hg sim eons Pope petty
Mute swan (Cygnus gibbus) _------_
Whistling swan (Cygnus columbianus) _
Black swan (Chenopis atrata)__----_

FALCONIZORMES

Gondor i(Vultur igryphus) 2222-2022} t
California condor (Gymnogyps  cali-

POLTAGMIUS)) ore aes as at en i
Turkey vulture (Cathartes aura)—___~
Black vulture (Coragyps urubu)—----_
King vulture (Sarcoramphus papa) ——_
Secretary bird (Sagittarius serpenia-

OSE Si) ese i NN A
Griffon vulture (Gyps fulvus)--_--_---~
African black vulture (Torgos trache-

Hiatus) =22S 3 poss Ae a el oa
Cinereous vulture (Zgypius monachus) —
White-headed vulture (J'rigonoceps oc-

CULTS) SS SION OOS Pots Be ee oe
Caracara (Polyborus cheriway)
Black-shouldered kite

(Zlanus ce@ru-

African black kite (Milvus migrans
DORUSILICUR) 2 tee St Te eee
Wedge-tailed eagle (Uroaétus audazr)—
Golden eagle (Aquila chrysaétos) —~--~
Tawny eagle (Aquila rapar)—-------~
White-bellied sea eagle (Cuncuma leu-
Govast en) Seas wa). Satis ot — eae
Bald eagle (Halivetus leucocephalus
teucecephatus)) 22.) hes ee ei
Alaskan bald eagle (Haliwetus leuco-
cephatusatascanus) Msi a286_ ae
Red-tailed hawk (Buteo borealis) ---~-
East African chanting goshawk (Meli-
erga. noliopterus)._—.-=.2-=.--=2— 23
Pigmy falcon (Poliohieraw semitor-
QUCLUS) ye rte SESE

74906—28——8

a)

© bo 09 bo

oe He

wore

Sparrow hawk (Falco sparverius) —-_~
South African lanner (Faico biarmi-
Cus) 22S ea SS ee

GALLIFORMES

Panama curassow (Craz panwmensis) —
Razor-billed curassow (Mitu mitu)—---
Crested guan (Penelope bolivianda) —---
Mexican guan (Ortalis vetula)____--~_
Vulturine guinea fowl (Acryllium vul-

TUN UNIT) eS
Grants’ crested guinea fowl (Guttera

GV ONT) Aa eh ee
Reichenow’s helmeted guinea fowl (Nuw-

nida mitrata reichenowi) __--_-_----~
Peafowl (Pavo cristatus) —_--_--~--_-
Albino peafowl (Pavo cristatus) _-----
Silver pheasant (Genneus nyctheme-

MES eS Shee | ee eS

Golden pheasant (Chrysolophus  pic-
TUS) VIVAL. De was ee ee
Lady Ambherst’s pheasant (Chrysolo-
phus ambherstiey2e2s. VSL eeet _ Sees
Ring-necked pheasant (Phasidnus tor-
QUuatus) LOASe LE Pee as See ae
Red-legged partridge (Alectoris
OTECR)t>_ BEBO MeO > Evatt
Migratory quail (Coturniz coturniz) —-
Valley quail (Lophortyx californica
PALECOVE) Aes 2 Se SR ee
Scaled quail (Callipepla squamata) —--

GRUIFORMES

Florida galiinule (Gallinula galeata) —_~
African moorhen (Gallinula chloropus
brachyptera)) 222 Se ee eo
East Indian gallinule (Porphyrio cal-
GUS) We Se ae ees _ Soe hee
Pukeko (Porphyrio stanleyi)-------_-
Black-tailed moor hen (Microtribonyz
VentTalis) sj se se Sse ee
American coot (fulica americana) _-_~
African black crake (Limnocraz flavi-
NOSE) eee i ee es = eres ey
Lesser rail (Hypotenidia philippensis) —
South Island weka rail (Ocydromus
GUSUT OILS) ES ey SES pie a Oe
Short-winged weka (Ocydromus bra-
Chyptlerus)t2 229) 23S Se ew ieee
Sandhill crane (Megalornis mexicana) —
Little brown crane (Megalornis cana-
CETRT A) se ae ee eee
White-necked crane (Megalornis leu-
CONCH CI eS ee
Indian white crane (Megalornis leuco-
GOP ONUS) a aeae SS
Lilford’s crane (Meyalornis lilfordi)--
Australian crane (Mathewsena rubi-
CUNEAYS. 254 tes Beh s8 Bs ee
Demoiselle crane (Anthropoides virgo) -—
Crowned crane (Balearica pavonina) ~~
East African crowned crane (Balearica
regulorum gibdericeps) -----------
Kagu (Rhynochetos jubatus)~------_-

101

iS)

NH bp

12

bo

i

oe

wm bo
102

CHARADRITFORMES

Ruff (Philomachus pugnar)--------_-
Lapwing (Vanellus vanellus) --_-----~
Yellow-wattled lapwing (Lobivanellus

(NGtCUS) oa a eee ene
South American stone-plover (@dicne-

mus bistriatus wvocifer) 22. ~--=—
Pacific gull (Gabianus pacificus)—~---~
Great black-backed gull (Larus mari-

Western gull (Larus occidentalis) __-~
Herring gull (Larus argentatus)—--__
Silver gull (Larus novehollandic) —-_-
Laughing gull (Larus atricilla) _-----~
Inea tern (Noddi inca) —----+.-----~--~
Victoria crowned pigeon (Goura victo-

Bleeding-heart dove (Gallicolumba lu-
ZONIGO) = ee a
Wood pigeon (Columba palumbus) —~---~
White-crowned pigeon (Columba leuco-
COpNGIG) 222 sae See
Triangular spotted pigeon (Columba
Guined) Hae Sa Se ee ed
Mourning dove (Zenaidura macroura)_—
Mexican dove (Zenaidura graysoni) —~--
White-fronted dove (Leptotila fulvi-
ventris brachyptera) ~-==—~--~—=--=
Necklaced dove (Spilopelia tigrina)—-~
Emerald spotted dove (Yurtur chalco-

East African ring-necked dove (Strep-
topelia capicola tropica) _--_-----_-
Masai mourning dove (Streptopelia de-
cipiens perspicillata) ______-=----__
Zebra dove (Geopelia striata) __-___--_
Bar-shouldered dove (Geopelia humer-
Qlisy oe ee A ese ee oT eee ees a
Cape masked dove (Gna capensis) ~~
Inca dove (Scardafella inca) --___--___
Cuban ground dove (Chwmepelia pas.
serinagaflavida)ec: 1. st2e0 sae
Green-winged dove (Chalcophaps in-

ACO) phe epee Ae Ne SAP Vitel be PR Ae
Pacific fruit pigeon (Globicera paci-
WiCO) aaa oe ee
Bronze fruit pigeon (Muscadivores
MEN EG) a a ae te ee eee
Malay spotted dove (Spilopelia ti-
Oring) ss sb oe Ae ee oat
PSITTACIFORMES
Kea (Nestor notabdilis) _.___._______-_
Roseate cockatoo (Kakatoe _ roseica-
LLG) ee 2 ee aa
Bare-eyed cockatoo (Kakatoe gymno-
by LVN Space OES cole ae eed ea ee te

Leadbeater’s cockatoo (Kakatoe lead-
Dealer) aa a Se Se ee ee ee
White cockatoo (Kakatoe alba)_--_--
Sulphur-crested cockatoo (Kakatoe ga-
lerdia) 2b 2 Se oS 2 hs 5 gig Da eee
Mexican green macaw (Ara mewicana) —

r=

me bo Oo eo O bo —_

to Ld

©

i

O

=

=

=

_

a

2

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1927

Severe macaw (Ara severa) ----------
Blue-and-yellow macaw (Ard ararauna) -

Red-and-blue-and-yellow macaw (Ara
MACHO) oe ee eon ae ere
Gray-breasted paroquet (Myopsitia
WIUO TUE CHARS.) rs es ac ne
Petz’s paroquet (Hupsittula  canicu-
aris) See eee ee eee
Golden-crowned paroquet (Hupsittula
CUNEO) es ee ee ee ee

Weddell’s paroquet (Hupsittula wed-
GE) ere ee oe ate
Blue-winged parrotlet (Psittacula pas-
SOTSG) 2a 2 oe ee ee
Golden paroquet (Brotogeris chryso-

Tovi paroquet (Brotogeris jugularis) ~~
Yellow-naped parrot (Amazona auro-
DOUUOEG) == ee
Mealy parrot (Amazona farinosa) ~~~
Orange-winged parrot (Amazona ama-
ZONE) soe oe ee
Blue-fronted parrot (Amazona @stiva)—
Red-crowned parrot (Amazona viridi-
genalis) eee
Double - yellow - head parrot (Amazona
OratTiz) ——- <2 eee
Yellow-headed parrot (Amdzona ochro-
cephala) -2 > 25 2 ee eee
Festive parrot (Amazona festiva) ~~~
Lesser white-fronted parrot (Amazona
albifrons. nana) =. eee
Santo Domingo parrot (Amazona ven-
tras) 2... 23 oo tare eee
Cuban parrot (Amazona leucocephala) —
Maximilian’s parrot (Pionus mazi-
mAliONt) 2 22 A a eS ee
Dusky parrot (Pionus fuscws)-------~

Blue-headed parrot (Pionus men-
struus) ice aha ee ee ae
Amazonian caique (Pionites wantho-
NYyCTIO) | Sone Oe eee
Black-headed caique (Pionites melano-
COPA) $2 a es at i pele ee Rey

East African brown parrot (Poicepha-

lus meyeri matschiet) ~~~ ~~. _
Lesser vasa parrot (Coracopsis nigra) —
Greater vasa parrot (Coracopsis vasa) —
Red-faced love bird (Agapornis pul-

lavi@) See eke hee ee
Gray-headed love bird (Agapornis ma-
dagascariensis)22o2 2 = 2s. eee
Yellow-collared love bird (Agapornis
personata) 224238 52 ake ae

Fischer’s love bird (Agapornis fischeri) —
Blue-bonnet paroquet (Psephotus he-
matorrhous) eu ee eo ees
Pennant’s paroquet (Platycercus ele-
9Ons) 2 hese ee eee SSeS

NUPA) Sa we Seat ea ee ee
Red-shining paroquet (Pyrrhulopsis
splendena) ase eeee es See ees
King paroquet (Aprosmictus cyanopy-
gius) 52.28 ee ee
Crimson-winged paroquet (Aprosmictus
erythropierus).~. =.= ee

= Ol

11

me Co

ee

ee
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY

Ring-necked paroquet (Conurus_ tor-
GUatus) Dees Bo Oe es ee
Nepalese paroquet (Conurus nepalen-
PL) ee ee Se ee ee eee

US) eae foe

CORACIIFORMES

Jackson’s hornbill (Lophoceros jack-
SO) a ee _ Se ee eee eS
Groove-billed toucanet (Aulacorham-
DIMMS SUICALUR Oo oe eae
Emin Pasha’s barbet (Trachyphonus
POI ap RS Rl Be es
die)

Barred owl (Striz varia) —~-~-----~~--
Florida barred owl (Striz varia
QUEHE ee oas SeSN es

Snowy owl (Nyctea nyctea)---------
Screceh: owl! (Otus’ asio) 2 22s
East African white-eared owl (Otus

teucotis' grantiy 222 Bee Ses
Great horned owl (Bubo virginianus) —-
Eagle owl (Bubo bubo) ---------_----
Spotted eagle owl (Bubo africanus) ~~~
American barn owl (Tyto alba pratin-

Coley. Ss Se ae 2 age
African barn owl (Tyto alba affinis) __
Red-shafted flicker (Colaptes cafer col-

LIES eet eae ease dd

PASSERIFORMES

Cock of the rock (Rupicola rupicola) __
Naked-throated bell-bird (Chasmorhyn-

CRUS QubIICOLMS) 2 ee
Mockingbird (Mimus polyglottos)_-___
Silver-eared hill-tit (Mesia argen-

Red-billed hill-tit (Liothrig luteus) ___
Black-gorgeted laughing thrush (Gar-
PULOD se HeCLOTAMS) motes a oS
White-eared buibul (Otocompsa _ leu-
EG LER te a so ES a el
Red-eared bulbul (Otocompsa jocosa) _~
Black-headed bulbul (Molpustes hemor-
(DINE PE) eS Le SES De eee en ee ea
(Oe) ag ee es EE eae eee
White-necked raven (Corvultur albi-
BOCES arin tage Beery te Ey
European raven (Corvus corar) ~~~
American raven (Corvus corag sinu-
OlUG fees 58 eee te ee eth ol
Australian crow (Corvus coronoides) __
American crow (Corvus brachyrhyn-
(2) ee a 2
White-breasted crow (Corvus albus) __
American magpie (Pica pica hudsonia) —
Yucatan jay (Cissilopha yucatanica) —_
Blue jay (Cyanocitta cristata) -----__
Green jay (Xanthoura luruosa) —-_---
Blue honey-creeper (Cyanerpes cya-
EAL) ASG) aaah 4 lb SB ae pe SO) EEE EES
Blue-winged tanager (T'anagra cyanop-

19

CoN me Oo Ole

rs

=

Blue tanager (Thraupis cana) -----__
Giant whydah (Diatropura progne)--~
Paradise whydah (Steganura para-
CIS€G) == = es <fe ee  s  ee
Shaft-tailed whydah (Vetrenura regia) —
Red-crowned bishop bird (Pyromelana
Syloatlicd) = .25-seee Sh Se
Red-billed weaver (Quelea quelea)__--
Buffalo weaver (Tezrtor albirostris) ~-_
Black-winged coral-billed weaver (Tez-
tOr NgGEN, NYAS8E) a2 = Sete ee
Madagascar weaver (Foudia madagas-
COmiensis) {22 + ' ha aes Sei
Black-headed weaver (Hyphanturgus
nigriceps)
Emin’s scaly-headed finch (Sporopipes
frontalish émini) 532 se
St. Helena waxbill (Hstrilda astrilda)_
Orange-cheeked waxbill (Zstrilda mel-

BOY ED) ate ee
Blue-headed blue waxbill (Ureginthus
bengalus cyanocephalus) —_--_______
East African fire-throated finch (Py-
CRUE TOPICA) ee a St ee
Nutmeg finch (Munia punctulata)_—-__
White-headed nun (Munia maja)_-__~
Black-headed nun (Munia atricapilla)_
Chestnut-breasted finch (Munia casta-
NeiLnOTaE) S22 ase eh eRe
Java finch (Munia oryzivora)________
Masked grassfinch (Poéphila person-
ata)

Zebra finch (T7'tiopygia castanotis) ____
Cutthroat finch (Amadina fasciata) ~~
Tanganyika cutthroat finch (Amadina

fasciata alewanderi) = see.
Red-headed finch (Amadina_ erythro-

Yellow-headed marshbird (Agelaius ic-
CCROCEDRGHIS) 22a Soe. Se ees ee
Australian gray jumper (Struthidea
Cinerea) 222 = 8 3S a
Starling (Sturnus vulgaris) _____-___-~
Shining starling (Lamprocorazr metal-
LACUS) pe ee Se ho a ea ee ees
Southern glossy starling (Lamprocolius
pestis)
Crested mynah (4thiopsar cristatel-

Bare-jawed troupial (Gymnomystax me-

lanNsCteRUs) x22 EE es
Hooded oriole. (Icterus cucullatus ) ~~~
Yellow-tailed oriole (Icterus mesome-

Purple grackle (Quiscalus quiscula) ~~~
Greenfinch (Chloris chloris) __.___---__
European goldfinch (Carduelis car-

HL OIGA nee SS
Brambling (Fringilla montifringilla) __
Yellowhammer (Hmberiza citrinella) ~~
House finch (Carpodacus mezxicanus

TROTEE Wire) Be Ra A TE RE ie

a
104

San Lueas house fineh (Carpodacus

mexicanus ruberrimus) _.--_-----__ 2 melodia -coopert) 222 Se
Canary (Serinus canarius) —~-------__ 12 Coastal pale-bellied sparrow (Passer
Little yellow serin (Serinus icterus)_. 15 griseus suahelicus) __---___--~- verona LM
Gray singing finch (Serinus leucopy- Saffron finch (Sicalis flaveola) -------_~
CUS yw eee See 9 Blue grosbeak (Guiraca cerulea) —----~
White-throated sparrow (Zonotrichia Red-crested cardinal (Paroaria cucul-
albtecllis) Riss Se ee ee ees ef CTE) ee
REPTILES
Alligator (Alligator mississipiensis)_. 29 Spotted terrapin (Clemmys guttata)---
Hlorned toad (Phrynosoma cornutum) — 5 Soft-shelled terrapin (Amyda_ spini-
Blainville’s horned toad (Phrynosoma féra), 2" = eo See
Olan OTTi) She SY Eee eee 4 Musk turtle (Sternotherus odoratus)_
Gila monster (Heloderma suspectum) — 5 Mexican musk turtle (Kinosternon
Beaded lizard (Heloderma horridum) — at S0n0rieNnSse) aaa ee eee
Gould’s monitor (Varanus gouldii)----_ 1 | South American musk turtle (Kino-
Egyptian monitor (Varanus niloticus)_ 1 steynon scorpioides)--___-----___-
Philippine monitor (Varanus salvator)- 1 | Pennsylvania musk turtle (Kinoster-
West Indian iguana (Cyclura cornuta)- 1 non subrubrum) ——--=—----+-------=
Rock python (Python molurus)------- 1 | Wood turtle (Clemmys insculpta)----
Regal python (Python reticulatus)_-_-__ 1 | Leprous terrapin (Clemmys leprosa) —-
African python (Python seb@) -~~----- 10 | Mublenberg’s terrapin (Clemmys muhl-
Anaconda (Hunectes murinus) -------- 2 enbengt) ices ta ee
Boa constrictor (Constrictor constric- Blanding’s terrapin (Emys blandingit)
tor) -------~~--~------------------- 3 | European pond turtle (Hmys orbicu-
California boa (Lichanura roseofusca)... 1 orig) ase oo See es ee
Porto Rican tree-boa (Hpicrates anguli- South American terrapin (Nicoria
fer) ~2-+~----=--- == ---==—-=-- === 10 punctularia) ~--..-_~--_---=-=---+
Brazilian tree-boa (Hpicrates crassus) — 1 South African turtle (Homopus areo-
Black snake (Coluber constrictor) ~--~- 1 iéius). cee
Corn snake (Elaphe guitata) Pacene a 1 Reeves turtle (Geoclemys reevesi) —--
Pine snake (Pituophis melanolewcus) — 2 Loochoo turtle (Geoemyda spengleri) —
King snake (Lampropeltis getulus) -—— Ceylon terrapin (Geoemyda thermalis)
Water snake (Natria sipedon)——_—~-- 2 | painted turtle (Ohrysemys picta)_——
Haitian snake (Jaltris dorsalis) ~--_- a: Western painted turtle (Chrysemys
Egyptian cobra (Naja haie)--------- 3 belt) ee
Black-necked spitting cobra (Naja nt- Central American cooter (Pseudemys
GT AC ONS) eae ee eet ee el ee 2 omnia) _ ee) ee eee
Boomslang (Dispholidus typus)—--~--- 5 Gopher tortoise (Gopherus polyphe-
Copperhead (Agkistrodon mokasen)--_ 3 TAB) OE Sa
Fer-de-lance (Bothrops lanceolatus) --- 1 Dunean Island tortoise (Testudo ephip-
Florida rattlesnake (Crotalus adaman- niin) oe ose os
hoes elie ag aURAa PREIS MAGI TESTS 2 | indefatigable Island tortoise (Testudo
Western diamond rattlesnake (Cro- portert)~ 8 2250
talus atrox) -~-------~--~----~-~- 1 | Albemarle Island tortoise (Testudo
Banded rattlesnake (Crotalus horridus)- — 4 wichita) 28 22 ee Ti
Snapping turtle (Chelydra  serpen- South American tortoise (Testudo den-
tina) --------------------------- 2 ticutatay Late ee
Florida snapping turtle (Chelydra os- Hermann’s tortoise (Vestudo her-
ceola) --____----~~-~--------~-~-- 1 mannd) 22 DE en eee
Matamata (Chelys fimbriata)—-----__- 1 | Angulated tortoise (Testudo angulata) —
African mud terrapin (Pelusius nigri- Bell’s tortoise (Testudo belli) _-------
cans) —---=-=-=-=5 === 5 --=- == 26 | Leopard tortoise (J'estudo pardalis)——
African snake-necked terrapin (Pelo- Agassiz’s tortoise (Testudo agassizit) —
medusa galeata)——— 3 2 eee 40 | Berlandier’s tortoise (TYestudo berlan-
Brazilian snake-necked terrapin (Hy- diett) CBee ee) ee eee
adresprs hilar) 22 2 an See ae 1 Iberian tortoise (Testudo iberia)-—---~
Diamond-back terrapin (Malaclemys Soft-shelled tortoise (Zestudo love-
Centr atd) eles ae sen eee oe 4 ridge) scoU Sse est 2 eee
Geographic terrapin (Graptemys geo- Chicken turtle (Deirochelys reticula-
OTapIied)\—. a == eA a ek ee 1 rid) —----~-~-~-~--~---~~--~--~-------
BATRACHIANS
African smooth-clawed frog (Xenopus Giant salamander (Megalobatrachus
MUL OKI 3 Se ee et ee eK os 30 JODONLCUS) aaa ee ee
Fire salamander (Salamandra macu- Congo snake (Amphiwma means) —-----
HAY ees tae ae Se a ee ee 1

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1927

San Diego song sparrow (Melospiza

NOHHE

:
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 105

Statement of the collection

nentiies
Mam- . an
mals Birds batra- Total
chians
resented ana collected bysexpediioneo 2 a2 4) oo ae oe eee oe eae eal es | es 1, 353
aioe ee seo ee ae es Sa ee eer See a 41 33 30 104
RO cehVOGHnaxCharipOs 2. the. Sake Se eae Ee Be eet Seas ek 2 25 2 29
LETFAG OLE UTS Dias ns So Si ee ee ee er ee 30 14 2 46
Transferred from other Government departments-_--_-_---------- 1 ON GREE 8 ie 2 3
SILO Uherete eee ath, a See et ones Gaede ea tate teen 74 74 34 1, 535
SUMMARY
MATES Rone aaa etl ya ttt 1O2G. tes sey Bie set tae Te Fs ee eee Ss 1, 619
CCECSIONSHOUPING TENG SVCATis = Lett nek eg ee nea ge ee 1, 5385
otalganiineal span dlegi tas es. ies ORS a he te es 3 3, 154
Deduct loss (by death, return of animals, and exchange) ____--________ 788
2, 366
Status of collection
Species ect ie
Ih perborate eee: See ee 195 532
Bigs. SL Cre ee ee eo onteee ne: Cie ace! 321 1, 515
RIO EMCOMHE CDA TLOCRIANS 125. eeers tf ener g Ss) eae e. See ee ese ee Spee ae 76 319
592 2, 366

Although the list of animals has been augmented considerably,
there are still numerous gaps in large and important forms. Many
of the larger animals now in the collection are very old and will
undoubtedly have to be replaced in the near future.

VISITORS

The attendance as recorded on the daily reports of the park was
very much larger than any other year in the history of the Zoo.
Attendance by months was as follows:

1926 1927
At 2 ee ees BAT SOO eV EULA INyseS eee s 74, 650
Ch F 2) 1S Cs DS iene Stel a aa B15, 100; | ebmnry -2 8 ee 73, 800
meprempen 210%! eee S215 DOO!" Marehwsit: 215. teks Sete ase ts: 188, 850
Ota ve rset. brs Pais 1s ve) sc 172; OOO} | PAgo Tete eats ae iis fee os 326, 580
NOwempe@I 32. Lope 440. S00. |p Mayet ape! sore ee 371, 400
Beene a ae ee Se CO; S000 Vine ee er oe ee 259, 700
106 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1927

The great crowds of visitors in November were attracted by the
new animals brought from Africa.

Schools, classes, and similar organizations that visited the park
numbered 370. Among them was the 4-H Club of the Department of
Agriculture. The total number of persons in organized classes was
about 25,000.

IMPROVEMENTS

A new flight cage, 30 by 60 feet and 35 feet high, containing two
small pools, was installed in the ravine below the large flight cage.
This houses gulls, terns, ibises, and other water birds and gives them
opportunity to nest and raise their young unmolested by the pelicans
and other large birds with which they formerly were continually in
conflict. ‘The large accessions from the Smithsonian-Chrysler expedi-

_tion necessitated alterations in the lion house, bird house, and monkey
house to accommodate them. Practically all the cages in the monkey
house were divided each into two. The bird house was remodeled to
secure quarters for the giraffe.

A large amount of repair work and painting was done on the
larger metal structures. The frame work of the great flight cage,
exterior cages of the lion house and antelope house, and fences of
the bear yard were painted, as well as much miscellaneous painting
done throughout the park.

The electric pump that was purchased from the 1926 appropria-
tion was installed at the central boiler house and a new and larger
pipe connection made from the pump to the hippo, tapir, and alli-
gator pools, greatly improving the supply of warmed water.

The electric service line was extended to the restaurant and electric
refrigeration installed—the latter without expense to the park.

A new public walk was built from the junction of the roads to
the lion house.

Preliminary to the building of the new bird house, an area about _
250 feet square was cleared. In clearing the required space it was
necessary to remove a number of large trees—mostly poplars. These
were cut into saw-log lengths and converted into lumber.

A service road about 600 feet long was built to the site of the
bird house from the new highway on the west side of the park.
This road is of tar-bound macadam. It was found necessary to put
in an unusually deep stone base for this road because of soft
ground, and in view of the fact that heavy hauling would be done
over it in bringing materials for the building, and later, bringing
coal and other supplies. The sewer and water systems of the park
were extended to the site.

A passenger automobile was purchased second hand, and a 1-ton
truck was bought for light work about the grounds. A G. M. C.
114-ton “light aviation” truck chassis was received by transfer.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 107

This was equipped in the park shop with a dumping body, tires, and
other necessary fittings and is very useful for heavy hauling.

Food cost somewhat more than during the previous year, owing
mainly to increase in price of horse meat. This increase seems likely
to be permanent.

NEW BIRD HOUSE

The firm of Arthur L. Smith was awarded the contract for the new
bird house by the District architect, and construction was begun on
the building in the late spring. The work of grading and laying
foundations progressed satisfactorily. Brick work is being executed
and the prospects are that the house will be ready for the installa-
tion of the bird collection in early spring.

Since many years ago when the Zoological Park received an appro-
priation of $10,000 to build an elephant house, swimming pool and
a yard, the park has never until the past year received an appropri-
ation to construct an exhibition building for animals. This bird
house, which has been sadly needed for many years, will be an im-
pressive improvement to the park. The birds will live under modern
hygienic conditions and will make an exceedingly fine exhibit.

NEEDS OF THE ZOO

To a large extent, the animals have still to be kept in temporary quarters
which are insuflicient and unsuitable, and are costly to maintain because of
the repairs which are constantly required.

This statement,.which was made in the report for 1910 and repeated
from year to year in annual reports, applies even more to-day. While
our collection is one of the finest in America, though being rapidly
surpassed by six other zoos, the park itself is probably the finest
naturally of any zoo in the world; the climate is particularly healthy
for animals, which has been proved by numerous records for longevity
made in the park, but our buildings are entirely unsuitable and a
source of continual unfavorable comment on the part of visitors.

We have a definite building program for structures necessary for
the proper housing and exhibition of our stock. These are a reptile
and batrachian house, a small mammal house, and a pachyderm
house. The construction of these three buildings would enable us to
reorganize such as we have now and to tear down other structures
constructed originally as temporary makeshifts and which are
absolutely unsuitable for the purposes for which they are now used.
This year we requested in our annual estimates funds for the con-
struction of a reptile house.

Reptile house-—KEver since 1910 appeals have been made for an
exhibition house to contain reptiles, batrachians, and insects. In
addition to having probably more educational value than any other
108 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1927

exhibition, such a house has always been most popular with the
public in zoos where they exist; so popular, in fact, that in certain
zoological parks where admission is required, an extra admission is
charged for entry into the reptile building. Here in Washington,
visitors repeatedly ask the location of such a building.

Despite the fact that the park management makes no particular
attempt to get reptiles, our collection at present consists of nearly 400
specimens representing many rare and valuable species. Among
them is a notable collection of the now almost extinct Galapagos
Island tortoise, represented here by six specimens belonging to three
species. During the winter these are kept in a gloomy room not on
exhibition and in a situation crowded and otherwise unsuited to
their well-being. The majority of other reptiles in the park are kept
in the same building in small boxes.

A request has been made in the estimates for appropriations for
such a building in which are to be exhibited not only reptiles and
batrachians but also insects and a collection of small tropical fishes.

CONCESSIONS

Practically all zoological gardens maintain refreshment stands
and restaurants, and the profits from these are used to purchase
animals for the collection. The control by the National Zoological
Park of a limited number of concessions would be a distinet benefit
to the public in two ways—the service would be enlarged and greatly
improved, and the entire profit from the concessions would be used
to purchase additional specimens for the exhibition collection.

Respectfully submitted.

W. M. Mann, Director.

Dr. C. G. Apzor,
Acting Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.

a
APPENDIX 7
REPORT ON THE ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY

Sir: The Astrophysical Observatory was conducted under the fol-
lowing passage of the independent offices appropriation act approved
April 22, 1926:

Astrophysical Observatory: For maintenance of the Astrophysical Obseryva-
tory, under the direction of the Smithsonian Institution, including assistants,
purchase of books, periodicals, and apparatus, making necessary observations
in high altitudes, repairs and alterations of buildings, preparation of manu-
scripts, drawings, and illustrations, traveling expenses, and miscellaneous
expenses, $31,180, of which amount not to exceed $27,840 may be expended
for personal services in the District of Columbia.

The observatory occupies a number of frame structures within an
inclosure of about 16,000 square feet south of the Smithsonian
administration building at Washington, a cement observing station
and frame structure for observers on a plot of 10,000 square feet
leased from the Mount Wilson Observatory, and an observing station
on Table Mountain, Calif. This last station, provided by Mr. John A.
Roebling, includes a tunnel for instruments, small structures for the
field director and for the assistant, a shop, and a garage.

The Astrophysical Observatory also defrays a part of the cost of
the maintenance of the observing station at Montezuma, Chile, which
was erected in 1920, with means furnished by Mr. Roebling. The
constructions there comprise a tunnel for instruments, a small struc-
ture for observers, shop, garage, and a telephone line 12 miles to
Calama.

The present value of the buildings and equipment for the ‘Astro-
physical Observatory owned by the Government is estimated at
$50,000. This estimate contemplates the cost required to replace
the outfit for the purposes of the investigations.

WORK AT WASHINGTON

(a) Radiometer—With the cooperation of the Bureau of Stand-
ards, whose glass blower, Mr. Sperling, made the difficult glass
work needed with glass-sealed optical windows, preparations were
made to construct a very sensitive radiometer. It will be recalled
that in October, 1923, Dr. C. G. Abbot employed a radiometer
prepared by Nichols and Tear, and, observing with the 100-inch
telescope on Mount Wilson, obtained the first energy-spectra of
stars ever measured with heat-recording apparatus. In 1924 he

109
116 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1927

attempted to improve on these first results by constructing a lighter
system, using flies’ wings to prepare the vanes of the instrument.
But he found that at the air pressure required to give a good radiom-
eter deflection, the system was damped into such sluggishness as
to be useless. At the suggestion of Doctor Anderson of Mount
Wilson Observatory, Doctor Abbot proposed to substitute hydro-
gen for air, hoping to get equal sensitiveness and much less damp-
ing. As hydrogen would be contaminated by air leakage, or cock
grease, or mercury vapor if connected with an air pump, as usual, he
proposed to seal up the suspended system in glass like an X-ray
tube, having first exhausted the glass case as completely as possible,
and filled in pure hydrogen (through a liquid air trap) to the
desired pressure.

The necessity of rotating the suspended system with reference to
the glass case and its optical windows offered difficulties. However,
this was accomplished by including within the case a train of gear-
ing ending in a little horseshoe magnet, which could be rotated
by another magnet from without. The reduction of speed from the
magnet to the suspension system was in all nearly 10,000-fold, so
that a little reversible electric motor, with cone drive, was arranged
to drive the outside magnet through so many thousands of turns.
All of these contrivances were constructed by Mr. Kramer under
Doctor Abbot’s direction, but the actual expedition to Mount Wilson
did not go forward until July, 1927, and will be described in the re-
port of 1928. It may be worth while to add, however, that Mr.
Aldrich tested occasionally for 10 months, by weighings, the evapo-
ration of a large surface of beeswax laid down on thin mica. The
loss was so very slight that this substance was found quite suitable
to fasten the parts of the radiometer suspension without fear of ap-
preciably contaminating the hydrogen by mixture of its heavy mole-
cules.

(6) Pyrhetiometer—Although the Californian and the South
West African equipments had been supplied with silver-disk pyrheli-
ometers with very long vestibules to cut down the effect of atmos-
pheric radiation immediately surrounding the sun, and though all of
our observatories have been equipped with half-second pendulums to
reduce error in time observations at the pyrheliometers, yet we are
seeking a degree of accuracy so high that an attempt seemed desirable
to devise a new type of pyrheliometer in which errors would be still
more reduced. This instrument was not entirely completed at the

close of the period of this report, and its performance will be de-

scribed in the report for 1928.

(c) Revision of observations—The important work of revision of
solar radiation measurements mentioned in last year’s report was
prosecuted vigorously during the fiscal year. A complete re-reduc-

EE ie
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 111

tion of all Montezuma observations from 1923 to date, including the
measurement of plates for nearly 150 days of fundamental observa-
tion by Langley’s method, and also the setting up of a new system
of reduction for short-method observations, was completed in May,
1927. The new results, while differing on the average by only a
small fraction of 1 per cent from the preliminary ones, are undoubt-
edly of much greater weight, and may now be regarded as definitive.
A full description of the processes and the reasons for them will
eventually be published.

A similar study of all Table Mountain observations is going on,
and, when completed, definitive observations will be published from
that station also.

Readers may understand the necessity of these revisions of solar
radiation observations by recalling that in astronomy the late Prof.
Lewis Boss spent many years in a revision of all high-class observa-
tions of the positions of stars, and introduced numerous correc-
tions to the individual observations, based on extensive statistical
study, before he was able to combine the whole study into his “ Classi-
cal Preliminary General Catalogue.” A similar statistical study of
our solar observations could not be made until several years of
homogeneous measurements were available. It would have been bet-
ter to have waited for 10 years before making it, but the urgent
demands of meteorologists for our solar observations have induced
us to try to put the matter in definitive form thus early.

(d) Smithsonian exhibition of February 11, 1927—In connection
with the conference of eminent men on the future of the Smithsonian
Institution, the Astrophysical Observatory, as well as other depart-
ments, was represented by an exhibit of working instruments, dia-
grams, and photographs. In order to give as complete and striking
a picture as possible of the purposes and attainments of the observa-
tory a very considerable amount of time of the director, of Mr.
Aldrich, and of Mr. Kramer, was devoted thereto.

FIELD WORK

(a) Table Mountain, Calif—This observatory, which by Mr. John
A. Roebling’s generosity was erected in the autumn of 1925 to replace
that on Mount Harqua Hala, has been in continuous observation of
the solar constant of radiation during the fiscal year. While the
number of days available for observation does not very greatly
exceed the number at Harqua Hala, the quality of these days, es-
pecially in the months of June, July, August, and September, is
immensely superior. On one occasion in the autumn of 1926 Mr.
Moore was able to observe at Table Mountain on 71 consecutive
days, which is by far the maximum record for any of our stations.
112 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1927

As stated above, a definitive reduction of all Table Mountain observa-
tions is being vigorously pushed.

(6) Montezwma, Chile—tThis, our best solar constant station, was
also in continuous observation during the entire year. Its daily
results were published on the United States weather maps of the next
following days; also, telegraphic advices were sent daily to the Ar-
gentine Government, and to Dr. Julio Bustos Navarette, who pub-
lishes a monthly meteorological bulletin containing them.

As stated above, a definite re-reduction of the Montezuma work has
been completed, and the results are now being published in final form.

At the suggestion of Doctor Dobson, of Oxford, England, a copy
of his atmospheric ozone measuring apparatus has been installed at
Montezuma, and its daily results are forwarded to Doctor Dobson for
reduction and publication.

(c) Mount Brukkaros, South West Africa.—The solar radiation ex-
pedition of the National Geographic Society, in cooperation with the
Smithsonian Institution, was fully equipped and sent forward in
August, 1926. Meanwhile, the observatory itself was being prepared
by Mr. Dryden, of Keetmanshoop, South West Africa, under Govern-
ment auspices. A little later a telephone line was installed by Colonel
Venning, director of posts and telegraph, of Windhoek.

The expedition (W. H. Hoover, director, F. W. Greeley, assistant)
reached the mountain in October, 1926, made preliminary observa-
tions in November, and began regular daily observing in December.

It is yet too early to decide how satisfactory atmospheric con-
ditions at this observatory will prove to be. During a considerable
part of the time they have been first class. Old residents maintain
that during the unfavorable time the weather has been unusual, and
that other years will prove much betier. This view is supported
to some extent by the weather of Montezuma, Chile, which seems to
be in some degree parallel. Atmospheric conditions have undoubtedly
been unusually bad at Montezuma during the times when Mount
Brukkaros reported unfavorable conditions.

Personnel.—The present personnel of the Astrophysical Observa-
tory is as follows:

Director, Dr. C. G. Apsot, Washington.

Field director, Mr. A. F. Moorr, Table Mountain.

Field director, Mr. H. B. FreeMAN, Montezuma.

Field director,’ Mr. W. H. Hoover, Mount Brukkaros.

Research assistant, Mr. F. E. Fowir, Washington.

‘Research assistant, Mr. L. B. AtpRicH, Washington.

Field assistant,’ Mr. H. H. Zoptner, Table Mountain.
Field assistant,? Mr. E. E. Warner, Montezuma.

17This compensation was defrayed in part from private funds.
2 This compensation was defrayed in part or wholly from private funds.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY fig

Field assistant, Mr. F. A. GREELEY, Mount Brukkaros.

Computer, Mrs. A. M. Bonn, Washington.

Computer, Miss M. A. MarspEN, Washington.

Computer,’ Miss M. C. RuopERIcK, Washington (temporary).

Instrument maker, Mr. A. KRAMER, Washington.

Librarian,’ Mrs. M. L. Reep, Washington (temporary).

Librarian, Mrs. A. E. BLANCHARD, Washington (temporary).

Librarian,’ Miss M. B. Lapp, Washington (temporary).

Librarian,’ Miss C. 8S. GuNTHER, Washington (temporary).

Summary.—The work of the year was mainly in continuation of
accurate observations of the solar constant of radiation. A new
cooperating observatory in South West Africa was installed at the
cost of the National Geographic Society. Improved apparatus and
procedure has led to a higher standard of accuracy in all the observa-
tories than ever before.

Gratifying correlations with other results are appearing. Thus
Doctor Pettit’s observations of ultra-violet solar radiation, while
showing extreme variations of at least a hundred per cent, are
closely in proportion with the small changes found in total solar
radiation by the Smithsonian observers. Doctor Austin, too, finds a
very high correlation between solar constant changes and the recep-
tion of long range radio.

Finally, a remarkable regular periodicity of 2524 months has been
found by Dr. C. G. Abbot in the solar variation itself, which,
during the years 1920 to 1927, has joined with the sun-spot cycle to
account for almost the whole change in monthly mean solar constant
results. If this persists in future years, it may become possible to
forecast at least two years in advance the principal solar changes,
and whatever of importance may prove to hang thereon.

Respectfully submitted.

C. G. Axssor,
Director, Astrophysical Cbservatory.
To the Actine SECRETARY,
SmrirHsonian Instrrution.

2This compensation was defrayed in part or wholly from private funds.
APPENDIX 8

REPORT ON THE INTERNATIONAL CATALOGUE OF
SCIENTIFIC LITERATURE

Sir: I have the honor to submit herewith the following report
on the operations of the United States regional bureau of the Inter-
national Catalogue of Scientific Literature for the fiscal year ending
June 30, 1927:

Since 1921, when war conditions in the majority of the 33 countries
cooperating in the enterprise made it impossible for them to provide
their quota of the funds needed to continue publication, it has been
the aim of this bureau to collect and record the data necessary to
enable it to supply, when publication is resumed, an index to the
scientific publications of the United States and its possessions, and
this routine has been the principal part of its work during the year.

A partial list of the scientific journals of 25 of the countries co-
operating in the catalogue was published in 1903 and a supplemen-
tary list in 1904, bringing the number of countries represented up
to 27 and making a total of 5,496 titles, as shown in the following
table:

List of journals

1903 1904 Total 1903 1904 Total

AIStrid ast) see oi oth ie 0 536 536 || New South Wales_____-__ 7 1 8
Belin oh ee eee ae 171 2 173''|| New Zealand. 6.2. 2322 1 0 1
Canada tase 45 0 45: ||| INOEWSRYsesnseee se eee ee ae 30 6 36
Colony of the Cape of Roland: 2 po45 shits Ss oe 65 0 65

Gogd Hopesess-see= 5 0 5 | SPortigale> 2 So ere 19 0 19
Denmark=: . 2-52 ests 39 1 40° |) "Riassia2 23 5s ea 409 47 456
Binidnd 23 ee ee 31 2 33) 1) sSeuthyA iia ser oe 22s 0 15 15
SET CG eee Se eee 900 11 911 || South Australia__________ 6 0 6
Germany ost 1, 297 86 SSS SWAG awe eae otk ee 62 1 63
Greete2-Sof.22 5-5 see il 0 11 || Switzerland_._.......-..- | 126 126 252
Holand ste ee 66 2 68 || United Kingdom-___.___- 471 16 487
ban rary os een toes 21 14 35 || United States of Amcrica_ 408 51 459
India and Ceylon-_--_----- 30 1 31 || Victoria (Australia) -.___- 20 3 23
LIT b LAR aia See DP eee 252 41 293 _ ————
PA Ane een eS 42 0 42 SPO tate Sees ee 4, 584 962 5, 496

The number 459 does not represent all the American journals
actually indexed by this bureau. The purpose of the list being pri-
marily to explain the abbreviations used in the catalogue, many
State publications which were abbreviated in a uniform manner were
not listed separately, while unabbreviated titles were omitted alto-

114
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 115

gether. Although no supplementary lists have been published since
1904, many journals have been added since that time. Pending the
resumption of publication, it was felt that the United States list
should be entirely revised, and the collection of necessary data for
this work was begun during the year. When the list is completed,
it is expected to publish it in pamphlet form, as no such list now
exists, although a general need for it is felt among librarians and
students of science quite independently of the requirements of the
International Catalogue.

In 1922 the International Convention of the Catalogue at its meet-
ing in Brussels passed a resolution to keep the organization in being
until financial conditions should make it possible to resume publi-
cation. Since that time it has been the aim of this bureau to do its
part in continuing the work of the catalogue. Each year, when Con-
gress is asked for the appropriation for maintenance, the explana-
tion is made that although nothing is now being published it is felt
that, in view of the recognized need of such a catalogue, the United
States should do its utmost to keep the present organization alive.
This is the more important in order that the labors of so many emi-
nent men, who in the beginning succeeded in the very difficult task
of securing the cooperation of 33 countries, should not be lost, and
also that as soon as a sufficient endowment is had, or international
financial conditions become normal, the original organization can
again take up the work at the point where war conditions made ~
suspension necessary.

Very respectfully,
Lronarp C. GUNNELL,

Assistant in Charge.
Dr. Cartes G. Apzor,
Acting Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPHNDIX 9
REPORT ON THE LIBRARY

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the activi-
ties of the library of the Smithsonian Institution for the fiscal year
ended June 380, 1927:

WHAT THE LIBRARY IS

Perhaps it will not be amiss if I explain at the outset what the
Smithsonian library is. It is the library, now numbering about
700,000 volumes, pamphlets, and charts, to say nothing of many
thousands of volumes awaiting completion, that has grown up since
1846 around the activities of the Institution. As these activities
have been various, the library naturally falls into several divisions,
but all with one central purpose—that of assisting the Institution in
the increase and diffusion of knowledge.

Chief among these divisions are the Smithsonian deposit in the
Library of Congress, which is the main library of the Institution,
and the library of the United States National Museum, which con-

sists largely of material having to do with the different branches of

natural science represented in the Museum. The other divisions are
the office library, the technological library, the Langley aeronautical
library, and the libraries respectively of the Astrophysical Observa-
tory, the Bureau of American Ethnology, the National Gallery of
Art, the Freer Gallery of Art, and the National Zoological Park.
Together these comprise the Smithsonian library. They are, of
course, distinct working units, each serving its own end in its own
place, but all contributing toward the realization of a common
ideal.

For the sake of making the material in these 10 divisions more
completely and centrally available, a union catalogue of their collec-
tions is being prepared, to be kept in the Smithsonian Building.
This will be one of the main pieces of work of the library staff for
years to come, and one of the most serviceable to the Institution.

CHANGES IN STAFF

Few changes occurred in the staff during the year. This was most
gratifying, as permanence of tenure on the part of trained and
willing employees makes for efficiency, especially in so highly tech-
nical an organization as a scientific library.

116

ee
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 117

One of the two positions of minor library assistant granted by
Congress as of July 1, 1926, was filled by the promotion of Miss
Agnes Auth; the other was filled temporarily until toward the close
of the year, when Mrs. Mary Arnold Baer, library aid, was recom-
mended for it.

In the position of assistant messenger Mr. William Helvestine was
succeeded by Mr. Robert Mooney, and he in turn by Mr. Herschel
Chappell. Both Mr. Helvestine and Mr. Mooney resigned to accept
higher positions elsewhere in the Institution.

In the course of theyear the following persons were employed
temporarily: Mrs. Madaline D. Amphlett, Mrs. Adella E. Blanchard,
Mr. Clarence Gunther, Miss Elisabeth Hobbs, Mrs. Dorothy P.
Hulsizer, Mr. Walter Jaeger, Miss Mary Ladd, Mrs. M. Landon
Reed, Mr. Giles E. Taggart, Miss Helen Turnbull, and Mrs. Victoria
B. Turner.

To expedite the carrying out of the plans of reorganization begun
three years ago, there is urgent need of two more positions of the
rank of assistant librarian—one for a head of the accessions depart-
ment, the other for a head of the catalogue department. These, with
the head of the reference department, already appointed, will direct,
under the librarian, the three general activities of the library, namely,
acquiring material, making it available, and using it. It is earnestly
hoped that the two positions referred to can be created without delay.

EXCHANGE OF PUBLICATIONS

The growth of the library, although dependent somewhat upon
purchase and gift, is dependent chiefly upon the exchange of publica-
tions between the Institution and its branches and other learned
institutions and societies throughout the world. These publications
come to the lbrary direct, or through the international exchange
service, which is administered by the Institution. During the last
fiscal year 31,647 packages, of one or more publications each, came by
mail, and 7,459 through the exchange. ‘This was an increase of more
than 1,200 packages over the year before, and testified to the generous
response made to the letters prepared by the hbrary asking for num-
bers missing from its sets, or proposing or accepting exchange rela-
tions with new societies. In all, 1,604 letters were written—a gain of
nearly 400 over the previous year. Most of these had to do with the
exchange of publications. After the 39,106 packages had been
opened, the items were stamped, entered, and sent to the appropriate
divisions of the library, but chiefly to the Smithsonian deposit in
the Library of Congress and the library of the National Museum.

As usual, dissertations were received from various universities, such
as Basel, Berlin, Bern, Bonn, Copenhagen, Delft, Frankfurt, Giessen,

74906—28——_9
118 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1927

Graz, Greifswald, Johns Hopkins, Leipzig, Warburg, Neuchatel,
Pennsylvania, Strasbourg, and Ziirich; and from technical schools at
Berlin, Charlottenburg, Delft, and Freiberg.

SMITHSONIAN DEPOSIT

As has been said, the main division of the library of the Institu-
tion is the Smithsonian deposit in the Library of Congress. This
is, of course, distributed according to classification, but because of
its prevailingly scientific nature it is chiefly in the Smithsonian
division, which was established in 1900 to take care of it, in common
with the scientific publications belonging to the Library of Congress.

This collection, which began with the deposit of 40,000 volumes
by the Smithsonian Institution in 1866, under authorization of an
act of Congress, has grown by almost daily additions from the Insti-
tution until it has come to hold a foremost place among libraries of
its kind, being especially rich in the reports, proceedings, and trans-
actions of learned institutions and societies the world over.

The publications sent to the deposit by the Institution during the
last fiscal year numbered 5,790, of which 4,046 were complete vol-
umes, 329 parts of volumes, 147 pamphlets, and 268 charts. These
represented a gain over the year before of 702, more than one-half
of which were complete volumes. Documents of foreign govern-
ments, chiefly statistical in character, to the number of about 7,500,
were also sent, without being stamped or entered, to the document
division of the Library of Congress. In response to special requests
from the Smithsonian division, the periodical division, and the order
division of the Library of Congress for publications needed to, com-
plete sets in the deposit, the Smithsonian library was able to obtain
by exchange 495 volumes and 602 parts of volumes, including title-
pages and indexes.

OFFICE LIBRARY :

The office library is made up of the society publications that are
kept in the Smithsonian Building, the art-rcom collection, the em-
ployees’ library, and various books, mainly of a reference nature,
assigned for special use to other divisions of the library or to the
administrative offices of the Institution. To this library were added
during the year 146 volumes, 3 parts of volumes, and 10 pamphlets.
The circulation was 2,228, of which 1,941 were magazines. Many
volumes were consulted in the reference room.

Among the noteworthy gifts to the library were the: following:
New Coptic Texts from the Monastery of St. Macarius, and the Mon-
astery of Epiphanius at Thebes, from the Metropolitan Museum of
Art; the Catalogue of the Philatelic Library of the Earl of Crawford,
together with a supplement, compiled by E. D. Bacon and presented
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 119

by the Philatelic Literature Society of London; Nomenclator Ani-
malium Generum et Subgenerum, from the Preussische Akademie
der Wissenschaften—a publication not regularly sent in exchange,
but which the Academy was good enough to present to the Smith-
sonian Institution; Le Trésor de Pétrossa, from the Academia Ro-
mana; and Denkmaller aus Aegypten und Aethiopen, in 12 volumes,
by C. E&. Lepsius, from Mrs. George Cabot Lodge. Another impor-
tant gift was a copy of Billeder af Nordens Flora Med Tekst af
A. Mentz og C. H. Ostenfeld—a work in which the authors are doing
for Scandinavian wild flowers what Mrs. Charles D. Walcott, in her
well-known North American Wild Flowers, is doing for the flowers
of our own country. This interesting work was presented to the
Institution by the authors, through the good offices of Dr. Oskar
‘Thyregod, librarian of the Industriforeningens Bibliotek, Copen-
hagen.

But the outstanding gift of the year was that of the John Donnell
Smith botanical collection of 1,600 volumes. This library was really
presented to the Institution in 1905, but only part of it was trans-
ferred to Washington before last year. Now it is all shelved in the
west end of the Smithsonian Building, awaiting the completion of a
special alcove in the section of botany, where it will be deposited,
that it may be easily available to the scientists there. This is one of
the most valuable gifts ever made to the Smithsonian library. It
includes books not duplicated in Washington, and at least one rare
work of which, so far as the librarian knows, there is only one other
copy in the United States. This is a volume by Gomez Ortega, pub-
lished at Madrid in 1797, which contains the first published descrip-
tions of many important plants of Mexico. The library is particu-
larly rich in works on tropical American plants, especially those of
Central America. Many of the books were obtained abroad and are
beautifully bound. Each volume bears a distinctive plate with the
name of the donor. In 1908 a catalogue of the collection was pre-
pared by Miss Alice Cary Atwood, of the Department of Agriculture.
and published by the Institution.

The work done on the general catalogue of the Smithsonian
library (not including that in connection with the library of the
Astrophysical Observatory, spoken of elsewhere), which is kept in
the office reading room, was as follows:

M@MINES\  CRLALOPUCE > ear inaw sae E Sile nea Se se ee a ie eagle 3,922
VG LGIMES ECA TAO P ULE ert tii si fy orto ee y Oy eS ee a 134
Chantha catalogues 22 kre tye hse Pe ee Se ae 221
UES OMe: ae Sar sh rs 2 a oA Se le se ot petite es HOF
PAVLATY. Of CONCTESS |CAnds Mle seen yt bi i ee eo at 406

NEW CUE NOLSs HOME) rei ereySei. 9 Aerie Eh es Ss eh 520
120 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1927

MUSEUM LIBRARY

During the year 2,492 volumes and 1,299 pamphlets were added te
the library of the National Museum, representing an increase in
accessions of more than 20 per cent over the year before, and giving
the library a total of 69,300 volumes and 105,716 pamphlets. Most
of the accessions came, of course, by exchange; others came by gift,
especially from the Library of Congress, which was generous enough
to send from its collection of duplicates 512 volumes and 1,926 parts
of volumes needed by the library toward completing its sets. Impor-
tant gifts were also made by the late Secretary Walcott, Dr.
W. H. Holmes, and Dr. C. W. Richmond. Some of the other
donors were Assistant Secretary Wetmore, Dr. J. M. Aldrich, Mr.
A. H. Clark, the late Dr. W. H. Dall, Dr. O. P. Hay, Dr. Walter
Hough, Dr. Ale’ Hrdhtka, Mr. N. M. Judd, Dr. W. R. Maxon, Dr.
G. P. Merrill, Dr. G. S. Miller, jr., Mr. A. J. Olmsted, Miss M. J.
Rathbun, and Mr. J. H. Riley.

In the course of the year 12,274 parts of periodicals were entered,
710 volumes and 948 pamphlets were catalogued, and 4,818 cards
were added to the shelf list. The loans to members of the scientific
staff totaled 4,316, of which 1,721 were borrowed from the Library
of Congress and 137 elsewhere. The other loans numbered 198, made
chiefly to Government libraries and libraries outside of Washington.
Thousands of publications were consulted in the reference room, both
by members of the staff and by other research workers, including
some from foreign countries.

The number of sectional libraries in the Museum is now 36. As
has been indicated elsewhere in this report, progress was made dur-
ing the year in supplying numbers missing from their sets, particu-
larly of society publications, and in cataloguing several of their
special collections. The sectional libraries are as follows:

Administration.
Administrative assistant’s office.

Marine invertebrates.
Mechanical technology.

American archeology. Medicine.

Anthropology. Minerals.

Biology. Mineral technology.
Birds. Mollusks.

Botany. Old World archeology.
Hehinoderms. Organic chemistry.
Editor’s office. Paleobotany.

Hthnology. Photography.

Fishes. Physical anthropology.
Foods. Property clerk’s office.
Geology. Textiles.

Graphic arts. Vertebrate paleontology.
History. Wood technology.
Insects. Reptiles and batrachians.

Invertebrate paleontology.

Mammals.

Superintendent’s office.
Taxidermy.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 124

TECHNOLOGICAL LIBRARY

The technological library, which is located in the old Museum
Building, concerns itself chiefly with the useful arts and industries.
During the year the work of reorganizing its material was consid-
erably advanced. The shelf list was finished by the addition of
2,500 cards, and an excellent beginning made on the inventory.
Many duplicates were removed to the west stacks of the Smithsonian
Building, together with a large number of Government publica-
tions and publications of various States not needed in the library.
These will be disposed of later. Their removal from the old
Museum has materially increased the space available for collections
necessary to the work of the curators. ‘The loans numbered 450.

ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY LIBRARY

The library of the Astrophysical Observatory, which is housed
partly in the Smithsonian Building and partly in the observatory
at the rear of this building, consists of 3,637 volumes and about 2,700
pamphlets, chiefly on astrophysics and meteorology. It is one of the
most important of the smaller divisions of the Smithsonian library,
being of especial value in connection with the well-known researches
in solar radiation that are being carried on by the Institution. This
library received particular attention during the past year. A shelf
list was prepared, an inventory taken, and its material completely
rearranged. Many gaps in its sets were filled. A notable beginning
was also made on a dictionary catalogue, with subject cards and
analyticals, under the direction of a person of long experience in the
Library of Congress. A detailed record of this work follows:

NACHT ES eel fie) OTIC Ceca ese eres este or cy caer k Le Es een peel a Ae 1 Be 548
Pamphlets cata lOorueds sats. eer ate Nn Bs: EE | EC ee ee ae a 1,082
GUAT ESMGATALOS UCC = See PAPE saad 05 Ph eh oi EE eer EE es 14
BabtaryeorrConeress cards saledin=— Ss eS oe Sk ee 6,918
(CETUS gave 0 AOR ek a 0 ahs CE SDE He De cea see Ee) eee ees SUN Poke eke User 2,298

The library was increased by 137 volumes, 16 parts of volumes,
and 22 pamphlets. The number of volumes bound was 49. The
loans are included among: those of the office library.

BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY LIBRARY

The library of the Bureau of American Ethnology, which is
in the Smithsonian Building, consists almost exclusively of works
on anthropology, particularly those pertaining to the American
aborigines, and covers especially the linguistics, history, archeology,
myths, religion, arts, sociology, and general culture of the American
Indian. It contains 27,141 volumes and 15,937 pamphlets. In its
special data files are manuscript material, photographs, Indian
vocabularies, etc. ‘The activities of this library for the last fiscal
122 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1927

year are described in the report of the chief of the bureau, by whom
the library is administered.

LANGLEY AERONAUTICAL LIBRARY

In my last report, I mentioned that the aeronautical collection of
the Institution was to be raised to the dignity of a division of the
Smithsonian library, and named after Samuel Pierpont Langley,
the third secretary, whose researches and experiments marked the
establishment of aeronautics in the United States on a scientific
basis. This has now been done, and the Langley aeronautical library,
because of the rapidly developing interest in aeronautics, bids fair
to become one of the prominent units of the Smithsonian library.
While it is still comparatively small, numbering only about 1,600
volumes and 700 pamphlets, together with a large number of photo-
graphs and newspaper clippings, it includes many rare items, some
of which were in the original nucleus as it came from Secretary
Langley, and others among the additions made since by Alexander
Graham Bell, Octave Chanute, and James Means. During the fiscal
year just closed a shelf list was made for this library, an inventory
was taken, and many parts missing from its sets were supplied.
The accessions numbered 41. A catalogue of the library will soon be
prepared.

NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART LIBRARY

The library of the National Gallery of Art, at present housed
in the Natural History Building pending transfer to the special
building which it is hoped will soon be erected for the gallery, is
an important division of the Smithsonian library. While it totals
only 704 volumes and 786 pamphlets, these have been so carefully
chosen that the collection forms a valuable nucleus for the larger
library in prospect. The collection was increased during the past
year by 123 volumes, 738. parts of volumes, and 120 pamphlets.
Gifts worthy of particular mention were made by Mr. J. U. Perkins
and by Dr. William H. Holmes, director of the gallery. The latter’s
gift included two books of unusual interest—one a copy of the
“Holmes Anniversary Volume,” consisting of anthropological essays
presented to Doctor Holmes by his friends and colaborers in honor
of his seventieth birthday; the other a volume of 160 manuscript
letters written by Doctor Holmes’s friends in America and abroad
in recognition of his eightieth birthday.

FREER GALLERY OF ART LIBRARY

The library of the Freer Gallery of Art is restricted to the inter-
ests represented by the collections of art objects pertaining to the
arts and cultures of the Far East, India, Persia, and the nearer East;

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 123

by the life and works of James McNeil Whistler and of certain other
American painters whose pictures are owned by the gallery; and,
further, to a very limited degree, by the Biblical manuscripts of
the fourth and fifth centuries, which, as the possession of the Freer
Gallery, are known as the Washington manuscripts. The library
was increased during the year by 37 volumes and 151 pamphlets.
It now has a total of 2,912 volumes and 2,519 pamphlets, many of
which are in the Chinese and Japanese languages.

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK LIBRARY

The library of the National Zoological Park comprises about 1,200
volumes and 300 pamphlets on animals and other subjects of inter-
est to the park. It increased the past year by 21 volumes.

SUMMARY OF ACCESSIONS

The accessions for the year, with the exception of those to the
library of the Bureau of American Ethnology, may be summarized
as follows:

Library Volumes Feces Total

PASETOD NWSI CO) DSCLYALOL Yes = eats eee ee es Se a 137 22 159
LED ae (3 PP LS ihe) og re ee ae Pe eee ot reat 37 151 188
rise eyeBOronativical WOLALV = oan ase ces coe nenasacuanceseccoens nantes 30 il 41
iTe PUOTEUL LG GLY aa) Cy 50 8 Ae el oe ee ae See CAR ae eee ee ee RL 123 120 243
TNO MCL EAGOLGL ICA TE ai Ke rs ee ge ae Se ws DAS XP everett 21
Srminsonian deposit, Library of Congress. ___ 2. 2222 =o ee 4,046 415 4, 461
PPNILHSOTIATNG HICH st fee ar Re ies Sede ie ct RL ke Bee Se ee ce 146 10 156
United States National Museum, including the technological library -- 2, 492 1, 299 3, 791

INGA ee ee eae oe ae ed Me eS) Sees SSO Se ee en ee 2 oh ae Os 7, 032 2, 028 9, 060

An estimate of the number of volumes, pamphlets, and charts in
the Smithsonian library, not including those in the library of the
Bureau of American Ethnology, on June 30, 1927, was as follows:

DU TGRUUIIET © Sener rie ae oA nani OS a Te he Oe eae ee 521, 103
LE¢p PEGS 1 BUGS A Se bel Sr as Fp ae Nair BLL eae Rea TNE Tac ee eat 141, 285
CHEV Ef HS ileal Se CO aes wees eae ae epee Ant Sh US WB ee eae 24, 155

HNC aT Sezai an gee a le entre hee tn pt oP SIS er RSs CEE A ae OS 686, 543

This number does not include the many thousands of parts of
volumes in the library awaiting completion of the volumes.

SPECIAL ACTIVITIES

In addition to the regular work of the year, several special tasks
were undertaken.

The intensive effort to complete the broken sets, both in the main
collections and in the sectional libraries, begun the previous year, was
124 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1927

continued with excellent results, and thanks are due the Library of
Congress and hundreds of learned societies and institutions the
world over for their generous response to requests for numbers
needed by the library.

Decided progress was made on the union catalogue, pra by
the splendid work done by two members of the staff toward catalogu-
ing the library of the Astrophysical Observatory. A beginning was
also made in cataloguing some of the special collections in the sec-
tional libraries, but, for lack of help, this work could not be carried
far.

An important piece of work was the preparation of nearly 2,000
volumes for binding, of which 1,439 were sent to the bindery for the
National Museum, and 49 for the Astrophysical Observatory. The
rest will be sent early in the next fiscal year.

The work of reorganizing the technological library was continued
with vigor, but, owing to the increasing difficulty of the task and
the lack of help, was not completed. It will require at least another
year of special effort.

Thousands of duplicates from the Smithsonian deposit and other
divisions of the library were taken to the west stacks and filed,
preparatory to being listed and exchanged. This work of bringing
together the duplicates in the library is now nearing completion.

Another task that required no little time and care was the final
checking of the holdings in the various divisions of the library for
the forthcoming union list of serials.

Still another was the filing of 30,866 cards in the alphabetic and
methodical sets of the Bibhographicum Concilium in the Museum
library. This was almost twice the number filed the year before.

There was increased opportunity during the year for lending -
material on semipermanent charge to institutions where research is
being conducted. A notable instance of this was the loan to the Johns
Hopkins University of 104 titles from the Lacoe collection in paleo-
botany. Other loans of especial interest, as the items were rare in
this country, were made to the University of Wisconsin and the
California Academy of Sciences.

Mention might be made, too, that the library prepared an ex-
hibit of books representing the different interests of the Institution
and its branches, for the conference on the future held at the Institu-
tion in February.

CONCLUSION
On the whole, the year was one of progress toward solving the

problems which have arisen in connection with the work of reor-
ganizing the library that was begun three years ago. But the prog-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 125

ress would have been far greater if funds had been at hand for
buying more of the books and periodicals needed by the curators,
for supplying in the standard sets the missing numbers that can not
be obtained by exchange, and for employing enough trained workers
not only to carry on more adequately the current work of the li-
brary but in particular to make available at the earliest possible mo-
ment the thousands of volumes and pamphlets now lying useless on
the shelves, and to expedite the making of the union catalogue of
which the Institution stands so much in need. For these purposes
funds should be provided as soon as possible.

Respectfully submitted.
Wiruram L. Corsin, Librarian.

Dr. Cuartes G. Axgor,
Acting Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 10
REPORT ON THE PUBLICATIONS

Str: I have the honor to submit the following report on the pub-
lications of the Smithsonian Institution and the Government bureaus
under its administrative charge during the year ending June 30, 1927:

The Institution proper published during the year 10 papers in
the series of Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections, 1 annual report,
and pamphlet copies of the 27 articles contained in the report appen-
dix, and 3 special publications. The Bureau of American Ethnology
published 2 bulletins and 1 special publication. The United States
National Museum issued 1 annual report, 1 volume of proceedings, 7
complete bulletins, 3 parts of a bulletin, 1 complete volume, and 5
parts of four volumes in the series Contributions from the United
States National Herbarium, and 55 separates from the Proceedings.

Of these publications there were distributed during the year 182,846
copies, which included 68 volumes and separates of the Smithsonian
Contributions to Knowledge, 18,199 volumes and separates of the
Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections, 24,775 volumes and separates
of the Smithsonian annual reports, 17,178 Smithsonian special pub-
lications, 110,580 volumes and separates of the various series of
National Museum publications, 10,711 publications_of the Bureau of
American Ethnology, 74 publications of the National Gallery of Art,
66 volumes of the Annals of the Astrophysical Observatory, 40
reports of the Harriman Alaska Expedition, 779 reports of the
American Historical Association, and 376 publications presented to
but not issued directly by the Smithsonian Institution or its branches.

SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS

Of the Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections, volume 73, 1 paper
was issued; volume 75, 1 paper; volume 78, 6 papers; volume 80,
2 papers; in all, 10 papers.

VOLUME 73

No. 4. Opinions Rendered by the International Commission on Zoological
Nomenclature. Opinions 91 to 97. October 8, 1926. 30 pp. (Publ. 2873.)

VOLUME 75

No. 4. Cambrian Geology and Paleontology, V. No. 4. Pre-Devonian Sedi-
mentation in Southern Canadian Rocky Mountains. By Charles D. Walcott.
April 2, 1927. Pp. 147-173, pl. 25; text figs. 14-22. (Publ. 2870.)

126
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 127

VOLUME 78

No. 3. The Classification and Distribution of the Pit River Indian Tribes of
California. By C. Hart Merriam. December 31, 1926. 52 pp., 27 pls. (Publ.
2874. )

No. 4. Solar Activity and Long-Period Weather Changes. By Henry Helm
Clayton. September 30, 1926. 62 pp., 13 text figures. (Publ. 2875.)

No. 5. The Distribution of Energy Over the Sun’s Disk. By C. G. Abbot.
October 12, 1926. 12 pp., 1 pl., 1 text fig. (Publ. 2876.)

No. 6. The Lyell and Freshfield Glaciers, Canadian Rocky Mountains, 1926.
By J. Monroe Thorington. February 5, 1927. 8 pp., 12 pls. (Publ. 2911.)

No. 7. Explorations and Field Work of the Smithsonian Institution in 1926.
April 21, 1927. 259 pp., 247 figs. (Publ. 2912.)

No. 8. The Flora of Barro Colorado Island. By Paul C. Standley. May 20
1927. 32 pp. (Publ. 2914.)

VOLUME 80

No. 1. Morphology and Mechanism of the Insect Thorax. By R. E. Snod-
grass, Bureau of Entomology. June 25, 1927. 108 pp., 44 text figs. (Publ.
2915. )

No. 2. A Group of Solar Changes. By C. G. Abbot. April 25, 1927. 16 pp.,
9 text figs. (Publ. 2916.)

SMITHSONIAN ANNUAL REPORTS

Report for 1925—The complete volume of the Annual Report
of the Board of Regents for 1925 was received from the Public
Printer in November, 1926.

Annual Report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, show-
ing operations, expenditures, and condition of the Institution for the year
ending June 30, 1925. xii+633 pp., 84 pls., 77 text figs. (Publ. 2836.)

The appendix contained the following papers:

The spiral nebulz and the structure of space, by Carl Wirtz.

Immensities of time and space, by A. Vibert Douglas.

Certain aspects of high-pressure research, by P. W. Bridgman.

Lightning and other high-voltage phenomena, by F. W. Peek, jr.

Chemical elements and atoms, by G. Urbain.

The manufacture of radium, by Camille Matignon.

The chemistry of solids, by Cecil H. Desch.

Terrestrial magnetism in the twentieth century, by Daniel L. Hazzard.

Some causes of volcanic activity, by Arthur L. Day.

Geology in the service of man, by W. W. Watts.

The yeasts: A chapter in microscopical science, by A. Chaston Chapman,

Tropical cyclones and the dispersal of life from island to island in the Pacific,
by Stephen Sargent Visher.

Isolation with segregation as a factor in organic evolution, by David Starr
Jordan,

The biological action of light, by Leonard Hill.

Animal life at high altitudes, by Maj. R. W. G. Hingston.

The nest of the Indian tailor bird, by Casey A. Wood.

The needs of the world as to entomology, by L. O. Howard.

From an egg to an insect, by R. H. Snodgrass.
128 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1927

The role of vertebrates in the control of insect pests, by W. L. McAtee.

Carnivorous butterflies, by Austin H. Clark.

The potato of romance and of reality, by W. E. Safford.

The relation of geography to timber supply, by W. B. Greeley.

The historical geography of early Japan, by Carl Whiting Bishop.

The excavations of the sanctuary of Tanit at Carthage, by Byron Khun de
Prorok.

The Smithsonian Institution.

Sir Archibald Geikie, by Sir Aubrey Strahan.

Ned Hollister (1876-1924), by Wilfred H. Osgood.

Report for 1926—The report of the executive committee and
Proceedings of the Board of Regents of the Institution, and the
report of the secretary, both forming parts of the annual report of
the Board of Regents to Congress, were issued in pamphlet form in
December, 1926.

Report of the executive committee and Proceedings of the Board of Regents of
the Smithsonian Institution for the year ending June 30, 1926. 11 pp. (Publ.
2878. )

Report of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution for the year ending
June 30, 1926. 135 pp. (Publ. 2877.)

The general appendix to this report, which was in press at the
close of the year, contains the following papers:

The new outlook in cosmogony, by J. H. Jeans.

Influences of sun rays on plants and animals, by C. G. Abbot.

On the evolution of the stars, by C. G. Abbot.

Excursions on the planets, by Lucien Rudaux.

High-frequency rays of cosmic origin, by R. A. Millikan.

The present status of radio atmospheric disturbances, by L. W. Austin.

Cold light, by EH. Newton Harvey.

Scientific work of the Maud expedition, 1922-1925, by H. U. Sverdrup.

The romance of carbon, by Arthur D. Little.

The cause of earthquakes; especially those of the eastern United States, by
William Herbert Hobbs.

The loess of China, by George B. Barbour.

A visit to the gem districts of Ceylon and Burma, by Frank D. Adams.

The history of organic evolution, by John M. Coulter.

Barro Colorado Island Biological Station, by Alfred O. Gross.

Geography and evolution in the pocket gophers of California, by Joseph
Grinnell.

How beavers build their houses, by Vernon Bailey.

The mosquito-fish (Gambusia), and its relation to malaria, by David Starr
Jordan.

The effect of aluminum sulphate on rhododendrons and other acid-soil plants,
by Frederick V. Coville.

Eastern Brazil through an agrostologist’s spectacles, by Agnes Chase.

Our heritage from the American Indians, by W. E. Safford.

The parasite element of natural control of injurious insects and its control by
man, by L. O. Howard.

Fragrant butterflies, by Austin H. Clark.

The ritual bullfight, by C. W. Bishop.

The bronzes of Hsin-Chéng Hsien, by C. W. Bishop.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 129

The Katcina altars in Hopi worship, by J. Walter Fewkes.

Omaha bow and arrow makers, by Francis La Flesche.

The National Park of Switzerland, by G. Edith Bland.

Samuel Slater and the oldest cotton machinery in America, by Frederick L.
Lewton.

Preventive medicine, by Mark F. Boyd.

William Bateson, by T. H. Morgan.

H. Kamerlingh Onnes, by F. A. Freeth.

SPECIAL PUBLICATIONS

American Silurian Crinoids. By Frank Springer, Las Vegas, New Mexico.
Associate in Paleontology, U. S. National Museum. December 20, 1926. 239
pp., 82 pls. Quarto. (Publ. 2871.)

Proceedings of the Conference on the Future of the Smithsonian Institution.
February 11, 1927. 88 pp., 12 full-page illus.

Title page and contents, Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections, vol. 77. 8 pp.

PUBLICATIONS OF THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM

During the year ending June 30, 1927, the Museum published 1
annual report, 1 volume of proceedings, 7 complete bulletins, 3 parts
of a bulletin, 1 complete volume and 5 parts of 4 volumes in the
series Contributions from the United States National Herbarium, and
55 separates from the proceedings.

The issues of the bulletin were as follows:

Bulletin 100. Contributions to the Biology of the Philippine Archipelago and
Adjacent Regions. Volume 2, part 5. The Shipworms of the Philippine
Islands. By Paul Bartsch. Volume 6, part 2. Additions to the Polycbaetous
Annelids collected by the United States Fisheries steamer Albatross, 1907—-
1910, including one new genus and three new species. By A. L. Treadwell.
Volume 6, part 8. Report on the Hydroida collected by the United States
Fisheries steamer Albatross in the Philippine Region, 1907-1910. By Charles
C. Nutting.

Bulletin 134. Material Culture of the People of Southeastern Panama, based on
specimens in the United States National Museum. By Herbert W. Krieger.

Bulletin 135. Life Histories of North American Marsh Birds. Orders Odonto-
glossae, Herodiones, and Paludicolae. By Arthur Cleveland Bent.

Bulletin 136. Handbook of the Collection of Musical Instruments in the United
States National Museum. By Frances Densmore.

Bulletin 137. The Collection of Primitive Weapons and Armor of the Philippine
Islands in the United States National Museum. By Herbert W. Krieger.
Bulletin 138. The Fossil Stalk-Hyed Crustacea of the Pacific Slope of North

America. By Mary J. Rathbun.

Bulletin 189. Fire as an Agent in Human Culture. By Walter Hough.

Bulletin 140. Bird Parasites of the Nematode Suborders Strongylata, Ascari-
data, and Spirurata. By Eloise B. Cram.

Of the separate papers of the Contributions from the United States
National Herbarium the following were issued :
Volume 22, part 10. The North American Species of Scutellaria. By Emery C.
Leonard.

Volume 23, part 5. Trees and Shrubs of Mexico. (Bignoniaceae-Asteraceae. )
By Paul C. Standley.
130 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1927

Volume 24, part 8. The Grasses of Ecuador, Peru, and Bolivia. By A. S.
Hitcheock.

Volume 26, part 1. The Lecythidaceae of Central America. By H. Pittier.

Volume 26, part 2. The Piperaceae of Panama. By William Trelease.

- Of the separates from the proceedings, 20 were from volume 69,
23 from volume 70, and 12 from volume 71.

PUBLICATIONS OF THE BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY

The editorial work of the bureau has continued under the direction
of the editor, Mr. Stanley Searles.

During the year two bulletins and one special publication were
issued.

Bulletin 82. Archeological Observations North of the Rio Colorado, by Neil M.
Judd. 171 pp., 61 pls., 46 figs.

Bulletin 83. Burials of the Algonquian, Siouan and Caddoan Tribes West of
the Mississippi, by David I. Bushnell, jr. 1038 pp., 37 pls., 3 figs.

List of publications of the Bureau of American Ethnology.

Publications in press or in preparation are as follows:

Forty-first Annual Report. Accompanying papers: Coiled Basketry in British
Columbia and Surrounding Region (Boas, assisted by Haeberlin, Roberts,
and Teit) ; Two Prehistoric Villages in Middle Tennessee (Myer).

Forty-second Annual Report. Accompanying papers: Social Organization and
Social Usages of the Indians of the Creek Confederacy; Religious Beliefs and
Medical Practices of the Creek Indians; Aboriginal Culture of the Southeast
(Swanton) ; Indian Trails of the Southeast (Myer).

Forty-third Annual Repert. Accompanying papers: The Osage Tribe; Two
Versions of the Child-naming Rite (La Flesche); Wawencck Myth Texts
from Maine (Speck); Native Tribes and Dialects of Connecticut (Speck) ;
Picuris Children’s Stories, with Texts and Songs (Harrington) ; Iroquoian
Cosmology.—Part II (Hewitt).

Forty-fourth Annual Report. Accompanying papers: Excavation of the Burton
Mound at Santa Barbara, California (Harrington); Social and Religious
Usages of the Chickasaw Indians (Swanton); Uses of Plants by the Chip-
pewa Indians (Densmore) ; Archeological Investigations—IL (Wowke).

Bulletin 84. A Vocabulary of the Kiowa Language (Harrington).

Bulletin $5. Contributions to Fox Ethnology (Michelson).

Bulletin 86. Chippewa Customs (Densmore).

REPORT OF THE AMERICAN HISTORICAL ASSOCIATION

The annual reports of the American Historical Association are
transmitted by the association to the secretary of the Smithsonian
Institution and are communicated by him to Congress as provided
by the act of incorporation of the association.

The annual report for 1921, part 1 of the annual report for 1922,
and the supplemental volume to the report for 1923 were issued
during the year. Part 2 of the annual report for 1922 and the
supplemental volume to the report for 1924 were in press at the close
of the year.

Ee
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY sea

REPORT OF THE NATIONAL SOCIETY, DAUGHTERS OF THE AMERICAN
REVOLUTION

The manuscript of the Twenty-ninth Annual Report of the
National Society, Daughters of the American Revolution, was trans-
mitted to Congress, in accordance with the law, January 8, 1927.

SMITHSONIAN ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PRINTING AND PUBLICATION

The editor has continued to serve as secretary of the Smithsonian
advisory committee on printing and publication, to which are
referred for consideration and recommendation all manuscripts
offered to the Institution and its branches. Five meetings were held
during the year and 83 manuscripts acted upon.

Respectfully submitted.

W. P. Trur, Editor.

Dr. C. G. Axport,

Acting Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
F ra a0 excite tek Abe: rene use
ms motes wae WAT:

by - vi Ni gd
7. : : Se ofr i vv yet: Lae As fol

Bdd Jovi treed: Sanne k sbirehogsens wk oo

phish tM TOU OAOSE PROTA MER ate eee |
OCLs erate by rou saae Ayers pe sine, Bi. ats as nt . as
noe } ;
RSE ALTT PAS Side ST Se eS ay tee $3 yas Py RE

com enir ions * Ree et tek

Sachiee ito autg ae

pie Bieta arti
mi¢ iy Mice Link { i eae |
' ekttondiiie SE

a aay: Sera ee WA Readies: tO

y > ’ J «
ADIGE: PERABI TSS, MORRIS

fa a hing ay

:
REPORT OF “LHE. EXECUTIVE. COMMITTEE OF THE
BOARD OF REGENTS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTI-
TUTION FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 1927

To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution:

Your executive committee respectfully submits the following
report in relation to the funds, receipts, and disbursements of the
Institution and a statement of the appropriations by Congress for
the following Government bureaus in the administrative charge of
the Smithsonian Institution: The National Museum, the Interna-
tional Exchanges, the Bureau of American Ethnology, the National
Zoological Park, the Astrophysical Observatory, the International
Catalogue of Scientific Literature, and the National Gallery of Art;
also for an additional assistant secretary and for printing and
binding for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1927.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
Condition of the endowment fund July 1, 1927

The sum of $1,000,000 deposited in the Treasury of the United
States under act of Congress is part of a permanent endowment
fund, which includes the original Smithson fund and additions
accumulated by the deposit of savings and bequests from time to
time. Subsequent bequests and gifts and the income therefrom,
when so required, are invested in approved securities. The several
specific funds so invested are now constituted and classed as follows:

Consolidated fund

ease Ce VMCNET ECE eter See eS oe ae ee Een eet $40, 456. 46
Wirciniaseurdy Bacon fund= ee Te fais ee oan Cele ore dues 62, 272. 93
LERTCe Ny TRESS Sa a eC Co By 1 0G Ren er ee eee ro ey Rg eS ae nD 1, 728. 09
Chamberlain hin dass. = satya carat aie te pes Peay IE of ieee oa ater 35, 000. 00
LSU TCC 6 07 05 Ie ee ee eR eee AS ORR PS Bea MOON 500. 00
Conlin RTE N Ty, eh ena as he eA a A a 1, 223. 33
EO siti Se OMe na le yu MGs 2 SS ee a ye aera ie Dias 37, 275. 00
STC OME MUCHO Sig feu Sy ee A ys a ee Nene ok 14, 158. 90
Lucy el cand. Georze (W..Poorestund ss. 228 ous ee ee tie 21, 296. 42
ACdISOnE TDeaReId), HUNG == =e et SE Pberiaels iy i elie Sa 7, 299. 16
Pemecs ening etie, et. Daten ceri A epee s Soy) date haneds 357. 34
ERG bo iia net crn SA ek 8 SE a nee ete Wenge! Deca 150, 000. 00
GeorsevHy (sanford. fund se 2 os oe bee pias Poe egies 675. 72
RSE SONS een eo) ee Sy eu. rach a ep eo egy veo ie PDs eed tosh 1, 516. 40

Motaincousoldated. finden s2 sete sesame ere ues he 373, 759. 75
Charles D. and Mary Vaux Walcott research fund_________________ 11, 520. 00

74906—28——_10 133
j

134 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1927

The total amount of dividends and interest, etc., received by the
Institution from the Freer estate during the year for all purposes
was $249,737.84 and the amount received from sale of Freer estate
stocks and bonds was $1,152,735.58.

The itemized report of the auditor, the Capital Audit Co., certified
public accountants, is filed in the office of the secretary.

DETAILED SURVEY OF FINANCIAL OPERATIONS
Parent fund

3alance on hand or in time deposits July 1, 1926_-________________ $7, 451. 41
Receipts:
Income consisting of interest and receipts from
miscellaneous sources available for general

MAUREEN Ses eel a ee ace ee Oe oe $59, 444. 97
International exchanges, repayments to the Iasti-
CULT OM 8 os Sea el Ae 2 Se Ee ee ae 5, 947. 24
TP OnAT AV CGCIDES: 2 o= arte oan 500s BS ee a Se oS eel eee 65, 392. 21
Total, resources for e@enenall purposes. 2. 425 fe eee 72, 843. 62
General expenditures:
Cave and. repair of buildings 4s 21 jaereteeoe eS %, 761. 54
UCT ye Gh amt ITE See ee ee 583. 06
General: administration 2 28 Sees ae ees 24, 356. 37
STRUT aT Vs ne eee ei a eee SY ee nt a 4, 124. 83
Publications (comprising preparation, printing, and
CTS ETT UE TT) ee ee SA A | ES AU Rp 14, 166. 78
Researches* and explorations. _ is2t2 Sees sear ey 1, 748. 19
International exchange esse ose ety 8 es eee 4, 782. 92
Total”. zeneral* expendituress. 242 sts we Ei eee ee ee 57, 518. 69
Balance  SuUnerdO) AOD ee vse ie Se te She dee oa oe ee 15, 324. 93

Funds for specific objects, including payment and return of funds advanced
for field expenses and other temporary transactions during the year

Balance on hand or in time deposits July 1, 1926___________________ $71, 340. 53

Receipts:
Abbott, Haiti and Santo Domingo expedition fund__ $1, 007.50
American Silurian Crinoids Vol. fund, Springer_____ 1, 592:.28
92114 Shon 1g V0 00 Meena ries SSL ee WOR Sta ee Meee pe) Of SI Poe 22 4, 719. 93
Miteinia -eirdy Bacon) fund 22 = es ee ee 7, 145. 90
VG gamle Baer BT 2 MW a6 Oaks eh) OGY 6 Lee ee mer ea a ee 168. 34
aura: Welsh Casey, fund 2222). 2 Bae eeeeta 4, 000. 00
Hrances lea: Chamberlain. funds 222) 22 ae 4, T48. 98
Colombian botanical exploration fund______________ 2, 826. 96
Endowment campaign expense fund________________ 16, 013. 50
Endowment fund, eneraiss 2c 2 he 3 eee 134. 00
Frick vertebrate paleontological exploration fund___ 500. 00
ETA ton) hound = 2 eee = cea ee ee ee 203. 40
fe Hed 0 00 0 aed AS atv US) alan GLY OY 0 PRORAR ate ecient peal a Me oS eat 12, 700. 00

CarolinesHienry fund = 20 ee ae Os eee ee 130. 76

REPORT OF EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE

Receipts—Continued.

Hodgicins) funds. specific 2 Se EE $7, 493. 02
Bruce. Bughes: funds=see e222 abe we POD NID Pet 1, 486. 65
IMOETIS Oe SEU ea en NS SE Ph La eT A 1, 401. 87
Catherine Walden Myer fund2- = ~2=. 2-232 ue 3, 750. 28
North American Wild Flowers publication fund_____ 50, 488. 80
Paleontological researches 22 els sh eee ei 604. 87
Cornelia’ Livingston= Pell) funda sei 2s ee Boe 2, 000. 00
Laey a and George, W: Poore:funds-< 22. Ss. 3, 729. 42
AGGIS OMe VECel Oe tM 2-2 new SS 1, 487. 65
1 Rel TEE EAS) a BP HY [Re tes A A SS eee oe 73. 65
VOuHeAsRoOechlin=s  hoebling fund. 2-2 eee ae eee 151, 562. 50
John A. Roebling, mineral! collection fund_____-_____ 4, 530. 00
John A. Roebling, solar research, etc., funds_______-_ 3, 409. 12
GcorrewHe SanforGehungdas <6 i = ee ea ee 138. 02
Homer BH. Sargent, Salish manuscript fund_________ 299. 50
Charlies. Me Sim pSOnee Un C= ee ae ee eee 1, 500. 00
Smirisonian-Chpyslerexpeditione. = 20, 219. 96
SO aEED TREN a TITAN Clee eS oh Fagin ae pe any ath ea a 2, 355. 00
PSS TERA ES yw WT ba ta de a Apa A ea ele Se cn nea ae 1, 018. 00
Charles D. and Mary Vaux Walcott fund___________ 955. 09
Charles D. and Mary Vaux Walcott fund reserve for

MEGA EST OU CI9 aD ce eee eel ate a alee A a eal dia S tees 15. 00
Refund of temporary advances, ete____________1___ 6,622.89

Te Get Ne OSL eee a sn sc Ser OD. Sty Bebe Po ehh eh ee,

INT OUTROS TT Ss PRE SR I a eS a ee ee

Expenditures:
Abbott, Haiti and Santo Domingo expedition fund,

expended —______ ae aE ee ON es 500. 00
American Silurian Crinoids Vol. fund, Springer,

EDIE OSI KEY lp oe a Sa Se A A Bc ROS FOP Fe ae pales 3, 592, 28
Avery fund, invested and expended________________ 2, 565. 59
Virginia Purdy Bacon fund, expended_____________ 2, 926. 80
Bucy Hs baird: Lund: mVvested == S520) 2a. ane eee 200. 00
Laura Welsh Casey fund, expended____________ 44 2, 595. 40
Chamberlain':fund;"expended:uic 10) sheet Je ieee 5, 114. 49
Colombian botanical exploration fund, expended____ 2, 826. 96
Frederick G. Cottrell fund, expended______________ 2, 000. 00
Hndowment campaign expense fund, expended______ 19, 701. 08
EimMiLOn: funds expengded=.- -- = = ee 38. 00
Harriman Trust fund, for researches, etc., expended_ 12, 132.10
Hodgkins fund, specific for researches, expended____ _ 6, 284. 23
Mors hioeb fund: expended. = -- 22 eS eee 4, 037. 76
North American wild flowers publication fund, ex-

BREST T COO bere teeny aha tee Oh lr tee uh als pe SIS Ore. 21
CAS OenIN Us Nex PONG COs. an ren eee eee eae 23. 44
Paleontological researches, expended______________ 1, 645. 00
Cornelia Livingston Pell fund, expended___________ 978. 08
Lucy T. and George W. Poore fund, invested________ 2, 760. 00
John A. Roebling, Roebling fund, invested and

EXPOHUCG SES pote ay SIS SES A EA SATE E's 150, 950. 00
John A. Roebling, mineral collection fund, expended_ 4, 435. 20
John A, Roebling, solar research, etc., expended_____ 6, 772. 76

$3

135

20,977.75
j

136 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1927

Expenditures—Continued.

W. A. Roebling mineral fund, expended________-__-_ $644. 19
Charles IT, Simpson fund, expended________________ 337. 41
Smithsonian-Chrysler expedition, expended_________ 9, 403. 17
Springer tund, expended, ete2=— = ees 1, 615. 00
Swales fund:> expended 22 ae ee ee ae 1, 381. 09
Charles D. and Mary Vaux Walcott fund, expended_ 639. 30
Temporary advances for field expenses, ete______--- 7, 549. 36
ADCO Gee OW ¢ TES a6 WN HP KC2 aceasta A Mee et a $305, 226. 90

‘Balancemune 305. 192 hase ee es ee ee 87, 097. 38

Charles L. Freer bequest

Balance on hand or in time deposits, July 1, 1926________-________ 56, O97. 46
Receipts:
Dividends, interest, and miscellaneous receipts. $249, 787. 84
Sale of stocks and’ bonds, etc222=22 sess e2seee2 1, 152, 735. 58
Mae ep tse) aa es SS eae oe 1, 402, 473. 42
PO GAT TCR O MMIC OS I Se eed 1, 458, 570. 88

Expenditures:
Operating expenses of gallery, salaries, pur-
chase of art objects, field expenses, and in-

GLMCA) Se eee ne De er eda 180, 851. 12
imvestmentsinwsinkine. fund etess . 22222232 * 49, 985. 25
Reinvestment of funds from sale, ete, of

stocks:and* DOnQgS222.22 See eee ee Stee eres 1, 127, 329. 33

Total -expenditurds: #2 mle seed flee eee ae 1, 358, 165. 70

Jets) eyavefemel hell aXe ders. U had ko Py fee ensue ene ere te eee ie 100, 405. 18

SUMMARY
Total’ balances of all-funGs,, duly di, 19263es See ae eee 134, 889. 40
Receipts during year ending June 30, 1927:
Parent fund’ for. generalijexpenses: tess ee wee 65, 392. 21
Revenue and principal of funds for specific objects except

Wreer Peque sti ca 282 Pet haiibann eal 5 So ga sage aoa a pepe eels 320, 977. 75
Breen, bequest. 22522 2a es nae ee ee 1, 402, 473. 42

DS aN a eg Ta Ta Fg, a Ee i 1, 923, 732. 78

Expenditures: =
General expenses of the Institution______.______ $57, 518. 69
Specific objects except Freer bequest__________ 305, 220. 90
VEE: “DEGUGSE Se ok Ste AE Ea a eee 1, 358, 165. 70
TOGA FO RDOM OU UI CS sec ae ea ee een ree ey Bad cas Re 1, 720, 905. 29
‘Total balances) of alla funds, June. 30.1925 2 es 202, 827. 49
Motal) O79 OM tear es beer iat eee ge

All payments are made by check, signed by the Secretary of the
Institution, on the Treasurer of the United States, and all revenues
are deposited to the credit of the same account. In some instances
REPORT OF EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 137

deposits are placed in bank for convenience of collection and later
are withdrawn in round amounts and deposited in the Treasury.

The practice of investing temporarily idle funds in time deposits
has proven satisfactory. During the year the interest derived from
this source, together with other similar items, has resulted in a total
of $3,813.38.

The following appropriations for the Government bureaus in
administrative charge of the Smithsonian Institution were made by
Congress for the fiscal year 1927:

Bureau: Appropriation
Tira Trey Toe EH er eay ove N LE Ope) Er ay yetS ewe oases Oy Se eneen es ore Sy Se es $46, 260
PASIIO I CAM BIL ETI OLO Rye ae ee See he a a 57, 160
International Catalogue of Scientific Literature________________ 7, 500
PA SUEOT MVS Cal MOOSE Vict EOIN go en en ee eens ER ee Eg re ee Sea 31, 180
AOMHONALCASSIStANGtE SCCLOLAT Y= 2 - = = he ee ES Se eee 6, 000
National Museum—

HEMI TUTE Ane fix FOES aa Se oe $23, 730

Fe CENT OVER SEW OV bee) W head 00) b 0 fo eo ae ee tae 78, 140

Preservation of collections. 3.222.542 = 2s 450, 000

PST ee EMT Ss ees oe cece ee 12, 000

FES OO kre a See eee NER nara epee ne He Sr ea Et 1, 500

UE ES se ees AN ee Bea eae ep Re Ree er 450
—— 565, 820
INGOT Al a UOT Va OeyAN Ga mate eee ee ss oe 8 Sa ee 29, 381
INGiOUa ls AOOLOPICa ark eau ese ee eon BT eee 173, 199
NSN DINGINe eee see Seah. SUE ee A BU EN ee 90, 000
PY Ci said eran eee teh ad tras Sa ea a, ES ye pes De 1, 006, 500

Respectfully submitted.
Freperic A. DELANO,
R. Watron Moors,
Executive Cominittee
PROCEEDINGS, OF BOARD OF “REGENTS OF “THE
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION FOR THE FISCAL
WEAR “ENDED \JUNE*3@ 1927

ANNUAL MEETING, DECEMBER 9, 1926

Present: The Hon. William H. Taft, Chief Justice of the United
States, chancellor; The Hon. Charles G. Dawes, Vice President of
the United States; Senator Reed Smoot; Senator George Wharton
Pepper; Senator Woodbridge N. Ferris; Representative Albert
Johnson; Representative R. Walton Moore; Representative Walter
H. Newton; Mr. Charles F. Choate, jr.; Hon. Henry White; Mr.
Robert 8. Brookings; Hon. Irwin B. Laughlin; Mr. Frederic A.
Delano; Mr. Dwight W. Morrow; and the secretary, Dr. Charles D.
Walcott.

Dr. Charles G. Abbot and Dr. Alexander Wetmore, Assistant
Secretaries of the Institution, were present by invitation.

PRESENTATION OF BUST OF ALEXANDER GRAHAM BELL

Mr. Walter 8S. Gifford, president of the American Telephone &
Telegraph Co., in presenting to the Institution a bust of Alexander
5 y] o

Graham Bell, on behalf of the company, delivered an impressive
brief address outlining the relations of Professor Bell to the Smith-
sonian and to the telephone. He described an incident illustrating
the encouragement Bell had received at a critical time in his career
from Joseph Henry, first Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution
d )

and concluded his address as follows:

Alexander Graham Bell was grateful to Joseph Henry for that encourage-
ment all his life. No less, I am sure, was he grateful to this Institution. So,
too, with us, the scientific sons and heirs of Alexander Graham Bell, with our
reverence for the memory of Joseph Henry and our’appreciation of this noble
center of science and culture, I assure you, gentlemen, that as we come here
to-day there is in our feeling scmething of gratitude for that vital encourage-
ment from the great Secretary of the Smithsonian to the young inventor of the
telephone just at the time when he needed that encouragement most.

Mr. Chancellor, gentlemen of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian
Institution, and Mr. Secretary, in behalf of the American Telephone & Tele-
graph Co., and in commemoration of the fiftieth anniversary of the birth of the
telephone, I present to you this bust of Alexander Graham Bell.

Mrs. Gilbert H. Grosvenor, daughter of Doctor Bell, then unveiled
the bust, which was accepted by the chancellor, who said:
Mr. President, on behalf of the Board of Regents, I beg to express their

grateful appreciation of this gift, so appropriate and, I may say, so appropriately

presented.
139
140 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1927

We are indebted to Professor Bell’s daughter for coming here to unveil this
bust,\a bust of strength and force, and an excellent sculptural representation.

Professor Bell’s relation to the Smithsonian Institution has been close,
through all of our recollections, and it seems most fitting that we should have
this speaking likeness under our custody where we can exhibit it as a memorial
of one of the great benefactors of the human race.

The secretary then introduced the sculptor, Mr. Victor Salvatore,
thus closing the ceremony, after which the regular order of business
was taken up.

APPOINTMENT OF REGENTS

The secretary announced that on December 19, 1925, the Speaker
of the House of Representatives had reappointed Messrs. Albert
Johnson, of Washington; R. Walton Moore, of Virginia; and Walter
H. Newton, of Minnesota, as House Regents.

Also that the President had approved joint resolutions appointing
the following as citizen Regents for six years:

From January 7, 1926; Mr. Dwight W. Morrow, of New Jersey;

From March 20, 1926: Mr. Charles F. Choate, jr., of Massachu-
setts.

ANNUAL REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE

The annual report of the executive committee for the fiscal year
ending June 30, 1926, was accepted by the board.

ANNUAL REPORT OF THE SECRETARY

The secretary, in presenting his annual report for the fiscal year
ending June 30, 1926, said that 109 publications had been issued since
the last annual meeting of the Regents. Of these, 44 were published
by the Institution proper, 63 by the National Museum, and 2 by the
Bureau of American Ethnology. There were distributed during the
past fiscal year 168,932 copies of these publications.

ANNUAL REPORT OF THE PERMANENT COMMITTEE

The report of the permanent committee outlined briefly the status
of important current matters, including the solar radiation researches,
the Smithsonian-Chrysler Expedition, the Canfield collection of min-
erals, the Roebling collection of minerals, the Myer bequest, the
consolidated fund, the Freer sinking fund, the Smithsonian scientific
series, and the increase of endowment project. In accepting the com-
mittee’s report, the board adopted resolutions of thanks to Mr. Walter
P. Chrysler, to the family of the late Frederick A. Canfield, and to
Mr. John A. Roebling for their generous gifts to the Institution.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS 141

ANNUAL REPORT OF THE NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART COMMISSION

The secretary then submitted the annual report of the National
Gallery of Art Commission, the contents of which will be printed
in the report of the Secretary of the Smithsonian for the fiscal year
ending June 30, 1927.

On motion the board accepted the report and adopted the follow-
ing resolutions:

Resolwed, That the Board of Regents hereby approves the recommendation of
the National Gallery of Art Commission that Gari Melchers, Herbert Adams, and
Charles Moore be reelected as members of the commission for the ensuing term
of four years, their present terms having expired.

Resolwed, That the board also approves the recommendation of the commis-
sion that Clarence Zantzinger, architect, of Philadelphia, be elected a member
of the commission to fill the vacancy caused by the declination of John Russell
Pope, and that, in the event of Mr. Zantzinger’s declination, the vacancy be
filled by the election of Charles Borie, architect, of Philadelphia.

THE DOGNIN COLLECTION OF MOTHS AND BUTTERFLIES

The secretary reported that the National Museum had acquired
the Dognin collection of moths and butterflies, consisting of more
than 82,000 specimens, including not less than 3,000 types of Ameri-
can species described by Dognin and about 250 types, almost entirely
American, of other describers. These, added to the 5,000 types per-
sonally described by Doctor Schaus, make the National Museum’s
collection in this line unrivaled.

Mr. White offered the following resolutions, which were adopted:

Resolved, That the thanks of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion are hereby conveyed to the contributors to a fund of some $50,000 for the
purchase of the Paul Dognin collection of moths and butterflies,

Resolved, That the thanks of the board are also tendered Dr. William Schaus,
honorary assistant curator of the division of insects of the National Museum,
for his initiative and personal efforts in Securing the contributions that have

made possible the acquisition of this large and valuable addition to the collee-
tions of the Museum.

RESOLUTION RELATIVE TO INCOME AND EXPENDITURES

Mr. Delano, on behalf of the executive committee, offered the
following resolution, which was accepted :

Resolved, That the income of the Institution for the fiscal year ending June
30, 1928, be appropriated for the service of the Institution, to be expended by

the secretary with the advice of the executive committee, with full discretion
on the part of the secretary as to items.

SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON POLICY OF THE INSTITUTION

The secretary stated that with the development of the Institution
it had become desirable to have appointed a special committee to
consider its future, and submitted the following resolution, which
was adopted :
142 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1927

Resolved, That u committee is hereby created, consisting of the members
of the executive committee and two other members of the board, to be desig-
nated by the chancellor, to consider the future course of the development of the
Institution and to submit its recommendations to the board at its next meeting.

The chancellor thereupon appointed as the members of this special
committee Messrs. Cheate, Delano, Moore, Morrow, and White.

REGULAR MEETING, FEBRUARY 10, 1927

Present: The Hon. William Howard Taft, Chief Justice of the
United States, chancellor; the Hon. Charles G. Dawes, Vice President
of the United States; Senator Reed Smoot; Senator George Wharton
Pepper; Senator Woodbridge N. Ferris; Representative Albert John-
son; Representative R. Walton Moore; Representative Walter H.
Newton; Mr. Frederic A. Delano; Hon. Irwin B. Laughlin; Mr.
Dwight W. Morrow; and the acting secretary, Dr. Charles G. Abbot.

DEATH OF SECRETARY WALCOTT

The chancellor feelingly announced the death of the secretary,
and after remarks, appointed Senator Pepper, Mr. Delano, and Mr.
Moore as a committee on resolutions.

The committee submitted the following resolutions which on mo-
tion were adopted:

The Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution have received the in-
telligence of the death, on February 9, 1927, of Charles Doolittle Walcott, Sec-
retary of the Institution since 1907. It is thereupon

Resolved, That the board record both their sense of personal bereavement
and their keen realization of the loss sustained in the death of their distin-
guished secretary, whose geological researches and varied scientific attainments
have brcught him eminence in the world of scholarship, and whose administra-
tion as the executive officer of the Institution has made it more than ever a
predominant force in scientific thought and achievement, and enlarged its in-
fluence for the attainment of the founder’s purpose—‘“‘ the increase and diffusion
of knowledge among men.”

Resolved, That the executive committee be requested to arrange for a me-
morial meeting to be held in Washington and for the submission at such meet-
ing of a suitable record of the life and work of Doctor Walcott.

Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions be transmitted by the chancellor
to Doctor Walcott’s family, with an expression of the sense of the heavy loss
sustained by the Institution, and of the sympathy of the Regents with the
family in this the hour of their bereavement.

APPOINTMENT OF REGENTS

The acting secretary announced that the Vice President had made
the following appointments of Regents, effective March 4, 1927:

Senator Reed Smoot, to succeed himself.

Senator Joseph T. Robinson, to succeed Senator George Wharton
Pepper.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS 143
ENDOWMENT MEETING

The acting secretary stated that in deference to the wish of the
late Secretary Walcott, expressed a few days before his death, and
seconded by the wish of Mrs. Walcott, the conference on the future
of the Smithsonian would be held on February 11, as planned. A
very interesting exhibit had been installed, calculated to show some
of the researches which the Institution is uniquely qualified to under-
take if sufficient financial means become available. The President
of the United States and a notable group of eminent men. had ac-
cepted the invitation of the board to attend. Addresses would be
given by the chancellor and the acting secretary, in which the
relations of the Institution to the Government, and its many-sided
functions in the promotion of research and publication would be
set forth.

WHAT IS THE “ SMITHSONIAN ”?

The acting secretary recalled to the board that the Smithsonian
Institution is a private foundation, the ward of the United States,
engaged in many types of activities, international in scope and
catholic in its attention to science; that under its initiative nine
bureaus of the Government had developed, of which seven are still
administered by the Institution as one type of its many activities.
For these bureaus approximately a million dollars annually are ap-
propriated by Congress. These appropriations have been increased
in recent years, so that while in 1922 the sum appropriated for
them was $765,120, the present bill for the fiscal year 1928 carries
$1,182,711.

Yet these increasingly liberal governmental appropriations go
not to support the Smithsonian Institution, but domestic bureaus
under its administration which are indispensable to the public, and
which Congress supports because of public demand. Advantages
to both the Government and the Institution arise from Smithsonian
administration of them. The only disadvantage arises from the fact
that owing to its immense domestic service, the public has come to
regard the Smithsonian as a Government bureau, supported by
public funds. Thus it has not received the additional endowment
which its general needs require.

The Institution itself ought to receive a sufficient endowment to
enable it to deal broadly with fundamental research and publication
irrespective of obvious utilities; to grasp opportunities when they
arise; to employ experts as needed; to pension superannuated em-
ployees and to increase its force and its scale of compensation. Its
present condition is one of chronic penury. Endowment funds, not
144 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1927

annual grants, are needed for the purpose described, because annual
grants are uncertain, inelastic to meet opportunities as they arise,
and rigidly restricted in expenditure in ways fatal to research needs.

FREER INHERITANCE TAX

Mr. Delano made a statement in connection with the attempts to
procure a refund of tax of $475,000 upon the Freer estate. After
discussion, the following resolution was adopted:

Resolved: That the matter of the refund of money paid by the Freer executors
to the State of Michigan as an inheritance tax be referred to Mr. Delano, with
the request that he visit Detroit and make an investigation into all the cireum-

stances, with the view to a possible appeal to the Michigan Legislature by the
Board of Regents for the refund of the amount in question.

HACHENBERG WILL

The acting secretary informed the board that the Institution had
been left, under the will of Dr. George P. Hachenberg, of Austin,
Tex., a half interest in his farm, subject to a life estate of his
daughter and her son. The attorney in Texas who had been con-
sulted recommended that the property be held for future disposition.

No formal action was taken.

SMITHSONIAN SCIENTIFIC SERIES

The acting secretary reported that, pursuant to authorization, a
contract had been entered into with the Smithsonian Series Corpora-
tion by which the Institution agreed to prepare manuscripts and
illustrations for a series of 20 books of interesting character to be
printed and sold by subscription by the said corporation.

REPORT OF SPECIAL COMMITTEE

Mr. Delano, on behalf of Mr. Henry White, chairman, submitted a
report of the special committee on the future policy of the Institu-
tion, recommending that certain important matters be deferred for
consideration at a later meeting.

On motion the report was received, and after discussion it was
decided that the proposed meeting of the board should be held on a
date to be selected by the acting secretary.

ACTING SECRETARY

At the suggestion of the chancellor, the following resolution was
adopted :

Resolved: That the Assistant Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, Dr.
Charles Greeley Abbot, is hereby designated as acting secretary, and pending
future action of the board is authorized to perform the duties of the Secretary
of the Institution.

)
:
:
:

PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS 145

SPECIAL MEETING, MARCH 14, 1927

Present: The Hon. William Howard Taft, Chief Justice of the
United States, chancellor; Senator Reed Smoot; Senator Joseph T.
Robinson; Representative R. Walton Moore; Representative Walter
E. Newton; Mr. Frederic A. Delano; Hon. Irwin B. Laughlin; Mr.
Dwight W. Morrow; and Dr. Charles G. Abbot, acting secretary.

Dr. Alexander Wetmore, assistant secretary, was present by
invitation.

THE CHARLES D. WALCOTT BEQUEST

The acting secretary read extracts from the will of the late secre-
tary making certain conditional bequests to the Institution. Formal
action was deferred.

ROEBLING GIFT

The acting secretary reported that, as authorized by the board, he
had executed on its behalf the deed of gift formally conveying to the
Institution the Roebling collection of minerals and an endowment of
$150,000 for its maintenance.

ZOO BIRD HOUSE

After statements by Doctor Abbot and Doctor Wetmore, a resolu-
tion was adopted providing that the acting secretary, or secretary,
with the advice and consent of the executive committee, should repre-
sent the board in all matters pertaining to the contracts and con-
struction of the proposed bird house at the National Zoological Park,
and authorized that it be carried forward up to the limit of the
existing appropriation, with a view to applying later to Congress
for the sum necessary to complete the building as projected.

RESEARCH AND PUBLICATION

The acting secretary then gave a statement of the research work
and publication now under way or planned.

EXECUTIVE SESSION

Doctor Abbot and Doctor Wetmore retired at this point, and the
board went into executive session for the purpose of considering the
report submitted by the special committee.
GENERAL APPENDIX

TO THE

SMITHSONIAN REPORT FOR 1927

ADVERTISEMENT

The object of the Genera Apprenprx to the Annual Report of the
Smithsonian Institution is to furnish brief accounts of scientific dis-
covery in particular directions; reports of investigations made by
collaborators of the Institution; and memoirs of a general character
or on special topics that are of interest or value to the numerous
correspondents of the Institution.

It has been a prominent object of the Board of Regents of the
Smithsonian Institution from a very early date to enrich the annual
report required of them by law with memoirs illustrating the more
remarkable and important developments in physical and biological
discovery, as well as showing the general character of the operations
of the Institution; and, during the greater part of its history, this
purpose has been carried out largely by the publication of such
papers as would possess an interest to all attracted by scientific
progress.

In 1880, induced in part by the discontinuance of an annual sum-
mary of progress which for 30 years previously had been issued by
well-known private publishing firms, the secretary had a series of
abstracts prepared by competent collaborators, showing concisely the
prominent features of recent scientific progress in astronomy, geol-
ogy, meteorology, physics, chemistry, mineralogy, botany, zoology,
and anthropology. This latter plan was continued, though not alto-
gether satisfactorily, down to and including the year 1888.

In the report for 1889 a return was made to the earlier method of
presenting a miscellaneous selection of papers (some of them origi-
nal) embracing a considerable range of scientific investigation and
discussion. This method has been continued in the present report
for 1927.

142
ACCOMPLISHMENTS OF MODERN ASTRONOMY
By C. G. ABBOT

[With 11 plates]

It is natural to ask such questions as the following:

1. How many stars are there and how are they arranged?

2. How far away are the stars and how large?

3. What do we know of the constitution, age, and source of energy
of heavenly bodies, and what relations hold regarding their tem-
peratures and the rays they constantly emit ?

4. Whither and how fast are the heavenly bodies moving ?

5. What is the bearing of astronomical discovery on the province of
life?

There are many other interesting astronomical questions, but a vivid
impression of the greatness of the accomplishments of recent years
will come from a survey of these five alone.

1. NUMBER OF STARS AND THEIR ARRANGEMENT

It was long ago suggested that if the stars are infinite in number,
and if space is infinite in extension, the whole vault of the heavens
should glow as brightly as the sun. The interposition of absorbing
matter would not alter this conclusion, because, according to Kirch-
hoff’s law, the whole interior of a space with walls of constant tem-
perature takes up the temperature of the walls. Hence absorbing
matter surrounded by an infinite army of stars would at length be
as hot as they.

Obviously, therefore, the stars are not infinitely numerous and
they occupy little volume relative to the space in which they lie.
In order to estimate the numbers of stars, a careful study of the
numbers brighter than certain magnitudes has been made. First
of all, however, the scale of brightness required to be standardized.
Very anciently, some of the brighter stars were called of first mag-
nitude, others less bright, such as the Pole star, of second magnitude,
and so on. It was found that the values assigned by these ancient
estimates could be nearly duplicated by assuming that an increase
of five magnitudes produces exactly 100-fold decrease in apparent
brightness, and that the logarithm of the change of brightness for
one magnitude is

“0-100 — 9.4000

74906—28——11 149
150 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1927

With this exact definition of what had formerly been a rough
and ready classification, several observers have attained great distinc-
tion by their long-continued researches in stellar photometry, which
means the assignment of exact magnitudes to the stars. Some of
these investigators made visual observations at the telescope, but, as
in other lines in astronomy, photography was employed by others
with great advantage. The ordinary photographic plate is most
sensitive to blue and violet light, while the eye is most sensitive to
light-green and yellow. Hence, while some observers were contented
to measure photographic brightness by ordinary plates, others inter-
posed absorbing screens suitable to restrict the rays to the most effec-
tive visible region, and observed on orthochromatic plates.

Thus the values of brightness of the stars have been measured not
only photographically but photovisually, as we may say, and the
magnitudes have been recorded on both scales. Reddish stars are
naturally much fainter according to photographic than according to
visual or photovisual magnitudes. The difference of the two scales
gives, indeed, a measure of the effective colors of stars, which, in cases
of objects too faint for spectroscopic analysis, is valuable as an index
of the character of the spectrum.

By persevering work along these lines, there have been established
in recent times standard series of stars of fainter and fainter ap-
parent luminosity, so that the observer in any part of the heavens,
by making comparison photographs from time to time within stand-
ardized stellar regions, may reduce his observed magnitudes to a
well-settled standard scale, no matter what the prevailing sky con-
ditions for the night may be.

With these advantages it has become possible to count accurately
the numbers of stars brighter than specified magnitudes, as photo-
graphed within selected areas, each of small but definite extent, and
numerous cnough to give a fair estimate of the star population of
the whole heavens. In the following table, prepared by Seares and
van Rhijn, we see how the numbers run.

TABLE I1—Numbers of stars brighter than a given magnitude

, Number of stars : Number of stars
Magni- : Magni- .
Ratio Ratio
tude . tude :
limit a visual |) jimit ; =_—
Photographic Visual Photographic Visual
4 360 530 3.1 12 1, 100, 000 2, 270, 000 ae
5 1, 030 1, 620 30 13 2, 720, 000 5, 700, 000 24
6 2, 940 4, 850 30 14 6, 500, 000 13, 800, 000 2.3
7 8, 200 14, 300 29 15 15, 000, 000 32, 000, 000 22
8 22, 800 41, 000 29 16 33, 000, 000 71, 090, 000 21
9 62, 000 117, 000 28 17 70, 000, 000 150, 000, 000 20
10 166, 000 324, 000 27 18 143, 000, 000 296, 000, 000 1.9
11 431, 000 870, 000 : 19 275, 000, 060 560, 000, 000

- MODERN ASTRONOMY—ABBOT 151

Thus the total numbers of stars brighter than a given magnitude
increase nearly by ratios of 3.0-fold as we pass from step to step,
until we come down to stars of magnitude 9, which are some fifty
times fainter than the naked eye can see. Then the ratio of increase
grows steadily smaller until at the nineteenth magnitude the ratio
has diminished to 1.9. The relation of this ratio of increase to the
magnitude number may be expressed by a suitable formula.

With this mathematical expression it is easily possible to proceed
beyond the twentieth magnitude to integrate the probable numbers
of stars, on the assumption that this formula, which holds so well
down to the faintest telescopic magnitudes, still continues to retain
its validity beyond. Jn this way Scares has computed that our galaxy
of stars probably contains about 30,000,000,000 stars, or some twenty
times as many stars as there are living human inhabitants of the
earth,

Looking in the direction of the constellations of Cassiopeia,
Aquila, Sagittarius, and Crux, we see the hazy brightness of the
milky way, which, when examined with a telescope, resolves itself
into a multitude of stars. The milky way is easily seen to be a
nearly flat ring, extending completely around the heavens, and is
frequently taken as the datum plane from which to chart star posi-
tions. Thus astronomers speak of galactic latitude and longitude.

If the average number of stars per square degree brighter than
a given magnitude are classified with reference to their galactic lati-
tudes, it is immediately seen that toward the galactic poles they are
few compared to the numbers near or in the galaxy itself. In the
following table (after Seares and van Rhijn) this information is
collected :

TABLE 2.—Galactie concentration of the stars

NUMBERS OF STARS PER spine cs DEGREE BRIGHTER THAN A GIVEN PHOTO-
GRAPHIC MAGNITUDE

Galactic latitude
Limiting
magnitude
0° 20° 40° g0° >
Number Number Number Number
0. 36 0. 22 0. 14 0.10
11 20.8 11.6 123 4.3
15 910 400 199 87
19 | 20,750 6, 860 2, 180 770

Naked-eye stars are three times as concentrated in the milky way
as at its poles. But for very faint stars the ratio of concentration is
thirtyfold. j

How shall we explain this inequality of distribution of the stars
and more especially of faint ones? Either their ranks extend much
Laz ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1927 -

farther along the plane of the milky way than toward its poles, or
else a pair of veils of progressively increasing obscurity, like two
caps, one on either side of the galaxy, hide from us the multitude of
stars which otherwise might be seen toward the galactic poles. The
second hypothesis is too fantastic. Astronomers agree, therefore, that
our system of some 30,000,000,000 stars is contained in a lens-shaped
space some five times as extended in diameter along the galactic plane
as at right angles thereto.

2. DISTANCES AND DIAMETERS OF STARS

When Copernicus conceived the sun to be the center of the earth’s
orbit, and the apparent motions of the stars to be merely the con-
sequences of the earth’s daily axial rotation, he required of his
disciples for the next three centuries a great faith. For they must
believe that the stars are all so distant that the immense circuit of
the earth about the sun neither seemed to bring any stars nearer, nor
even caused them to appear to approach and recede, one from an-
other, as trees do when we pass a forest. It was not until about the
year 1840 that the most refined measurements disclosed any angular
displacements of stars attending the annual revolution of the earth.
Then three star distances were measured by Bessel, Henderson, and
Struve, respectively, and found to be between twenty and seventy
trillion miles.

At the beginning of the twentieth century less than 100 star dis-
tances were known. About that time a new method was introduced, in
which photography was substituted for eye observation at the tele-
scope. By dimming a bright star in the center of the telescopic field,
so as to compare equally with very faint stars about it, we may ob-
tain at six-month intervals properly exposed photographs. Since the
very faint stars will almost always be faint because of immense dis-
tances, the photographic image of the artificially dimmed star, prob-
ably much nearer, will often be found to wander very slghtly to and
fro among neighboring star images in the six-month intervals,
owing to the earth’s annual revolution. By assiduous and careful
investigations of this kind, which have been carried on at several
observatories, these paralactic angular displacements have been de-
termined for nearly 2,000 stars in the past 25 years. Even with the
utmost accuracy, however, it is impossible to do more than show that
a star is relatively a distant one, if it lies beyond the distance requir-
ing of light 500 years to traverse.

As comparatively few of the stars lie within 500 light years’ dis-
tance from the earth, we should be little satisfied unless there were
other methods of extending our knowledge of star distances. As
concerning measurements of the distances of individual stars, there

MODERN ASTRONOMY—ABBOT 153

are two principal methods adapted to stretch the limit of measure-
ment considerably further. The first depends on the existence of
numerous pairs of stars in mutual revolution about their common
centers of gravity.

= Pere eee eS
os ee
|

CPI

Dy a

eee
| yi ) .
DY Siete
Factnt Star Smaller

the La rege r

Ilia. 1—Curve of light variation of a star which is periodically eclipsed by a
larger dark body, as seen from the earth

Although too near together to be distinguished as double by the
telescope, the duplicity of stars is sometimes recognized by the
regularly recurring variation of their light, owing to their mutually
eclipsing one another. In many other cases the spectroscope detects
duplicity by the periodic shifting of the spectral lines, as the stars
tend alternately to approach and recede from the earth in their
154 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1927

orbits. However, it is not of such close double stars as the eclipsing
and the spectroscopic binaries that distances are determined, but of
the numerous pairs of stars seen telescopically separate, and ob-
served sufficiently long to trace a considerable part of their apparent
orbits in the heavens.

In such cases the law of Kepler, which is a consequence of New-
ton’s law, informs us: M,+M,=A‘*/P? where M, and M, are the
masses of the two stars compared to the earth plus the sun, A, the
semiaxis of their orbit in terms of the semiaxis of the earth’s orbit,
and P the period of rotation measured in years. If M,+M, were
known, A could be computed. Fortunately the study of eclipsing
and spectroscopic binaries has proved that for most double stars
the combined masses differ little from double the mass of the earth
and sun. Hence it is assumed in this method of obtaining star
distances that M,+M,=g2.

If so A=~W/9P

Inasmuch as the factor of the combined mass enters in the cube
root, the result would be only 100 per cent in error if M,+M, were
really 16 instead of 2, so that measurements of A, made in this
manner, are generally of comparatively high accuracy. Since the
angular measure of A is readily observed with the telescope, the
star’s distance from the earth corresponding to the linear measure
found by the application of Kepler’s law follows immediately.
Nearly 1,000 stellar distances have been determined by this, the
so-called “dynamical” method.

A still more fruitful means of measuring star distances depends
on a close scrutiny of certain absorption lines in their photographic
spectra. In the latter years of the nineteenth century the spectra of
the stars were arranged at the Harvard College Observatory in cer-
tain great classes called B, A, F, G, K, M, ranging from the blue stars
of type B, through the solar stars of type G, to the red, or Antarian
stars of type M. Certain gradations of these great classes are recog-
nized, such as B5, meaning a type half way between the most extreme,
or BO stars, and the most extreme varieties of type A, called AO.

It is found, however, that two stars both of the type G5, for in-
stance, though generally identical in spectrum, may show a few of
their characteristic spectral lines in very different intensities. ‘These
minute spectral differences have been shown, from both observational
and theoretical standpoints, to be due to differences in size of the
stars. If two such stars were at equal distances, so as to display their
absolute magnitudes, or true luminosities, the one of larger diameter
would, of course, be the brighter. The distances of a great many
stars have been so well determined by the trigonometric aud dy-
namical methods that it has become possible to fix a scale of appear-

MODERN ASTRONOMY—ABBOT 155

ance of these telltale spectral lines, such that, knowing their
appearance in a given star, its absolute brightness is immediately
assigned. Knowing, also, its apparent brightness from photometric
observations, the distance follows at once. In this way the distances
of nearly 3,000 individual stars have been measured spectroscopically.

Omitting in this hasty sketch distances determined by several spe-
cial methods of limited application, we come finally to the wholesale
methods depending on apparent brightness and on apparent angular
motion. It is sufficiently obvious that if all stars were of identical
spectrum and luminosity, their brightness would vary inversely as
the square of their distance. By making allowance for spectrum,
and assuming that large and small stars are mixed in the same pro-
portions in the distant parts of the universe that they are in those
relatively near, formulae have been devised which give the average
relative distances of stars of the successive stellar magnitudes. It is
also obvious that on the average of great numbers the apparent
angular motion of stars, or so-called “proper motion,” must be in-
versely as their distances. This wholesale method of estimating
stellar distances in terms of proper motions has been extensively
applied, and appropriate formulae have been devised to express it.

These wholesale formulae are checked by the known individual
distances of several thousand stars. Z'hey enable us to treat statis-
tically such majestic problems as the absolute size of our stellar
system, which we call our galaxy. It is estimated to be approxi-
mately 100,000 light years in its maximum and 20,000 light years in
its minimum diameter. Its 20 nearest stars are from 4 to 15 light
years distant from us.

Knowing the distances of several thousand stars individually, it
has been found that our sun is near the middle rank in absolute
brightness, although, to us, it seems brighter than Sirius. Yet, in
fact, Rigel is about ten thousand times brighter than the sun, and the
sun about ten thousand times brighter than the faintest stars yet
known.

As for the sun, its diameter has long been known to be 860,000
miles. Only recently have the diameters of some other stars been
determined. This has been done in some cases by direct measure-
ments with the interferometer according to the method of Michel-
son, but only for a few stars, including Betelgeuse, Antares, Arcturus,
Aldebaran, and some others. The gigantic red stars first named are
found to be from 200,000,000 to 400,000,000 miles in diameter, or
several hundred times that of the sun. On the other extreme, several
bright stars, including Sirius, are found less than twice the diameter
of the sun. If it were possible to carry the measurements to very
faint stars, doubtless some would be found much smaller than the
156 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1927

sun. Several indirect methods, depending on the distribution and
intensity of light in the spectra of the stars, enable us to estimate
the diameters of some of the very faint stars, and this confirms our
expectation of their relatively minor size. One yellowish white star,
indeed, appears to be no larger than our earth.

3. DENSITIES AND TEMPERATURES OF STARS—THEIR INTERNAL
STRUCTURE

Since there have been found no stars of masses many times
ereater than that of the sun, but a whole class of gigantic red stars
several hundred times the sun’s diameter, and therefore millions of
times the sun’s volume, ¢¢ follows that the density of these red giants
is of an order a thousand times less than atmospheric air. The
study of eclipsing variables, many of which are blue and white stars,
has also indicated a range of densities, not, indeed, so excessively
rare. but still of the order a thousand times less than the sun’s.

As there are many stars of the greatest similarity in size and spec-
trum to the sun, we must believe that these approximate the solar
density, which is one and four-tenths times that of water. Yet this
is by no means the maximum limit of density, for the companion to
the brilliant star Sirius has lately been proved to be some sixty
thousand times as dense as water, or three thousand times as dense as
platinum! To add to the astonishment which this statement evokes,
this star, like all others, is mainly gaseous, and is even in that state of
great freedom of internal motion called perfectly gaseous.

At ordinary temperatures gases may be compressed in the labora-
tory far beyond the density of water, but their molecules then occupy
such large volumes compared to the spaces between that the internal
motions of highly compressed gases are hindered, and they are no
longer perfect gases. But at the immense temperatures which pre-
vail within the stars not only are the molecules disassociated but their
atoms also are ionized, so that in place of the relatively bulky mole-
cules the separated electrons and nuclei only-remain. These primi-
tive particles are so excessively small that stars may be compressed
far beyond the densities of our heaviest solid substances without
losing their perfectly gaseous qualities.

Thus the interiors of the stars are in the simplest possible condi-
tion for theoretical studies. Eddington and others have taken full
advantage of this favorable condition and have worked out so
thoroughly the relation of pressure, temperature, diameter, energy,
and constitution, and with such excellent accordance with what can
be astronomically observed among the host of heavenly bodies, that
we may be said to know far more of the internal condition of the
stars than we do of the interior of the earth.

a a
MODERN ASTRONOMY—ABBOT 157

It appears that starting with the red giants at less than 3,000°
absolute C. of surface temperature, the successive classes K, G, F, A,
and B exhibit a scale of constantly rising surface temperatures, cul-
minating with approximately 16,000° absolute C. for the surface of
such a star as Rigel. Our own sun, at 6,000° absolute C., is medium
in this as in other characters.

Within the stars two forces strive against the enormous com-
pressive force of gravitation. These are, first, the agitation of the
electrons, and atomic nuclei, after the fashion of pressures in all
gases, and second, the pressure of radiation. In the interior of
stars, the temperatures,
which may reach 40,000,-
000°, are so exalted that
the radiation therein ex-
erts perfectly tremendous
pressure. At such tem-
peratures the prevailing
wave lengths are of the
order of X rays, rather
than of visible light.
Such very short wave rays
are unable to penetrate
more than a few centi-
meters through the ion-
ized atomic gas of the
stellar substance. Under
these circumstances the
energy of the interior is
imprisoned, and after

Fie. 2.—The arrangement of atoms as it is in com-
mon salt, whose molecules each contain one atom
reaching the blue stage of chlorine and one of sodium. Each of these

atoms in its turn is made up of a family of elec-
the central parts of a star trie charges, positive andi negative in equal num-

grow hotter and hotter; bers. The running together of these charges
they are, though, quite un- SumiNiates the toms, and iver up enetny
able to prevent the ex-

terior from cooling back through the successive spectrum classes A,
I’, G, K, and M, with constantly increasing density. Hence we find
two kinds of red and yellow stars, one sort very bulky and rare, the
other relatively very small and dense. Our sun belongs to the dwarf
class, having passed the acme of brightness.

Until recent years the source of energy which maintains the tre-
mendous outward flow of stellar radiation was unexplained. Now,
however, the atoms are shown to consist entirely of groups of equal
electric charges, positive and negative, supposed to remain separate
by virtue of orbital motion. Jt is conceived that under the cir-
158 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1927

cumstances of exalted temperature and pressure prevailing within
stars, union of these electric particles may occur, with annihilation of
mass and liberation of energy. If so, a source adequate to supply
stellar energy for imanense periods of time is available.

BA a eee ae ee | | ao |
EEEREREEE-EEGR GEE
boilccobe ob chou Alem

A Oe
PAN eA) eae eta
Ae FNS a PP WF)
OA 8 sh i i Ts
Bl 289 a
POPPA OAc a AOS a
PIC NOL eS SSS
Mee 250 240 ae Sy
PEE T NCES SSE
~LHEGINC TE TT PSS
Te CoE CSS PRSISSCCe
ofQUL IBN K TNSASISZT SOT SSIS
MASP 2 SSS Sep
PIAL INT ere
Bea? 40 Seep
PEAS ee oS
POTATO
PF OO
TET CONC, VEZ Oe Se eae
Oa a SS
Pee ENA CAE
A a
o-U-LREARZE CCE
Be HSN, a a
QIN od Sal a
Vl A Lada che |e pope
Pe Te ae et 1 iaarr
CECE Re ee
=C COPE RSECECECEPECEEee
A Ps

==
a 0 sa
pA eh pep beds biel ods Tee ial lees as ati am
Wave-length x4

lo | 2a SS
Fig. 3.—The temperatures of the stars estimated by comparing their spectral-energy
curves with those of the perfect radiator

From the known mass of the sun it is computed that if it were
completely annthilated with evolution of energy, the supply would
suffice to maintain the present rate of solar radiation about fifteen
trillion years. So the present view ascribes enormous ages to the
stars, abundantly sufficient to satisfy the most extravagant time

MODERN ASTRONOMY—ABBOT 159

demands which biologists and geologists may be led to make from
their studies of existing life and the paleontological records of the
past.

The surface temperatures of the stars are estimated by measuring
the distribution of the energy of their radiation in the spectrum.
As the blacksmith’s iron glows with a different color according to
the degree of its heat, so do the stars. Laboratory experiments have
developed laws and farmulae, connecting the temperatures and.
energy spectra of sources, which, like the stars, emit continuous
spectra. It is by applying these relations that star temperatures are
determined.

The surface temperatures of the hotter stars exceed any which we
are able to maintain continuously in the laboratory. Hence it is
very useful that Anderson has recently invented a method of explod-
ing wires by tremendous electric discharges, able to yield instan-
taneous temperatures of 20,000° to 30,000°. This permits the experi-
mental study of radiation from such hot sources.

It was a mystery until recently why the profusion of intense
Fraunhofer lines which exist in the spectra of yellow stars, like
our sun, should yield to fainter and fewer lines for still hotter
stars. Indeed, in the blue stars of Type BO the visible and photo-
graphic spectra are almost devoid of lines. We now understand that
the absence of lines does not mean the absence of the chemical ele-
ments which produce them. Rather the elementary atoms, under
the tremendous excitations prevailing in these very hot star surfaces,
have lost several of the electrons of their outer orbits. They are
“stripped,” as physicists say, and the residual fragments of such
stripped atoms give spectra whose lines are beyond the short-wave
limit of spectra transmissible by our atmosphere.

If it were not for a high-level layer of atmospheric ozone, so
scanty that if brought to the earth’s surface it would make a gaseous
mantle no thicker than a sheet of cardboard, the sun and stars would
send us rays of much shorter wave lengths. In these extreme ultra-
violet regions would be found the rich line spectra of the stripped
atoms of the hotter stars.

All that we know of astronomy depends on radiation. But the
nature of radiation itself is more mysterious than was supposed 30
years ago. At the end of the nineteenth century it was agreed that
radiation is a transverse wave vibration, set up in the luminiferous
ether by the stimulus of the violent internal motions of the molecules
of heated substances. All of the phenomena of the propagation of
light, highly complex and varied though they are, seemed to be
explained satisfactorily in this way. Yet now the newly gained
160 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1927

knowledge of the composition and interior structure of the atoms,
including the phenomena of radioactivity, seems to require a re-
consideration of the older hypothesis of corpuscular radiation, which
Newton preferred. In short the emission and the absorption of rays
seems to demand a discontinuous corpuscular explanation, while the
propagation of rays no less imperiously demands the acceptance of
the vehicle of continuous wave-motion. ‘These antagonistic views
now await reconciliation.

4. MOTIONS OF THE STARS

The observations of such men as Bradley of Oxford, the great
Astronomer Royal, and all of his successors who have measured ac-
curately the positions of the stars, form a precious heritage. They
have rendered their makers’ names immortal. For it is by comparing
these early star positions with the corresponding ones of to-day,
that a knowledge of the angular displacements, called proper mo-
tions of the stars, is determined. All the stars, including our sun,
are on the move. The most rapid star moves over 10 seconds of are
per year. Now that stellar distances, as well as proper motions,
have become known, these angular displacements are easily con-
verted into linear velocities, though of course seen in projection on
the celestial sphere.

Within the past 80 years another element of stellar motion has
been added, for the spectroscope has determined for us the rates
of approach or recession of several thousand stars. This, too, is
but partial knowledge, for it gives only the component of a star’s true
motion, relative to the earth, which is projected upon a radius of the
celestial sphere. Yet when the proper motions and the radial mo-
tions of the stars are combined, as they can now be, we obtain the
true motions of the stars in space, relative to the earth, or if we
prefer, to the sun. Zhe sun moves about 12 miles per second, and
other star velocities range from 5 to 100 miles per second.

A large number of true space motions were computed a few years
ago by Strémberg, with the result of revealing a great common high-
way, along which not only the various groups of stars of different
spectral types, but the great star clusters, and even the spiral nebu-
le, seemed to be moving with reference to our sun. The phenom-
enon has been compared by Adams to the flights of a number of
swarms of bees, which, fortuitously, had chosen a common path for
their migrations. Individual swarms would fly at unequal rates,
and individual bees at cross directions to the common course, so that
a wide dispersion of swarms and individuals would appear. Yet on
the whole the common course would predominate.
MODERN ASTRONOMY—ABBOT 161

In order to understand this majestic march of the celestial hosts,
we must first review the recent studies by Hubble of the spiral
nebulz and their relation to our galaxy of stars. Hubble has been
able, in photographs by the 100-inch reflector, to resolve several
spiral nebule, including the Great Nebula of Andromeda, into hosts
of separate stars of excessive faintness. Some of these stars he finds

-300 -200 -109 o +100 km.

\] IN -|00

- ~4450

Fig. 4,—The march of stars as compared to the place of the sun. If all the groups,
I to XII, of the stars were collected at the sun, at the intersection of the lines 0 0,
then after a certain time the several groups would all seem to have moved along
the general direction B A, and to have spread out to fill the figures shown, This
great celestial way lies nearly toward the star Antares

to be of the Cepheid type of variable brightness. Shapley had shown
that these variables are standard objects whose periods of variation
are truly indicative of their absolute brightness. Hence Hubble
was able to determine, from the periods of variation, the real bright-
ness of these Cepheids found within the spiral nebule. This done,
their distances followed at once, from a knowledge of their apparent
magnitudes.
162 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1927

He found the distance of the Great Nebula of Andromeda to be
about 900,000 light years, and some of the other spirals to be some
nearer, some more distant. ‘Thus these objects le quite outside the
limits of our galaxy of stars. They are, as Herschel suggested,
island universes. Their shapes, as photographed in some cases on
edge, suggest the configuration of our galaxy. Their sizes, in some
instances at least, are not dissimilar to it.

Hence we are led to suppose that our own galaxy is a rather more
than usually large and mature spiral nebula, in which almost all
the nebulous matter has been agglomerated into stars. Its age is so
ereat that the stars of different masses and different ages have taken
on very unequal rates of motion.

Originally, as we may suppose, our own nebula, like all others,
traveled in a certain direction with respect to the general algebraic
zero of motion of all spiral nebule, at the rate of several hundred
kilometers per second. This direction happened to be what we ob-
serve now as the great common star way. Our own star, the sun,
happens to be moving nearly along the great common way, and as
its motion exceeds the average rate of some star groups, it is im-
parting to them an apparent negative velocity. A still higher ap-
parent negative velocity equal to the real velocity of our own system
is imparted in the same manner to the algebraic zero of motion of the
other spiral nebule. Such is an explanation of the grand parade
of the celestial hosts.

5. SOME ASPECTS OF ASTRONOMY AND LIFE

We have been dealing hitherto with gigantic things. Billions
of stars, millions of degrees of temperatures, sextillions of miles of
distance, trillions of years of time, the march of the celestial hosts—
all these tremendous facts have been on review before us. Is it not,
then, the height of anticlimax to turn away, at the ending, to con-
sider the affairs of the solar system, ruled by that middling star, our
sun, and comprising no other objects which could so much as be dis-
cerned by any intelligent dwellers among the nearest of the other
stars ?

It can not appear so to one who is familiar with the intricacies of
the chemistry and the physics, the marvels of the instincts and the
adaptations and the triumphs of the infinitesimal, by which, for in-
stance, the characters of a mature man are controlled by the con-
stitution of the two microscopic germ cells which united to create
him. These occur only in life, and life, so far as we yet positively
know, occurs only in the solar system. It is not therefore so much
the academic astronomy of the sun and planets, as their relations to
life, which now I wish to touch upon in closing.
MODERN ASTRONOMY—ABBOT 163

Although life on other planets than the earth is not positively
demonstrated, there are two others, Mars and Venus, on which its
existence is not out of the question. . Yet life depends upon a nice
adjustment of various conditions. There is no chemical element
except carbon which combines with other elements in that infinite
variety of potent forms so indispensable to the mysterious processes
of life. Flexibility, too, is requisite, so that liquids rather than
solids must have a considerable part in living creatures. Of all
liquids water is the most important, but even of the numerous
organic carbon-built liquids, those more conducive to life properties
solidify as water does at about zero centigrade. These considerations
incline us to think that planetary temperatures about as high as the
earth’s are requisite at least to the higher forms of life.

It has recently been observed that the illuminated side of Mars
reaches equatorial temperatures approximating those of our spring
days in Philadelphia. Both oxygen and water vapor have been
demonstrated in the atmosphere of Mars, but in comparatively mi-
nute quantities. Adams and St. John find of oxygen 15 and of water
vapor 5 per cent of the quantities prevailing in our atmosphere.
So the Martian life, if it exists, must be adapted to atmospheric
composition approximating that high above the summit of Mount
Lverest.

As the atmosphere of Mars is so very rare and dry, it is unsuitable
to retain heat at night. Computation and observation unite in
estimating the midnight temperatures of equatorial Mars as of the
order of —40°C. These frigid night temperatures, combined with
the rare and dry atmosphere, would seem to exclude from Mars
the higher types of life, such as we know, but might permit certain
arctic types to exist. Indeed, the seasonal changes of color which
are observed, seem to many to be satisfactory evidence of vegetation
on Mars.

Upon Venus there is no defect of temperature, or of the uniformity
of it. With greater nearness to the sun but higher reflecting power,
the solar radiation available to warm Venus is about one and four-
tenths times as intense as that which warms the earth. Accordingly,
temperatures approximating those of our Tropics should prevail in
latitudes well toward this planet’s poles. An abundant atmosphere is
present. The reflecting power approximates that of a completely
cloudy earth, so that it would be reasonable to conceive of clouds of
water, completely hiding the planet surface at all times.

The spectroscope, however, does not confirm this. Neither water-
vapor nor oxygen can certainly be discerned thereby. Yet it seems
incredible that we see the surface of this planet, whose bulk must be
solidified since its density is nearly the same as the earth’s. For if
164 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1927

solid, surely it would present some visible markings, and Venus
never does. Accordingly, it is supposed that the clouds of Venus are
of the high-level cirrus type, and that water-vapor, though present
plentifully below the clouds, is too scanty at higher levels to be
revealed. As for oxygen, though certainly it can not extend as high
as it does above the earth, it may be present beneath the cloud level.

No spectroscopic evidence of the rotation of Venus has ever been
found. This proves that the planet does not rotate very rapidly, like
the earth or Mars. It has even been suggested that, like the moon, its
rotation and revolution periods are identical so that Venus would
present the same face to the sun at all times. If that were so,
the bright face would be very hot, and the dark face very cold.
Recently, however, Pettit and Nicholson have found that the dark
side of Venus is about equally warm from one edge to the other and
is everywhere at about the same temperature that our earth would
appear if viewed from another planet. This observation of moderate
and equable night temperatures proves that the planetary rotation
must be fairly rapid, and certainly not of the same period as the
revolution. We may therefore conclude that Venus is very probably
appropriately provided with temperature, humidity and atmospheric
conditions, and is in a state suited for luxuriant life. Being wholly
cloudy, however, it is doubtful if we can ever demonstrate tt.

The earth, therefore, still remains the only known abode of life,
and her life depends absolutely on the sun’s radiation. Recent
studies have shown that this dependence rests on very narrow matr-
gins of safety. For instance, the oxygen of the upper atmosphere
is induced to combine into the form of ozone by the influence of
extreme ultra-violet solar rays, and yet the ozone formed is con-
tinually being reconverted into oxygen by the influence of still other
extreme ultra-violet solar rays. ‘Thus occurs a balance of these
effects such that the upper atmosphere contains so minute a quan-
tity of ozone as would make, if brought to earth, a gaseous layer
only as thick as a cardboard. Yet this minute and almost fortuitous
atmospheric constituent cuts off entirely the spectrum of the sun
and stars beyond wave length 2,900 Angstroms. The solar rays thus
cut off, if they reached the earth, would destroy human sight and
tissues by their powerful chemical activity. Of course, we could
shield ourselves from these effects, but our ancestors who lived before
the invention of spectacles would have lost their sight, or never
attained it. Yet if the atmospheric ozone absorption reached only
a little further, to 3,200 Angstroms, human and animal young would
languish with the enfeebling disease of rickets, for the extreme
ultra-violet rays are indispensable to proper mammalian growth.
MODERN ASTRONOMY—ABBOT 165

As ozone absorbs to some extent even as far as 3,200 Angstroms, a
catastrophe might ensue if circumstances led to a small increase of
the ozone content of our atmosphere. For this would eliminate
indispensable rays of wave lengths 2,900 to 3,200 Angstroms. Such
a catastrophe would attend such an alteration in the distribution of
the extreme ultra-violet solar spectrum as would change materially
the existing balance of influences tending to produce and destroy
ozone.

This leads us to inquire if the sun is a constant star, and, if not,
what is the character of its variation. The fluctuations of sun spots
and other visible solar phenomena which have long been known,
prove, of course, that the sun is not absolutely constant. Within the
last 22 years the Smithsonian Institution has made some thousands
of determinations of the intensity of solar heating, which prove that
the solar radiation increases several per cent at times of maximum
visible solar activity. Apparently, too, the sun’s surface presents
appreciable inequalities of radiating power, so that the rotation of
the sun leads to successive brief changes of the intensity received at
the earth’s surface. These changes are slight for red and infra-red
rays, but grow more and more considerable for the shorter wave
lengths. Pettit, indeed, observing with the narrow band of ultra-
violet rays which silver transmits, centering at 3,160 Angstroms,
finds alterations of over 100 per cent in their intensity. This means
that if our eyes were sensitive to such rays alone we should find the
sun’s surface twice as bright at some times as at others.

Other solar phenomena exhibit interesting variations. Nearly
20 years ago Hale discovered magnetism in sun spots, and later over
the sun’s whole surface. Sun spots are apt to go in pairs, and Hale
tinds that if the advancing spot of a pair is a north pole in the
northern solar hemisphere, it will be a south pole which leads in a
spot pair in the southern hemisphere. But this state of things
endures only through one 11-year sun-spot cycle. In the following
cycle these polarities reverse, so that 2214 years are required to bring
back the magnetic conditions to the starting point. Bjerknes has
proposed an ingenious hypothesis to account for sun spots, their cool-
ness, their going in pairs, the opposite magnetic polarity of the pair,
and the reversal of polarity at each 11-year cycle. It depends on
hydrodynamic principles and explains the phenomena as due to
causes residing within the sun, not to gravitational influences of the
planets.

It is well known that terrestrial magnetism reacts to solar activity,
and so does the aurora as well. Bauer has shown that the earth’s
magnetic state marches closely with the intensity of solar radiation
as measured by the Smithsonian Institution. Very recently Austin

74906—28——_12
166 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1927

has found that the reception of long-range radio signals also marches
hand in hand with the intensity of solar radiation.

The weather, too, so important to human concerns, seems to be
affected by solar changes. The importance of this effect is still in
controversy, so that I shall not stress it, but merely remark that time
will tell. However, I must point out that the solar variation, though
obviously associated with the 11-year sun-spot cycle, has hitherto
seemed irregular, and therefore unpredictable. But now there seem
to appear definite periodicities of 2524, 15, and 11 months, and cer-
tain harmonics of these periods, which, together with the 11-year
period, seem to make up the whole long-interval solar variation. If
these definite periodicities should persist, we shall be in position to
forecast for years in advance the principal solar variation and every-
thing which may be found to depend upon it.

I should give but a feeble impression of the importance of sunlight
to life if I should stop at this point. All plants grow by absorbing
solar energy and using it to promote chemical reactions in a way still
inimitable by chemists. Ultra-violet rays, too, produce certain
changes of chemical structure in fats and oils which are the source
of those traces of hormones so extraordinarily important, all out of
proportion to their infinitesimal occurrence, in the growth and health
of animals. ‘The more searching study of the solar spectrum in its
relations,to these extraordinary chemical reactions is a most fasci-
nating field.

On the grosser side the application of solar energy to power pro-
duction also offers an attractive research field. Some are disposed
to think this chimerical. There are, however, certain lines of im-
provement over former attempts at the utilization of solar rays
directly for power which, I am inclined to think, will solve the
problem commercially.

Thus far we have mentioned only points of contact between astro- «
nomical research and physical life. Yet this aspect, interesting as
it is, should yield place to appreciation of the value of astronomy
to broaden the mental outlook, to vanquish fear, and to allay super-
stition. While yet the vast numbers and masses of the stars were
unknown, their nature unrecognized, the existence of other galaxies
undreamed of, men very naturally regarded the earth as the central
object and themselves the beings for whom all things were created.

Now the universe has attained such grandeur that earth sinks to
the dimensions of a speck, and we can not but accept an attitude of
wholesome humility. At the same time, the consciousness of having
achieved already so great a command of the forces of nature, and so
considerable a knowledge of her mysteries, and the assurance that
we can soon command and know far more, tempers humility with

elation.
|
Smithsonian Report, 1

eae

re WT. alee

*.
ry J
*
| ae |
y ' 2 : " : a
, 7 : _
' pe as _ rT in
: : >
a OO ae
Ae ia
> es | i , Th
a) i _
¥
7 i
9 _
| Neel a
ay Ny i AAS
2 ee" ¢ Pra 7
i ee Pa 7 eo 1
1927.—Abbot

port,

e

R

n

Smithson!

PLATE 1

a

ag

Rt
car

7

6 NORMAE

, NEAR

ARS

REGION OF MANY S

A SKY

OL
7

The dark lanes and patches show regions where the fainter st

Smithsonian Report, 1927.—Abbo PLATE 2

THE 36-INCH REFRACTOR OF THE LICK OBSERVATORY
(uBlmOsyyIUg ‘ar[[Img Aq ydeis0j0yd)
LHDIY AWAYLXS SHL LV AYNOYSIW LANVId AHL ‘0061 ‘AVIA, ‘SSd1I105 YV10S 1WLOL

€ aLV1d yoqqv—'Z761 ‘Wodey uBjUOsyy|WS

Smithsonian Report, 1927.—Abbot PLATE 4

SiR ISAAC NEWTON

(AMOLVAYASEO NOSTIM LNNOIA]) ‘“VuLOAdS YVIIELS 4O SAdAL NIVIA

eros wae ee eee
OIE DESI PP ee

ee net SRR E eRe AR CREO ee RES ORRIN PRE FS SpE Bet mI HG FE ee Oe

Bee Pe ee
SP UIEI EE PAP

bowen ea

an eis eee eR eR eet

[IER ETE Ea a
ee nL  pupeneeemmemreonmemenesel ane H TEI Ger I hheiahal ete

aeetold re TL TY TUE EE

i Pst ek Deed
a ay ae OLY MGT S ED Te ++ SP OHH! SED EE KIN LR Mee wees

| It | PE nye tet
eee eee ee ee Te ee
My | ee eT REAR ee
eae ee eee Pee Gee een) ee
Tt) de VP
PCT EEE
POU ee EPR Ee
AIEEE

LTR A ee eee ET Tea AE Is tte

ESRESEEB

G ALV1d joqqvy—'/Z61 ‘WOdeYy uB!UOSYyIWS

Smithsonian Report, 1927.—Abbot PLATE 6

JOSEPH FRAUNHOFER, THE FATHER OF MODERN SPECTROSCOPY
YO1L9417145Y HONI-OO! NOSTIAA LNNOW AHL OL GAHOVLILY YSALSWOYSSYSLN| YVITSLS S,NOSTAHOII\

| ee OSS Dea & e600)
3 ; eZ ‘ : k ie Bit a aN Si cai om ‘ ; Bia: . : 4

H

1 AaLV1d oqqy—'ZZ6l ‘Wodey uBj|UOsYWS
Smithsonian Report, 1927.—Abbot PLATE 8

THE SPIRAL NEBULA IN CANES VENATICI. (MOUNT WILSON OBSERVATORY )
PLATE 9

Abbot

Smithsonian Report, 1927.

SUN SPOTS AND THEIR INFLUENCE ON THEIR SOLAR SURROUNDINGS

(From spectroheliogram by L. Humason, Mount Wilson))
Smithsonian Report, 1927—Abbot PLATE 10

