< ve
—S
~~ —!
<r

vy

rig ay
iy tives

+) > ats an fi) o ¢
i ile Mane Ny

ron , Vi ee We in vy aN
i he 4 iq OF a .* "i
Ti rn uy ant Me 7 Why es :
; ¢ 7) 1 @ F ait a) ‘et he ry. v ' iA . ;
4 Dp at ya my 7h v  * : ; } ; 4 ;
. a i _ rae t

eee Pee Brea’ ‘Seay ea "
mont) cr aN ri ‘ e
a hae is. a ae [tAM
foo) CPE EN

¥
. ,
;
o
, }
it2°
Raa U
ye 7
in 7 ve 7
- : -
’ 7 >
Ni
7
7 7 :
'
.
n ®
a
' '
‘ ,
. {7
a
a4 a
1a g
'g.ie
a)

Gyre chee \
eee 1 Mae pi free
ST ee Lh ae

Piper m Ae  Ssaiaaainbe 2

Jf } es
) a ae i ‘ i :
7 Low, u% \ A .
ee ls iy ‘ ml

ie Oy ale

anit

ANNUAL REPORT OF THE
BOARD OF REGENTS OF

THE SMITHSONIAN
INSTITUTION

SHOWING THE

OPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES, AND
CONDITION OF FHE INSTELUTION
FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30

1230

(Publication 3405)

UNITED STATES
GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE
WASHINGTON : 1937

For sale by the Superintendent of Documents, Washington, D.C. - - - - - - - Price $1.50 (cloth cover)
CONTENTS

Page
SEVYEDH, OLE COR AEE ES 5 ea a oR a i Ppa aR a ee EN XI
sp PSE ESITTY TO 5 1 ea gp IP pf a Ra ee 1
Summary of the year’s activities of the branches of the Institution_______ 2
De RDDMT ENC Ae gg 2g Cy he ee ee a a eR ee a 5
SPE DOALGNOLAIRC OCIS Sete fit yo ce Sh ce ie ee eg 6
"P TANDRTL ti Meagan pd A On Si aA alin renga vty gina oe Pe 7
DMPLELenSEOlee Neral IM COTO cp iacets Be eter nye oe gc ete ear ee 7
RENEE ECG PORTA «22. io. 8 oo oe ed eee 7
iRocketrexpenments of- Dr Re HeiGoddard== 2 {2.52 bas oa eee 8
Walter Rathbone Bacon traveling scholarship__________________-_- 9
Dr, .Moziey-s.mollusk investigations.—............2....2.-=.. 9
Dr. Blackwelder’s study of the staphylinid fauna of the West
IW ayGNTe cy) 26s aie a rn ele eed Cv a eee ee ae ee ee ee ee 10
SOR CELASE Sc te ea Neg a pope oF pn Me Sgt yt in A Pad SS ya AO 11
RU MeC AS DIEMCG AMT: 2g 2 eee ele EB ee eS 11
Smithsonian Institution exhibit at the Texas Centennial Exposition,
1) ASG Kia Eee er Ce eles bee eee yell as SS eh 12
Smithsonian Scienbine MeTleS..- 2202) 2 8 Shee eee Se ssoee” 13
“EB SPEYER) Ee Ih eR dN aa RE SL SE I UT 14
Baploriblonsranauel a wOrke.2 49 see ees ee ee 14
Perm ATIC ENURCATIE Rote ye ns ernie = i Sy ete Ear al abe a 15
PApTREy ea a. Sy Pipe Se Dane ol a ae ge Se ge I By ee a ng 16
Appendix 1. Report on the United States National Museum__________ __ Ad.
2. Report on the National Gallery of Art_...__.______________- 25
3. Report.on the:-Freer Gallery of: Art. - 2.22.2. 25 seek 32
4. Report on the Bureau of American Ethnology________-__-_- 36
5. Report on the International Exchange Service_____________ 44
6. Report on the National Zoological Park__________________ 53
7. Report on the Astrophysical Observatory. .__-_-.-___----- 76
8. Report on the Division of Radiation and Organisms__--_-_-___ 81
Je meport On the Wprany= 2920 lo 225. 2 ee 83
HO. ieportsom publications: 252-2.» 22 Sk es 91
Report of the executive committee of the Board of Regents____________- 97
GENERAL APPENDIX
Astronomy in Shakespeare’s time and in ours, by C. G. Abbot_________- 110
The size and age of the universe, by Sir James Jeans__________________- 123
The earth, the sun, and sunspots, by Loring B. Andrews______________ : 137
Pie Berm pliis yA VOLe 5 2 ee 5s ee ee 145
Radioactivity and atomic theory, by Lord Rutherford_________________- 161
The cryogenic laboratory at Leiden, by Robert Guillien________________ 177
Form, drift, and rhythm of the continents, by W. W. Watts____________ 185
Core samples of the ocean bottom, by Charles Snowden Piggot_________- 207
Some new aspects of evolution, by W. P. Pycraft.__..___-_.----------- 217
VI CONTENTS

Page
What is the meaning of predation? by Paul L. Errington__---____-____-- 243
The gorillas of the Kayonsa region, Western Kigezi, SW. Uganda, by
Capt. CR. 8. Pitman 2 oo <> — 5 oe ee ee ee 253
The vampire bat: A presentation of undescribed habits and review of its
history, by Raymond L. Ditmars and Arthur M. Greenhall________-_- 277
Some of the commoner birds of Ceylon, by Casey A. Wood_-_----------- 297
The, wax palms, by’ Miriam LL; Bomihard® =" == =- == 2-2 so ee eee 303
Significance of shell structure in diatoms, by Paul 8. Conger_____-_____- 325
Some aspects of the plant virus problem, by Kenneth M. Smith________- 345
Sun rays and plant life, by Harl S. Johnston 2 252 2k ee ee 353
Reactions to ultraviolet radiation, by Florence E. Meier____------------ 373
Aerial photography, by Capt: H. K. Baisley _ 2-2-2 ee 383
Baster Island, Polynesia, by Henri Lavachery-_.2-2- = == =e 391
The Eskimo archeology of Greenland, by Therkel Mathiassen__________- 397
Petroglyphs of the United States, by Julian H. Steward____.__----_---- 405

The history of the crossbow, illustrated from specimens in the United
States National Museum, by C. Martin Wilbur_____---------------- 427
LIST OF PLATES

Secretary’s Report: Page

PET RDW SS): Ts RS ace I a a et Hts bee Se CL Se ol 32
Astronomy in Shakespeare’s time (Abbot) :

2 ETE FCENST Le (Baga DR ON EE FS ak flee SE gad Pe Ue 122
Size of the universe (Jeans) :

PORE Spel tae etna tek AS i a Ay oe A ay OU ea aie ad 128
Sunspots (Andrews) :

JENS 9 |e ps OPER LS BES CEES cee ee SRN EL A Oe rae TIA CS cake eS aR ek 144
Northern lights (Eve):

PETIA RES) Eg eS A ea PE ANY ees Me at oP aE 7 Leyte ecldae 160
Cryogenic laboratory at Leiden (Guillien) :

EE ECS eel cpr bbe > ete LANEY sea ee Ee sek gah el SP oe. Le Ree pASt
Ocean bottom (Piggot) :

PR UR WES TE ee age ata Sa eke a I al tee AL alam Sikh arb Meee ont Ba SA 216
Evolution (Pycraft):

TELE GIS TIS Ss a re oe Oe ee Se eS 242
Gorillas (Pitman) :

SSS 1G eee ied a Ta a wp a at Pee ee eh 276
Vampire bat (Ditmars and Greenkall) :

1 EST SUSY od ER ie as eh ek Senko ah eee ee Wn ae a ieee Pp ea BA 296
Birds of Ceylon (Wood) :

J) EASA) TG ee IS AS Se an nee el Rp er ee ee eee ea Rep 302
Wax palms (Bomhard) :

PET eats Cased hae Wc ce ech 9 Fk Se oe eee a de ee ee 324
Diatoms (Conger) :

Ps OS eel 1 Oe erent Aa eee ae Re AERTS 2 al be ee ee 344
Plant virus problem (Smith) :

VES SS OA ae le aS Re ne ec ee Py ee ree ee Ua ns Seger SE eee Ce 352
Sun rays and plant life (Johnston) :

DST ESA aes eee a meres Se eB 6 SO ae hv aes ee eee ee 372
Ultraviolet radiation (Meier) :

STS eS ed ye eta eae ne NES eth 2 2 0 ee 382
Aerial photography (Baisley) :

DEAL WEIS) BAe UBS a ak ae aS Ee oe SP pk Pe ei 390
Easter Island (Lavachery) :

PT SES papa Ah res ren ee is Es pede Se a Ss eS Bee 396
Eskimo archeology (Mathiassen) :

DETER SS 9 RSS Se a a ee eee Ses ee ee 404
Petroglyphs (Steward) :

LE AUT Gees cn Fea aa ee eee ee een es ee ae 426
History of the crossbow (Wilbur) :

TRUTH RESET Gop gs a ee ee ee 438
re a

= “sem - es ay ba Leenma, Genie to -

iin. get re a
£ geigitche A LE
Pe aies a K Sy °

iG ee neingkt - , ie at ee oe ae

; werk ean

id Sealy tant

tf detente
4

ANNUAL REPORT OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS
OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION FOR
THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 1936

SUBJECTS

1. Annual report of the Secretary, giving an account of the op-
erations and condition of the Institution for the year ended June 30,

1936, with statistics of exchanges, etc., including the proceedings of
the meetings of the Board of Regents.

2. Report of the executive committee of the Board of Regents,
exhibiting the financial affairs of the Institution, including a state-
ment of the Smithsonian fund, and receipts and expenditures for
the year ended June 30, 1936.

3. General appendix comprising a selection of miscellaneous
memoirs of interest to collaborators and correspondents of the Insti-
tution, teachers, and others engaged in the promotion of knowledge.
These memoirs relate chiefly to the calendar year 1936.

Ix
XII ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM

Keeper ex officio— CHARLES G. ABBOT.
Assistant Secretary (in charge).—ALEXANDER WETMORE.
Associate director. —JOHN H. GRAF.

SCIENTIFIC STAFF

DEPARTMENT OF ANTHROPOLOGY :
Frank M. Setzler, acting head curator; W. H. Egberts, chief pre-
parator.

Division of Ethnology: H. W. Krieger, curator; H. B. Collins, Jr., assistant
eurator; Arthur P. Rice, collaborator.

Section of Musical Instruments: Hugo Worch, custodian.
Section of Ceramics: Samuel W. Woodhouse, collaborator.

Division of Archeology: Neil M. Judd, curator; R. G. Paine, aid; J. Town-
send Russell, honorary assistant curator of Old World archeology.

Division of Physical Anthropology: AleS Hrdlitka, curator; Thomas D.
Stewart, assistant curator.

Collaborator in anthropology: George Grant MacCurdy; D. I. Bushnell, Jr.

Associate in historic archeology: Cyrus Adler.

DEPARTMENT OF BIOLOGY:
Leonhard Stejneger, head curator; W. L. Brown, chief taxidermist.

Division of Mammals: Gerrit S. Miller, Jr., curator; Remington Kellogg,
assistant curator; A. J. Poole, scientific aid; A. Brazier Howell, collabo-
rator.

Division of Birds: Herbert Friedmann, curator; J. H. Riley, associate
eurator; Alexander Wetmore, custodian of alcoholic and skeleton col-
lections ; Casey A. Wood, collaborator: Arthur C. Bent, collaborator.

Division of Reptiles and Batrachians: Leonhard Stejneger, curator; Doris
M. Cochran, assistant curator.

Division of Fishes: George S. Myers, assistant curator; H. D. Reid, aid.

Division of Insects: L. O. Howard, honorary curator; Edward A. Chapin,
curator; William Schaus, honorary assistant curator; B. Preston Clark,
collaborator.

Section of Hymenoptera: S. A. Rohwer, custodian; W. M. Mann, assist-
ant custodian; Robert A. Cushman, assistant custodian.

Section of Myriapoda: O. F. Cook, custodian.

Section of Diptera: Charles T. Greene, assistant custodian.

Section of Coleoptera: L. L. Buchanan, specialist for Casey collection.

Section of Lepidoptera: J. T. Barnes, collaborator.

Section of Hemiptera: W. L. McAtee, acting custodian.

Section of Forest Tree Beetles: A. D. Hopkins, custodian.

Division of Marine Invertebrates: Waldo L. Schmitt, curator; C. R. Shoe-
maker, assistant curator; James O. Maloney, aid; Mrs. Harriet Rich-
ardson Searle, collaborator; Max M. HBllis, collaborator; William H.
Longley, collaborator; Maynard M. Metcalf, collaborator; J. Percy Moore,
collaborator; Joseph A. Cushman, collaborator in Foraminifera; Charles
Branch Wilson, collaborator in Copepoda.

Division of Mollusks: Paul Bartsch, curator; Harald A. Rehder, assistant
curator; Joseph P. BE. Morrison, senior scientific aid; Mary Breen, col-
laborator.

Section of Helminthological Collections: Maurice C. Hall, custodian.

Division of Hchinoderms: Austin H. Clark, curator.
ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION XIII

DEPARTMENT OF BroLogy—Continued.

Division of Plants (National Herbarium): Frederick V. Coville, honorary
curator; W. R. Maxon, associate curator; Hllsworth P. Killip, associate
curator; Emery C. Leonard, assistant curator; Conrad V. Morton, aid;
Egbert H. Walker, aid; John A. Stevenson, custodian of C. G. Lloyd
mycological collection.

Section of Cryptogamie Collections: O. F. Cook, assistant curator.
Section of Higher Algae: W. T. Swingle, custodian.

Section of Lower Fungi: D. G. Fairchild, custodian.

Section of Diatoms: Paul S. Conger, custodian.

Associates in Zoology: C. Hart Merriam, Mary J. Rathbun, C. W. Stiles
Theodore S. Palmer, William B. Marshall.

Associate Curator in Zoology: Hugh M. Smith.

Associate in Marine Sediments: T. Wayland Vaughan.

Collaborator in Zoology: Robert Sterling Clark.

Collaborators in Biology: A. K. Fisher, David C. Graham.

DEPARTMENT OF GEOLOGY:
R. S. Bassler, head curator; Jessie G. Beach, aid.

Division of Physical and Chemical Geology (systematic and applied):
W. F. Foshag, curator; Edward P. Henderson, assistant curator.

Division of Mineralogy and Petrology: W. F. Foshag, curator; Frank L.
Hess, custodian of rare metals and rare earths.

Division of Stratigraphic Paleontology: Charles E. Resser, curator; Gustay
A. Cooper, assistant curator; Margaret W. Moodey, aid for Springer
collection.

Section of Invertebrate Paleontology: T. W. Stanton, custodian of
Mesozoic collection; Paul Bartsch, curator of Cenozoic collection.

Division of Vertebrate Paleontology: Charles W. Gilmore, curator; C. Lewis
Gazin, assistant curator; Norman H. Boss, chief preparator.

Associate in Mineralogy: W. T. Schaller.

Associate in Paleontology: HE. O. Ulrich.

Associate in Petrology: Whitman Cross,

DEPARTMENT OF ARTS AND INDUSTRIES:
Carl W. Mitman, head curator.

Division of Engineering: Frank A. Taylor, curator.

Section of Mechanical Technology: Frank A. Taylor, in charge; Fred
C. Reed, scientific aid.

Section of Aeronautics: Paul E. Garber, assistant curator.

Section of Mineral Technology: Carl W. Mitman, in charge.

Division of Textiles: Frederick L. Lewton, curator; Mrs. E. W. Rosson, aid.

Section of Wood Technology: William N. Watkins, assistant curator.
Section of Organic Chemistry: Aida M. Doyle, aid.

Division of Medicine: Charles Whitebread, assistant curator,

Division of Graphic Arts: R. P. Tolman, curator; C. Allen Sherwin, scien-
tifie aid.

Section of Photography: A. J. Olmsted, assistant curator.
Division or History: T. T. Belote, curator; Charles Carey, assistant curator;

Mrs. C. L. Manning, philatelist.

ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF

Chief of correspondence and documents.—H. S. Bryant.
Assistant chief of correspondence and documents.—L. EB. COMMERFORD.
Superintendent of buildings and labor.—R. H. TReMBty.
XIV ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

Assistant superintendent of buildings and labor.—CHarRLEs C. SINCLAIR.
Hditor.—PavuL H. OFHSER.

Engineer.—C. R. DENMARK.

Accountant and auditor.—N. W. Dorsry.

Photographer.—A. J. OLMSTED.

Property clerk—LAWRENCE L. OLIVER.

Assistant librarian.—LEILa F. CLARK.

NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART

Acting director.—RvueEt P. ToLMAN.

FREER GALLERY OF ART

Curator.—JOHN ELLERTON LODGE.

Associate curator.—CarL WHITING BISHOP.
Assistant curator.—GRACE DUNHAM GUEST.
Assistant.—ARCHIBALD G. WENLEY.
Superintendent.—JOHN BUNDY.

BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY

Chief —MATTHEW W. STIRLING.

Ethnologists.—JOHN P. HARRINGTON, JOHN N. B. Hewitt, TRUMAN MICHELSON,
JOHN R. Swanton, WILLIAM D. STRONG.

Archeologist FRANK H. H. Roserrs, Jr.

Associate anthropologist.—JULIAN H. STEWARD.

Editor —STANLEY SEARLES.

Librarian.—MiniAM B. KreTcHuM.

TIilustrator.—Kpwin G. CASSEDY.

INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGES

Secretary (in charge).—CHARLES G. ABBOT.
Chief clerk.—Coates W. SHOEMAKER.

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK

Director.—WILLIAM M. MANN.
Assistant director.—HRNEST P. WALKER.

ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY

Director.—CHARLES G. ABBOT.

Assistant director.—LoyaL B. ALDRICH.

Research assistant.—FREDERICK BH. Fow ys, Jr.
Associate research assistant.—WILLIAM H. Hoover.

DIVISION OF RADIATION AND ORGANISMS

Director.—CHARLES G. ABBOT.

Assistant director.—EArRuL 8. JOHNSTON.

Associate research assistant.—Epwarp D. MCALISTER.
Assistant in radiation research.—LELAND B. CLARK.
Research associate—FLORENCE EB. MEIER.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY OF THE
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

C. G. ABBOT
FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 20, 1936

To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution:

GENTLEMEN: I have the honor to submit herewith my report show-
ing the activities and condition of the Smithsonian Institution and the
Government bureaus under its administrative charge during the fiscal
year ended June 30, 1936. The first 16 pages contain a summary
account of the affairs of the Institution, and appendixes 1 to 10 give
more detailed reports of the operations of the National Museum, the
National Gallery of Art, the Freer Gallery of Art, the Bureau of
American Ethnology, the International Exchanges, the National
Zoological Park, the Astrophysical Observatory, the Division of
Radiation and Organisms, the Smithsonian library, and of the publi-
cations issued under the direction of the Institution. On page 97 is
the financial report of the executive committee of the Board of
Regents.

OUTSTANDING EVENTS

Notable progress has been made by the Institution in its varied
fields of endeavor. Continuation of the study of the relation of our
weather to changes in the sun’s radiation led to apparent proof that
the short-interval changes of solar radiation are of major influence
on the weather for the following 2 weeks. Funds to establish seven
additional observing stations to test this promising method of weather
forecasting were provided in a bill passed by the Senate, but unfor-'
tunately the item was lost in conference. The Division of Radiation
and Organisms has determined specifically the efficiency of different
wave lengths of radiation in promoting photosynthesis and photo-
tropism, and has developed new types of research apparatus of un-
equaled adaptability and power. The Institution published the latest
results of the high-altitude rocket experiments of Dr. R. H. Goddard,
whose early work was supported for 12 years by the Smithsonian.
In his most recent trial flights the liquid-propelled rocket attained a
height of 7,500 feet, its automatic stabilizer keeping the flight verti-
cal. With the P. W. A. grant reported last year, three new modern

t
Dy ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

exhibition buildings are under construction at the National Zoological
Park and are expected to be completed by January 1937.

Toward the end of the year a weekly radio program on the activi-
ties of the Smithsonian Institution was put on the air by the Office
of Education, Department of the Interior, in cooperation with the
National Broadcasting Company. The program consists of weekly
half-hour dramatizations of science and art over a Nation-wide
hook-up. The mail response from listeners has been enthusiastic.
The sales of the Smithsonian Scientific Series, a set of 12 popular
science volumes written by members of the Smithsonian staff and
collaborators, have continued to increase until at the present time a
total of nearly $150,000 has been received by the Institution in royal-
ties for the furtherance of its researches. In the will of the late
Dr. William L. Abbott, long a collaborator and friend of the Institu-
tion, a one-fifth share of his residuary estate was left to the Smith-
sonian to promote zoological researches. The executors state that
this share will be in the neighborhood of $100,000.

The Institution has continued its work on the problem of Folsom
man through the investigations of Dr. F. H. H. Roberts, Jr., near
Fort Collins, Colo. Additional information has been obtained on!
this earliest known American aboriginal culture, as well as further
evidence of the contemporaneity of Folsom man with extinct species
of bison. In Alaska Dr. AleS Hrdlicka and Henry B. Collins, work-
ing independently, have continued to seek for direct evidence of the
ancient migration of the American Indians from Asia, with valuable
results.

Outstanding among the year’s publications were: Solar Radiation
and Weather Studies and The Dependence of Terrestrial Tempera-
tures on the Variations of the Sun’s Radiation, by C. G. Abbot,
summarizing his investigations on the relationship of our weather
to variation in the sun’s radiation; An Introduction to Nebraska
Archeology, by William Duncan Strong, a monographic work on
the archeology of that important region; and Molluscan Intermedi-
ate Hosts of the Asiatic Blood Fluke, Schistosoma japonicum, and
Species Confused with Them, by Paul Bartsch, a definitive classifi-
cation of the intermediate hosts of this human parasite, which(
affects millions of Orientals, particularly the Chinese. Suggestions
for its control are included.

SUMMARY OF THE YEAR’S ACTIVITIES OF THE BRANCHES OF THE
INSTITUTION

National Museum.—¥or the maintenance of the National Museum
the total appropriations were $760,742, an increase of $44,671 over
those for 1935. Additions to the collections numbered 486,581 speci-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 3

mens, coming mostly as gifts or as the result of Smithsonian expedi-
tions. Perhaps the most outstanding single accessions in the various
departments of the Museum were as follows: In anthropology, the
Richard K. Peck collection of materials representing the Negritos
and Papuans of Dutch New Guinea, the Dyaks of Borneo, and the
Jivaro of Ecuador; in biology, an accession of 465 mammals from
Africa, Asia, and South America, representing 300 forms not previ-
ously contained in the collections, by exchange from the Field
Museum of Natural History; in geology, a notable series of Chilean
minerals, including six new species, collected by Mark Bandy; in
arts and industries, the airplane Winnie Mae, flown by Post and
Gatty and later by Post alone in various record flights, purchased
through special Congressional appropriation. A number of field
expeditions went out during the year, financed mainly by Smith-
sonian private funds. Visitors to the various Museum buildings
numbered 1,973,673. There were published 1 annual report, 11
Proceedings papers, and 1 paper in the series Contributions from
the National Herbarium.

National Gallery of Art.—A large part of the year’s work related
to the care, protection, and restoration of paintings belonging to the
Government. In the interests of the better preservation of works of
art and of better working conditions, an air-conditioning unit was
installed in the storage workroom. At the 15th annual meeting of
the National Gallery of Art Commission on December 10, 1935, the
death of Joseph H. Gest, chairman, was announced, and Charles L.
Borie, Jr., was elected chairman. A number of portraits and other art
works were accepted by the Commission for the Gallery. Four minia-
tures were acquired through the Catherine Walden Myer fund. The
Gallery held eight special exhibitions, as follows: National and inter-
national high school art; intagho prints and etchings by members of
the Chicago Society of Etchers; miniatures by members of the Ameri-
can Society of Miniature Painters; paintings and etchings by Mons
Breidvik; portraits by Bjorn P. Egeli; vitreous enamels by Frances
and Richard McGraw; the First Annual Metropolitan State Art Con-
test; and paintings by children receiving free art instruction in the
New York area.

Freer Gallery of Art.—The year’s additions to the collection include
a Persian brass box, four Chinese bronzes, and a sculptured Persian
pediment, all shown in plates 1 and 2. There were also added four
leaves from a sixteenth century Persian manuscript, two Indian and
three Persian paintings, and in pottery one Chinese cup and a Syro-
Egyptian bowl. Curatorial work was devoted to the study of Chinese,
Japanese, Armenian, Arabic, Persian, and East Indian objects and of
the texts and seals associated with them. During the year 673 objects

and 225 photographs of objects were submitted to the curator for an
112059372
4 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

opinion as to their identity, meaning, or historical or esthetic signifi-
cance, and 18 inscriptions for translation. Visitors totaled 123,418,
and 96 groups were given docent service. A course of four lectures on
Persian Painting was given at the Gallery by Eustache de Lorey,
former Director of the French Institute of Arts and Archaeology, and
19 lectures and illustrated talks were given by members of the Gallery
staff at Columbia University and at the Gallery.

Bureau of American E'thnology.—The researches of the Bureau on
the American Indians included archeological and ethnological studies
in Washington, in many other parts of the United States, in Canada,
and in Central America. In the field of archeology, aid was given in
establishing two P. W. A. projects at two important old sites in
Florida; further investigation of the problem of Folsom man was
carried out through excavations at the Lindenmeier site in northern
Colorado; a joint Smithsonian-Peabody Museum expedition made
important archeological discoveries in Honduras, notably that of a
culture level apparently ancestral to that of the Maya. The year’s
ethnological investigations included linguistic studies of the Timucua
and of the Indians of James and Hudson Bays, Canada; study of the
Mission Indians of California; field work among the Shoshoni, Ban-
nock, and Gosiute Indians of Utah, Nevada, and Idaho; studies of the
League of the Iroquois; and researches on Florida Indian music. The
Bureau published an annual report and two bulletins.

International eachanges.——The exchange service is the official
United States agency for the exchange with other countries of gov-
ernmental and scientific documents. In carrying out this important
work of aiding in the interchange of scientific thought among the
nations of the world, the exchange service handled during the year a
total of 596,951 packages weighing 618,789 pounds. The number of
full and partial sets of governmental publications forwarded abroad
is now 111, and 102 copies of the Congressional Record are sent to
other countries in exchange for their parliamentary journals. The
Exchange Agency in Peru, formerly conducted under the Ministerio
de Fomento, Lima, is now under the jurisdiction of the Ministerio
de Relaciones Exteriores, the Seccién de Propaganda y Publicaciones
in Lima carrying on the work. The agency for the Union of South
Africa has been removed from Pretoria, Transvaal, to Capetown,
Cape of Good Hope.

National Zoological Park.—Under a grant from the P. W. A. of
$680,000, supplemented later by $191,575, work was begun during the
year on five projects, namely, machine and carpenter shops and a
garage; installation of three 250-h.p. boilers which will heat all exhi-
bition buildings except the bird house; a building for small mammals
and great apes; a building for large animals such as elephant, rhi-
noceros, and hippopotamus; and a new wing on the bird house.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 5

With the completion of these projects, the Zoo will have four large
modern exhibition buildings, and the new construction constitutes the
greatest improvement in the history of the Park. Assignment of
P. W. A. labor also enabled the Park to carry out a considerable
number of lesser improvements, including work on roads, grounds,
and buildings. Accessions of animals numbered 786. Losses by
death and otherwise totalled 765, leaving the collection at the close
of the year at 2,191 animals, representing 675 different species. Vis-
itors numbered 2,235,850, including groups from 579 schools and
organizations from 20 States and the District of Columbia.

Astrophysical Observatory.—Measurements of the solar constant of
radiation have been continued on every possible day at the three
Smithsonian stations at Table Mountain, Calif., Montezuma, Chile,
and Mount St. Katherine, Egypt. The irregularity of the results at
Table Mountain led to the development of a criterion for distinguish-
ing unfavorable sky conditions, which will provide a new increase in
the accuracy of measurement of the solar variability. Two papers
published by Dr. Abbot appear to prove that the short-interval
changes of solar radiation are of major influence on the weather for
the ensuing 2 weeks or more. To test the use of this relationship in
weather forecasting, seven additional observing stations are required.
An amendment to the Urgent Deficiency Act providing the necessary
funds was passed by the Senate, but was rejected in conference with
the House. Preliminary studies were begun of the possibility of
automatic determination of solar variability from sounding balloons.

Division of Radiation and Organisms.—The Division’s investiga-
tions comprised the following: Continuation of work on the depend-
ence of carbon dioxide assimilation in wheat upon the wave length
of radiation ; experiments on the effects of ultraviolet rays on algae;
experiments on the effects of light of different wave lengths on
growth of tomatoes; development of an extremely sensitive and
quick-acting spectroscopic method for measuring carbon dioxide con-
centration; study of the dependence of photosynthesis in wheat on
time factors; and the development of a highly sensitive thermo-
couple of great ruggedness.

THE ESTABLISHMENT

The Smithsonian Institution was created by act of Congress in
1846, according to the terms of the will of James Smithson, of Eng-
land, who in 1826 bequeathed his property to the United States of
America “to found at Washington, under the name of the Smith-
sonian Institution, an establishment for the increase and diffusion of
knowledge among men.” In receiving the property and accepting
the trust, Congress determined that the Federal Government was
without authority to administer the trust directly, and, therefore,
6 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

constituted an “establishment” whose statutory members are “the
President, the Vice President, the Chief Justice, and the heads of the
executive departments.”

THE BOARD OF REGENTS

The terms of the three Members of the House of Representatives
on the Board of Regents, Representatives T. Alan Goldsborough, of
Maryland; Charles L. Gifford, of Massachusetts; and Clarence
Cannon, of Missouri, expired on December 25, 1935, and on January
9, 1936, they were reappointed by the Speaker of the House for the
statutory term of 2 years. Mr. Frederic A. Delano, of Washington,
D. C., whose term as a citizen Regent expired January 21, 1935, was
reappointed for another 6 years by Joint Resolution of Congress
approved August 7, 1935. By Joint Resolution of Congress ap-
proved February 21, 1936, Dr. Roland S. Morris, of Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania, was appointed to fill the existing vacancy in the class
of citizen Regents.

The roll of Regents at the close of the year was as follows:
Charles Evans Hughes, Chief Justice of the United States, Chan-
cellor; John N. Garner, Vice President of the United States; mem-
bers from the Senate—Joseph T. Robinson, M. M. Logan, Charles L.
McNary; members from the House of Representatives—T. Alan
Goldsborough, Clarence Cannon, Charles L. Gifford; citizen mem-
bers—Frederic A. Delano, Washington, D. C.; John C. Merriam,
Washington, D. C.; R. Walton Moore, Virginia; Robert W. Bing-
ham, Kentucky; Augustus P. Loring, Massachusetts; Roland S.
Morris, Pennsylvania.

Proceedings—The annual meeting of the Board of Regents was
held on January 16, 1936. The Regents present were Chief Justice
Charles Evans Hughes, Chancellor; Senators Joseph T. Robinson
and M. M. Logan; Representatives Charles L. Gifford and Clarence
Cannon; citizen Regents Frederic A. Delano, Augustus P. Loring;
and the Secretary, Dr. Charles G. Abbot.

The Board elected Senator McNary a member of the Permanent
Committee.

The Secretary presented his annual report, detailing the activities
of the several Government branches and of the parent Institution
during the year, and Mr. Delano presented the report of the Execu-
tive Committee, covering financial statistics of the Institution. The
Secretary also presented the annual report of the National Gallery
of Art Commission.

In his usual special] report the Secretary briefly reviewed outstand-
ing events of the year, and Assistant Secretary Wetmore detailed
important activities in the National Museum.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 7
FINANCES

A statement will be found in the report of the executive committee,
page 97.
MATTERS OF GENERAL INTEREST

SMITHSONIAN RADIO PROGRAM

A new means of carrying on the diffusion of knowledge was made
available to the Institution toward the end of the fiscal year, when
the Office of Education, Department of the Interior, began, as a
feature of the Radio Project of the Works Progress Administration,
a series of weekly half-hour radio broadcasts, on a Nation-wide
hook-up, on the activities of the Smithsonian Institution. These
broadcasts, which constitute an innovation in the field of educational
radio programs, take the form of dramatizations of the scientific
research, exploration, museum exhibits, and art activities carried on
under the Institution’s direction. They form an N. B. C. blue net-
work feature on Sunday mornings at 11:30 Eastern daylight saving
time (red network, 11:30 Eastern standard time after September
27), and are presented through the cooperation of the National
Broadcasting Co.

The first broadcast, produced on Sunday, June 7, 1936, dramatized
the founding of the Smithsonian Institution and the stories of some
of the famous exhibits in the Arts and Industries Building of the
United States National Museum, including Colonel Lindbergh’s
Spirit of St. Louis, the Star Spangled Banner, the first Atlantic cable,
and Alexander Graham Bell’s early télephones. This, with the 18
other broadcasts listed below, were to comprise the first series:

The Smithsonian, and Famous Hxhibits______ ee eee aes eee June 7, 19386
Sclentine: Hxplorationss—=2)) 2) soe ieee Lies OAR BO Ie June 14, 1936
A Gm SEA eke es se eee yl Aree er Sars tet sere suse i eR bats trey _ June 21, 1936
MierAmerican lidigne =< oR st Plt As taeda vs Serie June 28, 1936
Costumes of Ladies of the White Hose Pa Netire { Delaa Tee  5 SSE» oO July 5, 19386
Transportation ==. 2 = 2+ is Sapa Wat PRS Le EE es A July 12, 1936
Nreateconritest a2 ot aay) nm pace} iach tcl spears etry Th ih O ebee Eee notes AB July 19, 1936
Pie UMANMSIGEYOLRATES See fede age)» eeer eye Seay ive Oe tek eye I pees July 26, 1936
Mama Sp eet eee i akan Ma a tee Suess apy el Ui Aug. 2, 1936
ROWereea es 500s Steat astterirery So a Paice gisy Re Sasi eaee _ Aug. 9, 1986
mhesStory “orManvine Americas.2 vai eek tsi 9 bier Sh oe eye __. Aug. 16, 1936
ERG es senan ee cereh sh, Sea. Seb 1 hatter te eg ESL ee eg ay PS a a ity Aug. 23, 1936
IFeCLONS MS LOMe Sees 2:0. 2 5e eo ge eid gel ee Pha ty ta Pevoge: Wh Aug. 80, 19386

ShipeModel stm ts. mety ryt oye of \_ oer We) apie ygt Suis Be. Dl bevy Gad res ierla. Sept. 6, 1986

From the beginning this program has been enthusiastically re-
ceived. Hundreds of letters were received at the Office of Education
commending the dramatized form of educational broadcast as being
both entertaining and instructive, and I may anticipate the next fiscal
8 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

year by saying that at the writing of this report in the early fall of
1936 the mail response had increased to an average of over 2,000 let-
ters a week. A large number of the letters come from teachers and
others particularly interested in education, many of whom state that
the informative material contained in the dramatized stories of re-
search, exploration and art, and in the advance summaries mailed out
to those requesting them, is of real, practical use in their work.

The Institution is grateful to the Office of Education and to the
National Broadcasting Co. for making possible this effective means
of disseminating knowledge in the fields of science and art.

ROCKET EXPERIMENTS OF DR. R. H. GODDARD

For 12 years—from 1916 to 1928—the Institution supported
through annual grants Dr. R. H. Goddard’s investigations on rocket
flight, with the primary purpose of supplying a means of exploring
the unknown upper atmosphere. Dr. Goddard’s pioneering researches
on the design of the rocket itself and on the most effective rocket fuel
and the means of utilizing it in the rocket led to a successful trial
flight in July 1929, and in my annual report for 1930 I said:

The apparently assured success of Dr. Goddard’s experiments has drawn
support from a source better equipped financially to provide it than the Smith-
sonian, The late Simon Guggenheim, at Colonel Lindbergh’s suggestion, made
a large grant of funds and set up an advisory committee, of which the Secretary,
Dr. Abbot, is a member. Dr. Goddard’s experiments are now going on under
these auspices in New Mexico. It is a pleasure to record here that the Smith-
sonian has again been able to support during its more or less uncertain pioneer-
ing stages an investigation of great promise for the increase of knowledge.

Dr. Goddard has continued to advance the development of his
liquid-propellant rocket with marked success, and early in 1936 he
made a report on these later researches to the Daniel and Florence
Guggenheim Foundation. From this report, which was published by
the Smithsonian Institution on March 16, 1986, it will be of interest to
quote a few paragraphs:

Inasmuch as control by a small gyroscope is the best as well as the lightest
means of operating the directing vanes, the action of the gyroscope being inde-
pendent of the direction and acceleration of the rocket, a gyroscope having the
necessary characteristics was developed after numerous tests.

The gyroscope was set to apply controlling force when the axis of the rocket
deviated 10° or more from the vertical. In the first flight of the present series
of tests with gyroscopic control, on March 28, 1935, the rocket as viewed from
the 1,000-foot shelter traveled first to the left and then to the right, thereafter
describing a smooth and rather flat trajectory. * * *

In subsequent flights, with adjustments and improvements in the stabilizing
arrangements, the rockets have been stabilized up to the time propulsion ceased,
the trajectory being a smooth curve beyond this point. * * * ‘The oscilla-
tions each side of the vertical varied from 10° to 30° and occupied from 1 to 2
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 9

seconds. Inasmuch as the rockets started slowly, the first few hundred feet of
the flight reminded one of a fish swimming in a vertical direction. * * *

The continually increasing speed of the rockets, with the accompanying steady
roar, make the flights very impressive. In the two flights the rocket left a
smoke trail and had a small, intensely white flame issuing from the nozzle,
which at times nearly disappeared with no decrease in roar or propelling force.
The occasional white flashes below the rocket are explosions of gasoline vapor
in the air.

In the flight of October 14, 1935, the rocket rose 4,000 feet; in the flight of
May 31, 1935, it rose 7,500 feet. * * *

As in the flights of 1930-32 to study rocket performance in the air, no attempt
was made in the flights of 1984-85 to reduce the weight of the rockets, which
varied from 58 to 85 pounds. A reduction of weight would be useless before a
vertical course of the rocket could be maintained automatically. The speed of
700 miles per hour, although high, was not as much as could be obtained by a
light rocket, and the heights also were much less than could be obtained by a
light rocket of the same power.

It is worth mentioning that inasmuch as the delicate directional apparatus
functioned while the rockets were in flight, it should be possible to carry record-
ing instruments on the rocket without damage or changes in adjustment.

The next step in the development of the liquid-propellant rocket is the reduc-
tion of weight to a minimum. Some progress along this line has already been
magde;c =

The chief accomplishments to date are the development of a combustion cham-
ber, or rocket motor, that is extremely light and powerful and can be used
repeatedly, and of a means of stabilization that operates automatically while
the rocket is in flight.

WALTER RATHBONE BACON TRAVELING SCHOLARSHIP

DR. MOZLEY’S MOLLUSK INVESTIGATIONS

The Walter Rathbone Bacon Traveling Scholarship of the Smith-
sonian Institution granted to Dr. Alan Mozley for 1932 and 1933 for
field studies of land and fresh-water mollusks in northern Asia, in
order to correlate these with similar researches which he had made in
the far north of North America, was extended for an additional sea-
son to permit the gathering of further data. This is the first report
it has been possible to present on Dr. Mozley’s later work.

Dr. Mozley intended to make a trip down the Lena River and to
explore this stream and adjacent territory before attempting a final
report, but for certain reasons it was not practicable for him to obtain
the necessary permission for work in this territory. He therefore,
with the sanction of the authorities of the Smithsonian Institution,
shifted his field of exploration to Finland and northern Sweden, using
Alvsky, Kabdalis, Ostersund, Strémsund, Sveg, Orsa, Mora, Alvdalen,
and Stockholm as bases for his quest.

At the close of the collecting season Dr. Mozley revisited England,
where he continued museum studies of his catches, after which he
10 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

returned to the United States National Museum for his final endeay-
ors. These are in part embodied in a paper entitled “The Fresh-
Water and Terrestrial Mollusca of Northern Asia”, published in the
Transactions of the Royal Society of Edinburgh, vol. 58, pt. 3, no. 24,
pp. 605-695, pls. 1-5, figs. 1-8, 1935-36. In this he describes the
species collected by him and discusses their ecologic relationship.

The region embraced in this work includes the greater part of con-
tinental Asia north of latitude 50°, excepting outer Mongolia and
Manchuria, and the Lake Baikal area with its peculiar fauna. In
the region covered 67 species and subspecies were obtained and exam-
ined in detail. A certain number of forms are held in abeyance, to
be discussed in a final report, upon the preparation of which Dr.
Mozley is now engaged.

DR. BLACK WELDER’S STUDY OF THE STAPHYLINID FAUNA OF THE WEST INDIES

The Walter Rathbone Bacon Scholarship was awarded in June
1935 to Dr. Richard E. Blackwelder, of Stanford University, Cali-
fornia. In his application for this scholarship the successful candi-
date indicated that his project should consist of a study of the
staphylinid fauna of the West Indies, with especial reference to the
subfamily Tachyporinae.

Accordingly Dr. Blackwelder set sail from New York late in June
and commenced the field work necessary for the completion of the
project. In succession he has visited the islands of Jamaica, Gaude-
loupe, Hispaniola, Puerto Rico, Antigua, St. Thomas, Trinidad, To-
bago, Grenada, Caracou, St. Vincent, Union, Barbados, St. Lucia,
Martinique, Dominica, Montserrat, Antigua, and St. Kitts. Depend-
ing upon the size of the islands and the opportunities for collecting,
Dr. Blackwelder has spent a longer or shorter time on each of these
islands.

During the coming 6 months the islands of the Greater Antilles
will be revisited, the second visit coming at a different time of year
from the first, in that way making it possible to get species which
were not found at the first attempt.

The results of his trip so far, as shown in his monthly reports, have
been gratifying, many thousands of Staphylinidae having been
already obtained, together with material in other groups of the animal
kingdom. Material other than Staphylinidae has been of the Coleop-
tera, arachnids, diplopods, chilopods, and birds.

At the end of his field work in the West Indies it is intended that
Dr. Blackwelder will return to Washington, there to prepare a series
of the species which he has collected and which he will take to the
British Museum for comparison with the types of described West
Indian species. Upon his return from the British Museum Dr. Black-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY ti

welder will work over the entire collection and prepare a report upon
this group of insects.
GRANTS

Kamerlingh Onnes Laboratorium der Rijks-Universiteit te
Leiden.—In continuation of a number of previous grants to the
Kamerlingh Onnes Laboratory, through its director, Prof. Dr. W. H.
Keesom, the Institution contributed $500 toward the support of
certain of the low-temperature researches now in progress at the
laboratory. At the suggestion of the Secretary, a like contribution
was also made by the Research Corporation of New York.

Dy, Erzsébet Kol—A grant of $700 was made to Dr. Erzsébet
Kol to enable her to study the biology of snow algae on the
snow fields and glaciers of Alaska. Dr. Kol, a botanist of Szeged,
Hungary, has come to this country through a fellowship from the
American Association of University Women to study the snow algae
on high mountains in the United States. The Smithsonian grant
will enable her to extend the work to include Alaska. Dr. Kol’s
studies in the field of cryobiology have covered a period of 10 years
and have included similar field work in the mountains of Switzer-
land, Norway, France, and Hungary.

Mount Washington Observatory—A small contribution of $50
was made toward the continued support of Mount Washington Ob-
servatory. This high-level observatory (6,284 ft.) in New Hamp-
shire is under direction of Dr. Charles F. Brooks, of the Harvard
Blue Hill Meteorological Observatory. Its observations are at times
the only upper air data available in the northeastern United States
in periods of general storm or fog. All phases of ice formation on
airplanes can readily be studied here on the ground, as the ice-
forming wind rushes by at airplane speeds.

FIFTH ARTHUR LECTURE

The fifth Arthur Lecture was given in the auditorium of the Na-
tional Museum February 25, 1936, by Dr. Earl S. Johnston, assistant
director of the Division of Radiation and Organisms, Smithsonian
Institution, under the title “Sun Rays and Plant Life.” Dr. John-
ston pointed out that the wide range in type of vegetation on the
earth is due to the great variation in the solar energy reaching our
planet. These variations relate to the duration, the intensity, and
the quality or wave length of sunlight. The lecturer discussed the
investigations by the Smithsonian Institution and other agencies of
the harmful and beneficial effects upon plant growth of specific wave
lengths of light.
{2 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

The lecture will be published in the General Appendix to the 1936
Smithsonian Report.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION EXHIBIT AT THE TEXAS CENTENNIAL
EXPOSITION, DALLAS, TEX.

The Smithsonian Institution exhibit at the Texas Centennial Ex-
position June 6 to November 30, 1936, was concerned wholly with a
presentation of the laboratory methods and processes involved in
the preparation and restoration of a fossil dinosaur skeleton and
with a picturization of the scientific knowledge of prehistoric rep-
tilian life derived from laboratory studies. The exhibit formed one
of aseries of scientific exhibits entitled “The Story of Life”, prepared
by the combined efforts of the United States Public Health Serv-
ice, the colleges and universities of Texas, and the Smithsonian
Institution.

The Smithsonian Institution exhibit occupied a rectangular bay,
the back wall of which was about 30 feet wide and the side walls of
which were, roughly, 30 feet and 20 feet, respectively, in length. A
railing prevented the visitors from approaching the rear wall closer
than 15 feet and the side walls 3 feet. There was thus made available
between the railing and the rear wall an area of approximately 15
feet by 30 feet for the carrying on of the regular laboratory work in
plain view of the visitor. Here daily during the course of the expo-
sition Norman H. Boss, chief preparator of the division of vertebrate
paleontology in the National Museum, and an assistant, Gilbert
Stucker, of Chicago, who was employed for the period of the exposi-
tion, carried on the intricate and varied work involved in working up
in relief parts of the Jurassic dinosaur Camarasaurus.

On the back wall of the working area there was mounted a full-size
line drawing of Camarasaurus and superposed on the drawing was
the original skull and the first five vertebrae, which had been pre-
pared in the National Museum laboratory prior to the exposition.
These original parts, together with those gradually exposed by the
preparators and the full-size profile drawing, gave the visitor a clear
idea of the complicated nature of the preparatory work in this
scientific field.

Five large masses of plaster-bandaged fossil in the rock, one weigh-
ing approximately 214 tons and another 114 tons, were shipped to
Dallas and constituted the working material during the exposition.
These masses are in the same form as received in 1923 by the United
States National Museum from the Dinosaur National Monument
quarry in Utah. The finished pieces were exhibited on available floor
space in the working area of the exhibit.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY ie

Flanking the laboratory area there were exhibited two oil paintings
15 feet by 8 feet prepared by two Washington artists, Bruce Horsfall
and Garnet W. Jex, respectively. The Jex painting portrays rep-
tilian life in the Permian age of Texas. The Horsfall painting
visualizes Camarasaurus, the fossil skeleton of which was being pre-
pared, as he was supposed to have appeared in the flesh and in the
environment of his time, namely, the Jurassic age. Both paintings
were executed under the close supervision of C. W. Gilmore, curator
of vertebrate paleontology in the National Museum, and are as scien-
tifically correct in the topography, vegetation, and reptile restoration
as can be done with oil paint and brush.

In addition to the oil painting on the right flanking wall of the
area there was exhibited a well-executed diorama visualizing all
known life of the Jurassic age. This yielded to the visitor an under-
standing of the reptilian associates of the Camarasaurus in Jurassic
times and vividly indicated the swampy, moist character of the land
area of that distant time.

Thus the visitor to the Smithsonian Institution exhibit at the
Dallas exposition had revealed to him the manner in which the
Division of Vertebrate Paleontology in the United States National
Museum is acquiring scientific knowledge as to prehistoric life and
utilizing that information in the advancement of knowledge.

SMITHSONIAN SCIENTIFIC SERIES

The Smithsonian Scientific Series, a set of 12 volumes written in
popular style and profusely illustrated on the various branches of
science covered by the Institution’s research activities, was first put
on the market in 1928. In entering into the agreement for the sale
of this series, a departure from the normal free distribution of its
publications, the Institution had two aims in view, namely, the wider
diffusion of knowledge and the increase of its financial resources for
the promotion of research. The books are published and sold by a
private corporation of New York, the Smithsonian Institution Series,
Inc., and the Institution receives a royalty on all sales.

As the series has not been mentioned in my annual reports for the
past 2 years, it will be interesting to state the results of this enterprise
up to the close of the fiscal year 1936. From 1928, when the first set
was sold, to June 30, 1936, there have been sold a total of 12,917 sets.
In royalties, the Institution has received to date in the neighborhood
of $150,000, a definite proportion of which has been added to the
Institution’s permanent endowment, and the balance expended for
the most pressing scientific investigations. As the sales of the series
are continuing at an ever-increasing rate, the Institution’s endow-
14 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

ment funds will eventually be substantially augmented, with a corre-
sponding increase in the annual income for current researches.

BEQUESTS

William L. Abbott bequest—Dr. William L. Abbott, associate in
zoology since March 25, 1905, who had conducted and sponsored many
field expeditions for the Institution, died April 2, 19386. Under the
terms of Dr. Abbott’s will, the Smithsonian Institution is to receive,
in addition to any of his books and papers that they may desire,
one-fifth of his residuary estate. According to advices from the
executors of the estate, the Institution’s share will be in the neighbor-
hood of $100,000. This final expression of Dr. Abbott’s friendship is
very gratifying to the Institution, since he was one of its most valued
collaborators and had contributed materially to the upbuilding of its
biological and other collections.

Charles Dyke bequest—In the will of Charles Dyke, probated in
Corpus Christi, Tex., July 29, 1935, appears the following provision:

Item three: All the rest, residue, and remainder of my estate * * * I
give, devise, and bequeath to the Smithsonian Institute of Washington, District
of Columbia, to be used in founding and endowing a chair in some branch of
the Institution, to be designated as the branch of financial research, whose
purpose is to take steps to capitalize on any inventions, discoveries in research,
or through whatever other project seems most feasible. The aim of this bequest
is to enhance the endowment funds of this Institution to the highest degree
practicable in opulence through the efforts of said chair of financial research.

The Dyke estate is to remain in the hands of the executor during
the life of the first beneficiary, after which the legacy will be paid
to the Institution. Advice has been received from Mr. Dyke’s attor-
ney that the present value of the property is about $15,000.

EXPLORATIONS AND FIELD WORK

In the furtherance of its researches, the Institution sent out or
took part in 15 expeditions to a number of foreign countries as well
as to many localities in the United States. Dr. Charles W. Gilmore
collected rare vertebrate fossils in Montana and Wyoming. Dr.
Charles E. Resser studied the Cambrian rocks of the southern Appa-
lachian Mountains. Dr. G. Arthur Cooper established stratigraphic
correlations of Devonian rocks in the mid-western States and in New
York State. Mark C. Bandy collected mineral specimens in the
famous mineral localities of Chile. Gerrit S. Miller, Jr., studied the
fauna of the Florida Keys, with particular reference to the mammals
peculiar to that area. Dr. Doris M. Cochran investigated the am-
phibian life of Brazil. Dr. Waldo Schmitt, as a member of the
Hancock Pacific Expedition to the west coast of Central and South
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 15

America and the Galapagos Islands, collected specimens of marine
life. Capt. R. A. Bartlett led an expedition to the Arctic which
studied and collected the interesting marine life of the coasts of
Greenland. Dr. David C. Graham continued to collect specimens of
the mammal, bird, and insect fauna of little-known areas of
Szechwan, China.

Dr. AleS Hrdlitka continued his archeological excavations on
Kodiak Island, Alaska. Neil M. Judd visited many of the antiquities
of Mexico as a member of the United States delegation to the Seventh
American Scientific Congress. Herbert W. Krieger studied the early
Indian sites along the lower Potomac River in Maryland and Vir-
ginia. M. W. Stirling examined a number of ancient Maya sites in
Central America. Dr, F. H. H. Roberts, Jr., continued his investiga-
tions of Folsom man in northern Colorado. Dr. Truman Michelson
conducted Indian language studies of James and Hudson Bays,
Canada.

PUBLICATIONS

The several series of publications issued by the Institution and its
branches constitute its chief means of carrying on the “diffusion of
knowledge among men”, as stipulated by its founder, James Smith-
son. The majority of these publications are technical in character,
but many others are in popular demand, notably the Smithsonian
Annual Reports, which summarize scientific progress each year in
25 or 80 semi-popular articles by leading authorities; the bulletins
of the Bureau of American Ethnology on various phases of the study
of the Indians; and certain of the bulletins of the National Museum,
such as Bent’s volumes on life histories of North American birds.
The wider diffusion of scientific information has been aided in
recent years by a service of popular science news releases, based on
the researches of the Institution, which are widely used by leading
newspapers, and this year by a weekly radio program on Smith-
sonian activities put on the air by the United States Office of Educa-
tion in cooperation with the Institution’s editorial office.

It is gratifying to report that this year a portion of the printing
appropriation has been restored, so that it has been possible to resume
publication in a small way of the bulletins and proceedings of the
National Museum and the bulletins of the Bureau of American Eth-
nology, all of which had been practically suspended for 3 years
because of drastically reduced printing appropriations. This sus-
pension overburdened the Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections, a
series supported by the limited private funds of the Institution, with
many papers which would normally have appeared in the other series.

The titles, authors, size, and date of appearance of all publica-
tions issued during the year are listed in the editor’s report, appen-
16 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

dix 10. It may be said here that a total of 70 volumes and pamphlets
were published; 54 of these were issued by the Institution proper,
13 by the National Museum, and 3 by the Bureau of American
Ethnology. The number of publications distributed was 124,359.

LIBRARY

The Smithsonian library comprises 10 major and 35 minor units,
which together contain a total of 860,000 volumes, pamphlets, and
charts. The new accessions for the year numbered 11,215, most of
these coming in exchange for the publications of the Institution and
its branches. Outstanding among the accessions received were the
semiprivate libraries of three of the members of the staff and associ-
ates of the Institution, namely, the invertebrate paleontology library
of Dr. E. O. Ulrich, the collection of works on orthoptera of the
late Dr. A. N. Caudell, and the anthropological library of the late
Dr. Walter Hough. The routine work of the staff included cata-
loging 7,015 publications, preparing and filing 55,829 cards, entering
25,205 periodicals, and making 11,235 loans, of which 281 were to
libraries outside the Smithsonian system. In addition, a large
amount of cataloging and carding was accomplished in connection
with the union catalog. The sorting, arranging, and labeling of the
collection of thousands of miscellaneous items that had accumulated
for years in the Smithsonian west stacks was practically finished,
with the result that hundreds of needed publications were brought
to light. It is significant in the growth of the library’s usefulness
that the staff was called on for even more reference and bibliographi-
cal service than usual, not only in connection with the Institution’s
own scientific work but also in response to inquiries from its
correspondents throughout the country.

Respectfully submitted.

C. G. Aspor, Secretary.
APPENDIX 1

REPORT ON THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL
MUSEUM

Sm: I have the honor to submit the following report on the con-
dition and operation of the United States National Museum for the
fiscal year ended June 30, 1936:

Appropriations for the maintenance of the National Museum for
the year totaled $760,742, which was $44,671 more than for 1935.

COLLECTIONS

Material added to the collections during the year embodied a great
variety of valuable accessions, coming mostly as gifts from indi-
viduals interested in the Museum and from expeditions sponsored
by the Smithsonian. A total of 486,581 specimens were received,
comprising 1,784 separate accessions and distributed among the five
departments as follows: Anthropology, 4,856; biology, 263,705;
geology, 213,024; arts and industries, 2,281; and history, 2,715.

The more important of these accessions are summarized as follows:

Anthropology.—Outstanding among the ethnological material re-
ceived in the department of anthropology were the large Richard K.
Peck collection of weapons, costumes, and other articles illustrating
the decorative arts of the Negritos and Papuans of Dutch New Guinea
and of the Dyaks of Borneo; and specimens illustrating the culture
of the Jivaro Indians of Ecuador. In North American material the
Sioux, Hopi, and Navaho Indian tribes were represented. President
Franklin D. Roosevelt presented a collection of costumes, musical
instruments, and weapons from the Cuna and Tule Indians of south-
eastern Panama. There came also ethnologic artifacts from West and
South Africa, Australia, China, and Japan. The noteworthy Virgil
M. Hillyer collection of articles illustrating the history of lighting,
with an endowment to the Smithsonian of $7,000, was presented by
Mrs. Hillyer. Over 200 specimens were added to the collection of
musical instruments.

Of special interest among the archeological material received were
the following: 557 Paleolithic artifacts from Palestine collected by the
1934 joint expedition of the British School of Archeology in Palestine
and the American School of Prehistoric Research; several lots of
earthenware, stone, shell, and other artifacts from Alabama, Alaska,

17
18 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

Costa Rica, Puerto Rico; and over 1,100 archeological specimens from
Kodiak Island, Alaska, collected by Dr. A. Hrdlicka in 1984 and now
cataloged.

Skeletal material comprised about 500 specimens, mostly from
Kodiak Island and from prehistoric graves in Crimea.

Biology.—The Museum was singularly fortunate during the year
in acquiring older biological collections containing many type speci-
mens and otherwise important historical material that has served as
a basis for monographic studies by recognized authorities. Also
there was a marked increase in the number of species and genera
acquired not heretofore represented in the Museum.

In mammals the outstanding addition was 465 specimens from
Africa, Asia, and South America, representing approximately 300
forms not previously available in our collections. Important bird
specimens (skins and skeletons), many of them types, came from
Siam, Rhodesia, Puerto Rico, Colombia, Honduras, West Africa,
and Chile. There was added, in particular, a skin of the South
Trinidad petrel (Pterodroma arminjoniana), the first received in
North America. The largest accession of amphibians and reptiles
of the year comprised 1,600 specimens from several south-central
States collected by Dr. C. FE. Burt. The ichthyological collections
were enlarged by over 3,300 specimens, the most important single
one being a large sailfish caught off Cocos Island, Costa Rica, by
President Franklin D. Roosevelt and presented by him. Large
series of fishes came from the Amazon River, as well as a representa-
tive lot from Virginia. Noteworthy among the insect accessions
may be mentioned the valuable Bovie collection of weevils received
as a gift from L. L. Buchanan; the Beutenmiiller collection of
Cynipidae; 20,000 vials of ectoparasites of rodents received from the
National Institute of Health; the Alan S. Nicolay collection of
clerid beetles; 12,000 Chinese insects from the Rev. D. C. Graham;
and about 44,000 miscellaneous insects. Over 11,000 marine inverte-
brates of many kinds were added, including types of a number of new
species. The mollusks totaled over 50,000 specimens (including
13,135 collected by Dr. J. P. E. Morrison, of the Museum staff, dur-
ing several excursions into Virginia, West Virginia, Maryland, and
the Carolinas). Over 54,000 plant specimens were added from many
sources, outstanding among which was the large cactus collection of
the late David Griffiths.

Geology.—Important acquisitions in mineralogy were obtained,
as in former years, through the income from the Canfield, Roebling,
and Chamberlain funds. An outstanding collection of Chilean min-
erals, including what proved to be six new species, was made for the
Canfield collection by Mark Bandy. The Roebling collection was
enhanced by much new mineral material obtained from various
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 19

sources. Donated specimens and those received through exchange
comprised many valuable minerals from many parts of the world.

The total number of distinct meteorite representatives in the col-
lection was increased from 592 to 606 during the year. The most
important accession to the petrological collection was a series of
anorthosites, interesting rock types, from Norway.

In stratigraphic paleontology an important addition was about
100,000 specimens illustrating the Middle Devonian faunas of central
New York, collected by Dr. G. A. Cooper a number of years ago
and received in exchange from Colgate University. About 100,000
others, Middle Paleozoic rock specimens, came from Illinois, Indiana,
Towa, and Michigan.

Invertebrate fossils added represented Chile (Jurassic), Timor
(Permian), Portugal (Ordovician), Oklahoma (Carboniferous),
Florida (Miocene), and Hawaii (Pleistocene). The paleobotanical
collections were enriched by rare types of fossil cones from the Cre-
taceous of Maryland and the Eocene of North Dakota.

Field expeditions in vertebrate paleontology yielded the following
rarities: From Wyoming a nearly complete articulated skeleton of
the mammal Coryphodon, so far as known the second entire specimen
as yet found; from Montana articulated parts of the little-known
dinosaur Procheniosaurus, fragments of Leptoceratops, and an adult
skull of Brachyceratops. There were also added a nearly complete
skeleton of the edentate mammal Scelidodon capellini from South
America and the only known complete skull of the Oligocene lizard
Glyptosaurus giganieus.

Arts and industries —The outstanding accession in aeronautics was
the airplane Winnie Mae, flown by Wiley Post and Harold Gatty, and
subsequently by Post alone in various record flights, which was pur-
chased through funds provided by a special Congressional appropria-
tion. The airplane Polar Star, of exploration fame, used by Lincoln
Ellswerth in the first flight across Antarctica in November and De-
cember 1935, in an expedition sponsored by the National Geographic
Society, was received as a gift from Mr. Ellsworth. Propellers from
the airships Macon and Akron were transferred from the Navy De-
partment. The collection of scale models of aircraft was increased
by 14 specimens, including models of the following: The Short
Brothers’ airplane of 1911; the Breguet sesquiplane Point d’[nterro-
gation; the first plane built by Glenn Martin in 1909; a V-F-7-H;
and the Baby Clipper.

In mechanical technology the most important accession was the
original locomotive A ¢lantic, built at Baltimore in 1832, and the first
locomotive to enter the National Capital. A Ford model T touring
car of 1913, given by Harvey C. Locke, proved the most popular

112059—37——_3
20 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

transportation accession of the year. 'Two ship models were received
from President Roosevelt: One of the R. M. S. Mauretania and the
other of a modern seagoing trading junk of the island of Hainan,
China. Capt. John B. Harrison presented two models of Chesapeake
Bay vessels.

Other important specimens, to the number of 951, were added to the
collection of textiles, organic chemistry, wood technology, history of
agriculture, and medicine, as well as many valuable drawings, water
colors, photographs, prints, and photographic and printing equipment
to the division of graphic arts.

History.—Over 2,700 articles of historical and antiquarian value
were received, many of them pertaining to the lives and careers of
eminent Americans, such as Brand Whitlock, Maj. Gen. George A.
Custer, Maj. Gen. Adolphus W. Greely, and Rear Admiral Winfield
Scott Schley. Included also were 85 coins and 1,907 stamps for the
numismatic and philatelic series.

EXPLORATIONS AND FIELD WORK

Work in a number of interesting fields of exploration was carried
forward during the year, mainly through grants from the income of
the invested funds of the Smithsonian Institution.

Anthropology—F rank M. Setzler, acting head curator, investi-
gated a large shell midden on St. Simons Island, Ga., at the request
of the Society for Georgia Archeology; he also made surface surveys
at other Georgia localities.

Under the joint auspices of the National Geographic Society and
the Smithsonian Institution, H. B. Collins, Jr., assistant curator of
ethnology, conducted archeological investigations of the prehistoric
Eskimo at Cape Wales, Alaska, pursuant to previous studies at Ber-
ing Strait, St. Lawrence Island, and Point Barrow.

H. W. Krieger, curator of ethnology, spent brief periods in the
study of aboriginal culture in tidewater Virginia and Maryland.

Dr. AleS Hrdhltka, curator of physical anthropology, spent the
summer of 1935 on Kodiak Island, Alaska, excavating at the same site
where he worked during previous years.

Biology.—Important biological work, supplementing that done in
previous years by Dr. H. M. Smith, was carried on in Siam under a
cooperative arrangement with H. G. Deignan, who forwarded a large
shipment of birds and mammals.

W. M. Perrygo, taxidermist, assisted by Carleton Lingebach, col-
lected birds and mammals in the Appalachian region, in an effort to
obtain for the Museum representative specimens for geographic dis-
tribution studies.

Dr. A. Wetmore, assistant secretary, made two collecting excursions
to White Top Mountain and one to Spruce Knob and other moun-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 21

tains in West Virginia, and obtained specimens of use in outlining
the local ranges of certain birds.

Dr. G. S. Myers, assistant curator of fishes, collected fishes in
Dismal Swamp and the Chowan-Roanoke River systems, in connec-
tion with a survey of Virginia fresh-water fishes begun in 1933.

Under a grant from the Smithsonian Institution, the curator of
mollusks, Dr. Paul Bartsch, began some breeding experiments with
the mollusk Goniobasis virginica of the Potomac drainage, in an
attempt to ascertain the effect of different environmental conditions
on animals from the upper and lower parts of the river. Dr. J. P. E.
Morrison on his own initiative collected mollusks for the Museum
in the Blue Ridge and Shenandoah country.

Other biological field work included that of Austin H. Clark in a
study of Virginia butterflies, in which he made a preliminary survey
of 75 counties of the State; of P. W. Oman, who made an extensive
collection (about 40,000 specimens) of Homoptera in the West; of
KE. P. Killip, who collected plants on the Florida Keys; of Dr. C. E.
Burt, who continued his collecting for the Museum of herpetological
specimens from the south-central States; and of Dr. R. E. Black-
welder, holder of the Walter Rathbone Bacon Traveling Scholarship
of the Smithsonian Institution, who visited many of the islands of
the West Indies in a study of staphylinid beetles,

Geology—Mark C. Bandy spent four months in the Atacama
Desert region of Chile in the interests of the Museum mineral collec-
tions in cooperation with Harvard University.

At the end of the year Assistant Curator E. P. Henderson was col-
lecting in an extensive limestone contact zone on Prince of Wales
Island, Alaska.

Dr. G. A. Cooper, stratigraphic paleontologist, made a number of
field trips—to Virginia, Maryland, Pennsylvania, and New York, as
well as the Midwest and Ontario—to obtain Middle Devonian rocks
and other geological specimens.

Dr. C. E. Resser, curator of stratigraphic paleontology, spent two
months in the southern Appalachians studying Cambrian geology.

The field explorations of vertebrate fossils under the direction of
C. W. Gilmore begun last year were continued, and collections were
made in the Two Medicine formation of Montana and the Wasatch of
the Big Horn Basin, Wyo., with good results.

Late in the year Dr. C. L. Gazin headed an expedition into the
vertebrate-fossil fields of New Mexico and Arizona.

MISCELLANEOUS

Visttors.—Visitors to the various Museum buildings during the year
totaled 1,973,673, an increase of 135,981 over last year and over 44,000
more than has ever before been recorded for a single year. The
22 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

212,031 visitors during August 1935 is the largest ever recorded for a
single month. The annual attendance in the several buildings was
recorded as follows: Smithsonian Building, 312,896; Arts and Indus-
tries Building, 873,533; Natural History Building, 635,561; Aircraft
Building, 151,683.

Publications —A small increase in the Museum allotment for print-
ing resulted in a corresponding increase in the number of papers
published. Thirteen publications were issued—the Annual Report,
11 Proceedings papers, and 1 number of the Contributions from the
National Herbarium. These are listed elsewhere in this report (ap-
pendix 10). Volumes and separates distributed during the year to
libraries and individuals throughout the world aggregated 33,936
copies.

Under direction of the Museum editor, Paul H. Oehser, a sizable
start has now been made on the long task of compiling the compre-
hensive index to Museum publications, now 3 years in progress. The
index now comprises about 183,500 cards and is complete through
Bulletin 47 (part 2) and Proceedings volume 17.

Assistance from work-relief agencies——Under supervision of the
curatorial staff of the Museum, a great deal of work was performed
during the year by personnel assigned to the Museum by the Federal
Art Project, the Federal Emergency Relief Administration, and the
Works Progress Administration, the latter two through the District of
Columbia Government. The work performed was chiefly as follows:
Checking, labeling, and repairing library material, preparing draw-
ings and photographs, typing, preparing and mounting specimens and
miscellaneous work on them, model making and repairing, labeling
and drafting, translating, and work on plaster casts. The work
ageregated 28,572 man-hours.

Special exhibitions—Fifteen special exhibitions were held during
the year under the auspices of various scientific, educational, and Gov-
ernment agencies, including, among others, the Association of Federal
Architects, Washington Philatelic Society, Center of Inter-American
Studies of George Washington University, District of Columbia
Dental Society, and Works Progress Administration.

Changes in organization and staff—Through a reorganization of
the fiscal offices of the Institution effective July 1, 1935, all fiscal work
was coordinated under the direction of N. W. Dorsey, accountant and
auditor. All fiscal matters pertaining to Museum appropriations are
now handled through Thomas F. Clark, assistant accountant and
auditor. Frank M. Setzler, assistant curator of archeology, was
advanced to the position of curator of anthropology on December 16,
1935, and at the same time was named acting head curator of the
department of anthropology. Paul S. Conger, of the Carnegie Insti-

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 23

tution of Washington, was appointed honorary custodian of diatoms
on February 29, 1936.

Royal H. Trembly was advanced on November 16, 1935, from
assistant superintendent to superintendent of buildings and labor,
succeeding J. S. Goldsmith, retired; and on February 16, 1936,
Charles C. Sinclair, senior mechanic, was promoted to assistant super-
intendent. Lawrence L. Oliver, assistant property clerk, was ad-
vanced on October 1, 1935, to the position of property clerk, succeed-
ing the late W. A. Knowles; and Stephen C. Stuntz was transferred
on November 1, 1935, from the Smithsonian library and made assist-
ant property clerk. Floyd B. Kestner was appointed junior photog-
rapher on September 3, 1985; William E. Wade, undermechanic, was
promoted on September 1, 1935, to succeed George H. Sherwood as
assistant engineer; Joseph H. Boswell was transferred to the Museum
from the National Gallery of Art guard force on December 9, 1935,
to succeed H. G. Lugenbeel as principal guard in the Freer Gallery.

Carl W. Mitman, head curator of arts and industries, was desig-
nated as Smithsonian contact officer in connection with the Texas
Centennial Exposition; and Norman H. Boss, chief preparator in
vertebrate paleontology, as exhibits supervisor of this exhibit.

Ten Museum employees were transferred from the active to the
retired list for age or disability during the year, as follows: Earl V.
Shannon, assistant curator of physical and chemical geology, on July
31, 1935, through disability; James S. Goldsmith, superintendent of
buildings and labor, on October 31, 1935, through age, after 53 years
of service; George H. Sherwood, assistant engineer, through age, and
William J. Sammond, assistant engineer, for disability, on August
31, 1935 and May 31, 1936, respectively; John M. Barrett, junior
scientific aid, on February 29, 1936, through age, after 4514 years of
service; Harry G. Lugenbeel, sergeant of the Freer Gallery guard
force, on October 12, 1935, through disability, after 42 years of
service; John Hammerstrom, guard, through age, and Thomas N.
Stanford, guard, through disability, on September 80 and Novem-
ber 29, 1935, respectively; and Mrs. Maria Ezell and Mrs. Maggie
Johnson, of the char force, through disability.

Necrology.—The year was marked by the loss of several men long
associated with the National Museum, including three active workers
and four honorary staff members, as follows: Dr. Walter Hough,
head curator of anthropology, who died on September 20, 1935, after
almost 50 years of service; William A. Knowles, property clerk, who
died on July 29, 1935, after 43 years of service; August Flegel, guard,
on February 28, 1936, after 10 years of service; and, from the honor-
ary staff, Dr. Albert Spear Hitchcock, custodian of grasses since
October 10, 1912, who died on December 16, 1935; Andrew Nelson
24 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

Caudell, custodian of orthoptera since December 19, 1905, who died
on March 1, 1936; Dr. William Louis Abbott, associate in zoology
since Matec 25, 1905, who died on April 2, 1936; and Dr. August
Frederick Foerste, associate in paleontology since September 19232,
who died on April 23, 1936.

Respectfully submitted.

ALEXANDER WETMORE,
Assistant Secretary.
Dr. Cuartes G. ABBOT,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 2
REPORT ON THE NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the activi-
ties of the National Gallery of Art for the fiscal year ended June 30,
1936:

In the last 12 months much of the business of the Gallery has related
to the care, protection, and restoration of paintings in the possession
of the Government. Six were cleaned, relined, and restored for the
United States National Museum. Forty-nine of the paintings in the
White House were cleaned, varnished, and protected; one was
mounted on masonite. The Harriet Lane Johnston paintings in the
Gallery were all cleaned, varnished, and covered at the back with
sisal kraft paper. Three of these were cleaned of varnish and care-
fully restored.

An air-conditioning unit for humidity and temperature control has
been installed in the storage workroom. The temperature is main-
tained at from 70° to 78°, and the relative humidity is held to a varia-
tion of about 2U percent, from 50 to 70 percent, which is a great
improvement over the conditions outside. In addition to the better
preservation of our paintings and works of art, it would seem that
the conditioned temperature and humidity would reduce the forma-
tion of mold and the activity of insects.

APPROPRIATIONS

For the administration of the National Gallery of Art by the
Smithsonian Institution, including compensation of necessary em-
ployees, purchase of books of reference and periodicals, traveling
expenses, uniforms for guards, and necessary incidental expenses,
$34,275.00 was appropriated, of which $16,153.34 was expended for
the care and maintenance of the Freer Gallery of Art, a unit of the
National Gallery.

THE NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART COMMISSION

The fifteenth annual meeting of the National Gallery of Art Com-
mission was held at the Smithsonian Institution on December 10, 1935.
The members present were: Frank Jewett Mather, Jr., vice chair-
man; Dr. Charles G. Abbot (ex officio), secretary ; and Herbert Adams,

25
26 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

Gifford Beal, Charles L. Borie, Jr., Frederick P. Keppel, John E.
Lodge, Paul Manship, George B. McClellan, Charles Moore, Edward
W. Redfield, and Mahonri M. Young. Ruel P. Tolman, curator of
the division of graphic arts in the United States National Museum
and acting director of the National Gallery of Art, was also present.

In response to a resolution adopted at the last meeting, a report on
the future of the National Gallery of Art was presented by the execu-
tive committee.

The available sites for a National Gallery of Art and the announced
plans of Andrew W. Mellon were discussed.

The death of Joseph H. Gest, chairman of the Commission, on June
26, 1935, was announced, and resolutions, submitted by Dr. Abbot,
were adopted.

The following officers were elected for the ensuing year: Charles
L. Borie, Jr., chairman; Frank Jewett Mather, Jr., vice chairman;
and Dr. Charles G. Abbot, secretary; as well as the members of the
executive committee: Charles Moore, Herbert Adams, and George B.
McClellan. Charles L. Borie, Jr., as chairman of the Commission,
and Dr. Charles G. Abbot, as secretary of the Commission, are ex
officio members.

The Commission recommended to the Board of Regents the re-
election for the succeeding term of 4 years of the following mem-
bers: James E. Fraser, Frank J. Mather, Jr., and Edmund C. Tarbell.

Messrs. Borie, Keppel, and Young were appointed to suggest the
names of three persons from which the Commission should select one
for recommendation to the Board of Regents to fill the vacancy
caused by the death of Joseph Gest.

The Commission viewed certain works of art offered to the Gal-
lery within the year, and selected the following:

Portrait of Hon. John B. Henderson and portrait of Mrs. Henderson (Mary
Newton Foote Henderson), by Jean Joseph Benjamin-Constant (1845-1902).
Gift of the heirs of Mrs. Mary F. Henderson through Dr. Moore. (Accepted
for the National Portrait Gallery.)

Portrait of His Majesty King George V of Great Britain, by Frank O. Salis-
bury. Presented to President Roosevelt for the American Nation by the artist.
(Accepted for the National Portrait Gallery.)

A plaque of Francis Davis Millet (1846-1912), by Augustus St. Gaudens.
Gift of Ernst G. Fischer.

A collection of 497 intaglio prints by members of the Chicago Society of
Etchers. Gift of the Chicago Society of Etchers, through the president, Lee
Sturgis, the executive board of the society, and Mrs. Bertha E. Jaques, its
secretary-treasurer.

A collection of 47 fans. Gift of the estate of Virginia Woodbury Lowery
Brunetti, Duchess of Arcos, deceased.

Four dry-points: “Antarctica”, “The Rivals”, “Twilight of the Gods”, and

“Scouts”; and two etchings: “Birds of the Sea” and “Witches’ Sabbath a la
Mode”, by Paul F. Berdanier, Sr. Gift of the artist.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 27

“Kayser’s Pond” (Maine), by J. B. Bristol, N. A. Bequeathed to the United
States National Museum by Martha L. Loomis, late of Framingham, Mass.
Transferred to the National Gallery of Art.

THE CATHERINE WALDEN MYER FUND

One English and three Early American miniatures were acquired
from the fund established through the bequest of the late Catherine
Walden Myer, “for the purchase of first-class works of art for
the use and benefit of the National Gallery of Art”, as follows:

“Portrait of a Man”, by Benjamin Trott (about 1770-1839) ; from
Mrs. Alba D. Walling, Boston, Mass.

“A Colonial Gentleman”, by artist undetermined; from Mrs. Wells
Peckham (Mrs. Elliott Peckham), Washington, D. C.

“Portrait of a Man”, by Robert Field (about 1769-1819), and
“Portrait of a Man, I H”, artist undetermined; from Miss M. V.
Stiles, Savannah, Ga.

LOANS ACCEPTED BY THE GALLERY

Portrait (three-quarter length) of Dr. Charles Greeley Abbot,
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, by Nicholas R. Brewer,
1935. Lent by the artist.

Portrait of the Honorable Charles Evans Hughes, Chief Justice
of the United States and Chancellor of the Smithsonian Institution,
by George Burroughs Torrey, 1935. Lent by Chief Justice Hughes.

Plaster bas-relief portrait of Honorable Charles Evans Hughes,
by Harry Lewis Raul. Lent by Chief Justice Hughes.

LOANS BY THE GALLERY

The portraits of Cardinal Desire Joseph Mercier, Admiral Sir
David Beatty, and Premier Georges Clemenceau, by Cecilia Beaux,
N. A., leaders in the World War, from the National Art Committee
collection for the National Portrait Gallery, were lent to the Ameri-
can Academy of Arts and Letters, New York City, for an exhibition
from November 15, 1935, to May 1, 1936, of the works of Miss Beaux.
Two were returned, and the portrait of Premier Georges Clemenceau
was shipped from New York directly to the Texas Centennial
Exposition.

A selection of nine paintings from the William T. Evans and
other collections were lent to the Virginia Museum of Fine Arts,
Richmond, to be shown in the inaugural exhibition of that museum
from January 18 to March 1, 1936, as follows: “Villa Malta”, by
Sanford R. Gifford; “Aurora Borealis”, by Frederic E. Church;
“High Cliff, Coast of Maine”, by Winslow Homer; “September
Afternoon”, by George Inness; “November”, by Dwight Tryon; “The
Cup of Death”, by Elihu Vedder; “Water Lilies”, by Walter Shir-
28 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

law; “Fired On”, by Frederic Remington; “The Mirror”, by Robert
Reid. These paintings were returned to the Gallery March 2, 1936.

Five portraits which were lent to the Public Library of the District
of Columbia for exhibition in the central library on June 18, 1935,
were returned February 28, 1936. They are: “John Tyler”, by
George P. A. Healy; “A Lady”, by Gilbert Stuart; “Col. Robert
Charles Wetmore”, by Henry Inman; “Andrew Jackson”, by Rem-
brandt Peale; “Commodore Stephen Decatur”, by Gilbert Stuart.

Three portraits and two subject-paintings were lent to the Public
Library of the District of Columbia for exhibition in the central
library on February 28, 1936, and are still in its custody at the close
of the fiscal year. They are: “Portrait of Henry B. Fuller”, by
George Fuller; “Portrait of Jessie J. Burge”, by Abbott H. Thayer;
“Portrait of Wyatt Eaton”, by J. Alden Weir; “The Visit of the
Mistress”, by Winslow Homer; “Moonlight”, by Albert P. Ryder.

The Procurement Division of the United States Treasury, through
Robert LeFevre, on April 24, 1936, borrowed, with the consent of
their owner, William Kemeys, of Garrett Park, Md., two pieces of
sculpture by Edward Kemeys: “Buffalo and Wolves” (bronze) and
“Jaguar and Peccary” (plaster). They are now in the small meeting
room in the Connecting Building, Constitution Avenue.

The painting by John La Farge entitled “Visit of Nicodemus to
Christ” was lent to the Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York City,
for an exhibition of the work of John La Farge from March 23 to
April 26, 1936. This was returned to the Gallery on May 1, 1936.

The “Portrait of Walter Shirlaw”, by Frank Duveneck, was lent
to the Cincinnati Museum of Art, Cincinnati, Ohio, for an exhibition
of the works of Duveneck from May 22 to June 21, 1936. Owing to
the local interest shown in the work of this Ohio painter, permission
was granted to extend the exhibition through September 7.

The painting “Fired On”, by Frederic Remington, and the “Por-
trait of Premier Georges Clemenceau”, by Cecilia Beaux, have been
lent to The Dallas Museum of Fine Arts for exhibition at the Texas
Centennial Exposition, 1936, Dallas, Tex., from June 6 to November
29, 1936; also two small bronzes by Edward Kemeys, “Bear” and
“Coyote” from the Kemeys loan collection, with permission of their
owner, William Kemeys.

The painting entitled “The Moose Chase”, by George DeForest
Brush, has been lent, through the Carnegie Public Library at Fort
Worth, Tex., to the Fort Worth Frontier Centennial Exposition, being
held at Fort Worth from July 1 to November 30, 1936.

WITHDRAWALS BY OWNERS

The four large portraits, George Washington, Andrew Jackson,
Henry Clay, and W. W. Corcoran, lent to the Gallery through Chief
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 29

Justice J. Harry Covington in January 1917, during reconstruction
of the Court building, were returned to the Supreme Court of the
District of Columbia through Chief Justice Alfred A. Wheat in
September 1935.

Walter A. Swinney, of Baltimore, Md., on August 1, 19385, with-
drew his painting, The Holy Family, which had been in the care
of the Gallery since February 1920.

The self portrait by George Catlin was returned on October 17,
1935, to Miss Mary Cogswell Kinney, of New York City, grand-
daughter of the subject, who lent it in July 1933.

An oil painting, On the Lido, Venice, by H. Corrodi, Rome,
received in October 1927, was, on October 22, 1935, delivered, by direc-
tion of the owner, Mrs. Arthur T. Brice, to the Women’s National
Democratic Club, Washington, D. C.

Two early American portraits by Thomas Sully (1783-1872) of
Mr. and Mrs. John Crathorne Montgomery, lent by Mrs. Mary Mont-
gomery Norton in 1932, were, by authorization of Mrs. Norton, with-
drawn on November 8, 1935, by Mr. Robert Montgomery, of Villanova,
Pa.

The large painting by George DeForest Brush, Indian Burial,
lent to the Gallery in July 1931 by Mr. and Mrs. Brush, was with-
drawn by them on June 9, 1936.

The plaster death mask of Napoleon, signed Antommarchi, lent
to the Gallery in April 1927 by Mrs. Louise Rochon Hoover, of
Washington, D. C., was withdrawn by Mrs. Hoover in January 1936.

Eleven paintings and one marble, received as a loan in 1910 from
the Duchess de Arcos, were withdrawn by her estate on February 18,

1936.
SPECIAL EXHIBITIONS

Eight exhibitions were held, as follows:

September 19 to October 6, 1935—Exhibition of national and
international high school art, sponsored by the American Federation
of Arts and Scholastic, the American High School Weekly. Invi-
tations to an informal opening and an illustrated catalog contained in
a special number of Scholastic were issued by the sponsors.

October 18 to November 14, 1935 Exhibition of 497 intaglio prints,
etchings, engravings, and drypoints, executed by members of the
Chicago Society of Etchers; offered as a gift to the Gallery by the
president, Lee Sturgis, the executive board of the society, and Mrs.
Bertha E. Jaques, its secretary-treasurer. Cards were issued by the
Gallery ; each print was labeled in lieu of a catalog.

December 5, 1935, to January 5, 1936—Exhibition of miniatures
(53) by members of the American Society of Miniature Painters, New
York City, under the auspices of that society and Mrs. Elsie Dodge
30 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

Pattee, president. Cards were issued by the Gallery; each item was
labeled in lieu of a catalog.

February 5 to 29, 1936—Exhibition of pastels, water colors, etch-
ings, drawings, and lithographs (70) by Mons Breidvik, Norwegian
artist, of New York City. Cards were issued by the Gallery to an
opening view, and the artist provided a small folder catalog.

February 6 to 29, 1936.—An exhibition of portraits (37) by Bjorn
P. Egeli, of Washington, D.C. Cards to an opening view were issued
by the Gallery, and the artist provided a folder catalog.

February 6 to 29, 1936—Exhibition of vitreous enamels (six speci-
mens) by Frances and Richard MacGraw, of New York and Wash-
ington. Cards to the opening view were issued by the Gallery; there
was no catalog, labels telling the story.

April 8 to 29, 1936 —Exhibition of the First Annual Metropolitan
State Art Contest, 1936; under the auspices of the Department of Fine
Arts of the District of Columbia Federation of Women’s Clubs, Mrs,
Samuel A. Swiggett, chairman, cooperating with the following seven
Washington art organizations: The Arts Club; the League of Amer-
ican Pen Women; Miniature Society; Society of Washington Artists;
Washington Landscape Club; Washington Society of Etchers; Wash-
ington Water Color Club; and a free-lance group. ‘There were 339
exhibits, prints, paintings, and sculpture, by 170 artists; all were
labeled. Cards were issued by the Gallery to an opening view.

June 10 to 30, 1936—An exhibition of paintings, the work of chil-
dren receiving free art instruction in 240 settlement houses and social
agencies in the New York area, under the auspices of the Federal Art
Project of the Works Progress Administration.

THE NATIONAL GALLERY REFERENCE LIBRARY

The library has been increased materially by numerous gifts and
purchases. Miss Helen G. Rankin was temporarily employed as
librarian.

SPECIAL DETAILS

The Acting Director was detailed from November 13 to 18, 1935,
to attend the opening of the Cecilia Beaux exhibition at the gallery
of the Society of Arts and Letters, New York City, and to study the
art collections and methods of exhibiting in various art institutions,
including the Morgan Library, the Museum of Modern Art, the
Roerich Museum, the Museum of the City of New York, the Brook-
lyn Museum of Arts and Sciences, and the Metropolitan Museum of
Art; and in Philadelphia, at the Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine
Arts, the exhibit of contemporary American miniatures and water
colors,
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY ol

A second detail from February 6 to 9, 1936, was granted to visit
the new Art Museum at Richmond, Va., as well as the Art Academy
and the Valentine’s Museum, but the real occasion of this trip was
to study the 300 or more American miniatures assembled in the Gibbes
Memorial Art Gallery at Charleston, S. C. This is one of a series
of exhibitions of Early American miniatures which this gallery has
brought together in the last few years. These exhibitions have been
the means of discovering the names of artists not known before as
well as much new information about others.

PUBLICATIONS

To~tmMAN, R. P. Report on the National Gallery of Art for the year ending June
30, 1935. Appendix 2, Report of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution
for the year ending June 30, 1935, pp. 24-380.

LopcE, J. H. Report on the Freer Gallery of Art for the year ending June 30,
1935. Appendix 3, Report of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution
for the year ending June 30, 1935, pp. 31-84, pls. 1-2.

CaTatoe: Smithsonian Institution, National Gallery of Art, Washington, D. C.
Catalogue of the Works of Mons Breidvik, February 5 to 29, 19386. Folder
of 4 pp. Privately printed.

CaTALoe : Smithsonian Institute[ion], National Gallery of Art, Washington, D. C.
Portraits by Bjorn Egeli, February 5-29, 1936. Folder of 4 pp. Privately
printed.

CarTaLoe: Scholastic Art Exhibition. Dlustrated Catalog of the Eighth Annual
High School Art Exhibition, April 23 to May 12, Carnegie Galleries, 1935
(National Gallery of Art, U. S. National Museum, September 19 to October
6, 1985), pp. 1-16. Privately printed.

Respectfully submitted.
R. P. Totman, Acting Director.
Dr. C. G. Apsort,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 3
REPORT ON THE FREER GALLERY OF ART

Sir: I have the honor to submit the sixteenth annual report on the
Freer Gallery of Art for the year ended June 30, 1936:

THE COLLECTIONS

Additions to the collections by purchase are as follows:
BRASS

86.7. Persian, dated A. H. 607 (A. D. 1210). A pen-box; dark gray patina.
The decoration is inlaid in silver and includes inscriptions in naskhi
script embellished with human and animal heads. 0.050 by 0.314 ‘by
0.064. (Illustrated.)

BRONZE

35.21-35.22. Chinese, early Chou dynasty. A pair of tigers. White bronze
with an even green patina and traces of earth adhesions. Dec-
oration in low relief.
21. Length, 0.752, height, 0.252 over all, weight, 4814 Ibs.
.22. Length, 0.759, height, 0.251 over all, weight, 5314 Ibs.
(Illustrated.)

86.8. Chinese, earlier than the Han dynasty. A mirror-back. Dull brown
patina with areas of green aerugo and earthy incrustation. Decorated
with a design of dragons, inlaid in gold and silver. Diameter, 0.195.
(Illustrated. )

36.4. Chinese, Han dynasty; dated in correspondence with A. D. 202. A
mirror. Shiny black patina and occasional spots of light green aerugo.
The back is decorated with figures of cosmic deities and symbols in
high relief. Inscription. Diameter, 0.134. (Illustrated.)

36.6. Chinese, Chou dynasty. A ceremonial covered vessel of the type huo, in
the form of an elephant; with a second elephant in miniature on the
eover. Light apple-green patina. The surface is ornamented with
formalized designs in low relief. 0.172 by 0.212 by 0.106 over all.
(Tllustrated.)

MANUSCRIPT

36.9-36.12. Persian, sixteenth century. Four leaves from a manuscript book of
Yisuf u-Zulaikhad by Jami. Hach leaf of manuscript is inlaid in
a larger leaf of colored paper upon which border-designs of ani-
mals, birds, plants, and rocks, or of floral scrolls, are executed
in gold. 0.252 by 0.150 over all.

PAINTING

36.1. Indian, Mughal-Rajput, seventeenth century. Two ladies attended by
serving women and musicians seated under a flowering locust tree.
Delicate colors and gold on paper. 0.216 by 0.146.

32
Secretary’s Report 1936.—Appendix 3 PLATE 1

36.3 36.4

VC
i wre

ery

,

Be | eer
: i <4 ?
: RauSAG

36.7

SOME RECENT ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS OF THE FREER GALLERY OF ART
Secretary's Report 1935.—Appendix 3 PEATE

SOME RECENT ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS OF THE FREER GALLERY OF ART.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 33

36.14. Indian, Mughal, seventeenth century. Prince Dara Shikoh and two musi-
cians visiting the ascetic Kamal. Color and gold on paper. 0.254 by
0.147.

35.23-35.24. Persian, Mongol period, early fourteenth century. Two illustra-

tions from a manuscript book of the Shadh-ndma of Firdausi.
Full color and gold on paper:
.23. Alexander and the Talking Tree. 0.242 by 0.285.
.24. Bahram Gir in the treasure vault of golden animals
filled with jewels. 0.208 by 0.285.

35.25. Persian, Safawi period, sixteenth century. A woman in a green coat.
Color and gold on paper, 0.200 by 0.141.

36.8. Persian, Mongol period, early fourteenth century. School of Tabriz. MDlus-
tration from the Jami ‘ut-Tawarikh by Rashid ud-Din: A parley be-
tween two groups of Moslem horsemen. Color and gold on paper,
0.131 by 0.226.

POTTERY

36.13. Chinese, Sung dynasty. Kuan yao: a cup with foliate edge; low foot
with thin brown rim (chipped). Dense, hard clay; lustrous green-gray
glaze. 0.039 by 0.084.

36.2. Syro-Egyptian, eleventh-twelfth century. A bowl, intact. Soft, sandy
clay; brownish-cream glaze (crazed). The decoration, painted in gold
luster with ruby reflections, is made up of the words for felicity, pleas-
ure, and wealth executed in an ornamental Kufie script. 0.089 by 0.210.

SCULPTURE

86.5. Persian (Daghestan), twelfth-thirteenth century (?). Semicircular
pediment (broken in two and repaired) from above a double window.
Decoration of animals and plants in moderately high countersunk relief.
Gray limestone. 0.785 by 1.320 by 0.165. (Illustrated.)

Curatorial work has largely consisted in the study of Chinese,
Japanese, Armenian, Arabic, Persian, and East Indian objects in the
collection, of the texts and seals associated with them, and in the
preparation of this material for Gallery records. Much time has
been devoted, also, to the examination of objects submitted to the
Curator for expert opinion as to provenance, age, meaning, or other
significance. Written or oral reports on these objects were made
to the institutions or private owners who asked for this service. Six
hundred and seventy-three objects, 225 photographs of objects, and
18 inscriptions for translation were dealt with in this way.

Changes in exhibition have involved a total of 99 objects, as
follows:

IBToOnzes;, (CHINESE =. Lb eee ee ee ee 19
Paintings:
American eee! Ss ene ee eee 42
CRINGSe: 222 ee ee es 6
MAMAN E SES 2 afk ice Sa ee ee eee eens ee eee 20
i BYeveey tr sepa are La oe sae ies ety i ee ee ee 11

Seulpture se erslan ee ee eee ee ee ee 1
34 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

ATTENDANCE

The Gallery has been open to the public every day from 9 until
4:30 o’clock, with the exception of Mondays, Christmas Day, and
New Year’s Day.

The total attendance of visitors coming in at the main entrance
was 123,418. The total attendance for weekdays, exclusive of Mon-
days, was 85,697; for Sundays, 37,721. The average weekday at-
tendance was 829; the average Sunday attendance, 725. The highest
monthly attendance was reached in April (21,807) and August
(13,919). The lowest monthly attendance was in December (5,460).

The total attendance of visitors on Mondays, by the south
entrance, was 99, making a grand total attendance of 123,517.

There were 1,942 visitors to the offices during the year. The
purposes of their visits were as follows:

More eeneral #intorm a tl OMe n= = ee SS ee ee ee ee eee 346
NOESCEROD CC ES MUTI SU O TU SC ca ee ae ewe ce ere ees ee se Redehall 545
Marelasterny paint] esac ees ee eee eee ee eee eee ee 134
Near astern paintings) and” manuscripts== 22 — === == 3
have bewol sj oenbanooversh Chayel Gonos ory iS 4
American: Paimtin 2s se ee ee eee 184
Wihistler-*etchines 2 s= == 2s cee ee ee ee Sebmtest dove, FV!
American pottery 2-2 ea SS ee ee ee ee 2
Oriental pottery, bronzes, jades, sculptures____--________________ 158
Washington WMfanuseriptst ssa) ee eee ee 46
Noyexamine bimldinsvandsanstallation == eee 23
MO mea dy invatie glare yee a ee ie eee 235
To make tracings and sketches from library books_---~------------------ 11
To obtain permission to photograph or sketech_------------_____-_____--_--~ 24
MOVEXAMINE TOLL PULCHASEHP NOLO ZAP ee ee ee 365
Ao ul gory Olay skope Coc aubae aso ee 153
Tocseesmembers or, ther States aa oe See ae ee ee es Se ae Seen ee 240
LECTURES

A course of four lectures on Persian Painting was given by
Eustache de Lorey, former Director of the French Institute of Arts
and Archaeology, Damascus, Syria, as follows:

Wednesday, March 11:
Firdausi, Inspirer of Art.
Thursday, March 12:
Islam and China.
Friday, March 13:
The Height of Persian Miniature Painting, XV Century.
Saturday, March 14:
Behzad, the Great Painter of the Persian Renaissance.

The total attendance at these lectures was 634.
Nineteen lectures and illustrated talks were given by members of
the staff—at Columbia University and at the Gallery.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY a

DOCENT SERVICE

Ninety-six groups ranging from 1 to 41 persons (total 413) were
given docent service in the exhibition galleries upon request (of
these 19 groups, totaling 23 persons, came on Mondays). Thirteen
groups, totaling 193 persons, were given instruction in Chinese and
Japanese arts in the study rooms.

PERSONNEL

Grace T. Whitney worked intermittently at the Gallery between
October 7, 1935, and June 24, 1936, on the translation of Persian and
Arabic texts,

Frank West, laborer, died on October 26, 1935.

Grace Aasen Parler, librarian, resigned her position on December
16, 1935.

Elizabeth Hill, who first reported for duty on November 11, 1935,
was appointed librarian on December 17, 1935.

Harry G. Lugenbeel, sergeant, who had served the Gallery faith-
fully and efficiently since December 6, 1921, retired on October 12,
1935. He was succeeded by Joseph H. Boswell, whose appointment
as sergeant was made on December 9, 1935.

Respectfully submitted.

J. EK. Lover, Curator.

Dr. C. G. Axnzor,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.

112059—37—4
APPENDIX 4
REPORT ON THE BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the field
researches, office work, and other operations of the Bureau of Ameri-
can Ethnology during the fiscal year ended June 30, 1936, conducted
in accordance with the act of Congress of February 2, 1935. The act
referred to contains the following item:

American ethnology: For continuing ethnological researches among the Amer-
ean Indians and the natives of Hawaii, the excavation and preservation of
archeologic remains under the direction of the Smithsonian Institution, includ-

ing necessary employees, the preparation of manuscripts, drawings, and illustra-
tions, the purchase of books and periodicals, and traveling expenses, $58,730.00.

SYSTEMATIC RESEARCHES

At the beginning of the fiscal year M. W. Stirling, Chief of the
Bureau, was in southern Florida for the purpose of locating arche-
ological sites which it was anticipated would be excavated later in
the year with relief labor. Mr. Stirling returned to Washington
the latter part of July. In December two Works Progress Admin-
istration archeological projects having been approved on request of
the Florida State Archaeological Survey in cooperation with the
Smithsonian Institution, Mr. Stirling again went to Florida in order
to consult with Works Progress Administration officials and super-
vise the establishing of the projects in Hillsborough and Dade Coun-
ties. He returned to Washington December 22. During the visit
of a Blackfeet Indian delegation to Washington in the month of
March 1936 opportunity was taken to make further checks and modi-
fications on the sign language material of the late Gen. Hugh L.
Scott.

Dr. John R. Swanton, ethnologist, devoted the greater part of his
time during the first half of the fiscal year to the arrangement of the
Timucua linguistic material under stems. Further material was
added to his large paper on the Indians of the Southeast. On De-
cember 26, 1935, Dr. Swanton was appointed by the President a mem-
ber of a commission of seven “to study and report to the next session
of Congress its recommendations for a suitable celebration of the
four-hundredth anniversary of the expedition of Hernando de Soto.”

36
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY By

A later act of Congress extends the time within which the report may
be made to January 2, 1939. Since this appointment was made, the
activities of the Commission have absorbed a great deal of his time,
involving as they do the promotion of research in foreign deposi-
tories of manuscripts, particularly those of Spain, the translation of
Spanish works, and especially a study and determination, as far as
that is possible, of the route taken by the great explorer and his suc-
cessor, Moscoso, through territories now covered by 10 States of the
Union. This involves the use of library materials and direct study in
the field. At the request of the other members of the Commission,
Dr. Swanton acted in the capacity of temporary chairman in arrang-
ing the first meeting, March 5 to 7, in the Smithsonian Building. At
this meeting Dr. Swanton accepted the permanent chairmanship of
the Commission, with the understanding, however, that he was to
serve only until the factual report is made. A second meeting was
held at Tampa, Fla., on May 4 to 6. After this was over, he accom-
panied Col. J. R. Fordyce, vice-chairman of the Commission, in an
investigation of parts of the route of De Soto between Florida and
Mississippi, and May 30 to June 18 he made a second expedition to
examine that section between South Carolina and the Mississippi
River.

During the year an interesting and ethnologically important letter
bearing on the Indians of Florida was brought to Dr. Swanton’s
attention by Dr. Lucy L. Wenhold, of Salem College, Winston-Salem,
N.C. A negative photostat of this document is also in the possession
of the Florida State Historical Society, which has kindly loaned the
use of it in making a positive copy, and this is being prepared for
publication in the Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections with anno-
tations by Dr. Swanton and Dr. Wenhold.

On July 3, 1935, Dr. Truman Michelson, ethnologist, started on an
expedition to the region of James and Hudson Bays, made possible by
a subvention from the American Council of Learned Societies. The
object was to make a linguistic map of this area. He spent some
weeks at Moose Factory, about 10 days at the Great Whale River, a
little over 2 weeks at Fort George, and a day at Rupert’s House, and
returned to Washington September 20. Besides getting data from
the Indians and Eskimos of these places, he was able to get in contact
with one Indian from the East Main River, one Cree from Wenusk,
on the west side of Hudson Bay, one Cree from the Albany River,
who had also been at Attawapiskat, and one Ojibwa from the Albany
River. Data from some of the more remote localities were obtained
by indirect means. His observations indicate that the folklore and
mythology of these northern tribes are far closer to those of the
Central Algonquian tribes than is usually thought.
38 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

On June 5, under a new grant from the American Council of
Learned Societies, Dr. Michelson left Washington to renew his studies
among the Indians and Eskimos of the James and Hudson Bays
region.

The entire fiscal year was spent by Dr. John P. Harrington, eth-
nologist, in study of the Mission Indians of California, compiling
complete notes for the forthcoming edition of the Boscana manu-
script of 1882, which tells in 15 chapters of the life and religion of
these Indians. This important manuscript of the early Franciscan
Father Boscana, a missionary born in Catalonia, Spain, and stationed
for years among the Mission Indians, was recently discovered by
Dr. Harrington and a literal English translation of it without notes
has already been published.

As a byproduct of the preparation of these notes an interesting
account of the ethnology of the Mission Indians has been assembled,
covering their mode of life, dress, food, sociology, religion, language,
and knowledge of nature. The presence of Mission Indians in
Washington has constantly enhanced and perfected this work
throughout the fiscal year.

At the beginning of the year Dr. F. H. H. Roberts, Jr., archeologist,
was engaged in excavations at the Lindenmeier site north of Fort
Collins, Colo. This work was continued until September 10. The
Lindenmeier site is the location where the first series of stone imple-
ments definitely attributable to the Folsom complex, the oldest estab-
lished horizon in the archeology of North America, was found in
the autumn of 1934. The investigations of the 1935 season were a
continuation of those begun the preceding fall and consisted of in-
tensive excavation of certain portions of the site. The digging
brought forth additional information which makes possible the draw-
ing of more detailed conclusions on the material culture of Folsom
man.

When the summer’s project was brought to a close Dr. Roberts
went to Globe, Ariz., at the request of the authorities at Gila Pueblo,
for the purpose of conferring with members of the staff on the
finds which they had made at Snaketown, a Hohokam site, near
Phoenix. He also studied the collections in the Gila Pueblo Museum
and visited the Snaketown site and Casa Grande. The latter was
the scene of considerable activity on the part of Cosmos Mindeleff
and Dr. J. Walter Fewkes, members of the staff of the Bureau of
American Ethnology, 40 and more years ago. Dr. Roberts returned
to Washington October 1.

In January he took part, by special invitation, in a symposium on
Karly Man in America which was held at the annual meeting of the
Society of American Naturalists at St. Louis. He also prepared a
manuscript detailing the work done during the summer. This report,
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 39

Additional Information on the Folsom Complex: Report on the Sec-
ond Season’s Investigations at the Lindenmeier Site in Northern
Colorado, was issued on June 30 as Smithsonian Miscellaneous
Collections, vol. 95, no. 10.

Dr. Roberts left Washington June 1 for Anderson, Iowa, to inspect
a site where Folsom points and other material had been found. This
proved to be a highly interesting place, as it marks the easternmost
locality that the true or High Plains form of the Folsom point has
been noted. While in Iowa he saw and studied numerous collections
of specimens and found evidence of the Folsom complex at. a number
of sites. From Iowa he proceeded to Colorado, where he resumed
excavations at the Lindenmeier site. By the end of the year, June 30,
several trenches had been run through portions of the site and an area
20 by 30 feet had been completely cleared. of the several feet of accu-
mulated earth which had covered it. This area consisted of an old
occupation level upon which the traces of Folsom man and his activ-
ities were numerous.

From July 1935 to January 1936 Dr. W. D. Strong, anthropologist,
served as consultant in anthropology to the Bureau of Indian Affairs.
In addition to office work in relation to numerous acculturation studies
being made on various Indian reservations of the United States, Dr.
Strong made two field trips to various reservations and administrative
centers in New Mexico and Arizona in August and December, respec-
tively. In November a trip of several weeks was made to the Chip-
pewa reservations in Minnesota to advise on problems of tribal reor-
ganization. On January 5, 1936, Dr. Strong left Washington for
Honduras as leader of a joint archeological expedition from the
Bureau of American Ethnology, Smithsonian Institution, and the
Peabody Museum, Harvard University. He was assisted in the field
by Alfred Kidder, II, and Drexel A. Paul, Jr., from the Peabody
Museum. Establishing its base at Progreso, in the Ulua Valley, the
expedition made stratigraphic excavations at several sites on the Ulua
River. In March and April Dr. Strong, with Mr. Paul, conducted
excavations around the north end of Lake Yojoa, while Mr. Kidder
worked on the Comayagua River. In May and June the entire expe-
dition worked sites on the Chemelicon River, including the site of
Naco, first visited by Cortez and the early Spanish Conquistadores.

On the Ulua River excellent stratigraphic series were secured of
the prehistoric polychrome pottery horizons. At Playa de los Muer-
tos, on the Ulua, these horizons, corresponding roughly to the close of
the Maya Old Empire, were found to overlay a much earlier living
level marked by monochrome, polished, and incised pottery.

The work of the expedition approached conclusion in June, and on
June 30 preparations for departure began. Throughout its entire
work the expedition received cordial cooperation and assistance from
40 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

the government of the Republic of Honduras. It was also materially
aided by the United Fruit Company, from whose employees it received
unlimited hospitality. Without these much appreciated sources of
cooperation its scientific results would have been much curtailed.

Dr. Julian H. Steward was appointed as associate anthropologist
in the Bureau, effective October 21, 1935. During September 1935,
prior to reporting to Washington, Dr. Steward traveled to Pendleton,
Oreg., for the purpose of making a selection of 200 negatives of ethno-
logical subjects taken by the late Maj. Lee Morehouse. These were
purchased by the Bureau from Mrs. L. L. Cornelison, his daughter.
From November 16 to December 10, 1935, Dr. Steward was engaged in
conducting a W. P. A. archeological project in the vicinity of Miami,
Fla. During this time he supervised the excavation of the large
mound at Miami Beach and began work on a smaller mound several
miles northwest of the city of Miami. Because of Dr. Strong’s de-
parture for Honduras, when Dr. Steward returned to Washington he
was delegated to continue the cooperative work between the Bureau of
Indian Affairs and the Bureau of American Ethnology previously
conducted by Dr. Strong. In connection with these duties Dr.
Steward made an extended trip from March 7 to April 15, 1936, in
the interest of the Bureau of Indian Affairs. On June 19 he left
Washington for the purpose of continuing his field work among the
Shoshoni, Bannock, and Gosiute Indians of Utah, Nevada, and Idaho.
During the winter and spring Dr. Steward prepared for publication a
series of trait lists collected from the Shoshoni Indians of Nevada
during the summer of 1935. From other material collected at the
same time he completed two articles entitled “Shoshoni Polyandry”
and “Panatubiji, a Biography of an Owens Valley Paiute.” In addi-
tion, Dr. Steward completed for publication in the Smithsonian
Annual Report an article entitled “Indian Petroglyphs of the United
States.”

J. N. B. Hewitt, ethnologist, completed a detailed study of the ap-
proximate position and territorial habitat of the northern Iroquoian
tribes and of the contiguous Algonquian peoples as they were at the
time these groups were first visited by the early explorers. Mr.
Hewitt also made a historical study for the purpose of showing the
marked influence of the principles and aims of the League of the Five
Iroquois Tribes as founded by Deganawida in the early sixteenth
century on those of the Constitution of the United States.

Mr. Hewitt had previously recorded from the late Chief J. A.
Gibson two Onondaga versions of what is fundamentally a single
ritual, namely, the Requickening Address. He made a new transla-
tion of these, having first. revised both texts so that there should be
no material differences in the meaning of the two. He also made a
careful revision of the Onondaga texts and laws relating to the posi-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 41

tion and powers and limitations of the Federal Chieftains, and also
those governing the Chief Warriors.

He also added to the Bureau’s collection of ritual wampum strings
by completing two new sets of strings made from loose beads on
patterns taken from originals in the Museum of the American Indian,
Heye Foundation, and a set which was owned by the late Chief David
Skye, of the Canadian Six Nations.

During the year Mr. Hewitt continued to represent the Bureau of
American Ethnology on the Advisory Committee on Geographic
Names, Department of the Interior.

On June 21, 1936, Mr. Hewitt left Washington on field duty, visit-
ing the Tuscarora Reservation near Lewiston, N. Y., and then the
Grand River Grant to the Six Nations in Ontario. On the latter
reservation he obtained a short Delaware vocabulary and a fine Mo-
hawk text embodying the so-called Handsome Lake Religion, the
preparation of which was about completed by the end of the fiscal
year.

SPECIAL RESEARCHES

Miss Frances Densmore, a collaborator of the Bureau of American
Ethnology, in continuation of her study of Indian music, submitted
a manuscript entitled “Dance Songs of the Seminole Indians”, with
phonograph records and transcriptions of 25 songs. These songs
were recorded in February 1932 at Brighton, Fla., by Billie Stewart,
one of the best singers in the Cow Creek group of the tribe. Five
songs connected with the tribal ball game were presented, together
with songs of the alligator, steal-partner, switch-grass, and buffalo
dances. The songs of the ball game were sung to bring success and
were accompanied by beating on a water-drum hung by a strap from
the player’s shoulder. A coconut-shell rattle accompanied the dances.
All the songs of each series were recorded. This afforded an oppor-
tunity to note the maintaining of a fundamental pitch throughout
the series, with a pleasing variation of rhythm in the several melodies.

EDITORIAL WORK AND PUBLICATIONS

The editing of the publications of the Bureau was continued
through the year by Stanley Searles, editor. In addition to the cur-
rent work of the office the comprehensive manuscript index of Bulle-
tins 1-100 has been corrected. All entries have been verified.

An index of Schoolcraft’s “Indian Tribes”, in six volumes, is near-
ing completion. More than 30,000 entries have been made and are
now being alphabetized.
42 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

Bulletin 112, “An Introduction to Pawnee Archeology”, by Waido
Rudolph Wedel, and Bulletin 113, “The Troyville Mounds, Catahoula
Parish, Louisiana”, by Winslow M. Walker, were issued.

Work has been done on other manuscripts in the custody of the

editor.
Publications distributed totaled 9,337.

LIBRARY

Miss Ella Leary continued in charge as librarian until February
29, 1936, when she was retired on account of ill health. Miss Miriam
B. Ketchum was appointed to succeed her, effective April 1, 1936.

The following figures apply to bound books and pamphlets of 100
pages or over. Pamphlets of less than 100 pages are no longer
accessioned.

Books received by purchase_----_-__ no as Aa Ae ee ee ee 18
IBOOKS receLved Dye exchanyees sos ss wa sen ee eee 62
Books#receivedeby eciit— as ee ee eee 19

XO ee 99

Numerous pamphlets have been received, as well as the usual
periodicals and society transactions, mostly by exchange or gift.
The library contains, as of June 30, 1986:

Total a CCCSSION™ TECOTG a=: See ee eee SE ee 31, 200
Mofalliwithdrawals, andwosses: 3) See a eee 661
INGE tote ee ee ee ee ee ee 30, 539

There are also about 20,000 pamphlets and more than 3,000 volumes
of unbound periodicals and society transactions.

It is planned to reclassify the library according to the Library of
Congress scheme of classification, and copies of the scheme in the
Bureau’s field have been furnished by the Library of Congress. All
new material is being put in the new classification, and it is hoped
that a real start on older material can be made during the coming
year. A shelf list has been begun and will be continued along with
the reclassification.

A depository set of Library of Congress catalog cards is being
established.

A beginning has been made on refiling the catalog and the task will
be completed within the next few months.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 43
ILLUSTRATIONS

Following is a summary of work accomplished by E. G. Cassedy,
illustrator :

Graphs ees 3 Sk a ee A SAAR A: 8 ee 29
Tine drawings! =222 2) fo eee th A I 163
Wi Sts SAT STA EE. BS CAPS Be eS eee eo 12
Photosaretouchede lee ee BOS eee eee 10
AR PEY OS eR = ee ee ee ee eee 18
PATESPASSEIID LG Gees oe aoe! ee ee eee ee ee ee ee ee 29
MeLtering ONS === See ee eBid wee Shas a AN Bed erage ae Po 354
INe@SativessTetOuGheG) 222. 2 See te ub 2 oe 2 eee ee 6
EN OLOS COlOT ed es hese BE TE Ee LS IP eRe ee 2

EG a eee ee ee eee ee ee eee ea) eee 623

Meconston COLLECTIONS
number

135,291. Archeological material collected by M. W. Stirling from a village site
formerly occupied by the Waccamaw Indians near Myrtle Beach,
S. C.

188,344. Two earthenware bowls from the Dragoon Mountains, southeastern
Arizona.

188,501. The Mrs. Charles D. Walcott collection of 27 pictures of Navaho sand
paintings and four paintings of miscellaneous subjects.

139,472. Ten photographs of Australian natives; 20 lithographs of Congo Negro
subjects ; 83 slides of subjects from Palestine, Tunis, Syria, ete.

MISCELLANEOUS

During the course of the year information was furnished by mem-
bers of the Bureau staff in reply to numerous inquiries concerning the
North American Indians, both past and present, and the Mexican
peoples of the prehistoric and early historic periods. Various speci-
mens sent to the Bureau were identified and data on them furnished
for their owners.

Personnel.—Dr. J. H. Steward was appointed associate anthropol-
ogist October 21, 1985. Miss Edna Butterbrodt, junior stenographer,
resigned January 12, 1936. Miss Helen Heitkemper was appointed
January 28, 1936, to fill the vacancy.

Respectfully submitted.

M. W. Stiniine, Chief.

Dr. C. G. Axzgor,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 5
REPORT ON THE INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGE SERVICE

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the activi-
ties of the International Exchange Service during the fiscal year
ended June 30, 1936:

Congress appropriated for that year $44,262, which is an increase
of $3,084 over the amount granted for the Service during 1935. The
repayments from departmental and other establishments amounted
to $3,563.30, making the total resources available for the exchanges
during the year $47,825.30.

The total number of packages handled during 1936 was 596,951, a
decrease of 57,180. The weight was 618,789 pounds, an increase of
58,408 pounds.

The material sent and received through the International Exchange
Service is placed under three classes—parliamentary documents, de-
partmental documents, and scientific and literary publications. The
following table gives the number and weight of packages containing
the publications coming under those headings.

Packages Weight

——— = |

Pounds | Pounds

United States parliamentary documents sent abroad-_-___-._____ 26858386) seseese=s LOSE 71 ful]
Publications received in return for parliamentary documents-___|_---_----- 12 4OU tee eee 35, 575
United States departmental documents sent abroad_-____----__ 103/544 > 2225-2 S33 1125424 jh. eae
Publications received in return for departmental documents__-__|_---___-_- 9: 748) Sseee se 32, 678
Scientific and literary publications sent abroad_--__________-___ 146; 603" | 3222 See3 217%, 215) ee
Scientific and literary publications received from abroad for
distributiontin GhevUmitedkstategee ae. oe ee oe eee 5bnSTO) || ae ee 111, 420
Totale-< 268s nce eh AB as eee ET 2 EE ee 518, 983 77,968 | 439, 116 179, 673
Granditotal: a tee on 4a tas eee h Be BE he RE ene a TD 596,951 618,789

During the year 2,475 boxes were shipped abroad, an increase of 288
over the preceding 12 months. Of these boxes, 529 were for the for-
eign depositories of full sets of United States governmental docu-
ments and the remainder (1,946) were for distribution to miscel-
laneous establishments and individuals.

As has been referred to in previous reports, in addition to the
packages forwarded in boxes for distribution by foreign exchange
bureaus, many are mailed directly to their destinations—some because

44
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 45

it is more economical to send by mail than by freight; some, like the
daily issue of the Congressional Record, because treaty stipulations
provide that they shall be so forwarded; and some for the reason
that they are for places remote from existing exchange agencies,
The total number of packages transmitted by mail during the year
was 70,899, an increase of 12,026 over last year.

FOREIGN DEPOSITORIES OF GOVERNMENTAL DOCUMENTS

The number of full sets of governmental publications forwarded
abroad is 61 and of partial sets 50, making a total of 111 sets. The
depository of the partial set sent to Bengal has been changed from
the Department of Education to the Bengal Legislative Council
Department, Calcutta. A complete list of the depositories is given

below:
DEPOSITORIES OF FULL SETS

ARGENTINA: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Buenos Aires.
Buenos Arres: Biblioteca de la Universidad Nacional de La Plata, La Plata.
(Depository of the Province of Buenos Aires.)
AUSTRALIA: Library of the Commonwealth Parliament, Canberra.
New SoutH WALES: Public Library of New South Wales, Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Parliamentary Library, Brisbane.
SourH AUSTRALIA: Parliamentary Library, Adelaide.
TASMANIA: Parliamentary Library, Hobart.
VicTor1A: Publie Library of Victoria, Melbourne.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Public Library of Western Australia, Perth.
Austria: National-Bibliothek, Wien I.
BetciuM: Bibliothéque Royale, Bruxelles.
Braziu: Bibliotheca Nacional, Rio de Janeiro.
CanapA: Library of Parliament, Ottawa.
MANITOBA: Provincial Library, Winnipeg.
Ontario: Legislative Library, Toronto.
QugEsEc: Library of the Legislature of the Province of Quebec.
CHILE: Biblioteca del Congreso, Santiago.
Cu1na: National Central Library, Nanking.
. CotomsBra: Biblioteca Nacional, Bogota.
Costa Rica: Oficina de Depdsito y Canje Internacional de Publicaciones, San
José.
Cupa: Secretaria de Estado (Asuntos Generales y Canje Internacional), Habana.
CZECHOSLOVAKIA: Bibliothéque de l’Assemblée Nationale, Prague.
DENMARK: Kongelige Bibliotheket, Copenhagen.
Eayrpt: Bureau des Publications, Ministére des Finances, Cairo.
Estonia: Riigiraamatukogu (State Library), Tallinn.
FRANCE: Bibliothéque Nationale, Paris.
GERMANY: Reichstauschstelle im Reichsministerium des Innern, Berlin C 2.
BaDEN: Universitits-Bibliothek, Freiburg. (Depository of the State of
Baden.)
Bavaria: Bayerische Staatsbibliothek, Miinchen.
PRUSSIA: Preussische Staatsbibliothek, Berlin, N. W. 7.
Saxony: Sichsische Landesbibliothek, Dresden—N. 6.
WortTEemMBurG: Landesbibliothek, Stuttgart.
46 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

GREAT BRITAIN:
PNcianpd: British Museum, London.
Guascow: City Librarian, Mitchell Library, Glasgow.
Lonpon: London School of Heonomics and Political Science. (Depository
of the London County Council.)
Huneary: A Magyar orsziggyiilés konyvtaré, Budapest.
InpIA: Imperial Library, Calcutta.
Tr1sH Free Strate: National Library of Ireland, Dublin.
IraLy: Ministero dell’Educazione Nazionale, Rome.
JAPAN: Imperial Library of Japan, Tokyo.
LAtviA: Bibliothéque d’Etat, Riga.
LEAGUE oF Nations: Library of the League of Nations, Geneva, Switzerland.
Mexico: Biblioteca Nacional, Mexico, D. F.
NETHERLANDS: Royal Library, The Hague.
New ZEALAND: General Assembly Library, Wellington.
NoRTHERN IRELAND: H. M. Stationery Office, Belfast.
Norway: Universitets-Bibliothek, Oslo. (Depository of the Government of
Norway.)
Prru: Seccién de Propaganda y Publicaciones, Ministerio de Relaciones Ex-
teriores, Lima.
POLAND: Bibliotheque Nationale, Warsaw.
PorTUGAL: Bibliotheca Nacional, Lisbon.
RuMANTA: Academia Romana, Bucharest.
Spain: Servicio de Cambio Internacional de Publicaciones, Paseo de Recoletos 20,
Madrid.
SweEpEN: Kungliga Biblioteket, Stockholm.
SWITZERLAND: Bibliotheque Centrale Fédérale, Berne.
TURKEY: Minist¢re de l’Instruction Publique, Ankara.
UNION or SourH Arrica: State Library, Pretoria, Transvaal.
UNION oF Sovier SocraList RePusrics: State Central Book Chamber, Moscow 4.
UkRAINE: All-Ukrainian Association for Cultural Relations with Foreign
Countries, Kiev.
Uruevuay: Oficina de Canje Internacional de Publicaciones, Montevideo.
VENEZUELA: Biblioteca Nacional, Caracas.
Yu@osLavIA: Ministére de l’Education, Belgrade.

DEPOSITORIES OF PARTIAL SETS

AFGHANISTAN: Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Publications Department, Kabul.
AUSTRIA :
Vienna: Magistrat der Stadt Wien, Abteilung 51-Statistik.
BoitviA: Biblioteca del H. Congreso Nacional, La Paz.
BRAZIL:
Minas Gerars: Directoria Geral de Estatistica em Minas, Bello Horizonte.
R1Io DE JANEIRO: Bibliotheca da Assemblea Legislativa do Estado, Nictheroy.
BRITISH GUIANA: Government Secretary’s Office, Georgetown, Demerara.
Buta@artA: Ministére des Affaires Dtrangéres, Sofia.
CANADA :
ALBERTA: Provincial Library, Edmonton.
BriTIsH CoLtuMsBiA: Provincial Library, Victoria.
New Brunswick: Legislative Library, Fredericton.
Nova Scotta: Provincial Secretary of Nova Scotia, Halifax.
Prince Epwarp ISLtanp: Legislative Library, Charlottetown.
SASKATCHEWAN: Government Library, Regina.
Cryiton: Chief Secretary’s Office (Record Department of the Library), Colombo.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 47

CuinA: National Library, Peiping.
Dawnzia: Stadtbibliothek, Danzig.
DoMINICAN REPUBLIC: Biblioteca del Senado, Ciudad Trujillo.
Ecuapor: Biblioteca Nacional, Quito.
FINLAND: Parliamentary Library, Helsingfors.
GERMANY :
BREMEN: Senatskommission fiir Reichs- und Auswiartige Angelegenheiten.
HaAmbBure: Staats-und Universitits-Bibliothek.
Hess: Universitits-Bibliothek, Giessen.
Ltseck: President of the Senate.
THURINGIA: Rothenberg-Bibliothek, Landesuniversitit, Jena.
GREECE: Library of Parliament, Athens.
GUATEMALA: Biblioteca Nacional, Guatemala.
Hartt: Secrétaire d’Etat des Relations Extérieures, Port-au-Prince.
Honpuras: Biblioteca y Archivo Nacionales, Tegucigalpa.
IcELAND: National Library, Reykjavik.
INDIA:
AssAM: General and Judicial Department, Shillong.
BENGAL: Secretary, Bengal Legislative Council Department, Council House,
Calcutta.
BIHAR AND OrISssA: Revenue Department, Patna.
BomBay: Undersecretary to the Government of Bombay, General Depart-
ment, Bombay.
BurMA: Secretary to the Government of Burma, Education Department,
Rangoon.
CENTRAL Provinces: General Administration Department, Nagpur.
Mapras: Chief Secretary to the Government of Madras, Public Depart-
ment, Madras.
PunJaB: Chief Secretary to the Government of the Punjab, Lahore.
UNITED PROVINCES OF AGRA AND OuDH: University of Allahabad, Allahabad.
JAMAICA: Colonial Secretary, Kingston.
LipertA: Department of State, Monrovia.
LITHUANIA: Ministére des Affaires Etrangéres, Kaunas (Kovno).
MALTA: Minister for the Treasury, Valletta.
NEWFOUNDLAND: Department of Home Affairs, St. John’s.
Nicaragua: Superintendente de Archivos Nacionales, Managua.
PANAMA: Secretaria de Relaciones Exteriores, Panama.
PARAGUAY: Secretario de la Presidencia de la Repfiblica, Asuncion.
SALVADOR: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, San Salvador.
Sram: Department of Foreign Affairs, Bangkok.
Straits SETTLEMENTS: Colonial Secretary, Singapore.
VATICAN City: Biblioteca Apostolica Vaticana, Vatican City, Rome, Italy.

INTERPARLIAMENTARY EXCHANGE OF THE OFFICIAL JOURNAL

The forwarding of the Congressional Record to the Province of
Buenos Aires has been discontinued, and there has been added to the
list of recipients of the Record the Biblicteca del Parlament de Cata-
lunya, Barcelona, Spain. The depository in Guatemala has been
changed to Biblioteca de la Asamblea Legislativa, Guatemala. The
Record sent to Uruguay is now mailed to Diario Oficial, Montevideo.
48 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

The Federal Register has been added to the sendings of the Con-
gressional Record. There now are 102 copies of the Record for-
warded abroad. A complete list of the depositories is given below.

DEPOSITORIES OF CONGRESSIONAL RECORD

ALBANIA: Ministrija Mibretnore e Punéveté Jashtme, Tirana.
ARGENTINA :
Biblioteca del Congreso Nacional, Buenos Aires.
Camara de Diputados, Oficina de Informacién Parlamentaria, Buenos Aires.
AUSTRALIA *
Library of the Commonwealth Parliament, Canberra.
NEw SoutH WaALgEs: Library of Parliament of New South Wales, Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Chief Secretary’s Office, Brisbane.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Library of Parliament of Western Australia, Perth.
AustrRIA: Bibliothek des Hauses der Bundesgesetzgebung, Wien, I.
BEeLGIuM: Bibliothéque de la Chambre des Représentants, Bruxelles.
Boriv1A: Biblioteca del H. Congreso Nacional, La Paz.
BRAZIL:
Bibliotheca do Congresso Nacional, Rio de Janeiro.
AmAzonas: Archivo, Bibliotheca e Imprensa Publica, Manos.
Bauia: Governador do Estado da Bahia, Sao Salvador.
Espirito SANTO: Presidencia do Estado do Espirito Santo, Victoria.
Rio GRANDE po Sut: “A Federacio”’, Porto Alegre.
SAo PAuto: Diario Official do Estado de S&o0 Paulo, Sao Paulo.
SEercIPE: Bibliotheca Publica do Estado de Sergipe, Aracajti.
BritIsH HonpurAs: Colonial Secretary, Belize.
CANADA:
Library of Parliament, Ottawa.
Clerk of the Senate, Houses of Parliament, Ottawa.
CuHInA: National Central Library, Nanking.
CuBA: Biblioteca del Capitolio, Habana.
CZECHOSLOVAKIA: Bibliothéque de l’Assemblée Nationale, Prague.
Danzic: Stadtbibliothek, Danzig.
DENMARK: Rigsdagens Bureau, Copenhagen.
DOMINICAN ReEpuBLIC: Biblioteca del Senado, Ciudad Trujillo.
DutcH EAst Inpigs: Volksraad von Nederlandsch-Indié, Batavia, Java.
Eeypt: Bureau des Publications, Ministére des Finances, Cairo.
Estonia: Riigiraamatukogu (State Library), Tallinn.
FRANCE:
Chambre des Députés, Service de l’Information Parlementaire Etrangére,
Paris,
Bibliothéque du Sénat, au Palais du Luxembourg, Paris.
Bibliothéque, Direction des Accords commerciaux, Ministére du Commerce,
Paris.
GERMANY:
Deutsche Reichstags-Bibliothek, Berlin, N. W. 7.
Reichsfinanzministerium, Berlin, W. 8.
ANHALT: Anhaltische Landesbiicherei, Dessau.
BRAUNSCHWEIG: Bibliothek des Braunschweigischen Staatsministeriums,
Braunschweig.
MECKLENBURG: Staatsministerium, Schwerin.
OLDENBURG: Oldenburgisches Staatsministerium, Oldenburg i. O.
PrusstA: Bibliothek des Preussischen Landtages, Berlin, S. W. 11.
SCHAUMBURG-LIPPE: Schaumburg-Lippische Landesregierung, Biicheburg.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 49

GIBRALTAR: Gibraltar Garrison Library Committee, Gibraltar.

GREAT Britain: Library of the Foreign Office, London.

GreEcE: Library of Parliament, Athens.

GUATEMALA: Biblioteca de la Asamblea Legislativa, Guatemala.

Honpvuras: Biblioteca del Congreso Nacional, Tegucigalpa.

Hunecary: A Magyar orszaggyiilés konyvtara, Budapest.

InpIA: Legislative Department, Simla.

TRAN: Library of the Iranian Parliament, Téhéran.

IrAQ: Chamber of Deputies, Bagdad, Iraq (Mesopotamia).

Ir1sH FREE STATE: Dail Hireann, Dublin.

PeTATY:

Biblioteca della Camera dei Deputati, Rome.
Biblioteca del Senato del Regno, Rome.
Ufficio degli Studi Legislativi, Senato del Regno, Rome.

LAtTv1A: Valsts Biblioteka, Riga.

LEAGUE OF NATIONS: Library of the League of Nations, Geneva, Switzerland.

LipEr1A: Department of State, Monrovia.

Mexico: Secretaria de la Camara de Diputados, Mexico, D. F.
AGUASCALIENTES: Gobernador del Estado de Aguascalientes, Aguascalientes.
CAMPECHE: Gobernador del Estado de Campeche, Campeche.

Cuiapas: Gobernador del Estado de Chiapas, Tuxtla Gutierrez.

CHIHUAHUA: Gobernador del Estado de Chihuahua, Chihuahua.

CoaHUILA: Periddico Oficial del Estado de Coahuila, Palacio de Gobierno,
Saltillo.

CotimA: Gobernador del Estado de Colima, Colima.

Duranco: Gobernador Constitucional del Estado de Durango, Durango.

GUANAJUATO: Secretaria General de Gobierno del Estado, Guanajuato.

GUERRERO: Gobernador del Estado de Guerrero, Chilpancingo.

JALIScO: Biblioteca del Estado, Guadalajara.

LOWER CALIFORNIA: Gobernador del Distrito Norte, Mexicali, B. C., Mexico.

Mexico: Gaceta del Gobierno, Toluca, Mexico.

MicuoacAn: Secretaria General de Gobierno del Estado de Michoacan,
Morelia.

MorELos: Palacio de Gobierno, Cuernavaca.

NAyArIT: Gobernador de Nayarit, Tepic.

Nuevo Leon: Biblioteca del Estado, Monterey.

Oaxaca: Periddico Oficial, Palacio de Gobierno, Oaxaca.

PurEsiA: Secretaria General de Gobierno, Puebla.

QUERETARO: Secretaria General de Gobierno, Seccién de Archivo, Queretaro.

San Luis Porost: Congreso del Estado, San Luis Potosi.

SInALOA: Gobernador del Estado de Sinaloa, Culiacan.

Sonors: Gobernador del Estado de Sonora, Hermosillo.

Tapasco: Secretaria General de Gobierno, Seccién 3a, Ramo de Prensa,
Villahermosa.

TAMAULIPAS: Secretaria General de Gobierno, Victoria.

TLAXCALA: Secretaria de Gobierno del Estado, Tlaxcala.

Vera Cruz: Gobernador del Estado de Vera Cruz, Departamento de Gober-
naciOn y Justicia, Jalapa.

YucaTAN: Gobernador del Estado de Yucatan, Mérida, Yucatan.

New ZEALAND: General Assembly Library, Wellington.

Norway: Storthingets, Bibliothek, Oslo.

Peru: Cimara de Diputados, Lima.

PotanpD: Ministére des Affaires Etrangéres, Warsaw.

PortuGcaL: Secretario da Assemblea Nacional, Lisboa.
50 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

RUMANIA:
Bibliothéque de la Chambre des Députés, Bucharest.
Ministére des Affaires Mtrangéres, Bucharest.
SPAIN:
Biblioteca del Congreso Nacional, Madrid.
Catalunya: Biblioteca del Parlament de Catalunya, Barcelona.
SWITZERLAND:
Bibliothéque de l’Assemblée Fédérale Suisse. Berne.
Syria:
Ministére des Finances de la République Libanaise, Service du Matériel,
Beirut.
Governor of the State of Alaouites, Lattaquié.
TurKEY: Turkish Grand National Assembly, Ankara.
UNION OF SOUTH AFRICA:
Library of Parliament, Cape Town, Cape of Good Hope.
State Library, Pretoria, Transvaal.
UruGuaAyY: Diario Oficial, Calle Florida 1178, Montevideo.
VENEZUELA: Biblioteca del Congreso, Caracas.
VATICAN CiTy: Biblioteca Apostolica Vaticana, Rome, Italy.

FOREIGN EXCHANGE AGENCIES

The exchange agency in Peru, formerly conducted under the direc-
tion of the Ministerio de Fomento, is now under the Ministerio de
Relaciones Exteriores, Seccién de Propaganda y Publicaciones, Lima.

The agency in the Union of South Africa has been removed from
Pretoria, Transvaal, to Cape Town, Cape of Good Hope. The Gov-
ernment Printing and Stationery Office in Cape Town now acts as the
agency.

LIST OF EXCHANGE AGENCIES
ALGERIA, via France.
ANGOLA, via Portugal.
ARGENTINA: Comision Protectora de Bibliotecas Populares, Canje Internacional},
Calle Callao 1540, Buenos Aires.
AustTriA: Internationale Austauschstelle, National-Bibliothek, Wien, I.
AZORES, via Portugal.
BELeiuM: Service Belge des Hchanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque Royale de

Belgique, Bruxelles.

Bottiv1a: Oficina Nacional de Hstadistica, La Paz.
BrAzit: Servico de Permutacées Internacionaes, Bibliotheca Nacional, Rio d2

Janeiro,

BRITISH GUIANA: Royal Agricultural and Commercial Society, Georgetown.

BRITISH Honpuras: Colonial Secretary, Belize.

BuresriaA: Institutions Scientifiques de S. M. le Roi de Bulgarie, Sofia.

CANADA: Sent by mail.

CANARY ISLANDS, via Spain.

CHILE: Servicio de Canjes Internacionales, Biblioteca Nacional, Santiago.

CHINA: Bureau of International Exchange, National Central Library, Nanking.

CoLomBiA: Oficina de Canjes Internacionales y Reparto, Biblioteca Nacional,
Bogota.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 51

Costa Rica: Oficina de Depésito y Canje Internacional de Publicaciones, San
José,

Cuspa: Sent by mail.

CZECHOSLOVAKIA: Service Tchécoslovaque des Echanges Internationaux, Biblio-
théque de l’Assemblée Nationale, Prague 1-79.

Danzie: Amt fiir den Internationalen Schriftenaustausch der Freien Stadt
Danzig, Stadtbibliothek, Danzig.

DENMARK: Service Danois des HEchanges Internationaux, Kongelige Danske
Videnskabernes Selskab, Copenhagen V.

DutcH GUIANA: Surinaamsche Koloniale Bibliotheek, Paramaribo.

Ecuapor: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Quito.

Eeypet: Government Press, Publications Office, Bulaq, Cairo.

Estonia: Riigiraamatukogu (State Library), Tallinn.

FINLAND: Delegation of the Scientific Societies of Finland, Kasiirngatan 24,
Helsingfors,

FRANCE: Service Francais des Echanges Internationaux, 110 Rue de Grenelle,
Paris.

GERMANY: Amerika-Institut, Universitiitstrasse 8, Berlin, N. W. 7.

GREAT BRITAIN AND IRELAND: Wheldon & Wesley, 2-4 Arthur St., New Oxford St.,
London, W. C. 2.

GREECE: Bibliothéque Nationale, Athens.

GREENLAND, via Denmark.

GUATEMALA: Instituto Nacional de Varones, Guatemala.

Hartt: Secrétaire d’Etat des Relations Extérieures, Port-au-Prince.

Honpuras: Biblioteca Nacional, Tegucigalpa.

Huneary: Hungarian Libraries Board, Ferenciektere 5, Budapest, IV.

ICELAND, via Denmark.

Inpra: Superintendent of Government Printing and Stationery, Bombay.

Iraty: R. Ufficio degli Scambi Internazionali, Ministero dell’ Educazione
Nazionale, Rome.

JAMAICA: Institute of Jamaica, Kingston,

Japan: Imperial Library of Japan, Uyeno Park, Tokyo.

JAVA, via Netherlands.

Korea: Sent by mail.

Latvia: Service des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque d’Etat de Lettonie,
Riga.

LisertA: Bureau of Exchanges, Department of State, Monrovia.

LITHUANIA: Sent by mail.

Lourenco Marquez, via Portugal.

LUxEMBOURG, via Belgium.

MApDAGASOAR, Via France.

Maperra, via Portugal.

Mexico: Sent by mail.

MozAMBIQUE, via Portugal.

NETHERLANDS: International Exchange Bureau of the Netherlands, Royal
Library, The Hague.

NEw SoutH WALES: Publie Library of New South Wales, Sydney.

New ZEALAND: General Assembly Library, Wellington.

NicARAGuA: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Managua.

Norway: Service Norvégien des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque de
VUniversité Royale, Oslo.

PALESTINE: Hebrew University Library, Jerusalem.

112059—37——Y5
52 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

PANAMA: Sent by mail.

PARAGUAY: Seccién Canje Internacional de Publicaciones del Ministerio de
Relaciones Exteriores, Asuncion.

Peru: Seccién de Propaganda y Publicaciones, Ministerio de Relaciones Exte-
riores, Lima.

PoLAND: Service Polonais des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque Nationale,
Warsaw.

PorTuGAL: Seccio de Trocas Internacionaes, Bibliotheca Nacional, Lisboa.

QUEENSLAND: Bureau of Exchanges of International Publications, Chief Secre-
tary’s Office, Brisbane.

RuMANIA: Bureau des Nchanges Internationaux, Institut Météorologique
Central, Bucharest.

SALVADOR: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, San Salvador.

Sram: Department of Foreign Affairs, Bangkok.

SourH AUSTRALIA: South Australian Government Exchanges Bureau, Govern-
ment Printing and Stationery Office, Adelaide.

SpaIn: Servicio de Cambio Internacional de Publicaciones, Paseo de Recoletos
20, bajo derecha, Madrid.

SuMATRA, via Netherlands.

SweEDEN: Kongliga Svenska Vetenskaps Akademien, Stockholm.

SwitTzERLAND: Service Suisse des FEchanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque
Centrale Fédérale, Berne.

Syr1ra: American University of Beirut.

TASMANIA: Secretary to the Premier, Hobart.

TRINIDAD: Royal Victoria Istitute of Trinidad and Tobago, Port-of-Spain.

TUNIS, via France.

TURKEY: Robert College, Istanbul.

Union or SoutH ArricaA: Government Printing and Stationery Office, Cape
Town, Cape of Good Hope.

UNION oF Sovier SoctaAList ReEPpusLics: Library of the Academy of Sciences of
the U. 8. 8. R., Exchange Service, Leningrad V. O.

Uruauay: Oficina de Canje Internacional de Publicaciones, Ministerio de Rela-
ciones Exteriores, Montevideo.

VENEZUELA: Biblioteca Nacional, Caracas.

VicrorIA: Publie Library of Victoria, Melbourne.

WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Public Library of Western Australia, Perth.

YUGOSLAVIA: Section des Echanges Internationaux, Ministére des Affaires
Etrangéres, Belgrade.

Respectfully submitted.

C. W. SHormaker, Chief Clerk.
Dr. C. G. Assot,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 6
REPORT ON THE NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK

Str: I have the honor to submit the following report on the opera-
tions of the National Zoological Park for the fiscal year ended June
30, 1936:

The regular appropriation made by Congress for the maintenance
of the Park was $215,000. The total expenditures for the year from
this appropriation were about $214,200.

IMPROVEMENTS

The fiscal year 1936 marked the beginning of more substantial im-
provements than had ever before been made in any one year or a
considerable period of years in the Zoo. Under a grant from the
Public Works Administration of $680,000, supplemented later by
$191,575, contracts were let and work begun on five projects. These
include machine and carpenter shops and a garage; the installation
of three 250-horsepower down draft boilers, which will serve to heat
all of the exhibition buildings with the exception of the bird house,
which was considered as being too remote from the others to warrant
a conduit being built to it; a brick exhibition building approximately
185 by 115 feet for small mammals and great apes; a stone exhibition
building 227 by 90 feet to house large animals, such as elephant,
rhinoceros, and hippopotamus; and a new wing to the bird house.

The machine shop and central heating plant will be completed in
time to supply heat to the buildings in the fall. The other buildings
should be finished by January 1, 1937.

The completion of these projects will give the Zoo four large,
modern buildings containing numbers of new features for the ex-
hibition of animals and is the greatest improvement in the history
of the Zoo.

With the use of labor assigned to us through the District Works
Progress Administration and some material from the same source,
together with materials purchased from our regular appropriation,
5,083 linear feet of concrete road and walk curbing were constructed
and 4,112 square yards of roads and walks were given bitulithic sur-
facings. Also 14,038 square yards of road were tarred, graveled, and
rolled. The worst of the holes in the road between the mechanical
sheps and the crossroads at the Harvard Street entrance were re-
paired preparatory to a tar-gravel treatment when the construction

53
54 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

work at the shops is finished. Terra cotta sewer, 1,700 linear feet of
12-inch diameter, was laid from the District sewer along the creek to
the vicinity of the great flight cage in the ravine. This was a step
in the line of diverting all sanitary sewerage from the creek into the
District’s sanitary sewers. Repairs were also made to the storm
water sewers in the same ravine, and 2,000 feet of various sized water
lines were laid.

The improvement of the grounds by planting grass, shrubs, and
trees, removal of objectionable or surplus vegetation, grading, and
related grounds work has been carried on with very satisfactory re-
sults. Material progress has been made in the removal of poison ivy.

A small amount of miscellaneous repairs to buildings and fences
has been carried out with funds from our regular appropriation
and unskilled labor assigned to us under W. P. A. When certain
W. P. A. clerical employees assigned to the Zoo were not urgently
needed on routine work directly connected with the W. P. A., they
rendered substantial assistance in repairing a considerable number
of valuable pamphlets relating to zoology and in arranging them in
the Zoo library. Just at the close of the year a bookbinder assigned
to the Institution by the W. P. A. was detailed to this branch of
the Smithsonian library. This arrangement is most promising for
the binding and repairing of many valuable publications in our
excellent vertebrate zoology brary which otherwise would rapidly
deteriorate.

VISITORS FOR THE YEAR

5 CUT gle a hE a PAD er oi U0) i) Ie) oy LO C2 Ys rh fe est SIE Se 80, 400
USE ee ee Ee eee 2ASSO5O}| Maren ted: eens Ae ee 173, 400
September shee eee 269° 200) | Ap rile 22h ee 241, 300
OCEO De ie eee a ee 1S 400s Via yas a eee ee 361, 500
Novem berieiett ss es Es eh 104950;| Sunes las Oe es ee ee 303, 500
WMecember-28s2 a= eae 56, 450 —_—_—_———_
SINC ERIS eee 51, 400 Totals: Ss22_ ee 2, 235, 850

The attendance of organizations, mainly classes of students, of
which there is definite record was 33,321 from 579 different schools in
20 States and the District of Columbia, as follows:

Number | Number Number | Number
State of persons} of parties State of persons} of parties
Connecticut 2 Aes see 83 2) ||P OHIO fies tet. Sok ke prea ee ee 896 20
PY OLAW ATO] ees. eee oe 382 8.:]|\Oregon-2 2s. -22asssceeae see 35 1
District of Columbia-_---_---- 7, 146 132)/|| (Pennsylvanialt sees oes Se 8, 232 143
(SCONE dee ees ee 92 3 |) SouthiC srolina=se=-sa45--o 112 4
ajnel. re orice ive) secuers 70 2 ilifSouth Dakotas 2-2 222-2- s 32 1
Maryland pos 322 sacomseses 5, 739 82/1] Tennessee: 22-2 oe oes ek 24 1
Massachusetts-___.:.-.-------- 373 OF) Virginiae enireget oe 5, 106 86
IMGT anes enn ee 220 bell SWiestavirginigeee = ae ose ae 595 7
New Hampshire_.._..-------- 34 1 || Conventions—Members_ of
INewJieEse yon see ee een e aes 2, 132 30 various States. .......------ 160 2
IN@waMicxicoz_ 22 eee keee 19 1 Sep SSS
INI win Kase eee eee oe 954 16 Total! sas. ceceuscaoes 33, 321 579

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 55

About 3 o’clock every afternoon, except Sunday, a census is made
of the cars parked on the Zoo grounds. During the year 22,997 were
so listed, representing every State in the Union, Hawaii, Canada,
Canal Zone, Alaska, and Cuba. Since the total number is merely a
record of those actually parked at one time, it is not of value as
indicating a total attendance but is of importance as showing the
percentage attendance by States, Territories, and countries. The
District of Columbia comprised slightly over 52 percent; Maryland,
19 percent; Virginia, 11 percent; and the remaining cars were from
other States, Territories, and countries. During years in which
counts have been made on Sunday as well as during the week it has
been found that the percentage of cars from the District of Columbia,
Maryland, and Virginia is less, and the percentage of the more
distant States is correspondingly increased. This is brought about
by tourists coming to the Zoo on Sundays when other points of
interest are closed to them.

ACCESSIONS

Gifts—The collection was enriched by a number of important
gifts. A Hood Island tortoise was received from Rear Admiral C, S.
Freeman, United States Navy. From Mrs. A. N. Pack, Espanola,
N. Mex., a splendid pair of pumas were received. Elisha Hansen,
Washington, D. C., presented a black-striped wallaby. A number
of rare frogs of the genera Dendrobates and Atelopus were received
from Dr. E. R. Dunn, Haverford, Pa. Miss Gloria Hollister, of
the New York Zoological Society, presented three Trinidad vampire
bats. R. E. Stadelmann, traveling in Central and South America,
continued his generosity and interest in the Park with several ship-
ments of reptiles.

DONORS AND THEIR GIFTS

Mrs. Chas. L. Anderson, Washington, D. C., nighthawk.

A. G. Aquayo and P. J. Bermidez, Cuba, 6 diving anolis lizards.

M. C. Arner, Trinidad, British West Indies, giant centipede.

Miss Helen Ault, Washington, D. C., white-throated capuchin.
Miss Ellen Babcock, Alexandria, Va., 2 Pekin ducks.

Vernon Bailey, Washington, D. C., hog-nosed snake.

George W. Baker, Washington, D. C., hog-nosed snake.

D. 8. Basin, Washington, D. C., raccoon.

Chas. A. Bechtold, Laurel, Md., blacksnake.

J. S. Beek, Washington, D. C., flying squirrel.

Mrs. E. M. Betts, Hampton, Va., alligator.

Marion Bird, La Crosse, Wis., spotted salamander.

Mr. and Mrs. J. S. C. Boswell, Alexandria, Va., corn snake, chicken snake.
E. S. Bowles, Washington, D. C., copperhead snake, coleonyx lizard.
Albert Bricker, Washington, D. C., weasel.

Ralph Britt, Chevy Chase, Md., barn owl.
56 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

J. L. Brooks, Washington, D. C., alligator.

G. A. and E. F. Brown, Washington, D. C., marine turtle.

Maurice M. Brown, Jr., Colonial Beach, Va., 2 little blue herons.

S. K. Brown, Eustis, Fla., coral snake, pine snake, corn snake.

F. R. Browne, Ashburn, Ga., hog-nosed snake, water snake, garter snake,

W. E. Buck, Camden, N. J., gaboon viper.

Eddie Buell, Washington, D. C., bald eagle.

Miss Brooksie Burnette, Silver Spring, Md., snapping turtle.

John F. Burrows, Washington, D. C., weasel.

Dr. Chas. E. Burt, Winfield, Kans., 11 gray skinks.

W. H. Calfee, Washington, D. C., common duck,

M. Wayne Carney, Washington, D. C., 2 skunks.

Wm. Carr, Bear Mountain Park, N. Y., watersnake, mole snake, garter snake.

E. W. Clark, Detroit, Mich., 3 massasaugas.

Mrs. L. P. Coakley, Washington, D. C., alligator.

Mrs. W. G. Cooper, Washington, D. C., Pekin duck.

A. C. Cornett, Smithfield, Va., hawk.

Jess §. Cottrell, Washington, D. C., alligator.

J. P. Crocker, Washington, D. C., great horned owl.

Mrs. Crowell, Washington, D. C., canary.

C. L. Cummell, Washington, D. C., barred owl.

L. Danaher, Meriden, Conn., hog-nosed snake.

Mrs. W. C. Daudt, Washington, D. C., Cumberland terrapin.

J. H. Davis, Hyattsville, Md., opossum.

Chas. F. Denley, Glenmont, Md., Lady Amherst’s pheasant, Elliot’s pheasant.

J. Dickson, Eheart, Va., banded rattlesnake.

Miss Helen Dougherty, Atlantic City, N. J., yellow-fronted parrot.

H. W. Draper, Washington, D. C., alligator.

Dr. E. R. Dunn, Haverford, Pa., 8 red dendrobates, 10 yellow atelopus.

Mr. Dureen, Washington, D. C., alligator.

Chas HE. Eaton, Washington, D. C., 8 common chameleons.

David Elsasser, Johnstown, Pa., weeping capuchin.

Dr. W. O. Emery, Washington, D. C., 4 fire-bellied toads.

M. L. Ernst, Washington, D. C., rough-scaled green snake.

H. P. Erwin, Washington, D. C., Cooper’s hawk.

Bobbie Farrington, Washington, D. C., ring-necked pheasant.

John C. Finch, Washington, D. C., rhesus monkey.

Florida Reptile Institute, Silver Springs, Fla., 6 scorpions, fox squirrel, blue land
crab.

A. Foehl, Jr., Philadelphia, Pa., banded basilisk, 5 frogs.

Rear Admiral C. 8. Freeman, U. 8S. N., Hood Island tortoise.

John Freeman, Washington, D. C., white-throated capuchin.

M. P. Freeman, Washington, D. C., raccoon.

Dick George, Washington, D. C., Pekin duck.

C. K. Gibson, Washington, D. C., 2 Pekin ducks.

Truxton Goodrell, Washington, D. C., pilot snake.

W. S. Green, Greenwood, Va., weeping capuchin.

Mrs. W. E. Gregg, Chevy Chase, Md., screech owl.

John F. Hamaker, Washington, D. C., crow.

J. E. Hanell, Washington, D. C., woodchuck.

Elisha Hansen, Washington, D. C., black-striped wallaby.

Geo. Hartnell, Cheltenham, Md., Florida gallinule.

Frank Harvey, Washington, D. C., grass paroquet, 2 canaries.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 57

Ed. Harwell, Wetumpha, Ala., banded rattlesnake.

Harry B. Hawes, Washington, D. C., 2 southern mynahs.

Jas. F. Herbert, Washington, D. C., gray fox.

H. F. Herman, Washington, D. C., razor-billed curassow.

Christian Heurich, Washington, D. C., snapping turtle, blacksnake.

Mrs. Samuel B. Hill, Washington, D. C., California valley quail.

Miss Gloria Hollister, New York City, 3 Trinidad vampire bats.

Maj. J. M. Huddleston, U. S. A., rhesus monkey.

BH. C. Hughes, Washington, D. C., copperhead snake.

Maj. E. E. Hume, U. S. A., pigeon.

David Humphrey, Cabin John, Md., copperhead snake.

Carl Imlay, Chevy Chase, D. C., bald eagle, red-shouldered hawk.

J. R. Johnson, Washington, D. C., 2 opossums.

Wm. Johnson, Silver Spring, Md., American coot.

Jos. W. Jones, Bristol, Tenn., horned lizard.

Raymond Kehr, Washington, D. C., yellow-shouldered parrot.

Miss Estelle King, Washington, D. C., red, blue, and yellow macaw.

W. T. King, Washington, D. C., copperhead snake.

Frank Kirby, Washington, D. C., white-throated capuchin.

F. Heber Knight, Washington, D. C., 2 copperhead snakes, screech owl, hog-nosed
snake,

Miss Selma Krager, Washington, D. C., garter snake.

Mrs. J. A. Kramer, Washington, D. C., red-fronted parrot.

J. C. Lamon, Pickwick Dam, Tenn., hog-nosed snake.

Lester Leigh, Arcadia, Fla., glass snake, horn snake.

Mrs. M. B. Leishear, Washington, D. C., garter snake.

Mrs. Laura E. Lemon, Washington, D. C., domestic pigeon.

Jas. L. Leuenberger, Washington, D. C., goose.

Mrs. A. M. Lockamy, Washington, D. C., alligator.

Daniel C. Long, Washington, D. C., sidewinder rattlesnake.

Dr. J. A. Lyon, Rockville, Md., blue tanager.

J. S. Mansay, Washington, D. C., alligator.

R. W. Martin, LaGrange, Ga., glass snake.

Miss McAlister, Washington, D. C., red fox.

John T. McBurney, Chevy Chase, D. C., copperhead snake, blacksnake, fox
snake.

Lt. Comm. W. E. McCain, Washington, D. C., yellow-naped parrot.

Chester McCall, Washington, D. C., rough-scaled green snake.

John R. McGrew, Bethesda, Md., blacksnake.

Mrs. A. B. McKean, Washington, D. C., 2 canaries.

F. McLemore, Lorman, Miss., coachwhip snake.

Mrs. Betty McShan, Silver Hill, Md., horned lizard.

Marquis Metts, Mt. Rainier, Md., red-tailed hawk.

A. L. Nelson and F. M. Uhler, Biological Survey, corn snake.

Ex-Postmaster Gen. New, Washington, D. C., barred owl.

New York Zoological Park, New York City, 6 gaboon vipers, 5 puff adders.

Mrs. A. N. Pack, Espanola, N. Mex., 2 pumas.

Mrs. H. A. Page, Jr., Aberdeen, N. C., pigmy rattlesnake.

Mrs. N. D. Parker, Woodside, Md., 4 Pekin ducks, 7 white mice.

Mrs. Pawlowski, Washington, D. C., 3 canaries.

S. M. Peel, Washington, D. C., wood tortoise.

G. E. Pelton, Alexandria, Va., cow bird.

Mr. Perkins, Washington, D. C., chain or king snake.
58 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

J. P. Phillips, Washington, D. C., loon.

Gregory Pigg, Washington, D. C., opossum.

Bryan Pitt, Washington, D. C., grass paroquet.

G. F. Pollock, Washington, D. C., raven, 4 banded rattlesnakes.

Mrs. G. F. Pollock, Washington, D. C., blacksnake.

Mrs. A. E. Pyles, Friendship Heights, Md., raccoon.

David Rawlings, Chevy Chase, D. C., skunk.

Mrs. A. R. Rea, Washington, D. C., alligator.

Henry Renfrew, Washington, D. C., screech owl.

Dr. F. H. H. Roberts, Jr., Bureau of American Ethnology, 3 western rattle-
snakes.

J. L. Robertson, U. S. Public Health Service, Washington, D. C., black widow
spider.

Miss Mary Rogers, Washington, D. C., marine turtle.

Miss Eleanor Roosevelt, Washington, D. C., 9 alligators.

June Rosenthal, Washington, D. C., alligator.

Rotary Eagle Scout Troop No. 3, Reno, Nev., 5 Agassiz’s tortoises.

Louis Ruhe, Ine., New York City, Old World wildcat, 2 blue honey-creepers.

Henry C. Sacra, Washington, D. C., red fox.

Andrew Santorios, Washington, D. C., 2 Greek partridges.

Mrs. J. H. Saum, Washington, D. C., canary.

Mrs. James W. Saunders, Washington, D. C., ring-necked dove.

Mrs. 8. E. Schoof, Washington, D. C., woodchuck.

Miss Elizabeth Shorey, Washington, D. C., museovy duck.

R. Shostick, Washington, D. C., salamander.

Dr. J. F. Simpson, Washington, D. C., alligator.

Mrs. H. R. Smith, Washington, D. C., woodchuck.

Norman Smith, Upper Marlboro, Md., great horned owl.

Mrs. Wesley Smith, Washington, D. C., black crowned night heron.

Spanish Legation, Washington, D. C., alligator.

H. V. Stabler, Washington, D. C., king snake, sparrow hawk.

R. E. Stadelmann, Tela, Honduras, 2 South American rat snakes, 2 geckos,
green tree snake, tree boa, rainbow boa.

Cecil Strickland, Clendenin, W. Va., golden eagle.

Mrs. L. M. Sullivan, Washington, D. C., 4 Mexican grassquits.

John G. Taylor, Richmond, Va., white woodchuck.

Richard Taylor, Bethesda, Md., 3 fence lizards, 2 six-lined lizards.

Taxidermist Shop Staff, National Museum, Washington, D. C., 20 spring peepers.

Mrs. John Terrill, Lock Haven, Pa., double yellow-head parrot.

J. R. Thomas, Baltimore, Md., Javan macaque.

Mrs. W. D. Thomas, Washington, D. C., coyote.

Miss Florence Thwaite, Washington, D. C., praying mantis.

Mrs. V. H. Todd, Washington, D. C., opossum.

Toledo Zoological Park, Toledo, Ohio, ball python.

Mr. and Mrs. Jos. Truitt, Washington, D. C., 2 ferrets.

A. B. Turner, Washington, D. C., sparrowhawk.

Dr. Titus Ulke, Washington, D. C., red-tailed hawk, red-shouldered hawk.

U. S. Biological Survey, through Mr. Kelso, Washington, D. C., Cooper’s hawk;
through Jos. Keyes, Sacramento, Calif., 5 yellow-billed magpies; through
C. C. Whitaker, Washington, D. C., bay lynx.

U. S. National Park Service, through E. A. Borrell, Grand Canyon, Ariz., Say’s
bull snake, 3 Holbrook’s or earless lizards, 2 whiptail lizards, blue-bellied
lizard.

Maj. Geo. L. Usher, U. S. A., alligator,
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY

59

Miss Edna L. Vogel, Washington, D. C., alligator.

Clifton A. Wagner, Chevy Chase, Md., red salamander.

Robert Wallace, Washington, D. C., osprey.

Walter Reed Hospital, through Major Reynolds, Washington, D. C., 3 rhesus

monkeys.

Mrs. L. T. Weir, Washington, D. C., alligator.

John Weismuller, Washington, D. C., southern skunk.

A. J. Wernig, Washington, D. C., opossum.

Dr. A. Wetmore, National Museum, Washington, D. C., flicker.

Chester Wetzel, Washington, D. C.,

2 sparrow hawks.

Master Tom White, Washington, D. C., milk snake.

B. O. Wilbanks, Washington, D. C., copperhead snake.
O. L. Wilkins, West Augusta, Va., 2 banded rattlesnakes.
W. D. Wills, Silver Spring, Md., praying mantis.

B. F. Wood, Washington, D. C., milk snake.

Mrs. M. E. Woodward, Washington, D. C., goose.

G. E. Worthington, Washington, D. C., alligator.

Donor unknown, red-breasted or Brazilian cardinal.

Births.—Vhere were 54 mammals born and 48 birds hatched in the
Park during the year. These include the following:

MAMMALS
Scientific name Common name Number
mmmotrages lereia.._._._____._.____. MOUMB OS 574 5 ee ee ee ee ee 4
DErennteLIm erst ye a eee oe lo. Axis Geer. 22225250 + 5st ee 2
SS ES eee Amorican: bison ==2..-. 20. eee 4
PERERA Oe Siberian ibex << a eo ee 2
PUMSERIIICOR UG. Sipe ett American elk or wapiti___._______ 1
Perwus duvaurelye: 22-88 (8 22 Barasingha deer. 222% . ep ees 1
ED OE a, fied deer == 22 sec ote aa) eae 5
EN 8 es Patlow deer +:< 0408.24 ore ee e;
Dolichotis patagonica._______________-_- Patagonian cCavy i.) {222k 1
aaa prrewalshkies 2-222} Mongolian wild horse_..________- 1
Equus quagga chapmani____-_-______- Chapman’s zebrasetoa.2 Sen Sse5e: 1
TD) Le eS a eee J eapnress SS Sate ee SEO en oe: 3
PR IISOMTICTINE a ew ee peer e oN n't be 2
merle Monaro ee Woodehuck<.~ 20: eres er ket a
Odocoileus virginianus______________-_- Virginia deer =~ =~. 22S 2 2b 2
Orye betsa annectens_.. 2-2 2. Thean' beisa, Oryzs..<-- cules Soe 1
LL SES GG CLES ES Se Japanese deer....22224288Lsu. 2a 4
maruroraguaorye 2 O28 ee Bland ..=+2==s2 D020 s0e eee 1
Thalarctos maritimus X Ursus gyas__-- Polarand Alaska brownbearhybrid 4
PII TET RR Seg get Tee eee Seek European brown bear____________ 1
MINS eee So Alaska Peninsula bear.__________ 2
Zalophus californianus_.....---------- California sea-lion__.........-_-- 1

BIRDS

Ardea herodias X A. occidentalis_______ Ey bridt hergy ses 2e: 62-5 a ke 3
mariws delawarensie__.___ 2. ss Ring-bitied:pull 2 1
Larus novaehollandiae___.____________- Silver get we eee en 13
Nycticorax nycticorax naevius__________ Black-crowned night heron. __-___- 26
ORMEND EAESEPIS EG en 28 hh te Lae D hay i tet deena aa ae al ae eae +
Phalacrocoraz auritus floridanus_.~---- Florida cormorant...._...-.-.... 1
60 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

Exchanges.—Notable additions obtained through the medium of
exchange were 2 fennecs, 7 Jackson’s bustards, an African black rail,
10 soft-shelled tortoises, 4 leopard tortoises, 2 puff adders and va-
rious small birds from Christoph Schulz, Arusha, East Africa. A
black leopard was obtained from Ellis Joseph, New York City.
From the Staten Island Zoo, through the Director, Carol Stryker,
a shipment of especially rare specimens was received, including 4
mountain pit vipers, 6 sea snakes, 2 gliding snakes, 2 mangrove
snakes, 8 Malay spitting cobras, and 6 prairie rattlesnakes.

Purchases.—Important purchases during the year were a pair of
solenodons, a Grevy’s zebra, and a trio of gayals, the latter the first
ever exhibited at the Park.

REMOVALS

Deaths.—Important losses by death during the year include two
jackass penguins, three pumas, a Chapman’s zebra, a California sea-

lion, and a lion.
During the year 406 specimens that died were sent to the National

Museum.

ANIMALS IN COLLECTION THAT HAD NOT PREVIOUSLY BEEN EXHIBITED

MAMMALS
Scientific name Common name
TEYNG) ff AOL OUGH I a ee eee Gayal.
Retishsylpestrign a * fucka ae) 202 as ae Old World wildcat.
Desmodus rotundus murinus_———----------------. Vampire bat.
BIRDS

Dissemurus paradiseus-—-- = 22 ee. Giant racquet-tailed drongo.
Hypomorphnus urubitinga____-__----------------. Brazilian eagle.

REPTILES
Deiroptyx vermiculatus_____--_----------------- Diving anolis lizard.
WGOti CGua Gs COULUTING 22a = a ee Sea snake.
NGG AG0G2- 2 a ee eet See ee, Golden cobra.
Sepedon haemachates____—---------------------- Rhingal or spitting cobra.
Trimeresurus monticola___-—-------------------- Mountain pit viper.

Statement of the collection
Woda oN eine eee HA Mite 1

Received
Pre- Pur- On
Class sented Born P ge| chased deposit Total
WMammals =. 2 2. .2.2chaenomece cesta eeose es 46 54 5 45 14 164
Birds sess. seco eaeccensteccc pee eed 75 48 26 119 3 271
RG DEUOS Seen en ee ee eee Ch eee 44 68 4 257
Ani phibians tase ne ese aa ane ae Cli) eee a ee ae 7 ee 60
Bishieg aoe Sree ee oe eee OK erate oe eee LOK eseseleSes 20
Arachnidgs 5.22) oo cesses Sees a nee aon a | ee Cn RAS ereerel | erro enn | ener 9
Crustaceans soo a eee oes SD) | Gry atest oa, wall OS | OR a Pere ee 2
ISO Che oe eee ee eee nena ann eaee ee aE | eee | See | a ee 3
Totaleosa- 2 soaceewosesseses3 sss eee 326 102 75 262 21 786
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 61

Summary
Animalsponehands duly lo dOG5: = 2s ee ee eee ee 2,170
Accessions( during, the years. 22 Seer es fees k oe eee 786
Totalsanimals in collectionadurine year as ee 2, 956
Removal from collection by death, exchange, and return of animals on
TICS DOYS Ir ee i ee ae ee 765
inacolection: sane 30 10862-2522 ee ee ee 2,191

Status of collection

Class Species india Class Species ae
MVEIIH AIS ee eee 173 6205|| Insects: 2-3-2 - -- bee 2 21
1B WO ES aoe 2 eee 310 900>|| IMobtusks-*9s2222222 222-2 a= 1 2
12 GV) 1 er ee 128 366:)}|' Crustaceans-.. --=--..2-2258 1 2
Au phibianss2 29222 s2 2222S 22 29 184 | --
“Nc litt Se ae 28 184 Potabe p= = eth ol ae 675 2, 191
J APETV (0 Cee ee eee 3 3
ANIMALS IN THE NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK, JUNE 30, 1936
MAMMALS
Marsupialia:
Didelphis virginiana___________--- Opossum _ =. J. eee eee 6
Carnivora:
Gonisilaivanstz22e62 0020 = Ub | Coyote SRS stay GERM. oh es 8
Al bINOTCOYOtC== = === ee eee 1
Canis latrans X domesticus_-_______ Coyote dog hybrid_.__________ 2
MIS COONS 2 ees weet elo yet ‘Timber wolls =. 2< ste ees oe 2
Cangsinuuiuss = — sas. oe Sen Plains: wolf. = <= 2 = teste ee ee 8
Canis nubilus X domesticus___-_-_- Wolf. dog. hybrid. -a4.855-1.0) 1
eimsacyon Juvara. 2 — 2 2-28 Maned. wolf... 5.2 32 She 1
Wesreriichts ClyeiG 5-2 eae e wath! Civet..2 3 e~ ee) oe 1
Crocuta crocuta germinans__-____ ~~ East African spotted hyena-______-_ 1
Euarctos americanus___-_______--- American black,;beares3 25. -t..3:3 6
Euarctos emmonsit___...-_-_.-_-- Glacier bears 922 2-24 245-eee 2
NOC T Lt a aes 2) See eee oP ere Siamese€:cat..5 24. =) Seas eee 2
Felis concolor azteca___________--_- Mexican, puma. «4-2 )eire a5 50 3
Felis concolor oregonensis__--____-_- PMG) ee ee eh pa tae 2
ay a Seg PE ere gre Tilone es ee ee ee ee ee 6
F Jaguate oe = -seerre oe ape 4
LE aia Sead ieee cfEe ULES 2 Be et ae date eas 2
F Leopard. 02 22 jens ant settee! 2
Nala tah ci ee leopatd Assi Shen anne ewe! 1
MICUISRSCTUOL Se. J ee ees pon Servalses ses 25 eee ae ey ece 1
LUG UO UTC LG aE Se Ae Sas Old. World swildeats2. 22-204. 22 2° 1
CLES LE NUNAN CNet Ahly eee Golden. caf; 3 specs te 5 eee 8 1
elie tigris longtpilte ss 233: Se ee Siberian tiger. <-o--4%et seen 2
Felas tagris sondaicugsas- 224524 ne = Sumatran tiger: <2 2 -otefse) ee 2 2
BeEnnecus Zev da. = oh ote al ad ot) SOF Nennee st 5 oi! op yay te te eek 2
Galictis barbara barbara__________- Wihite: tayra .— 2 iat dns! Sed bee 2
Genetia dongalana neumanni___-___- Neumann s genet===—- == sess oa ]
Helarctos malayanus___-----_---_- Malay or sun bear_..______--_--- 1
62 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

MAMMALS—continued

Carnivora—Continued.
Herpestes birmanicus__.---------- Burmese mongoose-.--..-------- 1
diyaena brunnea. 52-5. 4224+ Brown hyena eves. (645. 5 Sree 2
Lutra canadensis vaga_----------- Pidhidalovtert 27:08 Ae Mua Aaa 2
Dycaore purrs. 2. MSs 2 OR eee Cape hunting dogtioye2 mnt ine 1
Lyne batleyies oe ee Sete Bailey's lynkew22 s-es2sceszs see 1
LYNE CATacdl. RAP sa hey. Bee ee Waracal oi) 525s ween ek Shwe ee 1
Tiygig rapes Ss te oe Se Oe Bay lynxacoie. Sees. 3. See 5
Mellivora capensis_= = ib 22 see 28 Ratelts.<o-ees a2 t Sop eps 1
Mephitis nigra ee eee SHC b EGY ean hare One ay ee repays 4
Mustela evensmannt..<- 22. =. .==- Perret ent ou Se ee kee 5
ONSITE MURT TGs 2 eee are en ee Gray*costimundis =. = 3
Niraiva relent ee ot ee Nelson’s coatimundi__.---.--___- 1
Nyctereutes procyonoides..-__----- Reeécoon Gog.) — se2es aes 1
Otoeyon megalois._—_ see iong-earedifiox.<' 5-557 502.2223 1
PPOLORERAUUSS 2 i = 2s Se ee RGnkAjOuRa oo eae ee ene 2
Procyon cancrivorus {= === 224. 222 - Crab-eating raccoon... .---.=—-- 1
aL foie Loe Pet, Os foe PACE OOH CS are ene ere 4

hacecoons le 322-2 Sea eee 17

Spilogale ambarvalis_..._-.-..---- Southern skunk____-__.2_-___-_- i!
Thalarctos maritimus___---------- POn DEAP. oa ee ee eee 2
Thalarctos maritimus X Ursus gyas- Polar X Alaska brown bear hybrid_ 3
Urocyon cinereoargenteus----_---- Gray fox4 0222.53.22) 5
Ussusiarctosso2a5 222325. ae European brown bear_-_---.------ 4
SUS tgs sok a 2 ee Alaska peninsula brown bear---_--- 4
Uraus kidderto- 72. 22 2 5 Kidder’ s: bear so a ee 2
Unrsusimiddendonfin. =o eee Kodiak bears 25s ta 2) 3
Ursus: sitkensisuins s: Suse A Seay Or Sitka brown) bearah2¢ sieytab ete 3
Ursus thibetanus..- =. 22082 Jue Himalayan: bear.2.=2-=182222 Sue 1
Viverra megaspilas <== 2-212 Sas Indian palm civet..... 52 sy ss See 3
Vulpessfulva.. = 04 Bol. eee Red foxs Ses seuene_ 2. Sela Bees 8

Pinnipedia:
Eumetopias jubatus__------------ Steller’s. searlion: {2 o0hesh eee 1
Phoca riéhirdn 2 I9o3 Seale Ae: Pacific harbor sealSo_ Strasse oyae2 3
Zalophus californianus__-----_--- California ‘sea, lionlus seas eevee 2

Primates:
Cehsis:apellaeies «j...- SIO. Cena Brown.capuchines:22.... 2s 1
Cebusscapucinus....- 80st eiees White-throated capuchin __-_-_____- 5
Cebusijatuclluss 225. 2255.2 eee Weeping capuchint 222 sa2225 558 4
Cebtasps ye 28 Stes Je 52-2 808 Gray. capuchine 9-24. 22. Lee as 2
Cercocebus fuliginosus____----_--- Sooty mangabey 2. 2+ =e 4
Cercopithecus albigularis_._-_-__-_- pyikes's’euenon..2- 50.5) see 2
Cencopithecus brazzae=ss222 tee DeBrazza’s guenon_..-_.-------- 1
Cercopithecus callatrichus_-_----_-- Green suenon? = 5.= fae ndes cee 3 eee 3
Cercopithecus diana.=.+==<-2-8222 Diana. monkey#e-5.222.023 55282 1
Cercopithecus griseoviridis____-___- Grivets¢monkey22-222 25 2
Cercopithecus petaurista____-_____ Lesser white-nosed guenon_______- 2
Cercopithecus roloway__-_.-------- Roloway monkey 2242229. £0212222 1
Colobus-caudatus...=--WRis Bee aie White-tailed guereza_____-______- 1
Colobus ‘polycomus-—- -==222 22 White-tailed colobus____-----__-- 1
Lagothrix lagotricha_.__..-------- Woolly mionkey2ue_ Sine eee 1
Lemur vartuss 2.2 Aes 2 eee Ruffed lemurs Seu eae SEARS 1
Leontocebus geoffroyi.-.---------- Marmosets.2+...8Nseouniied soigenas 2

a.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY

MAMMALS—Continued

Primates—Continued.
Macaca fuscatase2sa228 i. Oe
VER CACO MNOTdAt a= eset SE BAS

IVE CONG PS ein ae are ce Hea CAP TNS
Wrage wunuruss. Soi. ee
Mandrillus leucophaeus_____-_----
Mandrillusisphings 222205 hs 2S
UZOTICOLUESCOTS ates en wt ened
ONTSOLNTUS so 2 oes ae a eT
EE PIONOMUDIS ee ee ae ee eres SE
Papie cynocephatuss 22-2 2 28
EOD NOMGOTYASs oa so See ae
EGDLOV DOT CATUUS eee ae eS
POUG OV LUE L sat nant Ne Re RENE
Symphalangus syndactylus__.-----
iheranuhecus geladaqu sss. — We ae
Rodentia:
Acanthion brachyurum___.--------
Capromys piulorwdes=se 22222 eee
Waster canndensts 222 S22 ols
(COME DOT COLUUS Sees er IS
Gitelluskmolliss = Seer Benes ee
Cuniculus paca virgatus__._-------
Cynomys ludovicianus____--------
Dasyprocta:rubratases 2 tees ees
Dolichotis megallanica___.--------
Doelchovis salinicolas=s 2 == 222-22"
Glaucomiys volans.— 520 22 2
EIST e TAG CLEA een ee ee ee

Marmota monat==.2--2—- == ==

Rivackstor COUP saa ew
PA POPTOCUA Spot ne ee a eae
DICEULRE [NIANSON 8 oF. Se SS =
Sciurus hoffmani sub. sp__--------
PICLUnUeisger nan see Ie AA ET.
AERC TEMIS pire ee eek et te SAT
Lagomorpha:
Oryctolagus cuniculus_...--------
Artiodactyla:
Ai pyceros melampus suara___------
PAM MOMAGUSILCT DIC = a oe en
ANGURAEDESSICOTNUSS Seen ee nee
ALLAN e CEnVICl Prasanna
PACT SULLTS ate eee Aa ee ee
PSAUIRUSSONALLUTUS ee oe
PARTITE SUL eS See ne eae ee eee
PSOSHITONLOLES ene tee ae
TR Pa Se Dal a, ar pepe ep

Chimpanzee.» le Seno
Chimpanzees 2/232 Os Fehon oeh
Amibis PALOOT LIU IFS) FIR ON
Golden*ba boone 2: 2 = == ji5 sa 2
Hamadryas baboon™s-2222e54222=
Chaenias 227 BE Es Be SRN
Sumatran orangutan____________-
Siamarng gibbons) 24 Sy iey
Gelada baboon s22.25- 5-2 a Bi

Domestic guiiiea-pig= 25. 2l8S Se
Utahsocround squirrel === se eee
Central American paca_._____-_--
Praia’ dogs: hs Fe ae ee
Trintdadtacoutize == eae
* Patagonian cavy Soo oe Pee
Dwartcavysoc Se Se es
Blying squirrels 2525222 es
East African porcupine_____-____-
(eae or groundhog___.-__-_
Albino woodchuck or groundhog__-_

Hofiman’s7squirrels=2) es eess >a
Foxsquirre] == es tae eh ee
Squirrel ee teens te Ae

[Domestic rabbit: <<< 22 a
[Angora TAD bites eee ee oe ee

East African impalla___..-..___=-
AGUA ee eneerenemn a acmm = se Sears

Black buck or Indian antelope----
AISA CCT amare ey atE es eee eae

jor)
ie)

me Re DR OO OO Ok Ob

bo

WwW NDR KH OR KD KP NWWeE PE ROONNHE NE NK KW DD DY
64 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

MAMMALS—continued
Artiodactyla—Continued.
Boselaphus tragocamelus- _-------- Nilesh oe Ss ae iad ee eee
Bubalusibubalis 2 ee Indian buffalo: 2252.24. =e
Camelusivacintanusss =e ee iBactranicamel= ssa ee
Camelus dromedarius__--.-------- Arabian or single-humped camel__-
Caprasstbiricd= 22-23 3342 3284548 Siberian ibex222 52 = - 4-47 5 ee
Cervus-canadens?$ 3.54 American elk or wapiti____._____-
Cenuitsrdunauceltt ae 2 ae ee Barasinghasois ya ee ee
Geroustclaphuses-ss oo ee Huropean red deers 2222-25 s2
Gerpusizanthopyguse= eee a ee Bedford deeras22 5-2. a= eae Se
Choeropsis liberiensis__----------- Pigmy hippopotamus_-___________
Counochoetesnonis ae eee White-tailed gnu________________
Connochaetes taurinus_—_--------- Brindledtonws==2 5. ees
Connochaetes taurinus albojubatus_._ White-bearded gnu_--_----------
Bus Gas fen aes Geer 2 59 ee ait ee
Biche wean habe eely, White fallow deers... 82s eee
Hemitragus jemlahicus______------ AP Ro oe ee ee lee ee
Hippopotamus amphibius --_------- Hippopotamus 2226). - 2-2 ee
Finelamlia: norcinusio) see ae Hogtdeers S55 oso a Ee ee
EOmaxglamGen i=. ease ae Jamas 225 sosee keke eee ee
amashuanucus see 5 === eee Guanseos sos esc ee See Se cea
Miunitacis simensts2 5225 2-2 ea Barking or rib-faced deer__-____-___
Odocoileus costaricensis_-__-_-_----- Costa ‘Rican deero2i2 "20 27a
Odocoileus virginianus___--_-_---- Vircinia..deer: + 22-42-5522 eee
Onolragustlechee- =. ee oe ee Lecheeantelope: 2202-25422) es
Oryza bevsaannectens.-2 3. 238 Tbhean  beisajoryx22 Set eee
OQuisieuropacuss=s.= =e ee Mouflon. 82221 .ee s20 Sots eae
ecart anguietusss. 32225... Collaredpeceary. s#s2.4235- 42555"
Phacochoerus aethiopicus massaicus_ East African wart hog__________-_
Poephagus grunniens__-..---_---- Wig ok 221 fal ei ten 2
IE UCEnUUSTClAtDa ae no Nee Burmeserdéers 2) 2.25.4. ee go
TUUSGYANOVLECENS TS = ee Molucca) deer 4255 52 425446 Ss ee
arganatartca. 225s eg Saiga antelope=] 22228522 eee
Sthaintp pons S95 er. LP a ee Japanese: deers.) bes ee ee
SUSKSCTOf se ee ee ye ae Buropean’wild-boars22.2" 3322
aon OG UStOT NT Ea ees oes ee Blandi) 2 Se 20 8 oo 4 eee
Mayassupecarts2 2. ty. Seen White-lipped peccary____------.--
Perissodactyla:
Di cerosbicornis* 4, 55 Sie ee Black rhinoceros.0)) 22 beers a8
TL QUUS: GF COU GS ae ae per ee Grevy sizebrate a! 2. 52-3 abe
Equus grevyi-asinus. = 222 ee Zebra-ass hybrids. =. 2-2-5 55
Equus grevyt-caballus________-____- Zebra-horse hybrid____-___---_--
gus Onag en etre more e Saree Asiatic wild ass or kiang____-__-__-
BQuusiprZewalshit===s = ae ee Mongolian wild horse___________-
Equus quagga chapmant___--__--- Chapman's) Zebra soa.
TIO SETA Gs ee eee Mountain, zebra -o2---* ee
Tapincllacbatrditss sees hoe se os Baird’s tapiri2225- 3 ek ee
Raoinustiennestnis see ae Brazilian tapire 992 2 eee es
Proboscidea:
Blemhasindicusse. 22 2 sae Indian elephants.22 244...
Elephas sumairanus.. 2-22 222822) Sumatra ‘elephant’ 2-2-2
Lozodonta africana oxyotis__...___- African’ elephant. —.- --252--see2o4
Edentata:

Choloepus didactylus_.__...------- Two-toed sloth....--- 22s 2es5 =

—

—
NONNMNNNK RPWWANHE DONE NNTNF PR DWWONENNNAKHN RP WR HDD

—"

me BD OO DD DD OR et Re et

—

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 65

BIRDS

Ratitae:
Casuarius unipendiculatus_______- Single-wattled cassowary _ -------- 1
Dromiceius novaehollandiae______-- Common" eniys ee 4 a eS eS 2
Tunea @Meviconad 2 eo SE Common rhea or nandu_-_-_-_-_-_-__-_- 1
ISR tazEL IL. ONC CLIVE L ILS nee ee ee Ostrich tse h ac see ee oe ea lls 2

Pelecaniformes:
AnMhing@ ONRING@. 2-2 --— 225-2525 SANIT ants epg ae eae eee Sis pe 2
Nannopterum harrist_..-.---- = __ Flightless cormorant__......--_-- 2
Pelecanus calijornicus. = - 222 = 2 California brown pelican___-___-__- 2
Pelecanus conspicillatus_____-----_- ANIStrslianopell canes pe =a 1
Pelecanus erythrorhynchos____~---- American white pelican_____--_-- 8
Pelecanus erythrorhynchos X_ P.

DECLOCIILOLUS eee eee Hybridipelican= =. aaa = 1
elecanusiocciaentalis=_—_--------__, browm pelican. =] 222) 2222 see 4
Pelecanus onacrotalus______-_-_--- HTopean! pelicans === eee 3
PCLECOMUS ROSCUS Se a eee Rose-colored pelican____________- 2
Phalacrocorax aurtius albociliatus.___ Farallone cormorant_-______---_-- 2
Phalacrocoraz aurttus floridanus__-. Florida cormorant-__-___-_------ 3
STU Ta a 0 1 tei i BR pe Blue-footed booby__-_-..----.---- 1

Ciconiiformes:
PARE IOGear Roseate spoonbills 2 50 42 ee 1
PANIC HET OTIS oa es Oe Great bluerieron == === ane 1
Ardea herodias < A. occidentaits___. Heron hybrid=____ 2-2 ----_-2__. 2
Ayden octtaentalis...-—- 225 Great white heron... 22-.~.< 2
PTMUNEMACE DS TEL Oo = 2 Shoe-brll theroms. so Ss ye 1
Cochlearius cochlearius__.--------- Doshi heros sys ee ee 3
DSeUnG CTASCO PUSS > ose Woolly-necked stork___---_------ 1
Ephippiorhynchus senegalensis __-__- - Saddle-billed stork_...____._-_---- 1
Rc TREGRRLOL 2 oer Se ee iy White ibis 22225229 02 Pere is adores 5
Guarda qua, <°G. rubra... 2.2. Hybrid scarlet—white ibis_------- 1
EN ee ek SS he Searletitiois. 7s 02 oo a atk  we a a ale 2
TEROOLASHEQT CGM a ee eee eee AMETICRT C2Tets se as eae are I
Leploptilus crumentferus_--------- Maribouls so ne ere aera 1
Lepionigus dubtus.-__._-.-.-=.--.= Indian adjutant: = 2. 222%ed¢e=<22=° 1
Leptoptilus javanicus___..._------- Lesseradjutant >= <=9 = 2020s e ew 2
Mycteria americana...-..-.-.----- Wood Ibis!) 4. he seen hae 1
Nycticorax nycticorax naevius_____- Black-crowned night heron__-_---- 50
EGDUAMMOUTENG. 225 M2 ks te or Hammerticad ™ 224s 22 ve ee oe 1
Threskiornis aethiopicus-_-—-------- acted ibiee sso tee eee eee 2
Threskiornis melanocephalus - --- -_- Black-headed! ibis= 2-2 33-5 2
Anseriformes:
Lies STE IE ay aes RUN a a Wood din@le: au 2 it a en el oe 6
Alopochen aegyptiacus__---------- Bey Polat 2 O OSC a ee eee ee 2
PATUSECONREStLEO Se ot en es ee Pe ksinte? direct hares 5 es ye 4
Anas platyrhynchos. =o lcovame Gata ee! Cp
PATLOUSEP LOT. DOSE nett ee a Black or dusky mallard__-------- 2
TATEGS CLEA ee African yellow-billed duck___-_---- 2
ATSET LORIE ONO re ee es er American white-fronted goose----- 3
Anser brachyrhynchus__---------- Pink-footed goose.....=.--=---.--- 1
JN EGP UAT Ree Se SS ee Beam PO0Se ae se eras eS aan 3
Branta bernicla glaucogastra_-_-_---- DSP EVT Ue ee eae sen a yea 3
Brana canagdenstss2_2- 2a. 2 eae Wanada go0se! seo soe = 6
66 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

BIRDS—continued
Anseriformes—Continued.
Branta canadensis hutchinsti______- Eutchin:sie00ses =e ees
Branta canadensis minima__------- Careline COse= se Se ee
Branta canadensis occidentalis_____ White-cheeked goose_______.____-
Bron LEuco pets =o eee eee ae Bamacle -poosen. so. a =
COMRENGITOSCRONG == ans te ee IMIS © Oyen UG Kee ere
Gasarca variegaia == 2 ae ee Para diserduc ke serena errr eee
Cereopsis novaehollandiae____-_---- Cereopsis or Cape Barren goose_ _-_
CREM OURTIRECA en ee ene SNOW COOSE 05> een ere
CHEN CAChULESCETIS Bae ee Blue Po0se.2 Sen ee ee
CHENDPUS Gira dee = ae a ee Blacks wane = 2202s. sees a ee frites
Chloephaga leucoptera__...__------- Wapellan fo0se: a=) 2s ee ee
CUGNODSIS CHQNOTACS= 2 mee ee Chinese g00se. 2. eee eee
Cygnusicolumotanisege = ee AV VEAL GLa yy Tae a pete
COUGHS OL = a a ria eee a Miurte swans a ese ae eee
DOO ACUI Cs ae ee en Pinta liduckss as) = ee eee
DD tplOnO Gane st sare eee Bahaman pintail_—______- pete yf 3
Daa CO COLE see a ae Pinca WY bUG2-—-. 2-2) =e oe ees
Denadrocygnananoone@e ==. se Black-billed tree duck__._____-_-_-
Dendrocygna autumnalis___------- Black-bellied tree duck_____._-_-_-
Dendrocygna viduaia= == 225-222 2= White-faced tree duck___________-
Dendronessa galericulata________-_- NM Teal evens CU Keay eee ee
WC LOLUSUSKEN LON = = een BayGOTY SeUTEe KCC Kee ae ee a eee
Marca a Mentcants | oe eee Baldpate sos. ess. oe apes A pte ihe 2
INEQEREN PUPAL remy sae ee eee ee ee OTINGCO/ZOOKCL Ee 2. ese ee
Nesochen sandvicensis__---------- a wallaneSOOSC ss
WNetivoriicanolinensta == aan eae Green-winged teal___--__-_-__._-
INQ ROLER OME QUIS: ISA is eo ee as IESSEN SCAU se yas sane eee mene
INyroca americana... == 2 ae Redheads: = oss -s cee ener
INO CORCOLLG 1 See ee ITI — MCC KG UC Keer ee ae
INA ROCO VAlisinentdenane 2 ae ee @anvasbackrdic keeety are eee
(PRUGCLe CONGQICG == hen tee IRmiPeTOr SOOSC ee oe ees
Plectropterus gambensis_--______-- Spur-winged coosesssse ss. eae
Querquedula cyanoptera_________-- Cinmaimownces le ee
ONEKOUCMIE AtSCOTS = <2 en ee Blue=winged teallas 222 a eee
Sarkidiornis melanota__-—--_------ Comb duck 2-225. - Saas ee
ROA ORI CCOT 1 Oe ee Shelldrakeza. 2 one ce a ae eee
Falconiformes:
Aeguprus monachus. ——_- 2 Cinereous vulture_-_-__------- ators
YANTIERUNON LUTION Se, SE 5 BUA) ss Golden eagle: 2 eee eee
WSULCONUOTEAT IA = oe ae eee Red-tailed naw: ==. are emeee
US ULCOMUNCOLUS = ie re eee Red-shouldered hawk --_-_--_-_----
TSULCO PLAY DUCTUS «ors ie Broad-winged hawk_____-_-_-_----
US LCORSIOCUIUS ONY Ue SNF TOSTONALATH OE yO a a ee ae
COtneaTVCSNOUr Ge ce ae eae DUPKE Ys VULGINO se ene eee aren
Coragy ps ainGlus.os. o- ee eee Black vulture. - Sec sSenaeur Sas
PECUCONQUOTQ IELTS sat epee eee ae White-throated bat-falcon_______-
WEQICOSPOTHCTIUS. ee ae Sparrow WAWKsu3s oso see ee eure
Gymnogyps californianus__.___---- Califormacondon=ss= === ae
Gypaetus barbatus grandis________- Wammenrg ey erase eee
Gps CUCH CUI en aa ee ee Ruppell's vulburesas see sae er
TIGUASIUT ANGUS ele ee ern ot Malay brabminy kite 222-2" oo.

Haliaeetus leucocephalus_..—------ Bald vesgle:: 522262645 se eee

=
See OO NWR RK RR EP NWN N KK ROR EF ON WW RK ONE KEK Wr OK RP

eC a aC a ar a Clon

(op)
=I

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY

BrRDS—continued
Falconiformes—Continued.

Hypomorphnus urubitinga_-_------ Brazilianvesoles= 22 ss 2 1
Milvus migrans__.....----------- Yellow-billed Kite... ==... =< 1
Pandion haliaétus carolinensis - - ~~ - Osprey7or nshhawkese= 2 =e 1
Polthierax semitorquatus_-_-------- African pigmy falcon.._—-—-_.._ -- 3
Polyborus cheriway_....-.-------- Audubon’s caracara___.-----_---- 2
FOlDOLUS! PIANCUS. see tee Sh ee South American caracara_-_______-_ 1
Stephanoaetus coronatus_..-------- Crowned hawk-eagle_---_-_-_---- 1
Heros tracnenoLus= | 2 2 as eae African eared-vulture____-______- 1
CUOOEHES CLOG 2 = Ate sent aT Wedge-tailed eagle___.__.__________ 1
aru orypnus. 2 ers babi sate South American condor_-___-____ 1
Galliformes:

Micctoris graecd..— 2 ec. See Greek ‘partridgest = 42 oes 2
PAM TU STOMUSEOl US == 2 = = eee ATCUSHPNEASANG === 5 = 5 = =e aan 2
Conhasts elliot sh ot Be Hiliot’s pheasants 225-04 ss 1
Chrysolophus amherstiae_--------- Lady Amherst’s pheasant_-____-___-_ 3
Chrysclophus amherstiaeX Syrmati-

EULGETCCDERT OEE Sete tein wel V2 ape shat h) de Rgoydie lei tee eee eee es eee Ree 2
Chrysolophus pictus __------------ Golden pheasant&s 2-2. = s 4
Calinus virginianus 2222. = --22-5 4. Ob wHitel 3 > Bie bee at 1
Cre LOULCET De ae ee an Ek i Mexicancurassowset ==2 2° = 2 1
rer GOD ULOse_ sere re | psy od Spix’s wattled curassow--__-_-_-_- 2
Craz panamensis_.- = 22 222.2) 25. Panama curassow= 2 = = =.=. --2 1
Crossoptilon mantchuricum- ------- Brown eared-pheasant_-_--_---_--- 1
Gennaeus lineatus___ 222 2-bLes Lineated pheasant__-.-_-.....___ 3
Gennaeus nycthemerus_.---------- Silver pheasante- fe faa ee 2
Gennaeus nycthemerus bellii_------ Bell’s silver pheasant_.....______- 1
Hierophasis swinhoet_-_---------- Swinhoe’s pheasant____-.-------- 4
Lophophorus impeyanus___-------- Himalayan Impeyan pheasant__.__ 2
Meleagris gallopavo___..---------- Demestic turkeys. 2425.7 4.7 1
Per ars ety ee he Ok kee Razor-billed curassow--_.-------- 1
SENG a ee es es Salvinits CurassOWes-—--- => 225 ee 1
Numida mitrata reichenowi-_------- Reichenow’s helmeted guinea fowl. 3

: Blue: peafowles!== = 4. 5. 54s 4
Pavo cristatus__------------------ ce peatawie sco a eee ce 1
PRUHEMOMI TES ts A= Be no Green’ pesfowlSte 22 22 ae 2
Penelope boliviana__..-..--------- Gréested puan2=¢ ee 1
Phasianus torquatus____-.-------- Ring-necked pheasant_-_-___-_-_- 10
rInGirens TeevEste: eee ces} Redve’s pheasaite. 756 4 ns 3

Gruiformes:

PAUERTO DOLACS VIGO 2 aaa eae Demoiselle:crane.— 5-2-5 4
Antigone antigone._...----------- Sartis'cranes2eL 2 kee 1
Antigone australasiana______------ Auistraliany Crane sea wee oe 1
Balearica: pavoning._.= 3242-22225) West African crowned crane- ----_- 1
Balearica regulorum gibbericeps..-- East African crowned crane_-_----- 1
LUT DY OO RELULS oe ee A een a Stn bitterness ate eet bee 2
Pulicatemertcanas: | sive oidssth OGG Dae eke ae tt 1
Gallinula chloropus cachinnans..--- Woridaigallinules sess 1
Grus canadensis tabida______------ Sandhllcrane ses see ee es 1
Gris leucniuchéte 2258 42 a be White-naped crane___.....------ ]
Grus leucogeranus_...__--_-------- Siberian erane soe es es ak 2
Limnocoraz flavirostra....-------- Advicee TRC PANS no ek 3
Ces Capris MIG See sali tS Denham's bustard:2 2.2. --.~.22 1

112059—37——6
68 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

BIRDS— continued
Gruiformes—Continued.

Otis cajra jacksont= 22-222) 2 Jackson's bustard) 222 e es
POnpiyrtOmelanovusee a New Zealand mud hen---------- 1
Porphyrio poliocephalus_----------- Gray-headed porphyrio___----_--- 2
Peopniacrepuans 22. ae ee ee Gray-backed trumpeter- - ------- 1
Charadriiformes:
Belonopterus cayennensis_-_--------- South American lapwing-------- 1
Haematopus ostralegus_-_----------- European oyster catcher-_-_-_------ 2
TT GEUSHON OG CII CUES Hering cule ee 3
Larus atrictlia 222 ee ee ee Laughing: gull... 2eee. sos 2
Larus delawarensts. 22 222s SS S222 Ring-billed gull... eters. ses 4
Larus novaehollandiae-_--~---------- Sliver gulls 222 22-22. 49
Orus Tratbunaus. = eee. See ee European gulls. eee Se 1
PRMOMachusipUugnag =e Ruff S-. e eee eeee 2
DARCtOphorus teChusee es a es oe Black-headed plover------------ 1
Columbiformes:
Caloenas nicobarica_....---------- Nicobar pigeon222205 4255 1
Colambaguineal2 22 Triangular-spotted pigeon - ------ 1
Columba leucocephala__------------ White-crowned pigeon - -_-------- 1
Columbateuconota= = =) 22 ee TLibetan:pigeon 225325 so = 2
Columba veltimbus= = soe eee Wood! pigeon.22 = 2-2 ee 2
Cokunvaspe ts Seas ae Archangel pigeon... 3924 22n aes 2
Colmba spe cee eases est ee Fan-tailed pigeon___------------ 2
Gouravsclatert 22 oe ee Sclater’s crowned pigeon-------- 1
Leptoiilamujartias 2s ae ee scaled pigeon 3.325 225 ease 1
Ocyphapslophotess=2> 222s tee aie Crested pigeon? 2324525522523 1
Pieroclesvontentalisen = 2 eee Oriental sandgrouse_-__--_-------- 2
SineplOnelsantsOriae soe eae eae Ring-necked doves 222 422 2222= 6
Streptopelia senegalensis_-_--------- East African ring-necked dove__. 2
Purtur'12s0rtusa 2 Cone Feb Purtledove js 428 Sse sees 4
* Lenatdura macroura____------224+- West Indian doves= 2-2-2832 2228 3
Cuculiformes:
Centropus'sinensig=— = 22) eae Sumatranicoucal =e 2s == ee 1
Crotophaga ani 2-0 ee eet Ani or Savanna cuckoo-__-_------- 2
GuculusicanonUs= eee eee European cuckoo.- 22-22 22----- 2
Psittaciformes:
Agapornis lihanaes= 220205, 22 ee Nyasss lovebind.2252235 55 52eer 2
Amazona-albtfrons22 = 222 tebe e et White-fronted parrot__---------- 4
Amazona amazonica_____---------- Orange-winged parrot_-_-_-------- 2
Amazona araustaca._.-.-----.---- Bouquet’s parrot==--=--2-s235"5 1
Amazona auropalliata___---------- Yellow-naped parrot_----------- 7
AMAZONG JOrtNOSd ease ee ee ee Mealy parrot]: 3224-se: seeesee 1
Amazone festival 2.22202 322 Aes Restive parrot: $22.55 sake ays 1
Amazona leucocephala___---------- Cubaniparrots< soy es ese 1
Amazona ochrocephala_._---------- Orange-fronted parrot---_------- 3
Amazcona OChiO Dien denne ee Yellow-shouldered parrot-------- 3
AMAZONG OTOuie 4 Vente ee Double yellow-headed parrot-_---- 5
Amazona ventfaliss "22 22e. Sa Santo Domingo parrot---------- iF
Amazona viridigenalis____--------- Red-crowned parrot------------ 3
Anodorhynchus hyacinthinus-------- Hyacinthine macaw------------- 1
Aprosmictus erythropterus-_-.------- Crimson-winged paroquet- -- - --- 1
Ara araraung= se bee Se Yellow and blue macaw--------- 4
AT AVNOCh0sss oe Soe See Red, yellow, and blue macaw_--- 4
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY

for)
co

BIRDS—continued
Psittaciformes—Continued.

Ara maracana__.---------------- Tiger stmacawec-e) eos SUS es 4
Ara.mexicana.....=+--=+2--2. ----- Mexican green macaw-_-_.-__.____- 3
Decr ROEDER Ore mao Ne A Severe macaw: 2.2. 1
Aratinga jendaya_-----_---_-_--- Jendayseonuret) i222 Se ME 1
Aratinga holochlora___--_-__----_- White-eyed parrot______________- 2
Aratinga solstitialis. ---_.___-___- Yellow-parpquet<s. 24 5l i woms 2
Brotogeris jugularis_---.--------- Toyi'paroquet2 ule s/he Serre e 2
Goraconsismigndae se eee Lesser:vasarparrotee-2 "22. esa oe 1
Cyanopsittacus spizi..--....------ Spimsamacawen.- feo Ss PR ee 3
Deroptyus accipitrinus_-_-___---_- Hawk-head parrot. 2) 22s" PT 8ets 1
Eolophus roseicapillus----_-_-_--_- Roseate cockatoozsaote" eo Yes 6
Bosizetieulate. 22 doh ie ou es Blue-eared lory2222 0) Ueto eure: 2
TERRES Try, eo ein ns Pac ce ORM Red dloryerctie EE EOE 1
Bupatiiule aurea. 5.22280 Joo  - Golden-crowned paroquet--.-____ 1
Eupsittula canicularis_-_-___----- Petz'sparoquet: ===> Se eee 2
Morpus quianensts. £2020. 2522 522 Green-rumped parrotlet__________ 1
Wakaioe: galertiag. 022 22 9528) 2 Sulphur-crested cockatoo_________ i
Kakatoe leadbeateri___--_--------- Leadbeater’s cockatoo___________- 2
Kakatoe moluccensis_------------- Great red-crested cockatoo_-______ 1
meariatoc suphurea is Sire Lesser sulphur-crested cockatoo___ 1
Leptolophus novaehollandicus - - - - -- Cocksteelaaneee UI Be ee 2
Melopsittacus undulatus......----- Grass paroquet_..----------_-__- 26
Microglossus aterrimus_..--------- Great black cockatoo===2—-- ---= 1
Myopsitta monachus.-.----------- Quakersparoquets 2° "i -2 1
IMCIAOESIN ONGC == a ee ee Nanday, paroquet==222— 22225" 22 = if
INCStOTSNOLGUUUS eee ee ee FRCS vgs eet pee NS ee 4
Pionites xanthomera--------.--=-- Amazonian caiquesse) ee ae 2
FAONUSMINENSU US == see ee ee = Blue-headed parrot_-__------__--_- 1
PRTLACUSIETUNGCUS Sel) ae ees Africansgray) parrotass-) =— 1
Patttacus k..kremert...2 222202 2292 Long-tailed paroquet_------_-_-_- 3
Pesiihiceus meparensts 22055 ¢ 2a 2 Nepalese paroquet_-____------_-_- 1
Tanygnathus megalorhynchus - - - --- Great-billed: parrot 255) >.) 02-2 1
Trichoglossus cyanogrammus ----- - - Green-naped lory_...---------_--- 1
Trichoglossus forstenit____--------- Rorsten’s paroquete 22285 s- =e 1
Trichoglossus novaehollandiae------ Blue-bellied:loryoee oe ee 1
Strigiformes:
BUBOMIBGUILLONUS Es sa ae Great: horned!owlten ene eee 5
ARO ajo SO AT BS Screech owls bee ase DAES ae 1
SULT VALLAVATUD a ee soe ee ee Barred: owlec oe Boe i
Caprimulgiformes:
Chordeiles minor minor_---------- Nighthawk. S452 0nli: See: 3
Coraciiformes:
NCArOS TRI NOCE 0S 2 oo HO Rhinoceros-hormmbill@ 222% 2222 52 2. 1
Bucorvus abyssinicus-_.---------- Abyssinian ground hornbill_______ oY
Migeelogigas + Taw ee £2) 2 SCs S Kookaburra. 2b Sse ek beet 4
Dichoceres bicornis_....-.-------- Concave-casqued hornbill________- 2
Piciformes:
Aulacorhynchus erythrognathus__.-. Venezuelan toucanette--_-_-____-__- 1
Cyanens astaticas 22202290. LI Asiatic red-fronted barbet---_-_-_- 1
Pteroglossus bitorquatus___-------- Two-banded aracari-__-.-__------ 4
Ramphastos culminatus_--_-------- White-breasted toucan__-_-___-__- 1
Ranyphastostocon- soe e ee eee eee Pocostoucan=s—e5- Se 8 ee 2
70 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

BIRDS—continued
Piciformes—Continued.

Selentdera culth 2222.2 see ieee Guiana toucanette_____.__________
Theretcerya tencatusesct< 2240532 Streaked barbet.____ =e tees oth.
Passeriformes:
Agelatus icterocephalus.__...__.-_-- Yellow-headed marsh bird_-_____-
Amadina jasciataso2- = +2 eae Cut-throat finch 5-4 42.3445 4 2an=8
Amblyrhamphus holosericeus_-___-_-- Red-headed marsh troupial___-___-
Aphelocoma californica woodhouset_- Woodhouse’s jay____-_________--
Calocuitavjonmosa= psa sees Mexican magpie jay____________-
Canduelisicanduelisae a sear eee European gold finch__.._____-__-_
Chasmorhynchus nudicollis___.-~_- Naked-throated bell-bird________-
Cissa'chinensis2 =) aes te it ae a Chinese Cissa etch 32 e.g ae
Coliuspasser albonotatus__....._--- Yellow-shouldered whydah__-_~-__-
Coliuspasser ardenss_ - 2 521528 Red-necked whydah_-.__.--_----
Corvus Glbuse se eo et a White-breasted crow._._______---
Corvus brachyrhynchos_______-___- American crow2<.niace nate
Corvus corax sinuatus_________-_-- American raven. 22 444ein suns’
Corvus coromoides 2 ee Sate Australian crow. .-2 354 soiete)
Corvus cry ploleneus= => 6242.45 5) White-necked raven_._________--
Cosmopsarius regtuscs 05 22+ 52550 Splendid starlings qs2s45. siete
CYOerDpes CYUMNEUS 325622 eS Blue honey-creeper____-__--_-_--
Cyanocorax chrysops.—_______---- Pilested jaye. Uasuee. = steno
Cyanocorax cyanopogon_._.___-_-- White-naped jay2o.- 2-2-2512!
Dicrurus miuqutisve 2a att See White-bellied drongo___..___-___-
Dissemurus paradiseus_._...--__-. Giant racquet-tailed drongo______
lathes: JOcos@.” farsa eel Red-eared bulbul «= 224-.4--eee
Fringilla montifringilla___._____-- Brambling finch 2. s2 ees een
Galeopsar salvadorit 2852401 o 22 Crested starling «255.353 yas
Gracula palawanensis_....._...__-- Palawan mynah__ 65.2 eee yee
Gracula relagiosa=42- 32 os Soka s Southern hill mynah____________-
Gymnomystaz mericanus._____-_-- Giant oriole. = S22 2454_ 4 pened
PCbeT US OU CUG be eee ee ep ee Giraud’s oriole 92228 3445-55
Kittacincla malabarica____...--_-- Shams thrushet< 25 io anes
Lamprocolius sycobius_.....---_-- Southern glossy starling________-_-
Lanius dorsalis. 20. 2 es Teita, fiscal-shrikei2s) ssoeosketoss
Melanopteryx rubiginosus_._____-- Chestnut -weavetssu-s 222eJ2eeue!
Molpastes haemorrhous__---------- Black-headed bulbul..—.2- 222428
Momotus momotus parensis_..___-- Motmot 3: o>. eee were Se
Padda oryzwora_ <= > tog Ae White Java sparrow_.-----------
Paradisea minor 2. be eee ne Lesser bird-of-paradise__-.__-----
PPOROMRUG CULCULOLO See ene ee Red-crested or Brazilian cardinal_-
Pheucticus tiialis= =. A a a Yellow grosbeakse_sicne eet ase
PVCU AULA be ne ee ee ee Yellow-billed magpie_____-_-_-_--
Pica pica hudsonias 22245555 2 Magpies... <2. charms he eee
Prtangus sulphuratusoss 2 =e td Kiskadee flycatcher...._..-..----
Places entermedvus= - 2 geen S Black-cheeked weaver_.-.--------
Pomatorhinus eps (4.074 oe ae Scimitar babblerjase44_asseeGe!
Psomecolaz oryzivora_......-..--- Rice*grackle 2st 522 tee
Quelea sanguinirostris intermedia... Southern masked-weaver-finch- - __
Seleuctdes nigen 25220) foe eel 12-wired bird-of-paradise____.----
ISENENUS CONOTUUS a= et ee oer Canary_.._. 2A cee ih ieseaae
Sicalvs minor eos 2t Ma EE ELS Lesser saffron finch..-..=-.0==-=--

_

bo
OF ON KR KP OWN PRE NOK DNF OD RH HH eS PNR RE RB Re eS PNR WO BE NN RH DR BR RB de ee
~]
—

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY

BIRDS—continued
Passeriformes—Continued.

Sporophila gutturalis__-.--------- Yellow-bellied seedeater-_-_-------- 2
Sporophila lineola__-.-.---------- White-crowned seedeater_____---.- 3
Steganura paradisea__------------ Paradise whydah_=__s2222_222es= 2
Taeniopygia castanotis____-------- Zebrafinch sea 2 5 s5= se = aes eee 6
Ronagara fulvicrissa 22 Ss sens Fulvous-vented euphonia-__------- 2
Tanagra luteicapilla.___---------- Yellow-crowned euphonia-_-_------- 9
RAV OU DTS. CONG = ee eee ROLLS Blue tanager_=-5- 2sbeee sence 2
TRarss COnOnge sens tee ey Melodius grassquit___.--_------- 2
Tiaris olivacea__..-.------------- Mexican grassquit_______-___---- 7
Purdue grayi... uvoivie goes .t 22 Bonaparte’s thrush_.__---------- 1
Wrocissa OCcipitalis2 222 2a seus hus. Red-billed blue magpie_--_-------- 2
Malatined. JACHTiINe 22 2 Sol Blue-black grassquit_-_----------- 4
Xanthocephalus xanthocephalus --.--- Yellow-headed blackbird__------- 3
Xanthoura luzuosa guatemalensis__._ Guatemala green jay_------------ 1
Xanthoura luxuosa sub. sp_------ + Niesragua.green jay oo Ves Siees 1
REPTILES
Chelonia:

PANNA SOGOS ee AS Fe Soft-shelled: turtle_._....20- S222 2. r(
Chelodina longicollis.._-.--------- Australian snake-necked turtle-_-._ 5
Chelydra,.osceola. a2 SI DOI IS = Florida snapping turtle__--------- 1
Chelydra rossignonit___----------- Rossignon’s snapping turtle_-____- 1
Chelydra serpentina__------------- Snapping. turtiess.J hess See 8
Chrusemys piChe as 25 2 Goel Oe Painted.turtle: neenris eee 2
Clainmuys quitatas it 228i Ae Spotted. turtle...2.24¢ Suen) Jaeenee 1
Clemmys insculpta.—..222 23-2222 - Wood turtles 5-2 5sse a sae 3
Clemmys muhlenbergii------------ Muhlenberg’s tortoise.___-------- 1
Cyclemys amboinensis-_----------- Malayan box turtle____----------- 1
Gopherus agassizit__-_----------- Agassiz’s: tortoises 524282 Jue seses= 1

Hydromedusa tectifera_----------- South American  snake-necked
turtlew2 see Sees 4
Kinosternon flavescens_----------- Musk turtle. ys ese: Sasa russ= 1
Kinosternon subrubrum_-_-----~--- Musk, turtlese¢ So Sit epee eaeee- 6
Macrochelys temminckii__.-------- Alligator snapping turtle_--___---- 1
Malaclemmys centrata- ----------- Diamond-back terrapin - -~------- 11
Pelomedusa galeata..._._-.-------- Common African water-tortoise___ 2
Platemys platycephala_----------- Plat-headed.turtiea2 224 222 oe 1
Podocnemis expansa_.------------ South American river-tortoise_-_--_- 1
Pseudemys concinna._ 22-22 22.-.- Coetet aia se ce SSE SOS 7
Pseudemys decussaia_------------ Haitianutortoise=2es2= = ee 1
Pseudemys elegans. --.----------- Cumberland terrapin__----------- 2
Pseudemys floridana = 2222 1203. Florida terrapin 2222 ee Sess 6
Pseudemys pseudogeographica_----- False geographic turtle-_-_-_----- 1
Pseudeniys rugosus.2.= 222.250 Le Cuban-tustle.. 22.82 e2 seP 882 1
Perrapene carolina. 22.95 222922282 Boxtortoises.) 522 ees Sa: 20
Therrapene major.o2--+-2282 2 Ve Florida box. turtless stuns S2S22k2 2
Werranene ornata.2-— 2.2 .-seere Ornate box tortoise___......---:- 2
Testudo elephantina_-_-_----------- Elephant tortoise_.-...-.-_------ 2
Testudo ephippium___------------ Duncan Island tortoise_-_-------- 7
Testudo hoodensis__.------------- Hood Island tortoise___---------- 2
Restudoypardaliss = Sasa 28 Ose Leopard. tortoise. 222 eh s 2528225 1
Testudo radtaid2.~ 2-2 ae nee Radiated tortoise....1.2252252225> 1
72

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

REPTILES—continued

Chelonia—Continued.
Testudodabulata ssa belles on tet
Restudortonvenvan a. 22 a eee
Mestudowicinde=5- 22 ee eae
Crocodilia:
Alligator mississipiensis_—___-----
Catmanisclenagpsaa= == aera
Crocodylusqcuius= = = eee ae
Crocodylus cataphractus_..--__----
Crocodylus palistrissse5_2 24 5" 2s
Crocodyliusiporosits= = ==
Osteolaemus tetraspis__..-__------
Lacertilia:
'‘Agamaistelltota2.25) teed een?
Anolis carolinensis 222 = ..ye2 52 55
Anolis equestiisiee) o5ac6 este
PAMOLESE DONC ALU Sate ne ae e
Bastiscusitaruses oe
Cnemidophorus sexlineatus_-__-_----
Coleonyxisp oS eet a a
Conolophus subcristatus______--_--
Crocodilurus lacertinus___.--------
Crotaphytusicollans==e= sas =e =
Cycluraicornitaes eee ae
Dracaena guianensis___._____-_----
PALMeCCeSs QCIOLUS sa =e
Enumieces: obsoletusec ee. 2s es
Gerrhosaurus walidus_______------
Heloderma horridum____-_--------
Heloderma suspectum___-_--------
Letocephalus cubensis______-------
Onphtsatmius wentnalis= — 22° etek s
Phrynosoma cornutum____-_------
Phrynosoma platyrhinos___.-------
Physignathus lesweuritt________---~
Blicaxplica ssh eps ee Ree py
ISCELODONIUSIINAGUStCT ne ee ee
Sceloporus undulatus_-____.-_---_-
Wniiquonntqnolutea == ase ee
Tu OUGES CEN COLd eS aa ae
Prackysaurnusinugosussos =)
Tupinambis nigropunctatus__.-----
Wrocentron azureumaaa2=eee ee
Wtarstansburiand= ==
Wananusigouldy 2 ee ee
Varanus komodoensis___.---------
ZONUTUS OLOANLEUS 2a ae ae eee
Ophidia:
Abastor erythrogrammus____-------
Agkistrodon mokasen_------------
Agkistrodon pisctvorus_..-.-------
Alsonhesrangulijen. = = ee
Bitisiartetansssn | sate pat

American alligator_..=_ 22252242
Spectacled calmanss2.2e 52 s9eh 48%
American ‘crocodile ses 43055400

Marsh crocodile or mugger__-___-__
Salt water crocodile 2) ese. 2sesu"

Agama: lizards 3134) bees ee
False chameleon: =222=55 ss) 32222

Coleonyx: lizard: ..— <2. ee eed
Galapagos iguana s=-244)/ 44a p
Crocodile lizard «=. ae ee
Collared lizard. mee. e-fae ee
Rhinoceros iguana______________-
Dragon lizard: 25-3. eee
Blue-tailedskink= === ==) == =e
Brown skink 32<. .)y0lueens 4 eepeuetl
Robust plated lizard___-___-_-_----
Beaded lizards 2-3. )25262e48e"

Lesueur’s water dragon__________-

Rlicated lizards == 52 == eee

Western spiny lizard____________-
Fence lizard)..3- 455654
Mottled lizard S242 ae
Blue-tongued lizard2222 3345252555
Stump-tailed lizard] 2222 52-32 =s=
"Regul lizards xe se
WUrocentronlizard===22)ee.4==a.=

Stansbury’s lizard) <-= $2.24"
Gould’simonitor===—= ==
Komodo draconees= =. === == ee
Spiny ligard2 222» dees te eseee

Hoop snake or rainbow snake__--.---
Copperhead snake___-_----------
Water moccasin: -—2-=-2 === iss
Jubo or Culebra snake__.-.------
Puff adderi.c2 2222-25455 See

aos

HE PRE NWN ERD EE WE NWOT NEP EN NEP RE Re BPH HEN Wand HPNHPH HWS

Or PDR
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY

~]
es)

REPTILES—continued
Ophidia—Continued.
NE CUNEO 2 oS ere ee ee Greenstree bons ete 2
Hoareso kts 2 tes ees ee Cook’s tree boa-_---_- tat Ae Tees 1
borgadendrophila__-/ 2 2 ees Mangrove snake#2-"2)) 22 22382; 1
Coluber é- consiricior.=-.. =.= +2-=~ Bisek-qnakes oo: -2 2. os 2
Constrictor constrictor __..-...-.---=- Bes constrictor.) eS See 1
Constrictor mexicana_-_----- seer Mexicaniboas=s2220 =) sie 1
Grotalus adamanteus= 20. 2 82 e Diamond-back rattlesnake _____- 3
Proteus cerasies= 2 =< NS Oe Te. Sidewinder rattlesnake__-_____ LOS |
Grotaluskconfimentuss 2") 2 See Western rattlesnake. _________-_- 1
Crotalus horriduss === =~". _ US) Banded:rattlesmakes (23-22. 2 St 1
Drymarchon corais cooperi__-------- Indigo (snake ss... 528 See See 2
Plane quitatar. so be 2o2 ES Cor enake n>... Fa Sie 2
Pra nheacna sae ss Ak SLE Note vet Emory’s snake___-__- Gin eets VUE 3
Elaphe obsoleta obsoleta___--------- Pilot snakes n.= 22) 780 SL Shae 2
Elaphe quadrivittata___------------ Chicken auake-t4 S527 2 yews ae 2
Pippne wu pinks 8) Jeet Box snakes 122s Feet See Ree 1
Epicrates angulifer______---------- Cuban-tree bod! 22% fer ere 2
(Pyacrates-cenenrig 21 So! Met nee. Rainbow: bea-== 222222223 2 12
yO sen sto. See AAU T « Sand bows. sae 8 a 1
TRUM CCLES LUT TICS eae ee ee ANACOnda ==) 5 Sar ee ee eee 4
Parancia aoucura. 22-2) 22822222 Horn enake esos her vid Os* 1
Eeterodon:contortniae— =e Hog-nosed snake= 5°. +22 22 1
Lampropeltis g. getulus._---------- King or chain snakes =< =) 2 == 2
Lampropeltis getulus holbrooki_ - -~-- Holbrook’s king snake___-__~__- 2
Lampropeltis t. triangulum_ -------- Milkesnaket <2 i Bee 1
Leimadophis andreae__---_--------- Jubito or magdalena snake - -- __- 1
Leptodira albofusca__-_-----~-- Rely Ee Common tree snake__.-___------ 1
Prplirevena= tees 22) See & VI Green snake: =... 2S ee 1
Masticophis f. flagellum__--~------- @Woachwhipy —-oe. Sat eee 2
Meare ihe ee be 2st eae Golden cobras -2-5 = 0 1
Maraumtnidiane. 2-2 Se inigdinn’ cobras = a. ae ae 1
Naja tripudians sumatrana_-------- Sumatran black-headed cobra__-__ 1
GREE OTE DIG LES Sea IWistermsnake-= ae oe eee 1
TE CB 07 sl leg i ne Water snakes eee 5
Onnheodrys Gestwius 225 -— 2 2 Rough-scaled green snake-__---_-- 2
Phrynonaz sulphureus_-_----------- South American rat snake_-_____- 1
Pituophis melanoleucus_ ~~ --------- Bill euakes! (2 eee ee 1
DEVS V7] (SRA 5 a aie in Pine eriaikes ees wan eee ee eee 2
Puro mors... oS — = indin python scm. soe ee 1
Ee REMAIRCHSUS oe eS Bal Wy Ghone ee eee 1
iPatnon Tencuulus =. =) 2 Rega PyYthHON = = ee eee 4
Sistrurus catenatus catenatus.-_..---- Massasauga rattlesnake_-__-_---- 2
Thamnophis sauritus proximus-_----- Garter.csnakes2* * 2° 2 1
TRamnopnes sirtais. = = Gartersngkee ss eee 3
Tretanorhinus variabilis....-.------ Cuban water snake --..---_------ 1
Trimeresurus monticola__..-------- Mountain pit viper_——-.--.----+ 1
AMPHIBIANS
Caudata:
Ampariineg Means == == Blind eel or congo snake__------- 1
Amphiuma tridactylum__-_---------- Blind eel or congo snake__-_~----- 1

Cryptobranchus alleganiensis___----- Helbonder ne oe an eee a
74 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

AMPHIBIANS—continued

Caudata—Continued.
Salamandra salamandra__.._------ Fire’ salamander 22 2. = 228. =) aoe 7
Triturus pyrrhogaster.....=-=-=-=~- Red-bellied Japanese newt_-__-__-_-_- 6
Tratunus owidescenss. +. =, (Common newt.. i see 18
Salientia:
Atelopus varius cruciger._.-_------ Yellow atelopusi..22 232s es 2
Aitelapia overs. 3 20s oe Red, yellow, and black atelopus___ 7
Bombina bombing= 2-2 48 ee Bell toads 2 +8 a ee ae Ae 4
iBujovaluaniiig ees ste ea ren eect Greentoad Shs se ee eee
DUfO GMETICUNUS sess 2k oe Common American toad______-_- x 2
Bufo empusus ae ee Be Sapo deconcha. 2 2ea2 8. See 15
Buia lentes ya 2 2 Bowler’stesd@s 04.225 i te 1
SUP OVIMAT TTS a Oy pee ae ee Marine toad 222 25 ss ee 6
Bufo peltocephalus..--- = 25520 28 Cuban giant, toad_- > 22 32 eo 1
Ceratophniysidorsatass ee Homedttoad 22). ae ae 3
Dendrobates auratus..2 2 22 2-2. see Arrow-poison frog_..---.------_-- 37
Dendrobates minutus_.....-------- Golden-striped frog.._.....--.-=- 2
Dendrobates pumilio___----------- Redidendrobates =) 24s-.- 225258 5
asjlaxcaerileguase 2 Soe ape eee Australian’ tree frope 2.2) ee 6
TUAW EF UCU CR Ed re Si RL Be “Spring peeper”’ tree frog-_--_---__- 4
Hola vsepientrionalies —_ .- 8245524. Cuban treentirog. 2.0 462 ose 2 20
IPEDDIOMETICONG a8 oe ee ae Surinam toads 2.222. fe 1
; Bullfrog) 22 ae a oe 5
SDL EISELE hai are (albino) ences 1
Rana -clamians 2. a4)! tee Green frog Ao pee oS 1
RORGOTL CO Rees ak a Southern) bullfrog====22 255-25 3
Tears aliustres eat 2525 yoo) ha Pickerel frogs 2204.2. ee 1
Rana sphenocephala_.------- ses ah i Southern leopard frog__---------- 1
MCROPUSUUMEH Hans 2 ae ue ge Muller’s clawed frog-..-.--------- 2
FISHES
DAN OROR Oia LOH ALOR ALOE SY Od A AT ae ea ea ea toh cE EE BY eB eI BN! ee re Se ee L 5
ESTO RE I 7) a ae er a a a A aah a Ta eed
setiareplendenece aise espe = as ee Siamese fighting fish____________- 1
ESOC OITON CTO =a ee YF) Oh 2 Wes Ut) Cay OP ee ee apeege REIN ee 5
Corydoras Ceneuse cist Se lo ae Trinidad armored catfish________-_ 3
Corydoras melanistius= = 52 PN SONNE I CAAT] Oe 1
Electrophorusielectricuss 22 22 ee Hleetrie Gel pele 5 eet oe er See 2
Helostama demminchifstes =. 532. 2 oe DIRMISSIN OMAN 2525" eee eae 2
EV OTAUGhO MI UAN UNA VEL US oth ee RN ey ae pel en, tl ea ae 1
EV Cb er ON Gri eh ONINO SO Sok as a a i i pert eae Bae dy eee ene 8
Hyphessobrycon bifasciatus______-.---- Yellow characina24 22) 22-2 eae 1
ETOP OSLONUUSES Pi seem ee peed ye pe yee ce Armoredyeastiishaa) 2 eee 2
MOR AVAL Ore OOO CEOS Bae Oa ees AMI GTIC amit apis lasses oh ee on 9
GA LOPlenUSnDUCUnTNUSa ee Glassreathisht nse ee anew 4
Ligbestes mericulabwsses) < 2o5 0k 8 yal Guuip py. bs3 actrees 50
Lepidosiren marad ott. << 3252 2% at ce South American lungfish_____-_-- 3
EC DORUIVIUSH CSCO SMe ye D aie le atk Fei A aE eae ap rae pe eed Sana eee if
Malopterurus electricus..._._..._...-_-- Blectricicathishta = us === ee 1
Monocirrhus polyacanthus_.._..-----~- heat fight «sees eee ee ee 2
PantodonsOuchholzien one ee ee ee ee Bubtertyctis aap ous ee OE Se Le 1
lati poecilusmacuiayuses = eee Goldplatics sc 20.22 se ee ose 40
Feresiella widdlete se! Sfe0 oo oes ted ee Sap FR pe Rn ee elo 12
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 15

FISHES—continued
Protopterus annectens.._......-=---L+- African dumefishs 228 S22 oe J 2
PLerOUNUILUMASCOLOnC san => ae ee ee Angelfish) = 22522 A nee t= 3
IRM IRUCLEY OMG? NRG <<.) .4 2 oe ee Be 12
@rachogaster trichopterus.——- 9" -2-2 222 Three-spot gourami______-__--_-_-- 3
Xiphophorus hellerit__----------- Seah ec yWORE LAL aes eos oe ce ea ane ee 2
ARACHNIDS
EEE Tia Sy) Seis Oe ee ee Oe Marantulasceiojs sais) apt og ee 1
Wa rOdeClUs MaCctans= 220 Ss ce Black widow spider-.------------ 1
Mastigoproctus giganteus_------~-- _._... Vinegarone or whip scorpion-_----- 1
INSECTS
Dyce TP pes epee del al cage Giant COCKTOACH ora ete ee 20
Pogonomyrmex badius__-.------------ Acricultural antiees22es= _.. 1 colony
MOLLUSKS
Achatina,vartegata 20s 6 2 8 Giantiland snailees 2 eee 2
CHILOPODA
Seaunenura sp. 2 ----.--.- ee eieiaers Giant centiped@.=-2+--5-—-- eee 1
CRUSTACEA
Cardisoma guanhumi_-_-_-------------- Great land crabs: 2522234682 fees 2

Respectfully submitted.
W. M. Mann, Director.

Dr. C. G. Assor,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 7
REPORT ON THE ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the ac-
tivities of the Astrophysical Observatory for the fiscal year ended
June 30, 1936:

As heretofore, our principal work has been the determination of
the variability of the intensity of the sun’s radiation as it would be
found outside of our atmosphere; 1. e., changes in the so-called solar
constant of radiation. Measurements of the solar constant of radia-
tion have been continued daily when possible at three stations:
Table Mountain, Calif., Montezuma, Chile, and Mount St. Katherine,
Egypt. Although to the eye the sky at Table Mountain seems
equally as favorable to the work as that at the two foreign stations,
the measurements at Table Mountain show much greater irregularity.
Days that appear excellent there sometimes yield solar-constant
values which are quite impossible. We suppose this is caused by
invisible clouds of water vapor sweeping over the station through
the canyons of the Sierra Madre Mountains.

We have attempted in the past year to develop a criterion based
on the measurements which should inform us, before reducing an
observation, whether it is affected by this invisible prejudicial sky
condition, and in this search we have measurably succeeded. Find-
ing it so useful for Table Mountain work, we have applied it also to
the work of Montezuma and Mount St. Katherine, where much less
frequently than at Table Mountain the results are similarly inex-
plicably bad. These investigations have occupied Mr. Aldrich and
several computers at Washington for most of the year, but are now
completed. They lead to a recomputation of all solar-constant
measurements of recent years at all stations—a heavy task now
under way.

Of the criterion itself, its technical character forbids a full descrip-
tion here. In brief, it comprises constructing families of standard
curves representing average relationships of pyrheliometry to pyra-
nometry at different air masses and different values of precipitable
water. When the observations on any occasion depart from these
standard curves beyond a certain tolerance, such observations are to
be viewed with suspicion. In this way single observations of a given
day may be rejected from the mean of the day. Also, suspicious days

%6

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY at

at one station may be justifiably rejected, because of this sort of inter-
nal evidence, when they differ widely from reasonable results of other
stations. The application of these criteria at the three stations will
lead to a new increase in the accuracy with which we may measure
the solar variability, and to a much closer agreement between the
results of the three stations.

This long-desired improvement in accuracy is now shown to be
indispensable to a proposed application of studies of solar variability
to weather forecasting.

Dr. Abbot published in May and August of 1936 two papers en-
titled, respectively, “The Dependence of Terrestrial Temperatures
on the Variations of the Sun’s Radiation” and “Further Evidence on
the Dependence of Terrestrial Temperatures on the Variations of
Solar Radiation.” These papers appear to prove that the short-
interval changes of solar radiation, such as run their courses in a few
days, are of major influence on the weather for the ensuing 2 weeks or
more. Figure 2 of the first-mentioned paper shows such effects for
the temperature of Washington. The curves shown each represent
the average results for some 10 to 20 cases occurring in each of the
months of the year of the years 1924-1935.

It is observed that opposite solar changes produce opposite tem-
perature effects; that these effects differ from month to month; that
other investigations reported in the papers cited show that they also
differ from locality to locality; that the effects are of large magnitude,
sometimes reaching 15° F., sufficient indeed to account for most varia-
tions from the normal temperature; that these effects follow solar
changes seldom as great as 1.5 percent and averaging only about 0.7
percent.

After discussion of these results with the Chief of the United States
Weather Bureau and with several gentlemen of the Weather Bureau
Advisory Committee, these gentlemen all agreed that the investiga-
tions offered reasonable promise of a method of forecasting some
features of the weather for at least 2 weeks in advance. They
unitedly signed a memorandum recommending increased support to
the Astrophysical Observatory to enable it to set up seven additional
solar stations in the best localities of the world, and also to investi-
gate the possibility of automatic determinations of solar variability
from sounding balloons. This measure was approved by the Presi-
dent and the Bureau of the Budget, passed the Senate as an amend-
ment to the Urgent Deficiency Act, but was rejected in conference
with the House.

The Institution has since made a small grant from private funds
to promote preliminary studies for the balloon investigation referred
to, but the application of solar variation observations to weather fore-
78 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

casting must await Government support. The necessary expense will
approximate $200,000 a year. It is necessary to observe the complete
solar radiation of all wave lengths nearly every single day to an
accuracy of 4 of a percent at mountain solar-constant stations, or else
to observe daily the intensity of a certain band of ultraviolet solar
rays from sounding balloons at an altitude of 100,000 feet or more,
with an accuracy of 2 percent or better. Either plan involves diffi-
culty and expense, but the probable advance in weather forecasting
seems to justify it.

In August 1935 Dr. Abbot published a study of the variation found
in the monthly mean values of the solar constant of radiation since the
year 1920. This was entitled “Solar Radiation and Weather Studies.”
The following conclusions are quoted from the summary:

1. The output of radiation of the sun varies, as proved by simultaneous
observations at three stations remote from each other.

2. The solar variation, seemingly irregular, really comprises 12 or more regu-
lar periodicities, which support successful predictions of solar changes for years
in advance.

11. Forecasts based on these relations having been made to cover the years
1934, 1985, and 19386 for more than 380 stations in the United States, these fore-
casts are fairly well verified both as to temperature and precipitation in 1934.

Although, as stated in conclusion 11, fair success was achieved in
the predictions for the year 1934, the success was less complete in 1935
and 1936. Weather details, though present, were found to be displaced
in time so much as to invalidate the method for detailed predictions
more than a year in advance. This partial failure is believed to be
caused by the changes of phase of the subordinate periodicities which
make up the 23-year cycle. It is hoped that further study may give
means of predicting these changes of phase, and so of perfecting the
method.

But while the prediction of details is thus unsatisfactory, certain
large and prolonged features, like the great drought in the Northwest,
seem to be very clearly previsioned by the cycle. This appears plainly
in the accompanying figure 1, a reproduction of figure 26B of the
article. It is very plain that the first decades of each of the five 23-year
cycles shown there were marked by the fall of the level of Lake Huron,
but that this depression in the first, third, and fifth cycles is outstand-
ing. Thus there seems to be a 46-year cycle of great droughts, and
while moderate drought conditions may be expected in the decade
1950-1960, a severe drought is probable in the decade 1975 to 1985.

The present drought seems comparable to those of the decades fol-
lowing 1840 and 1890, and may therefore be expected to last for a year,
or possibly 2 years more before the initiation of recovery. But it
would be rash to make a more definite prediction.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 79

Boe
HW sb sliad tle ices it oo fof

1860\- 1882

7)

O 0.2 04 06 O8 1.0 FT.

eet

FicurE 1.—Levels of Great Lakes, 23-year cycles. Note the marked subsidence culminat-
ing after 11 years in the full curves,
80 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936
PERSONNEL

No changes of personnel have occurred other than the shifting of
observers from one field station to another, except that on April 16,
1936, Alfred G. Froiland reported as bolometric assistant to take
station at Mount St. Katherine.

SUMMARY

The year has been distinguished for the introduction of a new
criterion for distinguishing unsatisfactory sky conditions at the
solar-constant stations. This will add decidedly to the accuracy and
harmony of the results. Studies of the variability of the sun over an
interval of 15 years have disclosed many periodicities, all aliquot
parts of 23 years, which altogether make up the apparently irregular
solar variation of long term. The cycle of 23 years is abundantly
evidenced in weather and things dependent thereon. Besides this it
is shown that the weather is to a great extent governed for at least
2 weeks afterward by the initiation of incidental rising or falling
solar radiation, usually of only a few days’ duration. Expert opinion
concurs that this affords a promising method of forecasting certain
weather features for at least 2 weeks in advance. Unfortunately, it
requires expansions of our solar-observation program, which thus
far there are no funds to finance. Papers detailing these investi-
gations were published by the Director in the Smithsonian Miscel-
laneous Collections under the following titles: “The Dependence of
Terrestrial Temperatures on the Variations of the Sun’s Radiation”,
“Further Evidence on the Dependence of Terrestrial Temperatures
on the Variations of Solar Radiation”, and “Solar Radiation and
Weather Studies.”

Respectfully submitted.

C. G. Assor, Director.

The SrcreTarRy,

Smithsonian Institution.

APPENDIX 8

REPORT ON THE DIVISION OF RADIATION
AND ORGANISMS

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the activi-
ties of the Division of Radiation and Organisms during the year
ended June 30, 1936:

This has been a year of large accomplishment in several fields. Mr.
Hoover’s work on the dependence of carbon dioxide assimilation in
wheat on wave length of radiation has been amplified and rounded
out for publication. This pioneering research has produced and
checked a curve which gives the efficiency of the different-colored
rays to promote photosynthesis. The curve starts at zero in the
violet, runs to a maximum in the blue at about 4,400 A, continues of
moderate intensity in the green and yellow, rises to its highest maxi-
mum in the red at 6,500 A, and then falls to zero.

Dr. Meier has continued her experiments on the effects of ultra-
violet rays on algae. Besides checking former work and publishing
on lethal effects, she has shown that ultraviolet rays of maximum
lethal influence when applied in minute doses are stimulating. This
behavior reminds us of the effects of certain poisonous drugs which
in minute doses are stimulants.

Dr. Johnston has continued experiments on the effects of light of
different wave lengths to promote growth effects of various kinds in
tomatoes. His work has yielded much advance in the technique of
these investigations. Among other results which stand out clearly,
he finds that rest periods not only from radiation but of diminished
temperature are necessary to these plants.

He gave the annual Arthur Lecture on the subject of the influences
of the sun on plant growth.

Dr. McAlister has developed an extremely sensitive and quick-act-
ing spectroscopic method for measuring carbon dioxide concentration.
A concentration of 1/10,000 of 1 percent carbon dioxide in air is
readily measured. The respiration and carbon dioxide assimilation
of a single grain of wheat in its germination is readily observed.
Studies of the dependence of photosynthesis in wheat on time factors
are in progress and are yielding beautiful and remarkable results.
Dr. McAlister also did interesting cooperative work with the Depart-
ment of Agriculture on the germination of seeds.

81
82 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

Mr. Clark has made valuable developments in the technique of
special lights useful for studies of plant growth. He has also made
important improvements in thermoelectric junction material, having
developed a couple of high sensitiveness and at the same time as
rugged as ordinary wires of common metals of equal size. With
Mr. Fillmen he has constructed much new apparatus for the uses of
the Division.

The work finished or in hand will shortly afford publications of
great interest to plant physiologists and others. Individuals of the
Division have been of utmost value to the Astrophysical Observatory
and other branches of the Institution, assisting in special problems.

Respectfully submitted.

C. G. Ansor, Director.

The SEcrETARY,

Smithsonian Institution.

APPENDIX 9
REPORT ON THE LIBRARY

Str: I have the honor to submit the following report on the ac-
tivities of the Smithsonian library for the fiscal year ended June 30,
1936:

THE LIBRARY

The Smithsonian library, or library system, comprises 10 major
and 35 minor units, each an important instrument in the work of
the Institution or of one of its affiliated bureaus. They are as fol-
lows: The main library, or the Smithsonian deposit in the Library
of Congress—a collection which, while somewhat general in char-
acter, is chiefly scientific and technical and contains extensive files
of monographs and serials, American and foreign, including the
reports, proceedings, and transactions of many learned societies and
institutions; the library of the United States National Museum,
which also concerns itself largely with natural history and tech-
nology, and has more or less closely connected with it the 35 sectional
libraries of administration, administrative assistant’s office, agricul-
tural history, anthropology, archeology, biology, birds, botany,
echinoderms, editor’s office, engineering, ethnology, fishes, foods,
geology, graphic arts, history, insects, invertebrate paleontology,
mammals, marine invertebrates, medicine, minerals, mollusks, organic
chemistry, paleobotany, photography, physical anthropology, prop-
erty clerk’s office, reptiles and batrachians, superintendent’s office,
taxidermy, textiles, vertebrate paleontology, and wood technology;
the library of the Bureau of American Ethnology, concerned with
the history, life, and culture of the early peoples of the Americas,
notably the North American Indians; the library of the Astrophysi-
cal Observatory, on astrophysics and meteorology; the library of the
Freer Gallery of Art, related to the special interests of the Freer
Gallery, namely, the art and culture of the Far East, India, Persia,
and the nearer East, and the art of James McNeill Whistler and
other American painters, and containing the celebrated Biblical
manuscripts of the fourth and fifth centuries, known as the Wash-
ington Manuscripts; the library of the National Gallery of Art, on
the fine arts of Europe and America; the Langley aeronautical
library—the famous collection of aeronautical publications, many of
them very rare, that once belonged to Samuel Pierpont Langley,

112059—37——7 83
84 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

Alexander Graham Bell, Octave Chanute, and James Means, and
that since 1930, under its own name and book plate, has supplemented
the Government collection on aeronautics in the Library of Con-
gress; the Smithsonian office library, made up of general reference
works, publications of the Institution and its branches as well as of
various foreign learned societies and institutions, and a large num-
ber of popular books and magazines; the radiation and organisms
library, pertaining to the studies the Institution is making of the
influence of the sun on plant and animal life; and the library of the
National Zoological Park, on animals and their care. In the libraries
taken together there are about 860,000 volumes, pamphlets, and
charts. This total does not include thousands of volumes awaiting
completion, binding, and cataloging.

PERSONNEL

Four changes took place in the permanent staff during the year.

Miss Ella Leary, after a long service as librarian of the Bureau of
American Ethnology, retired, and Miss Miriam B. Ketchum was
transferred to the vacancy from the library of the Weather Bureau.
Miss Ketchum received the B. A. and M. A. degrees from George
Washington University, where two of her special interests were li-
brary science and anthropology. Before her appointment to the
Weather Bureau in 1934 she served for some years on the library staff
of the Naval Observatory.

Mrs. Grace A. Parler, who since 1980 had been in immediate charge
of the library of the Freer Gallery of Art, resigned. She was suc-
ceeded by Miss Alice Elizabeth Hill, who had taken the B. A. degree
at American University, studied library science in George Washing-
ton University, and obtained considerable experience at various times
as a temporary employee of the Smithsonian library.

Miss Ruth E. Blanchard, a graduate in library science of the Uni-
versity of Oklahoma and for several years a member of the library
staff of the university, was appointed to the position of minor library
assistant in the Astrophysical Observatory, under an arrangement,
however, by which part of her salary is paid by the National Zoologi-
cal Park and part of her time given to its hbrary.

Stephen Stuntz, who for 6 years had been assistant messenger, was
promoted to a post elsewhere in the Institution, and the vacancy was
filled by the selection of Carroll McKinley Martin.

The temporary assistants were Miss Margaret Link, Miss Helen
Rankin, Miss Wilda Suter, and Mrs. Emma B. Thomsen. A number
of workers under the F. EK. R. A. were also assigned to the library for
a time early in the year and toward its close several under the

W2oPs.A.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 85
EXCHANGE OF PUBLICATIONS

As usual, although some of the accessions for the year were pre-
sented by friends of the Smithsonian or were purchased, most of them
came in exchange for the publications of the Institution and its
branches. The packages received by mail numbered 21,808 and
through the International Exchange Service 2,868—an increase of
1,920 over the previous year. Especially noteworthy were the send-
ings from the R. Deputazione di Storia Patria per le Provincie di
Romagna, Bologna; the Academia Romana, Bucharest; the Carlisle
Natural History Society, Carlisle; the Erdélyi Mtizeum, Cluj; the
Instituto Nazionale di Ottica, Firenze; the Naturforschende Gesell-
schaft zu Leipzig, Leipzig; the Société Géologique de Belgique,
Liége; the Isle of Wight Natural History and Archaeological Society,
Newport; the Nigerian Field Society, Ondo; the R. Laboratorio
Centrale di Idrobiologia, Rome; the Fauna och Flora, Stockholm;
the Botanisches Institut, Franz-Josefs Universitit, Szeged; the Knox
Academy of Arts and Sciences, Thomaston; the Japanese Patho-
logical Society, Tokyo; and the Instytut Popierania Nauki, Warsaw.
More detailed mention should be made of two sendings—one that of
41 monographs and bulletins, from the Oriental Institute, Chicago;
the other of 156 publications—some long since out of print—from the
Museum of Comparative Zoédlogy, Cambridge. ‘The last two send-
ings were obtained by the library under a special exchange arrange-
ment, the latter by returning to Harvard some of the university’s
publications that had found their way into the Smithsonian dupli-
cate collection. These many unusual sendings added materially to
the resources of the Smithsonian deposit and the library of the
National Museum.

Among the publications received were 7,021 dissertations from the
Academy of Freiberg, the Agricultural School of Bonn-Poppelsdorf,
the universities of Basel, Berlin, Bern, Bonn, Breslau, Budapest,
Erlangen, Freiburg, Giessen, Greifswald, Halle, Heidelberg, Jena,
Johns Hopkins, Kiel, Koln, Leipzig, Lund, Marburg, Neuchatel,
Pennsylvania, Rostock, Tiibingen, Utrecht, Wirzburg, and Ziirich,
and the technical schools of Berlin, Braunschweig, Delft, Dresden,
Karlsruhe, and Ziirich.

In connection with the exchange and other activities of the library
the staff wrote 2,651 letters, or 516 more than the year before, arranged
for 300 new exchanges, or 36 more than in 1935, and obtained, in
response to 584 request cards, 6,422 volumes and parts needed in the
libraries of the Institution. It should be pointed out, however, that,
thanks to the recent organization of the Smithsonian duplicates, many
of these publications were found in this collection—a fact that was
particularly true of the large number sent to the Smithsonian deposit

86 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

and the libraries of the Astrophysical Observatory, Bureau of Ameri-
can Ethnology, and National Museum. Several thousand documents
of foreign governments were forwarded by the library, as usual, to
the division of documents in the Library of Congress.

GIFTS

Among the gifts of the year at least two were notable. They were
the collections—each numbering many thousands—of publications on
invertebrate paleontology and orthoptera gathered, respectively, dur-
ing a long period of service in the National Museum by Dr. E. O.
Ulrich and the late Dr, A. N. Caudell and presented, each with a
complete card index, by Dr. Ulrich and Mrs. Caudell. It is gratify-
ing to know that these unique and valuable semiprivate libraries are
not to be dispersed but are to remain permanently as instrumentalities
of research in the sections where they have grown up. A similar col-
lection—or, at least part of it—namely, that of the late Dr. Walter
Hough on anthropology, also became the property of the library
during the year. Special mention should be made, too, of the gift
of a generous number of its own publications from the Philosophical
Society of Washington, to be used by the library for exchange pur-
poses. Other large gifts were received from the Bureau of the Inter-
national Catalogue of Scientific Literature, the American Association
for the Advancement of Science, the Geophysical Laboratory of the
Carnegie Institution, the Anthropological Society of Washington,
and the Washington Academy of Sciences, as well as from the estate
of the late Dr. W. L. Abbott and from W. P. Hay, son of the late
Dr. O. P. Hay. One of the most welcome gifts came from the
Library of Congress. It was a complete set—the fourth presented
to the Institution—of printed cards covering the publications of the
Smithsonian and its bureaus, for filing in the sectional catalogs of
the Museum. The smaller gifts included Contribution 4 l’étude des
Pilons Océaniens, by His Excellency Governor L., J. Bouge, of Guade-
loupe, from the author; Zoologische Ergebnisse einer Reise nach
Bonaire, Curacao und Aruba im Jahre 1930, 3 volumes, from Dr.
P. W. Hummelinck; Beitrige zur Mineralogie von Japan, by T.
Wada, from T. Ito; Charles F. Dowd, by Charles N. Dowd, from
Ralph W. Lester; Japanese Works of Art, 6 volumes, selected from
the Moslé Collection, from Alexander G. Moslé; Moss Flora of North
America North of Mexico, volume II, parts 1-3, by A. J. Grout, from
the author; Back to Newton, a Challenge to Einstein’s Theory of
Relativity, by George de Bothezat, from the author; The Microscope
and Its Revelations, by William B. Carpenter, Atlas der Diatoma-
ceen-kunde, by Adolf Schmidt, and Diatommentafeln Zusammen-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 87

gestellt fiir Einige Freunde—from Mrs. John V. C. Parker, from the
library of her father, the late Stephen S. Day; Hunting Wild Life
with Camera and Flashlight, 2 volumes, by George Shiras, 3d, from
Dr. Gilbert Grosvenor; Cumulative Index to the National Geographic
Magazine, 1899 to 1934, Inclusive, 2 copies, from the National Geo-
graphic Society; Cyrus Hall McCormick, volume 2 (2 copies), by
William T. Hutchinson, from the McCormick Historical Association ;
A History of the College of Charleston, by J. H. Easterby, from the
college; 26 reports on the work of the Discovery, from Dr. Stanley
Kemp, director; 7 volumes of collected works on hydroids, from Mrs.
C. C. Nutting; Biographical Memoir of Joseph Saxton, by Joseph
Henry, from J. S. Pendleton; Collected Papers of Dr. George J.
Conley, edited by Yale Castlio, and Principles of Osteopathy, by
Yale Castlio, from the Kansas City College of Osteopathy and
Surgery.

There were also gifts from Secretary Abbot, Assistant Secretary
Wetmore, Mrs. Charles D. Walcott, and the following other members,
associates, and friends of the Smithsonian staff: L. B. Aldrich, Dr.
E. A. Chapin, A. H. Clark, Dr. D. M. Cochran, W. L. Corbin, F. E.
Fowle, Dr. Herbert Friedmann, J. E. Graf, L. C. Gunnell, Mrs.
Walter Hough, A. H. Howell, Dr. Ale’ Hrdlicka, N. M. Judd, G. D.
McCoy, Mrs. C. L. Manning, Dr. W. C. Mansfield, Dr. W. M. Maxon,
G. S. Miller, Jr., Dr. Harold Morrison, C. F. W. Muesebeck, Dr. G. S.
Myers, P. H. Oehser, R. G. Paine, Dr. M. J. Rathbun, J. H. Riley, Dr.
W. L. Schmitt, F. M. Setzler, R. E. Snodgrass, and W. P. True.

SOME STATISTICS

The accessions may be summarized as follows:

Pam-
Library Volumes pul Total

charts
StroOOHysiCalvODSGRVAtOLy.-2oheo hs ee tae SIE Sete sole ee es 99 150 249
irene American. EH tAnOlOpy ss s- 5) le See soe ae ea ie OOn hans goes 99
LOCC ALICE VIOL ATUL ee 98 1950S ESA yey ee eee ree? 365 119 484
eanploveMOronan tics en as ns ee ee Se ee a Se 38 14 52
Nations Gallesy Of Art? sian o59" 3280 yt oF eet oe SS b ee ee aes 314 236 550
eet LCoEaEE) MIND EI STAT sae eG as, BS be ee et A ee ak ies 1, 669 966 2, 635
National Zoolegical (Park. |2553 5-54 EE ia) ye reer be Aes e eee 23 84 14 98
TRA ID HHO OTeaniSMSe=s- —= 2 e854 h ee Se ae eee se 9 2 ll
Smithsonian deposit, Library of Congress__.------------------------------ 3, 456 3, 401 6, 857
PST SOTSEN GiICO Se hs ie 8 a en Re eS 166 14 180
TROD SUN ee Re a ea Ba a ee ee ae ee 6, 299 4,916 11, 215

According to data available at the close of the year for the various
libraries of the Institution, the number of publications cataloged
was approximately 7,015; of cards prepared and filed, 55,829; of
periodicals entered, 25,205; of loans made, 11,235, of which 281 were
88 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

to libraries outside of the Smithsonian system. The number of
items borrowed from the Library of Congress was 2,330, and from
other libraries 484.

The following will show the work done on the union catalog:

Volumes"eataloged = 2253 22 mie Pet 20 ge EAEE DOA Pe oe os Aan See te eR 4, 397
Pamphilets-andycharts) cataloged ssc ean mes — EAP) Meneses ee eee 2, 423
New, Serials Gntries#mad@s 3 42ers! bo DF ete onde Mh Ysa Dae eae 195
Typedeardsadded, to cataloe and, shelf list#= 22> a Se ae eee 6, 415
Library of Congress cards added to catalog and shelf list______________ 18, 749

SPECIAL ACTIVITIES

Among the special activities of the year, a few may be mentioned
as indicating further progress toward making the library system a
more complete and efficient instrument in the work of the Institu-
tion and its branches.

The slow and tedious task of sorting, arranging, and labeling the
large collection of miscellaneous material, including many thousands
of scientific and technical serials, that had accumulated for years on
the second and third floors of the west stacks of the Smithsonian
Building—an undertaking referred to in several annual reports as
receiving special attention—was at last practically finished, with the
gratifying result that, as in 1934 and 1935, hundreds of publications
were brought to light that were needed in the libraries of the Insti-
tution. It is hoped that the unchecked material on the first floor
can receive similar treatment during the coming year, in connection
particularly with the reorganization of the office library and the
rearrangement, and possible reassignment, of the Watts de Peyster
collection.

The staff sorted and arranged the 7,000 and more publications that
were recently given to the hbrary by the International Catalogue of
Scientific Literature, selecting 1,019 for the National Museum, 108 for
the Astrophysical Observatory, and 235 for the Smithsonian deposit.
Most of these found their way into the active sets; the others into the
reserve file—a collection, begun a year or two ago, of standard scien-
tific works designed to meet the future requirements of the Institution.
To this file will probably be added many of the remaining items,
especially some of the longer runs, in this noteworthy gift. It is
expected that permanent shelf room will be provided for the reserve
collection in the west end of the Smithsonian Building when disposal
is made of the duplicates now occupying this space.

The staff also continued the task of reorganizing the technological
library and several of the sectional libraries, notably that of administra-
tion, in the Arts and Industries Building; advanced the work of classi-
fying the Bell aeronautical clippings; withdrew 913 reprints and sep-

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 89

arates from the natural history library and sent them to the curators
concerned; sorted according to subject the set of 27,200 printed cards
covering to date the publications of the Institution and its branches,
that was presented during the year by the Library of Congress, and
forwarded them to the el libraries for filing; picked out 603
surplus maps from the collection in the National Museum and trans-
ferred them to the Smithsonian deposit, where they would be pre-
served against possible future need; prepared 300 volumes for the
bindery, to be sent early in July as the first installment of several
thousand publications to be bound with the deficiency appropriation
made to the Smithsonian for this purpose toward the close of the
fiscal year ; checked and rearranged the reference collection in the office
library; continued to date the index of Smithsonian publications and
contributed substantially to the index of exchange relations; brought
nearly to completion the seven library sets of Smithsonian publica-
tions—a piece of work that has required years of special search for
missing items, many long since out of print; and finished cataloging
the Chinese and Japanese publications in the library of the Freer
Gallery of Art, as well as the field collection that had been returned
to the Gallery from China the year before.

They sent back to the Superintendent of Documents a large number
of Government publications that either were duplicates or were not
pertinent to the work of the Institution; turned over many thousands
of other items not in the immediate field of Smithsonian interest to
the libraries of the Army Medical Museum, Department of Agricul-
ture, Office of Education, and Geological Survey, and the Public
Library of the District of Columbia; assisted further the American
Association for the Advancement of Science in its effort, begun the
year before and shared in at that time by the library, to complete its
office set of Science by presenting to the Association 448 more numbers
of this publication; made generous sendings of duplicates, under a
special exchange arrangement, to the Musée Nationale d’Histoire
Naturelle, Paris, the John Crerar Library, Chicago, the Marine Bio-
logical Laboratory, Woods Hole, and the libraries of the following
colleges and universities: Brown, Catholic, Columbia, Hamilton, Har-
vard, Pennsylvania, Princeton, Vanderbilt, and Yale. From these
institutions, as well as from Cornell University, Massachusetts Insti-
tute of Technology, and the American Academy of Arts and Sciences,
were received many valuable publications, most of which, if it had
not been for the special exchange arrangement referred to, the brary
would have had to buy.

Finally, the staff was called on for even more reference and biblio-
graphical service than usual, not only in connection with the regular
interests of the Institution in science, technology, and art, but in
90 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

response to inquiries of a miscellaneous character from correspondents
throughout the country.
NEEDS

The needs of the library remain the same—more trained assistants,
more funds for binding and for purchasing necessary books and peri-
odicals that cannot be obtained in exchange, and more shelf room for
several of the important collections that have outgrown their
accommodations,

Respectfully submitted.

Wuu1AM L. Corsin, Librarian.

Dr. C. G. Axssor,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 10
REPORT ON PUBLICATIONS

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the publi-
cations of the Smithsonian Institution and the Government branches
under its administrative charge during the year ended June 30, 1936:

The Institution published during the year 29 papers in the series of
Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections, 1 annual report, and pamphlet
copies of the 21 articles contained in the report appendix, and 8
special publications.

The United States National Museum issued 1 annual report, 11
Proceedings papers, and 1 number of the Contributions from the
National Herbarium.

The Bureau of American Ethnology issued 1 annual report and 2
Bulletins.

Of the publications there were distributed 124,359 copies, which
included 75 volumes and separates of the Smithsonian Contributions
to Knowledge, 56,495 volumes and separates of the Smithsonian Mis-
cellaneous Collections, 20,765 volumes and separates of the Smith-
sonian Annual Reports, 3,134 Smithsonian special publications, 33,936
volumes and separates of the National Museum publications, 9,337
publications of the Bureau of American Ethnology, 76 publications of
the National Gallery of Art, 22 publications of the Freer Gallery of
Art, 21 Annals of the Astrophysical Observatory, 20 reports of the
Harriman Alaska Expedition, and 478 reports of the American His-
torical Association.

SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS

Of the Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections, volume 91, there were
issued 4 papers; volume 93, 1 paper; volume 94, 12 papers and title
page and table of contents; and volume 95, 12 papers, making 29
papers in all, as follows:

VOLUME 91

Reports on the collections obtained by the first Johnson-Smithsonian Deep-Sea
Expedition to the Puerto Rican Deep.
No. 21. Fourteen new species of foraminifera, by Joseph A. Cushman. 9 pp.,
3 pls. (Publ. 3327.) July 23, 1985.
No. 22. Two new foraminifera of the genus Teztularia, by Cecil G. Lalicker.
2pp.,1 pl. (Publ. 3328.) July 22, 1935.
91
92 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

No. 23. A new genus of opisthognathid fishes, by George S. Myers. 5 pp., 1
text fig. (Publ. 3347.) December 24, 1935.

No, 24. Four new brittlestars from Puerto Rico, by Austin H. Clark. 8 pp.,
8 pls. (Publ. 3378.) February 8, 1986.

VOLUME 93

No. 10. An introduction to Nebraska archeology, by William Duncan Strong.
315 pp., 25 pls., 30 figs. (Publ. 3303.) July 20, 1935.
Title page and table of contents. (Publ, 3340.)

VOLUME 94

No.6. The abdominal mechanisms of a grasshopper, by R. EH. Snodgrass.
89 pp., 41 figs. (Publ. 3335.) September 25, 1985.

No.7. A new and important copepod habitat, by Charles Branch Wilson.
183 pp., 8 figs. (Publ. 3336.) September 20, 1935.

No.8. The Manahoae tribes in Virginia, 1608, by David I. Bushnell, Jr.
56 pp., 21 pls., 11 figs. (Publ. 3337.) October 9, 1935.

No. 9. Review of the genus Chlaenobia Blanchard (Coleoptera: Scarabaeidae),
by Edward A. Chapin. 20 pp., 12 figs. (Publ. 3338.) September 28, 1935.

No. 10. Solar radiation and weather studies, by C. G. Abbot. 89 pp., 3 pls.,
88 figs. (Publ. 3339.) August 15, 1935.

No. 11. Melanesians and Australians and the peopling of America, by AleS
Hrdlitka. 58 pp. (Publ. 3841.) October 18, 1935.

No. 12. Mount St. Katherine, an excellent solar-radiation station, by C. G.
Abbot. 11 pp., 2 pls., 1 fig. (Publ. 8342.) October 5, 1935.

No. 18. Morphology of the coleopterous family Staphylinidae, by Richard E.
Blackwelder. 102 pp., 30 figs. (Publ. 3343.) March 2, 1986.

No. 14. A Caddo burial site at Natchitoches, Louisiana, by Winslow M. Walker.
15 pp., 6 pls., 3 figs. (Publ. 3345.) December 17, 1935.

No. 15. Aerial fertilization of wheat plants with carbon-dioxide gas, by Earl S.
Johnston. 9 pp., 6 pls. (Publ. 8346.) December 20, 1935.

No. 16. The genus Panscopus Schoenherr (Coleoptera: Curculionidae), by
L. L. Buchanan. 18 pp., 2 figs. (Publ. 3376.) February 6, 19386.

No. 17. Growth of a green alga in isolated wave-length regions, by Florence E.
Meier. 12 pp., 1 pl., 1 fig. (Publ. 3377.) February 21, 1936.

Title page and table of contents. (Publ. 3387.)

VOLUME 95

No.1. Observing the sun at 19,300 feet altitude, Mount Aunconquilcha, Chile,
by C. P. Butler. 4 pp., 1 fig. (Publ. 3379.) February 18, 1936.

No. 2. Lethal effect of short wave lengths of the ultraviolet on the alga
Chlorella vulgaris, by Florence E. Meier. 19 pp., 2 pls., 2 figs. (Publ. 3380.)
March 20, 1936.

No. 3. Liquid-propellant rocket development, by Robert H. Goddard. 10 pp.,
11 pls., 1 fig. (Publ. 3381.) March 16, 1936.

No. 4. Second contribution to nomenclature of Cambrian trilobites, by Charles
Elmer Resser. 29 pp. (Publ. 3383.) April 1, 1936.

No. 5. Molluscan intermediate hosts of the Asiatic blood fluke, Schistosoma
japonicum, and species confused with them, by Paul Bartsch. 60 pp., 8 pls.
(Publ. 3384.) May 11, 1936.

No. 6. New species of American Edrioasteroidea, by R. S. Bassler. 33 pp.,
7 pls. (Publ. 3385.) May 4, 1936.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 93

No. 7. The gold-banded skipper (Rhabdoides cellus), by Austin H. Clark.
50 pp., 8 pls., 4 figs. (Publ. 3386.) May 6, 1936.

No. 8. Thomas Walter, botanist, by William R. Maxon. 6 pp. (Publ. 3388.)
April 22, 1936.

No. 9. Preliminary observations on growth and phototropie response of oat
seedlings, by Enoch Karrer. 4 pp., 1 fig. (Publ. 3389.) June 2, 1936.

No. 10. Additional information on the Folsom complex: Report on the second
season’s investigations at the Lindenmeier site in northern Colorado, by Frank
H. H. Roberts, Jr. 38 pp., 12 pls., 5 figs. (Publ. 3390.) June 20, 1936.

No. 11. Influence of planetary configurations upon the frequency of visible sun
spots, by Fernando Sanford. 5 pp. (Publ. 3391.) June 5, 1936.

No. 12. The dependence of terrestrial temperatures on the variations of the
sun’s radiation, by C. G. Abbot. 15 pp., 7 figs. (Publ. 3392.) May 23, 1936.

SMITHSONIAN ANNUAL REPORTS

Report for 1934—The complete volume of the Annual Report of
the Board of Regents for 1934 was received from the Public Printer
in October 1935.

Annual Report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution show-
ing operations, expenditures, and condition of the Institution for the year end-
ing June 30, 1934. xiv-+448 pp., 73 pls., 45 text figs. (Publ. 3305.)

The appendix contained the following papers:

The new world-picture of modern physics, by Sir James H. Jeans.

The markings and rotation of Mercury, by E. M. Antoniadi.

British Polar Year Expedition to Fort Rae, Northwest Canada, 1932-33, by
J. M. Stagg.

Protium-deuterium-tritium, the hydrogen trio, by Hugh S. Taylor.

Some chemical aspects of life, by Sir Frederick Gowland Hopkins.

Commercial extraction of bromine from sea water, by Leroy C. Stewart.

Before papyrus—beyond rayon, by Gustavus J. Esselen.

The variety in tides, by H. A. Marmer.

Modern seismology, by F. J. Serase.

A generation’s progress in the study of evolution, by Edwin G. Conklin.

How the fishes learned to swim, by Anatol Heintz.

Curious and beautiful birds of Ceylon, by Casey A. Wood.

The influence of civilzation on the insect fauna in cultivated areas of North
America, by Roger C. Smith.

Arctic butterflies, by Austin H. Clark.

Grasses, what they are and where they live, by A. S. Hitchcock.

Phototropism: A specific growth response to light, by Earl S. Johnston.

An outline development of highway travel, espeuially in America, by Carl
W. Mitman.

Via Appia in the days when all roads led to Rome, by Albert C. Rose.

Smithsonian archeological projects conducted under the Federal Hmergency
Relief Administration, 1933-34, by M. W. Stirling.

Indian cultures of northeastern South America, by Herbert W. Krieger.

Commerce, trade, and monetary units of the Maya, by Frans Blom.

Report for 1935.—The report of the Secretary, which included the
financial report of the executive committee of the Board of Regents,
94 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

and will form part of the annual report of the Board of Regents to
Congress, was issued in January 1936.

Report of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution and financial report
of the executive committee of the Board of Regents for the year ending June 30,
1935. 90 pp., 2 pls. (Publ. 3344.)

The report volume, containing the general appendix, was in press
at the close of the year.

SPECIAL PUBLICATIONS

Biographical sketch of James Smithson. 17 pp., 4 pls. (Reprint.) 1936.

Explorations and field work of the Smithsonian Institution in 1935. 80 pp.,
85 figs. (Publ. 3382.) April 20, 1936.

Illustrations of North American pitcherplants, by Mary Vaux Walcott. De-
scriptions and notes on distribution, by Edgar T. Wherry. Notes on insect
associates, by Frank Morton Jones. 4°. 34 pp., 15 color pls., 10 figs. October
1935.

PUBLICATIONS OF THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM

The editorial work of the National Museum has continued during
the year under the immediate direction of the editor, Paul H. Oehser.
There were issued 1 annual report, 11 separates from the Proceedings,
and one number from the Contributions from the National Herba-
rium, as follows:

MUSEUM REPORT

Report on the progress and condition of the United States National Museum
for the year ended June 30, 1935. S8vo, iii+121 pp. January.

CONTRIBUTIONS FROM THE NATIONAL HERBARIUM : VOLUME 26

Part 8. New species of Pilea from the Andes. By E. P. Killip. Pp. i-viii,
367-394. January 30, 1936.

PROCEEDINGS : VOLUME 83

No. 2979. New West Indian cerambycid beetles. By W. 8S. Fisher. Pp. 189-
210. September 9, 1935.

No. 2980. Two new species of tapeworms from carnivores and a redescription
of Taenia laticollis Rudolphi, 1819. By Mary Scott Skinker. Pp. 211-220, pls.
19-21. October 25, 1935.

No. 2981. Paleocene mammals from the Fort Union of Montana. By George
Gaylord Simpson. Pp. 221-244. October 18, 1935.

No. 2982. Five new genera and two new species of unstalked crinoids. By
A. H. Clark. Pp. 245-250. March 14, 1936.

No. 2983. Notes on the butterflies of the genus Hnodia and description of a
new fritillary from Peru. By A. H. Clark. Pp. 251-259, pl. 22. April 11, 1936.

No. 2984. Polychaetous annelids from Amoy, China. By Aaron L. Treadwell.
Pp. 261-279, figs. 18-20. June 10, 1936.

No. 2985. A study of the fossil horse remains from the Upper Pliocene of
Idaho. By C. Lewis Gazin. Pp. 281-320, figs. 21-24, pls. 23-33. June 1, 1936.

No, 2986. A new genus and species of trematodes from the little brown bat

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 95

and a key to the genera of Pleurogenetinae. By Ralph W. Macy. Pp. 321-324,
fig. 25. May 19, 1936.

No. 2987. Two new cottid fishes from the western Pacific, with a revision
of the genus Stlengis Jordan and Starks. By Rolf L. Bolin. Pp. 325-334, figs.
26-27, pl. 34. June 15, 1936.

No. 2988. Tertiary plants from Venezuela. By Edward W. Berry. Pp. 335-
360, figs. 28-31. June 12, 1936.

No. 2989. Three new millipeds of the order Colobognatha from Tennessee,
Texas, and Lower California, with records of previously known species. By
H. F. Loomis. Pp. 361-368, fig. 32. May 11, 1936.

PUBLICATIONS OF THE BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY

The editorial work of the bureau has continued under the imme-
diate direction of the editor, Stanley Searles. During the year one
annual report and two bulletins were issued, as follows:

Fifty-second Annual Report on the Bureau of American Ethnology to the
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, 1984-1935. 8 pp.

Bulletin 112. An introduction to Pawnee archeology. By Waldo Rudolph
Wedel. 122 pp., 12 pls., 10 maps, 12 figs.

Bulletin 113. The Troyville mounds, Catahoula Parish, La. By Winslow M.
Walker. 73 pp., 16 pls., 15 figs.

REPORT OF THE AMERICAN HISTORICAL ASSOCIATION

The annual reports of the American Historical Association are
transmitted by the association to the Secretary of the Smithsonian
Institution and are communicated by him to Congress, as provided
by the act of incorporation of the association.

Volume II of the report for 1931, Writings in American History,
1931, was issued during the year. The annual report for 1935, in-
cluding the proceedings of the association for 19383 and 1934, and
the supplemental volumes to the reports for 1932 and 1933, Writings
in American History, 1932 and 1938, were in press at the close of
the year.

REPORT OF THE NATIONAL SOCIETY, DAUGHTERS OF THE AMERICAN
REVOLUTION

The manuscript of the Thirty-eighth Annual Report of the Na-
tional Society, Daughters of the American Revolution, was trans-
mitted to Congress, in accordance with law, December 10, 1935.

ALLOTMENTS FOR PRINTING

The congressional allotments for the printing of the Smithsonian
Annual Reports to Congress and the various publications of the
Government bureaus under the administration of the Institution
were virtually used up at the close of the year. The appropriation
96 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

for the coming year ending June 30, 1937, totals $55,500, allotted as
follows:

Smithsonian’ Lnstitution® 2-6 Ssoe Sees Sea ee yee a ee eee $12, 400
National ‘Museums 2222) ee eee ae Ree 25, 000
Bureauof American Hthnologya— == staan eae ie eee 9, 000
international “hixchange (Nenvices- 22 — = ee eee eee 200
National -Zoologicalbarkeus.> Sater: Ah et ae eee eee 200
AstrophysicaljObservatory 2222. 23. Sele. iia, eee eee ee 400
American Historical Association=--= ==. = eee 8, 000
NatironaliiGallery of vAT ts Se 2 BAe aa oe ee eee 300

In addition to these amounts, an appropriation of $12,000 for
printing and binding was included in the Urgent Deficiency Bill.
This will be used for urgent binding.

Respectfully submitted.

W. P. True, Editor.

Dr. C. G. Axsort,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE OF
THE BOARD OF REGENTS OF THE SMITH-
SONIAN INSTITUTION

FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 1936

To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution:

Your executive committee respectfully submits the following report
in relation to the funds of the Smithsonian Institution, together with
a statement of the appropriations by Congress for the Government
bureaus in the administrative charge of the Institution.

SMITHSONIAN ENDOWMENT FUND

The original bequest of James Smithson was £104,960 8s. 6d.—
$508,318.46. Refunds of money expended in prosecution of the
claim, freights, insurance, etc., together with payment into the
fund of the sum of £5,015, which had been withheld during the
lifetime of Madame de la Batut, brought the fund to the amount
eee Ss Ee ee $550, 000. 00
Since the original bequest the Institution has received gifts from
various sources, chiefly in the years prior to 1893, the income
from which may be used for the general work of the Institution.
To these gifts has been added capital from savings on income,
gain from sale of securities, etc., bringing the total endowment
for general purposes to the amount of__-_--_-------_--------~-- 1, 117, 419. 22

The Institution holds also a number of endowment gifts, the income
of each being restricted to specific use. These are invested and stand
on the books of the Institution as follows:

Arthur, James, fund, income for investigations and study of sun and

ieeturerOnethe. Sune ee eae De ee ee $40, 606. 64
Bacon, Virginia Purdy, fund, for a traveling scholarship to investi-

gate fauna of countries other than the United States____-__-------- 50, 869.12
Baird, Lucy H., fund, for creating a memorial to Secretary Baird____ 9, 207. 86
Barstow, Frederic D., fund, for purchase of animals for the Zoo-

ligenemil JERE ae ee ee eee 772. 34

Canfield Collection fund, for increase and care of the Canfield collec-

MonROL Minerals << eS ee =  ee  eeeee 38, 833. 61
Casey, Thomas L., fund, for maintenance of the Casey collection and

promotion of researches relating to Coleoptera_____------------ 7, 846. 82
Chamberlain, Francis Lea, fund, for increase and promotion of

Isaac Lea collection of gems and mollusks_------------------~- 28, 592. 33
Hillyer, Virgil, fund, for increase and care of Virgil Hillyer collec-

PONwOLeenGINS 500) CCUS a a ee eee 6, 673. 02

Hodgkins fund, specific, for increase and diffusion of more exact
knowledge in regard to nature and properties of atmospheric air__ 100, 000. 00
97
98 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

Special Research fund, gift, in form of real estate-_______-_____-- $20, 946. 00
Hughes, Bruce, fund, to found Hughes alcove_______._________-_-_ 15, 382. 40
Myer, Catherine Walden, fund, for purchase of first-class works of

art for the use of and benefit of the National Gallery of Art____-~- 19, 246. 73
Pell, Cornelia Livingston, fund, for maintenance of Alfred Duane

Pell. collections =.= 5-2 35222235 es eee 2, 450. 56
Poore, Lucy T. and George W., fund, for general use of the Institu-

tion when principal amounts to the sum of $250,000____________ 66, 201. 14
Reid, Addison T., fund, for founding chair in biology in memory of

Asher “Tunis826.0 fee Uy ty Pe ee ee ee Ee a 29, 293. 14
Roebling fund, for care, improvement, and increase of Roebling col-

lection: of minerals=+< 8s ee Se Se ee 122, 533. 38
Rollins, Miriam and William, fund, for investigations in physics

and #chemistry2ts Aub tat bane ca eS A 2 Se ee 53, 568, 12
Springer, Frank, fund, for care, ete., of Springer collection and

VFO Ye eS se a aces See eee eres eer pS 18, 207. 84

Walcott, Charles D., and Mary Vaux, research fund, for develop-
ment of geological and paleontological studies and publishing

results thereoi se 2. eee eke os ee 10, 718. 44
Younger) Helen walcott; fund, heldiqintizust=——— 50, 112. 50
Zerbee, Frances Brincklé, fund, for endowment of aquaria_________ (228

Total endowment for specific purposes other than Freer
endowment..2 2. 2222 2 oe ae ee SA ee eee 692, 834. 74

The capital funds of the Institution, except the Freer funds, are
invested as follows:

United
Consoli-_ | Separate
Fund aes datedfund} fund Total

Arthurs Jamess ose eel. Se a eee See a $40, 606::64 |. 2222 2-1 $40, 606. 64
BAaCOMVirgiMi AVE UL yaaa ee eee eee Pee Perea |nere eet eee DON SOO! 12s eae ens 50, 869. 12
Levi ge Abe ah 3 a ey ee Ee a ee Se eee ee eee oe WAC Tel eee ee 9, 207. 86
Barstow; rederic Des 855 35s epee eee UE EE ee rev se | eee Oe 772. 34
@antigldtCollection=s see oa ee ee ee eee eee Bihiese oil, (Keo ee 38, 833. 61
Casey Thomash, S28 ae ene pe aay Ree ee, th S46: Sa [Ene £2 ae ees 7, 846. 82
Ohamberlains sees eae ee ee ee eee Pi PSs [See eee 28, 592. 33
Biller. Virgilis st) oS Se oie es ee Bee aeay | ee Se 65678. 02:53 eee 6, 673. 02
odskins*epecitic=ss 262-2 ast ae ee eee $1005000) === 352 | Se 100, 000. 00
Special:Hesearchis= see oe) ae ae ee a See ok eae $20,946.00 20, 946. 00
Bi ghes SB TUCe ee eee Le ee Sen Eee 1b 7882540) eae ee 15, 382. 40
NMiver a atherinenwan 22a: 2a ae aes ae aoe Se es | 19; 246: 73 ests 19, 246. 73
PelliiComelsa Wivineston.- sss see ee een | La en 25400)563)) eas 2, 450. 56
Poore, Lucy T--andiGeorge Wf ee ee Se 26,670 |" d9F538l.14 |— & ee eee 66, 201. 14
Reid vAddisoni T= 52-2 Sark Ser es eee eae 11,000 | 13, 793.14 | 4, 500. 00 29, 293. 14
Roebling: Collections a aek ae ten ee EN Ae ee 122; Dod idOnl aoe a 122, 533. 38
Rollins; Miriam and (William: (32-22 ee ee ee ee es 44, 068.12 | 9, 500. 00 53, 568. 12
Smithsonian unrestricted:

Special- =. 22. ses le eek oh ees eee Tee UES TIES | ae Se 3 c8S 1, 400. 00 1, 400. 00

PAY Cine sae et EA eee a ee aes 14,000) |37,,8075 71s |22= 2 51, 807. 71

ATTN OW XM OU oa se ea ee i a eigen Al aa erg me ain ROCESS abe eee 177, 090. 38

Habelite os eet ete a ee eel 600 7 || Secs ests) ae aay 500. 00

ETA CHEN ere eee tee eee eae emer Sete ae nearer ya bg ee Le 4, 083. 16 4, 083, 16

Iam i tone ae oe eS sae Ee a eng eee 2, 500 409. 87 2, 909. 87

8 RV aT ghetto EE OE CET SESE a ere Pe ee. 1, 227. 97 1, 227. 97

Hodgkins (general) aie 20S See a Se 116,000 | 30, 446. 49 146, 446. 49

PATON aeere wee Pate a ee PUN eS cr ee 727, 640 1, 239. 50 728, 879. 50

FUR GBS eee ooo eee a a eee ee eres 590 480. 33 1, 070. 33

Sanford i322 232 iis See ome ey 1, 100 903. 81 2, 003. 81
Springer sty shee ee ee eS ee ee eae ae een 18, 207. 84 3 18, 207. 84
Walcott, Charles D. and Mary Vaux-______- ROMHIS 44 he cee 10, 718. 44
Younger, Helen Walcott_____--_________ A eee Se ae 50, 112. 50 60, 112. 50
Zerbee, Frances Brinckl6é_____.-._________ CPA on ES 772. 76

BCH) Vs a YE eee eee Pe Ee 1, 000, 000 | 723, 795. 46 |86, 458.50 | 1, 810, 253. 96

REPORT OF EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 99
FREER GALLERY OF ART FUND

Early in 1906, by deed of gift, Charles L. Freer, of Detroit, gave
to the Institution his collection of Chinese and other oriental objects
of art, as well as paintings, etchings, and other works of art by
Whistler, Thayer, Dewing, and other artists. Later he also gave
funds for the construction of a building to house the collection, and
finally, in his will, probated November 6, 1919, he provided stock and
securities to the estimated value of $1,958,591.42 as an endowment
fund for the operation of the gallery. From the above date to the
present time these funds have been increased by stock dividends, sav-
ings of income, etc., to a total of $4,651,867.07. In view of the impor-
tance and special nature of the gift and the requirements of the
testator in respect to it, all Freer funds are kept separate from the
other funds of the Institution, and the accounting in respect to them
is stated separately.

The invested funds of the Freer bequest are classified as follows:

PRGIaANG 2TOUnGS TUNG ota! a 2a ep ee $521, 158. 68
ourt.and grounds maintenance funds... == +- 131, 062. 81
PEE SUTIN LELTI GL oetes ee ss tes ee ee 530, 338. 92
BENIN Ve LOSAC\= =a eb ee 3, 469, 311. 66
4, 651, 867. 07
SUMMARY

Invested endowment for general purposes______--_-_____________ $1, 117, 419. 22

Invested endowment for specific purposes other than Freer endow-
Le eee RP ee a ee ee ee 692, 834. 74
Total invested endowment other than Freer endowment___ 1, 810, 253. 96
Freer invested endowment for specific purposes_________________ 4, 651, 867. 07
Total invested endowment for all purposes______-________ 6, 462, 121. 03

CLASSIFICATION OF INVESTMENTS

Deposited in the U. S. Treasury at 6 percent per annum, as au-

thorized in the U. S. Revised Statutes, see. 5591_______________ $1, 000, 000. 00
Investments other than Freer endowment (cost or

market value at date acquired) :

Bonds (20 different groups) ~_-______________ $334, 888. 21
Stocks (55 different groups) _________________ 428, 954. 79
Real estate and first-mortgage notes_________ 41, 746. 00
Wninvestedmcapital — = -.2- 22 22. sy ee 4, 664. 96
a 810, 253. 96
Total investments other than Freer endowment___________ 1, 810, 253. 96

112059—37——_8
100 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

Investments of Freer endowment (cost or market
value at date acquired) :

Bonds, (42 different, groups) 22s $2, 153, 477. 00
Stocks (50 different groups) -~--_-___-________ 2, 458, 494. 73
Real estate first-mortgage notes_____________ 37, 500. 00
Uninvested” capital’ =-—- = ee ee 2, 395. 34

Total: investments) 2-223 Ae! te 2 a ee

$4, 651, 867. 07

6, 462, 121. 03

CASH BALANCES, RECEIPTS, AND DISBURSEMENTS DURING THEE FISCAL YEAR?

Cash balance on hand June 30, 1935____-------_--____

Receipts:
Cash income from various sources for general
WOLK OFothe VinStHiLUtONS= == ae eee

Cash gifts and contributions expendable for spe-
cial scientific objects (not to be invested)—--__
Cash gifts for special scientific work (to be in-
wested)) 12. a= Ss See. a a ee er eee ee 4
Cash income from endowments for specific use
other than Freer endowment and from miscel-
laneous sources (including refund of temporary

EXCL VL TV CEG) a a as FA rsa aR oe 60, 089. 96
Cash received as royalties from Smithsonian
Seientifiet/Serles=-=>-— 2 === se ee 37, 875. 92
Cash capital from sale, call of securities, ete. (to
be: reinvested) = -4 2 3 ee ee 151, 534. 99
Total receipts other than Freer endowment____________
Cash receipts from Freer endowment: Income
LOM) HNVeEStINEntS eClC2 =a ee ee 259, 420. 73
Cash capital from sale, call of securities, ete.
(to*be* reinvested) 22222225 2 Bee ee ae 1, 175, 874. 51

Disbursements:

From funds for general work of the Institution:
Buildings, care, repairs, and alterations___-
Hurnitire. ands txburess ===> = ee
General administration *L-=-—_----=-----_-
i DTARY S235 2S oe ee ee Ss ee
Publications (comprising preparation, print-

ings andedisthibution) S22 = ae
Researches and explorations____--_-------
international ixchangessa22 2s).

$66, 611. 05

23, 998. 62

7, 000. 00

$3, 988. 87
438. 79
27, 002. 60
2, 208. 85

16, 555. 16
17, 090. 34
4, 788. 30

$578, 572. 12

347, 110. 54

1, 435, 295. 24

2, 360, 977. 90

72, 072. 91

17This statement does not include Government appropriations under the administrative

eharge of the Institution.
2'This includes salary of the Secretary and certain others.

Game
REPORT OF EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 101

Disbursements—Continued.
From funds for specific use, other than Freer
endowment:

Investments made from gifts, from gain
from sale, ete., of securities and from say-
ingsion}income Sessa eS $11, 608. 81

Other expenditures, consisting largely of
research work, travel, increase and care
of special collections, etc., from income of
endowment funds and from cash gifts for
specific use (including temporary ad-

WENCGS))- eats let bn tle enh Pe es ee 94, 450. 36
Reinvestment of cash capital from sale,
callwofasecurities;uetes. =a as eee 164, 482. 67
———————_ $270, 491. 84
From Freer endowment:
Operating expenses of the gallery, salaries,
field \expenses; fetes 22 4 ge ess ee 8 67, 882.17
Purchaser of art. ObjectS22—-= = 213, 876. 72
Investments made from gain from sale, etc.,
Of; Securities2 = sare 75, 756. 14
Reinvestment of cash capital from sale, call
Olesecurities pet@" = = ene ee ae 1, 481, 373. 56
Accrued interest on bonds purchased___--~- 7, 072. 13
1, 795, 960. 72
eaushapalance. june’ oO) 19S@r re ae ae ae 222, 452. 43
Mo tale 2 is Pe es 2 Se ee eee 2, 360, 977. 90

EXPENDITURES FOR RESEARCHES IN PURE SCIENCE, PUBLICATIONS, EXPLORA-
TIONS, CARE, INCREASE, AND STUDY OF COLLECTIONS, ETC.

Expenditures from general funds of the Institution:

Ipnblicationse 2 =2= 4 = ses eee sb eerr as $16, 555. 16
iResearches:and explorabionS==—— 2 =- = ene 17, 090. 34
——————. $33, 645. 50
Expenditures from funds devoted to specific purposes:
Researches and explorations_____-._____._----__-- 57, 669. 45
Care, increase, and study of special collections____-_ 12, 545. 96
IPnblications = 5s 2 ee ee 6, 038. 72
————— 76, 249. 13
G May rl eee ee ee ee ee ae ee 109, 894. 63

The practice of depositing on time in local trust companies and
banks such revenues as may be spared temporarily has been continued
during the past year, and interest on these deposits has amounted to
$925.30.

The Institution gratefully acknowledges gifts or bequests from the
following:

Mrs. Laura Welsh Casey, for further contributions to Thomas Lincoln Casey
fund, for investigations in Coleoptera.
102 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

Mrs. Virgil M. Hillyer, for the establishment of a fund the income from
which is to be used in the care and increase of the Virgil Hillyer collection of
lighting objects.

Research Corporation, for further contributions for researches in radiation.

Mrs. Mary Vaux Walcott, for contribution for the purchase of certain speci-
Mens and a collection of pamphlets on anthropology.

All payments are made by check, signed by the Secretary of the In-
stitution on the Treasurer of the United States, and all revenues are
deposited to the credit of the same account. In many instances de-
posits are placed in bank for convenience of collection and later are
withdrawn in round amounts and deposited in the Treasury.

The foregoing report relates only to the private funds of the Insti-
tution.

The following annual appropriations were made by Congress for
the Government bureaus under the administrative charge of the
Smithsonian Institution for the fiscal year 1936:

Salariesjandsexpenses.2: 2 oe oe a ee eee ae $36, 326. 00
International vHxchanges2= "22 ee ee 44, 262. 00
American: ¢hthnology222 2282 sce ss 3 ee ee eee 58, 730. 00
Astrophysical sObservatony22=2 2222 sae ee ee eee 30, 846. GO
National Museum:
Maintenance and operation==— 222222. —="— sense $125, 672. 00
Preservationaorscollections= === = =e ee 594, 578. 00
720, 250. 00
National Galleryof Arto 22) 2 ee eee 34, 275. 00
Printing and “binding ee 37, 500. 00
Nationals Zoological Bavkaa= t=. sees ee ee ee ee 215, 000. 00
1,177, 189. 00

Provision was made for participation by the Smithsonian Institu-
tion in the following expositions:

California Pacific International Exposition (unexpended balance of

allotment made last year, made available until January 1, 1937)--_ $916.19
Texas Centennial’ Expositiona-—2-"——--—— et een eee 10, 000. 00
Great Lakes?hxposition=—== S23 Ste teleeee ie Shee eee eee 700. 00

An appropriation was also made providing $25,000 for the purchase
of the airplane Winnie Mae and equipment used by Wiley Post in his
world flight.

The report of the audit of the Smithsonian private funds is
printed below:

AUGUST 28, 19386.
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE, BOARD OF REGENTS,
Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D. C.

Sms: Pursuant to agreement we have audited the accounts of the Smith-
sonian Institution for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1936, and certify the bal-
ance of cash on hand June 80, 1936, to be $224,352.43 (which includes $1,900
cash in safe).
REPORT OF EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 103

We have verified the record of receipts and disbursements maintained by
the Institution and the agreement of the book balances with the bank balances.

We have examined all the securities in the custody of the Institution and in
the custody of the banks and found them to agree with the book records.

We have compared the stated income of such securities with the receipts of
record and found them in agreement therewith.

We have examined all vouchers covering disbursements for account of the
Institution during the fiscal year ended June 30, 1986, together with the
authority therefor, and have compared them with the Institution’s record of
expenditures and found them to agree.

We have examined and verified the accounts of the Institution with each
trust fund.

We found the books of account and records well and accurately kept and
the securities conveniently filed and securely cared for.

All information requested by your auditors was promptly and courteously
furnished.

We certify the balance sheet, in our opinion, correctly presents the financial
condition of the Institution as at June 30, 1936.

Respectfully submitted.

Wiiam L. Yarcrer & Co.,
Wiiw1aAmM L. YAEGER,
Certified Public Accountant.

Respectfully submitted.
Frepertc A. DELANo,
R. Warton Moore,
Joun C. Merriam,
Executive Committee.
Sie tis ct ence mesoionic elas at
ered ert ‘ar Sed acaeraide wl AD pe; peter blr

seat ea yy z exh TRU iss . ote ey SHS} My ¥ . a
Pep isbn PORN | oO) Drea enctar eth bina,
| FO Nin i Gh aN

Mas ;

Pi Char pee rw eh es Att ma Cicumt ' heal Avy ineatnen(teal bea le)
te et Ris CA ee eA ed Ti
i . LA ee eM dy eg ere
ie iors: J phe Apa
ty . b 4. : ware Ss Pe A ~ " a
fey PAW POD TH UCI a Ee RAT la f RB, fy
‘
Reeth, held ¥ Lay Ps He oY aa ay mins Ate ere 1 2 a 4
4 i ' i
: ry H
¢} ‘ga: Gi} | =
: ite i | 7" re ae
wy . ; ;
Dat ‘ ,
"
; fs d
mA
, ie gst 4 i ty ue ge hom: Sia oF
a ou a od y rns Oh

Pa Pyscedt  Ve oprerement wa Bove pogitiel ine soi er aime sitet:

ea MP RET Bee Che gr ht fener auld Dene ik Ry el ga ge ae take
joe sil enialthe’ cick: Mamie" Peasy REE, QIAN ae Toe a ee eee ae
Cae tay ie). | . ,

GENERAL APPENDIX

TO THE

SMITHSONIAN REPORT FOR 1936

105
enh tn deo hn el te one eee dehy ne cece tenet aed + ty peel amen tate sine mpl yatate ttm mnt gn. = ~s :
Aegan ee Fl el A Re OS RS AAT OL ETC EET LT BLP te 5 aM eipaninigrearne

wi, ‘ : r ; i ; :

Rawat TAM

aut OT

Avy
=

sset HOT THOW HATMOSHTIME

ee ae at etme eel ye ne ene aa a Ay ti en a Saye ae mtn enki me peel jen rere

I eS ee ee oe
ie

~

ADVERTISEMENT

The object of the Genrrat Appenprx to the Annual Report of the
Smithsonian Institution is to furnish brief accounts of scientific
discovery in particular directions; reports of investigations made by
collaborators of the Institution; and memoirs of a general character
or on special topics that are of interest or value to the numerous
correspondents of the Institution.

It has been a prominent object of the Board of Regents of the
Smithsonian Institution from a very early date to enrich the annual
report required of them by law with memoirs illustrating the more
remarkable and important developments in physical and biological
discovery, as well as showing the general character of the operations
of the Institution; and, during the greater part of its history, this
purpose has been carried out largely by the publication of such
papers as would possess an interest to all attracted by scientific
progress.

In 1880, induced in part by the discontinuance of an annual sum-
mary of progress which for 30 years previously had been issued by
well-known private publishing firms, the secretary had a series of
abstracts prepared by competent collaborators, showing concisely
the prominent features of recent scientific progress in astronomy,
geology, meteorology, physics, chemistry, mineralogy, botany, zool-
ogy, and anthropology. This latter plan was continued, though not
altogether satisfactorily, down to and including the year 1888.

In the report for 1889 a return was made to the earlier method of
presenting a miscellaneous selection of papers (some of them origi-
nal) embracing a considerable range of scientific investigation and
discussion. This method has been continued in the present report
for 1936.

107
Mi, 9 ot ‘é wood hectare oa
Rise, p hinainy inns own rodent | re
Co © ‘eront od) saiherjentit etdoagay dite wal od te one
© Gisigniont baw tooiagdy at aqumgoleveh Jnmtoqeat brie ald er
ne orci ‘ 1 orcs Gh ee re

eo ecole A Ad ‘wotnerea, o6lh arate shin panei taseieg
oh hoire, Bo sini Bars Sa qa ylngral avo Belting qed suelo

Po shlitetion aoe fobertie the od derastai: an erie, no. angen

G janng iam acn 2p oosrmpitititncail odt <b rang att foam aby O88E ‘¢
: re Doweat west Del earohny ‘Brita OF Set date 3 to |
n ) Reeeieg ¢ Ged ysatetose adls oenal curldetfeltrcy sieving iri a
se : ;

elesinnen. sired drotsrdatios tanoqminy yd Plraqeey mapa

2 tip A ASON OTE th eorgotg oliiguine Josey No) eames reniaap eat
Bo eek pee whlstesonion wartanndy soiyycatey Tolono yaaleg
Bb sjos ae kyproilt Kyotranlocgeve ame tag wtal iat Tanne nae Ta)

| <ReeL sou, add seiburlond bite ob awob Siitob elles radtenoi@
Ap fnvid out soit nike oa oSwiis- alain wether QBRE 1h Moga aif ne ;
. sigiter earl) Ye’ aiinn) xiaqey To noltele evdontalinaink & Lever
 Dite motteylieava? offfiigeié Yo agast oldgbianoy “4 raison (Ii
Pode: = adh at ibaa reed anil frouljoug auth: 10

tr
ASTRONOMY IN SHAKESPEARE’S TIME
AND IN OURS

By C. G. ABBOT
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution

[With 6 plates]

About 50 years ago Dr. S. P. Langley, third secretary of the
Smithsonian Institution, wrote a charming book called The New
Astronomy. He pointed out that from the earliest times almost
until his own, astronomy had been restricted to the study of the posi-
tions and motions of the heavenly bodies. Now the inquiry had be-
come more and more: What are members of the heavenly host in
chemical and physical constitution? Both branches of astronomy
have made astonishing progress since Langley wrote, as we shall
see in contrasting astronomy’s present status with that of Shakes-
peare’s time. What I wish to emphasize by referring to Langley’s
book is that nothing that depends on the use of the spectroscope or
of photography was known to the astronomers of Galileo’s and
Shakespeare’s generation. And we may well estimate that three-
fourths of our present knowledge of the subject depends on photo-
graphic and spectroscopic observations.

Astronomy is the distinguished child of that gypsylike mother,
astrology. In Babylonia, the sun, moon, and planets were gods and
goddesses. Fortunate and unfortunate public events were naturally
associated with the intervention of the gods, and hence with the
aspect of the heavenly bodies. It therefore became a priestly duty
to watch the heavens for portents. In this way astrology was born,
flourished, and gave birth to astronomy. During at least 2,000 years
there grew up a great body of knowledge of the motions of the sun,
moon, planets, and stars, but until the seventeenth century of our era
there were no telescopes or accurate clocks by which observations
exact enough to prove sound theory could be made.

The poet Shakespeare lived at the very beginning of a new astro-
nomical epoch, which we may call the first age of the telescope, last-
ing through the sixteenth, seventeenth, and eighteenth centuries.
Copernicus, indeed, had published his great work on the motions of

109
110 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

THE FIRST BOOKE OF THE

AMA

2}

*
Win,
i

Mn)
S

wily,

©

AW

Mt,

UI

SS)
7s

SOUT TY Fp,

‘
RS
i]

*K

AM Ary

(

Ny s
Ayo

LAAT

Hic canet errant? Lunam,Solifq; labores |p NW
Artin a Y,

3. 4
.
% Ea VA
3 pa

INT

FRU

Fobn

Figurn 1.—Representation of the Ptolemaic system taken from “The Cosmographical
Glasse, conteinyng the pleasant Principles of Cosmographie, Geographie, Hydrographie,

or Navigation”, by William Cuningham, London, 1559.
ASTRONOMY IN SHAKESPEARE’S TIME—ABBOT 111

the heavenly bodies. Kepler and Galileo, who made such notable dis-
coveries, were Shakespeare’s contemporaries. The telescope was
invented during his lifetime, and exact mechanisms were no longer
rare. But printing was still costly, and intelligence traveled slowly.
Indeed, the work of these great astronomers just named was slow in
receiving recognition. I believe there is no evidence from Shakes-
peare’s writings that he was aware of them or of the results of their
investigations. Like practically all other outstanding men of his
time, he appears to have accepted the system of Ptolemy, wherein
the earth was regarded as the center of the universe. Though that
master introduced his numerous epicycles and equants merely as

Fieurp 2.—Diagram of the Ptolemaic system. The four substances, earth, water, air, fire,
which the ancients supposed to be world elements, are at the center. (From The Uni-
verse, from Crystal Spheres to Relativity, by Frank Allen. Harcourt, Brace & Co., New
York, 1931.)

mathematical devices, the vulgar understanding of his system con-
ceived it to imply that the moon, the sun, the planets, and the stars
were affixed to spheres of greater and greater remoteness from the
earth. These spheres, it was supposed, moved according to combina-
tions or circular guidances too complicated for description here. It
was the concert of these spheres which made heavenly harmony ac-
cording to Pythagoras. Beyond the farthest sphere, to which the
stars were fixed, lay Heaven itself, the homeland of the blest.
112 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

The good sense of Shakespeare rejected the extravagant claims of
astrology, the mother of astronomy. Im one of his sonnets he
remarks:

Not from the stars do I my judgment pluck ;
And yet methinks I have astronomy,
But not to tell of good or evil luck,
Of plagues, of dearths, or seasons’ quality.
(From XIVth Sonnet.)

Indeed he had astronomy! From the earliest times the celestial
host has always been an inspiration to literature. The Psalmist sings:

The Heavens declare the glory of God
And the Firmament showeth his handiwork.

Again:
When I consider Thy Heavens, the work of Thy fingers
The moon and the stars which Thou has ordained

What is man that Thou art mindful of him
Or the son of man that Thou visitest him.

Yet compared to the glorious blaze of knowledge of these subjects in
which we now live, the astronomical reflections which the Psalmist
or even Shakespeare could indulge were as the faintest glimmering.
From the astonishing combination of simplicity and complexity re-
siding in the submicroscopic atomic world to the infinitely outreach-
ing boundaries of the starry universe as we now know them, there
is displayed such a wealth of marvelous adaptations as cannot fail
to inspire even the dullest person with astonishment and awe.

Consider any solid body; be it stone, wood, metal, flesh, or any
other. Imagine a single morsel of it, no larger than a mote that flies
in the sunbeam. Small as it is, it contains at least 10 million billion
molecules. Each of these molecules contains many atoms. Each
of these atoms contains several or many smaller bodies besides pro-
tons and electrons. But these multitudinous ultimate constituents
of every speck of matter le so far separated one from another that
they are relatively as remote, each to each, as the stars are in the
heavens. Solids, then, are no more to be regarded as solids, but
rather as openwork, gossamerlike constructions, wherein the spaces
are immense compared to the occupied parts. Motions of the most
beautiful configurations dance about within these systems. The elec-
tric forces which are imprisoned in these infinitesimal structures
baffle imagination to conceive of their immensity. A large book would
not suffice to tell of all the wonders that one invisible atom contains,
in a space far below the limit of vision of the most powerful
microscope.

On the other hand, consider the heavens. We live upon the earth,
8,000 miles in diameter, which revolves about the sun 93,000,000
ASTRONOMY IN SHAKESPEARE’S TIME—ABBOT 113

miles away, and more than 300,000 times as massive as the earth. Our
sun is one of the many billions of suns which we call the stars, some
of them a billion times as large as it, which throng the Milky Way.
The very nearest of them to our sun is a Centauri, a bright star of
the Southern Hemisphere. It lies so far away that light itself,
traveling 186,000 miles each second, requires 4 years to reach us.
From the remotest stars of our galaxy, light requires 100,000 years
to come, But this is by no means the limit of the universe. It may
even be limitless. At least we know that on every side of our own
starry host lie other galaxies. They are certainly millions in num-
ber. Each of them contains, like ours, a multitude of stars. These
“island universes”, as Herschel called them, lie a million light years
apart, and we recognize them still at such immense distances that
the light by which we photograph them today started toward us
200,000,000 years ago in Cambrian geologic times when our earth
was in the possession of the trilobites extinct these hundred million
years.

How keenly we must regret that the fertile mind of Shakespeare
could not draw from this abounding store of wonders material about
which to wield his magic wand of expression. In his time, atoms
were practically unthought of, and for no star, not even for our
sun, was there known the distance, motion, size, temperature, or
physical or chemical composition. The universal unity of the
building material of all nature, the vast reaches of the universe,
and the astonishing numbers and immensity of its denizens could
not possibly be imagined in their grand proportions which now we
know.

As already remarked, Shakespeare was no astrologist. In King
Lear, he puts derision of astrology into the mouth of Edmund,
as follows:

When we are sick in fortune * * * we make guilty of our disasters
the sun, the moon, and the stars, as if we were villains on necessity, fools
by heavenly compulsion, knaves, thieves, and treachers by spherical predomi-
nance, drunkards, liars, and adulterers, by enfore’d obedience of planetary
influence, and all that we are evil in, by divine thrusting on.

Of course in his fidelity to actuality Shakespeare does not hesi-
tate to put into the mouths of some of his characters exactly those
beliefs in the good and evil influences of the heavenly bodies, and
of obscure earthly things which were current among nearly all
men of his time. For instance, Horatio, moved by the appearance
of the ghost, refers as follows to the death of Caesar:

A little ere the mightiest Julius fell,

The graves stood tenantless and the sheeted dead
Did squeak and gibber in the Roman streets.
114 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

He continues, after a line now lost which might have read, “The
heavens also with dread portents teemed” :

As stars with trains of fire and dews of blood,

Disasters in the sun, and the moist star,

Upon whose influence Neptune’s empire stands

Was sick almost to doomsday with eclipse.

And even the like precurse of fierce events,

As harbingers preceding still the fates

And prologue to the omen coming on,

Have heaven and earth together demonstrated

Unto our climatures and countrymen.
In many other passages, Shakespeare distills the quintescence of
beauty from old astronomical beliefs which now are obsolete. None
of these references is more beautiful than those relating to Py-
thagoras’ music of the spheres. One is found in the Merchant of
Venice where Lorenzo says:

How sweet the moonlight sleeps upon this bankj

Here will we sit and let the sounds of music

Creep in our ears. Soft stillness and the night

Become the touches of sweet harmony.

Sit, Jessica. Look how the floor of heaven

Is thick inlaid with patines of bright gold.

There’s not the smallest orb which thou behold’st,

But in his motion like an angel sings,

Still quiring to the young-ey’d cherubins;

Such harmony is in immortal souls;

But while this muddy vesture of decay

Doth grossly close it in, we cannot hear it.

In order to appreciate more truly the status of astronomy in
Shakespeare’s time, let us take a general bird’s-eye view of the ad-
vance of that science up to the present.

The progress of astronomy suggests four epochs. In the first
epoch the observer’s eye was unaided by optical apparatus, accurate
clocks were unavailable, communication of results was slow and
costly, and records could only be multiplied by hand copying. The
human intellect, though doubtless quite as keen then as now, had but
rough and feeble observations to work upon. Hence, from the lack
of observational groundwork the theory of astronomy was encum-
bered until a few centuries ago with a maze of spheres, cycles, and
epicycles, and the pseudo-science of astrology stood on an equal or
superior plane with true astronomy in public estimation. This first
astronomical epoch began as the outgrowth of astrology in the dim
past, and only merged into the second or epoch of the telescope, during
the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries of our era. Among its greatest
names stand Euclid, Archimedes, Hipparchus, Ptolemy, and Regio-
montanus.
ASTRONOMY IN SHAKESPEARE’S TIME—ABBOT 115

The second epoch was ushered in by the theory of Copernicus. By
the invention of the telescope and the mechanical clock, great physical
aids became available for observation. Printing, that greatest agency
of human culture, had been invented. Mathematics, which in the
first epoch grew to comprise arithmetic, algebra, geometry, and trig-
onometry, received in the second epoch not only the introduction of
logarithms but the superpowerful reinforcement of the calculus which
was invented by those great geniuses, Sir Isaac Newton and Leibnitz.
Besides these great names already mentioned, Tycho Brahe, Kepler,
Galileo, La Place, Bradley, the Herschels, and many others of nearly
equal fame immortalize this epoch. The laws of Kepler, interpreted
by Sir Isaac Newton in his theory of gravitation, were outstanding
triumphs of theory. Bradley, with his discovery of aberration of
light and his catalogs of star places, was the apostle of an accuracy
almost modern.

At the beginning of the third epoch, about 1810 to 1840, stand four
invaluable discoveries and one revolutionary observation. Photog-
raphy, the spectroscope, the wave character of light, and improved
optical glasses were the four discoveries, and the first measurement of
the immense distance of one of the nearest stars by Bessel was the
revolutionary observation. Bessel’s measurement in 1837 gave an un-
impeachable standing to the system of Copernicus. Prior to that time
everyone who accepted the view of Copernicus, that the earth re-
volves about the sun, had to accept on faith the proposition that all
the stars are so immensely distant that they are shifted only im-
perceptibly in apparent position by the displacement of the earth in
its revolution round the sun through nearly 200,000,000 miles each 6
months. Bessel measured such a shift. It corresponded to a star
distance of 60 trillion miles. How astonishing must have seemed this
tremendous extension of the universe to those to whom this immense
distance first stood undeniably revealed! The improvements in op-
tical glass led in this epoch to the construction of large achromatic
refracting telescopes of short enough focus to be manageable. The
older telescopes had required an excessive focal ratio to avoid spheri-
cal aberrations and were terribly unwieldy. ‘Thus great power was
added to eye observations. The diffraction grating for spectroscopic
work was perfected by Angstrém and Rowland. Photography, how-
ever, was delayed in coming to its own for astronomical use until near
the beginning of the fourth astronomical epoch in which we now
live. Spectrum analysis disclosed the chemistry of the sun and stars
at the middle of the nineteenth century. Here again was something
almost incredible: That we should ever know the composition of
bodies trillions of miles away!

112059379
116 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

In the present or fourth epoch of astronomical progress, extraor-
dinary aids to observation have come. These include the applica-
tion to telescopes of great engineering construction and highly accu-
rate mechanisms, fully equipped with electrical devices for their
operation. The photographic plate, the thermionic amplifier, and
the sensitive thermoelectric element have nearly displaced the eye
at the observing end of the gigantic reflecting telescopes of the pres-
ent day. Photographic records in which light builds up its story
through many hours or even many nights may now be studied at
leisure in the comfort of an office, instead of glimpsed in an instant
at the eyepiece of a telescope in frigid winter midnight. Observa-
tions with powerful spectroscopes reveal the composition, motions,
distances, and temperatures of the stars. Based on the science of
thermodynamics, twentieth-century physical knowledge and studies
of the mysteries of radium and radioactivity, of the inner construc-
tion of atoms, and of the effects of powerful excitations of atoms
by electricity or heat, have settled questions of the natures of stars
that formerly seemed insoluble. Such studies have even disclosed
stars whose material is many times as dense as gold or platinum.
And yet more paradoxical, such stars as these are nevertheless in the
gaseous state! On the other extreme are disclosed stars several
hundred million miles in diameter whose density is thousands of
times less than that of air. Sir William Herschel’s happy guess that
the nebulae are other galaxies outside our own system, or, as he
called them, “island universes”, has proved to be correct. Millions
of these remote galaxies have been disclosed, each like our own
Milky Way containing multitudes of stars, but situated so enor-
mously remotely that their light, traveling nearly 200,000 miles each
second, requires many millions of years to come from them to us.
We see them, therefore, as they were in former epochs of the earth’s
geology, when gigantic creatures now extinct abounded. What food
would this have been to an imagination like our Shakespeare’s!

Turning from these inspiring views of modern astronomical knowl-
edge, let us now explore more particularly some of the instruments,
the theories, and the observations which comprised the astronomy as
generally known in Shakespeare’s time. As we have remarked, the
unaided eye had neither telescope, photographic plate, nor sensitive
radiometer to assist 1t. The positions of the heavenly bodies could
only be observed by casting shadows or by looking through sights
analagous to those of a sporting gun. These two types of naked
visual observation are exemplified in the sundial and in the astrolabe.

Nevertheless, much information was gathered by the ancients
merely from the shadow of the sun. This knowledge reached far
beyond its well-known use in the sundial to indicate the time of day.
ASTRONOMY IN SHAKESPEARE’S TIME—ABBOT 117

For instance, by observing the length of the shadow of a vertical rod
on a horizontal floor, noon would be indicated each day as the in-
stant of the day’s shortest shadow. Soon a mark could be made to
indicate the direction of the shadow at every noon, and this would
be the line of north and south. Presently it would appear that the
end of the shadow at noon marched southward from July to Decem-
ber and then returned. A diligent observer, watching this march of
the end of the noon shadow for several seasons, would obtain a more
and more accurate measure of the length of the year. As long ago
as the times of the ancient Chaldeans and Egyptians the year was
thus known to be about 36514 days. If shadow observations were
continued over centuries, as doubtless they were by priests as re-
ligious rites, the fraction approximately one-fourth could be deter-
mined to several decimals.

From the total length of the excursion of the shadow’s end be-
tween June and December, compared to the height of the rod which
east it, the angular inclination of the ecliptic to the Equator was
determined several centures before Christ as 2314°. Eratosthenes,
about two centuries before Christ, went further. He observed that
the sun at midday in Alexandria at the summer solstice stood 1%
of a circumference, or about 7° from the zenith, whereas at Syene,
in Upper Egypt, the sun at the same time stood exactly overhead.
From this he inferred that the distance from Alexandria to Syene
was 14) of the circumference of the earth. His observation agrees
closely with the truth. Another use of the march of the end of the
sun’s shadow from north to south would discover the dates at which
it stood exactly half accomplished. These dates, corresponding to
the equinoxes, would reveal the inequalities of several days which
we now attribute to the ellipticity of the earth’s orbit round the sun.
Latitudes were also readily determined by the ancients from the
direction and length of the sun’s shadow.

But enough! We will not follow the shadow farther but turn
our attention to the astrolabe, the pearl of ancient instruments.
Imagine, if you please, that your watch was expanded in diameter
several fold, and that its chain ended in a loop large enough to hang
on the thumb or finger instead of in a bar or hook. Assume the
weight of the watch increased to 1 or 2 pounds, its glass and
works removed. On the face, instead of hands, would be pivoted
a bar carrying peephole sights at either end, by means of which
the axis of the bar could be pointed at the sun, a star, or at some
terrestrial object. Corresponding to the position of the hours, III
and IX of the watch would be the horizon line. The angle be-
tween the sighting bar and the horizon line could be read off on
the graduated circle. Sighting through such an instrument, held
118 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

suspended from the upstretched hand, and directed to any point of
the compass, the observer could readily measure the angular differ-
ence of elevation of any two stars, mountains, or other objects by sub-
tracting their respective angular distances above the horizon line.

In addition to these features, the astrolabe had a complex frame,
called the spider, or rete, upon its face. This frame was filled with
points representing the positions of important stars. There were,
besides, a number of metal plates packed within the body of the
instrument. The proper one to suit the observer’s latitude could be
selected and exposed next under the spider. On this plate were drawn
families of curves used for various purposes. For instance, after
measuring the altitude of the sun, a setting could be made whereby
the time of day was given. This setting involved the constellations
of the zodiac which appeared on a circle, also part of the face of the
instrument. On the back of the astrolabe was drawn a system of
cross-section lines so that from any setting of the pointers there could
at once be graphically computed some desired mathematical result.

The astrolabe maintained itself as an instrument of astrology,
astronomy, and navigation for nearly 2,000 years. It was displaced
by the mariner’s sextant, invented by John Hadley about 1731. So
highly was the astrolabe appreciated that it is still spoken of with
regret that so choice an instrument is not quite up to modern require-
ments of accuracy. It is interesting to note that the poet Chaucer
wrote a treatise on the astrolabe and its uses.

Although both the sun dial and the astrolabe were used from
antiquity to tell the time of day, neither they nor the clepsydra, or
water clock, reached the precision needed for fundamental progress
in the theory of astronomy. The positions of the stars are known
when their distances north or south of the celestial equator, that is,
their declinations, are determined, and in addition the times at which
they cross the meridian, which fixes their right ascensions. There-
fore, not only must the astrolabe, or its equivalent, be used to measure
the Sree angular daete above the fees of a star to fix its
declination, but it is no less important to measure the exact time
when the star makes its meridian transit. There was no instrument
in the hands of the ancients which could keep accurate time for 24
hours. An imperfect substitute for a true clock available to the old
astronomers would be to note the relative lengths of clepsydra time
between meridian passages of stars, and reduce this as nearly as pos-
sible to true time by a network of astrolabe measurements of angles
between stars, reduced by trigonometry to east-west projection. The
accuracy ayailable in star positions could not have reached a
thousandth part of present-day precision.
ASTRONOMY IN SHAKESPEARE’S TIME—ABBOT 119

Hipparchus it was who realized the great value to posterity of a
star catalog, and he made one containing 1,080 stars, which, with
Ptolemy’s additions, remained standard for 1,600 years.

It was the making of this catalog of stars which led Hipparchus
to note that certain stars observed by Timocharis and Aristyllus a
century and a half earlier were in his time 2° farther east, measured
from the equinox, than they had been 150 years previously. Thus
he discovered the precession of the equinoxes, and set for it a value
of not less than 36 seconds per annum. Modern observations raise this
to about 50 seconds. The causes were found after Sir Isaac Newton
laid down the law of gravitation. The earth is a great spinning top.
As the attraction of the sun and moon on the earth’s equatorial
bulge tends to bring the equator into the plane of the ecliptic, they
merely set the pole to revolving, just as you do when you try to tip
over a spinning top. The attractions of the planets slightly increase
the effect.

Hipparchus had worked out a fairly satisfactory theory of the
sun’s apparent motion, assuming the earth stationary. It involved
circular orbits only. He was not so successful with the moon’s
motion, and finding the motions of the planets too obscure, he set
himself deliberately to making regular observations of their positions
which could be used by posterity, if not by himself, to ascertain their
true behavior. This altruistic attitude well deserves high praise
for Hipparchus.

Ptolemy, living over three centuries later, expressed the highest
admiration for Hipparchus and employed that master’s observations
and discoveries with those of other philosophers to compose the great
system known as the Ptolemaic, which is described by him in the
Almagest. Ptolemy’s greatest original contribution is in his system
for the moon’s and the planetary motions. Retaining the hypothesis
of circular orbits and assuming a stationary central earth, he required
a very great complexity of cycles, epicycles, eccentrics, deferents,
and equants. He was content with a mathematical system or fiction
by means of which the positions of the planets among the stars
could be predicted. It is not to be supposed that he regarded this
complexity as a real mechanism. In fact, until the rise of Kepler
and Newton, no understanding of the real operation of the solar
system was possible. At the cost of immense labor, and great shrewd-
ness of mathematical analysis, Ptolemy obtained a very fair repre-
sentation of the lunar and planetary motions, as accurate perhaps
as the observations available to him.

Throughout the Middle Ages, Ptolemy was regarded as final au-
thority in astronomical matters, and little was added to the astro-
nomical edifice built up by the Greek philosophers as finished by
120 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

Ptolemy. The Arab astronomers, Albategnius, Abul Wafa, Ibn
Yunus, Arzabel, Nassir Eddin, and the Tartar, Ulegh Begh, made
some observations of value, computed tables of planetary and other
positions, and kept alive the knowledge of the works of the Greeks.
But they added very little of original discovery to the body of
astronomical knowledge. Indirectly, however, by their introduction
from India of our present system of writing numbers, which we
still call the Arabic notation, they conferred an immense boon upon
astronomy.

Regiomontanus, with his master Purbach and his pupil Walther,
in the latter half of the fifteenth century, published in Nurnberg a
treatise on planetary theory, invented the method of lunar distances
for determining longitude at sea, and published for many years
almanacs giving astronomical information, He was invited to Rome
to reform the calendar, but died there at the age of 40.

Here then we come to the end of the astronomical knowledge of
Shakespeare’s time. The Greeks and earlier observers had proved the
earth and moon to be spheres, and had inferred that the other heav-
enly bodies were spheres also. They had devised means of determin-
ing latitude, the length of the year, the times of the equinoxes and
solstices, and had discovered the periodicity of eclipses. The planets
from Mercury to Saturn were known, and their curious motions in
advance and in retrograde among the stars had been observed for
many centuries. The motions of the sun and moon with respect to the
stars were also long observed. By the theorems of geometry, ampli-
fied by some of the powers of trigonometry, ingenious, yet fatally
complex theories of the celestial motions had been worked out. Such
obscure phenomena as the precession of the equinoxes and the various
inequalities of the apparent motions of the sun and moon had been
discovered.

All of this was done without the telescope or the exact clock. No
sufficient accuracy was possible without them to build a true edifice of
astronomical theory. Neither was the cloud of ignorance so far lifted
as to reveal to most men the improbability of the claims of astrology.
Shakespeare showed his superiority of mind by declining to believe
that twinkling stars could order human destiny. He made use of
other men’s beliefs in astrology, nevertheless, to impart mystery and
awe to dramatic situations. By the happiest references he often used
bits of true or fanciful astronomical lore to make facets of gemlike
brilliancy shine from out his verse. What added beauties he would
have created had he possessed the knowledge of the Universe that awes
us now, it is difficult to imagine.

I have a mind to end this paper gallantly by quoting some lines
from the plays to present Shakespeare’s heavenly outlook vividly.
ASTRONOMY IN SHAKESPEARE’S TIME—ABBOT

From Troilus and Cresida, Act 1, Scene 3:

The heavens themselves, the planets, and this centre,
Observe degree, priority, and place,

Insisture, course proportion, season, form,

Office, and custom, in all line of order;

And therefore is the glorious planet Sol

In noble eminence enthron’d and spher’d

Amidst the other; whose medicinable eye

Corrects the ill aspects of planets evil,

And posts, like the commandment of a king,

Sans check to good and bad. But when the planets
In evil mixture to disorder wander,

What plagues and what portents! what mutiny!
What raging of the sea! shaking of earth!
Commotion in the winds! Frights, changes, horrors,
Divert and crack, rend and deracinate

The unity and married calm of states

Quite from their fixture!

From Henry VI, First Part, Act. 1, Scene 1:

Comets, importing change of time and states,
Brandish your crystal tresses in the sky,

And with them scourge the bad revolting stars
That have consented unto Henry’s death.

From Henry VI, Second Part, Act 4, Scene 4:

Hath this lovely face

Rul’d, like a wandering planet, over me,
And could it not enforce them to relent,
That were unworthy to behold the same?

From Henry VI, Third Part, Act 2, Scene 1:

See how the morning opes her golden gates
And takes her farewell of the glorious sun!
How well resembles it the prime of youth
Trimm’d like a younker prancing to his love!

From Midsummer Night’s Dream, Act 3, Scene 1:

The moon methinks looks with a watery eye,
And when she weeps, weeps every little flower.

From Romeo and Juliet, Act 2, Scene 2:

Two of the fairest stars in all the heaven,

Having some business, do entreat her eyes

To twinkle in their spheres till they return.

What if her eyes were there, they in her head?

The brightness of her cheek would shame those stars,
As daylight doth a lamp; her eyes in heaven

Would through the airy region stream so bright

That birds would sing and think it were not night.

121
122 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

From Julius Caesar, Act 2, Scene 2:

When beggars die there are no comets seen;
The heavens themselves blaze forth the death of princes.

From Richard II, Act 2, Scene 4:

Ah, Richard, with the eyes of heavy mind
I see thy glory like a shooting star
Fall to the base earth from the firmament.

Lastly, from King John, Act 4, Scene 2:

To gild refined gold, to paint the lily,

To throw a perfume on the violet,

To smooth the ice, or add another hue

Unto the rainbow, or with taper-light

To seek the beauteous eye of heaven to garnish,
Is wasteful and ridiculous excess.
Smithsonian Report, 1936.—Abbot PLATE 1

WILLIAM SHAKESPEARE.
Smithsonian Report, 1936.—Abbot PLATE 2

A PERSIAN ASTROLABE.
7 e ¥ ;
a”
i an ; ..
Re er. 65S in ugh
ag oe ae wt eee Re Sean mE ono. re
— . &

4
10)
O
a
O
r
Wl
Fk
xt
S
wr
fe)
<
a
a)
>
o
o.
Wi
I
O

Smithsonian Report, 1936.—Abbot

PLATE 4

Susi

Soriatees eee

ailspthis tse
Retiustieselii

Smithsonian Report, 1936.—Abbot

ih

INVENTOR, OBSERVER, PHILOSOPHER.

GALILEO GALILEI
Smithsonian Report, 1936.—Abbot PLATE 5

SIR ISAAC NEWTON.

Smithsonian Report, 1936.—Abbot PLATE 6

THE 100-INCH TELESCOPE OF MOUNT WILSON OBSERVATORY.

The world’s greatest telescope.
THE SIZE AND AGE OF THE UNIVERSE*

By Sir JAMsEs JEANS, F. R. S.

[With 2 plates]

Tt has often been said that the history of the race is that of the in-
dividual writ large, and this remark is specially applicable to the
question of the size of the universe. The new-born child is unable to
form an adequate conception of the size of the world, probably because
it takes its cradle or its nursery as its unit of measurement. It was the
same with the human race in its infancy. Taking for granted that the
earth was the central and most important part of the universe, it some-
what naturally supposed that the earth was comparable in size with
the whole universe.

EARLY DISCUSSIONS OF THE PROBLEM

Peering into the dimly lit recesses of early science, we see the gradual
crumbling away of this belief. In the sixth century B. C., Pythagoras
taught that the earth was globular in shape; and in the fourth century
B. C., Heraclides of Pontus explained that the apparent rotation of
the heavens arose from the rotation of this globular earth under the
stars. Such teachings as these inevitably led men to revise their esti-
mates both of the relative size and relative importance of the earth.
In the third century B. C., we find Aristarchus of Samos making the
first attempts to estimate the size of the universe by the really scien-
tific method of exact measurement. He saw that when the moon was
exactly half illuminated, the line from the sun to the moon must be
perpendicular to the line from the moon to the earth. Thus in the
triangle formed by the sun, the earth and the moon, one angle is a right
angle, while another, that at the earth, can readily be measured by
observation taken on earth. In this way Aristarchus hoped to obtain
the relative lengths of the sides of the triangle in question, and so also
the relative distances of the sun and moon.

His theory was perfect, but his observations very faulty. Actually
the angle at the earth differs from a right angle by only about 9

1 Discourse delivered at the Royal Institution on Nov. 29, 1935. Reprinted by permis-
sion from Nature, vol. 137, no. 3453, Jan. 4, 1936.

123
{24 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

minutes of arc. Aristarchus estimated it to be 3°, and so concluded
that the sun was only about 20 times as distant as the moon—actually
it is 400 times as distant.

He also made estimates of the actual distances. Thanks to the
genius of Anaxagoras, the nature of eclipses was already well under-
stood. It was known that the darkness which spreads over the moon
at an eclipse is the shadow of the earth. Aristarchus, knowing that
the sun was many times more distant than the moon, saw that this
shadow must be approximately of the same dimensions as the earth
itself{—it was a circle of the size of the earth seen at the distance of
the moon. Knowing the size of the earth, it was an easy matter to
compute the distance of the moon.

Once again Aristarchus relied on a series of erroneous measures.
He estimated that the earth’s shadow had only twice the diameter of
the moon—actually it has three times this diameter. Also, the moon
subtends an angle of half a degree in the sky, but Aristarchus took
the angle to be 2°, and so got erroneous values for the moon’s distance
as well as for its size. Clearly exact measurement was not his strong
point, yet he was the first to demonstrate the order of magnitude of
astronomical distances.

Aristarchus made an even more important contribution to the
large-scale problems of astronomy. He showed, by reasoning very
similar to that used by Copernicus 1,800 years later, that the earth
revolved in a circular orbit about the sun. He then argued that, as
the fixed stars appeared in spite of this motion to retain fixed places
in the heavens, they must be at immeasurably great distances from
the earth, saying that the distances of these stars “bore the same rela-
tion to the earth’s orbit as the radius of a sphere bears to its center”—
in other words, the whole solar system was a mere point in the immen-
sity of space.

I need scarcely remind you how, in the second century after Christ,
these enlightened views were challenged and temporarily vanquished
by Ptolemy of Alexandria. Ptolemy argued that if the earth were
rotating, objects at the Equator would be in the most violent rotation,
and so would fly off into space, since “matter which is in violent rota-
tion does not seem fit to be massed together, but rather dispersed.”
He went on to say that “long before now the disintegrated parts of
the earth would have been dissipated over the heavens themselves,
which is very ridiculous.” He also said that, if the earth were rotat-
ing, a stone dropped to earth would not reach its destined place, be-
cause the earth would be moving eastward under it all the time it
was falling. He said further that if the earth were rotating, the
clouds would move over our heads from east to west as a conseauence
of this rotation. Clearly he had never stood in the track of the
SIZE AND AGE OF THE UNIVERSE—JEANS 125

trade-winds and seen the clouds moving in endless procession from
east to west as a result of the very rotation he was trying to discredit.

It was not until 1543 that these arguments were refuted by Coperni-
cus. Ptolemy’s argument had been that the earth cannot be rotating,
because if it were it would fly to pieces; thus the nightly motion of the
stars must result from the rotation of the heavens themselves. Yet, if
the whole heavens rotated once every 24 hours, they must have an even
higher tangential velocity than he, Copernicus, wished to attribute to
the earth. Why then, asks Copernicus, do not the heavens themselves
fly to pieces? It was a shrewd thrust, but Copernicus was betrayed
into pursuing his stricken enemy too far. For he went on to inquire
whether the heavens really could be expanding under the centrifugal
force of their rotation; and his argument has a strange ring of 1935
about it. He scornfully asks what the heavens could possibly be ex-
panding into, for as they are the whole universe, there can be no
space beyond them into which they could expand.

The theories of Copernicus fared better than those of Aristarchus,
the two principal reasons for their greater success being that printing
and the telescope had been invented in the meantime. Two-thirds
of a century after Copernicus published his book, the telescope of
Galileo had virtually established the truth of his doctrines, and the
sun replaced the earth as the fundamental unit of the universe. Ten
years before Galileo had looked through his first telescope, Giordano
Bruno was maintaining that the stars were similar objects to the
earth, moon, and planets—as Pythagoras had conjectured 2,000 years
before. Ten years after, Kepler was saying that they must be similar
objects to the sun; and this led to the first real comprehension of the
immensity of space. For, if the stars were intrinsically as bright as
the sun, they must be at stupendous distances to look so much fainter
than the sun. We receive approximately 100,000 million times as
much light from the sun as we do from a first-magnitude star such as
Altair, Betelgeux, or Aldebaran. Thus, if these stars are comparable
with the sun in luminosity, they must needs be about 320,000 times
as distant—no smaller distance would be compatible with their faint-
ness. In modern terminology, these first-magnitude stars would be
at distances of approximately 11 parsecs or 5 light-years.

We know now that this method of calculation cannot lead to
very accurate results, at any rate in its present crude form, because
the supposition that the stars are all of the same candlepower as the
sun is very far from the truth—some have more than 10,000 times the
candlepower of the sun, while others have less than a ten-thousandth
part. But the method admits of almost endless refinement, and in
its modern form provides the most useful, and indeed almost the only,
method for estimating the distances of very remote objects.
126 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

THE MODERN METHOD OF ATTACK

The stars fall into clearly defined categories. As an unassorted
whole, they exhibit an enormous range in candlepower, but all the
stars in any one category are of approximately the same candle-
power, so that we can obtain a reasonably good estimate of a star’s
distance by considering its apparent brightness in conjunction with
the category into which it falls. For the majority of stars, the cate-
gory is determined mainly by the star’s spectrum, but in the case
of variable stars, the period of variability is even more important
than the spectrum, and leads to results of far greater precision.

To take an instance of the simplest kind, the star Sirius, which
looks the brightest in the whole sky, is one of those nearer stars whose
distance can be determined by ordinary trigonometrical methods—
methods which are the same in principle as those which the sur-
veyor uses to determine the distance of an inaccessible mountain peak.
The whole process is, of course, conducted on an enormously larger
scale; the surveyor takes a base-line a few miles long on the earth’s
surface and finds his mountain is a few miles distant, while the as-
tronomer takes as his base-line the diameter of the earth’s orbit round
the sun—a base-line 186,000,000 miles long—and finds that his star is
many millions of millions of miles distant. In this way he finds
that the distance of Sirius is 51 million million miles, or 8.65 light-
years. Knowing this, we can estimate the distance of all stars which
belong to the same category as Sirius; for example, a similar star
which looks 100 times less bright must be 10 times as distant, because
light falls off as the square of the distance.

Variable stars provide a more reliable method of estimating
astronomical distances. For example, the star 5 Cephei is found by
the ordinary surveyor’s method to be about 60 times as distant as
Sirius. All stars which have the same period of variability as 5
Cephei are found to have about the same candlepower, so that again
their distance can be estimated from their faintness. As these
variable stars are enormously bright, they can be seen to immense
distances—hence their special value as indicators of astronomical
distance.

We can test these methods in various ways. The obvious one is
to find a group of stars which are already known to be all at the
same distance, and see whether each of the stars tells the same story
as to the distance of the group. Such groups of stars are to be
found in the globular clusters, the Magellanic clouds, and in the
nearer of the extragalactic nebulae.

In these last objects, even the vivid Cepheid variables look very
faint. Nevertheless they are visible, and their feeble brightness can
be measured with considerable accuracy in a large telescope. In this
SIZE AND AGE OF THE UNIVERSE—JEANS 127

way we find that the distance of the nearest of these nebulae is about
770,000 light-years,

This is the nebula M33 in the constellation Triangulum. The
second nearest nebula is the well-known “Great” nebula in Androm-
eda; this is at a distance about 8 percent greater. In this last
nebula, no fewer than 40 Cepheid variables can be detected, but as we
pass to more distant nebulae, the number of identifiable Cepheids nat-
urally decreases, and this particular method becomes less reliable.
Finally it fails altogether through the impossibility of discovering
Cepheid variables at all.

Yet many stars are even brighter than Cepheid variables, and
these enable us to carry on with the same method to even greater
distances.

In table 1, the second column shows the distances of eight near
objects as determined from the Cepheid variables observed in them.
The last column shows the candlepower of the brightest stars ob-
served in these objects, that of the sun being taken as unity.

TABLE 1
: sa Candlepower of
Distance in light- tan
Object years br a atest ae
mareomarelianic cloud... = 22.222. .2222 85, 000 100, 000
BimaleiMarellanic;clouds2222 220 eS oss e 95, 000 18, 000
Glopularicluster: Ne G:C. 682222". 22 2 Se ee 620, 000 15, 000
5 [EVO N ULE cla Gos a a hg eS ha Ee ea ae oe 770, 000 29, 000
Nebula M3 (Andromeda) #22. 22225522222 2. 800, 000 18, 000
eleS OREM, TN TC aN aR pa er ne 1, 300, 000 22, 000
ecuine Ne Gs Crud oes. ae oe ot Leh Pena! 2, 000, 000 22, 000
LQ) areM NE: (CS ae ee aS ee 2, 400, 000 18, 000

With one exception, the brightest star in each of these objects
has about 20,000 times the candlepower of the sun. Now stars can
be identified in 40 nebulae in all, and if we assume that in each
of these the brightest star has about 20,000 times the candlepower of
the sun, we can immediately estimate the distance of these nebulae
also,

We have been gradually moving farther out into space, and if we
still continue our journey, we come in time to nebulae in which even
the brightest of stars are invisible. How then can we discover the
distances of these nebulae ?

The answer is that the nebulae—like the stars—appear to be built
to pattern. When two stars show the same spectrum and the same
period of variability, they belong to the same category, and are of
approximately the same candlepower. In the same way, when two
nebulae show the same build—the same shape and distribution of
128 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

relative brightness—they are of approximately the same candle-
power. We reach this conclusion from a study of the nearer nebulae,
whose distance can be ascertained, and then assume that it is true
of the farther nebulae also. Thus the faintness of the nebulae gives
a measure of their distance, and in this way we can estimate the
distances of even the faintest of visible nebulae.

THE VISIBLE UNIVERSE

Using this method, we find that the faintest nebulae which are
visible in our telescopes are at a distance of about 240 million light-
years. Before we proceed further, let us try to see all this in pro-
portion—let us make a small-scale model on the scale of 2 million
jight-years to the inch. Then our visible universe will be a sphere
20 feet in diameter. Our galaxy is a small disk of the size of an
average pinhead—perhaps one-tenth inch in diameter. The naked-
eye stars are all contained in a sphere of about one six-hundredth
inch radius—a mere speck of dust. Our sun is a single electron,
and the earth is a millionth part of an electron.

There is no reason to suppose that this sphere of 240 million light-
years radius contains the whole of the universe; we may be sure that
a larger telescope would show still fainter, and, therefore, still remoter
nebulae, so that there is no means of fixing the total size of the
universe—if it has a finite size—in this way. We must turn to other,
and less direct, methods.

RELATIVITY THEORY AND THE UNIVERSE

According to the theory of relativity, space curves back into itself,
so that the total volume of space is finite—just as the total area of
the earth’s surface is finite. If the earth’s surface were plane, the
area within a distance # of any given point, say Charing Cross, would
be exactly proportional to x’. But, because of the curvature of the
earth’s surface, the actual area increases less rapidly than 2. A circle
1 mile in radius has an area of 3.1416 square miles, but a circle 100
miles in radius has an area of less than 31,416 square miles. If space
is curved in a similar way, the volume of space which lies within a
distance w of the earth would increase less rapidly than 2’, so that if
the nebulae are uniformly distributed in space, the number of nebulae
would also increase less rapidly than a’.

Efforts are being made at Mount Wilson to examine whether the
number of nebulae falls off in this way at great distances, but so far
the number appears to vary approximately as the cube of the dis-
tance—there are no signs of falling off as yet. Indeed, preliminary
statistics which have only reached Great Britain within the last few
days seem to indicate the exact reverse. This may perhaps mean that
ie Adq} YB) OPNouod aM ‘ssouzysiIq PUB IZIS JUIBS OY] : }eUITxOIdde jo aie aye[d oy Jo A

“SNSVODAd NOILVTIISALSNOD AHL NI 3VINEAN AO dNOYD VW

L SUvAd suvaf—'9¢6| “yoday ueruosyqiWg
vu t +t v Jos Me st944O 94 UBY} IO} oIiq Puw IOsIB] IB} SHOOT ve[Nqou 94 Jo vu”)

suea/—g¢6| ‘j40dayy ueTuOsYzIWIG

SIZE AND AGE OF THE UNIVERSE—JEANS 129

we live in a part of the universe which is only sparsely filled with
nebulae, so that we come to a greater density of nebulae when we go
far from home. But a more likely interpretation is that the present
observational material is inadequate for statistical treatment. We
may hope that the new 200-inch telescope will solve the problem for
us in due course. In the meantime, the only inference that we may
legitimately draw from our present telescopic observations is that, in
all probability, the nebulae extend very much further than the 240
million light-years to which our telescopes can penetrate.

If the effect just mentioned had been observed, it might have been
possible to form an estimate of the total volume of space. As this
method is not available, we must fall back on other, and less reKable,
methods.

According to an earlier form of the theory of relativity, there was
a quite simple relation between the total volume of space and the
average density of matter in space. Unhappily, it is not easy to
estimate the density of matter in space with any accuracy, but it is
at least possible to assign upper and lower limits between which it
must lie. This, of course, leads to upper and lower limits for the
total volume of space; and calculation showed that if this theory were
sound, space was immense in comparison with that part to which our
telescopes can reach. The 240 million light-years to the farthest
visible nebulae is only a minute fraction—perhaps a three hundredth
part—of the radius of space. Or, to say the same thing in another
way, light takes 240 million years to travel from the farthest visible
nebulae to us, but would take 500,000 million years to complete the
journey round space and get back to its starting point.

This particular development of the theory of relativity has fallen
into disfavor of recent years; it is still possible that it may give a
rough approximation to the truth, but it seems quite certain that it is
not the whole truth. Other theories have suggested radii of space of
about 2,000 and 10,000 million light-years respectively, but it is hard
to feel much confidence in these estimates. All that we can say with
any confidence is that the dimensions of space are probably far greater
than the 240 million light-years to which our telescopic eyes can see.
Kinstein’s latest conjecture is that space may after all, his earlier
theories notwithstanding, be of literally infinite dimensions.

THE AGE OF THE UNIVERSE

The question of the age of the universe is of a somewhat different
nature. ‘There are a great number of different ways of estimating
this age; none of them are completely trustworthy, and unhappily
they appear to lead to inconsistent results. Stated in its crudest
and most obvious form, the problem is, of course, that of examining
130 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

how far we can trace back the universe into the past, and it is
perhaps not surprising that the further we go the less certainty we
find.

The big telescope at Mount Wilson shows us objects in space whose
light has taken 240 million years to reach us. When we turn the
telescope on to these objects we see them, not as they are now, but
as they were 240 million years ago. These parts of the universe,
then, must have been in existence 240 million years ago, and we seem
justified in concluding that the universe as a whole is more than
240 million years old. Not only so, but these distant parts of space
are occupied by objects which do not differ in essentials from those
nearer home, from which it seems safe to conclude that the universe
has not altered greatly in the past 240 million years; in other words,
this period is only a small part of the evolutionary life of the
universe, so that the age of the universe is probably many times
240 million years.

A study of our own earth confirms this conclusion. Geology can
reconstruct for us the physical conditions of 240 million years ago,
and we see that, broadly speaking, they were very similar to those
prevailing today. This not only shows that the earth is more than
240 million years old, but also that the sun has changed but little
in the past 240 million years. Thus the sun, and so also the universe
of which the sun forms part, must probably have an age of many
times 240 million years.

By analyzing the radioactive properties of rocks of various kinds
in the crust of the earth, we can discover the length of time which
has elapsed since these various rocks solidified. The oldest rocks
of all show ages ranging up to 1,750 million years since solidification.
Thus we may safely conclude that the universe is at least 1,750
millions of years old.

THE EXPANDING UNIVERSE

For the next piece of evidence, we must return to the extreme
depths of space. We believe the great extragalactic nebulae to be
galaxies of stars generally similar to our own, and these are found
to be receding from our galaxy with immense speeds—the largest
speeds we encounter in astronomy, apart from the velocity of light.
The greatest so far observed is 42,000 kilometers a second, which
is one-seventh of the velocity of light. It is found to be a general
rule that the most distant nebulae are receding the most rapidly,
and the speeds of the various nebulae are proportional to their
distances from us. This is shown in figure 1, which embodies results
recently obtained by Hubble and Humason at Mount Wilson. The
abscissae represent the distances of various nebulae and groups of
SIZE AND AGE OF THE UNIVERSE—JEANS 131

nebulae at distances ranging up to about 40 million parsecs (130
million light-years) ; the ordinates represent the observed velocities
of recession of these nebulae expressed in kilometers per second.
It is at once seen that the velocities are very approximately pro-
portional to the distances of the nebulae.

The theory of relativity provides a very simple explanation of
these observed motions of the extragalactic nebulae, and of the law
obeyed by the speeds of the nebulae at different distances. It is,
in brief, that space itself is uniformly expanding, and that the

25,000 |-

20,000

_
a
>
So
i=)

10,000 |-

Velocity (km./s.)

5,000

0 10 20 30 40 50
Distance (megaparsecs)

FIGURE 1.—Extragalactic nebulae. Velocity-disturbance relation (Hubble). Isolated nebu-
lae (grouped). X, clusters of nebulae.

nebulae embedded in it indicate the motions of space, much as
floating straws indicate the currents in a stream. If this is the true
explanation, then the nebular motions show that space is at present
expanding at such a rate that its linear dimensions double every
2,000 million years—which, let us notice in passing, is just about
the probable age of the earth. But the theory of relativity goes
further than this, and tells us that space is very unlikely to expand
continually at a uniform rate. Certain assumptions suggest that
the expansion increases, approximately at least, in geometrical pro-
gression with the time. If this is the true law, then the present
nebular motions show that space doubles its linear dimensions every
1,400 million years. In other words, 1,400 million years ago space
had only half its present linear dimensions; 2,800 million years ago
only a quarter of its present linear dimensions; and so on.
1120593710
132 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

We must not, however, go on in this way forever. It would take
an infinity of time to reduce space to a point, but this is unimportant,
for obviously we must not reduce space to a point; we must stop
somewhere before we reach that stage. Detailed mathematical in-
vestigations, too complicated even to summarize here, seem to suggest
that space cannot have been expanding for more than about 160,000
million years. This figure is, however, very uncertain, and in any
case provides no conclusive evidence as to the age of the universe.
lor mathematical investigation also shows that the present period
of expansion may well have been preceded by a period of contrac-
tion. Indeed the mathematical equations admit of solutions of two
different types. In one, the present epoch of expansion is preceded
by an earlier epoch of contraction, and no limits can be set to the
possible duration of this. In the other, the present epoch of expan-
sion is only one of a great number of epochs of regularly alternating
contractions and expansions, and no limit can be set to the possible
number of these epochs. ‘This line of discussion, then, can tell us
nothing definite as to the age of the universe.

It may, of course, be argued that, even though definite evidence is
lacking, considerations of probability fix a probable limit to the age
of the universe. The general line of argument would be that in the
last 1,000 million years, the dimensions of space have changed very
appreciably—probably by about 60 percent—so that the time-scale of
change is one of thousands of millions of years, and it is likely that
the total age must also be measured in terms of thousands of millions
of years. To take a parallel instance, if a zoologist captured a new
kind of animal, of entirely unknown species, and found that its
weight increased by 60 percent in a month, he would probably con-
clude, rightly or wrongly, that the creature was not many months
old. If a tree increases its height by 60 percent in a year, the bot-
anist may be fairly sure that it is not many years old. The argu-
ment undeniably carries some weight, but we must be careful not to
overrate it. In brief, we must remember that the universe is neither
an animal nora tree. The population of England has increased by
60 percent in the last half-century, but we should not be justified in
concluding that England is only a few half-centuries old. The
brightness of the star Mira Ceti has changed by about 60 percent in
the last month, but we must not conclude that Mira Ceti cannot be
more than a few months old. Thus general considerations of prob-
ability can at best give a presumption, and not a very strong one at
that.

THE MOTIONS OF THE STARS

Another line of argument, which seems to me far more convincing
than the foregoing, leads to very different conclusions. If I set a
SIZE AND AGE OF THE UNIVERSE—JEANS 133

pendulum swinging, it comes to rest after a short time. It has been
reduced to rest by its continued impact with molecules of air; in
brief, it has shared its energy with these molecules.

Actual experiment may show that this pendulum comes to rest in
a few minutes, but I could calculate this out without experiment.
All I need to know is the size and weight of the pendulum, and the
density of the air in which it swings. Thus if I come into the room
and find the pendulum swinging vigorously, I can conclude, from
purely abstract calculations, that it has not been swinging for many
minutes; it must have been set into motion only a few minutes ago.
But if I find that it is at rest, and that hundreds of other similar
pendulums are also at rest, I can conclude that they have stood un-
disturbed for many minutes—they may previously have been in
motion, but if so, they have already shared their energy with the
surrounding molecules of air.

This tendency to sharing energy pervades the whole of physics
and prevails also in astronomy. ‘The laws which govern the motions
of the stars show that these also must share their energies with one
another, and if they have been left undisturbed for a sufficiently
long time, this sharing of energy will be complete. We can calculate
how long a time is needed for the process to be effected, and it proves
to be a matter of millions of millions of years. Thus if we find that
the stars have already shared their energy, we know that they must
be millions of millions of years old.

The method admits of greater refinements. Suppose I have a row
of pendulums of different sizes and weights, one of which comes
approximately to rest in 2 minutes, while the next requires 4 minutes,
others require 6, 8, 10, and 12 minutes, respectively. Suppose a
cataclysm of some kind occurs—say, an earthquake—and after a time
I come into the room and find that the 2, 4, and 6 minute pendulums
have already come to rest, while the 8, 10, and 12 minute pendulums
are still swinging with varying degrees of force. It is reasonzble to
conclude that the cataclysm occurred between 6 and 8 minutes ago.
With a sufficient number of pendulums, it might be possible to fix
the time with considerable precision.

Now the different kinds of stars form just such a range of pendu-
lums. Fortunately, they share their energies at very different rates.
When we proceed to observation, we find that in actual fact some
types of stars have already shared their energies almost completely,
both with other stars and with one another; for other types the
process has barely begun. This is shown in the three following
tables.
134 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936
TABLE 2.—Orbits of visual binaries classified by eccentricity

Equiparti-
Limit of e Observed tion of
energy

e<0.1 0 2
e< 0.2 11 9
e< 0.3 20 21
e<0. 4 34 37
e< 0.5 58 58
e< 0.6 83 83
e<0.7 89 113
e<0.8 102 148
e<0.9 109 187
e< 1.0 116 231

Table 2 is concerned with observations of 116 stars;-for 83 the
eccentricity of orbit is less than 0.6, and for 38 stars it is greater than
0.6. The last column shows the statistical distribution of eccentrici-
ties we should find in a group of stars in which the process of energy-
sharing was complete, the group being chosen to be of such a size
that there are again 83 stars of eccentricity less than 0.6. A compari-
son of this and the preceding column shows that the energy-sharing
process is fairly complete up to eccentricity 0.6, but that for eccen-
tricities higher than 0.6, there is very little evidence of energy-shar-
ing. These stars of high eccentricity correspond to very slow “pen-
dulums”, but we must not overlook that our table may be incomplete
on the observational side, since binary stars of eccentricity greater
than about 0.6 are difficult to detect and still more difficult to measure.

The visual binaries of eccentricity less than about 0.6 form a range
of pendulums in which the process of energy-sharing requires a time
of millions of millions of years. In another class of binary stars, the
spectroscopic binaries, the components lie much closer together—so
close in fact that the gravitational forces from other stars have very
little effect in modifying their orbits. In these stars, the process of
energy-sharing is a matter of hundreds of millions of millions of
years at least. Table 3 contains statistics as to the orbits of these
stars. We see at once that there is no appreciable sharing of energy.

TABLE 3.—Orbits of spectroscopic binaries classified by eccentricity

Equiparti-
Limit of e Observed tion of

energy

SIZE AND AGE OF THE UNIVERSE—JEANS 135

Finally, the linear motions of ordinary single stars provide yet
another range of “pendulums.” We know that the molecules in a
gas tend to share their energy, until finally all types of molecules, big
and small, light and heavy, have, on the average, the same amount of
energy. In the same way the stars tend to share their energy, and
groups of stars of different masses form a range of pendulums, the
most massive stars sharing their energy most slowly and the lightest
the most rapidly.

Table 4 gives the average linear velocities of stars of different
masses as determined by Seares at Mount Wilson. We see that all
except the most massive stars are well on toward equipartition of
energy, all having an average energy which is not very far from
3,750 in the units we are using.

TABLE 4.—The linear velocities of stars of different masses

Mass of Average
star velocity

. 6
5
0
5
5

eO

|

6

These and various other “pendulums” agree in suggesting that we
must assign to the universe an age of 5 to 10 millions of millions of
years,

THE SOURCE OF STELLAR ENERGY

Let us now consider the state of things 5 millions of millions of
years ago. Observation shows that the sun is at present radiating
energy away at the rate of about 250 million tons a minute. This
time yesterday, then, it weighed 360,000 million tons more than now.
A million million years ago, it weighed a very great, but still calcula-
ble, number of tons more than now; it was about 6 percent more mus-
sive than now; and, because of this, it was also a brighter star than
now, radiating not 250 million tons a minute, but about 300 million
tons a minute. After adjusting our calculations for such considera-
tions as this, we find that 5 million million years ago, the sun was
probably many times as massive as now and many times as bright. In
the intervening period, it has been gradually getting rid of its mass

in the form of radiation, until it is reduced to a mere relic of its
former magnificance.
136 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

A few years ago, it was difficult to believe that the sun could pro-
duce its radiation by the actual annihilation of its substance, but in
these few years the short-lived positive electron, or “positron”, has
been detected in the laboratory. This has given us every reason for
thinking that the transformation of matter into radiation is contin-
ually going on in ordinary terrestrial matter, as well as the converse
process of the creation of matter out of the energy of radiation. With
this source of energy to call on, there is no longer any objection to our
assigning ages of millions of millions of years to the stars.

It was not easy to visualize the vastness of astronomical space, and
it is even less easy to conceive of the immensity of astronomical time.
A fairly lengthy book contains about 200,000 words averaging five
letters each. Let us take the whole of such a book to represent. the
age of the earth. Then the whole of civilization is represented by
the last word or two, and the whole of the Christian era by something
less than the last letter. A single lifetime is a good deal less than
the final full stop with which the book ends. Such is the age of
our own planet, and, whatever view we take, the age of the whole
universe, on the same scale, is a matter of volumes. If the view
I put forward last is correct, it must be represented by a library of
some thousands of volumes.

THE EARTH, THE SUN, AND SUNSPOTS?

By Lorine B. ANDREWS

Instructor in Astronomy and Executive Secretary of the Harvard Observatory

[With 2 plates]

About thrice a year there lies upon my desk a letter which typi-
cally reads in the following fashion: “I would greatly appreciate
it if you could send me a list of dates of maximum and minimum
sunspot activity running back to around 1850. I believe I have dis-
covered a correlation between sunspot activity and business activity,
but, inasmuch as I have been unable to get the sunspot periods accu-
rately, I am unable to carry the correlation back over a sufficiently
long period of time. I would greatly appreciate any help you can
give me along these lines.”

This letter is the stimulus to take once again from the observatory’s
library the volume I have so frequently fingered, the Astronomische
Mitteilungen of the Ziirich Observatory, to open it at no. 132, page
67, and to extract therefrom the list of sunspot maxima and minima
for as long a period of time as the writer requests. I find, for example,
that since 1900 there has been maximum spottedness at the following
times: 1906.4, 1917.6, and 1928.4; and minimum spottedness at 1901.7,
1913.6, 1923.6, and 1933.8. An arithmetician will inform you that these
figures tell of a variation of spottedness of the sun possessing a pe-
riod of 10.8 years, or, as one commonly states it, a period of 11 years.
A further perusal of the table—and it lists the maxima and minima
back to 1610—reveals that this period is not reproduced with clock-
like precision. One notes a minimum interval of 7.3 years and a
maximum interval of 15.0 years. In fact the long-term average for
the period of sunspot variation is 11.13 years. Other idiosyncrasies
are noted in the heights of maxima and the depths of minima.

The average person of today is endowed with sufficient intelligence
to avoid looking directly at the sun without protection for the eyes.
Yet it was not always so. We are informed that the very early Chi-
nese astronomers observed the sun with the naked eye and discovered

1 Reprinted by permission from the Harvard Alumni Bulletin, May 1, 1936.
137
138 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

thereon large black areas, blemishes on the face of a perfect, luminous
sphere. Today one may with fair frequency similarly observe with
the naked eye dark areas on the surface of the sun, provided the eye
is suitably protected by a piece of dark glass or an overexposed bit
of photographic film. These dark areas are the sunspots, imperma-
nent markings, subject to the variation in number previously out-
lined. They represent evidence of some deep-lying solar activity,
the exact nature of which astronomers do not yet know.

Research has conclusively demonstrated that sunspots are huge
solar cyclones, whirlwinds in the solar atmosphere, accompanied by
pronounced magnetic conditions. Each sunspot, assumedly as the
result of the whirling of electrically charged particles within it, is
a huge magnet. Each such disturbed area of the solar atmosphere
may be simple or complex in appearance. One speaks of single
spots, the ultimate state of simplicity; of bipolar groups, whereby
is meant, in general, two neighboring disturbances, the one preced-
ing, the other following, along a solar parallel of latitude; and of
complex groups, of which the name is adequately descriptive. The
magnetic polarities of the individual centers of activity within an
area follow certain general rules that become of increasing complex-
ity of application as one proceeds from single spots to the complex
groups.

Sunspots have been termed impermanent markings. Inasmuch as
they are of the nature of solar cyclones, they should be as imperma-
nent as their terrestrial counterpart. The average life of a dis-
turbance of this nature is 2 or 8 months. The longest-lived spot on
record is that of the years 1840 and 1841, which persisted for 18
months. The shortest-lived disturbance is usually of but a few
hours’ duration.

Such a variable phenomenon requires daily observation, even as
daily records are made of terrestrial weather. It is t6 a certain
extent the equivalent of keeping a daily account of the solar weather,
though there is no attempt at a detailed prediction of what the
morrow will bring. It is for this reason that one activity of the
Department of Astronomy at Harvard has been the daily photog-
raphy of the sun, when the weather permits, a procedure that has
been followed since the autumn of 1926. To the present over 1,800
photographs have been filed.

Some attempts have been made to ascertain whether certain re-
gions of the solar surface represent weak areas wherein sunspots
are most likely to reoccur. The results are but poorly supported by
the direct evidence. Of one result, however, astronomers are com-
pletely certain. Sunspots occur only within certain limits of solar
latitude. Beyond the confines of the two belts defined on the ap-
SUNSPOTS—ANDREWS 139

parent solar surface by solar latitudes 6° and 40°, the one in the
Northern Hemisphere, the other in the Southern, spots but rarely
occur. The first spots of a new outburst of solar activity appear
near the high latitudes of the belts, and, as the cycle progresses
toward maximum spottedness, the average latitude of these dis-
turbances progresses constantly toward the lower solar latitudes,
reaching the value of 15° at maximum, and continuing onward
toward the lower limits of the belts as the cycle declines toward
minimum. Thereafter the first evidence of a new cycle is the reap-
pearance of spots near the upper limits of the belts. The causes
of this behavior of spots, as well as of the variations of their mag-
netic properties, are still clothed in mystery.

The aim of this article is, however, not to recount the properties
of sunspots as such. Given this manifestation of solar activity, our
interest lies in the determination of any possible terrestrial influence.
The presence of huge magnetic fields in sunspots results in their
acting as howitzers to pour forth charged particles of matter into
the interplanetary realm. If the earth is in the range of the how-
itzer, its atmosphere is the recipient of these particles, and, beyond
doubt, electrical phenomena should occur there. The rotation of the
sun on its axis in a period of some 25 days prevents the earth’s
being constantly in the range of a sunspot or sunspot group, and
so we look for the evidence of a terrestrial effect primarily when a
spot lies near the center of the sun as seen from the earth. When
this state of affairs is valid, such terrestrial phenomena as auroral
displays, magnetic storms, and effects on long distance radio reception
should occur, for they all depend upon the electrical conditions of
the atmosphere; and indeed our expectations are fulfilled. All three
phenomena show a close correlation with sunspot activity and par-
ticularly with the passage of an active sunspot group across the
central area of the sun’s disk; the aurorae, borealis and australis,
perform beautifully, magnetic compasses oscillate to and fro over
a small amplitude centered at their normal position, and long dis-
tance radio reception is either improved or hampered. In connection
with the last of these it should be said that whether reception is
improved or hampered depends upon the wave length of the signals
and other factors related to radio transmission.

The assumed validity of a correlation of electrical phenomena on
the earth and sunspot activity is thus established in a straight-fur-
ward manner. The many additional correlations, inchiding the cor-
relation of sunspot activity with weather conditions, the receipt of
rabbit pelts, wars, floods, international crises, economic tranquillity
and distress, the growth of trees, even with volcanic activity, hardly
fall, however, within the category of terrestrial electrical phenomena.
~

140 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

Yet sunspot activity apparently correlates with these terrestrial activ-
ities, and the source of the correlation must be sought in other solar
phenomena that are correlated in turn with sunspot activity.

Among the solar phenomena which might possibly have an in-
fluence on things terrestrial are the intensity of the solar radiation
and the nature of the ight which the sun sends earthward. Both
of these are found to correlate with sunspot activity. At the times
of sunspot maximum the earth’s receipt of heat from the sun in-
creases over nomal and, when the sunspots are at a minimum, the
heat received is below normal. Surely this change in the receipt
of warmth by the earth should be noticeable. One would expect
that the increased receipt of heat would result in a generally higher
terrestrial temperature and a slackened heat input with a generally
lower terrestrial temperature, but this is not so. The relationship
is exactly the reverse, at least so far as accurate measurements of
temperature on the earth are available. The theory commonly
given to explain this apparent anomaly is as follows: Increased heat
radiation from the sun entails a higher degree of warmth of the earth.
High temperatures are, however, conducive of increased evapora-
tion from the water-covered areas of the earth with a resulting
higher water-vapor content of the earth’s atmosphere. Inasmuch as
clouds are the results of the condensation of water vapor, its higher
percentage should result in the prevalence of clouds as well as in
increased rainfall. Both evaporation and rainfall are cooling
phenomena. The net result should be that, when the earth is receiv-
ing the greatest amount of heat from the sun, surface temperatures
on the earth would be below normal. When the earth’s receipt of
heat from the sun is at a minimum, the terrestrial effects are the
reciprocal of those at sunspot maximum, and terrestrial tempera-
tures should be above normal. A number of correlations are sug-
gested by this line of reasoning. There should be a correlation be-
tween sunspots and the prevalence of clouds on the earth, such that
at sunspot maximum, cloudiness should be at a maximum too, while
at sunspot minimum, cloudiness should be at a minimum. At sun-
spot maximum, rainfall should be at a maximum, at sunspot mini-
mum, it should be at a minimum. Of course, it is necessary to inject
a word of caution, namely, that terrestrial weather, considered in
detail, is such an uncertain affair that to differentiate a strictly solar
effect from the multitude of terrestrial effects is not the easiest task
imaginable.

The ideas of the last paragraph would seem to offer a clue to long-
range weather forecasting with a somewhat higher degree of validity
than that with which it is done in certain almanacs of wide circula-
tion. There does seem to be a general agreement among meteor-
SUNSPOTS—ANDREWS 141

ologists that solar influences dominate the weather situation of the
earth, and the attempts being made at present to discover the clue
to long-range weather forecasting have their basis in the study of
the output of heat from the sun.

The second correlation between a solar phenomenon and sunspot
variation is that of the ultraviolet content of the sun’s radiation. At
times of sunspot maximum the percentage of ultraviolet radiation
from the sun reaches a maximum; at sunspot minimum, it is at a
minimum. In this correlation lies the clue to a large number of
terrestrial effects. The biological effects of ultraviolet light might
form the subject of a thesis by a biologist. In general, I believe,
the thesis would hold that ultraviolet light is conducive of good
health; at least, such reasoning has resulted in the fad of sun bathing,
either for the acquisition of bodily tone or for the acquisition of a
fashionable bodily tan. One might suggest that it is most economi-
cal to acquire a coat of tan at times of sunspot maximum, for then
the ultraviolet content of sunlight, the motivating factor in the crea-
tion of tan, is at a maximum and the desired coat may be acquired in
the minimum interval of time.

The influence of ultraviolet light upon plant life is that of stim-
ulating growth, though it must be admitted that frequent rains will
also assist the weeds to grow luxuriantly amid the prouder foliage
of your garden. If you will grant the earlier theory that rainfall
should be at a maximum at the time of sunspot maximum, then the
coupling of frequent rains with the maximum receipt of ultraviolet
radiation should manifest itself in plant life on the earth. A very
simple manner of testing the hypothesis is by the study of the growth
of trees. Even as little children we learn that a tree adds a ring
each year, so that, by sawing down the old pine tree and counting
rings backward from the bark, it is possible to tell its age. The
theory would indicate that at times of sunspot maximum the width
of the ring should be greater than at times of sunspot minimum
or at intermediate times. The correlation is so good that Prof.
A. E. Douglass, of the University of Arizona, has used it to deter-
mine the antiquity of the Indian ruins in the southwestern areas of
the United States, and for carrying back our records of sunspot
activity prior to the time of satisfactory man-made records of it.
Sample cross-sectional borings of the timbers used in the construc-
tion of these dwellings show patterns of ring widths that are re-
produced time and again. Comparisons with the cross-sections of
recently felled patriarchs of the neighboring wooded areas and cor-
relation with recorded observations of sunspot activity have enabled
Professor Douglass to carry back his studies of tree-ring cycles to
142 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

the point where it is possible to date the timbers used in these ancient
dwellings.

The biological effects of ultraviolet light may be such as to stimu-
late certain animals to the creation of large litters, which will ac-
count for the fact the number of rabbit pelts returned to the whole-
salers by the trappers becomes a maximum near the time of sunspot
maximum. It is not a case of greater activity on the part of the
trappers, but rather a case of more rabbits to be trapped. On the
other hand, ultraviolet light is a penetrating radiation that seeps
under the cuticle of human beings and stimulates the nervous sys-
tem, thereby arousing the individual to unusual heights of activity
and achievement. With trappers thus excited in their work, it is
hardly possible for the cause of their enthusiasm to remain safe;
hence the usual number of rabbits may exist, but there is more
enthusiastic trapping.

Ultraviolet radiation, as has been previously suggested, is an excit-
ing radiation. That large proportion of it which is not intercepted
by trees, plants, and human beings must of necessity find its way
into the earth. Whether it can be as exciting of inanimate objects as
it appears to be of animate ones is an open question. Yet there seems
to be some evidence, perhaps entirely of a coincidental nature, that
volcanic activity correlates with sunspot activity. Disturb the under-
layers of the earth’s crust by an excess dose of ultraviolet radiation
and they may find relief by discharging their excess energy as a
volcanic eruption.

Already it has been stated that ultraviolet radiation is a stimulant
to human beings; it may at the same time be an irritant. A Rus-
sian scientist suggested not many years ago, and I have seen the
same statement made independently at a more recent time, that great
international crises, such as wars, peace treaties, and other evidences
of international amity or friction, follow the period of sunspot activ-
ity with some fidelity. The basis for such a correlation may be
sought in the stimulating effects of ultraviolet light, prodding states-
men to great international concords, or, in its irritating effects, an-
noying them until they come to blows. The sole difficulty with the
correlation and with its theoretical explanation is that the world
seems to be in a state of international upheaval at almost any hour
in any year.

A correlation of great human interest is that of sunspot activity
with stock market transactions and with the price of grain, wheat,
cotton, and other major items of exchange, the oft-discovered cor-
relation that prompts such letters as that quoted at the beginning of
this article. It is conceivable that the stimulating effects of ultra-
violet radiation upon humans should have much to do with the periods
of prosperity and depression, and with the flux of prices, not only
SUNSPOTS—ANDREWS 143

wera eo RAB ST PEE TS. 1 qi ee LS ee)
Bb Abie diel |

peed] i an VOL ANI. mses Nee
Saaaee e
ee
RO DUCTION OF | MANUFACTURES [

FIGURE 1.—The correlation of various terrestrial phenomena with sunspot activity.
144. ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

of stocks and bonds, but of staple commodities. Those who bear the ©
brunt of furnishing advice to investors and wholesalers have been |
enthusiastic in their search for such a correlation between solar activ-_
ity and terrestrial activity. Needless to say, they have found evidence
of such a correlation. As the number of sunspots mounts, prosperity
turns the corner; as the number of sunspots diminishes, prosperity
hides itself in a depression. It may be pointed out that the last
sunspot maximum occurred in 1928, an epoch in the economic history
of the United States to which one commonly refers as “the good old
days.” The last sunspot minimum occurred in 19338. Someone has
mentioned an economic depression similarly dated. It is now said that
conditions are improving and that prosperity is again just around the
corner; sunspots are improving in number as well. The correlation
seems amazingly satisfactory, and its amazing properties are en-
hanced by the fact that it holds equally gocd over nearly the past two
centuries, If you have faith in this relationship, you may heed the
advice of the lyrics which runs, “Now’s the time to buy, so let’s have
another cup of coffee and let’s have another piece of pie.” Whether
the lyrical prediction apples also to other fields is left to your own
judgment. It would at least seem that all the king’s horses and all
the king’s men cannot bring prosperity back again; but the sun can.

It may justifiably be said that the terrestrial influences of ultra-
violet radiation may be expected at times to be immediate, at other
times, cumulative. This is shown by the coincidence or lag of the ter-
restrial curve with respect to the sunspot curve in the accompanying
diagram.

The present waxing of sunspots should come to an end in 1989.
Concerning some of the concomitant effects we are certain. Concern-
ing the remaining effects your prediction of their trend is as satis-
factory as mine. I have laid them before you, here and there in
serious fashion, elsewhere with a touch of cynicism. To you is left
the final judgment as to when this cynicism is justified.

‘Le6l Vl GNV @l YSEWSAON NO AYOLVYHORSV 7 IWOIIWONOYLSY GHYVAYNVH AHI

LV NAMVL NOS 3HL AO SHdVYSDOLOHY

=

oe

SMaIPUY —“9¢6| ‘40dayy uRrUOsyyIuIG

Smithsonian Report, 1936.—Andrews

No. 1. 1926 January 24.

No. 4. 1892 February ro.

No. 6. 1905 October 21.

No. 9. 1920 March

Approximate scale.

British Astronomical Association.

RIPAIE 2.

No. 2. 1925 December 28.

No. §. 1917 August 8.

No. 7. 1917 Februarv rv.

TYPES OF LARGE SUNSPOT GROUPS.
NORTHERN LIGHTS?

Tai ZOOS JONADRM Cs 13s LORI DR Nie, 105 ase

Emeritus Professor of Physics, McGill University

[With 5 plates]

THE LOWER AIR

Before considering the upper atmosphere it may be well to recall
the remarkable unseen events taking place within this lecture theater
of the Royal Institution, so pregnant with famous memories. You
probably did not notice that, as the lecturer entered, a large number
of an essential part of this gathering went out as quickly as he came
in. This number may be estimated at about a million million million
million, a number almost sufficient to impress even Sir James Jeans.
The calculation is not difficult, for my weight somewhat exceeds that
of 2 cubic feet of water. The late Sir Arthur Shipley pointed out
that all men, including even the Archbishop of Canterbury, are about
90 percent water, and it is clear that my volume is, more or less as
the lawyers say, 2 cubic feet or 5,000 cubic centimeters; but the num-
ber of air molecules in a cubic centimeter down here is roughly 2.7 by
102°, a vast number equivalent to 27 followed by 18 noughts. Multi-
plying these figures together, you obtain more than the million million
million million, or 1024, molecules that left the room as each one of
you came into the hall. The molecules of air are not at rest but are
moving more rapidly than a rifle bullet. They are frequently collid-
ing with one another, each one about 5,000 million times a second,
and providing everywhere, by their bombardment, a pressure of 15
pounds to the square inch. If the air in this room, about half a ton
of it, could be suddenly removed, my voice could not reach the audi-
ence, who would all be dead within 2 minutes, if they had not already
exploded outward from their internal pressure of 15 pounds to the
square inch. The air molecules are small; about 100 million of them,
side by side, would stretch for half an inch or so, but they are by no
means crowded, for their average distance apart is 300 times their

1A lecture delivered before the Royal Institution of Great Britain at the Weekly Eve-
ning Meeting, Friday, Feb. 7, 1936. Reprinted by permission, with slight alterations,
from the pamphlet of the Reyal Institution, and including additions to the text and illus-
trations published in Nature, vol. 137, no. 3472, May 16, 1936.

145
146 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

diameter. If my audience were similarly dispersed, and if you take
your diameter as one foot, then your nearest neighbor would be 100
yards away, so that the audience would be widely scattered and in
an extreme state of agitation. The sound waves of the speaker ara
faithfully transferred to your ears by this wild jumble of swift
molecules. There is the further demand of intelligence, the supreme
factor in physics, on the part of the audience and the lecturer! In
ithe meantime there are not only a gravitational field and a magnetic
field throughout the region, but all the electromagnetic waves, radio
or wireless waves, from nearly all the broadcasting stations of the
world, are coming through the walls and through our bodies almost as
if we did not exist, making the electrons in our conducting bodies
dance rhythmically up and down, so that each one of us is an aerial,
but most fortunately, I think, we are not gifted with receiving gear
to detect this medley. We have to content ourselves with that wonder-
ful octave of electromagnetic waves which gives us the glory of light
and the splendor of color.

Do not forget that from the cosmos there come also radiations
which can penetrate the whole atmosphere (equivalent to 30 inches of
mercury), pass through the roof, through our bodies, very many a
second, and plunge down into the earth. As was shown recently in
the underground railway at Holborn, even after passing through
more than 70 feet of solid ground, there still remains 15 percent of
the cosmic rays. On the whole, this theater is a much more lively
spot than a casual glance would suggest.

The upper atmosphere consists of air molecules similar to those
around us, but, at the reduced pressure of high altitudes, the mole-
cules are much further apart, their free paths are much longer, so
that collisions between the molecules are less frequent. The differ-
ence between the two elevations cannot be better illustrated than by
the passage of electricity between two conducting regions. At our
level there is a more or less noisy spark, or « flash of lightning with
a peal of thunder. ‘Although it is not possible to go many miles
aloft, it is possible to send a current of electricity between two metal
electrodes and to observe the changes that take place as the air is
pumped from a closed tube of considerable length. On making the
experiment there is at first little or no current; the air acts almost as
an insulator. On reducing the pressure there is a thin rosy line of
light which grows and fills the tube until a considerable current is
carried by charged molecules, or ions. It is unnecessary to recall at
the present moment all the successive changes, but it will be seen that
with a high vacuum a greenish light suffuses the whole tube, because
electrons are taking a large share in the proceedings, and you will
note that they may be deflected by a magnet.
NORTHERN LIGHTS—EVE 147

This experiment is better shown by projecting the electrons through
a small hole so that they glance along a fluorescent screen. It is then
easily seen that the beam of electrons is readily bent into a circular
arc on the approach of a magnet.

Two streams of electrons, passing through neighboring holes, may
be seen to repel one another, whereas parallel currents in the same
directions, passing along wires, are known to attract. All these
preliminary remarks have a direct bearing on the main theme—

Northern Lights.
THE UPPER AIR

Dwellers in cities see little of the night sky; they are dazzled by
street lights and advertising signs. Those who live in the country
enjoy a greater privilege. Although London is nearer to the North
Pole than Montreal or Quebec, yet it is the people of Canada who more
frequently see the glory of the Northern Lights. It is the distance
from the magnetic axis of the earth that counts, and that axis meets
the earth about midway between the north magnetic pole and the
North Pole. This might be called the north axial pole, and it is near
northwestern Greenland.

The appearance of the Northern Lights has been frequently de-
scribed, and in any case words are quite inadequate to describe its
beauty. We must look forward to the time when really good colored
motion pictures of the aurora have been taken, and this will be a diffi-
cult feat because the light intensity is feeble compared with sunlight.
The three main forms of display are the arc or arch, the curtains, and
the long streamers. The color is commonly greenish white or greenish
yellow, sometimes with an admixture of red or violet. I still remember
being taken as a small boy from bed at my home in the Midlands to
see from a window the rosy glow of the Northern Lights. It was the
winter of 1870-71 when the Prussians were besieging Paris, and the
villagers declared that the light was the reflection of Paris on fire,
regardless of the fact that Paris was to the south and the lights to the
north.

The first appearance of the aurora is sometimes a bright quiescent
arch with its peak a few degrees west of due north. This may sud-
denly be followed with a host of streamers, like searchlights, but
changing, flickering, and dancing. This is rather frivolous behavior,
for the Eskimo believe that the lights are the spirits of their ancestors.
At other times the display begins with nearly vertical curtains of
light, the folds of which keep changing in form. It is often a fascinat-
ing and resplendent spectacle, and it is pardonable if a word picture
falls short of the reality. The drapery is usually to the north, spread-
ing from east to west, but sometimes it appears quite overhead. Even

112059—37——11
148 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

as far south as the State of New York the curtain may sometimes be
seen south of the zenith.

The altitudes of these displays have been skillfully measured in
Norway by St¢rmer, with a number of observers connected by tele-
phone, who took photographs at the same instant from different
places at a measured number of miles apart (fig. 1). The photo-
graphs (pl. 1) show the Northern Lights in each case with a back-
ground of the stars of the Great Bear, but owing to parallax the
lights are seen in different positions relative to the stars on the

\

KONG SBERG

Ficur® 1.—¥our stations in Norway selected by Dr. Carl Stérmer and connected by tele-
phone. From Oslo to Kongsberg is 63 kilometers.

different photographs. <A simple calculation determines the altitude
of the aurora. About 60 miles is the most common result, that is,
60 miles from the surface of the earth, not from the observer.
Sometimes the tops of the streamers may be 250 miles above the
earth, and I believe that the lowest determination is an altitude of
40 miles. The record height for the top of a streamer is 1,000 kilo-
meters, more than 600 miles. Similar measurements were made in
Canada by Sir John McLennan and others, and the results there
were in excellent agreement with the earlier determinations in
Norway.

It is a strange fact, proved by Stgrmer, that those auroras which
have the greatest altitudes, ranging (base to top) from 350 miles to
630 miles, occur in a sunlit portion of the atmosphere far above the

NORTHERN LIGHTS—EVE 149

dark region where the observer stands.2. Those auroras which occur
wholly in a dark atmosphere range from 60 miles to 200 miles.
Thus the upper ionized atmosphere appears to expand by day and
shrink at night. Appleton has found similar results when measuring
the altitudes of those ionized reflecting regions which echo back wire-
less waves of suitable wave length.

Notwithstanding these definite facts, and the further one that
Northern Lights appear behind distant mountains, there are many
who declare that they have seen an aurora close to the ground. An
engineer, with excellent judgment and good observational powers,
assured me that he had once seen personally some of his men walk
into an aurora! A minister in Canada wrote to me that he was
driving a horse and buggy when a brilliant display of aurora ap-
peared near the ground close to his side. He declared that his horse
saw it too, for the animal first shied and then bolted. It is no good
telling these men that they could see no such thing. <A probable but
not certain explanation is that a patch of mist close to the ground was
lit up by the vivid light of an aurora about 60 miles away.’

THE SOUND OF AURORAS

Several observers, some of whom I have met personally, declare
that sometimes there occurs with an auroral display a sound, dis-
tinctly audible, that resembles the swish of a silk dress, or the noise of
a sword moved swiftly with the blade broadside to the air, or of wind
whistling in the rigging of a ship. A westerner declared that he was
prepared to take an oath (that he could hear the Northern Lights)
on a stack of Bibles as high as a church. This picturesque evidence
proves nothing, except that the man quite meant what he said.
Here is a letter, exactly as written, sent to me by a trapper in the
Province of Quebec. Such men live much in the open both by day
and by night, and they see much of nature:

Il a été donne ici une conference par un de vos professeurs dont je ne puis
me rapeler le nom, le subjet étais les Aurores-Boreales il disait donc que c’est
impossible d’entendre le bruit des dit aurores. Je suis trapeur et peut predire
la temperature deux 4 trois jours d’advance par bien des signes quel vous ne
connaisser pas et quand des Aurores-Boreales se produisent sa agit sur la tem-
perature c’est par la place ici de dire sur quel cote du temps.

Mais soyez certain aussi que certaine aurore produisent du bruit crepitement
faible c’est vrai et aussi comme un bruit de soie qu’une personne froisserait bien

& vous.
(Signed) Un TRAPEUR.

2 Science Rev., vol. 1, no. 3, p. 117, Feb. 1936.
®See Low Auroras, by G. C. Simpson, Quart. Journ. Roy. Meteor. Soc., vol. 59, pp. 185—
193, April 1933.
150 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

The following letter was written to me by a McGill engineering
student who was fortunate enough to belong to an Arctic expedition
which, after so many years of search by so many navigators, did
actually discover the North-West Passage:

WEsTMOUNT, February 27, 1931.
Drak Sir:

Yesterday evening you were kind enough to request me to write concerning
the aurora.

I was fortunate enough to be a member of a Survey Expedition to find the
channel through the North-West Passage.

I wintered in the Arctic at the magnetic pole, 70 N., 96 W., during 1928-29.
During the period of darkness there were intense displays of aurora, most
frequently seen from the SW. to SE. in dead calm weather, temperature 50° F.
below zero. In the Arctic silence, it can be definitely said that whistling
crackling sounds accompanied the aurora display. They were also seen several
times in the NE. Their effect on radio communication was also marked. Most
frequently, north and south communication predominated, and only seldom
did the east and west predominate. The communication never showed freak
reception in all directions at once, but faded on one and increased on the
other.

It was difficult to get consistent data of the effects of aurora on radio com-
munication, even though I tested and communicated daily. The same observa-
tions were noted from King William Island during 1929-30.

(Signed) H. Ross SmyruH.

On the other hand, several of my scientific friends, such as Frank
Davies, who has been on both Arctic and Antarctic expeditions, have
listened in vain for sounds accompanying auroras. Negative evi-
dence, however, is never satisfactory. Others declare that the noise
swells and fades at the same instants that the lights increase and
diminish in intensity. It is difficult to believe that this could be true.
If the aurora is 60 miles away the sound therefrom, if any, would take
at 5 seconds for each mile, about 5 minutes to arrive, so that coinci-
dence would be more impossible than between lightning and thunder
with a flash many miles away.

Moreover, it must be remembered that sound does not emerge or
travel at all well in highly rarefied air such as there is in auroral
regions. There is the famous experiment, first made successfully by
Robert Boyle, after others had failed, which proved that the sound
of a bell does not emerge from within a receiver from which the air
is thoroughly pumped. What then do these men hear? It has even
been suggested that they hear the blood surging in their head, or the
tinkling of the ice of their frozen breath. We may safely dismiss
these suggestions as trivial. It seems more probable that they hear
something real in the same sense, let us say, that we hear church
bells ring. I may venture to suggest that in dry, cold weather there
may be a small brush discharge from snow or bushes somewhat sim-
ilar to St. Elmo’s Fire, seen on mountains, and sometimes as an

NORTHERN LIGHTS—EVE 151

electric discharge from the masts and rigging of a ship when the
earth’s voltage differs considerably from that of the air. My verdict
for what it is worth, is then, that men cannot possibly hear the
Northern Lights, which can make little or no noise, but they may
hear something else not far from them, such as a local brush
discharge.

SPECTROSCOPIC EVIDENCE

The spectrum of the aurora has been photographed, and most of
the lines, or bands rather, are found to be due to nitrogen, which is
the major constituent of the atmosphere (about four-fifths) here on
earth, and remains the chief constituent at high elevations. The
spectrum of the aurora also includes the famous green line which Sir
John McLennan investigated so ably, and proved to be due to oxygen
in an enhanced or unusual, excited state. He and his coworkers
actually produced the green line in his laboratory at Toronto by suit-
able stimulation of oxygen with helium, neon, or argon also present.
About 1 percent of the air at ground level is argon. All the other
rare gases are present in much minuter quantities—neon, krypton,
xenon, radon. Hydrogen is so light, and the molecular velocity in
consequence so large, that the hydrogen overcomes gravity and passes
out of the atmosphere.

Some of these gases, notably neon, the ingenious Claude has shown
us how to collect, to place in tubes at low pressure, and to ionize
with high voltage, so that every city is besplangled with artificial
auroras, and decorated with an extraordinary variety of colored signs
and vivid advertisements. The question is whether we most admire
their scientific interest, their intrinsic beauty, or the subtle skill with
which they invite or induce the public to buy. It was supposed that
some of the rare gases played a part in the rich coloring of auroras,
and McLennan suggested that at high altitudes there is more helium
than oxygen. On the other hand, experiments by Kaplan indicate
that enhanced nitrogen can also stimulate oxygen to emit the light of
the green line. Furthermore, the extended researches of Vegard
show that the spectra of auroras contain lines or bands of nitrogen
and oxygen only. No traces of hydrogen or helium were found.

THE AURORA AND MAGNETISM

Everyone today is familiar with a magnetic field, particularly as
everyone has lived all his life in a feeble field of that character due to
our great magnet the earth. It is not suggested that we know exactly
what magnetism is, but then that is true of everything else. The
magnetic compass needle, in some form or other, can reveal to us
both the direction and intensity of this field at any desired point.
Most people also know something of the behavior and properties of
152 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

electrons, and perhaps it is fair to add that the younger they are,
within reason, the more they know about them. The older among
us are conscious that this omniscience of the younger is not wholly
confined to electrons. However that may be, it is certain that if you
shoot electrons at right angles to a uniform magnetic field, the elec-
trons will go round in circles—exact circles. The stronger the field
and the slower the electrons, the smaller will be the circles, and the
converse is true. The mathematical, electrical, and mechanical prin-
ciples are simple and certain. People are beginning to believe that
physics is becoming indefinite and hazy, because they attend to the
fascinating borderlands of speculative science and are forgetful of
the definite and eternal verities. If, on the other hand, electrons are
projected obliquely to a magnetic field then the electrons will each one
describe a helix or a path with the shape of a corkscrew.

If electrons are shot earthward from the sun, they will travel
through space and become entrapped by the magnetic field of the
earth. They will spiral round the lines of force until they meet the
upper atmosphere in the regions surrounding either the north or
south magnetic poles. The speed of such electrons may be sufficient
by their collisions toe ionize the molecules, that is, to knock other
electrons from them, thus leaving positively charged molecules, or
ions. The recombination of electrons with positive ions is attended
with radiation, as has been amply proved in laboratory experiments.
It is generally believed that electrons spiraling round in one direc-
tion arrive near the north magnetic pole and give rise by ionization
to the aurora borealis; while similar electrons spiraling round the
lines of magnetic force in the other sense proceed toward the south
magnetic pole and occasion the aurora australis. This result is well
confirmed by experiment. In spite of some effort, I have not yet been
able to discover whether major displays of northern and southern
lights occur together at the same time in both Arctic and Antarctic
regions. There are some theoretical reasons for expecting such coin-
cidence, and some of the major displays, such as that of February 4,
1872, have been seen in both northern and southern latitudes.

There are some authorities who declare that light charged par-
ticles such as electrons would mutually repel one another on their
long journey from the sun, so that they would be scattered far afield
and in that case there should be no auroras at all! Prof. S. Chap-
man states that there are positive, negative, and neutral particles all
coming from the sun. There is a very wide choice of possible pro-
jectiles—electrons, positrons, protons, neutrons, deutons, alpha par-
ticles, and cosmic rays, besides photons. Therefore it is not wise to
be too dogmatic as to the nature of the bombardment that arrives at
the earth’s surface, but it is right to insist that only electrically

NORTHERN LIGHTS—EVE 153

charged particles will show so marked a tendency to proceed toward
the two main magnetic poles of the earth.

It may very well be asked why it is claimed that the projectiles come
from the sun. The answer is that auroras, sunspots, and magnetic
storms all follow, over a long series of years, the same periodic vari-
ation of increase and decrease in number and intensity. This is the
well-known 11-year cycle. In recent years the variation of the effec-
tive frequency required for radio signals across the Atlantic has been
found to follow the same cycle. The general result is that we have
a twofold aspect of the sun. On the one hand, it must be regarded
as a variable star with an 11-year period. On the other hand, it is
endowed with such marvelous constancy that the main temperature
of the earth has continued between the freezing and boiling point of
water ever since life first appeared upon the earth many hundreds
of millions of years ago, with every prospect of its long continuance.
The sun converts some of its mass into radiation at the rate of 3 or
4 million tons a second, and yet plenty remains. This delicate balance
of temperature must be an unusual feat, and is a thing which, if it
had not happened, would be deemed impossible. In my young days
Sir George Stokes would have said, “Design!” Today many say,
“Chance!” Looking on the matter as fairly as I can, and not attach-
ing too much weight to my enormous veneration of Stokes, it still
seems to me that he was probably correct. This is a difficult question
which everyone must decide for himself, unless he prefers to sit on
the fence.

AURORA AND THE WEATHER

There is a popular belief that a change of weather follows the
Northern Lights—a change for the worse. There are many beliefs
also connecting the moon and the weather; for if the moon is linked
with the tides, why not with the weather? A glance at a large scale
map will show that many various types of weather, good, bad, and
indifferent occur at any and the same time, at different places on the
whole face of the earth, whereas the phase of the moon is the same
for all. A somewhat similar statement may be made about an auroral
display, which often covers a large region and has to be responsible
for varied conditions. Besides, the aurora is 50 to 60 miles high, and
our weather is brewed in the lowest 10 miles, for the very highest
cirrus clouds are rarely higher than 6 miles. There is, however, this
point to be remembered: Northern Lights are not seen in cloudy
weather, but only in clear. Hence it is much more probable that rain
or cloud will follow the aurora than the reverse, but it is probably
erroneous to state that the change was caused by the aurora.
154 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

EXPLORING THE UPPER ATMOSPHERE

Today there are eight different ways of obtaining information
about the nature and properties of the upper air (fig. 2).

Pilot balloons filled with hydrogen can carry up small, light,
ingenious recording devices. If the balloon is recovered on its

Appleton iso 4 <F
Region
200
29)
t
‘WS
v) ll =
WW = WJ
= ul =
= 100 a g
oO x
Z d)
(e)
= z =
aa re)
g = a
LJ as
cptth ae oO
ennelly —
Heaviside ud
Region xz <—E
50
Lowest Avrora
Meosyvrea
Region of
Maximum
Ozone Content
Ss: ng ne
20 : i a aa:
STRATOSPHERE
10 x 4 q Piccard i.
Tropopause wine ES Sate uae Be mee ;

FicurE 2.—The atmosphere. The diagram indicates the heights of mountains, Piccard’s
gondola balloon, sounding balloons, the ozone region, meteors, northern lights, and the
two main regions (E and F) capable of reflecting radio waves. (From Physics, by
A. S. Eve. Thornton Butterworth, Ltd., London.)

return to earth, there are records of elevation, temperature, and
humidity. Such balloons may also be followed with a transit instru-
ment, or theodolite, so that the wind velocity at different levels may
be deduced. The greatest elevation attained by a balloon without
NORTHERN LIGHTS—EVE 155

recorders, was 2314 miles, at Padua. One of Regener’s balloons has
ascended 1714 miles and been recovered with its recorders.

In recent years attempts have been made to explore the strato-
sphere in balloons. The intrepid Piccard constructed a gondola
sufficiently strong not to explode outward, and was himself carried
inside it upward by a balloon. The ascent is easy, the place and
nature of arrival on the earth are largely fortuitous. He reached an
altitude of 10 miles and obtained valuable results on the cosmic rays,
which at that height are about 100 times as intense as on the earth’s
surface. The Soviet gondola crashed to disaster after attaining an
altitude of 12 miles. The greatest height so far attained is 1314
miles, achieved last year by Anderson and Stevens in the United
States.

A new method of exploration has recently been devised by Tuve
and others, members of the Department of Terrestrial Magnetism,
Carnegie Institution of Washington. A searchlight beam is directed
upward to a height of 17 to 40 miles, and the intensity of the hght
is modulated, or varied periodically at the source. A large concave
mirror collects the scattered hght from the upper part of the beam
and brings it to a focus on a photocell connected to an amplifier,
which is synchronized with the modulation of the searchlight. This
apparatus may well give some information on the nature of the
molecules in those very regions on which we are least informed,
above the range of pilot balloons and below the auroral and ozone
layers,

Ozone, O;, is produced from oxygen, O., by radiations of a suit-
able frequency or by electrical discharges. Much of the ultraviolet
light from the sun is absorbed or stopped in the ozonosphere about
20 to 40 miles above the earth. The presence of the ozone is revealed
by absorption bands in the spectrum of the sun. When the sun is
high it passes almost vertically through the ozone layers. When
the sun is setting its rays have to pass horizontally through a much
greater thickness. Measurements of the intensities of the absorp-
tion lines due to ozone lead to an estimate of the height of the ozone
region as being about 25 miles, and therefore lower than the Northern
Lights.

The barometric disturbance due to the great Krakatoa volcanic
explosion traveled four times round the earth, and the actual noise
of it was heard 3,000 miles away. The sound of big guns or of heavy
explosions passes upward into the cool and rarefied air and is then
refracted or bent back again to the earth, so that sometimes, like
short-wave radio, it cannot be heard or detected at intermediate
distances. Newton stood in the gateway of Trinity College, Cam-
bridge, and heard the guns of the naval action between the Dutch
156 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

and the English. He foretold a British victory, because the noise
of battle became gradually fainter as the victors pursued the Dutch.
The fact that sounds are bent back again to the earth necessitates
a warmer layer above the cold. It seems that with increasing altitude
the temperature may gradually decrease down to many degrees below
zero Fahrenheit, but at a height of 30 miles there is an increase up
to 80° F., and the heat to maintain this may be connected with the
formation of ozone from oxygen by the sun’s ultraviolet light.

RADIO WAVES

The most important method of throwing lght on the nature of
the upper regions of the air is by projecting radio (or wireless)
waves directly upward, for it is found that with suitable frequencies
they will be reflected back to the earth. It will be recalled how
puzzling it was, in the early days of wireless, to account for the fact
that the electromagnetic waves, expected to move in a straight line
like light, could travel from Ireland to Newfoundland. Today wire-
less waves, carrying speech, music, or Morse, can be sent completely
round the world, so that a man can speak to himself and hear it a
fraction of a second later, using waves which have circumnavigated
the globe, changing local time in the most remarkable way as they
traveled. During a part of the journey it must have been yesterday,
or tomorrow though on return it was the same day and perhaps
about a seventh of a second since they started. It was surmised both
by Kennelly and by Heaviside, independently, that the possibility of
successful long-range wireless signals depended upon reflection or re-
fraction by an electrified or ionized region at a considerable height
above the earth. ‘The proof of the existence of such a conducting
region was given by Appleton, who also showed that there is another
higher region also capable of reflecting radio waves back to the
earth.

The lower or # region is at about 100 kilometers, or 60 miles from
the earth, and it is also called the Kennelly-Heaviside region. The
upper or F region is two or three times as high, and bears the name
of Appleton. It is possible to send a brief signal of suitable fre-
quency which will be reflected back from both the / and F regions,
so that both signals may be recorded on a suitable photographic plate
(pl. 2) by means of a cathode ray oscillograph. It is possible to
measure the very short period of time between the initial and return
signals, and, as the velocity of such waves is about 186,000 miles a
second, it is easy to deduce the height of the reflecting region. For
example, if the interval is one-thousandth of a second, the reflecting
layer would be about 93 miles above the earth. Experiments carried
out by Henderson and others, during a total eclipse of the sun in
NORTHERN LIGHTS—EVE 157

Canada, proved that the / region is made conducting, or is ionized
by the ultraviolet light from the sun, but it is not yet possible to
assign a cause to the / region.

It should be clear now that it is necessary to determine in due course
the different types of radiation responsible for (a) the ozone layer,
(6) the Kennelly-Heaviside layer, (c) the Appleton layer, (d) the
more occasional and local auroral displays, all of which are attribut-
able to the sun’s activity. There is a yet more difficult problem with
respect to the cosmic rays and the bursts or showers of ions to which
they give rise. Sometimes a hundred million ions occur at a single
outburst.

In the upper atmosphere the pressure is so low that the molecules
are quite far apart, and if an electron is detached from a molecule by
some type of radiation, it may have to wander a long way before it
can find a partner in a positive ion; or it may find a resting place on
a neutral molecule, so that the pair become a negative ion. While
free, the electrons are so small and hight compared with their electric
charge that they are readily made to oscillate, or dance in rhythm,
with any electromagnetic waves that are passing them. Curiously
enough, the group of waves travels the faster in consequence, so that
an electromagnetic wave entering these ionized regions obliquely
has the upper part wheeling faster than the lower, until the wave
front is turned round and proceeds downward to the earth again.
However, much the same sort of thing happens every time you look
into an ordinary mirror or looking glass. There also the free elec-
trons in the mercury at the back of the glass are able by their stimu-
lated motion to return to you a fairly faithful image of your face.

Radio signals will also bounce to and fro between the earth and tha
reflecting regions, proving that the earth also is an admirable radio
reflector. The total path for eight such reflections, which have been
obtained from the F region, must exceed 2,000 miles.

SUNSPOTS

In the old days the heavens were deemed to be eternal, changeless,
and perfect, so that the discovery in the days of Galileo that there
were spots on the sun came as a shock to medieval thought. The face
of the sun is a turbulent place at the high temperature of 6,000° C.
Black spots appear on it, sometimes large enough to be seen through
a darkened glass with the unaided eye, and much broader than the
diameter of the earth. The number of these spots follows the same
11-year cycle as the frequency of the aurora. At the beginning of
such a period the face of the sun may be practically without spots
(pl. 3). In due course a few appear in middle latitudes on both sides
of the sun’s equator. There is a steady increase in number, the spots
ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

158

FicurR®w 3.—Distribution of spot-centers in heliographic latitude.

NORTHERN LIGHTS—EVE 159

become nearer to the equator, and they disappear when at the lowest
attained latitudes.

These relatively cool, dark whirlpools reveal magnetic properties
discovered by Hale through the Zeeman effect, and they may perhaps
be compared with the “lows” or cyclones which so often bring storm,
rain, and flood. The periodicity of sunspots, auroras, magnetic storms
on the earth, and changing radio phenomena has been found to hold
good for the fluctuations of the white polar caps on the planet Mars
and even for a cycle of ring growths in the great and ancient trees
of western America,

METEORS

Most people are familiar with shooting stars or meteors and many
have seen in their lives dozens or hundreds of them; yet it always
comes as a surprise to learn that no less than 20 million of them
every day plunge into our atmosphere with velocities ranging up to
130 miles a second. Sometimes these visitors are but the size of a
pin’s head, and at other times they are large enough to pierce the
atmosphere and reach the earth. The famous Arizona crater may
have been formed long ago by a giant meteor; the crater is 1,400
yards wide and more than 500 feet deep. In 1908, a great meteor,
estimated to weigh 130 tons, fell in Siberia and devastated by its
great heat hundreds of square miles of country. The elevation of
most frequent meteoric displays is about 40-60 miles above the earth.
It is somewhere in this region that the temperature rises according
to the theory of the reflection of sound waves, to which already
reference has been made. Sometimes the meteors are of iron, some-
times of stone, and it is not easy to understand how they become
red or white hot when rushing through cool air, how indeed they
acquire more heat from the bombardment of molecules than is
carried away by them. However, the luminosity of meteors occurs in
rarefied air at heights of 100 to 30 miles above the earth. An experi-
ment in the laboratory of a similar character would be difficult to
make, because our projectiles achieve a speed of a few thousand feet
a second as contrasted with meteors having velocities of many miles
a second.

MOTHER-OF-PEARL AND NOCTILUCENT CLOUDS

There occur rarely and at great elevations iridescent clouds, as
remarkable for their beauty as for their height. They are generally
observed over regions of low barometric pressure and it is probable
that the clouds are formed of supercooled water vapor.* Stérmer
and his coworkers have measured the altitudes of many of these

*S. Chapman, Nature, vol. 129, p. 497, Apr. 2, 1932.
160 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

“mother-of-pearl” clouds (pl. 4) and found them to be in the strato-
sphere, about 15 miles above the ground.

The strangest of clouds (pl. 5) are those observed in the middle
of the night, or twilight, which occur at a measured altitude of 50
miles. The heights have been measured in Norway® by the same
band of observers and at many of the same stations as those used in
the determinations of the distance of auroras from the earth’s sur-
face. These clouds are not iridescent, and they move westward at
about 100 miles an hour.

It will be gathered that the study of the Northern Lights is bound
up with other physical phenomena in the upper regions of our
atmosphere, and that progress can best be made, as in other branches
of science, by advance on a broad front.

5 Carl Stgrmer, Astrophysica Norvegica, vol. 1, no. 3, February 1935.

‘MOTO SSATYVp ‘SOT NGT OAOGR IYSIUNS ‘soplur o2g ‘ITUIUANS 0} ‘soTfur ONS ‘ASBq OL, :SopNaNTY “4qstoy [ensnun jo pus ‘4yysIpuns ut Ajqied sem BOING SIU,

“GNNOYSDYHOVE
SHL NI YOrVW VWSHYN AO SYVLS AHL HLIM ‘'SNOILVLS YNOA AHL WOU LNVLSNI SWVS AHL LV NSYNVL VYOUNY NV AO SHdVYSOLOHd

et

oJagsGuoy

AaLly1d aAJ—9¢6| ‘Woday uviuosyqUg
Smithsonian Report, 1936.—Eve PLATE 2

1. REFLECTIONS OF RADIO WAVES FROM THE APPLETON OR F REGION.

G is the ground or original signal. Fi, Fo, F3 . . . are successive signals echoed from the stated region or
after repeated reflections from ground and ceiling.

2. THERE ARE ECHOES SHOWN FROM BOTH E AND F REGIONS.

The lower curve gives a time-scale of 1,110 cycles a second. Figs. 1 and 2 are due to the courtesy of
Prof. E. V. Appleton.
‘Bop ‘SuluBmM ‘[[NJ ‘JoJIeNb 4sIt_—IYSI1 09 Jol wioI ‘opDAO IwoA-WOAS|T)
I [ I Te

“AMYOLVAYUSSEHO NOSTIM LNNOW LV LHSIT WAIDIV5D NI NAxXVL ALIAILOV YV1OS AHL AO SADVLS YNOA

€ 3ALV1d PAWY—9EG6| ‘Oday URUOsYy IgG
cCOL UG ===

‘ZEBT °6Z ATBNUBL “AUMION
‘HOIH SSTIW Gl LnOay ‘dnO1D TWVvad-s0-yaHLOW

“IOMIIGIG BO “Id

PAg—'9¢6| ‘Hodey eruosyrTUS

v ALwid
iz Ajne ‘yystaptur ‘oO[sO Jo YANOs ‘yRqolqd
“SSTIW OG ‘SQNLILIWY “SGNO1D LHSIN SNONIWN 1

NS PROD Ad

aAq—9E6| ‘Oday upruosy qs

RADIOACTIVITY AND ATOMIC THEORY *

By Lorp RuTHERFORD, O. M., F. R. S.

Nearly 40 years have passed since the spontaneous radioactivity of
uranium was shown by Becquerel in 1896. We know that the investi-
gations which led to this fundamental discovery were much influenced
by the discovery of X-rays by Roentgen in the preceding year. We
can now look back with some sense of perspective and recognize the
extraordinary importance of the discovery of radioactivity and the
profound influence on our knowledge of atoms and the relation of
the elements which has followed from a detailed study of the
radioactive bodies.

In the course of this lecture, I have thought it of interest to give
a brief account of some of the earlier experiments in radicactivity
which pointed the way to the conclusion that the radioactive bodies
were undergoing spontaneous transformation. This will be followed
by a statement of the most significant of the discoveries that have
resulted from an examination of the chemical and radioactive prop-
erties of the radio-elements. But this in a sense is only the begin-
ning of the story. The use of swift a-particles to bombard matter
gave us the first proof that certain light elements could be trans-
formed by artificial methods. This has been followed in recent years
by experiments in which streams of other fast particles, like protons,
neutrons, and deuterons, have been artificially generated in order to
bombard matter. By these methods, we have been enabled to extend
widely our knowledge of the modes of transformation of the ele-
ments. In some cases, the nuclei of the atoms can be caused to break
up with explosive violence, giving rise to new stable elements. In
other cases, new radioactive bodies are produced which correspond
to unstable isotopes of the elements. More than 50 of these arti-
ficially produced radioactive bodies are now known, and no doubt
many more will be found in the near future.

The subject of radioactivity has indeed been born anew and has
entered again on a new and vigorous phase of life. It is of interest

1Sixteenth Faraday Lecture, delivered at the Royal Institution on Feb. 12, 1936.
Reprinted by permission from the Journal of the Chemical Society, April 1936.

161
162 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

to note that the methods developed long ago for the investigation
of the radioactive bodies proper are now every day being applied
to study the artificial transformation of elements and to follow the
chemical changes involved. I have personally followed with great
interest this ever-widening extension of the province of radioactivity,
which today embraces so many workers and has already given us a
new science in which the reactions occurring in the minute nucleus
of an atom can be studied. The opening up of this new territory
has only been made possible by the development of new and powerful
electric methods of producing intense streams of bombarding particles
with high speeds, and by the improvement of the automatic methods
of counting swift particles, and by the wide use of that wonderful
instrument, the Wilson expansion chamber, to obtain visual evidence
of the process of transformation.

Before discussing the changes in our ideas due to the study of
radioactive transformations, we may pause for a moment to consider
-the prevailing ideas on atoms and their structure just before the
discovery of radioactivity (1896) and the proof of the independent
existence of the electron (1897). The atomic theory of Dalton had
been almost universally accepted as the basis of the interpretation
of the facts of chemistry. The work of the chemist for nearly a
century had resolved our material world into 80 or more distinct
types of atoms or elements, and had shown that the atoms of the
elements were stable entities unchangeable by the chemical and
physical forces then at our disposal. With increase of knowledge,
the old ideas of the alchemists of the transmutation of the elements
had been discarded, although it was recognized that one of the main
problems of chemistry was to disclose the true relation of the elements
and if possible to devise more potent methods capable of changing
one element into another. This was well expressed by Faraday, “to
decompose the metals, then, to reform them, to change them from
one to another, and to realize the once absurd notion of transmuta-
tion, are the problems now given to the chemist for solution.” To
the philosophic mind, the periodic law of Mendeléef was of great
significance in indicating that the atoms of the elements were not
separate creations but closely related in their ultimate structure, but
there was at that time no clue to the underlying meaning of this
remarkable relation. It should be recalled that the periodic classifi-
cation had been successful in predicting the properties of missing
elements, and, indeed, the position of several elements discovered later,
after Moseley’s generalization, had been indicated correctly.

While the law of combining proportions did not involve any defi-
nite knowledge of the size and structure of atoms, yet the size and
weight of the individual atoms had been roughly estimated from
RADIOACTIVITY—RUTHERFORD 163

data based on the kinetic theory of gases. There was, however, little
definite information to form any idea of the structure of atoms,
although theoretical physicists like Larmor and Lorentz, in order to
account for the vibrating properties of the atom as shown by its line
spectrum, had suggested that the atom must consist of charged
particles, but there was no evidence of the nature of the particles
concerned. This difficulty, as we now know, was in part resolved
by the discovery of the electron and the interpretation of the Zee-
man effect. At this stage, although the relative atomic weights of
many of the elements had been accurately measured, the ideas of
atoms were very vague and uncertain. Although an enormous
amount of information on the combining properties of atoms had
been collected, and simple and useful working rules had been applied
in explanation, more definite ideas of the underlying meaning of
chemical combination had to await a much clearer conception of the
electronic structure of atoms.

EARLY EXPERIMENTS IN RADIOACTIVITY

My introduction to the subject of radioactivity began in a natural
way in the Cavendish Laboratory, Cambridge, in 1897 as the result
of earlier experiments on the ionization produced in gases by X-rays.
Becquerel had shown that the radiation from uranium caused the
discharge of an electroscope, but had concluded that the radiation
was different from X-rays in showing some evidences of refraction
and polarization. I proceeded to examine whether the ionization
was of the same type as that produced by X-rays and in the course
of the work found that the rays were of two types, one easily ab-
sorbed, called the a-rays, and a more penetrating type, named the
B-rays. A few observations were also made on the rays from
thorium, which Schmidt in 1898 had found to be radioactive. Soon
after my appointment to McGill University, Montreal, in 1898, Prof.
R. B. Owens and I began some experiments on the radiations from
thorium, using the electrical method. We found that the effects
produced by some thorium compounds, and particularly the oxide,
appeared to be very capricious and much influenced by slight
draughts of air in the testing vessel. Strong ionizing effects were
observed when thoria was covered with several sheets of paper, but
only weak effects when the preparation was completely covered over
by a thin sheet of mica. This peculiar inconsistency of the effects
from thorium was at first very puzzling, as under the same condi-
tions the radioactivity shown by uranium was quite constant.

In order to investigate the matter further, I arranged to pass a
current of air over the thoria down a long tube and to examine the
conductivity of the air in a large ionization chamber by means of

1120593712
164. ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

an electrometer. I then found that, on stopping the current of air,
the ionization effect fell off according to a geometrical law with the
time, diminishing to half-value in about 1 minute. It thus seemed
clear that thoria emitted some kind of active substance which was
carried away with the air stream and decayed in activity with time.
I gave the name “emanation” to this unknown substance which
readily diffused through paper. This was the first time that the
characteristic law of decay of radioactive bodies had been measured.
At the same time, I noticed that all substances which came in con-
tact with the emanation for some time became radioactive. This
“excited” activity, as it was unfortunately termed, decayed with
time after the removal of the emanation, according to the same law
as the emanation but with a much longer half period, viz., 11 hours
instead of 1 minute. Another surprising result was observed in a
strong electric field. The activity was to a large extent concentrated
on the negative electrode. In this way, a platinum wire could be
made strongly active. The activity on the wire could be driven off
by heat and removed by solution in acids, but when the acid was
evaporated, the activity remained behind. These results were a
strong indication that the activity was due to some kind of matter
produced either from the emanation or by its action. It seemed
likely that the emanation existed in very minute quantity, but it
occurred to me that diffusion methods might throw light on whether
the emanation was a light or a heavy substance. For this purpose,
the relatively long-lived emanation from radium was employed. By
measuring the coefficient of diffusion of the emanation into air, Miss
H. T. Brooks and I concluded that its molecular weight was large
and of the order of 100.

About this time, 1901, began that fruitful association with F.
Soddy, who was then a teacher in the Chemical Department of
McGill University. At this stage, the subject of radioactivity was
in a very confused state. A number of substances had been found to
show a temporary activity when separated from a radioactive solu-
tion or exposed to radioactive bodies, and the idea had arisen that
the radiations had in some way the property of “inducing” radio-
_ activity on bodies exposed to the radiation. This was a natural but
mistaken idea which had to be cleared away before progress could
be made. For this purpose we first made experiments on the
thorium emanation to determine its chemical properties and to find
whether it originated from thorium itself or from some other sub-
stance associated with it. We found that a new radioactive sub-
stance, named thorium-X, could be chemically separated from
thorium and that this substance and not the thorium itself gave rise
to the emanation. It was found that thorium-X was being produced
RADIOACTIVITY—RUTHERFORD 165

at a constant rate in the thorium and was converted into emanation.
The constant activity due to thorium-X was shown to be the result
of an equilibrium process in which the decay of the active matter was
balanced by its continuous production. This process of production
and decay was found to be a universal property of the radioactive
bodies.

A study of the chemical properties showed that the emanation of
both thorium and radium must be chemically inert and correspond
to the group of gases of the helium-argon family. We now know
that the radioactive emanations are isotopic representatives of the
last of the inert gases. Finally, the material nature of the emana-
tions was definitely established by proving they could be condensed
in a spiral surrounded by liquid air. It is a noteworthy example of
the delicacy and certainty of the methods of detection of radioactive
matter that the chemical nature of the emanations and their condensa-
tion at low temperatures could be definitely established with almost
infinitesimal amounts of active matter, far too small to be seen or
weighed or detected by the spectroscope.

The experiments with thorium-X and the emanation gave us for
the first time a clear idea of radioactive processes and led us to
put forward in 1902-03 the transformation theory of radioactive
elements. Although the results were substantiated and extended by
investigations with other radioactive substances, time does not allow
me to refer to them, and I must pass on at once to consider the
importance of these new ideas on transformation.

THE TRANSFORMATION OF RADIO-ELEMENTS

The proofs that radioactivity was a sign and measure of the insta-
bility of atoms and that the radio-elements were undergoing spon-
taneous transmutation were contributions to our knowledge of out-
standing importance. The long series of radioactive changes in
uranium, thorium, and actinium were with few exceptions made clear
during the next few years. There were thus brought to light more
than 30 radio-elements, each of which showed distinctive radio-
active behavior and broke up according to a simple and definite law.
In most cases, in the process of transformation, the radio-element
emitted either a swift «-particle, now known to be a charged atom
of helium, or a fast 8-particle (negative electron). The transforma-
tion process is distinguished from an ordinary chemical reaction, not
only because the disintegration appears to be spontaneous and unalter-
able by the forces at our command, but, most important of all, by the
enormous amount of energy emitted from each exploding atom. This
energy is for the most part emitted in the kinetic form of a swift
a- or B-particle, but in some cases a part of the energy is emitted in
166 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

the form of electromagnetic radiation of high frequency (y-rays).
Since there was a large emission of energy in the change of one atom
into another, it was natural to infer that a large store of energy was
contained in a heavy atom. It was clear, too, that the atom must be
the seat of intense internal forces in order to be able to hurl out a
fragment of itself with such high speed.

Since experiments are usually made with small quantities of active
matter or with elements like radium of slow rate of transformation,
it is not easy to realize except in imagination the extraordinary effects
that would be observed if we could, for example, experiment with a
reasonable quantity of a short-lived element like the gas radon. Sup-
pose we were able to obtain a kilogram of this gas and introduce it
into a bomb made of heat-resisting material. At the end of about 2
hours heat would be evolved corresponding to about 20,000 kilowatts,
and the bomb would be melted unless it were very efficiently cooled.
Penetrating y-rays would be emitted with energy corresponding to
about 1,000 kilowatts. The heating effect would die away with the
decay of radon (half period 3.8 days). At the end of about 2 months
the radon would mostly have disappeared, but in its place would
remain about 54 grams of the gas helium, and deposited on the walls
946 grams of a lead isotope (radium-D), atomic weight 210), mixed
with a small quantity of radium-/ and polonium. After allowing
about 200 years for most of the radium-D to disappear, we should
then find remaining about 72 grams of helium and 928 grams of an
inactive lead isotope of atomic weight 206. I cannot imagine a more
convincing experiment to illustrate the striking nature of these radio-
active transformations, but unfortunately, or rather fortunately hav-
ing regard to the safety of the investigator from the radiations, there
is little chance of trying such a large-scale experiment.

The property of radioactivity, apart from uranium and thorium
and their products, is shown only by a few other elements, potassium
and rubidium—to which may now be added samarium—and then
only to a very feeble degree. All the rest of the chemical elements
appear to be permanently stable when tested by the criterion of
radioactivity.

When once the nature of the «- and £-particles had been established
and the long series of radioactive changes in uranium, thorium, and
actinium had been mostly made clear, it appeared that the main con-
tribution of radioactivity to our knowledge was nearing an end. But
it is characteristic of this subject that no sooner does it appear to be
visibly moribund than it flashes out again into vigorous life, leading
to new and unexpected additions to our knowledge. This is well illus-
trated by the work of the next few years, 1911-13, which saw three
new advances of great significance for the future—I refer to the idea
RADIOACTIVITY—RUTHERFORD 167

of the nuclear structure of atoms, the conception of the isotopic con-
stitution of the elements, and the proof of an extraordinarily simple
relation between the chemical properties of the radio-elements known
under the name of the “displacement law.”

The discovery of the electron in 1897 and the proof that it was a
constituent of all atoms gave a great impetus to the belief that atoms
were electrical structures. In 1904 Sir J. J. Thomson had proposed his
well-known model atom and devised methods for estimating the num-
ber of electrons contained in each atom. On account of its mass and
great energy of motion, the «-particle offered great advantages as a
projectile to investigate the inner structure of atoms. It was known
that it traveled through matter in nearly a straight line and must pene-
trate freely the structure of the atoms in its path. In addition, the
scintillation method provided a delicate means of counting individual
a-particles. The proof that the a-particle occasionally suffered a de-
flection through a large angle as the result of a single collision provided
clear evidence that enormous deflecting forces existed within the atom.
From these observations, I was led in 1911 to the idea that the atom
was a very open electronic structure containing at its center a very
minute charged nucleus in which most of the mass of the atom was con-
centrated. The properties of the atom were defined by an integer rep-
resenting the number of units of resultant charge carried by the nu-
cleus. The fine experiments of Geiger and Marsden gave convincing
evidence of the accuracy of the laws of scattering of «-particles calcu-
lated on this hypothesis and also gave us approximate estimates of the
nuclear charge of the elements. As you know, this conception that the
properties of the atom are defined by an integral number was verified
and extended by the splendid experiments of Moseley on the X-ray
spectra of the elements. He showed that the properties of an atom
depended on its ordinal number, and identified this with the nuclear
charge—a result later substantiated by Chadwick by direct determi-
nation of the nuclear charge by scattering experiments. Moseley’s
work was of far-reaching importance, for it fixed once for all the
number of the elements between hydrogen and uranium and gave the
atomic number and X-ray spectra of the missing elements, several of
which have since been discovered.

The next two important discoveries were a direct consequence of a
very careful study of the chemical properties of the radio-elements.
Several observers had noted that it was impossible, chemically, to sepa-
rate certain radioactive elements when mixed together; for example,
thorium and ionium, radium-D and lead, radium and mesothorium,
although these elements showed quite distinctive radioactive proper-
ties and were believed to be of different atomic weights. Soddy con-
cluded that these elements of identical chemical properties must occupy
168 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

the same place in the periodic table, and gave them the name of “‘iso-
topes.” This was the first time that proof had been obtained that an
element might be complex and consist of atoms differing in mass and
structure. The complexity of the radio-elements is now well estab-
lished. The three well-known radioactive series contain, for example,
six isotopes of thorium, three of radium, seven of lead, and seven of
polonium, and each of these isotopes shows a different mass and dis-
tinctive radioactive behavior.

The next notable advance was the proof that the position of a radio-
element in the periodic table had a very simple connection with the
type of radiation emitted by the parent product. Soddy had early
noted several cases in which the emission of an «-particle, which car-
ries two units of positive charge, gave rise to a product which had the
chemical properties of an element two places preceding its parent in
the periodic table. We now know that the effect of an emission of a
B-particle, which carries only one unit of negative charge, is a corre-
sponding displacement of one group in the opposite direction. The
more complete generalization had to await a more definite knowledge
of the chemical nature of some of the products, much of which was
supplied by the careful work of Fleck. The essential features of this
process, known as the displacement law, were put forward about the
same time in 19138 by Fajans, by A. S. Russell, and by Soddy, and not
only included within their scope nearly all the radioactive bodies in the
three main families, but even predicted the properties and positions of
elements hitherto unobserved. The proof of this relation indicated
that the periodic grouping of the elements was closely connected with
the loss or gain of charge of the atom due to the expulsion of an «- or
B-particle.

While the displacement law, as put forward, is quite independent of
any special theory of the atom, yet we see that it is in complete accord
with the nuclear theory if we suppose that the a- and the £-particle are
released from the nucleus. The atomic number and atomic weights of
uranium and thorium being known, the atomic number and weight of
each of the successive elements can be written down from a knowledge
of the radiations emitted by each element, illustrating the extraordi-
nary simplicity of the laws which hold for atomic nuclei.

The new conception of the isotopic constitution of the radio ele-
ments naturally had a great influence in promoting experiments to
decide whether the ordinary inactive elements also were complex.
Very largely owing to the pioneer work of Aston, the broad features
of the isotopic constitution of the great majority of the elements
were soon established, indicating that the varieties of stable atoms
were much more numerous than had been supposed.
RADIOACTIVITY—RUTHERFORD 169

ARTIFICIAL TRANSMUTATION

We now come to a discovery, the proof of the artificial transmu-
tation of the elements, which has led to a wide extension of the field
of radioactivity. A few words should first be said of the theo-
retical aspects of this problem as they appeared to be in 1918. On
the nuclear theory, an atom could only be changed by altering in
some way the charge or mass of the nucleus, or both together. It
was known that the nucleus was of exceedingly minute dimensions
with a radius of the order 10? cm and must be held together by
exceedingly powerful forces in order to prevent its spontaneous dis-
ruption. In order to transform an atom, it thus seemed clear that
a very concentrated source of energy must be brought to bear on the
individual nucleus. Actuated by these ideas, I began experiments
in 1917 to test whether the bombardment of light elements by ener-
getic a-particles might lead to the occasional transformation of a
nucleus as the consequence of a direct collisien between the nuclei
concerned. It could be calculated that in such an encounter the
a-particle must come very close to the nucleus, even if it did not
penetrate its structure. Such a close approach must in any case give
rise to enormous forces between the a-particle and the nucleus which
might be expected to produce such a distortion of its structure as to
result in the disintegration of the nucleus. The scintillation method
was employed to detect whether any fast particles appeared under
such an intense «-particle bombardment. No effect was noticed for
carbon or oxygen, but a number of fast particles were observed in
the case of nitrogen, which were identified as swift hydrogen nuclei,
now known as protons. It seemed clear that these protons could
only: arise as the result of the transformation of the nitrogen nucleus.
In the light of later results, the essential processes involved in this
transformation are now clear. Occasionally an «-particle actually
enters the nitrogen nucleus and forms a new atom like fluorine of
mass 18 and nuclear charge 9. This new nucleus is unstable and
instantly breaks up with explosive violence, hurling out a fast proton
and leaving behind a stable nucleus corresponding to a stable isotope
of oxygen of mass 17. On an average only one «-particle in 100,000
is effective in producing such a transformation.

With the help of Chadwick, it was soon found that 12 of the light
elements could be transformed in a similar way with the emission
in each case of protons, but with different speeds and numbers.
Time does not allow me to discuss later important developments
which have shown that groups of protons of different velocities
are ejected from each element and which have proved that reso-
nance levels exist within the struck nucleus favoring the capture of
a-particles of definite speed. Further investigation led to a dis-
170 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

covery by Chadwick in 1933 of great significance. The element
beryllium when bombarded by «-particles does not emit protons but
a new type of particle of mass about 1 and zero charge called the
neutron. This new particle has remarkable properties, since, ow-
ing to its absence of charge, it can pass freely through the structure
of atoms. Occasionally, it collides elastically with a nucleus, which
is set in swift motion, but sometimes it enters a nucleus and is cap-
tured by it. The marked efficiency of the neutron in producing
transformations in nitrogen, oxygen, and other hight elements was
early shown by the experiments of Feather and Harkins, and, as
we shall see, has led to very wide developments in the last 2 years.
Before, however, discussing these advances, I must refer to another
discovery of outstanding importance made by M. and Mme. Curie-
Joliot in 1933, in which they showed for the first time that veritable
radioactive bodies could be artificially created by the bombardment
of certain elements by a-particles. Before this observation, it had
been supposed that a stable element or elements were always pro-
duced as the result of the atomic explosion. They observed that
when boron was bombarded by «-particles, an unstable element was
produced which broke up with the emission of fast positive elec-
trons and behaved exactly like a radioactive body of half period 10
minutes. This radioactive body had the chemical properties of
nitrogen and the scheme of transformation as given below:

WB + tHe > 3N + neutron
and 3N — %C + positron

Similarily they found that bombardment of aluminum gave rise to
radio-phosphorus of half period 3.2 minutes, which also broke up
with the emission of positrons. The formation of radioactive bodies
in this way is of great interest, and the appearance of the positron in
these transformations is very unexpected.

It was soon shown that artificial radioactive bodies could be pro-
duced in various elements not only by bombardment with «-particles
but also by protons, neutrons, and deuterons. In particular, Fermi
and his collaborators showed that neutrons were exceedingly effective
in producing radioactive bodies by bombarding the heavier elements,
and more than 50 of these radioactive bodies were soon discovered,
each with a characteristic period of decay. In contrast to the radio-
active bodies produced by the «-rays in light elements, in the case of
the heavier elements, the radioactive body emitted during the trans-
formation not positive but negative electrons. In a number of cases,
the chemical properties of the radioactive body have been determined
and the scheme of transformation made clear, but obviously time
will be required to make sure of the process of transformations in
elements which consists of a number of isotopes.
RADIOACTIVITY—RUTHERFORD VAL

Fermi made another observation of great interest when he found
that in the case of some elements, slow neutrons were much more
effective in producing transformations than fast ones. Slow neutrons
can be readily produced by passing the fast neutrons formed in a
transformation through a considerable thickness of hydrogen-
containing material, for example, water or paraffin. This aspect of
the problem is now under intensive investigation throughout the
world, and certain general conclusions have been reached. For fast
neutrons, the cross-section of the atom for capture of the neutron
varies somewhat from element to element, but is of the order 10-** cm.’
For slow neutrons, however, the cross-section for capture for some
elements may be from 100 to 10,000 times greater than for fast neu-
trons. For example, cadmium and boron readily absorb slow
neutrons and a still stronger absorption is shown by europium and
gadolinium. So marked is the effect of the latter that a layer a small
fraction of a millimeter thick is almost a complete absorber for slow
neutrons. It is natural to suppose that absorption of the neutrons in
an element is a sign of its transformation, even though it may not be
easy to obtain proof of the exact nature of the transformation. There
is now clear evidence, as shown by Moon and others, that some of the
slow neutrons which are effective have thermal velocities. Still more
remarkable, absorption in some elements seems to take place over a
small range of velocities, a result which may indicate that there are
very low energy resonance levels in some nuclei.

The ease with which slow neutrons are able to enter the nucleus of
even the heaviest elements has proved of great service. The use of
the neutron as a projectile has disclosed the existence of 50 or more
ephemeral elements of the radioactive type, representing unstable
varieties of isotopes of the elements, and has thus much extended our
knowledge of atomic species. Most of these unstable atoms appear
to be transformed directly into a stable atom, but in the case of the
heavier elements it is quite likely we may be able to produce radio-
active atoms which may break up in a succession of stages like the
atoms of uranium and thorium. Professor Hahn and Fraulein
Meitner, and also M. and Mme. Joliot-Curie conclude that a radio-
active element of this type is formed by the action of slow neutrons
on thorium, but the evidence is yet not complete. It will be a matter
of great interest if we are able to create in this way new radioactive
families for study.

My time is too limited to discuss with any detail the large number
of new types of transformation which can be brought about by using
fast protons and deuterons as projectiles. In some cases, the element
formed by the capture of the incident particle breaks up into frag-
ments; in others, a new stable element is formed, and in others a
radioactive element. The use of deuterons as projectiles has disclosed
172 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

many new and interesting types of transformation, in which either
a proton or a neutron is released. One of the simplest and most strik-
ing of these transformations is produced when deuterium is
bombarded by its own ions. Oliphant and others have shown that
two distinct types of transformation occur:

7D+7D7 i + if
or —in-+ 3He

In one case, a fast proton and an isotope of hydrogen of mass 3 ap-
pear; in the other, a fast neutron and an isotope of helium of mass
3. The masses of these hitherto unknown isotopes can be deduced
with confidence from a consideration of the energy changes. Both
of these isotopes are believed to be stable. While 7? and *# and
’77¢ appear in several other transformations, no certain evidence has
so far been obtained of the isotope of helium *He. A stable isotope
of beryllium of mass 8 is also formed in certain transformations as
well as radioactive isotopes. It is worthy of note that apart from
the mass 5, all the masses from 1 to 20 on the atomic scale are repre-
sented either by stable or by radioactive atoms.

CONSERVATION OF ENERGY IN TRANSFORMATIONS

In the transformation of the light elements by bombarding par-
ticles, the energy released per atom is of the same order of magni-
tude as that observed in the radioactive bodies. In a few cases,
particularly when deuterons are employed, the release of energy is
considerably greater, and a-particles are expelled with higher speeds
than from the radio-elements. In some cases too, penetrating y-rays
are emitted ef high quantum energy. For example, the bombardment
of ‘Zz by protons gives rise to intense y-rays of quantum energy as
high as 16 million electron-volts—five times greater than the most
penetrating y-rays from radioactive bodies.

It is in general believed that the principle of the conservation of
energy holds in these nuclear reactions when account is taken of the
change of mass in the system before and after transformation. The
equivalence of mass and energy seems now well established. A
decrease of mass dm of a system corresponds to an emission of energy
c’?dm, where c¢ is the velocity of light. This law of equivalence is
well illustrated in the transformation of the lithium isotopes by pro-
tons and deuterons shown below:

"Ti + 'H >‘*He + *He
8Ji + °D -‘*He + *He

The relative masses of the nuclei involved are known from the ac-
curate measurements of Aston and Bainbridge by the mass-spectro-
RADIOACTIVITY—RUTHERFORD 173

graph. The difference between the masses on the left- and the right-
hand side of equation (1) is 0.0181 on the atomic scale, correspond-
ing to a change of energy of 17.1 million electron-volts. This is in
close accord with the accurate measurements of Oliphant and others
of the energy of the expelled a-particles, viz, 17.1 million volts.
Similarly, kinetic energies of the «-particles liberated in equation
(2) are 22.5 million volts, and this is found to agree well with the
change of mass of the system.

As far as our observations have gone, the conservation not only
of energy but also of momentum and nuclear charge appears to hold
in all nuclear reactions where the energy is liberated in the form
of massive particles. In the cases, however, in which either positive
cr negative electrons are expelled in the transformation, there are
certain difficulties in interpretation which have not yet been resolved.

The application of the law of conservation of energy to nuclear
changes promises to give us very accurate and reliable data on the
relative masses of the atomic nuclei—probably far more precise than
we can hope to obtain by the mass-spectrograph, especially in the
case of the heavier elements. The transformation data are in some
cases inconsistent with the measurements of the masses by Aston
and others, and a new scale of masses was recently suggested by
Oliphant and Bethe which fit closely with observation. New measure-
ments by Aston and others to fix the masses of the light elements
with the greatest possible precision are now in progress, and it
seems likely that the new values will be in much closer accord with
those deduced from transformation data. It is noteworthy that prac-
tically every type of nuclear reaction takes place which is consistent
with the laws of conservation, although the probability of the differ-
ent reactions may vary widely. This is very well illustrated by the
great variety of transformations that have been observed in the light
elements like lithium, beryllium, or boron when bombarded by differ-
ent types of particle.

STRUCTURE OF RADIOACTIVE NUCLEI

The discovery of the neutron has much simplified our conception
of the structure of nuclei, which are now believed to consist of neu-
trons and protons with probably helium nuclei as secondary units,
composed of a very stable combination of two protons and two neu-
trons. These particles are contained in a minute nuclear volume with
radius of the order 5X10-18 cm which is surrounded by a high-po-
tential barrier that prevents the escape of the particles. In the case
of a heavy nucleus like that of uranium, where the potential barrier
is very high, about 20 million volts, the a-particle has not sufficient
energy to escape over the barrier. On wave-mechanical principles,
174 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

however, there is a small but finite probability that the a-particle
may escape through the barrier, carrying with it the energy which
it possesses within the nucleus. Such a view gives a rational ex-
planation of the spontaneous radioactivity shown by uranium and
thorium and their products, and also accounts in a general way for
the well-known Geiger-Nuttall empirical relation which shows a
close connection between the speed of the expelled «-particle from
an element and the period of its transformation. In addition, Ga-
mow has shown that on the wave-mechanics a charged particle like
a proton has a small probability of entering a nucleus even if its
energy is much too small on classical views to approach close to the
nucleus. This theory accounts for the observation that compar-
atively slow particles can cause transformations, and also for the
increase of efficiency of transformation with rise of energy of the
bombarding particle.

It is difficult to obtain convincing evidence of the relation, if any,
between the two units of structure of the atom, the neutron, and
the proton. It is difficult to measure the mass of the neutron with
accuracy, but the evidence indicates that it is slightly heavier than
the mass of the proton. It appears likely that the proton and neu-
tron are closely related and under some conditions are mutually
interchangeable within the nucleus.

The expulsion of a negative electron from the nucleus may be
connected with the change of a neutron into a proton, while the
escape of a positive electron may be connected with the reverse opera-
tion. The peculiarities of the emission of electrons, both positive
and negative, from radioactive atoms may possibly be traced to this
interchange.

Before any detailed theory of nuclear structure can be attempted,
it is necessary to find the nature and magnitude of the forces at small
distances between the various components of the nuclear structure.
Important information on these points ought to be obtained from a
close study of the scattering of protons and neutrons in hydrogen.
In default of any complete theory, some of the outstanding features
of the relation between nuclei—for example, the differences between
even- and odd-numbered elements—can be explained in a general
way by assuming special types of forces between the elementary
particles.

The spontaneous transformation of the radioactive bodies gave us
the negative electron and «-particle as constituents of nuclei; the
study of artificial transmutation has given us in addition three new
particles, the proton, neutron, and positive electron, as well as a host
of new radioactive bodies. In addition, as we have seen, we owe our
conception of isotopes to the study of the chemistry of radioactive
RADIOACTIVITY—RUTHERFORD 175

bodies, and our views of the nuclear structure of all atoms to observa-
tions on the scattering of a-particles.

It is clear that the study of radioactivity, both old and new, has
been extraordinarily fruitful in extending our knowledge of the
nature and varieties of atoms and of the way in which one atom can
be changed into another. Although much progress has been made in
the last few years, much still remains to be done before we can hope
to understand how the atoms have been built up from elementary
particles or to grasp the significance of the relative abundance of
the varieties of atoms in our earth.
ae RR |
4, Sst eeyt ay

~
Britis)

THE CRYOGENIC LABORATORY AT LEIDEN?

By RoBertT GUILLIEN

Former pupil of L’Ecole Normale Supérieure, Agrégé de VUniversité; at present
at L’Institut Francais d@ Amsterdam

[With 5 plates]

INTRODUCTION

In 1882 Kamerlingh Onnes was appointed professor and director
of the physical laboratory of the University of Leiden. Two years
previously Van der Waals had deduced from his equation the law
of corresponding states. Kamerlingh Onnes undertook to verify
this law which he himself had also found from considerations of
similitude. Realizing that for substances liquid at ordinary tem-
peratures there is often decomposition at temperatures below the
critical point, Kamerlingh Onnes preferred to deal with substances
which are gaseous at ordinary temperatures. He proposed to refrig-
erate and liquefy these gases. For measurements on their equations
of state as liquids, it is necessary to produce very low temperatures
and maintain them constant.

Also by a happy intuition, Kamerlingh Onnes conceived that at
low temperatures the properties of bodies should obey more simple
laws and be easier to interpret than the laws of bodies at ordinary
temperatures. He therefore desired not only on the one hand to
study the properties of liquids at low temperatures, but on the other
to obtain low temperatures in order to be able to investigate the
properties of substances in general.

The laboratory had at the start the cycle of methyl chloride, and
then the cycle of liquid ethylene, condensed under pressure after
cooling with methyl chloride. This led to the liquefaction of oxygen
in 1894 by means of preliminary cooling under compression and
refrigeration by liquid ethylene. The liquefaction of hydrogen was
then attempted, but this time by the method of Linde. In 1906 tke
first measurements were made in a bath of liquid hydrogen. Going
still further, Kamerlingh Onnes succeeded in 1908 in liquefying

1Translated by permission from Revue Générale des Sciences, vol. 47, no. 4, Feb. 29,
1936.

177
178 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

helium. This enabled him in 1911 to observe temperatures between
9° and 4° K. (absolute). By this time the original program of re-
searches had, of course, been amplified and extended to cover all
branches of Shai: at low temperatures.

After the death of Kamerlingh Onnes, the researches were pursued
under the joint direction of Professors Keesom and De Haas. Ina
general way, although without absolute separation, the investigations
carried on under the direction of Professor Keesom concerned ther-
modynamics, while those directed by Professor De Haas had to
do with magnetism and electricity.

PRESENT ORGANIZATION OF THE LABORATORY

The laboratory is devoted to pure research for the study of the
properties of substances at low temperatures and of the means of
producing low temperatures.

(a) Production of cold —The celebrated cycle by cascade (methyl
chloride, ethylene, oxygen, air, hydrogen, helium) is now abandoned.
Today the laboratory obtains almost on a commercial scale the pro-
duction of liquid air and liquid hydrogen. Air is compressed by a
machine of 60 horsepower to a pressure of 200 atmospheres. One
part is then expanded to 1.2 atmospheres, producing exterior work
which is used to compress air, and then finally further expanded to
1 atmosphere. The remaining part is expanded from 200 to 1 atmos-
phere, liquefying without having produced external work.

In this way the laboratory is able to produce 30 liters of liquid
air per hour, or 18,000 liters per year. The liquid air is conserved
in Dewar flasks of 5 liters capacity that will keep it about 15 days.
In the liquid air laboratory is also an apparatus with which liquid
oxygen and liquid nitrogen may be obtained by separating these
gases from air under compression and cooling by liquid air.

Liquid hydrogen is obtained by compressing the gas to 180 atmos-
pheres in an 18-kilowatt compressor, then cooling it to the tempera-
ture attained by liquid air boiling under reduced pressure, and finally
further cooling it after the method of Linde. Production of liquid
hydrogen may reach 16 to 18 liters per hour, or 6,000 liters per year.
Liquid hydrogen is preserved and transported in special Dewar flasks.
Helium is stored in steel cylinders. Compressed to 15 atmospheres,
it is then cooled in a coil bathed by liquid hydrogen at —258° C.,
and finally liquefied by the Linde process. About 3 liters per hour
may be produced, and since 1923 a supply of it has been kept up for
the cryostats which are used in the various rooms of the laboratory.

(b) Preparation of apparatus.—Dewar flasks (cryostats) are neces-
sarily much employed in the researches. Their forms, dimensions,
and interior construction vary with different investigations. Most
CRYOGENIC LABORATORY AT LEIDEN—GUILLIEN 179

of these cryostats and other special apparatus are constructed in the
laboratory. Kamerlingh Onnes established a school for the instruc-
tion of young artisans. They are selected by competition and pass
practical examinations from time to time. They receive instruction
in general theory, science, design, electrotechnics; and when they
leave the laboratory after a 5-year course, are employed in the
PTT, the University laboratories, the state industries, etc. The
facilities include two glass-blowing rooms, four precision instru-
ment shops, and an optical laboratory. In these work rooms the
laboratory employs about 80 young artisans in the construction
of cryostats, the liquefaction of gases, and other useful tasks under
the direction of 15 foremen. Thanks to these numerous trained
and experienced workers, most of the apparatus for the researches
is constructed and repaired at the laboratory, with resulting great
economy of time. A drafting force instaHed at the laboratory pre-
pares the working drawings for new apparatus, and the illustrations
for publication of the Communications of the laboratory.

(c) Measurements.—The investigations nearly always require the
determination of at least one temperature. In general, the measure:
ment is made by means of an electrical resistance thermometer, con-
trolled by gas thermometry. To furnish heat during investigations
of bodies contained in Dewar flasks for studying their properties,
electrical current is supplied to measured resistances. For nearly all
researches involving electrical measurements, the cryostats in which
are enclosed the substances to be examined, are in connection with an
electrical testing room equipped with galvanometers and other ap-
paratus suited to making these measurements in conditions of pre-
cision and comfort. When it is necessary to measure simultaneously
several electric currents or resistances, the work is nearly always done
by several assistants in telephonic communication with the experi-
menter at the cryostat. Collaboration is also desirable, though in
somewhat less degree, when temperature measurements are associated
with the pressure of a saturated vapor as observed with the cathe-
tometer. For it is then necessary to hold the temperature constant
(or sometimes to cause it to vary in a chosen manner) during the
progress of the experiment.

The low temperatures are produced in the 21 experiment rooms by
making a reduction of pressure of the appropriate liquefied gas with
which the cryostat walls have been filled. Three pumps maintain
pressures below 5 millimeters of mercury, available for the whole
laboratory.

(d) Interpretation of observations—A special computing room
equipped with calculating machines, tables of constants, tables of
functions, and other aids is at the disposal of the investigators, It is

112059—37——18
180 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

there also that discussions of the work in progress take place. There,
too, Professor Keesom has given, under the auspices of L’Institut In-
ternational du Froid, a course in thermodynamics for the research
men at the laboratory. They also have access to the library of the
laboratory, and also to that of the Bosscha Institute for Theoretical
Physics, where they find all the books and periodicals which they are
apt to require. This Institute, indeed, is under the direction of
Professor Kramers.

(e) Instruction in physics —On the first floor of the laboratory is
given instruction in physics for students of the University of Leiden.
The courses are given by Professors Keesom, De Haas, Crommelin,
and Kramers, and Mrs. De Haas. They prepare for examinations
corresponding to a certificate of licentiate.

Large halls, equipped in the most modern fashion, serve for illus-
trative experiments conducted by assistants. These assistants, 13
in number, may at the same time undertake researches in the labora-
tory leading to the doctor’s degree of the University of Leiden.

INVESTIGATIONS ACCOMPLISHED AT THE LABORATORY

It is not possible to cite here all the researches made at the Cryo-
genic Laboratory of Leiden, renamed in 1929 the “Kamerlingh
Onnes Laboratory.” I may only indicate some of the most important
of them, or those relating to problems of special interest.

In its early years the laboratory was not devoted solely to low-
temperature researches. It was there that in 1896 Professor Zeeman
discovered the magneto-optical phenomenon which bears his name.
Lorentz, then a professor at the University of Leiden, found the ex-
planation of the phenomenon, and therein lay the possibility of de-
termining the ratio of the electric charge of the electron to its mass.

On July 10, 1908, Kamerlingh Onnes for the first time obtained
helium in the liquid state. Helium gas, compressed to 100 atmos-
pheres, then cooled to —259° C. by liquid hydrogen, was cooled by
expansion and became liquid. Since then the low-temperature scale
has been extended by the use of helium from 4.°2 to 1.°2 K. in ordi-
nary practice, and exceptionally to 0.°71 K. These temperatures are
yielded by operations with liquid helium. At 0.°71 K. helium is still
a liquid, and requires to be compressed to 30 atmospheres to solidify.
This was accomplished in 1926 for the first time by Professor Keesom.

The properties of helium have been extensively studied at Leiden.
Without speaking of the very precise determinations of isotherms
used to define temperatures, one may recall many researches relating
to helium, One unexpected discovery is that there are two kinds
of helium. First Kamerlingh Onnes and Boks discovered that
the curve of density and temperature has a point of inflection at
CRYOGENIC LABORATORY AT LEIDEN—GUILLIEN 181

2.°19 K., so that at that temperature the concavity changes sign.
Then Professors Keesom and Wolfke found that the variation of the
dielectric constant presented the same singularity as that of density.
Finally Professor Keesom and Clusius have shown that the specific
heat, c, increases in passing from very low temperatures to a maxi-
mum value of 3 at 2.°19 K., then decreases rapidly so that the curve,
ce, T, also shows a cusp. In consideration of the singularity in the
form of this curve, the temperature at which the infection occurs has
been designated by the Greek letter lambda. Clusius showed later
that the special temperature lambda depends on the pressure, and
that upon a pressure-temperature diagram the curve T,, py)
divides in two parts the region of liquid helium.

The designations He; and He; have been given respectively to the
colder and the warmer of the two heliums. Miss Keesom has shown
that the specific heat discloses an abrupt discontinuity in an interval
of less than 1/1000 degree, and that the coefficients of expansion, of
compressibility, and of pressure also exhibit discontinuities. The
transposition of Hey, into He; is in fact the most studied example of
what is termed a transformation of the second order. At the pres-
ent time an investigation is in progress on the behavior of the heat
of fusion in passing from solid helium to the states He; and Hen.

The study of the properties of substances gaseous at ordinary tem-
peratures has profited remarkably by the use of low temperatures.
In this way a partial separation of the isotopes 20 and 22 of neon has
been made on a nearly industrial scale by a fractional distillation of
liquid neon. Such a distillation occupies 4 persons during 4
times 24 hours, and after 14 fractional distillations there results 4
liters of neon of atomic weight 20.091, and 4 liters of neon of atomic
weight 21.157. By asimilar process it is also possible to create dif-
ferences of the order of 1.5 percent between the densities of fractions
of hydrogen, owing to a partial separation of the heavy component.

The structure of solids is studied at low temperatures by means of
X-rays. It has been possible to obtain for such study in monocrys-
tallic state substances which are gaseous at ordinary temperatures,
such as ethylene and nitrogen, and this facilitates the interpretation
of the results.

In another field, at the behest of Einstein and after him Debije,
many measurements have been made of the specific heats in order to
check formulation of the quantum theories. These have led to im-
portant modifications of these theories. Recently it has been shown
that for some metals the free electrons carry an important part of
the specific heats at the low temperatures obtainable with helium.
This falls in with the theory of Sommerfeld.

The specific heats are also actively studied for metals and alloys
in the supraconducting state. With tin, for example, there is found
182 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

a discontinuity as the metal passes over into the supraconducting
state.

I ought here to recall that it was in the cryogenic laboratory of
Leiden that supraconductivity was first discovered in 1911 by Kam-
erlingh Onnes. He saw that a resistance apparatus of mercury
transformed itself practically into a short circuit at a certain tem-
perature. He then observed the same phenomenon for other metals,
as lead, tin, and thallium, and found that the resistance could be
reestablished by placing the supraconducting metal in a sufficient
magnetic field.

Since then many metals and alloys have been examined. At
present one studies principally those monocrystals which give the
clearest results. It is found that generally the thermal conductiv-
ity of a substance reaches a maximum at nearly the same temperature
at which supra-electrical conductivity appears.

Until 1934 no other method of lowering the temperature of helium
was known except that of boiling its liquid under reduced pressure.
In that way the temperature 0.°71 K. had been reached, and it ap-
peared to be exceedingly difficult to go lower. But then following
an idea of Debije, De Haas, Wiersma, and Kramers utilized the
phenomena of adiabatic demagnetization. This was also done simul-
taneously and independently in America by Giauque. The phen-
omenon appears as follows: A certain quantity of a salt of iron or of
a rare earth metal (paramagnetic) is placed in an enclosure refriger-
ated by liquid helium. On applying a magnetic field the salt be-
comes magnetic, and thermal energy appears which is dissipated in
the liquid helium. If now the salt is thermally insulated from the
helium bath, and the magnetic field is turned off, the salt is cooled
by becoming demagnetized. For if its temperature were to be pre-
served constant it would be necessary to supply the energy which
was lost in the form of heat during magnetization. The lowering
of temperature which thus occurs is of course a function of the na-
ture of the salt and of the magnetic field. It remains therefore to
determine the temperature thus attained, for it is impossible to be
measured by the pressure of a gas or of the vapor of helium, for these
are altogether too small at these excessively low temperatures.

As a measure of temperatures between 1° and 4° K., the magnetic
susceptibility, x, of the salt is employed. In general, y follows the
law of Curie, y7’=C for small changes of temperature. Hence one
may extrapolate the curve (x, 7’) up to 7=0, and having measured x,
determine 7’ thereby. More definitely, if the law of Curie is fol-
lowed, and x07) be the values of x and 7 before cutting off the

magnetic field, and if x, 7’, are the ultimate values, then 7,;=7' Ot

. . . . 1
this way with a chrome-potassium alum there has been obtained a
CRYOGENIC LABORATORY AT LEIDEN—GUILLIEN 183

temperature of 0.°0044 K. This low temperature was obtained in a
volume of 60 cubic centimeters. The rate of warming was indeed
very slow—only 0.°002 in 80 minutes.

Heretofore no studies have been made of the properties of bodies
_at these very low temperatures. Thus far experimentation has suc-
ceeded only in controlling definitely the temperatures corresponding
to the magnetic susceptibility and in measuring their values with
precision. The determination of x for the salt is made with extreme
accuracy.

Being thus highly organized and specialized, the cryogenic labora-
tory of Leiden has attracted numerous foreign scientists. Mme.
Curie proved that the radioactivity of radium is unchanged down
to the temperature of liquid hydrogen. Boudin studied the co-
efficient of expansion of hydrogen. Mathias, in collaboration with
Dr. Crommelin, measured the rectilinear diameters for many gases,
of which the last explored are carbon monoxide and krypton.

At Leiden, also, Pierre Weiss, in a collaboration with Kamer-
lingh Onnes, studied magnetization to saturation of ferromagnetic
substances, and this led to the discovery of the magneton. Jean
Becquerel studied the absorption spectra of the rare earths, their
decomposition under a magnetic field, the dissymmetry of intensity
of the spectral components, and thereby discovered paramagnetic
rotary polarization. He showed that it is possible to observe mag-
netism (in particular with the rare earth elements) by optical meth-
ods much more accurately than the magnetic susceptibility may be
determined in the ordinary manner. He also demonstrated the im-
portant role played by the internal electric field in crystals at low
temperatures. One should mention also the experiments made here
by Paul Becquerel upon the effect of very low temperatures upon
seeds and bulbs of flowers which afterward were normally developed.

I have attempted to describe the present activities of the cryogenic
laboratory of Leiden, whose former successes are but stepping stones
to advance in new researches. The reader may obtain a fuller ac-
count of its history in the description already given by Mathias.
I do not wish to close this article without acknowledging how cor-
dially foreigners, and especially the French, have been received at.
the Kamerlingh Onnes Laboratory, and not only well-known scien-
tists but also young investigators. The professors guide them and
help them to master their difficulties. They work in an atmos-
phere of good comradeship which makes their researches still more
pleasant.

BIBLIOGRAPHY

The works of the Cryogenic Laboratory of Leiden are published
in Communications from the Physical Laboratory of the University
184 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSUNIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

of Leiden. Extensive abstracts are published in Rapports des Con-
grés Internationaux du Froid.

ADDENDUM BY PROFESSOR KHESOM

Since its establishment the excellence of the installation of the
Kamerlingh Onnes Laboratory has attracted many foreign investi-
gators. Numerous American scientists have even crossed the Atlantic
to work there. The following is a summary of their principal
investigations :

A. L. Clark, in collaboration with Kuenen, studied the critical
properties of the air. Gray employed a baroscope serving to deter-
mine easily, rapidly, and with great precision the densities of gases
and vapors.

G. Breit measured the magnetic susceptibility of chromic chloride
and of gadolinium sulphate in an alternating field at the boiling
temperature of hydrogen. He was unable to find any evidence of
hysteresis in the magnetization of paramagnetic crystals. He also
measured the dielectric constants of liquid hydrogen and oxygen.

In collaboration with Kamerlingh Onnes, Dana measured the latent
heat of vaporization of helium and found a point of inflection at
2.°19 K., which is the point of transition from He, to Hey. His
measures on the specific heat of liquid helium were unable to yield
the point of the cusp because the experimental technique had not
then been sufficiently developed.

Donald H. Andrews measured the specific heat of certain organic
molecules and of lead.

Very recently Dr. Chester W. Clark has made important measure-
ments on specific heats. For gadolinium sulphate he extended the
measurements and confirmed the anomalous behavior of the specific
heat at about 3.°8 K. For potassium chloride he found that the

3

values of @ of Delbije (defined by the equation 0.=466( 4 ) » C, being
the specific heat at constant volume) do not tend toward zero, as
in the metals (silver, for example) but only diminish. This proves
that the anomalous variation of 6 for the metals is caused by a
specific heat proper to the free electrons. For, by subtracting this
heat from the heat observed for the metals, the values of 6 thus
obtained give a curve identical with that of potassium chloride.
Dr. Clark has also measured the specific heat of nickel, which is
ferromagnetic. Debije’s formula is not followed, and the variations
from it do not follow exactly the formula of Sommerfeld for the
contribution of the free electrons. These results have inspired Pro-
fessor Mott to theoretical considerations of much interest.
“AYOLVEOSV] SANNO HONITYSWVM SHEL

MA Ea a Ee, pa

a

L S3Lyvad uarl[in—9¢6| ‘y10dayy ueruosyqIUIG

¢ ALW1d

'
:
i
i

*19}1100 OY] UI WMOYS SI UIBIZRIP B OITA Jo “Iogonbry urntpay ‘yySstI 94) Wo !1osse1dur0d UINITeEY “4Jey ay] UO punoIsyoRq 94} UT ‘GI6T Ul aye] Ydeis0j0q4

‘“SHNNO HONITHAWVM ONV ‘YHOG (N ‘ZLNSFYOT V *H ‘“LSSANSYHA ‘d ‘SAOYd ?*LHOIYN OL LAR

uall[ing—'9¢6| ‘Woday ueruosyyIWG
Smithsonian Report, 1936.—Guillien PLATE 3

1. ROOM FOR THE PRODUCTION OF LIQUID AIR.

On the left, compressor; on the right, apparatus in which a part of the air is expanded, and liquefier.

2. ROOM FOR LIQUEFACTION OF HYDROGEN.

«On the left and at the center, compressors; on the right, liquefier and receptacles for transporting the liquid
hydrogen.
‘root snoased Jo suoroeay quar0yIp amy SUTATON0I IO} snyeredde ‘Joy
947 UO ‘S19J9ULOUBUT [01}U0D 94} puBw ‘MOTBdOyIIOII IO} SULAIES ‘YsIY
SI9}OUI Z ‘SYSep IwMod se1Y} oY} JO 9uO “QYSW oy} UD “OZI EL Joddog

“WhITAH GINO] SNIondoYXd
“SAdOLOS| NOAN AO NOILVYVWdeS AHL YOA WOOY ‘Z YO4d SNLWYVddY AHL 3ACISHG@ WOSSSy4 YNOSSSAON”, °|

Lai mn "298

me «\Yar:. 4

a

y ALV1d uar[[IN}—9¢6| “Oday UerUOsyyTUG
Smithsonian Report, 1936.—Guillien PLATE

Ol

1
3
|
fi
4
4
i

1. MM. CROMMELIN AND MATHIAS BY THE APPARATUS WHICH THEY USE TO
DETERMINE THE RECTILINEAR DIAMETER OF KRYPTON.

2. M. DE HAAS IN FRONT OF THE ELECTROMAGNET AND THE CRYOSTAT USED FOR
ADIABATIC DEMAGNETIZATION.
Se

FORM, DRIFT, AND RHYTHM OF THE CONTINENTS?

By Prof, W. W. WAtts, Wi. Diy Seb) ERS:

It is now 67 years since the British Association enjoyed the hos-
pitality of the city of Norwich, a privilege which is being renewed
today under the most happy auspices.

At that meeting we find the scientific community was particularly
interested in underground temperatures and tidal phenomena, in
the application of the spectroscope to celestial objects, and in the
discovery of the oldest Cambrian fossils and the earliest fossil
mammals then known. Many papers were read on local natural
history, including those on Norfolk farming and the drainage of the
county and of the Fens.

In his address at the meeting the President, Sir Joseph D. Hooker,
made special reference to the work of Charles Darwin: not to the
Origin of Species, which had been acrimoniously discussed by the
Association on previous occasions, and notably at Oxford in 1860,
but to some of the work that followed.

It should be remembered that Hooker was one of the three scientific
men, representing botany, zoology, and geology, whom Darwin had
selected as judges with whose opinion on the soundness of his theory
of the origin of species he would be content. The others were
Huxley and Lyell; and of the three Lyell was the hardest to convince,
chiefly because the record of life in the past then furnished by the
rocks was manifestly so incomplete and unsatisfactory that its evi-
dence was insufficient to warrant a definite verdict.

Lyell had set out to “treat of such features of the economy of
existing nature, animate and inanimate, as are illustrative of geology”,
and to make “an investigation of the permanent effects of causes
now in action which may serve as records to after ages of the present
condition of the earth and its inhabitants.” By laborious study of
the work of others, and by his own extensive travel and research, he
had been able to enunciate, for the inorganic world, the principle
of uniformitarianism, which in its original form we owe to Hutton.

1 Presidential address before the British Association, Norwich, 1935. Reprinted by
permission from the Report of the Association for 1935.

185
186 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

This principle involved that the history revealed by the rocks should
be read as the effect of the slow but continuous operation of causes,
most of them small, such as could be seen in action in some part
or other of the world today. This was set in opposition to the opinion
of the older geologists who had postulated a succession of catastrophes
which, by flood, fire, and convulsion, had periodically wrecked the
world and destroyed its inhabitants; each catastrophe necessitating a
new creation to provide the succession of life on the earth as it then
was known.

But in the organic world Lyell, like Hutton, had failed to detect
any analogous principle, and, as he rejected all the theories of trans-
mutation of species then in vogue, he had to accept their absolute
fixity ; and to suppose that, as species became extinct one after another,
replacement by special creations followed. And yet the reading today
of the chapters devoted to this branch in the earlier editions of Lyell’s
great work produces the haunting feeling that a better explanation
had only just eluded him. It was the story revealed in Lyell’s work,
Darwin tells us, the new conception that the earth had been in existence
for vast eons of time, the proof that it had been continuously peopled
by animals and plants, and that these had steadfastly advanced and
improved throughout that time, which showed him the necessity for
an explanation of the progression of life, and gave him the first hints
of his theory. When he had enunciated this he was enabled to repay
his master with the principle of organic evolution, which brought
changes in the animate world into harmony with those of the inani-
mate.

His Antiquity of Man shows that by 1863 Lyell had become a
convert, and he afterwards rewrote much of the second volume of his
Principles accepting the new point of view. This change earned from
Hooker a testimonial in the 1868 address which, if not unique, must
certainly be one of the most magnificent ever awarded to a scientific
work: :

I know no brighter example of heroism, of its kind, than this, of an author
thus abandoning, late in life, a theory which he had regarded as one of the
foundation stones of a work that had given him the highest position attainable
amongst contemporary scientific writers. Well may he be proud of a super-
structure, raised on the foundation of an insecure doctrine, when he finds that
he can underpin it and substitute a new foundation: and, after all is finished,

survey his edifice, not only more secure, but more harmonious in proportions
than before.

Although infinitely richer than when Darwin wrote, the geological
record still is, and must from its very nature remain, imperfect.
Every major group of animal life but the vertebrates is represented
in the Cambrian fauna, and the scant relics that have been recovered

FORM OF THE CONTINENTS—WATTS 187

from earlier rocks give very little idea of what had gone before, and
no evidence whatever as to the beginnings of life.

But, from Cambrian time onward the chain of life is continuous and
unbroken. Type after type has arisen, flourished, and attained do-
minion. Some of them have met extinction in the heyday of their
development; others have slowly dwindled away; others, again, have
not finished their downhill journey, or are still advancing to their
climax.

Study of the succession of rocks and the organisms contained in
them, in every case in which evidence is sufficiently abundant and
particularly among the vertebrates and in the later stages of geological
history, has now revealed that the great majority of species show
close affinities with those which preceded and with those which fol-
lowed them; that, indeed, they have been derived from their prede-
cessors and gave origin to their successors. We may now fairly claim
that paleontology has lifted the theory of evolution of organisms from
the limbo of hypothesis into a fact completely demonstrated by the
integral chain of life which links the animals and plants of today with
the earliest of their forerunners of the most remote past.

Further, the rocks themselves yield proof of the geographical
changes undergone by the earth during its physical history; and
indicate with perfect clearness that these changes have been so closely
attendant on variation in life, and the incoming of new species, that
it is impossible to deny a relation of cause and effect.

Indeed, when we realize the delicate adjustment of all life to the
four elements of the ancients which environ it, air, water, earth,
and fire, to their composition, interrelationships, and circulation,
it is perhaps one of the most remarkable facts established by geology
that, in spite of the physical changes which we know to have oc-
curred, the chain of life has never snapped in all the hundreds of
millions of years through which its history has been traced.

The physical changes with which Lyell and his successors were
most closely concerned were, firstly, the formation of stratified
rocks on horizontal sea floors, situated in what is now often the
interior of continents, far removed from the oceans of the present
day, and thus indicating important and repeated changes in the posi-
tion of land and water; and, secondly, the deformation of these flat
deposits till they were rucked and ridged to build the mountain
ranges.

Before and since Lyell’s time geologists have devoted themselves
to working out the exact and detailed succession of these stratified
rocks, translating their sequence into history and their characters
into terms of geography, the succession of physical conditions
prevailing at the time of their formation. Further, although ani-
188 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

mals and plants migrate from place to place, the time occupied by
the migrations of suitable forms is so negligible when compared with
the length of the chapters of geological history that their fossil
remains have proved to be the best means for correlating strata
over broad stretches of the earth’s surface. This correlation has
converted the fragments of local history thus revealed into at least
the outlines of the geological story of the world.

It was not till 1885, however, that the accumulation of data of
this type was sufficient to enable the great geologist, Suess, an
Austrian but born in this country, to assemble and correlate them,
and to deduce from them further principles which have been the
mainstay and inspiration of his successors. We owe to Hertha
Sollas and her father the rendering of this great work, The Face of
the Earth, into English; and to Emmanuel de Margerie and his
colleagues a French translation enriched with a magnificent series
of maps and sections such as could only have been brought together
by one with the most remarkable bibliographic knowledge; a veri-
table recension of the original.

The nature and associations and the distribution in time and space
of modern changes in the relative levels of land and sea, as detected
at sea margins and by altitude survey, and of older changes betrayed
by such evidence as submerged forests and raised beaches, had con-
vinced geologists that the unstable element was not the fickle and
mobile sea, but the solid if elastic earth crust. They naturally ap-
pled the same explanation to those encroachments of the sea in
the past which had resulted in the formation of our stratified rocks.
But while some investigators were content with one form of move-
ment—that due to lateral pressure—to explain both the formation
of mountains and the rise and fall of the land, others called in a
different cause for the latter. Without entering into a discussion of
causes it may be well for us to distinguish the orogenic or mountain-
forming from the epeirogenic or continental movement.

The evidence collected by Suess proved that these last great land
and sea changes had occurred simultaneously over whole continents
or even wider regions. Such great submergences as those to which
the Cambrian rocks, the Oxford clay, and the chalk are due were
of this character; while, in between, there came times of broad ex-
pansions of continental land and regressions of the sea. These
changes were in his view on far too grand a scale to be compared
with, or explained by, the trivial upheavals and depressions of land
margins of the present day, which he showed could mostly be cor-
related with volcanoes or earthquakes, or with such incidents as the
imposition or relief of ice sheets on an elastic crust in connection with
glacial conditions.

FORM OF THE CONTINENTS—WATTS 189

It became necessary for him to replace or supplement oscillations
of the earth crust by a world-wide periodic ebb and flow of the
oceans, to and from the continents; positive movements of trans-
gression carrying the sea and its deposits over the lands, drowning
them and their features under tens or hundreds of fathoms of water;
and negative movements or regressions when the oceans retreated
to the deeps, leaving the continents bare or encrusted with recently
formed sediments.

Although the facts cried out for this generalization Suess was at
a loss to supply any mechanism competent to produce the wonderful
rhythm. The problem was difficult because a liquid must maintain
a horizontal, i. e., an equipotential, surface. It was manifestly im-
possible to withdraw from the earth, and later to replace upon it, the
vast quantity of water that would be required; and, though a shifted
water level, or even a varied water surface relative to the continents,
might be caused by polar ice caps, by redistribution of the continents
carrying their local effects on gravitation, by variations in the rate of
the earth’s rotation, or other far-reaching causes, none of these would
supply an explanation that fitted all the facts. Regressions of the
sea could be to some extent explained if Suess’s main postulate, that
the great ocean basins had been slowly sinking throughout geo-
logical time, were granted. But this explanation only rendered
more impotent the raising of ocean levels by deposits of sediment,
and this was almost the only valid cause for transgressions that he
had been able to suggest.

Further, it is not possible to ignore the definite relationship that
exists between the pulsation of the oceans and the raising of moun-
tains by lateral or tangential stress. Periods of positive movement
or advance of the seas were times of comparative tranquillity, when
tangential pressure was in abeyance. Periods of negative movement
and retreat were invariably marked by the operation of great stresses
by which the earth’s face was ridged and wrinkled in the throes of
mountain birth.

The theory that continuous cooling and shrinkage of the interior
of the earth afforded an explanation of mountain ranges and other
rugosities on its surface was a legacy from the nebular hypothesis.
In spite of the homely simile of a shriveling apple, this explanation
has never received a very enthusiastic welcome from geologists,
though, in default of other resources, they had to make use of it.
As knowledge has grown the difficulties have become insurmountable
to them.

First, there is its inadequacy to explain the vast amount of lateral
movement required to account for the greater mountain ranges;
their rocks, originally spread over a wider area, having been folded
190 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

and crushed into a narrower width. The shortening of the earth
crust thus effected has been estimated in the case of the Rocky
Mountains at 29 miles, of the Himalayas at 62, the Alps at 76, and
the Appalachians at the large figure of 200 miles.

Then there is the periodicity of mountain growth. The great
epochs of mountain-building, such as the Caledonian, to which the
chief Scottish and Welsh mountains are due, the Hercynian, re-
sponsible for the Pennine and South Wales, and the Alpine which
gave us “the wooded, dim, blue goodness of the Weald”, were asso-
ciated with vast continental development; and each was separated
from the next by a period of relative inactivity lasting dozens of
millions of years.

Further, there is the fact that the vigor of mountain-building,
of volcanoes, and of other manifestations of unrest, has shown no
sion of senility or lack of energy. The geologically recent Alpine-
Himalayan range is as great, as lofty, and as complicated in struc-
ture, as were any of its precursors. ‘The active volcanoes of Kilauea,
Krakatao, or St. Pierre, and those recently extinct in Northern
Ireland and the Scottish Isles, were as violent and efficient as any of
those of the Paleozoic Era. The earth is “a lady of a certain age”,
but she has contrived to preserve her youth and energy as well as
her beauty.

But it was when Lord Kelvin’s dictum struck from geology its
grandest conception, time, that it became vital to re-examine the
position. He had demonstrated that, if the earth had been con-
tinuously cooling down at its present rate, its surface must have been
too hot for the existence of life upon it a limited number of million
years ago. The concept of geological time, indicated by Hutton
in his famous saying that in this enquiry “we find no vestige of a
beginning—no prospect of an end”, had been confirmed by data
accumulated through the painstaking researches of a host of com-
petent and devoted observers all over the world. To them, familiar
with the tremendous changes, organic and inorganic, that the
earth had passed through since Cambrian time, it was wholly im-
possible to compress the life story of the earth, or the history of
life upon it, into a paltry 20 or 30 million years. The slow growth
and slow decay of mountain range after mountain range, each built
out of, and in some cases upon, the ruins of its predecessor; the
chain of slowly evolving organisms, vast in numbers and infinite in
variety; told plainly of long eons of time. And the duration of
these eons can be dimly realized when it is recalled that, within
a small fraction of the latest of them, man, with the most primitive
of implements and the most rudimentary culture, has succeeded
in penetrating to the uttermost corners of the world, and developed
his innumerable languages and civilizations.

FORM OF THE CONTINENTS—WATTS 191

Huxley, as our representative, took up the challenge in his address
to the Geological Society in 1869, and asked the pertinent question
“but is the earth nothing but a cooling mass ‘like a hot water jar
such as is used in carriages’ or ‘a globe of sandstone’?” And he
was able to point out at least some agencies which might regenerate
the earth’s heat or delay its loss.

So it is only fitting that the great physicist, who imposed a narrow
limit to geological time, should have prepared the way for those who
have proved that the earth possesses in its radioactive substances
a “hidden reserve” capable of supplying a continuous recrudescence
of the energy wasted by radiation, thus lengthening out the time
required to complete its total loss. These later physicists have given
us time without stint; and, though this time is the merest fraction
of that envisaged by cosmogonists and astronomers, we are now so
much richer than our original estimates that we are embarrassed by
the wealth poured into our hands. So far from the last century’s
urge to ‘hurry up our phenomena”, we are almost at a loss for
phenomena enough to fill up the time.

The farsighted genius of Lord Rutherford and Lord Rayleigh
first saw the bearing of the rate of disintegration of radioactive sub-
stances in the minerals of rocks on the age of the parts of the earth
crust built of them. The extension and supplementing of this work
by Joly, Holmes, and others, has now enabled us to look to the dis-
integration of uranium, thorium, and potassium, as the most promis-
ing of many methods that have been used in the endeavor to ascertain
the age of those parts of the earth crust that are accessible to obser-
vation. These methods also promise a means of dating the geological
succession of eras and periods in terms of millions if not hundreds of
thousands of years.

The decline and early death to which Lord Kelvin’s dictum had
condemned the earth, according so little with the vigor displayed in
its geological story, is now transformed into a history of prolonged
though not perennial youth. It was for Joly, of whose work the
extent, variety, and fruitfulness are hardly yet fully appreciated, to
take the next step and see in the release of radioactive energy a
mechanism which could drive the pulse that geologists had so long
felt, and that Suess had so brilliantly diagnosed. As Darwin found
the missing word for Lyell, so Joly in his theory of thermal cycles
has indicated the direction of search for a mechanism to actuate the
rhythm of Suess.

In Joly’s conception the running down of the earth’s energy,
though a continuous process, was, through the intervention of radio-
activity, converted into a series of cycles, during each of which rela-
tive movements of sea and land must occur; downward movements
of the continents, associated with positive encroachments of the sea;
192 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

upward movements, with retreat of the sea, the formation of wide
land masses, and the ridging of strata to form mountain ranges.
Thus he forged a link that could unite the continental or epeirogenic
movement with orogenic or mountain movement.

The visible parts of mountains and continents, as well as their lower
and hidden portions, or “roots”, are made of comparatively light
rocks. In order to stand up as they do their roots must be embedded
in denser matter, in which they “float” like icebergs in water. A
far larger mass must exist below than is visible above, and the bigger
the upstanding part the bigger the submerged root. Over the larger
area of the ocean floor, on the other hand, the thickness of material
of low density must be very slight, and the denser layer must come
close to the surface.

The study of earthquakes, to which the seismology committee of the
British Association has made outstanding contributions, has yielded
from the times taken in transmission of vibrations through the earth,
the best information as to the nature and state of the interior. It
has proved that the dense layer is solid at the present time. It is
probably no coincidence that the earth is also but just recovering from
what is possibly the greatest period of mountain building, if not the
greatest negative movement of ocean retreat, that it has ever
experienced.

But solidity cannot be the permanent condition of the substratum.
Heat is generated in it by its own radioactivity, but according to the
terms of the hypothesis, cannot escape in consequence of the higher
temperature generated in the continental rocks which cover it. It is
therefore retained in the substratum and stored as latent heat of
liquefaction, so that within a period which has been calculated ap-
proximately in millions of years, complete melting of the subcrust
must ensue.

The resulting expansion of the liquefied stratum will have at
least two effects of great importance to us. In the first place the
unexpanded superficial layers will be too small to fit the swelling
interior. They will, therefore, suffer tension, greater on the ocean
floor than on land, and cracking and rifting will occur, with intrusion
and extrusion of molten rock. In the second place the continental
masses, now truly floating in a substratum which has become fluid
and less dense than before, will sink deeper into it, suffering displace-
ment along the rift cracks or other planes of dislocation. As a result
the ocean waters, unchanged in volume, must encroach on the edges of
the continents, and spread farther and farther over their surfaces.

Thus we have the mechanism which Suess vainly sought, causing
positive movements of the oceans, their waters spreading over wide
stretches of what was formerly continental land, and laying down

FORM OF THE CONTINENTS—WATTS 193

as sediment upon it the marine stratified rocks which are our chief
witness of the rhythmic advances of the sea.

This condition, however, cannot be permanent, for by convection
of the fluid basic substratum, supplemented by the influence of tides
within it, and the slow westward tidal drag of the continental masses
toward and over what had been ocean floor, there will now be dissipa-
tion of its heat, mainly into the ocean waters, at a rate much faster
than it has been or could be accumulated. Resolidification ensues, and
again there are two main consequences. First, the stratum embedding
their roots having now become more dense, the continental masses
rise, and as they do so the ocean waters retreat from their margins
and epicontinental seas, leaving bare as new land, made of the recently
deposited sediments, the areas previously drowned. Secondly, the
expanded crust, left insufficiently supported by the withdrawal of
shrunken substratum, will suffer from severe tangential stress, and, on
yielding, will wrinkle lke the skin of a withering apple. The wrinkles
will be mountain ranges, formed along lines of weakness such as those
at continental margins; and they will be piled up and elevated to
suffer from the intense erosion due to water action upon their exposed
and upraised rocks,

In this, again, we have a mechanism which supplies what was
needed by Suess, and one, moreover, which secures the required rela-
tionship between continental and mountain movement, between the
broader extensions of continental land and the growth of mountains
with their volcanoes and earthquakes and the other concomitants of
lateral thrust.

Thus a thermal cycle may run its full course from the solid sub-
stratum, through a period of liquefaction accompanied by crustal
tension, back to solidification and an era of lateral stress; and the
stage is set for a new cycle.

Prof. Arthur Holmes, in checking Joly’s calculations, has concluded
that the length of the cycles in a basic rock substratum should occupy
from 25 to 40 million years, a period much too short to fit the major
periods of mountain movement, as determined by him from the radio-
activity of minerals contained in the rocks. On this evidence the
Alpine movement should date back from 20 to 60 millions of years
ago, the Hercynian 200 to 250 millions, and the Caledonian from 350
to 375 million years.

In a preliminary attempt to modify Joly’s hypothesis Holmes
postulated the occurrence of similar, but longer cycles (magmatic
cycles) in a denser, ultrabasic layer underlying the basic one, the
rhythm of which would be nearer to 150 million years. The shorter
cycles due to the basic layer are held in part responsible for periods
of minor disturbance, and also to account for the individual varia-
194 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

tions in effect, duration, and intensity of the larger ones. Each of the
later movements has also evidently been limited and conditioned by
the results of foregoing ones, and especially by areas of fracture and
weakness on the one hand, and by large stable masses composed of
rocks intensely consolidated, or already closely packed, on the other.

More recently Holmes has developed the possibility that the loss
of heat is mainly due to convection in the liquid substrata, and that
convection is the leading cause of the drifting and other movements
of the crust, and the disturbances that have occurred in it. He says:

Although the hypothesis involving subcrustal convection currents cannot be
regarded as established, it is encouraging to find that it is consistent with a
wide range of geological and geophysical data. Moreover, it is by no means
independent of the best features of the other hypotheses. It requires the local
operation of thermal cycles within the crust, and it necessarily involves con-
traction in regions where crustal cooling takes place. It is sufficiently complex
to match the astonishing complexities of geological history, and sufficiently
startling to stimulate research in many directions.

The phenomena are difficult to disentangle as the number of operat-
ing causes has been so great and many of them are not fully under-
stood. But, underlying them all there is unquestionably the pulse
within pulse which Suess saw and of which Joly pointed the way
to explanation.

The view at which we have arrived is neither strictly uniformi-
tarian nor strictly catastrophic, but takes the best from each hypo-
thesis. As Lyell showed, most of the phenomena of geology can be
matched somewhere and sometime on the earth of today; but it would
appear that they have varied in place, intensity, phase, and time.
And, as Lyell was driven to accept evolution to explain the history
of life on the earth, so must we employ the same word to express the
life processes of the earth itself, as was suggested by Huxley in 1869
and strongly advocated by Sollas in 1888.

The contrast in outline and structure between the Atlantic and
Pacific Oceans had long been noted when Suess formulated and used
the differences as the basis of his classification.

The Pacific is bounded everywhere by steep slopes, rising abruptly
from profound ocean depths to lofty lands crowned with mountain
ranges, parallel to its shores and surrounding its whole area. On
the American side the Coast Range is continued by the Andes. On the
Asiatic side chains of mountainous peninsulas and islands, separated
from the continent by shallow inland seas, extend in festoons from
Kamchatka and Japan to the East Indies, eastern Australia, and New
Zealand. This mountain ring, as Charles Lapworth said, “is ablaze
with volcanoes and creeping with earthquakes”, testifying that it has
been recently formed and is still unfinished.

The Atlantic Ocean, on the other hand, is not bordered with con-
tinuous ranges, but breaks across them all: the Scottish and Welsh

|
|
|
FORM OF THE CONTINENTS—WATTS 195

ranges, the Armorican range, the continuation of the Pyrenees and
Atlas; and, on the American side, the uplands of Labrador, New-
foundland, and the eastern States, and the hill ranges of Guiana and
Brazil. The Atlantic is in disconformity with the grain of the land,
while the Pacific conforms with it. The Pacific has the rock-folds
of its ranges breaking like ocean waves toward it as though the land
were being driven by pressure to advance upon it, while the Atlantic
recalls the effects of fracture under tension.

The middle and southern edges of the Atlantic, however, agree to
some extent with the Pacific type. The Caribbean Sea, with the
Antilles and the rest of its border girdle, recalls the similar structure
of the Mediterranean, as it stretches eastward, with breaks, to the
East Indian Archipelago; while the Andes are continued to Antarctica
in a sweeping curve of islands. The rest of the Indian Ocean is of
Atlantic type, as seen in the shores of eastern Africa and western
Australia.

Another feature of the Atlantic is the parallelism of much of its
eastern and western coasts, the meaning of which has often attracted
the speculations of geologists and geographers. With a little stretch
of the imagination, and some ingenuity and elasticity of adjustment,
plans or maps of the opposite sides may be fitted fairly closely, par-
ticularly if we plot and assemble the real edges of the continents, the
steep slopes which divide the “shelves” on which they stand from the
ocean depths. This has suggested the possibility that the two sides
may once have been united, and have since broken and drifted apart
till they are now separated by the ocean.

This view, outlined by others, has been emphasized by Wegener
and dealt with by him in full detail in his work on The Origin of
Continents and Oceans, and it now plays a leading part in what is
known as the Wegener theory of continental drift. The hypothesis
is supported by the close resemblances in the rocks and fossils of
many ages in western Europe and Britain to those of eastern North
America; by community of the structures by which these rocks are
affected; and by the strong likeness exhibited by the living animals
and plants on the two sides, so that they can only be referred to a
single biological and distributional unit, the Palearctic region.

The hypothesis, however, did not stop at this; and in the South
Atlantic and certain other areas Wegener and his followers have
also given good reasons for believing that continental masses, once
continuous, have drifted apart.

Broad areas in southern Africa are built of rocks known as the
Karroo formation, of which the lower part, of late Carboniferous
age, is characterized especially by species of the strange fernlike fossil

1120593714
196 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

plants Glossopteris and Gangamopteris. Associated with them are
- peculiar groups of fossil shells and fossil amphibia and reptiles.
Similar rocks, with similar associations and contents, in Peninsular
India have been named the Gondwana formation. Comparable for-
mations also occupy large regions in Australia, Tasmania, and New
Zealand, in Madagascar, in the Falkland Islands and Brazil, and in
Antarctica.

The correspondence between these areas is so close that Suess
supposed they must at that date have been connected together by
lands, now sunk beneath the sea, and he named the continent thus
formed Gondwanaland after the Indian occurrences. The break-up
of this land can be followed from a study of the rocks, and it was a
slow process, its steps occupying much of Mesozoic time. Dr. A. L.
du Toit’s comparison of South African rocks with those of Brazil
and elsewhere in South America favors even a closer union than this
between the units now scattered.

One of the most remarkable features shown by these rocks in all
the areas mentioned, but to varying extents, is the presence of con-
glomerates made of far-traveled boulders, scratched lke those borne
by the modern ice sheets of Greenland and the Antarctic, associated
with other deposits of a glacial nature, and often resting upon
typical glaciated surfaces. ‘There is no possible escape from the con-
clusion that these areas, now situated in or near the Tropics, suffered
an intense glaciation. This was not a case of mere alpine glaciers,
for the land was of low relief and not far removed from sea level, but
of extensive ice sheets on a far larger scale than the glaciation of the
northern parts of the new and old worlds in the Pleistocene ice age.
I have never seen any geological evidence more impressive or con-
vincing than that displayed at Nooitgedacht, near Kimberley; while
the illustrations and other evidence published by David and Howchin
from Australia are equally striking.

Du Toit’s work on these glacial deposits brings out two remarkable
facts; first, that the movement of the ice was southerly, poleward
and away from the Equator, the opposite to what would be expected,
and to the direction of the Pleistocene ice movement; secondly,
that the ice in Natal invaded the land from what is now sea to the
northeast.

When it is realized that at this period there is no evidence of glacial
action in northern Europe or America, but a climate in which grew
the vegetation that formed the coal seams of our Coal Measures,
it is clear that we are not dealing with any general refrigeration of
the globe, even if that would produce such widespread glaciation;
we are face to face with a special glaciation of Gondwanaland.

FORM OF THE CONTINENTS—WATTS 197

On both sides of the Atlantic these glacial episodes in Carbonifer-
ous times were followed by dry and desert climates in Triassic time,
and these by violent volcanic outbursts. Nor are the rocks alike
only in mode of formation, the structures by which they are traversed
correspond; while even in details there is remarkable agreement, as
in the peculiar manganese deposits, and the occurrence of diamonds
in “pipes” of igneous rock, both east and west of the ocean.

Rather than face the difficulties presented by the subsidence of
lands connecting the severed portions of Gondwanaland, as pictured
by Suess, Wegener has preferred, and in this he is supported by
De Toit and many other geologists, to bring into contact these
severed parts, which could be fitted together as nearly as might be
expected, considering the dates of severance. Du Toit’s map of the
period places South America to the west and south of South Africa,
Madagascar and India to the east, Antarctica to the south, and
Australia farther to the southeast. Such a grouping would form
a continent much less wide in extent than that envisaged by Suess,
and would offer some explanation of the more remarkable features
of the glaciation in the several areas, as well as the problems of the
rocks, fossils, and structures involved.

In its application to the geology of Gondwanaland the modified
hypothesis of Wegener cuts a Gordian knot; but it still leaves a
great climatal difficulty, unless we take his further step and conceive
that at this date the terrestrial south pole was situated within
Gondwanaland. No shift in the axis on which the earth rotates
would, of course, be possible, nor is it postulated; only a drifting
at that date of continental land across the pole.

If a hypothesis of drift be admitted for Gondwanaland, it would
be illogical to deny its application to other regions, including the
North Atlantic. I have already mentioned some facts in its favor.
Others are the resemblances of all sedimentary rocks on the two
sides from the Cambrian to the Ordovician, and from the Devonian
to the Trias; the links between the structures of the land, as, for
instance, between Ireland and Newfoundland; and the iistance
given by Professor Bailey in his address to Section C in 1928. As
Bailey then pointed out, the great Caledonian range which crosses
Scotland, northern England, and Wales from northeast to south-
west on its course from Scandinavia is affected and displaced by the
east to west Armorican (Hercynian) chain extending across from
Brittany to South Wales. “The crossing of the chains, begun in
the British Isles, is completed in New England”; and from here the
Armorican structure continues its westerly course. This is where it
should cross if the continent of North America were brought back
198 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

across the Atlantic and placed in the position which, according to
Wegener, it would fit into in the European coast! Can the Pilgrim
Fathers have ever dreamed of such a link between the Old England
and the New?

The hypothesis of continental drift gave rich promise of solving
so many difficult problems that it was hailed by many classes of
investigators almost as a panacea. Geographers have seen in it
an explanation of the forms of continents and the position of
peninsulas, islands, and mountains; meteorologists have found it
the solution of some of the problems of past climates and their
anomalies of distribution over the world; biologists hope to get
help with the intense complexities in the distribution of forms of
life and many strange facts in migration, and paleontologists with
similar difficulties among the ancient faunas and floras as revealed
by their fossil remains; geodesists have welcomed escape from the
rising and sinking of the crust, so difficult to reconcile with the
demands of isostatic equilibrium; and it has been already stated
that drift forms a vital factor in Joly’s thermal cycles.

But there has been no lack of criticism in all these directions. It
has been assailed on the one hand for the detail attempted in its geo-
graphical restorations, and on the other hand for its vagueness.
Professor Schuchert quotes Termier as saying that it is “a beautiful
dream, the dream of a great poet. One tries to embrace it, and finds
that he has in his arms but a little vapor or smoke; it is at the same
time alluring and intangible.” It has been objected that “no plausible
explanation of the mechanics involved has been offered”; that the
continental connections postulated present by no means so close a
match, when fitted together, as has been claimed, in the structure
or the nature of either igneous or sedimentary rocks; that there is
good evidence of extensive vertical movements in recent earthquakes,
in the accumulation of tremendous thicknesses of sediment indicative
of shallow water from base to summit, and in the growth of coral
reefs; that Central America and the Mediterranean are a difficult
obstacle; and that the known distribution of the Karroo fossil
reptiles is not by any means what the hypothesis demands.

If the idea of drift be accepted it cannot be regarded as a royal
road out of all our difficulties, nor can it be the only form of
earth movement to be reckoned with. The late J. W. Gregory, whose
life was sacrificed to geological discovery, has studied exhaustively
the geological history of the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans, both as
revealed by the sedimentary rocks and fossils on their borders, and
by the distribution of life today. He finds that, according to our
present knowledge, in the two oceans, facilities for migration have
fluctuated from time to time, periods of great community of

a

ee eee

FORM OF THE CONTINENTS—WATTS 199

organisms alternating with periods of diversity. Again, at some
times connection seems to have been established north of the
Equator, at others to the south; and we cannot ignore the possibility
of migration across polar lands or seas when terrestrial climates have
differed from the present. The facts of life distribution are far too
complex to be explained by any single period of connection followed
by a definite breaking apart, even if that took place by stages. Mrs.
Reid, too, has pointed out that resemblances between the Tertiary
floras of America and Europe actually increased at the time when the
Atlantic should have been widening. Unless continental drift has
been a more complicated process than anyone has yet conceived, it
seems impossible to escape from some form of the “land bridges” of
the older naturalists:

Air-roads over islands lost—

Ages since ’neath Ocean lost—
We have no right to expect greater simplicity in the life of a planet
than in that of an organism.

As the question of drift must in the last appeal be one of fact,
it is not unnaturally expected that the real answer will come from
measurements of longitude and latitude with greater exactness and
over periods longer than has yet been possible. None of the measure-
ments hitherto made has indicated variations greater than the limits
of errors of observation. Two things, however, may militate against
a definite answer from this source. Many parts of the crust, such
as the shieldlike masses of Archean rock, may have completed their
movement, or be now moving so slowly that the movement could not
be measured. Careful selection of locality is essential, and at pres-
ent we have little guidance. Also, as the displacement of crust must
be dependent on the condition of its substratum, it will be a periodic
phenomenon and the rate of movement may vary much in time.
According to the theory of thermal cycles the subcrust is at present
solid and may not permit of drift. Drift, according to Joly and
Holmes, is a cyclical phenomenon; if present-day observations were
to give a negative result they would not necessarily disprove it.

The occurrence of recumbent rock folds and nearly horizontal
slides or “nappes” in mountain regions gives positive proof that
parts of the upper earth crust have moved over the lower. In the
Northwest Highlands of Scotland a sliding of at least 10 miles was
proved by Peach and Horne, and in Scandinavia it amounts to 60
miles. For mountain packing as a whole the figures already given
are far larger, while in Asia Argand has stated that packing of over
2,000 miles has occurred. Thus, when all is said and done, move-
ments on a colossal scale are established facts, and the question of
the future is how far we shall accept the scheme of drift due to
200 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

Wegener, or one or other of the modifications of it. It is for us to
watch and test all the data under our own observation, feeling
sure that we shall have to adapt to our own case Galileo’s words
“e pur si muove.”

Ever since it was realized that the inclination and folding of
rocks must be attributed to lateral or tangential stress and not solely
to uplift, shrinkage of the interior of the earth from its crust has
been accepted as the prime mover, and whichever of the current
theories we adopt we cannot deny the efficacy of so powerful a cause.

The general course of events in the formation of a mountain range
is fairly well known: the slow sinking of a downfold in the crust
during long ages; the filling of this with sediment pari passu with
the sinking and associated softening of the subcrust due to accumu-
lated heat; the oncoming of lateral pressure causing wavelike folds
in the sediments and the base on which they rest; the crushing of
folds together till, hke water waves, they bend over and break by
overdriving from above or, it may be, underdriving from below;
fracture of the compressed folds and the traveling forward for great
distances of slivers or “nappes” of rock, generally of small relative
thickness but of great length and breadth, and sliding upon floors
of crushed rock; the outpouring and intrusion of igneous rocks,
lubricating contacts and complicating the loading of the sediments;
metamorphism of many of the rocks by crystallization at elevated
temperatures and under stress, with the development of a new and
elaborate system of planes of reorientation and movement; and
elevation of the whole, either independently or by thickening with
compression and piling up to bring about a fresh equilibrium.

Such a course of events would be brought about by lateral pressure
developed during the consolidation phase of each of the thermal or
magmatic cycles. At each period of their building, mountains have
arisen along lines of weakness in the crust, especially coast lines and
the steep slopes marking the limits between continents and ocean
basins. This is consistent with Joly’s theory that the thrust of
ocean beds against land margins is the cause.

But the advocates of continental drift point to the siting of ranges
across the paths along which the drifting movement is supposed
to have occurred, and they consider that the moving masses are
responsible; and indeed that the ridging and packing of the crust
has in the end checked and stopped the movement. They note that
the great western ranges of America occur in the path of any western
drift of that continent, the Himalayas in the course of the postulated
movement of India, the East Indies in front of Australia; and that
the Alpine ranges of Europe may be linked with the crushing of
Africa toward the north.

FORM OF THE CONTINENTS—WATTS 201

The “nappes” of rock, cut off from their origin and sliding for
dozens of miles, are a constant source of wonder to all who have
considered the mechanics of mountain formation. They are so thin
as compared with their great length and breadth, that it seems im-
possible to imagine them moved by any force other than one which
would make itself felt throughout their every particle. Such a force
is gravitation, and it is of interest that some Alpine geologists and
Dr. Harold Jeffreys have used it in explanation of them. Professor
Daly has also adopted gravitation on an even greater scale in his
theory of continental sliding; and one cannot fail to notice the in-
creasing use of the term “crust-creep” by those working on earth
movement.

Is there no other force comparable in its method of action to gravi-
tation but capable of producing movement of the earth crust in a
direction other than downhill? Is it not possible, for instance, that
the tidal influence of the moon and sun, which is producing so much
distortion of the solid earth that the ocean tides are less than they
would be otherwise, and, dragging always in one direction is slowing
down the earth’s rotation, may exert permanent distorting influence
on the solid earth itself? May it not be that such a stress, if not suffi-
ciently powerful to produce the greater displacements of continental
drift and mountain building, may yet take advantage of structures
of weakness produced by other causes, and itself contribute to the
formation of nappes and to other movements of a nature at present
unexplained ?

Our knowledge of geology has been gained by the survey of the
rocks, the study of their structures, and the delineation of both upon
maps and sections. This work is being accomplished by geologists
all over the world, and this country and its dependencies have con-
tributed their full share. It is therefore opportune to note that there
has just been celebrated the centenary of the Geological Survey of
Britain and, with it, the opening of the new Geological Museum at
South Kensington.

A century ago H. T. de la Beche, one of the devoted band of
pioneer workers then studying the geology of the country, offered to
“affix geological colours to the new maps of Devon and Cornwall” then
in course of issue by the Ordnance Survey. His offer was accepted,
and, at his own expense and on his own feet, he carried out a geolog-
ical survey of some 4,000 square miles. In 1835 he was appointed
to continue this task, with a small salary and a few assistants. Thus
was started the first official geological survey, an example widely
followed by other nations and dominions. De la Beche’s conception
included also a museum of economic and practical geology, a library,
a record of mines, for which he secured support from a strong com-
202 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

mittee of the British Association in 1838, and a school of mines for
the scientific and technical education of those to be employed in the
survey or exploitation of mineral resources. In these objects, and
especially the last, he was warmly supported by the Prince Consort.
He lived to see his visions all come true, as he collected round him-
self that wonderful band of surveyors, investigators, writers, and
teachers, which included such men as Playfair, Logan, Ramsay,
Aveline, Jukes, Forbes, Percy, Hooker, and Huxley.

Some of the schemes he planned have budded off and grown into
large and important entities, rendering conspicuous service to sci-
entific record, education, and research. But the main duties of the
Geological Survey remained with it, and have been carried on for a
century. These are to map the geology of the country on the largest
practicable scale, to describe and interpret the structure of the land,
to preserve the evidence on which conclusions have been founded,
and to illustrate for students and other workers the geology of the
country and its applications to economics and industry. The broad
detail of the structure of the whole country is now known, but much
new work must be done to keep abreast of or to lead geological
thought. For instance, the study of the cloak of “superficial depos-
its”, which often cover and conceal the structure of the more solid
rocks below, is essential for the proper understanding of soils and
agriculture; and a knowledge of the deep-seated geology of the
country, which is often widely different from that nearer the surface
and thus very difficult to interpret, is vital to the community for the
successful location and working of coal and iron, and for tracing
supplies of water and oil and other resources at depth.

Evolution of life on the earth has been by no means uniform;
there have been periods of waxing and waning which may be
attributed to geographical, climatological, and biological influences.
The development of large land areas, ranged longitudinally or lati-
tudinally, the invasion of epicontinental seas, the isolation of medi-
terraneans or inland seas, the splitting of continental areas into
archipelagos or the reunion of islands into continuous land, the
making of barriers by the rearing of mountain chains or the forma-
tion of straits or arms of the sea, the oncoming of desert or glacial
climates; all such factors and many others have been of importance
in quickening or checking competition, and in accelerating or retard-
ing the evolution of life.

Probably, however, even greater effects have followed the inter-
action of groups of biological changes on one another. As an in-
stance I might recall Starkie Gardner’s estimate of the results follow-
ing upon the first appearance of grasses in the world. This seems
to have been not earlier than Eocene, and probably late Eocene

er

FORM OF THE CONTINENTS—WATTS 203

times. By the Oligocene they had made good their hold, peculiari-
ties in their growth and structure enabling them to compete with
the other vegetation that then existed; and gradually they spread
over huge areas of the earth’s surface, formerly occupied by marsh,
scrub, and forest. They have, as Ruskin says, “a very little strength

. and a few delicate long lines meeting at a point .. . made, as
it seems, only to be trodden on today, and tomorrow to be cast into
the oven”; but, through their easy growth, their disregard of tram-
pling and grazing, and by reason of the nourishment concentrated
in their seeds, they provided an ideal and plentiful source of food.
On their establishment we find that groups of animals, which had
previously browsed on shrubs and trees, adopted them, with conse-
quent alterations and adaptations in their teeth and other bodily
structures. To follow their food from overgrazed or sun-scorched
regions they required to be able to migrate easily and quickly, and
it was essential for them to discard sedentary defense and to flee
from threatened danger. Such defense as was possible with heels,
teeth, or horns, they retained; but the dominant modifications in
their organization were in the direction of speed as their most vital
need.

Side by side with this development, and in answer to increasing
numbers, came bigger, stronger, and speedier carnivores, to feed on
prey now so much more abundant, but more difficult to catch. The
answer of the grass-feeders, with their specialized hoofs, teeth,
and bones, better suited to flight than fight, was to seek safety in
numbers, and thus develop the herd instinct, with its necessity for
leadership and discipline; but this, in turn, provoked a like rejoinder
from some types of their enemies.

When it is remembered how much of the meat and drink and life
of mankind is bound up with the grasses, including wheat, maize,
millet, and other grains, sugarcane, rice, and bamboo, we must
realize how close is his link with the development just outlined.
Practically his whole food supply is provided by them, either directly
by the agriculturist who grows little else but grasses, or indirectly
by the herdsman whose domestic animals are fed chiefly on the same
food. Nor must we forget that almost every one of our domesticated
animals has been derived from the gregarious types just mentioned,
which have accepted the leadership of man in place of that of their
own species.

It is perhaps not too much to say that the magnificent outburst of
energy put out by the earth in the erection of the Alps, Andes, and
Himalayas in Tertiary times was trivial in its influence for man’s
advent and his successful occupation of the earth in comparison with
the gentle but insidious growth of “mere unconquerable grass” and
904 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

its green carpet of “wise turf” which in some form clothes by far the
greater part of the land of the globe.

The kind of developmental reaction of which this is but a single
example must clearly have had influence on bodily features other
than bones and horns, teeth and claws, speed and strength; and one
of the most striking has been on intellectual development and the
size and shape of brain.

We do not, and perhaps can never, know the quality of the mate-
rial of which the brains of fossil creatures was made, for we have no
instrument to pierce the veil of time as the spectroscope has pene-
trated the abysm of space. But we are even now learning something
about their shapes and convolutions, and more about their mass in
its relation to the size of the bodies controlled; from the time of
the earliest Ordovician fishes, through the history of the amphibia,
reptiles, birds, and mammals, up to man himself.

The brain of those gigantic if somewhat grotesque reptiles, the
dinosaurs, the tyrants of Mesozoic time, is relatively tiny. In Diplo-
docus, 80 feet in length and 20 tons in weight, the brain was about
the size of a large hen’s egg. It is true that there was a big supple-
mentary sacral ganglion which may have taken chief charge of
locomotion and helped to secure coordination throughout the hinder
part of its huge length and bulk; but of true brain there was not
more than a quarter of an ounce to control each ton of body and
limb; and we begin to understand why they lost the lordship of
creation.

The proportion of brain to body improved in those reptiles which
took to flying, possibly in relation to their acquisition of warm blood,
and in the birds evolved from reptiles; but it is only in mammals
that a marked advance is seen. Here the brain of Uintatherium, a
great rhinoceroslike animal of Eocene date, weighing 2 tons, was
about the size of that of a dog. This proportion of half a pound
of brain to each ton of body shows how far the mammals had gone,
and still had to go.

A 12-stone man of the present day has about 314 pounds of brain—
an amount not far short of half a hundredweight per ton.

Even though we can know nothing of its material, this steadfast
growth in the guiding principle, through the millions of centuries
that have gone to its development, is surely one of the most remark-
able conclusions that we owe to geology. Of all the wonders of the
universe of which we have present knowledge, from the electron to
the atom, from the virus and bacillus to the oak and the elephant,
from the tiniest meteor to the most magnificent nebula, surely there
is nothing to surpass the brain of man. An instrument capable of
controlling every thought and action of the human body, the most

FORM OF THE CONTINENTS—WATTS 205

intricate and efficient piece of mechanism ever devised; of piercing
the secrets and defining the laws of nature; of recording and recalling
every adventure of the individual from his cradle to his grave; of
inspiring or of ruling great masses of mankind; of producing all the
gems of speech and song, of poetry and art, that adorn the world,
all the thoughts of philosophy and all the triumphs of imagination
and insight: it is indeed the greatest marvel of all.

And when we contemplate the time and energy, the sacrifice and
devotion, that this evolution has cost, we must feel that we are still
far from the end of this mighty purpose: that we can confidently
look forward to the further advance which alone could justify the
design and skill lavished on this great task throughout the golden
ages that have gone.
CORE SAMPLES OF THE OCEAN BOTTOM

By CHARLES SNOWDEN PIicGor
Geophysical Laboratory, Carnegie Institution of Washington

[With 6 plates]

If one examines a map of the world, or a globe, the most noticeable
feature is the preponderance of water to land. In fact, the ocean
occupies 72 percent of the surface of the earth—nearly three-quar-
ters—and very little is known of it by comparison with our knowledge
of the land. Geologists and others have studied the land and what
lives on it so thoroughly that we now have reliable knowledge of its
history, and the many changes that have taken place, both in the
land itself and the plants and animals that lived on it, throughout
many millions of years. These studies have been of great value both
theoretically and practically and they are being continued with in-
creased application. But all this time nearly three-quarters of the
earth’s surface has remained almost unknown and unstudied, because
it lies below great depths of water. At one place the water is 6
miles deep. Here the bottom lies below us deeper in the sea than
Mount Everest rises above us into the sky. Though much of what
is now dry land was once below the surface of the ocean, it appears
that the water covering it was never very deep. Though the sedi-
ments themselves might be many thousands of feet thick they were
deposited layer on layer in shallow seas. Apparently, much of the
bottom of the ocean has always been ocean bottom, and during al]
those millions of years that the ocean has existed there it has been
accumulating the sediments dropped upon it from the waters above.
These sediments, lying layer upon layer in the bottom, have become
the repository of the historical record of the ocean. The record of
what happened in the water above is filed away in the mud and clay
and ooze below. The rocks and pebbles and sand brought by ice,
the clay and mud brought by rivers and ocean currents, the skeletons
of marine organisms which lived and died and evolved into various
forms throughout the ages constitute this record. Some types of
these organisms live only in cold water, others in warm water, soine
live in shallow lagoons, others in the depths of the open sea. Some
prefer fresh water while others survive only in salty water. Some
lived a long time ago, and others have evolved into their present

207
208 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

forms comparatively recently. Besides these records of past life and
its many changes there exist a chemical and a physical record. Oxi-
dation and reduction and the nature of the dissolved matter in the
water have all left the record of their changes in the bottom, and the
nature and size of the’minerals and rock fragments bear evidence of
the direction and strength of former ocean currents, the movements
of ice, and the depths of the ocean in the past.

Although this great historical record has long been known to ex-
ist, we have been unable to profit by it, for we could read only the
topmost page. Heretofore, the samples obtained from the deep
ocean bottom have been “grab samples”, a mere handful of material
taken from the very surface of the bottom. These samples give
information of present conditions only and reveal nothing of past
events.

On land the geologist can study the exposed rock strata, he can
climb mountains and descend into mines, and he can study samples
from test borings and deep wells. Millions of such studies have
been made of the land, and a very reliable knowledge of its geologic
history has been assembled, but a similar study of material lying
beneath miles of water is enormously more difficult. Far out from
land, in the undisturbed depths of the open ocean, the record has
accumulated very slowly, so that a few feet of depth may represent
a very long interval of time. Therefore if we could bring up a
vertical section of several feet. of this bottom, in its original, un-
disturbed condition, we might read the history of oceanic events as
the geologist deciphers the record in the rocks.

The need of such samples has been felt for many years and many
devices to secure them have been tried. Recently an apparatus has
been developed which has obtained such “cores” up to 10 feet in
length and containing sufficient material for very comprehensive
studies.1. These cores have been brought up from ocean depths of
2,650 fathoms, which is more than 3 land-miles down.

The apparatus is self-contained and may be attached to any exist-
ing sounding line strong enough to lift it. It functions automatically
on reaching the bottom and consists essentially of a steel tube (inside
which is a brass tube) which, on arriving at the bottom, is forced
into the sediment by an explosion of cannon powder contained in a
weight or “gun” attached to its upper end. When brought to the
surface the sample is held inside the brass tube, which is slipped out
and labeled, and another tube put in its place ready for another
sounding. The sample remains undisturbed in its brass tube until
opened for examination in the laboratory.

1 Piggott, C. S., Apparatus to secure core samples from the ocean-bottom. Bull. Geol.
Soc. Amer., vol. 47, pp. 675-84, May 1936.

OCEAN BOTTOM—PIGGOT 209

The value of these samples, over previous ones, is that the mate-
rial is available for study in the undisturbed sequence existing in
the bottom, and consequently a record of succeeding events may be
obtained from it. Particular strata may be traced over wide areas,
and a knowledge of the succession of events in terms of time and

extent may be obtained.

SECTION
THROUGH

A

BIT
ASSEMBLY

SHEAR PINC]_——)4

WATER EXIT PORT TRIGGER

Ficurp 1.—Diagram of core sounding apparatus showing parts drawn to same scale.

DETAILS OF THE APPARATUS

The apparatus consists of five principal parts: a weight or “gun”,
a cartridge, a firing mechanism, a water-exit port, and a bit. These
are shown diagrammatically in figure 1, and the assembled appa-

ratus, with a 10-foot bit, in plate 1.
210 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936
WEIGHT OR GUN

The weight is made of cold rolled steel, 10 inches in diameter and
20 inches long. At its upper end is a 1-inch drop-forged eyebolt,
to which is spliced a steel cable (3¢-inch diameter) 4 feet long. A
self-releasing hook may be placed here if it is desired to leave the
weight on the bottom. The other end of the cable is spliced to a
ring of drop-forged steel, about 3 inches in diameter. This ring
constitutes the upper end of the apparatus, and it is at this point that
the ship’s sounding cable is attached.

The lower end of the gun is tapered to within 1 inch of the muz-
zle, causing the gun to have a 1-inch-thick wall for that length. One
inch from the muzzle are four holes, drilled radially, through which
a one-eighth-inch brass shear-pin may slip easily. The bore of the gun
is the only part that must be made with precision. This must be
reamed straight and smooth and must furnish a snug sliding fit for
the cartridge and firing-pin housing.

CARTRIDGE

The cartridges (pl. 2) are made of stainless steel and are ex-
actly 2 inches in diameter and about 434 inches long. They con-
sist of three parts—a midsection, which is the powder chamber, and
top and bottom sections. Both ends of the midsection have small
circular ridges, which cut into copper disks and assure a tight
seal. The walls of the powder chamber are one-quarter inch thick,
and its bottom contains a recess into which a rifle primer fits exactly.
Over this is placed a copper disk, against which the bottom section
screws tightly. In the center of this bottom section is a small hole,
opposite the primer, through which the point of the firing-pin may
strike the copper disk with sufficient force to distort it and thereby
set off the primer. This primer disk, however, is thick enough to
prevent distortion of the primer by the hydrostatic pressure of the
water. It is also made thick enough to have sufficient strength to
prevent the primer from being blown backward out of its seat at the
moment of firing. Furthermore, the thickness of this primer disk is
so adjusted, with respect to the shape of the firing-pin point and the
strength of the firing spring, that the point will distort it enough
to fire the primer but will not punch a hole through it. When func-
tioning satisfactorily the blunt-pointed firing-pin punches a dome-
shaped depression in the copper disk sufficiently deep to fire the
primer, and then this dome has enough strength to support the
primer in its position against the high pressure of the main
explosion.

OCEAN BOTTOM—PIGGOT a |

Inside the muzzle end of the powder chamber is an annular
shoulder, one-eighth inch from the muzzle. On this shoulder rests
a steel disk, one-eighth inch thick, with its outer surface flush with
the end of the powder chamber. Its function is to take the strain
of the hydrostatic pressure and thereby prevent distortion or break-
ing of the rupture disk. Between the pressure disk and the rupture
disk is a thin copper disk, which serves as a gasket. The rupture
disk is of steel and of such thickness and strength that it will allow
the pressure within the cartridge to build up to the proper working
pressure before it ruptures and releases the energy to the mechanism.

POWDER CHARGE

The explosive charge furnishes the energy required to do the
necessary work. This varies with the depth and the character of
the bottom. The charge consists of a primer, 1 gram of high-speed
black powder, 1 gram of rifle powder, and a varying number of
pellets of 155-mm howitzer powder. The 2 grams of small powder
play the double role of promoting ignition and quickly building up
a pressure, in which environment the large-grained powder functions
explosively. If this high pressure were not provided, the latter
would not burn properly.

The total available energy is regulated by counting into the car-
tridge a varying number of pellets of the big powder. This required
energy is of three parts: (1) That which is necessary to overcome
the hydrostatic pressure at a particular depth; (2) that which is
necessary to overcome the inertia of the bit and to put it into
motion; and (3) that required to drive the bit into the particular
material encountered. Only the second can be determined in ad-
vance; the other two must be provided for at each sounding. The
possible work that can be done is a combination of the total available
energy and an intensity factor—i. e., the pressure at which the ex-
plosive gases are released. The control of this “working pressure” is
accomplished by the steel rupture disk at the mouth of the cartridge.
Up to the time this disk is blown out, the powder is protected from the
water. These disks are relatively thin, and, therefore, capable of dis-
tortion, and at a certain depth the hydrostatic pressure might con-
ceivably be greater than the desired “working pressure”—hence, the
steel “hydrostatic pressure disk”, which relieves the rupture disk of
all strain and enables it to be adjusted to the requirements.

FIRING MECHANISM

The firing mechanism is simple and rugged and can be easily re-
moved for cleaning or replacement. It consists of a trigger, which is

112059—37——15
919 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

essentially a piece of steel, 2 inches by 1 inch by one-fourth inch, slid-
ing in an appropriate keyway and containing a projection which
catches the end of the firing pin when “cocked.” A shght downward
movement of the gun, on reaching the bottom, forces the trigger over
and disengages the firing pin, which is pushed forward by a stiff coiled
spring. The firing pin is streamlined at its forward end and is
grooved longitudinally to facilitate the movement of water out of the
space progressively occupied by the pin as it advances. This elimi-
nates a cushioning of the blow by the water. The forward end of the
pin contains a conical tip of appropriate size and shape to enter the
hole in the base of the cartridge and explode the primer through the
copper primer disk. A safety pin of hardened steel is so situated that.
it holds the firing pin back, in the cocked position, even when the
trigger is disengaged, and even if the gun should be forced down and
shear this safety pin off on the outside, that which remains would
prevent an accidental discharge. As this safety pin is put in place
before the cartridge is attached, a premature discharge, even under
most extreme conditions, is almost impossible. After the apparatus is
over the side of the ship, and just before it is lowered, this pin is
withdrawn (by means of a lanyard, if desired) and the apparatus is
thus “armed.” Should it be necessary to return the apparatus to the
deck, before firing, this pin can be inserted again before the apparatus
is hoisted over the side.

WATER-EXIT PORT

Early designs contained ample openings in the walls of the bit tube
at its top, and, should the bit be forced slowly into mud, the displaced
water would flow out through these. But because of the high velocity
of the bit, at the time of firing, the water within it acted as a solid
body and did not yield space for the mud to enter. The ideal condition
would be a bit tube completely open at both ends, which would then
pass through the water and mud, leaving them both stationary. Buta
perfectly open top is not mechanically attainable because of the neces-
sity of keeping the violent blow of the explosion accurately centered
along the axis of the bit. Furthermore, this powerful blow must be
mechanically carried to the walls of the bit tube. This necessitates
rugged construction between the center axis and the outer walls. After
much experimentation the open-tube ideal was very closely ap-
proached, by taking advantage of aerodynamic and wind-tunnel data
and modifying the best curves in accord with the greater density of the
water medium. The exit port somewhat resembles a nozzle in reverse.
The inner walls slope outward along an ideal curve, and the center
projection is so shaped that the cross-sectional area (hence, volume)
available to the water is the same at any plane normal to the axis.

OCEAN BOTTOM—PIGGOT 213

This is true up into that portion where the four steel webs carry the
force of the blow from the center axis to the walls. Near the upper
end of this part, the available volume increases slightly, and this fact,
combined with the outward slope of the outside of the walls, provides
a partial vacuum or cavitation—during the rapid movement through
the water—which removes the back-pressure from the column of
water inside the bit and provides an almost open-tube condition.

Though the bit was frequently driven deep into mud, no samples
were obtained until this device was perfected.

THE BIT

That portion of the apparatus below the water-exit port has been
called the “bit.” Its length determines the possible length of the
sample; bits of different lengths may be used as found desirable. It
consists of a tube of alloy steel of 214 inches inside diameter and
¥-inch walls. Inside it are four longitudinal lands, as in a cannon,
but straight. The four grooves between these lands communicate
with four openings to the outside at the top of the tube. Their func-
tion is to permit water to get down to the bottom of the bit and to
fill the cavity in the mud created by the withdrawal of the bit—i. e.,
to “break the suction.” ‘The brass sample tube slips inside the lands
and fits snugly against them; this causes the grooves to form longi-
tudinal channels from the top to the bottom of the bit.

The bottom edge of the bit is provided with a cutting edge of
hardened tool steel, which fits loosely between the sample tube and
the steel tube and is prevented from falling off by two small screws.
However, it has a play of three-sixteenths inch—i. e., may hang that
far below the end of the steel tube—but when pressed up it fits snugly
against the end of this tube. It therefore acts as a valve, which pre-
vents mud from entering the grooves while the bit is being driven
into the bottom, but opens and permits water to flow out of the
grooves while the bit is being withdrawn from the mud.

After a “shot”, the brass sample tube is withdrawn, with the mud
core inside it, and a new one is inserted. It is cut off at the top of
the mud, corked at both ends, and these corks securely taped. They
are labeled in a manner to indicate the top and the bottom of the
core and may then be shipped and kept without alteration until
opened for examination in the laboratory. This is done by cutting
the tube longitudinally in two diametrically opposite places and then
inserting two sheets of tin in one slot and pressing them across to
the opposite wall. The tube may then be opened hinge-fashion and
the tin strips removed without distorting the sample. This pro-
duces two equal parts to each sample, each part lying in its own
brass trough, and reveals the structure of the core. This procedure
914 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

provides an undisturbed half for control or future reference; the
other is used for investigation. Furthermore, the undisturbed half
provides a depth scale, from the surface downward, which is of con-
siderable value. It has been found convenient to split the half to be
examined, either in half again or into quarters. This is done with
each fragment individually, using a thin-bladed hacksaw or its
equivalent. The fragments may always be returned to their proper
place in the brass trough.

SOUNDING PROCEDURE

The procedure on shipboard was to fasten securely to the deck, at
a convenient place, a strong board. This was made straight and flat
by suitable wedges, and to it were fastened prepared chocks to hold
the gun, and also several chocks to hold the bit. These are so made
that, when the assembled apparatus is laid in them, the bit and
cartridge are lined up with the center of the bore of the gun. If
such guides are not provided, the small clearance between the gun
barrel and the cartridge assembly makes it exceedingly difficult to
push the latter into the gun.

The apparatus is assembled in the chocks, the firing mechanism
cocked, and the safety pin inserted. A cartridge is loaded in accord
with the anticipated need. If it is the first sounding in a new
locality, it is advisable to provide rather less than the anticipated
required energy. Subsequent loads may be increased as circum-
stances warrant. When all is ready, the cartridge is fastened in
place and the gun “loaded”, by sliding the bit toward the gun, and
the shear pin is put in place. The apparatus is then hoisted over
the side. A man picks up the bit at the cutting edge, and, as soon
as the gun clears the rail, he drops his end over the side into the
water. The apparatus is immediately lowered until only the gun
is out of the water; this prevents swinging against the ship’s side.
Finally, the safety pin is pulled out and the apparatus is lowered to
the bottom, With shallow soundings the explosion can be heard and
felt on the ship, and with deeper ones it can also be picked up by a
microphone or the ship’s sonic sounder. Where these failed to give
any indication, the cable was paid out until more than the antici-
pated depth was out, and then the apparatus was hauled to the sur-
face again. If it has fired, the gun and bit will be hanging sepa-
rately at the end of their respective cables, the bit supported in the
stirrup. If they are not so separated, and it is desired to bring the
apparatus aboard, the safety pin must be inserted at the earliest
possible moment while the apparatus is hanging clear of the ship.
Once this pin is in place the apparatus may be brought aboard with
safety.

OCEAN BOTTOM—PIGGOT 215

If the apparatus has fired, the gun is hoisted up until the bit can
be gotten over the side; this is laid in its proper chocks, and the gun
then lowered to its chocks,

Sixteen soundings were made at sea in August 1935, yielding the
14 cores shown in plate 3, figure 1. One failure was due to a defec-
tive primer, and once the core pulled out. The 14 cores vary in
length from 4 feet to nearly 9 feet and are solid throughout. The
depths of these soundings varied from 200 fathoms to 1,250 fathoms.

The 11 cores shown in plate 3, figure 2, were obtained during May
1936, between the Grand Banks of Newfoundland and the edge
of the continental shelf west of Ireland. Seven of them are from
depths greater than 2,000 fathoms and all the remainder but one
from more than 1,000 fathoms. The one exception is from the top
of the Faraday Hills at 700 fathoms. The greatest depth was 2,650
fathoms. The very short core contains several inches of rock.

Plate 4 shows these cores split open ready for study, arranged,
as taken, from west to east across the North Atlantic, and plate 5
a more detailed view of some of them showing the stratification
and change of character of the material.

The cracks are due to drying. This can be prevented by keeping
the cores in a saturated atmosphere, but since the dried segments
leave marks on the brass troughs which establish their positions
from the surface this is not usually done.

DISCUSSION

These samples are of interest to many investigators. The marine
biologists and micropaleontologists will find in them the remains
of marine organisms which lived ages ago in the waters above.
These organisms will change in character, from level to level of the
core, reflecting their evolutionary development and the changes of
type brought about by changes in the temperature of the water.
Thus it may be possible to state that throughout a certain period
in the past the water was much colder, or warmer, in that portion
of the ocean. Or they may show that it was shallower—a mere
lagoon, or deeper. The sedimentologist by a study of the minerals
and the size of the particles of rock will be able to trace the changes
of direction and possible force of ocean currents throughout past
ages. The character of the sand and pebbles will indicate the pres-
ence of ice or the proximity of land where only ocean exists today.
No one of these bits of evidence will be conclusive in itself, but many
taken together may build up a strong corroborative presumption of
a certain condition.

Some chemical and mineral constituents are of great significance,
as for instance the fluorine and chlorine and other acid or basic radi-
916 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

cals; also the metals such as manganese and iron, which are often
found in great concentrations, or those which are found in extremely
small concentrations, such as copper, tin, gold, selenium, or radium.
The radium is of particular interest and significance because its con-
centration in ocean-bottom sediments has recently been found to be, in
general, much greater than in either igneous or sedimentary rocks on
land, and this difference is as yet not completely explained. The con-
centration is greatest in those portions of the ocean bottom more re-
mote from land and lying at the greater depths. The material at the
bottom of the deeper parts of the ocean generally consists of so-called
red clay, and this material appears to contain much more radium than
any rocks yet examined on land. If these sediments are of consider-
able depth, and if this radium concentration is the same throughout,
these deeps constitute local concentrations of radioactive material
possessing enormous stores of energy. Since we have found no sedi-
mentary rocks with radium concentrations remotely approaching
those existing in these sediments it might be inferred that the many
changes of level of various parts of the earth’s surface have nowhere
brought up an ocean deep. It may be that the deeper portions of the
ocean are permanent features of the earth, or else it may be inferred
that this high radioactivity is but a transitory thing, representing
the activity of radium only, unassociated with its long-lived parent
substance uranium. If this be so, the nature and cause of its separa-
tion and concentration from sea water would be a most important
study. Furthermore, a study of the radioactive substances and their
disintegration products in these cores holds a promise of a determina-
tion of the time intervals represented by the various strata, or the
age of the sediment as a whole. This in itself is of the utmost geo-
physical and oceanographic significance.

The only record of the history of the existing ocean lies buried in
its bottom. Whether this record will be easy or difficult to decipher,
voluminous or meager, remains to be ascertained, but whatever iis
nature it is now accessible to us through the medium of these core
samples.

PLATE 1

Smithsonian Report, 1936.—Piggot

THE CORE SOUNDING APPARATUS ASSEMBLED READY TO LOWER.
“SAHONAYM ANY SLYVd LNANLILSNOD “ASYVHD YAq0MOd ‘WSINVHOAW ONIYIA ‘SH9OCINLYVD

ua99IUL | ONINdS ONY

RT CE ea

4Y3QMOd 374IN ONY NOVIa 4YadMOd NONNVO
*3OUVHO ONIHSVI4 “ASYVHO ONINYOM

WSINVHOSW ONIMI4

€ ALV1d 103314 —"9¢6| yuoday ueluosyyiWg
"yoo oulOS
SUTBJUOD 4JSOJIOYS :4ooJ OT 9100 4sasuo’T “Jooy 006‘ST 03 00z‘F Jo suIded

‘GNV13Y! GNV GNVIGNNOAMSN N3aM1Laqa
NV3DO DILNVILY HLYON SSOYDY NEMVL SAYOD “2

*
rat

i al.

*490} $48 9100 ySosuOT *

}

99J 00G"2 0} 00%‘T Jo syydod

“1SVOD SILNVILY

AO SNOANVD ANIYVWSENS

WOYSH NAMVL SAYOD ‘1

30331,,—"9¢6| ‘Woday URlUOsyyIWIG
PLATE 4

Smithsonian Report, 1936.—Piggot

NORTH ATLANTIC CORES SPLIT OPEN.

Arranged as taken from west to east.
PLATE 5

Smithsonian Report, 1936.—Piggot

ENLARGED VIEW OF PART OF PLATE 4.
ceET snsny ‘syunyP .,°dna14S,, JO sult UI
Paspam SI JLOdIAjVAA * (SSOT B[GISSOd [[eySar0J 04)
pus 1addn Wo peaouiel used SBY VSPII}IVO OL,

“ONIGNNOS V YSaLAV TIVY AHL
YAAO GHVOEN] LHONOYG ONG LI “€

9 3LW1d

“GET ASNsNy ‘s77UD).y
*pavdurl Jo suveur Aq poand sureq urd Ayayes

‘A1EVD ONIGNNOS S.dIHS NO
Gay4aMO71 FE OL LNOSYV SNLVYVddY °2

‘Ge6l INN ‘syUD IP  “[LB Jo BED
espe sulyjnd UMOIYY Ysnf sey BoUIBD Ive IO[IVS

“AGIS AHL YAAO LSNF SNLVYHVddY “1

30331 4—"9¢6| ‘J10day UeTUOsYyyIWIG
SOME NEW ASPECTS OF EVOLUTION?

By W. RP. Pycrart, F. . S., F. Z. 8.

[With 6 plates]

It may be that I am expected tonight to say something about the
fauna, or the flora, of Norfolk, or of both; but abler men than I in
this chair have already well-nigh exhausted these themes. Yet, what
I am going to say has indeed a bearing on both, though it refers by
no means especially to the natural history of our beloved country.
What I would call the first installment of a new, and more intensive
study of this history has been given us in that most inspiring volume
recently issued by this society, on the work which has been done
at Scolt Head Island. It was a model of what such investigations
should be; and some may think that the last word in this connection,
so far as Scolt Head is concerned, has been said. But I want to con-
vince you that really no more than the foundation has been laid for
a much wider conception of what is taking place, not only here, but
wherever animal or plant life exists.

I was particularly interested in what was said in that volume on
“environment” because, it seems to me, that its importance has been
overestimated, both by zoologists and botanists.

If we are to make any real progress in our search for what I will,
for the moment, call the “ferment” which finds expression in the evo-
lution of the different types of animals, and of the evolution as well
of species, we must dare to question the faith that is in us in regard
to that part which we are told is played by “environment.” We have
come to use this word with the same assurance as the naturalists of
a generation ago used “natural selection.” Let me hasten to add that
I do not wish to imply that natural selection is dead; that is by no
means true, but we loaded on to its back more than it ought to have
been asked to bear. It was, and most unreasonably, regarded as the
key to the mysteries of evolution. When, at last, it was realized
that this was not so, new trails were taken up, as if in the hope that,

1 Address by the president of the Norfolk and Norwich Naturalists’ Society delivered
at the sixty-sixth annual meeting of the society held at Museum Castle, Apr. 6, 1935.
Reprinted by permission from the Transactions of the Norfolk and Norwich Naturalists’
Society, vol. 14, pt. 1, 1935.

217
918 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

at last, some theory would be found that would explain everything.
That is a vain hope. There are many factors in evolution, and
natural selection is one of them; environment is another. But the
case for environment seems to require revision. At present the term
is too vague, and I venture to hold that many structural peculiarities
of plants and animals have wrongly been attributed to “environ-
mental influences.” Perhaps the most plausible examples of these
“influences” are those furnished by the deep-sea fishes.

But before I go further let me endeavor to make my meaning
clear on this theme. What is “environment”? What do we mean
by the term? If we are to form any helpful conception of what
is implied thereby we must go back to the primeval conditions of the
world, before the advent of life on its surface.

When the process of cooling began that surface was already irreg-
ular, broken up by deep valleys and deeper basins. With the ad-
vent of “rain” the water was gathered up in the valleys to form
rivers. And as they ran down into the basins, eventually filling them
to become “seas”, they carried down, in solution, various salts derived
from the disintegration of the rocks over which they passed. Hence
the saltness of the sea.

Then came the formation of “colloids”, and the origin of “life”,
which started probably in the shallower waters of the sea. This
“colloid” substance, being unstable in its qualities, began to assume
different forms of primeval plantlike organisms which gradually
extended their range seaward and landward, and ever assuming new
forms, in accordance with the nature of their assimilative powers,
“selecting” different ingredients of the “soil” formed by this disin-
tegration of the rocks just referred to.

The dawn of animal life, dependent for its sustenance on organic
food material furnished by these primeval plants, started later, and
developed, like the plants, in accordance with its assimilative and
selective powers, which were ever extending. Both these types of
living matter began with, and maintained, an inherently increasing
complexity of structure, evolving “individuals” more and more com-
mitted to a definite line of development, in accordance with the na-
ture of the substances taken in as “food”, and the nature and quali-
ties of the materials fashioned from it as the result of the metabolism
of these several individuals.

Here we might speak of two “environments”, water and land.
But is there any evidence that these living bodies, still of the simplest
types, were fashioned by the “environment”? Already, it is true,
some had advanced so far in one direction as to be unable to live out
of the water, while some were similarly unable to live in the water.
But the several groups of individuals thus come into being did not
owe their several peculiarities, whereby they could be distinguished

EVOLUTION—PYCRAFT 219

one from another, to their “environment”, but, as illustrated in the
case of Penicillium (p. 221), to their “chemotaxic” qualities, and the
nature of the “tissue” resulting from their metabolism, which made
different tissue out of the same food material. Each addition to the
structural complexity in these different individuals, living in these
now mixed communities, was an addition made in the processes of
repairing waste during the activities of the body, the areas most
stimulated by work taking up most of the products of digestion.
Thus began the evolution of the myriad forms of lfe which have
come down through the ages till now.

In other words, the necessary movements made in the search for
food, and the necessary reactions for the digestion and assimilation
of that food, brought about responses and reactions of the tissues
of the body of ever-increasing divergence as the different types
evolved—algae, bacteria, fungi—and so on to flowering plants and
trees; the Protozoa, Coelenterates, and so on, to man himself.

Some of these, like the mole, the cetacea, the sloths, to take but
a few random examples, have become highly “specialized”, and com-
mitted to a restricted amplitude of activities. And such are com-
monly supposed to have been molded by their “environment” and
not by their “proclivities.”

Doubtless environment is a factor in evolution, but the precise
part which it has played, and is playing, has yet to be defined.
Parasitic Protozoa, worms, and Crustacea like Sacculina, and some
Cirripedes, may possibly be set down as cases of “environmental
adjustments.” And the deep-sea fishes are in like case.

Today there are many who still, unfortunately, regard such and
such an animal or plant as if it were merely a complex of tissues
forming the various parts or organs which make up its body, and
to regard these tissues, furthermore, as curiously and mysteriously
unstable, so that variations and permutations are always to be ex-
pected and always to be regarded, not so much as “fortuitous”, as
in some intangible way brought about by changes in “environment”,
giving rise to qualities, and changes, which endow that body with
an enhanced power of meeting the conditions of that environment,
animate or inanimate. So long as we accept this interpretation as
the mode of evolution, so long shall we fail to understand the
mysteries we are professedly trying to solve.

Organisms, simple or complex, from amoeba to man, are not the
sport of chance variations after this fashion, dragooned, and “licked
into shape” by external conditions. They, in short, are not to be
regarded as so much clay molded into shape by the great potter,
“environment.” Rather, we are to regard the various types of ani-
mals as self-regulating organisms, molded by the effects of the
persistent stimuli sustained by their several organs, or parts of
220 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

organs, which thus become shaped by use, in the higher animals,
under the controlling agency of the sympathetic nervous system.
But inasmuch as living tissue is in no two organisms precisely alike
in its qualities, it follows that this “use” will manifest itself in
different ways, even when the conditions under which they exist
appear to be the same.

Plants and animals differ from inanimate things in that they
grow from within, by a process of “intussusception”, and not from
accretions from without, as in a crystal. Now this growth, in living
tissue, is made possible by taking up substances external to the body,
and in some mysterious way converting them into living tissue. The
plants can extract this life-forming material from the mineral world,
but animals can only obtain it from other organic bodies, living or
dead. It goes, we say, to repair “waste.” Let me cite an instance of
this kind. One goes for a long walk, returning tired and hungry.
After a good square meal, that stomach-hunger is appeased, and is
followed by a sense of satisfaction. But there was also a muscle and
nerve hunger of which the pedestrian, unless he were a physiologist,
would not be conscious. Now that “good square meal”,-in a very
short time, was reduced in the alimentary canal to a state resembling
salad-cream, enabling it to be taken up by the lacteals, and passed,
drop by drop, into the left subclavian vein at its junction with the
internal jugular, and thence to be carried by the blood-stream to the
tissues most in need of it—those wasted by the exertions of walking.
They would take most of that “repair substance”, the rest of the
tissues of the body would absorb according to their need, and what
was still to spare would be used up to form new tissues, or, as we say,
to promote growth. And so it comes about that the tissues which are
used most will take up most of what we call the “food material”,
growth being determined by the measure of use.

But in this process of growth, in course of time, the form of the
whole body may become materially changed. And how this comes
about I propose to show by examples chosen from many different
types of animals. But I would first draw attention to another aspect
of these tissues, for it is one of no small importance.

They display a curious power of “selecting” substances from their
food, which give them qualities confined to particular species of ani-
mals, often closely related. Hence the different qualities and savors
of beef and mutton.

Everyone must have noticed, in carving a grouse, that the upper
layer of the two great breast muscles is conspicuously dark-colored,
while the lower is white. In the pheasant both are white. We can.
at present, assign no reason for this curious fact, which was mani-
fested, not on the dissecting table, or by any process of analysis save

EVOLUTION—PYCRAFT PAPA |

that of the kitchen oven. Why should the products of digestion
have brought about this singular “ear-marking” of these two breast
muscles ?

Let me give one more illustration, to which, indeed I draw your
very particular attention. A solution of racemic acid subjected to
the plane of a beam of polarized light does not give the effect known
as “polarization.” But if allowed to crystallize, rhombic, hemihedral
crystals are formed. These are asymmetrical, so much so that the
crystals of one group are like mirror-images of the other group.
Now if these crystals are dissolved separately, and the two solutions
examined under this test, they exhibit what is known as rotary polar-
ization, in the one case the plane is twisted to the right, in the other to
the left.

But if instead of crystallizing the original solution the spores of
the green mold Penicillium be sown in it, and that solution be then fil-
tered, it will exhibit only left-handed rotary polarization. The fungus
has selected the right-handed moiety for the purposes of its growth,
leaving as a residuum only that constituent of the solution which
forms left-handed crystals. Here, then, is a striking example of the
subtle processes of distillation which living substances are capable of,
in building up new tissues, either to repair waste, or to promote
growth. What part have “natural selection”, or the “environment”,
played in any of these instances?

Now let me pass to survey the evidence which, so it seems to me,
proves the immense importance of “use” as a factor in molding ani-
mal bodies, for of necessity I must exclude plants, though the same
factors obtain here.

The persistent habit of burrowing, in some ancestral shrew gave rise
at last to the mole. The stimuli of persistent use, in one direction,
caused those parts of the body more especially subjected to such stim-
uli to change their shape, but exactly in accordance with the peculi-
arities of the qualities of the tissue peculiar to the body of the mole.
The marsupial-mole, an animal not even remotely related to our mole,
has similarly transformed the fore limbs into digging organs, but
they differ conspicuously from those of the common mole.

With these preliminary examples to show what I am driving at,
and to enable you to follow me more easily, let me proceed to take a
series of examples of different types of animals “in the making.” I
will begin with the arboreal types (pl. 1).

Birds and beasts of many different kinds make their home among
trees, as do others on the ground. But some have become intensively
arboreal, and this habit is always accompanied by more or less strik-
ing adjustments of structure brought about in response to the per-
sistent and restricted use of the parts affected. But these adjustments
999 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

are gradual. Let us take the case of the cuscus, one of the marsupials.
Herein the fingers of the fore limb, when not grasping a bough, are
comparable to those of the human hand. But as soon as a grip is
taken of a branch, two fingers curl round one side, and three round
the other side of the branch. Moreover, it has a long tail, and the
lower half of this is hairless on its under surface, which is very
sensitive to touch and can be used as an extra hand in gripping
boughs. In the koala, another arboreal marsupial, the fingers of the
hand have become permanently separated into a pair turned inward
and backward, and three turned outward, while the tail has vanished.
In the “anwantibo” (Avctocebus) and the potto, we get a stage fur-
ther; in the former the index digit is but slightly developed, while
in the potto it is reduced to a mere stump. The last word, so to speak,
in this specialization for an arboreal life is found in the sloths, for
these live permanently clutching the boughs of trees, suspended, back
downward, by means of great curved claws converting the fingers into
mere hooks. Finally we have the chameleon, wherein the toes of both
fore and hind limb have become apposable, while the tail is pre-
hensile. Here, then, are a number of animals belonging to totally
different groups, which have, by intensive use, limited to one mode of
locomotion, materially changed the form of their feet. Some have
converted the tail into a prehensile organ and others have lost it. In
both cases there is a direct association with the habits of the animals
concerned and this enhanced function of the tail on the one hand
and its loss on the other.

Now turn to the burrowers. If you were shown a rabbit for the
first time and told that it was a burrower, the statement would seem
absurd; for there is no indication whatever of such a mode of life in
either the fore or hind limbs. And it would seem equally absurd
to exhibit a sand martin, or a bee eater, or a kingfisher, and say
they were burrowers. For they bear no structural evidence of this
mode of activity. The reason is obvious. In none of these cases is
burrowing more than an occasional incident in their lives. The
rabbit must wander far in search of food, and be able to get swiftly
home to its burrow when danger threatens; the martin and the bee
eater seek their food in the air, the kingfisher in the water. There-
fore flight is essential. But note that in all three the legs are ex-
tremely short, for they are never used save to grip branches when
they come to rest. Their size bears a direct relation to the intensity
of their use.

Now turn to the mole for a very different aspect of burrowing.
This animal, it will be remembered, is one of the shrew tribe, which
are also burrowers. But their burrowing does not absorb much of
their energies, for they must find their food abroad. Hence, here
EVOLUTION—PYCRAFT 923

again, we have no structural evidence of burrowing. At some time
in the remote past, however, the ancestral mole took to a diet of
worms and to pursuing them, as well as grubs of many kinds, by
driving tunnels under the ground. Hence, he was committed to
digging for his very existence. And these intensive labors, be it re-
membered, fall with equal insistence on male, female, and young,
and unceasingly. As a consequence of the persistent stimuli to which
the fore limbs especially have been subjected, the characteristic short-
ening of the arm and forearm and the enormous hand, have come
into being.

But, be it noted, there are many other animals in no way related
to the mole, which have to dig for a living, and in each case the re-
sultant modification of the fore limb is different. In Notoryctes,
which is a marsupial and therefore a member of a totally different
group of mammals, the general form of the body is singularly like
that of our mole. But the fore limbs, though greatly shortened, do
not show the great hand of the mole. The reaction to their use as
digging organs has brought about an enormous enlargement of the
claws. In no two animals, unless they be of the same species, will
the same organ show precisely similar responses to the same kind
of stimulus brought about by use, in this connection of digging.
The armadillos, and the anteaters, have also forefeet shaped by per-
sistent digging. But since they must live above ground, and not be-
neath it, the legs have not greatly changed from the type common
to creatures which must walk, and run, to get a living.

Let me now turn to swimming. I have cited the rabbit and the
sand martin as burrowers, which give no evidence of this habit either
externally or internally. The water vole may be cited as a similar
example among swimming animals. We can as easily account for
this, as in the case of these burrowers.

But the hippopotamus affords us a peculiarly interesting example
of the way “adjustments” are made where stimuli are intensive and
persistent. And here they are found in the head. This animal
passes the greater part of its life in the water, and can swim and
dive with great facility, and remain long submerged. Look at its
head, and note that the nostrils, eyes, and ears have all become
raised above the general level of the skull, enabling the creature to
breathe, see, and hear while the rest of the great body is submerged.
But why do the limbs show no “adjustment” to this aquatic ex-
istence? The explanation is simple. These great beasts have to
take long journeys overland, in search of fresh feeding grounds, and
heavy strains and stresses are placed upon the limbs when the great
body is no longer supported by the water. Hence, a large pro-
portion of their “repair tissue” is absorbed to keep up the efficiency
IIA. ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

demanded for walking. Not unless, and until, they were compelled
to live permanently in deep water would the limbs undergo “adjust-
ment” to swimming.

The sea lion shows us an advanced stage in the transformation of
walking—into swimming legs. Though it still passes much time
out of the water, all its food had to be obtained in the sea. Hence,
intensive use of the fore lmbs has slowly converted them into
“flippers” differing from those of the Cetacea in that they still show
digits externally, terminating in claws. But the hind limbs are also
becoming greatly modified, so much so that they can do no more than
enable the animal to “hobble” along, with the aid of the flippers,
when on land. The seal carries us a stage further, for the hind
limbs can no longer be turned forward to contribute to the support
of the body when ashore. They are directed permanently backward,
with their plantar surfaces apposed. The “flipper” in the case of
the seals is never elongated after the fashion of the sea lion, and
we must attribute this fact partly to the “intensity” of its swimming,
and partly to the fact that here, as elsewhere, the response has been
different because the “qualities” of the tissues forming the limb are
different.

In the porpoise and the rest of the Cetacea, we find what we may
call the “logical sequence” of a still more intensively aquatic life,
which has profoundly affected the whole body. External hind limbs
have now vanished, and the fore limbs have not merely become trans-
formed into flippers but their internal structure has undergone a
drastic change to which reference must be made again, The fishlike
mode of life has brought about, with a few most interesting and
important exceptions, a “dorsal fin”, while the tail has developed
horizontally directed “flukes”, which have a very instructive bearing
on this matter of “adjustment”, as may be seen on plate 2. The
Cetacea, being lung-breathers, must come periodically to the surface
to breathe. The horizontal tail has been formed by the response
of a once otterlike, cylindrical tail to the resistance of the water in
using the tail to drive the body downward after food and upward
for air, for these movements gradually started a flattening out of
the tail, and its expansion into flukes. The fish, which has no need
to come incessantly to the surface, drives the tail in a lateral direc-
tion, to impel the body forward, hence the tail fin is vertical. The
manatee, be it noted, is in no way related to the Cetacea, yet it has
assumed a similar form. The fore limbs have become flippers,
there are no external hind limbs, and there are tail flukes as in the
Cetacea. Moreover, in the river dwellers these flukes are spatulate
in shape, but in the marine Steller’s sea cow, now extinct, and the
dugong (Halicore), they have the triangular form of the Cetacea.

EVOLUTION—PYCRAFT 995

The spatulate tail suffices for the still water, but life in the sea
demands more strenuous movements, hence the change from spatulate
to triangular.

Finally we have the case of the penguins. And these must be
considered with the guillemots, and razor-bills, which, you will
remember, use their wings as propellers under water. But these
have not become “flippers”, because they are used yet more inten-
sively for flight, up to their breeding ledges, and down to the sea.
The great auk lost the power of flight because it bred on low ground,
which could be reached without the aid of wings. The decline in
the size of the wings would probably have gone no further because
they were needed as propellers. The penguins are still more inten-
sively aquatic, and have no need for wings to carry them to nesting
ledges on steep cliffs. Hence they gradually assumed the form of
flippers, their size depending exactly on the measure of their use.

And now let me pass to a few cases which seem, so to speak, to
“floodlight” the problem of “use and disuse”, that is to say of effects
of persistent stimuli concentrated on one organ, or part of an organ.
These illustrate what I would call “reciprocity” in development, and
are shown on plate 3.

There are some birds wherein the windpipe, for some mysterious
reason, develops “hypertrophy.” It grows too long for the neck. In
the African black guinea fowl (Guttera), as a consequence, it forms a
loop which came to be apposed to the hypocleidum—the flattened
plate formed at the junction of the two clavicles, or “wish-bone.” As
a consequence of this contact, this plate first developed a thickened
edge at the point of contact, which gradually expanded to form a
cup, into which the loop is received. In some swans, and again in
some cranes, a still more exaggerated lengthening of the windpipe
brought about the formation of a loop which established contact
with the anterior border of the keel of the sternum. This, as you
know, forms a median plate running down the center of its under
surface. It is formed of two thin layers of bone enclosing cancel-
lated tissue between them. Now when the loop began to press, ever
so lightly, against the front border, it “splayed out” to form a
shallow trough. As the pressure steadily increased this trough deep-
ened, forcing apart the walls of this keel, till, at last, a long tunnel
was formed for the reception of this excess in the length of the
windpipe. It attains its maximum development in the whistling
swan, where the tunnel expands to invade the bony tissue of the
hinder end of the body of the sternum itself. Here we have two
entirely different organs reacting in a reciprocal manner. Surely
no better, or more convincing illustration can be found in support
of my contentions as to the effects of persistent stimuli in molding
996 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

the growth of organs. There are some other birds, I would remark,
wherein also we find a hypertrophied growth of the windpipe. But
the course taken has been very different. In the painted snipe
(Rhynchea) and the purple manucode (Phonygama)—one of the
birds of paradise—the windpipe has come to form long coils or
loops between the breast muscles and the skin, while in the spoonbill
it forms a figure-8 loop immediately under the lungs. But here,
meeting with no resistance, no secondary modification of any other
organ was needed.

Let me cite yet one more case—and I could find a hundred. This
is furnished by the hoatzin, It feeds largely on the fruit and leaves
of the thorn-tree (Drepanocarpus lunatus) and of a species of
Echites. One or other of these has probably some astringent prop-
erties, that brought about a thickening of the walls of the crop, which
eradually assumed the form and functions of the gizzard, now re-
duced in size and superseded. As a consequence, the pressure of this
gizzard-crop against the anterior border of the keel of the sternum
gradually forced it back, a process accelerated by the fact that the
breast muscles had already become reduced from lack of use, as in
our waterhen. The crop developed, in short, at the expense of the
keel. Asa result all that is now left of the keel is a small, triangular
projection at the extreme hinder end of the sternum. Furthermore,
this pressure of the crop has forced the furcula upward, so that it
has come to lie between, and parallel with, the coracoids, while its
conjoined extremities have fused with the sternal plate.

Here, surely, we have unmistakable evidence of the effects of per-
sistent stimuli, such as mold every organ of the body according to
the intensities and nature of its use.

It seems impossible to attribute these instances of “reciprocity” in
development to “natural selection”, nor can they be set down te the
action of the “environment.” In the case of the windpipes we have
two totally different organs involved, one belonging to the respira-
tory, the other to the skeletal systems, producing, as I have shown,
reciprocal changes. But whether this excessive lengthening of the
windpipe is due, in the first place, to hypertrophy, or whether it has
been brought about by some unsuspected and undiscovered strain in
the production of the voice, is a matter for further investigation.
In the hoatzin, then, we have a very singular relationship set up be-
tween the alimentary canal on the one hand, and the skeleton on the
other. They are precious sign posts in our search for the causes
governing the transformations of living bodies.

No less important are cases—and they are legion—of “degrada-
tion” or “retrogression”, sometimes strangely associated with the

EVOLUTION—PYCRAFT 927

evolution of new characters. Living things, it is indeed true, have
“les défauts de leurs qualités.”

While we may look for, and find, similar results arising from like
stimuli they will always present contrasts because, as was pointed out
earlier in this address, no two organs, even of the same species, are
ever exactly alike in the composition of the substances which form
their tissues. And these differences become more marked as we pass
from individuals to species, and from species to genera, and so on,
in ever widening circles. But such organs show a striking con-
vergence as their functions tend to be changed by the rhythm of the
stimuli following changes in habit, or habitat, in the individual, in
the pursuit of its food, perhaps the most common inciting cause to
change. And thus it has come about that by this “convergent evolu-
tion” animals not even remotely related have come to assume a con-
spicuous likeness in their outward appearance. The Cetacea and
the extinct Ichthyosauria afford a striking illustration of this.

But first let me say something of the Cetacean flipper. This, when
the whole group comes to be surveyed, presents some very remark-
able differences of which there is no indication until dissection is
resorted to.

It will suffice for my purpose now, to bring to your notice some of
the more striking of these differences, though in all these cases the
changes in the skeleton, as compared with land dwellers, are pro-
found. No indication of the normal segments of the limb or of dig-
its are visible externally. Dissection shows that in the ziphoids aud
in Platanista the structural change in the skeleton is less marked than
in any other cetacean, since the carpal region presents no more than
the early stages of decadence.

In the rorquals we find the same elongated form of the flipper as in
the ziphoids, but here we have what must be interpreted as a very
striking and interesting case of “arrested development”, for the
wrist bones fail to attain to complete ossification; either no more than
a nodule of bone is found within the several cartilaginous forerun-
ners of the carpal bone, or these remain permanently cartilaginous,
even, in some cases, fusing one with another. Moreover, these bones
have become reduced in number in all the Cetacea. In the killer
whale (Orcinus), and in the humpback (M/egaptera), the vagaries of
development attain their maximum (pl. 4). In the first named the
ossification of phalangeals, or “finger joints”, has become reduced to
narrow bands, which, in the terminal series of the second digit, are
represented only by their preaxial moieties. These ossified portions
are separated by enormous masses of cartilage, while the second and
third digits are curved round as though they had grown within a

112059—37——16
228 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

shell too short to allow them to extend. It is a most puzzling and
extraordinary flipper, which so far cannot be precisely correlated
with its “use.” No less remarkable is the flipper of the humpback
(Megaptera). This is of enormous length; in a female 4914 feet long
it measured 16 feet. As with the typical rorquals the number of the
phalanges in the second and third digits have greatly exceeded the
normal three of the mammalia generally. They are relatively long
and slender, and shaped like a dice box. But here, as in the killer,
the ossified portions of the phalangeals are capped at each end by
an enormous mass of cartilage, and these, along the front, or pre-
axial border of the flipper, produce in the living animal the series of
notches found in no other whale. The largest of these is formed by
the cartilaginous mass at the end of the first digit which terminates
with strange abruptness.

Very few of the Cetacea have retained all five digits. We find this
number in Platanista, and in the right whales. Naturally it is as-
sumed that it is the pollex, or first digit, which is missing. But the
flipper of the common rorqual (Balenoptera physalus) urges caution
in this connection. For with some constancy the terminal end of a
digit is found between the second and third of the existing digits, sug-
gesting that reduction has taken place by the suppression, or “squeez-
ing out” of the third digit, and not by the loss of the pollex. In all the
Cetacea the fingers lie embedded, as in a solid, fingerless glove, either
extended parallel with one another or radiating. But in the right
whale the three first fingers lie parallel, and close together, while the
third and fourth stand wide apart, as seen at the right of plate 4.

Some still hold that all the varied types of animals we know, fossil
and recent, have come into being through the agency of natural selec-
tion. But surely “natural selection” has not determined the absence
of cartilage, save for articular surfaces, in some flippers, and its
enormous development in others. We cannot invoke this agency to
explain the remarkable flippers of the killer whale and the humpback.
Again, what survival value can the notches on the flipper of the last-
named species have had? If the humpback has survived in the strug-
gle for existence because of the peculiarities of the internal skeleton
of this limb, why have the ziphoids, living the same mode of life, and
in the same medium, survived with a totally different flipper?

Make no mistake. The strange and apparently meaningless dif-
ferences in these several forms of flippers are the expression of the
effects of precisely similar stimuli on tissues of different inherent
qualities. Each has responded after its own fashion.

Confirmation of this contention is surely to be found in the flipper
of the Ichthyosauri—reptiles, be it remembered—which lived millions
of years before the Cetacea came into being. Like the Cetacea, and

EVOLUTION—PYCRAFT 999

the Sirenia (manatees), they were entirely aquatic, and in like man-
ner, in consequence, assumed the same general form in regard to the
body as a whole, and the flipper in particular. But when we come to
examine the skeleton of this limb we find more surprising differences.
Here cartilage, in the adult stage, had no place. Moreover the fore-
arm is found to have become so shortened as to require expert exami-
nation to distinguish its component elements—radius and ulna—from
the carpal, or wristbones, and these, in turn, often by no means easy
to distinguish from the phalanges, are crowded together to form a
close mosaic. In the “finner whale”, it may be remembered, one digit
had apparently been “squeezed out” so that only its terminal portion
remained. We find the same “squeezing” in regard to one of the
digits—the second—in some species of Ichthyosaur’s paddles. But
here, only the extreme proximal end is wanting. A further peculiarity
is found in a row, or sometimes two rows, of ossicles along the post-
axial border of the hand. These were nodules of bone formed in an
external “fin-membrane”, apparently, as one might say “to give in-
creased width”, though this phrase must not be taken to imply “a
means to attain an end.” We shall be nearer the truth in assuming
some peculiarity in the mode of swimming, bringing into play a
marked stimulus to the skin along this border of the flipper. This
may well have been the case, for the tail of the Ichthyosauri was
directed downward, and carried vertical “flukes.”

Here, then, in all these cases, we have evolution and decadence going
on at the same time, a fact well worth bearing in mind, for it has not
yet received the attention it deserves.

And now let me pass to consider the theme of “arrested develop-
ment”, to which I have already referred. Its more important aspects
can be briefly reviewed. We can find no clearer, or more convincing
examples of this aspect of evolution than are furnished by the Cetacea,
and, in the first place, by the flippers of the rorquals, including the
Humpback. For in these the ossification of the phalanges is never
completed, each end being capped by masses of cartilage. In the em-
bryonic development of the manus of all the land animals there is a
stage which exactly corresponds to this permanent, adult condition,
found in all but the most primitive cetaceans. More striking still is
the vertebral column. In all the higher vertebrates the lumbar verte-
brae are free, and succeeded by a series of fused bones which have
become specially modified by having become immobile owing to the
grip of the pelvic bones. They are known as the “sacral vertebrae.”
In the Cetacea there is no sign of sacrals. The vertebrae pass insensi-
bly from the lumbar to the caudal series. But there is a precisely
similar absence of “‘sacrals” in the developing vertebral column of all
the higher vertebrates. For the sake of contrast I cite the condition
930 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

found in the developing human embryo. At one stage the pelvic bones
are embedded in the body wall some distance below the vertebral col-
umn. But in time the iliac elements enlarge, until they reach, and
finally embrace, the vertebrae to give rise, finally, to a “sacrum.”

The vertebral column, then, of the Cetacea, must surely be accepted
as another instance of “arrested development”, and we may take it that
it has come about by the gradual decline in viability of the pelvic bones
which, as I shall presently show, have become reduced to mere vestiges.
In other words the sacral vertebrae do not form “in anticipation” of
the contact of the pelvic bones. If the stimulus of the contact of the
hip girdle is not given they remain in their “embryonic” state.

We may fittingly pass now, from “arrested development” to the sub-
ject of “vestiges”; for the one is the forerunner of the other. When
any organ tends to be relieved of its functions it begins to decrease in
size. But the process, as I shall show, is infinitely slow. Tens of
thousands of years must pass before the period of decline ends some-
where near extinction. In some cases it may be that the time of the
passage is less, but we have no evidence of this, nor can we hope to
find any. Hence one cannot but express surprise at the suggestion that
has been made more than once, that “nature removes useless organs
for the sake of economy.” No man could measure the “saving of tis-
sue” effected in a single generation, or a dozen generations. Where,
then, can be the benefit of such “economy” taking a million years to
achieve ?

The stages by which an organ passes from functional activity to the
condition of a vestige are illustrated in a very striking manner, in
the case of those lizards known as “skinks.” Since the nearly re-
lated family Anguidae contains both limbed and limbless forms, and
dates from the Lower Eocene, we may take it that the Scincidae are
not less ancient. In these skinks one can follow, in four different
species of the genus Chalcides, and one of the genus Lygosoma, a
singularly perfect series in the reduction of both fore and hind legs,
showing first a general reduction in size, and then a reduction in the
number of the digits from five to two, till finally all that is left is a
small, scaly tubercle. Since we know the geological period when the
Anguidae started on a precisely similar course we may assume that
this process of reduction in the Scincidae began at the same time,
some millions of years ago!

When we turn to the Sirenia, among the mammals, which also
date back to the Eocene, we find the fore limbs in the form of flip-
pers like those of a cetacean, and no external trace whatever of the
hind limb. But there is a striking series of gradually decreasing
vestiges of the pelvic girdle, embedded in the abdominal wall. And
here we have a more complete time-scale. The series begins with

EVOLUTION—PYCRAFT 931

Eotherium of the Middle Eocene, some 20,000,000 years ago. Here
we have a complete innominate bone, but reduced in size. In Fosiren,
of the Upper Eocene, the obturator foramen had disappeared, and
the acetabulum greatly reduced: Halitherium, of the Middle Oligo-
cene, shows a still further reduction of the pubic and ischial ele-
ments. In Metaxitherium, of the Middle Eocene, the pelvis is re-
duced to a mere protuberance, and the acetabulum is closing up.
Finally, in the dugong (Halicore) and manatee (Manatus) of today,
nothing is left of the pubis, and but the merest trace of the acetabu-
lum, while the innominate, as a whole, has become a mere rod, as
shown on plate 5.

These changes, be it noted, were accompanied by other changes ex-
ternal and internal, sufficiently great to divide the members of this
continuous series into distinct genera, whether we allot 15,000,000
or 20,000,000 years to this chain of evolution does not greatly matter;
we have geological evidence that the process was infinitely slow.
How, then, can we hope to “prove” or refute, the “transmission of
acquired characters” by experiments carried on with white mice, for
a dozen generations or so.

Let us turn now to a precisely similar story in regard to the hip
girdle of the Cetacea, though here we are confined to the evidence
afforded only by species still living. But it brings to light another
aspect, the significance of which seems to have been overlooked,
and this concerns the fact that these retrogressive changes vary
somewhat conspicuously in different individuals. The reduction is
least in the Greenland whale. But even here the pubis is barely dis-
tinguishable, and the acetabulum a mere depression. The pelvic
limb is represented by the femur, and a portion of the proximal end
of the tibia reduced to a mere nodule of cartilage. Both in size and
shape the femur presents wide differences, ranging from a rod-shape,
to a quadrangular plate of bone, and the tibial cartilage is no less
variable. And the same is true of the fin whale (Balaenoptera phy-
salus). The innominate is little more than a mere rod, but with a
bifurcated posterior extremity representing the last traces of ischium
and pubis. There may be a roughly rod-shaped femur, with a
nodule of cartilage answering to the proximal end of the tibia, or
there may be no more than a small nodule of bone representing the
femur. The acetabulum has vanished. In the Odontoceti the process
of degeneration has proceeded still farther. Only in the sperm whale
Physeter is there ever as much as a nodule of cartilage answering to
the femur. That the increments due to use are more rapid than
the processes of absorption is a matter which cannot be determined.

My friend Prof. O. Abel in his fine book on “Palaeobiologie”, has
brought together a remarkable collection of facts in regard to changes
232 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

in the form of the vertebrate skeleton in relation to modes of life,
and his inferences thereon are worthy of more serious attention than
they have yet received. On this theme of the gradual reduction of
the hind limb in the Sirenia, and the Cetacea, he draws attention
to the fact that this reduction is to be attributed to the fact that in
both groups the body is propelled through the water by horizonal,
laterally expanded, tail flukes; while in the Ichthyosauria, wherein
the tail was down-turned, and had vertical flukes, the hind limbs are
present, though reduced in size. This is really a very important
observation. Neither “natural selection” nor “environment” nor
“genes” can have had part in these changes, which are due to the
mechanical effects of continuous and intensive stimuli on the parts
affected, with a corresponding reaction on the adjacent associated
structures.

The wings of birds furnish, perhaps, the most complete history
among the vertebrates of the course of the slowing down of the activi-
ties of an organ until it ends in complete disappearance, For it is
a matter of common knowledge that birds of feeble powers of flight
have rounded wings. And there are some species, as for example
the wryneck, where the process of shortening sets in after the first
juvenile molt. For here the outermost primary is nearly three times
as long as it will be in any succeeding molts. Birds on islands tend
to become flightless where there is no incentive to flight. The wing is
yet complete, but often too small for flight. In the struthious birds
we find almost every stage of decadence, from the relatively large
wing of rhea—but useless for flight—to the diminutive wings of the
apteryx, cassowary, and emu. In the extinct Hesperornis only the
upper end of the humerus remained, and in the Dinornithidae the
process of reduction proceeded till finally every trace of a wing is
lost; even the socket for its articulation has disappeared from the
shoulder girdle, itself degenerate in every other aspect. And always,
as the wing declines so also does the keel of the breastbone, leaving,
in Hesperornis, and the struthious birds, no trace whatever, save in
the case of the embryo of apteryx.

This history of vestiges rules out of court, in the most emphatic
way, the contentions that have been made to explain them as the out-
come of “natural selection”, or of the need for “economy”, nor can
they be attributed to the effect of the environment. They have fol-
lowed a perfectly natural, and orderly sequence, resulting from a
continuous sequence of disuse. There are hundreds of cases of ves-
tiges, furnished by all kinds of organs, and always and everywhere,
they have attained to this condition by the same inevitable process.

And now let us turn to an exactly opposite trend of evolution,
seen in cases of what we call “hypertrophy.” Herein organs increase

EVOLUTION—PYCRAFT 933

in size to an abnormal extent, though without materially changing
their form. In some cases, indeed, so as to endanger the well-being
of the victims of such excesses. A striking example of this kind is
found in the tusks of the mammoth, which, growing forward at first,
then curved backward and outward on themselves, attaining to a
length of as much as 121% feet.

Now the mammoth had come to live in treeless tundras, hence, since
there were no trees to bring down for the sake of their fruits, by
levering them up by their roots with the aid of the tusks, there was
no check on the growth of the tusks. In other organs disuse is fol-
lowed by a reduction in size, ending in a vestigial state, and final
disappearance. But the great weight of the tooth in the socket set
up vibrations in walking which were sufficient to stimulate the con-
tinuously growing base, while there was no directing force controlling
growth. Hence, these teeth not only far exceeded their normal size,
but by their form were useless even as weapons. In the saber-tooth
tiger, again, we find the canines excessively enlarged. So much so
that the strain of the muscles and their increasing size brought
about a peculiar construction of the glenoid surface of the jaw-hinge,
to permit the mouth to be opened sufficiently to feed. The socket of
this canine extended upward far beyond that of normal carnivores,
as a consequence of the extra strains set up in the tooth. But more
remarkable still is the case of the recently described “saber-toothed”
marsupial 7’hylacosmilus, which, by the way, furnishes yet another
and most impressive example of the effects of “use” as a molding force.
For this animal was not even remotely related to the true carnivores.
Here, however, the matter at issue is the enormous canine, the root
of which extended upward and backward over the roof of the skull,
a condition known in no other mammal. What gave rise to so extreme
a case of hypertrophy there is no evidence to show. But more than
this: The inferior border of the mandible, immediately below the
canine, developed a great flat plate of bone, wider than the tooth, and
projecting downward beyond its point. A similar but smaller projec-
tion is found in the true Miocene and later saber-tooths, and it is found
again, of great size, in the huge Eocene ungulate Zinoceras. Was this
brought into being as a result of persistent contact of the lower border
of the mandible with the projecting tooth? Layard’s beaked-whale
(Mesoplodon) is still more remarkable. For herein the lower jaw
bears only a single pair of strap-shaped teeth and these gradually
grow upward to meet finally above the snout; apparently making it
impossible to open the jaws beyond a mere slit. The teeth of the
ziphoid whales present many remarkable and puzzling features,
which, however, in this address cannot find a place.

Here, as in the case of the hypertrophied antlers of the extinct Irish
deer, this excessive development, beyond functional requirements,
934 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

imperils the safety of the species, by undermining its vitality, ham-
pering it in endeavoring to escape from enemies, and in obtaining
food.

Closely associated with, and perhaps hardly separable from
hypertrophy, is the development of excessive “ornament”, whether
it be the plumage of birds of paradise, or peacock’s, or in the
“exerescences” of bony structures in the forms of horns, or out-
growths on the body, found in the case of so many extinct types of
animals. Sir Arthur Woodward, one of the foremost paleontologists
of our time, has drawn special attention to phenomena of this nature,
which he interprets as the final “flare-up” of the lamp of life before
extinction. Having attained to their maximum size and weight, all
further surplus material for growth was expended on “ornamenta-
tion.” And this is a view which will probably find general acceptance.

Let me pass now to two closely related aspects of animal life which
afford convincing evidence, in support of my contention, that living
bodies, whether of animals or plants, are self-regulating in the matter
of the growth, both of their external and internal organs. These
aspects are furnished through what are known as phylogeny and
ontogeny.

The history of the evolution of the elephant forms a pageant which
held the stage for some 30,000,000 years. As an illustration of
“phylogeny” it is well nigh complete. But I can do no more, here,
than select a few of its more interesting phases, showing its trend.
The complete story has been told by the late Prof. Henry Fairfield
Osborn, the greatest authority of his time on this theme. He dis-
tinguished four main lines of descent, and 300 species, displaying a
most marvelous series of gradations in the evolution of the tusks, and
the great molar teeth, a progressive series, accompanied by an equally
progressive increase in size.

Reduced to its simplest terms, and most essential features, then,
it begins with Moeritherium, a semiaquatic animal discovered some
years ago by my old friend and colleague, the late Dr. C. W. Andrews,
in the Eocene deposits of the Fayum. In general appearance it may
be likened to the pigmy hippopotamus. Attention is more especially
to be directed towards its teeth, of which there were 36 in all. The
upper jaw, on each side, bore three incisors, one canine, three pre-
molars, and three molars. The lower jaw had but two incisors and
no canine. The outer pair of the upper incisors, it is to be noticed,
were large and directed downward, while the outer lower incisors,
large and chisel-shaped, were directed forward and slightly upward.
The gap between the cheek teeth and the incisors of the lower jaw
was but slight, and this is a fact to be borne in mind, in view of what
follows.

EVOLUTION—PYCRAFT 935

Dr. Andrews regarded Moeritherium as the direct ancestor of all
the elephants. But Professor Osborn dissented, holding it to be off
the direct line of descent. Be this as it may, the animal he desig-
nates as the ancestor is not so very different in essentials. This was
Phiomia, of which there were four species of increasing size. Their
incisors closely resembled those of Afoeritherium, but those of the
lower jaw were gradually borne forward by the extension of the jaw,
so as to keep the teeth in touch with the ground, the lengthening
of the neck being inhibited by the intensive use of the jaw as a dig-
ging instrument. Palemastodon marks an important stage in this
development. Herein the upper tusks are beginning to turn forward.
We have passed now from the Mid-Eocene to the Lower Oligocene,
a period representing several million years. This process of the
lengthening of the lower jaw, bearing the digging teeth, culminated
in Trilophodon wherein it attained a length of 6 feet 7 inches, the
teeth being borne at the end of a long beam!

To keep pace with the lengthening jaw, the upper lip became more
and more elongated, passing from a tapirlike snout into a gradually
lengthening proboscis. With such a very mobile, and efficient grasp-
ing organ, which enabled browsing to replace digging, the reduc-
tion in the length of the lower jaw started, and the typical elephants,
fossil and recent, came into being.

But this is not the whole story. There were many divergent
branches. In some the lower jaw expanded at its tip, giving rise to
the “shovel-toothed” mastodons, in others as in Deinotheres, the lower
incisors, borne on a relatively short jaw, turned downward, to form
a pair of great hooks.

During all this time the cheek teeth, or “grinders”, were becoming
reduced in number, but larger and larger and more and more com-
plex, well seen in the African and Indian elephants of today. When
one comes to realize that this pedigree of the elephants covers a
period of some 30,000,000 years, it becomes apparent that the effects
of use and disuse are ponderously slow. But they are nevertheless
very real.

Here we have striking sequences of growth regulated by the stren-
uous use of the jaw in digging which inhibited the lengthening of
the neck. Later, this inhibition was enforced by the increasing
weight of the head, due to the progressive enlargement of the tusks
and trunk and their consequent weight.

As an example of the effects of intensive use in the history of the
evolution of a race, this of the elephant, and the horse, is the most
complete.

And now let me pass to a brief summary of “ontogeny”—the
gradual development of the body of the individual from the em-
236 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

bryonic to the adult state. As with phylogeny—the history of the
race—a whole series of addresses would be necessary to exploit this
theme adequately. Hence, I must be content with but two illustra-
tions confined to postembryonic development, by way of illuminating,
if possible, the trend of my contentions in this address.

According to the recapitulation theory, with which I have no
quarrel, every animal climbs its own ancestral tree. That is to say,
it repeats in the course of its development, from the embryonic to
the adult stage, the successive stages which marked the development
of its ancestors, near and remote. Many objections have been raised
to this conception, but these were largely based on a too narrow
interpretation of its terms.

In its essential features there can be no escape from “recapitula-
tion.” For though all living organisms, plant or animal, are com-
posed of the same basic substances, so far as we can analyze them,
in no two are the qualities of that substance alike; as I showed, in
the beginning of this address, in the cases of the mold Penicillium;
and the qualities of the tissues of the ox and the sheep, or the grouse
and the pheasant. Hence, they will respond differently to similar
stimuli. The effects of such stimuli are found in changes of form
in adjustment to “use.” Whether the organism be a single cell, or a
vast complex of cells, it will retain and intensify its responses to
such stimuli after its own peculiar fashion, so long as its race exists.
That is to say its responses or “acquirements” are transmitted from
one generation to another. This conclusion is inevitable. But it is
by no means in accordance with current views inspired by Weiss-
mann’s germ-plasm theory.

According to this there are two kinds of “plasm”—the “germ-
plasm” and the “somato-plasm.” This last forms the visible, tangible
body which is derived from the germ-plasm leading a cloistered life
within the body it has given rise to, but not of it. It is held, then,
that it is the germ-plasm which forms the body; and any differences
observable between any two closely related bodies, whether of the
same species or more distantly related, are due entirely to changes
which have come about in that germ-plasm, which is supposed to be
unstable, and thus constantly giving rise to the variations we find
expressed in the somato-plasm. The germ-plasm is the golden calf
of biology, and woe betide those who fail to render it homage.

Let me take two concrete cases of “recapitulation.” Twenty would
serve me better. They are shown on plate 6.

The first is that of the postembryonic stages of the angler fish,
chosen because of its striking contrasts. In the earliest stage it will
be noted the body tapers backward to a point. Of the fins there is
but a small pectoral, a rudimentary first dorsal fin ray and pelvic

EVOLUTION—PYCRAFT 937

fin. In the second there are two conspicuous rays to the dorsal fin,
and the pelvic fin has taken the form of two rodlike rays of unequal
length. The pectoral has greatly increased. The third stage shows
four dorsal fin rays, two subequal and greatly enlarged oarlike ven-
tral rays, and still a tapering tail. Further, it should be noted that
a fin membrane, unsupported by rays, runs continuously along the
body from the dorsal fin backward and forward to the vent, as in
the earlier stages. In the fourth stage the dorsal fin rays number
five, but much increased in size and changed in shape. The pelvic
fin rays have materially changed in shape and proportions, the lower-
most extending backward as a long filament far beyond the body.
The tail no longer tapers backward. Its extremity has turned upward.
Herein is indubitably an ancestral character, recalling the tail of the
shark tribe, which have a more ancient ancestry. Above the upturned
portion is a relic of the earlier continuous fin membrane, and below
it are a series of fin rays that will remain to form an apparently
“hormocercal” tail after the upturned portion has been absorbed.
This transformation from the upturned, or “heterocercal” sharklike
tail fin is found in nearly all the higher fishes during larval life.
It is a “recapitulation” of an ancestral character. It repeats this
stage because it is still following the “route” along which the hormo-
cercal tail traveled in the course of its evolution. There are some
cases where a short cut has been taken by missing out the upturned
phase. Finally, note that out of that continuous fin membrane two
new fins have appeared, a second dorsal and an anal fin, and there
are still traces of the earlier, rayless fin, at the base of each.

Now compare these with the strikingly different adult stage, which
is characterized by its enormous head and mouth, strangely de-
pressed, so that the head is no longer round, but flat. The eyes
are no longer on each side of the head, but look upward, side by
side. The pectoral fins now project at right angles from the body,
and he flat, with the head, on the sea floor. The body has, in short,
been transformed from that of a free-swimming fish to a sedentary.
Instead of hunting for food in midwater as in its infantile stage,
it now lies flat on the bed of the sea. And other and very remark-
able changes have followed this changed mode of life. Briefly, the
rays of the dorsal fin have become widely spaced. The first dorsal
has shifted forward to the snout and developed at its free end a
flaglike fold of skin. At the same time the enormously enlarged
mouth and the sides of the head have developed similar “tags of
skin” forming a fringe. These can be set in vibration and look
like pieces of seaweed, moved by the currents. The “flag” on the
snout is used as a lure, being gently waved when small fish are in
the neighborhood. Presently they draw near to investigate, when
938 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

they are engulfed by the inrush of water into the mouth caused
by the sudden opening of the jaws.

Now let us take the case of the larval swordfish (/stiophorus).
In the first stage, it will be noticed the jaws are relatively short,
of equal length, and armed with teeth. There is a long, and very
low dorsal fin, and a relatively large pectoral fin, and a conspicu-
ously large eye. From the gill-cover project two long spines, one
just behind the upper segment of the eye, the other and much longer,
on a level with the base of the lower jaw. In the second stage the
upper jaw has slightly increased in length. The dorsal fin is much
larger, the upper opercular spine is relatively smaller, the lower
has become more slender, and relatively shorter, while a pair of
long filamentous pelvic fins have put in an appearance. The third
stage shows approximately the adult stage. The upper jaw has
become much longer than the lower, and has assumed its swordlike
form, the dorsal fin has risen to a great height; the upper opercular
spine has disappeared, and the lower is greatly reduced, while the
teeth have vanished. The eye and the pelvic fins have also de-
creased in size. There is no reason to believe that the opercular
spines and the pelvic fins are “ancestral characters”, but rather that
they are adjustments to larval life. But the temporary armature of
teeth is probably recapitulatory since they are reduced to a vestigial
condition in the adult.

Animal bodies being, as I contend, “self-regulating”, they naturally,
and of necessity, move along the old track as they gradually approach
the final form attained by the race by adjustments to conditions
imposed by changing and changed modes of feeding, for that is what
these changes commonly mean in the long run.

It does not follow that the particular changes in the form of the
fins of the angler fish must also be regarded as ancestral adult char-
acters. By no means; they are adjustments which have been made
by successive larval ancestral stages in adjustment to the particular
stimuli set up in these rays by the efforts made to retain their position
in midwater and their source of food, just as much as the wood-
pecker’s tongue, or the three-toed foot, are adjustments to intensive
stimuli. Organs, or parts of organs, as I have already urged, change
their form, and increase their size—and therefore their efficiency—by
use. The first woodpecker probably caught ants as easily as the
last of his race. But just as the continuous and peculiar movements
of the tongue made by the first ant catchers gave rise to the long,
protrusible tongue, so the stimuli given by the formic acid exuded
from the bodies of the ants, gradually increased the size of the
salivary glands. These larval fishes have changed after the same
fashion. Their long fin-rays become reduced as their use declines,

EVOLUTION—PYCRAFT 239

by the gradual passage into the newer, and final stage of life. Young
Crustacea, and young Mollusca, show precisely similar, and indeed,
often more striking changes in their “ontogeny.” ‘There is no need
to regard them as adult ancestral characters.

There is no need to ee irresponsible vagaries of the “germ-
plasm” to be weeded out by “natural selection”, or sorted out and
increased or rejected by “genes” hidden away in the chromosomes,
and defying detection even by the highest powers of the microscope,
in attempting to account for the phases presented in ontogeny.

As the orderly sequence of development proceeds, the germ cells
are in due course formed out of the nascent tissues, just as are the
ancillary structures necessary to their survival—the generative glands
and ducts, and all the other organs and tissues of the body.

There seems to be no warrant for a belief in a special “germ-
plasm” potentially variable, and ultimately expressing that varia-
bility in the “somato-plasm”, which, whatever changes it may
undergo in response to external influences, is unable to transmit
such changes, being capable only of producing the visible, animated
body.

But if the term “germ-plasm” be accepted merely to dis-
tinguish the germ cells—ova and spermatozoa—which, as they de-
velop, after union, gradually build up again a body after the fashion
of its race, many of our difficulties in studying problems of descent
will vanish. We do not, except in a very general sense, postulate
a “oerm-plasm” in the case of the Protozoa. If we say Amoeba is
composed solely of “germ-plasm”, or of “somato-plasm”, we are
merely making a distinction without a difference. But if the sub-
stance which forms the body of the Protozoan can reproduce other
like bodies indefinitely, we need ask no more. For the Protozoa
display an infinite variety of forms, free-swimming and sedentary,
ciliated and flagellated, naked, and with a hard-skeleton, and show-
ing adjustments to astonishingly varied conditions, including para-
sitism. The Metazoa do no more.

The passage from the Protozoa to the Metazoa is by no means an
abrupt one. When, and where, did the distillation and isolation of
Weissman’s “germ-plasm” take place? When does it expel from
itself the substance called the “somato-plasm” charged with build-
ing up a new body? And in what part of that developing body,
beginning with the first cleavage-plane, does it establish itself, in
the Metazoa, until all is ready for it to take up its final resting
place and to begin the formation of new “germ-plasm” ?

Only some of the more specialized Protozoa form out of the sub-
stance of their bodies definite male and female germ cells, and on
these the final continuation of the race has come to depend, as in
240 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

the Metazoa. But between the formation of relatively complex
bodies such as we find in the vorticellids, or in Volvox, and the still
more complex bodies of the Metazoa ending with the vertebrates,
there are only differences of degree, not of kind.

A leaf cut from a begonia plant and laid flat on damp earth will pro-
duce new plants, which, in the course of time, will put forth flowers
and seed; whence comes the “germ-plasm” of these seeds? Who
can doubt that it was distilled from the normal process of metabolism,
and is endowed with the power of reproducing new plants. These,
in due course, give rise to flowers, and seeds, differing in no wise from
plants derived from a “zygote.” The protoplasm of this begonia leaf,
in short, possessed all the qualities of its race, and in due course
built up a new plant exactly like that from which it was derived. It
could do no other. For though by no known process of analysis
could we distinguish between the “germ-plasm” of a begonia and that
of a bean, yet each has its own peculiar qualities and endowments,
and inevitably they reproduce after the manner of their kind. But
they are not immutable. Like all other living bodies, the tissues of
which they are made up are all responsive to intensive stimul, so that
they of necessity are subjected to a higher rate of waste through such
stimuli, and in consequence will absorb more of the “food material”
manufactured to sustain life. Hence such parts come, in succeeding
generations, to change their shape, and at the expense of some other
tissues, which may become reduced to a vestigial condition. As a
result new “varieties” and new “species” and genera and so on arise.

Throughout the whole vegetable and animal kingdoms these
subtle agencies are at work, resulting, as I have said, in “self-
regulating” bodies.

In short, that same “somato-plasm” which builds up the complex
human body, bone and muscle and nerve, the oviducts, the uterus,
the testes, and sperm ducts, can, and does also build up the ova and
the spermatozoa. What we call “heredity” is but the expression of
one of the orderly sequences of growth, inherent in the substance
which has worked out its own salvation in the course of the ages.
That this substance differs in its qualities, in every living thing, is
manifested in the infinite variety which living bodies, whether of
plants or animals, present.

The Mendelians account for the results obtained, for example, by
crossing tall and dwarf races of peas or fowls with different forms
of combs, by attributing these several characters to the agency of
“entities”, which they designate “genes”, or “factors.” These, it is
held, can be transmitted respectively by the sperm and the ova, which
form, at fusion, the “zygote.” Tall and dwarf individuals of this
hybrid parentage reappear in the second generation. In some cases

EVOLUTION—PYCRAFT 241

combinations of these genes give rise to new forms—rose, pea, and
walnut-combs. By suitable mating, in further generations such
genes, or “factors”, can be “sorted out”, and the original form re-
gained. But the competence of this interpretation rests on the as-
sumption, in the first place, that the germ-plasm is a substance apart
from the somato-plasm, to which it gives rise, and in the second that
these qualities of “tallness and dwarfness”, for example are, in effect,
separate entities in the germ-plasm. On this assumption, of course,
all characters, whether of structure or coloration, are as much entities
as is the whole organism. This conception, however, presents
insuperable difficulties.

The work which has been done, based on the original experiments
of the Abbé Mendel, is fascinating, and has produced some remark-
able results. But, greatly daring, I venture to suggest that they
would be as easily explained as due to the mingling of slightly dif-
ferent strains of somato-plasm.

More than this I cannot say here, since this address must not exceed
the normal bounds commonly prescribed for addresses.

Use and disuse, surely, are the primary forces in the history of
evolution. Lesser parts are doubtless played by “natural selection”
and “environment”, under one or other of an infinite number of
forms.

So long as we insist on regarding biology as a crystallized creed,
requiring no more than a possible rectification of some of its tenets,
so long shall we continue groping in the dark to get an insight into
the mysteries we are professedly trying to solve. But I venture to
hope that some, at least, who will read this address, will do so without
bias, in the hope that, perhaps, they may really find a new angle from
which to survey their beliefs. Hostile criticism, like abuse, is no
argument. A review of our position today, as biologists, is un-
doubtedly called for. I feel that I shall not have written in vain if
I induce at least some to endeavor to make that review.
OR a at

Eee Tucqsrae, ahi eye if BOTS ELEY yr sis Batama rin: cE
Weg, a a8 ghana oF eg ae Hiya" tesa nie
g PIO ght Te ee ree ;
sothiiga (oust 2k OUR xl Aa
sy BURP, ECHO, side a |
male ¢ 4 Mg ry POS AAT Gee alee fe Ue tA
i" vies sagas: Eagsnkns ul) cdi
2 UMN OTP, Lawshoxg ae Ea :
“gaat. Aeti, domgue ot eepdogiey Diegabaas
Hh cota, 34, saben iby “a i
; RS Ey bias)
E Hoare: iste ye “3%
sb eas ee bba wih: bouliynennys .
; % rosa lL oh. Satrioy) Fanaa St eee § WEL
most: se! Tnaniae”, ae Mesh eds valigilhaae fing
es Maou ehilia’ Sie bey, Ravens is AaT ae
ts 5 Nea) oy, , Spina aie pabbeny se
a ruts Bos Vic oes aa y Fike “euoleiad baprrraecnaerses< ee
| Sigh aigncte; Al Nis 4s i ADE AE: Rising Sear; ieollilgyy adil at © ‘
“set 20 en id teas done Oh ae itgsdon ne aemelgont 6 ni
ih aupa noe. Eb uel. rine. ob ytkyst.« ibetoiota
simeitbacod-als Teg “ro bp aish baer Alive Oe pore Re
rset plaite ‘eoiig iat glowe vant yoo equated Salt acd ot
He ctr be: iy be a phil bi’ ASE tt oidteath ya taidoit: al 2 ge foxes
atper BS aiasletd. ea “raed AT ANg dearer
AE ita ih ib ve peel dota Seeie hoa eee
al Tat EM AR edbistnisad sensing Ler.
aycivay ich cle ag ess Ul eae aes ibe

Sort hey Ht eeeitiat SANG vom

est

ht elt Re ea aes # EL tee e .
viata ea toe mh babies “<a

wea whe shied fost pam se i

an om juin, vile haat ek Pe vd Ua Remedial Resin ‘
iSsgeuis ut Ange Liam dawn eh, eal eeete a Rie aie agate: Res
wehe stots hapten 7s atl aaa basin) Riana, WS

eS ee ik mee oe Petes i ost & Sipe REISS oe LAA

i aA aids fg ck Seas ot Mita,
1. «Hee eke” Ala a eae
Smithsonian Report, 1936.—Pycraft PEATE 1

PROGRESSIVE STAGES IN THE MOLDING OF THE LIMBS. IN RESPONSE TO INTENSIVE
CLIMBING HABITS.

A, Grey cuscus (Trichosurus maculatus); B, koala (Phascolarctos cinereus); C, awantibo (Arctocebus
calabarensis); D, three-toed sloth (Bradypus tridactylus).
Smithsonian Report, 1936.—Pycraft PLATE 2

CONVERGENT EVOLUTION.

Here totally unrelated animals have come to assume a close general resemblance in accordance with their
similar mode of life. C, Porpoise; D, shark; H, sea lion.
Smithsonian Report, 1936.—Pycraft PLATE 3

) Pane oie,

RECIPROCITY IN DEVELOPMENT.

The results of the persistent pressure of a gradually elongating windpipe against the anterior border of
the keel of thesternum. A, Bewick’s swan; B,a crane, and the course of a still greater elongation where
little or no resistance is presented; HL, Phonygama; F, spoonbill, G, Manucodia.
Smithsonian Report, 1936.—Pycraft PLATE 4

CETACEAN FLIPPERS, EXTERNALLY CLOSELY ALIKE. (INTERNALLY THESE HAVE
VERY DIVERSE RESPONSES TO EXTERNAL STIMULI.)

A, Hump-back whale (Megaptera); B, bottle-nose dolphin (T'ursiops); C, gangetic dolphin (Planista);
D, lesser rorqual (Balaenoptera); E, right whale (Balaena); F, pilot whale (Globicephalus); G, killer whale
(Orcinus).
Smithsonian Report, 1936.—Pycraft PLATE 5

1. Stages in the degeneration of the pelvic limb from functional organs to vestiges, in different individuals,
Balaenoptera physalus.

2. Stages in the degeneration of the pelvis in different generations of the Sirenia from Eocene times to the
present day.

VANISHING ORGANS.
Smithsonian Report, 1936.—Pycraft PLATE 6

Stages in the development of the young swordfish.

Stages in the development of the young angler fish.

NASCENT ORGANS.
WHAT IS THE MEANING OF PREDATION ??
By Pau L. ERRINGTON

The writings of antiquity contain references to the depredations
of wolves, lions, and other predators upon flocks, and even to the at-
tacks of predators upon man himself. But though the preying of
one animal upon another has long attracted man’s attention, man
has made comparatively little effort really to understand such a
conspicuous and universal phenomenon. The idea rarely occurs to
anyone that there is a great deal to understand, the thought rather
being that the predator kills and eats the prey, and that is all there is
to it.

From this elementary concept of predation, a number of apparently
logical conclusions usually are drawn. For example, if one predator
kills so many animals of the kinds that are being preyed upon, more
predators kill that many more; hence, more predators mean fewer
prey animals. Conversely, if there were fewer predators, there would
be more prey animals and so on. However, things do not always
work out so simply in nature.

The widespread misconception of the effectiveness of predation in
determining animal population levels is responsible for much reason-
ing that goes astray. Predation has been shown by recent studies
not to be, in a collective sense, an inexorable tax upon the luckless
prey species, to be satisfied in full.

Life to wild animals unquestionably is often harsh, but the de-
mands of predators in temperate regions are not apt to be so drastic
as to make existence a neck and neck race between the great appetite
of predation and the breeding rates of the prey animals.

McAtee, for one, concludes that very few animal populations ap-
proach the limits of their food supply in nature,? and predator popu-
lations are not any general exception. Predators may occasionally
starve, and predator pressure may at times be about all that a prey
species can stand, or conceivably more than it can stand; but, for all

1 Journal Paper No. J374 of the Iowa Agricultural Experiment Station, Ames, Iowa.
Project No. 330.

£McAtee, W. L., The Malthusian principle in nature. Scientific Monthly, vol. 42, pp.
444-456, 1936.

112059—37——_17 243
944 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

that, predation still seems to be essentially a byproduct of population
rather than a broadly dominant influence on population. Failure to
distinguish between cause and effect is a fertile source of confusion.

On the whole, predation seemingly depends more upon the oppor-
tunities predators may have to capture prey than upon any special
advantage the animals loosely called predators may have over the
prey from the mere reason of their being predators. It is true that
some animals are highly specialized for a predaceous life and for no
other, but even so they are only animals and their lives are circum-
scribed by natural limitations just as are the lives of animals which
are not usually thought of as being predators.

Kcological studies indicate that, as concerns many wild species,
there is only room in a given tract of environment for an approxi-
mately constant number of individuals, particularly of individuals
that establish themselves in territories or regular home ranges and
resist crowding past certain densities. The better grades of en-
vironment are filled up to capacity and any extra individuals either
have to dispossess some that are already suitably located or must
station themselves wherever they can. Those individuals that are
well situated, of course, have the odds all in their favor compared
with the less fortunate members of their kind that have to take
environmental “leftovers.”

Nicholson ® has likened such territory-holding populations to water
in an overflowing reservoir. It might be added that under circum-
stances of this sort, predation frequently seems to do little more
than to lap up a part of the overflow and the leakage, and not
always a major part of that.

Let us consider the popular bobwhite quail (Colinus virginianus),
of which more is probably known of its life history and living re-
quirements than is known of any other wild species. Stoddard ‘
began his work on the bobwhite in the southeastern United States
in 1924; Errington® and others have been working on it in the
north-central States since 1929.

In Iowa and Wisconsin, researches on the food habits of various
predators have been conducted along with the population studies of
the bobwhite and other species, in one instance for 7 consecutive
years on one area. The data resulting from these combined predator
and population studies are not without their imperfections, but they
are raw materials from which may be reconstructed a reasonably
accurate and coherent picture of the functioning of some natural
mechanisms.

8’ Nicholson, A. J., The balance of animal populations. Journ. Animal Ecology, vol. 2,
pp. 132-178, 1933.

4Stoddard, H. L., The bob-white quail. Scribners. 1931.

*' Errington, P. L., and Hamerstrom, F. N., Jr., The northern bob-white’s winter terri
tory. Res. Bull. 201, Iowa Agr. Expt. Station. 1936.

PREDATION—ERRINGTON 245

Of the predator species resident in this region, the great horned
owl (Bubo virginianus) has been investigated the most thoroughly
and the most satisfactorily, both from the standpoints of its be-
havior and its food habits. From the quail observational areas
alone, nearly 2,500 horned owl pellets have been collected and
analyzed * and a large number of kills made by horned owls have
been recorded in connection with field studies.

Correlation of the predation and population data from the above
areas is simplified by the fact that, of the two species upon which
an exceptional amount of research has been done, one proves to be
the chief predatory enemy of the other.

The Cooper’s hawk (Accipiter cooperi) and the goshawk (Astur
atricapillus) may on occasion be truly formidable enemies of quail;
but the horned owl has repeatedly demonstrated its ability to prey
upon quail if any wild predator can, and it possibly kills more quail
in the north-central States than all other wild predators together.’
Quail remains have been found in as many as 10 of one lot of 30
horned owl pellets and in 19 of another lot of 85; and numerous
other large lots have contained remains in from 5 to 15 percent of
the pellets.

The reader may conclude, at this point, that the case against
the horned owl as a quail enemy appears rather settled, and, as
concerns quail conservation, looks distinctly bad for the owl.

Some may speculate further as to the role of the horned owl in
the economy of nature and may contend that the direct damage in-
flicted upon the quail may be offset by indirect benefits resulting
from the horned owl’s activities as a whole—if not indirect benefits
to the quail, perhaps to other wild creatures or to agriculture. But
whatever may be the arguments advanced by those who may defend
the horned owl, practically everyone appears to concede that heavy
depredations upon the highly esteemed bobwhite represent a re-
_grettable loss and, moreover, a loss preventable in large measure
through reduction in numbers of the offending predator.

Now, suppose that it were to become public knowledge, in a
community interested in the conservation of the bobwhite, that not
only were horned owls abundant over the choice quail range but that
each owl had been eating quail once a week, on the average, through-
out most of the winter and would likely continue to do so for the
rest of the winter and for weeks into the spring? In all proba-
bility, some action would be forthcoming, and it would be direct
action of an easily predictable and understandable kind.

° lor a discussion of the reliability of pellet analysis as a method of study, see Hrring-
ton, P. L., Technique of raptor food habits study. Condor, vol. 34, pp. 75-86, 1932.

7Predation by wild species should always be considered in a different category from
predation by modern man; for discussions, see Errington and Hamerstrom, op. cit.,
footnote 5.
246 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

Such action might arise from an angry impulse to “punish” the
owls for behaving in a manner perfectly normal to wild animals in
the presence of an available food supply, or it might originate in
an intelligent desire to give the quail needed protection before they
were completely cleaned out. But, whatever else would be done, one
almost certain result of any concerted action would be the killing
of owls, and there would possibly be more or less talk about how
many quail were saved thereby and some pencil-and-paper figuring
as to how many more quail there would be next year.

Suppose, then, that some person said that, so far as quail con-
servation was concerned, the owls might as well have been left in
peace; and that, for all of the owls killed, there probably would
not be appreciably more quail surviving the winter than there would
have been otherwise and that the figuring did not mean a thing?
It may not sound like good old-fashioned horse sense, but sucn a
person would stand an excellent chance of being right on all counts.

The evidence bearing upon this subject may be briefly reviewed.

The field studies of bobwhite populations had been carried on in
Iowa and Wisconsin for 4 years, when it gradually became apparent
that a given tract of land could winter an upper limit of only about
so many birds under the most favorable of climatic conditions. The
survival records obtained from local populations that had not suffered
losses from shooting or from storm or starvation emergencies fur-
nished the basis for the first accurate calculations of carrying capac-
ity. It was found that, while carrying capacity could be either
raised or lowered, it commonly was remarkably definite for successive
winters on a given area in established quail range, although not the
same for all areas.

In the course of the field studies, it was seen that populations
within the carrying capacity of their environment would usually
survive the winter with slight loss except in the event of starvation
or other emergencies brought on by deep snow, etc.; whereas, if the
populations exceeded carrying capacity, the surplus birds would
either have to leave or sooner or later be killed by natural enemies.®

Table 1 was prepared for the convenience of readers who may wish
to see how the pressure exerted by horned owls on wintering bob-
whites relates to bobwhite population densities and carrying
capacities.

Quail remains were found in 119, or 7.9 percent, of the 1,504 winter
horned owl pellets gathered from those areas where predation and
bobwhite population studies were jointly carried on. Seldom would
any single pellet be composed wholly of quail remains, and, even in

8 PHrrington, P. L., Vulnerability of bob-white populations to predation. Ecology, vol.
15, pp. 110-127, 1934.
* Errington and Hamerstrom, op. cit., footnote 5.

PREDATION—ERRINGTON 247

most cases where quail were represented, remains of some other prey
would predominate. A quail victim as a rule would be completely
eaten, but often on different days or by different owls, and so would
be represented in two or more pellets.

Experience on the observational areas has shown that quail
remains in less than 6 percent of winter pellets (in good-sized lots)
ordinarily means a fairly light horned owl pressure upon quail popu-
lations running from 30 to 100 birds per square mile. This repre-
sents losses of the sort that even well-situated populations may be
expected to suffer and seems largely to take the place of the losses
from age and accident which would obviously go on anyway in the
total absence of predators.

TABLE 1.—Horned owl pressure upon wintering bobwhite populations

Horned ow! pel- Bobwhite | Bobwhite |Percentage to which

Pa winter winter carrying capacity

Area 1 Winters al aa population} carrying of area was filled
nage trod are density on | capacity of | by wintering bob-

area area white population

Per sq. mi. | Per sq. mi. Percent
24 66 36

A Se ete eee 1929-30 | 2=5.6% of 36__-_- e
1930-31 | 4=6.3% of 64.__- 61 66 Ue
1931-32 | 13=16.0% of 81__ 80 66 121 (insecure).
1932-33 | 5=6.8% of 74___- 81 66 123 (insecure).
1933-34 | 3=14.3% of 21___ 87 58 150 (insecure).
1934-35 | 8=19.0% of 42___ 82 58-+- | 141 (insecure).
Ji pn ees Se ee eee eee 1929-31 | 0=0.0% of 62___- 32-- 32 100+.
1931-32 | 0=0.0% of 12____ 54 32 169 (insecure).
(Ci! ee SO ae ee 1929-30 | 0=0.0% of 25____ 36 32 113 (insecure).
1930-31 | 0=0.0% of 25___- 32 32 100.
1931-32 | 6=9.1% of 66___- 63 32 197 (insecure).
dD i ara ll as a a 1930-31 | 0=0.0% of 23_--- 152 132 115 (insecure).
1931-32 | 1=3.0% of 33_.-- 132 132 100.
1932-33 | 3=9.1% of 33__-- 160(?) 132 121(?) (insecure).
Die SS SAE a ea 1930-31 | 5=10.4% of 48__- 53 40 133 (insecure).
J pa Tae Sar See 1931-32 | 1=9.1% of 11___- 101 95 106.
(S/S Se See ees 1932-33 | 0=0.0% of 25___- 95(?) 103 92(?).
1933-34 | 0=0.0% of 28_--- 95 103 92.
1934-35 | 4=7.7% of 52__-- 124(?) 103 120(?) (insecure).
1 (psp a Ne fk a 1932-35 | 0=0.0% of 29__-- 191 211 91.
i ra i ee ees 1932-33 | 1=7.7% of 13_--- 75 62(?)}| 121(?) (insecure).
1933-84 | 3=2.4% of 127__- 43(?) 62(?)| 69(?).
1934-35 | 10=5.9% of 169_- 69 62(?)| 111(?) (insecure).
Ce a ae Sa 1932-33 | 15=20.0% of 75_- 101(?) 65(?)| 155(?) (insecure).
1933-34 | 7=5.0% of 139___ 104 88(?)| 118(?) (insecure).
1934-35 | 28=14.7% of 191- 140(?) 90(?)| 156(?) Ginsecure).

1 Area A was at Prairie du Sac, Wis.; Band C, at Pine Bluff, Wis.; Hand Fat Madison, Wis.; G and H
- Des Moines, Iowa; and J at Ames, Iowa. J represents the combined data from 9 areas in southeastern
owas.

However, when quail remains occur in 10 or 15 percent or an even
higher percentage of the pellets, it may be suspected that something
is wrong with the quail, themselves, or that there are too many of
them in the environment they are trying to occupy.

Weakness of individual birds, as from hunger, injuries, or disease,
is more apt to predispose them to capture by hawks than by owls,
but handicapped ones are taken by owls, also. In a number of
instances, birds were killed by horned owls seemingly because they
fell into unsafe living habits or were not as adaptable as they might
have been in the face of danger. :
948 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

For the most part, nevertheless, heavy winter predation upon bob-
whites by horned owls signifies a crowded condition of the quail
population, although in terms of numbers there need not necessarily
be many quail present in a given area to over-populate it. Much
“quail country” is inferior in quality as it exists at present and can
accommodate but a very limited population, often a population far
lower than that which the public may think ought to be there.

It should be recognized that a population of 10 birds in an environ-
ment having a carrying capacity of 5 per square mile is crowded
just as truly as is a population of 300 in environment having a carry-
ing capacity of 150 per square mile. Less conspicuous mortality
will be suffered by the smaller population, but the position of the
5 extra birds seems to be about as insecure as the position of the
150 extra ones; where populations exceed the capacity for accommo-
dation set by the environment as it stands, the precarious position of
the excess birds simply invites predation,

Much quail environment is overpopulated by autumn as a natural
consequence of the season’s increase of young birds and the annual
change from fall to winter conditions of vegetation. Further
shrinkage of carrying capacity may follow the clearing away of
brush or the burning of vegetation by farmers; fall plowing; clean
harvesting; close grazing, etc.; or emergencies that may evict popu-
lations or parts of populations from environments that otherwise
would have accommodated them. Deep snows, in particular, by
covering up the food in many parts of an area, may cause concen-
tration of birds in other places where food may still be had.

On that part of area A, table 1, where most of the 1934-35 preda-
tion of horned owls upon quail took place—8 of 42 pellets containing
quail remains—hungry quail kept drifting in from the outside
throughout the winter.

This tract of land had a carrying capacity of around 53 bob-
whites, as calculated on the basis of the numbers that had successfully
wintered there in previous nonemergency years. As nearly as the
1934-85 story could be pieced together from almost continual field
studies, 72 quail started the winter and 50 were surviving by spring;
but in the meantime there had been much movement in, some move-
ment out, and a mortality that could be fairly closely determined at
54 birds, or a loss exceeding the number that wintered.

As long as the quail occupying this tract filled it up only to the
limit of its known carrying capacity, the population suffered negli-
gible losses from predation, from horned owls as well as from other
resident predators. But whenever the environment became filled
with quail past carrying capacity, the surplus birds soon departed
(or their equivalent number did), or increased pressure from enemies
cut the population down to the level of carrying capacity again.

PREDATION—ERRINGTON 249

Exactly why the strongest environment can apparently take care of
only about so many wintering quail from year to year is not clear.*°
Intolerance of the quail themselves toward too much crowding doubt-
less enters into the equation. One effect of general overcrowding is
the forcing of some coveys or groups of birds into locations that are
plainly unfavorable and of others into a dismal round of wandering
from one uninhabitable or filled up covert to another. Badly situated
coveys, whether they keep moving or attempt to station themselves in
inferior environment, bear the brunt of pressure from enemies.

The reader may perceive from table 1 that insecure populations are
not always heavily preyed upon by the horned owls living in their
vicinity. This does not mean, however, that the insecure populations
are no longer being preyed upon; it usually means that some creature
besides horned owls is doing the preying. One thing that seems char-
acteristic of insecure populations is their common vulnerability to a
number of different predators, even predators differing greatly in
prowess and hunting tactics.

It doesn’t seem to matter much what, or, within limits, how many
predators may do the preying as long as the basic insecurity of a
wintering quail population continues unrelieved—at least, this seems
to be true in the north-central States’ quail range.

A few horned owls seem to eliminate the vulnerable surplus of a
wintering quail population about as effectively as many horned owls;
and, in the absence or scarcity of horned owls, the reduction seems to
go on anyway through the medium of other predators. Marsh hawks,
foxes, and house cats, compared with horned owls, are very inefficient
winter enemies of bobwhites; and clumsy Buteo hawks, small owls,
and dogs are lesser enemies, indeed; but these and even rodents, pheas-
ants, poultry, and the quail themselves may kill quail as the opportuni-
ties multiply with biological unbalance.

The generalization appears to be sound that if the bobwhite suffers
severely from winter predation there is a good reason for it. McAtee’s
contention that predation tends to be indiscriminate in action and in
proportion to population “ is supported by the Iowa and Wisconsin
data on predation and wintering quail, as relates to the net effect of
predation upon excess populations or populations otherwise rendered
vulnerable. Any relief that vulnerable populations may gain from a
specific enemy (always excepting man) seems more than likely to be
counteracted in the end by increased pressure from other enemies,
including some not commonly classed as enemies, or classed as enemies
only under extreme circumstances,

10 Hrrington and Hamerstrom, op. cit., footnote 5.

4 McAtee, W. L., Effectiveness in nature of the so-called protective adaptations in the
animal kingdom, chiefly as illustrated by the food habits of Nearctic birds. Smithsonian
Misc. Coll., vol. 85, no. 7, 1932.
250 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

As the reader may see from table 2, spring losses of quail from
horned owls may be heavy at times, notably when rather substantial
populations have wintered that are close to the carrying capacity of
the land. There may be in late March and April an increase of pres-
sure by the owls upon bobwhites decidedly greater than the bobwhite
winter losses might have led one to expect.

TABLE 2.—Horned owl pressure upon spring and summer bobwhite populations

Percentage
Bobwhite | Bobwhit e ve
a obwhite obwhite | carrying
pee spring winter capacity
Area Season Gohalitelre: population | carrying of area
minins from ared density capacity | was filled
on area of area by spring
bobwhite
population
SSR Ee eed VoD SRI) EEN 22 SOTA OPE eee
F Per sq. mi. | Per sq. mi. Percent
Spring, 1030 se2 2-22 0=0.0% of 36._.- 22 66 33
Spring, 19slo sss eee ee 2=5.0% of 40____ 47 66 71
A Summer, 1931___-.-.---- 0=0.0% of 39__-- \
Tey ESA, aa eas Spring, 1932_...-___-_..-]| 13=12.0% of 108_ \ 58 66 88
Summer, 1932. .-_......- 0=0.0% of 38___-
Spring, oe SOE CeO Sas Hae - 25... 68 66 103
Springs 193s eee =0.0% of 24...
C.--------------2--2--- Summer, 1931_-_..-...-.- 0=0.0% of 65... \ 31 32 %
D (ae 8 ee eee ees 0=0.0% of 13_.-- 128 132 97
ee ean Vane epee Spring, {OSSLL AAT es bane a 243} 132 132 100
Spring) 1O3t ses sos 1=2.6% of 38____
BE... ----------------- eee ey 2=4.2% of 48... \ 32 40 oo
(CEES eee Spring, 4588 ERS eta aeae pa 4 a pe 90(?) 103 87(?)
pring, a -| 8=6.7% of 118___
: Summer, 1083. 3 94.0%, of 83. 2|} 62 62(?) 0)
eS Say Sue a Be ee ee ee pring, 1934____ 2=3: Ofb2S5s5
Summer, 1934____- 2=12.5% of 16._- \ 41(?) 62(?) G6(2)

Spring, 1935_.._-_-------| 0=0.0% of 60___- 22 62(?) 35(?)

The owls, to be sure, have large and hungry young in their nests
and hence a need for more food, but the connection here is not so
clear as it might appear at first glance. The quail seem vulnerable
also to the attacks of predators that do not have young to feed at
this season or otherwise have any greatly increased need of food.
Then again, much of the spring quail loss from predation occurs
when there is presumably more food available for predators than
there was in late winter, such as the hosts of migrating or newly
returned birds, various animals that had been in hibernation or had
not been so accessible during the colder months, etc.

A possible explanation seems to be that the spring rise in vulner-
ability shown by some quail populations is associated with the
increasing unrest of the quail as their own breeding season ap-
proaches. One of the manifestations of an overpopulated condition
is increased friction among the quail themselves; and it may be that
the intolerance and strife and excitement of mating may have the
same effect as overpopulation in making the birds vulnerable to
predator attacks. In other words, a carrying capacity just sufficient
to winter a certain population level with evident security and com-

PREDATION—ERRINGTON 251

paratively little quarreling may not be sufficient to accommodate the
same population at the height of the period of sexual adjustment.

The 388 summer pellets of table 2, which were obtained almost
entirely through the tethering *? of owlets in the quail observational
areas, contained remains of adult quail in 18. No recognized traces
of young bobwhites were discovered in pellets collected as late as
August nor amid the prey debris at feeding places of the owls.
Remains of immature bobwhites have been found in fall horned
ow] pellets, however; but pellets of unquestionable horned ow] origin
are so difficult to procure at this season that the scanty data do not
justify conclusions,

According to indirect evidence, the extent and effect of summer
predation upon young bobwhites are both variable. The bobwhite
tries to bring off one annual brood and may make repeated nesting
attempts if the earlier egg clutches are lost or abandoned. One
bird of the pair, usually the female, does the incubating; but if that
bird is killed, the mate may take over incubation duties and com-
plete the hatching of the clutch or may find another mate and start
over again.4* Both birds are active and capable in caring for the
young, and either one may perform this function alone, if neces-
sary. In this way the species is somewhat safeguarded against
excessive interference with reproductive endeavor through preda-
tion. The horned owl is scarcely under suspicion as a predator
upon quail eggs, but surely some of the pressure it exerts upon sum-
mer adults is borne by nesting birds.

On the southern Wisconsin observational areas, the rate of in-
crease of bobwhites from breeding stock seems to be influenced by
how much the habitable environment is filled up to begin with;
if the environment is pretty well saturated by the adult popula-
tions, the chances of many young reaching maturity seem to be cor-
respondingly diminished.** Nature is ever prodigal with the lives
of young animals and becomes more so as population densities rise
to the degree that individuals are compelled to live at an increasing
disadvantage.

Then, as winter comes and finds adult populations at their highest
level of the year and carrying capacity shrinking with the dropping
of leaves from trees and brush and the drying up of weedy vege-
tation and the falling of the first snows, quail remains may be rep-
resented more and more in the horned owl pellets. And, as winter
settles down and the status of the quail may be further compli-

“ Owlets are tethered in the vicinity of their nests by means of chains and leather
anklets, in order that records may be kept of the food brought them by adults after the
time that they normally would have left—see Errington, P. L., Technique of raptor food
habits study. Condor, vol. 34, pp. 75-86, 1932.

+8 Stoddard, op. cit., footnote 4.

14 Errington and Hamerstrom, op. cit., footnote 5.
952 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

cated by crises that evict birds from some habitats and crowd them
into others or drive starving remnants from one place to another,
the cycle of mortality starts over again; and the birds continue to
be preyed upon largely in proportion to their vulnerability, if not
by horned owls, then by something else.

Thus may be concluded this résumé of the relationship of one
predator to one prey species as it has been worked out in one region
over a period of years. It does not necessarily typify predator-prey
relationships, though some others seem to be similar. Other relation-
ships are apparently quite different; still others consistently defy
scientifically acceptable analysis; and, of countless others, it can only
be said that virtually nothing is really known of them.

This writing is not intended to be a brief against all attempts to
control predators for economic or conservation or other legitimate
purposes. It does not imply that no control of any predators is
desirable in the conservation of the bobwhite, nor that control of
horned owls may not be important in the protection of species other
than bobwhite, nor even that under some conditions bobwhite con-
servation may not be aided by the control of horned owls.

It does submit that predator control is frequently emphasized be-
yond any existing justification. Too often the persecution of pred-
ators—however futile—is the one thing that is stressed in the name
of conservation, whereas measures of the utmost merit are barely
toyed with, if not disregarded altogether. When predator control
is only blind, ruthless suppression of any and all flesh-eaters, or
alleged flesh-eaters, with no heed for the status of rare or endangered
species, it surely ceases to be the public interest and should be dis-
couraged the same as any other wasteful practice.

The interrelationships of predation are exceedingly complex and
variable, and how much they will ever be understood is problem-
atical. The accumulating evidence seems to suggest that many
prey populations are constituted to withstand far more pressure from
enemies than they ordinarily get; and, within the restrictions im-
posed by their habitats, seem to be mainly self-limiting and self-
adjusting in numbers. The impacts of predation, then, are absorbed
by at least some populations that seem to be resilient chiefly accord-
ing to their needs. The trimming down by predation of excess
populations that must disappear, anyway, is incidental. It should
not be regarded as a threat to the permanent nucleus, which, barring
drastic change in environment, will continue to occupy all livable
quarters and produce the usual annual surplus. The surplus is
strictly temporary, and generation after generation is frittered away.
Whether taken by predators or otherwise lost, the surplus must
disappear; population sooner or later coincides with carrying
capacity.

THE GORILLAS OF THE KAYONSA REGION, WESTERN
KIGEZI, SOUTHWEST UGANDA?

By Capt. C. R. 8S. Pirman, D. S. O., M. C., C. M. Z. S.

[With 6 plates]

The occurrence of gorillas in the Kayonsa region of Uganda has
been known for many years, but until recently opportunities and
facilities for investigating this interesting locality have been lacking.
The opening of the road to Rutshuru (Belgian Congo), from Kabale
(Uganda), however, has made it more accessible, and the extension
of prospecting activities into the forest itself, rendered a visit impera-
tive to ascertain, from a conservation point of view, the extent of the
disturbance to which the forest is being subjected, and what effect this
is having on the gorillas. These notes are based on knowledge
acquired during two brief visits, each of a few days’ duration only,
made respectively in November 1933 and February-March 1934.

The long-haired mountain gorilla (Gorilla gorilla beringet), of
east-central Africa, has in recent years had an excellent press, and
around the question of the adequacy of the measures taken for its
protection and perpetuation much controversy has raged. It is un-
necessary, therefore, to refer in detail to the generally accepted
description of habits and attributes of the mountain race, which
will be discussed where relevant in connection with the Kayonsa
representatives.

It must be realized before proceeding further that this is not an
endeavor to create a new race of gorilla, though on account of its
markedly diverse habitat, food, and habits, the Kayonsa species may
well have developed structural characteristics differing from those
of its relatives in the more elevated volcanic region. A little more
than a decade ago it was suggested that different races of gorilla
probably occurred on each of seven (a startling total) adjacent,
extinct volcanoes of the Mufumbiro (or Birunga) mountains—an
extravagant and preposterous claim,

1 Reprinted by permission from the Proceedings of the Zoological Society of London,
pt. 3, 1935.

253
ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

254

‘elIGVy Bl[TI0S BVAUSYSCMIN-BSUOsBY 9G} SurMoys dvey—'T aynor,7

OS VT pn] eter y sues Hey or 62

0S? grey oy ae2g Ruung opucby ove < oct 2

VHIANVIONVL “

a0" SWISSINV GW

,924e : : FEUGEH EI |!409

<< ° . : Qy
an Se Wl Owain ee, oe tne i N WANSHSVMIN
- 2 Toy [-vsnoawn
| a . h
l a :
poe A \ 16S I hi SGA, HOUOTY’ PEN
; : : y Sf A y, <= ih

aceeere,
aoe?

Lio)
=|
Ss
:
it}
H
|

M

4
°
oO
on

=

=
°
iS)

Cel
CS
p>
)

os
o
Pm

»

4
°

co

ea) Tea4ed

h
at
oO
P

—
ij)

1)

i
=
i)
mH

ie

T

a §
vd .=
ae
(30 babe |
o
Sok
eo
ie
=a
= 8
~~ oR
ae
qd 3
o
o 0
os
n oO
a &
oo
ire)
a
ro
aA
he
Bz
(o)
=e
FS
S 8
OD ee
on v
re:
a &
x TO
Sa
aa
a 8
> ar
eA tH
(od)
£8
Cl om
BO
ro ae
Ss

to those of the human race, has made an exhaustive examination of a
very large number of gorilla skulls, which revealed that those from
localities in which the bamboo is absent from the gorilla’s habitat are
GORILLAS—PITMAN 255

readily recognizable owing to the freedom from appreciable spacing
between the teeth. This spacing is a result in infancy of food pack-
ing, tough fibrous pieces of the bamboo shoots becoming wedged be-
tween the teeth and gradually pushing them apart. In due course,
this has developed the spacing as a constant, and possibly now in-
herited feature.

This difference, slight though appreciable, is scarcely a basis for
satisfactory separation but it does indicate that the mountain gorillas
respectively in the widely different, florally and climatically, regions
(a) west of Lake Kivu, (6) southwest (or westerly) of Lake Edward,
(c) the Birunga Mountains, and (d) the Kayonsa may to a certain
extent differ from each other. The representatives from west of
Lake Edward have been separated from beringet under the attractive
and descriptive title of rex-pygmacorum,? though the material on
which the separation is claimed is scanty. With adequate compara-
tive material it might be possible to separate racially the typical
mountain gorilla of the excessively humid bamboo and hagenia-
covered mountain slopes of the elevated Birunga Mountains from
those of the drier localities from which the bamboo is absent. If such
is the case, then the Kayonsa representative will possibly be found to
be an extreme form of the latter as a result to a certain degree of
environment, but particularly owing to a general absence of the juicy
vegetable food of which the gorilla is so fond.

There unfortunately being no material available for scientific
study, with the exception of an old skull from this region, and little
likelihood of any being procured at any rate in the near future, the
status of what may prove to be a specialized race has to be based
mainly on assumption.

Ecological facts which are definitely known, and which show great
divergence from the Birunga zone, are:

(1) There is in the Kayonsa a complete absence of bamboo, wild
celery, dock, and similar juicy-stemmed plants such as abound in the
humid, high altitudes, forcing the gorilla to confine its diet to a
mixture of leaves, berries, ferns, the tender fronds of tree-ferns, parts
of the wild banana stems, and leaves, and fibrous bark peeled off a
variety of shrubs in the undergrowth. Examples of some of these
botanical specimens submitted to the British Museum (Natural His-
tory) for expert determination which have been identified include

2The name of the Kayonsa gorilla—Captain Pitman has kindly sent some skulls of the
Kayonsa gorilla to the British Museum (Natural History), where I have been able to
examine them. In the shape of their nasals, the possession of a distinct masseteric knob
on the zygoma, and the position of their incisive teeth, they perfectly agree with the
gorilla from the Birunga voleanoes, and can easily be distinguished from the races living
west of the central African Rift, G. g. graueri Matschie from the isolated forest at Siba-
toa’s, northwest of Lake Tanganyika, and G. g. rex-pygmaeorum Schwarz from the east-
central forest.—ERNST SCHWARZ.
256 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

the fern Asplenium sandersonii, Piper capense, representatives of the
tribe Helianthoideae of Compositae, and a species of Acalypha
(Euphorbiaceae).

(2) Owing to a lack of what apparently are normal food constitu-
ents the gorilla has become more enterprising in search of food, and -
in consequence climbs trees freely to a known height of at least 50
feet. Further reference to this is made later.

(3) The “beds” of the Kayonsa gorilla are large platforms built in
the trees, and often at a considerable height above the ground. The
subject of these “beds” will be dealt with more fully in due course.

Finally, in connection with divergence is the question of habitat,
which is really the crux of the situation, for nowhere does it exceed
8,000 feet in height, the altitude varying between 6,000 and 7,900 feet.

Little is known of the greater part of the area marked on the map
“Impenetrable forest”, as there is no population and no means of
access. On the hill and ridge tops, once attained, progress is fairly
simple along the numerous paths made by the gorillas and bush-pigs,
but abrupt climbs up the hill slopes, sometimes for 1,000 feet and
over, and passage through the dank valleys choked with dense under-
growth is only possible if a file of the local populace armed with
home-made billhooks, an indispensable of their everyday equip-
ment, lead the way. There are some stands of fine trees, particularly
noticeable being a species of Podocarpus, at the higher elevations;
but, on the whole, except for here and there a forest giant of out-
standing size, the timber is disappointing and, in the portion (the
southern) of the forest visited, suggestive of comparatively recent
origin.

The various photographs of the forest give an accurate idea of its
grandeur, density, and beauty. To obtain these pictures it was neces-
sary to fell several trees and clear away large patches of secondary
growth to afford an uninterrupted view of the opposite hillslope.
The densely tangled undergrowth, securely bound and interwoven
with brambles and a variety of tough creepers, for man is absolutely
impenetrable, but through it a 6-foot gorilla weighing 400 pounds
creeps with ease and without making a sound. One of the photo-
graphs reveals a scarcely perceptible hole in the tangled vegetation
below the tree-ferns through which, not long before, a full-sized
male gorilla had emerged silently and unexpectedly upon two Euro-
pean prospectors: both parties were equally surprised !

The great feature of this forest region is the abundance of graceful
tree-ferns; many are fully 20 feet in height, while a few reach the
amazing height of 30 feet. As this region constitutes neither tropical
nor rain-forest but can be described as typical montane forest, the
tree-ferns are to be found in their luxuriant abundance principally

GORILLAS—PITMAN D7

in the humid valleys, on the lower and more sheltered hillslopes,
and, in fact, in any sheltered locality either on the tops or at the
sides of the ridges. Tree-fern thickets, with hundreds of fallen
thorny stems lying in all directions which cannot be removed, but
have to be surmounted, provide some of the most difficult going under
general conditions which are notoriously exacting. An hour or two
amongst the tree-ferns in a valley bottom will tax one’s patience to
the utmost, and prove arduous to even the fittest and strongest,
though the bare-footed pygmy guides negotiate these nightmare
places with the agility of monkeys.

On the main forest outskirts, and on hillslopes and hilltops on
which advancing settlement and cultivation have systematically de-
stroyed the trees, there is an abundance of bracken. Plate 5 por-
trays a steep hill, in shape like an inverted pudding bowl, a few
hundred feet high, densely covered with bracken. These bracken-
covered slopes provide wonderful refuges for the little red (forest)
duiker (Cephalophus nigrifrons kivuensis), a creature of about 30 to
40 pounds in weight, which is rarely seen. Specimens are only likely
to be acquired with the aid of the local inhabitants, who occasionally
destroy a few when hunting the destructive bush-pig, whose down-
fall is encompassed with well-trained dogs and nets. Some localities
show strikingly the sequence of events from the initial deforestation
to cultivation.

The situation was carefully examined in this connection to ascer-
tain whether undue deforestation was taking place, and whether
there was a likelihood of the gorillas thereby being adversely affected.
As far as could be gaged in the limited time available for investi-
gation, the destruction of forest is not on an extensive scale, and
actually is taking place away from, and not toward, the gorilla
haunts. The forest region to the east of the Kishasha River is a
gazetted forest reserve and, in consequence, not open for human
settlement. There is little likelihood in the immediate future of se-
rious conflict between man and gorilla in the dense uninhabitable
valleys to the west of this river and in the vicinity of the Belgian
Congo border, where the two encounters shortly to be described took
place.

At the time of the respective visits, based on information received
from the local Wambutte, and from a prospector who knew the
area intimately after operations lasting 18 months, it was calculated
that this western area harbored 40 to 50 gorillas. Many of these, if
not all, at certain seasons of the year, are believed to cross to the
elevated forest reserve to the east of the Kishasha River, so that even
if the lapse of time did see undue encroachment on the part of the
human population in the western habitat, the gorillas would still
958 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

have unlimited sanctuary in the east to which they could satisfac-
torily migrate.

The abundance or scarcity of gorillas in the vast eastern, impene-
trable region is at present unknown, though it is quite definite that
on the hills of Mpororo and Niguru at the southern extremity, there
were several gorilla troops, believed to total about two dozen indi-
viduals, at the same time that the western estimate was made. Also,
in the unvisited northerly region astride the Kishasha (or Irwi)
River, where the rainfall is greatest, a reliable informant records
numerous gorillas; and therefore the claim that there possibly exist
at least 80 of these magnificent anthropoids in the Kayonsa and im-
penetrable forest region does not appear extravagant.

Normally the troops vary in size from five to eight or nine, and
consist of one full-grown male, the father of the flock, and, accord-
ing to the size of the band, two or three females, the remainder being
juveniles of varying sizes. In the western region there is apparently
one huge troop permanently of the abnormal dimensions of nearly
two dozen. As I had unsolicited information about this large, and
I imagine truly terrifying, troop from no fewer than three reliable
and independent sources covering a period of 2 years, there is no
reason to doubt its existence. It would be most interesting to dis-
cover the exact constitution of so large a troop, and whether it is
limited to one adult male only. Actually I missed by a few hours
the opportunity of having a glimpse at this horde. The indispensa-
ble Wambutte spying out the land for me prior to His Excellency
the Governor of Uganda being introduced to his humblest subjects,
encountered far away and unexpectedly this supertroop, and too late
for me to have a hope of making contact before darkness fell, came
back gibbering with excitement to tell me of their great adventure.

Before further casual allusion to the Wambutte is made, it will
be best to record the reason for the presence of any Wambutte, true
pygmies, in Uganda, when this name is usually associated with the
Ituri forest to the west of the mighty Ruwenzori range, and the ele-
vated mountain ridges on the Belgian Congo side of Lake Edward.
The half-pygmy Batwa of the Mufumbiro volcanoes, those domiciled
in the Belgian zone of the Parc National Albert, being regarded as
part of the natural fauna(!), have long been familiar to me. But,
on first acquaintance with the little men of the Kishasha valley,
I was extremely puzzled by the unvarying reference of the local
Bachiga to the Wambutte, instead of the Batwa, These little folk,
on being interrogated, hotly denied any relationship with the Batwa
of the volcanoes, and emphatically affirmed that they were true
Wambutte. On being further questioned to account for the isolation
of their little group—in addition to the aged and infirm, the tally
of adult males is now about nine—so far away from the Wambutte

GORILLAS—PITMAN 259

of the Ituri, they proudly assured me that this was the original home
of the tribe, and that when all the others migrated west, their for-
bears remained behind.

It is a fascinating problem which can never be satisfactorily eluci-
dated, but it is possible, and not improbable, that the curious isola-
tion of these Wambutte and this gorilla habitat is a direct result of
the terrific upheaval, evidently a cataclysm on an unprecedented
scale, in the now-devastated region between the Niwashenya ridge
and Mufumbiro, which once must have been extraordinarily fertile
and humid. Then the all-conquering lava flow, amongst the numerous
catastrophes caused, dammed the deep valley now represented by Lake
Mutanda.

But, whatever the correct solution there the little folk are in splen-
did isolation, constituting an interesting anthropological puzzle. A
previous allusion to the Wambutte is qualified with the adjective
“indispensable”, no distortion of fact, for without their whole-hearted
cooperation and assistance, never a glimpse of a gorilla, except by
sheer accident, is one likely to get. It is true that by frequent wan-
dering along some of the well-defined tracks, which are easily fol-
lowed, on the fringe of the gorilla haunts one may both hear and
locate a troop, but it is a very different matter, quite hopeless, to try
to get to close quarters unassisted and unguided through the maze of
dense undergrowth covering what probably proves to be a succession
of exceptionally abrupt ascents and declivities before there is a chance
of attaining one’s goal.

The Wambutte, who have every respect for, though are not fright-
ened of, these great apes, are therefore their best guardians, for if
instructed to refuse aid to any stranger without the express permis-
sion of their chief as directed by higher authority, it will not be
possible, or at least highly improbable, for the unauthorized to inter-
fere with the reasonably peaceful Kayonsa gorilla. The Wambutte
know full well the absolute protection conferred on this species and
the penalties attached to any breach thereof, and are not anxious to
become involved in an unfortunate incident. Far less are they pre-
pared to infringe the instructions forbidding them to render assist-
ance to unauthorized strangers. And, it must be remembered that if
these pygmies do not want to do a thing they will not—coercion is
quite out of the question.

After my first visit in November 1933, when absolutely satisfied
that the gorilla enjoyed fully the immunity from molestation which
the law conferred, though somewhat disturbed by the penetration of
prospecting parties further into their haunts, instructions were left
with the local chief to insure freedom from unauthorized disturbance.
There was no doubt of the faithfulness with which these instructions

1120593718
260 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

were carried out, for when in January 1934, Mr. R. Akroyd, who con-
ducted a British Museum expedition for the purpose of collecting
botanical material for the gorilla group to be erected in the Natural
History Museum at South Kensington, turned up at my old camp,
he was regarded with open distrust by the local inhabitants and was
never aware of the existence of any Wambutte, although their loca-
tion was almost in sight of his tent. He did see a small gorilla band
on an elevated hillslope, opposite to and high above his camp. La-
boriously he struggled to the point where it had been observed, but
all he found were a few lumps of chewed fiber which had been expec-
torated by the feeding apes.

The pygmies are an essential concomitant to successful gorilla ob-
servation, and without their assistance to the stranger the great
anthropoids can enjoy to the full the protection they so thoroughly
deserve. Protection, pygmies, and the local Bachiga suggest a few
remarks on the subject of ferocity.

First, in order that I may not be accused of undue bias from the
point of view of the protection of one of Uganda’s rarest and most
interesting mammals, I will quote the unsolicited testimonial of a
prospector who regarded the gorillas as quite harmless. He says:

I have been prospecting in the impenetrable forest (Kayonsa-Kigezi) and I
thought that you might find the following experiences with gorillas of some
interest.

My work has at times taken me into places where they were in residence.
I have found them very peaceful, and it is possible to get within 20 feet of them.

I have only been attacked once, by an old male, but he was not a savage
brute. He was first attacked by my dog and his sole aim was to catch the dog,
otherwise it could have easily caught and killed my “boy.”

The gorilla “beds” are built from 5 to 20 feet high in the trees, each bed from
approximately 10 feet to 10 yards apart. The “beds” consist of bent-over
branches, with a superficial extent 3 feet by 2 feet approximately.

As far as I know they travel about in bands of about six to eight. They do
not make much noise, but just grunt. I maintain that unless provoked they
are docile.

I have seen about 80 during a long period while prospecting in the impenetrable
forest. The gorillas sometimes raid the nearby shambas (gardens), but I have
never heard of them attacking the natives, and the natives leave them alone
except to chase them away from their property.

This frank statement exposes definitely the fallacy of exceptional
ferocity, a state of affairs it was believed existed and which was
based on second-hand information. In my imagination the Kayonsa
gorilla was an unapproachable brute, wickedly tempered from con-
stant conflict with the local natives, whose crops it habitually raided,
a creature whose company was better avoided than sought. No one
of reasonable intelligence could claim that according to circumstances
the gorilla is not exceedingly dangerous and ferocious.

GORILLAS—PITMAN 261

But, around the male gorilla, on account of its enormous size and
strength, coupled in recent years with frequent lapses from grace
provoked by unnecessary and undue interference, there has been
woven, and unfortunately published, a fantasy of inaccuracy and
exaggeration, so much so that the very homely old male is visualized
as an object of dread. The male gorilla, as the family head, is most
solicitous for the welfare of his wives and children—a very human
trait, and on the threat of danger unheeding of his own safety accepts
full responsibility for the well-being of his charges. Can he be
blamed ?

If the danger is real the females and young are sent off, while
father waits to take on all comers until satisfied that the remainder
of the band are out of harm’s way. Sometimes, when the danger
is sudden and overwhelming, the youngsters are sent up trees to hide
till the trouble is over. It is strangely reminiscent of the records of
some of the early African explorers relative to tribal customs. When
the womenfolk were to be seen busily engaged in their usual vocation
in the precincts of a village or kraal, all was well, and no hostility
contemplated on the part of the local inhabitants. But an absence
of women and children was interpreted as unfavorable, signifying
that they had been removed to a safe place in order to enable the
warriors to fight unhampered. And so it is with the old male gorilla,
for as soon as he bids his family seek safety, he is out for mischief,
though without direct provocation is unlikely to attack. There are
black sheep in each fold, and exceptions to every rule, and solitary
examples, both male and female, which have probably been outlawed
for a very good reason, have been known to be abnormally aggressive.

The father of a band is liable to be most demonstrative when it
contains very small juveniles. The demonstration must be truly
fearsome and nerve-racking, and I am thankful I have not yet experi-
enced it. Eye-witnesses, who have had the strength of mind and
temerity to stand firm to a so-called charge and refrain from shoot-
ing, have described to me how the gorilla suddenly pulls up to stand
upright and seemingly towers above the intruder. A pause—he turns
and shuffles away. Graphic and thrilling accounts of these demon-
strations, some faithfully perpetuated in picture, will be found in
Du Chaillu’s “Equatorial Africa”, descriptive of many journeys of
exploration in West Africa between 1856-59. I never tire of read-
ing these fascinating narratives, but what has ever filled me with
unbounded admiration is the fearlessness and pluck of this well-
known explorer-naturalist who, armed with a single-barreled muzzle-
loader, habitually refrained from firing at the demonstrating male,
allowing him time and again to arrive almost within grasping
distance.
262 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

Compare this with the present day and the investigator backed by
a high-power modern double-barreled rifle, capable with a soft-nosed
bullet of dealing a shattering blow—practically infallible. Then
read the awful tales of superferocity served up for world-wide con-
sumption by the very people so well armed that they can interfere
and disturb as freely as they like in absolute safety.

And, if the gorilla, suspicious and resentful of constant interfer-
ence and undue disturbance, is no longer content with demonstration,
but is prone to carry home his “charge”, who is to blame—the gorilla
or the persistent disturber? With little practical experience one can-
not dogmatize, but if that limited experience is backed by the
knowledge acquired by reliable eyewitnesses, as it is most emphati-
cally, then it can be unhesitatingly claimed that, like most wild
creatures, the gorilla normally is peaceably disposed and not ag-
gressive. More than most, possibly, is this the case with the Kayonsa
representative, for, owing to constant close contact with human set-
tlement and the wandering charcoal-burners who operate in the
heart of its western haunts, it can be regarded as almost semido-
mestic, while I am reliably informed that at times the old males are
absurdly contemptuous of the local populace. It is a striking
example of the familiarity which breeds contempt.

As far as could be ascertained, and in spite of what had been
previously asserted to the contrary, the Kayonsa gorilla is not guilty
of frequent crop-raiding, at least so the local natives assured me.
It is true that the gorillas often feed in the vicinity of cultivation, but
the attraction is mainly the occurrence of various species of nourish-
ing weeds which grow to exceptional size on abandoned plots. The
local Bachiga (who can blame them?) very naturally object to the
proximity of these awe-inspiring beasts, and usually try to drive
them away. It is then that the males are most contemptuous of
human effort, and the females and young having been sent off, the old
gentlemen move only when it suits them to do so. The Wambutte
are extremely tolerant of the gorillas, but not so the other local na-
tives, who would readily endeavor to exterminate the lot, were it not
for the fact, of which they are well aware, that these splendid
animals are absolutely protected by the Government. It can be
realized, then, that the principal human enemy of the gorilla is the
camera-man and pseudo-investigator, who disturb flagrantly and
unnecessarily, then irritate, and finally have to take life in “self
defense.”

In the minds of many who should know better, the gorilla is classed
as a dangerous, ferocious beast, for “if molested it endeavors to
defend itself!”

The general proximity of this gorilla habitat to human settlement
has resulted in the presence of human beings having little disturbing

GORILLAS—PITMAN 263

effect on the gorillas. In consequence, the prospecting, which inci-
dentally has penetrated only the extreme southerly portion of the
forest, cannot be said to have caused undue disturbance. Prospect-
ing on a systematic scale has taken place in the forest, particularly
in the valleys, in the vicinity of the high hills, Niwashenya, Niguru,
and Kasatora. When I was in that neighborhood at the beginning of
November, there were frequent complaints from isolated pairs of
natives digging pits that gorillas were too close to be pleasant. Even
a lot of blasting seemed to have little other effect than to scare them
away temporarily.

The previous brief reference to gorilla beds can be amplified con-
siderably. Several were measured and found to vary in size from
3 feet by 214 feet to 4 feet by 3 feet, the latter presumably the sleep-
ing quarters of the big males. The thickness of the bed platforms
ranged from 8 to 15 inches. Three groups of beds—many more were
seen—were critically examined. The lowest bed was 6 feet above
the ground, the majority 10 feet or over, and four (two in one group
and one in each of the others) between 20 and 25 feet. In one group
of four, the beds, sited in a rough circle around a forested hollow
at the top of an elevated valley, were respectively at intervals of
10, 15, 30, and 50 paces in the circle, and all plainly visible to each
other. Groups of beds seen in trees on the forested slopes of valleys
were also sited so as to be clearly visible from each other. As in the
case of the volcanoes’ representatives these beds are singularly filthy,
and the edges often festooned with excrement.

In the Kayonsa tree-climbing is customary, and beds normally ®
constructed well above the ground. It is probable that the same
platforms are used on several consecutive nights.

The highest bed seen was nearly 50 feet above the ground, and
evidently constructed the previous night, but fortunately the pic-
ture taken by His Excellency the Governor of Uganda does not do
justice to the subject. It would have been more effective had a
Wambutte been perched on the edge of the platform. Its founda-
tion consisted of sturdy, upright tree-tops as much as 21% inches in
diameter, which had been snapped like matchsticks. As the descrip-
tion of this novel method of bed construction is certain to provoke
criticism and unlikely to pass unchallenged, it is fortunate that
His Excellency and two of his staff should have been present when
the 50-foot bed was observed, as their corroborative evidence is
irrefutable.

* During 1936, the Acting Game Warden, Capt. R. J. Salmon, viewed some of the
Kayonsa gorillas and found them amiably disposed. There is nothing, as a result of his
visit, to add to these comprehensive notes, except that he found “two big groups of nests, of
different nights, all on the ground with no overhead protection apart from the lean-to
effect of big tree-trunks.”—C. R. S. P.
264 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

On this occasion a troop of eight had been at least 36 hours in the
particular valley visited, and but for the mildly disturbing effect,
of our party might have remained there another couple of days. Un-
disturbed, there was no apparent intention of their leaving the local-
ity, and during a period of several hours the troop was feeding in
an extremely tiny area. But in this instance there had been a strik-
ing deviation from what is imagined to be the normal sleeping pro-
cedure, for, with the exception of the occupant of the lofty bed
previously mentioned, all the animals had slept on the ground

The sleeping quarters were at the base of a large tree surrounded
by a dense tangle of undergrowth, For about two-thirds of the way
round the tree base a broad, shallow trench a few inches in depth had
been scooped out of the dry soil, which constituted a wonderfully
cozy bed and refuge, effectively screened and protected by the almost
solid canopy of interwoven stems and matted foliage. At each end
of the trench and along its outer perimeter was banked up the
scooped earth and a pile of rubbish such as dead leaves and twigs.
It was impossible to conjecture in what attitude these gorillas had
slept, but the containing bank may have served both for protecticn
and comfort. This communal bed was as filthy as usual, and from
the freshness of the excreta had not been used for more than one
night. One of the droppings was so immense that my gun-bearer
naively remarked that it looked more like an elephant’s. This
dormitory was in the center of the small area in which the troop was
feeding. The treetop bed some 50 yards higher up the hillside most
certainly overlooked the ground shelter, though of its occupants
presumably nothing could have been seen.

This terrestrial sleeping-place conclusively upset any theories pre-
viously held as to the whys and wherefores of the tree-building habit,
to account for which no satisfactory explanation can at present be
advanced. A spell of dry weather may have induced ground sleep-
ing, or an expectant mother unable to climb satisfactorily may have
required protection; but if so, was it the old male up the tree, and
why? Ifa birth was imminent his women-folk may have made him
keep his own company, though he would still act as their guardian
by day. It is all very intriguing. Tree-climbing for food is readily
understandable, but tree-climbing to go to bed is another matter,
and requires explanation.

Beds in trees are suggestive of protection, not comfort, but there
is no apparent reason why such security is necessary. It cannot
be for fear of leopards for there are as many, and possibly a great
deal more, on Mufumbrio. Locally, no tales were heard of excep-
tional abundance, and the leopard theory is untenable. In the past
there may have been frequent incursions of lions from the Lake

GORILLAS—PITMAN 265

Edward plains or elsewhere, a phenomenon which might have driven
the gorillas to seek safety in the trees. One day by chance one may
happen upon the correct solution. Climatic conditions are un-
likely to be the controlling factor, for the ground, however damp,
does provide a measure of warmth and shelter, while the elevated
“perches” in the trees are often exposed and must be exceptionally
cold. What then?

There is one other factor which merits consideration. Can the
destructive bush-pig be responsible for this extra solicitude for pro-
tection? The nocturnal bush-pig, with which this region swarms,
when foraging in truculent droves is no mean antagonist, and is
quite capable of routing a gorilla troop by sheer force of numbers.
Is this the answer to the riddle? Time alone can tell.

In order to convey an idea of the exacting conditions under which
gorilla investigations are made, a graph (fig. 2) is shown of the
route followed—the altitudes being recorded by pocket aneroid—
in terms of ascents and descents to the approximate time factor.
And, as previously explained, the going nowhere is straightforward.
When one does happen to travel along the side of a hill or round
a reentrant and expects a little relief, the so-called path is almost
invariably on a slant of 45 degrees, and hedged in closely with tall
grass and scrub.

The most profitable and comfortable way of observing the Kay-
onsa gorillas is to let the pygmies, who are experts, go out first to
locate them. Normally a troop does not move far in the 24 hours,
often remaining 3 to 5 days in a small valley, and sometimes being
found on 3 consecutive days practically in the same spot; once lo-
cated, if it is too late to make contact that day it is unlikely to be
far away the next.

In order to experience the difficulties in progression one has to
expect, as well as to exercise gradually one’s hill-climbing muscles,
it 1s quite sound to go out previously on reconnaissance. But to join
the pygmies in the initial efforts to locate a troop is not advised,
as one is merely a hindrance to these agile little people. A good
walker can satisfactorily take on the Wambutte on the level, and
so he ought with his big stride, but it will take an exceptionally
active and seasoned white man all his time to keep in sight of his
little guides as they make prolonged ascents at their normal pace.

And what pitying scornful glances they cast at the perspiring
mzungu (European) painfully toiling upward and lagging far be-
low. The altitude, 6,000 feet to 7,900 feet, naturally also adds to
the difficulties of strenuous climbs, and it takes several days, if
then, to acquire what one hopes is goatlike agility, and to ascend
266 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

abrupt hill sides without the lungs trying to burst their way through
one’s chest.

The first rencontre with the gorillas took place on the afternoon of
a day when I had indulged in the fatuous task of gorilla locating,
toiling wearily up hill and down dale for several exhausting hours—
in the wrong direction. Having reached the furthest point that we
were likely to get that day, news was shouted down the valley from a

O the 4 & the be We 13 2hes 2 2% 22 3hrs.34 34 3% 4hrs.45 45 4%

ul
Zz

+ 1000 ft rs.
+ 200ft 4
t
+ ¥ ’ t
as el cB al i a i es
+ 600ft SHEE is) --- 3 i
ay pa 1o€
+ 500ft r 3
ee ee Le Piodaill es
-soon tt tt take | 7
ab esal, oh aT fas i
+ 200ft i
Et A SP
+ 100ft 1
ty ak el a is a I hh es ne
ce fl ke a a ie bs i | | el aici >
oie Led GL FG DD ieee
ee ee ee ee el
- 4008 HAA AHL es
vig sgltilia pA EM a elidiees a
eonne@ A080 NEN AEERRER|
rs.

Fiaurn 2.—Graphs, in terms of ascents and descents to the approximate time factor, of
two routes followed during the same day in the course of gorilla investigations, in order
to illustrate the existing conditions.

village many hundreds of feet above us, that gorillas had been lo-
cated at no great distance the other side of the camp. So, before
the quest could be really taken up there was first the exacting march
back to headquarters; but see the graph (fig. 2)—most descriptive—
of the day’s wanderings. There is no need to describe the ups and
downs, nor the type of country traversed, but what is noteworthy is
the fact that the troop of five, which I was fortunate enough to be
able to study at close quarters, was feeding in a forested valley less
than a mile away from, and overlooked by, a small mountain set-
tlement.

Most troops are easily located, as the guttural grunts with which
at times the members appear to maintain a regular conversation can
be heard at a considerable distance, and, in consequence, the pygmy
GORILLAS—PITMAN 267

locators, by following the tops of the ridges, are likely at once to
be aware of any that are about. In this case, shortly after the native
huts had been left behind and the valley entered the gorillas were
heard on the far side. It did not take long to reach the forest and
scrub-covered slope where they were feeding.

It was then that I had a real surprise. Creeping forward as
silently as possible, in the wake of my noiseless nimble guides until
the grunts sounded alarmingly close, and agitated bushes and vege-
tation could be observed just below us, the leader of the file with a
beaming face pointed cautiously, not at the cover below, but up into
a tree almost above our party. And there was the old male, silver-
backed and magnificent, 30 feet up a tree growing on the steeply
sloping hillside; the other four, females and juveniles, all fairly
large, were in the bushes below.

The Wambutte guides fearlessly crept to within 10 paces of the
tree—our approach, of course, was screened from view—and the
old male at once noticed us and scrutinized us keenly, but went on
feeding. He turned to look at us again, had a few more mouthfuls
of leaves, and then descending about 6 feet, sat down in a huge up-
right fork where the trunk divided, legs dangling, the excessively
long arms grasping nearby branches, an interested, though kindly
expression on his face, the enormous head framed in a thick fringe
of long shaggy hair.

It is impossible to describe adequately what one felt at that su-
preme moment. There before one was something entirely unre-
corded and new in connection with the world’s largest and most
interesting anthropoid, and what a giant he looked spread-eagled
on a slanting branch to reach a particularly desirable mouthful. He
was so large that at first I could not believe it was one animal, and
thought it must be two.

Having looked our fill at each other, the Wambutte suggested that
if we had seen enough we had better withdraw, and so we parted
amicably. There had been no undue disturbance, and unconcernedly
the gorillas continued to feed where they had been found, and even
after we had emerged from the forest on the opposite hillside, their
contented grunts could still be heard below. This guttural con-
versation, carried on so it appears by a succession of grunts differing
in length and varying in key, can be heard at a distance, and, as
previously mentioned, renders the location of a troop a comparatively
simple matter.

When I set out to view this troop, which had been originally lo-
cated by a villager from a nearby settlement, I was accompanied
by six Wambutte, two villagers, and three members of my own
staff. After I had seen all I wanted and was about to retrace my
268 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

steps, I found at least 50 unauthorized spearmen hanging in the
rear hoping for the opportunity of attacking the gorillas. In fact,
I was warned that if I did not personally see this crowd out of the
locality, the moment my back was turned they intended going in to
spear the male before he could get away from the tree, after which
the slaughter of the other four would have been simple. Knowing
full well that unauthorized they dare not attempt aggression, they
were quite ready to take advantage of the presence of a European,
afterwards making a misunderstanding their excuse. It shows how
easily an unfortunate episode may develop unless all participants
in gorilla investigations are authorized and absolutely under control.

The second meeting was more carefully planned (in March 1934),
and the Wambutte, who had been instructed to locate gorillas and
then keep in touch with them, were successful on the first day in
finding a troop many miles to the north, and for the next 9 days
were in contact with this and other bands, so that when the Governor
arrived, it was possible the following morning to take him to a troop
of eight within 114 hours’ march of camp.

Nearly 21% hours were spent in the proximity of this lot, but owing
to the excessive density and height of the undergrowth, in spite of
the general conditions being exceptionally favorable, practically no
opportunity was afforded of taking a photograph. This was not
due to the gorillas having been disturbed, as, until the last half
hour they were unaware of our presence, but just on account of the
nature of the vegetation. Although, while under observation, they
did not move out of an area of a few hundred yards square, one
always seemed to be 5 minutes behind them. Vantage points used
overlooked clearly patches of flattened undergrowth which would
have provided marvelous photographic subjects if only the gorilla
depredator could have been caught in the act.

But there is another side to the story when one is lamenting what
“might have been.” When there are eight unsuspecting gorillas
feeding contentedly extremely near at hand, and when the precise
location of never more than four of five is known at one and the same
time, it behooves one to move forward very cannily, for if perchance
one surprised a lagging female, her cry of alarm would in all
probability provoke the male to more than wrath.

On this occasion it was lucky that it was possible always to keep
above the feeding troop, which obviated considerably the possibility
of serious danger. At one place the party stood on a broad platform
overlooking the main valley: immediately below was a small feeder.
It was a perfect setting for a picture—the vegetation-choked valley,
a magnificent bank of tree-ferns growing on the abrupt opposite
side, havoc just below the platform where the gorillas had fed a

GORILLAS—PITMAN 269

few minutes previously—if only they would come out again—and,
about 60 paces distant, violently agitated bushes and cover, with an
occasional glimpse of a black shaggy body ora long hairy arm. Once
there was a good view of a female as she swung down from a small
tree beside a large bush. Dropping lightly to the ground, she
offered a perfect facing view, one long arm momentarily upright
grasping a stout branch. Others were seen at various times high
up the smaller trees; in this respect my very limited experience
suggests that the big male is more enterprising than his wives and
children.

After the troop had become aware of our presence, and when it
seemed quite hopeless to expect a chance to secure a photograph,
the party retraced its steps up the hill, making a slight detour to
follow a shoulder instead of forcing its way through a tangled
reentrant. To our amazement the gorilla females and youngsters
were observed a little below and parallel to our line of direction
inquisitively creeping up the reentrant, and having a good stare at
us by parting the undergrowth and peeping through as opportunity
offered.

This boldness revived the idea of a photograph, but it was no
good, the gorillas knew all about us and had no intention of exposing
themselves unduly, and as soon as we began to descend again they
vanished like a party of ghosts and were heard and seen no more.
The most satisfactory feature of the whole episode is the fact that
the gorillas were not unduly disturbed, and just faded away quietly.
The preference for feeding in the vicinity of the valley bottoms is
explained by the occurrence of more luxuriant vegetation induced
by additional humidity.

The wrathful roar, sometimes aptly described as a hellish challenge,
of the angered male is evidently a rarity in the Kayonsa region.
In 18 months my prospector informant had never heard it, and the
local natives—usually loquacious on such matters—did not appear
to be impressed by any outstanding yell. ,

There are many gorilla noises, the one most frequently described
by writers being the peculiar drumming of the chest. It is most
certainly done as a challenge and not necessarily to frighten, and is
by no means confined to demonstrating males, as is often claimed.
It is a sound which carries a long distance, especially across a valley.
The young males practice it at an early age, and Mok, directly after
his arrival at Regent’s Park, used to jump up suddenly from what-
ever he was doing and rush wildly round his cage bellowing and
frantically beating his chest. The partially cupped hands, and the
way in which they are held and strike the chest, are responsible for
the penetrating nature of the sound.
270 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

The second meeting provided an entirely new noise—as far as I am
aware there is no published description‘—a curiously metallic bub-
bling note. It was much too even and fast for any breast-beating,
and rippled forth as if made by rapidly closing and parting the lips.
It must have been a signal, presumably uttered by the big male,
probably a warning, as at that time the gorillas may have got the
wind of our party. But beyond that sudden clear-cut ripple there
was nothing to suggest that the gorillas were particularly on the
qui vive, except possibly the care they took to keep well hidden,
until more than half an hour later when one member of our party
lit a cigarette, and a wisp of blue smoke drifted toward the con-
cealed troop. Within a few moments there was a raucous bark from
the male, and there was menace in its tone.

After that at 10-minute intervals until we decided to withdraw
this bark was uttered. The situation was none too happy for the
writer, who was acting as the protective unit—for a game warden
it was an unenviable position. On the one hand, the sacred person
of the governor, on the other the almost sacred and strictly pro-
tected gorilla. If the old male got really crusty, how close dare he
be allowed to come, to make certain that he was only demonstrating ?
A radius of 10 paces was visualized, so near and no nearer, and just
to cheer matters up the private secretary from time to time with a
garrotting clutch at my throat hissed in my ear—‘You must not
shoot until the hand is out to grasp!” It was an awkward, tense
period waiting for the unknown to happen, and if it did uncertain
how to tackle it. As matters were, I do not suppose there was the
least danger, but while patiently waiting there was plenty of time
to think.

The Wambutte and Bachiga have a rich fund of strange tales
in regard to gorilla behavior with which they regale one from
time to time. Among the most entertaining is the idea that a
gorilla will play “possum” sometimes when it realizes it has been
observed by an intruding human. It pretends to run away, staggers
about, then falls down and covers itself with dead leaves and any
handy rubbish, and lies quite still. The intruder, puzzled, goes

4The appended extract from a letter written by Mr. F. S. Collier of the Nigeria Forest
Service, in West Africa, is of particular interest :

“That also reminds me that one point interested me very much in a report of yours of
gorillas which I read some months ago but which I haven’t got by me at the moment.
As far as I remember, you commented on a “metallic bubbling noise’ made by gorillas. I
have only been near them once, in the Cameroons—a big solitary male which I couldn’t
get up to, in very thick stuff. Several times he made a queer noise which commenced as a
quiet bubbling and gradually increased in volume, varying as though with the intake and
expulsion of breath, and culminating in two or three snarling belches of tremendous
volume. The native hunter said it was the beast’s stomach and I imagined the noise to be
involuntary as he was apparently alone and apparently not aware of our presence, for
he kept moving on quietly and sitting down for short spells, until we got fed up with the
heavy rain which was falling and chucked it.’”—C. R. S. P.

GORILLAS—PITMAN EA Bl |

forward to investigate thinking it dead, when up leaps the cunning
beast and kills him.

Another pretty fable concerns the way in which an interested go-
rilla can be duped with a display of spear throwing. The local folk
wishing to destroy a gorilla with little risk of danger to themselves
get into touch with a gorilla troop without disturbing it. If they find
the old male is interested in them they indulge in a game of throwing
spears at each other, but before a spear is thrown some grass is very
openly wrapped around the blade. The one who returns the spear
equally conspicuously does likewise. A spear with the blade partially
wrapped is then hurled toward the gorilla, who entering into the
game, recovers and returns it with an additional grass wrapping. The
wrapping of grass is supposed to obviate the possibility of an accident.
This to and fro play enables the human party to close gradually to
within effective striking distance, when the blade is shorn of its protec-
tion and the missile hurled with deadly intent.

Still another relates to crop raiding, and it is said that the old male
will remain behind and defy the puny humans who it evidently realizes
are incapable (by law) of action which would seriously injure him.
As the incensed natives try to drive him away, he raises himself up-
right and plucks handfuls of grass and vegetation which he brandishes
high above his head. This, it is stated, he does to attract attention
from the ground level to enable him to edge forward imperceptibly,
and suddenly shoot out a leg and grasp an unsuspecting native. It is
a pretty story, but unfortunately the creature’s leg-length is very much
shorter than that of an arm.

There are many others, but the above are some of the best samples.

During the journey back to camp after the second described success-
ful day, many entertaining moving and still pictures were taken of the
Wambutte by various members of the party. It was explained to the
pygmies when the ciné cameras were prepared for action that move-
ment was required and that they were to pretend to fight or something
of the sort. So, absolutely on their own, they put up the most realistic
imitation of a gorilla hunt, and the one who represented the gorilla
played his part to perfection. It was a most amusing performance.

It has been previously stressed that the Kayonsa habitat nowhere
attains a height of 8,000 feet. On the Birunga volcanoes one does not
expect to see gorillas until the 10,000 level is reached. Nor are the
gorillas of the volcanoes in the habit of ascending trees, and their
beds are placed almost invariably on the ground.

The gorillas do not constitute the only subject of outstanding inter-
est in this exceptionally attractive region, for locally the chimpanzee
is plentiful, but it is a great wanderer and never seems to stay long in
one place. Also, as a rule, the chimpanzee appears to avoid the fay-
ored haunts of its huge relative, and with one exception, in the neigh-
972 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

borhood of Mpororo, where a solitary bed was noted in a tree, their
easily recognized sleeping quarters were not seen in the localities where
the gorillas were accustomed to roam.

One afternoon I had a grand view of a band of about a dozen chim-
panzees which had decided to spend the night in a little reentrant val-
ley on the opposite hillside, and several hundred feet below my tent.
With the aid of a pair of powerful binoculars I was able for several
hours, till darkness put an end to the entertainment, to watch closely
what they were doing when absolutely at their ease and never a sus-
picion of the watcher above. What struck me most was the extraordi-
narily human way in which these apes moved about the tree tops.
When alarmed, or when speedy progress is desired, the chimpanzee
uses primarily its long arms. But when feeding unconcernedly aloft
and wishing to go down the nearest way to another branch it was most
illuminating to see the care with which the descent was made. Grasp-
ing securely with both hands the branch it intended leaving, the chim-
panzee slowly lowered itself till a foot reached the new stance, which
was tested thoroughly, then followed the other foot, and the same per-
formance repeated, after which, if satisfied, the ape let go its hands
and, well-balanced, very cautiously lowered its body till the hands
could grasp fresh security. Another point that was particularly strik-
ing was the fact that normally one arm always hung on tightly to an
overhead branch, suggesting that the chimpanzee is not really at home
in the trees, for those under observation did exhibit the most extraordi-
nary care in their movements and an almost ludicrous solicitude for
their own safety.

It was rarely possible at any one time to obtain a clear view of
more than two or three individuals, but numerous, stationary, long,
hairy arms, hanging on like grim death to the branches, indicated the
whereabouts of most other members of the troop. For minutes on
end, 12 minutes was the longest period timed, these arms stretched
upward absolutely motionless. An adult male who desired to move
from one treetop to the next was most comic. First of all he crawled
out along an upward slanting branch which was really stout, and
provided a ready highway to an equally thick branch of the other
tree. But halfway his nerve failed him and he spread-eagled him-
self over the branch and thoroughly tested the whole structure with
his hands and feet. Then, after several half-hearted attempts—there
must have been something very tempting on the other tree—he
plucked up courage and cautiously raising himself half upright
pushed himself forward in a regular “belly-flop”, and landed on his
face and chest amidst the branches of his goal.

Just before dusk the whole troop busied itself building beds in
three adjoining bushy-topped trees. These operations being mainly
inside the canopy of the trees and the light failing it was impossible

GORILLAS—PITMAN 273

to observe in detail the procedure. It is, however, noteworthy that
the chimpanzees had arrived in that particular group of trees on the
forested hill side about 2 p. m., and never moved out of them till
after 8.30 the next morning.

The weird community howling indulged in almost immediately
they had arrived, and kept up at varying intervals until the troop
Jeft next day, and even then heard intermittently for some time far
away in a distant valley, is indescribable. Grunts, croaks, groans,
barks, yells, piteous wails, unearthly shrieks, are a medley which tend
to make the strangest discord one is ever likely to hear. The reason
thereof is obscure, and why on earth when one starts the whole lot
have to join in to produce the revolting chorus also requires explana-
tion. Normally, chimpanzees are most vocal early and late, but this
was an exceptionally noisy troop, either singing praises lustily to
some particularly succulent food they had chanced upon, or simply
letting off steam from pure joie de vivre. Whatever the cause,
the effect was soul searing—and, if one had been close enough,
earsplitting.

The howling was indulged in at about 20-minute intervals until
just after 3:30, when it increased in frequency to once every 10 min-
utes. This was kept up till an hour after dark, until by 8:30 p. m.
the discord had practically ceased. A bout shortly after midnight
woke me up with a start, another outburst desecrated the early morn
at 3:15, and then an hour before dawn till an hour and a half after
the troop was once again really chatty. I can appreciate the neces-
sity of the hideous riot occasionally in the night. The chimpanzees
most certainly know it is voluminous, and, if frightened probably
hope not only to terrify nocturnal prowlers, but also to comfort each
other. Actually, I imagine, it serves to inform every prowler within
earshot exactly where the troop is located.

One sometimes gets a parallel in the porters’ camp when one is out
in the blue. If the weather is fine, camp, of course, there is none, the
porters sleeping in the open with guard fires around. <A porter has
a nightmare or gets a sudden fright, and utters a yell, and in a mo-
ment the whole lot are yelping loudly like a pack of hounds in full
ery. No one attempts to move, they just lie and make as much racket
as possible. It is immaterial whether elephant, rhinoceros, hippo-
potamus, buffalo, lion, or hyena are about, no one moves until the
alarm has subsided. Then there is a buzz of conversation, followed
by a roar of laughter, as the dreamer is discovered. Or, as once hap-
pened, a hyena had trodden on a sleeper, who had wakened to see a
pair of glowing eyes almost touching his face—after that the excited
chatter did not subside so easily. And I suspect it is the same with
the chimpanzees. If one happens to yell in the night, whatever the
274. ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

reason, all the others join in at once in sympathy. It is probably
very comforting though not melodious.

A grotesque creature which occurs in abundance in the Kishasha
Valley is the three-horned chameleon (Chameleo j. johnstoni). This
oddity grows to a length exceeding 12 inches, and the males appear
to retain some of the characters of the prehistoric type Z’riceratops,
which they are not unlike in miniature, with three curious horns, 1
to 114 inches in length, protruding forward from the nose and be-
tween the eyes. It is the male only which possesses this fearsome
looking adornment, and the horns are used with extraordinary
effect. The males are extremely pugnacious, and fight furiously,
when the horns play the principal part, and these combats are worth
watching. At times the contests develop into a tedious pushing
match, when the horns are interlocked; at others a really vigorous
fighter will dispose of its adversary in a few moments. The colora-
tion of the males, chiefly brilliant blue, green and yellow, is par-
ticularly vivid and attractive. As is universal throughout Africa
the local natives are terrified of chameleons.

Another interesting point about this region is the abundance of
iron, in the form of powdery haematite about 90 percent pure. There
are thousands of tons of it, and everywhere it can be found sticking
above the surface. In this form it is comparatively simple for the
local natives, with their primitive, though serviceable home-made
bellows and forge to convert it into spear heads, bill hooks, and
other necessary implements.

Unfortunately, I am not qualified to describe the beautiful flowers
which grow in profusion in the valleys and on the more humid lower
forest slopes. Wild balsams are amongst the commonest, and an
unattractive white species, and another of Kaffir pink, abound every-
where. In the darker, damper localities is found a type, common in
all the ultrawet forests of Uganda, with reddish stems and leaves,
and deep red waxy flowers. A tiny species with minute white blooms
is quite the most pleasing. Begonias, their floral artistry confined to
shades of a combination of pink and white, are locally abundant.
Some are small and grow in profusion pendant from the tree boughs,
others of a climbing variety and very much larger attain an immense
length. An unidentified flower with lovely mauve spikes grew in
profuse masses in some moist places where more than the usual
amount of sunlight penetrated. The strangest was a green, orchis-
like flower, the blossoms sparingly marked with delicate shades of
brown and yellow.

On the open hill sides the /’rythrina trees are found in flamboyant
splendor, their marvellous scarlet flowers, which come out before
the leaves, producing a wonderful effect against the dark background.
The vivid coloration can be seen for miles with the naked eye. A

GORILLAS—PITMAN 975

magnificent specimen, the largest seen, was at least 60 feet high and
had a vast spread. Aflame with blossom, it was absolutely gorgeous.
This tree called locally “ekirikiti” is an object of veneration. There
are, of course, many others, but the above are those which either
caught the eye or were most impressive.

Finally, it is hoped in the not distant future to make the further
acquaintance of the Kayonsa gorilla, and, if possible, for a con-
siderably longer period, so as to enable more comprehensive
investigations to be made.

EXPLANATION OF PLATES
PLATE 1

1. The uninviting mountain fastnesses (Mount Sabinio) of the Uganda moun-
tain gorilla.

2. Morning panorama of six volcanoes in the Mufumbiro group. The boundary
of mandated Ruanda, Belgian Congo, and Uganda, passes across the sum-
mits of Muhavura (approximately 13,500 feet), Mgahinga (approximately
11,500 feet), and Sabinio (approximately 12,000 feet). The others (Mikeno
exceeds 14,500 feet) are in Belgian territory. The whole group, primarily
the Belgian zone, is the home of the typical mountain gorilla.

Reading from left to right the photograph includes Muhavura, Mgahinga,
Sabinio, Vishoke in foreground with Karissimbi in the clouds, and Mikeno.

PLATE 2

Kigezi scenery taken from the gorilla forest at Mpororo. Lake Mutanda in right
center, Mount Mgahinga above it in right background, and Mount Muhavura
on left.

PLATE 3

1. Typical gorilla forest near Kasatora (the highest point just below 8,000
feet) in the Kayonsa region.
2. Wambutte pygmies on Niwashenya. Reproduced by permission of P. O. C.
Ray.
PLATE 4

1. Gorilla bed nearly 50 feet up in a fairly large tree. Used the previous
night. (Reproduced by permission of His Excellency the Governor of
Uganda, Sir B. H. Bourdillon, K. C. M. G., K. B. E.)

. Gorilla bed 10 feet above the ground. One of a group of four. It was
filthy and festooned with excreta.

i)

PLATE 5

1. Gorilla country west of Niwashenya.
2. An abrupt, dome-shaped, bracken-covered hill west of the Kishasha Valley and
immediately above the locality where the first troop of gorillas was viewed.

PLATE 6

Lofty tree-ferns almost obscured by tangled vegetation and matted creepers on
the steep hill slope of Mpororo. In right foreground below the tree-fern
is a large hole from which, a few days previously, a huge male gorilla had
suddenly and silently emerged to confront two prospectors who were
plodding up a mountain track.

112059—37—_19
Smithsonian Report, 1936.—Pitman PLATE 1

1. THE MOUNTAIN FASTNESSES OF THE UGANDA MOUNTAIN GORILLA.

2. MORNING PANORAMA OF SIX VOLCANOES IN THE MUFUMBIRO GROUP
“ONONXOdW LV LSAYOY VITIYODS AHL WOYY NaxyMVL AYANSSS IZS9IM

¢ ALV ad ueuitq—9¢6| ‘oda uetuOsyyIUIg
Smithsonian Report, 1936.—Pitman PLATE 3

1. TYPICAL GORILLA FOREST NEAR KASATORA.

2. WAMBUTTE PYGMIES ON NIWASHENYA.
PLATE 4

Wl
W
or
kK
WJ
10)
©
<
=I
>
S
<
WL
<t
os
oH
=)
kK
W
WW
LL

2. GORILLA BED 10 FEET ABOVE GROUND.

Pitman

GORILLA BED 50

te

Smithsonian Report, 1936.

Smithsonian Report, 1936.—Pitman

PLATE

5

1. GORILLA COUNTRY WEST OF NIWASHENYA.

2. ABRUPT, DOME-SHAPED HILL WEST OF KISHASHA VALLEY.
Smithsonian Report, 1936.—Pitman PLATE 6

LOFTY TREE-FERNS ALMOST OBSCURED BY TANGLED VEGETATION ON THE STEEP
SLOPE OF MPORORO.

THE VAMPIRE BAT?

A PRESENTATION OF UNDESCRIBED HABITS AND REVIEW OF ITS
HISTORY

By Raymonp L. Dirmars
Curator of Mammals and Reptiles, New York Zoological Society

and

ARTHUR M. GREENHALL
University of Michigan

[With 4 plates]

This article follows intensive studies of the vampire bat, Desmo-
dus rotundus, during trips to Panama and Trinidad during 1933 and
1934, and observations of specimens in captivity from both areas.
Between field reconnoiters, a thorough search of the literature has
been made. The work has thus produced a quite complete history
by bringing together recorded observations, references to studies of
important pathogenic significance, and notes of studies made by the
authors. Thus collectively clad, the vampire assumes a more inter-
esting and specialized form than past description has accorded it.

The studies of Desmodus outlined here were suggested to the
senior author in the summer of 1932 during a collecting trip in Cen-
tral America. The trip was concluded with a call upon Dr. Herbert
C. Clark, Director of the Gorgas Memorial Laboratory in Panama.
Dr. Clark told about his work with Dr. Lawrence H. Dunn in prov-
ing the vampire bat to be the carrier of a trypanosome existing in
the blood of cattle, to which cattle were resistant, but fatal to
equines. As cattle ranged in large numbers with horses and mules at
night, and bats indiscriminately attacked both, the working out of
remedial measures was a highly important problem.?

Several vampires were under observation at the Memorial Labora-
tory. They had been maintained for a number of months on a diet
of blood obtained at a nearby slaugterhouse and defibrinated to
keep it in fluid condition. Here was a demonstration of the prac-
ticability of maintaining this highly interesting species as an exhibit

1 Reprinted by permission from Zoologica, vol. 19, no. 2, Apr. 3, 1935.
2 Summarized in the American Journal of Tropical Medicine, vol. 18, no. 3, May 1933.

277
Diebe ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

at the Zoological Park. Dr. Clark, however, could spare none of
his specimens. All were needed to demonstrate the susceptibility
of the vampire itself after biting infected cattle or being injected
with the organisms. It was there indicated, and since proved, by
Clark and Dunn, that after biting infected cattle, the bat continues
its blood feasts night after night, but itself succumbs in a period of
about 30 days.

The senior author decided to return to Panama the following
summer and search the caves where vampires had been captured.
Hence in August of 1933, accompanied by Arthur M. Greenhall,
then a student at the University of Michigan, Panama was again
visited and Dr. Clark provided guides to explore the Chilibrillo
Caves in the Chagres Valley. We were informed that the caves were
of limestone formation, with horizontal tunnels. In some parts
these gave way to large chambers, from which again other tunnels
led into the mountain. We were equipped with headband lamps
and batteries carried on our belts.

In a shack near the caves was an illustration of the frequency
with which humans may be bitten by vampire bats. A boy about 10
years old had been bitten five times during a week, and always on the
under surface of his toes while he slept. He had bled profusely,
and the earthen floor beneath his slatted bed was blood-stained each
morning.

The route to the caves led through cattle trails in low, green
tangle, with ankle-deep mud most of the way, as the period was the
rainy season. There was a steep slope near the caves and a growth
of rain-forest. The Panaman guides, pushing through barricades of
vines, disclosed a hole in the ground. It appeared to be little more
than the entrance to a coal chute. We slid in and found ourselves in
a horizontal tunnel in which we could walk upright in single file.
The tunnel soon grew wider and higher, the floor slippery with red
mud. Through portions of this entering gallery there was swiftly
flowing water, knee deep in places. It appeared to come through the
sides, then to seep through crevices in the floor. By pointing a light
overhead, a double procession of big bats could be seen, the two
streams flying in opposite directions.

After we had worked forward a fair fraction of a mile, the sub-
terranean stream gave way again to the slippery floor. The hallway
became larger and now showed side galleries. The guides stopped
there to assemble the handles of the nets by which the bats were to be
taken. The atmosphere was unlike that of caves in the temperate
latitudes; the air was hot, heavy, and sweetish, the latter condition
resulting from the odor of thousands of bats. Common on the lime-
stone walls were huge roaches, of pale, straw color. Another insect

VAMPIRE BAT—DITMARS AND GREENHALL 279

denizen, not apparent without search of nearby crevices, but possibly
common enough, was a member of the hemiptera, of the genus
Triatoma. This isa small, reddish, blood-sucking bug, coming under
strong suspicion in recent studies of carrying the organism of Chagas
fever, a disease produced by a trypanosome in human blood, diag-
nosed and discovered by Dr. Emilio Chagas. Here and there, in
startling contrast on the walls, were spiderlike creatures with a
spread of limbs of 5 inches or more. These arthropods appear to be
cave-dwelling members of the Thelyphonidae, to which the whip
scorpion belongs.

We finally entered a big chamber, the arched ceiling of which
appeared to rise about 50 feet. The ceiling looked smooth, yet it was
rough enough to provide a hanging foothold for thousands of bats
of several kinds. Each species hung in a cluster of its own, the
smaller, insectivorous kinds and smaller fruit bats on the sides. Near
the dome of the ceiling was a mass of spear-nosed bats (PAyllo-
stomus), in a cluster about 15 feet in diameter. These bats have a
wing spread of about 20 inches and bodies the size of a rat. Our
lights disturbed them and caused a great shuffling of wings and move-
ment of innumerable faces. There was considerable chattering from
these larger bats, and their teeth showed plainly.

The side galleries were also full of bats and we inspected these in
search of the big carnivorous Phyllostomus which could not be cap-
tured in the high chamber. We caught 18 and “fought” them into a
mesh cage. AI] the while we were watching for vampires, which may
be distinguished by their habit of running along the vertical walls
and darting into crevices to hide. In a deep side gallery we found
bats of a kind not noted in the large chamber, but again no vampires.
After several hours we retraced our way along the subterranean
stream until, with a feeling of relief from the oppressive atmosphere,
we saw a faint glow that showed we were close to the entrance of
the cave.

After a breathing spell we sought and found the entrance to
another cave shown on our chart. The route sloped easily toward a
circular chamber fully 100 feet in diameter, though not more than 8
feet high. Here were hundreds of bats hanging in clusters, and all
of one kind—a medium-sized spear-nosed bat of a fruit-eating species.
They were not timid and could be closely approached before they took
flight. When a hand was waved close to them the result was a pour-
ing of winged bodies from the ceiling until the air was filled. Again
we made an unsuccessful search of the walls for vampires.

The third cavern had an almost vertical entrance through a well-
like shaft. There was not room enough to get down with the nets.
We lowered ourselves into the hole, reached a horizontal turn-off, and
280 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

on flashing our lamps against the wall, saw several bats run like
rodents along the vertical surface, then dart into crevices. We imme-
diately identified them as vampires, but all escaped.

With lights turned out we waited a half hour, but the bats did not
reappear. We explored another gallery and found a spot where a
slender man might squeeze through. We were too fatigued to con-
tinue, however.

The only other passage sheered off at a ledge beneath which ran a
channel of water, from wall to wall, which looked as if it were quite
deep. There the day’s reconnoiter ended.

The following morning we returned to the cave where the vampires
had been seen and with much caution descended to the widened area,
keeping the hghts out and feeling our way. Ready with some small
nets we had prepared the previous evening, we flashed the lights on
the wall where the bats had been seen, but no vampires were anywhere
in sight.

We reasoned that the vampires had retreated into the recesses of
the tunnel with the deep water, or into the narrow shaft where only a
slender man could get through. Greenhall worked into this small,
horizontal shaft and saw several vampires in a widened space ahead.
He captured two and the others made their way into the tunnel with
the deep water, which connected with a passage ahead.

Of the two vampires captured, one soon died. It was half grown
and possibly had been injured in the net. The other, an adult female,
lived for approximately 4 months after capture and, slightly more
than 3 months after being caught, gave birth to a single vigorous in-
fant. While as yet we do not know the period of gestation, the length
of time from capture of the mother to birth of the young shows a
surprisingly long period of pregnancy for such a small mammal.

After obtaining the female vampire, we left for the Atlantic side
of the Canal Zone. Dr. Clark provided two quarts of defibrinated
blood, fresh from the automatic refrigerator of his laboratory, but
from that moment until we reached New York the vampire was a
problem. We were naturally very keen to get it back alive. We
were not worried about the 18 big carnivorous bats; they were feed-
ing ravenously and fresh meat could be readily obtained. With an
assortment of crates containing reptiles and amphibians, and cases of
preserved specimens for the museums, we boarded a train for Colon.
The defibrinated blood was in a package beside us, and the cage con-
taining the vampire was swathed in black cloth. Dr. Clark had
cautioned us to get the blood on ice again as soon as possible.

On the Atlantic side it was necessary for the senior author to stop
2 days at the Navy Submarine Base at Coco Solo to deliver several
lectures. The commanding officer invited us to stay at his residence

VAMPIRE BAT—DITMARS AND GREENHALL 281

and here the defibrinated blood was placed on ice, while the bat was
domiciled in the garage. That night some of the blood was measured
out in a flat dish. The amount would have filled a fair-sized wine-
glass. The bat hung head downward from the top of its cage when the
dish was placed inside and would not come down to drink while we
were there. Early the next morning we inspected the cage and found
the dish nearly empty.

That routine never varied during the 10 days’ voyage to New York,
with stops at Colombian ports. We never saw the bat drink the blood,
but in the quiet of the night she took her meal. At the Park the sen-
ior author decided to keep the vampire in the reptile house where the
temperature was automatically maintained and the atmosphere was
damp, like a greenhouse. In roomy quarters she quickly settled down.
Blood was defibrinated in the Park’s research laboratory and the dish
was never placed in the cage until dark. For several weeks, however,
despite cautious inspections with a flashlight, no observations of her
visits to the dish could be made, although at some time during the
night the blood was consumed.

At last the vampire became tame enough to show a lively interest
when the dish was placed in the cage. She would crawl down the mesh
side a few steps, peer at the dish, then creep back to her favorite nook
in a corner, where she would hang head downward, by one leg. Each
night she came further down and wandered along the sides of the cage
before retreating. Her deliberate motions were surprising: A slow
stalk, head downward, and a retreat equally deliberate. Her subse-
quent actions added much to information gleaned from the history of
the species.

When the blood had been set in the cage, the observer took his stand
in what developed into a series of nightly vigils. Finally there came a
night when the bat descended the side of the cage with her usual
deliberation. Reaching the bottom, she started across the floor with
wings so compactly held that they looked like slender forelimbs of a
4-footed animal. Her rear limbs were directed downward. In this
way her body was reared a full two inches from the floor. She looked
like a big spider and her slow gait increased that effect. Her long
thumbs were directed forward and outward, serving as feet. Anyone
not knowing what she was would have been unlikely to suspect her of
being a bat. In this trip to the dish it appeared that an unpublished
habit of the vampire had been observed, and this, possibly, was the
method the bat used for prowling over a sleeping victim in seeking a
spot to use the highly perfected teeth in starting a flow of blood.

But other revelations were in store. Bending over the dish, the
bat darted her tongue into the sanguineous meal. Her lips were
never near the blood. The tongue was relatively long. It moved
289 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

at the rate of about four darts a second. At the instant of pro-
trusion it was pinkish, but once in action it functioned so perfectly
that a pulsating ribbon of blood spanned the gap between the sur-
face of the fluid and the creature’s lips. In 20 minutes nothing
remained but a red ring at the bottom of the dish. The bat’s body
was so distended that it appeared spherical. She backed off from
the dish, appeared to squat, then leap, and her wings spread like
a flash. She left the floor and in a flying movement too quick for
the eye to follow hooked a hind claw overhead and hung, head down,
in her usual position of rest. Gorged and inverted, she preened
herself like a cat, stopping occasionally to peer out of the cage in
the light of the single, shielded lamp to which she had become
accustomed.

Summarized, these observations appear to add much to the his-
tory of Desmodus. In less than half an hour it had been demon-
strated that the vampire can assume a walking gait as agile as a
4-legged animal; that the reason for its long thumb is its use as
a foot on the wing stalk; that it is not a blood-sucking creature
as has long been alleged; that it can gorge itself prodigiously and
assume an inverted position to digest its meal.

The problem of recording these actions on motion picture film
was at once considered. The outlook was doubtful. If the vampire
had been hesitant about performing up to that evening in the il-
lumination of a single, shielded ght, it appeared that lights of
enough actinic power for photography, yet tolerable upon the bat,
would necessitate a slow introduction and increasing the strength
of the lamps. The cbserver’s plan was to build up the illumination,
night after night, through a resistance coil, or dimmer.

Two weeks were spent in gradually increasing the strength of
the light. Ultimately the bat tolerated three 500 watt bulbs, with
a reflector. The scenes were exposed on 35 mm pancromatic film.
The lens employed was a 4-inch Zeiss, with long lght-cone. Re-
sults were clear and satisfactory and the greater number of the
illustrations accompanying this article are enlargements from the
motion-picture scenes.

Since contentions as to new habits, based upon a single specimen,
are far more satisfactory if they are afterward substantiated by
observations of additional individuals, it was determined that field
observations should be continued and additional vampires obtained
during the summer of 1934. Meanwhile the junior author started
a search of the literature for observations other than the mere state-
ment that the vampire is a blood-sucking animal. This search, con-
ducted in the library of the University of Michigan, revealed an
interesting continuity of inferences concerning habits, and some
authentic observations.

VAMPIRE BAT—DITMARS AND GREENHALL 283

Beginning with the earliest descriptions of the habits of the vam-
pire bat, allegations point to a blood-sucking creature. This is seen
in the writings of Aldrovandi, Shaw, Cuvier, Buffon, Geoffroy St.
Hilaire, Swainson, Gervais, Hensel, Goeldi, Quelch, and others. Re-
cent writers. such as Gadow (1908), Dugés (1911), and Herera (1911)
have indicated that the vampire applies its lips to the wound made
by specialized teeth, in order to pick up the ensuing flow of blood.

Charles Darwin appears to have been the first scientist to observe
a vampire in the act of drawing blood and note its procedure with
satisfactory clarity. He secured a bat and definitely recorded the
sanguineous habits of Desmodus. Previous to this, several larger
species of bats had been under suspicion. Darwin’s (1890) observa-
tion, however, did not change the belief that Desmodus was a blood-
sucking type. Nor could anything to the contrary be found in com-
paratively recent writing until the publication of an article by Dr.
Dunn (1932) containing the following:

The vampire does not suck blood, as popularly believed, but takes it up with
its tongue, seldom placing its mouth on the wound except when the latter is
first made or when the bleeding is very slow. If the wound bleeds freely, the
bat simply laps up the blood, hardly touching the tissues, while if the bleeding
is seant the bat licks the wound.

Thus Dunn’s observation, but a few years past, takes precedence,
as far as could be found, in rectifying a long procession of erroneous
inferences about the feeding habits of the vampire.

In further elucidation is a letter from Dr. Clark, dated April 18,
1934, and reading in part:

Our vampire does not suck the blood. It uses its tongue to collect the
blood, in a back and forth motion, rather than as a dog or cat laps up water
and milk. I have seen them feed from the edge of cuts on horses, but, of
course, never got close enough under these conditions to see the tongue in
action. Animal feedings offered the bats under laboratory conditions estab-
lish the fact that they lick the blood.

As to the quadrupedal gait of the vampire, apparently the first
mention of it is in the works of the Rev. J. G. Wood (1869), who
states that vampires can walk, rather than grovel like other bats,
but the description is insufficient in indicating the habit.

Dr. William Beebe (1925), in his book outlining experiences in
British Guiana, states:

We ascertained, however, that there was no truth in the belief that they
(vampires) hovered or kept fanning with their wings * * *. Now and then
a small body touched the sheet for an instant, then, with a soft little tap,
a vampire alighted on my chest.

Slowly it crept forward, but I hardly felt the pushing of the feet and pulling
of the thumbs as it crawled along. If I had been asleep, I should not have
awakened.
984 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

Dr. Beebe’s observation, though made in the dark, is good sub-
stantiation of the senior author’s surmise about the soft gait of the
bat in reconnoitering its prey. Dr. Beebe’s description of the push-
ing of the feet and pulling with the thumbs does not however, de-
fine the actual action of the vampire, which walks, with body well
elevated from the ground and the elongated thumbs used as feet.

In further substantiation of the observation that the bat has a
walking gait, the senior author was informed by Sacha Siemel, an
explorer of the Brazilian jungle, that while he was conducting a
party close to the Bolivian frontier, a number of vampires at-
tacked the horses. Mr. Siemel, with a flashlight, carefully noted the
actions of the bats. Some he saw lapping blood from fresh wounds,
while others, as yet undecided upon areas to bite, stalked back and
forth over the animals’ backs, walked among the matted leaves of the
forest floor, or hopped from one spot to another.

OBSERVATIONS DURING 1934

For the tropical reconnoiter of this year, the senior author planned
a trip along the entire chain of the West Indies, terminating at its
southerly end in collecting work in Trinidad and British Guiana.
The junior author left a month ahead, on July 19, bearing a letter
which put him in contact in Trinidad with Prof. F. W. Urich
of the Imperial College of Tropical Agriculture. Professor Urich
he found engaged in an investigation, operating on a government
grant, of the transmission of paralytic rabies by vampire bats. The
disease was seriously prevalent among cattle and thus far fatal,
although vaccine is now being administered to immunize the herds.
The disease was also fatal to about 35 humans over a period of years.
They were dwellers in the back areas where vampires are commonest,
and the bat is not known to attack humans in the cities and towns.

Professor Urich and his field assistant, J. P. L. Wehekind, ex-
tended much aid in getting together a collection of various speci-
mens for the Zoological Park and providing transportation to differ-
ent parts of the island. Several days after arrival in Trinidad the
junior author, accompanied by William Bridges, captured seven
vampire bats in the Diego Martin Cave.*

The newly captured bats were taken to the Government stock farm
and placed in a small framework building with sides of wire screen.
In this building was another vampire that had been under the ob-
servation of Professor Urich for about 3 months. He had studied
its feeding habits on goats and fowls. This bat was tame enough

’ For details of a month’s collecting work in Trinidad and Demarara, note serial account
by William Bridges, N. Y. Sun, July 30 to Sept. 12, 1934.

VAMPIRE BAT—DITMARS AND GREENHALL 285

to come down and feed while observers stood quietly in the room.
Notes made by Professor Urich during the studies by himself and
his field assistant appeared in the monthly reports of the Board of
Agriculture of Trinidad and Tobago. From these, Professor Urich
granted permission to quote as follows:

May report. (Observation on May 19, 1934.) When I got there at 9:40
p. m., found the bat feeding on the left foot of the cock, about 1 inch below
the spur. The bat does not suck the blood, but laps it. Bat fed for 12 minutes
from the time I arrived, the cock standing absolutely still. Then the cock started
to walk, the bat following along the ground, and fed again. The cock be-
came restless and walked away. Then it went into a corner of the cage, on
the ground. [Observation by Wehekind.]

June report. (Observation on June 27, 1984). Bat started feeding at 8:30
p. m. and finished at 8:40 p. m., being so gorged that he could scarely fly.
Bat dropped straight on goat and started to feed. No hovering. [Observation
by Wehekind. ]

In a later report.

As the Desmodus fed readily in captivity on fowls or goats, Mr. Wehekind
was able to ascertain the method of feeding of these bats on fowls. It is quite
different as stated in some records, the principal features of which are that the
bat does not hover around its victims, does not suck blood, and does a fair
amount of walking around on the victim to secure a suitable place for feeding.
This is carried out by making a narrow groove in the place selected and lapping
up the blood as it exudes from the wound. The bat always returns to an old
wound on the same animal on its daily feeding. All these observations were
verified by me (F. W. Urich) on several occasions.

The junior author of the present review adds the following notes
from observations made in the screened house where the bats were
quartered :

On Friday, August 3, 1934, at 6 p. m., Prof. F. W. Urich and myself went
to the Government stock farm to see the condition of the captive vampire
bats. One male vampire has been under Professor Urich’s observation since
May 18. It is known as “Tommy.” When we caught seven additional vam-
pires, Tommy was placed in a cage by himself, as it was known that he was
free from paralytic rabies. Professor Urich then attempted to feed Tommy
with defibrinated blood. The bat was used to feeding upon goats and fowls
that were introduced into the cage and evidently did not relish the diet of
prepared blood in a small dish. It seems to have taken a small quantity, but
we thought it best to release it with the others after the necessary quarantine.

At the time we entered the bat cage we found that a goat had been placed
inside for the other vampires to feed on. The goat had been freshly bitten,
as I noted three open wounds, two on the left side of the neck and one on the
right, from which blood was oozing.

The goat was calm, standing in one corner and no bats were feeding when
we entered. Tommy was released from his quarantine quarters, flew and
attached himself by the hind foot on the screening of the house, about a foot
and a half from the sill. The goat was standing not far away from the vam-
pire. The bat remained hanging for about 5 minutes, the thumbs bracing
the body, the wings folded close to the arms. After a short interval, the bat
I86 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

showed signs of movement. The head nodded; the lips were drawn back, ex-
posing the large canines and protruding incisor teeth. The bat’s gaze finally
rested upon the goat. I was watching approximately 4 feet away from the
bat and the goat was nearer to me. Slowly the bat moved down the screen, a
deliberate stalk. The fore and hind feet were lifted high from the wiring and
the body was well above the mesh. The bat stalked down and I noticed that
the movement of the forearm in the stride was exceptionally slow, the wings
folded tightly. From 2 to 3 minutes were required to traverse the distance
from the original position to the sill. Upon arriving at the edge of the sill,
the vampire hung from its bind feet and dangled over the edge into space.
There, it remained for about 2 more minutes. The goat was still standing in
the same position. Suddenly and silently the vampire launched itself into the
air and lightly landed on the middle portion of the goat’s back. There was still
no movement on the part of the goat. I moved quietly forward until I was
but 2 feet from the goat. Tommy stalked to the shoulder and neck regions
of the animal. After a minute or so of searching, the bat buried its head close
to the skin of the goat. There were a few up and down motions of the bat’s
head.* The goat then took a few steps forward and turned its head to the
right and left. The bat drew itself up but continued the nodding motions. The
goat walked around the room rather rapidly, the vampire hanging on and thus
riding its host. The goat passed by me, then stopped, and I noticed that blood
was exuding from a small wound and the bat was lapping it with a rapid
darting of the tongue. The goat started to walk again and passed under a
sort of table, a board of which brushed heavily against the animal’s back. The
goat was, in fact, obliged to slightly lower itself to pass under. The vampire
quickly scuttled down the shoulder of the goat to avoid being brushed off.
When the goat cleared the table the bat as quickly returned to the wound
and continued lapping. We then forced the goat to go back under the table
several times, the bat dextrously avoiding being hit by dodging down the
shoulder. The movement was very agile and reminded me somewhat of the
behavior of a crab. The bat could move both forward, backward, and side-
ways, but seemingly preferred head first.

I then reached out my hand and succeeded in touching the vampire, which
attempted to dodge. It did not, however, make any movement to fly. The
goat by now was exceptionally restless and ran back and forth around the room.
It was a timid animal and it was of us that it was afraid. When we left, the
bat was still riding the goat.

Later visits to the enclosure showed some of the other bats flying
down from the ceiling, landing on “all fours” upon the floor, then
hopping like toads from one spot to another, instead of assuming the
walking gait. On one occasion a bat was seen to be so gorged and
heavy from its sanguineous meal that it slid off the back of a goat to
the floor. It was unable to launch itself in flight from the floor,
hence climbed the wall, with head inverted, and when midway up
launched itself in flight, returning to its customary hanging place on
a ceiling beam.

When the senior author arrived in Trinidad, he spent considerable
time observing the bats during the early evening, in the screened

*The act of pushing aside the pelage and of biting.

VAMPIRE BAT—DITMARS AND GREENHALL I87

room. His notes on feeding actions would be nothing more than
repetition of what has already been brought out. What he noted
particularly was the general tolerance of the goat to bats which
crawled over its back or even wandered up the neck to the head.
For a time after alighting on a goat, the vampire was not inclined to
bite, but rested on the dorsal area, a bit forward of the shoulder, or
clung to the side, where it looked like a big spider. This latter posi-
tion is shown among the plates accompanying this article. The
wandering of the bat upon the strangely tolerant host, the occasional
lifting of the bat’s head, the leer that disclosed its keen teeth, and
the observer’s realization that all of this pointed to a sanguineous
meal, produced a sinister and impressive effect.

When the wound had been made, the tongue of the bat seemed to
move slower than when lapping blood from a dish, and was extended
far enough to come well in contact with the tissue. Goats of the
laboratory herd, which had been previously bitten while heavily
haired, showed bare spots surrounding the area of former wounds.
The wounds themselves had healed as a slightly indicated ridge, from
three-sixteenths to a quarter of an inch in length, but the area devoid
of hair was as large as, or larger than, one’s thumbnail. Apparently
the hair had been shed in the area of the wound. Here may be a
condition of “desensitization” in a vampire bite, with attending de-
struction of hair follicles. It has been suggested, though not with
satisfactory evidence, that the saliva of the bat contains an antico-
agulent, which might account for many bites bleeding for several
hours. The term “desensitization”, as here used, may be rather a
loose one, but it signifies that something abnormal has happened to
the tissue besides the opening of a mere wound by specialized and
lancing incisor teeth. There can certainly be no injection of an anti-
coagulant, but there is a possibility of the application of some sali-
vary secretion during the action of the bat’s lapping tongue—a secre-
tion retarding the formation of a clot about the wound. This matter
will be considered in a treatment of physiological characteristics in
following paragraphs relating to investigations now under way with
four vampires, in the possession of the senior author.

Field observations in Trinidad indicated vampire bats to be fairly
common, but not generally distributed. Near the base of the Aripo
heights, particularly, frequent bites were reported. The bats at-
tacked cattle, swine, and poultry. Sows were bitten upon the teats
and the wounds in healing so shriveled these members that the ani-
mals were unable to nurse their young. Most fowls were unable
to survive the loss of blood and were found dead in the morning.

Around a dish of defibrinated blood, the feeding motions of the
four vampires brought back from Trinidad duplicated the notes made
Iss ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

upon the Panama specimen of the preceding year, though the lat-
ter represented a different subspecies. The animals so gorge them-
selves that their bodies become almost spherical. This gorging
consumes from 20 to 25 minutes.

In some experiments with large fowls, weighing up to 8 pounds,
the bats were observed to be extremely cautious in their approach,
slowly stalking in a circle wide enough to keep out of reach of the
bird’s bill. An action of that kind might readily kill a light-bodied
bat. After several circular maneuvers, an approach was made to
the fowl’s feet, the bat feeling its way forward inch by inch, and
finally nibbling gently at the under surface of the toe. This ap-
peared to serve the purpose of getting the fowl accustomed to its
toe being touched. If the fowl made an abrupt move, the bat would
dart backward, then slowly stalk forward to resume its attack.
Whether any slight “shaving” of the tissue was taking place and a
salivary secretion was being applied by the tongue it was impossible
to determine, as the bats were too timid to bear extremely close
inspection. After these preliminaries, however, the mouth was
rather slowly opened as if to gage precisely the sweep of the in-
cisor teeth, and then there was a quick and positive bite. While it
has been customary to allege the utter painlessness of vampire bites,
in several instances where fowls were under observation, there was
a decided reaction of motion on the birds’ part, showing that the bite
was sharply felt. If the fowl moved, the bat darted back, but im-
mediately returned to the wound, now freely bleeding. From this
point the bat continued its meal and the fowl paid no further
attention to it.

PHYSIOLOGY

Desmodus is no larger than the larger insectivorous bats. A par-
ticularly good female example of D. rotwndus rotundus, from Brazil,
shows a length of body of 4 inches and a wing spread of 13 inches.

The incisor teeth are extremely sharp and have a curvature that
forms a scooplike mechanism. The incisors are well in advance of
the canines. The lower incisors are widely separated, forming a par-
tial channel for the darting motion of the tongue in taking up blood
from a wound. Examination of bites shows a craterlike wound.
The sharp upper canines, being set far behind the incisors, appear
to play little part in most wounds.

Experiences of reliable observers point to a remarkable painlessness
of the average vampire bite. There are statements that victims knew
nothing of the attack, and would have remained ignorant of such
a happening had they not found blood stains the following morning.
An expedition from the University of Michigan in Santa Marta,
Colombia, may be cited (Ruthven, 1922) :

VAMPIRE BAT—DITMARS AND GREENHALL 289

We did sleep, but so soundly that it was not until morning that we discovered
that we had been raided during the night by vampire bats, and the whole party
was covered with blood stains from the many bites of these bats. It may seem
unreasonable to the uninitiated that we could have been thus bitten and not
be disturbed in our sleep, but the fact is that there is no pain produced at the
time of the bite, nor indeed for some hours afterward.

In a previous paragraph it has been noted that a fowl, introduced
into a cage with vampires, flinched upon being bitten, this observa-
tion being made by the senior author. Examining some of the
recent studies of Dunn, it appears that the younger bats are not so
expert in effecting their bites and that experimenters testing the
bites of various specimens upon the human forearm occasionally
found bats that dealt decidedly painful bites.

There is controversy as to whether the bat carries an anticoagulant
in its saliva, introducing it into the freshly-made wound to keep it
bleeding, or whether a specialized type of bite induces prolonged
bleeding. Bier (1932), of the Biological Society of Sao Paulo,
Brazil, experimented with extracts of the salivary glands of Des-
modus and also with a species of Phyllostomus (P. hastatus). His
published results indicate that Desmodus possessed anticoagulating
properties in its saliva, while the nonhematophagus bat’s saliva was
completely inactive. In October 1934 Dr. Barry King, of Columbia
University, began experiments with the four vampire bats now in
the care of the senior author, This work points to an anticoagulant
in the salivary secretion of Vesmodus, but time and checking will
be required to define its activity.

Although mosquitoes, blood-sucking flies, ticks, and lice have long
been known to harbor disease organisms in their saliva, the vampire
bat only recently came under suspicion. The work of Clark and
Dunn at the Gorgas Memorial Laboratory has confirmed the guilt
of the bat. These investigators demonstrated that Desmodus ro-
tundus murinus is a vector of the equine disease murrina, prevalent
in Panama and produced by 7'rypanosoma hippicum Darling. It is
interesting to note that the disease also proved to be fatal to all of
the bats carrying the trypanosome, although they live long enough
after becoming infected to produce grave damage.

While there have been statements that vampires appeared to be
unable to endure a fast of not much more than 36 hours, Urich
states that vampires can fast as long as 3 days. The senior author
fasted four specimens for 48 hours, seemingly without harm.

As early as 1865 Huxley made a detailed study of the stomach of
Desmodus and found that its extremely intestiform shape was ap-
parently specialized for rapid assimilation. This, together with the
specialized dentition and peculiar type of quadrupedal gait, make
the vampire especially adapted to its sanguinary mode of living.
290 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

TRADITION

The term “vampire” originated long before civilized man’s knowl-
edge of a so-called blood-sucking bat. In later years the discovery
of a sanguineous bat appears to have inspired elaboration of the tra-
dition. This history has been traced by the junior author through
approximately 200 titles, a partial bibliography of which appears
at the end of the article. Surmise, theories, and observations of vari-
ous naturalists in building up the history of the vampire bat have
also been searched, as well as scientific nomenclature.

The term “vampire” is apparently of Slavonic origin and was first
apphed in eastern Europe to alleged blood-sucking, supernatural
beings and persons abnormally endowed with hematoposia. The
preternatural vampire was supposed to be the soul of a dead person
which left the interred body at night, in one of many forms, to suck
the blood of sleeping persons and sometimes animals. Of the numer-
ous shapes thought to be assumed by the vampire, it is of interest to
note that in early history the bat form was not mentioned. It later
found its way into the legends, as brought out in Bram Stoker’s
Dracula. The preferred form seems to have been the werewolf,
dog, cat, horse, birds of various kinds, snakes, and even inanimate
things such as straw and white flame.

Superstition about blood-sucking forms has been widespread and
of dateless origin. It was known in many ancient cultures of the
Old World. The tendency of blood-sucking creatures to produce
legends is to be noted among the Mayans even before the arrival of
Cortez in the early sixteenth century brought contact with Old
World superstitions. In this case of New World exaggeration, there
was a basis for it—the actual presence of sanguineous bats. Here
was reverence of a blood-sucking bat god (MacCulloch, 1932), un-
doubtedly founded on the existence of a sanguineous bat common in
most of the Mayan areas of habitation. Then again, the return of
Cortez’s followers to Europe with tales of blood-sucking bats,
founded on acquired knowledge of an actual blood-drinking creature,
appears to have strengthened the superstitions of Europe. From
chronological examination of the old literature, it seems that it was
not long after the return of the Spaniards that allegations appeared
about blood-sucking habits of the bats of Europe, where no sangui-
vorous bats have ever occurred.

After the return of the early explorers from the New World
tropics, a “vampire” epidemic broke out in Europe about 1730 (KEn-
eyclopaedia Britannica, 1910), especially in the Slavonic countries.
All sorts of works, scientific and philosophical, related incidents and
cases of those unfortunate people who became afflicted with vampir-
ism and sucked the blood of men and animals. Up to this time,

VAMPIRE BAT—DITMARS AND GREENHALL 291

although bats were associated with supernatural happenings, they
were not associated with vampirism. Slowly the tradition of vam-
pirism added the bat form to its list and later fiction, founded on
vampirism, included allusion to bat wings, batlike movements and
the actual bat form as portrayed in the really classic Dracula
(Stoker, 1929).

Early naturalists visiting Central and South America arrived
there with definite knowledge of a bat of some sort that fed upon
blood. The exact bat was unknown. This led to various inferences.
The ugliest and largest bats were thought to be the vampire. Actual
observations of these early travelers, thrilled by the strange New
World Tropics, appear to be in the minority as compared to the
acceptance of tales they heard, or their deductions from dead speci-
mens. Hence, we find in the old records weird descriptions of vam-
pires hovering over their sleeping victims, fanning them with their
wings to induce profound sleep, inserting long tongues in the vein
and sucking the man or beast dry.

TAXONOMY

The actual vampire was accorded a place in the formal, binomial
lists before it was individually known to be a sanguineous bat.
Prince Maximilian Wied (1826) separated the vampire from the
genus Phyllostoma of E. Geoffroy and placed it in a separate
genus, Desmodus, with the specific name of rufus in 1826. This
application of a new specific name in the removal of the vam-
pire from Phyllostoma failed to hold, as Geoffroy had already estab-
lished the species as P. rotundwm in 1810.5 The generic separation,
however, was clearly indicated by the specialized dentition, although
Desmodus still retained a place in the family of spear-nosed bats,
Phyllostomidae. Waterhouse (1839) referred to the vampire as
Desmodus dorbignyi. Wagner (Schreber, 1840) proposed the spe-
cific name of murinus. ‘To bring the taxonomy to date we quote
from Osgood (1912) :

In selecting specimens of Desmodus for comparison, I find a noticeable
difference in size between examples of typical D. rotundus from Paraguay
and specimens from Mexico and Central America. In typical rotundus, the
forearm measures 60-64 mm, while in Mexican and Guatemalan specimens
the maximum is 55. A corresponding difference is shown by the skulls. It
would seem advisable, therefore, to recognize a northern subspecies, using
Wagner’s name murinus (suppl. Schreb. Satigth., vol. 1, p. 377, 1840), which
would stand as Desmodus rotundus murinus Wagner.

It now appears that the only known sanguineous bats of the
world occur in the American Tropics, forming the family Desmo-

> Geoffroy, E., Ann. Mus. Hist. Nat., p. 181, 1810.
112059—37——_20
992 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

dontidae. This is composed of three genera, each with a single
species, as follows: Desmodus rotundus rotundus Geoffroy; D. ro-
tundus murinus Wagner; Diphylla centralis Thomas, and Diaemus
youngi (Jentink).

The habits of Diaemus youngi, appearing to be a rare species,
have not as yet been authentically noted. The dentition, however,
points to it being of similar habits to the two former sanguineous
species,

BIBLIOGRAPHY
ALLEN, H.
1893. A monograph of the bats of North America. U.S. Nat. Mus. Bull. 43,
pp. ix+1-198, pls. 38.
1896. Notes on the vampire bat (Diphylla ecaudata), with special reference
to its relationships with Desmodus rufus. Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus.,
vol. 18, no. 1099, pp. 769-777, figs. 10.
ANTHONY, H. HE.
1925. The bat. Nat. Hist., vol. 25, no. 6, pp. 560-570, figs. 3.
BEEBE, W.
1916. Some interesting pictures from the Tropical Research Station in Brit-
ish Guiana. Bull. N. Y. Zool. Soc., vol. 19, no. 5, p. 1400.
1925. Edge of the jungle. Garden City Publishing Co., New York.
Bier, O. G.
1932. Action anticoagulante et fibrinolytique de l’extrait des glandes sali-
vaires d’une chauvesouris hématophage (Desmodus rufus). C. R.
Soe. Biol. Paris, vol. 110, pp. 129-131.
Brotocta CENTRALI-AMERICANA,

1879-1882. Mammalia, by Edward R. Alston. Pp. xx-+1-220, pls. 22.
BurFon, G. L.

1857 (1707-1788). Buffon’s natural history of man, the globe and of quad-

rupeds. Leavitt and Allen, New York.

CABRERA, A. L.
1908. Catdlogo descriptive de los Quirépteros Chilenmos. Rey. Chilena Hist.
Nat., vol. 7, pp. 278-808, figs. 14.
CAMPBELL, C.
1931. Protection against vampire bats. Journ. Mamm., vol. 12, pp. 312-313.

CLARK, H. C., and Dunn, L. H.

19382. Experimental studies on Chagas’ disease in Panama. Amer. Journ.
Trop. Med., vol. 12, no. 1, pp. 49-77. January.

1933. Animal susceptibility to Trypanosoma hippicum, the equine trypano-
some of Panama, with special reference to cattle as an unharmed
host and probable reservoir of importance. Amer, Journ. Trop. Med.,
vol. 138, no. 3, pp. 273-281, fig. 1. May.

Cuvier, B.
1831. Animal kingdom. 4 vols. G. and C. and H. Carville, New York.

Darwin, C.
1890. Journal of researches into the natural history and geology of the
countries visited during the voyage round the world of H. M. S.
Beagle. John Murray, London.

VAMPIRE BAT—DITMARS AND GREENHALL 293

D’AzARA, F.

1801. Essais sur Vhistoire naturelle des quadrupeds de la Province du

Paraguay, vol. 2. Pougens, Paris.
Dosson, G. E.

1878. Catalogue of the Chiroptera in the British Museum. Taylor and

Francis, London.
Ducts, A.

1906. Apuntes para una Monografia de Desmodus rufus, Wied. Mem. Soc.
Ant. Alzate, Mexico, vol. 24, pp. 65-72, pls. 3.

1911. El Vampiro de Tierra Caliente. La Naturaleza Mexico, ser. 3, vol. 1,
no. 2, pp. 1-4.

Dunn, L. H.

1982. Susceptibility of bats to infection with the horse trypanosome, T'ry-
panosoma hippicum Darling, in Panama. Journ. Prev. Med., vol. 6,
no. 3, pp. 155-160. May.

1932. Experiments in the transmission of Trypanosoma hippicum Darling with
the vampire bat, Desmodus rotundus murinus Wagner, as a vector
in Panama. Journ. Prey. Med., vol. 6, no. 5, pp. 415-424. September.

1933. Observations on the carnivorous habits of the spear-nosed bat, Phyllos-
tomus hastatus panamensis Allen, in Panama. Journ. Mamm., vol.
14, no. 3, pp. 188-199.

Haves, A. O.
1904. Modern vampirism. Talisman Publishing Co., Harrogate, England.
ELLIoT, D. C.

1904. The land and sea mammals of Middle America and the West Indies.

Field Mus. Zool. Ser., vol. 4, pt. 2, pp. 441-850, pls. 42-67, figs. 59-142.

ENCYCLOPAEDIA BRITANNICA.
1910-1911. 11th ed., vol. 27, pp. 876-877.
1929, 14th ed., vol. 22, p. 965.
Gapow, H.
1908. Through southern Mexico. Witherby & Co., London
Grorrroy SAINT-HImAIRE.
1834. Histoire naturelle des mammiféres. DeJust Rouvier et E. Le Bouvier,
Paris.
GERvAIS, P.
1854. Histoire naturelle des mammiféres. L. Curmer, Paris.
GLEADOw, F.
1907. Bats feeding on birds. Journ. Bombay Nat. Hist. Soc., vol. 17, p. 1022.
GoEtpI, E. A.
1893. Os Mammiferos do Brasil. Monographias Brasileiras, Alves and Co.,
Rio de Janeiro.
1903. Colleccao de Mammiferos no Museu do Para (1894-1903). Boletim do
Museu Goeldi (Museu Paraense), vol. 4, no. 1, pp. 1-85, illus.
1887. Fressen die Phyllostoma Arten (Vampire) Friichte oder Nicht? Zool.
Gart., vol. 28, pp. 163-172.
GOLDMAN, E. A.
1920. Mammals of Panama. Smithsonian Misc. Coll., vol. 69, no. 5, pp. 1-809.
39 pls.
Goopwin, G. G.
1928. Flying shadows of the night. Nat. Hist., vol. 28, pp. 515-522, figs. 12.
294 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

GrRAy, J. E.
1866. Revision of the genera of the Phyllostomidae. Proc. Zool. Soc. London,
pp. 111-118.
GREEN, E. E.
1911. On Jlegaderma lyra, its habits and parasites. Spolia Zeylanica, vol. 7,
p. 216.
HENSEL, R.
1869. Beitriige zur Kenntniss der Thierwelt Brasiliens. Zool. Gart., vol. 10,
pp. 135-140.
HERRERA, A. L.

1911. Nota Adicional. La Naturaleza Mexico, ser. 8, vol. 1, no. 2, pp. 4-6, pl. i.

je lop:dblapgs Jd 18 &
1865. On the structure of the stomach in Desmodus rufus. Proc. Zvol. Soe.
London, pp. 386-890, fig. 1.

JENTINE, L. A.
1893. Desmodus youngti, n. sp. Notes Leyden Mus., vol. 15, W. Indies, pp.
278-283.
Lima, J. L.
1926. Os Morcegos do Colleccio do Museu Paulista. Rev. Mus. Sao Paulo,
vol. 14, pp. 48-127.
Lutz, O.
1921. Zoologia. Koehler and Volekmar A.-G., Leipzig, Germany.

LYDEKKER, R.
1893. The Royal natural history. 6 vols. Frederick Warne and Co., Lon-
don.
Lyon, M. W.
1931. The vampire bat. Science, vol. 73, no. 1883, pp. 124-125.
MacCuttocyH, C. J. A.
1932. The mythology of all races. 138 vols. Archeol. Inst. Amer. Marshall
Jones Co., Boston.
McGovern, W. M.
1927. Jungle paths and Inca ruins. Grosset and Dunlap, New York.
MItrerR, GEeRRIT S., JR.
1896. Note on the milk dentition of Desmodus. Proc. Biol. Soc. Washington,
vol. 10, pp. 118-114, figs. 2.
1906. Twelve new genera of bats. Proc. Biol. Soc. Washington, vol. 19, pp.
83-86.
1907. The families and genera of bats. U.S. Nat. Mus. Bull. 57, pp. xvii--1-
282, pls. 14.
1912. A small collection of bats from Panama. Proc. U. 8. Nat. Mus., vol. 42,
no. 1882, pp. 21-26.
1924. List of North American recent mammals, 1923. U.S. Nat. Mus. Bull.
128, pp. xvi+1-673.
New INTERNATIONAL ENCYCLOPAEDIA.
1927. Zd ed., vol. 23, Dodd, Mead and Co., New York.
Osaoop, W. H.
1912. Mammals from Western Venezuela and Eastern Colombia. Field
Mus. Nat. Hist. Zool. Series, publ. 155, vol. 10, no. 5, pp. 32-66, pl. 1.

VAMPIRE BAT—DITMARS AND GREENHALL 295

OxFORD DICTIONARY.

1928. Vol. 10, pt. 2, V-Z p. 33, Clarendon Press, Oxford, England.
PENNANT, T.

1771. Synopsis of quadrupeds. Chester, London.
PETERS, W.

1865. Uber die Zuden Vampyri Gehirigen Flederthiere und Uber die Natiir-
liche Stellung der Gattung Antrozous. Monatsb. (K. Preuss.)
Akad. Wiss. Berlin, pp. 503-524.

PRIMROSE, A. M.
1907. Bats feeding on small birds. Journ. Bombay Nat. Hist. Soe., vol. 17,
no. 4, pp. 1021-1022.
QUELCH, J. J.
1892. The bats of British Guiana. Timehri, vol. 6, New Series, pp. 91-109.
ROOSEVELT, T.
1919. Through the Brazilian Wilderness. Charles Scribners’ Sons, New York.
RUTHVEN, A. G.

1922. The amphibians and reptiles of the Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta,
Columbia. Misc. Publ. Mus. Zool., Univ. Minnesota, no. 8, pp. 1-69,
illus. 22, 1 map.

SCHREBER, J. C.

1840. Die Saugihiere in Abbildungen Nach der Natur mit Beschreibungen.

Suppl. 1.
SHaw, G.

1800. General zoology or systematic natural history. Mammalia, vol. 1.

G. Kearsley, London.
SumMMErs, M.
1928. The vampire: His kith and kin. Kegan Paul, Trench, Trubner and
Co., Ltd., London.
STOKER, BRAM.
1929. (1897.) Dracula. Doubleday, Doran and Co., Inc., Garden City, New
York.
SwaInson, W.

1835. On the natural history and classification of quadrupeds. Longman,

Rees, Orme, Brown, Green and Longman, London.
ArmRy) Ge ele vets

1931. Random observations on habits of South American mammals. Journ.

Mamm., vol. 12, no. 3, pp. 248-256.
TotptT, K., JR.
1926. Die Chiropterenausbeute. (Zool. Exp. nach Brasil 1903.) Denkschr.
Akad. Wiss. Wien, vol. 76, pp. 43-53, figs. 3.
TOWNSEND, C. H.
1927. The bite of the vampire. N. Y. Zool. Soc. Bull., vol. 30, no. 8, pp. 64-66.
Up DE Grarr, F. W.
1923. Head hunters of the Amazon. Garden City Publishing Co., Inec., Gar-
den City, New York.
WATERHOUSE, G. R.
1839-1842. The zoology of the voyage of H. M. S. Beagle. Pt. II, Mammalia.
Smith, Elder and Co., London.
296 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN IN STITUTION, 1936

WIED, M.
1826. Mammalia Siugtheire. Beitriige zur Naturgeschichte von Brasilien,
vol. 2, pp. 1-620.
Woop, J. G.
1869. Illustrated natural history. George Routledge and Sons, London and
New York.
WricHtT, D.

1914. Vampires and vampirism. William Rider and Sons, Ltd., London. 2d
ed., 1924.

4 SIOSIOUL IOMOT 9} JO uoljeiedes pues ‘sould ioddn 94 Jo
pnypour uonmuep poziperoeds ay, *JOUBV AA SNULNUL SNPUNJOL SNPOWSICT ‘qeq old urea JO peo

“9nSU0} OIVSUO[O PUB MOLIVU 9T]} 1OJ [UUUBYD B UOJ O
‘poo[q JO Mog 8B SulONpUl puB Zuroury 10j ssostout Joddn daeys so

pre wyoeq SUIpPMOI) otf}

| 3LV1d [jeqyuee15 pue srewiyiqi—"9¢6| ‘yaodayy URIUOSY WIG
se)

Smithsonian Report, 1936.—Ditmars ard Greenhal| PLATE

<

1. Spear-nosed bat, Phyllostomus hastatus panamensis Allen. This is the position assumed by the greater
number of bats in traversing horizontal surfaces. Such bats, when seeking to fly, usually ascend a ver-
tical surface, in inverted position, before taking wing.

2. Vampire bat, Desmodus rotundus murinus Wagner. The quadrupedal gait, with body well elevated

from the greund, illustrates how the animal lightly stalks and maneuvers over the body of its victim.

3. The position of the thumbs, turned outward and serving as padded feet on the wing stalks, illustrates
the facility of the stalking gait. From this position a vampire bat can leap upward and take flight.

Smithsonian Report, 1936.—Ditmars and Greenhall PLATE 3

Photographs by Arthur M. Greenhall

Positions assumed by the vampire bat, Desmodus rotundus rotundus Wagner, in clinging to an animal with
thick pelage. The claws of the hind feet grasp the hairs of the victim’s body and enable the bat to move
nimbly over vertical surfaces.
Smithsonian Report, 1936.—Ditmars and Greenhall PLATE 4

1. Vampire bat, Desmodus rotundus murinus Wagner. The beginning of a nightly meal of defibrinated
blood. ‘The contents of the dish was consumed in slightly more than 20 minutes, being lapped up by the
tongue.

2. Completion of the meal, showing spherical distension of the body. The action of the tongue is shown.

3. Preparing to leap upward for flight; this is preceded by a slight bending of the limbs.

SOME OF THE COMMONER BIRDS OF CEYLON

By Casey A. Woop

[With 9 plates]

During a residence of nearly 3 years in Ceylon I made many
excursions to various parts of that remarkable island chiefly for the
purpose of studying its flora and fauna—especially its ornithology.
On some of these adventures I was accompanied by informed arche-
ologists and naturalists, much to my advantage. Several journeys
through forest and jungle were made in company with the well-
known Colombo artist, G. M. Henry, who made from live subjects
a large number of avian portraits, many of which were loaned by me
to the Government and used to illustrate the four volumes issued by
it and entitled “Coloured Plates of the Birds of Ceylon.” From this
source are derived the illustrations in this and other papers by me
contributed to the Annual Reports of the Smithsonian Institution.

The Report for 1934 contains a paper, with five plates, in which I
endeavored to describe and portray a few of the more curious and
rarer Sinhalese avifauna. ‘This list was confined to indigenous
species and, although it by no means exhausts the list of species
peculiar to the island, it now occurs to the writer that a brief and
illustrated account of some of the commoner Ceylon birds would
interest the reader.

As pointed out in the 1934 report, the Ceylonese avifauna is large.
The extreme length and width of the island are only 270 by 137 miles
and yet it is accredited with 52 peculiar and over 320 migrant or
semimigrant species. Wait, the most reliable modern authority on
the subject, tells us that 20 species may be classed as oceanic wander-
ers, and only 125 forms are entirely migrant. About 40 of the latter
have been recorded on few occasions, but about half of the migrants
are common and familiar birds.

Probably the geographic position (6° north of the Equator) and
the resultant climatic conditions of Ceylon have most to do with the
great variety and number of its avian species. The many waders and
water birds are of course largely accounted for by its insular status,
but to this explanation must be added the fact that Ceylon is a land
dotted over with thousands of artificial “tanks” and lakes varying in
area from a few acres to hundreds of square miles.

297
298 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

These stretches of both fresh and salt water support a wonderful
variety of ducks, storks, flamingos, teal, spoonbills, herons, egrets,
and ibises.

As for the land birds, there is as great a variety, among them two
species of tropical crows, toucans, the edible swift, snipe, jungle fowl,
partridge, and quail. This avian roster also includes eagles, hawks,
and owls, but the most beautiful plumage is found in many of the
commoner birds whose congeners live in the New World—notably the
orioles, kingfishers, flycatchers, sun birds (first cousins of our
humming birds) wild pigeons, and parakeets.

Probably the fact that the majority of the Sinhalese are orthodox
Buddhists, opposed to the killing of any form of avian life, and the
really operative laws for bird protection account for the great
number, variety, and persistence of the beautiful avifauna.

Fifty of the fifty-two species of birds peculiar to the island have
been described and pictured by G. M. Henry, in Coloured Plates of
the Birds of Ceylon, 3 vols., 1927-380, mentioned above. To this mono-
graph has been recently added a fourth part (with 16 colored plates)
by the same author-artist, from which the illustrations of this paper
have been taken.

Ceylon robins—As frequently happens in most of the British
Colonies, English vernacular names have been given to both alien
and indigenous animals (birds especially) that do not belong to the
synonymous species or even genus, although they generally present
some resemblance in size, appearance, or habits to the familiar Eng-
lish name. This is true of the “robins” as well as of many other
birds well known in Ceylon.

The black robin (Sawicoloides f. fulicata; see pl. 1) is one of the
prettiest birds in the whole island, where it is everywhere visible;
in fact, it is one of the most attractive species the tourist is likely
to encounter—an alert, fearless, cheerful little bird with the chirp
and the active movements of his namesake. One notes in particular
the jerky movements and elevations of his square-cut tail. The
entire body of both male and female is of a glossy blue black, with
a white patch on the wing coverts. Its length is only 6.3 inches.
The bird seems to spend most of its time in searching fov the insects
on which it feeds. This small creature has little or no fear of
man, and one may discover its nest of hair, moss, rags, and twigs
with (usually) two eggs in any convenient cavity or space about
a house, in a coconut shell, or in some hole in a bank.

The Ceylon magpie robin (Copsychus saularis ceylonensis) is also
found in Malaya and India. It closely resembles the black Indian
robin in habits, size (length, 8 inches), and color markings except
that the proportion of white on the wings and abdomen is greater
than in the last-named species (pl. 2).

BIRDS OF CEYLON—WOOD 299

This pretty bird (both sexes are much alike) has the habit of
running along the ground, suddenly stopping and then jerking its
tail in the air while the wings and tail are at the same time fully
spread. It differs from the black robin in that the male has a de-
lightful, prolonged and varied song that he sings both in the early
morning and late in the evening.

Ceylon bulbuls—Any dictionary will inform you that the term
“bulbul” is of Persian origin and was originally applied to a species
of nightingale, probably Zuscinia hafizi, whose glorious song is cele-
brated in oriental verse; but there is very little about the cheerful
but interrupted warble of any of the six beautiful Ceylon bulbuls
likely to found a claim to the rank of avian prima donna. Yet they
are all very attractive birds.

Probably the most interesting variety is the charming little Madras
red-vented bulbul (Molpastes c. cafer, pl. 3) with the head, chin,
and throat a deep black, the neck, back, wings, breast, and rump
various shades of brown, and under tail coverts crimson. The sexes
are much alike; length, 7.8 inches. The species is found over most
of Asia. Like the “robins”, this bird is a fearless little creature,
frequenting human habitations in and about which it builds its
small, cuphike nest. It also favors the hedges, shrubs, and low
trees of gardens as a nesting place. The Madras bulbul has a
cheerful little warble but not much of a continuous song. My niece
had a male Madras bulbul which she reared from the nest, took with
her all over the Far East for several years, to find eventually a
welcome residence in a Los Angeles aviary.

Ceylon bee-eaters.—This beautiful and extremely interesting avian
group is found almost everywhere in the Old World. Their pre-
dominant color is green, varied in the species by artistic markings
of other colors. They are all small, slim birds with long, slender,
gently curved, pointed bills, and in the Ceylon species the nostrils
are partly covered with feathers, with a few bristles at the base
of the bill.

All species feed on insects—chiefly bees and wasps that they hunt
on the wing—the capture of their prey being announced by an
audible snap of their mandibles. As a rule they choose for a lockout
some prominent limb of a tree or a telegraph pole, whence they dart
upon any luckless bee that passes by, returning to their post to
swallow the dainty morsel. It is quite likely that the honey with
which the quarry may be laden is very acceptable to the bird. Bee-
eaters burrow into river, creek, or other banks for nesting purposes,
driving a long unlined tunnel, at the end of which are laid their
white eggs, following the common rule that eggs laid in dark holes
are white.
300 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

The blue-tailed bee-eater (Merops superciliosus javanicus), a mi-
grant to Ceylon and found over most of the Asiatic Continent, is
shown on plate 4. Its length is 12 inches, and its plumage is a lovely
combination of dark green on the upper parts shading into light blue
green on rump and tail. The long pair of tail feathers are tipped
with black, the chin is yellow, the other underparts showing mixed
shades of green, chestnut, and brown. This species generally occurs
in small flocks and has a rather pleasant chirrup but no song.

The other pictured variety (pl. 5) is the attractive, particolored
chestnut-headed bee-eater [Melittophagus e. erythrocephalus (Gme-
lin) ] whose habits closely resemble the blue-tailed species. The sexes
are alike in colors; length, 8.5 inches; upper parts mostly chestnut,
wing and coverts green; rump and upper tail coverts blue green; chin
and throat yellow. The bill is black, iris crimson, legs and feet dark
brown. This species, according to Wait, prefers as a hunting ground
the rivers and tanks, and uses as a watch tower the branches of trees
lining the banks. From these points of vantage the birds secure their
quarry on the surface of the water, including small fry of all sorts.

Ceylon swallows.—The representative swallow pictured here (pl. 6)
is Hirundo daurica hyperythra, known as the Ceylon swallow. It is
a beautiful bird, a subspecies peculiar to the island, resembling the
other members of this well-known family as it is seen all over the
world. Every one of the four Sinhalese species belong to the genus
Hirundo or true swallows. The predominant color of this swallow
is a glossy steel blue or black; the entire lower plumage is a rufous
or pale brown; the iris is dark brown. The most noticeable separate
markings are the relatively large patches of brown shaft streaks on
the chest and lower back. This bird frequents tanks, paddy-fields,
and open country, spending much time hawking for insects, often in
company with other swallow species. It does its extremely valuable
part in regulating the supply of pests that threaten to make this earth
uninhabitable for man. I wonder how long the races of man would
survive if all the swallows, martins, and birds of similar habits were
suddenly to cease their insectivorous labors.

The Ceylon swallow has a loud twittering warble usually uttered
while on the wing. It may usually be distinguished from other
swallows when in company hunting because of its lower, slower, and
heavier flight. The nest is a bottle-shaped structure of solidified mud
attached to the under surface of an arch, overhanging rock, roof, or
cave. It is lined with feathers and in it are laid two or three white,
elongated oval eggs.

Ceylon kingfishers—The beautiful little kingfishers whose por-
traits appear in the accompanying plates present in large measure
the outward appearance and habits of this world-wide family. Only

BIRDS OF CEYLON—WOOD 301

one genus, Ceryle, is found in America. Most varieties are fish-
eaters, though some species add to their diet or feed chiefly on insects,
lizards, and other food not living in or on the water. They all lay
their eggs in a tunnel excavated, like the bee-eater’s nest, in a bank
generally near water. In it are laid round, glossy, white eggs.
Ceylon is abundantly supplied with these lovely birds, seven species,
of five genera, being found on the island, four of which are rather
common.

The lovely little three-toed kingfisher (Ceyw e. erithaca, pl. 7) is
rather a rare variety, found also in Malaya and parts of India. It
is sometimes seen singly instead of the usual pair, on the banks of
forest streams, where it patiently awaits the advent of frogs, crabs,
or small fish. It digs a tunnel in the bank of a stream and lays
therein three small white eggs.

Wait draws attention to the V-shaped black mark washed with
purple on the forehead at the base of the upper mandible, and adds
that the crown, nape, hind-neck, lower back, rump, and upper tail
coverts are deep orange-red with a metallic lilac gloss—a wonderful
display of gorgeous color. The remainder of the body is a medley of
brilliant cobalt blue, dark brown, and yellow. The length of this
small bird is only 5.35 inches, the long bill, legs, and feet being coral
red. The flight is very swift and the bird utters a shrill piping note
as it darts along.

Another beautiful species is the white-breasted kingfisher (Ha/-
cyon smyrnensis generosa), which has a blood-red bill, brown iris,
and coral-red legs (pl. 8). The predominant color of this charm-
ing bird is (upper parts) bright blue, and the breast and chin are
white. The length is 11 inches, twice that of the three-toed variety,
the bill being 2.6 inches from the gape. It is a common bird all
over the island, where it is seen on swamps, rivers, tanks, and paddy
fields. It feeds on lizards, the larger insects, worms, and frogs, as
well as on fish and crabs. It emits on the wing a loud rattling cry
and during the breeding season often perches on the top of a tree,
sounding now and then a peculiar whinnying note. The nest is
the usual hole in a bank, in which are laid several round, white
eggs. The sexes are nearly alike.

The owls of Ceylon.—These nocturnal and very distinctive birds
of world-wide distribution are well represented on the island, at
least nine varieties being generally regarded as Sinhalese. Like
owls in other parts of the earth, the feathers are fluffy and soft, the
head being large and closely covered.

The owls have large, humanlike eyes, adapted for seeing well at
night and in gloomy places. The visual organs are protected and
assisted in sight by encircling disks of stiff feathers that are occa-
sionally decorated.
302 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

The species about to be described has, like many others, upstand-
ing and movable ear-tufts or “horns.” The upper mandible is short,
curved, and hooked, indicating the bird of prey. The ear openings
are large and, in some species, protected by a lid or operculum.
The legs are those of most carnivorous birds who live by aerial
hunting—strong and feathered to the toes, which carry short but
very sharp, incurved claws.

In Ceylon, as elsewhere, the ghostly habits, the big eyes, the
weird hoots, shrieks, and other startling night cries of these birds
have given them a bad reputation, although among the Greco-
Romans the owl was regarded as a bird of wisdom and the particular
pet of Minerva. In the Indian and Ceylon forests, however, the
“devil bird” is generally supposed to be an owl. Certainly it is
one of these avian species that emits the strangulated, terrifying
screams which spread terror through the stilly night over many a
village whose superstitious inhabitants regard the demoniac cries
as omens of approaching evil.

The collared scops owl (Otus b. bakkamoena), whose portrait is
here reproduced (pl. 9), is the most familiar of all the Ceylon
species, and because it does not avoid man, this little owl is the
best known and least persecuted of its kind on the island. The
birds mate for life, live in pairs, and are strictly nocturnal, hiding
in thick woods during the day and appearing at dusk to hunt for food.
They subsist mainly on such insects as beetles and grasshoppers, also
keeping a sharp lookout for the smaller lizards and mammals. The
flight of this bird is noiseless and very swift.

The predominant coloration of this bird is grayish brown, tinged
with yellowish. The facial region, including the erected tufts, is
whitish, marked with dark pencilings. Some specimens are grayer
(or more rufous) than others. Length, 8 inches; iris a yellow-red
or chestnut.

Two eggs (of a dirty white color) are laid, as a rule, at the bottom
of a hole.

It is only when alarmed or surprised that the collared scops owl
raises his long ear tufts, as shown in the present illustration. When
in a quiet state of mind the horns are lowered and the bird appears
to have a smaller and more rounded head.

Smithsonian Report, 1936.—Wood

THE BLACK ROBIN.

PENIS 1!

——
PEATE 2

Wood

mithsonian Report, 1936.

S

THE CEYLON MAGPIE ROBIN.
“INEGING GALNSAA-GaAYM NOTASD AHL

€ ALv1d poo,\—'9¢6| ‘340dayy ueruosyywS
“SYSLVA-3Sq GaATVL-Anid S3HL

vy ALV1d poo —"9¢6] ‘qaoday uetuosyzIWIS
Smithsonian Report, 1936.—Wood PLATE 5

THE CHESTNUT-HEADED BEE-EATER.
“MOTIVMS NOTARSD SHL

Kava py lv 1g

ro

So eee oe

ee ee

oc POO —"9¢6| “HOday URLUOSyIIUIG
Smithsonian Report, 1936.—Wood PLATE 7

THE THREE-TOED KINGFISHER.

Smithsonian Report, 1936.—Wood PLATE 8

THE CEYLON WHITE-BREASTED KINGFISHER.
Smithsonian Report, 1936.—Wood PLATE 9

THE COLLARED SCOPS OWL.
THE WAX PALMS

By Miriam LL. BoMHARD
Botanist, United States Forest Service

[With 4 plates]

If the plant kingdom were a monarchy in which but a single
family of plants had the hereditary right to rule, the palms would
unquestionably hold this honored position. The great naturalist,
Linnaeus, in a rather whimsical “social” ranking of the plants of the
world, placed the palms first, further distinguishing them as Prin-
cipes, the princes or rulers, whereas certain other groups were merely
plebeians, patricians, and so forth.t It is interesting to note that
this term, Principes, continues to appear from time to time in pub-
lications as a synonym for the family name of the palms (Palmae
or Palmaceae). Although Linnaeus knew only 15 species, whereas
at the present time the family includes from 1,600 to 3,000 kinds of
palms, the discovery of new species has in no way minimized his
estimate of their “social” prominence.

Such high acclaim is not accorded the palms because of unusual
evolutionary advance or complicated flower structure. The family
is relatively old, and, judging from fossil evidence, seems to have
changed scarcely at all for long ages. The eminent paleobotanist
Dr. G. R. Wieland, writes me that, “It is not determinable how early
the palms began as a distinct type but the time must be set very far
back. By Upper Cretaceous time, the group had reached giantism
and adorned the dinosaur landscapes.” The flowers are small and
relatively simple, being built on the plan of the lilies. It is the gen-
eral appearance, the tout ensemble, of the palms which is so striking
and distinctive. They are predominantly trees, usually character-
ized by a tall, straight, unbranched, beautifully proportioned trunk
topped by a massive crown of handsome fanlike or plumelike leaves.
To be sure, not all members of the family have this traditional ap-
pearance. One genus, which includes the Egyptian doum palm
(Hyphaene thebaica), is unique in that its members have a much-
branched trunk. Many palms are vines—a good example of climb-
ing palms are the species of Calamus whose stems furnish the com-

1 Linnaeus, Car. Systema Naturae, ed. 12, vol. 2, pp. 3-4, 1767.

303
304 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

mon rattans of commerce. Some palms, such as the graceful yellow
palm (Chrysalidocarpus lutescens) often used for indoor decoration,
from clumps composed of several stems. Wipa fruticans, of Indo-
Malayan marshes and estuaries, is representative of certain plume-
leaved palms which have a creeping stem; the huge, erect leaves,
arising from this stem, resemble giant feathers, sometimes 30 feet in
length, which appear to come directly from the ground. Still other
species, such as the dwarf palmetto (Sabal minor) of the south-
eastern United States, are low, even shrubby plants, apparently
possessing no stems whatever. However, the wax palms with which
we are here concerned are not only beautiful columnar trees but are
probably the most remarkable palms in the world. They far exceed
the most hopeful anticipations of the palm enthusiast; they are the
princes of the “Principes”!

Try to imagine a palm having a slender, smooth, shining, alabas-
terlike trunk which rises, shaftlike, 200 feet and more straight into
the air and bears at its summit a crown of feathery, silvery green
leaves nearly 20 feet in length. Then visualize it standing either
solitary or in company with others of its kind at nearly 10,000 feet
above sea level, within sight of perpetual snow. This is the tallest
and most amazing of all the wax palms of the high Andes Moun-
tains—it is the wax palm of the Quindfo Pass in Colombia.

The various kinds of wax palms, at present united under the
genus Ceroxylon,? are now known to be widely distributed along
the length of the Andes, occurring mainly at remarkably high alti-
tudes, from Venezuela and Colombia into southern Peru (see map,
fig. 1). In Index of American Palms (Dahlgren, 1936), 16 species
are recorded as being in good standing; some of these are probably
not specifically distinct, but on the other hand this most interesting
group of palms has never been carefully studied and doubtless many
more species remain to be discovered.

There are two outstanding reasons why the Quindfo wax palm
just mentioned as well as certain other species are exceptional in the
palm family: First, the altitude at which they grow; and second, the
tremendous height they attain. Palms, as every one knows, belong,
preeminently, to warm, moist regions. Although some of them are
natives of the warmer temperate climes—familiar examples are the
cabbage palmetto (Sabal palmetto), well known in the Carolinas,
Georgia, and Florida as well as in the Bahamas, and the Medi-
terranean fan palm (Chamaerops humilis) of southern Europe and
northern Africa—the family as a whole attains its best development

2The various species of wax palms have been described under Cerorylon, Iriartea,
Klopstockia, and Beethovenia. For the sake of clarity in this article, the specific names
appear alone with the terminations as under Cerozylon, but Humboldt’s species, the type
of the genus, appears as C. andicola.
WAX PALMS—BOMHARD 305

Slerra Nevada=

fo} a 5 Sais a.

. ceriferum
+ Schultzei
- parvifrons
. beethovenia
- cOoarctatum
- vogelianum
. floccosum
- Quindiuense
. ferrugineum
10.Ceroxylon sp. Collection by
Killip and Pennell
11. C. utile
12. Ceroxylon sp. Collection by
Mexia
13. Ceroxylon sp. Recorded by
Spruce
14. C. ventricosum
15. C. latisectum
l6. C. crispum
17. Ceroxylon sp. Collection by
Cook and Gilbert
18. C. Verruculosum
19 C. Weberbaueri
+ interruptum is an additional
species of Colombia, Venezu-
ela, or Ecuador; Karsten did
not give the exact type
locality.

Kilometers
100 =200 300

FIgtrRE 1.—Distribution of wax palms in the Andes of South America. Map outline and
topography taken from Rand MeNally’s Commercial Atlas, ed. 62, 1931, and from A. K.
Jobhnston’s The Royal Atlas of Modern Geography, 1906. The map is intended merely
to inform the reader of the widespread distribution of the wax palms. The specific
Names are in accordance with the most recent treatment.
306 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

in the Tropics. In fact, they have come to be symbolic of equatorial
regions. The very mention of the word “palms” seems to conjure
up a vision of bright and sunny lands where the vegetation is luxu-
riant, the air warm, balmy, and sweet-scented, and where the spell of
enchantment and romance seems ever present.

There is a well-nigh universal law concerning the distribution
of plants which recognizes that a decrease in temperature, going
from the Equator toward the Poles, has the same effect upon
vegetation as an increase in altitude above sea level. A certain type
of vegetation would naturally be able to exist at a higher elevation
in the mountains of the Tropics than in those of a temperate zone.
The general altitudinal limit of the palm family as a whole is some-
what less than 4,000 feet. What an amazing thing it is to find that
the Quindio wax palm exceeds this upper limit by about 6,000
feet. In fact, there is another species of wax palm growing at the
Volean Chiles, on the boundary line between Colombia and Ecuador,
which exceeds even this altitudinal record. Since it averages 40 to 50
feet in height, it must be regarded as relatively small in comparison
with the Quindio palm, but it is found up to 18,450 feet above sea
level; that is, almost 2 miles higher than palms can ordinarily
grow.’ The fact that the Quindio wax palm grows at such a high
altitude where the mean annual temperature is between 12.5° and
18.5° C. (54.5°-65.3° F.) appears to be ample justification for de-
scribing it as “the palm of the frigid region par excellence” (André,
L’Amérique Equinoxiale). However, except for the species at the
Volean Chiles, the wax palms are not strictly alpine plants, but
belong rather to the cool temperate zone.*

It is also a matter of common observation with regard to the be-
havior of woody plants that, when some few representatives of a
family are able to maintain themselves beyond the ordinary limits
of the majority of the group, they are dwarfed or lacking in vigor—
stunted, bushlike vegetation is characteristic of the upper limit of
trees the world over. The logical supposition would be that any
species of such a tropical family as the palms growing at such ex-
traordinary altitudes and enduring the low temperatures just men-
tioned would, of necessity, be low, weak, and rather poor specimens,
_ making the most of a bad situation. But the wax palms of the

Quindio Pass are the tallest palms in the world. When this species

3 Several smaller palms of other genera are known from fairly high altitudes.

4It is definitely stated in Chapman, F. M. (The distribution of bird-life in Colombia ;
a contribution to a biological survey of South America, Bull. Amer. Mus. Nat. Hist., vol.
86, p. 85, 1917), that the altitudes of the various climatic zones are given as higher than
those based on temperature alone. The ‘tierra templada’’ becomes the subtropical and the
“tierra fria’, the temperate zone. The wax palms on the eastern slope of the Quindio are
mentioned rather surprisingly in the subtropical as well as in the temperate zone in this
work (p. 29).

WAX PALMS—BOMHARD 307

was first discovered 135 years ago, these trees were the tallest living
plants known. The very first description noted finding palms 177
feet high, but this estimate was subsequently proved to be an under-
statement since they often reach 200 feet and may possibly occa-
sionally reach a maximum of more than 250 feet. It may be of in-
terest to point out that the tallest living trees at the present time
are numbered among the redwoods and the eucalypts—a redwood
(Sequoia sempervirens) 364 feet high holds the record among living
trees. At the beginning of the nineteenth century the redwoods
were unknown to science and the tallest of the eucalypts had not
yet been discovered.°

It should be noted that palm species are usually described as tall
when their trunk height attains 60 feet or more. The fact that the
trunk is unbranched has the effect of making many palms appear
taller than they are by exact measurement. A general notion of the
tremendous height of the wax palm of the Quindio Pass may be
gained by a comparison with two of the most impressive palms, from
the standpoint of height, to be seen within the borders of the United
States: the royal palm (Roystonea floridana) of southern Florida
and the Mexican Washingtonia (Washingtonia robusta), native to
Lower California and Sonora but introduced and much planted in
California, the Southwest, along the Gulf Coast, and in Florida.
Both of these occasionally measure 100 feet in height (perhaps more).
At least four species of wax palms now known are nearly twice as
tall and the Quindio wax palm may even exceed this.

Is is also of interest that palm flowers, although individually
rather small, are borne in such great numbers on the flowering
branches as to form usually rather showy sprays or clusters. The
flowering branches first develop enclosed in one or more leaflike
structures called spathes, from which they emerge when the flowers
are about to open. The spathes may remain on the tree even after
the flowers have formed fruits. The characteristics of the flowers
and fruits, the branches on which they are borne, and the spathes
are very important to an understanding of the various species of
palms.

It was in October 1801 that Alexander von Humboldt, world-
traveler, cosmographer, and one of the most renowned naturalists of
all time, undertook the difficult journey over the Quindio Pass. He
was accompanied by his botanical associate, Aimé Bonpland. It was
on this journey that Humboldt discovered the first species of wax

5 Tiemann, Harry D., What are the largest trees in the world? Journ. Forest., vol. 33,
no. 11, p. 903. 1935.

* Although Sequoia sempervirens was discovered by Archibald Menzies near San
Francisco Bay in 1796, the redwoods were not known in English gardens until 50 years
later; the genus was first published in 1847.

112059—37 21

308 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

palm. He named it Cerorylon andicola, the wax palm of the Andes.
It was already known locally as the palma de cera. The genus name,
Ceroxylon, comes from two Greek words, kéros (beeswax) and aylon.
(wood); the specific name, andicola, means of or belonging to the
Andes. Humboldt at once remarked the unusual character of this
palm—the high altitude at which it grows; its towering height, con-
stituting, as Humboldt said, “a forest above the forest”; and the fact
that the trunk is coated with a shining white wax, making it look
like an alabaster column. Nothing like it had ever been known.

Perhaps no high mountain pass in South America is more re-
nowned than the famous Quindio Pass, for hundreds of years one of
the principal routes of travel across the Andes north of the Equator
(the pass is located at 4°36’ north latitude). The Central Cordilleras
separate the waters of the Cauca River on the west and the Magda-
lena River on the east. The Quindio Trail connects the towns of
Cartago on the west and Ibagué on the east, the crest of the trail
being at about 11,435 feet above sea level (see André’s map, fig. 2).
Somewhat to the northeast of the pass, the snow-capped peak of
Tolima rises to an altitude of 18,432 feet. Tolima is probably the
most elevated of a cluster of peaks in this part of the Central Cor-
dilleras, if not the highest peak in Colombia. The descriptions of
this trail written by various travelers make fascinating reading; it
is particularly interesting to compare the impressions and experiences
of these explorers and to note that individual accounts, covering a
period of more than a century, agree concerning the great beauty of
the region traversed and the difficulty of the passage.

The following is a rather recent description of the trail:7

We are now [leaving La Balsa on August 8, 1913] well started on the
Quindio trail which, beginning at Cartago on the edge of the Plain of Cali,
2,950 feet above sea-level, climbs 8,400 feet in a distance of 42 miles, and, cross-
ing the Central Andes, or Cordillera del Quind{fo, at a local depression called
the Boquer6én or opening, descends to Ibagué (4,200 feet) on the edge of the
great sloping plains of the Upper Magdalena. The distance along the trail
between the two cities is only about 75 miles, but such is the character of even
the “improved” trail of today that it is a good 38 to 4 days’ journey even
under the best conditions. In dry weather it is not particularly difficult, but
its character during times of rain is such that it has an unenviable reputation
throughout the length and breadth of Colombia, and even into Ecuador. In
the northern part of the Cordillera del Quindio it rains during April, May, and
June; there is then, in July, a slight break, or ‘short summer”, then rain for
August, September, and October, and then a “long summer” of dry weather
running through November, December, January, February, and March.

Humboldt’s journey over the pass in 1801 is graphically described
in Vues des Cordilléres, published in 1810, although first mention of
the wax palm is found in Essai sur la Géographie (1805). At the

7 Veatch, A. C., Quito to Bogota, p. 201, 1917.
309

WAX PALMS—BOMHARD

QIpUY Joiyy ‘Tea} Orpumny eyL—

a a. Se

O2 ol ce)
SusloWo|ly

NGS

BN

PTS

ets

Ni

}

4

yy

A fe
Ya

qunoy

NZ NN fis

iD

HW } J WL, é hs

ey \) Ss
I
=e NAA Ana

310 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

time of Humboldt’s crossing there were no towns, not even isolated
huts, the whole length of the trail between Ibagué and Cartago, and
there was no means of subsistence, so that it was necessary to take
supplies for a month under the fear of complete isolation because
of rains and the possibility of being unable either to go ahead or
return. Humboldt made the journey on foot, followed by 12 oxen
which carried his instruments and collections. He seems to have
spurned being carried on the back of a native porter, or carguero,
which was the customary method of travel over the Quindio at that
time, but he describes both the cargueros and the means of convey-
ance at some length. Transporting persons across the trail was the
regular and honored profession of several hundred men of that
region. One traveled by carguero here as one would travel by horse-
back in other places. The voyager was carried seated in a sort of
bamboo chair attached to the back of the porter by straps passing
over the latter’s forehead and under his arms. These cargueros were
hired for a lump sum for the entire journey which might take from
10 to 25 days, depending upon the season and condition of the trail.
Humboldt does not give the exact duration of his trip, but says that
10 or 12 days should be sufficient for the journey. He describes the
route as being little more than a narrow path, made up of hazardous
ascents and descents, and only 16 to 20 inches wide in some places—
“for the most part resembling a tunnel left open to the sky.” He
states that the journey was very fatiguing and describes the difficulty
of keeping his footing in the thick mud, full of deep holes made by
the oxen, of wading through icy streams, how his shoes were worn
off so that he had to go barefoot and his clothes were torn by spines of
the thick undergrowth, and of 3 or 4 days of such torrential rain on
the west side of the pass that a forced stop had to be made. Shelter
on the journey was obtained in hastily constructed cabins. The
framework was cut from the surrounding vegetation and erected on
the spot, but the waterproof thatch roofs, made of the leaves of a
bananalike plant, were a part of the regular equipment of the trip.
These were carried rolled up like a carpet and were spread out when-
ever it was necessary to roof the cabins. Humboldt says that, should
the roof leak, it was only necessary to add another leaf.

Humboldt published a botanical description of @. andicola in
Plantes Equinoxiales (1808) with illustrations showing the habit of
the palm as well as a separate drawing of the flowering stalk emerged
from a single spathe and detailed delineations of the flowers. In
this and other publications he gives definite data as to its native
habitat in the Quindio region (on the eastern side of the pass). He
also explains its altitudinal distribution, particularly with reference
to the upper and lower limits of certain oaks and some of the cin-
WAX PALMS—BOMHARD 311

chonas. Incidentally, this was a time of great interest in and ex-
ploitation of the various species of cinchona of Andean South Amer-
ica. The properties of quinine had become well known, and many
botanical explorers of the first half of the nineteenth century, in-
cluding Humboldt, made valuable contributions to the knowledge of
the distribution and character of the species of cinchona.

Probably no botanical explorer from the illustrious Humboldt’s
time until today would think of making a collecting trip in South
America without having thoroughly familiarized himself with Hum-
boldt’s descriptions. Certainly, the botanists of the past century
studied his accounts assiduously. But, strange to relate, it seems
more than probable that Humboldt mixed two species of palms in his
account of C’. andicola; he gave the type locality on the eastern slope
of the Quindio and then apparently figured a very different palm.
This might easily have happened considering the difficulties under
which he traveled and bearing in mind that there are wax palms on
both slopes and in other portions of the Andes. Let us put ourselves
in his place for a moment! We have come to some marvelous wax
palms growing at a very high altitude and note the location; the
road is treacherous and slippery and the 12 oxen, steadily climbing
steep slopes over a miserable trail, are already loaded down with bag-
gage and plant collections; we ask the guides whether these palms
continue on the other side of the pass and are assured that there
are just as many beyond the crest; supposing the eastern portion of
the trail to be the most difficult part, it seems best to delay the coi-
lection of specimens and data on the palm itself until we have come
to the less hazardous descent on the western slope!

We know that Humboldt was deiayed by torrential rains for several
days after the Boquerén had been crossed and that he was quartered
in one of the cabins protected by the waterproof roof. Did he describe
the palms that surrounded him then, thinking them the same as those
he had seen on the eastern slope? Did he figure from memory a wax
palm which he saw elsewhere? Weshall never know. It is only pos-
sible to advance speculations such as the foregoing in an attempt to
explain the disturbing discrepancies in Humboldt’s illustrations and
accounts as compared with the findings of subsequent travelers. In
the original description of C. andicola, it is stated that Humboldt
sketched the palm on the spot. There is, however, no corroboration by
persons who have since crossed the trail that such a palm as that fig-
ured—it has a bulge in the trunk and the spathes are distributed here
and there in very unorthodox fashion—exists on the eastern side of the
pass nor is it easy, in the light of information at hand, to identify it
with a wax palm on the western slope! We have the word of Baron
von Thielmann in Vier Wege durch Amerika (p. vill, 1879) that Hum-
312 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

boldt unfortunately was forced to make the latter part of his South
American explorations (the years 1799 to 1803 were spent in South
America) more hurriedly than the earlier portion of his journey so
that he wrote much of this account after his return to Europe. More-
over, Von Thielmann, recounting his own journey over the Quindio,
states in a footnote (p. 366) that Humboldt’s illustration in Vues des
Cordilléres of the entrance to the trail at Ibagué must have been done
by him “from memory since it by no means corresponds to the actual
conditions.” Be that as it may, Humboldt did see the Quindio wax
palm in all its majesty, and the credit for its discovery cannot be taken
away from him in spite of the confusion in his descriptions and
drawings of it.

However, it is fortunate that there are several accounts, particularly
in the writings of André, Karsten, and Von Thielmann, which throw
considerable light upon the character of the wax palm of the eastern
slope. Eduard André tells of his crossing of the Quindio in March
1876 in a series of articles on his travels in equatorial South America
(L’Amérique Equinoxiale, 1878-79), published in a well-known illus-
trated magazine, Le Tour du Monde. André was an able botanist, for
many years editor of L’Illustration Horticole and a contributor of
papers on various botanical subjects. He was well acquainted with
Humboldt’s work and crossed the trail in the same direction and over
the exact route that Humboldt took, that is, from Ibagué to Cartago
André writes most entertainingly. He describes the trail and his ex-
periences—cargueros were no longer used in 1876—he tells of the peo-
ple he met and discusses the types of vegetation, especially with refer-
ence to the changes in altitude. He describes the bamboos, the oaks,
and cinchonas, various palms and ferns, and, most important of all,
for us, the wax palms. He compares his own observations with those
of Humboldt practically every step of the way but, even at that, had
it not been for the fact that he arose too early one morning for a hunt-
ing expedition, we might just possibly be without his accurate observa-
tions concerning the magnificent wax palm on the eastern side of the
pass and his statements regarding the one of the western slope.
André is the first traveler, as far as I have been able to discover,
who definitely stated from actual experience that two kinds of wax
palms occur on the two slopes of the pass. Moreover, André actually
chopped down two of the taller palms on the eastern side and not
only measured them but collected botanical specimens as well.

André had been told that the journey would take 7 days; it took
10. During the 75 years that had elapsed since Humboldt crossed
the trail, a few huts, a sulphur mine, and other localities marked
definite stopping-places along the route, all of which André set
down in his maps (fig. 2). Approaching Pié de San Juan, André
WAX PALMS—BOMHARD 313

writes, “There in a thick vapor, a splendid vegetation unrolled before
our eyes: The first Cerorylon appeared, reigning over a population of
ferns, tacsonias, beautiful orchids * * *” and, as he continued
toward Las Cruces and Gallegos, “The wax palms (C@. andicola) ap-
pear finally in all their majesty, their feet in the water, their heads
in the clouds. They form forests (palmares) of columns which look
from afar like ivory, crowned by a sheaf of leaves 5 to 6 or more
meters [16 to 20 feet] in length” (pl. 1).

André finally arrived at Las Cruces “in a state of fatigue, filthiness,
and tatters, impossible to describe” and was amazed to find that the
dwelling which marked the spot and where he was to spend the night
was a trim and fairly extensive place, the hacienda of Ramon
Cardenas. Ramon’s house, although architecturally similar to other
houses in Colombia, was built almost entirely of the wax palm. The
uprights, instead of being made of whole or split bamboo like the
houses of warmer regions, were of this palm still covered with the
wax and looking like marble columns encircled by brown rings; *
in fact, “the entire framework was of the same palm wood, supple,
strong, and durable.” “The roof, covered by the enormous leaves,
silver beneath, caught strange shadows, and made a warm and im-
penetrable cover.” André does not specifically state that the “strange
shadows” were caused by the flicker of the candlelight and that the
candles were also made from the wax palm, but this was probably
true since Ramon’s income from agriculture and hunting was aug-
mented by selling the wax which his men scraped from the palms.
This he sold in Bogoté. The wax is usually scraped from living
trees but sometimes the palms are felled first. Humboldt and others
tell of this use of the wax for candles and matches and Humboldt
suggested its commercial possibilities. The wax burns with a clear
bright flame.

Ramon seems to have been so complimented by his learned visitor’s
interest in the jaguar skins which adorned his dwelling that it was ar-
ranged to go hunting the next day. André writes that, after several
hours of sleep, he was awakened by the cold. He looked at his ther-
mometer and noted that it was 2° C. (35.6° F.). He decided to walk
about outdoors. In the moonlight, the wax palms looked like “svelte
pillars of a cathedral; no breeze stirred the foliage of their majestic
crowns, which shot up 60 meters into the air.” He continues: “This
silence, this impressive calm, in such a place, in the middle of the
night, stirred my soul with an emotion which I did not try to combat
and which I shall never be able to forget.” André soon learned that,

8The bases of palm leaves completely encircle the stem in the early stage of develop-
ment; if the internodes elongate rapidly as in the wax palms, a ring or scar is left com-
pletely around the stem when the leaf falls off.
314 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

contrary to the custom in Europe, the chase was not begun early in the
morning because of the darkness and the denseness of the jungle and
so, while waiting for breakfast and the completion of preparations for
the hunt, he took several men and set forth to cut down some wax
palms. Two palms were finally felled. “I measured one of them: It
was 60 meters in length, its circumference at the base was 1 meter 24
centimeters, and near the summit, 65 centimeters, a remarkable ex-
ample of graceful proportion for so great a height.” This palm which
he actually measured was, then, 196.8 feet tall, the diameter being 15.5
inches at the base and 8.2 inches near the top of the trunk. (He writes
elsewhere that it attains from 60 to 80 meters, that is, up to 262 feet
in height.) The interior of the trunk was white and pithy toward the
center, as is usual in palms, but the woody cylinder surrounding the
pith was extremely hard. “The wood fibers, torn out by the violence
of the shock, stood up on the stump black, fine, and hard as dark
steel wires.” “Between the shattered leaves * * * glaucous
above and white below, the fruiting branches 2 meters [6.5 feet] in
length, which had seemed so small to us from the ground, were
lying scattered and broken. The innumerable orange berries with a
sweet pulp, the size of Chasselas grapes, rolled all over the ground.
Many thousands were recovered to be sent to Europe, also some
leaves, spathes, and two cross sections of the trunk. From my
calculations, these trees were about 150 or 200 years old.”

He found that the wax palms on the eastern side of the Quindfo
trail extended from Mediacion to La Ceja, being most abundant at
Las Cruces; the palmares “diminished from day to day” as the up-
per limit of their distribution was approached. This species ap-
parently grows in a restricted area scarcely more than 9 to 12 miles
north and south of the trail, the altitudinal range being between
6,560 and 10,000 feet above sea level. Various small palms of other
genera, invariably associated with it at first, disappeared at the
higher elevations. André was surprised to find that the palms were
not in the midst of the oak belt, as Humboldt had reported, but be-
yond it on the eastern slope of the Quindio. After crossing the crest,
however, he discovered that the oaks ascended much higher on the
western slope and were there intermingled with wax palms. André
observes: “These reasons make me believe that Humboldt has con-
fused the true Ceroxylon andicola, that of Las Cruces, with another
species, smaller, and still little known (C. ferrugineum). It is char-
acterized by the rough surface of its berries, and it abounds in the
Andes, principally on the west of the Central Cordilleras and al-
most into the Republic of Ecuador.” (L’Amérique Equinoxiale,
p- 101, 1879.) It is unfortunate that André did not describe this
species, to which he gave a name, more fully, but there is every
reason to believe that his observations concerning a second species are
WAX PALMS—BOMHARD 315

correct. Specimens of this smaller palm from the western slope of
the Quindio, collected by E. P. Killip of the Smithsonian Institution,
and Dr. T. E. Hazen of Columbia University in 1922, have berries
whose surface is roughened by small pustules; specimens are depos-
ited in a number of herbaria, including the United States National
Herbarium. The photograph shown in plate 2 was taken by Mr.
Killip near Salento and that in plate 3 on the eastern slope near La
Ceja. (See also André’s map.) On the western slope the wax palms
disappeared at 5,900 feet elevation and were replaced by palms of
warmer habitat.

Baron von Thielmann, who journeyed over the Quindio shortly
after André, also gives a very detailed account of the trail and the
wax palms in his Vier Wege durch Amerika (1879). He points out
that although the hardships of the journey have lessened considerably
since Humboldt’s time, “the hazards for the horseman are still great
enough, especially during the torrential rains, of which no month is
quite free in the high mountains.” He is most enthusiastic concern-
ing this region, for he writes: “In forest beauty of mountain wilds,
the Quindio hardly has a rival. The groves of the wax palms are to
me the most sublime of all the realm of the plant world.” This is,
indeed, high praise, but it is the opinion of an experienced world
traveler well qualified to make such a comparison. Von Thielmann’s
descriptions of the locality in which the palms occur and of the palms
themselves agree very well with those of André, but he states that
the maximum diameter of the Quindio wax palm seldom exceeds 20
inches, which is somewhat greater than that of the palm André
measured. He describes the grace and beauty of the trees, their
silvery green foliage, and also notes that the fruits are of an orange-
red hue. From him we learn that the wax palms achieve their best
development when growing as scattered individuals and that they are
less tall, averaging only 130 feet in height, when occurring in closed
stands. Their growth is rapid, as is evidenced by the wide space
between the leaf-scar rings on the trunk. He discredits the fear ex-
pressed in Europe that these palms were in danger of extinction,
since he saw few trunks lying about on the ground and he found no
indication that the wax, although used locally for candles and
matches, was of sufficient importance as an article of commerce to
suggest the exploitation and possible disappearance of the palms.
“As far as the eye can see, the tops of the palms bedeck one mountain
slope after another, and around isolated huts I found closed stands of
thousands.” ®

®That these wax palms are still abundant and a very characteristic feature of the
flora of this region is indicated by the fact that Cuatrecasas lists them as a special ecologi-
cal unit, the palmetum, in his recent study of the geobotany of Colombia. (Cuatrecasas
José, Observaciones Geobotinicas en Colombia. Trab. Mus. Nac. Ciene. Natur., Ser. Bot.,
no. 27, p. 70. 1934.)
316 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1986

Von Thielmann’s admiration of the marvelous vegetation and
grandeur of the Quindio was not dimmed by the trials of the trail, but
he became somewhat exasperated over the necessity of negotiating a
continual series of steep ascents and descents out of all proportion to
the actual distance accomplished forward at the end of a hard day’s
going. His remark, “In what condition we finally arrived as night
closed in at the huts of Las Cruces, I will not try to describe”, is
practically an echo of what André wrote concerning his arrival at the
same place. Von Thielmann records the gradual disappearance of
the wax palm and the “gnarled and parasitical growth” which is
characteristic of the region above them near the summit of the pass.
Since palms are generally found in the midst of, or bordering, luxuri-
ant vegetation, the fact that the dwarfed and misshapen woody
plants typical of timber line here almost immediately succeed the
upper limit of the distribution of the wax palms is but a further
evidence of their amazing vitality and extraordinary adaptation to
such a high altitude. Von Thielmann was interested to find that a
little wooden cross marked the crest of the Quindio and that each
peon, as he reaches the summit, contributes a small twig or branch to
the pile already near the cross—a custom observed on mountain passes
throughout the world. It is apparent that he made no independent
observations concerning the wax palms on the western slope, since he
merely quotes André as to the existence of a second species.

Both Von Thielmann and ‘André wrote travel accounts. However,
to André must be given credit for the most complete information con-
cerning the Quindio wax palms presented by anyone up to the present
time. André was convinced that Humboldt confused two species;
nevertheless he continued to use the name @. andicola for the one on
the eastern slope and ventured to propose a new name, C. ferrugi-
neum, for the rough-fruited species, without later publishing a tech-
nical description. In the meantime, another botanical explorer had
given a new name to the wax palm of the eastern slope (Karsten,
Florae Columbiae, 1858).

Hermann Karsten was a botanist of great renown—his plant dis-
coveries in South America rank, in many respects, as importantly as
do Humboldt’s. It was Karsten who discovered three new species of
wax palms in widely separated regions of the Andes—the first intima-
tion of the extensive range of this group of palms hitherto repre-
sented by Humboldt’s single species. In addition, he described and
Jaunched a new name for the tall species on the eastern slope of the
Quindio (pl. 4, left). All of Karsten’s palms, although differing in
minor details, were similar in the more important botanical charac-
ters; that is, there were several (up to 5) ~pathes, orange-red fruits,
and an agreement in the diagnostic sreatures of the flowers and
WAX PALMS—BOMHARD 317

fruits.° Karsten did not write a travelog of the Quindio; in fact,
his technical description of the wax palm of the eastern slope, which
bears the specific name, guindiuense, is set down in seven lines—three
in Latin and four in German. Perhaps he did not expend more
words on this species since it was perfectly clear to him that its
characters were unlike much of Humboldt’s description of @. andicola
with its violet-colored fruits, single spathe, and bulged trunk.

Since a name has been proposed for the two species on either slope
of the Quindio, it would seem perfectly simple to adopt these and
throw Humboldt’s name away. But such procedure is not in accord-
ance with scientific rules of nomenclature. It seems a pity to have
to admit that, after 135 years, no one knows just what Humboldt’s
C. andicola really is and yet the confusion is easily explained.
Many persons, some of them able botanists, have traveled the Quin-
dio since Humboldt’s time, and it is natural for them to have as-
sumed that C. andicola is a firmly established name for a well-under-
stood species; certainly the type locality is for the palm on the eastern
slope. It must be recalled that our information concerning many
kinds of plants, including palms, comes from diverse sources, repre-
senting what has been gleaned by many individuals, often at the cost
of tremendous effort and untold hardships. It is not surprising that
conflicting statements, several names for the same plant, and incom-
plete data sometimes result. It must also be borne in mind that it
was mainly due to the efforts of European botanists—Humboldt,
Martius, Karsten, Spruce, and others—of the nineteenth century that
the rich flora of South America was made known. The study of
palms, in particular, is attended with certain special difficulties.
They often grow in places which are quite uninhabited and where
travel is not easy; the flowering and fruiting branches may be quite
inaccessible high up on a tall, sometimes spiny stem, and observations
from below are likely to be inaccurate; most palms bloom briefly each
year—some only once before they die; it is definitely out of the
question for a collector to be at all the palm localities at the proper
time to obtain all the data necessary to a complete understanding
of each species; moreover, incidental palm discoveries are frequently
made while exploring for other plants. Then, too, it is scientifically
impossible to make an adequate disposition of palm genera and
species merely from the study of herbarium specimens or of indi-
vidual plants introduced into gardens far removed from their native
home. The unusual character of the wax palms suggests that they
are particularly deserving of special investigation.

10 Karsten published these species under his new genus Klopstockia, probably named
in honor of the German poet, Friedrich Gottlieb Klopstock.
318 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

But to return to Karsten. Each of the three new species which
he described proves to be interesting in a special way. One hand-
some species, now rather well known, which he first saw near Ca-
racas in northern Venezuela, represents today the eastward limit of
the wax palms. This species, ceriferwm, has a wide distribution,
ranging from Caracas to the Santa Marta region in northern Colom-
bia and extending on down the Colombian Andes for a considerable
distance. It compares favorably to the Quindio wax palm in height
since the reports of various observers agree with Karsten’s statement
that it is about 200 feet tall and likewise has a white trunk, conspicu-
ously marked by the leaf-scars, which are 4 to 6 inches apart. Kar-
sten first found it at 5,000 feet elevation but states that it occurs about
100 feet lower and extends up to an altitude of 8,200 feet. Karsten’s
drawing (pl. 4, right) illustrates this species. It is a slender palm;
Karsten gives its diameter as about 1 foot. The crown is rather
sparse, consisting of only 8 to 12 featherlike leaves, bright green on
the upper surface, silvery beneath, and as much as 15 feet long. The
coral-red fruits are about the size of a hazelnut. Rather recently,
Burret, of Berlin-Dahlem, described a new species, schultzei, from
the region of Santa Marta; its trunk is 200 feet tall but only 8 inches
in diameter (Notizblatt, 1929). Such a slender trunk for so great a
height is nothing short of astounding. Otherwise, it does not seem
to be clearly distinguishable from Karsten’s ceriferum.

The world’s record for the highest altitude at which palms grow
must be accredited to Karsten’s species, utile, which has already been
referred to as growing near the Volcan Chiles, on the boundary
between Colombia and Ecuador, at 13,450 feet above sea level. Its
height of 40 to 50 feet is not impressive, but it is the one species
of wax palm which may be considered as truly alpine, thus empha-
sizing the fact that the wax palms defy the usual rules of plant
growth and distribution. Karsten found that bears climb the smaller
of these palm trees (not exceeding 25 feet) in order to eat the leaves
(evidently the bud or “cabbage”). This report is obviously authen-
tic but it certainly taxes credulity; one hardly associates bears with
palms. Karsten relates that the leaves of this and other wax palms
are used in church processions and that their very flexible leaves are
especially suitable for weaving into hats. An interesting feature of
the leaves of this species is that the individual leaf divisions or seg-
ments are not evenly spaced but arranged in groups of two, three, or
four on the length of the midrib (rachis).

Karsten’s third species has the same type of leaf, which explains
its specific name, énterruptum. This palm, from 100 to 120 feet tall, is
able to grow in a warm climate, since it extends down to 3,930 feet
WAX PALMS—BOMHARD 319

above sea level. Karsten failed to give the exact type locality,
although he definitely placed it in the North Andean region.

Two years ago, Mrs. Ynez Mexia informed me that she was about
to make a trip to western South America to secure specimens for the
Bureau of Plant Exploration and Introduction of the United States
Department of Agriculture and offered to collect some palm material
for me, if at all possible. It then seemed probable that her route
would take her into the Quindio region. I explained the methods of
collecting palm specimens, and supplied her with information con-
cerning the location of the wax palms, as well as with an outline
chart especially devised to cover the wax palms. Unfortunately, she
did not reach the Quindio Pass, but she obtained some excellent wax
palm material in Ecuador and made careful records on the charts.
The collection included an interesting species having tufted leaf
segments, 4 to 5 spathes, and a bulged trunk; it grew near the Volcan
Chiles “In a dense forest on a precipitous mountain side at 9,842 feet,
on the road from Moldanado to Tulcan, Province of Carchi, Ecua-
dor” and is identifiable as ventricosum, a recently described species
(Notizblatt, 1929). Burret himself questions whether his species is
really distinct from Karsten’s wtile, the difficulty being that Kar-
sten’s description makes no mention of the bulged trunk. Perhaps
this is the ventricose species Spruce saw in Ecuador in 1860 and
which he referred to as C. andicola (Notes of a Botanist, 1908).

No account of the beauty and unusual character of the wax palms
would be complete without some reference to a massive wax palm
which Franz Engel discovered and which is today as much sur-
rounded with mystery, music, and poetry as it was when Engel de-
scribed it in 1865. Engel saw but three individual palms, one tall
and two smaller ones, in the Province of Tachira, near the Uribante
River in western Venezuela. It is found at 6,000 to 8,000 feet above
sea level in deep, shady woods, towering above the other trees. He
describes it as a “magnificent palm”, from 150 to 200 feet tall; the
trunk is 2 feet through, and the leaves are 25 to 30 feet in length—
the largest diameter and the longest leaves of all the wax palms.
The natives told Engel that it was customary to fell the trees to
secure the leaves for the making of straw hats and that it might be
difficult to locate specimens. After an arduous 3-day search, only
three palms were discovered. Engel was overjoyed to come upon
them at last but expressed the fear that perhaps he was destined to be
the only botanist to see them, while consoling himself with the
thought that the vast unexplored forests of the Cordilleras might
contain many more palms of this species. Perhaps it has actually
become extinct, since no one has added a single bit of information
320 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

concerning it in the intervening 70 years; perhaps it only awaits
rediscovery. Inasmuch as this palm secretes resinous wax just under
the surface rather than on the outside of the trunk, and because of
certain other botanical features, Engel placed it in a new genus,
Beethovenia (linnaea, pp. 677-680, 1865). This name is now
retained as its specific name in the genus Cerovylon.

Engel becomes most eloquent in explaining his reasons for naming
this genus for the musician, Beethoven. He tells of the emotion
which overcame him when he finally beheld the “sublime spectacle”
of these palms. “When the exalted voices and symphonies whisper
down to the listening soul from the crowns of the palms, making one
forget all privations and physital sufferings”, this experience, writes
Engel, is akin to the spiritual rapture evoked by the music of the
great master, which has the power to transport the soul beyond the
material realm. He asks if it is not, then, permissible to name such
a noble palm for the immortal composer.

Wax palms have only recently (1929) been described from Peru
by Burret. None of these species exceed 40 feet in height and they
do not appear to be as interesting as those farther north, although
they grow at high altitudes (5,900 to 9,675 feet). There are speci-
mens in the United States National Herbarium collected by Dr.
O. F. Cook of the Bureau of Plant Industry, United States Depart-
ment of Agriculture, on one of his expeditions to Peru (1915).
Whether the wax palms extend into Bolivia remains to be discovered.

Few of us, indeed, will have the good fortune of seeing the wax
palms in their native home. So far, attempts to introduce the
Quindio palm into cultivation have been mainly confined to Europe;
these have met with failure. No region is known in Europe which
shows a climate comparable to that of the high Andes. But there
is every reason to believe that most of the species of wax palms,
even the magnificent Quindio species, could be grown in certain
portions of the United States. To be sure, the warm subtropical
regions of this country are undoubtedly far too hot in summer, and
the high altitudes of our mountain regions are far too cold in win-
ter. However, a relatively narrow strip, only a few miles wide,
along the Pacific coast of the United States from the vicinity of
Grays Harbor, Wash.," to San Diego, Calif., has a climate remark-
ably similar to that of the high Andes between 6,000 and 12,000
feet altitude. The summers are very cool, and the winter climate
is unusually warm for these latitudes (82°30’ to 47° N.). Dr.
Walter T. Swingle, of the Bureau of Plant Industry, United States
Department of Agriculture, who predicted the success of choice Old

The U. S. Weather Bureau records are from Lone Tree, Wash., on the northern shore
of the entrance to Grays Harbor.
WAX PALMS—BOMHARD 321

World varieties of the date palm (Phoenix dactylifera) in the south-
western United States in advance of their being tried out,? informs
me that probably no other region in the North Temperate Zone so
nearly parallels the cool climate of the Cordilleras as does this
Pacific coastal strip of our country.

Fortunately the climate of the Cordilleras of Venezuela, Colom-
bia, and Ecuador—the very regions where the most beautiful wax
palms grow—has been especially studied by the well-known au-
thority on regional meteorology, Julius Hann. A comparison of
climatologic data from four locations in the Andes given by him
with equally authentic data for seven stations on the Pacific coast
thermal strip is set down in the table on the following page.

A detailed discussion of the figures given in table 1 is beyond
the scope of this article. However, the only important disparity is
in the greater difference between the mean temperature of the hottest
and coldest months on the Pacific coast as compared with those of
the Andean stations. It should be recalled that wax palms are ac-
customed to endure, apparently without injury, temperatures only a
few degrees above the freezing point. According to Hann’s rule, the
temperature of the “tierra templada” and “tierra fria” zones of the
Cordilleras from Venezuela to Ecuador decreases about 1° F. for
every 337.5 feet ascent; or, roughly, 3° F. for each 1,000 feet. André
recorded an early morning temperature of 2° C. (35.6° F.) at Las
Cruces in March; yet March is one of the hottest months of the
Quindio region. The temperature at the upper limit of the Quindio
valm, higher up the mountain, would, by Hann’s rule, have been only
one-sixth of a degree (0.164° C.) above freezing; at the Volcan
Chiles, where utile grows, it would have been —5.77° C. (21.6° F.) at
that time. On the Pacific coast from San Francisco to San Diego,
where there is almost no variation in altitude, the temperatures in-
crease, roughly, 1° F. for every 55 miles going south; or, in other
words, moving northward 165 miles along the Pacific coast of Cali-
fornia would correspond to an increase of 1,000 feet in altitude in the
Andes.

The length of day varies but little between summer and winter
near the Equator but does vary decidedly at latitudes 30° to 47° north
of the Equator in California and Washington, where the summer
days are longer than in the Quindio Pass region. However, fre-
quent showers in Washington, almost daily dense fogs in San Fran-
cisco, and the “velo”, or high fog, of San Diego all cut down the
hours of effective sunshine during the long summer days and tend
to obscure or even obliterate the difference in length of the summer

12 Swingle, W. T., The date palm and its utilization in the southwestern states. U. S.
Dept. Agr., Bur. Plant Indus. Bull. 53, 1904.
ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

322

I PI Silay je oe 0) 0) Le OR aw == Se a (0) oS Se 8°89 F 0% 219 2 9L
9 ‘ST Oils oT, ODS 8°Z¢ Gulla lee ae aS Oa ae F 99 1 61 ¢ 6S €°St
SIT Dai lines. Oe hig Ope" >= £'0¢ GAOL |e ee qsn3ny | 1°29 L9T 2°99 2°81
FIL SeQe 2? See aa ae ODE sa 6 '6F 660 = |e et Joquieidag | $19 £9r 2°99 FST
£°6 CZ o> ana ae Ope. ae 0O'LF See. be eee eS OD sag €°99 9st 9°I9 6 ‘OL
£°st FL a ee (0) 0 Sanaa, 6 CP Lgl. es | eae see Shek (0) ae G69 TST 0‘2¢ joage
Oat | Boke |S ae—2 arenuee | 3 0b | 6% [ ysnany | 8°89 | 6s | T09 ‘| 0-01
P| fd [$$$ $$ —_______ —___}
8’°¢ o's ““-qsnsny ‘A[ng | #28 088 > | ee es A ea a 29 8 ‘OF 6°P
“sien
¢° BY Re |e Saget oats ce ae T 99 ¥ SI -uer ‘1equieveq | 2°99 LZ ‘st £°99 9 sT
8'T 0'T pe ae we Ang | g’9¢ 8'eI “yd y ‘qoreyy | 9'°8¢ 8 ‘FI 6°19 FFL
oe BiG Ne ee Arenuer | ¢ "Fe Sela ler: Se ve ~-"Tjd Vv | 9°69 £°St 6°1g FFI
“Te ‘Do qyoW “Ho 'O © qyuoyy “Ho ‘Oo “Ho ‘Do
st} WoUr ysepfoo
DUB Sze Or, einqzeiedure4
ee ysuour Jsepjoo omyesodi9} uwEyY | YIwOU yso}}0y aNyuseduIO} ULOW | vencuy ueayy

-8q soueI0gIG

“98-Ze6l ‘61 ‘ST ‘LT ‘ST ‘e ‘T “900s ‘soqe7g pozIUy oy} Jo AreWMUINS BUND “| ‘MIqQIOD PUB “p -y ‘UTVIEPY
"e061 “ASV “4doq “gs “Q ‘neg JoqwM “T “TIN “BIUIOJIeO Jo ABojozeUMNTO “+H “V ‘OIPVOIW ‘L681 ‘Z ‘10a ‘Z “po ‘oIZo[oywMI[Y Joep yONqpueA““f ‘UUBET Woy UoyxeZ, 1

lO ON Lt

€82 ‘9

(399])
ePpnyyTV

- eg N ,L¥odE | 69 Le ne eg Ode) Cane Gls)
Boreas. N ,Sof& | #1 "TTT YIBO ‘Bormo py e3ueg
a N ,98098 | FF [a a ase be -AcIoTuO My
Seago N S8FoLl€ | 09 ~777 FBO ‘oostouvlg ueg
oe “N ,2h00F | FP Lae oe eee HOA? ida

Seite N ,Ghoth | 2% Sad bl Ee eh eee 01 P10JIO) 40077:

------- N ,9909F | 21 [> se eh om CSU AN Cody, CuOTy
a aan Silo) |n mae el en See eae AOPCNOM “SUBSTI IL.y:
ye IB WoO |S alae eS ee ee Jopenog ‘07nd
So Seer IN S8oF | 0 | ee es cats ee LBIQUIOYOH “e10Z0g,
LE IN’ 9GcOU |i see a | ua eax tea ae UlONZOUSA ““IBAOT,
popi0o
epnjyyeyT -01
SIvo XK

(oS 3 eS ee eS ee Be ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee eee ee
SIDI payuy) ay} fo jsv09 oYfioDq ay} UO SUOYIDIS YNN DIIWeWy YMoG ut suoND{s uDapuy sof Diop 9160j0;DWm279 fo uostsvdwog—] @IAaV I,
WAX PALMS—BOMHARD 323

day that should normally occur between regions near the Equator
and those lying far to the north in the Pacific coastal strip. That
fogs and showers are not injurious to wax palms is proved by the
fact that all accounts of the Quindio, Santa Marta, and other wax
palm regions tell of the heavy fogs and frequent rainfall.

There is, then, every indication, from the foregoing data, that the
various species of wax palms could be introduced and acclimatized
at those localities along the Pacific coast thermal strip which most
nearly parallel the climatic conditions characteristic of the Andean
habitat of each species: ceriferwm at San Diego or Santa Monica;
quindiuense and possibly ferrugineum at Golden Gate Park, San
Francisco, Monterey, or even at Eureka; while utile might do well at
Eureka, or even in Oregon and Washington.** Other Andean plants
are at the present time growing successfully in Golden Gate Park.
As is the case with practically all species of palms, the wax palms
would need to be carefully nurtured during their early years.

It is to be hoped that this article will not only arouse interest
in the study of the remarkable wax palms of South America but
also lead to their successful introduction into California and a few
favored regions on the coast of Oregon and Washington.

REFERENCES
ANDRE, E,

1878. Les palmarés de Ceroxylon andicola en Colombie. L’Illustration
Horticole, vol. 25, pp. 174-176, illus.

1878. L’Amérique Equinoxiale (Colombie-Nquateur-Pérou). Le Tour du
Monde, vol. 35, no. 900, pp. 209-224, maps and text figures.
1879. L’Amérique Equinoxiale (Colombie-Nquateur-Pérou). Le Tour du
Monde, vol. 37, no. 945, pp. 97-112, maps and text figures.
Burret, M.
1929. Die Gattung Ceroxylon Humb. et Bonpl. Notizbl. Botan. Gart. und
Mus. Berlin-Dahlem, vol. 10, no. 98, pp. 841-853.
Drupe, O.
1878. Ueber die Verwandtschaft und systematische Bedeutung von Ceroxy-
lon andicola. Bot. Zeit., vol. 36, pp. 184-190.
ENGEL, F.
1865. Palmae novae Columbianae. Linnaea, vol. 33, pp. 665-692, pl. 3.
HUMBOLDT, A.
1810. Vues des Cordilléres et monumens des peuples indigénes de l’Amérique,
pp. 18-19, pl. 5. Paris.

13 J, Harrison Wright, of Riverside, Calif., had a young wax palm, thought to be C.
andicola, growing outdoors from 1909 to 1917. He writes me that it was vigorous and
thriving and then suddenly died, apparently because of the unusual hot weather of that
year. The climate of Riverside, where subtropical and some tropical palms do well, does
not indicate success in the introduction of wax palms of the high Andean regions, although
some species of warmer habitat might prosper there. Mr. Wright also reports another
specimen growing nearer the coast, which is still very small and without a trunk.

112059—37 22

394 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

Humpeotpt, A., and BONPLAND, A.
1805. Essai sur la géographie des plantes, ete., pp. 58-61, map. Paris.
1808. Plantes Equinoxiales, ete., vol. 1, pp. 1-6, pls. la, 1b. Paris.
Humsotpr, A., BONPLAND, A., and KuNTH, C. S.
1815. Nova genera et species plantarum, etc., vol. 1, pp. 307-809, 317. Paris.
KARSTEN, H.
1849. Die Vegetationsorgane der Palmen, ete. Phys. Abh. Kgl. Akad. Wis-
sensch. Berlin, Aus dem Jahre 1847, pp. 73-235, pls. 1, 2.
1856. Plantae Columbianae, Linnaea, vol. 28, pp. 251-255.
1858. Florae Columbiae, etc., vol. 1, pp. 1-2, pl. 1. Berlin.
Spruce, R.
1908. Notes of a botanist un the Amazon and Andes... during the years
1849-1864, vol. 2, p. 268. Macmillan and Co., London.
THIELMANN, M.
1879. Vier Wege durch Amerika, pp. viii, 366-378, illus. Leipzig.
WENDLAND, H.
1860. Bemerkungen itiber einige Palmengattungen Amerika’s. Bonplandia,
vol. 8, pp. 68-70.

Taxonomic treatments of Ceroazylon are also to be found in such standard
works on palms as Martius, Historia Naturalis Palmarum (vol. 3, 1833-1850) ;
Kerchove, Les Palmiers (1878) ; Drude in Martius, Flora Brasiliensis (vol. 3,
part 2, 1881-1882) ; Drude in Engler and Prantl, Die Natiirlichen Pflanzen-
familien (part 2, div. 3, 1887-1889) ; Dahlgren, Index of American Palms (Field
Mus. Nat. Hist., Bot. Ser., vol. 14, 1986) ; ete.

Maps and other drawings prepared by Leta Hughey.
Smithsonian Report, 1936.—Bomhard PLATE 1

THE WAX PALM ON THE EASTERN SLOPE OF THE QUINDiO PASS.
Cerorylon andicola Humb. and Bonpl. After André (1878, p. 223).
‘7261 INsNyY ‘OjUETBY Ivou diy dq ‘A Aq UoyR, qdeazojoyg ‘“aapuy UNnIwMpnslaf WOPATOIAD
‘SSVd OIGNINO AHL AO 3AdO1S NYSALSSAM AHL NO SWIVd XVM

biapte:-

4
ia
3)
:

1eYyuWlog—'gcg | ‘qaoday ueruosy jiu

GG

AT ‘226r ysnsny ‘efop eT Ieeu dutty ‘d ‘a Aq weye} qdvisojoyq “[PUIM (4s1ey) asuanipuinb wopixo1aD

‘TEBI ‘TT “JOA ‘Sellag OYIJUAINg UBIMOSYyIUIg 101
*SSVd OIGNINO AHL AO AdO1S NYSLSvVq AHL NO SW1Vd XVM

€ aALlvw1d paeywog—9¢6| ‘Oday uRruOsy ITS
Smithsonian Report, 1936.—Bomhard PLATE 4

oral re ee mis

Lf,

Nit:
A

TWO OF KARSTEN’S WAX PALM SPECIES.

Ceroxylon quindiuense (Karst.) Wendl. (left) and Ce roxylon ceriferwm (Karst.) Burret (right). After Karsten
(1858, pl. 1).
SIGNIFICANCE OF SHELL STRUCTURE IN DIATOMS

By PAvut 8S. ConGer

Research Associate, Carnegie Institution of Washington
Custodian of Diatoms, United States National Musewm

[With 19 plates]

“MAXIMIS IN MINIMIS”

In this day of rapid industrial change and advancement, of new
and novel ideas, and of strange and futuristic tendencies in design,
when it is a question how quickly the next idea will become obsolete,
and when there is much discussion as to whether in a few years we
shall be living in houses of steel, paper, or glass, it is interesting to
take note of a large group of small plants that have been living for
30,000,000 years or more in glass houses and still find this a very
successful type of abode, literally building about themselves walls of
glass and frequently elaborating these walls in beautifully sculptured
and highly ornamental architectural designs. These are the diatoms,
of which there are more than 10,000 different kinds. They are all
single-celled or colonial plants.

If we were to adopt this kind of structural material, everyone’s
affairs would be even more subject to discussion than they are at.
present; curtain and venetian-blind manufacture would constitute
one of our major industries. But for the diatom, as for all other
plants, exposure to the light is a necessity. They have the advantage
of being so small that, with few exceptions, they cannot be seen with
the unaided eye; hence, though they have lived and continue to live
this transparent existence all about us, in every damp spot, every
roadside pool, river, lake, and ocean—resting or crawling on the bot-
tom, attached to submerged objects, and floating suspended in the
water—in unbelievable numbers, it is practically only within the
last 100 years that we have become acquainted with them at all. Few
diatoms are larger than 1 millimeter, that is, one twenty-fifth of an
inch in diameter, and most frequently they are less than one-tenth
that size, or one two-hundred-and-fiftieth of an inch. The details of
their structure are often exceedingly minute, comprising the most
delicate and perfect sculpturing in glass, or, to be exact, in silica.

325
326 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

Diatoms extract this silica from the water, where it is dissolved
in very small amounts, and deposit it in the membranes of their
cell walls to form the microscopic boxlike encasements or shells that
protect and support the living cells.

The most striking features of a diatom, as seen under the micro-
scope, are the symmetry of its form and the intricacy and perfection
of structure of so minute an organism; nor is this purely accidental,
for nature is a most careful and efficient designer. Not only is
this structure intrinsically beautiful and interesting, but it is of
great significance in several respects.

Of course, the structure is primarily of fundamental importance
to the diatom itself; secondly, it is of importance in the general
economy of nature, insofar as this concerns the diatom; and thirdly,
and incidentally, in the possession of properties different from those
of any other material, it is of wide general importance to mankind,
as we shall hope to see. It will be well to consider these three
important functions of diatom shell structure in the above order.

1. IMPORTANCE OF SHELL STRUCTURE TO THE DIATOM

Obviously, no active living organism could for long survive in a
single solid glass shell, for it could neither grow nor reproduce.
The rigid and inflexible nature of such a substance as silica necessi-
tates some special arrangement whereby growth and reproduction
of the cell may be accomplished, and nature has provided for this
by designing the cell wall or shell of the diatom in two parts like
a box, with a box and a lid, and a flange or girdle on each part to
overlap or telescope them together, a unique plan that is found in
no other organism. In fact the whole life of the diatom seems
so ordered as to be fitted to the nature of this material; and the
structure of the silica shell, in turn, gives constant evidence of its
adaptability to facilitation of the life processes of the cell.

In growth, for instance, a cup- or box-shaped shell of so inelastic
a substance cannot expand in diameter, or length and breadth, as
can the ordinary plant and animal cell walls composed of more
flexible materials such as pectin, cellulose, protein, or other organic
material. The cell can grow only in depth, by a building onto of
the edges of the shell or girdle and a gradual slipping apart of the
telescoped shells, one from the other, as seen in plate 4. Thus the
cell can grow only by extension in one direction, or expansion in
one dimension instead of three, a phenomenon rather peculiar to
the diatom.

In reproduction, when the cell has grown and matured as above
described, the protoplast within divides in two, and new shells are
deposited upon adjacent walls of the two new protoplasts thus
DIATOMS—CONGER oat

formed, lying back to back as in plate 4. Each new shell, together
with one of the original parent shells, and the protoplast lying
within forms thus a new cell. Subsequently, the old girdle slips
off and the two new cells appear as new individuals to repeat
the process. In this common and well-known method of vegetative
reproduction, the new shells being formed within, one of them is
in general necessarily smaller each time division takes place. This
process continued indefinitely would result in some of the cells be-
coming gradually smaller to the point of extinction were it not for
the intervention of another type of reproduction peculiar to the
diatoms, known as auxosporial reproduction, in which rejuvenation
of the size of the cell is achieved.

In this process, in various ways in the different species, the proto-
plast expands, or two cells unite and the protoplast resulting from
this union expands, and the old shells are thrown off entirely. The
large gelatinous structure thus produced is known as an auxospore,
which after a time forms upon its outer membranous wall two
entirely new shells of larger size, and a new individual of large
size is produced. This innovation is necessitated by the rigid and
inflexible nature of the silica shells.

The unique method of producing new shells within the old in the
ordinary process of vegetative reproduction assures that the offspring
will be, in outline at least, an exact copy of the parent.

The girdle which plays so important a part in the structure, growth,
and reproduction of the cell, presents a number of nice adaptations
for its particular function. It must be such a structure as will hold
the two shells firmly together and prevent collapse of the cell at
such a point of frailty and yet permit of ready division of the cell at
the midregion for purposes of reproduction of the species. The
girdle provides satisfactorily for this, surrounding the cell at this
point, clasping the shells and holding them tightly together in posi-
tion, and yet it is capable of being thrown off at time of reproduction
(and without much loss of material) to allow division of the cell and
subsequent pushing apart of the two newly formed cells. In pro-
viding this arrangement, nature has in many cases designed the
girdie not as a complete hoop or ring, which would be inflexible, but
rather as a band open on one side to permit it to be thrown off with
ease at the proper time. The same principle has been used by man
for the expansible rings formerly used to hold some types of auto-
mobile tires in place on the wheel, for the little expansible rings that
bold lenses in their mounts, and for the ring clips that hold some
types of fruit jar covers in place. When this girdle band consists,
as is the case in many species of diatoms, not of one ring alone but of
several or numerous adjacent and interlocking ones interpolated from
328 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

time to time as the cell grows, it is clear that these would be weakened
if the open side of each ring came at the same place as the one next to
it, making a continous cut across the whole series of rings; so nature
avoids such a weakness by ordering that the opening of each ring
shall come at a different place in the series, like the mortar joints of
brick in a wall, no two being in line with each other. Nor is this
enough to satisfy the niceties of nature, for frequently the open ends
of these girdle bands are especially dovetailed and grooved to fit into
each other and lock together, and the edges of the girdle band or
ring are serrate or notched to fit in corresponding notches in the
rings adjacent to it (pl.2). All of this adds, not only to the strength,
but also to the beauty of the diatoms in varying their patterns. And
when any particular feature of design of an object adds to its
strength, it usually means an economy in the amount of material
necessary for its construction, a matter of importance in the efficiency
of nature as will be noted later.

To breathe and obtain food substances for growth and reproduc-
tion all cells must be able to absorb material in solution through
their cell walls, but as silica is an impermeable material, special pro-
vision must be made in the diatoms for such absorption. This ab-
sorption is made possible by numerous pores through the shells, vari-
ously arranged in the different species, frequently forming beauti-
ful patterns on the shells. These porous spaces are covered with a
semipermeable membrane, composed of some pectic substance, which
permits the interchange of liquids and soluble food materials between
the exterior and the interior of the cell.

These porous spaces through the silica shell naturally lighten and
weaken the wall, and this weakness is overcome by various means
in different types of diatoms. Sometimes, in the more plain and
simple types of shells, there is merely a thickening of the silica
between the porous spaces. Seldom is the shell surface of the diatom
flat; instead there is usually some degree of curvature to the surface,
often very slight, but in many cases the shell is highly concave or
convex, and this curvature in itself serves to strengthen the shell, just
as dome-shaped ceilings over large rooms can be supported more
easily and rigidly than flat ones. The flexible nature of the proto-
plast and the conditions of tension and of internal and external pres-
sure of the cell as the shells are being formed control these forms in
the various species. In many other diatoms—those with particularly
flat shells such as Arachnoidiscus, or others with large openly porous
shells such as Isthmia and many Biddulphias—internal ribs or cross
walls are present to add strength to the shell, just as ribs on large steel
doors and gratings, inside of pianos, and in the bottoms of boats are
used to increase strength instead of building a heavier solid structure.

DIATOMS—CONGER 329

In many diatoms an alternate raising and lowering, or undulation,
of the surface gives strength and rigidity, just as is accomplished
by the corrugated surface of the galvanized sheet iron commonly
used for roofing, sides of garages, and factory buildings. (See pls.
14, 15, and 16.)

In still another large series of rather more elaborate and complex
diatom shells, the shell surface consists not of one, but of two very
porous layers one above the other with very thin upright joining
walls between them forming small hexagonal chambers, into each
of which one pore of the external and one of the internal wall open,
forming thus, except for the previously mentioned permeable mem-
branous covering, a continuous passage through from the outside to
the inside, and yet giving a maximum degree of strength and great
rigidity to a highly porous surface by the use of a minimum amount
of material (pl. 3). In many of the larger-celled diatoms, in which
the mass of the cell is great in proportion to the material substance
and strength of the shell, the shells tend to assume the spherical
and tubular shapes—shapes much used by man for tanks, pipes, and
containers because these shapes are intrinsically strong and afford
the enclosure of a large amount of space with a minimum amount of
structural material.

The fraility of this exceedingly delicate shell necessitates in many
species special types of strengthening and supporting structures, such
as internal cross walls or septae, thickened solid silica bars, and
sometimes even internal plates or chambers, or secondary and inner
shells. All of these features, together with the natural trends of
variation, tend to multiply greatly the types of structure and form
found in the diatoms, so that they include every conceivable geomet-
rical design and variation and sometimes even almost unexplainable
shapes.

Having seen how important the structure of the shell is to the
diatom cell itself, if we turn now to consider how the structure re-
lates to the kind of place in which a certain species may live, we find
again an amazingly beautiful series of adaptations to fit the cell to
life in its particular habitat. Thus diatoms that grow attached to
other submerged plants or objects may take long needle-shaped
forms, allowing for the attachment of great numbers of their ends,
and their exposure of a maximum amount of surface to the water.
Another arrangement for this same purpose is found in fan-shaped
cells set in fan-shaped colonies attached by their small ends, and
in the growth of long filaments with endwise attachment. Large
free-living cells must have walls of heavier silica and often more
internal cross walls. Since silica is twice as heavy as water, it is
necessary that diatoms which live continuously floating in the open
330 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

ocean have shells as lightly silicified as possible, and in order that
they may have the necessary strength they are usually very small,
round, or tubular in shape, or with numerous cross walls (pls. 2
and 5). Often, too, long spines increase the amount of surface to
keep them afloat.

2. IMPORTANCE OF DIATOM SHELL STRUCTURE IN THE GENERAL
ECONOMY OF NATURE

With all these various types of structure, and with their small but
rugged shells which because of their minuteness are capable of rapid
reproduction and may easily be transported hither and yon, it will
be realized how readily diatoms can be scattered throughout the
oceans and utilize to the fullest extent the dissolved mineral substance
present.

These types of structure provide simultaneously for great strength
with correlated economy in the use of silica, which because of its
high degree of insolubility in water (only a few parts per milion in
most natural waters) is a precious material to the diatoms and is
often completely used up by them during the height of their growing
season. ‘The porous and chambered type of wall structure mentioned
heretofore as common in so many of the diatoms permits of the walls
being of exceeding thinness, in most cases beyond the possibility of
convenient measurement, and often as thin as two one-hundred-
thousandths of an inch, yet of great rigidity in order to avoid
collapse of the cell. It is advantageous in the economy of nature
that a great abundance of diatoms should be produced in ali waters
to afford a food supply for the animals living there, even with the
small amount of silica available. It is likewise desirable in the
economy of nature that these diatoms should use sparingly of so
rare a substance as the slightly soluble silica, so that the available
supply will suffice to produce the greatest possible number of them.
This could not be better accomplished than by the nicety of adapta-
tion exhibited by the very strong and yet very delicate structure of
their shells. Studies of this subject have been made in our labora-
tory and will be published more extensively in a later paper.

Man uses the same methods in the construction of long bridges,
deriving great strength simultaneously with lightness of weight and
a minimum use of costly material by designing long open-work
girders and trusses. Another example of achievement of great
strength through the form of structure with even a very frail ma-
terial is the use of the common corrugated paper box for shipping
surprisingly heavy and extremely fragile materials.

Another well-adjusted arrangement in the economy of nature is
the production of light-weight shells adapted for buoyancy of
SS et a —_" = ”

DIATOMS—CONGER 331

diatoms that live habitually floating in the open sea, where, at the
same time, silica is less abundant. However, those diatoms that live
attached, where the continual wash of water brings to them an abund-
ant supply of the necessary substances for growth, can produce either
heavier shells or a very luxurious growth within a small area, and
along the bottom, nearer the source of silica, live the heavier, larger
diatoms with a massive type of shell structure, indicating an ample
supply of structural material. (Pls. 5 and 6.)

Why diatoms are so infinitely multiplied and diversified to all con-
ceivable shapes and patterns, when a few types of shell structure
could probably fulfill their purposes and needs, is an evolutionary
and philosophical question which applies to other life forms as well
and which has not yet been answered. One might as well inquire
why man has not deliberately planned a model house incorporating
all practical features of comfort and convenience, and having once
designed this model house, busied himself with building a world
full of these houses for all men to live in; but many different indi-
viduals develop as many diverse ideas of structure and design.

It is interesting to see in a group of such minute forms as the
diatoms so perfect an application of the same principles and de-
vices as are found in larger forms and as have been made use of in
many ways in the works of man. Throughout the group of diatoms,
their shells seem to embody the elements of fine structural engineer-
ing, together with principles of architectural design adapting them
to their types of abode and to the necessities of their various modes
of existence. All features of their shell designs seem to center about
and be controlled by these purposes, which contribute largely to the
great diversity and beauty of design and incidentally to their wide
industrial application, as we shall see.

The whole history of civilization, of man’s exploitation of material
and subjection and control of energy resources in his attempt to
establish his domain over nature, has shown a steady trend toward
an understanding and manipulation of the finer and ever finer
forces and conditions of nature. So it is that small things which
have seemed of little or no importance have come one by one to
take prominent places on the stage of human interest, and the oft-
repeated question, “What is it good for?” promises eventually to be
answered for every natural substance.

The renowned biologist Lamarck has said (Philosophie Zoolog-
ique) : “The most important discoveries of the laws, methods, and
progress of nature have nearly always sprung from the examination
of the smallest objects which she contains, and from apparently the
most insignificant enquiries.” The late Theobald Smith is quoted
(Simon Henry Gage, Science, vol. 84, no. 2171, Aug. 7, 1936, p.
332 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

121) as having said: “We who have dealt with the finitely small liv-
ing things have, perhaps, as much a sense of the highly complex,
unfathomable, the eternally elusive in the universe as do those who
look for the outer boundaries of space. Each group contributes a
different story of the same final significance.”

3. TECHNICAL AND INDUSTRIAL SIGNIFICANCE OF DIATOM SHELL
STRUCTURE

It will be readily perceived why these varied forms of delicate
but strong, hollow, boxlike shells, composed of a resistant and inactive
material, in the form of thin walls and with a tremendous amount
of exposed surface, may have many advantages for industrial uses
because of these peculiar qualities. Their small size, for instance,
together with their great porosity, makes it possible for them to be
closely compacted and yet to possess an astonishing amount of pore
space. This porosity renders compact masses of diatomaceous earth,
composed almost wholly of the shells of diatoms, exceedingly light
in weight, sometimes only one-sixth to one-ninth as heavy as water,
or as low as 8 pounds to the cubic foot, although silica, of which it
is composed, weighs twice as much as water, or 180 pounds to the
cubic foot. The remainder represents air space, amounting some-
times to as much as nine times the actual amount of shell substance
present. (See pls. 8 and 9.)

The very fine and precise structure of diatoms early found utility
in scientific work in the recognition of its excellence as an object
for testing the quality of high-power microscope lenses. Among the
diatoms a sufficient range in size permitted the selection of various
species adapted for the testing of each different power of lens, the
structure in each case being on the border line of visibility for the
particular lens to be tested, so that a lens of good quality would re-
solve it while one of poor quality would not. Nothing has subse-
quently proved more suitable for this purpose.

Lately a professor of the physics department of the University of
Illinois, seeking a fine, open mesh-work support or grid for the very
delicate metallic films only one to a few atoms thick which he was able
to produce and which he intended to bombard with other atoms in re-
search studies on the structure of atoms, looked naturally to the fine
porous shell of the diatom as the thing which might most readily
meet his requirements. What was needed was a fine sievelike screen
to support the film and yet provide free, open space for the unham-
pered passage of a stream of atoms directed against the film. In
answer to this rather unique request for the cooperation of the dia-
tomist, it was possible for our laboratory to select for him such types
of diatoms as would conform to his specifications. Thus it is impos-
DIATOMS—CONGER 333

sible to say at what moment, or in what connection, the study of the
structure of these minute plant forms may be turned to practical use.

The luxuries and comforts of modern life and the innumerable
appliances devised through the ingenuity of man to secure and in-
erease them, have created such a demand for raw materials for his
uses, from the most common and abundant substances to the rarest
and most unusual elements, that scarcely any material escapes his
vigilant eye. Mankind has developed a new realization of the poten-
tialities of materials and a new interest in researches upon their prop-
erties. Thus whenever any kind of substance is found to occur in
considerable quantity, its possibilities are recognized and investigated,
and sooner or later it is likely to find one or many uses of human
importance. Frequently this usefulness is based upon some appar-
ently insignificant or unique property of the material.

Such has been the history of the use of diatomaceous earth, which
30 years ago was known to only an occasional scientist and to but a
very small group of industrialists, but which today has been heard
of by most people and has found its application in some phase of
almost every industry, affecting every angle of our daily lives. Com-
paratively few people yet know what it is, and fewer still have in-
quired into the full significance of its unusual properties.

Diatomaceous earth is typically a fine whitish earth composed
largely, often practically purely, of the fossil remains, or shells, of
diatoms, accumulating by slow deposition in quiet waters over long
periods of time, the resulting deposits being exposed through subse-
quent rising or upheaval of the land. Luxuriant growth of these
little plants in undisturbed waters, free from inwash of sand or other
foreign matter, has resulted in the formation of many large deposits
of very pure diatomaceous earth (pl. 7). These deposits are to be
found widely scattered and over vast areas of the earth’s surface
previously covered by oceans, lakes, and other bodies of water in ages
past. Quick decomposition of organic matter and leaching out of
soluble materials has left almost nothing save the very insoluble and
highly indestructible shells of the diatoms, insoluble because they con-
sist of silica and comparatively indestructible because they are so
small that they easily slip in among other particles without being
crushed.

The very fine porous structure of these shells and their character-
istic shape give to diatomaceous earth certain peculiar properties
which make it valuable. Chief among these are high porosity, ex-
treme lightness of weight, and great amount of surface with com-
paratively small amount of actual material. If we were to fill a
room from floor to ceiling with tiny cardboard boxes of various shapes
we should have an arrangement homologous to diatomaceous earth.
334 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

The whole bulk would be very light in weight, and would really con-
sist of very little actual substance, and the interspaces between and
within the boxes, representing porosity, would be a very considerable
part of the whole volume. If, further, these little cardboard boxes
were perforated with countless pores, they would offer a still greater
amount of surface and still less actual material, and in this respect
they would still more nearly resemble the diatom shells in a mass of
diatomaceous earth.

We can get the best conception of the qualities of diatomaceous
earth upon which its value rests, if we think of it in terms such as
these: The delicate shells of the diatoms which compose the earth
represent surface and area, with relatively great quantities of en-
closed space; whereas sand or other solid particles of silica, the
same substance, represent volume or mass, and consequently much
greater weight in proportion, and much less surface area and pore
space (pl. 9). Consequently, the latter particles fall rapidly through
air or water because they are heavy; also they have less surface for
the absorption of heat, and less pore space for the absorption of
fluid.

In fact there is no other substance which can take the place of
diatomaceous earth for many of the uses to which it is put, and
there is no other organism or process capable of producing such a
substance. In other words, it cannot be duplicated; the prediction
may even be warranted that this is one substance man will never
be able to produce synthetically or even find a suitable substitute
for. Please bear in mind again that it is the size and structure
alone which give it these unusual qualities, and of these it is the
structure only which man cannot reproduce or imitate and which
is produced by no other organism, nor found in any other natural
material. Human ingenuity has been able to spin threads as fine as
those of the spider, to spin such threads in as hard a material as
quartz, to bore almost invisible holes through diamonds, to duplicate
perfectly so delicate a structure as the honeycomb of the bee, and to
grind particles as small as, or smaller than, diatoms. Man is not
only able to grind such small particles, but he can make them into
little spheres; but the one thing he cannot do, now, or probably ever,
is to make them into little hollow boxes with porous walls of glass.
This only the diatom can do, and in this it seems to have attained the
ultimate of perfection.

Because of its porosity a block of diatomaceous earth, being much
lighter than water, will float on the surface of a body of water until
the pores fill up sufficiently for it to become waterlogged and sink.
This the ancients knew, though they knew nothing of the origin
of the material; furthermore, they had no microscope to tell them its
DIATOMS—CONGER 335

nature or the reason for this wonderful quality. However, they
found the material useful and cut it in the form of bricks, which they
called most appropriately “swimming bricks.”

The earliest record we have for the commercial use of this mate-
rial is in A. D. 532, when the Emperor Justinian, finding it impossi-
ble to carry out his plans for the construction of the great dome of
the Church of St. Sophia in Constantinople because of the weight
of stone to be supported on four arches over the great expanse of
107 feet, resorted to the use of diatomaceous earth, or “swimming
brick.” This was not so practical as it might seem, however, for
the material has little strength, and when it becomes wet, it likewise
becomes correspondingly heavy.

As has been seen, the lightness in weight and the porosity of the
material go hand in hand. Diatomaceous earth, which weighs only
about one-seventh as much as water, is also sometimes so porous as
to be capable of absorbing as much as eight times the amount of
actual solid diatom substance in a given volume, or, in other words,
an amount of liquid equal to more than three-quarters its gross vol-
ume. This property has been made wide use of in a variety of
interesting ways.

When Alfred Nobel, founder of the famous Nobel prizes, as a
chemist and the inventor of dynamite, was casting about for a highly
absorbent material to carry the dangerous nitroglycerine in quanti-
ties of high potency and yet in a form that could be handled with
comparative safety, he turned in 1868 to diatomaceous earth. This
was one of the early important applications of the material. When
this original dynamite was used as powder in a gun, the explosive
force caused the extremely hard diatom shells to cut and score the
inside of the gun barrel. Since that time wood meal, a more expen-
sive, equally absorptive, but slightly more suitable material has been
substituted for the earth in this use.

More lately the earth has been used for packing about the glass
bottles or carboys in which dangerous and corrosive liquids, such
as sulphuric acid, are shipped. If during transportation the con-
tainer should leak, or break, the acid is slowly absorbed into the
highly porous earth and remains as a relatively solid and dry mass,
arriving at its destination with no damage done. The siliceous earth
is unaffected by the acid, and the capillary spaces of the little shells,
owing to their structure, hold the acid with a tenacity which gives
full assurance of protection against any damage.

Recently a Florida inventor has been developing the idea of an
absorbing unit to carry fuel (gasoline) for a foolproof and perfectly
safe kitchen range similar to, and fully as efficient as, the ordinary
gas stove, to be used in rural communities where illuminating gas
336 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

is not available. The highly inflammable nature of kerosene and
gasoline, and the danger of handling it in filling the stove, besides
the difficulty of keeping it from leaking onto the outside of the tank,
has resulted in countless explosions, fires, and deaths in rural com-
munities and even in cities, where such fuel also finds considerable
use. How simply this danger may be obviated by filling the tank
with very porous diatomaceous earth, without greatly reducing its
holding capacity for gasoline, is illustrated in this man’s invention.

Tanks filled with diatomaceous earth, saturated with gasoline, will
contain a volume of gasoline over three-quarters their actual outside
volume. ‘They can be put up at the factory to be sold in any grocery
or hardware store, or simply to be exchanged at the price of the gaso-
line for tanks recently emptied, doing away with the necessity of
handling the fluid at all. The tank is slipped into the stove and
coupled by a simple connection to the pipe leading to the burners.
Pushing the tank into the stove makes an electrical connection which
lights a small electric bulb fitting into a depression in the outside
of the tank. The warmth from this little ight expands and volatilizes
some of the gasoline, producing a pressure within the tank of 8
pounds. When this pressure is reached, a simple automatic pres-
sure regulator breaks the electrical contact, turning off the lght,
and the warming and volatilization is stopped until the pressure again
drops slightly and the light once more comes on. When a burner is
turned on, the volatilized gas flows to the burner and is ignited. ‘The
resulting drop in pressure causes the light to turn on and drive more
gasoline out of the diatomaceous earth in the tank. The whole ap-
paratus resembles the ordinary gas stove, and the danger of handling
liquid fuel is avoided, as it is to all intents and purposes in a solid
state and hence cannot leak or spill out if the tank is upset or
damaged.

Not only do the little shells make a good absorbent, but they are an
equally good filter material, owing to the porous structure as seen
in some of the photographs (pls. 13-19). In sugar refineries, if the
sugar solution is run through cloth or fiber filters, the sediment soon
collects on the filter surface, clogging it up and stopping the process.
If a certain quantity of finely divided diatomite, consisting of the
loose shells of diatoms, is dumped into the solution to serve as an
aid to filtration, or technically, a “filter-aid”, some of these little
shells soon pile up against the cloth and their fine pores catch the
sediment, then more shells fall against them and more sediment is
held in these, and so on. At no time is there a thick impervious mat
of sediment on the filter, but a porous mass of diatom shells and
sediment intermixed, so that a continuous filter surface is being
formed during the process of filtration. There is no other substance
which meets the requirements for this need.
DIATOMS—CONGER 337

Nearly every household now-a-days has a jar of diatomite on the
kitchen shelf—not, of course, so labeled, but under the name of silver
polish. The material is very superior for this purpose. To clean
the rust from a piece of iron, it is natural to use a file. To clean the
corrosion, or silver-oxide, from a piece of fine silver, it is logical again
to select a file, but a much finer file in order that it will not scratch
the surface of the silver or cut away any of the precious metal.
Precisely the kind and size of file that is needed in this instance is
found in the finely ridged and sculptured surfaces of some of the
diatoms. Two of these little “files”, greatly enlarged to show their
rasping surfaces, are illustrated in plate 10, and between them is a
photograph of a bit of the earth containing many of these small
instruments. They are fine enough to remove the tarnish, but not so
fine as to remove much of the surface. For these same reasons they
are suitable and widely used also in polishes for automobiles.

The form just mentioned is adapted not only for polishing, but
also for use as a reinforcing or binding material in paints and plas-
tics. The liquid plastic or paint fills the pores and the spaces be-
tween the ridges on the diatom shells, and when the material hardens,
the whole mass locks together in a very tenacious texture that resists
cracking. It is the same principle that is used in putting hair, fiber,
or other binder in plaster, but on a much smaller scale; the intricate
sculpturing on the diatom shell presents a great amount of irregular
surface for the firm attachment of the matrix. Even concrete is
made stronger by the incorporation of these little shells. It is a case
of many small forces working together.

The same effect is obtained when diatomite is mixed with tar for
roofing. The diatoms are small and mix easily, yet they bind firmly.
Also, they make the tar dry and prevent its running when it becomes
warm and soft in the sun, and render it less sticky; and the combi-
nation makes a firm roofing material that is resistant to cracking
or checking. A homogeneous mixture of the diatomite with the tar
is readily obtainable, which is easy to apply to the roof, and is at the
same time very adhesive. Longer fibers are no better and are more
troublesome to handle.

When the bright sun shines on an exposed hillside of very pure
diatomaceous earth, the substance glares with the whiteness of new
fallen snow (pl. 7), so that workmen in the neighborhood find it
necessary to wear smoked glasses. The diatom shells themselves are,
of course, of glasseous silica and actually transparent; the whiteness
is due to complete and total reflection of the sunlight by the fine,
intricate structure of the diatom shells, for, as is well known, sunlight
when totally reflected and completely diffused is white. Thus we see
that even the color is a product of the structure.
338 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

This brilliant whiteness proved to be cause for the sad disillusion-
ment of a paint manufacturer who thought this quality in a material
so permanent would be a fine basis for an excellent nonfading white
paint. He began producing such an article with the full expectation
of superceding all other white paints, that the diatomite would be
cheaper than other white pigments, and that it would not be subject
to oxidation and the chemical changes ordinarily affecting and dis-
coloring paints. But when his material was applied to a building
he was much surprised to learn that it gave a colorless, glazed, and
varnishlike surface, transparent and with no color at all except that of
the original surface on which it had been spread. When the form

of the shells, which had been responsible for the white color, was
modified by filling the spaces in the shells with linseed oil of nearly
the same refractive property for light, and the mixture was spread
out thin on a surface, the light was no longer reflected but passed
through the transparent film. This is the same effect obtained as
when water or oil is spread on ground glass, or when white paper
is permeated with oil or paraffin, and becomes translucent.

Though this indicates that diatomite is useless to give color to
paint, it should not imply that it is not a useful constituent in many
paints, for it gives them a filling, hardening, and binding quality of
value, and in many paints that would be otherwise brilliant and
glaring, it gives a softness of luster due to the diffusion of light
by the fine reflecting surfaces of the diatomite particles. To obtain
a material that would give this effect by the crushing and grinding
of sand or other quartz material would be a troublesome and costly
process, but to obtain it by the grinding of the already frail and
thin diatom shells is relatively simple and easy. Hence the delicacy
of structure aids in the production of this very useful material.

It has also a quality of hardness and resistance in silica paints
used for surfacing concrete and brick in damp places such as sub-
ways and tunnels.

Because of its quality of reflection and radiation of light and
coincidentally of heat, a lining of bricks made of diatomaceous earth
greatly increases the efficiency of a fireplace. Less of the heat goes
up the chimney and more of it is thrown out into the room; also,
the cheerful glow of the fire is enhanced by the background of
white bricks.

No more effective material than diatomaceous earth can be found
for insulating the walls of one’s house to keep it warm in winter
and cool insummer. Mixed with a binding material, such as asbestos
fiber, it is as convenient to handle as mineral wool and is fully as
efficient.
DIATOMS—CONGER 339

There are three typical methods of heat transmission—radiation,
conduction, and convection. When the space within the wall is
filled with diatomaceous earth made up of the very porous little
shells of diatoms, any heat of radiation which might strike this
material is immediately reflected and radiated back into the room.
As there is a very small amount of contact between the separate
shells where they touch each other, and as the silica itself is a very
poor conductor of heat, a minimum amount of heat will pass through
the wall by conduction. Most important of all, the large open air
space which permits of ready transfer of heat outward by convec-
tion currents in the uninsulated wall is now partitioned into in-
numerable infinitesimally minute air spaces by the little porous
hollow shells. Air spaces if of small dimension are the best insu-
lation against loss of heat, and with this type of insulation a maxi-
mum amount of air space is present in the wall, and yet air cur-
rents which might carry away heat by convection are almost en-
tirely prevented by these exceedingly small enclosures.

These same principles prevent the passage of sound through a wall;
or, if fine, dry diatomite powder is dusted on the surface of a newly
plastered wall in a church, auditorium, or theater it will adhere and
make a finely porous and rough, though apparently smooth, surface
which will stop the reflection and echoing of sound, thereby improv-
ing the acoustics. The ordinary plaster or papered wall has a hard,
smooth reflecting surface for the sound waves falling upon it and
produces echoes which interfere and reverberate. If the wall is hol-
low, it increases the trouble by acting as a sounding box. Hanging
soft draperies in front of the walls is costly, troublesome, ana not
always desirable; they soon become dusty and are not always
effective in stopping echoes. The sharp edges, pores, and corners
of the diatom shells, however, catch the sound waves, breaking them
up and preventing their escape back into the room as a definite
interfering tone. (See pl. 12.)

It is interesting to note that the diatom shells of powdered diatoma-
ceous earth will not pass through a sieve with any degree of ease,
or scarcely even at all. We commonly think of anything small, fine,
and light as passing readily through a sieve, and in most of our
experience with ordinary fine powders this is true; but the diatoms
with shells of irregular size and shape, with their horns, spines, and
sculptured surfaces, become all tangled up, wedged in, and locked
together into little fluffy balls that grow like children’s snowballs,
picking up more and more of the shells as they roll over the surface
of the sieve, and defying all effort to break them up or make them
pass through. This characteristic of diatomite is industrially signifi-

1120593723
340 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

cant, because it necessitates the grading of the material by air flota-
tion rather than by sifting.

It is probably not widely known that the shells of diatoms can be
used to stop dust explosions. These explosions have long been a
serious problem in coal mines and grain elevators, flour mills, wood-
planing mills, and other plants, and they have become increasingly
numerous with the growth of industrial processes. Often they are
very violent and do great damage. Dust explosions may occur wher-
ever particles of a combustible dust—coal dust, textile fibers, papor
pulp, soybean meal, flour, soap, cereal dust, wood meal, or other finely
divided organic matter—becomes suspended in the air in a mine or
manufacturing plant in considerable abundance, though perhaps not
sufficiently dense as to be noticeable. Each particle is surrounded by
air but is close enough to its neighbor so that when it ignites from
a possible spark or flame (as, for instance, the spark created when
the heel of one’s shoe strikes a rock) and combines with the air
around it, the heat can be absorbed by the adjacent particle, which
in turn ignites, increasing the heat, which is passed on to still another,
and so the combustion grows, spreading so rapidly as to become an
explosion,

This all happens quicker than it takes to tell it, the explosion
increasing rapidly to a peak of violence and then quickly declining
in force. Such an explosion is usually localized first in some small
corner of a mine. The impact of this small local explosion com-
presses and disturbs the air in the whole enclosed space communi-
cating with it, raising and scattering dust from every corner and
surface of the mine or room. Hence the whole place is immediately
filled with clouds of combustible dust of the same nature as the first,
and slightly later, but almost simultaneously with the initial explo-
sion, there occurs throughout the whole mine or building a second-
ary and much more violent and destructive general explosion which
does the major damage.

There are two ways to combat dust explosions: (1) By preven-
tion—that is, by using measures to keep the air clean or free from
combustible dust, by washing and spraying dusty walls, etc. This
is not very satisfactory for it is difficult to keep the air clean, and
one can never be sure at any particular time that the air is safely free
ef dust. (2) By “rock dusting”, which consists of dusting all walls,
ledges, and exposed places with fine diatomaceous powder. If this
has been previously done, or is regularly practiced, the primary
impact of a dust explosion will scatter the diatoms throughout the
air, and the second and violent explosion will not occur at all. This
is because of the interposition of the fine noncombustible. heat-
absorbing diatom shells among the particles of combustible dust.
DIA TOMS—CONGER 341

They are small and light and will consequently remain suspended in
the air for a long time. They have a great amount of surface area
for absorption of the heat of adjacent burning particles. They are
poor conductors of heat and hence transmit it slowly to other nearby
particles; in fact, they largely retain it.

These qualities are again due wholly to the form of the diatoms.
Sand of the same material and size would not do, for it is too heavy
and would not stay suspended in the air long enough. No other
material can take their place in preventing dust explosions; only
the delicate diatom shells meet all these requirements.

Another very different and very recent use of diatomaceous earth
is in the manufacture of waterproof saltcellars. Everyone is pain-
fully familiar with the affinity of table salt for moisture in the
air. In the South, at the seashore, in fact, in any locality where the
air becomes sultry, saltcellars rapidly clog. The advent of warm
weather and rising humidity exacts a toll of battered knuckles, new
dents in the table top, and damaged tempers, with futile efforts to
dislodge the salt from the top of the shaker. Attempts to overcome
the difficulty by putting rice in the shaker with the salt, keeping the
shaker under a tumbler, and other such makeshifts have long
proved ineffective. Whenever the thin metal cap of the usual type
of saltcellar, perforated with numerous openings, is exposed to the
moisture-laden air, there is sure to condense on it a thin film of
moisture to which a little salt will adhere; this salt attracts more
moisture, and more salt immediately sticks to the mass, rapidly
clogging the small openings; then corrosion may even set in, and
the whole thing becomes practically useless as a salt dispenser. The
difficulty has seemed inevitable; one of those things that “just can’t
be helped.”

Here again the structure of the diatoms proves of unique value,
and only within the last year there has been placed on the market
an entirely new type of salt shaker involving their use, which over-
comes very simply and effectively the clogging difficulty (pl. 11).
It consists merely of a small cone of diatomite, with a single hole
through it, that fits in the top of the shaker under the metal screw
cap which serves to hold the cone in place. How then does this
simple device act to keep the salt dry and prevent the shaker from
clogging, and upon what do its unusual properties depend? Every-
one who has had the experience, and nearly everyone has had at some
time or other, of trying to wash and dry thoroughly a tall, narrow-
necked bottle, which cannot be wiped but can be dried only by allow-
ing it to drain and the remaining moisture to evaporate, realizes
how slowly the final moisture evaporates or diffuses out through
such a narrow-necked structure. Just as slowly as it passes out
through such an opening, so slowly, likewise, can moisture pass in
342 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

through the narrow opening in this new saltcellar, in contrast to
the greater readiness with which it may circulate through the more
numerous openings of the thin cap of an ordinary shaker,

Whatever moisture might enter with the air through this small
opening is absorbed by the strong capillary suction of the minute
pores of the diatomite and is tenaciously held by the surface tension
of the very small spaces and enclosures so that it does not diffuse
into the saltcellar to moisten the salt. There is no tendency for salt to
adher to the dry surface of the cone, nor can the latter corrode.
Thus in the wettest weather the salt flows from the shaker in a dry
stream like sand through an hour glass, and its little cubical crystals
bound about upon one’s plate with the resiliency of golf balls.

Another application of this same principle is in the designing of
an “air-conditioned” bread box, in the top of which is inserted a
small plate or disk of porous diatomite. This keeps all dust and dirt
out of the box, at the same time conditioning the air in the box by
permitting the slow transfer of moisture in and out; this regulates
the humidity without allowing a sufficiently rapid circulation of air
to dry out the contents, and this degree of regulation seems sufficient
to keep the air in the box in a purer condition and prevent the bread
from spoiling or molding as rapidly as it is ikely to do in the ordi-
nary bread box. Again the structure of the diatom provides the
qualities necessary for this purpose.

Some time after the World War a very troublesome and bafiling
condition developed in the alcohol industry, and executives of a large
alcohol corporation spent a great deal of money over a period of
several years seeking the mysterious cause of the condition. An
important raw material for the production of commercial alcohol
is molasses, the residuum of the sugar refineries of Cuba. This
molasses is shipped in large tank steamers to Wilmington, Del., for
example, where it is fermented and distilled to obtain the resulting
alcohol. Strong suspicion arose that a very nefarious practice was
growing up in this trade—a suspicion that some of the captains of
these molasses transports were adulterating the cargo en route with
sea water to increase the volume and hence the payment received for
it. The scheme was apparently this: A safe distance out from the
Cuban port, a hose would be put overboard and sea water pumped
into the tanks of molasses, increasing their content by as much as
one-fourth to one-fifth, which in such a large cargo involved a con-
siderable amount of money. With a heavy cargo and a slow-moving
tanker, the rolling and tossing of the vessel would give ample oppor-
tunity for the sea water and molasses to become thoroughly mixed
by the time of arrival at the port of delivery.

A number of difficulties conspired against detection. Small crews of
low-paid and unscrupulous men were glad to take part in increasing
DIATOMS—CONGER 3438

the cargo and sharing in the profits accruing therefrom. Placing de-
tectives on the boats was of no avail, because the work might be car-
ried on quietly in one part of the vessel while they were in another, or
while they slept, or what was more likely, would be entirely omitted
when there was the slightest suspicion of spying on the part of any
member of the crew. To measure or weigh the amount of molasses at
the time of loading and check it again at the time of delivery was
entirely too costly and troublesome.

The natural thing under these circumstances was to turn to chemi-
cal analysis as a means of detecting the adulteration, on the probable
assumption that addition of sea water to the molasses would add some
element not otherwise present, or in such proportions as were not nor-
mally found, in the molasses. To this end several years were spent in
devising methods and making exhaustive analyses of sea water, mo-
lasses, and of samples of the combination, even to determination of
such rarer elements as might more probably be expected to be present
in the one and not in the other, such as iodine, bromine, boron, manga-
nese, and others, but all such analyses proved futile. Every element
that was to be found in sea water was also found present in molasses,
and further the composition of the latter is so highly variable that the
addition of sea water did not change appreciably the proportion in
which the elements occurred. Thus, after a considerable expenditure
of time and energy, all of these methods proved useless.

Nor could the thickness or viscosity of the greatly diluted molasses
be relied upon as a criterion, for as everyone knows from the classical
saying “As thick as molasses in January”, this material is the pro-
verbial standard of fluid mobility, and its viscosity is exceedingly vari-
able depending upon the natural amount of water it contains and also
upon the temperature.

Chemical analysis and determination of the viscosity of the diluted
molasses having failed, the hope of finding some readily recognizable
and specific thing in sea water which was not in molasses finally sug-
gested to one of the men conducting the investigation the thought of
some organism, which happy idea soon resolved itself to consideration
of the diatom. Here, theoretically, should be the ideal solution.
First, here was an organism never normally present in molasses but
always present in countless numbers in every quart of sea water, so
that it must inevitably be added to the molasses upon dilution of the
latter, Second, here was an organism unknown to most people, or,
even if a captain should happen to be so well informed as to have
full knowledge of these organisms, there would be no possible way
to add the sea water and exclude the diatoms. They are so small
that they would pass through any pump; and if an attempt were
made to strain them out, they would soon clog the sieve and prevent
344 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

passage of the water. ‘Third, once added, these diatoms have shells
of such a nature as to be insoluble in the water or in any constituent
of the molasses; they are the only organisms in the water that would
persist indefinitely, resisting decomposition in the new medium, re-
maining as definite evidence of their origin. Fourth, the small, hght
shells of the diatoms could settle but very slowly through the thick
molasses, and owing to the agitation by the vessel, would become
evenly distributed throughout the mass and remain suspended in
every portion of it. And last, but not of least importance, here was
an object, abundant, and so specific in character as to serve as con-
clusive evidence and infallible proof of guilt merely upon sight, the
presence of which could be ascertained in a moment simply by plac-
ing a drop of the sample under the microscope, obviating the necessity
of long and troublesome chemical analyses or of other uncertain
criteria.

With this prospect in mind, samples of sediment from several ship-
ments of molasses were sent without delay to our laboratory, where
abundant specimens of diatoms were found in them—diatoms which,
furthermore, frequent the waters along the course traversed by these
vessels. Upon the basis of this information, I am told, a number of
captains had their sailing licenses revoked, and the method of detec-
tion was so simple and so sure that the practice of adulterating
molasses by sea water dilution immediately became a mere episode of
history. Here again is a unique application, based solely upon the
characteristic structure of the diatom.

Thus the delicate shell structure, which is so variously and so ad-
mirably suited to the specific needs of the diatoms, is equally well
suited to the environment and the conditions of nature under which
they live, and at the same time offers qualities well adapted to many
and diverse purposes and needs of man. Many more examples might
be given of the numerous and unique uses of this material in all
phases of industry, but the foregoing will suffice to illustrate that it
is almost solely upon one unique quality—the microscopic form or
structure—that the importance of the diatoms depends. Around the
characteristic shape of almost infinitesimally small, thin-walled,
glass shells great industries have grown. The power of little forces
commands our deep respect. Thus is brought out the significance of
the little quotation “Maximis in Minimis”, used by Girard about 1860
in an obscure diatom paper, his only publication on the subject and
one of no real scientific consequence. Girard was not a diatomist,
and he wrote nothing about the subject worth remembering, but we
may well pause to pay him tribute for the prophetic spirit which en-
abled him to see, beyond mere visual pleasure and professional in-
terest, the deeper beauty and significance of the dainty objects he was
observing: “Very great in very small things.”
PLATE 1

Smithsonian Report, |936.—Conger

TORT TT (te

SOCAL Ear

AN

diatoms showing the boxlike structure of these little plants.

Face (left) and side (right) views of five typical

1t 300 times.

1
U

abo

Magnified
==

Smithsonian Report, 1936.—Conger PLATE 2

SS

a

|

Upper, Highly magnified portion of shell of Biddulphia favus (Ehr.) V.H., showing secondary pore structure.
< S00.
Lower left and center, A Surirella, showing dovetailed margin of girdle for attachment to the shell. > 300.
Lower right, Grammatophora serpentina Ehr., showing internal septal walls.
Smithsonian Report, 1936.—-Conger PLATE 3

9664003

ita! errs ma OT Ee ee

1g

of the shell of Aulacodiscus margariteceus Ralfs (lower) with portion cut away, showit
porous nature and double wall structure.
iew) through shell of Aulacodisces margaritaceus Ralfs, showing double structure,
connecting walls and pores.
Lower, Valve view of Aulacodiscus margaritacevs Ralfs. X 150.

Upper, A piece

Center, Sections (edge v
PATE A

Smithsonian Report, 1936.—Conger

(i

ia

Relationship of structure to reproduction in a diatom, Navicula cancellata Donk, var.

aN
Baa,

further advanced.

lete, and daughter cells ready to separate.

Lower center, Formation of shells comp

Lower left, Formation of new shells

Upper right, Dividing cell starting to form new shells within.

Upper center, Mature cell with widened girdle.

Upper left, Young cell.

dividuals.

Lower right, Daughter cells after separation as new in

Smithsonian Report, 1936.—Conger PLATE 5

Adaptation of diatom structure to environment. x 100.

Upper, Plankton diatoms, with light spiny shells suitable for floating.
Lower. Mass of attached diatoms with spindle- or needle-shaped cells
Smithsonian Report, 1936.—Conger PLATE 6

fe ~ > - ve st rein YY
Een
g Ssobe eerste

te
=
o We

Searees a
eee.
Stipa eere ts
ptaeruee :

2 S J
Me \ . fp é A Y
P VIVA
ga eee i.
‘ a if:

Upper, Group of fossil bottom diatoms from New Zealand. 50.
Center, Navicula californica Grey. var. campechiana Grun. X 460,
Lower, Chaetoceros atlanticus Cleve, a floating form. » 80.

Smithsonian Report, 1936.—Conger PLATE 7

Massive occurrence of diatomaceous earth, or diatomite, deposits.

Upper, Distant view of a mountain of diatomaceous earth at Lompoe, Calif. Though this picture gives
every appearance of a landscape covered with snow, the picture was taken in the heat of summer, and the
whiteness is due to the pure white nature of the earth.

Lower, Closeup view of an open cut in the above deposit.
soar usta jooan jonas pue adeys 04} Jo osnvooq YI1vd 944 JO Ayso10d oy} 0} onp St OUINJOA yUOIVdde UI DOMOIOYIP JSBA OY, ‘BOITIS ATOMBVU—oTTeS 04} [[B ov ‘puRs pueL
AIR [Jo SnOddRUOeIP—s[eoywuE oy} AT[RoTUTOYD *(7yH24) puvs zyIwNb YALA pue (7/97) [BISAIO z1enb B YIM YIvo SNOVdVULOJLIP JO OWINJOA PUB YY SIOAL DATIRIOI Jo agariedtee )

10—'9¢6| ‘qaodayy ueit tus

8 ALV 1d
Smithsonian Report, 1936.—Conger PLATE 9

Comparison of particles of diatomaceous earth (above) and sand (below) at the same magnification. They
are the same substance, but the sand is in solid lumps of silica. % 100.
Smithsonian Report, 1936.—Conger PLATE 10

Florida diatomaceous earth (center) containing numerous small filelike diatoms as pictured above and
,, Ewnotia zygodon Ehr. and var., very useful for polishing silver. Center, X 100; upper and lower,
x 600.

Mi

Smithsonian Report, 1936.—Conger PLATE 11

f ]

Upper, Laying light porous diatomaceous earth brick for heat insulation,
Lower, Salt cellar with weatherproof top made of diatomaceous earth.
Smithsonian Report, 1936.—Conger PLATE 12

*

4,
a "s ig &
4s
cs
Be
ae
— |

S am
~
.

‘Yer gnyg > &

Upper, Photomicrograph of surface of smooth plastered wall. This surface echoes sound readily.
Lower, Photomicrograph of wall surface covered with diatomaceous earth. This surface catches sound
and stops echoes.

Magnification, X 100. Both surfaces would look smooth and white to the naked eye.
Smithsonian Report, 1936.—Conger PLATE 13

AGES sh,
YG GE:

Z,
ANN

<ot LCI Koff ¢

SRR OO. A

Various shapes of diatoms, and types of structure.

Upper left, Stictodiscus radfordianus Cast. X 320. Center right, Hyalodiscus crepitans Mann, 170.
Upper right, Stictodiscus eulensteinii (Grey.) Cast. Lower left, Coscinodiscus marginatus Ehr. X 300.
2 Lower right, Asterolampra vulgaris Grev. % 540.

X 320.
Center left, Brightwellia pulchra Grun. X 500.
Smithsonian Report, 1936.—Conger PLATE 14

Types of diatom shape and structure continued.

Upper left, Biddulphia major Grove. 300. Center right, Biddulphia archangelskiana (Witt)
Upper right, Biddulphia crenulata (Gr. and St.) Mann. X 480.
Mann. X 500. Lower left, Biddulphia horrida (Pant.) Mann. X 430.

Center left, Biddulphia glandifera (Grun.) Mann. Lower right, Biddulphia cellulosum (Grev.) Mann
x 400. var. Simbirskiana O. M. 480.
Smithsonian Report, 1936.—Conger

PLATE 15

Upper left, Aulacodiscus superbus Kitt.
Upper right, Actinoptychus stella Ebr.
Center left. Aulacodiscus superbus Kitt.

x 400.
X 300.

X 380.

Center right, Auliscus oamaruensis Gr. and St.
Lower left, Actinoptychus stella A. Sechm. XX 300.

Lower right, Actinoptychus bifrons A. Schm.

xX 300.
xX 300.
Smithsonian Report, 1936.—Conger PLATE 16

9.

oa foo ae
SOR OS

2°

Upper left, Stictodiscus truanii Witt. X 400. Lower left, Actinoptychus nitidus (Grev.) Grun.
x 50

Upper right, Coscinodiscus biradiatus Grev. X_ 500. f
Center left. Actinoptychus splendens (Bhr.?) Shad. Lower right, Hyalodiscus van heurckii (Perag.) Mann.
Xe x 400.

Center right, Coscinodiscus radiatus Ehr. > 450.
Smithsonian Report, 1936.—Conger

PLATE 17

Upper left, Aulacodiscus multispadiz Temp. and Br.

X 200.

Upper right, Aulacodiscus kittonii Arnott. X 350.
Center left, Eupodiscus petitii (Leud.-Fort.) Mann.

x 500.

Center right, Aulacodiscus rogersii (Bail.) A. Schm.
x 400.

Lower left, Aulacodiscus amoenus Grey. var. X 500.

Lower right, Aulacodiscus oregonus Bail. X 250.
Smithsonian Report, 1936.—Conger PLATE 18

Upper left, Biddulphia juncta A. Sch. X 250. Center right, Biddulphia campechiana (Grun.) Boyer.
SA abt RS ae aie cee pent ae : 2 x 500.

Upper right, Trigonium arcticum (Bright.) Cl. X 540 Lower left, Biddulphia pentacrinus (Wall.) Boyer.

Center left, Biddulphia sp. X 220. X 450

Lower right, Biddulphia imperialis Walker. X 150.
Smithsonian Report, 1936.—Conger PLATE 19

Lower, Biddulphia schmidtii (Jan.) Mann. > 130.
SOME ASPECTS OF THE PLANT VIRUS PROBLEM?

By KENNETH M. SMITH, D. Sc., PH. D.
Potato Virus Research Station, School of Agriculture, Cambridge

[With 2 plates]

There appears to be rather a tendency on the part of botanists to
consider the study of plant viruses a dull subject and one without any
sure foundation in fact. It is hoped, therefore, in this short article
to show that, on the contrary, the subject is not only an intensely
interesting one, involving problems of fundamental biological im-
portance, but is also of extreme economic importance and that plant
virus workers really have a definite problem in hand.

No one at the present time knows what a virus is, and this un-
certainty as to its nature adds, perhaps, to the interest of the study.
In speaking of a virus, stress is usually laid upon certain properties
which are mainly negative in character such as inability to see the
virus with the microscope, impossibility of cultivating the virus on
media outside the host, and the fact that viruses cannot be held back
by the usual bacteria-proof filters. Improving methods of technique,
however, are showing that some of these qualities are merely relative
and it is already possible to photograph some viruses by means of
the ultraviolet light microscope and to devise filters which will allow
viruses to pass or hold them back at will according to the pore size
of the filter.

In speculating upon the nature of viruses, whether of animals or
plants, as a whole, it is well to remember that they are a hetero-
geneous collection of disease agents, and it is by no means certain
that they are necessarily all of the same nature. At one end of the
scale is the virus of Psittacosis or parrot fever, the particle-size of
which is 250 millimicrons (1 millimicron equals one-millionth of a
millimeter) and which is in consequence within the range of the
ordinary microscope. This virus appears to have a definite life cycle
and is presumably a living organism. At the other end of the scale
is the virus of foot-and-mouth disease which has a particle-size of
about 10 millimicrons and is only two or three times the size of an
oxyhaemoglobin molecule. It is difficult to conceive of this as a
living organism. Certain plant viruses are also very small; the par-

1 Address to section K, British Association meeting, Norwich. Reprinted by permission
from Science Progress, No. 119, January 1936.

345
346 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

ticle-size of tobacco necrosis virus is only 20-80 millimicrons, and that
of a newly described tomato virus is only 17-25 millimicrons. Again,
there is the recent claim of Dr. Stanley [14]? of the Rockefeller In-
stitute in Princeton that he has succeeded in producing a crystalline
protein which has the properties of the virus of tobacco mosaic.
This he considers to be an autocatalytic protein, i. e., one which
acts upon the cells of the host in such a way as to compel them to
produce more of the same substance.

For the present it will perhaps suffice to adopt the definition of
viruses given by Gardner [5]— “as agents below or on the border-
line of microscopical visibility which cause disturbance of the func-
tion of living cells and are regenerated in the process.”

In this short survey of the plant virus problem, it will be possible
to deal only with one or two of the more interesting aspects of the
subject, and it is proposed, first of all, to discuss a few of the symp-
toms produced in affected plants. Since the pathological effect on
the plant is almost the only criterion of the existence of a plant virus,
the study of symptoms necessarily plays rather a large part. There
are various kinds of virus diseases which may be loosely grouped
together as follows, the mosaic type, where attack on the chlorophyll
induces the formation of mottlings or rings (see pl. 1, fig. 1); the
destructive type, which induces necroses of the cells in leaves and
stems, and a third type which produces deformities or overgrowth in
the affected plants.

Some of the mosaic viruses produce color changes in the flowers of
affected plants. Perhaps the best known example of this phenomenon
is the so-called “tulip breaking”, in which tulips affected with a
mosaic virus produce variegated flowers (pl. 1, fig. 2). Certain of
these tulips with variegated flowers at one time fetched large sums
of money owing to the mistaken idea that they were new varieties,
whereas they were in reality only diseased specimens of self-colored
varieties. References to this tulip “breaking” may be found in the
literature of very early times. Thus, the first record is a description
published in 1576, and other accounts of this variegation in tulips
appeared in 1622 and 1670. It was in this latter account that the sug-
gestion. was first made that the variegated tulip might be diseased.
In the Rembrandt exhibition recently held in Amsterdam were paint-
ings of tulips by Dutch artists of the sixteenth and seventeenth cen-
turies, and many of these tulips showed a typical mosaic infection.
Just recently, growers of the favorite blood-red variety of wall-
flower have been perturbed by the appearance of an ugly yellow
stripe or flecking in the red flowers and this has led to many com-
plaints from customers that their color schemes have been spoiled;

2? Numbers in brackets refer to list of references at end of article.

PLANT VIRUS PROBLEM—SMITH 347

similarly with self-colored stocks [10]. The variegation in these
flowers has been shown to be due to a virus carried to the plants by a
species of greenfly from virus-infected broccoli or cauliflowers in the
neighborhood.

In the writer’s opinion viruses play a larger part in the production
of variegations in flower colors than is usually supposed. For in-
stance, inoculations from the petals of common variegated mauve and
white and mauve and yellow violas, picked at random from the
garden (pl. 2, fig. 3), to healthy tobacco plants of the White Burley
variety, produced in those plants a virulent mosaic disease. The
virus is also capable of infecting several other species of Solanaceous
plants. Experiment shows that the virus causing this variegation
is a strain of cucumber mosaic virus (cucumber virus [).

Some of the mosaic viruses affecting ornamental plants may
produce little effect on the plant other than the change in the color
of the flowers. It is quite likely therefore that a systematic inquiry
into the question would show that other familiar flower variegations
may be due in part to virus infection, There seems, however, to be
a common element in the appearance of this type of variegation, 1 e.,
a penciling or flecking of the colors and a break in the hard line
dividing two colors.

The next question is the important one of how plant viruses are
transmitted in nature from diseased to healthy plants. The ma-
jority of plant viruses depend upon insects for their dissemination
from plant to plant, and this relationship between insect and virus
is one of considerable interest. The insects concerned in the spread
of plant viruses are nearly all of one type, a type of insect which
feeds in a particular way which seems to be well adapted for the
injection of the virus into the plant, These insects belong to the
order Hemiptera and are of the sap-sucking type. The method of
feeding of this type of insect is well demonstrated by means of
the photomicrograph shown in plate 2, figure 2.

Insects are not merely mechanical vectors of the virus, but in
all probability some kind of obligate relationship exists between the
two. The following facts seem to bear this out: Certain viruses can-
not be transmitted from diseased to healthy plants except by the
agency of insects and often only by one species of insect or one type
of insect and not by other closely related species; some insect vectors
having fed once upon a virus-diseased plant remain infective for the
rest of their lives without the necessity for further recourse to a
source of virus infection. This suggests that the virus actually mul-
tiplies in the body of the insect. Further, some insects do not become
infective until a minimum time has elapsed after feeding upon a
virus-infected plant. This is often referred to, perhaps on insufficient
grounds, as the “incubation period” of the virus in the insect. A
348 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

better term would be “a delay in the development of infective power
within the insect.” This delay may be as long as 10 days in some
cases,

It is not possible to deal at length with the question of the insect
relationships of plant viruses, but space permits touching upon some
recent interesting work on this subject. Storey [15], working upon
the leafhopper which transmits the streak disease of maize in East
Africa, has found that there exist two distinct races of this insect,
one race which can transmit the virus and one race which is unable
to do so; these races are termed active and inactive, respectively.
There is no visible difference between the inactive and active races,
and both are of the same species. Further, Storey has shown that if
a puncture is made with a fine needle in the wall of the gut or
alimentary canal of the inactive insect, the insect then becomes
capable of transmitting the virus, It would appear from this that
there may exist some factor or factors connected with the structure
of the wall of the alimentary canal in inactive insects which prevents
the virus from passing through into the blood and so reaching the
salivary glands whence it is injected into the plant.

The next point concerns the mechanism of movement of the virus
in the plant. Since most viruses rapidly become systemic in their
hosts, there is evidently an efficient means of transport about the
plant. It has been shown by Bennett [1], Caldwell [2], and others
that if the phloem in a portion of the stem of a plant is destroyed
by steaming, the virus cannot pass over this bridge of dead tissue.
In other words, the virus is moving in the phloem but not in the xylem.
The disease will develop normally in whichever half of the plant is
inoculated, but the virus will not pass from the upper to the lower
nor from the lower to the upper half, across the bridge of dead tissue.

The general movement of a virus about the infected plant has been
well demonstrated by Samuel [9]. His experiments show that there
is no movement of tobacco mosaic virus from the inoculated leaf for
a period of 8-4 days. The virus then passes out of the inoculated leaf
and travels rapidly to the roots of the plant; about a day later it
travels with equal rapidity to the top of the plant. In pot plants
the more mature leaves become successively invaded from the top
downward and from the bottom upward until the plant is completely
invaded by the virus.

The movement of the virus in the plant thus seems to be of two
kinds: first, a very slow cell-to-cell movement via the connecting
protoplasmic bridges until the phloem stream is reached, when the
main and most rapid movement about the plant begins. Further con-
firmation of this is afforded by some experiments with a newly dis-
covered virus known as tobacco necrosis [13]. This virus produces
only necrotic symptoms and thus etches out, as it were, its own move-

PLANT VIRUS PROBLEM—SMITH 349

ment through the plant. Photographs have been taken at 2-day in-
tervals of the path followed by the virus in the leaves of cowpea
(Vigna sinensis). The first six photographs show merely a gradual
increase in size of the lesion at the point where the virus has entered
the leaf. As soon, however, as the virus enters the phloem it begins
to travel rapidly through the leaf, moving in 48 hours over a much
greater distance than in the whole of the preceding 12 days’ slow
cell-to-cell movement.

On another aspect of the subject two interesting discoveries have
recently been made: firstly, it has been found that some plant viruses
exist in a number of closely allied strains, and, secondly, it has been
shown that infection with one strain of a virus will immunize a plant
from infection with another strain of that virus. Space will not
suffice to allow of a discussion as to whether these strains actually
arise by mutation from existing strains, but the evidence rather indi-
cates that this is the case.

The immunity conferred upon a plant by a virus strain against
other strains of the same virus is of the nonsterile type. There is
apparently no question of the production of antibodies, and it is
the presence of the first virus which inhibits the entrance of the
second strain. This type of immunity is well shown in the case of
potato virus X [8], tobacco [6] and cucumber mosaic viruses [7]
and by the virus of tomato streak [11]. All these viruses exist
in strains and the “green” and “yellow” strains of the tobacco or
cucumber viruses are particularly suitable for this kind of experi-
ment. - If a healthy tobacco plant and one systemically infected
with a “green” strain of tobacco mosaic are inoculated with a “yel-
low” strain, the healthy plant develops the yellow spots character-
istic of this virus, while the plant already infected with the “green”
strain is protected against invasion by the “yellow” strain. A sim-
ilar protective action is exerted in the case of a plant infected with a
“vellow” strain against invasion by the “green” strain. It should
perhaps be emphasized that the presence of one virus in a plant
is no bar to the entrance of a second virus of a different type; the
cross immunity holds good only for like viruses and virus strains.
This kind of immunity therefore is likely to prove a useful tool
in the work of classifying viruses and in distinguishing like from
unlike viruses in those cases where diagnosis by symptoms alone is
unreliable.

A possible practical application of this type of immunity lis
in the protection of a crop from infection with a severe virus by
previous artificial infection with a mild strain of the same virus.
Here, however, lie a number of pitfalls, chief of which is the un-
fortunate liability of certain viruses, even when in a mild form,
to give rise, jointly with another virus of a different type, to a
350 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

much more severe disease than is produced by either virus acting
separately.

Mention must be made of a comparatively new method of ap-
proach to the plant virus problem, i. e., the discovery that the intra-
peritoneal injection of rabbits with plant virus extracts induces the
production. of antibodies in these animals. These antibodies react
specifically with the antigen (virus sap) in some observable way.
Three types of immunologic reactions have been demonstrated, com-
plement-fixation, precipitation, and neutralization of the pathogenic
properties of the virus. Such neutralization is specific for each
virus; thus, tobacco mosaic virus is inactivated only by antitobacco
mosaic serum, and tobacco ringspot virus only by antitobacco ring-
spot serum and so on. The cross specificity is absolute, and the
addition to any of the viruses of a heterologous antiserum exhibits
no effect. This specificity, however, does not extend to distinctions
between virus strains even when the strains produce very different
symptoms in the host plants (Chester [3]).

This new technique is likely, therefore, to prove another useful tool
in the difficult task of classifying and differentiating plant viruses.

Since viruses are so often spoken of as filter-passing or ultra-
microscopic, and described by other adjectives referring to their
small size, it may be of interest to give a few details of the actual
magnitude of some viruses. The sizes of virus particles can be meas-
ured with fair accuracy by means of ultrafiltration through collodion
membranes, the pore size of which can be measured. These mem-
branes are prepared by a special technique devised by Dr. Elford
[4] of the National Institute of Medical Research at Hampstead,
and the process of their manufacture is too complicated to describe
here. It has been found by the application of this technique that
plant viruses vary very much in their particle size, ranging from
75 to 100 millimicrons for a potato virus down to 17-25 millimicrons
for anew tomato virus. The comparative chart shown in figure 1 will
give some idea of the range of size of different plant and animal
viruses.

In conclusion it is proposed to give a short account of an in-
teresting new virus, because it well illustrates the kind of problem
with which the virus worker is sometimes faced. It has been found
at Cambridge [12] that a high proportion of the normal stock of
healthy tobacco plants carry a virus in the roots but not in the
stem and show no signs of disease during the whole of their life.
Under certain conditions, however, in the winter and early spring
the virus may pass up into the plant and develop disease symptoms
in the lower leaves. Unlike most other plant viruses, this virus does
not become systemic in the host. Further, and this is the most in-

PLANT VIRUS PROBLEM—SMITH 351

teresting point, tobacco seedlings which by available methods of
inoculation have been shown to be virus-free, yet contain the virus
in their roots in quite large quantities some 5 weeks later. The fol-
lowing experiment illustrates this. Seed from a White Burley tobacco
plant grown in the insect-proof glasshouse was sown in sterilized
sand in a “Cellophane” cage in the glasshouse. From the resulting
seedlings a number of small plants were chosen and all the roots

: er Ly
Bacillus prodigiosus 750mp{

(diameter)

Psittacosis 275 mp

Vaccinia ISOmp )
Rabies I25mp Q
Rous sarcoma 100mp

Fowl plague 75mp ©
Potato virus x 75my ®
Bacteriophages  25- 60mu ©
Tobacco mosaic 3Omp @
Haemocyanin 24mp Gi
Yellow fever 22 mp °
Foot and mouth disease tomp °
Oxyhaemoglobin 5-6 mp

FIGURE 1.—Table showing particle sizes of representative animal and plant viruses with
those of some bacteria and protein molecules for comparison. (1 mu=~1,000,000th
millimeter. )

cut off except that one root was left on each plant. The roots of each

plant thus removed were ground up and the resulting paste inocu-

lated separately to three or four cowpeas, a plant which is extremely
sensitive to the virus. The tobacco plants were then repotted in
sterilized soil and allowed to grow on; from this number 48 plants,
352 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

the roots of which had given no reaction upon the cowpeas, were
selected for a second test. This was made, again to cowpeas, 5 weeks
after the first test. The plants were by this time about 8 inches across
with a well-developed root system, and showed no unusual symptoms.
Of these 48 plants 32 gave a virus reaction. In considering these re-
sults certain other facts must be borne in mind; exhaustive tests make
the explanation of outside infection by seed transmission unlikely,
though the possibilities of air- and water-transmission, via the soil,
cannot be excluded. ‘The virus is not insect borne.

There seem to be three possible explanations of this problem: first
it may be assumed that the virus is present all the time in the stem,
but present either in a nonvirulent form which requires to gain
virulence by concentration in particular cells of the root, or else in a
dilution too great to give a positive reaction on inoculation. This
theory, of course, involves seed transmission of the virus in unde-
tectable form or quantity. ‘The second possible explanation is that
the virus is arising spontaneously within the plant. The third
explanation, and perhaps the most likely, is the existence of a mode of
virus transmission at present quite unsuspected.

Virus workers have long dallied with the idea that a virus might
arise de novo within the host. Such a suggestion is attractive in
some ways and it would explain many things which are at the mo-
ment obscure. If viruses are considered as organisms or at least
possessing some of the attributes of life, the suggestion of their
heterogenesis is repugnant. If, on the other hand, Stanley’s view
that a virus may be an autocatalytic protein is accepted, then there
seems no particular reason why the theory of spontaneous develop-
ment of the virus within the host should not also be accepted. It is,
however, at present still an open question, and much work remains
to be done before this question can be answered.

REFERENCES

. Bennett, C. W. (1927), Agric. Exp. Stat. Mich. State Coll. Tech. Bull. 80.

. Caldwell, J. (1930), Ann. Appl. Biol., vol. 17, no. 3, pp. 429-443.

. Chester, K. S. (1934), Phytopath., vol. 24, no. 11, p. 1180.

. Elford, W. J. (1931), Journ. Path. and Bact., vol. 34, pp. 505-21.

. Gardner, A. D. (1981), Microbes and Ultramicrobes, Methuen’s Biological
Monographs.

. Kunkel, L. O. (1984), Phytopath., vol. 24, no. 5, pp. 437-66.

. Price, W. C. (1934), Phytopath., vol. 24, no. 7, pp. 7438-61.

. Salaman, R. N. (1933), Nature, vol. 131, p. 468.

. Samuel, G. (1934), Ann. Appl. Biol., vol. 21, no. 1, pp. 90-111.

10. Smith, Kenneth M. (1935), Gard. Chron., no. 2537, p. 112.

oP WN

CO OA

alt, (1935), Parasitology, vol. 27, no. 3, p. 450.
i (1935), Nature, vol. 136, p. 395.
13. and Bald, J. G., Parasitology, vol. 27, p. 231.

14. Stanley, W. M. (1935), Science, vol. 81, no. 2113, pp. 644-5.
15. Storey, H. H. (1933), Proce. Roy. Soc., ser. B, vol. 113.

‘SNYIA V HLIM NOILOSAN] OL ANG “AdAL SDIVSOW AHL
SYHAMOTN4 ,,NSHOUR,, YO GALVOFAIYVA HLIM SdIINL “2 JO SASNYIA NIVLYAD Ad GaA9NGOYd SNYALLVd ONIN GNV ONITILLOW “1

MOPEOUO CT aL ‘uepABY "O “WT

| aALV1d yarug—"g9¢6| ‘40dayy urruosyuig
Smithsonian Report, 1936.—Smith PLATE 2

J. P. Doneaster.
VIOLAS SHOWING A COLOR VARIEGATION CONSIDERED TO BE CAUSED BY A VIRUS.
Note the penciling and flecking of the petals.

Ann. Appl. Biol.
SECTION OF A POTATO LEAF WITH THE BEAK OF A SUCKING INSECT IN SITU.
Insects which feed in this manner are most concerned with virus transmission.

SUN RAYS AND PLANT LIFE?

By Earu S. JOHNSTON
Division of Radiation and Organisms, Smithsonian Institution

[With 4 plates]

The sun is the earth’s reservoir of energy. All terrestrial activity
is related directly or indirectly to the sun. In the third Arthur
lecture Dr. Abbot discussed how the sun’s radiant energy warms the
earth,? and showed the dependence of the weather on variations in
the energy of the sun itself. Here we shall consider the influence of
radiant energy on plant life.

In green plants a process takes place in the presence of light that
has determined and continues to determine the destiny of nations and
the very existence of man. This process is technically known as
photosynthesis. By this process carbon dioxide and water are united
in the presence of chlorophyll, the green plant pigment, to form the
simple sugars. These products are elaborated into starch and other
carbohydrates and into proteins, organic acids, fats, and other plant
synthates. Many of these compounds are food, not only for the
green plants themselves, but also for animals and nongreen plants.
These foods, on being assimilated, are built into new structures formed
in growth and the stored energy is released.

Green plants, by this process of photosynthesis, supply the living
world with food. The struggle for land rich in food resources has
more than once influenced the destiny of ancient as well as modern
people. Through the centuries the availability of food has deter-
mined to a large extent the size of centers of population. Transpor-
tation, to be sure, enters as an important factor, but this has been
governed in general by fuel. Coal beds and oil fields are resources
of potential solar energy resulting directly or indirectly from photo-
synthesis. Here again man, in his struggle for existence, battles by
brute force or cunning for supremacy. Thus one is tempted to con-
tinue ad infinitum with examples showing the relationship of solar

1 The fifth Arthur lecture, under the auspices of the Smithsonian Institution, Feb. 25,
1936.

2 Abbot, C. G., How the sun warms the earth. Smithsonian Ann. Rep. 1933, pp. 149-179,
6 pls., 20 figs., 1935.

353
354 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

energy acting through the green plant to the activities on earth and
to the destiny of man.

Solar energy received at the surface of the earth is far from being
a constant value. It differs greatly from time to time with respect
to its duration, intensity, and quality.

The length of day or duration of sunlight varies with the lati-
tude and the season. At the Equator there are approximately 12
hours of darkness and 12 hours of light for each day throughout
the entire year. The other extreme is reached at the poles, with 24
hours of light during the summer season and 24 hours of darkness
during the winter season. Intermediate latitudes have sunshine
values between these extremes.

The intensity of sunlight varies inversely as the square of the
distance from the sun. Since the earth’s orbit is elliptical with the
sun at one focus, a difference of approximately 7 percent may be
effected with the earth at perihelion in January and at aphelion in
July. Other variations in intensity are due to dust particles and
water vapor in the atmosphere. An increase of 1 mm pressure in
water vapor decreases the radiation intensity about 2 percent. In-
tensity also varies with the angular displacement of the sun from
the zenith, which is governed by the season and the time of day.
Changes in actual amount of energy radiated from the sun also
influence the intensity of solar energy reaching the earth’s surface.

The quality or, more accurately expressed, the wave length of
sunlight also varies. The white light of the sun with the maximum
energy in the yellow becomes richer in red as the sun drops from
the zenith to the horizon. This variation in wave-length distribu-
tion is due to the lens effect of the earth’s blanket of atmosphere
and to the differential absorption of light as it passes through it.
Sunlight is relatively richer in blue and violet during the summer
in the North Temperate Zone than it is in winter. This is lke-
wise true for high altitudes.

No wonder a wide range in type of vegetation is encountered over
the face of the earth. To be sure, temperature and moisture are
important factors in bringing about this variation, but after all
variations in temperature and moisture are caused by variations
in the solar energy reaching the earth.

A wealth of information can be obtained by observing the char-
acter of plant growth in natural habitats. The accumulation and
organization of knowledge concerning the correlation between plants
and their environments fall in the realm of plant ecology. A study
of the activities of individual plants with emphasis on individual
plant processes as these are affected by single environmental condi-
tions is restricted to plant physiology. The ecologist endeavors to

SUN RAYS AND PLANT LIFE—JOHNSTON 355

obtain relative values; the physiologist aims to determine the
absolute values of such relationships.

As a result of observations and studies by plant ecologists and
physiologists, many interesting relationships have been found be-
tween light and the structure and growth of plants. The brilliant
colors of alpine flowers have been attributed to the presence of ultra-
violet light in the clear sky of high altitudes. The broad succulent
leaf growth within a dense tropical forest can be attributed in part
to a reduced light condition. Many interesting structural modifica-
tions in desert plants are brought about by a change in moisture
and light. Although such observations are interesting, but little
quantitative data can be obtained until plants are grown under
controlled conditions.

The plants around us are registering within themselves the total
effects of the climate, sunlight being one of the important factors
of the climatic complex. Perhaps the most familiar record of the
plant’s environment is that recorded by trees. The type of rings,
their thickness and shape, give to those familiar with the language
a story of the climate during the life of the tree. The researches
of Dr. Douglass (1932) on tree rings have given us a most instructive
picture of the climatic conditions prevailing during the past cen-
turies.

Use has actually been made of the plant as an integrating instru-
ment for measuring climatic conditions. While a student at the
Johns Hopkins University, I conducted an experiment in which
the climatic conditions of a greenhouse for a period of 13 consecu-
tive months were recorded by a set of “standard” buckwheat plants
(Johnston, 1921). The plants were grown for 4-week exposure
periods. A new period began every 2 weeks. Measurements of stem
height, dry weight, leaf area, and transpiration were made at regular
intervals. Simultaneous measurements of evaporation, radiation, and
temperature were also obtained. Two series of tests were conducted,
one under ordinary conditions of an unshaded greenhouse, the other
within a cheesecloth enclosure in the same greenhouse. Some of these
data are summarized in the form of graphs and shown in figure 1.

The rates of stem elongation, dry weight increase, and leaf-area
increase had high summer values and low winter ones. These values
increased during the spring and decreased during the autumn. The
rates of transpirational water loss varied throughout the year in a
similar manner. For the rates of stem elongation, and possibly also
for that of transpiration, it appears that a period of low values
occurs about the summer solstice.

The greenhouse climate during this particular year, as measured
by these plant processes, appears to have been most favorable to

1120593724
356 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

the general growth of these plants during two separate periods;
one in early summer, the other in late summer. Even with the
usual application of artificial heat, the winter efficiency for plant
growth remained very low.

Data from

week relative values.
S by dash lines, and those
are smoothed graphs.

, those from the sheltered serie

plotted from the four-

strumental data all
d by continuous lines
The dotted lines

Graphs of plant and in

e exposed series are indicate
of sunshine duration by the dash-dot lines.

2
<
.
a
3
a
o
=
4
«
.

FWieurp 1.—
th

The evaporation measurements as determined with the white atmom-
eters (Livingston, 1915) showed somewhat higher and more uni-
form values for the winter than for the summer. The most pro-
nounced seasonal fluctuation was shown by the indices of total
radiation. These measurements were obtained by determining the
difference in water evaporated from the black and white atmometers.

SUN RAYS AND PLANT LIFE—JOHNSTON 357

There is fairly good agreement between these values and those of
actual sunshine duration. The temperature values showed a rather
decided seasonal variation, with high summer values and low winter
ones.

The climatic efficiency values within the cheesecloth chamber ap-
pear, in general, to have been lower than those in the unshaded
greenhouse, the exceptions being the values for stem height and for
leaf area for the periods about June 21.

Although the interpretation of the plant values in terms of those
derived from the instruments offers many difficulties, nevertheless
several striking features of this environmental complex are regis-
tered in the records of both plants and instruments. The one to

ELECTROMAGNETIC RADIATION

BROADCAST GAMMA RAYS FROM
BAND SOLAR RADIATION VISIBLE RADIOACTIVE MATTER
AT EARTH’S SURFACE

RADIO WAVES INFRA RED ULTRAVIOLET X-RAY COSMIC RAYS ?

106 104 102 10 (Len ufo NOE 198 10 10'* CENTIMETERS
ae ~
- SN
_- =
oe VISIBLE PORTION ~“<
Tay Trek
me SS 5
8100 6470 5860 5350 4920 4220 3900 ANGSTROMS
RED ORANGE YELLOW GREEN BLUE VIOLET

FIGURE 2.—Diagram showing position of infrared, visible, and ultraviolet radiation in the
great electromagnetic spectrum. Data from Deming and Cottrell and from “Handbook
of Chemistry and Physics.”

which attention is especially directed is the general agreement to be
observed between the radiation values and those of dry weight and
leaf area.

These general relationships between sunlight and plant growth are
interesting enough to warrant a more detailed examination by re-
viewing briefly the effects of the various components of sunlight
upon the different physiological processes that take place in plants.
The sunlight which we shall consider is actually a very small fraction
of the great electromagnetic spectrum.

As will be seen in figure 2, this immense series of wave lengths
extends from far beyond the short gamma waves produced from
radioactive matter such as radium to the long wireless waves. The
magnified portion shown below includes the wave lengths of the
visible spectrum from red to violet. This, together with a section
in the infrared and another in the ultraviolet, comprises the wave-
length regions for our present discussion.
358 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

In addition to the action of the different wave lengths of light,
the factors of intensity and duration exert definite effects on the
growing plant. Without going too much into detail we shall first
consider some of the interesting growth responses induced by different
lengths of daylight.

DURATION EFFECTS

Everyone has observed the remarkable regularity with which our
common plants come into flowering with the advent of the different
seasons. Among the early blooming plants in spring are the arbutus
and forsythia, then the dogwood, and later the iris, and so on into the
summer and fall when the asters and chrysanthemums hold the cen-
ter of the stage. Although temperature plays an important role, yet
the main contributing climatic factor controlling flower production
is the length of daylight. Plants like the cosmos which normally
flower in autumn when the days are short can be made to flower at
other seasons of the year by artificially limiting them to definite
hours of light.

Numerous experiments have been carried out by Drs. Garner and
Allard (1920), of the United States Department of Agriculture,
which conclusively demonstrate that plants may be made to produce
flowers or to continue their vegetative growth by merely regulating
the number of hours of exposure to daylight. The lengths of the
daily light and dark periods were controlled by moving the plants
in and out of darkened sheds.

These authors conclude from their many studies that plants which
are sensitive to length of day fall naturally into two groups which
are divided by a fairly definite critical light period. “In the short-
day group flowering is initiated by day lengths shorter than the criti-
cal, and in the long-day group flowering is initiated by day lengths
in excess of this critical period. * * * The essential characteris-
tic of the less sensitive or indeterminate group of plants is that they
possess no clearly defined critical light period.”

An interesting economic application made of the influence of the
length of dayhght on plants is that relating to Maryland Mammoth
tobacco. This unusually large plant was discovered in southern
Maryland, but under the long periods of summer daylight it would
not flower or set seed. By growing the plant in the greenhouse dur-
ing the winter, seed could be produced. Likewise seed could be se-
cured easily by growing the plant in southern Florida during the
winter. On the other hand, this short-day plant could be kept grow-
ing vegetatively in the winter by supplementing the daylight with
electric light. Two such winter-group plants are shown in plate 1,
figure 1. The one on the left was exposed to the short-day length,

SUN RAYS AND PLANT LIFE—JOHNSTON 359

the other to a long-day length. Flowers were formed in the one case
but not in the other.

Attention should be called to two other interesting plant responses
to the length of the light period. These are illustrated by two ex-
periments also taken from the work reported by Garner and Allard
(1925). In one of these the upper and the lower sections of a yellow
cosmos plant were exposed to 10 hours of light. The middle section
received light during the entire long summer days. Both the top
and bottom sections of the plant responded to the characteristic short-
day light exposures and soon bloomed, while the middle section re-
mained vegetative to the long-day exposure. This would indicate
a localized response.

In another set of experiments (Garner and Allard, 1931) artificial
light was used, and the plants were exposed to this illumination for
a total of 12 hours per day. One group received 12 hours of con-
tinuous light and 12 hours of darkness. The other groups were alter-
nately illuminated and darkened for periods of the following dura-
tions: 1 hour, 30 minutes, 15 minutes, 5 minutes, 1 minute, 15 seconds,
and 5 seconds. Again using the yellow cosmos as an example, the
interesting growth response is shown in plate 1, figure 2.

A progressive decrease in height, size, and weight of the plants,
and an increase in etiolation was noticed down to the 1-minute in-
terval. Further shortening resulted in marked improvement in
growth and general appearance. AIl exposure intervals less than 1
hour were equally unfavorable for flowering. In one of the long-day
plants tried (rocket larkspur) none of the shorter alternations showed
a retarding action in flowering, although the general growth responses
were similar to those of the short-day plant. These are exceedingly
interesting growth responses to the duration of light and to date no
satisfactory explanation has been given.

A most interesting method of forcing greenhouse crops has been
found by Dr. R. B. Withrow (1933, 1934, 1936), of Purdue Univer-
sity. Lamps of very low wattage used as supplementary lighting
sources for a number of greenhouse-grown plants produced responses
which were seemingly out of all proportion to the treatment applied.
The plants were illuminated for several hours each night in addi-
tion to the natural light they received during the day. The intensi-
ties varied from less than 1 foot-candle to over 100 foot-candles.
In plate 2, figure 1, very little difference in flowering is noted be-
tween the aster (Heart of France) receiving 100 foot-candles and
the one receiving 0.3 foot-candle. Flowering even occurred with 0.1
foot-candle. This was an intensity about double that of moonlight
on a bright winter night at Lafayette, Ind.

Dr. Withrow was next interested in determining what wave lengths
of his Mazda lights were effective in bringing about the flowering.
360 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

He tried both long-day and short-day plants and found the responses
different. For example, in a long-day plant like the stock, the great-
est response occurred in the red for the wave-length region of 6500
to 7200 A, as illustrated in plate 2, figure 2. With short-day plants
such as cosmos and salvia, supplementary red light hindered flower-
ing. Likewise, a Mazda light of 1 foot-candle prevented these plants
from flowering. This is clearly shown for salvia in plate 2, figure 3.

Dr. Withrow divides the plants he has so far studied into three
general groups: Those showing (1) no response of commercial value,
such as the rose and carnation, (2) earlier or increased flowering or
both, as stock, aster, shasta daisy, pansy, and (3) delayed flowering,
as the chrysanthemum.

These few illustrations show some of the interesting plant re-
sponses brought about by the proper lengthening or shortening of
the light period. In addition to a general and scientific interest,
these responses have a real commercial value.

The so-called “sleep movements” of plants such as shown by the
clover, sorrel, mimosa (sensitive plant), and Desmodium gyrans are
undoubtedly related to the normal daily light and dark periods. In
the morning these plants open or unfold their leaves and at night
close them. This daily rhythm of opening and closing becomes so
fixed in the protoplasm of the plants that when they are placed in
continuous darkness the moyement may continue for several days;
each day, however, it becomes weaker until it finally ceases.

INTENSITY EFFECTS

There is scarcely a place on the earth’s surface either too light or
too dark for plants to grow. On the deserts we find plants adapted
to intense sunlight. In caverns receiving little or no sunlight other
types of vegetation are found. One of these “dark-loving” plants is
a tiny moss (Schistostega osmundacea) equipped with a plate of cells
forming a set of lenses capable of focusing the scattered light on its
chloroplasts, those small bodies bearing chlorophyll which is essential
for photosynthesis.

Many plants exposed to daylight of varying intensities have de-
veloped certain characteristic responses which in many cases have
proven beneficial. The English ivy ({edera helix), for example, ar-
ranges its leaves in a mosaic pattern that exposes a maximum area
to the light. Other plants, like the compass plant (Silphiwm lacini-
atum) and the wild lettuce (Zactuca scariola) turn the edges of their
leaves in a general north-south direction. Thus when the light is
weakest in morning and evening, the flat surfaces of the leaves are in
a position to receive a maximum amount of light, whereas at noon,
when the light is most intense, these surfaces are more or less par-

SUN RAYS AND PLANT LIFE—JOHNSTON 361

allel with the sun’s rays and receive a minimum amount of direct
radiation.

Even the interior of leaves frequently undergoes structural changes
with increasing or decreasing light intensity. The microscope re-
veals in some instances a change in position of the chloroplasts within
the leaf cells, as illustrated in figure 3. These chlorophyll-containing
bodies arrange themselves across the path of weak beams of light as
shown in the upper figure, a. In strong light these bodies migrate
to the side walls, thus permitting a minimum amount of exposed
surface, 0.

Ficure 3.—Diagram showing position of plastids in cross-section of a leaf (a) in diffused
light and (0b) in intense light. Arrows indicate direction whence light is coming.
After Stahl.

All increase of dry weight in plants depends on their assimilating
carbon dioxide from the air under the influence of light. All the
carbon in coal and wood, grains, oils, and many other indispensable
products comes, in the final analysis, from this source and depends
for its energy content on sunlight. In figure 4 the gas exchange
between a green leaf and its immediate environment is represented.
It will be noted that while respiration goes on continuously in light
and darkness, photosynthesis takes place only in light.

Sunlight intensity varies under natural conditions from 0 at night
to as much as 10,000 foot-candles on a bright summer day. Most
plants grow very well in intensities considerably under the high
figure just noted. In experiments with artificial light good growth
has been obtained with intensities as low as 2,000 to 3,000 foot-candles.
Numerous experiments carried out by William H. Hoover at the
362 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

Smithsonian Institution, as well as those performed elsewhere, clearly
show that plants under normal atmospheric conditions grow better
and better as the light intensity is increased up to a certain value.
Beyond this value there is no further increase. The excess radiant
energy is apparently wasted so far as the process of photosynthesis is
concerned, One naturally wonders why it is impossible to “push”
the plant in its manufacture of sugar and starch. What holds back
this all-important work of the plant? The answer is simple enough
when the factors of photosynthesis are examined. Some idea of what

Fieurp 4.—Diagram representing the exchange of oxygen and carbon dioxide which takes
place in darkness (left) and light (right).

takes place in the plant during photosynthesis may be expressed in
the shorthand of chemistry:

6CO, “P 6H.O of light—>C,H,,.06¢ +f 60,
aoe (water) (sugar) (oxygen)

The raw products that are used up in this process are carbon di-
oxide and water. Normal air contains about 0.035 percent of carbon
dioxide. Thus one can understand that as the process of manufactur-
ing sugar is speeded up by increasing the light intensity there will
come a point at which the rate is slowed down by a lack of carbon
dioxide, which at this low concentration flows into the plant at a
limited rate. If, however, the level of the reservoir of carbon dioxide
be raised by increasing its concentration in the air surrounding the
plant the work done by the plant should be increased as the light
intensity is further increased. This is exactly what was done during
the past two summers in experiments with wheat (Johnston, 1935 b).

Three plots of wheat plants were employed in the first experi-
ment (pl. 3, fig. 1). The one in the foreground was open to normal

SUN RAYS AND PLANT LIFE—JOHNSTON 363

air, the two in the background were enclosed by glass cases 5 feet
high. Two pieces of fly netting were stretched across the top of
each to reduce wind action. A pipe carrying a mixture of air and
carbon dioxide opened into the plot on the right. At the end of the
experiment the growth in this carbon-dioxide-treated plot was com-
pared to that in the enclosed control plot on the left and to that in
the open control plot in the foreground.

The appearance of the three crops at harvest is shown in plate 3,
figure 2. A received air enriched with carbon dioxide to about four
times that of normal air. B was grown in the enclosed control plot,
and Cin the open. The experiments of the second summer were very
similar. It was shown in these experiments that air enriched with
carbon dioxide (1) increased the tillering of the wheat, (2) greatly
increased the weight of straw, increased (3) the number and (4)
weight of heads, (5) increased the number of grains produced, and
(6) slightly delayed the time of heading.

The practical application of aerial fertilization with carbon diox-
ide and the source of supply of carbon dioxide in sufficient amounts
for field work are still unsolved problems. Its application to green-
house culture appears to be more promising.

WAVE-LENGTH EFFECTS

The chemical reaction to which attention has been drawn is, per-
haps, the most important in the whole world, for life itself would
perish without photosynthesis. It is therefore interesting to examine
it from all points of view. On the chemical side, much remains to
be done. The complexity of organic chemical reactions, the little-
understood effectiveness of so-called catalysts, the behavior of en-
zymes, of colloids, of hormones, altogether make up a field of research
of the utmost interest, but of extreme difficulty, for the student of
plant growth.

Furthermore, photosynthesis takes place under the influence of
light. Its energy is derived from radiation. The question immedi-
ately suggests itself, “What rays are utilized in this reaction?” Al-
though many qualitative studies of this problem have been made,
there is but little quantitative data on the subject, especially with
economic plants. Mr. Hoover (1937), of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion, has made quantitative determinations of the dependence of an
important higher plant—wheat, in this case—on the wave length
of light for the assimilation of atmospheric carbon dioxide. He used
the ingenious Christiansen filter (McAlister, 1935) to separate nar-
row bands of the spectrum from the beams of a group of Mazda
lamps surrounding the tall glass tube within which the wheat was
grown. Atmospheric temperature and moisture were controlled. A
364 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

continuously operating device measured the change of carbon-dioxide
concentration in the slow air stream which bathed the plants. The
effects observed depended on the color of light employed. Three
series of experiments were made. In one, Mazda lamps with Chris-
tiansen filters were the light sources. In a second series, the discon.
tinuous line spectrum of the mercury are combined with glass filters
gave monochromatic sources. In the third, sunlight itself, passing
through a large-sized Christiansen filter some 60 feet from the plant,

350
300 |

250 A3

200 f 8 °
OO,

cee

100

COz ABSORPTION

50

()

3500 4500 5500 6500 7500
WAVE LENGTH.

FIGURE 5.—Wave-length effect of light on carbon dioxide assimilation of wheat plants.
A,, the corrected form of the curve obtained with the large Christiansen filters; B,, the
corrected form of the curve obtained with the small Christiansen filters. Points
marked X, the results obtained with the line filters and quartz mercury are.

furnished floodlights of nearly monochromatic rays. The results,
illustrated graphically in figure 5, were in close accord from all three
series.

Thus it is seen that red rays are most promotive, blue rays second,
green and yellow rays useful, and the infrared and the ultraviolet
contribute nothing to the assimilation of carbon dioxide in wheat.
Experiments with other plants are proposed.

The response of English ivy to light intensity has already been
mentioned. In this response the leaves arrange themselves in a
mosaic pattern with a maximum of leaf surface exposed to light.

SUN RAYS AND PLANT LIFE—JOHNSTON 365

The leaf stems or petioles turn toward the light source. Ordinary
house plants such as the geranium show this same response as they
grow by a well-lighted window. Unless such plants are turned
occasionally, the stems will grow out toward the light, giving them a
lopsided appearance.

From superficial observations it would appear that light hinders
or retards elongation of plant cells. It is frequently noted that the
stems of many plants grow more rapidly at night than during the
day. Potatoes send forth greatly elongated shoots in a darkened
cellar; if these same potatoes were permitted to remain in strong
light, the sprouts would be very much shorter and the internodes
greatly reduced.

In the case of plants illuminated on one side it is noted that the
shaded sides of the stems have stretched more than those receiving
direct illumination. The uneven rate of growth on the opposite sides
results in curved stems and a general appearance of the plant turning
toward the light. ‘This characteristic bending is very well illustrated
with the oat sprout shown in plate 4, figure 1. Because of its con-
venience in handling and its ready response to light the oat seedling
or coleoptile, as it is technically called, has been used very extensively
in phototropic studies.

Although superficial observations clearly indicate that the sensitiv-
ity of the plant toward radiant energy is such that it reacts differently
to light and darkness, the question as to its sensitivity to different
colors or wave lengths of light is not so readily answered. To obtain
an answer a plant might be placed half-way between two equally
intense lights, for example blue and green, and the direction of bend-
ing noted. The plant’s sensitivity to different colors could thus be
determined in a general way. Such experiments have been conducted
by the Smithsonian Institution to determine growth sensitivity to
wave lengths of light (Johnston, 1934, 1935 a).

The general procedure used in studying the wave-length effects in
phototropism, as this type of response is termed, is to place an oat
seedling between two lights of different color. After a time interval
the seedling is examined for a one-sided growth. If, for example, the
seedling being exposed to blue light on one side and to green on the
other, a distinct bending was noted toward the blue light, it was then
known that the blue light exerted a greater retarding action, since
the side of the seedling toward the green light grew more, thus bend-
ing the seedling toward the blue light. The lights were then so
adjusted as to increase the green, or decrease the blue intensity. An-
other seedling was used and the process repeated until a balance
point was obtained where the effect of one light neutralized the effect
of the other in such a manner that the seedling grew vertically.
366 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

When this point was determined a specially constructed thermo-
couple replaced the seedling, and by means of a galvanometer the two
light intensities were measured.

From a number of such experiments the curve shown in figure 6
was constructed. This curve illustrates the sensitivity of the oat
seedling (plotted vertically) to the wave lengths of light (plotted
horizontally). The sensitivity increases rapidly from 4100 A to
4400 A, then falls off somewhat to about 4575 A, and again rises to
a secondary maximum at about 4750 A. From this point the sensi-

ili ce ev lil pe oe!
ic Ne ant at] 3 Pa
acho fi eo ke Nand ffi |
eulfae eee Ht
ai

aa
| aire!
ee ee ee

4000 4100 4200 4300 4400 4500 4600 4700 4800 4900 5000 5100 5200 5300 $400

Ficurn 6.—Phototropic sensitivity curve of oat coleoptile. The ordinates are relative
sensitivity values, the abscissae wave lengths in angstroms, and the horizontal bars
indicate the wave-length ranges of the balance points.

tivity decreases rapidly to 5000 A, from which point it gradually
tapers to 5461 A, the threshold of sensitivity on the long-wave-length
side. Briefly, it may be concluded that the region of greatest sensi-
tivity is in the blue. That is, growth is retarded most by blue light.
Orange and red light have no effect in retarding the growth of these
oat seedlings.

An interesting phenomenon closely paralleling phototropism has
been observed for a certain type of seed germination. Dr. Lewis H.
Flint, of the United States Department of Agriculture, found that
the short wave lengths of light—violet, blue, and green—inhibited the
germination of light-sensitive lettuce seed, and that the long wave

SUN RAYS AND PLANT LIFE—JOHNSTON 367

lengths—yellow, orange, and red—promoted germination. So inter-
esting did these observations prove that he and Dr. E. D. McAlister,
of the Smithsonian Institution, carried out a much more elaborate
and detailed experiment (Flint and McAlister, 1935, and Flint, 1936).
Seeds exposed to red light sufficient to bring about a 50 percent germi-
nation had superimposed upon them the prismatic spectrum of a
Mazda light. The resultant germination, as influenced by different
wave lengths, is shown in the form of a curve in figure 7.

Had the seeds not been exposed to the spectrum, their germination
would have been 50 percent as represented by the horizontal dash

100

50

PERCENTAGE GERMINATION

ce)
3000 4000 5000 6000 7000 8000

FigurRn 7.—Percentage germination (ordinates) of light-sensitive lettuce seed in different
wave-length regions (abscissae) of the spectrum after an exposure to red light sufficient
to effect a 50-percent germination. (Courtesy Flint and McAllister.)

line. The germination of seeds exposed to wave lengths lying ap-
proximately between 4000 and 5200 A was inhibited. That between
5200 and 7000 was greatly promoted. An interesting and heretofore
unobserved phenomenon was found in the red at about 7600 A. Here
also germination was inhibited. Although this inhibitory region
in the red has not been detected in our phototropic responses, it may
have been overshadowed by other effects not yet properly isolated.

Experimentation has clearly demonstrated enormous differences in
response of living plant tissues to different wave lengths of radiant
energy in the visible spectrum. When such interesting reactions
occur in visible light, one becomes curious as to what effects are found
with wave lengths shorter than the visible violet and with those
longer than the visible red. Time will not permit giving more than
a single example in each of these two regions.

The harmful action of ultraviolet radiation is familiar to all; its
painful action has been felt by most of us at the bathing beach after
368 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

our first “outing” of the season. Its lethal action on micro-organisms
has been studied by many experimenters, especially in connection with
the treatment of disease. The “scare” headlines of the daily press
frequently designate it as the “death ray.” Ultraviolet radiation
covers a wide range of wave lengths. These different wave lengths
have their specific characteristics just as truly as the wave lengths
in the visible spectrum.

The Smithsonian Institution has been interested in the specific
action of these ultraviolet wave lengths on green algae, one of the
lower forms of plant life. Using the variety Chlorella vulgaris, Dr.
Florence E. Meier (1936) has grown cultures on agar plates and
exposed them to the ultraviolet spectral lines of a quartz mercury
vapor lamp. The intensities of 20 different wave lengths ranging
from 2250 A to 3022 A were carefully measured and their effects
studied with respect to their lethal sensitivity and to their radiotoxic
virulence or speed of effectiveness in killing the cells.

An algal spectrogram with distinct areas of dead cells is shown in
plate 4, figure 2. A photograph of an algal plate exposed to the
ultraviolet spectrum has been superimposed on a diagram represent-
ing the intensities of the different mercury lines. Three exposures
are here shown: (1) 64 minutes, (2) 16 minutes, (3) 32 minutes.
The wave lengths are noted across the bottom of the diagram. The
heights of the vertical bars represent radiation intensities in thou-
sands of ergs/sec./em?. It was from plates and data like these that
the radiotoxic spectral sensitivity and virulence were calculated. Dr.
Meier (1936) reports maximum lethal sensitivity at 2600 A, and a
change of virulence with decreasing wave length, which reached a
high maximum at 2323 A.

Let us take a moment to consider a case in the near infrared, just
beyond the visible red of the spectrum. In one of our experiments
(Johnston, 19382), tomato plants were grown under two sets of wave-
length conditions. In one, only visible light was present; in the
other, near infrared radiation was added to the visible. Although
the near infrared plants were taller and heavier, their appearance
was far from normal. A marked decrease in chlorophyll occurred
in the leaves and a distinct yellowing and death was noted in some
cases. It appears that if this near infrared region is not actually
destructive to chlorophyll, it is of little or no benefit to its formation.

In connection with a discussion of ultraviolet and infrared radia-
tion effects, it is interesting to note that in the experiments of Dr.
John M. Arthur (1932) at the Boyce Thompson Institute for Plant
Research, Inc., on the production of pigment in apples, coloring was
increased by ultraviolet radiation, while the near infrared radiation
alone or in the presence of visible light had a marked detrimental

SUN RAYS AND PLANT LIFE—JOHNSTON 369

effect. Under these rays a typical wrinkled, necrotic area soon
develops.

Much progress has been made in our knowledge of sunlight and
the manner in which it affects plants. A considerable amount of
this information, covering the general field of the biological effects
of radiation, has recently been compiled by the National Research
Council in two volumes edited by Dr. Benjamin M. Duggar (1936).
In order to simplify the problem we have considered sunlight under
the effects of its duration, intensity, and wave length. As our ex-
perimental science has improved, artificial light sources were used be-
cause their variables could be controlled better and the conditions of
the experiment repeated fairly accurately. In a last analysis, artifi-

20

9 8 7 6 Sate ay S
INFRARED VISIBLE| ULTRA=VIOLET

Ficurn 8.—Diagram of relative energy emission curves from a body at 1,000° K. (dull-
red therapeutic lamp) and at 3,000° K. (high-temperature tungsten lamp) compared
with that from the sun and from a mercury are in quartz. The type of radiation from
a tungsten lamp equipped with a 1-cm water cell is also shown.

cial light is modified sunlight. Duration experiments can be con-
trolled better with artificial light than with sunlight. Although the
intensity of artificial light is less than that of full sunlight, yet for
many purposes it is sufficiently great. The most vital difference be-
tween sunlight and artificial light lies in the quality or wave length
distribution. An examination of the curves shown in figure 8 may
help make this point clear. Compared with the energy distribu-
tion curve of solar radiation are similar curves constructed from
tungsten filament radiations at two different temperatures. Atten-
tion is called to the position of the maximum of each curve. In the
tungsten this is in the infrared, whereas in sunlight it occurs in the
yellow. Other artificial lights may likewise be compared with that
of the sun. Each shows a characteristic departure from a perfect
or even fairly good match. Even filters combined with artificial
lights have failed to give the desired similarity. It will be a dis-
tinct step forward in this type of research when an artificial light
source is developed that has an energy distribution curve similar
to that of solar radiation,
370 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

Since plants have been growing on the earth for millions of years
it is reasonable to assume that their physiology is adjusted best to
sunlight. Although there is experimental evidence to show that
different processes go on better in some wave lengths than others, vet
the exact relationship of each to radiation should be studied sep-
arately under well-isolated portions of the spectrum. This creates
another problem for the physiologist. Numerous color filters have
been made whereby sections of the spectrum are isolated, but with
all these filters the regions are not sufficiently narrow for an accurate
analysis of the problems. Furthermore, many filters are transparent
to wave lengths other than the ones desired, thus making it difficult
to interpret the results. Considerable progress has been made in
obtaining filters, and some of the difficulties have been removed by
the adaptation of the Christiansen filter with its improvements as
developed in our laboratory by Dr. McAlister (1935). This is the
filter that Mr. Hoover used in his studies on the photosynthesis of
wheat in different wave lengths of light.

I wish to call your attention to another possible method of obtain-
ing isolated wave lengths for experimental purposes. Different
metallic elements when electrically excited emit light of characteristic
wave lengths. This is familiar to all of us in the neon and mercury
lights so common at present. For our experimental work with plants
it. becomes a problem to select the proper elements that will give
light of a desired wave length and intensity. One light for which
we have a specific need is that given out by the element cadmium.
Leland B. Clark, of the Smithsonian Institution, is at present experi-
menting with the manufacture of this lamp.

With better light filters and with the construction of new light
sources it is hoped to break white light into narrower and narrower
spectral regions of sufficient intensity to study more accurately the
many reactions that take place in the living plant—reactions upon
which life itself depends.

REFERENCES CITED
ARTHUR, JOHN M.

1932. Red pigment production in apples by means of artificial light sources.

Contr. Boyce Thompson Inst., vol. 4, no. 1, pp. 1-18.
Dovueass, A. EH.

1932. Tree rings and their relation to solar variations and chronology. In
Research Corporation Awards to A. E. Douglass and Ernst Antevs
for Researches in Chronology.. Smithsonian Ann. Rep. 1931, pp.
303-324.

DuaeGarR, BENJAMIN M.
1936. Biological effects of radiation. (2 vols.) New York.
FLINT, Lewis H.

1936. The action of radiation of specific wave lengths in relation to the
germination of light-sensitive lettuce seed. Compt. Rend. Assoc.
Internat. Ess. Sem., Copenhagen, no. 1.

a
SUN RAYS AND PLANT LIFE—JOHNSTON 371

Fuint, Lewis H., and McAtistTer, HB. D.
1935. Wave lengths of radiation in the visible spectrum inhibiting the
germination of light-sensitive lettuce seed. Smithsonian Misc. Coll.,
vol. 94, no. 5, pp. 1-11.
GABENER, W. W.
1932. Comparative responses of long-day and short-day plants to relative
length of day and night. Plant Phys., vol. 8, pp. 347-356.
GARNER, W. W., and ALLARD, H. A.
1920. Flowering and fruiting of plants as controlled by the length of day.
U. S. Dep. Agr. Year Book, pp. 377-400.
1925. Localization of the response in plants to relative length of day and
night. Journ. Agr. Res., vol. 31, pp. 555-566.
1931. Effect of abnormally long and short alternations of light and dark-
ness on growth and development of plants. Journ. Agr. Res., vol.
42, pp. 629-651.
Hoover, W. H.
1937. The dependence of carbon dioxide assimilation in a higher plant on
wave length of radiation. Smithsonian Misc. Coll., vol. 95, no. 21,
pp. 1-13.
JOHNSTON, HAR S.
1921. The seasonal march of the climatic conditions of a greenhouse, as
related to plant growth. Univ. Maryland Agr. Exp. Stat. Bull. 245.
1932. The function of radiation in the physiology of plants. II. Some effects
of near infrared radiation on plants. Smithsonian Misc. Coll., vol.
87, no. 14, pp. 1-15.
1934. Phototropic sénsitivity in relation to wave length. Smithsonian Misc.
Coll., vol. 92, no. 11, pp. 1-17.
1935 a. Phototropism: A specific growth response to light. Smithsonian
Ann. Rep. 1934, 313-323.
1935 b. Aerial fertilization of wheat plants with carbon dioxide gas. Smith-
sonian Misc. Coll., vol. 94, no. 15, pp. 1-9.
LIVINGSTON, B. E.
1915. Atmometry and the porous cup atmometer. Plant World, vol. 18, pp.
21-30, 51-74, 95-111, 143-149.
McALISTER, E. D.
1935. The Christiansen light filter: Its advantages and limitations. Smith-
sonian Misc. Coll., vol. 98, no. 7, pp. 1-12.
MEIER, FLORENCE HB.
1936. Lethal effect of short wave lengths of the ultraviolet on the alga
Chlorella vulgaris. Smithsonian Misc. Coll. vol. 95, no. 2, pp.
1-19.
WITHROW, ROBERT B.
1934. Plant forcing with electric lights. Indiana Agr. Exp. Stat. Circ. 206.
WirTHRow, R. B., and BEeNnevicT, H. M.
1936. Photoperiodic responses of certain greenhouse annuals as influenced
by intensity and wave length of artificial light used to lengthen the
daylight period. Plant Phys., vol. 11, pp. 225-249.
WitTHROW, Rosert B., and RICHMAN, MILForD W.
1933. Artificial radiation as a means of forcing greenhouse crops. Indiana
Agr. Exp. Stat. Bull. 380.

112059—37——25
; Ky : WIT)
bin! vale sO ea ee Pe etal ihn vee.
per LPs 2 ae, FECTS. ge: eR: am

seed wae ae

= i 5 Sip wre SITET ani
= rf id TREN Ng,
: ny ive +
ied t Lh a Py 1
‘ r
n
iy Fi t
,
/#
j
ie ti: fy £;
} : peaks
j rt ban, 7
K reer 1 am | «\
+ ‘ ¥ yh
x f ‘ f 4 ‘
oe ‘ wis gh +i
e : roa Hy 7 12 rah
‘ ‘ Fon 4 bye : ; ¥ y Pee 4
ie det 3 ras Te Mp Meas CEfiaitivy: at. bo lat 3
7) He ts bE:
b : mee a , iy SA a4 ¥ ‘
yh es Oe TNR bin ARPS SO. SPLIT chm
> as a wh ey i
] » Boo wer gest (ite Per ae fits Mie wis
‘ +
iy ie WR ee 22 inp n A j ae 7
1 « ( ~ 1 y ? xs
i TF vee : 4 L -
wae Ste Lincttintet att 9
rs f
; 4 aS
> ? iy es
Pia)
‘+ ‘ \
' 1 = : .
f . - » 4
i ur og i :
’ Sy ‘ i i
f t . M3 } j edness
r
: } +
) eleals i
a tah s
; ay phy
‘ ti i et x
rR bit : ; iy eat Pappy apnea
' Peay’ 4 4
. ‘ss eal ’ - , }
{ | ee wed j Fert
1
! ‘e
7 vi 1% et AAO * Vos:
Hie mths Aa “yap ee ir nee Ee ae ris , nh oh et
: SL i fs Stina srertesliy td . ’ a
Wai sitions. Ashe naiaay 4 a FEE
5 ee ’
“ i ck JOT
i 7% N i be :
{ ‘ ' 4 % ‘Tin? bin
} ' \ Dd & ‘ : 7 at [iM Fh 7 (ATtR
y - ,
s ei tj ivy ate ope tet «wt
( f : Bay, 4 ATER fs
1 } ig i
i ' ‘ee % ‘
' i te y i it B 5 iy 4
i i iti '
< ! Wi Le ty
l
—J \ : ? “p> ”*
( " es ee
cs ) comin Gps AOR a.
t i ‘
hitb! y
" ne ¥

Smithsonian Report, 1936.—Johnston PEATE 1

Courtesy U. S. Department of Agriculture.
1. Effect of length of day on Mammoth tobacco grown in greenhouse in winter. Plant on left shows

characteristic behavior under a short day length. Plant on right was grown under similar conditions

except that the day period was lengthened by use of electric light, which prevented it from flowering.

Courtesy U.S. Department of Agriculture.

2. Yellow cosmos, a short-day plant, grown with equal alternations of light and darkness ranging from 12
hours to 5 seconds. With decrease in the intervals of light and darkness there is progressive decrease in
height, size, and weight of the plants and increase in etiolation and attenuation till the 1-minute interval
is reached. Further shortening of alternations causes marked improvement in growth and appearance
of the plants. All intervals from 1 hour downward are almost equally unfavorable for flowering.
Smithsonian Report, 1936.—Johnston PEATE 2

Courtesy R. B. Withrow.

1. Effect of supplementary artificial illumination on forcing aster (Heart of France) into flowering.

-——————

ORANG Lote) TXT
PED } mae |

tit

—— ERO a ee

Courtesy R. B. Withrow.

2. Wave-length effects of supplementary artificial illumination on a long-day plant (stock).

Courtesy R. B. Withrow. e

3. Wave-length effects of supplementary artificial illumination on a short-day plant (salvia).

Smithsonian Report, 1936.—Johnston PLATE 3

1. General appearance of wheat plots. That in the foreground was open to normal air; the two in the
background were enclosed in glass. Carbon dioxide was added to the one on the right.

2. General appearance of wheat at harvest. Average carbon-dioxide concentrations relative to air were
A; 3.8; B, 1.1; ©, 0:9:
— — ————S—S a an a aa

-/sd10 JO SPULSNOY) UI SoJVUIpIO) SOryIsuUEJUT Jo WBIZerp
B® uO posodumiedns st wrersoIj00ds sty, ‘“SoInuIUI ze

(g) pue ‘seynutu 9T (Z) ‘seynutM F9 (T) 10J dure, Arnoszeur “sopis
Z\JeNdD B WOT] UOMVIPBI JO[OIAVI}IN 0} SiuvhjNa D7]aL0)Y,D ayisoddo OM} UO UOMBUIMIN[[I Ul ddUDIZYIP @ WOT
jo oye[d 8 sutlsodxe Aq poeuteiqo ‘ureIZ0I1q00dSs [eZ[B UY 7% SUI}[NSAL SUI[Pses 4vO UB JO 9INYBAIND d1d0140j0N ‘T

W WWNNN NN NN NAN NNNNNNNN

® ~000M DYNO ON pAhwowww Nn

R WNONO OV.0N OYY OHROVNUND

O ONNUR BWON NOD WHYODNWO O

Ol

ATE ET

[III

y ALV 1d uo suyo(—"g¢G| ‘Wzodoyy URTUOSTAIWIS
REACTIONS TO ULTRAVIOLET RADIATION

By FLorENcE E. MEIER
Division of Radiation and Organisms, Smithsonian Institution

[With 2 plates]

The health-giving power of the sun’s rays was recognized long
ago in ancient Greece. In the temple of Hippocrates there existed
terraces for sun exposure, and Herodotus, in his history, tells of
“barbarians” who are covered all over with clothes and have a pale-
colored skin and feeble muscles. In the Roman baths there was
always a solarium, and Plinius writes in one of his letters that he
has been ill and is going to take sun baths for convalescence.

Numerous medieval engravings and miniatures have for their sub-
jects the love of water, air, and lght. Then in the seventeenth
century, perhaps as a matter of fashion, the bath became a remedy
and the value of sunlight was disregarded. It was not until the
end of the eighteenth century that a Swiss by the name of Rickly
developed a cure for diseases by treatment in the open air and sun
baths. Unfortunately, only a few physicians were influenced by his
ideas. In the nineteenth century the poet Michelet, seeing children
playing on a beach beside the sea in the sunshine, wrote the following
sentence, which is startling for his time: “De toutes les fleurs, c’est
la fleur humaine qui a le plus besoin de soleil.” (Of all the flowers,
the human flower most needs the sunshine.)

Quite by accident a hint of the curative action of sunlight was
given in the middle of the nineteenth century to physicians at Paris.
It was customary at that time for the city of Paris to board sick
orphaned children with peasant families in the country in order to
prevent epidemics in orphanages. Many were sent to the seashore
near Le Touquet, since the cost of living was not high and there
was plenty of good milk. A widow named Madame Duhamel was
especially successful with the children entrusted to her care. She
asked for the most unhealthy children, those crippled or with
diseased glands, and after a year of her care they became strong,
healthy, and happy. Her method was to carry all the children in
a wheelbarrow to the beach every morning where she took off their
clothes in order to save them from being soiled and let the children

373
374 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

play all day long in the sunshine. Recognizing the success of her
method, the authorities presented her with a few very crippled
children and a donkey cart in which she could drive them to the
beach. As this experiment proved successful, a large hospital was
built on the beach with a good surgeon as director. But the children
in the hospital did not improve as rapidly as under Madame
Duhamel’s care, since they were kept in bed in large rooms and when
playing in courtyards their coats were never removed.

Later Dr. Bonnet, in the middle of the nineteenth century, noticed
that joint tuberculosis improved by exposure to sunlight. After him
a succession of surgeons and doctors noticed the effect of sunlight
treatment on patients, until finally sun treatment was adopted every-
where in Europe.

Why is sunlight so beneficial in the treatment of invalids? And
why are people who live most of their lives in the open air and
sunshine able to build up a great immunity to disease? What is
there in the sun’s rays that promotes health and well-being?

Beyond Newton’s seven visible rays of the spectrum, which may be
separated in a sunbeam by a prism, are certain invisible rays which are
of vital importance to life on earth. These rays are shorter in
wave length than the visible violet rays, so they are called ultra-
violet rays. Only a very small quantity of these rays—a trifling per-
centage of the total—is present in the sunlight that reaches the earth.
There is a much larger quantity of them outside the earth’s atmos-
phere, but the ozone formed from oxygen in the upper layers of the
atmosphere by the action of these ultraviolet rays serves as a ray
filter that protects the life on the surface of the earth from these
shorter rays which have been proved to be very destructive to tender
tissues.

After the sun treatment, or heliotherapy, had been generally
adopted, and since it was difficult to find sunshine in winter in all
places, an artificial source of ultraviolet rays seemed desirable to
replace the missing sunshine. ‘The quartz lamp is generally used
in hospitals under medical supervision for this purpose.

Alfred Hess, who succeeded in explaining scientifically the ef-
ficiency of sunshine, noticed that rickets is very frequent among
babies born in winter or in the autumn, due to the fact that they
are kept indoors without enough sunlight. He succeeded in induc-
ing rickets in rats with a rachitic diet and discovered that they got
rickets only when kept all the time in complete darkness, and that,
with the same diet, they were protected from rickets if exposed for
about half an hour each day to the sun. The rats with rickets,
when in cages with rats treated with sunshine, cured their rickets
by eating the excrements of the sunshine-treated rats. In other

ULTRAVIOLET RADIATION—MEIER 375

experiments he observed that rats on a rachitic diet kept in dark-
ness did not develop rickets if they ate the skin of irradiated rats.
He therefore concluded that the antirachitic factor could be ab-
sorbed with the food and that exposure to sunlight was not necessary
as a treatment or prophylactic measure.

Various scientists have shown that sunlight, natural or artificial
(produced by the ultraviolet rays of the quartz lamp), has no effect
on starch, mineral salts, and some other products. Only that food
which contains fats is subject to the action of sunlight. The activ-
able substance in the fat is not the fat itself, but the unsaponifiable
part of the butter, a sterol, and the particular variety of sterol is
called ergosterol. Ergosterol, when preserved in darkness, has no
physiological activity. Only after irradiation with ultraviolet rays
does it become antirachitic in a high degree. Ergosterol is extremely
active in treatment and prophylaxis of rickets in babies and young
children. The treatment is so active that it must be stopped after
a month. As a preventative, ergosterol has the same power. In
certain countries where there is a lack of sunshine in winter, such
as East Prussia, the Government distributes gratuitously vigantol
for the new-born and small babies.

Ultraviolet rays may be used to irradiate babies in order to
rectify the lack in their diet of the elements necessary for making
bone. This irradiation furnishes vitamin D from the provitamin
in the skin. It influences the storage of calcium and phosphorus and
their equilibrium in the blood stream of mature animals in a similar
way as in growing animals. The antirachitic factor, or vitamin
D, is the specific organic agent which promotes normal calcium
metabolism. It may prevent and cure rickets, promote growth, or
simply prevent excessive loss of lime from the body.

All the research that resulted in the activation of ergosterol was,
so to speak, a combining of old observations on the therapeutic value
of fish oils and of light. It has shown that ultraviolet rays acting
on the sterol-bearing fats of the skin produce a form of vitamin
D similar in antirachitic action to the vitamin D contained in fish
oils. The vitamin D produced by the irradiation of pure ergosterol
has recently been obtained in crystalline form. A recent investigator
has found that irradiated cholesterol was many times more effective
on chickens than ergosterol that has been irradiated either by itself
or in the presence of cholesterol.

Vitamin D rarely occurs in living plants. The lower plants that
are not pigmented and do not make their own food thrive in dark
places and perish in the light. The higher plants containing very
little ergosterol possess pigments that filter out the activating rays
at the short end of the solar spectrum.
376 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

Recently a new vitamin D with rickets-preventing power has been
obtained by irradiating a provitamin from sitosterol, the substance in
plants which corresponds to cholesterol in animals.

Vitamin D is widespread in the animal kingdom but is abundant
only in the fishes. It has been suggested that it may be formed by
the action of the sun on the green algae, which are then swallowed by
the little fish and these in turn by the bigger fish. Evidence has
thrown some doubt on this supposition, however. Irradiation of
the body surface of fish appears to play no part in the formation
of vitamin D. Experiments performed by Bills made it appear
probable that a portion of the vitamin D in fish originates by syn-
thesis within the fish. The higher animals cannot synthesize vitamin
D, so they must either ingest it by eating such food as eggs, fish,
whole furred or feathered animals, and insolated dead vegetable
tissues, or receive it by exposing the body to sunlight.

Birds, according to the findings of Hou, differ from mammals
in having only one gland of a sebaceous nature. ‘This is the preen
gland. Preen-gland oil contains ergosterol, which the birds when
preening distribute over their feathers and expose to sunlight. The
vitamin D is then ingested either by swallowing the feathers or is
absorbed by the skin from the feathers. Normal birds have feath-
ers and skin that are antirachitic, but rickety birds or birds whose
preen glands have been removed have feathers and skin with little,
if any, antirachitic action. When the preen glands were removed,
the birds became susceptible to rickets, and rickety birds without
the preen gland received no benefit from exposure to ultraviolet ir-
radiation or to sunshine. Nocturnal birds and the carnivorous ani-
mals that prey upon other forms of “feather and fur” possibly ob-
tain their vitamin D from their victims. The absence of the oil gland
in some birds may be explained in this manner, and it is then necessary
to add rabbits or small birds with their fur or feathers intact to the
diet of young birds in captivity. It is commonly known that horses
when thoroughly scrubbed with soap and water do not thrive. In
all these sources of the essential vitamin D it is noted that, with
the possible exception of fish, the origin of the vitamin is trace-
able to sterols that have been activated by ultraviolet light. The
skin absorbs the rapidly effective ultraviolet rays so strongly that
little, if any, radiation reaches the blood stream.

Recent physiological experiments show that normal individuals
seem to have powers of compensation sufficiently great to counteract
any stimulation resulting from ultraviolet irradiation.

Skin sensitivity to ultraviolet rays depends on the color of the skin
and hair, the age of the individual, and the time of the year when
exposure occurs. The pigmentation developing after irradiation

ULTRAVIOLET RADIATION—MEIER 377

serves as a screen by absorbing ultraviolet energy and preventing
its further penetration. Degeneration and ulceration of the tissues
may be caused by an excessive dose of ultraviolet. Bathers who
expose the surface of their bodies to the sun for hours may undergo
blood alterations. Bathers should begin their sunbaths gradually,
remembering the aphorism of Hippocrates: “To heat or to cool or
in any fashion to trouble the body to excess, or suddenly is a danger-
ous thing, for excess in everything is the enemy of nature; but it is
prudent to proceed gradually, especially in passing from one stage
to another.” Forgetfulness or lack of observance of this precept of
the father of Naturisme has caused mortal sunburn accidents.

All travelers in the Tropics have heard of the term “tropical pal-
lor.” It is applied to white people who, in spite of their sojourn in
the hottest climates of the tropical jungles, never seem to become tan;
in fact, they appear to be paler than they habitually are in the sum-
mertime under the sun of their own temperate climate. Recent re-
search has shown that human sweat partially absorbs ultraviolet
light in the spectral region that is effective in producing sunburn or
erythema. The scientists placed a drop of perspiration between two
flat plates of crystal quartz which transmits ultraviolet light. They
placed this over the inner forearm of one of the scientists and then
irradiated it with the total radiation of a quartz mercury lamp. The
skin under the quartz plates in time developed normal sunburn ex-
cept for the small area of about a square centimeter directly under a
0.2-mm film of perspiration where the reddening of the skin was
markedly less than that of the surrounding region. Spectrophoto-
metric measurements indicate that a 0.5-mm film of human sweat
transmits only about 75 percent of the solar radiation which is ef-
fective in producing sunburn. Is it not possible that, in the Tropics
where the humidity is so extreme for a continuous period, the skin
is protected by perspiration from the ultraviolet rays that produce
sunburn normally in people with white skins? When the same
scientist exposed the inner side of the forearm covered with rubber
except for a small area of about one square inch to a blast of a 40-
mile an hour wind in an experimental wind tunnel, the exposed skin
exhibited goose flesh, but at no subsequent time was there the slight-
est evidence of reddening or chapping of the exposed area of skin.
This experiment seems to indicate that ultraviolet is entirely re-
sponsible for sunburn but that the action might be intensified by
the secondary effects of the wind, such as a variation of the tempera-
ture and moistness of the skin, and a suppression of perspiration
which, when present, would protect the skin from the ultraviolet
rays.
378 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

Sun baths are certainly not likely to cause cancer in humans.
Cancer is produced in rats after prolonged exposure to ultraviolet
either from the sun or a quartz lamp. But rats and man do not re-
spond in the same way to sunlight. The normal habitat of the rat
is darkness; therefore it is more sensitive to ultraviolet light than
man. One year in the life of a rat is comparable to thirty years in
the life of a man. It required on an average about 7 months of con-
tinuous irradiation to produce cancerous changes in the rat which
would be equivalent to 20 hours of daily ultraviolet irradiation for
about 18 years in the case of man.

Of the diseases of the skin, Jupus vulgaris is the only one on which
ultraviolet rays have a specific curative action.

The lethal effect of the ultraviolet on the lower plants such as
bacteria, fungi, and algae has been studied by a vast number of
scientists. The result of their research has been utilized for prac-
tical purposes in food preservation, milk pasteurization, sterilization
of operating rooms, the elimination of micro-organisms in drinking
water, and for partial sterilization of swimming pools. The wave
lengths of the ultraviolet having this lethal effect are those of very
short range, from 2950 A to 2200 A, or those wavelengths which are
filtered from the sunlight that reaches the earth’s surface.

Seed plants, because of their complex organization and their need
of visible light for normal growth, are still puzzling botanical work-
ers desirous of learning the true response of the plants to ultraviolet
light. The amount of the various wave lengths which plants and
plant parts absorb increases the uncertainty of knowledge of the sub-
ject. The injurious and destructive action of ultraviolet light on
plants has, however, been accurately determined for the wave lengths
shorter than those present in solar radiation.

The effect of ultraviolet light on the different physiological proc-
esses of plants is being studied just as it is on those of animals. The
ultraviolet causes a temporary acceleration of respiration in higher
plants. A marked acceleration in ferment action is caused by irradi-
ating yeast cells. Results of investigation on chlorophyll formation
in green leaves have so far been somewhat contradictory. For all
this work such a specialized development of apparatus and technique
is required that progress is made very slowly.

The ultraviolet possesses what seems to be an almost magical power
to transform an ordinary, somewhat drab object into a thing of
breath-taking beauty. A small stone of calcite subjected to ultra-
violet becomes a living rose color; hyalite becomes sea green; fluorite,
brilliant blue; aragonite, shell pink; wernerite, bright yellow; and
willemite, a dark green. All these stones that we might trample over
casually with no thought to their appearance, because ordinarily

ULTRAVIOLET RADIATION—MEIER 379

there is nothing unusual about them, become gems of glowing beauty
when placed in the ultraviolet rays. In the fluorescent minerals
some slight impurity exists which is the source of the fluorescent
property of the mineral, Pale, minute microscopic organisms such
as protozoans and bacteria assume brilliant colors in the ultra-
violet rays. As they color differently in the separate rays, and as
different species behave differently, their more minute outlines and
details becoming more evident, the ultraviolet provides a new method
for identification of the different species.

This magic power of the ultraviolet is called fluorescence. When
a system is excited by absorbing radiation, photochemists teach us
that some of the excited molecules may return to their normal state
with the emission of radiation of a different wave length from that
which produced the excitation. Teeth, various parts of animal tis-
sue, and certain chemical substances are also commonly known to
fluoresce in the energy-rich ultraviolet light.

Fluorescence has been adapted to numerous practical uses with
which we are all familiar. Brilliant stage effects are produced by
tinting the costumes or scenery with fluorescent substances. Many
oils and chemicals exhibit fluorescence, and ultraviolet light is used
to detect them, as in testing cloth suspected of being contaminated
by traces of lubricating oil from the machines and in detecting
forgeries of paintings and documents by exposing differences in the
chemical composition of the material used in making the original
and the forged copy.

In photochemistry, a complicated and difficult field too involved
for discussion here, knowledge of ultraviolet rays has proved useful
because the light of shorter wave length which possesses greater
energy, is more likely to produce chemical reaction. The decompo-
sition of many complex chemical compounds by ultraviolet rays
has been studied by photochemists.

The layman is often confused by the terms ultraviolet light,
X-rays, and cosmic radiation. He knows that there is a difference
between them, but his idea of the relative position of each in re-
lation to the spectrum is not clear. The X-rays are shorter waves
of energy than the ultraviolet, and cosmic rays are even shorter than
the X-rays. Ultraviolet rays, as we have seen, are present in sun-
light or are produced artificially by a quartz mercury lamp. X-rays
are produced chiefly by projecting streams of electrons (the smallest
known particles of matter) against blocks or targets of metal.
X-rays were discovered in 1895 by Prof. Wilhelm Conrad Roentgen,
a Bavarian physicist. When investigating electrical discharges
through a vacuum tube covered with black paper, he observed that
a fluorescent screen at a distance glowed when the current was
380 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

turned on. By continuing his observations he found that rays of
unknown nature were traveling in straight lines from the discharge
tube and that when solid objects were interposed they threw a
shadow on the screen. He also observed that these unknown rays
could easily pass through objects of low density such as a wooden
door and that they then could affect a photographic plate, making a
record on it of the internal structure of the object. Everyone is
now familiar with the practical value of X-rays and is aware of
the important part which they play not only in medical practice
but also in scientific and industrial work.

‘The existence of cosmic rays was not discovered until 1900.
Physicists found that when gas is enclosed in a hollow steel ball,
rays of some sort pass through the metal shell of the ball and steal
electrons from some of the gas atoms, or cause ionization of the gas.
It was later learned that some of this penetrating radiation was
made up of rays from radium in the rocks of the earth’s crust. The
radium-born rays could be prevented from reaching the interior of
the ball by surrounding it with a layer of lead, just as X-ray treat-
ment rooms are encased in lead to prevent the outward passage of
X-rays. When the ball was encased in lead, however, numerous rays
of energies much greater than radium emanations and X-rays still
penetrated the interior and ionized the gas. These are the cosmic
rays now believed to be charged flying particles that cannot be seen
and are known only by their effect. Although the cosmic rays pour
in on the earth, only the strongest of them can register their existence
inside steel balls at the earth’s surface. Since their discovery,
scientists have been piecing together facts about the cosmic rays and
are especially eager to learn about those in the thin rare atmosphere
where they are most numerous and stronger before they have been
exhausted by the comparatively heavy gases near the earth. The
stratosphere balloon is the only means by which scientists can as-
cend to the stratosphere, 8 miles above the earth, and measure these
cosmic rays.

Here at the Smithsonian Institution interesting and diversified
experimentation is now in progress. With the assistance of Mc-
Alister (1933) the following researches in the field of ultraviolet
have been conducted. Algae have been irradiated with ultraviolet
rays by Meier (1936). In the regions where the ultraviolet was of
shorter wave length than that found in solar radiation the green
plant cells were killed. The certainty of the action as well as the
speed of the attack of these rays has been determined.

Friedmann (1935) started interesting experimentation on the
potentialities of the secretion of the preen gland of the house sparrow
and of the starling. Extract of the preen gland was irradiated with

“A

ULTRAVIOLET RADIATION—MEIER 381

altraviolet light and fed to birds whose preen glands had been re-
moved and that were living on a vitamin-D-free diet. None of the
birds—neither the controls nor those treated—developed rickets on
a diet which produced rickets in young chicks, thus showing the
markedly different threshold of reaction to vitamin D deficiency in
the different species of birds studied.

Austin H. Clark and Grace A. Sandhouse (1936), observing the
attraction to light of wasps kept in captivity since emergence from
their nest, made a brief study of their behavior in ultraviolet light.
They found that violet and ultraviolet light consistently stimulated
the wasps to greater activity than did monochromatic yellow or green
light. In white light with a daylight filter to approximate sunlight
quality the wasps made an equal response at about one-hundredth of
the intensity of colored light.

The beneficial action of ultraviolet light, as evidenced by the im-
portance of the serious effects resulting when plants and animals are
excluded from sunshine and artificial light, still holds open a great
field of research. With the high perfection of apparatus, methods,
and technique now in progress, new research on this subject is eagerly
anticipated.

The word radiation appears most often at this time in the work
of scientists. Under this name are included all the forms in which
energy can be extended into space without material support. Ultra-
violet, infrared, visible light, X-rays, radio waves, and many other
forms are included in this term radiation. Although nothing seems
more simple than a light ray, actually much remains to be learned
about it.

BIBLIOGRAPHY
ARMAND-DELILLE, P.
1935. Light and heliotherapy in nutrition. Journ. State Med. London, vol.
43, no. 12, pp. 709-719.
CuARK, AUSTIN H., and SANDHOUSE, GRACE A.
1936. The nest of Odynerus tempiferus macio Bequaert, with notes on
the habits of the wasps. Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vol. 84, no. 3005,
pp. 89-95.
CoBLENTz, W. W., and Starr, R.
1934. Data on the spectral erythemic reaction of the untanned human skin
to ultra-violet radiation. Bureau of Standards Journ. Research,
vol. 12, no. 1, pp. 13-14.
Crew, W. H. and WHITTLE, C. H.
1936. Sunburn and windburn. Science, vol. 84, no. 2179, pp. 309-810,
DuccaR, BENJAMIN M.
1936. Biological effects of radiation, vols. 1 and 2, 1342 pp. New York.
FRIEDMANN, HERBERT.
1935. Notes on differential threshold of reaction to vitamin D deficiency in

the house sparrow and the chick. Biol. Bull., vol. 69, no. 1, pp.
71-74.
382 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

McALISTER, BE. D.
1983. Absolute intensities in the visible and ultraviolet spectrum of a
quartz mercury are. Smithsonian Misc. Coll., vol. 87, no. 17, 18 pp.
MeEtrrR, FLORENCE EH.
1936. Lethal effect of short wave lengths of the ultra-violet on the alga
Chlorella vulgaris. Smithsonian Mise. Coll., vol. 95, no. 2, 19 pp.
1935. The microscopic plant and animal world in ultra-violet light. Ann.
Rep. Smithsonian Inst. 1938, pp. 349-361.
SLAWSON, CHESTER B.
1935. The fluorescence of minerals. Cranbrook Inst. Sci. Bull. no. 5, 13 pp.

“INSWLVSY]L LATOIAVYLIN ONIAISOSY LVY OILIHOVY AG IZILAHLSAVNV NV

CuUBdIUOL) OLIOa[OT [BA Nar) ‘piojuag YUBA JO ASayNo,)

beh Le JaIIJAI—"9¢EG| ‘Woday uriuosyq wg
“WOL Ludo

LOLI SOI

IU PALYS Puv YULYS OF s[poo op, pasnevo sey Yysuoy ovAvA SHE) TEM UOLRIpRady of,

VOOEC HLONAT FAVM HLIM
VOSL2 HLONAT SAVM HLIM OQAHdVYHSOLOHd S115 YOWNL LNAGOY LINVNSIIVAW

“YIOX MAN “ouy ‘sey Bioqey suoydetay, [9g ‘svon'y “7 sous” Aq sydeizois1mojoyg

go01ldad NOILVIGVYEY! SALNNIW-z v 4YSa1l4V GNV 3yHOsRq

¢ ALV1d A219]. —"9¢6| ‘4oday uRTUOsYy{IUIG
AERIAL PHOTOGRAPHY

By Capt. H. K. BaisLry
United States Army Air Corps

[With 13 plates]

It is not uncommon to hear a person returning from his first air-
plane flight remark on how small the fields and towns appeared, or
that the earth looked like a carpet when seen from the air. It is a
conception of the earth as we know it should be, but one which we
have difficulty in getting as we travel about on the ground. It is
only natural that the men who pioneered in aviation were impressed
by the view obtained while in flight and that they should attempt,
by means of photography, to record that view.

EARLY AERIAL PHOTOGRAPHY

In 1861, 42 years before the heavier-than-air flight of the Wright
brothers, an oblique aerial photograph of Boston was made by King
and Black from a captive balloon at an altitude of about 1,200 feet,
and other aerial photographs were made later that day by these same
two men as their balloon drifted in a southeasterly direction from
Boston. Although considerable information was obtained from this
and other photographic balloon flights, the development of aerial
photography was slow and its sphere limited to the taking of chance
shots until the development of the airplane.

Early work in the development of heavier-than-air craft was en-
tirely an effort to imitate the flight of birds by the mechanical flap-
ping of wings. Attempts at soaring flight came later with the gliding
flights of Sir George Cayley (about 1810) and later by Lilienthal,
Chanute, Montgomery, and others, and promise of airplanes of man-
carrying ability was shown in the one-fourth size engine-driven
model aerodrome flown successfully over the Potomac by Samuel
Rierpont Langley in 1896.

The successful flights by the Wright brothers in 1903, followed
shortly by other flights in this country and abroad, led to the rapid
development of airplanes capable of carrying passengers and equip-
ment. By 1911 several airplane photographs had been made, one at
College Park, Md. (pl. 1), near Washington, and one of a fire at

383
384 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

Salem, Mass. (pl. 2) which is claimed to be the first airplane photo-
graph to be used as a newspaper illustration.

DEVELOPMENT OF THE AERIAL CAMERA

Airplanes are supported by a stream of air passing by the air-
plane’s wings, and as you sit in an open cockpit airplane in flight you
find yourself in a very strong wind due to the airplane’s motion
through the air. This wind seriously interferes with the taking of
pictures and has led to the use of cabin airplanes for photographic
work, almost to the exclusion of the open cockpit type, and since sta-
bility and good visibility in all directions are desired for photography,
airplanes possessing these characteristics have been designed. Prob-
ably the best of these is the Fairchild monoplane known in the Army
as the C-8 (pl. 3, fig. 1).

The rush of air and the vibration of the machine itself makes the
use of an ordinary camera for the taking of pictures from an air-
plane almost an impossibility. Even in the early airplanes, which
flew at speeds of approximately 40 miles per hour, the rush of air
was enough to collapse the camera bellows or carry them away, and
the flimsy construction of the camera allowed the lens to vibrate,
owing to wind or the vibration of the airplane, so that a sharp, clear
picture was rarely obtained. Early types of aerial cameras are shown
in plate 4.

To overcome these difficulties cameras were designed especially for
aerial use. They are rigidly constructed fixed-focus cameras with
large lenses. Focal plane shutters were used at first, and the pictures
were taken on glass plates. The later aerial cameras have shutters
set between the lens elements. These have the advantage of expos-
ing the entire plate at the same time, thus reducing the distortion
in the picture due to the motion of the airplane during the time the
exposure is being made. Owing to its lighter weight, most aerial
cameras now use film instead of plates.

Because of the limited angle of view which one lens will include
and the desirability of photographing large areas without an ex-
cessive amount of flying, multiple-lens cameras have been designed.
These include two-, three-, four-, five-, and nine-lens models. The
equipment necessary for printing these pictures is as elaborate as the
camera itself. The shutters of these multiple-lens cameras, which are
tripped either mechanically or electrically, must be carefully syn-
chronized so that they will all trip at the same instant. The five-
lens camera has an angle of view of approximately 140°, which
will photograph a strip of territory a little over five times as wide
as the altitude at which the airplane is flying. In flying at an alti-
tude of 25,000 feet photographs are obtained of a strip of land ap-
AERIAL PHOTOGRAPHY—BAISLEY 385

proximately 25 miles wide. From these photographs features can be
plotted on a map probably more accurately, and certainly much more
rapidly, than can be done by ground survey methods.

The pictures taken for mapping purposes are the kind ordinarily
called “still” pictures to differentiate them from “moving” pictures.
These pictures are taken at intervals during flight, varying from a
few seconds to several minutes, depending on the altitude and speed
at which the airplane is flying as well as on the area covered by
each picture. Most mapping processes require that all parts of the
area to be mapped show on at least two photographs, and this re-
quirement, together with the conditions outlined above, determines
the time interval between exposures.

At the present time there are in use in this country two types of
cameras that are considered to be up to date. One of these, the
K3-B (pl. 5, fig. 1), which is a single-lens camera using a lens of 8%,
12, or 24 inches focal length, is electrically operated and can be set
to run automatically, taking pictures at a predetermined interval of
anywhere between 3 or 4 seconds and several minutes. It can also be
manually operated and is adapted to both vertical and oblique pho-
tography. ‘The picture size is 7 by 9 inches. The other, the T3-A
(pl. 6, fig. 1), is suitable for mapping purposes only and is manually
operated. It has five lenses, taking five pictures simultaneously. A
contact print is made from the negative exposed in the central cham-
ber, and the other four are printed through a transforming printer.
The final five prints are assembled as a single vertical photograph as
shown in plate 11, figure 2. The picture taken with this camera
measures 30 inches across.

PICTORIAL PHOTOGRAPHY

Aerial photography is divided into two broad classes, known as
verticals and obliques. The former class comprises photographs for
which the axis of the camera is held as nearly vertical as possible at
the instant of exposure, and the latter class includes all other
photographs.

Oblique aerial photographs were obtained from kites and balloons
long before the invention of the airplane, and the earliest airplane
photographs also were oblique views. They have the advantage of
presenting a view as we are accustomed to seeing it, and accordingly
they convey information that would be overlooked in the unnatural
view afforded by the vertical photograph. Examples of obliques
are the pictures of San Blas Island and of Irazu volcano and other
mountains shown in plates 7 and 8. These pictures are useful in
mapping work as well as being of scenic beauty. The photographs
of the United States Army-National Geographic Society stratosphere
386 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

flight of 1935 shown on plate 9 are examples of photographs useful
in recording an event.

Oblique photographs give a view very similar to that which we
ordinarily observe as we walk about in a flat field, except that a
great deal more is included in the view. As we increase the elevation
from which we look at the landscape, its aspect changes and the
silhouette of hills and other forms of relief against the horizon
disappear. Instead of seeing the hill ahead of us, we are more
impressed by the rivers, farms, woods, and cities which from lower
altitudes of observation are hidden. The camera brings back a
record of what we see, and as the height from which the pictures
are taken is increased, the area included in the picture increases, also
the things hidden by relief become less. The area covered in any
single oblique from high altitude is very large. Features such as
roads, railroads, woods, streams, cities, and cultivated fields show up
distinctly. A little study will also give a fair idea of relief, which
is indicated by the drainage and by shadows. However, it is easy
to be deceived by the relief actually present when one is studying
an oblique picture even though it is more clearly indicated in this
kind of picture than in the vertical. Stereoscopic pairs of either
obliques or verticals are far superior to single pictures for a detailed
study. Besides showing many things which would not ordinarily be
observed from an airplane, photographs show features which are not
visible to the eye. This is partly because the resolving power of
the camera lens is much greater than that of the eye, as is well borne
out by photographs taken during the 1934 and 1935 stratosphere
flights and by statements of members of the crews of those balloons.
Captain Anderson tells me that when at an altitude of about 60,000
feet over northwestern Nebraska he had great difficulty in locating
a railroad shown on the map, the position of which was accurately
known by him. He finally succeeded in locating it visually by being
able to see some cuts through which it ran, although he was unable
to see the railroad itself. He also found that farm buildings were
invisible, although the different fields and pastures, as well as the
smaller plots in which the farm buildings were located, could easily
be seen. These railroads and farm buildings are visible on pictures
taken from the balloon while at or near its maximum altitude. This
is in keeping with observation from much lower altitudes. In the
training of airplane observers for the control of artillery fire, puff
targets are used. These are moved about by the men of the ground
crew which operate them, and the men can be seen moving around
with the puff targets when flying at less than 4,000 feet above them
but are invisible from higher altitudes.

AERIAL PHOTOGRAPHY—BAISLEY 387

THREE-DIMENSIONAL PHOTOGRAPHY

Experiments indicate that depth perception or binocular vision
disappears at about 500 feet, and that when we look at more distant
objects we get no more information by observing with two eyes than
we do by observing with one. In observing the actions of people
blind in one eye we see illustrated another method of depth percep-
tion. Such a person will move his head from side to side and so get
slightly different views of what is in front of his eye, and he is thereby
able to estimate distances; thus he has, in fact, depth perception of
a kind.

In flying an airplane we move rapidly along, so that even at high
altitude we get different views or a changing view of the same scene,
and we thereby get considerable depth perception, just as the man
blind in one eye gets it by moving his head, but the third-dimension
sense of depth is not nearly so striking when obtained in this manner
as it is when brought out by observing stereoscopically two photo-
graphs of the same area taken a considerable distance apart.

By taking aerial photographs in stereoscopic pairs, depth is added
to the picture, and it shows up as a visual model in its three dimen-
sions even more strikingly than the scene itself when observed from
an airplane. Photographically the two scenes, as observed by the
two eyes, can be and often are separated by a distance of several miles.
When observed in a stereoscope these two pictures of the same terri-
tory taken from a fairly high altitude and a considerable distance
apart form a single visual model, which it is only possible for us to
approximate when viewing the terrain itself because of the close
spacing of our eyes and the inability to carry the image in the mind
for any appreciable time as we move along in flight.

THE USE OF PHOTOGRAPHY IN MAPPING

Single lens vertical pictures are useful individually as maps or col-
lectively for the preparation of maps, either photographic mosaics
or maps of the conventional kind. A single picture taken with an
814-inch lens from an altitude of 21,780 feet will give a scale of
2 inches=1 mile, so that a picture of the size taken by our standard
camera, that is, 7 by 9 inches, will include 1434 square miles and,
if used intelligently, can very well serve the purpose of a map of the
area shown.

A great many photographs of this type are required by the Air
Corps and by the Corps of Engineers for use as maps. They have
the advantage of being very cheap in comparison with a map of
such an area made by ordinary means. They also contain much more
detail than does a conventional map and have the advantage of being

112059-——37 26

388 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

up-to-date throughout at the instant that the exposure is made.
They are also free from gross errors in position of objects about
which information is desirable.

The vertical photograph, even though it should happen to be
taken with the camera truly vertical, will not give an absolutely true
plan view of what is in front of the lens unless that subject happens
to be absolutely level and without relief. The relief causes distor-
tion in the photographs, which can be accurately computed if the
difference in elevation between the various parts of the photograph
is known. This distortion, due to relief, makes possible the visualiz-
ing of relief when two nonidentical photographs of the same subject
are viewed stereoscopically. This is made use of in stereoscopic map-
ping machines, and also in the mathematical method of determining
relief from distortion in overlapping vertical photographs. How-
ever, in a single photograph or a mosaic map, this distortion exists
as an error in the location of the object. Also the single photograph
fails to fulfill all the requirements of a map in that it does not accu-
rately show relief. A person who has studied vertical photographs
knows that relief is indicated in other ways. For instance, we know
that streams follow the lowlands and that their tributaries become
smaller and finally disappear as they approach divides. Also, if a
photograph is held in such a way that the shadows on the photo-
graph fall toward the observer and the observer then stands facing
the light, a visualization of relief of a kind is realized.

MOSAIC MAPS

Mosaics are two or more overlapping vertical photographs so cut
and fitted together that they form one composite picture of the area
they cover. In addition to the errors in each individual picture, a
mosaic contains errors due to fitting the photographic prints
together.

The making of large mosaics and of conventional planimetric
maps from photographs is the work of civil engineers, and although
it requires some changes from the methods used in making a survey
on the ground, the principles are in general the same, and the work
is carried on in a manner very similar to that used in plane-table
surveying.

CONVENTIONAL MAPS

In order accurately to show relief on maps, the use of contours
has been generally adopted. ‘These contours or lines of constant ele-
vation can be plotted from photographs so taken that every point
shows on at least two overlapping pictures. Of the methods devel-
oped, the only practical ones are those making use of stereoscopic
vision. This requires that the two eyes each see the same object but

AERIAL PHOTOGRAPHY—BAISLEY 389

from a slightly different position. As these pictures are taken from
different positions, there results an apparent displacement of objects
of different elevations in one picture when compared with the same
objects in another picture. From these displacements the differences
in elevation between different objects is determined mechanically
when such overlapping pictures are observed in stereoscopic plotting
machines such as the multiplex or aerocartigraph.

The multiplex (pl. 10, fig. 1) is a plotting machine in which sepa-
rate projectors similar to the ordinary magic lanterns used to amuse
children are held on a frame work in a position which simulates that
occupied by the aerial camera at the instant the picture was made.
By means of a simple optical device the operator sees with one eye
one picture projected on his drawing board and with the other eye
the overlapping adjacent picture. The result is a visual model in
three dimensions which can be rapidly drawn as a contoured map.
The aerocartigraph (pl. 5, fig. 2) is a more complicated instrument
for accomplishing the same end and produces results of a considerably
higher degree of accuracy.

The rapidity with which aerial mapping can be accomplished is
best shown by examples. In the summer of 1936, in order to study
all the area within a radius of 18 miles of the center of Washington,
the photographic detachment at Bolling Field, D. C., was told
to prepare a mosaic map 36 miles in diameter with the center of
the District of Columbia as its center. This area was photographed
with one airplane during two consecutive days, requiring only 11
hours of flying to photograph the entire area. All the laboratory
work, consisting of developing the film, printing, laying, and copy-
ing the mosaic was completed within 10 days, and copies of the
mosaic map (pl. 11, fig. 1) were delivered within that time. This
was all single-lens camera work, done with an 814-inch focal length
K3-B camera from an altitude of 15,000 feet. This kind of photog-
raphy requires a great deal more time to perform than does the
multiple-lens photography (pl. 11, fig. 2) used in the preparation
of conventional maps.

Examples of vertical and oblique aerial photographs of Wash-
ington, D. C., are shown in plate 12.

The entire State of Massachusetts was photographed to a scale
of approximately 1 to 40,000 in 4 days of flying with a five-lens
T-3A camera. The preparation of topographic maps from these
five-lens pictures probably will not be completed for several years.

DEVELOPMENT AND TREND OF AERIAL PHOTOGRAPHY

The Matériel Division at Wright Field, working in conjunction
with camera manufacturers in this country, have produced some
390 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

excellent aerial cameras. The development of these cameras has
been along two general lines: First, the development of cameras
suited to the producing of mosaic maps of a convenient scale or for
making oblique views; and, second, the development of a camera
for mapping purposes in which the coverage of a large area is
desirable and the recording of the detail as shown in a mosaic is
not necessary. These second cameras are of the multiple-lens type.

The development of aircraft permitting flight at higher altitudes
and the development of wide-angle lenses is tending to change both
types of cameras. The single-lens camera may require a longer
focal length lens to produce contact prints of a scale usable for
mosaics from the altitude at which the airplanes are beginning to
fly regularly, and in this case a larger picture should be taken to
reduce the flying time to a minimum. In the case of the mapping
cameras, the development of extremely wide-angle lenses promises
to give a single picture including such a wide angle of view that
it will cover as great an area as the usable part in the pictures taken
with the five-lens camera. When this point is reached the necessity
for a camera with more than one lens will no longer exist.
Smithsonian Report, 1936.—Baisley PLATE 1

Lt. tally, Curtiss ,
lt Paul Beck, fr
Walk ex>

AN AIRPLANE PHOTOGRAPH TAKEN AT COLLEGE PARK, MD., IN 1911.
‘“NOILVYLSNII| YAdVdSMAN VY SV GaSN

43q OL HdVYSOLOHd ANVI1dYIY LSYI4 AHL 4d OL GIVS ‘VI6L ‘92 AYVOANVE NI NaxMV LL SSVW ‘WA1VS Lv 3YuI4 Vv AO HdVYSDOLOHd ANV1dyIY

CG aE alc} Aa[siegq-—'g¢6| ‘j4oday ueruosyqiwig
Smithsonian Report, 1936.—Baisley PLATE 3

Photograph U. S. Army Air Corps.

1. FAIRCHILD C-8 PHOTOGRAPHIC AIRPLANE.

Photograph U.S. Army Air Corps.

2. K-3B AERIAL CAMERA INSTALLED FOR VERTICAL PHOTOGRAPHS.
Smithsonian Report, 1936.—Baisley

PLATE 4

Photograph U.S. Army Air Corps.

Photograph U.S. Army Air Corps.

EARLY TYPES OF AERIAL CAMERAS.

Smithsonian Report, 1936.—Baisley PLATE 5

Photograph U.S. Army Air Corps.

1. TAKING OBLIQUE PHOTOGRAPH WITH K-3B CAMERA.

Photograph U.S. Army Air Corps.

2. AEROCARTOGRAPH, OBLIQUE POSITION.
We

Smithsonian Report, 1936.—Baisley PLATE 6

Photograph U.S. Army Air Corps.

THE T—3A CAMERA, SUITABLE FOR MAPPING PURPOSES ONLY AND MANUALLY
OPERATED. IT HAS FIVE LENSES AND TAKES FIVE PICTURES SIMULTANEOUSLY.

Photograph U. 8. Army Air Corps.

2. A TRANSFORMING PRINTER.
Smithsonian Report, 1936.—Baisley ad a 0

Photograph U.S. Army Air Corps.
1. IRAZU VOLCANO, COSTA RICA.

_— PURER,
“ie

Ree en

Photograph U. S. Army Air Corps.
2. SAN BLAS ISLAND, PANAMA.
Smithsonian Report, 1936.—Baisley PLATE 8

Photograph U.S. Army Air Corps.
1. SOUTHWEST SLOPES OF CHIRIQUI VOLCANO, PANAMA.

Photograph U.S. Army Air Corps.

2. MOUNTAINS AND POND, PANAMA.

PLATE 9

-Baisley

Smithsonian Report, 1936.-

Air Cory

TWO PHOTOGRAPHS OF THE UNITED STATES ARMY-NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC SOCIETY STRATOSPHERE FLIGHT OF 1935.

Army

S

Photograph U.

Air Corps.

Army

Photograph U.S.
Smithsonian Report, 1936.—Baisley

1. SCHEMATIC DIAGRAM OF MULTIPLEX.

Photograph U.S. Army Air Corps.

2. HE MULTIPEEX.

PLATE

10
Smithsonian Report, 1936.—Baisley PLATE 11

Photograph U.S. Army Air Corps.
1. MOSAIC MAPS OF WASHINGTON AND VICINITY, 36 MILES IN DIAMETER.

Approximately 900 aerial photographs, size 7 by 9 inches, were used in the making of this map. This map
measured approximately 8 feet in diameter, and was prepared at a scale of 1 to 25,000.

Photograph U.S. Army Air Corps.
2. PICTURE TAKEN WITH T-3A CAMERA.

The center part of the picture is a contact print and the four keystone-shaped prints surrounding it are
printed in the T-3A transforming printer shown in plate 6, figure 2.
PLATE 12

j

/

Photograph U.S. Army Air Corps.

1. AN OBLIQUE PHOTOGRAPH

ae Bee

e

P os’ et ii eS . ne |
| evap - asol-se%e-23798-20 5 INGTON,

Cc.
Photograph U.S. Army Air Corps.
2. A SINGLE VERTICAL PHOTCGRAPH OF A PART OF WASHINGTON, D. C.

Taken August 23, 1935, with an 8!5-inch focal length lens ina K-3B camera from an altitude of 18,000 feet.

‘sZUIP[IN aso} JO SJooI otf} WLOIJ pondsed oJoM o[dood aay pus 4no 4us

‘1RUUIOUIO UT Sot}JJONINE oy} 0} US SVM UIBIZO[O} B PUL ‘JOO IeBUBY OY} WO SBA UBUT B FBG} Pootjou sea ‘TOYe} SBM YI IYZIU oy} oINjoId sty} Sulalurexe uy
A 4 pus Saungord or} SULYe} oULTdITe oY} ULOIJ WOOS OU 919M SZUIPIING esayy JO sjoo1 oy} UO MAU oY,

SBM 780GI0J0M V
pue podojaasp a10m Soimyord oy} [IJUN a1eq} oto Avy Wey} UMOTY JOU SB

“7661 JO YSLNIM AHL AO GOOT4 SHL ONIYNG ‘OIHO ‘ILVNNIONID LV LYOdYIY WdlDINNIW
"sd10O ary Aurry *¢ yduisojoyg

€l ALVvVd1d Aaysieg —9¢6| ‘qaoday uRIuOstyIWIG

EASTER ISLAND, POLYNESIA *

By Henrr Lavacuery ”
Royal Museums of Art and History, Brussels

[With 4 plates]

Few places in the world have given rise to more fantastic specula-
tion than this volcanic island, 70 square miles in area, lying in the
Pacific Ocean, lat. 27°10’ S., long. 109°20’ W. Actually the so-called
“mysteries of Easter Island”, or rather the explanations which have
been offered, are not the work of trained men of science. It is natu-
ral that the huge statues, standing erect as they do in a naked land-
scape against a background of black and yellow, should have ap-
pealed to the poetic imagination. But those who wish to face with
candor the problems presented by certain parts of the world may
well be annoyed when the poets’ lyrical love of mystery becomes the
starting point of speculation. The best students of Easter Island
have always told us that it was Polynesian and could only be ex-
plained by Polynesia.? The evidence that we have now obtained is
merely an addition to what was already a formidable pile. Never-
theless we expect that before long others will come forward again
with tales of a lost continent of Lemuria, submerged beneath the
waters of the Pacific; and that Easter Island is one of its peaks,
peopled with Lemurian idols!

For geologists are in complete agreement upon this point. If a
Pacific continent existed, it was long before the advent of man and

1 Reprinted by permission, with some changes in the illustrations, from Antiquity, vol.
10, no. 37, March 1936.

2 Dr. Henri Lavachery, the writer of this article, was the Belgian member of the Franco-
Belgian Expedition which visited Easter Island and remained there from July 29, 1934, to
Jan. 3, 1935. It was initiated by Prof. Paul Rivet, of the Ethnographical Museum, Paris,
and was actually two expeditions—a French one consisting of M. Watelin (who died before
reaching Easter Island) and Dr. A. Métraux (of Swiss nationality), and the Belgian
expedition represented by Dr. Layachery. A joint subsidy was made by the Belgian
Government and the National Belgian Fund for Scientific Research. The expedition was
transported to the island by a French naval vessel and taken off it by the Belgian training
ship Mercator. The visit of the expedition and the formation of its collections were both
greatly facilitated by the Government of Chile, to which Easter Island belongs, who gave
the most generous instructions to their representative on the island. After the death of
M. Watelin, M. Lavachery assumed responsibility for the archeological work, while
M. Métraux had charge of the ethnographical and linguistic investigations. A report on
the results of the expedition was published in the Bulletin des Musées Royaux, Bruxelles,
May—June 1935, no. 3, pp. 50-63; July—August, 1935, no. 4, pp. 81-90.

* Routledge, Mrs. Scoresby, Mystery of Easter Island, 1919.

391
392 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

in a part of the southern ocean far removed from that in which the
gaunt cliffs of Easter Island confront the unceasing assault of the
waves. It is surrounded by vast ocean depths which occur in the
expanse of 2,500 miles of ocean separating the island from the
American coast on the east and from the nearest land 1,750 miles
to the west, namely the Gambier Islands. Easter Island is a vol-
canic island, and a lofty one, like the Marquesas and Hawaii, in
contrast with atolls and coral islands which are low-lying. If one
could denude such islands of their dense coverlet of mango-scrub,
breadfruit trees, bamboo and cocoa palms, drain the springs, and
cover them with a growth of yellow herbage—then such an islet as
Hivaoa of the Marquesas will come to resemble Easter Island.

It is the bareness of Easter Island, the result of its colder climate
and exposure to the four winds of heaven, which has given birth
to these misconceptions. The idea of Polynesia does not fall in with
a barren rocky landscape, monotonous pampa, or a pale sun inces-
santly obscured by rain-clouds.

These talkative Pascuans,* like naughy laughing children, whose
language and appearance is Polynesian without a shadow of doubt,
can no longer be denied those ancestors who carved the notorious
statutes, engraved the puzzling symbols of rongorongo and set up
round the island’s coast all those innumerable monuments (actually
184).

At what date was Easter Island first settled? There are excellent
reasons for believing that it was between the twelfth and thirteenth
centuries of the Christian era. We have certain traditions relating
to the peopling of Hawaii and New Zealand. The Polynesians es-
tablished themselves there at the end of their migrations between
the eleventh and thirteenth centuries. Considering the remoteness
of Easter Island, it is reasonable to suppose that it was peopled
about the same time. The approximate date of the colonization of
this island is, however, based upon the list of the Pascuan kings.
This list has been narrated to several observers; the most complete
is that of Thompson * who obtained it from an informant who was
a survivor of the pagan period. One may assume a length of 12
years for the reigns of each of the 57 kings in the list. Maurata,
the last Pascuan who was certainly regarded as a king, died in
1864, as a result of the Peruvian slave raids. Calculation gives us
exactly the beginning of the thirteenth century.

4We may well adopt the English equivalent to avoid the clumsy “Easter Islanders.’—
Translator.

5A paymaster of the American Navy, and the author of a short archeological account
which, considering that it was based merely upon a visit of 8 days, is remarkably informa-
tive and full. (Rep. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1889, pp. 447-552, 1891.)

EASTER ISLAND—LAVACHERY 393

But how can one account for the achievement of such a long
journey? ‘The Polynesians possessed vessels that could face the open
sea; they were capable of taking sometimes more than 100 oarsmen
and passengers. Further, they put to sea in squadrons. The canoes
kept just as far apart as was possible without losing sight of each
other. At night they came together. By thus distributing them-
selves over the surface of the sea they were able to discover even the
smallest islands. Some canoes were lost, but there were enough to
ensure that some should reach their objective. Navigation was by the
stars, according to the direction of ocean currents and as the wind
allowed. But in the Pacific there are regular winds in each season.

Whence came the Pascuans? Every indication points to the Gam-
bier Islands. The similarity of the Mangarevian and Pascuan
languages is a valuable clue. Then the Gambier Islands contain
ancient monuments which call to mind the ahus more than do any of
the other marae of Polynesia. Father Honoré Laval, in an unpub-
lished account ° giving valuable information about the ancient culture
of the Gambier Islands, speaks of statues resembling those of Easter
Island. Finally, the Gambier Islands are those which are nearest
to it on the west. The Polynesians probably found Easter Island
devoid of monuments and uninhabited; but this statement lacks
proof.

The present Pascuans would appear, then, to be the direct descend-
ants of the architects and sculptors of the ancient monuments.
Proof of this is to be found in a comparison of these monuments
with those of other Polynesian islands. One must also cite the
traditions current at the time of the first contact with white men, in
which the names of sculptors and of their direct descendants were
mentioned.

But there are also certain obvious facts of a common-sense kind.
Many of the traditions relate to the construction of ahus at a very
recent date. Now the statues were merely accessory to these burials—
the images of ancestors set up there. If the monument is of recent
date, that which adorns it will naturally be so too. Then again, the
evidence of the first foreigners to arrive is in agreement; the ahus
were in living use at the end of the eighteenth century and were seen
by Gonzales and La Perouse. We collected traditions reporting that
ceremonies were held there still during the nineteenth century.

There is no evidence of the existence of two cultures. Up to quite
modern times, when the ahus were being made and used, the rites and
ceremonies centering round Motunui and Orongo’ and the great

*This will shortly be published, through the agency of my Swiss colleague Alfred
Métraux, by the Bishop Museum, Honolulu.
T An islet and village situated to the west of Easter Island.
394 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

god Maké Maké continued to take place. The last bird-man was
drawn, according to Thompson, in 1880. It may be recalled that the
house of the bird-man, the tomb reserved for him, was inside the
tapu surrounding the quarry whence came the statues and where the
oldest still stand. This is presumptive evidence in favor of a close
connection between the cult of Orongo and that of ancestors. Per-
haps sufficient importance has not been attached to the fact that
Orongo contains breccia sculptures from Rano Raraku,* and that
it is from Orongo that there came the most perfect example of the
typical Easter Island statue, that at the British Museum.

Take on the other hand all those manifestations of the plastic skill
of the Pascuans—the sculptures on stone and wood, the designs of
the rock-carvings and tablets, of the rock paintings and tattoo marks.
The technique varies with the raw material, but the uniformity of
style is indisputable.

The abrupt end, as it seems, of the activities of Rano Raraku has
been invoked both by the adherents of the theory of an age-old lost
civilization and by those who favor the idea of a dual Pascuan
culture. But the arrest of activity can be explained by simple, al-
most contemporary, causes. The exploitation of the volcano was con-
trolled by the clan of the Tupahotus, and, as everywhere in Poly-
nesia, by a group of specialists. It required only a war to partially
destroy the specialists—and tradition tells of many wars at the
beginning of the nineteenth century. An epidemic imported by the
whalers might equally be responsible; today each vessel that arrives
brings some malady to the Pascuans. Finally, the Peruvian raids
(1859-61) are traditionally reported to have given the coup-de-grace
to the class of maoris (experts).

The fact that in 1886 the Pascuans had already forgotten how and
why their activities had been brought to a close, as well as other facts
about their culture—such as how the statues were transported, and
the meaning of the tablets—is no evidence of the antiquity of these
facts, nor does it justify an attribution to another culture. For we
have seen these same Pascuans refusing to admit that the stone adzes
could have been used to work wood; while it is certain that before
1860 iron must have been very rare in the island, and that their im-
mediate forebears must necessarily have worked wood with the afore-
said adzes. On the other hand they freely admit that adzes and stone
chisels were used to work the two kinds of andesite of which the
statues, bols, and house stones were made. By a curious inversion the
Pascuan regards wood as being harder and more difficult to work than

8 A voleano in the eastern part of Easter Island. On its slopes is the quarry where the
statues were hewn.

BASTER ISLAND—LAVACHERY 395

stone, so easy to fashion is the stone of this island. This argument °®
can be used against those who put forward the alleged difficulty of
carving igneous rock as a reason for attributing them to a race
more skilled, more strong, and gifted with better implements than the
Polynesians.

But to return to the first Polynesian colonists. Very probably the
fauna and flora of Easter Island were extremely restricted. But
following a custom common in all their migrations, they would have
taken with them plants, seeds of the most useful vegetables, rats, and
chickens. They colonized the island, and their first settlements were
at Anakena on the north coast and at Akahanga on the south. They
set about conserving rainwater, for Easter Island has no springs. At
the same time they learned how to protect the crops against the con-
tinual winds. They were familiar with certain crafts which they
hold in common with all Polynesians—the making of cloth from mul-
berry bark (tapa) and the working of wood and stone. The latter
craft differs only from that found in the other Polynesian islands in
respect of the size of the monuments. The abundance of easily
carved stone was the sole predetermining cause of the Pascuans erect-
ing on their island the largest statues found in the islands of Oceania.

The technical skill of the former inhabitants is seen also in the
manufacture of implements and weapons of obsidian, and of fish-
hooks of stone and bone. These last were made with human bone, for
man was the only mammal available with bones large enough. The
Pascuan writing on wood shows their skill and taste. There have
been found a large number of rock paintings and engravings, the
former magical, the latter merely trial pieces.

The Pascuan house, when it is above ground, shows many tech-
nical analogies with the Hawaiian house, which, like it, is roofed
with tufts of grass set on a framework of boughs. Whenever pos-
sible, the Pascuans settled themselves in artificial caves or holes in
the ground, which provided a less precarious shelter in war and
against thieves. The fowl house was built on the same principles.

The Pascuans were tatooed, and on feast days they painted their
bodies with appropriate emblems,

Ten family groups or clans divided up the island between them.
The king belonged to the clan of Miru. His place of residence
changed, and his role was indeterminate. Many taboos, notably in
the matter of food, isolated him from Pascuan life. He did not en-
gage in the wars which often broke out between the clans of the west
and north and those of the east (Kotuu against Hotu Iti). He pre-

® Unfortunately, however, the mystery mongers are not as a rule open to reason.
Mystery is their religion.—Translator.
396 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

sided over the experts in rongorongo, the repository of ancient tra-
ditions, genealogies, etc. They used tablets (Kohau rongorongo) en-
graved with signs as an aid to memory. The signs of rongorongo
were the object of organized teaching.

The Pascuans practiced a form of double inhumation. The body
was exposed on the ahwu until the flesh dried up or turned to dust.
The bones were then placed in the burial chambers. Sometimes the
skull was preserved separately. There wasa general fear of the spirits
of the dead. Commemorative feasts were held in front of the tombs,
where chickens were exchanged for a ritual purpose. The statues at
the foot of Rano Raraku represent the dead. Several of them have
tatoo marks which were still used during the historical period.
Later, the images of the dead also were placed on the ahus.

The Pascuans had a large number of gods, the chief of whom was
Maké Maké. The same name appeared in other Polynesian mytholo-
gies. It would seem to be connected with the source of that which
supplied the material needs of the Pascuans—cultivation and fishing.
It was thus connected with the Marquesan Tiki, whose mask it resem-
bled in almost every detail. Maké Maké is the creator of birds. One
of the less obscure features of his cult is the indication, by means of
birds, of a man?° who probably represents the god, and who each
spring gives place to another. Ritual feasts at which human flesh
was eaten were a part of this cult, as well as also initiation ceremonies
at puberty.

The end of the old culture was hastened by the arrival of Euro-
peans, who revealed a new world to the Pascuans, a world totally
different from their own. From that time onward they lost without
any effort both peace and the joy of life. Their restless spirit drove
them to undertake the most savage warfare, which decimated them,
ruined their culture and overthrew its monuments. Works of art
were given up, traditions were lost, so that even the memory of their
existence has perished. The whalers and slavers completed the task
of destruction already well advanced. After being Christianized the
Pascuans became ashamed of most of their past history, and essayed,
not without success, to remove all traces of it from memory.

10 Tangata Manu—bird man. He was the first to get possession of the first egg laid
by the bird Manutara (breast) in the island of Motunui (spring equinox).

*squrol ayy 8 A[MO payxIOM are Syoord osny eT

“AYYVNO MO1FG SANLVLS
YaLSVa ‘NMVYEYVYH ONVY AO ONVOTOA *2é ‘GNV1S| YSLSV7A ‘VNSMVNY AO NHY ‘VAS ONIOVA AGVOVA a

ONIMOHS ‘ANV1S]

aLv 1d Araypear]—"g¢6| “Woday ueruosyytug
“GNV1S| YSa1LSV>4 “GNV1ISI YSa1SV4
‘NAHVYHVY ONVY ‘MSSHD NO MYVW OOLLVL ONIMOHS ANLVLS °2 ‘NHYVEVYH ONVY ‘ONVOTOA SHL AO LOO AHL LV SSNLVLS “1

c@ 31V 1d Arayoeae ]—'g¢6| ‘J4oday uetuosyywS
Smithsonian Report, 1936.—Lavachery PLATE 3

STATUE OF PUHAKONONGA, EASTER ISLAND.

Gift of the Chilean Government to Belgium, brought home by the Belgian schoolship Mercator in 1935.
Smithsonian Report, 1936.—Lavachery PLATE 4

ile

FALLEN STATUE ON ITS WAY TO AN AHU, RANO RARAKU, EASTER ISLAND.

2. ROCK CARVINGS REPRESENTING THE BIRD-GOD, ORONGO, EASTER ISLAND.

THE ESKIMO ARCHEOLOGY OF GREENLAND’

By Dr. THERKEL MATHIASSEN
National Museum, Copenhagen

[With 3 plates]

Archeology in the Arctic has a charm of its own. The surround-
ings are unusual: The scenery is magnificent, with high, snow-clad
mountains and deep fiords; the sea is filled with icebergs or drift
ice—the sun shines day and night; seals, whales, caribou, bears, sea
fowl, and fish are abundant; and the people are the small dark-
haired, brown-skinned, broad-faced Eskimos, the kindest and most
helpful people in the whole world.

The work is hard, for the ground is frozen a few inches below the
surface; the sun must thaw the earth, and the layers must be ex-
amined and removed, to expose a new frozen stratum to the rays of
the sun. This frozen soil, however, is an advantage for everything is
well preserved for centuries, as in an ice cellar.

In my attempt to elucidate the history of the Eskimos and the
archeology of Greenland I shall give some account of work with
Eskimo excavations, for two summers in the Canadian Arctic (as a
member of Knud Rasmussen’s Fifth Thule Expedition) and seven
in Greenland, a long series of adventurous and interesting years.

If the district chosen for excavation is still inhabited it is an easy
matter to obtain information as to likely sites, for one has only to
ask the Greenlanders. They know their country; on their hunting
trips they travel all over it, and they use their eyes well, noticing
everything unusual in the terrain; and they are, of course, well
acquainted with the remains of their forefathers. A Greenlander in
Angmagssalik, on the east coast, drew for me a very accurate map of
the entire district and indicated on that map more than 100 ruined
villages. But that is of course exceptional. Usually one must take
a Greenland pilot on a motorboat—or woman’s boat—and ask him
to point out the ruins of the district, and he will do it very well.
If the country is uninhabited, the problem is much more difficult.
But there are many things which may serve as a guide: Certain posi-

1 Reprinted by permission, with change of title, from Antiquity, vol. 9, no. 34, June
1935.

397
398 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

tions are preferably chosen for habitations—low islands and points—
where conditions for building houses are favorable and where there
is good hunting. The vegetation often gives hints: The grass is more
luxuriant on formerly inhabited spots, where the ground has for ages
been fertilized by organic refuse. Not only grass, but also flowers,
often of wonderfully bright colors, may cover the old ruins and thus
reveal their existence. Green spots on the coast nearly always mean
an old house or camping ground; the older the village is, however,
the less luxuriant is the vegetation; and the oldest remains have the
same poor vegetation as the surroundings and cannot be discovered
in this way.

Many places must be visited, to find the one best suited for ex-
cavation; in 1934, in Julianehaab district, I visited more than 140
old villages. Most of the places are quite small habitations, with |
one or two houses; most of them date only from the seventeenth or
eighteenth century. What we require for our purpose is a site with
houses which have been inhabited throughout a long period; then
there will be found a large midden in front of the houses, and such
a midden is the best finding place for specimens.

When such a site is found we set up our camp, our party usually
being two white people, three or four Greenlanders, and a Green-
land girl to do the housekeeping. The village is surveyed, mapped,
and photographed; the turf of some of the houses and midden areas
is removed to expose the black culture-earth to the sun. Now the
excavation goes slowly forward; each day 1 or 2 inches are thawed
and can be excavated and removed; the specimens found are dried,
prepared, labeled, and packed. The uncovered stone constructions—
houses, tent rings, meat caches, graves—are measured, drawn, and
photographed. The stone graves often contain rich finds of grave
goods.

The conditions for excavations are quite different in north and
in south Greenland. In the north the ground is permanently frozen
from about 1 foot below the surface, and thawing proceeds very
slowly. The excavation takes a very long time; but, on the other
hand, things are here usually well preserved. In the south there
is no frozen ground in the summer, and even in the winter frost
and thaw alternates. Excavation can proceed quickly, as in south-
ern countries; but things are poorly preserved: All wooden and
baleen implements have decayed, and often the bone specimens too,
so that only a few stone objects are left as a reward for the hard
work of the excavator.

Many other troubles have to be faced: in the north large frozen
stones and whale bones, and the water from the melting ice; in the
south willow and grass roots and often stormy and rainy weather.

ARCHEOLOGY OF GREENLAND—MATHIASSEN 399

In Greenland the mosquitoes are an awful torment in July and
August, not only the ordinary big mosquitoes, but in late summer
there are millions of small, stinging flies, which get into eyes, ears,
nostrils, and mouth; at many places it is impossible on calm days
to work without a mosquito net, and that is an awful nuisance.
Without mosquitoes the Arctic summer would be nearly a paradise.

We will now mention a few of the places where excavations have
been made, and see what results have been obtained.

The key to the archeology of Greenland was the great find from
Naujan in Repulse Bay, north of Hudson Bay in the Canadian Arc-
tic. This village was excavated in 1922, on the Fifth Thule Expe-
dition.

At the south end of a small lake, 40 to 60 feet above the sea, 20
ruined houses were located. The situation was such that it suggested
the land had risen about 30 feet since these houses were built. The
houses were half underground, round, small, about 10 feet in diam-
eter; the walls were built of stones, turf, and big whale skulls; the
roof had been supported with whale ribs and jaw bones; the entrance
to the house was through a deep, narrow, stone-set passage.

About 3,000 specimens were found at Naujan, mostly from a big,
3-foot thick refuse heap, found in front of three of the houses. In
the frozen earth of this midden the specimens had been very well
preserved. A few blades of native copper and a bit of meteoric iron
was found and most of the objects were of bone—whale bone, antler,
walrus, and narwhal ivory—and stone—slate, flint, jade, soapstone.
Very prominent amongst the finds was baleen, shaped to all kinds of
implements; whaling had evidently played a great part in the econ-
omy of the Naujan Eskimos. Among the specimens must be men-
tioned harpoon heads, mostly of a special form, with open shaft
socket ; arrow heads of antler with conical tang; balls of bird bolas;
sledge shoes of whale bone and baleen; bows of baleen; knives with
bone handles and stone blades; drills; adzes; women’s knives; lamps
(with a row of knobs near the front edge) and cooking pots of soap-
stone; fragments of pottery vessels; baleen cups and bowls; many
ornamental trinkets of ivory, dolls and other toys.

The culture of this Naujan find is quite different from the culture
of the recent inhabitants of this region, the Central Eskimos; these
people use only snow houses and are rather caribou hunters than seal
hunters. When one asks these Eskimos about the old ruins they say
that they belonged to the Tunit, a foreign people who left the country
and went to the north, when they themselves reached the coast from
inland. These Tunit people were small but strong; the men had
bearskin trousers and the women very long boots.
400 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

\

This old culture in the Canadian Arctic, represented by the Naujan )
find, has been called the Thule culture. There is much evidence to )
show that this culture in a distant past originated in the neighbor- |
hood of Bering Strait, in eastern Siberia, or in north Alaska, and —
spread thence to the East, across the American Arctic, where its ruins
are found everywhere, both on the mainland and in the Arctic archi- —

pelago.

In the northernmost part of the west Greenland coast, in the Cape |

York district, is situated the trading post of Thule, Knud Rasmus-
sen’s station, erected to supply the small Polar Eskimo tribe with

European goods. In 1916, close to this place, was found a very old |

Eskimo midden containing many antiquities. The culture repre-
sented here is the same Thule culture found in the Canadian Arctic;
we have the harpoon heads with open socket, the lamp with a wick
ledge, and many baleen objects. These finds show that the Thule
Eskimos from the American Arctic also reached Greenland and were
the first Eskimo inhabitants of this country.

The recent inhabitants of this region, the Polar Eskimos, have
many elements in common with the Thule culture; their men have
bearskin trousers and their women long boots, as the “Tunit” of the
Canadian Eskimos. And the house of the Polar Eskimos, a round
stone house, is a descendant of the whalebone house of the Thule
culture.

I spent the summer of 1929 on the small island of Inugsuk, together
with my young American assistant, Dr. Frederica de Laguna. The
island is situated 10 miles north of Upernivik, the northernmost of
the Danish colonies on the west coast, separated from Thule by the
large, ice-filled, uninhabited Melville Bay. This small, rocky island
is situated in the mouth of Upernivik’s ice fiord, one of the most
prolific ice-producers derived from the inland ice; tle sea around
Inugsuk was always filled with enormous icebergs of all sizes and
shapes, dangerous neighbors, which in overturning often sent heavy
flood waves against the shore. On the west side of this small island
was situated the remains of a large old Eskimo village; most of it
had already been washed away by the subsidence of the land and
the action of the sea.

A small strip of lowland, about 300 feet long and 100 feet wide,
was covered with a thick layer of old refuse, and had a cliff 3 to 6
feet high raised over the beach. Here bones, baleen, wooden pieces,
and implements were scattered. On the top of this midden were
three houses, which were inhabited about 1850; but the lower and
greater part of the midden was much older. The ground was frozen
solid just below the surface, and it took the whole summer to excavate
to the bottom; but Inugsuk proved to be the richest finding place for
old Eskimo antiquities which I have met in Greenland.

ARCHEOLOGY OF GREENLAND—MATHIASSEN 401

Everything had been well preserved in this enormous frozen mid-
den—bones, bone and baleen implements, heaps of big unworked

_ baleens, wood, pieces of sealskin, feathers, eggshells, dog excrement,

human hair; and the whole was saturated with blubber. On calm
sunny days this old thawing midden sent forth a most unpleasant
odor. It is a common rule in the Arctic that where the smell is
worst, the best finds are to be got; and this was the case at Inugsuk.

About 6,000 worked specimens were taken from this midden during
the summer, and many of them were of great interest. Most of the
implements were of types well known from Naujan, Thule, and the
other sites of the Thule culture. Some of the harpoon heads had
the same open sockets; we found the same kinds of arrowheads, bola
balls, sledge shoes, knife handles, drills, adzes, women’s knives, lamps
(with wick ledge), cooking pots, baleen bowls, trinkets, and toys.
The baleen implements were very prominent—bows, sledge shoes,
snow beaters, weapon points, knives, cups, large pieces of platform
mats, tops, toys; even a house door, a drying rack, and a drum frame
of baleen. The Inugsuk people too had been great whalers.

The Inugsuk culture is not identical with the Thule culture; some-
thing new had been added, which gives the find a younger stamp.
Most of the harpoon heads have a closed socket; some special west
Greenland types have appeared, some implements of silicious slate,
some ornamental bodkins, some antler spoons and coopered vessels.
And some of these new types seem to be influenced by a foreign cul-
ture—the culture of the medieval Norsemen who in the 5 centuries
from about 1000 to 1500 existed in south Greenland. These Norse-
men were familiar with the coopering technique, and they used spoons
of the same shape as those found at Inugsuk. But can these Norsemen
really have had any communication with the Inugsuk Eskimos, who
lived 500 to 600 miles farther north ?

We found, however, at Inugsuk more evidence of this connection—
a lump of church-bell metal, used as a hammer; a piece of woven
cloth, of the same kind as that found in the Norse churchyards in
south Greenland; a bone chessman, converted into a top; and two
wooden carvings, made by Eskimos, but representing Norsemen; one
of them is a small doll, showing a Norseman in medieval dress, with
long coat and big, loose hood, the same dress as that which has been
found in the Norse churchyard of Herjolfsnes in south Greenland.
The Inugsuk people must actually have seen Norsemen. Now, for-
tunately, we know that there really were three Norsemen up here in
the latter part of the thirteenth century; for on another island, close
to Inugsuk, there was found about 100 years ago a runic inscribed
stone, saying that “Erling Sigvattsson and Bjarne Tordsson and
Enride Oddsson erected this cairn on the Saturday before soccage
day.” The language enables us to fix the date.
402 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

These Norse relics at Inugsuk are very important. Not only are —
they important for the elucidation of the connection between Norse- |
men and Eskimos, but they give us a means of dating approximately
the Inugsuk culture; it must belong to the thirteenth and fourteenth
centuries. The Thule culture then must be some centuries earlier.

We now move into the southernmost part of west Greenland, the
Julianehaab district. Here we worked during the summer of 1934,
spending about 5 weeks at the village site of Tugtutéq, situated at the
north point of a large island. The name means “caribou place”; the
caribou has, however, been extinct for 100 years.

It was an extensive village, with ruins of 24 houses. The oldest of
them are now only to be distinguished as shallow depressions in the
gravel terrace, covered by heather and lichen; others have willow
bush and the latest are grass-grown.

The climate here is quite different from that which we experienced
at Inugsuk. It is not so cold, but the weather is more unsettled, both
in summer and winter; frost and thaw alternate even in the winter,
and in summer there is much stormy and rainy weather—and any
number of mosquitoes. The excavation was easy—except for floods
of melting water in the spring—but the objects were very poorly pre-
served; most of the houses only contained stone objects, mostly
whetting and hammerstones and soapstone pot fragments. The
houses, however, were well preserved: the oldest were small, round,
and half underground, with a deep sunken doorway, stone walls,
poorly built, stone paved floor, and often a kitchen, forming a bulge
in the front wall, where there had been cooking with bone and blubber.
This house type is no doubt derived from the whalebone house of the
Thule culture but stones and driftwood have replaced whalebone.

The specimens found in the 20 excavated houses of this type were
not very numerous but they were sufficient to tell us that the Eskimo
inhabitants belong to the Inugsuk culture. Very prominent amongst
the finds were fragments of soapstone lamps with wick-ledge and
objects derived from the Norsemen—pieces of bell metal and of iron,
soapstone, spindle whorls (one with a runic inscription), a piece of
woven cloth, fragments of soapstone vessels, and net sinkers.

The Julianehaab district in the medieval period was the center of
the Norse colonies in Greenland, the “East Settlement.” Here fhe
Icelanders settled as sheep and cattle breeders, after Eric the Red had
discovered Greenland in 985, and here for 5 centuries there lived a
numerous population with 190 farms, several churches, and mon-
asteries. At first the Norse Greenlanders were quite prosperous but
from the fourteenth century onward communication with Iceland and
Norway became less regular until it ceased entirely at the beginning
of the fifteenth century; and when white people again went to

ARCHEOLOGY OF GREENLAND—MATHIASSEN 403

Greenland in the sixteenth century the Norsemen had disappeared,
having died out—only the ruins of their houses told that the land
had formerly been peopled by a white race. What had happened?

The Norsemen first met the Eskimos about 1200, on hunting trips
to the northwest coast; as the Inugsuk find showed, there had been
some connection between Norsemen and Eskimos. The Eskimos only
inhabited the west coast as far south as the climate was Arctic, with
that winter ice which was necessary for their ice hunting and dog
sledges. But in the fourteenth century the Eskimos began to move
southward. About 1350 they attacked and destroyed the Norse
“Western Settlement”, and in 1379 we hear about the first attack on
the “Eastern Settlement.” And now the Norse colonization began
quickly to decline.

The Norsemen were then already a degenerate race, as Dr. Poul
Norlund’s excavations in the churchyard at Herjolfsnes has shown:
they were sick, undernourished, degenerate, and weak. The Norse-
men, of course, looked with contempt on the Eskimos, these small,
black heathen; and they probably killed them whenever they met.
But the Eskimos had a fighting method of their own: they attacked
the Norsemen individually and from behind with their very effec-
tive weapons, bows and slings; or they burned the Norse houses,
after having blocked up the doors. The tales of the Greenlanders
relate how the last chief of the Norsemen, Ungortogq, fled out of his
burning house with his little son in his arms, and then, when the
Eskimos pursued him, threw the boy into a lake so that he should not
be taken alive. |

The Norse colonies disappeared and the Eskimos plundered the
habitations, which explains how they got all those Norse objects
which we now find in the old Eskimo ruins. The Norsemen cer-
tainly did not break their church bells voluntarily so that the Es-
kimos might make hammers or eardrops out of the fragments.

Halfway up the fiords we now find the ruins of these, the oldest
Eskimos villages; there they could still do some hunting from the
ice in the winter, as they were accustomed to from their northern
home. But later they scattered all over the country and also onto
the outer skerries; their Kayak technique was now sufficiently de-
veloped to stand the south Greenland winter.

The later houses at Tugtut6q belong to this period, the seventeenth
and eighteenth centuries. The houses are now big, square communal
dwellings for several families, each containing 30 to 50 persons.
The walls were of stones and turf, the floor paved with flat stones, the
platform and roof of driftwood. It was the kind of house still used
when the Danish colonization of Greenland began with Hans Egede
in 1721, and which is still used in Angmagssalik on the east coast.

1120593727

404 ARCHEOLOGY OF GREENLAND—MATHIASSEN

These house ruins contain Eskimo implements of more modern type
and also glass beads, clay pipes, and iron goods brought to Green-
land by the Dutch whalers.

The Eskimo immigrants to the Julianehaab district soon passed on
south through the region, of Cape Farewell, to the east coast. The
oldest house ruins at Angmagssalik are of exactly the same form and
contain exactly the same type of implements as the oldest houses at
Tugtutoq; already early in the fifteenth century the Eskimos had
reached Angmagssalik. They did not, however, stop here but wan-
dered still farther north. The oldest houses in northeast Greenland
also contain Inugsuk culture. But soon this culture was intermingled
with other elements, brought by some Eskimos who from the Thule
district wandered on northward and reached northeast Greenland,
where they lived for centuries, but only once did white people see
them; Clavering met a small party of them on Clavering Island in
1823. Since then they have all become extinct.

In Angmagssalik there is, however, still a prosperous Eskimo
population; since 1894, a Danish trading post has been situated there.
A curious and in some respects old-fashioned (but in others, highly-
developed) culture was found amongst these Angmagssalikers, when
the first white man, Gustav Holm, visited and spent a winter
amongst them in 1884. In 1925 a hundred of them were transplanted
to the newly founded colony on Scoresby Sound. East Greenland
now has a population of about 1,000 Greenlanders, the west coast
has about 16,000, and the Thule district 300.

Civilization has now come to the Greenlanders. In South Green-
land fishing has more and more displaced seal hunting; the yaw] and
motorboat have succeeded the kayak and woman’s boat; the rubber
boot, the kamik shin-boot; the gun, the harpoon; and the wooden
house, the old turf hut. The old Eskimo culture in Greenland will
soon exist only in the old house-ruins and graves, and in the museums.

This paper is a résumé of the following publications of the author:

1927. Archaeology of the Central Eskimos, I-II. Rep. 5th Thule Exped.,
vol. 4.

1930. Inugsuk, a medieval Eskimo settlement in Upernivik district, West Green-
land. Meddel. Grénland, vol. 77.

1931. Ancient Eskimo settlements in the Kangamiut area. Idem, vol. 91, no. 1.

1933. Prehistory of the Angmagssalik Eskimos. Idem, vol. 92, no. 4.

1934. Contributions to the Archaeology of Disko Bay. Idem, vol. 93, no. 2.

1936. The former Eskimo settlements on Frederik VI’s coast. Idem, vol 109,
no. 2.

1936. The Eskimo archaeology of Julianehaab district. Idem, vol. 118, no. 1.

PLATE 1

Smithsonian Report, 1936.—Mathiassen

2s

1

PLATFORM MAT OF BALEEN FROM THE CANADIAN THULE CULTURE.
Smithsonian Report, 1936.—Mathiassen PLATE 2

TYPES OF THE INUGSUK CULTURE.

1-5, Harpoon heads; 6, arrowhead; 7, wound needle; 8, gull hook; 9, bird dart side-prong; 10-16, stone blades
for weapons and tools; 17-19, ornamental bodkins; 20-22, pendants of ivory and stone; 23-25, dolls of wood
and ivory; 26, comb; 27, amulet box; 28, toy lamp; 29, needle case. 2:3.
PLATE 3

Smithsonian Report, 1936.—Mathiassen

NORSE INFLUENCE IN THE INUGSUK GUETURE-

1, 2. Coopered tub with baleen hoops. 1:3. 3. Norse doll, carved by

1. Lump of church bell metal. 1: 7
Eskimo. 1:1.

4. House of the old round type, seen from the entrance. Julianehaab district.
PETROGLYPHS OF THE UNITED STATES

By JULIAN H. STEWARD
Bureau of American Ethnology

[With 12 plates]

More than three centuries ago men began to wrinkle their brows
over the origin of the American aborigines. Learned and even bitter
discussion, often participated in by the earliest American colonists,
sought to connect the Indians and their archeological remains with
every race and civilization on the face of the earth. In the course
of time, however, when the development of anthropology injected
scientific method into the study of the Indian, this riot of fancy
began to yield to ordered and sane theories. The question of racial
origins was satisfactorily settled by the theory of early migrations
of a predominantly mongoloid people from Asia into Alaska and
America, The assumption that Old World civilizations were brought
to America was supplanted by archeological reconstruction which
traced the development of American cultures on native soil.

But there was one class of American antiquities to which the bless-
ings of scientific method came but slowly—the carved and painted
petroglyphs? which are found on rocks in all parts of the United
States. Here amateur speculation retained its hold and, zealous in
its last stand, even today stoutly resists the threats of science. Popu-
lar fancy musters petroglyphs in support of theories abandoned by
science half a century ago. It offers them as proof that Egyptians,
Scythians, Chinese, and a host of other Old World peoples, including
the Ten Lost Tribes of Israel, whose fate continues to have absorb-
ing interest to many persons, invaded America in ancient days. It
claims them to be markers of buried treasure, signs of ancient astro-
logy, records of vanished races, symbols of diabolical cults, works of
the hand of God, and a hundred other things conceived by feverish
brains. Devotees of the subject have written voluminously, argued
bitterly, and even fought duels.

1In an earlier paper, the writer called the carved rock figures petroglyphs, the painted
ones pictographs. It seems preferable, however, to designate all designs and figures on
rocks petroglyphs (literally, rock glyphs) and to reserve pictograph for that primitive
type of writing in which objects and events are represented pictorially on all kinds of
materials.

405
406 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

Owing largely to methodological difficulties in the study of petro-
glyphs, archeologists have unduly neglected them. It was not until
1886 that petroglyphs were accorded their first comprehensive and
genuinely scientific treatment. Garrick Mallery, interested in the
primitive pictographic writing used by certain North American
Indians, included many petroglyphs in a large volume, Pictographs
of the American Indians, published in the Fourth Annual Report
of the Bureau of American Ethnology. In a subsequent and more
extensive treatment of the same subject, Picture-writing of the
American Indians, Tenth Annual Report of the Bureau of Amer-
ican Ethnology, 1893, he published further material on petroglyphs.
Although Mallery drew attention to the many similarities between
petroglyphs and pictographic writing, he warned against any inter-
pretations of the former which could not meet rigid scientific stand-
ards. Unscientific speculation continued rife, however, and is still
unabated today.

With the great increase of scientific archeological research during
the past few decades, photographs, sketches, and even published
works on petroglyphs have rapidly accumulated in scientific insti-
tutions. In 1929 the writer used the materials on record at the
University of California to make a systematic, comparative study
of the petroglyphs of California, Lower California, Nevada, Utah,
and Arizona, endeavoring to give them historical sequence and, when
possible, rational interpretation (Petroglyphs of California and
Adjoining States, University of California, Publications in Ameri-
can Archeology and Ethnology, vol. 24, no. 2, pp. 47-288, 1929).
Meanwhile, thanks largely to the enthusiastic cooperation of many
nonprofessional observers who have painstakingly sketched and
photographed petroglyphs, material has continued to accumulate in
scientific institutions. Little has been published, but when compe-
tent archeologists can be enticed to set aside their spades long
enough to ponder petroglyphs, we may expect a much better under-
standing of this interesting subject.

Petroglyphs are not unique in America. Carved and painted fig-
ures are common on all continents, though only those which have
exceptional interest are well known. The graceful, lifelike paint-
ings of wild animals and human beings made by the pygmy Bush-
men of South Africa and the remarkably faithful portrayals of mam-
moths, giant bison, reindeer, and other ice-age animals painted by
the paleolithic Cro-Magnon men in Europe represent the height of
primitive art and have received well-deserved publicity. But there
are on all continents many simpler and cruder drawings, made by
usually unknown artists, which have been accorded little attention.

American petroglyphs are extraordinarily varied. Some are so
PETROGLYPHS—STEWARD 407

complex in design and so striking in pictography that they readily
excite interest. Others represent art and symbolism at its lowliest.
Paradoxically, the most interesting are least known. Even in Colo-
nial times, certain eastern petroglyphs commanded attention and
they have monopolized it until recently. Nevertheless, petroglyphs
are far more numerous west of the Rocky Mountains, where the large
number of smooth rock faces provided by caves, cliffs, and boulders
afforded opportunities for this art and where the semiarid climate has
preserved them from destruction by the elements. There is scarcely
a mountainside, canyon, or other place frequented by primitive man
where some trace of them may not be found.

SOME COMMON MISTAKES ABOUT PETROGLYPHS

It is the unhappy lot of science that it must clear the ground of
flimsy and fanciful structures built upon false premises and errors
of fact before it can build anew. Probably nothing in the entire
field of archeology has produced greater excesses of misinformation
than the significance and authorship of petroglyphs. Unintelligible,
mysterious, and supposedly occult, they have stimulated a veritable
orgy of mad speculation. Surely their primitive makers would have
hesitated had they been able to foresee the furor their efforts were to
cause. Let us review some of the more common misconceptions and
appraise them in the light of archeology.

Some persons, who cling to hypotheses that were abandoned when
archeology became a science, are determined to prove that Egyptians,
Babylonians, Hebrews, Greeks, Romans, Chinese and other Old
World peoples reached America long ago. They interpret petro-
glyphs as records of trans-Pacific migrations and of strange deeds
of antiquity. Others, undaunted by the facts of scientific archeology
and geology, spend incredible energy trying to relate petroglyphs to
the cultures of those imaginary oceanic cradles of civilization, the
“Jost continents” of Atlantis and Mu. Some, more loyal to native
soil, have thought that petroglyphs proved that the Garden of Eden
lay in America. An amateur expedition, with more enthusiasm and
money than scientific training and caution, once spent thousands of
dollars in an attempt to show that the rock designs in western Ne-
vada were proof that all systems of writing and all civilizations of
the world were conceived in these sage-covered valleys. More moder-
ate imaginations are content to regard petroglyphs as evidence of
Aztec wanderings.

All of these interpretations are similar in that, reluctant to enter-
tain commonplace and common-sense explanations, they first con-
coct a story of mystery and glamor and subsequently seek facts to
support it. They illustrate a priori, deductive thinking at its worst.
408 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

None, however, can be reconciled with scientifically acceptable
theories of human prehistory.

Anthropologists are generally agreed that America was peopled
from Asia by mongoloid immigrants who wandered across Bering
Strait to Alaska before the invention of writing. There is no evi-
dence whatever that Egyptians, Hebrews, or any other advanced
peoples sailed across the Pacific or Atlantic Oceans bringing civiliza-
tion to America. The supposition that the first civilization sprang
up on now sunken continents in either ocean does not accord with
geology and is totally unsupported by any archeological evidence.
The notion that America was the cradle of all world civilizations
is equally untenable, for the facts of archeology show that Old and
New World civilization developed in complete independence of one
another. Had any Old World peoples visited America in sufficient
numbers to make all the petroglyphs assigned to them by various
writers, they could not have failed to leave abundant evidence of
their presence in the form of such other types of archeological re-
mains as houses, tools, weapons, etc. But nothing of the sort has
ever been found.

Even the theory of far-flung Aztec migrations must be barred from
serious consideration, for petroglyphs of the United States have
nothing in common with either the art or writing of Middle Amer-
ica; nor is there any other archeological evidence to show that the
Aztecs ever went north of the Valley of Mexico. The rare occur-
rence of a particular figure, such as the plumed serpent, in both
Middle America and North America, is explainable as the diffusion of
an idea, like the spread of modern styles in clothing in the civi-
lized world,

An extremely popular explanation of petroglyphs, entertained
largely by overoptimistic minds, is the legend of buried treasures,
in name of which an unbelievable number of archeological sites have
been looted and precious records of early man destroyed forever.
These legends are most common in the southeastern and southwestern
parts of the United States, where, it is supposed, early Spanish
treasures were buried and marked by petroglyphs. The accuracy of
these tales is shown by the fact that the same elaborate fable will be
told in identical form of a dozen different localities. Whether, how-
ever, the hope be that petroglyphs mark buried wealth or are treasure
maps, the quests have always been fruitless despite untold hours of
laborious digging. And they will always be futile, for extensive
archeological and ethnological researches have shown that the In-
dians north of Mexico knew of no stones more precious than tur-
quoise nor metals more precious than copper.

It is commonly supposed that petroglyphs are some kind of long-
lost art of writing, the meaning of which will be known when the
PETROGLYPHS—STEWARD 409

American Rosetta stone is found. If writing is understood to be the
use of alphabetic symbols, petroglyphs were a far cry from writing;
in fact, no alphabet was known to any pre-Columbian American In-
dians. Even the civilized Maya and Aztec of Middle America had
no true letters but wrote instead with symbols representing syllables,
a rebus writing; and their system of writing did not spread beyond
their immediate neighbors. That an occasional design among the
vast variety of shapes and forms in petroglyphs should fortuitously
resemble a letter in one of the many alphabets in the world does not,
of course, prove the presence of that alphabet. Petroglyphs are so
variable and generally so crude in form that it is all too easy for
a person bent on proving a thesis to read into them whatever he
desires and to find any shapes he seeks.

The North American tribes came no nearer to writing than to
employ crude pictures of objects and events, with occasional sym-
bols or ideograms standing for somewhat abstract ideas. (Mallery
has treated this subject at great length in Picture Writing of the
North American Indians.) Thus, the Indians of the Great Plains
drew war counts or realistic pictures of exploits of battle. The pic-
tures are intelligible, however, only to the persons who made them;
there is no assurance that even members of the same tribe can under-
stand their import. Moreover, all North American tribes did not
write pictographically; it is characteristic principally of those dwell-
ing in the Great Plains and Great Lakes regions. The Great Basin
and California tribes knew nothing of such writing. It is not there-
fore a foregone conclusion that all petroglyphs are pictographic writ-
ing; and, as a matter of fact, many definitely were not. And even
though some petroglyphs are pictographic (see, for example, pl.
1, A), the artists died so long ago that it is impossible ever to know
precisely what they had in mind. A few petroglyphs obviously
represent hunting scenes (pl. 9, B), some show dances (fig. 7), but
the import of hundreds which clearly depict men and beasts cannot
be ascertained, for to the extent that they are writing they are indi-
vidualistic and do not follow any standard. When, therefore, any-
one not excepting Indians, pretends to interpret these, unless he has
the direct testimony of the original artist, one may be assured that
it is merely his own entirely unfounded guess.

Many persons claim to find characters of Chinese writing among
petroglyphs, pointing out that much of Chinese writing is picto-
graphic. Pictographic writing, however, does not conform to univer-
sal conventions. Although it has been used in various parts of the world,
each system employs its own styles. A fortuitous resemblance of
occasional petroglyph designs to Chinese symbols is no proof that the
petroglyph zs Chinese, or, indeed that it is even pictographic writing.
410 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1986

The most that can be affirmed is that in any pictographic system,
the character for a man, for example, resembles a man, which is not
remarkable. It is profitless, therefore, even to compare petroglyphs
to Chinese writing.

Occasional attempts are made to show that Europeans, reaching
America in pre-Columbian times, inscribed rocks with Runic, Greek,
Latin, or other writing. The striking feature of these claims is that
each of several persons will authoritatively announce that the petro-
glyph represents a different language and that he has translated it
with success. A controversy that began 300 years ago has raged
about the famous Dighton Rock (pl. 1, B) of Narragansett Bay,
Mass., inspiring nearly 600 articles and books. Dighton Rock has
been used to prove everything from the presence of buried pirate
treasure to the European origin of the American Indian and has
been “successfully translated” by various scholars as Scandinavian,
Scythian, Hebrew, Phoenician, Egyptian, Persian, Lybian, Trojan,
Chinese, and Japanese. Some persons have even claimed that it was
not made by man but by God. This orgy of speculation has been sum-
marized by Edmund Burke Delabarre in a sizeable volume, Dighton
Rock, 1928. Delabarre very sanely concludes that the petroglyphs
on this and other disputed rocks in New England were largely pur-
poseless drawings made by Indians after the arrival of the white
man. Some of the post-Columbian names and dates he claims to
have found on the rock are, however, not entirely convincing.

As Dighton Rock is not nearly so intricate, baffling or fascinating
as hundreds of petroglyphs in the far west, one shudders to think of
the riot of speculation, dispute, and scholarly invective had the
devotees of Dighton Rock known of them.

It is within the bounds of possibility that some pre-Columbian
Norsemen wandered inland from the Atlantic coast and left records
of their journeys as petroglyphs. As yet, however, no petroglyph
has been satisfactorily proved to have had this origin. The pre-
Columbian wanderings in America of other European peoples is
totally unsupported by history, archeology, and petroglyphs. Sub-
sequent to 1492, however, white men inscribed rocks in all parts of
the country. The famous Inscription Rock, now a national monu-
ment, in New Mexico, is a huge register of early explorers beginning
with the Spaniards. They placed their names over earlier Indian
petroglyphs.

In addition to many moot petroglyphs, there are some which are
plain frauds. Although it is not always possible to detect their
specious origin, most of them exhibit some patent artificiality. Even
these have been the subject of controversy. The fraudulent Grave
Creek tablet, claimed to have been found in a mound near the Ohio
PETROGLYPHS—STEWARD All

River, was the subject of a bitter dispute which concerned not its
authenticity but its proper translation and which culminated in scur-
rilous personal remarks and the challenge to a duel.

Finally, there are many peculiar designs on rocks which are not
petroglyphs at all but simply discoloration produced by variations
within the rock, differential weathering, or lichens. Although care-
ful scrutiny will quickly reveal the natural source of these mark-
ings, they are often convincingly artificial to the untrained eye.

It should be remarked at this point that the mere recording of
entirely genuine petroglyphs is usually fraught with possibilities of
errors. A good photograph of the untouched inscriptions is best.
Often, however, when it is impossible to procure a clear photograph,
it is necessary to chalk in the lines if the design is carved. This
introduces a real possibility that the person will chalk so as to
idealize or that he will see what is actually not there. The greatest
danger is in copying, in which one tends unconsciously to record what
he thinks the petroglyph is intended to be, not what it really is.
Distortions in hand drawings are particularly patent in the many
reproductions of Dighton Rock, each person slightly falsifying the
real inscriptions to fit his preconceived idea of what they represent.

SOME EXPLANATIONS OF PETROGLYPHS

It is no doubt entirely clear by now that petroglyphs are not in a
class by themselves, having some uniquely mysterious significance.
Obviously, it would be absurd to suppose that of all possible mediums
for the execution of artistic and ideational concepts, the mere re-
cording on rock invests them with special meaning. Pictures, sym-
bols, and designs drawn on stone have no less variety of meaning,
purpose, and style than those drawn on wood, skin, bone, or other
materials. Modern advertising, for example, has the same intent
whether on magazine pages, billboards, or roadside stones. It is
futile to seek a single explanation of petroglyphs, for this art differed
widely in purpose and style in each period and area.

Learned opinion has tended to divide into opposing schools of
interpretation—the idle markings school, which bravely holds that
petroglyphs are mere random fancies created in leisurely moments,
and the serious purpose school which weightily proclaims that all
petroglyphs have deep historical or symbolical meaning.

In favor of the first theory is the undisputed fact that since the
coming of the white man, Indians have made hundreds of petro-
glyphs of men, horses, railroad trains, houses, boats, and other things
of civilization (pl. 1, A). And, in view of the great trouble which
white men frequently take to deface rocks and trees with names and
initials, especially where other persons have done so before them, it
412 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

would be foolish to suppose that the motives of prehistoric Indians
were not sometimes equally trivial. It is a safe guess that a large
number of petroglyphs were produced by persons amusing themselves
during dull hours.

Many pre-Columbian petroglyphs, however, must have been made
for some definite and important reason, else the designs of each area
should not conform in such large degree to a prevailing style and
they would not have been worth the immense labor often required
to make them. Adherents of the “serious purpose” school, however,
frequently err in reading a fictitious unity into all the glyphs on a
single stone. Serious or not, there is little question that a great
many, if not most, of the complex petroglyphs are composite in origin,
consisting of elements added from time to time by persons who were
probably inspired by the original design (pl. 9, A). Irregular ar-
rangement and superimposition of figures prove this. Probably
very few are the expression of a single vast concept.

The testimony of modern Indians concerning petroglyphs is ex-
traordinarily disappointing. They know of them as landmarks and
sometimes believe them to have had a supernatural origin. But even
where there is good evidence that the glyphs were made by the tribes
now inhabiting the area, the practice seems generally to have been
abandoned at the advent of the white man and most knowledge of
them promptly lost. The explanation of this is undoubtedly that
they were generally of interest only to the persons who made them
and the knowledge died with these persons. There is, however,
seldom assurance that petroglyphs were made by members of the
cultural or linguistic groups now in the area. Nevertheless, a thor-
ough knowledge of modern Indians gives many clues to petroglyphs
and sometimes accurate interpretation.

Many though by no mean all petroglyphs were made for religious
purposes. Primitive peoples believe the world to be filled with super-
natural forces which must be supplicated, placated, or taken into
account in some other way at every turn. These forces and spirits are
often made more objective through pictures and symbols. A god
may be more successfully supplicated if his likeness is present. A
supernatural guardian spirit, which has appeared in a dream to some
person to offer its aid, will seem more real if one has a tangible sym-
bol of its presence. Ceremonies and rites are more satisfying 1f there
is visible evidence of the supernatural forces with which it is con-
cerned. People, therefore, make wooden and clay images, altars,
altar paraphernalia, sacred dress, insignia, and regalia, and, not in-
frequently, pictorial and symbolical representations on stone.

There is, however, no general explanation of religious art and
symbolism. Among ancient Indians as among modern Indians, each
PETROGLYPHS—STEWARD 413

area and tribe had its distinctive complex of beliefs and objective
representations of these beliefs. Even a particular form often con-
veyed very different meaning to different tribes. Thus, a triangle
stood for an arrowpoint, mountain, house, or a dozen other things
depending upon local fancy and tradition. This is why mere sim-
ilarity of petroglyphs to known symbols does not necessarily reveal
their meaning.

In a few fortunate instances the religious meaning of petroglyphs
is remembered by modern tribes. Some of these were made in con-
nection with puberty rites which were important ceremonies to most
North American tribes, for through them youths were inducted to the
status of adulthood. Among the Quinault Indians of Washington
the young boys painted mythical water monsters seen during their
puberty visions. Somewhat similarly, girls among the Nez Perce
Indians of Idaho painted objects seen in dreams or otherwise in-
volved in their ceremonies. In southern California Luisefio and
Cupefo girls underwent an elaborate puberty ritual, after which
they raced to a certain rock where each received red iron oxide paint
from her parents and painted a zigzag or chain of diamonds sym-
bolizing the rattlesnake (pl. 2, A).

Another semireligious purpose is that of many petroglyphs in the
Southwest. Around the cliffs and mesas of the Hopi Indian villages
in Arizona there are many familiar designs, such as rain-cloud sym-
bols, clan marks, and others made in the distinctive Hopi art style.
In the Great Lakes region there are occasional bird and animal
designs, which were probably clan totems, and other realistic and
conventionalized figures which may have been pictographic records
of religious beliefs, similar to those made on birch bark. Throughout
the Colorado River drainage of Utah, there are hundreds of extraor-
dinarily elaborate anthropomorphic figures, made perhaps 1,000
years ago, which seemingly portray either masked dancers or deities
(pls. 8, 4, 5). It is also possible that some of the animal pictures
and hunting scenes found in various places were part of magic for
increasing the species which were important for food or for hunting
luck, though not a shred of evidence can be offered in any particular
instance to prove it.

Many other petroglyphs, though serious in intent, were nonreli-
gious. There are, for example, many geometric designs in the South-
west which are clearly taken from textile or pottery decoration
(pl. 6, fig. 1). It is certain that the highly developed pictographic
writing of the Great Plains was frequently executed on rocks, though
it may be questioned that many of them are pre-Caucasian. Some
petroglyphs seem to have been trail markers or records of visits. A
large stone west of the Hopi villages is covered with clan symbols
414 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

said to have been made by men journeying to the Grand Canyon.
(See Mary Russell F. and Harold S. Colton, Petroglyphs, the Rec-
ord of a Great Adventure, in the American Anthropologist, new
series, vol. 33, no. 1, pp. 382-87, 1931.)

The possible meaning of other petroglyphs will be discussed
below under “Types of Petroglyphs.”

PETROGLYPHS AS ART

In some localities, petroglyphs provide the only known examples
of primitive art. In evaluating their merits, however, several facts
must be borne in mind. First, native Indian art north of Mexico
had not, with the exception of certain areas of high textile and pot-
tery attainments, achieved either accuracy of form or perfection
of execution. Second, rocks offer a resistant medium for carving and
usually uneven surfaces for painting. Anyone who has attempted
to hammer or scratch a design into granite or basalt with a small
rock held in his hand must marvel at the persistence of the ancient
artists. Third, it is probable that in most petroglyphs, esthetic
motives were secondary to some other purpose. Many of the geomet-
ric designs, for example, were certainly not intended to be objects
of artistic enjoyment. Some were even placed in dark recesses of
caves, as if deliberately concealed from profane scrutiny. Often,
where space was limited, figures were ruthlessly drawn over older
ones, producing an effect of utter confusion.

It is noteworthy that practically all of the recognizable pictures
are of men, mammals, reptiles, birds, and insects. There are very
few fish, virtually no plants. Undoubtedly many pictures portray
dwellings and objects of general use, but, excepting certain compara-
tively recent petroglyphs, they are either too crude or too greatly
conventionalized to be identifiable.

The artistic merits of the realistic and semirealistic pictures are
extremely variable. Human or anthropomorphic beings, for exam-
ple, vary from the extremely complex, somewhat conventionalized,
and carefully executed masked men or god images of eastern Utah
(pls. 3 and 4) to crude linear figures produced with a faltering hand
and no real effort at realism in the Great Basin and elsewhere (fig. 1).
The latter have neither breadth nor depth, and some had degenerated
into mere crosses or crosses surmounted by circles.

The finest single example of petroglyph art is an elaborate and
very elegant group of human beings near Vernal, in northeastern
Utah, placed high on a sandstone cliff. The background is carved
away so that the lines of the drawing stand out as a kind of bas-
relief (pl. 3).

Other highly stylized local types of petroglyphs are discussed
below.
PETROGLYPHS—STEWARD 415

Animals, too, are extremely variable in realism and accuracy (figs.
2 and 38). Although none have the easy grace and faithful portrayal
achieved in the Bushman and Cro-Magnon paintings, some are fair
likenesses of different species. Others are so crude or so greatly
conventionalized that it is possible only to know that they are quad-
rupeds; lizards cannot be distinguished from mountain lions, rabbits
from bear. Quadrupeds are, in fact, generally identifiable only
when they possess some salient and unmistakable characteristic, such
as the long, curved horns of the mountain sheep, the branching
antlers of the deer or elk, or the large head and short horns of the

KAR
eDRH Y

FIGURE 1.—Petroglyphs of human beings. a, from near Keeler, eastern Calif.; b, from
near Yerington, Nev.; c, from the lower Gila River, southern Ariz.; d, the “hunch back
flute player’ from near a Pueblo cliff dwelling, Kayenta, northern Ariz.; e, man and
horse from southern Ney., probably made by modern Southern Paiute Indians; f, in
Va.; g, birdlike being from Pa.; h, from Little Indian Rock, Pa.; i, at Pipestone,
Minn.; 7, Wyo. All are carved or ‘‘pecked”.

bison. Often, a distinctive part of an animal suffices for the whole.
An antler may indicate a deer; a track may stand for a bear.

In some areas unreal and probably mythical creatures, whose like-
ness is unknown in the world of nature, defy identification. The
amoebalike sketches and many-legged creatures of the southern San
Joaquin Valley of California, the club-handed and other grotesque
men of the Great Basin, certain ghostlike figures from the Columbia
Valley, many composite creatures from all areas, and others probably
represent imaginary beings, the identity of which it is futile to guess
(fig. 4). Perhaps some complex groups, having several of these
fantastic figures, are myth stories; others, as suggested by the Western
Mono Indians of California, may be doctor’s marks; still others are
undoubtedly creatures seen in visions. But it is rare that a par-
ticular figure can be identified with certainty.
416 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

Ordinarily, geometric designs seem to have no esthetic motivation.
Certainly the intricate and wholly unintelligible petroglyphs, con-
sisting of wavy lines, circles, concentric circles, spirals, and miscel-
laneous crude zoomorphic and anthropomorphic figures found in the
Great Basin were not intended as creations of beauty (pl. 7). There

P Gg if Ss

FIGURE 2.—Petroglyphs representing animals. @ to e, mountain sheep: a, near Donner
Lake, eastern Calif.; b, at Little Lake, eastern Calif.; c, near Tucson, Ariz.; d, Grape-
vine Canyon, Nev.; e, near Kayenta, northern Ariz.; f, bison on the Colorado River at
the mouth of the Freemont River, Utah; g, antelope or mountain goat with young (7),
near Kayenta, north Ariz.; h, deer or elk, on northern shore of Great Salt Lake; i, deer
or elk on Colorado River, near the mouth of the Freemont River, Utah; j, antelope (?)
near the San Francisco mountains, northern Ariz.; k, wolf, coyote, or mountain lion (?)
on the Gila River, southern Ariz.; 1, fox (?), on the Gila River; m, dog (?), near
Fruita, central Utah; n, unidentifiable quadruped at Aztec Canyon, Ariz.; 0, unidentifi-
able horned animal, possibly a recent petroglyph representing a cow, from near Tucson,
Ariz.; p, bear, in Nebr.; qg, bison in Nebr.; r, deer or elk or moose, Pipestone, Minn. ;
8, deer, elk, or moose in Maine.

is, however, an artistic value to many of the elaborate polychrome
geometric designs of southwestern California, whether their creators
intended it or not.

ANTIQUITY OF PETROGLYPHS

Although there is no question that petroglyphs have been made in
many different times in the past, it is usually extremely difficult to
PETROGLYPHS—STEWARD 417

ascertain their age. Other types of archeological remains often lie
in the ground and, if a site has been occupied by different people or
in different periods over many years, the relative age of objects may
be determined by removing successive strata. This important tech-
nique for the historical reconstruction of cultures cannot be used
for petroglyphs because they are not stratified. Even the occasional
superimposition of one style over another on the same rock has so far
yielded few data on relative age.

There are several means, however, by which the general age may
occasionally be ascertained. Geology has sometimes provided im-
portant clues. For example, at the Salton Sea, southern California,
a few simple, linear petroglyphs occur under layers of travertine, a
deposit left on the ancient shore line by the waves of the sea, which
was much higher than it is today and filled much of the Imperial

EE QA eh

Figurn 3.—Crudely carved pictures of animals. a, turtle ? at Pipestone, Minn.; b, beaver
in Tulare County, Calif.; c, fish, N. Mex.; d, bird, W. Va.; e, bird, Ariz.; f, bird,
N. Mex.

Valley. These petroglyphs must, therefore, be as old as this inunda-

tion, which geologists believe to have occurred between 300 and 1,000

years ago. Other petroglyphs on the travertine must, on the other

hand, be more recent than the inundation.

Near Grapevine Canyon, Nevada, there are many complex recti-
linear figures on rock surfaces, part of which are now covered by
a gravel terrace. The gravel is a stream deposit which, geologists
state, was built up several hundred years ago, possibly longer.

When geologic aspects of this problem have been further exploited,
we may expect additional light on the problem of antiquity. Unfor-
tunately, however, geologic estimates of age are always broad and
can seldom fix dates with the precision required to relate petroglyphs
to other types of archeological remains having known antiquity.

The degree to which petroglyphs have faded out through weather-
ing has been examined with considerable care. This is one of the
least reliable measures of age, for the mere appearance of antiquity
is no proof whatever of great age. The writer has seen dates carved
on rocks not over 10 years ago which have weathered almost beyond
recognition, whereas definitely pre-Columbian petroglyphs close by
are still bright and fresh. The time required for weather to oblit-
erate a petroglyph depends upon the kind of rock on which it is
418 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

placed, the depth of the cut of the figures or the kind of pigment
used, and the exposure to sun, rain, and blown sand. Painted petro-
glyphs in caves of Europe have lasted nearly 25,000 years; in exposed
places in America, some have practically disappeared within 50 years.
Although degree of weathering may sometimes provide a clue as to
age, it is never conclusive.

In some areas it is possible provisionally to relate petroglyphs to
known cultural horizons by comparing the subjects and art styles

J
Ficurb 4.—Petroglyphs representing mythical or imaginary beings. a, Little Indian Rock,
Pa.; b, Safe Harbor, Pa.; c, Clear Creek, Utah; d, near Blairsden, Calif.; e, figure in
Tulare County, Calif.; f, The Dalles, Columbia River; g tol, N. Mex. e is painted red;
the others are carved.

of the former with those of objects dug from the ground. Thus
when rock designs closely resemble those on a certain type of pot-
tery (e. g., pl. 6), it is reasonably certain that the two were made by
the same people. Evidence of this kind is more fully discussed
below. There are, however, many dangers of misinterpreting these
similarities. This method, though one of the most promising, must
be carried out in much greater detail before its results will be
satisfactory.

Now and then it is claimed that some petroglyph represents a
now extinct species of animal. When it is asserted, as in Arizona
PETROGLYPHS—STEWARD 419

a few years ago, that the pictures are dinosaurs, it is sheer nonsense,
for the great reptiles were extinct long before man had begun to
evolve anywhere on the face of the earth. When, however, the
petroglyphs are thought to be of the giant bison, mammoth, ground
sloth, camel, or others of the great Pleistocene mammals which
are now known to have survived after man’s advent to the New
World, the claim should be examined with care, for it is entirely
possible that human beings did depict these now extinct species (pl.
8). So far, however, none of these claims is wholly convincing, for
careless and unskilled drawing produced such distortions of the
humbler species that they might easily be mistaken for anything
under the sun and for many things that never existed. It is very
often impossible to know whether the artist intended a now extinct
species, or a purely imaginary creature or whether he simply could
not draw any better. As well suppose that the blundering scrawls
of modern children are prehistoric monsters.

TYPES OF PETROGLYPHS

As all American petroglyphs cannot be subsumed under a single
description or explanation, we will now review some of the more
important types. Each area tends to have a distinctive style, which
includes both special geometric forms and conventions in handling
realistic subjects.

Probably the greatest number of petroglyphs occur in the Great
Basin, that high, sage-covered region between the Wasatch Moun-
tains on the east, the Sierra Nevada Mountains on the west, the
Columbia Plateau on the north, and the Colorado Plateau on the
south. The large number of extremely hard granitic and basaltic
rocks were favored mediums and the semiarid climate has preserved
the petroglyphs extraordinarily well. If there were formerly also
painted pictures or if the carved designs bore paint, time has removed
nearly all traces of them. The complete failure of the modern
Shoshonean tribes of this region to understand the source of them,
and the geologic evidence from such sites as Grapevine Canyon and
the Salton Sea, mentioned above, as well as the frequent covering
of the figures with desert varnish, a peculiar oxidation that slowly
coats certain desert rocks, all point to considerable antiquity of
most, though not necessarily all, of these petroglyphs.

It is as impossible to interpret as to assign authorship to these
petroglyphs. Although no two are alike, all have a similarity which
indicates a definite purpose. Characteristically, they are geometric,
comprising bewildering combinations of rambling, wavy, or zigzag
lines, which connect circles and are interspersed with concentric,
spoked, and bisected circles, “sun disks”, spirals, crosses, dots,

112059—37——28
420 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

crossed lines, and rectilinear “gridiron” figures and others which
look like elaborate house plans (fig. 5; pl. 7). They also include
many inexpertly drawn naturalistic figures, such as human beings,
mountain sheep, deer, snakes, lizards, birds and bird tracks, and
representations of human hands and human or bear tracks.
Considerable speculation about the meaning of these figures has
never produced more than sheer guesses. The commonest supposi-
tion is that the complex geometric designs are maps. Even though
it cannot be positively stated that maps were never made, this is not

Ficurn 5.—Petroglyph near Meadow Lake, northeastern Calif., illustrating the old Great
Basin style of curvilinear designs.

the general explanation of these petroglyphs. Not only have all
those studied by the author failed to correspond in the slightest
degree with the surrounding country, but it is difficult to see why
primitive tribes should have wished to make maps. The modern
Shoshonean tribes inhabiting this area not only knew nothing of
maps, but had no need for them. Each hunting band habitually
moved in territory which it knew intimately and would certainly not
have wished to aid strangers to find their way around.

It has also been guessed that some of these are pictographic his-
tories and that others were for hunting magic. Such guesses are
beyond the possibility of proof, pro or con.

A popular local theory to account for certain petroglyphs repre-
senting human footprints (see pl. 7) is that they were made by early
PETROGLYPHS—STEWARD A421

Indians fleeing barefoot over the then molten lava! How this ex-
planation is thought also to account for footprints in sandstone,
which run up the sides and across the ceilings of caves is not clear.
The fact is that all such footprints were pecked into the stone by
means of a small stone held in the hand.

One of the most interesting styles of painted petroglyphs seems
to have originated with the Basket Makers, the first farmers of the
Southwest who left various of their remains in sandstone caves of
northern Arizona, New Mexico, southern Utah, and Colorado during
the last few centuries before Christ. These are simple anthropomor-
phic figures with triangular bodies and squarish heads, usually in
red, and generally occurring on the walls of caves known to have
been inhabited by the Basket Makers (pl. 4, A).

Sometime during the following centuries, perhaps in the first mil-
lenium after Christ, a people living on the Colorado Plateau in east-
ern Utah borrowed this simple Basket Maker art and developed it
with extraordinary success. The modest figures were enlarged and
elaborated to become the finest petroglyphs north of Mexico. It is
possible that intensive study some day will reveal periods of growth
and interesting local variations, At present we can only know that
they all belong to the same general culture, a culture which had its
roots in the Basket Maker customs but was influenced by the subse-
quent Pueblo peoples.

These striking figures are sometimes carved, sometimes painted,
sometimes both (pls. 3, 4,5). Often whole canyon walls are covered
with imposing galleries of regal and unearthly beings which may be
gods or may be men. When painted, they are often in three and four
colors; when carved and incised, they are executed with a care and
precision unequaled elsewhere. The square-shouldered bodies are
surmounted by squarish heads which may well depict masks (but no
masks have ever been found in pre-Columbian Southwestern archeo-
logical sites) and which are surmounted by antlers of different kinds,
“feathers”, and other ornaments which were undoubtedly identifying
symbols. The faces usually have eyes, a refinement rare among
petroglyphs elsewhere, and below the eyes are two thin lines, which
strangely resemble but are certainly not connected with the “tear
marks” on faces in Tiahuanacoid drawings in ancient Peru. Ear-
rings and necklaces are shown in great profusion and often the body
bears elaborate designs. Certain round-bodied figures look much as
if they were men standing behind great shields (fig. 6).

Some of these manlike petroglyphs carry in one hand what appears
to be a head (pl. 5, A and B). The supposition that they are head-
hunters may be correct, though it is completely without proof. An-
other explanation is that the “heads” are in reality masks.
422 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

It is tempting to speculate about the significance of these drawings,
and some very incautious interpretations have been made. That
the figures resemble certain clay figurines found in puebloan sites
in western Utah, that they are made with remarkable care, that
they are reminiscent of the Kachinas or masked god-impersonators of
the modern Pueblo Indians, and that some sort of symbolism seems
to occur in the headgear strongly suggest a religious purpose. But

Figure 6.—Petroglyphs near ancient Pueblo cliff houses on the Colorado River in central
Utah. These ‘men with shields’ are about three feet tall.

it is impossible to know whether they are god-images, masked human
beings, or simply bedecked ceremonial dancers.

In this same region there are other, cruder petroglyphs which
may belong to a different period (pl. 9). These more or less re-
semble those of the Great Basin but tend more toward realism.
Animals, birds, and human beings are common, some groups clearly
depicting hunting scenes (pl. 9, A). These simple hunting groups
and occasional rows of dancing figures (fig. 7) are among the few
North American attempts at composition.

When the Pueblo Indians supplanted the Basket Makers in the
Southwest, shortly after the time of Christ, the peculiar style of
the former, which reached such excellence in Utah, died out in large
measure in Arizona and New Mexico. Occasional anthropomorphic
pictures occur on cave walls over or near cliff houses, and there are
meanders and other figures resembling Pueblo pottery designs, birds,

PETROGLYPHS—STEWARD 493

horned toads or frogs, lizards, and occasional sheep and deer, most of
which are drawn in a peculiar stiff and rectilinear style. Some-
times pictures are ornamentally painted on the wall plaster of house
interiors.

An extremely interesting figure found in various parts of the
Southwest and probably dating from an early prehistoric Pueblo
period is a hunchbacked and very phallic individual (fig. 1, d), who
plays a flute, usually lying on his back. It is interesting to note that
one of the principal American Indian uses of the flute is in love
making.

In view of the great amount of archeological research carried on
in the Southwest our knowledge of petroglyphs is disappointingly
meager. There are many petroglyphs which seem to be neither

FIGURE 7.—Carved petroglyphs of dancing figures, near Tucson, Ariz. Note that the artist
became careless when making the figures on the left.

Basket Maker nor Pueblo, but their source remains a mystery. It
is certain, however, that some drawings have been made down to
the present day. The modern Pueblo Indians occasionally place
symbols on the rocks, the Navajo and Apache sketch horses, men, and
other simple and purposeless figures, and white men continue to put
names and initials everywhere, often defacing older and irreplace-
able native glyphs.

Southern California has many rocks bearing the complex and
probably ancient geometric designs that characterize the Great Basin.
The red zigzags and diamond chains (pl. 2, A), previously mentioned
as the products of girls’ puberty rites, are limited in distribution
and are rapidly being obliterated by weather.

The regions of Santa Barbara and Tulare Counties, Calif., have a
number of extremely interesting painted petroglyphs which have
weathered so greatly during the past 25 years that their antiquity
cannot be very great (pl. 2, B and C). These are usually very in-
tricate geometric designs including “wheels”, “targets”, and other
figures outlined by a solid or dotted line of a different color. There
are also a few realistic or imaginary creatures, including many-legged
insects, distorted and often spraddle-legged human beings, and
quadrupeds in various awkward positions.
424 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

Despite the apparent recency of these petroglyphs, there is no
way to know their meaning. Those near Santa Barbara bear a gen-
eral resemblance to ground paintings made by some of the Chumash
Indians during boys’ initiation ceremonies, but it is idle speculation
to suppose that this was their real purpose. The strange anthro-
pomorphic and zoomorphic figures of the southern San Joaquin
Valley were thought by some of the local Indians to have been doc-
tors’ marks, but this, too, is a guess and need not be accepted merely
because an Indian made it.

Washington and Oregon have a great number of petroglyphs, a
good portion of which are painted, but as the archeology of this
general region is incompletely known and as the rock pictures have
not been systematically studied, it is impossible at present to classify
them according to age or area.

A large number of those which occur in or near the Columbia Val-
ley are painted red and seem to be comparatively recent. Many are
of human beings, apparently with feathered headdresses, others are
of recognizable species of animals, including deer, sheep, and others.
Many are strange zoomorphic creatures which may have been “water
monsters” revealed to persons in visions or the guardian spirits of
fishing places (pl. 12). Some figures even resemble those on certain
carved stone and bone objects found in archeological sites and appar-
ently dating from the past 200 or 300 years. Some of these have been
published by William Duncan Strong and W. Egbert Schenck in
Petroglyphs near the Dalles of the Columbia River, in the American
Anthropologist, n.s., vol. 27, pp. 77-90, 1925.

There are many petroglyphs, both carved and painted in Idaho.
The geometric and crude realistic figures found among the former
are much like those of the Great Basin, to which they may be related.
Others, including many that are painted, are of men, horses, and
animals and often date from post-Columbian times. Because many of
these bear a stylistic similarity to the pictographic writing of the
Plains Indians who lived very close to this region, some people have
been disposed to interpret them as pictographs. Perhaps many of
these were true pictographic writing, but the interpretation of any
particular petroglyph should be regarded with great skepticism.
(See Richard P. Erwin, Indian Rock Writing in Idaho, in the
Twelfth Annual Report of the Idaho Historical Society, Boise, Idaho,
pp. 35-111, 1930.)

Petroglyphs east of the Rocky Mountains are not strikingly differ-
ent from those of the west and comprise crude but frequently recog-
nizable pictures of men and beasts, many wholly unintelligible geo-
metrical scrawls, and the very common human and bear tracks.
Many petroglyphs in Wyoming, South Dakota, Oklahoma, Colorado,

PETROGLYPHS—STEWARD 425

and New Mexico, perhaps dating from several periods and exhibiting
marked local differences, have been published by E. B. Renaud in
Pictographs and Petroglyphs of the High Western Plains, 8th Re-
port of the Archeological Survey of the High Western Plains, Uni-
versity of Denver, 1936.

Starting soon after the arrival of European colonists in America,
individual petroglyphs became the center of undeserved attention, so
that to this day we have a voluminous argumentative literature con-
cerning a few stones but virtually no broad, comparative studies
which bring perspective into large areas. At various times the Digh-
ton Rock, mentioned above, the Piasa petroglyph near Alton, LIL,
and others have been discussed vehemently. Thanks, however, to
Delabarre’s efforts, a large bibhography on New England petroglyphs
has been assembled. Donald Cadzow has added interesting material
in Petroglyphs in the Susquehanna River near Safe Harbor, Penn-
sylvania, Publications of Pennsylvania Historical Commission, vol.
8, 1934. Petroglyphs from many eastern States were reproduced
by Mallery.
ep pr mag taba rg on itive’ 7
| “sAYRCE ilies hello MB W IAs er woyteb ome
CHE: iT As ed Wepedgotag wea depres
Bye yee Miniseries teeecrceae t
alee wacag Hage MOV Ae yleyatignl adage ale pt
ftiiien Seem hallbaied wobed bisa isa
-olta®f HiGED 3 Gk abet IH: _SeesvasSop irs iat a
hove nie age h Lah lib HEE gore tie preset
Hipstltiorcfed healed Heng: iA: jacoier anaes

4 ie

;
» . : aa a
bres rm el i O84 cl

renaahatine Heit: Eh Bie aa bree. awe ewe

: oa Kal ‘pada isha gr
RSL 1) etre fet, hy parks aris Oven pie cee ayes OM corks
Se tie (ane Mri ein. cA pnts, Sieueed Tek gy oth oe Me Senee “nl aD }
Mile Riki Teokhy Uke Past INO vat tom ‘yeaa, Bote gt Shea Sas |
nidstehied v5: VETine Dopo Bina. giok Wi gbert: Scbaegie

| BO. OF Che Aten Riko. ty ie onprieaty,
Bit, th bok ST, ee PR See

Theis TA, RAAF, ekex ests rULe, Goth Cs are. suka pie te bash
, CA Ra ROCESS ‘aul opine pad Tet f Bunuege. farsa ine: fag ;

‘i ht eae th SA Gay. Ria ey thi eae 6 hey BL Ria bo :

/ 4AM : ‘* \ deep eet a '

BAR, at ig cea. tet. ures vets Bit OF aN, Ly ey
4 * , apatite kee e> PrP 7 Ga Cais

eed, dg eee irda OS
ads anal LTS an UO MPL ae Dy aba DOR at Wet ‘Lange wile
A SUSERE: NLT RES Wei Fan Sintra te Pee | aie prople dy
Rothe dian Bae ton Tt ed ERA. the. ase ain ut a Perey ga: LD
ove 4g ore, rite wy CUP nina Nereis eS brink . 4 hye Meer) watt ath nf
CHES at TT IAD rie ale) ae veh ' are om an iis af ' Raat ‘ age Pai
(Rie Binks. eerie. Tokai Rte, Vonine ify. Titel,

uLTthy PURER Aare far? if if atin’ 3 eat Yixe i ail OF} ee + Hoey Tay

Kiera oF Sy ee Oy ; Vy pie Y a’ oy ; LtNS hy Hoe ohn F j dhe oa Cx
TisMth. Cee Ny ; «) PCa) eet aey ta Daa foe eiacens ee)
WENA MUMS Gate ehh) ia dal ae hobedligelone gets m

Tate ate Deen Ne A Tay e Yb ee wot Bolt ‘trawl .

BETS SIELM Fit WN eaened aul ae Gel) canine, COWRA ibaa Rloned aie
Smithsonian Report, 1936.—Steward PLATE 1

=
Se

a, Petroglyph, perhaps pictographic in nature, near Smokey Hill River, Kansas. Note the boats in the
upper right, proving the post-White origin of at least some of the pictures.

John O. Babbitt

b, Dighton Rock, Mass. Although probably the idle scrawlings of Indians, for three centuries these have
been the subject of controversy.
Smithsonian Report, 193¢.—Steward PLATE 2

Department of Anthropology, Univ. Calif.

a, Pictograph in red in the San Jacinto Mountains, southern California, made during girls’ puberty rites.

Department of Anthropology, Univ. Calif.
b, ‘Painted Cave’’ Santa Barbara, Calif. Designs of unknown meaning made in red, white, black, and
brown.

Rac aeed
iStipe
Ps

A x ag
ONG NENTS
Department of Anthropology, Univ. Calif.

“Carissa Rock’’, southern California. Painted designs which have nearly disappeared in 25 years.

c
‘soiR1g powug oy} ul ysouy oy) st dnodsd sty,

-HVLN CIVNYSA YVAN ‘SSIS MOT NI GAAeYVD AuvV HDOIHM AO OML ‘SONIFG AMIGOS ‘OIHdHYOWOdOYHLNY

“ge

Wie

—

“YUM yo_ YUCIT

paema3ig—'9¢6| quoday ueTuOsYyyIWIG
Smithsonian Report, 1936.—Steward PLATE 4

t

~

Dave Rust, Provo, Utah.

5, Godlike creatures in red and brown in Barrier Canyon. These are 6 and 7 feet tall.

ANTHROPOMORPHIC BEINGS IN UTAH.
PLATE 5

Steward

Smithsonian Report, 1936.

HUMAN BEINGS CARRYING HEADS, OR MASKS, NEAR VERNAL, UTAH.
PLATE 6

Steward

Smithsonian Report, 1936.

, Utah.

anyon

graph, 8 feet long, on cliff in Clear Creek C

en used in red picto

Pottery desi

a,

Utah.

Delta,

I'rank Beckwith,

b, Red maze in Fool Creek Canyon, Utah.
Smithsonian Report, 1936.—Steward PEATE?

CARVED PETROGLYPHS OF THE CURVILINEAR GREAT BASIN STYLE.

a, 6, Near Pyramid Lake, Nev. c, Northwestern Nevada. (Photograph by Ernest J. Greenwalt.)
d, Near Lee’s Ferry, Ariz. e, Deep Springs, Calif. /, Near Montrose, Colo. (Photograph by Arthur
Monroe, of Montrose, Colo.).
‘uyeq1a0unN st YdATsOIJ0d SIG WO ZUIYONOJaI JO vai3ap aq,
“IVWINY LONILX4 MON V ONIMEWaSSaY HdA190U 14d GAAYVD

ATP M sepeyqy

8 ALVI1d premaig—'9¢6| “qaoday urTUOSY WIG
Smithsonian Report, 1936.—Steward PLATE 9

CARVED PETROGLYPHS IN UTAH.

a, Clear Creek. The superimposition of figures shows that this rock face was used over a long period.
5, Hunting scene near Kanab. Therepresentation of the bow and arrows shows that it was made by Pueblo
or later Indians, for the bow was unknown in early Basket Maker times. The angular geometric figures
are in Pueblostyle. c, Untranslatable designs at Connor’s Springs, north of Great Salt Lake. Although
these seem to have been made recently and may be in part pictographic, it is impossible to know their
meaning. (Photograph by Charles Kelly of Salt Lake City.)
Ol

3ALV 1d

“AVL NYSALSAM NI NISIYNO NMONMN(M 34O HdA1T90Y Lad

UPI “BIC “WMA YUN

PpteM9IS—'O¢6 | *qaoday Ueluosy yw
Smithsonian Report, 1936.—Steward PLATE 11

INDIAN PETROGLYPHS FROM EAST OF THE ROCKY MOUNTAINS.

d, ‘‘Medicine Rock.’’ Carvings representing animal tracks near Liberty, Kans. 6, Carved figures near
Ambrose, N. Dak. c, Stone in Georgia.
Smithsonian Report, 1936.—Steward PLATE 12

a, Isagiglalal, ‘‘“She who watches you go by”’, a large petroglyph above the old Wishram Indian village at
Spedio, Wash. (Photograph by W. D. Strong.) 6, Supernatural being with sun disk for head, also
mounted figure, both apparently made during the early historic period circa 1800, Petroglyph Canyon,
near Spedio, Wash. (Photograph by W. D. Strong.) c, Large, deeply carved petroglyphs on rocks at
salmon fishing station near the Wishram village at Spedio, Wash. They are said to represent the spirit
guardians of the fishing places. (Photograph by C. F. Marshall, Portland, Oreg.)
|

THE HISTORY OF THE CROSSBOW, ILLUSTRATED
FROM SPECIMENS IN THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL
MUSEUM

By C. MARTIN WILBUR
Curator of Sinology, Field Museum of Natural History

[With 6 plates]

A study of the crossbows in the United States National Museum
suggests a problem of real ethnological interest. The crossbow ap-
pears to be another example of those remarkable Chinese inven-
tions—such as silk, paper, printing, and gunpowder—which have
spread over a large part of the globe and in several regions altered
the course of history. The earliest mention of it occurs in Chinese
texts dating from the third century B. C. It was extensively used
as a military weapon by the Chinese several centuries before it was
adopted by the Roman army. In Europe from the thirteenth to the
sixteenth century it was the outstanding projectile weapon in all con-
tinental armies, and it materially aided the Spaniards in the conquest
of Mexico, and De Soto in his discovery of the Mississippi. The
crossbow is still extensively used by primitive peoples in southeastern
Asia, and it even found its way into a small region in west Africa
and among the Eskimo of Greenland and Alaska. This paper aims
to describe the history and distribution of the crossbow as it is
illustrated by the varied collection of both primitive and highly
developed specimens in the United States National Museum.?

DESCRIPTION OF THE CROSSBOW

A crossbow is a projectile weapon equipped with a bow, but having
in addition a stock set at right angles to the bow, and a string-catch
which holds the bowstring in a drawn position until the weapon
is shot. These three parts are all essential, but variations occur in
each. For example, primitive people use a simple wooden bow
(pl. 1); a more advanced stage is the compound bow of horn, sinew,

1This study was made possible by a fellowship in 1935-36 from The Social Science
Research Council for an ethnological study of Chinese history. I am especially indebted
to Dr. C. W. Bishop, associate curator of the Freer Gallery of Art, for his help and gen-
erosity at every turn. A longer monograph, fully documented, on the early history and
distribution of the crossbow is in preparation. Therefore, in the present general
account lengthy footnotes and minute bibliographical data have been omitted wherever
possible.

427
428 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

and wood; and the final development, produced in Europe, is a great
steel arc resembling a single carriage spring (pls. 4,5). Again, the
stock may be only a plain piece of wood, with or without a groove, on
which the arrow rests. Sometimes it is cut away to avoid friction,
as in pellet crossbows; and occasionally it is tubular, like a gun
barrel.

Some primitive people can draw their crossbows with the hands
alone, but in the powerful specimen from Cambodia (pl. 1, fig. 1)
the native must put his feet against the concave side of the bowstave
and strain at the string with all the muscular force of his arms, legs,
and back. So powerful did the medieval crossbow become, however,
that it could only be drawn by means of some extra mechanical de-
vice, sometimes resembling an automobile ratchet jack (pl. 5, fig. 2).

ORIGIN

The suggested origin of the crossbow deserving most consideration
is the hypothesis that it developed from the self-acting bow-trap.
This method of shooting animals is more widespread than the cross-
bow itself, being found in Asia, Europe, and Africa, from which
latter continent it was brought by Negroes to America. The bow
is set up horizontally on a support near some game trail. The prob-
lem is to keep the string drawn back until an animal walks into
the trap. One common method is to have a string-catch attached
to a stock set at right angles to the bow. Then when an animal dis-
turbs the bait or passes in front of the bow it jerks a string connected
to a trigger, thus firing the arrow at itself.?

Another form of the crossbow trap is illustrated on plate 2, where
an Ainu specimen and one from Chinese Turkestan are shown. These
are crude devices, but the three essential elements of bow, stock, and
string-catch immediately mark them as a variety of the crossbow.
The arrow does not leave the bow; rather, it pierces or stuns an ani-
mal which has set off the trigger while walking into the trap.

There is no real evidence, however, that the crossbow did actually
develop from the bow-trap, and so the suggestion must remain only
an hypothesis. It is to history and archeology that we must turn
for dependable information concerning the early use and develop-
ment of the crossbow after it had been specialized.

THE CROSSBOW IN CHINA

From China comes our earliest positive information. This rich
field for historical and archeological investigation presents direct
evidence for the crossbow during the second half of the third cen-

2For a good article dealing with bow-traps see: Horwitz, Uber die Konstruktion von
Fallen und Selbstschitissen.

HISTORY OF THE CROSSBOW—WILBUR 429

tury B. C. It is mentioned in historical literature composed at that
time. Probably it was known earlier, for the Shih chi, a work of
great authenticity written about 100 B. C., on the basis of no longer
extant documents, reports its extensive use during the fourth cen-
tury in the battle of Ma-ling in 341 B. C* From historical works
produced during the Former Han Dynasty (B. C. 206-25 A. D.) it
becomes amply evident that the crossbow was at that time the prin-
cipal offensive arm of the foot-soldiers fighting on China’s far-flung
frontiers. Also there is one crucial statement in the Shih chi which
tells specifically of the crossbow used as a trap. This passage de-
scribes the tomb of the great emperor Ch’in Shih, who died in
210 B. C. In supervising the preparation of his own sumptuous
tomb “he commanded the artisans to make automatic crossbows and
arrows so that if anyone dug in and entered they would suddenly
shoot and slay them.” >

Within recent years archeology in China and neighboring coun-
tries has been revealing unknown secrets of the brilliant civilization
of Han times. Parts of crossbows left by the imperial Chinese troops
of 2,000 years ago have been found in northern Korea, southern Man-
churia, Inner Mongolia, and even in the desert waste of Chinese
Turkestan. Along the old frontier limes in eastern Central Asia, Sir
Aurel Stein discovered 2,000-year-old guard stations which had once
been used by the defenders of China’s silk route to the West. In the
rubbish heaps he found army ordnance lists, written in still legible
characters on wooden slips. In these documents crossbows are men-
tioned, together with their strings and arrows, some 30 times, while
the plain bow is mentioned only twice, in each case in the hands of
a “barbarian”. This proves almost conclusively that the crossbow
was the standard offensive projectile arm of the Chinese frontier
troops during the first century B. C. and during the first few cen-
turies A. D. It may have been this effective weapon which gave the

3 Han Fei tzu, chtian 18, p. 9; and the Chan kuo ts’é, Han ts’é. For the sake of caution
1 am not yet willing to cite as authentic a section of the Mo tzi, book 14, “On fortifica-
tion and defense’, which may perhaps date from the fourth century B. C. This section
is studded with references to various types of crossbows. Of an entirely different nature
is the critical problem regarding the date and authenticity of the Chow li, which also
mentions various kinds of crossbows. At one time this work was thought by many
western Sinologists to date from about 1100 B. C., and owing to this error Forke (Ueber
die chinesische Armbrust), and Horwitz (Die Armbrust in Ostasien) have created the
impression that the crossbow was much earlier known in China than we now have any
reason to believe.

4 Edition of Takigawa, Kametaro. Shiki Kaichu K6éshéd. Tokyo, 1934. Chiian 65,
Siin-tzi Wu-ch’i lieh-chuan, p. 11. Cf. also Chavannes, Edouard. Les Mémoires His-
toriques de Se-ma Ts’ien. Paris, vol. 5, p. 155, 1895-1905.

5 Shih chi, op. cit., chtian 6, Ch’in Shih Huang pén-chi, p. 69; and Chavannes, op. cit.,
vol. 2, p. 193. The translation is my own.

See: Stein, Aurel, Serindia, vol. 2, pp. 758-759, Oxford, Clarendon, 1921; and
Chavannes, Edouard, Les documents chinois découverts par Aurel Stein dans les sables
du Turkestan Oriental, pp. xv—xvi, Oxford, 1913.
430 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

Chinese a slight advantage over their wild, horse-riding, bow-shoot-
ing enemies on the north.

There are also in existence numerous bronze trigger blocks from
crossbows of Han date (pl. 3). From these the exact mechanism for
cocking and firing the crossbow can be studied. Even the date of
manufacture is incised on some of these specimens: the earliest such
inscription of which I am aware was written in 65 B. C. Of course,
some of these inscriptions may be forgeries, but fortunately it is not
necessary to depend upon them for dating these bronze trigger
blocks. In northern Korea many graves of an old Chinese colony
have been scientifically excavated by Japanese archeologists, and in
one such tomb dated as 7 B. C. a bronze trigger block was discovered.
In another tomb, thought to date about 150 A. D., a complete cross-
bow was found, with bow, stock, and bronze trigger mechanism all
excellently preserved.

Thus, there is abundant evidence for the crossbow in China dat-
ing in literature back to the third century and in actual remains
to the first century B. C.

SIEGE ENGINES AND THE CROSSBOW IN THE CLASSICAL WORLD

Probably the only other region where the crossbow was known
in comparatively early times was the Greco-Roman world. Did it
go from China to the Mediterranean, or was the invention diffused
in the other direction? This fascinating question is not easily an-
swered; some of the evidences for its early use in the classical world
are presented here without conclusions.’

There seem to be no archeological reports of the crossbow before
the fifth century A. D. from the ancient Mediterranean world—
that is, the region comprising Greece, Syria, Asia Minor, Egypt,
Carthage, and Italy. Literary records alone help in the problem
and they are far from decisive. They refer, for the greater part,
to missile-throwing siege engines, which were certainly not hand
weapons. These engines were the catapult and the ballista. Al-
though in some respects resembling the crossbow, they work on a
different principle, deriving their main power from torsion, not
tension.

To get a picture of these engines, imagine looking into a long tim-
bered box without front or back, set up horizontally on a stand.
This box has three divisions made by two upright pillars, and
through the central section runs a long grooved stock set at an up-
ward slant.. On the lower end of this stock are a string-catch and

TThe following notes are presented with deference because I am not conversant with
many of the problems of historical criticism surrounding Hellenistic and Roman texts.

HISTORY OF THE CROSSBOW—WILBUR 431

trigger. In each of the two side partitions is a thick skein of
human hair or animal sinew fastened vertically through holes in
the top and bottom of the frame. A crank above the left skein twists
it counterclockwise; another above the right, clockwise. Fixed into
each skein are half bowstaves which, because of the force of torsion,
stick out at right angles. A bowstring is fastened from the outward
end of the left bow-arm to the outward end of the right, and when
this string is drawn back by means of winches to the string-catch
on the stock, the engine resembles a huge drawn crossbow. Because
of the combination of torsion in the skeins and tension in the arms
it is much more powerful.®

The catapult or ballista, unlike the crossbow which was manipu-
lated by one man only, was a piece of artillery operated by a crew.
These machines stand in relation to the crossbow somewhat as the
cannon stands to the hand gun, itself developed later than the can-
non. But the functional and chronological relationship between the
crossbow and these siege engines is not clear: the crossbow may have
preceded and suggested them; it may have developed in the classical
world from them; or, it may have no fundamental relation whatever
to them, possibly having been introduced from some other region,
such as China.

The arrow firing catapult is said to have been invented in Syra-
cuse and first used in war by Dionysius I of Syracuse against Car-
thage in 397 B. C.° A catapult arrow was exhibited as a curiosity
in Sparta in 370 B. C., and an inscription mentions two catapults
at Athens about 358-854. In 341 B. C. they were used extensively
in the siege of Byzantium both by Philip of Macedon and by the
defenders. Alexander the Great promoted the use of all kinds of
siege engines. His engineers developed especially torsion catapults,
which he took with him on his campaigns all over western Asia
and as far east as the Juxartes River. From his time on they were
used in nearly every important siege even down to fairly recent
times.

8 Reconstructed specimens of these machines are illustrated in the articles by Gohlke,
Payne-Gallwey, and Schramm. Ancient representations of the actual machines may be
seen on a Roman tombstone, dating around 77 A. D., figured in Jones, Companion to Roman
history, pl. 38; and on the column of Trajan, built 105-113 A. D. Cf. Froehner, Wilhelm,
La Colonne Trajane, pl. 90 and detail pl. XVII. Paris, Rothschild, 1872-74. In these
bas-reliefs the details, naturally, are not very clear. Both Schramm and Payne-Gallwey
actually made models to test out the literary accounts of antiquity.

®An excellent account of the history of catapults is found in a work by the leading
English authority on the Hellenistic period: Tarn, W. W., Hellenistic military and naval
developments, p. 103 ff., and I have followed him in this paragraph. Other good accounts
are in Jones, op. cit., pp. 215-223; Payne-Gallwey (both works); and Schramm, E.,
Poliorketik. This latter is essential as it assembles the available historical references
in Greek,
432 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

Returning to the crossbow itself: most modern historians assume
that the catapult developed from it. However, there is only one bit
of historical evidence supporting this belief. This is to be found
in a work on the manufacture of darts written by Heron of Alex-
andria, who lived perhaps sometime between 285-222 B. C., or else
during the second century B. C. He ascribes the invention of a
certain weapon to one Zopyrus, who, he indicates, lived in Tarentum
about the beginning of the fourth century B. C. This weapon
Heron called the gastraphetes or “stomach bow”, because it was
spanned by pressing the butt of the stock against the stomach.
From his description it appears to be a crossbow, and he considered
it an evolutionary step between the bow and the catapult. What-
ever this weapon was, it is never mentioned by classical military
writers and apparently played no part in warfare.

The great column of Trajan, erected in Rome between 105 and
113 A. D., has scores of battle and camp scenes depicting Roman and
Dacian soldiers using all kinds of arms—swords, axes, slings, bows,
catapults, etc.—but does not show one crossbow.” The first classi-
cal writer on military affairs specifically to mention its use as a
military weapon is F. Vegetius Renatus (fl. A. D. 386). In his “De
Re Militari” (II, 15; ITI, 14; IV, 21, 22) he mentions crossbows and
crossbowmen as a regular part of the Roman army, but he does not
describe them, apparently because they were already well known.
It appears, therefore, that sometime between the beginning of the
second century and 386 A. D. the crossbow first became a regular
part of Roman military equipment. The first actual representations
of Roman crossbows now extant are seen on two monuments in
France dating, perhaps, from the fifth century A. D. One is on a
tomb column at Polignac sur Loire, and the other is figured in a
painting from the walls of a Roman villa at Puy.

Thus, we see that siege engines resembling the crossbow are re-
ported in the West about 400 B. C., and a weapon which may well
have been a crossbow is mentioned by a writer in Alexandria who
lived during the third or second century B. C. Crossbows are first
definitely mentioned as a regular weapon in the Roman army toward
the end of the fourth century A. D. We are faced, then, with three
historical possibilities: The crossbow was independently invented
in the two regions of China and the classical world; it was invented
only once, and spread from China to the west, or, less probably, in
the other direction; and, finally, it may have been invented in a
third region somewhere between the two and then been diffused in
both directions, to be eagerly seized upon in China and almost
neglected in the west.

10 Compare: Froehner, op. cit., plates.

HISTORY OF THE CROSSBOW—WILBUR 433

Both China and the classical world did, indeed, derive numerous
weapons, items of equipment and military systems from the region
lying between—that area including Persia, northern India, south
Russia, and Central Asia. But apparently the crossbow was not one
of these. It is not reported from the extensive excavations of Scy-
thian and Sarmatian graves around the north and east of the Black
Sea; nor would it be likely to develop among those nomadic people
who so skillfully handled the bow on horseback, and for whom the
crossbow would be a cumbersome weapon offering few advantages.
Likewise, their cousins in culture, the Hsiung-nu, another nomadic
people, living to the north and northwest of China, did not use the
crossbow, though they regularly found it employed against them by
stalwart Chinese foot-soldiers. I cannot find it mentioned or figured
as a weapon employed by the Achaemenid and Seleucid Persians,
nor among the Parthians, who maintained their kingdom from B. C.
248 to 226 A. D. And it can probably be ruled out for northern
India, since it is not mentioned in the graphic accounts of Alexander’s
campaign there; nor is it depicted among the weapons figured on
Indian coins, or on the topes of Sanchi (first century A. D.), Amra-
vati (some 300 years later), and on the hill caves of Orissa, dating
200 B. C. to 474 A. D. So it seems there is nothing but negative evi-
dence for the whole region of Central Asia and the Near East; but
this is supported by the positive evidence that even after the cross-
bow was well known in those regions, it was never wholeheartedly
adopted in preference to the indigenous powerful composite bow.

THE CROSSBOW IN EUROPE

The Middle Ages in Europe saw the crossbow at its greatest de-
velopment. The Museum has two excellent specimens made in Ger-
many during the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries (pls. 4, 5). Be-
ginning in the tenth century, shortly before the Crusades, the
“arbalist” or crossbow begins again to appear in Europe. There is
actually some evidence that the Saracens may have introduced it.
From 1200 to 1480 it developed rapidly, progressing through several
stages to become a powerful and deadly weapon.“ At first the bow
was of the compound sort, made of horn or whalebone, yew, animal
tendon, and glue. During the fourteenth century, however, a power-
ful arc of steel was introduced which necessitated an extra contrivance
to draw it. Earlier ones, such as the larger specimen figured (pl. 4,
fig. 1), had a metal stirrup fixed to the front end of the stock, and
the crossbowman placed one or both feet in this stirrup. Attached
to a belt around his waist he had a heavy leather thong and a pulley
which he fastened by a hook to the bowstring. This system reduced

1 Full details of the development of the crossbow in Europe are given with illustrations
in: Payne-Gallwey, The crossbow.
434 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

the weight of the pull and also allowed him to exert the full power
of his legs and back in the draw. As the steel bow developed in
thickness and strength better spanning mechanisms were invented.
The windlass was one of these, and consisted of sets of pulleys and
ropes wound up by a pair of handles fixed to the back of the stock.
Another was the “goat’s foot”, which, acting on the principle of the
lever, pried back the bowstring. This was the only satisfactory
mechanical spanner for mounted crossbowmen.

In warfare the crossbow had its advantages and disadvantages in
relation to the plain bow. It had more range and power, shot a
more deadly missile, could be sighted more accurately, and be drawn
ahead of time and fired on an instant’s notice. On the other hand,
it was cumbersome, frequently weighing up to 16 pounds, and it
could not be repeatedly drawn and fired rapidly. Therefore, the per-
fected crossbow of the Middle Ages was at its best in defending a
fortress where it could be aimed from a parapet, drawn in a small
space, and where its tremendous power, range, and accuracy made it
a superb weapon for defense. The longbow excelled in open battle,
for the archer could shoot half a dozen arrows while the crossbowman
was drawing his bow and fixing his bolt for the next shot. This was
strikingly proved in the Battle of Crécy in 1846, where, on an open
field, the English longbowmen won a decisive victory over the pick
of European crossbowmen, the Genoese.

Toward the end of the fifteenth century, just when the crossbow
was beginning to give place to the arquebus as a military weapon,
there was developed the elaborate sporting crossbow with its mechan-
ical spanner known as the “cranequin.” A beautiful specimen, prob-
ably dating around 1550, is seen in the National Museum collection
(pl. 5, fig. 1). It was too expensive and too slow for military use,
but was popular for a century and a half among sportsmen. In
hunting larger game they much preferred this silent and reliable
weapon to the noisy and erratic hand gun.

Many other parts of the crossbow, such as the sights, trigger, arrow
groove, and various types of arrows and bolts, underwent technical
development, too. Space does not allow more than a mention of the
“prodd” or “arbaléte a jalet”, a two-stringed crossbow for shooting
stones and pellets, introduced about 1500.12 Concurrently there
appeared the “slurbow” in which the stock was mounted with a
wooden or metal barrel to hold the missile, and slotted lengthwise
for the string. (A primitive slurbow from Simalur Island, south
of Sumatra, is figured on pl. 1, fig. 2.)

12The National Museum contains specimens of the plain pellet bow, without a stock,
from Siam. Oddly enough this two-stringed pellet bow is also used by the natives of
South America.

HISTORY OF THE CROSSBOW—WILBUR 435

One other part has especial historical interest: the string-catch
mechanism. In medieval crossbows this is a revolving spool of horn
set down into the top of the stock near the middle, and held in place
by a transverse pin. (See pl. 4, and also pl. 5, where they are shown
separately in figs. 3, 4.) The upper edge of the spool is cut with a
transverse notch for the string, and at right angles to this there is
another notch in which the butt of the arrow fits tightly. On the
under side of the spool is a small pit into which the upper end of the
trigger fits snugly. The bow is drawn and the string fixed behind
the catch; then an arrow or bolt is placed on the stock with its butt
end held tightly by the two fingers of the spool. As soon as the
trigger is drawn, however, the spool tumbles forward under the pres-
sure of the bowstring, which is thus released and the arrow shot.
This practical device was not improved upon, and is even seen, made
of hardwood, in the recent sporting crossbow in the National Museum
collection (pl. 4, fig. 2, and pl. 5, fig. 4).

It is a striking historical fact that at least as early as the first
century B. C. this essential device had been perfected by the skillful
Chinese mechanics of the Han empire. ‘Fhere it was cast in bronze,
and the several parts of the mechanism fitted together with admir-
able precision. It is more elaborate and differs in some details, but
the close resemblance between the early Chinese and later European
device strongly suggests that we may some day discover that this
apparatus is a Chinese invention which found its way into Europe

(pl. 3).
WORLD-WIDE DIFFUSION OF THE CROSSBOW

Toward the end of the fifteenth century began that great series of
voyages which opened the whole world to European adventurers
and traders. At that time the hand gun or “arquebus” had not yet
been perfected, and many explorers carried the old-fashioned reli-
able crossbow among their stores of arms.

Vasco Da Gama took crossbows with him around the Cape of
Good Hope in his discovery of the ocean route to India in 1497-98,
and had to use them against natives on the East Coast of Africa.
In the conquest of Mexico Cortéz had more crossbows than arque-
buses, and on one occasion when all the gunpowder blew up he had
only his crossbows to depend upon. De Soto’s infantry were about
equally armed with crossbows and guns in the exploration from
Florida to the Mississippi. In a battle in 1539 the necessarily slow
manipulation of the crossbows showed up badly against the Indians,
who could discharge three or four arrows while the crossbowman
could shoot once. David I. Bushnell, Jr., informs me that only a
few decades ago Mooney found some old English [or more probably

1120593729

436 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

Spanish] crossbows still preserved as cult objects by the Indians in
North Carolina.

It is this last great spread of the crossbow that probably explains
its sporadic use among the Fans of the Gaboon, and their southern
neighbors in the Cameroon. Balfour has adduced reasons for be-
lieving that it was brought there by Dutch or Danish navigators
during the latter part of the fifteenth century;** but it would
seem historically more probable that the Portuguese did so. Dutch
and Norwegian whalers probably introduced the toy crossbow to
Greenland in the seventeenth or eighteenth century.t* From there
it may have spread along the Arctic regions of North America, and
those found in use among modern Eskimo boys in Alaska may be a
result of this diffusion; or they may have got them from Russian
traders from the Pacific.

CHINESE REPEATING CROSSBOW

The remarkable Chinese repeating crossbow in the National Mu-
seum collection (pl. 6) deserves special description in this historical
section. This clever invention has a magazine above the stock with
room for 20 arrows, which may be rapidly fired in pairs. The bow-
string passes through a slot running along the bottom of the maga-
zine (pl. 6, fig. 1). When the magazine is pushed forward by its
handle, the string is caught in the back of the slot, and two arrows
fall into place. As the handle is drawn back this automatically
draws the bow (pl. 6, fig. 2); when it comes clear back, so that the
magazine rests squarely on the stock, a little pin pushes the bow-
string up and releases it, firing the arrows. This process can be
repeated so rapidly that 10 pairs of arrows may be fired in half a
minute. Although this type of crossbow is not very powerful, a
barrage of arrows, especially if they were poisoned, might have a
demoralizing effect on the enemy.

This repeating crossbow is illustrated at least as early as in the
Wu pet chih, a Chinese work on military science published in 1621,
but it is probably much older. Yet it was used even as late as 1895
by Chinese troops from the interior in the war with Japan. Need-
less to say, it was useless against an enemy fully equipped with
modern arms.

DISTRIBUTION OF THE CROSSBOW

The true home of the crossbow is the great land mass embracing
the continents of Europe and Asia. Specimens in the National
Museum collection come from an island south of Sumatra, the Philip-

13 Balfour, Henry, The origin of west African crossbows.
14 Thalbitzer, William, ed., The Ammassalik Eskimo. Medd. Grgnland, vol. 39, p. 471,
1914.
HISTORY OF THE CROSSBOW—WILBUR 437

pine Islands, Cambodia, the Nicobar Islands, China, and Siberia;
from the West are two examples from Germany and a modern
sporting crossbow of unknown origin.

In the southeastern tip of Asia, an ethnological backwash of the
continent, primitive peoples still use the crossbow extensively in
hunting and warfare. This wild region, extending from Bengal in
eastern India through Assam, Burma, Siam, and French Indo-
China, and reaching up into the southwestern Provinces of China
proper, is one of the last strongholds of the primitive way of life.
To the north les China, where the crossbow has been continuously
known for more than 2,000 years and where it had a remarkable de-
velopment as an engine of war. From China it passed into Korea,
then into Japan, but neither country accepted it wholeheartedly in
preference to the bow. The Yakut, Lamut, Tungus, Yukaghir,
Koryak, and Chukchee peoples of Siberia know it as a weapon and
a toy, but use it primarily asa trap. Finally, those mysterious peo-
ple, the Ainu, isolated in the northern tip of Japan, know it only
for trapping game. In the sixteenth century it was used in Central
Asia and northern India by the Persians. The Roman legions em-
ployed it in the fourth century A. D. In all continental European
armies, from about 1200 to 1500, it was used extensively until gun-
powder made it obsolete for warfare. Far from its true home the
crossbow was also adopted in West Africa, Greenland, and Alaska.

Many unknown gaps still exist in the history of the crossbow’s
wide diffusion from whatever center first specialized it as an efficient
weapon for hunting and warfare.

SPECIAL BIBLIOGRAPHY

(Only such items as deal at some length with crossbows, siege engines,
or bow-traps are listed.)
BALFouR, HENRY.
1910. The origin of west African crossbows. Smithsonian Ann. Rep., 1910,
pp. 635-650, 1 pl., 7 figs.
BEVERIDGE, H.
1911. Oriental crossbows. Asiatic Quart. Rev., ser. 3, vol. 32, pp. 344-348.
CLEPHAN, RoBERT COLTMAN.
1903. Notes on Roman and medieval military engines, ete. Archaeologia
Aeliana, vol. 24, pp. 69-114.
FORKE.
1896. Ueber die chinesiche Armbrust. Zeitschr. Ethnol., vol. 28, pp. 272-
2A ties:
GOHLKE, W.
1909-11. Das Geschiitzwesen des Altertums und des Mittelalters. Zeitschr.
hist. Waffen- u. Kostiimkunde, vol. 5, pp. 198-199, 291-298, 354—
363, 379-893, illus.
HaAraApA, YOSHITO; KoMAI, KAZUCHIKA.
1932. Chinese antiquities. Pt. 1, Arms and armor. Acad. Orient. Culture,
Tokyo Inst., Tokyo.
438 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1936

Horwitz, Hueco THEODOR.

1915-17. Die Armbrust in Ostasien. Zeitschr. hist. Waffen- u. Kostiim-

kunde, vol. 7, pp. 155-188, 56 illus.

1918-21. Zur Entwicklungsgeschichte der Armbrust. Zecitschr, hist. Waf-

fen- u. Kostiimkunde, vol. 8, pp. 311-317; vol. 9, pp. 78, 114.
1924. Uber die Konstruktion von Fallen und Selbstschiissen. Beitr. Gesch.
Techn. u. Ind., vol. 14, pp. 85-100, 21 figs.
Jones, H. STUART.
1912. Companion to Roman history. Clarendon, Oxford.
MULLER, GEORG.

1913. Alt-chinesische Bogenwaffen. Schuss u. Waffe, vol. 6, pp. 383-386,

423-498, 25 illus.
Payne-GALLWEY, SiR RALPH.

1903. The crossbow, mediaeval and modern, military and sporting: its
construction, history and management. With a treatise on the
balista and catapult of the ancients. Longmans, Green and Co.,
London. xxii+828 pp., 220 illus.

1907. A summary of the history, construction and effects in warfare of the
projectile-throwing engines of the ancients. With a treatise on
the structure, power and management of Turkish and other Ori-
ental bows of mediaeval and later times. Longmans, Green and
Co., London. 44, 26 pp., 40 illus.

ScHRAMM, HE.
1904, 1906, 1909. Bemerkungen zu den Rekonstruktionen griechischer und
rémischer Geschiitze. Ges. lothringische Gesch. wu.
Altertumskunde, Jahrb., vol. 16, pp. 142-161; vol. 18,
pp. 276-283; vol. 21.

1918-20. Die Geschiitze des Altertums. Zeitschr. hist. Waffen- u. Kostiim-

kunde, vol. 8, pp. 41-54, 20 illus.

1928. Poliorketik. In: Kromayer, J.; Veith, G. Heerwesen und Krieg-
fiihrung der Griechen und Rémer. (Handb. Altertumswiss. Begr.
von I. v. Miiller, Neu Herausg. von Walter Otto, Abt. 4: T. 3:
Bd. 2.) Munich.

Tarn, W. W.

1930. Hellenistic military and naval developments. Univ. Press, Cambridge,

[Eng.], vii+-170 pp.
“SGNV1SI ANIddIMIHd ‘MOSSSOUND *G ‘SANV1SI| YVEOOIN ‘YVEOOIN YvVD ‘MOSESSOND ‘7 ‘VWIMASIS NYSALSVA ‘SSHOMNHD
“MOSSSOHN)D ‘€ *VYLVWNS AO HLNOS ‘GNV1SI YNIVWIS “MOSHYNIAS ‘Z ‘VIGOEWYD ‘AWOL YOMONY ‘YSAAING GNV SMONYVY HLIM MOGSSOND ‘|

Ll 3ALVW1d
Ie

ANIA —"9€6| “Oday UerUosy AUG
‘NVLSAMYNL NYSLSV>A ‘dv tL MOSSSOUD ‘2 ‘NVdve “OCIVMMOH ‘ANIY IMOLVYId ‘dvy Ll MOSSSOHYD ‘1

st Rie

Pe

¢ 3LV1d

ANG[!A\—"9E6 | ‘Oday UeruosyyTUIG
Smithsonian Report, 1936.—Wilbur PLATE 3

Metropolitan Museum of Art.

BRONZE TRIGGER BLOCKS FROM CHINESE CROSSBOWS OF HAN DATE.
Smithsonian Report, 1936.—Wilbur PLATE 4

1, MEDIEVAL STIRRUP CROSSBOW, GERMANY; 2, MODERN SPORTING CROSSBOW.

Smithsonian Report, 1936.—Wilbur PLATE 5

1, SIXTEENTH CENTURY SPORTING CROSSBOW, GERMANY; 2, CRANEQUIN FOR
SPANNING THE SPORTING CROSSBOW, GERMANY; 3, BONE STRING-CATCH FROM
PL. 4, FIG. 1; 4, WOOD STRING-CATCH FROM PL. 4, FIG. 2.

Smithsonian Report, 1936.—Wilbur PLATE

1, REPEATING CROSSBOW AT REST, CHINA.

2, REPEATING CROSSBOW BEING DRAWN, CHINA.
INDEX

A
Page
Abbot, Dr. Charles Greeley, secretary of the Institution__ iii, xi, xii, xiv, 6, 15,
25, 26, 31, 35, 43, 75, 77, 78, 80, 96

(Astronomy in Shakespeare’s time and in ours) ----_-----_--__------_ 109
FAD DOUAR DT Wallin «1 OUl Sse a ee Se ee ee eee 2, 24

CCRC Goa a ea a ee ee eee 14
Acrinianhotorraphy«-~(balsley))22 23222 Sato Se ee eee eee 383
ATG ITETVEL YS, “TCG I) aI 5 a eae xiv, 16
ANTM IG (TOV ET AY STS OY Pe 08 eB 0H G0 ee eee pee ee cep 95
AMericungeistorical-Association:) Teports=s ass ee es ee ee 91, 95
Andrews, Loring B. (The earth, the sun, and sunspots) —---__________- 137
Archeology of Greenland, The Eskimo (Mathiassen)---______________ 397
PAST: GEN UN To DEVI OSS ok: (100 Cl ae we ews ww eee de re we nen ee A eh A Ee 97, 98

ECS ETT Bs bg he yr er sen needy net repairers hot bh Oh! RAS 11
Astronomy in Shakespeare’s time and in ours (Abbot)_-----__________ 109
PRSELO Diy SiGe ODSELV ALOT st EEA Ee ee ee 5, 102

TERT) ONE A 3 SE eed a A As ge Dba ele ete el &3

TERE OL ee a ee ra eR 76

SSL emcee re Scag 1 ce RA EE Raa TR) he VEE) Se et See Xiv
Pes gia AUREL Dara ete Nek ee ee RE ee 98

B

PeAMBIING Varoini a MNP V a6 oo oe ee ne pel 97, 98
Bacon traveling scholarship, Walter Rathbone..._-_.--___. 5 9

Dr. Blackwelder’s study of the staphylinid fauna of the West Indies_ 10

Dire Mozley:sumolluskminvestizations= ses 22 ee 9
SP RRDEE RAPE VBLER NUNC Neos Ei cn Sn Ea IW nl ha oe re OE aor dtoynege Ks wid 2 Sr. prey) 97, 98
Baisley capt., Eo Ke (Aerial photography) a. --- ee 383
AEA) Gh apn tits gO) re oe a oe Sut ele nd epee) ~- Fo i afer 14, 18, 21
eet se OW CUR mi LCG GIG: VA 2 wld =< ayn hee ee eee ne Pn eee ee are 97, 98
AE ELeLE, Map theca Aeeee, Sn at TIPS Se Nie eye boat Soret 15
PES eUUg GS Chee) PN ea UT ee 2 kd aly a elles dyed def Pita Wie vows pobre eo xi, 21
BASSIOR DT Raye ose ae Pe petro BT oe hats te et ee xii
PS ALOteM PNEOd OFC rp aeerae aie ete Ses Bonrien: Yuet: ir rdet ees Peed ipe De rine iS peel tent xili
Bequests________ Seer ennere © Vth see ay be itere' her reemtolel inte Bede ONE! pre at 14
Bineham ye ROberky £ Wert Leg emit) ite irs ell ae Ss cere eee ee eee = xi, 6
Birds of Ceylon, Some of the commoner (Wood) —---------------=----_- 297
Bishop, Dr. Carl Whiting, associate curator, Freer Gallery of Art__--_- Xiv
BS aeksyyel dere) res CT Chet Ye eee ee aa te EE et ee eng aL eae 10, 21
Bomba var ar ele ke ay axon tev 1S) eerste es ee ee 303
J SOVSISI, : JIG CIOOFEY Cheyg) B Ot Aa TUN 5 ete i AR lotr tN a A Ee pe eit ape a BAR:
SOO KS ODN OTT OS Hye sere ee eae ee Gh ee es A alal

Bryant, H. S., chief of correspondence and documents, National Museum_ ‘xiii
439
440) INDEX

Page
Bundy, John, superintendent, Freer Gallery of Art--__-___________________ Xiv
‘Burt... Cy i So ek ae ee a ee 21
Cc
Canfield; Collection: fun ds 22 oe  o Be e  eeee 97,98
Cannon, Representative Clarence (regent) —~---__-______ poe ARIES ewe xi, 6
Carey; (Charles) 5 5 Se ee ee eee xii
Casey fund, Thomas L____-_-_ pa Se ne IE oe ee 97, 98
Casey, Mrs: Waurai Welsh) 226! 123) eee ee eee eee 101
Cassedy, Edwin G., illustrator, Bureau of American Ethnology_____-__- xiv
Caudell Andrew Nelsoné..18 = a4 See ok ase eee Ee ees 24
Ceylon, Some of the commoner birds of (Wood) -~----__-_____________ 297
Chamberlain’ fund: sMrancis  ea22= 22: Seana ee ee tee ee 97, 98
Chapin, Dre Wiaiward A eee oa Oe ae ee ee as a ler xii
bears, Acute) TA se a a Es ho ho dO abi, WL
Clark, Leila F., assistant librarian, National Museum__________________ xiv
Clark, Leland@Ba2c22=- a a ee ee eee oS ee Rt EE Xiv, $2
@lawle ("hom aig Ha See ss ee a ae od a ie ee oS 22
Cochran’, Hrs Os pee a St eee S29 a
Collections, National Museum 22 Os = 520 ae ee cee ee 17
OCOVEDD aS feed & 2) 0 eh 6 ats [eee earanrss ml etn SRN pe ht RAN een Ve es etree ite xii, 2; 20
Goma mertord) ic SH ee = face A ay a xiii
Conger: Pauly 62s era ee ee Shen TC Ts NSB rae yk ape sae capi age ala ln ae xiii, 22
(Significance of shell structure in diatoms) _--_- ==. 422 = = 325
Continents, Form, drift, and rhythm of the (Watts)________________-_-— 185
Cooper: Drs" Gustav ACs. teehee Re eae A ce ee xiii, 14, 21
Corbins William G2 Nbrarianiot ive: Lins titentl ome xi
Coville. (rs Wred ericke :Vi2 a. 2 Aa a eS eee xiii
Crossbow, The history of the, illustrated from specimens in the United
SERS IN POMEL A Go eriian (Ayvaulogye)) 2. 427
Cryogenic’ laboratory at Leiden, ‘The. (Guillien)= 2 = 2 ee LECT
Cummings, Homer S., Attorney General (member of the Institution) ____ xi
D
Daughters of the American Revolution, National Society, report____----- 95
Deignan; JW. (Ges 22). a ee ee 20
Delano;/Fredéric A... (vecent,) | 4 ee ee eee xi, 6, 103
DensmoresRrances se ee eee eee, 41
Dern, George H., Secretary of War (member of the Institution) ~----_-~ xi
Diatoms, Significance of shell structure in (Conger) —---~-----_--___-__ 825
Ditmars, Raymond L., and Greenhall, Arthur M. (The vampire bat: A
presentation of undescribed habits and review of its history) -------_ PAE
Dorsey, Harry W., administrative assistant to the Secretary_-__-------_ xi

Dorsey, Nicholas W., treasurer and disbursing agent of the Institution__ Sab
Diy Sdhys Ae

Doyle: Aida Mes Saves ake ey Sh tare et ee ee ee xili
Dyke. bequest; (Charlesu 2. 250 oe a8 2k, ee ee ee 14
E
Harth, the sun, and sunspots, The (Andrews) == 2 See 137

Haster island. Polynesia, ((uavachety) S22 eee 391

INDEX A4]

Page
Milswonthe ince ine eae a ee ee Cae ee eee ee 19
Errington, Dr. Paul L. (What is the meaning of predation?) ----------- 243
Eskimo archeology of Greenland, The (Mathiassen) —------------------~- 397
Hsiablishment.s SmiinSOMiAN esas = ee ee ee 5
Behnolos yas buUreaWs Ob PAMeON Caren ee ee 4,102
ip eT ee ee Sk Ce ee eee 42,83
TPN bere es ee ee ee 41, 91, 95
BSE) (ee aa 36
SETS ets ents eos ig Bre ape RR Cee a SE er ee eee ne ae xiv
TEWra See OS OreLh ee ES Wy fS)) ee ee ore 145
BivGliuitOne SOMe: NEW, ASPeCUS Ole (PE y.Chant) ae ee ee ee ee 217
Eixchanc en Nenvices intern ytlOM alse ee eee re ee ee eee 4, 102
Tix EY DCO Spleen aS Lo ae re ee eee ae 44
Si EET, pny Se Sar a a ee aa a A eae er SPO eed ta OC aE Xiv
PexplOTatlOns mands teld WOM Kose see ee ene eee ee ee 14
F
Farley, James A., Postmaster General (member of the Institution) —--__~ xi
oOeTStese Dr PATI SUISt Hned Crick 2-25 2. oan 2 es ee 24
lasin toot Wa Na fe a ee ero-ahit
Howleswsl red erick Wi. Qiao 2 be ee ee xiv
Tiare: (Cid Gl a ee en oe oe a 99
TenrermeGalleinyvdOt AT Gens ots eo Lie ie Ae ee es ee eee 3
C31 Sy gO Nae ES IS a eae hs ee ee a ee aes 34
TEV TENG | a ER a Ea a a ee ee ee 99:
RECRUITS Bs ee eg cape won de Be Sat hE ee se be ee ee 34
MMs ye ee ee ee Fane 3
UME T Gees te a a See Be ek eS ee ee SL
REST NC Te Geena ee tee ne fs PAT Ley Le Sd 2 ee 32
Rees eee in tart SL ie a SE Se OS Mer ee tfa ees a ee Xiv
Heo mantis tse FOR DGi ls = <n ee ere ee a ee ee xii
G
‘Slava i@ie,y TER TOL 2 De ee eee xiii
Garner, John N., Vice President of the United States (regent and member
Olathe EN SE GUO!) se ee ene el ee ee eee IG
(Givi, TO Wes (OSG Shipton ee ee eee aque, PL
Giord skepresentatives Charles. (Legent) === =— == ae xi, 6
IMO Le RO HAT Css Wie e eee ee tn eee See ee ee Kio eel ak
Gia inc Pino Fes 03 oad 28) 8 LL. a ee = il
ROCKEE EX PerlmMenits Of ss sees Se) ee oe ee Ae oe Be 8
Goldsborough, Representative T. Alan (regent) -—~-_.-__--___________---__ xi, 6
Goldsmith, 7aMes tee anes + eee as eee en Sele Soke ssa ee 23
Gorillas of the Kayonsa region, western Kigezi, southwest Uganda, The
(GRETA TN) ene ne ene Sia a ESTAR 8 ae et ee ie 253
Graf, John H., associate director, National Museum____------__--___--_- xii
Graal) dvi eae eee ee eee wee See ee Se eee 15
Greenland, The Eskimo archeology of (Mathiassen)----_-_----________-- 3897
Guest, Grace Dunham, assistant curator, Freer Gallery of Art-----_--~_- Xiv

Guillien, Robert (The cryogenic laboratory at Leiden) --_-_-_____-__----__- 177
449 INDEX
H

Page
BY 07S) Mes 6 0 6 Ue eae ear aE etn esi 2 ater, para eee FOE a aS ln nak 98
PEA CHeMDer so funn Gea ee ee ee en ee Le ae 98
1 Kei aH oy gy Bb 0 (0 naan pe ae cle Nal arent ation cl ete ae ie oalls ob En AS ae any oe FN 98
Je bripereah caved ay pf beth eee) Dbsg ofeL0 Ua aL wir Sy OKO) 1 SP A eat ee 91
Herring tone Dr Jonna 2222 oie eee es ee ee ee ee eee xiv, 38
Harrison Capit WOun oe et ee een oe Oe tee ee eee ee 20
FLENGELrSOMs eHic ya Ci ee eee ee eee ee ne eee xi 2
TOS HAT TAC Me SR OE ev Rte ke me xiii
NETS val ti beg: re EDIE FONG oes ee ree pe ree RS Ee COR ee xiv, 40, 41
Ell yamessHe property, clerkjof thesis tition se xi
DUM ee ime DG el arly feat Was ae ek SR a eI Bee I Se 97,98
ET iy Ores MEE Soe Vit a ene ee ee oe ee ee es ee eee ee 17, 102
ELITE R COCK STs AU DET tS Ce eee eae rere: (rou es Seager Se ee ere eee eee 23
Moding ering ee ene re eee ee eee ee ee eee ee ee 98
3) OL SX C0 UK Chet hi ba er SS a en es Dee Se 97, 98
HOOVer jWalliam aE] Sas Oak See 2 eS ee ee ee ee ena eee ees xiv, 81
EV OUSH ADE PW, alte rs sae se ee es ar ee ee ee eee 23
EL O Wait oT) 12E CL ELT EN ©) Seen ee eee ere ae eee eee eee xii
BS aC US as BAD acd SN SY a ead a ats 245 als 1)

Hughes, Charles Evans, Chief Justice of the United States (chancellor
NTC ST CT O Leet Cm ara S toh Unite Tn) Jee rae xi..6

DB Ep ied oVeYSs OT AUG Weal Sg) DCG) hte tages ae He pe ee a pepe RON ay eB or eee on as pe ea 98

Hull, Cordell, Secretary of State (member of the Institution) --_________ xi
I
Ickes, Harold L., Secretary of the Interior (member of the Institution) __ xi
Internationale WsxchaneensS Crva CC saa aa a ee 4, 102
TE@PORG = ks ee a ee ee le ee ee ee 44
Gea ee aE eh ae al a er 104
J
Jeans, Sir James (The size and age of the universe) _-__________-_____-__ 123
Johnston, Dr. Earl S., assistant director, Division of Radiation and
EAT STS Oe aks ena ae ne a a ee ahve lily geal
(Sunray sand aplanthlite)) See a ee eee 353
Si Ta CH PRIN GD aise 9 tere tate Pho tee res ee ee ee ere er ne xii, 15
K
Keesom= Prot} Dre Ws ie sane eos RE ee eee eee 11
Kellogo.- DrasRemington=s22 22s see ae ee es EE oe a eee eee xii
Ketchum, Miriam B., librarian, Bureau of American Ethnology___---_-- xiv, 84
JC p MH lsworth? Pale iS ee SE a eee Xi, 2
Kem O wiles, War lveprya Ae ee a a ce 2 ee Le eee 23
Kol, dry Hirzsébet23 ose ee ee ee Se 11
FETC eB ED We aa ae a re St a xii, 15, 20
L
Eien, Arete bei ee ee 83
luayachery, Henri (Haster Island, Polynesia)/—2=—- 2-222 22s == 391
Seta \seil ©O1U  p ee  e S Re Rr Se  e e e  e 42, 84

AVCOMATCs wHNNCT YY, Ce eae ee ee xiii

INDEX 443

Page
WMAbranes of che Institution» and branches 2.22 ee 16
MODOVG eas aes eh es eee ra 8 Aire able ee et sees), ate Boe 83
AuMMArys ObaACCeSSiONS == 2 = = - tia ee ey eee Te ees 87
Wockemianvey, On" =. Saree Eiaeress ye _ Aivagte. wd geese ear 2 Lee pepe oF 19
Lodge, John Hllerton, curator, Freer Gallery of Art__-__________-_______ xiv, 35
Mocan Senator: Ma. (resent) setae 2. saat See reese Sebel en Tee Beet xi, 6
prin eA SU SLUSH wl eS Ol bea rcs a nee ee ee eS a ee xi, 6
M

Mann, Dr. William M., director, National Zoological Park__________ Ma KVR TD,
SPR sae ge TVA TS 2s Bia a= nate tm hres te a nd ena darn re ta nee nae ace ome TRAD Sail
Mathiassen, Therkel (The Eskimo archeology of Greenland) ___-___-_____ 397
NVERAOUTAE pO) Pe VV Ete oon at we La RI LTE J PS Dike DD Ae TS BE oe xiii
ESAT SECT SOD) Pe HG Week Cl sD ae ce ek Ee oe, DE ke xiv, 81
MeNary: Senator+Charies-I:. (regent) 2=s2-222—0) Fie) ee ee xi, 6
METEr a1) reteLOreNGer Hee 2. 0 eer Ll 2 Mh STI SA Jo ee xiv. 81
(EReachonustoy ultraviolet} radiation) = 224202. ke ee ee 73
Merriat-l iJ ohn: ©: (regent) =<=24- nae ee eR EE xi, 6, 103
Michelson eb rss er nil ane se 8 er we ate LT I as xiv, 15, 37
MUTT orem GLEN EE see ad eres ee nn Lee ER EE BN xii, 14
DSL TUBT ECE Df OFT A VES I le = age CS TL xiii, 23
NGOLO wis W alton Gregen fi) ena LE ee ee a eee xi, 6, 103

Morgenthau, Henry, Jr., Secretary of the Treasury (member of the
ILCs Gat ETT ERO Tal) a ea Fe erlang ees a ee he Th A xi
Monrissholand =Sss (ree emt) seek ee ee xi, 6
DLO A UES 3 OU eA EY ee i Sl ep a PE 9
MOUMNSKSINVESE La TONS i-ass ae eee eS ae et 9
Myereennd: Catherine: Waldenvss..4 22s 22 oe ee ee ee 27, 28
PRET BIDE GEOLL CL Se eres a kiveoe te Sai) ee ee Se ee xii, 21

N

INatonalvGallery tor Amp ee. a Se See 3, 102
ACHE NGINCCLOD = a ek ee wee ee Oe en eae eee ee xiii, xiv, 26, 31
CCOTET UTS ESS 03 1p Ste neat at shrapnel I a ae, EE ie Balls Ie Rade Mice a aa A Pe area 3, 20
Core Tu OV CGY PES ayers] 0 2 oF bagel ee thea ATER rsa poh ae et 29
LIT DTA 7s pe sare are ero arab iy Ra we iy Nee ls GA Gel Af Rh A Me DR ein ttt tage toa apt Re 30, 83
PUMDNED ION Sasa ae ae = Sere eo i a ee ee ee ee a 31, 91
TSS RO TS Ua es ss re ee ere ee ee ne a eae Ne SE eS TS ae eee 25
SSC et fe ee ee ene ee er tS ek oS ee ee xiv
Nai ON SVE SC WIN senee ns ean Ree ee aa ER EE! OU ERS ee eee 2, 102
EXN IDIOMS SPCCLB meres te ee ee ne ee ee 22
UT) OSE ekg pat gee et ty at «NE A ene eae a a ws pe 83
POL ODL Taya YS ee = ap. 5 oe | ee pa ia cytes Se plea Ra lo al ee eee 22, 91, 94
PREY GCOS aL a rs en 5 Se ee ap kc Bg A cee te age ens 17
CSB ae as ag So ered pee pene A i ee ate xii
PESTO GS han a ee a caren ce ee pn ei a 21
INGTON eA Ol ORT CA le ear kee ete en ee eee ee ee ee 4, 102
ANTMALS In) LHe COLlCCLION, GUNeC OU, 1 OGG ee ee 61
CONTE EYG) 170) te eaten ne, ecg ap cease ae it Bete Ae ache a rhe My er aT xii, xiv, 75

JU} OV EE2 hyp Saw ip el eh ts As bet pals pa te SP Na re vipa DS we gaa Rn RY 2 Peep
THEY OY ON se i: A np wn Boo pee ure ne RS Pk RS cate age eae el ae ieet nop maa 53
(SI 0 epee pe hk ta at Oe Te pd pte Nee pena Ones tg bhhaiat teeta LE AUR er AEA xiv
444 INDEX

oO
Page
Ocean: bottom; Core samplessok ten CE LO bee ere 207
Oehser, Paul Hi: editor; National Museums. - = = eee ee Xiv, 22,94
Oliver, Lawrence L., property clerk, National Museum__________________ xiv, 23
Olmsted; Dr vArthur Jes Aer ee ee See ees SE eee ee xiii, xiv
Olmsted, Helen A., personnel officer of the Institution-__________________ xi
Oman BWV Sa a a ee pat

)e
Palms Dhet wax (@Sombard)) =" 9. ae leet Dee 2 ee yee ee 303
j 2 FoTh oe) a1, 110 0a 0 MAB SE aoe kU Re rear ne a ne yall a eee eNO IE ey ecom ee ae 98
Rellstund Cornelia giving stones = se ee 98
Perkins, Frances, Secretary of Labor (member of the Institution) __-____ xi
Petroglyphsiof the United States (Steward) 2 2 eee 405
Photography. Aerial; (Baisley, )i2 a2 -s 5 a 2 ee ee ee 383
Piggot, Charles Snowden (Core samples of the ocean bottom) ------___- 207

Pitman, Capt. C. R. S. (The gorillas of the Kayonsa region, western

Kige7isisouthwesteUranda:) == 2s ao Se Pe ee ee 253
TAGE LELS Fa S UTA AY, S cA aN OAT SOM) 353
Plant virus problem, Some aspects of the (Smith) —______-=_____-=_____ 345
PoorettundssLuey 0s andiiGeoree: Was 2 oe ee 98
Predation; What isi the meaning of (Hrrington) 2222 ee 243
President of the United States (member of the Institution) __________ xi
Printing: Allotments sor tesa =F ee Ee A ae a 95
Publications of he institution and branchess =. 2,15
bo 24 OO) ih leet mets kPa es enna open SLAP LM eae Feo R Erg tae Wide Sasa ee Mertey i eetes he Ne I ot 91
Bycratteaw,. Ps (Sone new, aspects ol evolution) 2222s. se ee 217

R
lgeioueNnvoyal hol COheehavispooy IMac Cyr ee 5
1355 00 | Peat eee spe ie et oy eae ey SO eaen eg OTS ER LN RTA CONOR eae 8 81
PSH 5 aa eR ET i Re See ia a ee Ae xiv
Radiations ultraviolet, Reactlonsr tom Viele) sss e eae ee ee 373
Radioactivity and atomic theory | @ruthert ord) ee ee 161
Rezentsvot the institution. ws 0nrdmO fsa a e= a ae a ee eee xi, 6
ESOC ELV COMUNE CC aes 2 ee Ss rere eg xi, 103
TT OT re is en ee ee 97
ELE: ENG; AC OS OM ee ee a ee ee ree eee ee 98
Research: \Corporatone 22-2 so a eee ee ee a ee 102
IRESSEr,, JOPS Charles jis sos 222i Sa ee Se ee See eee db, 2AL
AUR GOSH LLIN ay as ae SP Se A a ee a As ee ee 98
8X0) 0fese1 Hsp DJ ieee ds yee ce] Gaal lyre fh pee eaten en eee OE EE ee eee xiv, 2, 15, 38, 39
Robinson Senator, Joseph si, (resent) eae a ee ee a a xi, 6
DER Wo go ing a FE a a 98
FER OTA WET AE AID Te Sg Ae ih eet A ole ae ed xii
Teeay bn ahs sre u aa PNG Ghee rlera AKO len \ AG NG eT ec lesen Meee el ee is Se eee 98

Roosevelt, Franklin D., President of the United States (member of

EVE ERIS GUE UGH is) Wo ee We Eee ee ae pt xi, 17, 18, 20
Roper, Daniel C., Secretary of Commerce (member of the Institution) -_-__ xi
FEGUIS SOLU, ecJic ALLO WANS O10 Ch ease as aS ae ee gL xii

Rutherford, Lord (Radioactivity and atomic theory) --___-______________ 161

INDEX AA5

S Page
Sirol oan loan tare Las athlete prea eh aie No eect ella kane Sa Die bepa eae eee pe eee cas 98
PSSESELRRUE LALO) Tose CoD CL: Oh te og ter eat cn a RE ee we xii, 14
Searles, Stanley, editor, Bureau of American Ethnology_--------------- xiv, 41
SEU AL EN ey ool OTE Eel Le ep a etn a ee ge he | xii, 20, 22
Shakespeare’s time, Astronomy in, and in ours (Abbot) ---------------- 109
SS EEEOUR DS De DOPE de Ng a eg a a i ela pe Pee 23
SUED BU RPUD EGE ei Oped 8 Heth lA eT en oe eS A xii
SOS TNICe Tem OOD LES WV ee eee eae ees ee ee ee ee ee ee xiv
Smith, Kenneth M. (Some aspects of the plant virus problem) -~-----_ 3845
SE EEASGN a ales DCU GS bas eee ee ee ees er ee eee 97
TEIUUL CaS ee es I Se he ee em rd ee Oe 5
TUES Tano UMMA PTO POL Gssat as a eae ee es ees oe Me a 91, 93
ConLGI but OuS tOukKNOWIed Sess se et oe ee i ee 91
Sle Oyanieniia tin Cisse eee ee Se ee ee ee eee 97, 98
PET SVTOY BS a ee oe ee rep ce DR el Ls eee Si abl
MESce lr aAneCOUSmCOMeCh ONS = sea ae este aan ak ee ee eee 91
PEC) MENPO LO) SUR OLIN ee eas ts eee eM i oe Br ees ee ee {f
RHE TM CTs SOT OS eae ss SN Pe ee 13
BPeCal cn pUbliC atlONS 2 ee se ee ee ee 91, 94
RIC Ta POST ne SF Urn Cae eet ea En i eee 98
TATERE TOS eyo IS brah a0 ee ee ee eee eee 98
Smithsonian Institution exhibit at the Texas Centennial Exposition,
LOSES YS UL le SS a a ee er en 12
SNe Ten a FOr Mik se Ree eel he 98
SreHecer ttl nsa MeOn Mardin swe eee k terse re 2 Se ey a xii
RV Ae REA CL mE) Tes ceeD UV PED TN oe ean tea a eres er arian lee, er Ne ao See ea xiv, 40, 43
(eeiroelypas: ef the United ; States) 2-22-22. sae ee 405
GUE De MAYO EIS} 9) Oe bes at ee eee xii
Stirling, Matthew W., chief, Bureau of American Ethnology_---- xiv, 15, 36, 48
Simone IDS Valin) 0 ee eet ee ee ee eee xiv, 39
SHimeravsnand). plantaliten(sOnNStOn) te as= eee ee ee ea 353
SHHSpOLSe-Lhe: earth: the sun. ands (Andrews) 22-=—=- 2.25 137
Swanson, Claude A., Secretary of the Navy (member of the Institution) _ xi
SHENG TEL. “1 Des $A [COV ON ole 8 Hee De Reet SC Se AS PGE oe RR eee A ere ee eS ee xiv, 36
7
Masia, TET aM ap xiii
RoINISET eRe IC tetas 2a ee ee Se ee ee ee xiii, xiv, 26, 31
Trembly, R. H., superintendent of buildings and labor__________------ xiii, 23
inne wVCDSLcrel. TecicorOLsine) IMS tituilOn= == eee xi, 96
U
Wiltraviolet radiation,. Resetions! toy (Meier) ==2—--- ----_—_______-==-_== 373
Mnnverse  lhesize andsaceror ther(JCals))-— a= 22 — = 123
Vi
Vampire bat, The: A presentation of undescribed habits and review of
ibsehistory Diimars 2ndsGreenhall) =a senses Se 277
WwW
Vk, WOES MW bas \ehib ee Ss ee eee 102

Walcott research fund, Charles D. and Mary Vaux__---------~-------- 98
446 INDEX

Page
Walker, Ernest P., assistant director, National Zoological Park_-_~~~- xiv
Wallace, Henry A., Secretary of Agriculture (member of the Institution) — xi
Watts, Prof. W. W. (Form, drift, and rhythm of the continents) —----~- 185
Wax. palms; The: (bombard) 225222222 ee eee 303
Wenhold || Drsgliucys j=. 2 ae ee ee 37
Wenley, Archibald G., assistant, Freer Gallery of Art_____-___--_-_--_--_ xiy

Wetmore, Dr. Alexander, assistant secretary of the Institution____ xi, xii, 6, 20
Wilbur, C. Martin (The history of the crossbow, illustrated from speci-

mens in the United States National Museum) -—--------_--______~- 427
Wood, Casey A. (Some of the commoner birds of Ceylon) —-----_-----_- 297
rs
Waeger; “William: Toes s ee Le ee ee ee ee eee 103
WaereriiWwalliamis: (eo (C0. s te ee ee ee ee eee 103
Youncerstund:sHelenswaleotte soo eee 98
Z
ZFerhbee* fund) Helen Brin ck ee ee eee eee 98
Foolozical Parks Natl Ona) Ss see ee Serer ee ee a Oe ee ee eee 4, 102
MINIT AS LT tT OC ONL SC El ONT med TATU tepid hs Coe ee er ee 61
CINCEC TO 1 Se eee re a ee a ey ee ene EE ee ee ee xii, xiv, 75
HT OS SES itp ag pe et ce OP ah nr NaF en 84
TEODOR ee a ie ee re ee ee ee ee ee 53
CS BET i pe ed tg eb ti eal er et PU Sg PSE A US | Xiv

oe iy yer

aa ih
tee is es

fay se 7 sabi’

’ ‘
i

i ' i
alab Pd
Be Ah Rie et Be
“¢ €a@ 4 a2

P| i! x Pea’ "68 Rag*
Mia eidcddud aiuiatata’ at ata” kets he

seeeeataeencee “8, “
ny

9
PO oC a rie oh

ye q @ Qt a gd
[tetetatete
telah!
iene eae

a a @ €

* a
\. ,

4 A @  & &.
‘Cee EERE
| ae

at

ae P) vs a rx
¢ia@aa

i RXR GAA
wi

aA
‘ie

q
s,

Bt - » :
Ss &

eid dd dda
at aa"

a.

¥

. ®
# ® Hs

“4

‘< ® “s.

a
ry
f

PY

qj aa
or
aj Qe
@ ae i,

5

a qa 8
4 @ % “ «@
€ « « on ae a a @ ‘€ aa

ak

ry

& & 4X @

.

¢ ‘<

46 4

cm.
q 4

‘diate

‘dh gee
Sa a ae

qj ge

ene

~e ® a

a @ M. if, oO . ‘eS
ss «|
~~ 4 om a

4a

wwe ke
As,

ee ee

olatats ar a “8
< Qa
| aad

a < A < ee

oe ay 1

)
qe

rer he

q

; ‘
. 4 &

ae Se)

a 4 "¢ :
peeked!
‘ A £ &

‘fa ate!
gs Oe | «
coe 4 4, 4 ie Ps ¢ ‘A

7 4 ye a € a
Mp
ve ig! y “4 q 4“ “ fi *
a @
a qa et
ue & @ <a 4 aad
“y "a on or or

cgtetate’ &

7

&
“e * « . a ae Gt
eo eng “a ener

m7 «us A & aX

NE ete

a @ @
« é"¢

<e i ‘¢
a, eae

Kee
x

on

oie

od Me

“4 < < ms “f “a < os
&. &

a

a & wt, a *,

a wi¢
¥
