Bot
@

Abe

\

ae _ uo
i le : Pa % a » a te
: % ee f bs bs t
; ee Oe es

7

49

-

ne Aen at aterm

je deptiocln 2 Seine paicntis ohh desbimacie

Ais

aly % (ais Tar sae

wy : aN Aeas Pits fs Wie bate
Ss
ae Wiis Bras ios ote

; Me re os
Gin i ate i
Bass iaia hae
Ma f oA Nays
: $n S iad

Ne oa
is ere Me
$7) a 7
%) 4

ee a aa ee
wy _ oo

i : Uf es i .
. a

ae ae A are a ,
4 ti ms : i ae Ipanat sas
3)

* iF Bt
i a ts

if peredtas ten tt
ene ense i b is
ae 3 7 : by

ty
Hart

ng i i

aN

a He
Dees ty i i

Sack

~

So
ee

Wea sie

bey ts aN
i ae i .
; i RueraD
i if

Seen
Spero on,
Ree ener tonnccrer!

=
So

Serres
eer

ate a

He “hay Lae,
ye
8

}

ety
io .
. ae

oo

a 7
etiseseey) ui ais wwartiey
Be is Ve a . ay ‘, ay Ae sei
: wees 3 Baath ;

a 7 ao i

fy x5 5
7
Hit wes

hays
in
Ne
es 1

¢
shh
My as

i) -

i i 3

ats ‘he

10

set a
an

vs Bi sa
He ‘

a rs

|

Dy.
Oe 5

|

a
iy 4 ae

J % 3 ah oc i is eat: Pe a Vv Avi : Pe 7 N\ v| Vi. y MW \ gt val Nd V \ GY h
3 BVA A Vii j}x ‘ Aid Ye y 3 x ae oy fh ) if j\ . i; z Sirs a.
V ve\ yy ‘ iM, Y AS Ne] \ tt We Ji vi i y iN PR e« fh aN f ‘\ i ; it F ‘ ; R a a, Be mee x

seh ei { a) yw
Ve : NW > Roy N= jt % ‘
jw: \ i) KIMI MMS MA] Wd
Fa 8 WH wd % hE AS 7 ee ae hah \ }

i A ; e x
i G +s ‘ i 7 . > > Twe. KS . a
: ~ eh me ’ he ie Se ee | 3 ‘ ie
io tea me 7 4 b |. te tw OF es Sie ae i rf : (See Jie
AS bana ime Ae UM. | AG i SE AN RA hESC

\ / |
Y

Wie

of wT,

EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT

OF THE

BOARD OF REGENTS

OF THE

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,

SHOWING

THE OPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES, AND CONDITION OF
THE INSTITUTION UP TO JANUARY 1, 1854.

AND THE

Go N

.¢

PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD UP TO JULY 8, 1854.

i

tid

WASHINGTON:
BEVERLEY TUCKER, SENATE PRINTER.
1854.
ren te

ve re iT)
BS fewiee 0 ids
ee,

Me.

33d ConGcRESS, | [SENATE.] Mts. Doe.

1st Session. No. 73.
LETTER
SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,

The Annual Report of the Board of Regents.

Juty 25, 1854.—Ordered to be printed.

Jury 28, 1854.—Ordered that 10,000 additional copies be printed, 500 of which for the use
of the Smithsonian Institution.

SmiruHsoniaw Instirution, July 22, 1854.

Str: I have the honor herewith to transmit to you the Annual
Report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, and beg
leave to request that you will present it to the Senate of the United
States.

I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,

JOSEPH HENRY,

Secretary Smithsonian Institution.
Hon. Davin R. Arcuison,

President of the Senate of the U. S.
pn ae yf ic +N:

ilk TS eee a...

i 7h ee ba ste ; ‘hia nt re ni} ‘ee F Lies
a 7a aH | te i ™) ap : MM Diy maar is v Ore ait < Hida Wha
a : 4 - i % | hs Aj Pa v a 1 14 (a : ‘SEO ay is 4

| a | | A. ite .

i pea § “(ae itt 7H . : a na Ami 4) m Lame Ng ;
Ae 7 oil

F ey a , oa “oi i iE ot A
a ay ee a

rn |
ae v
rai? ; re

OFFICERS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

FRANKLIN PIERCE, Ex-officio Presiding Officer of the Institution.

ROGER B. TANEY, Chancellor of the Institution.

JOSEPH HENRY, Secretary of the Institution.

CHARLES C. JEWETT, Assistant Secretary, in charge of the Library, up to July 10, 1854.
SPENCER F. BAIRD, Assistant Secretary, in charge of the Museum.

ALEXANDER D. BACHE,
JAMES A. PEARCE, Executive Committee.
JOSEPH G. TOTTEN,

RICHARD RUSH,
WM. H. ENGLISH, Building Committee.
JOSEPH HENRY,

W. W. SEATON, Treasurer.

REGENTS OF THE INSTITUTION.

—— ——_, Vice President of the United States.

ROGER B. TANEY, Chief Justice of the United States.

JOHN T. TOWERS, Mayor of the City of Washington.

JAMES A. PEARCE, Member of the Senate of the United States.
JAMES M. MASON, Member of the Senate of the United States.

S. A. DOUGLAS, Member of the Senate of the United States.

W. H. ENGLISH, Member of the House of Representatives.

DAVID STUART, Member of the House of Representatives.

JAMES MEACHAM, Member of the House of Representatives.
RUFUS CHOATE, Citizen of Massachusetts.

GIDEON HAWLEY, Citizen of New York.

J. MACPHERSON BERRIEN, Citizen of Georgia.

RICHARD RUSH, Citizen of Pennsylvania.

ALEXANDER D. BACHE, Member of the National Institute, Washington.
JOSEPH G. TOTTEN, Member of the National Institute, Washington.
MEMBERS EX-OFFICIO OF THE INSTITUTION.

FRANKLIN PIERCE, President of the United States.

, Vice President of the United States.
WILLIAM L. MARCY, Secretary of State.

JAMES GUTHRIE, Secretary of the Treasury.
JEFFERSON DAVIS, Secretary of War.

JAMES C. DOBBIN, Secretary of the Navy.

JAMES CAMPBELL, Postmaster General.

CALEB CUSHING, Attorney General.

ROGER B. TANEY, Chief Justice of the United States.
CHARLES MASON, Commissioner of Patents.

JOHN T. TOWERS, Mayor of the City of Washington.

HONORARY MEMBERS.

ROBERT HARE.
WASHINGTON IRVING.
BENJAMIN SILLIMAN.
PARKER CLEAVELAND.
EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT

OF THE

BOARD OF REGENTS

OF

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,

SHOWING

The operations, expenditures, and condition of the Institution up to January

1, 1854, and the proceedings of the Board up to July 8, 1854.

To the Senate and House of Representatives :

In obedience to the act of Congress of August 10, 1846, establishing
the Smithsonian Institution, the undersigned, in behalf of the Regents,
submit to Congress, as a report of the operations, expenditures, and
condition of the Institution, the following documents :

1. The Annual Report of the Secretary, giving an account of the
operations of the Institution during the year 1853, including reports
from the Assistant Secretaries, relative to the library, museum, &c.

2. Report of the Executive Committee, giving a general statement
of the proceeds and disposition of the Smithsonian fund, and also an
account of the expenditures for the year 1853.

3. Report of the Building Committee, relative to the progress made
in 1853 in the erection of the Smithsonian edifice.

4. Proceedings of the Board of Regents and of the Establishment,
up to July 2, 1854

5. Appendix.

Respectfully submitted.

ROGER B. TANEY, Chancellor.
JOSEPH HENRY, Secretary.
Jury 22, 1854.
a
st ; -
- ©
7 UV a
4 1 *
mM,
i reer’
7 A J Pr:
a -
2 ian
re

| ' ; ; nat ' : ; ie ; Nii
a eo ae a ae ber
Th) ie Shige Re: ag “pitas AUCH Ag oO ei

ita gad da) 4 WeDo Cena Fhe a ARAL hs .
oe inn oh da ata

7
te | i
arp va vf pat as ae Stet et a ae fone 3

uy

CC (or a ers) a? Rear a i ftp ‘9 fon
A whe +. ay i) +A yi veils wings raven lakh a ary) ée
Dean ir hae iy eS | i Sa ae eh. ian

pe ot i; _ - ie
nae ai oe a Meaney 0 Ge te ar +d ee
Ky che ghemeees ot
. Te eee a. ii oe
Pity eer tyiney j Hv be By ae Peat). pete Be “gives '

\ Ss)
vf
NV
‘ 1
5 DY of \/
' t ‘
; {
" ‘
wy, i = ‘A , -

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution.

GentLEMEN: Nothing of especial interest has occurred during the
past year to mark an epoch in the history of the mstitution over which
you preside. The several objects set forth in the plan of organization
have been prosecuted as far as the funds which could be devoted to
them would allow. A knowledge of the true character of the institu-
tion has been gradually extended, and it is a subject of gratification
that the plan of operations is more highly appreciated the better it is
understood. Every succeeding year which is added to the age of the
institution will render it more stable, so long as it pursues undeviatingly
the same course. All establishments, however, which are supported
by bequests, intended to promote the public good, are necessarily sub-
jected to the scrutiny of all who consider themselves personally inter-
ested in the trust. The managers are overwhelmed with suggestions,
and subjected to illiberal criticisms, and unless they are firmly con-
vinced of the propriety of their course, and have sufficient moral cour-
age to pursue it notwithstanding opposition, there is danger of vacilla-
tion, and of an attempt to gain popularity by adopting measures not
calculated to promote the desired end. It should, however, be recol-
lected that opinions ought to be weighed rather than counted, and that
nothing of importance can be accomplished either by an individual or
an institution, except by constant and laborious exertion in one direc-
tion. In:the beginning of this institution the plans best calculated to
realize the liberal intentions of the donor were adopted after due delib-
eration, and have been constantly adhered to and developed as far
as the requisitions of Congress and the limited income would allow.
From the character of James Smithson and his pursuits there can
be no reasonable doubt as to his intention in regard to the bequest.
He was a man familiar with the precise language of exact science,
and no other construction ought to be put upon the words of his will
than that which a strict interpretation will allow. He leaves his prop-
erty to found an establishment which shall bear his own name, and
have for its object “the increase and diffusion of knowledge among
men.” It would evidently be incompatible with an enlarged and just
interpretation of this will to confine its benefits exclusively to one peo-
ple, and especially would it be unworthy the character of a great nation
to accept the administration of a bequest intended for the good of man-
kind, and to apply it exclusively to its own use.

Nothing apparently can be further from the truth than the idea which
10 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

was first prevalent in this country that Smithson left his money merely
to diffuse practical knowledge among the people of the United States.
On the contrary he intended this institution as a monument to his name
which should be known of all men, and prized by the student of every
branch of literature and science, which should not be restricted to merely
spreading abroad the knowledge which already exists, but, above all,
should be the means of enlarging the bounds of human thought. He
was also too much of a philosopher to confine his bequest to the pro-
motion of any one branch of literature or science, and therefore left
the trust free to be applied to all.

His will recognizes a well established and very important distinc-
lion with regard to knowledge, viz. its mcrease and its diffusion.
These, though frequently confounded, are very different processes, and
each may exist independent of the other. While we rejoice that in our
country, above all others, so much attention is paid to the diffusion of
knowledge, truth compels us to say that comparatively little encour-
agement 1s given toits increase.

There is another division with regard to knowledge which Smithson
does not embrace in his design, viz. the application of knowledge to
useful purposes in the arts; and it was not necessary he should found an
institution for this purpose. There are already in every civilized
country establishments and patent laws for the encouragement of this
department of mental industry. As soon as any branch of science can
be brought to bear on the necessities, conveniences, or luxuries of lite,
it meets with encouragement and reward. Not so with the discovery
of the incipient principles of science. The investigations which lead to
these receive no fostering care from government, and are conSidered
by the superficial observer as trifles unworthy the attention of those
who place the supreme good in that which immediately administers to
the physical necessities or luxuries of life.
~ If physical well being were alone the object of existence, every ave-
nue of enjoyment should be explored to its utmost extent. But he
who loves truth for its own sake, feels that its highest claims are
lowered and its moral influence marred by being continually sum-
moned to the bar of immediate and palpable utility. Smithson ‘himself
had no such narrow views. The prominent design of his bequest is
the promotion of abstract science. It leaves to the teacher and the
teeming press to diffuse popular knowledge, and to the Patent Office
and the manufacturer to facilitate and reward the application of science
to the useful arts. In this respect the Institution holds an otherwise
unoccupied place in this country, and adopts two fundamental max-
ims in its policy: 1st, to do nothing with its funds which can be equally
well done by other means; and, 2d, to produce results which, as far
as possible, will benefit mankind in general. Any deviations from
these maxims which the history of the Institution may exhibit, must
be referred to the original requirements of the law of Congress au-
thorizing its establishment, and not to the plan of active operations at
first proposed in the programme, and which has constantly been kept
in view trom the beginning until the present time.

A miscellaneous and general library, museum, and gallery of art,
though important in themselves, have from the first been considered by
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 11

those who have critically examined the will of Smithson, to be too re-
stricted in their operations and too local in their influence, to meet the
comprehensive intentions of the testator; and the hope has been cher-
ished that other means may ultimately be provided for the support of
those objects, and that the whole income of the Smithsonian fund may
be devoted to the more legitimate objects of the noble bequest..-—

I have been informed by the Commissioner of Patents that the space
now occupied in the building of the Patent Office by the national mu-
seum, is imperatively required for the display of models; and he sug-
gests that a part or the whole of the Smithsonian building shall be pur-
chased for the deposit of this collection. If Congress will entirely
relieve the Smithsonian fund from the expense of collecting and main-
taining a museum, a large portion of the present building would be
unnecessary, and the proposition to purchase a part or the whole of it
might properly be entertained. The Smithsonian Institution, if required,
would take the supervision of a government museum, and would turn
over to it all the specimens collected after they had been examined and
described. The importance of a collection at the seat of government
to illustrate the physical geography, natural history, and ethnology of
the United States, cannot be too highly estimated. But the support of
such a collection ought not to be a burthen upon the Smithsonian fund.

It was stated in the last report that the plan of an equal division of
the income between the library and museum on the one hand, and the
lectures, the publications, and researches on the other, was found not
to work well in practice. It leads to inharmonious action, and to a
system of expenditure by no means compatible with proper economy
or the limited income of the Smithsonian fund. The subject has, how-
ever, been referred to a special committee of the Regents, which I trust
will give it due consideration, and report their views during the present
session of the Board.

Publications.—During the past year no diminution has taken place in
the objects of interest which have presented themselves for the assist-
ance and patronage of the institution. The amount of publications has
only been limited by the appropriation which could be devoted to this
purpose.

1. The first memoir published during the past year is one by Dr.
Joseph Leidy, Professor of Anatomy in the University of Pennsylvania,
entitled, ‘The Ancient Fauna of Nebraska.”

A considerable portion of the country between the Mississippi and
the Rocky mountains consists of the more recent geological deposits,
and particularly on the Upper Missouri there exists a tract of country
known by the name of the Mauvaises Terres, or the Bad Lands;
this at one time was probably the bottom of an immense lake, in
which perished thousands of animals having no representatives at
this time on the surface of the earth. It appears that the waters
of this lake were removed by some convulsion of nature, that the sedi-
ment at its bottom became indurated, and that afterwards the whole
country was traversed by an immense wave of water, which carried
away the softer parts of the strata, and left standing the harder
parts in a series of irregular prismatic and columnar masses frequently

42 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

capped with irregular pyramids, and extending upwards to a height
of from one to two hundred feet. ‘‘ Viewed in the distance, these
rocky piles in their endless succession assume the appearance of mas-
sive architectural structures, with all the accessories of buttresses, turrets,
and tapering spires.”? ‘The portion of the surface thus excavated forms
a valley of ninety miles in length and thirty in breadth, which in its most
depressed portion is about three hundred feet below the surface of the
surrounding country. So thickly are the natural towers studded over
the surface of this extraordinary region, that the traveller threads his
way through deep confined passages, which resemble the narrow irre-
gular streets and lanes of some of the old towns of the continent of
Europe. At the foot of these columns, the remains of the ancient ani-
mals, which lived and breathed long before the advent of man upon
the face of the earth, are found in such abundance as to form of this
tract an extensive cemetery of vertebrated animals, rivalling, in the
variety of its extinct species, the celebrated beds of the Paris basin.

This region having been brought to notice by a few fossil remains
procured through the agents of the American Fur Company, an ap-
propriation of about $200 for its exploration was made by the Smith-
sonian Institution to Mr. Thaddeus Culbertson, who was about to visit,
on account of his health, the sources of the Missouri. ‘The specimens
of fossil remains which were thus procured, together with a collection
subsequently presented to the Institution by Capt. Stewart Van Vliet,
of the U. 8S. army, and several specimens kindly lent by Dr. Prout, of
Missouri, were referred to Dr. Leidy for examination. In addition to
these he had the use of a collection lent by Prof. O’Loghland, of Mis-
souri, specimens belonging to the Academy of Natural Sciences, Phila-
delphia, and a collection made by Dr. Evans, at the instigation of Dr.
D. Dale Owen, the whole embracing all the specimens which have yet
been brought to the east from the Bad Lands. ‘The bones are com-
pletely petrified, and their cavities filled with silicious matter. They
are preserved in various degrees of integrity, some being beautifully
perfect and others broken and imperfect, the latter having been evi-
dently subjected to violence while imbedded in a soft mud. ‘The ani-
mals belong to the classes mammalia and chelonia, or turtles. With a
single exception, all the species of mammalia belong to the great order
of ungulata or hoofed animals, of which there are seven species of four
genera, which belong to the ruminantia, or cud-chewing animals ; two
species of one genus belonging to the paradigitata ordinaria, or even-
toed animals ; one species of the solipedia, or solid-hoofed animals ; and
four species of three genera belonging to the imparidigitata ordinaria, or
uneven-toed animals.

The first specimen described belonged to a peculiar genus of rumi-
nants which, among recent animals, is more nearly allied to the musk,
and was probably hornless. The next is of a remarkable genus of
ungulata representing a type which occupies a position in the wide
physiological interval existing between recent ruminants and the anom-
alous fossil animal called the anoplotherium. Another genus is called
oreodon, and constitutes one of the links necessary to fill up the very
wide gap between existing ruminants and an exceedingly aberrant form
of the same family now extinct. Another organic relic is that of an
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 15

animal which combined the ruminant and carnivorous characteristics,
of which there are several species. There are also two remarkable
species of rhinoceros, differing from any remains of this animal found
in other parts of the globe. The existing species of the rhinoceros
are met with in Africa, Asia, and the islands of Java and Sumatra.
Remains of extinct species have been found in Great Britain, the conti-
nent of Europe, Siberia, and the Himalayas; but no trace of this
genus had previously been discovered in America. Another fossil
remain belongs to the feline family, about a fifth smaller than the
American panther, and is probably the most ancient known genus of
this animal. Hundreds of fossil turtles are found in the ** Bad Lands ;’’
they belong to the genus testudo, of which five species are described in
this paper.

The memoir occupies one hundred and twenty-six pages, and is il-
lustrated by twenty-four plates, one of whichis a folio. It has already
been printed and copies distributed among working geologists. No
copy-right is secured on the publications of the Institution; and it may
be mentioned here, as an illustration of the manner in which the know-
ledge contained in the Smithsonian memoirs reaches the public gene-
rally in a popular form, that one of the figures of this paper has already
been copied, and some of its materials given in a recent work on
geology.

2. Another paper, the printing of which is nearly complete, is on the
‘¢ Winds of the Northern Hemisphere,” by Prof. James H. Coffin, of La-
fayette College, Easton, Pennsylvania. It is the same which was men-
tioned in the Report for 1851. Its publication has been delayed in con-
sequence of the difficulty experienced in finishing the maps and printing
the tabular matter, and also on account of additions made to it by the
author. It isavery elaborate memoir, of two hundred pages, consisting
principally of tabular matter, and illustrated by thirteen maps. The most
important results arrived at in this paper, are as follows: There exist
in the northern hemisphere three great zones of wind, extending entirely
around the earth, modified and, in some cases, partially interrupted by
the configuration and character of the surface. The first of these is
the trade wind, near the equator, blowing, when uninterrupted, from
northeast to southwest. This belt is interrupted, however, in the At-
lantic ocean, near the coast of Africa, upon the Mediterranean sea, and
also in Barbary by the action of the Gieat Desert. The second is a
belt of westerly wind, nearly two thousand miles in breadth, between
latitude 35° and 60° north, and encircling the earth, the westerly di-
rection being clearly defined in the middle of the belt, but gradually
disappearing as we approach the limits on either side. North of this,
there is another system of winds flowing southwardly from high north-
erm latitudes, and gradually inclining towards the west as it moves into
a latitude of greater easterly velocity.

Subsequent investigations have led Prof. Coffin to conclude that the
lines which separate these systems are not parallels of latitude, but
circles, having a common pole in about latitude 84° north, and longi-
tude 105° west from Greenwich, and that the winds of high northern
latitudes diverge or radiate from this point.

The principal cause of these phenomena is the greater heat of the
14 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

sun between the tropics, which rarifies the air, and causes it to ascend
into the higher regions ; producing below a current from the pole towards
the equator, and above a current in the opposite direction. ‘The re-
sulting motions to and from the equator are not in a north and south
direction along the meridians, but are modified by the rotation of the
earth: at the surface they deviate towards the west, and in the return
current above towards the east. Ifthe point mentioned by Prof. Coffin
as the centre of the winds of the polar zone really exists, it is probably
that of maximum cold; the air at this point would be condensed, and
flow from it in radial lines in every direction along the surface of the
earth. ‘The paper is an important addition to meteorology, and has
cost the author years of labor. The publication of it has also been very
expensive, particularly on account of the maps and tables.

3. Another memoir accepted for publication is, “An Account of a
Tornado that passed near New Harmony, Indiana, April 30, 1852, by
John Chappelsmith.”

The eastern portion of the North American continent is almost every
year visited at different points by one or more tornadoes of frightful
energy, but of exceedingly circumscribed limits; and it is almost an
opprobrium to the science of this country that more reliable data have
not been collected towards settling definitely the conditions of these re-
markable phenomena, and for ascertaining their cause. For this purpose
however, mere verbal descriptions of the effects are alone insufficient,
there must be added to these accurate instrumental surveys, and, if
possible, the indications of the barometer, thermometer, and hygrome-
ter. The first accurate report of this kind was that by Prof. A. D.
Bache, relative to a tornado which passed over the city of New Bruns-
wick, in New Jersey, in 1834. A similar survey was made by Pro-
fessor Eustis, of Harvard University, of the tornado of August 21, 1851,
which passed near Cambridge. ‘

We consider the present memo as an exceedingly valuable addi-
tion to the stock of our knowledge on this subject. It gives not only
all the collateral phenomena as far as they could be obtained, but
presents a map of one square mile of the track on which are ela-
borately plotted the relative position and bearings of the prostrated
trees. Some idea may be obtained of the enormous energy of this
tornado from the statement of the author that “‘on a single square mile
of the track, thousands of trees, many of them having a stem fifteen feet
in circumference, were prostrated by a force acting simultaneously in
opposite directions, and moving onward at the rate of a mile ina
minute.”

The author critically analyses the force at work, and arrives at the
conclusion that the proximate cause of the phenomenon is an inward,
upward, and onward moving column of air. Besides the map, the
memoir is accompanied by diagrams and sketches to illustrate the cha-
racter and effects of the tornado.

4. Another memoir is entitled “The Antiquities of Wisconsin, ex-
amined and surveyed by I. A. Lapham.”

In the Report for 1851, it was mentioned that Mr. Lapham, an expe-
rienced engineer, had undertaken, under the direction of the American
Antiquarian Society of Worcester, Massachusetts, to make explorations,
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 15

surveys and drawings of the aboriginal antiquities of Wisconsin, and, to
insure harmony of action in the cultivation of the wide field of research
offered by the ancient monuments of this country, that the Antiquarian
Society had agreed to present to the Smithsonian Institution the results
of the labors of Mr. Lapham for publication, and to reserve its own
funds for further explorations. Mr. Lapham’s memoir has been com-
pleted, and, after having been examined and reported upon by a com-
mittee of the Antiquarian Society, has been presented to this Institution
for publication. It consists of several hundred pages of manuscript,
illustrated by sixty-three large drawings or plates adapted to the size
of the Smithsonian Contributions, a map of the country, and ninety-
‘seven figures or smaller designs, intended to be engraved on wood and
interspersed with the text.

Elaborate works of defence, and such as are apparently designed
for religious or sacrificial ceremonies, so numerous in other sections of
the country, are seldom found in Wisconsin. In place of these, less
elevated structures, though often on a scale of considerable horizontal
extent, representing a variety of fanciful forms, abound along the sides
of the streams and borders of the lakes. The figures are principally
those of lizards, turtles, birds, bears, foxes, and men, and they appear to
be confined within a limited territory between the Mississippi and Lake
Michigan. It is very remarkable, says the committee, that none of the
earlier travellers appear to have noticed the animal shape of the em-
bankments ; but this is accounted for by the extent and flafness of the
works, and the difficulty of recognising them while covered with trees
or a dense growth of other vegetation. Indeed, the surveyors who.
first attempted to plot them were sometimes surprised at the figures
developed under their hands, and which could not have been perceived
on the ground, unless from an elevated point of view.

The memoir of Mr. Lapham, with a few unimportant exceptions,
includes an account of every known work or assemblage of works in
this region, and the whole were carefully surveyed by himself or by
competent individuals under his direction. On the map are laid down
the relative position of the earth-works; and from this it appears that
they lie chiefly along the course of streams and the borders of the
interior lakes. Nearly the same forms are repeated in different locali-
ties, but with dissimilar arrangement, and often with slight, yet evident-
ly intentional variation in figure. The works are enumerated as fol-
lows :

a. ‘Tumuli of a conical shape and slight elevation.

6. Oblong mounds not more than three or four feet high, of regular
width, extending in a straight line from twenty feet to several hundred,
and even a thousand.

c. Kmbankments in crescent and serpentine forms.

d. Kmbankments tapering uniformly in width from one extremity to
the other, and terminating in a point.

e. Similar tapering embankments, with two projections on one side,,
near the larger end, which are called lizards, and are very numerous.

f: The same general form, with projections on both sides at the
larger end, and with a similar tapering tail, sometimes of exceedingly
16 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

disproportionate length. These frequently present a striking resem-
blance to a turtle, and are known by the name of that animal.

g. Oblong embankments, with arms or wings extended on either
side. These vary from simple crosses to figures of birds and men, the
head being usually omitted.

h. Representations of animals of more definite outlines and better
proportions: among these are bears, foxes, otters, &c., and upon the
Wisconsin river, buffaloes. It is proved by numerous excavations that
the works which resemble animals are destitute of relics; they are
mere relievos or embossments on the surface of the earth, seldom ex-
ceeding four feet in height, and in some cases but a few inches. Mr.
Lapham disclaims all intention of indulging a disposition to theorize or
speculate on the origin or design of these remains, and declares his ob-
ject to be merely the faithful performance of the office of surveyor, to
study the facts, and to report them in as much detail as may be neces-
sary, leaving to others the deductions which, in connexion with other
information, may be drawn from them. In the opinion of the commis-
sion appointed by the society to examine the memoir, *‘ Mr. Lapham
has accomplished his task with great thoroughness and artistic skill; he
seems to have explored the entire field, to have industriously delineated
every object of interest, and to have omitted no detail of drawing or
description which could conduce to a clear understanding of the matter
of which he treats.’”” The publication of this memoir, which will be
alike creditable to the author, the Antiquarian Society, and this Institu-
tion, will furnish an interesting addition to the antiquities of this coun-
try, which cannot fail to be hailed with pleasure by the ethnologist.

5. ‘Two botanical papers, furnished by Dr. John Torrey, of the New
York Medical College, have been published during the past year. The
first describes a new pliant, to which the author has given the name of
Darlingtonia Californica. It is a new pitcher- plant, which was first de-
tected ‘by Mr. W. D. Brackenridge, assistant botanist in the United States
Exploring Expedition under r Captain Wilkes. It has hitherto been found
only near the Shasta mountain, onthe Upper Sacramento. ‘The specimens
brought home by Mr. Brackenridge \ were without flowers or seed-vessels,
SO that the genus of the plant could not be determined, but it was taken
for a new Sarracencia. After many years, the flowers were discovered
by Dr. G. W. Hulse, and brought to Dr. Torrey, who has shown that
the plant is an entirely new genus of the same small but very interest-
ing natural order to which the Sarracencia belongs. He has bestowed
upon it the name of Darlingtonia, in honor of Dr. William Darlington,
of West Chester, Pennsylvania, author of several valuable botanical
works. ‘The genus formerly dedicated to this veteran botanist by De
Candolle having been reduced to an older one, Dr. 'Torrey embraced
the opportunity of restoring the name, and connecting it with one of
the most remarkable plants ‘of North America.

6. The second memoir by Dr. Torrey is an account of a new mari-
time shrubby plant, called “ Batis Maritima,’? which grows on the
shores of Key West, Jamaica, Cuba, and the neighboring parts of the
continent. It has been known to botanists for more than one hundred
and fifty years, yet, strange to say, it has not till now been correctly
described, nor its place in the natural system determined with any cer-
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. L7

tainty. Dr. Torrey considers it as the type of a distinct order, nearly
allied to the empetracex, or crowberries.

Both memoirs are illustrated with plates, from beautiful drawings
made by Sprague, at the expense of the institution.

7. The next memoir is a ‘Synopsis of the Marine Invertebrata of the
Grand Manan, or the region about the Bay of Fundy, New Brunswick,”
by William Stimpson.

The island of Grand Manan, a part of the natural history of which
this paper is intended to illustrate, lies at the mouth of the Bay of
Fundy, and is surrounded by deep water, the bottom of which abounds
in a variety of marine animals.

The memoir consists of a compend of observations made on the
marine fauna of this region during a residence of three months in the

summer of 1852, and also of a catalcgue of the marine invertebrata
found on the shores and in the adjacent waters.

Minute surveys of the marine animals of a given district are highly
interesting; itis only by a comparison of the results of such exami-
nations made at a series of points along a coast, that an accurate know-
ledge can be obtained of their distribution, and of the effects of exter-
nal circumstances on their growth, habits, and economy. By such
surveys We can ascertain whether a species may inhabit two distant
localities without occurring in the intermediate space, a fact which has
an important bearing on several interesting questions relative to geolo-
gical changes. The author is a pupil of Professor Agassiz, and has
been appointed one of the naturalists in the North Pacific Exploring
Expedition, under Captain Ringgold.

The paper occupies 66 pages, and is illustrated by 37 lithographic
figures.

8. A memoir has also been presented, and is now in the press, ‘On
some new American species and localities of Microscopic Organisms,”
by Prof. J. W. Bailey, of West Point, New York.

Nearly two centuries have passed away since Leeuwenhoek, an
eminent physician of Holland, discovered by means of the microscope
a department of organized nature, consisting of bodies imperceptible
to the unaided vision, gnd displaying active forms, so strange and varied
in their appearance, that they excited a general curiosity. The dis-
covery, in some of them, of organs of motion, convinced him of their
animal character, and he gave to them the name of animalcules. They
were afterwards called infusoria. Many opinions were entertained
with regard to their character. Linneeus considered them as lifeless,
oily particles, and their movements as altogether passive. We owe,
however, to Prof. Ehrenberg, of Berlin, an extended series of obser-
vations on this subject, the results of which are, that the infusoria are
organized bodies; the greater part, if not all, are animals; they exist
in all quarters of the globe, as well on land as at the bottom of the
sea, and their silicious and calcareous remains form, in this country,
wide-spread fossil strata. At Andover, Massachusetts, there is a bed
of these remains of fifteen feet in thickness, and underlying the city of
Richmond, Virginia, one of twenty-eight feet. Professor Bailey has
distinguished himself by researches in the same line, and has published
on this subject a series of papers in Silliman’s Journal, and in two

2
18 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

memoirs in the Smithsonian Contributions. In the present memoir he
has described new species of diatomacee, limnias, auliscus, peridi-
nium, cothurnia, and monactinus; he has given the American locali-
ties of Amphitetras antediluviana, and tetragramma, and gives an
account of the organic forms found in the Croton water, New Works

One of the species described forms a material resembling white clay,
which occurs in a large deposit at Suisun bay, about thirty miles above

San Francisco; and should, says Prof. Bailey, this fact meet the eye
of any scientific traveller in California, it may induce. him to furnish
further information concerning the geological relations of this interesting
deposit, and to collect a good supply of specimens for a more complete
study

It has been known to the New York microscopists, but not to the
public generally, that the Croton water abounds in beautiful microsco-
pic organisms, and particularly in diatomacex and desmidiew. — The

o
author found in the sediment collected by means of a filter at the

Astor House, more than fifty different species of these organisms. Of

these the eae crotonensis is in the greatest abundance, and
thousands of its fragments must be daily swallowed by those who use
the ee water. It is so abundant that Prof. Bailey suggests that
it'may yet prove of importance as a means of detecting the fraudulent
dilution of various substances by this water.

This memoir is illustrated by a number of wood-cuts and thirty-eight
elaborately drawn figures on a steel plate beautifully executed by J. a:
Gavitt, an amateur naturalist and artist of Albany, New York.

9. During the past year the catalogue of Coleoptera by Frederick
Ernst Mels heimer, M. D., mentioned in a previous Report, has been
yublished and distributed. It forms an octavo volume of 174 pages.

At first sight it would appear that the study of insects is the most
trivial and furthest removed of that of any part of creation from useful
purposes; but independently of the interest which attaches to it as an
exposition of animated nature, and an exhibition of organization and
life in curiously diversified forms, there is scarcely any branch of
natural history more intimately connected with the pursuits of the hus-
bandman, the naval architect, and even those @! the artist and the
bibliographer, than entomology. It is the duty therefore of this Institu-
tion to afford every facility for the acquisition of this branch of know-
iedge, and to increase the number of those who make it their special
study.

The coleoptera form one of the largest and most widely distributed
class of insects; and on account of their boring habits, some of the
species are highly destructive to timber. In order, however, to study
them properly, it is necessary that the same species which exist in this
country and in Europe may be identified, and that those which are new
here may be separately described. The present memoir gives the
names of all those which have been described, with references to the
works where the descriptions may be found. Dr. Melsheimer has
spent several years in the preparation of this work. It was referred
for examination to Professor 8. S. Haldeman and Dr. J. L. Le Conte,
who reported in favor of its publication, and offered to superintend its
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 19

printing and to bring it down to 1851. This they have done at the
expense of much time and labor, and have thereby added materially to
the usefulness of the catalogue.

10. A second edition of the Report on Recent Improvements in the
Chemical Arts has been printed, and in due time an additional volume
on this subject will be prepared.

11. The general interest which has been awakened by the recent
application of electricity to purposes in the useful arts, and its recog-
nised connexion with many important and mysterious phenomena of
nature, led to the conclusion that an account of the recent discov-
eries in this branch of science would be highly prized by a large
class of readers. In accordance with this view, a report by M. Mil-
ler, of Berlin, has been translated, and will be published as soon as the
funds will allow of the expenditure. Stereotype copies of the origif\al
wood-cuts have been obtained from the author.

It will be especially interesting to the English reader, because it
gives more particularly the researches which have been made in Ger-
many, and which are consequently not readily accessible to the inhab-
itants of this country and Great Britain.

12. Catalogue of North American reptiles in the Museum of the
Smithsonian Institution. Part 1—Serpents—By 5. F. Baird & C. Gi-
rard, pp. 188.—This work is intended to exhibit the nature and extent
of the collection of North American reptiles in the museum of the
Smithsonian Institution. According to the statement of Professor
Baird, it contains full and original descriptions from authentic speci-
mens of 119 species of serpents, of which sixty have been first de-
scribed by the authors, and from specimens in the Smithsonian col-
lection. All the wellascertained species of North American serpents are
included in this catalogue, which thus serves as a complete manual on
the subject. The great work by Dr. Holbrook on the reptiles of North
America, published in 1842, enumerates 49 species, as being all that
were known to him; a number less than half of those in the possession
of the Smithsonian Institution.

The phenomena of magnetism, which a few years ago were only rec-
ognised as existing 1n iron, and ina slight degree in a few other metals,
are now known to belong to all matter; and with those of electricity,
with which they are intimately connected, either in the relation of effect
and cause, or the concomitant effects of a more general principle, are
probably displayed in every part of the material universe. Recent
researches render it probable that the sun and moon exert a magnetic
influence upon our earth. Were the study of this mysterious principle
immediately connected with*none of the physical wants of man, or with
the arts of life, it would in itself be an object of high interest; but
when we reflect how dependent upon it is the art of navigation, and
how extensively it is employed in this country in tracing the divisions
and boundaries of land, we are, from utilitarian considerations, induced
to give it the most minute and laborious investigation.

It is now known that the magnetic needle is never at rest; that it is
the subject of various changes, some depending upon the hour of the
20) EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

day, others upon the season of the year, others again upon longer
periods of time.

It also varies in its direction at different places. Between the At-
lantic and Pacific coast, or, for example, between Massachusetts bay
and the mouth of the Columbia river, there is a variation of upwards
of twenty-four degrees; but this variation is not constant even at the
same place, but changes from year to year. With these changes it is
necessary that the navigator should be familiar. It therefore becomes
a matter of national importance that observations of these phenomena
should be made at as many places and those as widely separated from

each other as possible.

The Smithsonian Institution has endeavored to advance this branch
of knowledge, by importing at different times, and at considerable ex-
péhse, four entire sets of apparatus, besides separate instruments, for
determining the direction and intensity of the magnetic force.

These instruments have been lent to observers, and in some cases
sold to the government for the use of exploring parties, and have done,

fo)
or are now doing, good service, in adding to the stock of facts which,

by the process of induction, are to yield 5 knowledge of general laws.

It will be recollected that an appropriation was made at the last ses-
sion of the Regents for supplying magnetic instruments to the Grinnell
Expedition. These were procured from London, were given in charge
to Dr. Kane, and, we trust, are at this time revealing a that intrepid
explorer the fitful and mysterious changes of the magnetic force.

During the past year, a magnetic observatory has been erected within
the orounds of the Smithsonian Institution. “It principally consists, to
insure an equable temperature, of an under-ground room, enclosed
within two walls, between which a current of air is allowed to pass in
order to prevent dampness. ‘This observatory has been supplied
with a set of apparatus for determining the continued variations in
direction and intensity of terrestrial magnetism. By a very ingenious
application of the photographic process, the invention of Mr. Brooks,
of England, the instruments are made to record, on a sheet of sensi-
tive paper moved by clock-work, their own motions.

First, to determine the variation of direction of the horizontal magnet :
a steel bar, strongly magnetized, is suspended by several fibres of un-
twisted silk, so as to have perfect freedom of motion in the horizontal
plane, and from a gas light, kept perpetually burning, a single ray of
light is thrown upon a concave mirror per manently- attached to the
magnetic bar, and consequently partaking of its movements. This
ray of light is reflected and brought to a focus at the surface of
a revolving cylinder, moved by clock-w ork, on which the photo-
graphic paper is placed. When the magnet is at rest, the pencil of
light is stationary, and consequently traces, on the moving paper, a sim-
ple straight line; but when the magnet is disturbed by terrestrial per-
turbations, its pecillanians are recor ea by the motion of the pencil of
light in a curved or zigzag line.

To register the intensity of strength of the magnetic force, another
bar magnet is suspended by two parallel silk threads about an inch
apart, descending from two hooks fastened to the under side of a plate
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 21

attached to the ceiling or some other support. The plate is then
made to revolve through an arc of a circle until, by the force of tor-
sion, the bar is deflected from a north and south to an east and
west direction. It is thus kept in a state of equilibrium between
the force of torsion of the threads, tending to turn its north end
round still further to the south, and the magnetism of the earth, on the
other hand, tending to bring it back to its north and south direction.
Ifin this position the magnetism of the earth becomes stronger, it will
prevail, and the north end of the needle will turn towards the north ; if
the magnetism of the earth diminishes in intensity, the force of torsion
will prevail, and the same end will move towards the south. These
motions, as in the case of the other magnet, are recorded by a beam of
light on the paper surface of the revolving cylinder.

But beside the change of direction of the horizontal needle, a magnet
so supported as to be free to take any position, in this latitude will ar-
range itself with its north end dipping down towards the horizon. The
amount of this dip, or variation, varies also in different places, and at
different times; and to record these changes a bar is supported, in the
direction of the magnetic north and south, on two knife edges like the
beam ofa balance. Any change which takes place in the position of
a magnet thus arranged, is recorded by a mirror attached to the pro-
longation of the axis on which the bar turns.

It is proposed to keep these instruments constantly in operation, for
the purpose of comparing results with other observations of a similar
character in different parts of the world; and also for the purpose of
furnishing a standard to which the observations made at various points
by the Coast Survey, and the different scientific explorations which are
now in progress in the western portions of the United States, may be
referred, and with which they may be compared.

This establishment ought to be supported by government; but as no
provision has been made for it, and as the wants are pressing, in
order to render more valuable the observations making in other coun-
tries as well as our own, the Smithsonian Institution, in connexion with
the Coast Survey, has undertaken to commence it. In accordance,
however, with the policy which has thus far governed the acts of the
Institution, this observatory will be turned over to other hands as soon
as other means are found for its support.

The other sets of magnetic instruments mentioned which have been
imported by the Institution are intended to furnish portable magnetic
observatories, in which the dip and the intensity are recorded by the
pen from direct and personal observations.

Besides the facts which will be collected by the Coast Survey along
our extended sea-board, those which the various exploring expeditions
are furnishing, and those obtained by the instruments belonging to the
Smithsonian Institution, a large number of records of observations exist
as to the position of the magnetic needle in different parts of the United
States in past times. A collection of these, and a comparison of them
with more recent observations, would serve to throw light on the
changes which have taken place in the course of years.

There is, also, on record in the Land Office, an extended series of
22 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

observations which, though not made with great precision, will still be
of value in delineating the general direction of the magnetic lines in
different parts of the United States. Steps have been taken to collect
all the existing materials relative to this subject, with the view of sub-
mitting them in due time to reduction and careful investigation.

Correspondence.—T here is one part of the Smithsonian operations that
attracts no public attention, though it is producing, it is believed, im-
portant results in the way of diffasing know ledge, and is attended, per-
haps, with more labor than any pier part. I ‘allude to the scientific
correspondence of the Institution. Scarcely a day passes in which
communications are not received from persons in different parts of the
country, containing accounts of discoveries, which are referred to the
Institution, or asking questions relative to some branch of knowledge.
The rule was e early “adopted to give respectful attention to every letter
received, and this has been faithfully adhered to from the beginning up
to the present time.

These communications relate to a great variety of subjects. Any
topic which strongly excites the attention of the public at a given
time, such as the announcement in the papers of a wonderful discoy-
ery, or an important invention which promises to introduce extensive
changes in the useful arts, is sure to bring upon the Institution an
increase of labor in the way of correspondence. The ordinary in-
quirics addressed to the Secretary relate to the principles of mechanics,
e lectricity, magnetism, meteorology, names of specimens of plants, min-
erals, insects, at in short, to all objects or phenomena of a remark-
able or unusual character.

Requests are frequently made for lists of apparatus, fi for information
as to the best books for the study of specia al subjects, hints for the
organization of local societies, &c. Applic ations are also made for infor-
mation by persons abroad relative to particular subjects respecting this
country. When an immediate reply cannot be given to a question, the
subject is referred, by letter, to some one of the Smithsonian co-labor-
ers, to whose line of study it pertains ; and the answer is transmitted to
the inquirer, either under the name of the person who gives the informa-
tion or under that of the institution, according to ae circumstances of
the case.

There is no country on the face of the earth in which knowledge is
so generally diffused as in the United States, none in which there is
more activity of mind or freedom of thought and discussion, and in
which there is less regard to what should be considered as settled and
well established principles. It will not therefore be surprising that the
Institution should be called upon to answer a great number of commu-
nications intended to subvert the present system of science, and to
establish new and visionary conceptions in its stead, and that numerous
letters should be received pertaining to such subjects as the quadrature
of the circle, the trisection of the “angle, the invention of self-moving
machines, the creation of power, the overthrow of the Newtonian sys-
tem of gravitation, and the invention of new systems of the universe.

Many of these communications are of such a character that, at first
sight, it might seem best to treat them with silent neglect; but the rule
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 23

has been adopted to state candidly and respectfully the objections to
such propositions, and to endeavor to convince their authors that their
ground is untenable.

Though this course is in many cases attended with no beneficial
results, still it is the only one which can be adopted with any hope of
even partial good. In answering those who persist in declaring that
the present received laws of mechanical action are erroneous, and that
they have discovered new and more correct generalizations, they are
requested to prove the truth of their assertions by predicting new and
important phenomena, the existence of which may be immediately
tested either by experiment or observation. It is not enough that the
new system explains facts which we know, for this would be merely
exhibiting old knowledge under a new form, but it should point out in
the way of deduction new facts which have hitherto escaped the eye
of the observer or the scrutiny of the experimenter.

It is to be regretted that so many minds of power and originality in
our country should, from defective scientific training, be suffered to
diverge so widely from the narrow path which alone leads to real ad-
vance in positive knowledge. Providence, however, seems in some
measure to vindicate the equality of its distributions, by assigning to
such a double measure of hope and self-esteem, which serves them
instead of success and reputation.

The faithful discharge of the duty of the correspondence of the insti-
tution imposes a serious labor on the secretary and his assistants.
Beside the correspondence above mentioned, there is added to their
duties that which relates to the reception and publication of the
memoirs ; to the lectures; the letters sent forth by the Institution respect-
ing particular branches of research ; the answers to the almost imnu-
merable inquires as to the character of the Institution, and applications
for its publications; all the business matters which relate to the
printing, engraving, binding, transportation, payment of accounts; and
all the foreign correspondence relating to the exchanges of publications.

All the letters received are bound in volumes, and a copy of every
answer is carefully preserved, the whole thus forming a permanent
record of all the transactions of the Institution, as well as a history ot
the topics of scientific interest which have particularly occupied the
public mind during any given period. The exposition of this labor,
which has been increasing from year to year, will be a sufficient answer
to the question which is sometimes asked as to what the officers of
the Institution find to do.

Meteorology.—The general system of meteorology described in the
last and previous reports has been continued, and though some changes
have taken place among the observers, yet the number and efficiency
of the corps have been kept up. New instruments have been gradually
introduced, and constant unprovement has taken place with the expe-
rience of each year in the precision and accuracy of the observations.
Since the beginning of the system, a large amount of valuable matter
relative to the meteorology of the United States has been collected ;
and the Institution has now commenced to reduce these observations,
and to deduce from them the general laws which govern the climate of
24 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

this country. It is believed that such results will be obtained as will
justify the amount of expenditure of the Smithsonian fund which has
been devoted to this purpose.

The reductions which had been made up to the close of the last ses-
sion of the Regents were presented with the annual report to Congress,
and were ordered to be printed. It has been found, however, that the
tables cannot be presented in an octavo form, and that a special reso-
lution of the Senate will be required to print them in a quarto volume.

An interesting part of the meteorological observations is now ir pro-
cess of reduction at Greenwich, free of expense to the Institution, by
Captain Letroy, late superintendent of the ‘Toronto Observatory. He
has undertaken this labor from a love of science, and has received
some assistance in the way of clerk hire (as he informs me) from the
fund placed in charge of the Royal Society by the British government
for the promotion of science. The reduction will include not only all
the observations collected by the Smithsonian Institution, but also
those which can be obtained from every part of the earth during five
years, beginning with 1848.

Among the questions proposed to be answered by Captam Lefroy
in discussing the observations, are the following:

1. Does the aurora ever occur in low latitudes when it is wanting in
higher ones?

2. Is it developed in continuous zones, or are there wide gaps in these
zones; if the latter, have they any connexion with other atmospheric
phenomena?

3. What are the ordinary diurnal laws of its development?

4. Can the facts be reconciled with any theory giving it a material
objective existence, or is 1t an optical phenomenon ?

5. Can the facts be reconciled with the zodiacal theory ?

6. What are its geographical limits ; and what causes their singu-
lar variation from day to day?

7. Are lines of equal frequency on the globe, or equal intensity, cir-
cles at all?

Definite answers to these questions would clear the ground for the
establishment of a rational theory as to the cause of this phenomenon,
the want of which, after all that has been said and written upon it, is
an opprobrium to the science of the present century.

The results of Captain Lefroy’s deductions will be presented in the
form of a memoir to the Smithsonian Institution.

Propositions have been made during the past year to apply to gov-
ernment for aid in extending the meteorological system, or to transfer it
from the Smithsonian Institution to the National Observatory, the De-
partment of the Interior, or to an independent establishment supported
by a direct appropriation from Congress.

In answer to these propositions the Secretary, in behalf of the Re-
gents, has stated that it was not in accordance with the policy of the
Institution to ask the aid of Congress for the purpose of carrying on any
of its operations ; but that it is consistent with its policy to relmquish
any line of research which can be carried on equally well by other
means. If, therefore, any of the plans proposed can be accom-
plished, the Institution will cheerfully relinquish this field, and devote
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 25

its labors to other objects. The Institution has, however, already ex-
pended a large amount of money in collecting meteorological data, and
it is due to the memory of the founder that full credit shall be given to
his name for all the results which may be produced by the expendi-
ture of the income of his bequest. This is one of the conditions on
which the trust was accepted, and in case of any transfer of this kind
it should be borne in mind. I may also remark, inthe same connexion,
that while full credit should be given to the officers and assistants for
the faithfulness and efficiency with which they discharge their duties,
they should not be allowed to publish, under their own names, results
which have been collected and elaborated at the expense and under the
direction of the Institution. The establishment of defimite rules on this
point, though a delicate matter, is one which requires attention.
According to the estimate of Mr. Blodget, who is_ still employed in
reducing and discussing the observations, the whole number of mete-
orological observers now on the books as regular contributors, or as en-
titled to exchange for valuable series of observations sent, or for reports
regularly made in previous years is (520) five hundred and twenty.
The number added during the year 1853 to the list of previous ob-
servers, and who have returned observations for some portions of the
year, is (119) one hundred and nineteen. The number of manuscript
series of observations in detail, or in full summaries of means and ex-
tremes of the observed conditions for each month of the whole period
observed, received during the year, is (75) seventy-five, covering an
ageregate period of temperature observation of eight hundred and fifty
years. About half these series also include observations of amount of
rain. Of printed and published series a large number have been sent.

Exchanges——The system of exchanges mentioned in the last and
preceding Reports has been continued during the past year with una-
bated vigor and corresponding useful results. The records for 1853, as
will be seen by a reference to Prof. Baird’s report, show a large in-
crease, both in transmission and receipts, over 1852. This part of the
system of Smithsonian operations has everywhere received the com-
mendation of those who have given it their attention or have partici-
pated in its benefits. The Institution is now the principal agent of
scientific and literary communication between the old world and the
new. Its system of exchange is established on a reliable basis, namely :
that of the publications of the Institution itself. So long as the present
plan of operations is continued, the Institution will annually distribute
its Contributions, and will continue to receive in return the publications
of all the literary and scientific societies of the world. The importance
of such a system, with reference to the scientific character of our coun-
try, could scarcely be appreciated by those who are not familar with
the results which flow from an easy and certain intercommunication of
this kind. Many of the most important contributions to science made
in America have been unheard of in Europe, or have been so little
known, or received so little attention, that they have been republished
as new discoveries or claimed as the product of European research.
By means of the Smithsonian system of exchange, the American author
is enabled to place officially, as it were, a copy of his work in the
26 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

hands of all those who are engaged in the same line of research, and
to insure due credit to himself from the countenance and support of
the Institution.

The packages transmitted during the past year amounted, in the ag-
gregate, to I, 604. They weighed “12, 220 pounds, and occupied nearly
400, cubic feet of space.

The receipts of works from abroad, in exchange for those sent out
by the Institution, are much greater in value, as well as in number,
than those of last year. The whole number of articles received for the
library of the Institution durmg 1853, is 2,556. For other institutions,
1,052 packages have been received. The number of separate works
lech these contain 1s unknown.

The Museum.—Additions during the past year have been made to the
museum from all branches of natural histor y and ethnology. They
are principally derived from various portions of our own country, par-
ticularly from the region between the Mississippi river and the Pacifie
Ocean.

The Institution has taken the temporary charge of most of the col-
lections of the various exploring expeditions which have been sent out
during the past year. For a detailed account of the additions, I beg
leave to refer to atie accompanying report of Prof. Baird.

In accordance with the spirit which should pervade all parts of the
Institution, much good may be done in the way of promoting natural
history by distributing duplicate specimens among the cabinets of the
country and recommending the establishment, bya associations of teach-
ers and others, of local collections, and by giving directions for con-
ducting museums of this kind. The Institution, during the past year,
has Hee good service in this way, and will continue and extend this
means of “diffusing knowledge.

Researches.—T hough little has been done immediately by the insite
tion, since the date Of the last Report, in the way of original research,
yet it has rendered important aid to physical geography and natural his-
tory, by the facilities which it has afforded ane several exploring parties
which have been fitted out during the past year, for railway and boun-
dary surveys, in the. regions west of the Mississippi. ‘The instruments
have been compared, implements constructed, and practical instruction
given in the art of observation and the means of preserving specimens.

The Secretary has devoted considerable time, as a member of com-
missions appointed by government, to scientific investigations. These
duties, as well as those above mentioned, are performed entirely with-
out remuneration; and the Institution is thus, in various ways, repaying,
to a considerable extent, whatever expenditure the government lew
made on account of the Smithsonian bequest.

The Labrary.—The library during the past year has received an ad-
dition of 5,433 articles, the most valaaiale portion of which have been
derived from the Smithsonian exchanges. The whole number of books,
etc., now in the library is 25,856.

At its last session, Congress appropriated $3,000 to begin the pre-
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 27

aration of a catalogue of its library on the Smithsonian plan proposed

y Professor Jewett. This work has been successfully prosecuted
since July last; and according to Professor Jewett’s report, upwards
of 6,000 volumes have been catalogued. This plan, the honor of the
invention of which the Convention of Librarians has awarded to Profes-
sor Jewett, and which has been received with approbation by those
well qualified to judge of its merits, is now in a fair way to be reduced
to practice. The objects tu be gained by adopting it are—

1. To avoid the necessity of preparing, composing, and correcting
anew the titles once printed, when the library has received accessions ;
or the alternative of printing the titles of these accessions im supple-
ments, which are very inconvenient appendages.

2. To prevent the repetition of the work of preparation of titles,
composition, and correction of press, for copies of the same book in
different libraries. The title once prepared and stereotyped remains at
the Smithsonian Institution, to be used by any library having the
same book.

3. To secure uniformity in the construction of catalogues, thus greatly
facilitating the researches of the student.

For other facts and details, see Professor Jewett’s report herewith
submitted.

Lectures—Lectures have been given as usual by a number of dis-
tinguished gentlemen on the following subjects:

A course of eight lectures by Dr. Robert Baird on “ Modern Eu-
rope.”

One lecture by Hon. Henry Barnard on ‘“‘ The Sehool.”

One lecture by Professor Stephen Alexander, of the College of New
Jersey, on ‘** Climate.”

One lecture by Job R. Tyson, esq., of Philadelphia, “ Patrick
Henry.’

One lecture by Rev. Dr. C. C. Pise, “Charles Carrol, of Carrol-
ton’?

One lecture by Dr. E. K. Kane, U.S. N., “On the New Expedition
in search of Sir John Franklin.”

A course of five lectures by Professor A. Guyot on ‘ The Harmonies
of Nature and History.”

A course of seven lectures by Dr. J. V. C. Smith, of Boston, on
* Modern Egypt and its Institutions.

One lecture by George Sumner, esq., on ‘¢ France.”

Lectures were also delivered during the season, in the Smithsonian
lecture room, to the Washington Young Men’s Christian Association,
Metropolitan Mechanics’ Institute, and the Teachers Association.

We have concluded to adopt the plan of a continued course on a
single subject extending through the entire season; and for this pur-
pose Professor J. Lawrence Smith, of the University of Virginia, has
been engaged to give a full course on chemistry during the present
winter.

Meeting of the Establishment—The Secretary was directed by the
President of the United States to call a meeting of the members and
98 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

honorary members of the ‘‘ Smithsonian Institution,” or, in other words,
of the body which is generally known by the name of the ‘ Establish-
ment.” I may mention that this body consists of the President of the
United States, the Vice President, the Chief Justice, the Mayor of
Washington, the several officers of the cabinet, (excepting the Secretary
of the Interior, this department having been created since the passage
of the act establishing the Institution,) the Commissioner of Patents, and
such other persons as they may elect honorary members. This body
met in the Smithsonian building on the 3d of May, 1853, and at a sub-
sequent meeting adopted a set of by-laws, and elected Professor Parker
Cleaveland, of Bowdoin College, Maine, an honorary member.

In accordance with the third section of the act of incorporation, a
full account of the proceedings of the Establishment will be given in
connection with the report of the proceedings of the Board of Regents.

Respectfully submitted,
JOSEPH HENRY,
Secretary Smithsonian Institution.
Janvaky, 1804.
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 29

REPORT OF THE ASSISTANT SECRETARY, IN CHARGE
OF THE LIBRARY.

DECEMBER 391, 1853.

Str: The following table exhibits the additions to the library during
the year 1853, distinguishing the receipts by purchase, by donation
and exchange, and by copy-right:

Sy a Sl %

=e - o

Io} wn =

gr So ai 5
Sources. = = ‘= . = H Totals.

aw = PA o Fs &

ee ao |) eS a “|

ey eee | od) Seb heal fo
By purchases seis sc/ecle/e10s/s/c\¢ Ms Ag | teeraversit ley spa veyshe| svetereteta| sptievexa’s|tavchstete 1,813
By donation and exchange. . QT Sereverste SBE arrereve esa eferatel ooreterers 2,453
By copyright. ......sssse0s TPS Ga a een 11| 1,167
Be@a6.| uaa 96, Adeo|.. cal! PUL, Losaae

The whole number of books, pamphlets, maps, engravings, and
other articles at present belonging to the library, is shown by the fol-
lowing table :

|

Sv ie | 2
Sources. ‘ 2° 5 ; : Z | 2 Totals.
By purchase ysseie!s e\<iere1s ais «cls 4,432 | 2,511 |1,335 2 eee dee ee eee wees 8,280
By donation and exchange..| 3,901 | 5,164 58 |1,813 neeeee 30 41 | 11,007
By Copyright case's csis’s « o\4 x 2,809 420 38 59 2,274 Sead 5,706
By deposit.<..\aeic'satasiedin scree SUS | atcroes sites laleca atatel ateravelace | BARS dbticatcc wets 873
12,015 | 8,095 {1,431 |1,874 2,274 39 | 138 | 25,866
\

The purchases during the year have been few and unimportant.

The receipts by exchange and donation have been numerous and
valuable. A particular account of them is given by Professor Baird in
his report upon the exchanges. It is not thought necessary, therefore,
to dwell upon them here, further than to state, that many of the works
thus received are of great value, from their intrinsic merit, and from the
30 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

difficulty of procuring them through the ordinary channels of the book
trade.

It is much to be regretted that no measures have yet been taken for
the better regulation of the copy-right deposit. I have repeatedly called
attention to the subject, and in my last two reports have expressed, at
considerable length, views which I hoped might lead to a revision of
the law. The ieee of this Institution, of publishers, and of the lit-
erary public, require further legislation on this subject, and substantially
such, it is believed, a as Was recommended in the reports alluded to.

Much inconvenience has been experienced from the delay in finishing
the central building. The books stand in double rows, on most of the
shelves, in the room where they are at present placed. Some of them
have been injured, too, by exposure to dampness. It is impossible
with the means provided to warm the room, and all who have been en-
gaged in the library have suffered severely from colds contracted while
working i in it. It has been found necessary to remove many pamphlets
and papers to the basement, where they are subject to injury, and where
it is dificult to consult them. The labors of the library are doubled by
the want of proper accommodations. On these accounts, it is much to
be desired that the main library should be finished at as early a day as
possible, in order that the books may be removed toa permanent, s safe,
and convenient lodgment.

Applications have been made to me during the year for the opening
of the library in the evening, and some remarks on the subject have
appeared in “the new spapers. It was impossible to comply with these
suggestions without employing an additional attendant. ‘The present
attendant i is required to be on duty from daylight 1 in the morning till
five o’clock in the afternoon. It would be unjust to require services of
him in the evening. Besides, no arrangements have been made for
lighting the rei ding room, nor can they well be made till the building
is finished. It has seemed necessary, therefore, to ea at for the
present, the further consideration of the subject; which I do, with the
hope that it may hereafter be found practicable to extend the time for
consulting the library, if desired by any considerable number of persons.

Another topic connected with the library, to which I wish to direct
the attention of the Board of Regents, is the framing of a set of by-
laws and regulations for the management of the library and the use ‘of
the books. I would also suggest ‘the appointment of a standing com-
mittee upon the library. Such a committee becomes the more neces-
sary as the library becomes of more importance, both from its extent and
the character of its books, and as the time is near at hand for the comple-
tion of the building, and the permanent arrangement of the collection.

The reading-room has continued to be a place of great resort for
citizens and strangers. The list of periodicals is extensive, and com-
prises many of the best scientific and literary journals of this country
and of Europe.

It is proper for me here to call attention to the desirableness of com-
pleting the series of periodicals and of transactions and journals of
learned societies. But very few of our sets are complete. Inquiries
are daily made for back numbers which are wanting. As it is ree

o
able that we have received all or nearly all of the earlier publications
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. ol

of societies which they are able to supply, it seems advisable to fur-
nish our agents in Europe with lists of the volumes which we possess,
and authorize them to purchase, as opportunities may occur, the vol-
umes that are wanting.

The ‘ Notices of Eablic Libraries,” prepared with considerable la-
bor, and published three years ago by the Smithsonian Institution, is
still almost daily called for, though about 6,000 copies, printed by
Congress and by the Institution, have been distributed. Ve Ty few
copies remain on hand. Since the book was published a large amount
of additional matter has been received. ‘There is a great demand for
information of this kind, and it seems desirable to issue a new and en-
larged edition of the Notices. It has been impossible for me, durmg the
past year, to gain time for this work, from the daily duties of the library :
and the ateniiell labor which the superintendence of the catalogue
system has imposed upon me.

The National Convention of Librarians and Bibliographers, which met
in New York in September last, deserves to be particularly noticed in
this report, on account of the frequent reference there made to the po-
sition and operations of the Smithsonian library, as well as on account
of its importance to all libraries, and to the general interests of litera-
ture in this country. It was composed of more than eighty delegates,
representing forty-seven libraries in all parts of the country, ‘from Maine
to California.

It is gratifying to know that the services of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion, in the department of bibliography, were fully recognised by this
convention in the following peaclaian, which was unanimously adopted :

“ Resolved, That the thanks of this convention be presented to the
Board of Regents and officers of the Smithsonian Institution for their
steady and pHecaae efforts tor the increase and diffusion of knowledge
among men}; and particularly forthe measures which they have adopted
for ihe encouragement and promotion of the publie libraries of our
country ; and we have great pleasure in looking to that Institution as
the central establishment of the United States fon the furtherance of all
such objects.”

The convention also passed the followi ing resolutions relative to the
great central library of reference and research which it has been the
intention of Congress to establish at the Smithsonian Institution :

“ Resolved, That the establishment of a great central librar y for refer-
ence and research, while it is demanded by the condition of the United
States as to general civilization and intellectual advancement, is espe-
cially interesting to this convention from the bearing it would have
upon libraries throughout the country.

* Resolved, 'That we deem such an establishment as being eminently

* ‘worthy of support from the national treasury; and that in no way
can the government better promote the progress of learning through the
whole country, than by placing a central national library under the ad-
ministration of the Smithsonian Institution.”
» Among the topics which received particular attention at this conven-
tion was che preparation of a convenient manual as a guide to the or-
ganization of library societies, the collection of libraries , and their
proper management. A committee was appointed to digest the plan
ae EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

of such awork. So impressed were the members of the convention
with its importance, that ‘the business committee were requested to
consider the expediency of memorializing Congress to procure the pre-
paration of such a manual through the agency “of the Smithsonian In-
stitution.”

Every week, and almost every day, applications are made at this
Institution, by letter or by visitors, for information which a book of this
kind would contain. The answers have to be many times repeated.
I have consequently had the intention of preparing such a manual.
The collections for the purpose are mostly made. The volume of sta-
tistics and descriptions of libraries was an important antecedent. The
development of the catalogue system mustalso precede any systematic
and well considered work of the kind. The period has now come for
the fulfilment of this design, and I hope to be enabled and to be author-
izedto devote such time as may be necessary to its execution.

The library interest has become in this country one of rare magni-
tude and importance. Nothing can be done by the government, by
this Institution, or by individuals here, which tends to promote the es-
tablishment or the efficiency of libraries, without bemg noticed and
gratefully appreciated by all the intelligent and educated men of all
parties and names, mm every city and aa every village and hamlet
throughout the land. Every city has its library, so has almost every
village, and so have a large number of our common schools. Familiar
as this fact is to many of us, it presents a new phase of society, and
one indicative of mighty influences. The library is the necessary com-
plement of the school. To teach children to réad and then give them
nothing to supply the desire awakened is mockery. It is reading
rather than school-training which has produced the general intelligence
of the American people. These libraries must be of various grades—
the school and social library of pepular Baeuen books of history, biog-

raphy, and general literature for reading; the larger collections in cities
for more general study and reference ; ‘and the great central library for
learned investigations. These should all be linked and bound together
in one voluntary yet harmonious system. Such is the general wish

oO
most emphatically expressed

a wish which the Smithsonian Institu-
tioh may do much to cherish and to realize.

Tt now remains for me to speak of the progress which has been made
during the year upon the catalogue system.

A new and greatly enlarged and improved edition of the report, con-
taining an account of the system, rules for the preparation of catalogues,
and (as ex examples under the rules) the catalogue of the bibliographical
works in the Smithsonian library, has been prepared and stereotyped.
An edition of a thousand copies, as far as to the examples, has been
printed. The printers have since been employed upon the catalogue
of the Library of Congress, and consequently the work upon the re-
port has been suspended. It would require but a few weeks and an
inconsiderable additional expenditure of money to complete this work.
The calls for it are frequent, and I feel very desirous of being able to
answer them at an early day. The book will probably contain about
three hundred pages.

At the last session of the Board of Regents, a resolution was passed,
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 303

requesting the Secretary of the Institution to call the attention of the
joint Library Committee of Congress to the Smithsonian plan of cata-
loguing, and to the advantages—economical and literary—which would
acerue to the Library of Congress and to other libraries, by their adop-
tion of this plan. The committee examined the subject, and recom-
mended to Congress an appropriation of three thousand dollars for com-
mencing a catalogue. ‘The work was begun in July last, and has pro-
ceeded most prosperously till the present time. Upwards of six
thousand volumes have already been catalogued, and about one third
of the appropriation remains unexpended. ‘The consideration of the
magnitude ot the enterprise thus commenced, has led to great caution
in adopting the rules establishing precedents. <A great part of my time
has necessarily been given to fhe work. Less will prob: ibly be required
for the future.

I have so frequently and at so much length explained the details and
the advantages of the system, that it is not necessary for me to dwell
upon them at present, except very briefly.

The title of every work and of each distinct edition of ev ery work
is stereotyped upon a separate plate. ‘The author’s name also stands
on a plate by itself. Each plate shows at a glance the heading to
which it belongs. It is obvious that these plates may be placed
together in alphabetical or other order, as may be desired. ‘They are
mounted on blocks for printing, like other stereotype plates.

The great ends to be gained and which will thus be secured, are

ili, To avoid the necessity of preparing, composing , and correcting
anew the titles once printed, when the library has received accessions,
or the alternative of printing the titles of these accessions in supple-
ments, which are very inconvenient appendages.

2. To prevent the repetition of the work of preparation of titles, com-

osition and correction of press, for copies of the same book in different

libraries. The title, once prepared and stereotyped, remains at the
Smithsonian Institution, to be used by any library having the same
book.

3. To secure uniformity in the constfaction of catalogues, thus great-
ly facilitating the researches of the student.

It is obvious that the cost of the first catalogue will be greater than
if it Were not stereotyped. The work of preparation will also be more
expensive ; but the additional cost of the first edition will be more than

saved in the first re-printing of the whole catalogue. It will be further
understood that the sum paid by the first library is not only for its own
benefit, but for that of every other library hereafter adopting the plan,
so far as its books are the #me. Congress is, therefore, now conter-
ring a great boon upon other fierce while at the same time it is
taking fie course the most economical for the procuring of its own cata-
logue.

Tt will be remembered that we bad two classes of difficulties to
meet, the one literary and the other mechanical. The theory of the
system had first to be perfected in all its details. The practical apph-

cation had then to be made. The time and money which have been
expended in Europe in discussions connected with the subject of the
best methods of cataloguing, indicate the difficulty of the theory. Prac-

3
34 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

tical stereotypers pronounced the scheme impracticable. A new mode
of stereotyping, with a new material, had to be introduced, per fected,
and applied for the purpose. There is no art so difficult of improve-
ment as that of typography. These statements will indicate the me-
chanical difficulties which have been overcome.

It is gratifying to be able to state that the new process of stereotyp-
ing which we have adopted for this purpose is likely to be introduced
into use on a large scale. The benefits which the Institution will thus
have conferred upon the most perfect and most important of the arts,
apart from the connexion of these improvements with the catalogue
system, will not be the least among its achievements, as the efforts | by
which this end has been attained have not been the least of its labors.

Impressed as 1 was with the importance of the subject, and confident
as I felt of its entire practicability in every particular, 1 was desirous
that it should be fully discussed by librarians and practical biblio-
graphers, as well as by printers , stereotypers, and experts in the typo-
graphical art. The convention 6 which [ have alluded afforded a rare
opportunity for this examination of our plans, and a fair and intelligent
estimate of their value. Tintroduced the subject and invited diseus-
sion. It was manifest that those who were present had come together
having formed various opinions as to the practicability of the scheme,
though with but one sentiment as to its desirableness. The matter
was ‘discussed a whole day with freedom, and with the manitest desire
to arrive at a just conclusion. I take great pleasure in quoting the fol-
lowing resolutions, which were unanimously adopted, as embodying
the results of the long 2, careful, and interested examination:

‘¢ Resolved, That we have considered attentively the plan for construct-
ing catalogues of libraries, and a general catalogue of the public libra-
ries of the United States, by means of separate “ster eotype titles, origi-
nated and prepared by Prof. C. C. Jewett, and developed by him
while librarian of the Smithsonian Institution. That we regard it as
an object of high importance to the interests of our public libraries, and
to the promotion of learning, ard worthy to share in the funds of the
Institution and the zealous exertions of its officers; the more so as it is
an enterprise which cannot be successfully prosecuted, except under
the guidance, protection, and pecuniary support of this central estab-
lishme mt for the increase and diffusion of knowledge.

** Resolved, 'Vhat we have learned with pleasure that Congress, on the
recommendation of the library committee, made an appropriation for
the practical testing of the plan in its application to the Library of Con-
gress, and that the work is now in successtigl progress.

‘© Resolved, That, as practical hbrarians and bibliographers, we take
pride and satisfaction in the fact that a measure of so great literary
utility has received the prompt and efficient support of our ponoral
legislature ; ; and we would express the earnest hope that this support
may be extended to it liberally, till its first ereat result in the complete
stereotyped catalogue of the Libr ary of Congress shall be attained.’

We may reasonably congratulate ourselves upon. the complete suc-
cess of these plans up to 1 present point. They still need the foster-
ing care of this Institution. As soon as he catalogue of the Library of
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 30

Congress shall be completed, other institutions, and even individuals,
are ready to avail themselves of the scheme for procuring their cata-
logues. Its general adoption—the crowning point of all our efforts—
seems, therefore, as sure as the completion of the first work.

It is manifest that appropriations will every year be necessary from
the Smithsonian fund for the procuring of type, apparatus, and fixtures,
as well as for filling any intervals that may occur in the continuity ot
the work. But it seems now quite certain that the system will ere
long grow up into a large and _ self-supporting establishment, regulated
by the combined libraries of the country.

Respectfully submitted.
C. C. JEWETT.

To JoseruH Henry, LL.D.,

Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.
36 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

REPORT OF THE ASSISTANT SECRETARY IN CHARGE
OF PUBLICATIONS, EXCHANGES, AND NATURAL HIS-
TORY.

Sir: I herewith present to you the report of operations for the year
1853, in the departments assigned to my superintendence.

1. PUBLICATIONS.

During the year 1853, a much larger amount of matter has been
printed and published by the Smithsonian Institution than in any year
since the commencement of its operations. 'T'wo volumes of the quarto
series have been completed, of which one has been distributed and
the other is nearly ready. The following list contains the titles of the
papers in these volumes.

List of Memoirs in Vol. V, Smithsonian Contributions.

1. Introduction ; pp. 16.

2. A Flora and Fauna within living animals. By Joseph Leidy, M. D.;
pp. 68, and ten plates.

3. Memoir on the Extinct Species of American Ox. By Joseph
Leidy, M. D.; pp. 20, and five plates.

4, Anatomy of the Nervous System of Rana Pipiens. By Jeflries Wy-
man, M. D.; pp- 52, and two plates.

5). Nereis Boreali-Americana, or Contributions to the History of the
Marine Algze of North America. By William Henry Harvey,
M. D.,M. R.I. A; Part II. Rhodospermez ; pp. 262, and twenty-
four plates.

6. Plantee Wrightianwe Texano-Neo-Mexicane; Part I, An Account of
a Collection of Plants, made by Charles Wright, A. M., in West-
ern Texas, New Mexico, and Sonora, in the years 185] and 1852.
By Asa Gray, M. D.; pp. 120, and four plates.

Vol. VI, Smithsonian Contributions.

Introduction ; pp. 16.

Plante Fremontianze, or Description of Plants aa in Califor-
nia by Col. J. C. Fremont. By John Torrey, F. L.8.; pp. 24,
and ten plates.

3. ee on the Batis Maritima of Linnwus. By Jobn Torrey,

F. L. 8.; pp. 8, and one plate.

4. On the ae tates Californica, a new Pitcher Plant from Northern

California. “By John Torrey, F. L. 8.; pp. 8, and one plate.

5. Synopsis of the Marine Invertebrata of Grand Manan, or the Region
about the Bay of Fundy. By William Stimpson, pp: 68, ‘and
three plates.

6. On the Winds of the Northern Hemisphere. By James H. Cofhn,

Professor of Mathematics and Natural Philosophy, in Lafayette

College; pp. 200, and thirteen plates.

As
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 37

7. The Ancient Fauna of Nebraska, or a Description of Remains of
Extinct Mammalia and Chelonia, from the Mauvaises Terres of
Nebraska. By Joseph Leidy, M. D., Professor of Anatomy in the
University of Pennsylvania; pp. 126, and twenty-five plates.

8. Occultations for 1853.

WMoaluneuV contains pages.\-\ 2/7. 2.eclehsas a. ¢ 538—plates 45
Wolume V1 contains. pases” 22 2-722.) -/.98eeae 476—plates 53
Or an aggregate of quarto publications.......-....- 1,014 98

Of these volumes, volume V has been distributed. Volume VI has
not yet been bound up, but will be delivered and distributed early in
1854.

In addition to the above, several memoirs tor the seventh volume are
in hand, and the engravings nearly complete ; among these are :

Chappellsmith, on the Tornado of Indiana.

Leidy, on the Extinct Sloths of North America.

Bailey, on New Microscopic Forms.

The octavo publications have also been of considerable extent, and
are as follows:

Seventh Annual Report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian
Institution, for 1852; pp. 96.

Report of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, for 1852;
pp. dl.

Catalogue of North American Reptiles in the Museum of the Smith-
sonian Institution. Part 1—Serpents. ByS. F. Baird and C. Girard,
pp: 188.

Catalogue of the described Coleoptera of the United States. By
Frederick Ernst Melsheimer, M. D. Revised by 8. 8. Haldeman and
J. L. Le Conte, pp. 190.

In addition to these a large number of circulars, relating to various
subjects, has been printed.

2. DistRIBUTIO NOF PUBLICATIONS AND K/;.XCHANGES.

(a.) Foreign Distributions and Exchanges.

The records of foreign distributions and exchanges for the year 1853,
show a large increase, both in transmissions and receipts, over 1852,
thus exhibiting a steady enlargement of the sphere and extent of ope-
rations, gratifying to all who are interested in the speedy diffusion of
knowledge throughout the world. As in past years, the Smithsonian
Institution has been a most important medium of communication be-
tween the American scientific societies and their Kuropean correspon-
dents.

The names of the institutions making use of the facilities afforded by
the Smithsonian Institution, as well as the complete statistics of the
whole business, will be found detailed in the accompanying tables.

The packages, amounting in the aggregate to 1,604, bearing 567
addresses, weighing 12,220 pounds, and occupying nearly 400 cubic
feet of capacity, all left the Institution in May, and tor a large number
38

EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

of these packages acknowledgments have already been received. ‘The
names of institutions receiving the Smithsonian Contributions to Know-
ledge, 258 in number, will be found in the table. Nearly 400, how-
ever, have received publications of some kind from the Institution ; the
total number of addresses, including those parcels sent by others,
being 567, as already stated.

A.—TABLE EXHIBITING THE STATISTICS OF PRINTED MATTER SENT
ABROAD IN 1852, By THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

1. Distributed by Dr. J. G. Fliigel, Leipsic.

petite Ss 3 S 3 a ; | og
ag] 3 y ahs | eros z ie ae
D4 Ep = op Fal of) ante r= = = | he
ws Sees ao} ao ah i) > ms)
Oo | 53 we | os] of Sy S | a8
Countries. 2a juno os | no] ae = Pee oe,
no, | 9-o ne One, 2° ~~ > e
Ba PBS | as) |e as tex | i fan Olen se
Ste, | ee ease | ta sidlicoe Al oe 3 Bleg| 35
Sao more 9 =: 3 3S ° = 3 e) oF

< =< a Z Ay Ay B (Sy eT ae |

Sweden. .ice ceels 7 hh. |szate eters le 20 QM ic¥oretats aoocopanted cdlese4ior
Norway..... see. 4 Di ivefevets 7 12 I eAponkaccoondloosdadedlsor
iceland! sists 3, TDi erefovevetelsve otere-d Q ee Retake oracartts BAA HIRKCIE ho Hicacitec) ORO
Denmark. <i seirs id Al ersiortscclige 4. 2B} Fy Al Ste acaba teteodet eh ay die licuokaicl cponsiced inayat
IRTISSIa.siajeserertse cies 15 Gul tejctorersle oe 42 dialer SeMohod ore beea | sane
Hlollanad'sci5..ctesyen 12 BRAD GE 23 34 AB itor srailtekercletotetel lel celal Cele ate
Germany .......| 85 HSilve cece doou|mlsll GB" [lore 6 10/0)|s.s:0:ci0%0 0:<|ho) o:0:0|'e oisial elereio
Belgium........ 9 Obasec 18 34 B)4l.cfaieie;e\llecekelatcreleys|{alele\¢||ar0 oie] iolela's) «
Switzerland...... 13 Di lelerels ore 19 49 6 5 ss eeleeee eeees
Total (Acer ltanloo 90 | 243 | 287 | 396 | 103 | 786 | 6,250 }200 | 25 190

2. Distributed by Hector Bossange, Pars.

ne Zz aU no] ss - 2 Tet
Seas Soe eS S 3 = 5.
rel posi = 2] Sa | 2. 5 =| es
ta o.8 ao) 25 Ow re) ) a)
; os | oo wf | 5S] 58 1 MG 55
Countries. 23 | 28 SiS mmo | aes lees a | © Be
2 | 2S S| &e | doc = =| . | a
Brg | Bee | gee | meen lias = | 3 |S | e-2
ey rset is BS est | cece 7 ibe lees 3 fy ||| bel Sau
Sin aie! io) ~ a 3 °o 3 i=) om

elec ee eta ete Cs a Ee 1O4d aha
BRIRICO:, ctieviienefal. DO! Grea stors 80),|. 102: I POO eal ee ergata 5 ieleeae eee «
Ttaly..- oie cscecse 36 13 eee 43 56 15 eeersle eer eeeeee eoeeeeee ee aee
Motallsrsferes.s'ae 9] 39F 1308) 6123) |e 58 AAY 19325 92,250! (Eo Fi 110

39

INSTITUTION.

London.

THE SMITHSONIAN
3. Distributed through the Royal Society and the agency of Henry Stevens,

| -sefeyord Surdu ; 4 ‘sapeyoed Sura aoe | | ‘saneyord Suku
-rdutosor = $107}0'T : -edutos0v  $.10440'T eal _-edutoo0R 8.10})0"T
Sir tie = Soba | ———
“ye qno ut Ayordeg | er) omieree ls ‘yqno ut Aytoedey | ae Ee ye qno ur Ayoedep | SRaR |S
ear ae | e2e>|s
Deg een ee
| -spunod ut yySta AA tate a ili ‘spunod ut 4.510 AA re a | ‘spunod urqysiayy | AAA | R
| an Rr naa | OGRA Q
e Leal . . | | ee
| oe sal he pou: | 2828 |=
*‘[PI0OL es eles ‘TPIOL, Bee Wee ‘TRIOL ~ a= So
aug : ee . S| ee =
Fe Aa ee eles s o : Ee sa SA
| “SLayJO 1OF ten ed ie 5 *S1aY}O TOF Oe nee aS | *s10YJO TOF Bos ia
posojoua sasvyorg S pasopaua saseyorg S | pasojoua seseyorg | QX
= O = Seal pa ee
~ |
*s1aq}O WOLF SSS |r = “s1ayyJO ULOTT Teh ee S | *Sqat}JO WOLy a eto aces
pasooue sos eyorg a = 3 pasopoua saseyorg aH | pasofoue sasvyord 0 a Ss
‘saseyord ped GTEOI ER re | GR = ‘saseyoed ped 20 sor) s | ‘saseyord jed ee enlace
-ioulid Jo taquin NY a ae gee -routsd Jo Toquin jy s | -routad jo taquin NT Mites =
~ si z = > |
Peele a ils | 2228 |5
“TROL, aie: -genoe | he ‘TRI0.L PDE) ee ae | TBR |. ecoes =
nice As =a -:
‘Sutpaoeid ut NOH [es *“Sutpaoeid ut TR] R | -Burpooord ut SAtR | 9
I ! ! d I !
paso[ous sassa.ppy : pasopoue sassaippy * | Pee toueees say, ins
‘sooeyord jedio iaectscorsctelel ieras ‘saoevyord jedio iS ales ‘soseyord y[edio Fg) eal ae | Mow
BI (oy a S [eet me | o Pil [eat INAS | D
-ulid Jo sasseippy i -utid Jo sassaippy -uud jJosassaippy | ~~ ™ Ge
ee . ry erie . | mm 2 @ «6 .
eS eeecuee: eee: gcse
a arons) fs C w oo a ‘ Sen wales ;
20 - °&0. . 2) . 5 e | n a (eB .
5 asia ks 5 rar elie =| PAS io kee
S a 4s os S etloa ® gas: &
5 Sins © 5 2 2 Sy Rom ©
Ss) eee 2 ence naa gs
a | ro .
ons 5 = 90 hoe eS
Ye < On Ato
40 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF
B.—TAaABLE EXHIBITING THE NUMBER OF PIECES RECEIVED FROM

THE DIFFERENT INSTITUTIONS IN THE UNITED STATES FOR DIS-
TRIBUTION ABROAD.

Obtained by the Smithsoman Institution from various sources,

but -exclusive tot its own] publications: {2.0 .4... -- : 2,410
Boston Society of Natural History, Boston............ sea GA
American Academy of Arts and Sciences, Boston........-- 1i2
American: Jousnal ofsscrenee Se pom ee ots es Cee 30
American Oriental Society, New tiaven. 22... -- .<..4- Lak eee
Academy of Natural Sciences, Philadelphia. -.-.....-..- fA GO
American Philosophical Society, Philadelphia... .. - pegs SO 9/2
U.S. Coast: Survey .ecice= Sees eens thine 2 Bes eead 131
Patent Oee seer a Se ee ee ee ob eee 100
Typographical Buceane- Sass he eet ee eee | eee oe 30
Indian ‘Bureaus 22 Se os eo a eee re os a 168
Light House Boards a) 2.252 2a. ee ieee tern es Es 5
Secretary of the Neawayce: 02 Je Soh ee eta ete 29
J. Ross Brownes o222 cay ee ee See yee A 2 ee 170
Miscellaneous institutions and individuals.......2.-2-- SERED tS)

— 1,444
‘Lotal’ received tcicaie ee aes, 2 oo ee epee co eae 3,854

Most of the above consisted of single volumes; a number, however,
were packages with several enclosures, which would probably bring

the number of volumes to 4,000.

APPENDIX C.
Last of Forexgn Institutrons in correspondence with the Smithsonian Institution.
SWEDEN.

Goteborg.—Kongl. Vetenskaps och Vitterhets Samhillet.
*Lund.—Kongl. Universitetet.
Observatory.

* Stockholm.—Kongliga Svenska Vetenskaps Akademien.

Kongl. Landbruks-Akademien.

*Kongl. Vitterhets Historie och Antiquitets Akademien.

*Riksbiblioteket.

Svenska Akademien.
*Upsala.—Kongliga Vetenskaps Societeten.

*Kongl. Universitetet.

Those marked * have received the fifth volume of ‘‘Contributions.’’ The others have
received separate memoirs and other publications.
j

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 4]
NORWAY.

* Bergen.—Bergen’s Museum.

*Christiama.—Det Kongelige Norske Universitet.
Observatory.
Physiographiske Forening.

Drontheim.—Det Kongel. Norske Videnskabernes Selskab.

ICELAND.
* Reykgavik.—lslands Stftisbokasatn.
DENMARK.

* Copenhagen.—Kongelige Nordiske Oldskrift Selskab.
*Det Kongelige Danske Videnskabernes Selskab.
*Kongelige Bibliothek.
Kénigliches dinische Seecharten Archiv.
Observatory.
Skandinaviske Naturforskeres Forsamling.

RUSSIA.

Dorpat.—Gelehrte Estnische Gesellschaft zu Dorpat.
*Observatoire Impérial.
* Helsingfors.—Societas Scientiarum Fennica.
*Kasan.—University Library.
* Mittau.—Kurlandische Gesellschaft fiir Literatur und Kunst.
* Moscow.—Société Impériale des Naturalistes de Moscou.
Pulkowa.—Observatoire Impérial.
*S¢. Petersburg —Académie Impériale des Sciences.
Depot of Naval Charts of Russia.
Geodetic Survey of Russia.
*Imperial Public Library.
*Kais. Russ. Mineralogische Gesellschatt.
*L’Etat Major du Corps des Ingénieurs des Mines de
Russie.
*Observatoire Physique Central de Russie.
*Société Impériale d’Archéologie.

HOLLAND.

* Amsterdam.—Académie Royale des Sciences a Amsterdam.
Genootschap Natura Artis Magistra.
Zoological Garden.
* Gronungen.—Academia Groningana.
* Haarlem.—Hollandsche Maatschappij der Wetenschappen.
* Hague.—Bibliothéque Royale.
Leyden.—Botanical Society of the Netherlands.
Musée d’ Histoire Naturelle.
*University Library.
42 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

* Middelburg.—Zeeuwsche Genootschap der Wetenschappen.

*Rotterdam.—Bataatsch Genootschap der proefondervindelijke Wijs-
begeerte te Rotterdam.

* Utrecht.—Provinciaal Utrechtsch Genootschap van Kunsten en Weten-
schappen.

Zwolle.—(Overyssel.)—Overysselsche Vereeniging tot Ontwikkeling van
Provinciale Helvaart.

GERMANY.

* Altenburg.—Naturforschende Gesellschatt.
Altona.—Geodetic Survey of Holstein.
Observatory.
Berlin.—Anstalt des topographischen Bureaus im general Stabe.
Deutsche Geologische Gesellschatt.
*Geographische Gesellschaft.
Gesellschaft ftir Erdkunde.
*Gesellschaft Naturforschender Freunde.
Gewerbe Institut.
Ingenieur Schule.
*Konigliche Bibliothek.
Kénigliches Landes Giconomie Collegium.
*Konigliches Museum.
*Koniglich, Preussische Akademie der Wissenschatten zu
Berlin.
Observatory.
Wiegman’s Archiv fiir Naturgeschichte.
* Blankenberg.—Naturwissenschaftlicher Verein des Harzes.
* Bonn.—Naturhistorischer Verein des preussischen Rheinlandes und
Westphalens.
Observatory
*University Library.
* Bremen.—Stadt-Bibliothek.
* Breslau.—Kaiserliche Leopoldinisch-Carolinische Akademie der Na-
turforscher.
* Dantzig.—Naturforschende Gesellschaft.
Darmstadt.—Grossherzogliche Bibliothek.
Deidesheim.—Pollichia. Naturwissenschaftlicher Verein der bayerischen
Pfalz.
* Dresden.—King of Saxony.

*Konigliche Bibliothek.

K. Sammlung fiir Kunst u. Wissenschaften.
Dusseldorf—Gesellschaft Naturforschender Freunde Westphalens.
Emden.—Naturtorschende Gesellschaft.

Exfurt—Akademie Gemeinniitziger Wissenschaften.

* Erlangen.—Konigliche Universitit. £

*Frankfurt am Main.—Senckenbergische Naturforschende Gesellschaft.
* Freiberg.—Koniglich-Sachsische Bergakademie.

* Frevburg.—University Library.

* Giessen.—University Library.

* Gorlitz—Naturforschende Gesellschaft.

* Géttingen.—Konigliche Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften.
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 43

Gottingen —*Konigliche Universitat.

Gotha.—Royal Library.

Grdétz.—University Library.

Greifswald. K.. P. Staats u. Landwirthschaftl. Akademie Eldena.

*University Library.

Haile.—Deutsche Morgenlandische Gesellschaft.
Naturforschende Gesellschatt.
*Naturwissenschaftlicher Verein in Halle.
Thtiringisch-sachsischer Verein.

*University Library.

Hamburg.—Commerz Bibliothek.

Museum.
*Naturwissenschaftlicher Verein.
Observatory.

*Stadt-Bibliothek.

* Hannover.—Konigliche Bibliothek.

* Heidelberg.—Grossnerzoglich-Badische Universitat.

*Innsbriick—University Library.

*Ferdinandeum.

*Jena.—Grossherzogl. herzog]. siichs. Gesammt-Universitat.

* Karlsruhe.—Grossherzogliche Hof bibliothek.

* Kiel— Academia Christiana Albertina.

* Konigsberg.—Observatory.

University Library.

Kremsmiinster.—Observatory.

Leipsic.—Dr. J. G. Fligel.

Fiirstlich-Jablonowski’sche Gesellschaft.
*K6niglich-Siachsische Gesellschaft der Wissenschatten.
*Stadt-Bibliothek.
University Library.
Mannheim.—Mannheimer Verein fiir Naturkunde.
*Marburg—Gesellschaft zur Beférderung der gesammten Naturwis-
senschaften.
*University Library.

* Meissen.—Isis.

Merseburg.—Central Direction fiir die Provinz Sachsen.

*Munich.—Kniglich Bayerische Akademie der Wissenchaften.

*Ko6nigliche Hof und Staats-Bibliothek.
Observatory.
Polytechnic School.

New Wred.—Maximilian Prinz von Wied.

* Niirnberg.—Naturhistorische Gesellschaft.

Olmiitz— University Library.

* Pesth.—Ungarische Gelehrte Gesellschaft.

*University Library.
*Prag.—Das Béhmische Museum.
K. K. patriotisch oekonomische Gesellschatt.
*K. K. Universitat.
*K6niglich-Béhmische Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften.
Regensburg.—K. Baierische Botanische Gesellschatt.
* Rostock.—University Library.
44 . EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

* Stettin.—Entomologischer Verein.
* Stuttgart.—KoGnigliche 6ffentliche Bibliothek.

Verein fiir Vaterlindische Naturkunde.
Tharand.—Konigliche Akademie fiir Forst u. Landwirthe.
* Tiibingen.—Konigliche Universitat.

* Vienna.—Kaiserliche Akademie der Wissenschaften.
*K. K. Geologische Reichsanstalt.
*K. K. Hofbibliothek.
K. K. Hof-u. Staatsdruckerei.
K. K. Naturalien Kabinet.
*K. K. Orientalische Akademie.
Observatory.
*University Library.
Zoologisch-botanischer Verein.
* Wiirzburg.—Physikalisch-medicinische Gesellschatt.
*University Library. _
Wiirttemberg.—Der Verein fiir Vaterlandische Naturkunde in Wiirttem
berg.

SWITZERLAND.

* Basel—Die Gesellschaft fur Vaterlandische Alterthiimer in Basel.
College of Basel.
*Naturforschende Gesellschatt.
Bern.—College of Bern.
*Alloemeine Schweizerische Gesellschaft ftir die gesammten
Naturwissenschaften.
*Naturtorschende Gesellschatt.
* Genéve.-—Bibliothéque de la ville de Genéve.
Observatoire de Genéve.
*Société de Physique et d’ Histoire Naturelle de Geneve.
Lausanne.—Société Vaudoise des Sciences Naturelles.
* Neuchatel.—Société des Sciences Naturelles.
Ziirich—College of Zurich.
*Gesellschaft fiir vaterlandische Alterthiimer in Ztirich.
*Naturforschende Gesellschaft in Ztirich.

BELGIUM.

Antwerp.—Académie d’ Archéologie.
Bruges.—Société des Sciences Naturelles.
* Bruxelles—Académie Royale des Sciences, des Lettres et des Beaux-
Arts.
Bibliotheque Royale de Belgique.
*Observatoire Royal.
*City Library.
*Gand.—Université de Gand.
*Tiege.—Société Royale des Sciences de Liége.
* Louvain.— Université Catholique.
* Mons.—Société des Sciences, des Arts et des Lettres, du Hainaut.
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 4®
FRANCE.

Angers.—Société d Agriculture, Sciences et Arts.
Angouléme.—Société d’ Agriculture, Arts et Commerce.
Arras.—Société d’ Arras.
Bayeux.—Société d’ Agriculture, Sciences, Arts et Belles-Lettres.
Besangon.— Académie des Sciences, Belles-Lettres et Arts.
* Bordeaux.— Académie Nationale des Sciences, Belles-Lettres et Arts.
*Société Linnéenne de Bordeaux.
Brest—Académie Navale.
*Caen.—Académie des Sciences, Arts et Belles-Lettres.
Société des Antiquaires de Normandie.
Société Linnéenne de Normandie.
*Charente-—Soc. d’ Agriculture, Arts, et Commerce du Dép. de la Cha-
rente.
Cherbourg.—Société Académique de Cherbourg.
Société des Sciences Naturelles de Cherbourg.
Clermont- Ferrand.—Académie des Sciences, Belles-Lettres et Arts de
Clermont-Ferrand.
Diyon.—Académie des Sciences, Arts et Belles-Lettres de Dijon.
Evreux.—Société Libre d’ Agriculture, Sciences, Arts et Belles-Lettres.
Le Mans.—Société d’ Agriculture, Science et Arts.
Tille.—Société Nationale des Sciences, de l’ Agriculture et des Arts.
*Lyon.—Société Nationale de l’Agriculture, d’Histoire Naturelle et des
Arts Utiles de Lyon.
*Académie des Sciences, Belles-Lettres et Arts de Lyon.
*Société Linnéenne de Lyon.
Marseilles —Académie des Sciences, Lettres et Arts.
Mende.—Société d’ Agriculture, Cormmerce, Sciences et Arts.
* Metz.— Académie Nationale de Metz.
Société d’Histoire Naturelle.
* Montpellier.—Société Archéologique de Montpellier.
Académie des Sciences et Lettres a Montpellier.
* Nimes.— Académie du Gard.
* Orleans.—Société des Sciences, Belles-Lettres et Arts d’Orléans.
* Paris—Bibliothéque de la Ville de Paris.
*Bibliotheque du Jardin des Plantes.
*Bibliothéque Impériale.
Bureau des Lougitudes.
*Dépot des Cartes et Plans.
*Ecole Nationale des Mines.
*Institut de France.
*Institut Historique de France.
*Ministére de la Guerre.
*Ministére de Ja Marine.
*Ministére de l’Instruction publique et des Cultes.
Observatoire.
*Société des Antiquaires.
*Société Asiatique.
*Société de Géographie.
Société de l’Ecole des Chartes.
A6 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

Paris.—Société Entomologique.
*Société Ethnologique.
Société Frangaise de Statistique Universelle.
*Société Géologique de France.
Société Impériale d’ Horticulture de Paris.
Société Météorologique de France.
Société Nationale des Antiquaries de France.
Société Nationale et Centrale d’ Agriculture.
Société Philomatique.
Reims.—Académie de Reims.
* Rowen.—Académie des Sciences, Belles-Lettres et Arts de Rouen.
Saint- Quentin.—Société des Sciences, Arts, Belles-Lettres, et Agricul-
ture.
* Strasbourg.—Société des Sciences, Agriculture et Arts, du Bas Rhin.
*Académie des Sciences Naturelles.
Toulon.—Académie Navale.
* Toulouse.—Académie des Sciences, Inscriptions et Belles-Lettres de
Toulouse.
Tours.—Société d’Agriculture, des Sciences, d’Arts, et des Belles-
Lettres.
Trevoux.—Société d’ Agriculture, Sciences et Arts.
Troyes.—Société d’Agriculture, Sciences, Arts et Belles-Lettres.

ITALY.

* Bologna.—Accademia delle Scienze dell’ Istituto di Bologna.
Brescia.—Ateneo di Brescia.
Catania.—Accademia Gioenia di Scienze Naturali.
Chamberry.—Société Royale Académique de Savoie.
Florence.—Accademia del Cimento.
*Biblioteca Magliabecchiana.
Imperiale e Reale Museo di Fisica e Storia naturale di
Firenze.
Observatory.
Genoa.—Accademia delle Scienze, Lettere, ed Arti.
Accademia Medico-chirurgica di Genova.
*Lucca.—Reale Accademia Lucchese di Scienze, Lettere ed Arti.
* Milan.—Biblioteca Brera.
*Imperiale Regio Istituto Lombardo di Scienze, Lettere ed
Arti.
*Museo Civico.
Modena.—Obdservatory.
*Societa Italiana delle Scienze.
Naples.—Accademia degli Aspiranti Naturalisti.
Observatory.
*Reale Accademia delle Scienze, e Belle Lettere.
* Palermo.—Accademia Palermitana di Scienze e Lettere.
Observatory.
*Padua.—Imperiale Regia Accademia di Scienze, Lettere ed Arti di
Padova.
Pisa.—Accademia Valdarnese del Poggio.
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 47

*Pisa.— University Library.
Ravenna.—Societa Ravennate.
*Rome.—Accademia Romana di Archeologia.
*  *Accademia Pontifica dei Nuovi Lincei.
*Biblioteca Vaticana.
British Academy of Fine Arts.
Correspondenza Scientifica in Roma.
Osservatorio Astronomico del Collegio Romano.
Siena.—Accademia delle Scienze.
* Turin.—Accademia Reale delle Scienze.
*Venice.—Biblioteca Marciana.
I. R. Istituto Veneto di Scienze, Lettere ed Arti.
Naval School.
* Verona.—Accademia d’ Agricoltura, Commercio ed Arti di Verona.

PORTUGAL.
*Tisbon.—Academia Real dos Sciencias.

SPAIN.

*Madrd.—Real Academia Espafola.
*Real Academia de Ciencias de Madrid.
*Real Academia de la Historia.
*Biblioteca Real.

GREAT BRITAIN AND IRELAND.

Bath.—Bath and West of England Agricultural Society.
Belfast—Belfast Institution.

*Library of Queen’s College.

*Natural History and Philosophical Society.
Berwick-on- Tweed.—Berwickshire Naturalists’ Club.
*Cambridge——Cambridge Philosophical Society.

*Cambridge Observatory.
*University Library.
*Cork.—Library of Queen’s College.
Royal Cork Institution.
Dubln.—Botanical Society.

Dublin University Philosophical Society.

Geological Society of Dublin.

*Library of Trinity College.

*Royal Dublin Society.

Royal Irish Academy.
Edinburgh.—Botanical Society.

*Library of Faculty of Advocates.

Royal Institution for Encouragement of Fine Arts in Scot-
land

*Royal Observatory.

Royal Physical Society of Edinburgh.

*Royal Scottish Society of Arts.
AS EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

* Edinburgh.—Royal Society

*Society of Antiquaries of Scotland.

*University Library.

*Wernerian Society of Natural History. .
*Galway.—Library of Queen’s College.
Glasgow.—Andersonian Institute.

*University Library.
* Greenwich.—Royal Observatory.
*Leeds——Leeds Philosophical and Literary Society.
*Liverpool.—F ree Public Library, Museum and Gallery of Art, of the
Town of Liverpool.
Historic Society of Lancashire and Cheshire.
Observatory.
Royal Institution.
London.—Aborigines Protection Society.
Annals and Magazine of Natural History.
*Archeeological Institute of Great Britain and Ireland.
*Athenzeum Club.
*Board of Admiralty.
*British Archeological Association.
*British Association for the Advancement of Science.
*British Museum.
*Chemical Society of London.
Department of Practical Art.
Entomological Society.
*Ethnological Society of London.
*Geological Society of London.
*Horticultural Society of London.
Institute of Actuaries.
*Institution of Civil Engineers.
*Library of Corporation of City of London.
*Library of Committee of Privy Council for Trade.
*Library of Eaton College.
*Library of the Hon. the East India Company.
*Library of the House of Commons.
*Linnzean Society.
*London Institution (Finsbury).
*London Library.
Meteorological Society.
*Microscopical Society.
*Museum of Practical Geology.
*Philological Society.
*Queen’s Library.
*Royal Agricultural Society of England.
*Royal Asiatic Society.
Royal Astronomical Society.
*Royal College of Surgeons of England.
*Royal Geographical Society of London.
*Royal Institution of Great Britain.
Royal Society of Literature.
*Royal Society of London.
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 49

London.—*Society of Antiquaries of London.

*Society of Arts, Manufactures, and Commerce.

*Statistical Society of London.

Syro-Egyptian Society.

*Zoological Society of London.
* Manchester—Manchester Free Library and Museum.

*Literary and Philosophical Society of Manchester.
Maynooth.—College Library. .
Newcastle-upon- Tyne-—Natural History Society of Northumberland,
Durham, and Newcastle-upon-Tyne.

Oxford. Ashmolean Society.

*Bodleian Library.

*Radcliffe Observatory.
Penzance-—Royal Cornwall Polytechnic Society.

*Royal Geological Society of Cornwall.

Salford.—Salford Borough Royal Museum and Library.
* Si. Andrews.—University Library.
* Woolwich.— Military Academy.

GREECE.

* Athens —University Library.
TURKEY.

Constantmople.—Société Orientale de Constantinople.
- *Library of the Sultan.

AFRICA.

*Grand Cairo.—The Egyptian Society.
* Liberia.— Government Library.
Mauritius.—Société d’ Histoire Naturelle de l’Isle Maurice.

ASIA.

* Allahabad.—Mission College.
* Bataria.—Bataviaasche Genootschap van Konsten en Wetenschappen.
*Bombay.—Royal Asiatic Society.

*Geographical Society.
*Calcutta.—Asiatic Society.

Agricultural and Horticultural Society of India.
*Ceylon.—Asiatic Society.

Batticotta Seminary.

* Hong Kong.—Asiatic Society of China.
*Madras.—Literary Society.
*Manilla.—Royal Economical Society of the Phillipine Islands.

VAN DIEMEN’S LAND.

Launceton.—Launceton Library.
Hobarton.—Royal Society of Van Diemen’s Land.
4
50 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF
AMERICA.

* Bogota.—Sociedad Economica de Amigos del Pais.
* Brazil— Rio Janevro.—Imperial Brazilian Historical Society.
Royal Geological Society.
Sociedad auxiliadora de Industria Nacional.
*Caracas.—Sociedad Economica de Amigos del Pais.
* Chilt.—Santiago.— Biblioteca Nacional.
Observatory of Santiago.
*University Library.
Demerara.—Queen’s College.
*Guatemala.—Sociedad Economica de Amigos del Pais.
* Habana.—Real Sociedad Economica.
Mezxico.—Mexico.—"E| Minerea.
El Museo Nacional.
Navy and War Tribunal.
*Sociedad Mexicana de Geografia y Estadistica.
Pueblo.—Colegio Palatoxano y de Pantaleon.
Vera Cruz.—Public Institute.

The receipts of works from abroad, in exchange for those sent out by
the Smithsonian Institution, are much greater than those of last year-
Many of these were of very great value, comprising a large number of more
or less complete series of transactions and periodicals. For an enum-
eration of these, I would refer to the Report of the Assistant Secre-
tary in charge of the Library.

D.—TaBLE EXHIBITING THE NUMBER OF PIECES RECEIVED IN EX-
CHANGE FROM ABROAD, IN 1853.

Volumes.—F olio and: quarto. Fe sae. ee sed eel os SS oll
Octavo 22.2 25.02 ep eis Beier oats 929
—— 1,440)
Parts of volumes and Pamphlets—Quarto........--.----- 303
CAROLE. 5 ame 688
— 99}
Maps andenpravings: 2. 42... soe eee ee te a eee 125
Potal : oo... sc cc cers ane See at 2,556

E.—TasLe EXHIBITING THE NUMBER OF PACKAGES RECEIVED FOR
OTHER AMERICAN INSTITUTIONS, &c., In 1853.

Bewdom, College. of... 02. 25s. cee eee 6
Bosion..—Amencan Academy ...:./ cis. ssstiaeod » 4s 5 oc oe 26
Natural History Society: . 2. ..ecee8 --ce eee 6
Bowditch eaiprary if. oc Main ineree ea yee See 7
Combrgd ee. — Observatory a. . 2..-2 24254 oi cai a ees = <2 cm
Botanic Garden... .. serch ich af: Ch ese 2c 7

ioarvacd Cotlege. <2. 2.2 5... 5 Set ec oa 13
Astronomical Journal. s2.:.2..1 «ee Pele hitecngin! at' 9
Amherst—Amherst College... 2... 000202220200 BulAdo. aye 8
Qn
rs

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

Worcester.—Antiquarian Society...-....-.-.-.------------- J
New diaven-—sournal ofseience. 6s). jo... 0. 2.22. 5. see 14
Manerican Oriental, ociety:):-\. ..---.,-/..0+ aan ae - 7
Albany—New Work ‘State, Library... .-----..-----.----225 6
New York.—Lyceum of Natural History.......-.--.-..-.--- 13
iNithnalosicahSoerty soe ssh ee 6 ee be 3
GeognapincaltSociety f8 2 2 ae. 2a ee 4
Philadelphia——American Philosophical Society........--..-. 39
Academy-otf Natural’ Sciences.’ 5. .-.----..-: 20

Pirantclin bnstitubess es 5 = eee atecrak insole oteseis'e, = «ce Zz

Geological Survey of Pennsylvania ..........- 4
Washington.—National Observatory ........---.------------ 28
Wash SULVEY. ween oye ete re te erences oc 22

National’ simstipukens. = het cra sje: se ode eels aie 6

subeeon “Generis. cots. hes oie Be AS bak chp iL

Aimencan ASSOGIMtON. = o's 422 tee ac js ef on asec 2

Coneress \larlbnary 322) 22 atzise sect. aloe ent een gay 8
Astronomical Expedition to Chili....-.......--. 4

United States Patent Office 2. 5. oi... 2 hn ete 3

Sicate IMepaRtMeN Esa /aor cotata <2 tre Deis we dicta es 2

GF EOED CLOUMI  OOSERVALOLY (= va, nint) Shs) 5/2) slab /otew 2ictsn eee Sietele 10

Miscellaneous, including libraries of States, minor institutions, &c. 755

6. Domestic ExcHANGES.

The copies of Volume V. of Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge
intended for American institutions, were all sent off in May at the same
time with those for foreign bodies. As heretofore, they were distribu-
ted through the following agents who have made no charge tor their
service: Messrs. J. P. Jewett & Co., Boston; George P. Putnam &
Co., New York; Lippincott, Grambo & Co., Philadelphia; John Rus-
sell, Charleston; B. M. Norman, New Orleans; Dr. Geo. Engelmann,
St. Louis ; H. W. Derby, Cincinnati; and Jewett, Proctor & Worthing-
ton, Cleveland. Acknowledgments for nearly all have been already
received.

NATURAL HISTORY.
INCREASE OF THE MUSEUM.

The additions to the Museum during the year 1853 have been very
extensive, covering the entire field of natural history and ethnology.
Many of these consist of species altogether new to science ; while others,
though previously described, belong to forms of great rarity. The con-
tributions to our knowledge of the geographical distribution of species
have been of the most important character, the localities occurring as

_ they do over the entire area of this country. A very large proportion
52 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

of these localities are in the region between the Mississippi and the
Pacific, many of them never before represented in natural history cabi-
nets. This condition of things has been, in great measure, due to the
labors of the various oovernment parties organized for the survey of
the boundary line between the United States and Mexico, and of the
several routes for a Pacific railroad. Without a single exception, all
these parties have been fitted out at the Smithsonian Institution with
all EBON G instruments and apparatus for natural history research,

much of it contrived with special reference to the exigencies of the par-
ticular service involved. Fullinstructions were also supplied, by which
persons without previous practice were enabled to master all the gen-
eral principles required for making observations and collections of every
kind. :

In addition to the above official explorations, many of a more private
character, and of greater or less extent, have been made by different
persons, and transmitted to the Institution. The general result is
to be seen in the large number of jars, kegs, boxes, and shelves filled
with specimens of all kinds. From this it will be seen that the army
has contributed a very large proportion of the whole receipts, affording
a gratifying proof of the interest felt in the deposit at the metropolis, of
complete collections of the natural history of North America.

Owing to the liberality of the officers of the various expeditions, and
of the bureaus under whose charge they were fitted out, every facility
was afforded in authorizing the necessary force and funds to meet
the wants of science as connected with these explorations. In this way
the entire cost was defrayed by government, so that the Institution has
been called upon only to make the necessary expenditures for govern-
ment, and to give a general supervision to the whole.

Nor have the materials collected by the government parties been
allowed to lie idle; on the contrary, they have been put, immediately on
their arrival, into the hands of competent naturalists and skilful artists,
for the elucidation and illustration necessary to fit them for appearing
as a portion of the reports which the various parties have been called on
to make.

I shall now proceed briefly to mention the general character of the
additions to the Museum during the year, referring for particular infor-

mation to the alphabetical list of donors subjoined. It is impossible: at
the present time to give an accurate enumeration of all the species
received, especially as so many are enurely new. Every specimen,
however, is labelled, as soon as it arrives, with the name of the donor
and locality; and in the descriptive catalogues now in course of prepa-
ration, the ‘complete account of the w hole will be presented in a sys-
tematic form. The general history of the explor ations, too, will be found
to embrace more detail than can here be given.

Mammals.—During the past year many species of North American
mammals have been receive dy embracing quite a notable proportion
of the smaller forms from North America, especially the squirrels, sper-
mophiles, and weasels. The Louisiana species have been received
from Mr. Fairie; those of Wisconsin, from Dr. Hoy; of the Rocky
mountain range, from the expedition of Governor Stevens; of the lower
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 53

Rio Grande, from Major Emory. Dr. O. W. Gibbs presented a musk
deer, from Java, and Mr. Steenberg has contributed many of the spe-
cies from Greenland, and Scandinavia. The collections of Capt. Van
Vliet and Lieut. Couch include many species from Mexico and Texas.
Some valuable specimens from Minnesota were received from Mr.
Cavileer and Dr. Head.

Birds—The additions to this department have been very great,
amounting to over 400 species, and more than 1,000 specimens. Of these
250 species are from the Rio Grande country, North Mexico, the
Rocky mountains, and west of the Rocky mountains. Here, as well
as among mammals, there have occurred some new species. Of re-
markable perfection of preparation was a collection of 50 species of
California birds, presented by Dr. Hermann; and the North Mexican
series of Lieut. Couch have been of extraordinary magnitude and im-
portance. Capt. Van Vliet, Mr. J. H. Clark and Mr. Arthur Schott
under Major Emory, and Dr. Crawford, have gathered many valuable
specimens in Texas. Species from Michigan have been received
from the Rev. Chas. Fox; of Wisconsin, from Dr. Hoy and Mr. Barry ;
of Ohio, from Dr. Kirtland and Chas. Pease; of Louisiana, from Mr.
Jas. Fairie.

Reptiles and Fishes.—As heretofore, owing to the particular attention
invited to this department, the additions to the alcoholic collections
have been most marked, especially of reptiles and fishes. Every por-
tion of the country has been laid under contribution, and the additions
to our knowledge of the distribution of species, as well as of their
zoological character, havé been of the greatest value. There is scarcely
a State or Territory in the Union which has not sent a representation.
The most marked results have been the addition to the Fauna of the
United States of the dipsadians among serpents, and the characini,
ants, the fresh water labroids, among fishes. Nearly two thousand glass
Jars have been filled with the specimens received, after being assorted ;
of which 200 were of serpents alone. The principal contributors have
been Major Emory, Governor Stevens, Lieut. Whipple, Dr. Hammond,
Dr. Jeffrey, Prof. Winchell, Drs. G. C. and B. F. Shumard, Dr. Hoy,
Rev. A. C. Barry, Dr. Barratt, Mrs. Daniel, Major Rich, Capt. Van’
Vliet, James Fairie, S. F. Baird, Maj. Hagner, Maj. Sibley, Rev.
Chas. Fox, Dr. Head, J. D. Sergeant, Mr. Kennicott, Mr. Dean, Capt.
Atwood, Leo Lesquereaux, J. H. Richard, Prof. Agassiz, Capt. Farra-
gut, D. B. Boden, &c.

Invertebrata.—Many valuable collections of invertebrata have been
added during the year, the most important being a series from Grand
Manan, from Mr. Wm. Stimpson, and illustrating his paper published
in the Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge. Others from the coast
Massachusetts were sent by Capt. Atwood, and from Florida and the
Gulf of Mexico by Dr. Hammond, Dr. Jeffrey, and Major Emory.
Some interesting contributions have consisted of specimens of Gordius
from the bodies of crickets and grasshoppers, contributed by Mr. San-
ford and Mr. Eveleth.

Plants —An extensive collection of plants of Alabama, was received
from Prof. A. Winchell, to whom the Institution is indebted for valu-
able specimens in all departments of natural history. Dr. Ravenel has

54 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

presented a suite of the Carolina fungi. Lieut. Whipple and Governor
Stevens have sent in important collections from their fields of labor.

Minerals and Fossils—In connexion with the survey of Gov. Stevens,
Dr. Evans revisited the Mauvaises Terres last summer, and collected
a large number of specimens of the fossil vertebrata of that region.
These have been put into the hands of Dr. Leidy, who has detected
the presence of some additional new species. Professor Winchell has
sent quite a full series of the cretaceous and tertiary fossils of Alabama,
and Major Emory the same from Texas. Many minerals have been
received from Dr. Pendleton, of Georgia, and some Austrian stalactites
from Mr. Dodge.

Ethnology. —Skulls of many tribes of Indians, as Lipans, Comanches,
Apaches, Flat Heads, have been received from various sources; as
also remains of works of art. An interesting contribution to this de-
partment is found in a specimen of the sculpture of the human
foot in limestone by the early inhabitants of the country, and erroneous-
ly supposed to be an impression made while the stone was in a plastic
state.

PRESENT CONDITION OF THE MUSEUM.

The collections belonging to or deposited with the Smithsonian In-
stitution are at present scattered over the building in its various rooms.
Much inconvenience is felt from the impracticability of arranging the
specimens properly for examination and study. Everything is kept
packed away in the smallest compass, and of course not easily referred
to when needed for investigation. The alcoholic collections, however,
have generally been accessible when required for use. When the new
museum room is finished, which will be in the course of a few months,
ample space will be afforded for the accommodation of ail the speci-
mens, although a considerable time must necessarily elapse before the
cases can be | put up, and the collections properly arranged.

At the present time the Institution may be saad to possess one of the
best general collections of specimens of North American natural his-
tory in the country, although in particular branches it may be greatly
exceeded by several, both public and private. It is pre-eminently
rich in the mammals, with their skulls and skeletons; and still more in
the reptiles. As an illustration of this, it may be stated that the spe-
cies of North American serpents alone amount to 130, of which 70
were never described before being received by the Institution. The
enumeration by Dr. Holbrook of North American serpents, in 1842,
consisted of 49. The other departments of reptiles have experienced
nearly proportional increase. The collection of birds is second only
to that of the Philadelphia Academy of Natural Sciences; of fishes only
equalled by the private cabinet of Professor Agassiz; while in the
various departments of invertebrata and of plants it holds much more
than average rank. In fossil remains the collection is very rich, espe-
cially of the comparatively recent vertebrata of the various caverns
throughout the country.

And, in connexion with this extent and importance of the Smithso-
nian museum, it may be well to call attention to the fact that it has
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 55:

been the work of but three years to raise this collection from nothing
to the front rank among American cabinets, exceeding all perhaps in
the number of new species first brought to light within its limits. Nor
has effort been confined merely to the acquisition of specimens, but to
their concentration in mass so as to supply all working naturalists with
the materials of research. As already stated, applications for such
assistance are constantly being received, and always met with all pos-
sible promptness; so that scarcely any natural history monograph or
memoir of any extent has been published in this country within a year
or two which has not been indebted in this way to the Institution. From
the care, too, taken to keep separate all the localities, however near
together, of any species, the collection affords information in reference
to the geographical distribution of species of the very highest value.

WORK DONE IN NATURAL HISTORY.

The labor of unpacking and assorting collections as received, and
labelling and recording the different specimens, has of course been
very great, requiring much more time than the limited portion left
after discharging the other duties assigned to me. In this, however, I
have been assisted very greatly by Mr. Charles Girard, who has given
much time and attention to this department, without any compensation
for his services. By his help, I have been enabled to keep up with
the details of labor necessary to give these collections their proper
scientific value.

Much has been done during the year towards distributing duplicate
specimens of the Smithsonian collection among the other cabinets of the
country. In no way can the Institution be of more use in elevating the
standard of natural science than in distributing carefully labelled suites
of specimens to points where, from lack of libraries or other causes,
the means of accurate identification are wanting. For remote regions of
country, this mode of assistance is of especial benefit, and arrangements
have already been entered into, in several cases, to receive miscellaneous
collections and to return them properly labelled, with the addition of
such other species as can conveniently be spared. Parties already
in such connexion with the Smithsonian Institution, or about entering
upon it, are found in New York, Ohio, Michigan, Wisconsin, Iowa, Ib-
nois, Missouri, New Orleans, and North and South Carolina.

A collection of duplicates of North American serpents and Astaci
has been presented to the Philadelphia Academy of Natural Sciences,
including types of many new species published by the Institution. To
the New York State Cabinet of Natural History was also sent a large
collection of reptiles and fishes of New York, embracing many species
not previously received there.

The cataloguing of the collections of the Institution progresses as
rapidly as my other duties will allow. One way in which a museum
may be very useful to those unable to visit it personally, is by publish-
ing catalogues of the specimens contained therein. If these exhibit,
original descriptions of the species, and especially if the list be made
complete by enumerating also the species not contained in the collection,
they become of great value to investigators, and may readily serve as
56 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

manuals of science, attaining the rank of monographs. This has been done
in the Catalogue of North American Serpents in the Museum of the Smith-
nian Institution, published in January, 1853, which, in a compact vol-
ume of one hundred and eighty-eight pages, contains full and original
descriptions of one hundred and nineteen species—all belonging to the
Institution, with the exception of five ; and some of these, with many addi-
tional ones, have been received since that time. Similar catalogues of
the other reptiles are in an advanced stage of progression, and will be
ready for publication early in 1854.

In addition to the preparation of these catalogues, much has been
done in the classification and description of the collections sent in by
the various exploring expeditions. Considerable progress has been
made towards the preparation of the several reports of the natural his-
tory of the United States and Mexican Boundary Survey, the survey of
the North Pacific railroad route by Gov. Stevens, that of the Central
route by Lieut. Whipple, that of the United States Astronomical Expe-
dition to Chili by Lieut. Gillis, and several others. The preparation of
many hundred sheets of drawings of new species for these reports has
been carefully superintended. The reports prepared upon the natural
history of the explorations by Capt. Sitgreaves and Capt. Marcy, have
already been published by Congress. Some of these I now lay before
you.

A large amount of valuable information relating to the descriptions,
and the habits and manners of species, has been received during the
yvear—much of it bearing directly upon important questions in science
and rural economy. A very extensive correspondence has been re-
quired for the purpose of stimulating investigations and calling attention
to the solution of particular problems. It is much to be regretted that
the Institution has no medium of its own through which the information
thus received can be promptly presented to the world. A monthly
bulletin, of considerable size, could readily be filled with communica-
tions of this kind, as well as with brief notices and descriptions of col-
lections received.

Registers of Periodical Phenomena.

The blank registers of periodical phenomena issued in the winter of
1852~3, have been returned filled, and in connexion with those for the
previous year, still in manuscript, form a body of information of the
highest value. These will be carefully reduced, and published at an
early period. A new edition having become necessary, a revision of
the old lists of plants was carefully made by Drs. Torrey and Gray,
and the revised form will be distributed in a few weeks. Instructions
for making collections of microscopical organisms and infusoria have
been added.

Assistance in the Muscum.

As the time has already arrived when more attention and labor
should be given to the collections of the Museum to make them fulfil
all the purposes of instruction of which they are capable, it is very
>

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 57

desirable that the Museum force should be increased. I have already
adverted to the labor necessarily expended during the past year inmerely
unpacking and arranging the collections of new matter received. While
the old specimens need a certain amount ofcare, new ones are being con-
stantly added. I would, therefore, recommend that Mr. Girard be reg-
ularly employed by the Institution, at such salary as you may think
suitable ; and one other person in addition, to attend to the purely me-
chanical work required in the way of unpacking, washing bottles,
tying on labels, cleaning specimens, &c. Such service as this could be
obtained for about twenty-five dollars per month, and the help of both
persons would be also available in other departments where it is im-
Pe nre’y required. ‘This is especially the case in respect to the pub-
ications, exchanges, and transportation, where, as in the Museum ope-
rations, I have no regular assistance whatever.

Alphabetical list of donors to the Museum of the Smithsonian Institution.

Academy of Natural Sciences—Skins of North American birds.

Prof. C. B. Adams.—Shells, &c., from Bermuda and St. Thomas.

Prof. L. Agassiz.—Etheostoma from Alabama and Missouri.

Capt. Atwood.—Fishes, crustacea, and radiata, from Provincetown,
Mass.

Prof. A. D. Bache-—Surterbrand from Iceland.

Prof. S. F. Baird—Twelve kegs, &c. of fishes, from Wisconsin,
Michigan, Ohio, New York, and Canada.

Dr. J. B. Barratt—Reptiles and fishes from South Carolina.

Dr. J. M. Bigelow.—Seeds from Texas and New Mexico.

Capt. Daniel Boden.—Specimens of lake trout and perch, from Otsego
lake, New York. ‘

J. S. Bowman.—Reptiles and fishes from the vicinity of Fort Kear-
ney. .

Major J. H. Carleton, U. S. A.—sSpecimen of thelyphonus trom
Santa Fé.

Charles Cavileer—Mammals, &c., from Minnesota.

Robert Clarke—Skulls of mammals and reptiles, in alcohol, from

Essex county, N. J.

Prof. George H. Cook.—Living specimens of Emys muhlenbergui, from
New York.

Dr. G. E. Cooper, U. S. A—Skulls of Comanche and Lipan In-
dians. ;

Dr. J. G. Cooper.—Reptiles from California; skin of Gymnotus elee-
tricus.

Lt. D. N. Couch, U. S. A.—Very extensive collections of the verte-
brata, with numerous insects and specimens of antiquities from North-
ern Mexico.

G. S. Cutting —Storeria dekayit and Chlorosoma vernalis, from Mid-
dleboro’, Mass.

Mrs. M. E. Daniel.—Reptiles from Anderson, 8. C.

E. A. Dayton—Skulls of beaver and fishes; (Mustela canadensis ;)
reptiles and fishes from the St. Lawrence river.

G. W. Dean.—Reptiles from Galveston, Texas.
58 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

Delaware County Institute, Pa-—Keg of fishes and reptiles; three
hundred and eleven species of plants from Delaware county, Pa.

J. M. Dodge.—Stalactites from the cave of Adelsburg, Austria.

Rev. D. W. Eakins —lLimestone slab, with sculpture of human feet,
from Verdigris river, Creek Nation.

Dr. George Engelmann.—Reptiles and fishes from St. Louis.

Samuel A. Eveleth—Gordius taken from a cricket.

Jas. Fairie—Shells of Chelonura temmincku, from Louisiana ; Indian
implements, reptiles, &c.

Capt. D. Farragut, U. S. N.—Fishes from Chesapeake bay.

Dr. E. Foreman.—Unio hopetonensis from Altamaha river.

Rev. Charles For.—Living specimens of Eutenia ; fishes, reptiles,
and mammals, from Michigan.

Dr. Julius Froebel.—F¥ ossils from New Mexico.

Dr. Wolcott Gibbs—Musk deer of Java, in the flesh.

B. R. Gifford.—Clays and concretions from Gay Head Bluffs, Mar-
tha’s Vineyard.

Major Hagner, U. S. A.—Siredon lichenoides, from Fort Defiance,
Navajo country.

C. F. Hammond.—Phosphate of lime, from Crown Point, N. Y.

Dr. J. F. Hammond.—Skin of Crotalus adamanteus, with fishes and
reptiles, in alcohol, from Pensacola.

Dr. W. Hammond.—Skeletons and skulls from Fort Kearney.

Dr. J. F. Head.—Reptiles, fishes, and skulls of vertebrata, from
Fort Ripley.

Dr. A. L. Hermann.—Skins of fifty species of birds, from California.

Dr. P. R. Hoy.—Fishes, reptiles, birds, and mammals, from Wis-
consin.

Dr. R. W. Jeffrey —Fishes and reptiles from Pensacola.

S. K. Jennings, j7r—Shed skin of Masticophis flavigularis, 'Texas.

Robert W. Kennicott—Fishes and reptiles trom Cook county, Hh-
nois.

J. A. Lapham:—Shells from Wisconsin.

Leo Lesquereux.—Reptiles and fishes from Ohio.

Rev. Charles Mann.—Salamanders from Gloucester, Virginia.

Dr. Morrow.—Gold ore from Dorn’s Mine, Abbeville, South Caro-
lina.

Richard Nettle—Fishes from the lower St. Lawrence.

Dr. E. C. Pendleton—Minerals and shells from Georgia.

H. W. Ravenel——Specimens of Carolina fungi.

W. H. Ravenel Sceloporus undulatus, South Carolina.

Major Wm. Rich.—Reptiles, fishes, &c., from the city of Mexico.

J. H. Richard.—Fishes from Pennsylvania.

E. S. Robinson.—Skin of Crotalus adamantcus.

Mr. Sabine.—Reptiles from California; skin of Gymnotus electricus. -

S. N. Sanford.— Gordius taken from the body of a cricket.

Sir Robert Schomburgk.—Tertiary shells and ancient pottery from
St. Domingo.

J. D. Sergeant.—Reptiles from Rock Island, Illinois.

Major E. S. Sibley, U. S. A—Reptiles and insects from Fort Union,

New Mexico.
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 59

Capt. Shiras, U. S. A.—Specimen of mygale, Texas.

Dr. B. F. Shumard.—Specimens of amblyopsis, astacus, and insects
and reptiles, from the Mammoth Cave, Kentucky, and vicinity ; fishes
from Louisville, Kentucky ; reptiles from Mississippi.

Dr. G. C. Shumard.—Reptiles and fishes from the Arkansas river.

Geo. Smith.—Living specimens of Emys muhklenbergii, from Delaware
county, Pennsylvania.

Commodore Joseph Smith.—Specimens of woods used in ship-building ;
illustrations of growth and ravages of teredo. Prepared by Mr. Jarvis,
inspector of Portsmouth yard.

J. M. Stanley.—Dress and war-club of Blackfoot chief.

Judge Augustus Steele-—Fishes, crustacea, and shells, from Atseena,
Florida.

Schach Steenberg.—Skins and skeletons of mammals, fish and inver-
tebrates, in alcohol; Greenland.

Wm. Stimpson.—Miscellaneous invertebrata from New England.

Capt. S. Van Vliet, U. S. A—Skeleton of peccary ; skins of birds-;
alcoholic specimens of reptiles, fishes, and erustacea, from the lower
Rio Grande.

Col. B. L. C. Wailes.—Living tortoises, fossils, fishes, and reptiles,
in alcohol, &c., from Mississippi.

Rev. Dr. Wheeler-—Lignite from Brandon, Vermont; Osceola ela~
psoidea from Florida.

Prof. Alexander Winchell.—Fossils, plants, reptiles, birds, &c., from
Eutaw, Alabama ; plants, fossils, and fishes, from Selma, Alabama.

Dr. S. Wyhe Crawford, U. S. d—Skin of Cyrtonyx massena from
Texas.
60 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

List of Meteorological observers reporting to the Smithsonian Institution at

the beginning of 1854, compiled by Lorin Blodget.

State. Name. Residence.
Nova Scotia vec crete cvecteterrer \Henry’ Poole. wats esses. -.| Albion Mines, Pictou.
Gana dareteroie cite s-cysteciexsicics | Dr. Chas. Smallwood......} St. Martin’s, near Montreal.
Maine. eines. selesisteterece | Rev. Samuel H. Merrill...) Oldtown, Penobscot county.
Jeg pe Rarken, ctovcleseis se) sf\0\c Steuben, Washington county.
| James G. Garland........ Biddeford, York county.
|| John J. Bells 2S i) sctice 2. ...| Carmel, Penobscot county.
Saml. A. Eveleth...... ..-| Windham, Cumberland county.
Joshua, Bartlett icc. <1s'0.0s.0.0 South Thomaston, Lincoln co.
| Geo. W. Burrows.........| Fryeburg, Oxford county.
| Wm. D. Dana...... efalsiehehs Perry, Washington county.
New Hampshire....... .| Geo. B. Sawyer........-. Salmon Falls, Stafford county.
: Robt. | © Miaekksisetee exe's ...| Londonderry, Rockingham county.
Dr. Wm. Prescott........| Concord, Merrimack county.
Hons SNS Bell cccieipisnje 0:0 Manchester, Hillsborough county.
Rev. L. W. Leonard...... Exeter, Rockingham county.
Albert A. Young........ t Han Can a
| Prof. Ira’ Young's... 206.5. ee toe ee
|
Vermont «++... pelts a al Jol Feo REOKE AET St. Johnsbury, Caledonia county.
G@has. fA‘ 7 Jeg Marsh, 5 ste clete<e Craftsbury, Orleans county.
DV Buckland gaieciesles's soles Brandon, Rutland county.
D. Underwood...........- Castleton, Rutland county.

Massachusetts. ..

Rhode Island..

Connecticut...

New York*........

-

eecececece|

ee ceceeeooee

Prof. Zadok Thompson....

Wialliany, Bacon: .2sjs,c5ie1s;0.6)-
Prof. E. G. Snell
Dra ids cA SiSmithscyeccc seve ers
DrsgH a Cs Perkins... Breit
Hons John Brooks's)...» <<
Dr. Jno. Geo. Metealf.....
ues: ©. Allens. ices eet
Samuel Rodman...:......
Amasa. Holcombic, sccstereerets
Be Re Gifford Scares s ees
| Henry Rice
Hon. Wm. Mitchell..

eee eer eee

Cr ey

Henry C. Sheldon.....,...
Prof. A. Caswell..... node

«| Rev. Tryon Edwards, D. D.

Daniel Hunt

.| Prof. Edward A. H. Allen..

Thomas B. Arden..

Charles A. Avery...... siete
Prof. O. W.. Morris... ..2s
©: Thurston ‘Chase...
BA. Dayton. i:.asie screens
Bs Wi. Johnson cn cece
Dr. P. O. Williams..... ste
Usila bis Chusasesceiterts eicievereve
E. N. Byram.. alavers

C.S. Woodward. . Heer ca
Walkera D: Velev soeescs 6:

Burlington, Crittenden county.

Richmond, Berkshire county.
Amherst, Hampshire county.
Worcester, Worcester county.
Newburyport, Essex county.
Princeton, Worcester county.
Mendon, Worcester county.
Springfield, Hampden county.
New Bedford, Bristol county.
Southwick, Hampden county.
Barnstable, Barnstable county.
North Attleboro’, Bristol county.
Nantucket.

North Scituate, Providence.
Providence.

New London, New London co’ty.
-| Pomfret, Windham county.

.| Saybrook, Middlesex county.

Salisbury, Litchfield county.

Troy, Rensselaer county.

.-| Beverly, Putnam county.

Seneca Falls, Seneca county.
Institution for deafand dumb. N. Y.
Chatham, Columbia county.
Madrid, St. Lawrence county.
Canton, St. Lawrence county.
Gouverneur, St. Lawrence county.
Oswego, Oswego county.

.| Sag Harbor, Suffolk county.

Beaver Brook, Sullivan county.
Houseville, Lewis county.

* New York Academy system in separate list.
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

LIST—Continued.

State. Name. Residence.

New WOrk' cre). (oro «e0'- sieiee| DOOM MBO WANA. e/c/sierse or le « | Baldwinsville, Onondaga county.
Johns Weffertsin civics etscec Lodi, Seneca county.
Elias O. Salisbury ........ Buffalo, Erie county.
Laurens A. Langdon...... Falconer, Chautauque county.
Dr. Stillman Spooner ..... Wampsville, Oneida county.
TBM Ger aya eiesversiore <i 6 Albion, Orleans county.
John’ Ey, Jenkinssaye\scjereh seve North Salem, Westchester county.

New Jersey..... Sie(s oleate’ Robert, L. Cooke. «5.5.0. Bloomfield, Essex county.
Prof. Adolph Frost........ Burlington, Burlington county.
W. A. Whitehead ........ Newark, Essex county.

Pennsylvaniaj.. ss «le sees Dr. A.C. Blodget /.5% <2. Youngsville, Warren county.
Wis O2. Blodget: (ccerreleiceccre Sugar Grove, Warren county.
Samuel Brown............ Bedford, Bedford county.
John? Comlly.s sc sjareieiesietsieiers Byberry, Philadelphia county.
Joseph Edwards........... Lima, Delaware county.
Dre RAGE #5 LEVENS: lefeforonsle- Ceres, McKean county.
Francis Schriener......... Moss Grove, Crawford county.
Wie Wie Wall SOmiiajeyeretesis feta « Pittsburgh, Alleghany county.
Prof. M. Jacobs..... .----.| Gettysburgh, Adams county.
Fenelon Darlington ....... Pocopson, Chester county.
Ebenezer Hance .......... Morrisville, Bucks county.
Dirty Jeglleiseliysaraieractereteeverets Harrisburg, Dauphin county.
Revit Dardis. Bry lene orca) 0s) ste Waynesboro’, Franklin county.
DepRes | Wiowirlerscsaexers av cleialers Hollidaysburg, Blair county.
Rev. J. Grier Ralston..... Norristown, Montgomery county.
Prof. J. A. Kirkpatrick. ...| Philadelphia, Philadelphia county,
Dre Rawls Swift se,<tisjepectevers Haverford, Philadelphia county.

Maryland ......-..00+.++. Fret. Aree IS) Sykesville, Carroll county.
Prof... HoSteinerssteccss « Baltimore, Baltimore county.
Henry E. Hanshaw....... Frederick, Frederick county.

aE PIM AN claiat) ae ores «cao; FOUN W... Marvin, «veraiacls %

BLOriGa ; s.6.c<ce 6 ote a eapate: eve

Allabamats siceo sca c oot er

WU icwristspppiictarateicsieya s/s ois) bicle

Prof. Geo. R. Rosseter....
Dr. Thomas Patton.......
Benjamin Hallowell.,.....
Prof. N. B. Webster......
David Turnerie ci. cierssetetsere
Lieut. R. F. Astrop.......
SWimiy Si-KWermi.:.ceceesere

Rev. Frederick Fitzgerald. .
Prof. James Phillips.......

.| Thornton Carpenter.......

Dr. John F. Posey........
RP. Gibson ;.,<).'s aS acrencee
Prof. John Darby
Dr. E. M. Pendleton

Dr. A. S. Baldwin........
Judge Aug. Steele........
John’ Newtons? \<: 22/00. s0.
John Pearson, master navy

VWhithGcocGodooooeo ono ood

eee eer eee

iss dia Omnia eocostood
Protebis @utwiler. o<).:./0«
Prof Muomey ss. esas <3
Benjamin F. Holley...... .

Rev. E. Robinson..

Winchester, Frederick county.
Buffalo, Putnam county.

.| Lewisburg, Greenbrier county.

Alexandria, Alexandria county.
Portsmouth, Norfolk county.
Richmond, Henrico county.
Crichton’s store, Brunswick co’ty.
Huntersville, Pocahontas county.

Jackson, Northampton county.
Chapel Hill, Orange county.

Camden, Kershaw county.

Savannah, Chatham county.
Whitmarsh Island, Chatham co’ty.
Culloden, Monroe county.
Sparta, Hancock county.

Jacksonville, Duvall county.
Cedar Keys, Levy county.
Knox Hill, Walton county.

Pensacola, Escambia county.

Monroeville, Monroe county.
Havana, Greene county.
Tuscaloosa, Tuscaloosa county.
Wetokaville, Talladega county.

Garlandsville, Jasper county.
62 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

LIST—Continued.

Residence.

Louisiana ....+-.e+.e+ee-| Dr. K. H. Barton.........| New Orleans, Orleans county.
TexaS..ccecsecccecvecees| Dr. S. K. Jennings.......

Austin, Travis county.
Prof. J. C. Ervendberg....

New Weld, Comal county.

Tennessee .....++.++++---| Commandant navy yard ..
Prof. A. P. Stewart.......
W. M. Stewart ...... sferets

-| Memphis, Shelby county.

Lebanon, Wilson county.

Glenwood, near Clarksville, Mont-
gomery county.

Prof. George Cooke.......| Knoxville, Knox county.

Kentucky......0+eeee-+--| Dr. John Swain.........- Ballardsville, Oldham county.
Rev..J. Miller..........% --| Millersburg, Bourbon county.
OM Beatty scjc sisiae-'s\ see's ---| Danville, Boy le county.
Lawrence Young......... Springville, near Louisville, Jef-
ferson county.
NCE sBIRDY.s cileroiei« v's ole Pleasant Valley, Nicholas county.
KE. ..-Bethune..:.\..'. -ee+e-| Maysville, Mason county.
Ohio. ..ceceeecceeeeeeeee| Prof. R. S. Bosworth., College Hill, Hamilton county.
We “GYONMEWEZY ss ere cvaslejers : Gornanional Montgomery co’ty.
Rev. J. McD. Matthews... Hillsborough, Highland county.
Geo. L. Crookham........ Jackson C. igh Jackson county.
Je-G. I. Holstont ys... Zanesville, Muskingum county.
Prof. S. N. Sanford......| Granville, Licking county.
Prof. J. W. Andrews ..... Marietta, Washington county.
F. A. Benton..........-+-| Mt. Vernon, Knox county.
Hi SPOONET2 6 wie sa) siclelelclercie Keen, Coshocton county.
Prof. J. H. Fairchild.....} Oberlin, Loraine county.
Michigan...... eeeeeeeees} Dr. Thomas Whelpey.....| Brest, Monroe county.
ite 9Wioodr aii. \.i-ittcictestnore Ann Arbor, Washtenaw county.
Dr: M.-K. ‘Taylor. ........ | Brooklyn: Jackson county.
Dr. W.M. Campbell. . Battle Creek, Calhoun county.
Jas, I Strong ic) shels scien «=e St. James, Beaver Island.
Rev. Geo. Duffield, D. D.. Detroit, Wayne county.
Bd iBNa) sos ao oes occ netoomeee Prof. Jos. Tingley ........] Greencastle, Putnam county.
WW sAustin 220% <cisic.5%re Richmond, Wayne county.
Dr. V. Kersey... .:: seleicisver Milton, Wayne county.
Jno. Chappellsmith....... New Harmony, Posey county.
RITNOIS sie e's ces: aroversnie clo ere | reas VLCAG, alclevesters ---| Augusta, Hancock county.
MOC Allee eats costelsretar .--| Athens, Menard county.
Dr. John James . . «00.0100: Upper Alton, Madison county.
Dri JO. Harris tects Ottawa, La Salle county.

Prof. Wm. Coffin.........| Batavia, Kane county.
MMisSOULi c's colts ie 0.0 eteeie'o'e| DY. Geo: Engelman......-

St. Louis, St. Louis county.
O. Hi P: Lear. ..ceaewene

Hannibal, Marion county.

TOWA. ec ceeccceees -eeeee Dr. J. BE. Ball..........2-| Keokuk, Lee county.
Dr. Benj. F. Odell........| Poulteney, Delaware county.
Dr. E. C. Bidwell...... ---| Quasqueton, Buchanan county.
D..E. Read...... eeeeeeeee| St. Mary’s, Mills county.
P. G. Parvin .............| Muscatine, Muscatine county.
ree Aa WEA OLY o10\s iarsles<yoyetere Dubuque, Dubuque county.
Wiisconsinicjprteterevesicwisies|s te J. 1a. Pickard).:,... -+«-| Plattsville, Grant county.

Profs SP. Lathrop ccisiees.
DAR VVALLLAT cleresayerexcie's. sie
Thos. Gay, €8q....s.cces-
Prof. S. H. Carpenter bicrevers
Edward S. Spencer ......-

Beloit, Rock county.

Janesville, Rock county.
Bellefontaine, Marquette county.
Madison, Dane county.
Summitt, Waukesha county.
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

63

LIST—Continued.

State. Name.

Residence.

Minnesota ........

Rev. Elisha Ww. Carver... .

Red Lake, Pembina county.

Rev. S. R. Riggs... os. <:.| Lae qui Parle, Dahkota county.
Rev. D. B. Spencer....... St. Josephs, Pembina county.

New York University system.

Name. Station.
Prof. C. Dewey, D:D ..:0:.6.0 010 Sele, 0.01010 .++++| Rochester, Monroe county.
Chas. A. Avery ....ceccecrecns 8010 eeeisieeee s Seneca Falls, Seneca county.
Dr. M. M. Bagg......-.eeesssseecceeeees| Utica, Oneida county.
Hip At PD ICKINSOMGeiete:s.0 siahele\eeiele ele\eise1e!ee(e.ee -+| Jamestown, Chautauque county.
W.H. Gillespie..... aleteispayels eveictserece\e -+..+-| Mexico, Oswego county.
CWharlesi., Hazeltin el... sjo.el« fects s'02,0 slesieie'sies | Cherry Valley, Otsego county.
PAP LAT fe. .choinsnisies a oiciersies aie) nie seieiecs «++ee+| Elmira, Chemung county.
PU REM. BBECS|olers. ac) os) aeic(oletalsrs.2/s/ei< Saiejeieis| seca --| Booneville, Oneida county.
cote OR OO tae rolelelerc sieve siojele esters eeseeee-| Hamilton College, Oneida county.
Wem rem GutleStisis) sclera seiofe) oetsVoyeiens’s\cisiloi\s/evsie sions Ogdensburg, St. Lawrence county.
John ihe Jenkins) .;¢.<0012\6/ are rareectsorcleraets) cusiaie North Salem, Westchester county.
LOTT RET everolerels ae ake!(eleholelo) ofa stehals ol oreleeiese oO oO.
EEO Sch) SAN Vice VL OLE SMafe loseisis 1 stole e'evexcrorsi'erones choke Institution for deaf and dumb, N. York city.
Vi UOMTISON colors evecjoretsitis cievels: ererecorsellate ---| Canton, St. Lawrence county.
UV FeO PICT OM sr ores et ato\st alefeicsia a\e.o'se overerelsiele e\e Alfred, Alleghany county.
De May Hew: « c.c\6 cies. eeleie se afetey ser ++ee+++| Lowville, Lewis county.
IVVicp OG tA amSle stores 2. a/etclers'stareleexare siereresstore 0 do.
Wi Miclbarenis/ccise1. sieves ee leleicheiweyaretetetofenerere Glen’s Falls, Warren county.
WUV errr la AN GAINS oie 05 o1cies sscloro) aise cvele oxelsclero.s do do.
Samuel A. Law....... slelale/eies o,6 sararete -+....| Meredith, Delaware county.
PREV Wie ol) SAW ASOD Gye 1a: etoile cioisie%ss.oreso er ++ee-| Geneva, Ontario county.
EA RMET MR OUCHET Tafel rojas ler ele eee\a\ere (eos + oieee were Hudson, Columbia county.
eid We Tes OBR C Ceuerate ce: eysisicloletaie o'e: 216161 & oexersio Homer, Cortland county.
TOHNES wD pebayl ore a cerscte etclsve ciao 0: castors sist store Plattsburg, Clinton county.
John D. Watkins..... weleioheleietel ole wsietel ok orevolels Liberty, Sullivan county.
Frederick L. Hanford........ afct als sfoteYete pouue do do.
Re ELV IM OBirtetaiee Heche: one crajeictele's evera atatelotetete East Hampton, Suffolk county. ©
Rey. Thomas M. Strong, D. D........0065. Flatbush, Kings county.
JO PStrattons, .:e.0:seeiels sis <e ite ye\ta.sy stor estaks .-.| Oxford, Chenango county.
Charles H. Payson..... SOO GORDON OUUOGOC Pompey, Onondaga county.
WASP GEIDUE US SjleVatae’ ai iste Sicls 3 6 s-0 Aereves nereters Adirondack, Essex county.
BB Opies 5 5023010: < 100s 0's staves ia shore «e+e! Ithaca, Tompkins county.
13 Ge cl DRS eee ere L SEO eS OD COOCOe Newburgh, Orange county.
CONE REN MOGU eicelciels Noises cic coke «cieneee © 6 Rochester, Monroe county.
AVIAN IGOR CY isicie/e\\dchaiaiecse-s  ¥ eotarete sisi e4 Syracuse, Onondago county.
Ds HE. Cochrane sete aca’ sise oss StAG ODOC ...-| Fredonia, Chautauque county.

Prof. George H. Cook ..........
John N. Brinkerhoff......

seeess eet esee sees

Albany, Albany county.
Union Hall, Jamaica, Queens county’.
EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

Observations transmitted in series or summaries.

State | Name.
Canada. iskr5 is veeeeere++ Magnetic and meterological
| observatory ..+.....00«
Indiana ............+.++++-| Dr. Thomas Edmondson..
South Carolina........... | ‘Rev. AuviGlennie Sica iaje!s:-
WlOrid as crejoetenteretel metcretsyel= ) Win Co" Wenniss<jecresiscvere
MissOUri..c.: cics'ec oie 0 ore .- Dr. George Engelman ....
Towa.. .-| K. H. A. Scheeper...
Californias erates yer cuales cio’ Drie Gibbonse cc...
Bermiudaljevets sas, ciersescierete | Surgeon Wellis...........
|
Montreal ....... OO ..| J. H. Huguet Latour......
| Dr. Archibald Hall........
Central America.........- VERS aba Sted seiersieies,s.e:0.0.¢
South America......0s.0- Edward A. Hopkins

Residence.

Toronto, Canada.
Baltimore.
Waccaman.

Key West.

St. Louis.

..-| Pella, Marion county.

San Francisco.
Centre Signal
Island.

Station, Inland

Panama.

.| Ascension, Paraguay.

Observers commencing since January, 1854, up to June 1, 1854.

State.

Massachusetts. ...2e.--

Rhode Island... ...6..6-s;0:<\6
Connecticut. ........cecee

Wew York ..... «<1 oeseeer

New Jersey

Pennsylvania

ee a

Maryland..... Eciaie) seis atorets

Virginia

a0 0 © epee one we eesee

ee a

soeeve

Mississippi... cess

eroeeoee

A. R. Green .

Dr. James W. Robbins...

B. R. Gifford.. ise wie

Albert Schlegel... eoleaiseysiegs ire
Prof. P, A. Chadbourne....

Samuel Powel.....
Geo. Manchester

ener eee

Prof. John Johnston....

Dr EVE wAM bas .6is evoreieys ave
John F. Jenkins..... Seistone
Wiarrenves Adams: r:..0134
Rev. WD? Wilsons. .6.2 «3
Pr. Sanford B. Hunt....
Prof. George H. Cook

g2 Re Lowrie . teletetsieetaisis iets

Jed. Hotchiss
A. Nettleton

J. Bryant Smith, M. D..

-| Thornton Carpenter.......

H. W.. Ravenel... 3.030008

William Schley.........
Prof. Wm. D. Waltiamnee

Rev. J. Avery Shepherd. .
Wm. Henry Waddell.....
ROL GELAT DED. «0150 0,0:00/«

eccreeeceoeee

Residence.

-| Uxbridge, Worcester county.

Wood’s Hole, Barnstable county.
Taunton, Bristol county.........
William’s College, Williamstown.

Newport, Newport county.
Portsmouth, Newport couuty.

West Cornwall, Litchfield county.
Middletown, Middlescx county.

Angelica, Alleghany county.
White Plains, West Chester.
Glen’s Falls, Warren.
Geneva, Ontario county.

..| Buffalo, Erie county.

New Brunswick, Middlesex co’ty .

Warrior’s Mark, Huntingdon co.

.| Andersville, Perry county.

Meadville, Crawford county.
Hagerstown, Washington county.

Bridgewater, Rockingham, county.
Lynchburg, Campbell county.

-| Lincointon, Lincoln county.

Charleston, Charleston county.
Aiken, Barnwell county.

.| Augusta, Richmond county.
.| Madison, Morgan county.

Lake Washington, Washington co.
Grenada, Yalabusha county.
Oxford, La Fayette county.
Jackson, Jackson county.
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

"6

LIST—Continued.

State. Name. Residence.
IGOWISIATIA Ne Ksieseisieiele esieie'e 9. BrotaaWeele Riddell. vcs ev New Orleans, Orleans county.
Kentucky. ...-..secseses JAD He: Bixbyiis ose: Sanbie sie ee Lafayette, Christian county.
J. D2 Shane.’ ssinweic' o.n0j0 60 Lexington, Fayette county.
OO fs ierone's)s.creieie e'e(s\oKo.ei0\0.° John Ingram... «<< ..c: -+-| Savannah, Ashland county.
D. G. W. Livesay........ Gallipolis, Gallia county.
Dr. J. P. Kirtland ....... East Rockport, Cuyahoga county
Edmund W. West.........| Huron, Erie county.
Michigan ......scscseces Dr.:S: i. Mitchell . <i)... | East Saginaw, Saginaw county.
Alfred: E: Carrier ......... Grand Rapids, Kent county.
Prof. Alexander Winchell .| Ann Arbor, Washtenaw county.
linnalienney 3s oAG GAS ea Oooo VP IRIAUELE creferelecfoscleve.cereio's Kendallville, Noble county.
W. B. Coventing ......... do oO.
Daniel H. Roberts........ New Garden, Wayne county.
TOWa «00.00.0000 ee teececes E. H. A. Scheeper...... »-| Pella, Marion county.
JWASGOMISII sisiarez0i0,ejsicis weieleie G..Z; Livingston, ;<is:2i0016 +: Hudson, St, Croix county.
Jee lua PHAM ole excl celslo1ei's| Milwaukie, Milwaukie county.
Prof. Wom. Borters.. ccc. Beloit, Rock county.
Minnesota..... Siastarsinc fer Rev. Solon W. Mauncey..| Fort Ripley.
Dr. ©. L. Anderson....... St. Anthony’s Falls, Ramsey co’y.
OEP ON 10ers «\c0.0 v\corein sists John D. Post... .¢sseceee Oregon City.
California, ...cscseccvvees Dr. J. H. Gibbons......../ San Francisco.

5
66 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.

The Executive Committee submit to the Board of Regents the follow-
ing report, relative to the present state of the finances, and the expendi-
tures during the year 1853.

They are happy to inform the Board that, after a strict examination
of the accounts, they are enabled to present a very satisfactory state-
ment of the present condition of the finances, and the result of the
investigations as to the expenditures during the year.

The whole amount of the Smithsonian bequest, deposited in the trea-
sury of the United States, (from which an annual income, at 6 per cent.,
as derived ‘Of, poU,; i Ogle) Merrett pete asin a alain ot $515,169 00
Amount of unexpended interest, reported

last year as in charge of Messrs. Cor-

Gpran. Gc Riggs Serre haga eae haha 3 $208,800 00
From which deduct amount expended on

the buildmg during the past year.... 29,391 98

179,408 02
Of this it is proposed to expend the further

SUNY: Ol see eee tee ee 29,408 02

Which will leave to be added to the princi-
pal, according to the original proposition
of Professor“ Bacnecers oe ee cic ee 150,000 OO

The whole fund ‘willithen be- 2 2. - ..cccctweolee 665,169 OO

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

67

Statement in relation to the expenditures of the Smithsonian Institution during

the year 1853.

BUILDING, FURNITURE, FIXTURES, ETC.
Pay on contracts. .++..+ss+e- Riaisiss aisfsleiiacicia}alsVard svi she's, e\>/sia«/s.0's
Pay of architects, superintendents, &c.....-. .
Magnetic observatory .
Expenses of building committee......... Sc
Miscellaneous, incidental to building.........- a esicievelaies
Furniture, &c., for uses in COMMON... ..0.-2 ee eeeeseerees
Furniture for library ....escsessse cece ee cees eivlesiefalsielucleilele due

eecneeer eee eee oe eee sere eee eo eo © Oe

GENERAL EXPENSES.

Expenses of Board of Regents........
Lighting and heating.........-.+- ee
Postage...... “
Transportation ..... SOD DOOUDOOOCUOUE :
Stationery... .......eeeee.
General printing... sc. scesvecvocenscevecees feiss falefaversesete/ chara
Apparatus ......0..
Incidentals general ........ee-s
Watchman. . cise cwcccessvecs Pratehetereleletotere este reheiefors HoIoTeOdsO DS
Salaries general........

wees
Peer ee sree rs seo eB Bee ee Zereeeor ae Deeherseveoee

eco eo eee er ee ee sreoe

weer esse esos eee eer eee ese sees

PUBLICATIONS, RESEARCHES, AND LECTURES.

Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge .....2...2+esee0e%

Reports on progress of knowledge, .......eeeeeeeceeeeceee sevale
Other publications.............. FOGG CHO eerstehovalsielste}sfelelore mistevelets
Meteorology ....ccccccccscevscs arelorlsietoishepshcisictelasichehereletesserste sic
Pay Op lCCtUTCTS els co esjeiele o/elefeie +101 <:eisieis via%e > Sielsieteicrereissislsteteis
Illustrations and apparatus for lectures....0..++eeceeee Relesste
Attendance and lighting lectures, &C......+seeeeeeeee eeescees

LIBRARY, MUSEUM, AND GALLERY OF ART.

Ws Of DOCKS) sr lereie)sic cle! cxelee s/0/2\e) sievolesieie
Stereotyping and printing
Mitel demic lshOr di DIAN y a2 «rsiviosls)e!s sleieiets o,c/cicie.o sje 6:cige/elaeoias oe 0 ts
Sinlbinigs, IM eiay og tgs cau dne GU OdOUCe aa ONG DCOOCCOMOKOOrIOU OUT
Hiplora tions MUSCUNE. oc <o\cic co's o oes ss 600.6 00 0s osvie vola vies ss oles
Expense of collections, museum..........+- Gigcu6 cwnolog cage 06
Incidentals,, MUSCUM ss «052.000 2 0010-0 +510 BOI ba COBIOE eterestclerereye
AAKICS, MUSEUM) cicias.c cleo sretes see

otaliexpenditures 10) 1853.15.66 siecle s siacisie.sis2 os :

25,500 00
1,580 70
1,578 28

77 00
184 84
354 05
17 11

-———

646 47
364 28
1,913 19
6 50

894 19
203 50

367 00
4,099 92

8,160 04
139 29

195 00 |

*3,352 42

$29,391 98

12,042

13,652 66

8,960 82

64,047 93

* Including $948 34, charged for interest on over-drafts during the year.

The following is a general view of the receipts and expenditures for

the year 1853:

RECEIPTS.

Balance in the treasury, as per last report....... 5.6 ate
Interest on the original fund for the year 1853.........ss20000%
Interest on the extra fund for the year 1853....... :

EXPENDITURES, exctusive oF BUILDING.

For items common to the objects of the Institution...........
For publications, researches, and lectures........eeesseceeeees
For library, museum, and gallery of art..... sieleisiclee'e
Balance iwi the treasury. «|«)0.c/cs/ sls eteletieia ele ve.sicleie sae ale Siecle e's ecis

ee eeeee or. veers

$250 49
30,910 14
10,440 00

12,042 47
13,652 66

8,960 82
6,944 68

$41,600 63

41,600 63
68 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

An appropriation of $30,000 was made at the last meeting of the
Board of Regents, to be expended under the direction of the Executive
Committee and the Secretary, for carrying on the operations of the In-
stitution.

From the foregoing statement of accounts it will be seen that while
the library and museum have had their share of the appropriation, the
active operations have exceeded their part by upwards of $4,000.
This excess has been caused, principally, by printing and preparing
for the press a number of memoirs which are to form the volume of
contributions for the year 1854.

Whatever may be the future distribution of the income, a greater ex-
penditure than has been made for the lbré ary and museum, sau ing the
past year, could not, in the opinion of the committee, have been judicious.

The additions to the library and museum, the former of which were
chiefly in return for the publications of the Institution under the system
of exchanges, have been considerable and valuable. A particular esti-
mate of these will be presented to the Board hereafter.

The Board are referred to the report of the Secretary, recently sub-
mitted, for a detailed account of the operations of the Institution during
the past year. The committee think that these operations are in har-
mony with the law of Congress, with the objects of the founder of the
Institution, and successfully carry out his idea of the increase and diffu-
sion of knowledge.

After the present year, during which the building will probably be
completed, the fund for annual expenditures will “be somewhat en-
larged, and increased benefits, it is hoped, will be realized.

J. A. PEARCE,
A> D: BACHE, Executwe Committee.
Je: G;, LOLTEN,
¥HE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 69

REPORT OF THE BUILDING COMMITTEE.

The Building Committee of the Smithsonian Institution beg leave to
present to the Board of Regents the following report of their operations
and expenditures during the year 1853:

It will be recollected by the Regents that the first plan of the Smith-
sonian building contemplated finishing the interior with wood and plas-
ter, and that the Board subsequently adopted a resolution directing the
wood-work to be removed and its place to be supplied with fire-proof
materials.

In accordance with this resolution, the Building Committee directed
plans and estimates to be made by Captain B. 8. Alexander, of the
United States corps of Engineers. ‘These plans were laid betore the
Board at the last meeting, and approved; reserving, however, to the
Building Committee the right to make any changes which they might
think desirable during the progress of the work. Mr. Renwick having
retired from the office of Architect, Captain Alexander was appointed
in his place.

It will also be recollected by the Board, that shortly before the close
of their last session, Mr. Gilbert Cameron, the former contractor, peti-
tioned the Regents to be allowed to finish the building, alleging that, if
he was not granted this privilege, his reputation as a builder would be
injured; and also affirming that he was legally entitled to be allowed to
complete the work, by the terms of his original contract, which the Board
had never declared forfeited.

This subject was referred to the Building Committee, and legal advice
was asked by them in reference to it, from J. M. Carlisle esq., who
has acted for some years as counsel to the Board of Regents. His
opinion was in favor of the claims of Mr. Cameron. The ques-
tion was also submitted to P. R. Fendall, esq., United States dis-
trict attorney, who coincided in opinion with Mr. Carlisle.

In accordance with these opinions, the committee concluded to let
Mr. Cameron proceed with the work on the terms which he had pre-
viously submitted to them, and which. was within the estimate which
had been made by the architect.

Some delay unavoidably took place in arriving at this decision, and
consequently the work was not commenced until June 13, 1853.
Since then, however, it has been prosecuted with great vigor, and to
the entire satisfaction of the Committee. The roof has been tempora-
rily secured, the entire frame of wood work which occupied the inte-
rior removed, and a cellar excavated. A large brick sewer has been
constructed through the middle of the building, and carried outward
toward the canal, by which the cellar may be thoroughly drained and
all waste water discharged. The foundation walls, piers, and arches,
of a spacious and commodious basement, have been completed ; the
piers in the main story have been built, and the beams and arches of
70 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

the floor for the rooms above finished. The brickwork of the upper
story has also been completed; in short, the masonry from the founda-
tion to the roof, and more than nine-tenths of the brickwork, have been
finished. The principal part of the work yet remaining to be accom-
plished, according to the statement of the architect, may be classified
as follows:

1. Finishing the necessary stairways for the lecture room and gal-
lery.

2. Supporting the roof, so that the columns in the second story may
be dispensed with.

3. Completing the interior finish, such as flooring, plastering, paint-
ing, &c.

4. Fitting up the lecture room with seats.

The Committee found great difficulty in deciding upon a proper posi-
tion and plan of a lecture room, and, after much deliberation and frequent
consultations, finally concluded to place it in the second story, in the
middle of the main building, where the greatest width could be ob-
tained.

The original plan contemplated the placing of the large lecture room
on the first floor; but in this position it was impossible to procure a
sufficient space, uninterrupted by large columns, which would materially
interfere with the employment of the room for the purpose intended.
In endeavoring to overcome this difficulty, it was at one time proposed
to support the floor of the whole space of fifty feet in width, by means of
heavy girders ; but this being considered unsate, the idea was abandoned.
The only plan, therefore, at the option of the Committee tor providing a
suitable lecture room, was that which has been adopted. According
to the present income and policy of the Institution, this is cheaper than
any other plan proposed; and should the building ever be required for
other purposes, such as an entire museum or library, the division walls
could easily be removed, and the whole space reconverted into one
large room. The plan adopted, therefore, makes the best provision for
the present wants of the Institution, and can readily be adapted to any
proposed change in the future application of the building. ‘The whole
of the first story has been thrown into one large room, with arrange-
ments for dividing it, if necessary, by screens, into two apartments,
with a central hall or wide passage between.

The Committee have kept constantly in view the idea of rendering
the main building entirely fire-proof, and of constructing it in the most
durable and substantial manner. This they have been enabled to ac-
complish through the constant supervision of Captain Alexander, who,
as it appears to the Committee, has successfully evinced in this work a
combination of practical skill and scientific knowledge.

From a comparison of the work done with that which remains to be
accomplished, the architect is of opinion that, should nothing happen to
prevent it, the building will be finished during the present year, and
ata cost within the estimate; consequently, the $58,000, recommend-
ed to be set aside by the Executive Committee in their last report,
together with a portion of the income of the past year, will be sufficient
to detray all the expenses, and leave the $150,000 untouched. This
refers, however, mainly to the completion of the building, and not to
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. aed:

ihe furniture, which must be purchased by degrees out of the accruing
interest on the above mentioned sum.

At the last session of the Board of Regents a resolution was adopted
authorizing the erection of a small building for a Magnetic Observatory.
This structure has been completed, and is now furnished with instru-
ments, and will soon be in successful operation. It consists of a small
room twelve feet by sixteen, under ground, enclosed by a nine inch
brick wall, within which the instruments are placed. ‘This room is
surrounded by a rough stone wall, leaving a space of two feet in width
on each side to permit a free Ghoulabon of air, for keeping the interior
apartment dry. Above ground the structure is of wood, so finished
as to correspond to some extent with the architecture of the Smithso-
nian Building, and consists principally of an entry and one room sixteen
feet square, to serve as an office, and computing room for the observer.
The whole cost of this building was $1,578 28. The entire expendi-
ture on the building during the past year, exclusive of the magnetic
observatory, is as Follow ao

Puysen: COMMACS. 2. ik a ke oe nat ee es tee ode $25,500 00
immehitect, and, draughtsmens. 24! sins ssc.0 es e23 Yess do.) 1080 70
Micsecllancoussineigentals. oc. 5 ..cace Soe e noes Cee ee 261 84
ree UIR@ eset Se il SI ES cod ork a he AL wt et) OEE AG1.,-16

27,813 70

Respectfully submitted,
RICHARD RUSH,
JOHN W. MAURY, > Exceutive Committee.
JOSEPH HENRY,
72 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

PROCEEDINGS

OF THE

BOARD OF REGENTS.

SEVENTH ANNUAL SESSION OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS.

[Continued from last Report.]

Wasuineton, March 12, 1853.

The Board of Regents met this day at 10 o’clock, A. M. Present :
Messrs. Colcock, Fitch, Mason, Maury, Totten, the Secretary, and W.
W. Seaton, Treasurer.

The proceedings of the last meeting were read and approved.

The Secretary brought before the Board the subject of the disposi-
tion of the surplus fund, and stated that Messrs. Corcoran & Riggs had
offered to allow interest at five per cent. if the deposit was continued
with them.

Mr. Fitch offered the following resolution, which was adopted :

Resolved, That the surplus fund of $208,000 now on deposit with
Corcoran & Riggs, be continued with them for twelve months, on their
proposition to pay interest thereon at five per cent; provided, that a
part thereof, not exceeding $58,000, may be withdrawn for building
expenditures during the year, and that they deposit the same or
equivalent securities to those now held therefor, to be approved by the
Regents then in Washington and the Secretary.

Mr. Colcock offered the following resolution, which was adopted :

Resolved, That during the year 1853 the sum of thirty thousand dol-
lars ($30,000) out of the Smithsonian income be, and is hereby, appro-
priated, to be expended under the direction of the Secretary, and with
the advice of the Executive Committee, to defray the expenses of the
Institution, and to carry out the several parts of the programme.

The Secretary brought before the Board the question of a new divi-
sion of the income of the Institution, rendered necessary by the increase
ot the general expenses, of the addition to the sum contemplated for
finishing the centre building for the library and collections, and other
Causes.

Mr. Fitch offered the following resolution, which was adopted:

Resolved, 'That the subject of the distribution of the income of the
Institution in the manner contemplated by the original plan of organiza-
tion, be referred to a Select Committee, to consist of Messrs. Pearce,
Mason, Rush, Bache, Choate, Totten, and Maury, for a report at the
next session of the Board of Regents of such changes, if any, as in their
opinion are desirable ; and that the same Committee be instructed to
report fixed regulations relative to the reception of donations, &c.
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 73

General Totten offered the following resolution, which was adopted:

Resolved, That the Building Committee, and the Executive Commit-
tee jointly, be instructed to take into consideration and decide upon the
propriety of making such alterations in the east wing of the Smithsonian
building, as to convert it into a suitable dwelling for the Secretary, and
that the Building Committee carry into effect the decision of the Jomt
Committee.

The Board then, on motion, adjourned sine die.

EIGHTH ANNUAL SESSION OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS.

Wasuineton, January 4, 1854."

In accordance with “a resolution of the Board of Regents of the
Smithsonian Institution, fixing the time of the beginning of their annual
meeting on the first Wednesday of January of each year, the Board
met this day in the Regents’ room.

Present: Messrs. English, Mason, Maury, Stuart, Totten, and the
Secretary.

In the absence of the Chancellor, and on motion of Mr. Maury, Mr.
Mason was called to the chair.

The Secretary informed the Board of the re-appointment of Mr.
Meacham, of Vermont, and the appointment of Hon. Wm. H. English,
of Indiana, and Hon. David Stuart, of Michigan, as Regents of the
Smithsonian Institution on the part of the House of Representatives of
the present Congress.

The Secretary stated that the accounts and reports of the Institution
would be ready for presentation at the next meeting ; whereupon, the
Regents, after examining the building, adjourned to meet on Saturday,
14th January, at 10 o’clock, a. m.

Wasuineton, January 14, 1854.

An adjourned meeting of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian
Institution, was held in the Smithsonian building on Saturday, January
14, at 10 o’clock, a. m.

Present: Messrs. Bache, English, Mason, Maury, Meacham, Pearce,
Stuart, Taney, Totten, the Secretary, and W. W. Seaton, Esq., Treas-
urer.

The Chancellor, Hon. Roger B. Taney, took the chair.

The proceedings of the last meeting were read and approved.

The Secretary mformed the Board that a meeting of the ‘ Establish-
ment ” had been called by order of the President of the United States,
in May last. The proceedings of the meeting were then read.

Mr. Maury, on the part of the Building Committee, submitted its re-
port, which was read and adopted.

The Treasurer, W. W. Seaton, esq., presented the details of the ex-
penditures during the year 1853; also a general statement of the
74 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

finances; which were, on motion, referred to the Executive Com-
mittee.

The Secretary called the attention of the Board to the fact that a
resolution had been adopted by the House of Representatives, appoint-
ing a Committee of nine to inquire into the expediency of withdrawing
the Smithsonian fund from the Treasury of the United States, and in-
vesting it in some safe stocks.

On motion of Mr. Mason, the consideration of the subject was post-
poned until the Secretary should be called upon by the Committee of
the House for information. and his report was presented to the Board.

The Secretary presented his report of the operations of the Institu-
tion for the year 1853, which was in part read.

On motion of Mr. Maury, it was
* Resolved, That the vacancy existing in the Building Committee be
filled by nomination of the Chair. ©

Whereupon, Mr. Wm. H. English was appointed.

The Board then adjourned to meet on Saturday, January 28, at
10 o’clock, a. m. ‘

Wasuineton, January 28, 1854.

An adjourned meeting of the Board of Regents was held on Satur-
day, January 28, 1854, at 10 o’clock, a. m. Present: Messrs. Bache,
English, Maury, Meacham, Pearce, Stuart, Taney, Totten of the board,
W. W. Seaton, esq., treasurer, and the Secretary :

The Chancellor took the chair.

The minutes of the last meeting were read and approved.

The Secretary stated to the board that honorable Joseph R. Chan-
dler had offered to present to the House of Representatives, the peti-
tion of the board relative to funding the $150,000 of surplus income
in the treasury of the United States, and to move that it might be re-
ferred to the committee which had been appointed by the House rela-
tive to the Smithsonian fund.

Whereupon, on motion of Mr. Pearce, the original memorial of the
board to Congress was referred to the Executive Committee, with in-
structions to make such modifications in the wording of it as in their
judgment might be rendered necessary by present circumstances.

A petition was presented from Gilbert Cameron, the contractor of
the building, requesting the payment of the money due him, which
had been kept back on account of a law suit between himself and one
of the sub-contractors.

In reference to the same, Mr. Maury, on behalf of the Building Com-
mittee, presented a letter from J. M. Carlisle, esquire, attorney of the
board, stating that the suit had been dismissed, and that the court had
decided that the Board of Regents could not be sued. Mr. Maury also
presented, on the part of the Building Committee, a letter from Joseph
H. Bradley, esquire, requesting that the money be retained by the
Board until the before mentioned law suit was finally decided.

On motion of Mr. Pearce, the subject was referred to a committee,
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 70

with power to order the money to be paid in whole or in part, if in
their judgment it was thought proper.

The chair appointed Messrs. Mason, Meacham and Totten, as the
committee.

The Secretary laid before the board a bill from Henry Parish for a
copy of Canina’s work on architecture, purchased by James Renwick,
junior, for the Institution in 1847, and now in the library, but which
according to an accompanying letter from Mr. Renwick had never
been paid.

On motion of Mr. Meacham, the Secretary was directed to settle the
bill, provided on examining the accounts, no evidence could be found
of its having been paid.

The Building Committee exhibited to the Board the drawings for the
new lecture room.

The Secretary read the continuation of his report relative to the
publications, correspondence, magnetism and meteorology.

A number of letters received since the last meeting, and the answers
to them, were read to illustrate the character of the correspondence of
the Institution.

Mr. Meacham offered the following resolution :

Resolved, That the Secretary and other officers of the Smithsonian
Institution be directed to furnish the Board of Regents with estimates of
appropriations necessary to be made in order to carry on the Institu-
tion the ensuing year, according to the laws for its organization.

After some discussion, the resolution was postponed for further dis-
cussion until the next meeting.

On motion, the board then adjourned to meet on Saturday, February
11, at 10 o’clock a. m.

Wasuineton, February 11, 1854.

A quorum not being present, the board adjourned to meet on Satur-
day, February 18, at 10 o’clock a. m.

WasuineTon, February 18, 1854.

An adjourned meeting of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian
Institution was held on Saturday, February 18, 1854, at 10 o’clock, a.
m. Present: Messrs. Bache, English, Maury, Meacham, Pearce, ‘Taney
of the Board, and the Secretary :

The Chancellor took the chair.

The minutes of the last meeting were read and approved.

A communication was read by the Secretary, in reference to the
Wynn estate, which, on motion of Mr. Pearce, was referred to Mr.
Mason, to whom prior communications on the same subject had been
referred.

A memorial was presented from Dr. 8. Spooner of New York, offer-
ing to present to the Institution the original copper-plates of the Mu-
sée Francais and the Musée Royal, on condition that it would publish
under his superintendence an edition of these works.
76 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

On motion of Mr. Pearce, the Secretary was directed, on the part
of the Institution, respectfully to decline the proposition of Dr. Spooner,
the Regents not considering themselves authorized to engage in such
an e eee prize.

The Secretary stated to the Board that Professor Wilson, of the Eng-
lish Commission to the Exhibition of the Industry of All Nations at New
York, had presented to the Smithsonian Institution a set of models,

casts, and drawings, to be used in teaching the arts of design.

The Secretary proposed to lend these to the Metropolitan Mechanics’
Institute, of this city, for the use of its School of Design 3; which propo-
sition was agreed to by the Board.

The Secretary read ‘the correspondence between the Smithsonian In-
stitution and the California Academy of Natural Sciences, in which the
latter authorize the former to purchase a full set of meteorological and
magnetic instruments for the use of the society ; the means of defraying
the expense of the purchase having been generously provided by its
President, Dr. A. Randall.

A memoir on the ‘Europo American Physical Man” was laid
before the Regents, which had been submitted to the Institution for
publication since the last meeting of the Board.

Professor Bache presented a specimen of the photographic register
of the motions of the magnetic needle, taken at the magnetic observa-
tory of the Smithsonian iaeuitati ion.

The Secret tary informed the Board that the annual meeting of the
United States Agricultural Society would be held on the 22d instant,
in the Srcheomian Institution, and read the following extract from the
address of the President of that Society :

‘Our location at the national capital gives us peculiar facilities for
intercommunication and for intercourse with members of Congress, re-
presenting all parts of our widely extended country. We may also
secure many benefits from the Smithsonian Institution, whose objects
are the general increase of knowledge and _ the promotion of science,
objects so analogous to those of this Association as to give importance

oO
to the question whether reciprocal benefits might not be expected from

closer relations. By the courtesy of this Institution we have been per-
mitted to occupy their commodious apartments, and an inquiry should
be made by our Executive officers, or a special committee, to ascertain
what room or rooms can BE ean for the future accommodation of
this Society. We need a public building, or offices in some existing
edifice, for our Corresponding Secretary ava Treasurer, for the preser-
vation of our records, and of the agricultural seeds and products which
are now in our possession, or may be hereafter required, and also for
an agricultural library, museum, and cabinet.”

On motion of Mr. Maury, the Secretary was authorized to offer such
accommodations and facilities to the United States Agricultural So-
ciety as the Institution had at its disposal.

The continuation of the Secretary’s report, relative to the Library,
Museum, and Exchanges, was presented, but the reading was _post-
poned till the next meeting.

The resolution offered by Mr. Meacham, at the last meeting of the
Board, was then taken up for consideration.
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. FE

Mr. Pearce moved to amend it by inserting the “Executive Com-
mittee and the Secretary,” in place of the “Secretary and the other
other officers of the Institution.”’

On motion of Mr. English, the resolution and amendment were re-
ferred to the Special Committee which was appointed at the last ses-
sion on the distribution of the imcome of the Institution, consisting of
Messrs. Pearce, Mason, Rush, Bache, Choate, Totten, and Maury.

As Mr. Choate had signified, in a letter to the Secretary, his ina-
bility to attend the meetings of this Committee, on motion of Mr. Eng-
lish, his place was filled by the appointment of Mr. Meacham.

The Board then adjourned to meet on Saturday, February 25, at 16
o’clock, a. m.

Wasuineton, February 25, 1854.

An adjourned meeting of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian
Institution was held on Saturday, February 25, 1854, at 10 o’clock,
a. m.

Present: Messrs. Douglas, English, Maury, Mason, Meacham, Pearce,
Rush, Stuart, and the Secretary.

Hon. Stephen A. Douglas appointed from the Senate of the United
States as a Regent of the Institution, to fill the vacancy occasioned by
the expiration of the term of Hon. R. M. Charlton, appeared and took
his seat in the Board.

In the absence of ghe Chancellor, Mr. Pearce was called to the chair.

The minutes of the last meeting were then read and approved.

The Secretary laid before the Board for inspection, the proof-sheets
and illustrations of a memoir, by John Chappelsmith, on the ‘Tornado
which occurred near New Harmony, Indiana, in L852.

The Secretary stated that, in accordance with the resolution of the
Board at its last meeting, the use of the lecture room of the Institution
had been given to the United States Agricultural Society, which had
held its sessions there during the past week.

The continuation of the Report of the Secretary was read.

The Board then adjourned to meet on Saturday, March 4, 1854.

.

Wasuineton, March 4, 1854.
A quorum not being present, the Board adjourned to meet on Satur-

day, March 11, 1854, at 10 o’clock, a. m.

Wasuineton, March 11, 1854.

An adjourned meeting of the Board of Regents was held on Satur-
day, March 11, 1854, at 10 o’clock, a. m.

Present: Messrs. Bache, English, Maury, Mason, Meacham, Pearce,
Totten, and the Secretary.

In the absence of the Chancellor, Mr. Pearce was called to the chair.

The minutes of the last meeting were read and approved.

The Report of the Executive Committee in relation to the finances
78 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

and expenditures of the Institution, during the year 1853, was pre-
sented by the Chairman, Mr. Pearce.

On motion of Mr. Mason, the report was accepted.

The Committee to which was referred the resolution of Mr. Fitch,
offered at the last session, and also the resolution offered by Mr.
Meacham, at the meeting of the Board, January 28, 1854, reported the
following resolution, and stated that a full report on the general snbject
would be made hereafter :

Resolved, That the Executive Committee and the Secretary of the
Institution be instructed to submit to the Board of Regents, at the cém-
mencement of each and every year, an estimate, in detail, of all sums
which will be required for the expenditures of the current year, as a
basis for specific appropriations to be made by the Board.

On motion, the resolution was adopted.

The Secretary stated to the Board that a memorial and resolution,
relative to funding $150,000 in the Treasury of the United States, had
been submitted by Hon. Joseph R. Chandler to the House of Repre-
sentatives, and had been referred to the Committee previously ap-
pointed by the House to consider the expediency of withdrawing the
Smithsonian fund from the Treasury of the United States and investing
it in some safe stock.

The Special Committee to which was referred the subject of pay-
ment to Gilbert Cameron of the money due him which had been kept
back on account of a lawsuit between him and one of the sub-con-
tractors, reported that they had ‘‘examined the question referred to
them, and were of the opinion that the balance dhe Gilbert Cameron
should be paid to him, and direct accordingly.”

The Secretary stated that, in accordance with this direction, he had
paid Mr. Cameron $10,000, but had reserved a part of the money until
the account could be critically examined.

A memorial from the American Philosophical Society to the Congress
of the United States, praying ‘that the President of the United States
should be authorized to enter into such correspondence with the gov-
ernment of Great Britain as may secure, in a reasonable time, a proper
uniformity of comage in the mode that may be found most discreet
and convenient,’ was laid before the Board for its co-operation and
approval.

On motion of Mr. Mason, the subject was referred to the Executive
Committee.

A communication was read from Mr. J. R. Lambdin, President of
the American Academy of Fine Arts, Philadelphia, recommending that
the Smithsonian Institution should procure moulds from the best and
most useful specimens of the collection in the British Museum, known
as the Elgin Marbles, and that from these moulds, casts should be pro-
duced and sold at cost to such academies of art, &c., as may desire
their possession.

On motion of Mr. Mason, this subject was referred to the Executive
Committee.

The continuation of the Report of the Secretary in relation to the
Museum, Exchanges, &c., was read.

The Board then adjourned to meet at the call of the Secretary.
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

SPECIAL MEETING.
Wasuineton, April 29, 1854.

A special meeting of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Insti-

tution,

Ps,

called by the Secretary .at the request of Messrs. Meacham,

English and Stuart, was held on Saturday, April 29, 1854, at 10 o’clock.
Present: Messrs. Bache, Douglas, Hawley, Maury, Meacham, Pearce,

Taney, and the Secretary.
The Chancellor took the Chair.
were read and approved.

The minutes of the last meeting

Mr. Pearce, in behalf of the Executive Committee, presented the
following estimate of the appropriations to be made for the year 1854.

“The Executive Committee recommend the followimg appropria-
tions for the present year, from the income of the Institution :

Wor building... 0... ccccssccccesedciccsees UAC OOOCE jaioretars
For expenses of the meetings of the “Board Stef ereist oieiels Peaentestis ctor
For lighting and heating.......... ceeee . Male Nel siovere stern
HOG POStAGE. c\cyar<.ciee creleie seieis soie's aie saioisokeieleteie lShefeteolsrolerel=
For transportation and exchange wjaie\etslaysis\eisve atate ‘ated sTel etails eatasaseie ae |
For stationery........ sisatete sidiceveicl si siete’! ¢/sidso's\\en\ele Hodboaonds odd
For general printing..... eMfefavatal atevafel alalics «i sicfeiove'sfohele/stelste| were etalsisicler
For apparatus........ AD OCOO0 FO pdodoododioodcedonoG |
For incidentals general........ Haislssiersiesis\s Aocondadsodbene aaenoe
SALARIES GENERAL.
Secretary .....0....- Lower secccswesesesiones see ee $3,000 00 |
Olin ocaceocbomcno oT siclofeie) selevevaleVesieielsieloelsielsietelsisietctels 1,000 00
BO OKSKEE PON <:0\+: oocte)evcinie:«iaie o-ei vs -orehe Gee loie ele 'sie SOUICOED 200 00
Janitor...... STO OOOCOOUCOC Dialoreiel are’ slellofe) sist ssexee aie ee 400 00
Waborer <\. sti <0 0 HOCOI OD ECO OD ODODUOOGODOSG cdo TOOT 250 00
Watchman. /-ic5o..<)«..< SS OS CHD BUS nOGUOOU.L cod ORD OOUODE 365 00
EixinagClerkKiMine’. ./s'ee «siesies «;s\sie Somimcadedi S00) i)
Smithsonian Contributions.........0..+ee00 Nelesiorerelanll Slevel opereiateseys
Reports on progress of knowledge............ asichetenele|chaVereteystotst eke
Other publications......... Stalls tevofoe cleplelecieieieistelclele « cie\\s\e/cbeeleicla aye
Meteorolomy ccc. sciee se cose s Beno dna non on moo God modcod oldc
Computations........... mot oto velata shetofotencle lorelcreieje ceo! efefies evel s¥evepeleielsveless
NEG CLUT EN teretelenyolesotelesheseiclarceys\eVele!s\s evel ca) o/ciere\eais'e:e0's eleiele|icisieieeieia eis @
LIBRARY.

Salary of Assistant Secretary... .....2e.essesesseeeee 2,500 00
Salaries of assistants in the Library—one at $600 “and

ANOLHETE ACO weeierereteleyareiss/s!eiclel ss elereciclsisiereers esi! 1540700
Purchaserofy booksereleyeeie-'sac1< em «1s Sietonle: © afoeletol kel svofer 1,800 00
Incidentals ........ sooegs cpudepmoougocdun soooneoa. 160 00
Binding ..... S0060c) Go OO DU GODOT OICG OD OO OOON COE 250 00
Stereotyping....... areVeleelclolac a SnG Apooocogcod) . LBW sOU

MUSEUM.

salary of Assistant Secretary.jec< 6... eciicceccscceeass 2,000 00
Explorations......... sfofaterststess Materelareisclcrersiers cic eie ceveieys 250 00
PMICOHOL, SC... 5's. s aFa(shelolestalareielests Soomoucomucseu) eau)
Assistance or labor.......sssse0e, elstarel ater sioie aistotehers 100 00
Apparatus’... + o0.0* vie Savetelatevet-l-vetsler\atetsle) os) sisic s/eois <i else 100 00
Inigidentals: << ./..1..600 0's16 5010 0500 00.6.9 DOU SORGUEDCOOOC 100 00
PABLO MUG 0/050 0.66 oeoe Sue's errors 4 aieleielafaterate 500 00
Glass jars .. wis (ef nsje/stelelefetsiolerels|sje) stsie,= Riccvacciorstel, eas SOUL UO
AED UMENEELETOR, fos, o 3/01 01003) a) 0-0/6) wae, oeacltbet aston are/ojnieatbvelaiots| Slaveieieieaitin «

ee ee eee eens

$250 00
600 00
500 00

1,600 00
250 00
600 00
350 00
835 00

jee eres ces
per ereeeceoe
lew eeereeee
jee ees seeee
e280

eee ere ewer

6,015 00

6,000 00
500 00
250 00

er

ee eceeeesese
esceeeseen
ecco eeseee
eevee

$7,000 00

11,000 90

10,850 00

9,550 00
100 00

38,500 00

80 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

The Committee have not recommended an equal distribution between
the active operations on the one hand, and the Library, Museum, &c.,
on the other, because the compromise resolutions which require such
equality of distribution do not go into effect until the completion of the
building.”
J. A. PEARCE;

A. D. BACHE, Executive Committee.
J; Ge OT TEN.

On motion of Mr. Pearce, the above Report was laid upon the table.

The Secretary presented the following letter to the Board, in com-
pliance with which he had called this special meeting:

Wasuineton, April 13, 1854.

Prof. Jos. Henry,

Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.

In accordance with the provision of the third section of an act estab-
lishing the Institution, the undersigned request you to appoint a special
meeting of the Regents on Saturday, the 29th inst., at 10 o’clock, a. m.

J. MEACHAM,
W. H. ENGLISH,
D. STUART:

Mr. Meacham then stated the reasons why he had requested this
special meeting.

Mr. Pearce stated that the subject brought before the Board by Mr.
Meacham, was now under consideration by a Special Committee ap-
pointed by the Regents, which would be ready to report at the next
meeting.

On motion, the subject was postponed till the next meeting of the
Board.

The Board then adjourned to meet on Saturday, May 13, at 10
o’clock, a. m.

Wasurineton, May 15, 1854.

An adjourned meeting of the Board of Regents was held on Satur-
day, May 18, at 10 o’clock, a. m.

Present: Messrs. Bache, Hawley, Maury, Meacham, Pearce, Tot-
ten, and the Secretary.

The Chancellor being absent, Mr. Hawley was called to the chair.
The minutes of the last meeting were then read, and after correction,
approved. |

Letters from Hon. R. B. Taney, Chancellor of the Institution, and
from Hon. Richard Rush, stating their inability to attend this meeting
of the Board, were read by the Secretary.

Mr. Pearce, Chairman of the Special Committee on the resolutions
of Messrs. Fitch and Meacham, stated that it was ready to report, but
as it was considered desirable to have a full meeting of the Board when
the subject should be discussed, he moved that the Board adjourn.
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 8

The Board then adjourned to meet on Saturday, 2Uth inst., at 10
o’clock, a. m.

Wasuineton, May 20, 1854.

An adjourned meeting of the Board of Regents was held on Satur-
day, May 20th, at 10 o’clock, a. m.

Present: Messrs. Bache, Choate, Douglas, English, Hawley, Maury,
Mason, Meacham, Pearce, Stuart, Totten, and the Secretary.

In the absence of the Chancellor, Mr. Hawley was called to the
chair.
The minutes of the last meeting were read and approved.

*

Mr. Pearce, airman of the Special Committee* appointed by the Board of
Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, to which was referred the resolutions
of Hon. Mr. Fitch and Hon. Mr. Meacham relative to the distribution of
the income of the Smithsonian fund, etc., made the following report :

The Committee who were directed to report whether it is desirable
to make any changes in the distribution of the income of the Institution,
in the manner contemplated by the original plan of organization, report
as follows :

The distribution and application of the Smithsonian income should
be made, so as to answer most effectually and. beneficially the pur-
poses for which the Institution was endowed and established. In
making such distribution and application, the Regents should faithfully
observe the requirements of the act of Congress establishing the Insti-
tution, and exercise no discretion but that which the law allows to
them.

The purpose of the Institution is disclosed in tbe title of the act, in its
preamble, and in its first section. The title is “* An act to establish the
Smithsonian Institution for the increase and diffusion of knowledge
among men.’ The preamble states the bequest, by James Smithson,
of all his property to the United States, to found at Washington, under
the name of the Smithsonian Institution, ‘¢an establishment for the in-
crease and diffusion of knowledge among men.” It declares the ac-
ceptance of the trust, and “therefore for the faithful execution of the
said trust according to the will of the liberal and enlightened donor,”
the first section constitutes an establishment by the name of the Smith-
sonian Institution “ for the increase and diffusion of knowledge among
men.”

The fifth section enacts that the Regents shall cause to be erected
“a suitable building of sufficient size, and with suitable rooms or halls
for the reception and arrangement, upon a liberal scale, of objects of
natural history, including a geological and mineralogical cabinet ; alse
a chemical laboratory, a library, a gallery of art, and the necessary

* This committee consisted of the following Regents: Hon. J. A. Pearce, Hon. J. M.
Mason, Hon. Richard Rush, Hon. John W. Maury, Gen. J. G. Totten, Prof. AD. Bache,
and the Hon. J. Meacham. The gentleman last named does not concur in this report.

baci
Pd EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

lecture rooms,” &c. This section points out certain means and instru-
mentalities by which the Institution is to ‘execute the trust” “ accor-
ding to the will of the liberal and enlightened donor.” But it does not
limit the Regents to these means and instrumentalities. A large dis-
cretion is elsewhere given to them to employ other means and instru-
mentalities ‘ for the promotion of the purpose of the testator ’’—that is,
“for the increase and diffusion of knowledge among men.”

“ The eighth section, inits last clause, directs an annual appropriation
from the interest of the funds belonging to the Institution “ not exceed-
ing an average of $25,000 annually, for the gradual formation of a
library composed of valuable works pertaiming to all departments of
human knowledge.”

And the ninth section enacts that of “any other moneys which
have accrued, or shall hereafter accrue, as interestapon the said
Smithsonian fund, not here appropriated, or not Pequired for the
purposes herein provided, the said managers [Regents] are hereby
authorized to make such disposal as they shall deem best suited for
the promotion of the purpose of the testator, anything hereim con-
tained to the contrary notwithstanding.”

Let us see now, how far the Regents have complied with these re-
quireme nts of the law.

They have caused to be erected a building, which is, in the judgment
of the Board, suitable, of sufficient size, of plain and durable materials,
with suitable rooms for the reception and arrangement, upon a libe-
ral scale, of the objects mentioned in the fifth section of the act. The
building, it is true, is not yet completed in all its parts. This has

een the result, partly of design, and partly of accident. As the law
specified no period within which the building should be completed, the
time of its completion was necessarily within the discretion of the Re-
gents. It was obvious that if they should not hurry its completion, but
extend the work upon it through a series of years, they would save a
large amount of accruing interest, which, when the building should be
finished, might be added to the permanent fund, whereby the means of
accomplishing the purposes of the testator would be largely increased.
An additional reason for this was, that the structure, ‘ims slowly and

cautiously erected, would be more solid and permanent. This policy,
therefore, was adopted, and it was determined that the building should
be finished in five years. An accident, well known to the Board, and
which in the end must prove to have been fortunate, required a change
in the plan of a part of the edifice, and a larger expenditure of money.
This cause has further delayed the completion of the building. But
during the present year it will be finished on the liberal scale required
by the law, and one hundred and fitty thousand dollars of accrued in-
terest will be saved, to be added to the principal.

In the mean time, the Regents have made appropriations of money
for the various objects specified in the fifth section of the act, by which
and other means they have complied as well with the letter as the

spirit of the law. A large and valuable collection of objects of natural
History has been made, and for the most part, classified; a geological
and mineralogical cabinet has been provided, and a chemical laboratory

5
has been fitted up, in which researches and experiments have been
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 83

made. "The building contains an apartment intended for a gallery of
art; and some works of art, a valuable collection of engravings, have
been purchased.

A lecture room has been finished, and for several years lectures have
been given at the expense of the Institution, on scientific and hterary,
abstruse and popular subjects, the admission to which has been free. .
A library of 12,000 volumes and 8,000 pamphlets and parts of volumes
has been acquired by purchase, exchanges, and other means, containing
many rare and valuable works pertaining to ali branches of knowledge,
such as are not to be found in general libraries, and are most highly
prized by men of science and research.

This is a very good beginning according to the plan for the gradual
formation of a library, which the act points out.

Of the entire amount expended from the commencement of the In-
stitution, a little less than one-eighth has been given to researches and
publications. The rest has been applied to the special objects men-
tioned in the act, and to the general expenses of the Institution.

In the act establishing the Institution, Congress carefully and wisely
forbore to fix the amount or proportion of the annual income which
should be appropriated to any of the objects mentioned in the fifth sec-
tion. They did not even determine, or limit the sum which should be
expended on the building, nor have they in any manner indicated that
prominence should be given to any particular means or instrumentality
for increasing and diffusing knowledge. All this they have left to the
discretion of the Regents, to whom they entrusted the conduct of the
Institution. ‘They have, indeed, declared that annual appropriations
should be made for the graduai formation of a library, and have pro-
vided that such appropriations shall not exceed $25,000 in the average.

This is nothing but a limitation upon the discretion of the Regents,
and can by no rule of construction be considered as intimating the de-
sire of Congress that such sum should be axnualiy appropriated. ‘The
limitation, while it prevented the Regents from exceeding that sum,
left them full discretion as to any amount within the limit. The in-
terest on the Smithsonian Fund was about $30,000 per annum, and
Congress could not but know that an appropriation of five-sixths of that
amount per annum would leave a remainder entirely insufficient to de-
fray the salaries and ordinary expenses of an Institution such as was

‘designed by the act, and that nothing would be left for the care of col-
lections, the lectures, and other means of promoting the purpose of the
testator. In short, the act points owt certain instrumentalities to be
employed in the execution of the trust, created by, and for the purposes
specified in the willof Smithson, and gives to the Managers or Regents
authority to dispose of all the income not required for the purposes
specified in the act, in such manner as they shall deem best suited for
the promotion of the purpose of the testator. As Congress did not de-
termine what portion of the income was to be applied to the purposes
specified in the act, it follows that such determination is to be made by
those to whom they intrusted the conduct of the business of the Insti-
tution; and thus the Regents are clearly invested with the power of de-
termining how much of that income is required respectively for library,
for museum, for lectures, or for any of the objects specified in the fifth
84 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

section, and what disposition they will make of so much of the income
as they do not think requisite to apply to these objects. So the Regents
of 1847, who adopted the plan of organization, understood the law. So
they reported to Congress. ‘The Board of Regents, however its mem-
bers have been changed from time to time, have always so understood
it, and Congress, to whom they have annually and faithfully reported
their proceedings, have never questioned the propriety of the construc-
tion.

In organizing the Institution, different opinions indeed were entertained
by different members of the Board, as to the most effectual means of
promoting the purpose of Smithson. ‘The conflict of opinions resulted
in the adoption of certain resolutions, which have been called the ‘ com-
promise resolutions.” These, while they recognize the intention of
Congress, and the duty of the Regents, to provide for the accumulation
of specimens of art and objects of natural history, and the gradual for-
mation of a library; pertaining to all branches of knowledge, &c., also
declare it to be expedient, and demanded by the will of Sinitison, that
in the plan of organization, the increase of knowledge by original re-
search should form an essential feature; that for this end premiums
should be offered for original papers containing positive additions to the
sum of human knowledge, and that these and other suitable papers
should be published in transactions of the Institution periodically, or
occasionally, &c. The seventh of these resolutions is in these words :

“¢ Resolved, That for the purpose of carrying into effect the two prin-
cipal modes of executing the act and trust pointed out in the resolutions
herewith submitted, the permanent appropriations out of the accruing
interest shall, so soon as the buildings are completed, be annually, as fol-
lows ; that is to say:

“« Kirst. For the formation of a library composed of valuable works
pertaining to all departments of useful knowledge, and for the procuring,
arranging, and preserving of the various collections of the Institution,
as well of natural histor y, and objects of foreign and curious research,
and of elegant art, as others, including alae and all other general
expenses conneeed with the same, excepting those of the first com-
plete arrangement of all such collections and objects as now belong to
the United States in the museum of the Institution, when completed,
together with one-half of the salary of the Secretary, the sum of fifteen
thousand dollars.

“ Secondly. For the preparation and publication of transactions, re-
ports, and all other publications of the Institution, including appropria-
tions for original researches, and premiums for original papers 3 for the
delivery of all lectures and payment of all lecturers, and for all general
expenses connected with said lectures and publications, together with
one-half of the salary of the Seerctary, the remainder of the annually
accruing interest; it being understood that all gencral and incidental
expenses not specially connected with either of the above two great di-
visions of the plan of the Institution shall be equally divided between
them.”

It will be seen that this division of the income of the Institution be-
tween the two principal modes of executing the trust was to be made
so soon as ‘the buildings were completed,” and not before.
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 85
As the building is not completed, this division is not yet obligatory
under the compromise resolutions. For some years the annual appro-
priations for the purposes of the Institution were specific, and were
applied accordingly. But during the last two years they have been
general, and a discretion has been exercised by the Secretary and the
Executive Committee, which has resulted in applying to researches,
publications, and lectures, an amount somewhat larger than that which
has been applied to the library, museum, &c. But this is clearly no
violation, as has been charged, of a compromise which is not by its
very terms to go into effect until the completion of the building.

The commitee think it desirable that the appropriations should be
specific, and have already so reported to the Board by a resolution
submitted on the 11th of March, 1854; and at the last meeting of the
Regents the Executive Committee submitted estimates of appropria-
tions in detail for the present year.

Before expressing an opinion on these resolutions, the committee
deem it their duty at this time to remark upon the plan which was
discussed seven years ago, but which is now revived, of devoting the
greater part of the income to the accumulation of a great library, thus
either abandoning the active operations of research and publications,
or so restricting this means of increasing and diffusing knowledge as
to deprive it of all sensible value.

It has already been remarked that the language of the eighth section
which directs the gradual formation of a library, is not mandatory as
to the amount which shall be thus expended, and that the ninth section:
authorizes the Regents, after applying so much of the income as may
be required for the purposes mentioned in the act, to dispose of the re-
sidue of the interest upon the Smithsonian fund in such manner “as
they shall deem best suited for the promotion of the purpose of the tes-
tator, anything herein contained to the contrary notwithstanding.” — It
is manifest, from what has been said before, that these sections of the
law leave to the Regents a large discretion as to the amounts to be
applied to the objects specified in the act, and in the choice of other
means for promoting the purpose of the testator.

What, then, are the considerations which should govern them in re-
jecting this plan, which proposes a great library as the best and chief,
if not the only, means of executing the trust created by the will of
Smithson, and fulfilling their own duty under the law?

The ‘increase and diffusion of knowledge among men’’ are the great
purposes of this munificent trust. ‘To increase knowledge implies re-
search, or new and active investigation, in some one or more of the
departments of learning.. To diffuse knowledge among men implies
active measures for its distribution, so far as may be, among mankind.

Neither of these purposes could be accomplished or materially ad-
vanced by the accumulation of a great library at the city of Washington.
This would be to gather within the walls of a building here those fruits
of learning which had been reaped elsewhere. It would be the hiving
of knowledge, not its increase and diffusion. It would be the collection
of what vhilosophical inquirers, men of research, of observation, and of
original thought had ascertained, conceived, or invented, and already
published to the world. But it would not of itself add to the sum of
86 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

human knowledge, it would not increase the stores of learning, but only
bring them together. It would develop no new truths, rev eal no hid-
den laws of nature, but only contain the record of what might be
already known; so that in no proper sense could it be said to increase
knowledge. Neither would it diffuse knowledge, except within a lim-
ited sphere. The Institution would necessarily be local, for although
it might aid the few men of research residing in Washington, and such
students and investigators as occasionally visited the city, it would fail
to accomplish the more extensive purpose of the testator and of the
law, since it could not be expected to draw hither the great body of
such men. These must always be scattered over the country, engaged
in pursuits which require their residence elsewhere, and with only oc-
casional opportunities of aiding their inquiries by resort to the library
of the Smithsonian Institution. While, therefore, a well selected library
of valuable books pertaining to all departments of learning may well
be one of the means employed by the Institution, its purpose requires
other instrumentalities by which knowledge may be increased and dif
fused among men. We must never forget that both the will of Smith-
son and the act of Congress recognize that, as a nation is appointed the
great dispenser of the fruits of his munificence, so these benefits are to
be wnversal, and their recipients to be men everywhere and in all time.

If the language of the will had been ‘to increase and diffuse know-
ledge among ihe people of the Umted States,” a library would be but a
feeble and imperfect instrument as an active agent even for that limited
purpose. The accumulation of books in the political centre of a great
country, or even in the centre of population of a numerous people,
would no doubt gratify the pride of the nation, and be attended with
some profitable results. But such a library would not ensure mental
activity to enquirers who should live remote from its locality, and its
relation to all increase of knowledge would be merely incidental. It
would have no effective operation in the thirty-one States which con-
stitute the nation, or people of the Union, and instead of being diffusive
in its nature, would be centralizing in its influence and passive in its
character. Even if the will and the act of Congress were limited by
the terms supposed, by no fair construction could the formation of a
library be considered as an execution of the trust. But when we con-
sider that the language of the will is not thus limited, and that the
benefits of the bequest are intended for mankind, we cannot imagine
how the establishment of a library could be considered as corresponding
to the requisitions of a purpose so wide and liberal. That Smithson did
not intend a library to be the prominent feature in the Institution con-
templated by his bequest, may be inferred from the fact that his will
did not mention it, when a single word would have been sufficient for
this purpose.

And that Congress did not design to indicate a library as the prin-
cipal object of the establishment which they founded by law to carry
out the purpose of Smithson, will be made to appear by an examination
of the enactment.

In the construction of a law of Congress, the opinions expressed in
the speeches of some of those who voted for it cannot be taken as the

opinion of all or even of the major part of them, but the act must be
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 87

construed according to the general import and evident intention of all
its parts.

If we can construe the law from its own provisions, it would be ex-
ceedingly unsafe and improper to interpret 1t by reference to the opin-
ions of a portion ouly of those who voted for it, being the minor part of
them. To do this would be to make the opinions of a few control the
acts and intentions of the majority as expressed in the law, and in ef-
fect to give to those few the law making ower. In the present case the
evident intention was to carry out the pur ose of Smithson’s will, name
ly: “the increase and diffusion of knowledge among men.”

The title of the act, its preamble and provisions, would have been
palpably absurd, if their object had been only or chiefly to found a great
library. ‘To describe a library as an institution ‘for the increase and
diffusion of knowledge among men,’’ would be a preposterous abuse of
terms. So, too, ‘to erect a suitable building of sufficient size, with
suitable rooms or halls for the reception and arrangement, upon a liberal
scale, of objects of natural history, geological, mineralogical, and bo-
tanical specimens, classed and arranged so as to facilitate the study of
them, with a chemical laboratory, lecture rooms, &c.,”” as provided in
sections 5 and 6, is wholly inconsistent with the idea of an institution,
ef which a library is to be the principal agent.

It is true that the eighth section of the act authorizes an application
of an annual sum, not exceeding $25,000, for the gradual formation of
a library. This is in great disproportion to the various objects before
recited in the act, and if it had been mandatory, would have made the
general authority and discretion given to the Regents in the ninth sec-
tion, absurd and nugatory, and would indeed have equally defeated the
other provisions before mentioned. Such an appropriation, if made,
would establish a great library, but not such an institution as is indi-
cated by the title of the bill, or warranted by its various provisions.
Instead of a Secretary with assistants, it should have provided for a
Librarian, with an assistant as secretary, and assistant librarians. In-
stead of providing for a building on a liberal scale, with suitable rooms
or hails for a chemical laboratory, lecture rooms, &c., not indicating the
library as ef paramount importance, but according to the order of enu-
meration, placing it after other objects, the law would have declared it
to be of primary importance, and designated the other objects as in-
cidental or subsidiary to the Library. The act, in its various terms and
provisions, does not seem to have been the result of plans entirely har-
monious and consistent, but bears some marks of conflicting opinions ; and
the large discretion allowed in the ninth section appears to have been in-
tended to give to the Regents the authority to reconcile and determine
those difficulties which Congress could not avoid or provide for, to their
own satisfaction.

Nothing, however, seems to be clearer than that the Legislature did
not intend a public library to be the principal instrument of the In-
stitution. The third section enacts that ‘the business of the Institu-
ion shall be conducted at the city of Washington by a Board of Re-
gents.” The terms of Smithson’s will requires that Washington should
be the locality of the Institution; but, if this section had reference to a
public library, absorbing almost the whole interest of the fund, would
88 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

such language have been employed? If a library at Washington was
to be ea blen oe it was wholly unnecessary to provide that the busi-
ness ot the Institution should be conducted there, since the business of
a library must be conducted where it is placed. The use of this lan-
guage would seem to imply active transactions and not to refer to
books. 'The application of $25,000 annually, (five-sixths of the whole
income at the date of the act) to the purchase of books, would be in-
consistent with, and subversive of the whole tenor of all that precedes
the eighth section. Section ninth is singularly comprehensive, and ap-

pears to indicate a consciousness on the part of the framers of the bill,

that its provisions might be proved by experience to be incongruous.

For this they provided the true remedy by investing the Regents
with full power to use their judgment in the premises, subje ct only to
the purpose of the will of Smithson, and so much of the law as was
mandatory and peremptory, ‘all other provisions to the contrary, not-
withstanding.”

On the whole, therefore, the Committee think that neither the law
nor the will of Smithson required the Regents to consider a great
library as the paramount object of the Institution.

Its purpose requires means of exciting and sustaining research, of
stimulating and directing original enquiries, the results of which con-
slitule an increase of ~ knowledge, and the publication of which
diffuses it.

Scientific researches are often supposed by the uninformed to be of
little or no real importance, and indeed-are frequently ridiculed as
barren of all practical utility. But nothing is more mistaken than this.
The most valuable and productive of the arts of life, the most import-
ant and wonder-working inventions of modern times, owe their being
and value to scientific investigations. By these have been discovered
physic: il truths and laws, the intelligent application of which to practi-
cal inventions has given immense benefits to the world. The germs
of these valuable improvements and inventions have been found and
developed by scientitic research, the original forms of which have often
seemed to the many to be as idle and useless as they were curious. A
proposition relating to the pendulum, which for many years remained
only a curious theoretical relation, ultimately furnished a unit for the
standard measures of States and nations. The discovery that a mag-
netic needle could be moved by a galvanic current, seemed for a long
time more curious than useful, and yet it contained the germ of all that
was afterwards developed in the te legr aph. It has Been well remarked
that numerous applications and inventions alw: vys result from the dis-
covery of a scientific principle, so that there are many Fultous for
every Franklin.

There is no branch of industrial art which does not owe for the most
part its improved processes to such investigations, although the artizans
who employ them are often ignorant of their true source. Smithson,
who was himself a man of science and research, and a contributor to
the philosophical transactions of the Royal Society, well knew this.
The members of Congress who framed the law were not ignorant of it,

So
and the provisions foak a chemical laboratory, and collections of natural
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 89

history, proved that they looked to the prosecution of such inquiries
under the auspices of the Smithsonian Institution.

Wisely, therefore, did the first Board of Regents propose, in order to
INCREASE KNOWLEDGE—

First. To stimulate men of talent to make original researches, by
offering suitable rewards for memoirs containing new truths, and to

ublish these and such other papers of suitable character as should be
offered to the Institution.

Second. 'To cause particular researches to be made by competent

ersons.

And in order to DIFFUSE KNOWLEDGE—

First. “‘'To publish occasionally a series of practical reports on the
progress of the different branches of knowledge.”

Second. ‘“'To publish occasionally separate treatises on subjects of gen-
eral interest.”

The results which have been produced by the Institution have re-
ceived the approbation of the learned in every part of the civilized
world, and fully justify the wisdom of the plan adopted by the Regents,
and successfully carried into operation by the Secretary.

As a proof of this, we need only state the following facts given in the
last report of the Regents to Congress.

“The Institution has promoted astronomy, by the aid furnished the
researches which led to the discovery of the true orbit of the new
planet Neptune, and the determination of the perturbations of this
planet and the other bodies of the solar system, on account of their
mutual attraction., It has also aided the same branch of science by
furnishing instruments and other facilities to the Chilian expedition,
under Lieutenant Gillis; and by preparing and publishing an ephem-
eris of Neptune, which has been adopted by all the astronomers of the
world.

“Tt has advanced geography, by providing the scientific traveller
with annual lists of the occultations of the principal stars, by the moon,
for the determination of longitude; by the preparation of tables for as-
certaining heights with the barometer; and by the collection and pub-
lication of important facts relative to the topography of different parts
of the country, particularly of the valley of the Mississippi.

“Tt has established an extended system of meteorology, consisting
of a corps of several hundred intelligent observers, who are daily note-
ing the phases of the weather in every part of the continent of North
America. It has imported standard instruments, constructed hundreds
of compared thermometers, barometers, and psychrometers, and has
furnished improved tables and directions for observing with these in-
struments the various changes of the atmosphere, as to temperature,
pressure, moisture, &c. It has collected, and is collecting, from its
observers, an extended series of facts which are yielding deductions of
great interest in regard to the climate of this country and the meteoro-
logy of the globe.

“The Institution has advanced the science of geology, by its re-
searches and original publications. It has made a preliminary explo-
ration of the remarkable region on the upper Missouri river called the
Bad Lands, and is now printing a descriptive memoir on the extra-
90 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

ordinary remains which abound in that locality. It has assisted in ex-
plorations relative to the distribution in this country of the remains of
microscopic animals found in immense quantities in different parts of
the United States.

“It has made important contributions to botany, by means of the
published results of explorations 1 in Texas, New Mexico, and Califor-
nia; and by the preparation and publication of an extended memoir,
illustrated with colored engravings, on the sea-plants of the coast of
North America.

“Tt has published several important original papers on physiology,
comparative anatomy, zoology, and different branches of descriptive
natural history ; and has prepared and printed, for distribution to
travellers, a series of directions for collecting and preserving speci-
mens.

“It has advanced terrestrial magnetism, by furnishing instruments
for determining the elements of ‘ne magnetic ‘force, to various explor-
ing expeditions ; and by publishing the results of observations made
aden its direction, at the capense of the government.

“Tt has collected and published the statistics of the libraries of the
United States ; and perfected a plan of stereotyping catalogues, which
will render effective, as a combined whole, all the scattered libraries
of the country.

“The Institution has also been instrumental in directing attention to
American antiquities, and has awakened such an interest in the sub-
ject as will tend to the collection and study of all the facts which ean
be gathered relative to the ancient mhabitants of this continent. It
has also rendered available for the purposes of the ethnologist and
philanthropist the labors of our missionaries among the Dakotas, by’
publishing a volume on the language of this tribe of Indians, and has
done good service to comparative philology by the distribution of
directions for collecting Indian vocabularies.

“Tt has established an extended system of literary and scientific ex-
changes, both foreign and domestic, and annually transmits, between the
most icon societies and individuals, hundreds of packages of valuable
works. It has presented its own publications, free of expense, to all the
first-class libraries of the world, and thus rendered them accessible, as
far as possible, to all persons who are interested in their study. No re-
striction of copyright has been placed on their republication; and the
truths which they contain are daily finding their way to the general
public, through the labors of popular writers and teachers. 'The dis
tribution of its publications and its system of exchanges has served
not only to advance and diffuse knowledge, but also to increase the re-
putation, and, consequently, the influence of our country 3 to promote a
kindly and sympathetic feeling between the New World and the Old—
alike grateful to the philosopher rand the philanthropist.

“These are the fruits of what is called the system of active operations
of the Institution, and its power to produce other and continuous results.
is only limited by the amount of the income which can be appropriated
to it, since each succeeding year has presented new and important fields
for its cultivation. All the anticipations indulged with regard to it have
r THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 91

been fully realized; and after an experience of six years, there can now
be no doubt of the true policy of the Regents in regard to it.”

Reports of a more popular character have been published, or are in
preparation, which are well calculated to diffuse knowledge. Such is
the report on the recent improvements in the chemical arts, by Messrs.
Booth & Morfit, prepared and published under the direction of the In-
stitution. The Secretary has said of it ‘that though chiefly intended
to benefit the practical man, yet it will be found interesting to the gen-
eral reader, as exhibiting the cotemporaneous advance of science and
art, and the dependence of the latter upongthe former for the improve-
menr of its most important processes.” Among the subjects of which
it treats, may be mentioned tuel and furnaces, glass-making and pottery,

J (=) S

cements, metals and their manufacture, chemicals, textile fabrics, mineral
and organic manures. This work has been stereotyped, and besides
those which are distriputed on the plan of exchange, copies are offered
for sale at the mere cost of printing, paper, and commission. Another
report which is in preparation, on the forest trees of North America, giv-
ing their economical and ornamental uses and values, their history, mode
of propagation, &c., &c., will supply to agriculturalists a work of great
interest and importance which has long been a desideratum. Other re-
ports have been prepared and will be ready for the press as soon as the
funds can be appropriated for printing them.

The Committee need not repeat in detail all the parts of the plan of
organization, but may mention that it included the exchange of the
published transactions of the Institution, with those of literary and
scientific societies and establishments; and provided for a museum and
library, to consist of a complete collection of the transactions and pro-
ceedings of all the learned societies in the world, of the more important
current periodical publications and of other works necessary to scientific
investigations, thus employing the instrumentalities pointed out in the
law, as means of increasing and diffusing knowledge, entirely consistent
with, and necessary to, the plan of research and publication.

This plan is no longer experimental; it has been tested by expe-
rience; its success is acknowledged by all who are capable of forming
a correct estimate of its results, and the Institution has every encour-
agement to pursue steadily its system of stimulating, assisting, and
publishing research.

Whether the equal division of the income of the Institution, accord-
ing to the plan of the compromise resolutions, should be observed after
the completion of the building, is a question submitted to your Com-
mittee for report, and proper to be decided by the Board during the
present year. The Committee think that while moderate appropriations
should be annually made for the gradual increase of the library, and
for other objects specified in the fitth section of the act establishing the
Institution, so as to carry out in good faith the intention of Congress,
it is not advisable to make the equal division of the income as proposed
by the compromise resolutions.

The public generally, and even the Regents, most probably, do not
know how small the funds of the Institution are in proportion to what
is required of it, and the expense necessarily connected with so large
a building.
92 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

The Secretary has stated in his Report that the general expenses,
viz: meetings of the Regents and Committees, lighting and heating ot
the building, postage, transportation, stationery, general printing, ap-
paratus, incidentale, and general salaries, have gradually increued
and will grow larger when the building shall be completed ‘and entirely
occupied. Last year these expenses : amounted to $12,000. Besides
this, the salaries of the assistants and pay of attendants in the library
and museum are $5,740 per annum.

The salaries are as follows :

e

General Salaries.

That of the Secretary, (per annum,).......ceecceccesceses Balefoieeiaic este sieslaciee oI OCOUU
(CHER Koide SA OOOO EISHOLEMOD COSDEIGUn CAA GRC riaiachio Oooon Sco) obndcmcoaaba COC 1,000
Book-keeper.....csccccssecccsscces ealsieieieiesi viaieciale sole sverelerete brelaieiavsejeloteieinsnte/aier= 200
Janitor... + aaVafeinsalocl= e[oisictieienccysterateve sexe «ele Gals, ole/enelastoreretehents _ SOOCO DC © BOEOTIOr . 400
NGADOT CTs « c/o oieielc cofe'e «ols 1s sicle Sal eloled fieteisleciosie # b0 wie w elas! ele telbleldielen’ Stole) be ere ise verde 250
DWV ia ECHIM AN | ss 5:0 50101014) o/ois'e die i9)e elniad eleleiciee sins bene ewe ele a (aig biaiatbi aye sel sisls worelelerels 365
5,715
Salary of assistant in charge of the library......s.cccesseseccesves $2,500
An assistant to the assistant in the NibPany.. jase" 565s. 00 occ c ences 600
INDIGUHOF ASSIStANIL,, . <2 5's o> on ss aie e telstetefe weiclsvaraumaie sire s intelotatielsvate ate 540
$3,640
Salary of assistant in charge of the MUSCUM .....0..secccescncccsccescece 2,000
Assistance ‘and, labor in MUSCUM. <2 ..:. 6 cies esos oejoce sos cicjeneis Cielee oie siaserens 100
5,740
Total of permanent salaries at the present time.......... efslejelejeiss ole .e-ojsvsotars left bite 11,455

Together, the salaries and general expenses before mentioned amount
to more than half the interest of the original fand, and to nearly half of
the interest on that fund, augmented by $150,000 of accumulated in-
terest, which the regents propose to add to it so as to make the per-
manent fund 8665,000. The whole or the greater part of the interest
on this addition to the original fund will be required during the pre-
sent year for the building, and when that shall be finished, a consider-
able sum will be necessary to fit up and furnish the great central por-
tion which is to be chiefly occupied by the library and museum. It
may be assumed that not less $15,000 will be demanded for this pur-
pose. But supposing the building to be completed and furnished, and
the whole income at command for the operations of the Institution, and
assuming that the salaries and general expenses will not increase, but
remain as they were last year, at $17,740, there will be at the disposal
of the Regents for all operations and purposes, including lectures, re-
searches, publications, purchase of books for the library, binding, ex-
plorations for the benefit of the museum, apparatus, and the purchase
of objects of art, a sum between $22,000 and $23,000. It will readily
be perceived how inadequate this sum is to the rapid accumulation of
a libtary, of collections for the museum and gallery of art, for lectures
and those active operations which lead directly to the increase and dif-
fusion of knowledge. Even this fund may be expected to be diminished
by the greater expense which will attend the occupation of the entire
building and the increased and constantly increasing collections.

The museum increases so rapidly by the deposit ot Government col-
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 93

lections, by donations, exchanges, and the receipt of specimens from
special explorations aided by. the Institution, that very small, if any,
annual appropriations are required for it. But the expense of the care
and exhibition of an increasing collection swells from year to year,
while the Smithsonian funds are not so increased. The great object of
the museum should be to furnish to men of science, eminent in their
several departments, the means of advancing knowledge in these de-
partments, by submitting specimens of new objects to their examination.
If the expenditure could be bor ne, it would scarcely be desirable to in-
crease the number of officers connected with the museum, so that the
various branches of natural history might be fully represented, but con-
sidering the limited funds of the Smithsonian Institution, such an idea
is not ib be entertained.

On the contrary, the collections made should, in general, at all events,
be referred for examination and description to the men most eminent in
the country, and the results should be published in a manner worthy
of their labors, by the Institution.

A larger but still moderate appropriation for the library, varying
as circumstauces may require, should be annually made. ‘It may be
desirable, occasionally, to make larger investments in books, as whena
library of special value and peculiar suitableness may be in the market,
and within the means of the Institution. But this should be left to the
discretion and sound judgment of the Regents at the time.

It is not believed to be advisable to accumulate in the Smithsonian
Institution great masses of books, without reference to their peculiar
character sed value. What we want, and what the act of Congress
contemplates, is not a collection of every thing which learned dulness
and literary folly as well as real wisdom and sound science have put
into print, a vast and unwieldly repertory, in which the trash as well
as the precious may be found, but a library of valuable books pertain-
ing to all departments of human knowledge. The exchanges will gra-
dually furnish us with much that answers to this description, and saa
erate appropriations will supply, quite as rapidly as necessary, whatever
besides may be requisite to constitute a valuable library of research in
all departme nts of human knowledge. The library now consists of
12,005 volumes, besides 8,095 pamphlets and parts of volumes, and
1,874 maps. and 1,431 engravings.

In his report to the Secretary, of January, 1853, Professor Jewett
stated that the library had nearly doubled in size during the year 1852,
and that its greatest increase had been by exchanges. He said “ they
may be considered as the first fruits of a system “of scientific and lite-
rary exchange, established and sustained by the Institution. They
show, also, that the benefits derivable from its connexion with the
system of active operations had not been over estimated.

‘A considerable portion of the money expended in publications re-
turns in the shape of books for the library. These again are constantly
increasing ihe efficiency and interest of the publications. ‘The value
of the books received, by exchange, cannot be estimated by their num-
ber, or even their nominal price.

“They are works of the first importance to the scientific student,
94 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

and which it is very difficult to procure by purchase, even with large
funds at command.”

Professor Baird estimated the value of the works thus received,
during the year 1852, at from $4,000 to $5,000. If we estimate the
future receipts from the system of exchange at half that sum annually,
and ee an appropriation in money of equal amount for the pur-
chase of books, the growth of the library will be quite as rapid as Was
that of the library of Congress during the twenty-five years prior to the
late fire, and its annual increase in value more than double that of the
Congressional Library before the period mentioned. For several
years before 1825, the ordinary appropriations of Congress for their
library were not more than $2,000 per annum. Since that period they
have been $5,000.

The Committee of Organization, in their report submitted in 1847,
recommended such a selection of books as would ‘‘ make the Smith-
sonian Library chiefly a supplemental one,’’ and “ to purchase for the
most part valuable works which are not to be found elsewhere in the
Union.”

Of course this was not to be a universal rule, and not to exclude
standard works of authority and reference. They particularly desired
to see the library so supplied with important works on bibhography, so
that it might become the centre of literary and bibliographical reference
for the whole country. This desire has always been entertained by the
Regents, and much has already been done towards this object. The
collection of printed and manuscript catalogues has already been
commenced with this view, and should be steadily followed up. It is
believed that the appropriations suggested, together with the exchanges
and occasional special appropri: atone: will, in a reasonable time, not
only secure this object, but make the library the most important collec-
tion of valuable books, pertaining to all departments of knowledge,
to be found in our country.

Suggestions have been made to the Committee of certain alterations
in the organization of the Institution, which your Committee think not
warranted by the letter and spirit of the law,-and in conflict with the
seventh section, which defines the duties and powers of the Secretary.
That section admits of only one interpretation. Its terms are direct
and explicit, and its objects are expressly and pointedly set forth. The
entire property of the Institution is placed by it in the Secretary’s
hands, and he is distinctly constituted the responsible agent of the
Board of Regents. He is “to make a fair and accurate record of all
their proceedings,” “to take charge of the building and property of
the Institution,” to discharge the dees of librarien and keeper of the
museum. ‘This language clear ly shows the intention of the framers of
the law to secure unity of action, to admit of no separate and indepen-
dent departments, as is often the case in other Jnstitutions All the
duties enumerated are devolved solely on the Secretary, and though
other persons may be employed, they are merely Azs assistants, the
offices being emphatically one. ‘The Secretary alone is authorized to
act, and if the business of the Institution demanded no more than the
mind and labor of one man might be competent to perform, there would
be no occasion for the employment of any one else.
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 95

The law is declaratory and positive in charging the Secretary with the
enumerated duties, and therefore invests him and him alone with the
corresponding powers. But as it must have been manifest that no
Secretary could be able of himself to perform personally every thing
required for the discharge of his enumerated duties, provision is made
for aid to him, in the clause which says that he “ may, with the con-
sent of the board, employ assistants,” &c.

The positions of the persons so employed are determined by the
word which designates them in the clause authorising their employ-
ment. ‘They are called ‘assistants.’ To whom? Not to the Regents,
but to the Secretary. Their position is necessarily subordinate ; and
as their duties are those of assistants to their principal, they can no
more be independent of him than they can be superior to him. This
construction is so manifestly proper, that it would seem to require no
argument to justify it. But if anything further were wanted, it may
be found in the fact that the Secretary is to employ them in and about
that very business with which he is charged and for which he alone is
responsible. ‘The character of this part of the section is permissive.
He is not required to employ any one, but is permitted to employ per-
sons to assist him, provided he satisfy the Board that their services are
necessary as aids to him.

In another part of the same section provision is made for the pay-
ment and, if need be, the removal of the Secretary and his assistants,
and in this connexion they are spoken of as officers, but by no ingenu-
ity of construction can that word, in this connexion, be held to assign
them special duties or confer any separate authority.

Thus careful has Congress been to provide an efficient system of
operations which can only come from harmony of purpose and unity
‘of action.

This view of the intention of Congress, so Clearly expressed in the
law, would be directly contradicted by the plan which has been sug-
gested, of organizing the Institution definitely into several departments,
placing at the head of these departments different assistants, establish-
ing their relative positions, prescribing distinct duties for them, assign-
ing certain shares of the income to be disbursed by them, and stating
their authority, privileges, and remedies for infringement of their official
rights, or of the interests entrusted to their care. All this would tend |
not to secure a loyal and harmonious co-operation, to a common end,
of the assistants with the Secretary, but to encourage rivalry, to invite
collisicn, to engender hosulity, to destroy subordination, to distract the
‘operations of the Institution, to impair its efficiency, and to destroy its
‘usefulness.

The Committee are satisfied too, that the expenditures of the Insti-
tution would be unprofitably increased by organizing it into several de-
partments, with authority to the head of each department to expend the
‘money appropriated to it. The tendency would be to more subdivi-
sions of duty, to an increase of assistants, by the introduction first of
temporary and then of permanent employees, until, as the collections
grew larger and the persons charged with their care became more
‘humerous, the greater portion of the income would be absorbed in sala-
ries. Thus the munificence intended to increase and difluse knowledge
96 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

among mankind, would be chiefly expended in salaries and official
eoluientas

Already the Committee think it would be well io consider whether it
might not be consistent with the proper working of the Institution to
limit and reduce some of these expenses. ;

While the Committee desire to preserve and increase the library and
museum, as already stated, they think it would be well to repeal the
seventh resolution, passed by the Board of Regents on the 26th Janu-
ary, 1847, which has already been recited.

They recommend that, in future, the appropriations should be made
without reference to any fixed rule of distribution or division between
the different operations and objects of the Institution, and that the
Board, while making specific appropriations, should apportion them ac-
cording to their opinion of what is necessary and proper, giving to each
object such sum as its intrinsic importance and a compliance in good
faith with the law may seem to demand.

Thus they will be enabled to economize by postponing or limiting
some operations and preferring others, by applying the funds to those
objects which at the time appear most pressing, and which promise the
most prompt, far-reaching, and beneficial action.

In conclusion, the Committee adopt the following remarks and
recommendations, which they extract from a paper submitted to them
by the Secretary, and desire that they may be considered as part of
this report :

“Tf one-fourth of the whole income is devoted to the museum, ad-
ditional assistants will be required for the care and management of the
specimens, while the withdrawal of Prof: Baird from the publications
and exchanges will require more help in that quarter.

‘¢ Besides the necessary expenditure for cases and furniture for the
library, appropri: ations nay be made for carrying on the catalogue sys-
tem; for printing reports on libraries ; for the public: ition of a library
taal: for the preparation and publication of bibliographies ; for
completing sets of transactions, and the purchase of other books for
the operations of the Institution ; also for printing a catalogue or list of
books in the library.

In addition to the sum which will be necessarily required for the

vases and furniture of the museum, a small sum may annually be ap-
ne nated tor collecting particular desiderata in natural history, to be
presented to other institutions as well as preserved in this; for pur-
chasing instruments and models to illustrate particular branches of
knowledge , or to assist in the prosecution of special lines of research,
which muy serve as samples to artizans in this country, or be used in
investigations.

** Models may also be obtained for multiplying casts of the most cele-
brated specimens of ancient and modern art.

“ Appropriations for all these objects cannot be made in the same
year, but discretion, as I have said before, should be used as to the
time when it would be the most advisable to make the expenditure in
each particular case.

‘«« As few operations as possible ought to be carried on in the build-
ing of the Institution. Printing, stereotyping, engraving, &c., can be
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. O7

done at a cheaper rate by contract; these require expensive superin-
tendence ; and workmen, as a general rule, cannot be expected to do
as much for public eons as for a private individual. Besides
this, much time must be lost in the interval of the publication of the
different articles, and when it is necessary, on account of the exhaus-
tion of the appropriation, to stop for the year, this can only be done by
disbanding the workmen, while the interest on the cost of the apparatus
remains.

“These remarks also appiy to calculations and reductions of obser-
vations, which, in many cases, can be distributed to professors i in colleges,
who, or a small addition to their salaries, will furnish results which:
could not be procured in the Institution for many times the same sum.

“The maxim stated in the programme, namely, that few individuals
ought to be permanently supported by the Institution, should be con-
stantly kept in view, and the greatest caution exercised in adding new
members to the permanent corps.

“The Institution, 1 in order to produce the greatest amount of useful
effect with a given expenditure of income, must be a unit in plan and a
unit in purpose. Each assistant must not merely have regard to the
advancement of his own speciality, but the good of the whole, and
though he may be assigned a specific duty, he should be ready and
willing, at the call of the Secretary, to render service in any other.
Without a system of government w hich will ensure this, not only the
usefulness of the Institution will be greatly abridged, but its very ex-
istence jeoparded.”

The committee submit to the Board the following resolutions :

Resolved, That the seventh resolution passed by the Board of Re-
gents on the 26th of January, 1847, requiring an equal division of the
income between the active operations and the museum and library,
when the buildings are completed, be and it is hereby, repealed.

Resolved, That hereafter the annual appropriations shall be appor-
tioned specifically among the different objects and operations of the In-
stitution, in such manner as may, in the Judgment of the Regents, be
necessary and proper for each, according to its intrinsic importance,
and a compliance in good faith with the law.

Respectfully submitted :
JAMES A. PEARCE, Chairman.

Mr. Mason offered the following resolution which was adopted :

Resolved, ‘That the report of the Special Committee just made, be
laid on the table for further consideration, and that the papers referred
to in the report be communicated to the Board tor their examination ;
and that said report, and such reportof a minority of the Committee as
may be made in the recess of the board, be printed.

On motion of Mr. English, the Board then adjourned, to meet on
Saturday, the 8th of July, at 10 o’clock a. m.

~
f
’
98 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

Wasnineton, July 8, 1854.

An adjourned meeting of the Board of Regents was held on Satur-
day, July 8, at 100 ’clock, Be 1.

Present: Messrs. Bache, Douglas, English, Hawley, Mason,
Pearce, Rush, Stuart, Totten, Towers, and the Secretary.

In the absence of the Chancellor, Mr. Hawley was called to the
chair.

John T. Towers, esquire, mayor elect of the city of Washington,
appeared and took the seat in the Board vacated by Mr. Maury, late
mayor.

The Secretary laid before the Board the sixth volume of Smithso-
nian Contributions to Knowledge.

Mr. Mason, from the Select Committee on the resolutions of Messrs.
Fitch end Meacham, offered the following resolution :

“The Secretary of the Institution and of this Board is, by the
seventh section of the act ‘to establish the Smithsonian Institution,’
required to discharge the duties of ‘Librarian and Keeper of the
Museum,’ having, with the consent of the Board of Regents, power to
employ assistants, the better to enable him to discharge those duties ;
for a better construction whereof,

Be it resolved, That whilst power is reserved in the said section to
the Board of Regents to remove both the Secretary and his assistants,
in the opinion of the Board, power, neve rtheless, remains with the Sec-
retary to remove his said assistants. ;

Mr. English moved to amend the resolution by inserting the words
“urth the eons of the Board of Regents,” after the words “* power,
nevertheless, remains with the Secretary.”

Mr. Stuart moved that the ‘consideration of Mr. Mason’s resolution
be postponed till the next meeting of the Board. On this question the
yeas and nays were demanded.

Those voting in the affirmative:

Yras.— Messrs. Douglas, English, Stuart, Towers—4.

Nays.—Messrs. Packie, Hawiey, Mason, Pearce, Totten—85.

-So the motion was not carried.

The question was then taken on the amendment offered by Mr.
English to Mr. Mason’s resolution, and the yeas and nays taken:

Yeas.—Messrs. Douglas, English, Stuart, Tower rs—4.

Nays.—Messrs. Bache, Hlawie ey, Mason, Pearce, "Totten—5.

So the amendment was lost.

Mr. Douglas moved a postponement of the subject for a week from
next Friday.

The yeas and nays were taken on this motion:

Yras.—Messrs. Douglas, English, Stuart, Towers—4.

Nays.—Messrs. Bache, Hawley, Mason, Pearce, Totten—5.

- So the motion was lost. ;

The question was then taken on Mr. Mason’s resolution ; which was
adopted.

Yras.—Messrs. Bache, Hawley, Mason, Pearce, Rush, 'Totten—6.

Nave Sen eeis: Douglas, English, Stuart, Towers—4.

Mr. Stuart moved to postpone the consideration of the resolutions
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. -99

appended to the report of the Select Committee on the resolutions of
Messrs. Fitch and Meacham, till the next annual session.

A division was called for—ayes 3, noes 6.

‘So the motion was lost.

Mr Douglas moved to postpone the consideration for two weeks.

A division was called for—ayes 4, noes 6.

So the motion was lost.

Mr. English moved that the Board adjourn.

This motion was withdrawn to allow the Chairman of the Execu-
tive Committee, Mr. Pearce, to bring forward the appropriations for
the year recommended by the committee, and reported to the Board,
April 29, 1854.

On motion, the appropriations, as reported by the Executive Commit-
tee, were adopted—ayes 7, noes 3.

The Secretary stated to the Board that he had employed Mr. Lorin
Blodget to reduce and discuss the meteorological observations collected
by the Smithsonian Institution, and that some misunderstanding had
arisen between this gentleman and himself as to the adjustment of his
claims in reference to the work, which he proposed to refer to the Exe-
cutive Committee, and if necessary to a Commission of Examination,
one of whom might be appointed by the Secretary, another by Mr.
Blodget, and a third by the two persons so appointed; whereupon,

On motion of Mr. Mason, it was

Resolved, That the Executive Committee be authorized to investi-
gate and settle the business presented to the Board by the Secretary.

Mr. English then renewed his motion to adjourn.

Adopted—ayes 6, noes 4.

The Board then adjourned sine die.

100 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

PROCEEDINGS OF THE ESTABLISHMENT.

Wasuineton, May 3, 1853.

A meeting of the Smithsonian Institution, called by order of the
President of the United States, was held this day, May 3, 1853, in the
session hall of the Smithsonian building, at 11 0 ’clock, a. m.

Present: Franklin Pierce, President of the United States, ex officic
President of the Smithsonian Institution; James Guthrie, Secretary of
the Treasury ; James C. Dobbin, Secretary of the Navy ; James Cam
bell, Postmaster General ; Caleb Cushing, Attorney Gane: ral; John W.
Maury, Mayor of W: shington ; ; Joseph Henry, Secreta ary of the Smith-
sonian Institution.

The Secretary gave an account of the operations of the Institution.

Less than half of the number of members bei ing present, the meeting
adjourned to meet on ‘Tuesday, the 17th inst.

Wasuineton, May 17, 1853.

An adjourned meeting of the Smithsonian Institution was held this
day in the session hall of the Smithsonian building.

Present: Franklin Pierce, President of the United 8 States; William
iB ue Secretary of State; James Guthrie, Secretary of the Treas-
ury; Jefferson Davis, Secretary of War; James C. Dobbin, Secretary
of ine Navy ; James Campbell, Postmaster General; Caleb Cushing,
Attorney General; Charles Mason, Commissioner of Patents; John W.
Maury, Mayor of Washington ; Joseph Henry, Secretary of the Smith-
sonian Institution.

The President took the chair, and the minutes of the preceding
meeting were read.

On motion, the President appointed a committee of five to drafi a
code of By-laws. ‘The committee consisted of the following persons, to
wit: Messrs Cushing, Dobbin, Maury, Davis, and the Secre tary.

The committee, after due deliberation, re ported threugh their chair-
man, Mr. Cushing, the following :

BY-LAWS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

Secrion |. A stated annual meeting of the statute and honorary
members of the Institution shall be held at the Hall of the Institution,
in Washington, on the first Tuesday in May. Adjourned meetings may
be held at such place and time as the members of the Institution at any
meeting may order. Special meetings will be convened by direction,
of the President of the United States.

Sec. 2. Notice of all meetings of the Institution, whether stated, ad-
journed, or special, shall be given by the Secretary in writing, addressed
to each member.
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 101

Sec. 3. The votes and proceedings of the Institution, with the names
of the members present at each meeting, shall be recorded ; and at the
opening of every meeting the journal of the precedmg meeting shall
be read by the Secretary.

Src. 4. A quorum of not less than six of the statute members shall
be requisite for the transaction of any business except adjourning or ob-
taining the attendance of members.

Src. 5 The Secretary shall at the stated annual meeting, make a
general statement of the condition and affairs of the Institution during
the past year.

Sec. 6. Honorary members, not exceeding one in each year, shall
be elected by ballot, and by unanimous vote oe the statute members :
Provided, ‘That no person shall be chosen without having been nomin
ated at a previous meeting of the Institution.

Src. 7. The rules of parliamentary proceedings, as received and

ractised in the Senate of the United States, shall govern the meetings
of the Institution in all cases which are not i er with the fore
going By-laws

On motion, he report of the committee was adopted.

The Secretary presented an account of the organization and operations
of the Institution, relative to the reception and publication of memoirs,
researches, exchanges, the formation of catalogues of libraries ; also an
account of the state of the funds, and the policy with regard to the for-
mation of collections, &c.

On motion of Mr. Davis, nominations were then received for the ap-
pointment of an honorary member of the Institution, to take place at a
succeeding meeting.

On motion, the Institution adjourned to the first Monday ir June en-
suing, at 11 o’clock, a. m.

W asHineton, June 6, 1853.

An adjourned meeting of the Smithsonian Institution was held this
day, June 6, 1853, in the session hall of the Smithsonian building.

Present: Franklin Pierce, President of the United States, e2-officio
President of the Smithsonian Institution; James Guthrie, Secretary of
the Treasury; William L. Marcy, Secretary of State; Jefferson Davis,
Secretary of War; James Campbell, Postmaster Generale Caleb Cush-
ing, Attorney General; Charles Mason, Commissioner of Patents ;
Joseph Henry, Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.

The President took the chair, and the minutes of the preceding meet-
ing were read.

‘On motion, the Institution proceeded to ballot tor the election of an
honorary member. '

Professor Parker Cleaveland was declared unanimously elected.

The advertisement of the Leopoldin Caroline Academy of Germany,
relative to the Smithsonian Institution, was read by the Secretary.

The Institution then adjourned sine die.
102 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

The stated annual meeting of the Smithsonian Institution was held
this day, May 2, 1854, at the hall of the Institution at 12 o’clock, m

Present: Franklin Pierce, President of the United States; Hon. Wm.
L. Marcy, Secretary of State; Hon. James Guthrie, Secretary of the
Treasury ; Hon. Jefferson Davis, Secretary of War; Hon. James C.
Dobbin, Secretary of tlie Navy; Hon. Caleb Cushing, Attorney Gene-
ral; Hon. John W. Maury, Mayor of the city; Professor Robert Hare,
honorary member; Professor Joseph Henry, Secretary of the Institution.

The President took the chair.

The minutes of the last annual meeting were read and approved.

On motion of Hon. Mr. Guthrie, the Institution proceeded to nomi-
nate candidates for election as honorary members.

Dr. Hare made some remarks respecting his apparatus, and the con-
ditions en which it was presented to the Institution.

The Secretary explained the cause of the delay in completing the
repairs, and in the proposed exhibition of the apparatus. This had
been mainly due to an accident which happened to the building. A
part of the interior gave way, and the Regents directed that the whole
wood-work of the main building should be removed, and its place sup-
plied with fire-proof materials. "lo meet the additional expense of this
necessary change in the plan, the time of completing the edifice was
extended, and funds which would have been devoted to other purposes
were consequently given to this object. The building will, however,
be completed in the course of the present year; a spacious room is
now nearly ready to receive the apparatus, and due diligence on the
part of the Institution will be made to finish the repairs of the articles,
of which a considerable portion are now completed.

On motion the Institution then adjourned to the first Tuesday in June
next (6th proximo.)

WasHineton, June 6, 1854.

An adjourned meeting of the Smithsonian Institution was held this
day, June 6, 1854, in the hall of the Institution, at 12 o’clock, m.

Present: Hon. Wm. L. Marcy, Secretary of State; Hon. James
Guthrie, Secretary of the Treasury; Hon. Caleb Cushing, Attorney
General; Hon. Charles Mason, Commissioner of Patents; Prof. Joseph
Henry, Secret tary of the Institution.

There not being a legal quorum present, on motion of Mr. Cushing
the Institution adjourned to meet on Saturday, July 15, 1854, at 12
o’clock, m.

Wasuineton, July 15, 1854.

An adjourned meeting of the Smithsonian Institution was held this
day, July 15, 1854, in fhe hall of the Institution, at 12 o’clock, m.

Present: Franklin Pierce, President of the United States; ; Hon:
Wm. L. Marcy, Secretary of State; Hon. James Guthrie, Secretary. of
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 103

the Treasury; Hon. Jefferson Davis, Secretary of War; Hon. James
C. Dobbin, Secretary of the Navy; Hon. James Campbell, Postmaster
General; Hon. Caleb Cushing, Attorney General; Hon. Charles Mason,
Commissioner of Patents.

The President took the chair. The minutes of the last meeting were
read and approved.

The nominations previously made for honorary members were then
read, and the Institution proceeded to ballot, but no choice was made.

On the second ballot no choice was made.

On motion, the election of an honorary member was postponed.

Ordered, That three persons be appointed a Committee of the Insti-
tution to confer with the Board of Regents as to suitable means of
communication between the two bodies, and to report thereon at a sub-
sequent meeting of the Institution.

The Secretary gave a general account of the affairs of the Institution;
the. condition of the building; the operations carried on during the past
year; and a statement of the finances at the present time.

The President appointed Messrs. Cushing, Davis, and Mason as the
committee of conference with the Board of Regents.

On motion of Mr. Campbell, the Institution adjourned to meet on the
third Saturday (21st) of October next.
Diao

. A
AA
MiG ER
.

cos zu
WIRES) ? i ; ' ; ioe ‘

so yh ak ae had

1/2) alan i ,

|
Rake
' Wooter
TE Z iT
4s ,
. 3 eo: ‘
iy
Fi v
“
, - ’*
j, 4
‘
a i
, he lp
f *
oe
we
tI
= .

moe We De Ks:
Tt AY

ee ee oe
an nee ~

es a ‘ / 4 ¢ Pas

ra ea

* a on ~*~ ;
a i . ‘t \ -? Cm ee 4 ae 3
° 4 iy) 5
gh ets ieee |

REPORT OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 107

WILL OF SMITHSON.

I, James Smithson, son of Hugh, first Duke of Northumberland, and
Blisabath; heiress of the Hungertor ds of Audley, and niece of Charles
the Proud, Duke of mencees now residing in Bentinck street, Caven-
dish square, do this 23d day of October, 1826, make this my last will
and testament :

I bequeath the whole of my property of every nature and kind soever
to my bankers, Messrs. Drummonds, of Charing Cross, in trust, to be
disposed of in the following manner, and desire of my said executors
to put my property under the management of the court of chancery.

To John Fitall, formerly my ser vant, but now employed in the Lon-
don Docks, and residing at No. 27, Jubilee Place, North Mile End, Old
Town, in connideration of his attachment and fidelity to me, and the
long and great care he has taken of my effects, and my having done
but. very little for him, I give and bequeath the annuity or annual sum
of £100 sterling for his life, to be paid to him quarterly, free from
legacy duty and all other deductions, the first payment to be made to
him at the expiration of three months after my death. I have at divers.
times lent sums of money to Henry Honori Juilly, formerly my servant,
but now keeping the Hungerford Hotel, in the Rue Caumartin, at Paris,
and for which sums of money | have undated bills or bonds signed by
him. Now I will and direct that, if he desires it, these sums of money
be let remain in his hands at an interest of five per cent. for five years
after the date of the present will.

To Henry James Hungerford, my nephew, heretofore called Henry
James Dickinson, son of my late brother, Lieutenant Colonel Henry
Louis Dickinson, now residing with Mr. Auboin, at Bourg la Reine, near
Paris, I give and bequeath for his life the whole of the income arising
from my property, of every nature and kind whatever, after the pay-
ment of the above annuity, and, after the death of John Fitall, that
annuity likewise, the payments to be at the time the interest or divi-
dends become due on the stocks or other property from which the in-
come arises.

Should the said Henry James Hungerford have a child or children,
legitimate or illegitimate, I leave to such child or children, his or their
hel Irs, executors, are assigns, after the death of his, her, or their father,
the whole of my property of every Kind, absolutely and forever, to be
divided between them, if there is more than one, in the manner their
father shall judge proper, and in case of his omitting to decide this, as
the Lord Chancellor shall judge proper.

Should my nephew, Henry James Hungerford marry, 1 empower
him to make a joimture.

In case of the death of my said nephew, without leaving a child or
children, or of the death of the child or children he may have had,
under the age of 21 years, or intestate, I then bequeath the whole of my
property, subject to the annuity of £100 to John Fitall, and tor the
security and payment of which [mean stock to remain in this country,
to the United States of America, to found at Washington, under the
108 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

name of the Smithsonian Institution, an Establishment for the Increase
and Diffusion of Knowledge among Men.

I think it proper here to state, that all the money which will be stand-
ing in the French five per cents. at my death, in the name of the father
of my above mentioned nephew, Henry James Hungerford, and all that
in my name, is the property of my said nephew, being what he inherit-
ed from his father, or what I have laid up for oe from the savings
upon his income.

JAMES SMITHSON. [z. s.]

Extract from a letter from Hon. Richard Rusu to Hon. John Forsyth,
Secretary of State.

Lonpon, May 12, 1838.

% * * * * * * *&

‘“‘T have made inquiries, from time to time, in the hope of finding out
something of the man, personally a stranger to our people, Ginos has
sought to benefit distant ages by founding, inthe capital of the American
Union, an institution (to describe it in his own simple and comprehensive
language) for the increase and diffusion of knowledge among men. Ihave
not heard a great deal. What Ihave heard, and may confide in, amounts
to this: That he was, in fact, the natural son of the Duke of Northum-
berland ; that his mother was a Mrs. Macie, of an ancient family in Wilt-
shire, ofehe name of Hungerfor d; that he was educated at Oxford, where
he took an honorary degree in 1786 ; that he went under the name of
James Lewis Macie util after a few years after he had left the univer-
sity, when he took that of Smithson, ever after signing only James Smith-
son, as in his will; that he does not appear to have had any fixed home,
living in lodgings when in London, and occasionally staying a year or two
at a time in cities on the continent, as Paris, Berlin, Florence, Genoa, at
which last he died; and, that the ample provision made for him by the
Duke of Nonthamibenlend: with retired and simple habits, enabled him
to accumulate the fortune which now passes to the United States. I
have inquired if his political opinions or bias were supposed to be of a
nature that led him to select the United States as the great trustee of
his enlarged and philanthropic views. ‘The reply has been, that his
opinions, as far as known or inferred, were thought to favor monarchical
rather than popular institutions; but that he interested himself little in
questions of government, being devoted to science, and chiefly chemis-
try ; that this had introduced him to the society of Cav endish, Wollas-
ton, and others advantageously known to the Royal Society in London,
of which a he was amember, and to the archives of which he made
contributions ; and that he also became acquainted, through his visits
to the panineut; with eminent chemists in France, Italy, and Germany.
Finally, that he was a gentleman of feeble health, but always of cour-
teous though reserved manners and conversation.

‘¢Such I learn to have been some of the characteristics of the man
whom generations to come may see cause to bless, and whose will may
enrol his name with the benefactors of mankind.”
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 109

NOTICE OF SMITHSON BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY.

November 30th, 1829. Davies Gilbert, esq., President of the Royal

Society, in his address to the society, mentions the death of Mr. Smith-
son as having occurred during the preceding year, or since the last
annual meeting of the society, and remarks as follows:
“Mr Smithson has added eight (8) communications to our transac-
tions. He was distinguished by the intimate friendship of Mr. Caven-
dish, and rivalled our most expert chemists in elegant analyses ; but the
latter part of his life has been passed abroad.’’—(See Philosophical
Magazine, 2d series, vol. 7, p. 42.)

And again, in his address to The Royal Society, November 30th, 1830,
Mr. Gilbert, in speaking of Mr Smithson, says :

“Of this gentleman | must be allowed to speak with affection. We
were at Oxford together, of the same college, and our acquaintance
continued to the time of his decease. Mr. Smithson, then called Macie,
and an under graduate, had the reputation of excelling all other resident
members of the university in the knowledge of chemistry. He was
early honored by anintimate acquaintance with Mr. Cavendish ; he was
admitted into the Royal Society, and soon after presented a paper on the
very curious concretion frequently found in the hollow of bambu canes,
named Tubasheer. This he found to consist almost entirely of silex,
existing in a manner similar to what Davy long afterwards discoved in
the epidermis of reeds and grasses. Mr. Smithson enriched ‘our trans-
actions with seven other communications; a chemical analysis of
some calamines; account of a discovery of native minium; on the
composition and crystalization of certain sulphurets from Huel Boys, in
Cornwall; on the composition of zeolite ; on a substance procured from
the elm tree called ulmine ; on a saline substance from Mount Vesuvius :
facts relative to the coloring matter of vegetables.

‘¢He was the friend of Dr. Wollaston, and at the same time his rival
in the manipulation and analysis of small quantities. Mr. Smithson
frequently repeated an occurrence with much pleasure and exultation
as excecding anything that could be brought into competition with
it, and this must apologise for my introducing what might otherwise be
deemed an anecdote too light and trifling on such an occasion as the
present.

‘Mr. Smithson declared, that happening to observe a tear gliding
down a lady’s cheek, he endeavored to caich it on a crystal vessel,
that one-half of the drop escaped, but having preserved the other half,
he submitted it to re-agents, and detected what was then called micro-
cosmic salt, with muriate of soda, and, I think, three or four more sa-
line substances, held in solution.

“For many years past Mr. Smithson has resided abroad, principally, |
belteve, on account of his health ; but he carried with him the esteem
and regard of various private friends, and of a still larger number of
persons who appreciated and admired his acquirements.”—(See Philo-
sophical Magazine, 2d series, vol. ix, p- 41.)
110 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

LIST OF PAPERS PRESENTED TO THE ROYAL SOCIETY BY JAMES
SMITHSON.

1. “ An Account of some Chemical Experiments on Tabasheer.”
Read July 7, 1791. By James Louis Macie, esq., F. R. S.—Philo-
sophical ‘Transactions, vol. 81, p. 368.

2. “ A Chemical Analysis of some Calamines.” Read November
18, 1802.—Philosophical Transactions, vol. 93, p. 12, and P. Maga-
zine, vol. 14, p. 173.

do. “An Account of a Discovery of Native Minium.’ Read April
24, 1806.—Philosophical ‘Transactions, vol. 96, p. 267, and P. Maga-
zine, vol. 24, p. 274, and vol. 26, p. 114.

4. “On Quadruple and Binary Compounds, particularly Sulphurets.”
Read December 24, 1807, but not published in the P. Transactions. —
Philosophical Magazine, vol. 29, p. 275.

5. On the Composition of the Compound Sulphuret from Huel
Boys, and an account of its crystals.” Read January 28, 1803.—
Philosophical Transactions, vol. 98, p. 55, and P. Magazine, vol. 29,
p: 220.

6. “On the Composition of Zeolite.” Read February 7, 1811.—
Philosophical Transactions, vol. 101, p. 171, and P. Magazine, vol. 37,
p- 152, and vol. 38, p. 30.

7. “On a substance from the Elm tree, called Ulmin.” Read De-
cember 10, 1812.—Philosophical Transactions, vol. 103, p. 64, and
P. Magazine, vol. 42, p. 204.

8. “On a saline substance from Mount Vesuvius.” Read July 8,
1813.—Philosophical Transactions, vol. 103, p. 256, and P. Magazine,
vol. 42, p. 425. |

9. « A Few Facts Relative to the Coloring Matter of some Vegeta-
bles. Read December 18, 1817.—Philosophical Transactions, vol.
108, p. 110, and P. Magazine, vol. 57, p. 58.

CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE “ANNALS OF PHILOSOPHY,” BY JAMES
SMITHSON.

1. “On a Native Compound of Sulphuret of Lead and Arsenic.”
Paris, May 19, 1819, vol. 14, p. 96, 1819; and see vol. 16, p. 100.

2. On Native Hydrous Aluminate of Lead, or Plomb Gomme.—
Paris, May 28, 1819, vol 14, p. 31, 1819; and see vol. 16, p. 100.

3. “Ona Fibrous Metallic Copper.” Paris, March ‘17, 1820, vol.
16, p. 46, 1820.

4. “An Account of a Native Combination of Sulphate of Barium
and Fluoride of Calcium.” Paris, March 24, 18203 vol. 16, p. 48,
1820; and see vol 16, p. 100, for notices of | and 2, above.

5. “On some Capillary Metallic Tin forced through the pores of
Cast Iron.’”’? Paris, February 17, 1821, vol. 17; new series, vol 1,
p- 271, 1821.

6. “On the Detection of Very Minute Quantities of Arsenic and Mer-
cury.” Letter from Mr. Smithson, (not dated,) vol. 20; new series,

vol. 4, p. 127, 1822.
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 111

7. On Some Improvements of Lamps.” Vol. 20, p. 863; new
series, vol. 4, p. 127,° 1822; and see Ann. de Chemie., vol. xh, p. 92,
and Journal of Science and Art, vol. 28, p. 183.

8. “On the Crystaline form of ice.” March 4, 1823.—Vol 21; new
series, vol. 5, p. 340, 1823.

9, «A Means of discriminating between Sulphate of Barium and
Strontium.” April 2, 1823.—Vol. 21; new series, vol. 5, p. 399, 1823.

10. ‘On the Discovery of Acids in Mineral Substances.” April 12,
1823.—Vol. 21; new series, vol. 5, p. 384, 1823.

11. “ An Improved way of Making Coffee.” June 4th, 1823.—Vol.
22; new series, vol. 6, p. 30, 1823.

12. “A Discovery of Chloride of Potassium in the Earth.” (Not
dated.) Vol. 22; new series, vol. 6, p. 258, 1823.

13. «A Method of Fixing Particles on the Sappare.” October 24,
1823.—Vol. 22; new series, vol. 6, p. 412, 1823.

14. “On Some Compounds of Fluorine.” January 2, 1824.—Vol.
23; new series, vol. 7, p. 100, 1824.

15. “ An Examination of some Egyptian Colors.” January 2, 1824.
Vol. 23; new series, vol. 7, p. 115, 1824.

16. Some Observations on Mr. Penn’s theory concerning the forma-
tion of the Kirkdale Cave.” June 10, 1824.—Vol. 24; new series,
vol. 8, p. 50, 1824.

17. «*A Note on a Letter from Dr. Black, describing a Very Sensi-
ble Balance.”’—Vol. 26; new series, vol 10, p. 52, 1825.

18. “*A Method of Fixing Crayon Colors.” London, August 23,
1825.—Vol. 26; new series, vol. 10, p. 236, 1825.

ACT OF CONGRESS ACCEPTING BEQUEST.

AN ACT to authorize and enable the President to assert and prosecute, with effect, the
elaim of the United States to the legacy bequeathed to them by James Smithson, late of
London, deceased, to found at Washington, under the name of the Smithsonian Institution,
an Establishment for the Increase and Diffusion of Knowledge among Men.

Sec. 1. Be tt enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the
United States of America in Congress assembled, That the President of
the United States be, and he is hereby, authorized to constitute and ap-
point an agent or agents, to assert and prosecute for and in behalf of
the United States, and in their name or otherwise, as may be advisable,
in the Court of Chancery, or other proper tribunal of England, the right
of the United States to the legacy bequeathed to them by the last will
and testament of James: Smithson, late of London, deceased, for the
purpose of founding at Washington, under the name of the Smithsonian
Institution, an Establishment for the Increase and Diffusion of Knowledge
among Men; and to empower such agent or agents so appointed to re-
ceive and grant acquittances for all such sum or sums of money, or
other funds, as may or shall be decreed or adjudged to the United States,
for, or on account of said legacy.

_ Sec. 2. And be it further enacted, That the said agent or agents shall,
before receiving any part of said legacy, give a bond or bonds, in the
112 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

penal sum of five hundred thousand dollars, to the Treasurer of the
United States and his successors in office, with good and sufficient se-
curities to the satisfaction of the Secretary of the Treasury, for the faith-
ful performance of the duties of the said agency, and for the faithful
remittance to the Treasurer of the United States of all and every sum
or sums of money or other funds which he or they may receive for pay-
ment in whole or in part of the said legacy. And the Treasurer of the
United States is hereby authorized and required to keep safely all sums of
money or other funds which may be received by him in virtue of the said
bequest, and to account therefor separately from all other accounts of
his office, and subject to such further disposal thereof as may be here-
after provided by Congress.

Src. 3. And be it further enacted, That any and all sums of money
and other funds which shall be received for or on account of the said
legacy shall be applied, in such manner as Congress may hereafter
direct, to the purpose of founding and endowing at Washington, under
the name of the Smithsonian Institution, an Establishment for the In-
crease and Diffusion of Knowledge among Men, to which application of
the said moneys and other funds the faith of the United States is hereby
pledged.

Src. 4. And be it further enacted, That, to the end that the claim to
the said bequest may be prosecuted with effect, and the necessary ex-
penses in prosecuting the same be defrayed, the President of the United
States be, and he is hereby, authorized to apply to that purpose any
sum not exceeding ten thousand dollars out of any moneys in the trea-
sury not otherwise appropriated.

Approved July 1, 1836.

AN ACT TO ESTABLISH THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

AN ACT to establish the *‘ Smithsonian Institution,’’ for the Increase and Diffusion of Know-
ledge among Men.

James Smithson, Esquire, of London, in the kingdom of Great Britain, having by his last
will and testament given the whole of his property to the United States of America, to
found at Washington, under the name of the Smithsonian Institution, an Establishment
for the Increase and Diffusion of Knowledge among Men; and the United States having, by
an act of Congress, received said property, and accepted said trust; therefore, for the faith-
ful execution of said trust according to the will of the liberal and enlightened donor—

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
States of America in Congress assembled, That the President and Vice-
President of the United States, the Secretary of State, the Secretary of
the Treasury, the Secretary of War, the Secretary of the Navy, the
Postmaster General, the Attorney General, the Chief Justice, and the
Commissioner of the Patent Office of the United States, and the Mayor
of the City of Washington, during the time for which they shall hold
their respective offices, and such other persons as they may elect hon-
orary members, be, and they are hereby, constituted an ‘‘ Establish-
ment,” by the name of the “Smithsonian Institution,” for the Increase
and Diffusion of Knowledge among Men; and by that name shall be
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. Ps

known, and have perpetual succession, with the powers, limitations,
and resinlehoes hereinafter contained, and no other.

Suc. 2. And be it further enacted, That so much of the property of
the said James Smithson as has been received in money, and paid into
the Treasury of the United States, being the sum of five hundred and
fifteen thousand one hundred aud sixty-nine dollars, be lent to the
United States Treasury, at six per cent. per annum interest from the
first day of September, in the year one thousand eight hundred and
thirty-eight, when the same was received into the said treasury; and
that so much of the interest as may have accrued on said sum on the
first day of July next, which will amount to the sum of two hundred
and forty-two thousand one hundred and twenty-nine dollars, or so
much thereof as shall, by the Board of Regents of the Institution, es-
tablished by this act, be deemed necessary, be, and the same is hereby,
appr opriated for the erection of suitable buildings, and for other current
incidental expenses of said Institution; and th: at six per cent. interest
on the said trust fund—it being the said amount of five hundred and
fifteen thousand one hundred and sixty-nine dollars received into the
United States Treasury on the first of September, one thousand eight
hundred and thirty-eight, payable, in halfyearly payments, on the first
of January and July 1 in ene year be, and the same is hereby, appro-~
priated for the perpetual maintenance and support of said Institution $
and all expenditures and appropriations to be made, from time to time,
to the purposes of the Institution aforesaid, shall be exclusively from
the accruing interest, and not from the principal of the said fund. And
be at further enacted, Chat al] the moneys and stocks which have been,
or may hereatter be, received into the Treasury of the United States
on account of the fund bequeathed by James Smithson, be, and the
same hereby are, pledged to refund to the Treasury of the United
States the sums hereby appropriated.

Sec. 3. And be at further enacted, That the business of the said Insti-
tution shall be conducted at the city of Washington by a Board of Re-
gents by the name of the Regents of the “ Smithsonian Institution,” to
be composed of the Vice-President of the United States, the Chief Jus-
tice of the United States, and the Mayor of the city of Washington,
during the time for which they shall hold their respective offices ; three
members of the Senate, and three members of the House of Repre senta-
tives; together with six other persons, other than members of Congress,
two of vaHOnE shall be members of the National Institute in the city of
Washington, and resident in the said city ; and the other four thereof
shall be inhabitants of States, and no two of them of the same State.
And the eer to be selected as aforesaid, sball be appointed imme-
diately after the passage of this act—the members of the Senate by the
President thereot, the members of the House by the Speaker thereof,
and the six other persons by joint resolution of the Senate and House of
Representatives ; and the members of the House so appointed shall
serve until the fourth Wednesday in December, the second next after
the passage of this act; and then, and biennially thereafter, on or
alternate fourth Wednesday of December, a like number shall be a
pointed in the same manner, to serve until the fourth Wednesday in
December, the second succeeding their appointment. And the sena-

8

114 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF
-

tors so appointed shall serve during the term for which they shall hold,
without re-election, their office as senators. And vacancies, occasioned
by death, resignation, or otherwise, shall be filled as vacancies in com-
mittees are filled and the other six members aforesaid shall serve, two
for two years, two for four years, and two for six years; the terms of
service, In he first place, to be determined by lot; but after the first
term, then their regular term of service shall be six years; and new
elections thereof shall be made by joint resolution of Congress ; and
vacancies occasioned by death, resignation, or otherwise, may be filled
in like manner, by joint resolution of Congress. And the said Regents
shall meet in the city of Washington on fae first Monday of September
next after the passage of this act, and organize by the election of one of
their number as Chancellor, who sh all ie the presiding officer of said
Board of Regents, by the name of the Chancellor of the ** Smithsonian
Institution,” and a suitable person as Secretary of said Institution, who
shall also be the Secretary of said Board of Re ‘gents ; said Board shall
also elect three of their own body as an Exccuine Gone and said
Regents shall then fix on the time for the regular meetings of said
Board; and on application of any three of the Regents to the Secretary
of the Sail Institution, it shall be his duty to appoint a special meeting
of the Board of Regents, of which he shi all give notice by letter to aaek
of the members; and at any meeting of said Board, five shall constitute
a quorum to do business. And cach member of said Board shall be
paid his necessary travelling and other actual expenses in attending
meetings of the Board, which shall be audited by the Executive Com:
mittee, and recorded by the Secretary of said Board ; but his services
as Regent shall be gratuitous. And whenever money is required for
the payment of the debts or performance of the contracts of the Institu-
tion, incurred or entered into in conformity with the provisions of this
act, or for making the purchases and executing the objects authorized
he this act, the Board of Regents, or the Executive Committee thereof,
may certify to the Chancellor and Secretary of the Board that such sum
of money is required ; whereupon, they shall examine the same, and,
if they s shall approve thereof, shall certify the same to the proper officer
of the treasury for payment. And the said Board shall submit to Con-
gress, at each session thereof, a report of f the operations, expenditures,
and condition of the Institution.

Src. 4. And be it further enacted, That after the Board of Regents
shall have met, and become organized, it shall be their duty foalaih
to proceed to select a suitable site for such building as may be neces-
sary for the Institution; which ground may be taken and appropriated
out of that part of the public ; eround 1 in the city of Washington, lying
between the Patent Office and Seventh street: Provided, The Prectieat
of the United States, the Secretary of State, the Secretary of the Treas-
ury, the Secretary of War, the Secretary of the Navy, and the Com-
missioner of the Patent Office, shall consent to the same; but if the
persons last named shall not consent, then such location may be made
upon any other of the public grounds within the city of Washington,
belonging to the United States, which said Regents may select, by and
with the consent of the persons herein named; and the said ground so
selected shall be set out by proper metes and bounds, and a descrip-
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. Ts

tion of the same shall be made and recorded in a book to be provided
for that purpose, and signed by the said Regents, or so many of them
as may be convened at rate time of their end organization; and such
record, or a copy thereof, certified by the Chancellor and Secretary of
the Board of Regents, shall be received in evidence in all courts of: the
extent and boundaries of the lands appropriated to the said Institution ;
and upon the making of such record, such site and lands shall be deemed
aud taken to be appropriated by force of this act to the said Institution.

Sec. 5. And be it further enacted, That, so soon as the Board of Re-
gents shall have selected the said site, they shall cause to be erected a
suitable building, of plain and durable materials and structure, without
unnecessary ornament, and of sufhicient size, and with suitable rooms,
or halls, for the reception and arrangement, upon a liberal scale, of ob-
jects of natural history, including a geological and mineralogical cabi-
net; also a chemical laboratory, a library, a gallery of art, and the
necessary lecture rooms; and the said Board shall have authority, by
themselves, or by a committee of three of their members, to contract
for the completion of such building, upon such plan as may be directed
by the Board of Regents, and shall take sufficient security for the build-
ing and finishing the same according to the said plan, and iu the time
stipulated i in such contract ; and may so locate said building, if they
shall deem it proper, as in appearance to form a wing to the Patent
Oiffice building, and may so connect the same with the present hall of
said Patent Office building, containing the National Cabinet of Curi-

_osities, as to constitute the ‘said hall in whole, or in part, the deposit for

the cabinet of said Institution, if they deem it expedient to do so ; pro-
vided said building shall be located upon said Patent Office lot, in the
manner aforesaid: ” Provided, however, That the whole expense of build-
ing and enclosures aforesaid shall not exceed the amount of ; which
sum is hereby appropriated, payable out of money in the treasury not
otherwise appropriated ; together with such sum or sums out of the an-
nual interest accruing to thie Institution, as may, in any year, remain
unexpended, after paying the current expenses of the Institution. And
duplicates of all such contracts as may be made by the said Board of
Regents shall be deposited with the Treasurer of the United States;
and all claims on any contract made as aforesaid, shall be allowed and
certified by the Board of Regents, or the Executive Committee thereof,
as the case may be, and, being s sioned by the Chancellor and Secretary
of the Board, shall be a sufficient voucher for settlement and payment
at the Treasury of the United States. And the Board of Regents shall
be authorized to employ such persons as they may deem necessary to
superintend the erection of the building and fitting up the rooms of the
Institution. And all laws for the protection of public property in the
city of Washington, shall apply to, and be in force for, the protection
of the lands, buildings, and other property of said Institution. And all
moneys recovered by, or accruing to, the Institution, shall be paid into
the Treasury of the United See to the credit of the Smithsonian be-
quest, and separately accounted for, as provided in the act approved
July first, eighteen hundred and thirty-six, accepting said bequest.

Sec. 6. And be ut further enacted, That, in proportion as suitable
arrangements can be made for their reception, all objects of art and o

116 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

foreign and curious research, and all objects of natural history, plants,
and seological and mineralogical specimens belonging, or hereafter to:
belong, to the United States, ch may be in the city of Washington,
in whosesoever custody the same may be, shall be delivered to such
persons as may be authorized by the Board of Regents to receive them,
and shall be arranged in such order, and so classed, as best to facilitate
the examination and study of them, in the building so as aforesaid to
be erected for the Institution ; and the Regents of said Institution shall
afterwards, as new specimens in natural history, geology, or mineralogy,

may be obtained for the museum of the lustitution, by exchanges of

duplicate specimens belonging to the Institution, (which they are ‘here-
by authorized to make,) or by donation, which they may receive, or
otherwise, cause such new specimens to be also appropriately classed
and arranged. And the minerals, books, manuscripts, and other pro-
perty of James Smithson, which have been received by the Govern-
ment of the United States, and are now placed inthe Department of State,.
shall be removed to said Institution, and shall be preserved separate
and apart from other property of the Institution.

Src. 7. And be it further enacted, That the Secretary of the Board
of Regents shall take charge of the building and property of said Insti-
tution, and shall, under their direction, ie ie a fair and accurate record
of all their proceedings, to be preserved in said Institution ; and the
said Secretary shall also discharge the duties of librarian and keeper
of the museum, and may, with the consent of the Board of Regents,
employ assistants; and the said officers shall receive for their services
such sums as may be allowed by the Board of Regents, to be paid
semi-annually on “the first days of January and July ; and the said ofh-
cers shall be removable by the Board of Regents, whenever, in their
judgment, the interests of the Institution require any of the suid officers:
to be changed.

Sec. 8. And be it further enacted, That the members and anes,
members of said Institution may hold such stated and special meeting
for the superv ision of the affairs of said Institution and the advice a
instruction of said Board of Regents, to be called in the manner provi-
ded for in the By-laws of said Institution, at which the President, and,
in his absence, the V ice-President, of the United States shall preside.
And the said Regents shall make, from the interest of said fund, an
appropriation, not exceeding an average of twenty-five thousand dollars
annually, for the gradual formation of a library composed of valuable
works pertaining to all departments of human knowled ige.

Sec. 9. And be it further enacted, That of any other moneys which
have accrued, or shall hereafter accrue, as interest upon the said
Smithsonian fund, not herein appropriated, or not required for the pur-
poses herein provided, the said managers are hereby authorized to

make such disposal as they shall deem best suited for the promotion of

the purpose of the testator, anything herein contained to the contrary
notwithstanding.

Sze. 10. And be it further enacted, That the author or proprietor of
any book, map, chart, musical composition, print, cut, or engraving,
for which a copyright shall be secured under the existing acts of
Congress, or those which shall hereafter be enacted respecting copy-
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 117

rights, shall, within three months from the publication of said book,
map, chart, musical composition, print, cut, or engraving, deliver, or
cause to be delivered, one copy of the same to the Librarian of the
Smithsonian Institution, and one copy to the Librarian of Congress
Library, for the use of the said libraries.

Src. 11. And be it further enacted, That there is reserved to Con-
eress the right of altering, amending, adding to, or repealing any of the
provisions of this act: Provided, That no contract, or individual right,
made or acquired under such provisions, shall be thereby divested or
impaired.

Approved August 10, 1846.

Construction of the “act establishing the SmrrHsontaNn InstiTuTION,” by
Hon. J. Mc Person Berrien, one of the Regents.

It will be argued at the outset, that the fund ought to be so admin
istered as to give the fullest effect to the purposes of the donor; that
the government of the United States, as the depositary of his confidence,
has power to determine the mode of administration, and that its deter
mination, so far as it extends, must guide and control the action of the
Board of Regents. Beyond that limit, I suppose it will also be con-
ceded that the Board has discretionary powers, acting as it does, under
the constant supervision of Congress, which body has reserved to itself
the right of modifying its grant of power, ad libitum, with the ordinary
saving of individual rights.

We are then to look to the act of Congress to ascertain what Congress
has directed, and what it has left at large. The act of 1846 creates
what it denominates “an establishment’? with a corporate name,
invested with the powers, and subjected to the limitations and restrictions
specified inthe act. It directs the selection of a lot, and the erection of a
building, with suitable arrangements for the classification and arrange-
ment of the several objects specified in the 6th section. It places that
building and those objects under the control of the Board of Regents.
It requires them to make, from the interest of the fund, an appropria-
tion not exceeding $25,000 annually, for the gradual formation of a
library. Out of any other interest, moneys accrued or accruing, not
therein appropriated, or not required for the purposes therein provided,
the Board is authorized “to make such disposal as they shall deem best
suited for the promotion of the purpose of the testator, anything therein
contamed to the contrary notwithstanding.”

In my opinion, this places the whole income of the fund under the
control of the Board of Regents. ‘They must erect a building, suita-
bly arranged to fulfil the purposes of Congress, but its cost is not lim-
ited. They must appoint a Secretary, but his salary is not specified.
They must make an appropriation for the gradual formation of a library,
of which the maximum only is provided, and then of all other moneys,
accruing as interest, they may make such disposal as they shall deem
best suited to promote the purposes of the donor; any former provision
to the contrary notwithstanding.
118 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

Whether in the exercise of this discretionary power, the Board ought
to look mainly to the gradual formation of a hbrary, to the exclusion of
other objects which they may deem better calculated to promote the
purpose of Mr, Smithson, is a question which may be considered in a
two-fold view.

We may inquire, 1. Whether there is anything in the act of Congress
which requires this preference? I confine the inquiry to the act itself,
and exclude the expressed opuuons of individuals who: participated in its
enactment, as well as the votes of the two Houses upon particular propo-
sutions submitted while it was under discussion; the first, because it is
the act, which alone expresses the will of the legislature, in the enact-
ment of which different individuals may have ‘concurred for very dif
ferent reasons; the second, because a rejected proposition may have
been voted down, not because it was deemed unwise or improper, but
because it was considered unnecessary and superfluous; at all events, of
those who reject it some may have been influenced by the former, and
others by the latter consideration. The proceedings on this bill will
help to illustrate this. The bill reported by the committee contained
various specific provisions, as for a library, scientific collections, pub-
lications, &c., &c., &c. These were stricken out. Why? Because
they were deemed inexpedient or improper? No; but because, since
the act specified no amount which the Board was required to expend
for a library, and left all the other accruing income, besides that which
they determined to apply to this object, subject to their entire control,
it would have. been simply superfluous, as they were provided for by
this general grant of power. I see nothing, therefore, in the act of Con-
gress which requires the Board to give this preference to a library, to
the exclusion of any other objects which they may deem more con-
sonant to the purposes of the donor.

The remaining question is, 2. Have they erred in the exercise of
the discretion confided to them? I think not. The purpose of the
testator was two-fold.

The increase of knowledge among men.

Its diffusion among men.

It was not to enable the few persons who could have access to a
library at Washington to master the knowledge already existing among
men, but to merease the swm of that knowledge, and to give i a world
wide diffusion. The first object might be attained by a library at Wash-
ington sufficiently comprehensive to embrace what is now known
among men. ‘The last can only be accomplished by the labors of
scientific men, and their diffusion by the Board throughout the cwilized
world. But this subject is so well and thoroughly ‘discussed by the
committee, that I leave it with the simple expression of my entire
concurrence in the reasoning and conclusion of their report. One other
remark. Looking to the limited amount of the income, and to the ex-
penditures, which Congress must have foreseen, I find it impossible to
suppose that they could have contemplated any considerable expen-
diture for the library, since in thus providing for the acquirement by a
limited portion of our own people of such knowledge as men have hitherto
attained, they would have precluded all efforts for is increase and deffa-
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 119

sion throughout the world, and have thus defeated what seems to me to
have heen the most cherished wish of Mr. Smithson.

The only official agents provided by the acts of Congress are those

ecified in the third section, namely, the Board of Regents, the Chan-
cellor, and the Executive Committee. By these it requires ‘ the
business of the said Institution to be conducted.” Proceeding to de-
fine the duties of the Secretary, it constitutes him “librarian and keeper
of the museum,”’ charges him with the care of ‘‘the building and prop-
erty of the Institution,” and requires him, under the direction of the
Board of Regents, “to make a fair and accurate statement of all their

proceedings.” Having thus traversed the whole circle of official duties,

and aware that those assigned to the Secretary might become too oner-
ous for a single individual, it authorized Aim, with the assent of the
Board of Regents, to ‘‘employ assistants ;’’ but such persons were,
strictly speaking, not officers of the Institution, but, in the language of
the act, employés of the secretary, or as the act expresses it, his ‘* assist- —
ants,” and jn this sense only can the term “ officers,’’ used in the 7th
section, when speaking of their liability to removal by the Board of
Regents, be understood. The subordinate officers of the customs fur-
nish a somewhat analogous case. ‘They are appointed by the collector
with the approbation of the Secretary of the Treasury. Now, the
Secretary, as the official organ of the ‘President, can remove both the
collector and his subor dnatcs: but this does not prevent the collector
from removing them.

From what I have written, my opinion will be understood to be that
the “assistants” of the Secretary are liable to removal by that officer
and that such removal would be effective unless the Board, in the ex-
ercise of its controlling power over the Secretary, should think proper
to interfere.

JOHN McPHERSON BERRIEN

Savannah, July, 1854. :
120 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

Extract from an Address by the Secretary, on the Smithsonran Institution.

I propose answering in this lecture the following questions :

1. Who was James Smithson? and what was his character and
pursuits ?

2. What was his bequest ? and what were its objects 7

3. What plan has been adopted for carrying out the intentiou of the
testator? and what fruit has this plan produced ?

(1.) Smithson claimed to be of noble descent; and in his will declares
himself the son of Hugh, first Duke of Northumberland, and of Eliza-
beth, niece of Charles the Proud, Duke of Somerset. He was educated
at Oxford, and paid particular attention to the study of the physical
sciences ; was reputed to be the best chemist in the university, and was
one of the first to adopt the method of minute analysis. As an exam-

le of his expertness in this line, it is mentioned that on one occasion
le caught a tear as it was trickling down the face of a lady, lost half,
examined the remainder, and discovered in it several salts. He made
about thirty scientific communications to different societies, principally
on chemistry, mineralogy, and geology. His scientific reputation was
founded on these branches, though, trom his writings, he appears to
have studied and reflected upon almost every department of knowledge.
He was of a sensitive, retiring disposition—passed most of his lite on
the Continent—was never marricd—appeared ambitious of making
aname for himself, either by his own researches or by founding an
institution for the promotion of science. He declares in writing, that
though the best blood of England flows in his veins, this avails him not,
for his name would live in the memory of men when the titles of the
Northumberlands and the Percies are extinct or forgotten. He was
cosmopolitan in his views, and declares that the man of science is of
no country—the world is his country, and all men his countrymen. He
purposed at one time to leave his money to the Royal Society of Lon-
don for the promotion of science, but on account of a misunderstanding
with the council of the society, he changed his mind and left it to his
nephew ; and, in case of the death of this relative, to the United States
of America, to found the Institution which now bears his name.

(2.) In answer to the second question, I would state that the whole
amount of money received fromthe bequest was $515,169; and besides
this $25,000 was left in England, as the principal of an annuity given
to the mother of the nephew of Smithson. This sum will also come to
the Institution at the death of this person.

The government of the United States accepted the bequest, or, in other
words, accepted the office of trustee, and Mr. Rush, of Pennsylvania,
a gentleman who is still an active and efficient member of the Board of
Regents, and one of the most ardent supporters of the Institution, was
charged with the duty of prosecuting the claim. He remained in atten-
dance on the English courts until the money was awarded to him. He
brought it over in sovereigns—deposited it in the Mint of the United
States, where it was re-coined into American eagles—thus becoming a
part of the currency of the country. 'This money was afterwards lent
to some of the new States, and a portion of it was lost; but it did not

%

|

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 121

belong to the United States—it was the property of the Smithsonian
Tnstitution—and_ the government was bound in honor tu restore it.
Congress has acknowledged this by declaring that the money is still in
the treasury of the nation, bearing interest a the rate of 6 per cent.,
annually producing a revenue of about thirty thousand dollars.

It may be stated in this place, that the principal remains perpetually
in the treasury of the United States, and that nothing but the interest

can be expended ; not only has the original bequest been preserved, but

a considerable addition has been made to the principal. At the time
of the passing of the act establishing the Institution in 1846, the sum of
$242,000 had accrued m interest, and this the Regents were authorized
to expend on a building; but instead of appropriating this sum imme-
diately to this purpose, ; they put it at interest, and deterred the comple-
tion of the building for several years, until $150,000 should be accumu-
lated, the income toe which might defray the expense of keeping the
building, and the greater portion of the income of the original bequest
be devoted to the objects tor which it was designed. This policy has
been rigidly adhered to, and the result is, that besides the original sum,
and after all ‘that has been devoted to the building, the grounds, and all
other operations, there is now on hand $200,000 of acounmulaced inter-
est. Of this sum $50,000 are to be appropriated to finishing the build-
ing, and the remainder is to be added to the principal. The funds have
tiereiore been carefully husbanded. |

The bequest, in the ‘language of the testator, was, ‘‘to found at Wash-
mgton an establishment under the name of the Smithsonian Institution, for
the increase and diffusion of knowledge among men.’

According to this, the wovernment of the United States is merely a
trustee. The bequest 1 is for the benefit of mankind, and any plan which
does not recognise this provision of the will would be illiberal and
unjust.

The Institution must bear and perpetuate the name of its founder ;
and hence its operations ought to be kept distinct from those of the gov-
ernment, and all the ood | which results from the expenditure on the
fund should be aceredited to the name of Smithson.

The object of the bequest is two-fold: first, to increase; and second,
to diffuse knowledge among men. ‘These two objects are entirely diss
tinct, and ought not to he confounded with one another. The first is
to enlarge the existing stock of knowledge by the addition of new
truths; and the second to disseminate knowledge, thus enlar ged, a among
men. , The distinction is generally recognised by men of science, aa
in Europe different classes of scientific ‘and other societies are founded
upon it.

Again: the will makes no restriction in favor of any particular kind
of knowledge, and hence all branches are entitled to a share of atten-
tion. Smithson was well aware that knowledge should not be viewed
as existing in isolated parts, but as a whole, each portion of which
throws light on all the other, and that the tendency of all is to improve
the human mind, and to give it new sources of power and enjoyment.
The most prevalent idea, however, in relation to the will, is that the
money was intended exclusively for the diffusion of useful or imme-
diately practical knowledge among the inhabitants of this country, but
122 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

it contains nothing from which such an inference can be drawn. All
knowledge is useeal and the higher the more important. From the
Paanciation of a single scientific truth may flow a hundred inventions,
and the higher the truth the more important the deductions.

To effect the greatest good, the organization of the Institution should
be such as to produce results which could not be attained by other
means, and inasmuch as the bequest is for men in general, all merely
local expenditures are violations of the will.

These views were not entertained at first, and great difficulties have
been encountered in carrying them out. A number of literary men
thought that a great library should be founded at Washington, and all
the money expended on it. Others considered a museum the proper
object, and another class thought the income should be devoted to the
delivery of lectures throughout the country; while still another was of
opinion that popular tracts should be published and distributed among
the million. But all these views were advanced without a proper ex-
amination of the will, or a due consideration of the smallness of the
income. ‘The diffusion of tracts has been a favorite idea, but it must
be recollected that a single report of the Patent Office costs the gov-
ernment three times as much as the whole income of the Smithsonian
fund. A single pamphlet of ten pages could not annually be printed
by the Institution, and distributed to all who would have a claim to it.

(3.) The next question is, by what plan can the several requisitions
of the will be fulfilled.

This question was not fully settled by the act of Congress. It di-
rected the formation of a Library, a Museum, a Gallery of Arts,
Lectures, and a building on a liberal scale to accommodate these ob-
jects. One clause, however, gave the Regents the power, after the
foregoing objects are provided for, to expend the remainder of the in-
come in any way they may think fit for carrying out the design of the
testator.

The objects specified in the act of Congress evidently does not come
up to the idea of the testator, as deduced from a critical examination ot
his will. A library, a museum, a gallery of arts, though important in
themselves, are local in their influence. I have from the beginning
advocated this opinion on all occasions, and shall continue to advocate
it whenever a suitable opportunity occurs.

The question, therefore, again recurs: what plan can be adopted in
conformity with the terms of the bequest?

There are two. First—a number of men may be appointed by the
Institution to make researches in the different branches of science, and
to send accounts of their discoveries to all parts of the world. In this
way, in the strictest sense of the terms, knowledge would be increased
and diffused. But this plan is not compatible with the limited income
of the Institution, and would offer many practical difficulties.

The other plan, and the one adopted, is to stimulate all persons in
this country capable of advancing knowledge by original research, to
labor in this line—to induce them to send the results to the Institution
for examination and publication—and to assist all persons engaged in
original investigations as far as the means of the Institution will allow;
also to institute, at the expense and under the direction of the Institu-
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 123:

tion, particular researches. This plan has been found eminently prac-
ticable, and by means of it the Institution has been enabled to produce
results which have made it favorably known in every part of the civil-
ized world. The communications are submitted to competent judges,
who vouch for the value and truth of the discoveries. The publications
which result from this plan are presented to all the first class libraries
in the world, as well as to all colleges and well established public in-
stitutions in this country. The intention is to place the publications in
such positions as will enable them to be seen by the greatest number
of persons. In this way a knowledge of the discoveries are diffused
among men as widely as the income will allow.

No copyright is taken for the memoirs, and the writers of popular
books are at liberty to use them in the compilation of their works. The
knowledge which they contain is thus in time still more generally dif-
fused. In other countries, institutions for the promotion of the discovery
of new truths, and the publication of the results, are endowed by the
government; but there are no institutions for this purpose here, and
hence men of science labor under great disadvantages. The higher
the value of a work of science, the fewer do its readers become. If
writers wish to make money by their labors, they must publish novels.

The Principia of Newton did not pay for itself, and yet in the pres-
ent day every one shares in the benefits accruing from it.

Another part of the plan is to publish reports on scientific subjects,
and to spread them as widely as the state of the funds will allow.

Norre.—For an account of what has actually been accomplished, see the several reports of
the Secretary.
chia ; i

ine Pay ceed ityh
es my thi En a A:

i“ ;
hs ‘i

ee
REPORTS OF THE SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN
INSTITUTION, FROM 1847 TO 1853.

To make the operations of the Institution more generally known, it has been thought ad-
visable to append to this Report, for reprinting, the several Annual Reports of the Secretary.
They give a connected history of all the operations of the Institution, from its organization
to the end of the year 1852. These Reports exhibit the fact that very little change has been
made in the plan of active operations originally adopted, and that all the anticipations which
were entertained in regard to it have been fully realized.
REPORT OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 127

FIRST REPORT.*

Report of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution to the Board of Re-
; gents, December 8, 1847.

GENTLEMEN: A statement of the financial condition of the Smith-
sonian Institution, and of the progress made in the erection of the buiid-
ing, having been presented to your Board by the Committees charged
with the care of these objects, it becomes my duty, as Secretary ot the
Institution, to give an account of what has been done relative to the
development of the plan of organization, and of the steps which have
been taken in the way of carrying it into operation.

In accordance with my instructions, I consulted with men of emi-
nence in the different branches of literature and science, relative to the
details of the plan of organization, and arranged the various suggestions
offered, 1 in the form of the accompanying programme. This, after hav-
ing been submitted to a number of persons in whose knowledge and
judgment I have confidence, is now presented to the Board, with the
concurrence of the Committee on Organization, for consideration and
provisional adoption. I regret that my engagements have been such as
to render it impossible for me to call ypon many persons whose counsel
would have been valuable, but I hope hereafter to avail myself of their
advice in behalf of the Institution. I also regret that I could not give
the names of those whose suggestions have been adopted in the pro-
gramme ; the impossibility of rendering justice to all, has prevented my
attempting this. Many of the suggestions have been offered by differ-
ent persons, independently of each other ; and, indeed, the general plan
of the increase and diffusion of knowledge, as adopted by the Board, is
such as would naturally arise in the mind of any person conversant
with the history of physical science, and with the means usually em-
ployed for its extension and diffusion.

The introduction to the programme contains a series of propositions,
suggested by a critical examination of the will ofeSmithson, to serve as
a ouide i in judging of the fitness of any proposed plan for carrying out
a8 design of the testator. The first section of the programme gives
the details of the plan proposed for the increase and diffusion of know-
ledge by means of publication and original researches. ‘The second sec-
tion fur nishes the details, so far as they can be made out at the present
time, of the formation of a library, and a collection of objects of na-
ture and art. ‘These two plans combined, embrace the general propo-
sitions adopted by the Board of Regents at their last meeting, as the
basis of future operations. It is anfendedh in the proposed plan to har-

* The first report of the Secretary was given in the second report of the Regents to
‘Congress, hence the number of the former is one less than that of the latter.
128 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

monize the two modes of increasing and diffusing knowledge, and to
give to the Institution the widest rauenee compatible with its limited
income. ‘That all the propositions will meet with general approval can-
not be expected; and that this organization is the best that could be de-
vised is neither asserted nor believed. ‘To produce a preort a plan of
organization whicn shall be found to succeed perfectly in practice, and
require no amendment, would be difficult under the most favorable cir-
cumstances, and becomes almost impossible where conflicting opinions
are to be harmonized, and the definite requirements of the act estab-
lishing the Institution are to be observed. It is not intended that the
details of the organization, as given in the programme, should be per-
manently adopted without car eful trial; they are rather presented as
suggestions to be adopted provisionally, and to be carried into opera-
tion gradually and cautiously , with such changes, from time to time, as

experienc € may dictate.

PROGRAMME OF ORGANIZATION OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.
[Presented to the Board of Regents, December 8, 1847.]
INTRODUCTION.

General considerations which should serve as a guide im adopting a plan of
organization.

1. Witt or Smiruson. The property is bequeathed to the United
States of America, “‘to found at Washington, under the name of the
Smithsonian Institution, an establishment for the increase and diffusion
of knowledge among men.”

2. The bequest 1 is for the benefit of mankind. The government of the
United States is merely a trustee to carry out the design of the testator.

3. The Institution is not a national establishment, as is frequently
supposed, but the establishment of an individual, and is to bear and.
perpetuate his name.

4. The objects of the Institution are—Ist, to increase, and 2d, to dif-
fuse, knowledge among men.

5. These two objects should not be confounded with one another.
The first is to increase the existing stock of knowledge by the addition
of new truths; and the second to disseminate knowledge, thus in-
creased, among men.”

6. The will makes no restriction in favor of any particular kind of
knowledge; hence all branches are entitled to a share of attention.

7. Knowledge can be increased by different methods of facilitating
and promoting he discovery of new truths, and can be most efficiently
diffused among men by means of the press.

one Ko effect the greatest amount of good, the organization should be

such as to enable Ae Institution to produce results in the way of

increasing and diffusing knowledge, which cannot be produced by the
existing institutions in our country.

9. The organization should also be such as can be adopted provi-
sionally, can be easily reduced to practice, receive modifications, or be-
abandoned, in whole or in part, without a sacrifice of the funds.

ee TT
i

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 129

10. In order to make up for the loss,of time occasioned by the delay
of eight years in establishing the Institution, a considerable portion of the
interest which has accrued should be added to the principal.

11. In proportion to the wide field of knowledge to be cultivated,

the funds are small. Economy should therefore be consulted in the

construction of the building; and not only should the first cost of the
edifice be considered, but also the continual expense of keeping it in
repair, and of the support of the establishment necessarily connected
with it. There should also be but few individuals permanently sup-
ported by the Institution.

12. The plan and dimensions of the building should be determined
by the plan of the organization, and not the converse.

13. It should be recollected that mankind in general are to be bene-
fited by the bequest, and that, therefore, all unnecessary expenditure
on local objects would be a perversion of the trust.

14. Besides the foregoing considerations, deduced inamediately from
the will of Smithson, regard must be had to certain requirements of the
act of Congress establishing the Institution. These are a library, a
museum, and a gallery of art, with a building on a liberal scale to con-
tain them.

SECTION L

Plan of organization of the Institution, in accordance with the foregoung
deductions from the will of Smithson.

To IncrEASE Knowiepce. It is proposed—

1. To stimulate men of talent to make original researches, by offer-
ing suitable rewards for memoirs containing new truths; and,

2. To appropriate annually a portion of the income for particular
researches, under the direction of suitable persons.

To Dirruse Know.epcGe. It is proposed—

1. To publish a series of periodical reports on the progress of the
different branches of knowledge; and,
_ 2. To publish occasionally separate treatises on subjects of general
anterest.

DETAILS OF THE PLAN TO INCREASE KNOWLEDGE.

I. By stemulating researches.

1. Rewards, consisting of money, medals, &c., offered for original
memoirs on all branches of knowledge.

2. The memoirs thus obtained to be published in a series of vol-
umes, in a quarto form, and entitled ‘Smithsonian Contributions to
Knowledge.”

3. No memoir, on subjects of physical science, to be accepted for
publication, which does not furnish a positive addition to human know-
ledge resting on original research; and all unverified speculations to be
rejected.

4. Each memoir presented to the Institution to be submitted for ex-
amination to a commission of persons of reputation for learning in the

9
130 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

branch to which the memoir pertains, and to be accepted for publica-
tion only in case the report of this commission is favorable.

5. The commission to be chosen by the officers of the Institution, and
the name of the author, as far as practicable, concealed, unless a favor-
able decision be made.

6. The volumes of the memoirs to be exchanged for the transactions
of literary and scientific societies, and copies to be given to all the col-
leges and principal libraries in this country. One part of the remain-
ing copies may be offered for sale; and the other carefully preserved,
to form complete sets of the volumes, to supply the demand from new
Institutions.

7. An abstract, or popular account, of the contents of these memoirs
to be given to the public, through the annual report of the Regents to
Congress. ;

II. By appropriating a portion of the income, annually, to special objcets
of research, under the direction of suctable persons.

1. The objects, and the amount appropriated, to be recommended
by counsellors of the Institution.

2. Appropriations in different years to different objects; so that, in
course of time, each branch of knowledge may receive a share.

3. The results obtained from these appropriations to be published,
with the memoirs before mentioned, in the volumes of the Smithsonian
Contributions to Knowledge.

4. Examples of objects for which appropriations may be made:

1.) System of extended meteorological observations, for solving the
roblem of American storms.

(2.) Explorations in descriptive natural history, and geological, mag-
netical, and topographical surveys, to collect materials for the formation
of a Physical Atlas of the United States.

(5.) Solution of experimental problems, such as a new determination
of the weight of the earth, of the velocity of electricity and of light;

chemical analyses of soils and plants; collection and publication of

articles of science, accumulated in the offices of government.

(4.) Institution of statistical inquiries with reference to physical,

moral, and political subjects.
(5.) Historical researches, and accurate surveys of places celebrated
in American history.

(6.) Ethnological researches, particularly with reference to the dif- —

ferent races of men in North America; also, explorations and accurate
surveys of the mounds and other remains of the ancient people of our
country.

4

DETAILS OF THE PLAN FOR DIFFUSING KNOWLEDGE.

I. By the publication of a series of reports, ging an account of the
new discoveries in science, and of the changes made from year to year in all
branches of knowledge not strictly professional.

J. These reports will diffuse a kind of knowledge generally interest-
ing, but which, at present, is inaccessible to the public. Some of the

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 131

reports may be published annually, others at longer intervals, as the
income of the Institution, or the changes in the brass of knowledge,
may indicate.

2. The reports are to be prepared by collaborators eminent in the
different branches of knowledge.

3. Each collaborator to be furnished with the journals and publica-
tions, domestic and foreign, necessary to the compilation of his report;
to be paid a certain sum for his labors, and to be named on the title
page of the report.

The reports to be published in separate parts, so that persons
interested in a particular branch can procure the parts relating to it,
without purchasing the whole.

5. These reports may be presented to Congress, for partial distribu-
tion; the remaining copies to be given to liter: ary and scientific institu-

fo)
tions, and sold to lie iduals for a moderate price.

The followmg are some of the subjects which may be embraced in the reports:

I. PHYSICAL CLASS.

1. Physics, including astronomy, natural philosophy, chemistry, and
meteorology.

2. Natural history, including botany, zoology, geology, &c.

3. Agriculture.

4. Application of science to arts.

Il MORAL AND POLITICAL CLASS.

5. Ethnology, including particular history, comparative ‘philology,
antiquities, &c.

6. Statistics and political economy.

7. Mental and moral philosophy.

8. A survey of the political events of the world; penal reform, &c.

Ill. LITERATURE AND THE FINE ARTS.

9. Modern literature.
10. The fine arts, and their application to the useful arts.
11. Bibliography.

12. Obituary notices of distinguished individuals.
Il. By the publication of separate treatises on subjects of general interest.

1. These treatises may occasionally consist of valuable memoirs
translated from foreign languages, or of articles prepared under the di-
rection of the Institution, or procured by offering premiums for the best
exposition of a given subject.

2. The treatises should in all cases be submitted to a commission of
competent judges previous to their publication.

3. As examples of these treatises, expositions may be obtained of the
present state of the several branches of knowledge mentioned in the
table of reports. Also of the following subjects, suggested by the Com-
132 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

mittee on Organization, viz.: the statistics of labor, the productive arts
of life, public mstruction, &c.

SECTION II.

Plan of organization, in accordance with the terms of the resolutions of the
Board of Regents, providing for the two modes of increasing and diffusing
knowledge.

1. The act of Congress establishing the Institution contemplated the
formation of a library and a museum; and the Board of Regents, in-
cluding these objects in the plan of organization, resolved to divide the
income into two equal parts.

2. One part to be appropriated to increase and diffuse knowledge by
means of publications and researches, agreeably to the scheme before
given. The other part to be appropriated to the formation of a library
and a collection of objects of nature and of art.

3. These two plans are not incompatible with one another.

4. 'To carry out the plan before described, a library will be required,
consisting, Ist, of a complete collection of the transactions and proceed-
ings of all the learned societies in the world; 2d, of the more impor-
tant current periodical publications, and other works necessary in pre-
paring the periodical reports.

5. The Institution should make special collections, particularly of
objects to verify its own publications.

6. Also a collection of instruments of research in all branches of ex-
perimental science.

7. With reference to the collection ef books other than those men-
tioned above, catalogues of all the different libraries in the United States
should be procured, in order that the valuable books first purchased
may be such as are not to be found in the United States.

8. Also catalogues of memoirs, and of books in foreign libraries, and
other materials, should be collected for rendering the Institution a centre
of bibhographical knowledge, whence the student may be directed to
any work which he may require.

9. It is believed that the collections in Natural History will increase
by donation, as rapidly as the income of the Institution can make pro-
vision for their reception ; and therefore it will seldom be necessary to
purchase any articles of this kind.

10. Attempts should be made to procure for the Gallery of Arts casts
of the most celebrated articles of ancient and modern sculpture.

11. The arts may be encouraged by providing a room, free of ex-
pense, for the exhibition of the objects of the Art-Union, and other simi-
lar societies.

12. A small appropriation should annually be made for models of
antiquities, such as those of the remains of ancient temples, &c.

13. For the present, or until the building is fully completed, besides
the Secretary, no permanent assistant will be required, except one, to
act as Librarian.

14. The duty of the Secretary will be the general superintendence,
with the advice of the Chancellor and other members of the establish-

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 133

ment, of the literary and scientific operations of the Institution; to give
to the Regents annually an account of all the transactions, of the me-
moirs which have been received for publication, and of the researches
which have been made; and to edit, with the assistance of the Libra-
rian, the publications of the Institution.

15. The duty of the Assistant Secretary, acting as Librarian, will be,
for the present, to assist in taking charge of the collections, to select and
purchase, under the direction of the Secretary and a committee of the
Board, books and catalogues, and to procure the information before
mentioned ; to give information on plans of libraries, and to assist the
Secretary in editing the publications of the Institution, and in the other
duties of his office.

16. The Secretary and his assistants, during the session of Congress,
will be required to illustrate new discoveries in sciences, and to exhibit
new objects of art; also distinguished individuals should be invited to
give lectures on subjects of general imterest.

17. When the building is completed, and when, in accordance with
the act of Congress, the charge of the National Museum is given to the
Smithsonian Institution, other assistants will be required.

Explanations and illustrations of the programme.

Though the leading propositions of the programme have been fully dis-
eussed by the Board, yet it will be important to offer some remarks in
explanation and illustration of them in their present connexion.

That the Institution is not a national establishment, in the sense in
which institutions dependent on the government for support are so, must
be evident, when it is recollected that the money was not absolutely
given to the United States, but intrusted to it for a special object, namely :
the establishment of an institution for the benefit of men, to bear the name
of the donor, and, consequently, to reflect upon his memory the honor of
all the good which may be accomplished by means of the bequest.
The operations of the Smithsonian Institution ought, therefore, to be
mingled as little as possible with those of the government, and its funds
should be applied exclusively and faithfully to the increase and diffu-
sion of knowledge among men.

That the bequest is intended for the benefit of men in general, and
that its influence ought not to be restricted to a single district, or even
nation, may be inferred not only from the words of the will, but also
from the character of Smithson himself; and I beg leave to quote, from
a scrap of paper in his own hand, the following sentiment bearing on
this point: “The man of science has no country; the world is his
country—all men his countrymen.” ‘The origin of the funds, the be-
quest of a foreigner, should also preclude the adoption of a plan which
does not, in the words of Mr. Adams, “ spread the benefits to be de-
rived from the Institution not only over the whole surface of this Union,
but throughout the civilized world.” «Mr. Smithson’s reason for fixing
the seat of his Institution at Washington obviously was, that there is the
seat of government of the United States, and there the Congress by
134 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

whose legislation, and the Executive through whose agency, the trust
committed to the honor, intelligence, and good faith of the nation, is to be
fulfilled.” ‘The centre of operations being permanently fixed at Wash-
ington, the character of this city for literature and science will be the
more highly exalted in proportion as the influence of the Institution is
more widely diffused.

' ‘That the terms increase and diffusion of knowledge are logically dis-
tinct, and should be literally interpreted with reference to the will, must
be evident when we reflect that they are used in a definite sense, and
not as mere synonymes, by all who are engaged in the pursuits to
which Smithson devoted his life. In England there are two classes of
institutions, founded on the two ideas conveyed by these terms. The
Royal Society, the Astronomical, the Geological, the Statistical, the
Antiquarian Societies, all have for their object the increase of knowledge,
while the London Institution, the Mechanics’ Institution, the Surry In-
stitution, the Society for the Diffusion of Religious Knowledge, the So-
ciety for the Diffusion of Useful Knowledge, are all intended to diffuse
or disseminate knowledge among men. In our own country, also, the
same distinction is observed in the use of the terms by men of science.
Our colleges, academies, and common schools, are recognised as insti-
tutions partially intended for the diffusion of knowledge, while the ex-
press object of some of our scientific societies is the promotion of the
discovery of new truths.

The will makes no restriction in favor of any particular kind
of knowledge; though propositions have been frequently made
for devoting the funds exclusively to the promotion of certain
branches of science having more immediate application to the
practical arts of life, and the adoption of these propositions has
been urged on the .ground of the conformity of such objects to
the pursuits of Smithson: but an examination of his writings will
show that he excluded from his own studies no branch of general
knowledge, and that he was fully impressed with the important philo-
sophical fact, that all subjects of human thought relate to one great sys-
tem of truth. ‘To restrict, therefore, the operations of the Institution to
a single science or art, would do injustice to the character of the donor,
as well as to the cause of general knowledge. If preference is to be
given to any branches of research, it should be to the higher, and ap-
parently more abstract ; to the discovery of new principles, rather than of
isolated facts. And this is true even ina practical point of view. Agri-
culture would have forever remained an empirical art, had it not been
for the light shed upon it by the atomic theory of chemistry ; and in-
comparably more is to be expected as to its future advancement from
the perfection of the microscope, than from improvements in the ordi-
nary instruments of husbandry.

The plan of increasing and diffusing knowledge, presented in the first
section of the programme, will be found in strict accordance with the
several propositions deduced from the will of Smithson, and given in
the Introduction. It embraces, as a leading feature, the design of
interesting the greatest number of individuals in the operations of the
Institution, and of spreading its influence as widely as possible. It forms
an active organization, exciting all to make original researches who are
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 135

gifted with the necessary power, and diffusing a kind of knowledge,
now only accessible to the few, among all those who are willing to
receive it. In this country, though many excel in the application of
science to the practical arts of life, few devote themselves to the con-
tinued labor and patient thought necessary to the discovery and devel-
opement of new truths. The principal cause of this want of attention '
to original research is the want, not of proper means, but of proper
encouragement. The publication of original memoirs and _ periodical
reports, as contemplated by the programme, will act as a powerful
stimulus on the latent talent of our country, by placing in bold relief the
real laborers in the field of original research, while it will afford the best
materials for the use of those engaged in the diffusion of knowledge.

The advantages which will accrue from the plan of publishing the
volumes of the Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge are various.
In the first place, it will serve to render the name of the founder favor-
ably known wherever literature and science are cultivated, and to keep
it in continual remembrance with each succeeding volume, as long as
knowledge is valued. A single new truth, first given to the world
through these volumes, will forever stamp their character as a work of
reference. The Contributions will thus form the most befitting monu-
ment to perpetuate the name of one whose life was devoted to the
increase of knowledge, and whose ruling passion, strong in death,
prompted the noble bequest intended to facilitate the labors of others
in the same pursuit.

Again, the publication of a series of volumes of original memoirs
will afford to the Institution the most ready means of entering into
friendly relations and correspondence with all the learned societies m
the world, and of enriching its library with their current transactions
and proceedings. But perhaps the most important effect of the plan
will be that of giving to the world many valuable memoirs, which, on
account of the expense of the illustrations, could not be otherwise pub-
lished. Every one who adds new and important truths to the existing
stock of knowledge, must be, of necessity, to a certain degree, in ad-
vance of his age. Hence the number of readers and purchasers of a
work is often in the inverse ratio of its intrinsic value; and conse-
quently, authors of the highest rank of merit are frequently deterred
from giving their productions to the world on account of the pecuniary
loss to which the publication would subject them. When our lamented
countryman, Bowditch, contemplated publishing his commentary on La
Place, he assembled his family and informed them that the execution
of this design would sacrifice one third of his fortune, and that it was
proper his heirs should be consulted on a subject which so nearly con-
cerned them. The answer was worthy of the children of such a father:
“We value,” said they, ‘“ your reputation more than your money.”
Fortunately, in this instance, the means of making such a. sacrifice ex-
isted ; otherwise one of the proudest monuments of American science
could not have been given to the world. In the majority of cases, how-
ever, those who are most capable of extending human knowledge are
least able to incur the expense of the publication. Wilson, the Ameri-
can ornithologist, states, in a letter to Michaux, that he has sacrificed
everything to publish his work: “I have issued,” he says, ‘six vol-
136 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

umes, and am engaged on the seventh; but as yet I have not received a
single cent of the proceeds.’’ In an address on the subject of natural
history, by one of our most active cultivators of this branch of know-
ledge, we find the following remarks, which are directly in point:
“Few are acquainted with the fact that from the small number of
scientific works sold, and the great expense of plates, our naturalists
not only are not paid for their labors, but suffer pecumary loss from
their pubbeations. Several works on different branches of zoology,
now in the course of publication, will leave their authors losers by an
ageregate of $15,000. Ido not include in this estimate works already
finished—one, for instance, the best contribution to the natural history
of man extant, the publication of which will occasion its accomplished
author a loss of several thousand dollars. A naturalist is extremely
fortunate if he can dispose of 200 copies of an illustrated work, and
the number of cupies printed rarely exceeds 250.” It may be said
that these authors have their reward in the reputation which they thus
purchase ; but reputation should be the result of the talents and labor
expended in the production of a work, and should not in the least de-
pend upon the fact that the author is able to make a pecuniary sacrifice
m giving the account of his discoveries to the public.

Besides the advantage to the author of having his memoir published
in the Smithsonian Contributions free ef expense, his labors will be
given to the world with the stamp of approval of a commission of
learned men; and his merits will be generally made known through
the reports of the Institution. ‘Though the premiums offered may be
small, yet they will have considerable effect in producing original arti-
cles. Fifty or a hundred dollars awarded to the author of an original
paper, will, in many instances, suffice to supply the books, or to pay for
the materials, or the manual labor required, in prosecuting the research.

There is one proposition of the programme which has given rise to
much discussion, and which, therefore, requires particular explanation :
I allude to that which excludes from the contributions all papers con-
sisting merely of unverified speculations on subjects of physical seience.
The object of this proposition is to obviate the endless difficulties which
would occur in rejecting papers of an unphilosophical character; and
though it may in some cases exclude an interesting communication, yet
the strict observance of it will be found of so much practical importance
that it cannot be dispensed with. It has been supposed, from the adoption
of this proposition, that we are disposed to undervalue abstract specula-
tions: on the contrary, we know that all the advances in true science—
namely, a knowledge of the laws of phenomena, are made by provisionally
adopting well conditioned hypotheses, the product of the imagination, and
subsequently verifying them by an appeal to experiment and observation.
Every new hypothesis of scientific value must not only furnish an exact
explanation of known facts, but must also enable us to predict, in kind
and quantity, the phenomena which will be exhibited under any given
combination of circumstances. Thus, in the case of the undulatory
hypothesis of light, it was inferred, as a logical consequence, that if the
supposition were true that light consisted of waves of an ethereal me-
dium, then two rays of light, like two waves of water under certain
conditions, should annihilate each other, and darkness be produced.

eee
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 137

The experiment was tried, and the anticipated result was obtained. It
is this exact agreement of the deduction with the actual result of ex-
perience that constitutes the verification of an hypothesis, and which
alone entitles it to the name of a theory, and to a place in the transac-
tions of a scientific institution. It must be recollected that it is much
easier to speculate than to investigate, and that very few of all the hy-
potheses imagined are capable of standing the test of scientific verifi-
cation.

For the practical working of the plan for obtaining the character of a
memoir, and the precaution taken before it is accepted for publication,
I would refer to the correspondence, given in a subsequent part of this
report, relative to the memoir now in process of publication by the In-
stitution. As it is not our intention to interfere with the proceedings of
other institutions, but to co-operate with them, so far as our respective
operations are compatible, communications may be referred to learned
societies for inspection, as in the case of the above mentioned memoir,
and abstracts of them given to the world through the bulletins of these
societies, while the details of the memoirs and their expensive illustra-
tions are published in the volumes of the Smithsonian Contributions.
The officers of several learned societies in this country have expressed
a willingness to co-operate in this way.

Since original research is the most direct way of imcreasing know-
ledge, it can scarcely be doubted that a part of the income of the be-
quest should be appropriated to this purpose, provided suitable persons
can be found, and their labors be directed to proper objects. The
number, however, of those who are capable of discovering scientific
principles is comparatively small; like the poet, they are ‘born, not
made,” and, like him, must be left to choose their own subject, and
wait the fitting time of inspiration. In case a person of this class has
fallen on a vein of discovery, and is pursuing it with success, the better
plan will be to grant him a small sum of money to carry on his inves-
tigations, provided they are considered worthy of assistance by compe-
tent judges. This will have the double effect of encouraging him in
the pursuit, and of facilitating his progress. The Institution, however,
need not depend upon cases of this kind, even if they were more numer-
ous than they are, for the application of its funds in the line of original
research. There are large fields of observation and experiment, the
cultivation of which, though it may afford no prospect of the discovery
of a principle, can hardly fail to produce results of importance both in
a practical and theoretic point of view. As an illustration of this
remark, I may mention the case of the investigations made a few
years ago by a committee of the Franklin Institute, of Philadelphia.
The Secretary of the Treasury of the United States placed at the dis-
posal of this society a sum of money, for the purpose of making expe-
riments with reference to the cause of the explosion of steam boilers.
A committee of the society was chosen for this purpose, which adopted
the ingenious plan of writing to all persons in the United States
engaged in the application of steam, and particularly to those who had
observed the explosion of a steam boiler. In this way opinions and
suggestions in great variety, as to the cause of explosions, were ob-
tained. The most plausible of these were submitted to the test of ex-
138 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

periment: the results obtained were highly important, and are to be
found favorably mentioned in every systematic work on the-subject of
steam which has appeared, in any language, within the last few years.
New and important facts were established; and, what was almost of
as much consequence, errors which had usurped the place of truth
were dethroned.

In the programme, examples are given of a few subjects of original
research to which the attention of the Institution may be turned. I will
mention one in this place, which. in connexion with the contents of our
first memoir, may deserve immediate attention. I allude to a small
appropriation made annually for researches with reference to the re-
mains of the ancient inhabitants of our country. This is a highly inter-
esting field, and what is done in regard to it should be done quickly.
Every year the progress of civilization is obliterating the ancient
mounds, cities and villages are rising on the spots they have so long
occupied undisturbed, and the distinctive marks of these remains are
every year becoming less and less legible.

In carrying out the spirit of the plan adopted, namely, that of affect-
ing men in general by the operations of the Institution, it is evident that
the principal means of diffusing knowledge must be the press. Though
lectures should be given in the city in which Smithson has seen fit to
direct the establishment of his Institution, yet, as a plan of general dif-
fusion of knowledge, the system of lectures would be entirely inade-
quate ; every village in our extended country would have a right to
demand a share of the benefit, and the income of the Institution would
be insufficient to supply a thousandth part of the demand. It is also
evident that the knowledge diffused should, if possible, not only em-
brace all branches of general interest, so that each reader might find a
subject suited to his taste, but also that it should differ in kind and
quality from that which can be readily obtained through the cheap pub-
hications of the day. These requisites will be fully complied with in
the publications of the series of reports proposed in the programme. A
series of periodicals of this kind, posting up all the discoveries in science
from time to time, and giving a well digested account of all the im-
portant changes in the different branches of knowledge, is a desideratum
in the English language. The idea is borrowed from a partial plan of
this kind in operation in Sweden and Germany; and for an example of
what the work should be, I would refer to the annual report to the
Swedish Academy of its perpetual secretary, Berzelius, on physical
science. ‘The reports can be so prepared as to be highly interesting to the
general reader, and at the same time of great importance to the exclusive
cultivator of a particular branch of knowledge. Full references should
be given, in foot-notes, to the page, number, or volume of the work from
which the information was obtained, and where a more detailed account
can be found. It is scarceiy necessary to remark, that the preparation of
these reports should be entrusted only to persons profoundly acquainted
with the subjects to which they relate, namely : to those who are devoted
to particular branches, while they possess a knowledge of general princi-
ples. Sufficient explanations should be introduced to render the report
intelligible to the general reader, without destroying its scientific charac-
ter. Occasionally reports may be obtained from abroad—as, for ex-
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. ; 139

ample, accounts of the progress of certain branches of knowledge in
foreign countries—and these may be translated, if necessary, and in-
corporated into other reports, by some competent person in this country.

Besides the reports on the progress of knowledge, the programme pro-
poses to publish occasionally brief treatises on particular subjects. There
are always subjects of general interest, of which brief expositions would
be of much value. The preparation of these, however, should be in-
trusted to none but persons of character and reputation, and should be
subjected to a revision by competent and responsible judges before they
are given to the public. They may be presented in the form of reports
on the existing state of knowledge relative to a given subject, and may
sometimes consist of memoirs and expositions of particular branches of
literature and science, translated from foreign languages. ‘The reports
and treatises of the Institution, sold at a price barely sufficient to pay the
expense of printing, will find their way mto every school in our country,
and will be used not as first lessons for the pupil, but as sources of re-
lable information for the teacher.

The second section of the programme gives, so far as they have been
made out, the details of the part of the plan of organization directed by
the act of Congress establishing the Institution. The two plans, namely,
that of publication and original research, and that of collections of objects
of nature and art, are not incompatible, and may be carried on harmoni-
ously with each other. The only effect which they will have on one
another is that of limiting the operation of each, on account of the funds
given tothe other. Still, with a judicious application, and an economical
expenditure of the income, and particularly by rigidly observing the
plan of finance suggested by Dr. Bache, in the construction of the
buildmg, much good may be effected in each of the two branches of
the Institution. T’o carry on the operations of the first, a working library’
will be required, consisting of the past volumes of the transactions and
proceedings of all the learned societies in every language. ‘These are
the original sources from which the most important principles of the
positive knowledge of our day have been drawn. We shall also require
a collection of the most important current literature and science for the
use of the collaborators of the reports; most of these, however, will
be procured in exchange for the publications of the Institution, and
therefore will draw but little from the library fund. For other sugges-
tions relative to the details of the library, I would refer you to the
annexed communication from Professor Jewett, Assistant Secretary,
acting as librarian.

The collections of the Institution, as far as possible, should consist of
such articles as are not elsewhere to be found in this country, so that the
visitors at Washington may see new objects, and the spirit of the plan
be kept up, of interesting the greatest possible number of individuals.
A perfect collection of all objects of nature and of art, if such could be
obtained and deposited in one place, would form a museum of the
highest interest; but the portion of the income of the bequest which
can be devoted to the increase and maintenance of the museum will be
too small to warrant any attempt towards an indiscriminate collection.
It is hoped that in due time other means may be found of establishing
and supporting a general collection of objects of nature and art at the
140 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

seat of the general government, with funds not derived from the Smith-
sonian bequest. For the present, it should be the object of the Institu-
tion to confine the application of the funds, first, to such collections as
will tend to facilitate the study of the memoirs which may be published
in the Contributions, and to establish their correctness ; secondly, to the
purchase of such objects as are not generally known in this country,
in the way of art, and the illustration of antiquities, such as models
of buildings, &c.; and, thirdly, to the formation of a collection of in-
struments of physical research, which will be required both in the illustra-
tion of new physical truths, and in the scientific investigations under-
taken by the Institution.

Much popular interest may be awakened in favor of the Institution at
Washington, by throwing the rooms of the building open, on stated
evenings during the session of Congress, for literary and scientific assem-
blies, after the manner of the weekly meetings of the Royal Institution in
London. At these meetings, without the formality of a regular lecture,
new truths in science may be illustrated, and new objects of art exhibited.
Besides these, courses of lectures may be given on particular subjects
by the officers of the Institution, or by distinguished individuals invited
for the purpose.

Commencement of the operations of the Institution.

I was authorized, in connexion with the Committee on Organization,
to commence the publication of the Smithsonian Contributions to
Knowledge, and to receive any memoir which might be presented on
any subject, provided it was found, on examination, to furnish an inter-
esting addition to the sum of human knowledge, resting on original
research. The first memoir presented, and found to be of the character
prescribed by the resolution of the Board, was one on the remains of
the ancient inhabitants of the North American continent. It contains
the result of several years’ labor in the survey and exploration of the
mounds and earthworks of the Mississippi valley, and will furnish a
highly interesting addition to the antiquities of our country, which could
not have been given to the world but for the timely aid extended to it
by this Institution. The memoir was referred to the American Ethno-~
logical Society, with a request that a committee of its members might
be a appointed to examine and report on its character, as to fitness ‘for
publication in the Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge. On the
favorable report of this committee, and on the responsibility of the
society, the memoir has been accepted for publication. 'The following
correspondence will serve to give an account of the work, and to illus-
trate the manner in which it is proposed to submit the papers which

may be presented for publication to a commission of competent judges.

EE

- Se ae
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 14]

CORRESPONDENCE RELATIVE TO THE ACCEPTANCE FOR PUBLICATION OF
THE ETHNOLOGICAL MEMOIR OF MESSRS. SQUIER AND DAVIS.

From Messrs. Squer and Davis to the Secretary of the Smithsonian Insti-
tution.

CurtuicotHE, O., May 15, 1847.

Dear Sir: It is proposed in the recognised plan of organization of
the Smithsonian Institution, of which you are the executive officer, to
publish, under the title of “ Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge,” such
original papers and memoirs ‘as shall constitute valuable additions to
the sum of human knowledge.’’ Under the belief that it falls legiti-
mately within the scope of the above plan, the undersigned herewith
submit for acceptance and publication, subject to the prescribed rules
of the Institution, a MS. memoir, entitled, ‘*Anctenr MonuMENTS OF
tHE Mississtpp1 VALLEY, comprising the results of Extensive Original
Surveys and Explorations: by EK. G. Squier and E. H. Davis.” The
extent of these investigations, and their general character, are suffici-
ently indicated in the prefatory remarks to the volume.

With high consideration, we are truly yours,

E. GEO. SQUIER,
E.. H.- DAVIS:
JosEPH Henry, Esq.,
Secretary Smithsonian Institution.

From the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution to the President of the
American Ethnological Society.

W AsHING TON, June 2, 1847.

Dear Sir: [am authorized by the Regents of the Smithsonian In-
stitution to publish, in the numbers of the ‘¢ Smithsonian Contributions to
Knowledge,” any memoir which may be presented for this purpose, pro-
vided that, on careful examination by a commission of competent
judges, the memoir shall be found to furnish a new and interesting addi-
tion to knowledge, resting on original research. The accompanying
memoir, entitled ‘ Ancient Monuments of the Mississippi Valley,” Sc.,
having been presented for publication, I beg leave to refer the same,
through you, to the American Ethnological Society, with a request that
a committee of the members may be appointed to examine and report
on its character, in reference to the particulars above mentioned. It
the report of the committee is favorable, the memoir will be accepted
for publication ; full confidence being placed in the ability of the com-
mittee to judge of the character of the article, and in their caution in
making up their opinion.

I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,

JOSEPH HENRY,
Secretary Smithsonian Institution.
Hon. ALBERT GALLATIN,
President American Ethnological Society.
142 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

Extracts of a letter from the President of the American Ethnological Society
to the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.

New York, June 12, 1847.

‘Dear Sir: I have the honor to enclose a copy of the proceedings
and resolutions of the New York Ethnological Society upon the MS.
work on American antiquities, by Messrs. E. G. Squier and E. H.
Davis, submitted with your letter of the 2d inst.

‘“‘T approve entirely of the resolutions and recommendations of the
society.

* * * * * * * * * * x

‘Whatever may be the intrinsic value of the remains of former times
which are found in the United States, it is necessary that they should
at least be correctly described, and that existing gross errors should be
corrected ; and I repeat my conviction that, though ardent, Messrs.
Squier and Davis are animated by that thorough love of truth which
renders their researches worthy of entire confidence.

* * * * * * * * * * x

‘‘T have the honor to be, &c.,

“ALBERT GALLATIN.

‘Prof. J. HENnry;

** Secretary of Smithsonian Institution.”’

At a regular meeting of the American Ethnological Society, held at
the house of the Hon. ALBERT GALLATIN, on the evening of the 4th of
June, the president laid before the members a communication from
Professor J. Henry, Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, trans-
mitting, for the examination and opinion of the society, a MS. work on
the Ancient Aboriginal Monuments of the United States. On motion,
the letter and accompanying MX. were referred to a committee consist-
ing of Epwarp Rosrnson, D. D., Joun R. Barritetrtr, Professor W.
W. Turner, SamuEt G. Morton, M. D., and Hon Groree P. Marsu,
to report upon the same. At a subsequent meeting of the society, this
committee submitted the following report and resolutions, which were
unanimously accepted and adopted :

REPORT.

The committee of the American Ethnological Society, to which was
referred the communication of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Insti-
tution, transmitting a manuscript work, entitled “ Ancrent MonuMENTS
oF THE Mississrpp1 VALLEY, comprising the results of Extensive Original
Surveys and Explorations,” by E. G. Squier and E. H. Davts, beg
leave to report that:

They have examined the work in question, and regard it not only as
a new and interesting, but as an eminently valuable addition to our
stock of knowledge on a subject little understood, but in which is felt
a deep and constantly increasing interest, both in our country and
abroad. In their judgment, the work is worthy of the subject, and

i al

i i

ee et el ee
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 143

highly creditable to the authors. Its chief features are, a scientific
arrangement, simplicity, and directness of statement, and legitimate
deduction from facts, while there is no attempt at mere speculation or
theory. If published, it will be an enduring monument to connect the
names of the investigators in honorable and “lasting remembrance with
the great subject of ‘American Archeology.

The existence and progress of these investigations were made known to
the society by correspondence early inthe year 1846; and in Juneof that
year i Saag of the relics recovered, accompanied by numerous maps
and plans of ancient earthworks and sectional views of the mounds
from which the remains were taken, were laid before the society by
Mr. Squier in person. ‘These excited deep interest and surprise in all
who saw them; and the society immediately took measures to encour-
age further investigation, and secure the publication, under its own
auspices, of the important results already obtained. A few months later,
the chairman of the present committee, being in Ohio, was enabled
through the kindness of Messrs. Squier and Davis, to visit several of the
more important monuments in the immediate vicinity of Chillicothe, and,
among these, ‘‘ Mound City,” so called, from which very many of the
minor ~ relics and specimens were procured. He was struck with the
accuracy of the plans and drawings, as well as of the accounts which
had been laid before the society, a bears full testimony to the fidelity
and integrity with which the process of investigation and delineation
has been conducted.

During the last and present season the researches of these gentlemen
have been actively prosecuted and widely extended, and the above
work, largely illustrated, comprising the results, has been prepared.
These results are so numerous and important, and consequently such
is the extent and magnitude of the work itself, as to put its publication
beyond any means which the society can command. Under these cir-
cumstances, your committee learn with pleasure that preliminary
arrangements ‘have been made for its publication by the Smithsonian
Institution among its ‘¢ Contributions to Knowledge.” It can only be
a matter of sincere gratification to this society to see that which it can-
not itself accomplish for the history and antiquities of our country taken
up and carried out under such favorable auspices ; and they cannot but
rejoice that an opportunity is thus afforded to that noble Institution of
opening its high career by fostering scientific researches into the inter-
esting problems connected with the ante-Columbian history and abo-
riginal monuments of our own country.

“In view of these facts, your committee would recommend the adop-
tion of the following resolutions by the society :

Resolved, That this society regard the researches of Messrs. Squier
and Davis as of very great inyportance in American Archeology, and
as ¢asting much light upon our aboriginal antiquities, especially upon
the character and habits of the earliest races which had their seat in the
Mississippi valley.

Resolved, That we regard the work prepared upon this subject as one
of great general interest, and as worthy to be adopted for publi-
cation by the Smithsonian Institution, both as resting on original re-
144 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF -

searches, and as affording remarkable illustrations of the history of the
American continent.

Your committee would also append to this report the accompanying
letters from Samuel G. Morton, M. D., of Philadelphia, and Hon.
George P. Marsh, of Vermont, both members of this society, and joint
members of this committee.

All of which is respectfully submitted.

EDWARD ROBINSON,
JOHN R. BARTLETT, } Committee.
W. W. TURNER,
New York, June, 1847.

New York, June 9, 1847.

I have examined with much interest and attention the manuscripts,
drawings, and ancient relics in the possession of Mr. E. G. Squier, and
am happy to say that my previous impressions concerning the value of
the researches of that gentleman and his associate are fully confirmed.
It is fortunate for the cause of American Archeology that the first
systematic attempt at its elucidation should have been conceived and
executed in so truly philosophical a spirit ; and rich as this age already
isin antiquarian lore, it has, I think, received few more important con
tributions than that which the enlightened and generous zeal of these
two private gentlemen is about to confer upon it. The Smithsonian
collections could not begin with a more appropriate or creditable
essay 3 and I hope that every facility may be afforded to the authors in
bringing before the public the results of their honorable labors in as
suitable a form and with as little delay as possible.

GEO. P. MARSH.

' PuriapDELpPuia, June 8, 1847.

As a member of the committee of the American Ethnological Society,
appointed to report on the memoir on American Archeology, by Messrs.
E. G. Squier and E. H. Davis, I have great pleasure in saying, that
after a careful and repeated inspection of the materials in the hands ot
those gentlemen, [am convinced they constitute by far the most im-
portant contribution to the Archeology of the United States, that has
ever been offered to the public. The number and accuracy of their
plans, sketches, &c., have both interested and surprised me, and it is
gratifying to learn that the preliminary arrangements have been made
for their publication under the honorable auspices of the Smithsonian
Institution.

SAML. GEORGE MORTON.

The memoirs of Messrs. Squier and Davis will occupy the greater
portion, if not the whole, of the first volume of the Contributions. The
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 145

“lustrations will consist of fifty-five quarto plates of the mounds, earth-
works, and maps of the adjacent country ; also, of about two hundred
Sage. principally delineations of tlhe various articles found in the
mounds. ‘Those who consider no branch of knowledge of any value
but such as relates to the immediate gratification of our physical wants,
have objected to the acceptance of hig memoir as one of the first pub-
lications of the Institution; but it must be recollected that the will of
Smithson makes no restriction in favor of any particular kind of know-
ledge, and that each branch is, therefore, entitled to a share of bis be-
uest. ‘The ethnological memoir of Messrs. Squier and Davis was
the first, of the proper character, presented for publication, and hence
it was entitled to the first place in the series of Smithsonian Contribu-
tions. Beside this, it furnishes an addition to a branch of knowledge
which is at this time occupying the attention of a large class of minds,
and which cannot fail to be interesting to every intelligent person who
would learn something of the changes to which man has been subjected.

It is proposed to insert in one of the volumes of the Contributions a
sketch of the life of Smithson. The materials for this have been
collected from the several volumes of the Transactions of the Royal
Society, and the scientific journals of the beginning of the present and
the latter part of the last century. The first wolunie will be published
as soon as the wood-cuts and plates, now in the course of preparation,
are finished.

Besides the memoirs before mentioned, a number of others have been
presented, some of which, though apparently of interest, and the product
of thought and labor, were not OE the character required by the resolution
of the Boar d, and fhesoliave either been returned to their authors, or are in
the possession of the Secretary. A number of others have also been pro-
visionally adopted, or are in the course of preparation. Some of thes? are
on the most abstruse parts of physical science, and all will do honor to the
intellectual character of our country. ‘Though the number of original
memoirs which will be found worthy of a place in the Contributions will
probably not be large, yet it will, perhaps, be best to set apart a definite

portion of the income of the bequest—as, for example, at present three

|

or four thousand dollars annually—to defray the expense of this part of

the plan of increasing knowledge. A considerable portion, however,

\ g s sey eee
of the sum thus expended will be returned to the Institution in the form

of additions to its hbrary. I may also suggest, in this place, the pro-
priety of the adoption by the Board of a resolution inviting all engaged
in original research to send the results ef their labors tor publication i in
the Smithsonian Contributions.

The Board also directed me to commence the collection of apparatus ;
and I accordingly sent orders to Europe, to the amount of twelve hun-
dred dollars, for the purchase of such articles as could not be procure yal
in the United States. Most of the instruments have been received, and
will be found of importance not only in the way of original research,
but also in illustrating some of the most interesting and recent phe no-
mena of physical science, as well as serving as samples for imitation
to the artists of this country. It was thought that these articles would
be admitted free of duty, and a petition to this effect was presented to
the Secretary of the Treasury; but—though this officer is well known

JQ
146 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

to be much interested in the prosperity of the Institution—such is the
nature of the law that the duty could not be remitted.

There is an article of apparatus which, within a few years past, has
opened almost a new world of research in the phenomena of life and
organization, the use of which is now indispensable in advancing our
knowledge of physiology and its kindred branches of science. I allude
to the achromatic microscope, to increase the power of which the artists
of Germany, France, and Kngland have vied with each other. On ac-
count of the small number of persons who are capable of constructing
the proper lenses, the best specimens of this instrument are very scarce
in this country, and can be procured only at a great expense. Under
these circumstances, it was a matter of much mec to lear n, from a
source which could be relied on, that an individual in the interior of the
Staite of New York had successfully devoted himself to the study of the
microscope, and that he was able to produce instruments of this kind
which would compete with the best of those constructed in Europe. In
order to do justice to the talents and labors of this person, as well as to
furnish the Institution with a valuable imstrument of research, I re-
quested him to construct a microscope, to be paid for out of the funds
for the purchase of apparatus, provided that a commission, appointed
by myself, should find it capable of producing certain effects. This
proposition was accepted, and the result will probably be given to the
Board at the next meeting.

Preparations have also been made for instituting various lines of phy-
sical research. Among the subjects mentioned by way of example in
the programme for the application of the funds of the Institution is terres-
trial magnetism. I need scarcely say that this is a subject of high in-
terest not only ina theoretical point of view, but also in its direct reference
to navigation and the various geodetical operations of civil and military

lite. A resolution of Congress euthorizing the exploration of the mine-

ral lands adjacent to the great lakes has given to us the means of ad-_

vancing this branch of knowledge with but little expenditure of the
funds of the Institution. The Secretary of the Treasury readily agreed
to the proposition that there should be added to the mineralogical
and geological surveys of these regions, determinations of the “dip,
the variation, and the intensity of the magnetic forces, provided that
the Smithsonian Institution would furnish one set of the instruments,
and take charge of the direction of the observations, and of reducing
and publishing them. In the survey of the mineral lands in the vicinity
of Lake Michigan, under Dr. Jackson; Dr. Locke, of Cincinnati, has
been employed with his own apparatus; and, to make provision for

the survey in Wisconsin, preliminary steps have been taken to pro-

cure other instruments from London.

Another subject of research mentioned in the programme, and which —
has been urged upon the immediate attention of the Institution, is that —
of an extensive system of meteorological observations, particularly with
reference to the phenomena of American storms. Of late years, 1n our
country, more additions have been made to meteorology than to any
other branch of physical science. Several important generalizations
have been arrived at, and definite theories proposed, which now enable
us to direct our attention, with scientific precision, to such points of

a ee

|
|
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 147
observation as cannot fail to reward us with new and interesting results.
It is proposed to organise a system of observations which shall extend
as far as possible over the North American continent; and, in order to
do this, it will be necessary to engage the co-operation of the British
government. I have accordingly addressed a letter to Lieutenant Colo-
nel Sabine, Corresponding Secretary of the Royal Society, who assures
me that, as soon as the plan is fully matured for this country, there
will be no difficulty in establishing a system of corresponding observa-
vations in the British provinces. I have also addressed letters to seve-
ral gentlemen distinguished for their attainments in meteorology, asking
for suggestions as to the plan of observation; and I beg leave to refer
the Board to the accompanying report of Professor Loomis, of New York
University, and also to the communication of Professor Espy, received
in answer. ‘The former contains an exposition of the advantages which
may be derived from the study of meteorology, and what has been done
in this branch of science in this country, and what encouragement there
is for the further prosecution of the same subject, together with a gene-
ral plan of operations. The present time appears to be peculiarly
auspicious for commencing an enterprise of the proposed kind. The
citizens of the United States are now scattered over every part of the
southern and western portion of North America, and the extended lines
of telegraph will furnish a ready means of warning the more northern
and eastern observers to be on the watch for the first appearance of an
advancing storm.

All which is respectfully submitted.
JOSEPH HENRY, Secretary.

To the Recents of the Smithsonian Institution.
148 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

REPORT

OF THE

COMMITTEE OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY OF ARTS AND SCIENCES,

APPOINTED TO

CONSIDER THE PLAN PROPOSED FOR THE ORGANIZATION OF THE
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

SUBMITTED TO THE ACADEMY, DECEMBER 7, 1847.

The Committee of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, to
whom was referred a letter of Professor Henry, of the 30th September,
together with the programme of the organization of the Smithsonian In-
stitution accompanying the said letter, have had the same under con-
sideration, and beg leave to submit the following report :

Professor Henry is understood to be desirous of ascertaining the
opinions of the scientific bodies of the country on the subject of the
proposed organization of the Smithsonian Institution; and the free ex-
pression of their views is invited by him.

The interesting nature and high importance of this foundation, and
the novel and peculiar circumstances attending its establishment, make
it highly expedient, im the opinion of the committee, that every step
taken in its organization should be deliberately considered. They think
it no more than just to express their satisfaction, that the control of the
infant establishment has been placed in the hands of a Board of Regents
of the highest intelligence, respectability, and weight of character ; and
in the wise selection made of the officers on whom the active execu-
tive duties of the Institution will devolve, the committee perceive a
satisfactory pledge as far as they are concerned.

Prof. Henry’s programme commences with ‘ General considerations
which should serve as a guide in adopting the plan of organization.”
He points out the nature of the bequest as made to the United States
for the purpose of founding at Washington, under the name of the
Smithsonian Institution, an establishment for the increase and diffusion
of knowledge among men. The bequest is accordingly for the benefit
of mankind. The government of the United States is but a trustee to
carry out this noble design. Even the people of the United States are
interested only so far as they constitute one of the great families of the
human race.

The objects of the Institution are twofold: first, the increase ; and
second, the diffusion of knowledge ; objects which, although frequently
in a vague way confounded with each other, (inasmuch as it often hap-
pens that knowledge is diffused by the same acts which increase it,)
are nevertheless logically distinct, and require to be separately regarded.
No particular kind of knowledge is specified by the founder as entitled
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 149

to preference; all branches are entitled to a share of attention; and the
order and degree in which they are cultivated must be decided by a
wise regard to means and circumstances. Knowledge may be increased
by various modes of encouraging and facilitating the discovery of new
truths ; it is diffused chiefly, though not exclusively, through the mstru-
mentality of the press. The organization should be such as to produce
results not within the province of the existing institutions of the coun-
try. It was, for instance, evidently not the design of the hberal founder
to establish a collegiate institution or a place of education ; nor would
it be wise to appropriate his bequest for such an object, already sufh-
ciently attained by the ordinary resources of public and private liber-
ality. Considering the novelty of the undertaking, it would be mani-
festly unwise to stake too much on the success of the first efforts. ‘The
organization should be such as to admit of changes and modifications
under the light of experience. As several years have elapsed since
the fund came into the possession of the United States, it seems no
more than equitable that a considerable portion of the accruing interest
should be added to the principal, to make up for the loss of time. The
committee consider this suggestion as perfectly reasonable, and trust it
will receive the favorable consideration of Congress. Liberal as is the
original bequest, the sum is but small compared with the great objects
to be accomplished. This consideration suggests the absolute necessity
of economy in any outlay on buildings and fixtures; in reference to
which a prudent regard must be had, not merely to the first cost, but to
the future expenses of repairs, and the support of the establishment.
Great care must be taken not to multiply the number of persons to be
permanently supported by the Institution. A clear and settled idea of
its organization and mode of operation must precede the adoption of a
plan of building; lest after the completion of a costly edifice it should
be found nearly or quite useless, or worse than useless, by forcing a
character upon the Institution which would not otherwise have been
given it. All view to mere local ornament or advantage should be dis-
carded at the outset, in the management of a trust created for the bene-
fit of mankind.

Such, very slightly expanded in a few of the propositions, are the
general considerations proposed by Professor Henry as guides in
adopting a plan of organization. ‘They command the entire assent of
the committee, and none of them more so than those which refer to
the necessity of strict economy in the expenditure of the fund ona
building, and the exclusion of undue regard to local ornament. It
would not be difficult to point to a memorable instance in which the
most munificent bequest ever made for the purposes of education has
been rendered comparatively unavailing, in a sister city of the Union,
by the total disregard of these wise principles. It is an additional.
reason for observing them, that the attempt to erect a highly imposing
building for local ornament will not only crush in the bud all hope of
fulfilling the ulterior objects of the bequest, but will be almost sure to
fail of a satisfactory result, as far as the edifice itself is concerned.

The Secretary’s plan of organization in reference to the increase of
knowledge is so accurately digested and so thoroughly condensed, that
the committee think it would be best to quote his own words:
150 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

‘“'T'O INCREASE KNOWLEDGE, it is proposed—

‘Ist. To stimulate men of talent to make original researches, by
offering suitable rewards for memoirs containing new truths; and

«2d. 'To appropriate annually a portion of the income for particular
researches under the direction of suitable persons.”

These methods of inercasing knowledge are further unfolded in the
following ‘detail of the plan” for that purpose :

“T, By stimulating researches.

‘“‘ Ist. Rewards, consisting of money, medals, &c., offered for original
memoirs on all branches of knowledge.

“2d. The memoirs thus obtained to be published in a series of
volumes in a quarto form, and entitled ‘Smithsonian Contributions to
Knowledge.’

“¢ 3d. No memoir on subjects of physical science to be accepted for
publication which does not furnish a positive addition to human know-
ledge ; and all unverified speculation to be rejected.

“4th. Each memoir presented to the Institution to be submitted for
examination to a committee of persons of reputation for learning in the
branch to which the memoir pertains, and to be accepted for publica-
tion only in case the report is favorable.

“5th. The commission to be chosen by the officers of the Institu-
tion, and the name of the author, as far as practicable, concealed until
a favorable decision shall have been made.

“6th. The volumes of the memoirs to be exchanged for the transac-
tions of all literary and scientific societies, and copies to be given to
all the colleges and principal libraries in this country. One part of the
remaining copies may be offered for sale, and the other carefully pre-
served to form complete sets of the work to supply the demand from
new imstitutions.

“7th. An abstract or popular account of the contents of these me-
moirs should be given to the public through the annual report of the
Regents to Congress.

“TI. By appropriating a portion of ihe income annually to special objects
of research, under the direction of suitable persons.

‘Ist. The objects and the amounts appropriated to be recommended
by counsellors of the Institution.

‘¢2d. Appropriation in different years to different objects, so that in
course of time each branch of knowledge may receive a share.

“3d. The results obtained from these appropriations to be published
with the memoirs before mentioned, in the volumes of the Smithsonian
Contributions to Knowledge.

‘‘Ath. Examples of objects for which appropriations may be made:

‘©(1.) System of extended meteorological observations, for solving the
problem of American storms.

*¢(2.) Geological, magnetical, and topographical surveys, to collect
materials for a physical atlas of the United States.

©(3.) Solution of experimental problems, such as weighing the
earth, new determination of the velocity of electricity and light, chemi-
cal analyses of soils and plants, collection and publication of articles
of science accumulated in the offices of the government.
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 15a

‘¢ (4.) Institution of statistical inquiries, with reference to physical,
moral, and political subjects.

‘¢(5.) Historical researches and accurate surveys of places celebrated
in history.

*¢(6.) Ethnological researches, particularly with reference to the
present races of men in North America; also explorations and accu-
rate surveys of the mounds and other remains of the ancient people of
our country.”

The committee have made this long extract from Professor Henry’s
programme in order to give to the Academy an adequate idea of the
proposed plan, as far as it refers to the first branch, or the increase of
knowledge. It has, in some of its features, been already adopted. It
is already announced that one voluminous memoir, copiously illustrated
by engravings, is already on its passage through the press, under the
auspices of the Smithsonian Institution. The committee refer to an
elaborate memoir, by Messrs. Squier and Davis, on the aboriginal
mounds discovered in large numbers in various parts of the United
States, and especially in the region northwest of the Ohio. This me-
moir was accepted on the favorable report of the Ethnological Society
of New York, to which it had been referred by the Secretary of the
Institution, and in whose Transactions an abridgment of it has appeared.
It is also understood that a memoir on one of the most interesting sub-
jects which engages the attention of geometers and mathematicians at
the present moment, viz., the planet Neptune, has been invited by the
Secretary from one of our own members. ;

While the committee would deprecate all attempts unduly to stimu-
late the increase of knowledge, as sure to prove abortive, and to result
at best in the publication of crude investigations, they believe it quite
possible to remove some of the obstructions to its progress. Narrow
circumstances are too apt to be the lot of genius when devoted to sci-
entific pursuits ; and the necessity of providing for personal and domestic
wants too often absorbs the time and faculties of those who might, if
relieved from cares of this kind, have adorned their age and benefited
mankind. To such mena moderate pecuniary advantage derived from
a successful investigation might be of vast importance. The efhicacy
of market upon production is not limited to the creations of physical
labor. It is seen in the history of science and literature of every age
and country. Invention in the mechanical arts and skill in practical
science are well paid in this country, and how great is the harvest!
The extraordinary effect even of an honorary inducement is seen in
the case of the medal offered by the King of Denmark for the discovery
of Telescopic Comets. On these principles it may be hoped that by
offering a moderate pecuniary compensation for researches of real
merit, valuable contributions to knowledge will be produced ; while
their publication will tend directly to the diffusion of knowledge.

_ An encouragement somewhat similar toward the promotion of the
increase of knowledge would be afforded by another part of the pro-
posed operations, that of providing the requisite apparatus and imple-
ments, and especially books, to be placed in the hands of those engaged
in particular lines of investigation. In this way it is not unlikely that
a considtrable amount of talent may be rendered effective, which at
ps2 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

/
present is condemned to inactivity, from local position unfavorable to
scientific research.

It is not the purpose of the committee to engage in minute criticism
of the details of the programme ; but it may not be out of place to sug-
gest a doubt of the practicability or expediency of carrying into rigid
execution, ‘the rejection of all unverified speculations,’’ as proposed
in the third paragraph of the first section above cited; while it 1s ob-
viously advisable to discountenance all theoretical speculations not
directly built upon observation, 1t might be too much to exact, in all
cases, that these speculations should have been actually verified. Neo
small portion of modern geology is an ingenious structure of speculative
generalizations. 'The undulatory theory of light can hardly claim any
other character. The nebular theory, though proposed and illustrated
by the highest astronomical talent of the past and present generation,
is rapidly sinking from the domain of accredited speculations. It may
be doubted even whether M. Le Verrier’s brilliant memoirs on the per-
turbations of Uranus would not, as published before the discovery of
Neptune, have fallen within this principle of rejection rigorously applied.
Upon the whole, the committee think very favorably of all parts of the
plan for increasing knowledge; and feel no doubt that it would afford
important encouragement to scientific pursuits. ‘To suppose that it
will create an era in science, or throw into the shade the ordinary edu-
cational and intellectual influences at work in the country, would be
extravagant. It is enough and all that can be expected, if it be a
rational plan for appropriating moderate means towards the attainment
of a desirable end.

To fulfil the other object of the trust, viz. to “ diffuse knowledge,” the
Secretary proposes to publish * A Series of Reports, giving an account
of the new discoveries in science, and of the changes made from year
to year in all branches of knowledge not strictly professional.’”’ These
reports are to be prepared by collaborators, most eminent in their sev-
eral departments, who are to receive a compensation for their labors ;
the collaborators to be furnished with all the journals and other publi-
eations necessary to the preparation of their reports.

The following enumeration of the proposed subjects of these reports
will afford the Academy a full conception of this part of the plan.

I. Physical class.

1. Physics, including Astronomy, Natural Philosophy, Chemistry,
and Meteorology.

2. Natural History, including Botany, Zoology, and Geology.

3. Agriculture.

4. Application of Science to Art.

Il. Moral and Political class.

5. Ethnology, including particular History, comparative Philology,
Antiquities, &c.

6. Statistics and Political Economy.

7. Mental and Moral Philosophy.

8. A Survey of the Political Events of the World, Penal Reform, &c.
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 158
Ill. Literature and the Fine Arts.

9. Modern Literature.

10. The Fine Arts, and their application to the Useful Arts.
11. Bibliography.

12. Obituary notices of distinguished individuals.

Another branch of the plan for the diffusion of knowledge contem-

lates the offer of premiums for the best essays on given subjects.

The publications of the Institution, of whatever form, are proposed
to be presented to all the colleges, and to the principal libraries and
scientific institutions throughout the country, and to be exchanged for
the transactions of all scientific and literary societies throughout the
world; thus laying the foundation of a valuable library. An adequate
number are to be preserved to supply the future demand of new insti-
tutions, and the remainder are to be placed on sale at a price so low
as to render them generally accessible.

For carrying out the plan thus sketched for increasing and diffusing
knowledge, the Regents propose to appropriate one half of the income
of their fund. The remainder is to be expended in the formation and
maintenance of a library, a collection of instruments of research im all
branches of experimental science, and a museum.

This partition of the income of the fund is stated to be ‘* a compro-
mise between the two modes of increasing and diffusing knowledge.”

A library is one of the objects contemplated in the act of Congress
establishing the Board for the management of the trust. It is requisite
for carrying out the plan above proposed. At the same time, it will be
observed that the distribution, by exchange, of the publications, which
that scheme of operations will call into existence, will rapidly provide
the Institution, without further expense, with the class of works, often of
a costly character, which are most directly important as the means of
advancing and diffusing positive knowledge. It is accordingly in these
that the Secretary proposes to lay the foundations of the library, form-
ing, 1. A complete collection of the transactions and proceedings of all
the learned societies in the world; and, 2. A similar collection of all
the current periodical publications, and other works necessary in pre-
paring the contemplated periodical reports.

In the next place, it is proposed to procure by preference those books
which are not found in the other public libraries of the United States ;
regarding the want of them as one of more urgency to be supplied than
that of a symmetrical and proportionate collection of books in all the
departments of science. Such a library as the plan proposes may be
fairly regarded as an important instrument for the increase and diffusion
of knowledge.

The collection of scientific apparatus and instruments of research is
no less needful in the furtherance of the above mentioned plan, which,
as it proposes to aid individuals in the prosecution of important re-

searches, may often do so most effectually by the loan of the instru-

- ments required for a particular investigation. ‘They will also be needed,

especially at Washington, for carrying out, under the most advantageous
circumstances, the various experimental investigations in Physics al-
154 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

ready pursued by the Secretary with such credit to himself, and such
honor to the scientific character of the country.

The Smithsonian Institution is also to be entrusted with the conser-
vation of a National Museum, Congress having, by a clause in the Act
of Incorporation, devolved upon it the charge of the immense collec-
tions belonging to the public, of which those brought home by Captain
Wilkes from the Exploring Expedition form the greater portion, but
which are daily increasing from many other sources. These collec-
tions, When a proper and convenient place shall have been prepared
for their reception and preservation, are likely to accumulate with still
greater rapidity in time to come.

While there is an obvious propriety and convenience in thus entrust-
ing the care of the public collections to the officers of the Smithsonian
Institution, it will not, the Committee trust, be forgotten by Congress
that the income of the Smithsonian bequest—moderate at best, and
consecrated to an object distinct as it is elevated—ought not to be
burdened with the cost of constructing an edifice for the reception and
exhibition of the public collections, or of their preservation and care.
These objects would alone absorb a considerable portion of the fund.
If drawn upon to carry them into effect, its efficiency for any other pur-
pose will be seriously diminished, if not altogether destroyed.

The plan also contemplates a museum of the fine arts as well asa
scientific apparatus. It proposes to procure ‘casts of the most cele-
brated articles of ancient and modern sculpture” and ‘ models of an-
tiquities.”” While it is undoubtedly true that a gallery of this descrip-
tion would find an appropriate place in an establishment devoted to the
increase and diffusion of knowledge in its broadest sense, the Commit-
tee cannot but hope that the ¢mmedzate execution of this part of the plan
will not be attempted; but that it will be deferred till other objects of
more decided utility have been provided for, and until a surplus of un-
appropriated funds shall have accrued.

The Academy will perceive that the most novel and important fea-
ture of the plan is that which proposes to insure the publication of me-
moirs and treatises on impostant subjects of investigation, and to offer
pecuniary encouragement to men of talent and attainment to engage in
scientific research. It is believed that no Institution in the country
effects either of these objects to any great extent. The nearest
approach to it is the practice of the Academy and other Philosophical
Societies, of publishing the memoirs accepted by them. These,
however, can rarely be works of great compass. No systematic
plan of compensation for the preparation of works of scientific re-
search is known by the Committee to have been attempted in this or
any other country. It can scarcely be doubted that an important im-
pulse would be given by the Institution, in this way, to the cultivation
of scientific pursuits: while the extensive and widely ramified system
of distribution and exchange by which the publications are to be dis-
tributed throughout the United States and the world, would secure
them a circulation which works of science could scarcely attain in any
other way.

It is an obvious characteristic of this mode of applying the funds of
the Jnstitution, that its influence would operate most widely throughout
: THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 155

the country ; that locality would be of comparatively little importance
as far as this influence is concerned; and that the Union would beeome,
so to say, in this respect, a great school of mutual instruction.
The Committee would remark in conclusion, that in a plan of opera-
tions of this kind, very much depends upon the activity and intelligence
with which it is administered. The characters of the Board of Regents
are a sufficient warrant for the prudence and good judgment which will
watch over the general interests of the foundation ; while the reputation
of the Secretary and his assistant, the librarian, is so well established
in their respective departments, as to render any tribute from the Com-
mittee entirely superfluous.
All which is respectfully submitted by the Committee.
EDWARD EVERETT,
JARED SPARKS,
BENJAMIN PEIRCE,
HENRY W. LONGFELLOW,
ASA GRAY.

DeEcEMBER 4, 1847.

Read at a meeting of the Academy held December 7, 1847, and ae-
cepted.

Ordered to be communicated to the Secretary of the Smithsonian
Institution.
O. W. HOLMES,

Recording Secretary.
156 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

SECOND ANNUAL REPORT

Of the Secretary of the Smithsonian * Institution, giving an account of the
operations of the year 1848. Presented December 13, 1849.

GENTLEMEN: By a resolution of the Board of Bowens, at their last
annual meeting, | was charged with the execution ie the details of the
programme w fel had been] provisionally adopted, and was directed to
report annually to the Board the progress made in the execution of the
duty assigned to me. In accordance with this resolution, I present the
following statement of the operations of the past year.

The programme of the plan of organization of the Institution has
been submitted to a number of literary and scientific societies, and in
every case has received their unqualified approbation. The principal
officers of these societies have expressed a willingness to co-operate
with the Smithsonian Institution in carrying out the plans which have
been adopted, and it is confidently believed, that as soon as these are
fully developed and brought into practical operation, they will meet
with general approval.

It was recommended in my last report that the details of the plan
should be adopted provisionally, and should be carried into oper ation
gradually and cautiously, with such changes, from time to time, as
experience might dictate. The Institution is not one of a day, but
is designed to endure as long as our government shall exist ; and it is
therefore peculiarly important that in the beginning we should proceed

carefully and not attempt to produce immediate effects at the expense
of permanent usefulness. The process of increasing knowledge is an
extremely slow one, and the value of the results of this part of the plan

cannot be properly realized until some years have elapsed. Indepen-
dently of these considerations, the financial arrangements adopted by
the Board of Regents are such as to prevent the Tall operation of the
Institution until tice three years from next March; up to that time
more than one half of the income is to be devoted to the erection of
the building, and indirectly to the increase of the permanent fund.

It will be recollected that the programme embraces—

Ist. The plan of publishing original memoirs on all branches of
knowledge, in a series of quarto Se nase

2d. The institution of original researches under the direction of
competent persons.

3d. The publication of a series of reports from year to year, giving
an account of the progress of the different branches of knowledge.

4th. The formation of a library and a museum of objects of ae

and art.
Publication of original memoirs.

The first volume of the Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge has.
been published and partially distributed. It consists of a single me-
moir on the Ancient Monuments of the Mississippi Valley, comprising
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 157

the results of extensive original surveys and explorations by E. G.
Squier, A. M., and E. H. Davis, M. D. It is illustrated by forty-eight
lithographic plates, and by two hundred and seven wood engravings.
The mechanical execution of the volume will bear comparison with
that of any publication ever issued from the American press.

In the publication of the first volume of the Contributions, the ques-
tion occurred as to the propriety of securing the copyright to the Insti-
tution. I had not an opportunity of conferring with the Executive
Committee on this point, and was therefore obliged to settle it on my own
responsibility. I concluded that it would be more in accordance with
the spirit of the Institution to decide against the copyright. The
knowledge which the Smithsonian Institution may be instrumental in
presenting to the world should be free to all who are capable of using
it. The republication of our papers ought to be considered as an evi-
dence of their importance, and should be encouraged rather than pro-
hibited.

The first memoir occupies an entire volume, and this accidental cir-
cumstance has given rise to a misconception of the plan. It has been
supposed that each volume of the Smithsonian Contributions is, in like
manner, to consist of a separate treatise on a particular subject selected
with a view to popular interest. But such is not the case ; each volume
will generally contain a number of separate memoirs, on different
branches of knowledge, similar to the usual published transactions of
learned societies. ‘The only reason why the first volume is occupied
with a subject of general interest rather than one on some more ab-
struse branch of science is, that the memoir it contains was the jirst
which was presented of the character prescribed by the plan. No
preference is to be given to any branch of knowledge. ‘The only ques-
tions to be asked, in considering the acceptance of a memoir, are,
whether it is a positive addition to knowledge, resting on original re-
search, and of sufficient importance to merit a place in the Smithsonian
Contributions.

The rules adopted for the acceptance of a memoir are the same as
those generally followed by learned societies. The memoir is surren-
dered by the author to the Institution, and no additions or. alterations

_are allowed to be made after it has been submitted to the commission
appointed to examine it, unless by their consent. A certain number
of copies is presented to the ‘author for distribution, with the privilege
of striking off, at his own expense, additional copies for sale ; which
in most cases, particularly when the memoir is of popular interest,
will be all the remuneration expected by the author.

From what has been said, it will be evident that the papers pub-
lished in the Contributions cannot generally be of a popular nature.
The popular effects to be produced by the Institution are principally
those which may be attained by the reports on the progress of the dif
ferent branches of knowledge, and by the occasional publications in
connexion with these of separate treatises on some subject of special
interest.

Applications have been made for the first volume of the Contribu-
tions from many academies and private institutions; and were our
means sufficient, we would be pleased to supply all demands of this
158 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

.
kind. But this is obviously impossible, for they alone would exhaust
all the income of the Institution.

eager have been made for the publication of the second
Volume of the Contributions, and a sufficient number of memoirs have
been already accepted, or are in preparation, to furnish the materials.
Five of these are on astronomical subjects, and afford as important ad-
ditions to this science as have ever been made to it in this country.
Two of them relate to investigations on the new planet Neptune, which
are only second in value to the original discovery of this distant mem-
ber of our system. Abstracts of these have been given to the world, —
and have been received with general approbation. A third is a deter-
mination of the zodiac of ihet asteroids, or the zone in the heavens to
which the positions of these small planets are confined. This paper ig
of much practical importance in facilitating the researches now in pro-
gress in different parts of the world relative to the nature of these frag-
ments (as they would seem to be) of a large planet between Jupiter
and Mars. It may be at once determined, by an inspection of the
table annexed to this paper, whether any star mapped in an old cata-
logue, and now no longer to be found in the same place, can possibly
be one of the asteroids. A fourth paper is an account of anew comet,
the discovery of which by an American lady is one of the first addi-
tions to science of this kind, so far as I am informed, ever made in this
country. The fifth memoir is an account of the Georgetown Observa-
tory, the instruments with which it is furnished, the mode of using them
which has been adopted, and the results of the observations which
have been made. An important paper is also in process of prepara-
tion for the same volume on the gigantic fossil cetacean remains which
are found in the southern and western States of the Union.

Other papers are in progress which partake of the character of origi-
nal researches, since they are, in part, at least, prepared at the expense
and under the direction of the Smithsonian Institution. They will be
mentioned under the next head.

In a few cases, memoirs have been presented which, though exhi-
biting research and considerable originality, are not of a character to
warrant their adoption as parts of our volumes of Contributions to posi-
tive knowledge. The rule given in the programme has been rigidly
adhered to, viz. to decline accepting i any paper on physical science
which consists merely of an unverified hypothesis, however ingenious
and plausible such an hypothesis may be. A law of nature is not sus
ceptible of a logical demonstration, like that of a proposition of geo-
metry, but is proved by its fitness to explain old, and to predict new,
phenomena. The verification of an hypothesis, as we have stated in
the last report, consists in deducing consequences from it, and ascer-
taining, by a direct appeal to observation or experiment, the truth or

falsity of these deductions. Any paper, therefore, on material
science which does*not contain original experiments and observations

cannot be admitted as a part of the Contributions to Knowledge. The
rule we have adopted-is in accordance with the practice BF cautious
investigators. The law of universal gravitation existed for several
, years | the mind of Newton as a well conditioned hypothesis before

it was given to the world as a verified and established theory. Besides
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 159

this, the rules of logic which are employed in discussing the questions
of ordinary life are not applicable to the precision of scientific inquiry.
The materials in this case, to borrow an expression of an author of
celebrity, ‘¢ must be weighed in the scale of the assayer, and not, liké
the mixed commodities of the market, on the weight-bridge of common
opinion and. general usage.”

It has been objected to our publishing original memoirs, that in so
doing we are merely performing the duties of a learned society. The
answer is, that the learned societies in this country have not the
means, except in a very limited degree, of publishing memoirs which
require expensive illustrations, much less of assisting to defray the cost
of the investigations by which the results have been obtained. The
real workingmen in the line of original research hail this part of the
plan as a new era in the history of American science. ‘The assistance
which the Institution will thus render to original research will occupy
the place of the governmental patronage of other countries, and will
enable true genius, wherever found, to place its productions before the
world free of cost, and in a manner most favorable for securing due
attention and proper appreciation.

From our experience thus far, I am convinced that, circumscribed as is
the class of memoirs accepted by the Institution, we shall have no want
of materials to fill at least one quarto volume a year. There has been
in our country within the last few years a remarkable increase in the
attention given to original research, not only in material science, but
in every branch of knowledge susceptible of addition. And this is
evinced by the character and variety of the papers which have been
presented for publication. The wide difference between the increase
of knowledge and its diffusion, is beginning to be seen and appreciated,
and the time is not far distant when we shall be as distinguished for
our additions to science as for its diffusion and application. The re-
yolutions of Europe are not only sending to our shores the choicest
specimens of art, but also men of reputation and skill in scientific
investigation. Besides this, the present state of France is attended with
such an interruption of the ordinary means of scientific publication,
that the manuscript volumes on natural history of one of the most dis-
tinguished professors of the Jardin des Plantes are offered to us for
publication in the Smithsonian Contributions for no remuneration, save
a few copies for distribution among friends. Were the Institution fully
in operation I should not hesitate, in accordance with the liberality
which should characterize an establishment founded on the bequest of
a foreigner, to recommend the adoption of these memoirs for publica-
tion at the expense of the Institution, and perhaps we might now dis-
tribute them through several of our volumes and finish the publication
of them in the course of a few years.

Original researches.

The second part of the plan consists in instituting original researches,
the results of which are to be published, with the other memoirs, in the
volumes of the Smithsonian Contributions. Under this head may be
first mentioned the publication of the tables ordered at the last meeting
166 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

of the Board, for facilitating the calculation of the time of appearance
of occultations of the fixed stars by the moon. The object of these
tables is to assist in the accurate determination of the longitude of
important places on the continent of North America, and their value
has been attested by the recommendation of some of the most distin-
guished astronomers of this country. The accurate establishment of
the longitude of any place renders it a landmark to the surveyor, the
geographer, and the astronomer, and furnishes a most important ele-
ment in determining its relative position on the map of the country.
The observation of occultations affords one of the most ready means
of solving this most difficult practical problem. ‘The tables were cal-
culated at the expense and under the direction of the Institution, and
were sent to all persons known to be interested in practical astronomy,
with a request that the observations which might be made in connex-
ion with them might be sent to the Institution for computation, or pub-
lished in some accessible journal. These tables have been so well
received by astronomers, that, with the concurrence of the Executive
Committee, I have ventured to order the computation of a set of the
same kind on a more extensive scale for the year 1849. Copies of
these will be sent to United States officers on the coast of Oregon and
Califormia, and will be distributed among all the other observers in this
country. They will be found of manok practical importance to the
corps engaged by the general government in establishing the boundary
lines of our new posse ssions. It is hoped that the remuneration
allowed for the labor of computing these tables will not be considered
extravagant, when it 1s mentioned that it has oc cupied the whole time
of Mr. Downes for nearly six months, at the rate of eight hours a day.

With the concurrence of the Executive Committee, I have also pub-
lished an epheme ris of the planet Neptune, or in other words, a table
indicating its position in the heavens during each day of the present
year, by “which those interested in astronomy are enabled readily to
find the place of the new planet in the heavens, or the direction in
which the telescope must be poimted in order to observe it. Copies of
this have been sent to all the principal astronomers in the world, and
it has received the highest commendation. It was calculated by Mr.
S. C. Walker from the orbit deduced by himself, a full account of
which forms one of the papers of the second volume of the Contribu-
tions. It is the first accurate ephemeris which has ever appeared of
this newly discovered member of our solar system.

An appropriation of one thousand dollars was made at the last meet-
ing of the Board for the commencement of a series of meteorological
observations, particularly with reference to the phenomena of American
storms. According to the estimate of Prof. Loomis, appended to my
last report, three thousand dollars will be required for the purpose of
reducing this part of our plan to practice. It is hoped that one thou-
sand dollars in addition will be appropriated this year, and an equal
sum the next, so that, at the end of that time, we shall be prepared for
full operation. At the last session of Congress an appropriation was
made for meteorology under the direction of the Secretar y of the Navy
and in order that the observations thus established may not inteniead
with those undertaken by the Smithsonian Institution, that officer has
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 161

directed Professor Espy to co-operate with the Secretary of the Insti-
tution. .

It is contemplated to establish three classes of observers among those
who are disposed to join in this enterprise. One class, without instru-
ments, to observe the face of the sky as to its clearness, the extent of
cloud, the direction and force of wind, the beginning and ending of rain,
snow, &c. <A second class, furnished with thermometers, who, besides
making the observations above mentioned, will record variations of
temperature. ‘The third class, furnished with full sets of instruments,
to observe all the elements at present deemed important in the science
of meteorology. It is believed that much valuable information may be
obtained in this way with reference to the extent, duration, and passage
of storms over the country, though the observer may be possessed of
no other apparatus than a simple wind-vane.

With the instruments owned by private individuals, with those at
the several military stations, and with the supply of the deficiency by
the funds of the Smithsonian Institution, it is believed that observa-
tions can be instituted at important points over the whole United States,
and that, with the observations which we can procure from Mexico and
the British possessions of North America, data will be furnished for
important additions to our knowledge of meteorological phenomena.
As a beginning to this extended system, six sets of instruments have
been forwarded to the coast of Oregon and California, for the purpose
of establishing periodical observations on the western side of the Rocky
mountains. Also, a set has been forwarded to Bent’s Fort, and another
to Santa Fé. Circulars have been prepared and will shortly be issued
for the purpose of ascertaining the number and locality of all those who,
with or without instruments, are willing to join in the enterprise. I am
indebted to Prof. Coffin, of Lafayette College, for a list of all persons,
as far as they are known, who have heretofore been accustomed to
make meteorological observations in North America, which will be of
much importance in our future investigations relative to this subject.

As a part of the system of meteorology, it is proposed to employ, as
far as our funds will permit, the magnetic telegraph in the investigation
of atmospherical phenomena. By this means, not only notice of
the approach of a storm may be given to distant observers, but also
attention may be directed to particular phenomena, which can only be
properly studied by the simultaneous observations of persons widely
separated from each other. For example, the several phases presented
by a thunderstorm, or by the aurora borealis, may be telegraphed to a
distance, and the synchronous appearances compared and recorded in
stations far removed from each other. Also, by the same means, ¢
single observatory, at which constant observations are made during the
whole 24 hours, may give notice to all persons along the telegraphic
lines, of the occurrence of interesting meteorological phenomena, and
thus simultaneous observations be secured. The advantage to agricul-
ture and commerce to be derived from a knowledge of the approach of
a storm, by means of the telegraph, has been frequently referred to of
late in the public journals. And this, we think, is a subject deserving
the attention of the general government.

Under the head of researches, I may mention that several papers are

el
162 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

in preparation, under the direction and partly at the expense of the
Institution. The first of these relates to a series of valuable observa~
tions on the temperature and velocity of the Gulf stream, the author of
which the science of our country was called to mourn while he was
engaged in an important public service. ‘Fhe observations are now in
progress of reduction, and the results will furnish an interesting memoir
for the next volume of our Contributions.

The drawings and engravings of a paper on the botany of Oregon
are also in progress; and as a small advance has been made to assist
in completing these, the memoir will fall under the head of original re-
searches, in part conducted by the Institution.

In the last report, it was mentioned that a magnetic survey of the
mineral regions of the northern lakes had been added to the geological
and mineralogical survey, the results of which were to be submitted to
the Smithsonian Institution. An appropriation was made by the See-
retary of the Treasury during the past summer for a continuation of
this survey; but on account of the lateness of the season at which the
arrangement was made, the person. to whom the work was entrusted
was Aa enabled to engage in it this year. Operations, however, will
probably be commenced as soon as practicable, next spring.

There is in the Land Office a large collection of facts relative to the

variation of the compass, which have been derived from the observa-
tions of the public surveyors, who are directed in all cases to note the
variation of the needle from the true meridian, at the several stations
of their surveys. The observations are made with an instrument called
the solar compass, which probably gives the variation at each place
within a quarter of a degree of the truth. ‘The number of these obser-
vations, it is believed, will make up in a considerable degree for their
want of greater precision; and from the whole, the lines of declination
may be determined with considerable accuracy. The Secretary of
the Treasury has liberally directed that all the matter relating to this
subject in the Land Office may be placed at my disposal, and Mr. Wilson
has undertaken to present the whole in a series of maps, the publica-
tion of which in the Contributions cannot fail to be received as an
interesting addition to terrestrial magnetism.

Among the objects of research enumerated in the programme, is the
analysis of soils and plants; but it is the policy of the Smithsonian
Institution, in order to employ its funds most effectually in the way of
creasing and diffusing knowledge, not. to engage in any operation
which could be as w ell. if not better carried on under the direction and
with the funds of another institution. In accordance with this, an
arrangement has been made with the Commissioner of Patents that the
two Institutions may not interfere with each other; and as, at the re-
quest of Mr. Burke, an appropriation has been made by Congress for a
series of experiments on the above-mentioned subjects, the Smithsoman
Institution will, therefore, for the present abandon this field of research
for others less effectually occupied.

I may also mention in this connexion, that the Smithsonian Institution
has been the means of starting an important literary enterprise, intended
to facilitate the study of the history and literature of our country. Mr.
Henry Stevens, who has been engaged for a number of years as the
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 163

agent in this country of the British Museum, and other European libra-
ries, has commenced the preparation of a bibliographical work, compri-
sing a description of all books relative to, or published in, America prior
to the year 1700, and indicating not only the contents and value of the
books, but also the principal libraries in this and other countries where
they are to be found. The preparation of a work of this kind will be
in accordance with that part of our plan which contemplates rendering
the Institution a centre of bibliographical knowledge, and will have a
direct influence in promoting the objects of the various historical socie-
ties which are now established in almost every State of the Union, and
in bringing the Institution into friendly relations with them. A certifi-
cate has been given to Mr. Stevens to the effect that this work, if found,
by a commission to whom it shall be referred, properly executed, will
be accepted for publication as part of the Smithsonian Contributions to
Knowledge. Assured by this certificate that the work will be properly
executed, a number of gentlemen and institutions, whose libraries will
be examined and referred to, have liberally subscribed to defray the
necessary expense of its preparation. With this encouragement, Mr.
Stevens has started for Europe to commence investigations in foreign
libraries. To satisfy ourselves as to the importance of a work of this
kind, a circular letter was addressed to a number of individuals distin-
guished for their knowledge of such subjects, and the answer in all
cases was highly favorable to the scheme. Some of these answers I
have given in the appendix, together with the details of the plan of the
work as proposed by Mr. Stevens.

At the last session of Congress an appropriation of $5,000 was made,
on motion of Mr. Stanton, for a series of astronomical observations in
the southern hemisphere, for the purpose of a new determination of the
parallax of the planets, and consequently of their distance from the sun,
by simultaneous observations on the planets Venus and Mars, made at
places situated north and south of the equator. This appropriation has
been found inadequate to furnish all the instruments required; and inas-
much as the expedition should not be undertaken unless the observers
are provided with all the aids which the latest improvements in modern
science can furnish, and since, to wait for an additional appropriation
from Congress would cause the delay of a whole year, Lieutenant Gil-
liss has applied to the Institution to purchase and lend to him an achro-
matic telescope, which, if not paid for by an additional appropriation
from the government, will, after its return from the south, form part of
the apparatus of the Institution. This instrument will cost about
$2,000, to be paid for at the end of three years. The Executive Com-
mittee, to whom I applied for counsel on this subject, agreed with me
in opinion, that this was a proper occasion for the application of the
funds of the Institution to the promotion of science. The instrument
has accordingly been ordered to be constructed by an American artist,
and to be accepted only in case its performance shall meet the approval
of a commission of practical astronomers appointed to examine it.

The position on the coast of Chili, to be occupied by the southern
observers, is peculiarly favorable to the study of the facts connected
with one of the most mysterious and interesting phenomena of terres-
trial physics—namely, the earthquake. Lieutenant Gilliss has been re-
164 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

quested to give particular attention to this subject, and for the purpose
of facilitating his inquiries a seismometer, or instrument for measuring
the intensity and direction of the earthwave, has been ordered at the ex-
pense of the Institution, to be placed in charge of the expedition during
its absence. ‘The cost of this instrument is not yet ascertained ; it will,
however, not exceed one hundred and fifty dollars.

I think it highly probable that these instruments will be paid for by
the general government. The liberal spirit which dictated the original
appropriation will, I doubt not, complete the outfit by the addition of a
sum sufficient to defray all the necessary expenses.*

Under the head of original researches, I may call to the Regents the
fact of my having been directed to continue my own investigations on
physical science, and to report occasionally to the Board my progress
therein. In the course of last year, I found an opportunity while at
Princeton, to commence a series of investigations on radiant heat, which
apparently produced some results of interest, but which my subsequent
engagements have prevented me from fully developmg. I was also
directed to cause to be made a series of experiments on the economical
value of building material. It will give me much pleasure to obey
this instruction of the Board as soon as a place in the Smithsonian
building and the necessary apparatus are procured for properly con-
ducting the research.

Reports on the progress of knowledge.

The Smithsonian Contributions are intended to consist of entirely
original additions to the sum of human knowledge, and are to be prin-
cipally exchanged for the transactions of learned societies, and to be dis-
tributed among public institutions. The Reports, on the other hand, are
to be of a more popular kind, and are intended for as wide a distribu-
tion as the funds of the Institution or the means of publishing them may
permit. They will give an account of the progress of the different
branches of knowledge in every part of the world, and will supply a
desideratum in English literature.

The objects of the Smithsonian Institution are not educational. The
press in our country already teems with elementary works on the dif-
terent branches of knowledge, and to expend our funds in adding to
these, would be to dissipate them without perceptible effect. Neither
do we believe that the distribution of penny magazines, or tracts on the
rudiments of science, can ever supersede the labors of the school-mas-
ter. Asa general rule, knowledge presented in a fragmentary form,
can only be useful to minds well stored with general principles, to
which the isolated facts may be referred; and knowledge, both fragmen-
tary and diluted, is almost worthless, even in the way of popular dis-
tribution. The elementary principles of science may be systematically
taught to a certain extent in common schools, and the reports we intend
to publish will be found of value to the teacher, and through him to the
pupil, as well as interesting to the general reader. While these reports
are rendered as free as possible from technical terms, they will treat of

* Since writing this report, the appropriation has besn made by Congress.
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 165

subjects requiring attention and thought to understand them. We think
it better that they should be above rather than below the average
intelligence of the country; that they should start from a given epoch,
and in most cases should be preceded by a brief exposition of the pre-
vious state of each subject.

Arrangements have been made for commencing some of these pre-
liminary reports, as well as reports on the state of our knowledge of
special subjects ; among these are— :

J. A report on the present state of chemistry as applied to agriculture.

2. A report on the forest-trees of North America, giving their eco-
nomical uses, their mode of propagation, and their history.

3. A report on the present state of our knowledge of lightning and
the best means of guarding against accidents from its effects. °

4, A report on the late discoveries in astronomy.

5. A report on meteorological instruments, with practical observa-
tions and directions with reference to the use of them. :

In connexion with this last report, I may mention that a proposition
has been made to the Institution by Professor Guyot, of the University
of Neufchatel, relative to the importance of commencing at this epoch,
and at the beginning of the labors of the Smithsonian Institution, the
adoption of the centigrade scale of the thermometer. This is a sub-
ject, indeed, worthy of the attention of the Regents. It should, how-
ever, be discussed with caution, and be decided only after due delibera-
tion.

The first idea of reports on the progress of knowledge, with which
we are acquainted, is due to the Emperor Napoleon, who called upon
the French Academy of Sciences, to present him with accounts of the
progress of the different branches of knowledge within a given period.
Until within the last few years the only regular reports of the kind
were those presented to the Swedish Academy. Since that time, how-
ever, a series of annual reports on chemistry have been commenced
by an association ef gentlemen in France, and also a series on the dif-
ferent branches of material science, by the Physical Society of Berlin.
The several numbers of the latter are now in progress of translation, in
order to furnish in part the materials for the reports to be prepared for
the Smithsonian Institution during the coming year.

Although comparatively little has been done in our country in the
way of original research, yet it might be important that the Institution
should call tor the preparation of a report on the history of the progress
of original science in America down to the end of the present half
century. This report would exhibit a constant increase in the number
and importance of the researches made in our country, and might be
found of much service in giving due credit to the labors of those who
have been really engaged in the advance of knowledge among us. A
report of this kind, however, would require the association of a number
of persons combining literary with scientific attainments.

Occasional publication of separate treatises on subjects of general interest.

This part of the plan of organization requires to be carried into ope-
ration with much caution. It is liable to much abuse, unless the pub-
166 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

lication be restricted to a well defined range, viz: to scientific
reports on the present state of knowledge of a given subject, to pre-
cede the periodical reports; to translations from foreign languages of
papers of general interest ; and occasionally, perhaps, the exposition of
a subject on which, at a particular time, popular knowledge is required.
We should be careful not to establish a precedent which may lead us
into difficulty, in the way of declining the publication of works which
may be presented to us. Scarcely a week passes in which the Institu-
tion is not requested to publish some essay or compilation, and the
funds which can be devoted to all our publications would not suffice
for one half of those offered of this kind. The only work of this class
which has yet been attempted by the Institution, is one entitled,
‘“¢ Fints on Public Architecture,’ under the direction of the Building
Committee. Although the Secretary’s name was mentioned in the reso-
lution authorizing the publication of this treatise, yet he has thus far
had no connexion with it. The publication was authorized before the
details of the plan of organization were fully settled. It was at first
intended merely as a report of the Building Committee, giving an
account of the plans submitted, and the one adopted for the Smithsonian
building, together with a report of the investigations of the committee
with regard to the materials of construction, &c. It was afterwards
changed into the form of a regular treatise, in order that it might be re-
ferred to a commission of persons chosen to examine it, and that, the
Institution might thus be relieved from the responsibility of pronoune-
ing upon its fitness for publication. I think it important that, besides
the preface of this work, a full account of its origin should be given in
an introductory advertisement.

Library.

During the past year the library has continued to increase by dona-
tions, and by the books which have been deposited by publishers, in
accordance with the 10th section of the act establishing the Institution.
The requirements of this act are, however, not strictly observed by all
publishers ; and I would direct the attention of the Board to a special
report of the Assistant Secretary with reference to this pomt. 'The
whole subject will probably come before Congress during its present
session.

Professor Jewett, the Assistant Secretary, has been industriously en-
gaged during the past year in procuring statistics of the libraries of the
United States, and in digesting plans for the details of the library of the
Institution, and I beg leave to refer you to the able and interesting
report of the results of his labors, herewith submitted. A considerable
portion of the copies of the Smithsonian Contributions will be presented
to public institutions which publish transactions, and which are able to
present us in return with additions to our library. ‘The volume now in
process of distribution has been preceded by a circular requesting ex-
changes of the works of all institutions which issue transactions and
catalogues of all libraries to which the Contributions may be sent.
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 167

Preparation for lecturing.

The plan of organization contemplates a series of free lectures, par-
ticularly during the session of Congress. ‘These will be commenced as
soon as the building is ready for the purpose. This part of the plan
also cannot be put into full operation until after the building is com-
pleted. A number of gentlemen have consented to favor us with their
services. Men of talents, however, cannot be expected to leave their
homes and subject themselves to the expense of visitng Washington,
and to the trouble of preparing a course of lectures, without a proper
remuneration. It will be necessary, therefore, that an annual appropri-
ation be made for this purpose. ‘The amount, however, must necessa-
rily be small until the building is completed, or until all the interest of
the fund can be devoted to the primary objects of the Institution. Be-
sides this, the lecture-room in the east wing, now finished, will scarcely
hold more than five hundred persons, while the one in the main build-
ing is intended to accommodate twice as many.

Donation.

Dr. Robert Hare, of Philadelphia, having resigned the chair of che-
mistry in the University of Pennsylvania, which he had filled with honor
to himself and his country for nearly thirty years, has presented to the
Smithsonian Institution the instruments of research and _ illustration,
collected and used by himself during his long and successful scientific
career. Many of these instruments are the invention of the donor, are
connected with his reputation, and belong to the history of the science
of our day. The gift is important, not only on account of its intrinsic
value, but also as establishing a precedent of liberality, which we trust
will be frequently observed by others, as well as being an expression of
Dr. Hare’s approbation of the plan and confidence in the stability of
the Institution. A number of other donations have been received, of
which a list, with the names of the donors, will be given in a subse-
quent report.

In view of what has been stated in the foregoing report, the Secre-
tary trusts that the Board of Regents will be satisfied, if ever they had
any doubts on the subject, that the plan adopted is one well calculated
to carry out the benevolent intentions of the donor, of increasing and
diffusing knowledge among men; and that a satisfactory answer has
been given to the question frequently asked, namely, When is the Insti-
tution to begin? It will be seen that it has commenced the most im-
portant part of its operations, and the results are now in progress of
dissemination in every part of the civilized world.

Respectfully submitted,
JOSEPH HENRY,

Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.
y:
168 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

THIRD ANNUAL REPORT

Of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, for the year 1849.

To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution:

GENTLEMEN: In accordance with the resolution that the Secretary
shall present at each annual meeting of the Board of Regents an account
ot the operations of the Institution “during the past year, I respectfully
submit the following.

Agreeably to the ‘scheme of finance adopted by the Board, the greater
portion of all the income of the Smithsonian fund is at present devoted
to the erection of the building; and until this is paid for, the money

which can be appropriated to the active operations of the Institution will
be comparatively small, not only small in proportion to the demands
made upon it, but small in reference to the results which the public
generally expect it to produce. It is believed, however, that a proper
consideration of the facts presented in the following report will warrant
the conclusion, that the Institution, during the past year, has been gradu-
ally extending its sphere of usefulness, and successfully bringing into
operation the different parts of its plan of organization.

It will be recollected that the several propositions of the programme
were adopted provisionally, and it is gratifying to be able to state that
experience thus far has indicated no important changes. The general
plan has continued to receive the approbation of the enlightened public
both in this country and in Europe, and to increase general confidence
in the power of the Institution to confer important benefits on our country
and the world.

In presenting the different operations of the Institution, I shall adopt,
as in my last report, the principal divisions of the programme :

1st. Publication of memoirs in quarto volumes, consisting of positive
additions to knowledge.

2d. Institution of original researches, under the direction of competent
persons.

dd. The publication of a series of reports, giving the present state
and progress of different branches of knowledge.

4th. Formation of a library and museum of objects of nature and art.

Sth. Lectures.

Publication of Memoirs.

Agreeably to the plan of the Institution, these memoirs are mtended
to embody the results of researches which could not otherwise be readily
published, and are to be distributed to societies, public libraries, and other
institutions. An account of the first memoir Was given in the last report.
It relates to the ancient monuments of the Mississippi valley, and occu-
pies an entire volume. It has been presented, as far as opportunity would
permit, to the principal literary and scientific societies of the world, to
all the colleges and larger libraries of this country, and has everywhere

;
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 169

been received with much commendation. All the societies from which
we have as yet heard, have declared their willingness to co-operate
with the Institution, and to give us their publications in exchange, from
which source our library has already been enriched with valuable
additions. :

It is to be regretted that our means would not permit us to distribute
the first volume more liberally than we have done, and that the price put
upon the copies offered for sale has placed them beyond the reach of
many persons desirous of obtaining them. This arose trom the fact, that
in order to remunerate the authors for the expense and labor bestowed
on the memoir, they were allowed to strike off from the types and plates
af the Institution an edition to be sold for their own benefit. 'To avoid
risk of loss, the edition was a small one, and the price put at ten dollars.
An occurrence of this kind will not happen again; for, although it would
be desirable to pay authors for their contributions, yet it is now found
that materials will be offered, free of all cost, more than sufficient to
exhaust the portion of the income which can be devoted to publications.

In printing the future volumes it will be advisable to strike off an
extra number of copies for sale on account of the Institution, and to dis-
pose of those for little more than the mere cost of press-work and
paper.

'The second volume of Contributions is now in the press, and will con-
sist of a number of memoirs which have been submitted to competent
judges and found worthy of a place in the Smithsonian publications. In
this volume we have adopted the plan of printing each memoir with a
separate title and paging. The object of this is to enable us to distri-
bute extra copies of each memoir separately, and also to furnish the
author with a number of copies regularly paged for his own use. It
will likewise enable us to classify the memoirs according to subjects.

The following is a brief account of the memoirs contained in the
second volume, so far as they have been reported on by the commis-
sioners to whom they have been submitted:

1. A memoir on the planet Neptune, by Sears C. Walker.—An abstract
of this memoir has been published in the proceedings of the American
Philosophical Society, and has received the approbation of the scientific
world. It presents the several steps of the discovery of an orbit which
has enabled Mr. Walker to compute the place of the new planet with
as much precision as that of any of the planets which have been known
from the earliest times.* Starting from the observations of the motion
of the planet during a period of about four months, Mr. Walker calcu-
lated an empirical orbit, which enabled him to trace its path among the
stars of the celestial vault through its whole revolution of 166 years. He
was thus enabled to carry its position backward until it fell among a clus-
ter of stars accurately mapped by Lalande towards the close of the last
century; and, after a minute and critical investigation, he was led to
conclude that one of the stars observed by Lalande on the night of May

*It is proper to state that a part of the researches given in this memoir was made during
the author’s connexion with the National Observatory, under the direction of Lieutenant
Maury. An account of these will probably soon be published in the next volume of the
records of operations of this observatory.
170 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

10, 1795, was the planet Neptune. This conclusion was rendered
almost certainty by the observation, made on the first clear night, that
all the stars in the cluster above mentioned were found in place, except
the one previously fixed upon as the new planet. Some hesitation was
created, however, by noting that the missing star in Lalande’s maps
was marked as doubtful. In order to settle this difficulty, the original
manuscript of the astronomer deposited in the Observatory of Paris was
referred to. It was then found that Lalande had twice observed the
same star; and not finding the right ascension and declination each
time the same, and not dreaming it was a planet, he selected one of the

observations for publication, marking the position indicated doubtful.
The planet had moved during the interval of observation, and thus pro-
duced the discrepancy. By allowing for the movement during the time
elapsed, the two observations precisely agree. There could, therefore,
be no longer any doubt that this star, observed and mapped filty years
ago as a fixed star, was in reality the planet Neptune. Mr. Walker,
availing himself of this discovery, had now a series of observations em-
bracing not a few months of the motion of the planet, bat which carried
it back fifty years. From these data he was enabled to deduce a pure
elliptical orbit, or one which the body would describe were there no
other planets inthe system. This orbit has been investigated by another
of our countrymen in a series of profound and beautiful researches, ad-
ding much to our knowledge both of Neptune and Uranus. I allude to
the labors of Professor Peirce, of Cambridge.

It is well known that the planet Neptune was discovered by mathe-
matical deductions from the perturbations observed in Uranus, and that
Leverrier and Adams, the independent authors of this discovery, not
ouly pointed out the direction in which the unseen planet was to be
found, but also, from a@ priori considerations, gave the dimensions, form,
and position of the orbit it describes around the sun. The direction
indicated was the true one, but the elements of the orbit were widely
different from those subsequently found to belong to the actual orbit of
the planet. Professor Peirce submitted the data used by Leverrier and
Adams to a new and critical examination, and succeeded in discover-
ing the cause of their error, and of verifying the conclusions of Mr.
Walker. He afterwards proceeded to consider the inverse problem,
viz: that of deducing the perturbations which Neptune ought to pro-
duce in the planet Uranus. His final results gave a perfect explanation
of all the anomalies in the motions of Uranus, and furnished the data,
for the first time since its discovery in 1781, for correct tables for
determining its position in the heavens. Professor Peirce also investi-
gated the action of all the other planets on Neptune, and his results enar
bled Mr. Walker, by applying them to his elliptical orbit, to compare
the actual with the calculated place of the planet. This led toa further
correction of the elliptical orbit, and a more perfect table of calculated
places. In this way, by a series of profound and beautiful investiga-
tions, alternately combining the data of observation with theoretical
considerations, these two as‘ronomers have perfected our knowledge of
the motion of the most distant planets of our system, and furnished the
means of giving their past and future position through all time. The

details of Mr. Peirce’s paper have not yet been prepared for the press.

‘
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 171

They will probably be given in due time to the world as a part of the
Smithsonian Contributions.

The investigations mentioned in the foregoing account have been at-
tended with very laborious arithmetical calculations. A small appro-
priation has been made to defray, in part, the expense of these. Indeed,
without the aid thus given, the discoveries we have related would
scarcely have been made—at least at this time, and in our country.

2. The next memoir is An account of the discovery of a Comet by Miss
Maria Mitchell, of Nantucket, with its approximate orbit, calculated by
herself. The honor of this discovery has been duly awarded to the
author. A medal has been presented to her by the King of Denmark,
and the comet itself is now known to astronomers in every part of the
world by her name. From the peculiarities of the case, the Executive
Committee recommended that a small premium be presented to Miss
Mitchell.

3. The third memoir is On a new method of solving Cubic Equations, by
Professor Strong, of New Brunswick, New Jersey ; a purely mathemati-
cal paper, which has been pronounced an interesting addition to that
branch of science.

4. The fourth memoir is A contribution to the Physical Geography of the
United States. It presents a section, from actual surveys, of the descent
of the bed of the Ohio river from its source, in the State of New York,
to its mouth, on the Mississippi. By a series of observations and elabo-
rate calculations, the author exhibits the amount of water which passed
down the river during a period of eleven years prior to 1849. This,
compared with the amount of rain which fell during the same time on
the surface drained by the river, gives a series of interesting results in
reference to evaporation.

It also contains a proposition for improving the navigation of the
Ohio, founded upon data given in the preceding part of the memoir.
Whatever may be the result of the plan here proposed, this memoir has
been recommended for publication as a valuable addition to the physi-
eal geography of the United States. The author is Charles Ellet, jr.,
the celebrated engineer of the wire bridges over the Niagara and Ohio
rivers. Another memoir is promised by the same author, which will
be a continuation of the same subject.

5. The fifth memoir is contributed by Dr. Robert Hare, of Philadel-
phia, and is intended to elucidate the remarkable phenomena exhibited
at the great fire in the city of New York on the 19th of July, 1846,
during which two hundred and thirty houses were destroyed, containing
merchandise amounting in value to sixty-two millions of dollars. ‘A
series of detonations, successively increasing in loudness, were followed
by a final explosion, which tore in pieces the building in which it took
place, threw down several houses in its vicinity, and forced in the fronts
of the houses on the opposite side of the street.””. These effects were
attributed to gunpowder, though the owner of the building in which the
explosion occurred declared that none of this article was present, but
that the house contained a large quantity of nitre, in connexion with
merchandise of a combustible nature.

This memoir contains a series of investigations relative to the explo-
sions which may be produced by heated nitre in connexion with carbon-
172 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

aceous matters. The author shows, by numerous experiments, that
explosions of a violent kind can be produced by forcibly bringing into
coniact at a high temperature, nitre, and substances of an indlannndole
character. It falso contains several new experiments on the combustion
of gunpowder under different cireumstances.

6. The sixth memoir is On the Ancient Monuments of the State of New
York, by E. G. Squier, and may be regarded as a continuation of the
memoir by Squier and Davis on the ancient monuments of the Missis-
sippi valley. The expense of the explorations which form the basis of
this memoir was two hundred dollars, one half of which was defrayed
by the members of the Historical Society of New York, and the re-
mainder by this Institution.

7. Another memoir is by Professor Secchi, a young Italian of much
ingenuity and learning, a member of Georgetown College. It consists
of a new mathematical investigation of the reciprocal action of two
galvanic currents on each other, and of the action of a current on the
pole of a magnet. It begins with the assumption that the force be-
tween the elements of the currents and the magnet is inversely as the
square of the distance, and directly as the sine of the inclination, and
then presents the mathematical inferences which legitimately flow from
these data. ‘The deductions are of such a nature that the author has
been able to verify them by means of well devised experiments, and
the results accord as nearly with the deductions as the complex nature
of the subject will admit. The investigations involve the mathematical
theory of the galvanometer, and the experiments furnish much interest-
ing and useful information, aside from the principal object of the
memoir, particularly on the comparative value of different kinds of
galvanic batteries.

8. The next paper is by Professor Louis Agassiz, of Harvard Uni-
versity, and is entitled The Classification of Insects upon Embryological
Data. It gives an account of a series of new and interesting facts ob-
served by t the author relative to the metamorphosis of insects, which
have an important bearing on general questions in zoology, and which
will probably lead to the arrangement of these animals according to a
new system of classification, founded upon more definite principles
than those heretofore adopted.

9. The next is a memoir by Dr. R. W. Gibbes, on the Mosasaurus
and some new allied genera of the gigantic hzards which formerly in-
habited our planet, and of which the remains are now found in different
parts of the United States, particularly in the marl beds of various
parts of the country. This is an interesting addition to paleontology,
and has received a favorable report from fhe commission to whom it
was referred.

Researches.

The programme of organization contemplates the establishment of
researches, under the direction of suitable persons, the expense to be
borne in whole or in part by the Institution. In the last report it was
mentioned that a telescope and other apparatus had been ordered for

Lieutenant Gilliss in his astronomical expedition to — and that, with-
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 173

out this assistance, the expedition would have been delayed a year. I
am now, however, happy to state that the expense of these instruments
has since been paid by an appropriation of Congress; and the Institu-
tion has thus been the means of promoting the objects of the expedition
without any expenditure of its income. Certain improvements in as-
tronomical instruments, however, have been made since the departure
of Lieutenant Gilliss which would much facilitate his observations, and
enable him to do much more with his small number of assistants; and
it may be well for the Institution to furnish him with instruments of this
kind.

Under the head of researches it may also be mentioned that, during
the past year, we have caused to be computed, at the expense of the
Institution, an ephemeris of Neptune, giving the position of the planet
in the heavens from August 4, 1846, to February 4, 1848, and also in
the last half years of 1848 and 1849. ‘This ephemeris is based on the
orbit of Neptune established by Mr. Walker and corrected by the per-
turbations of the planet Neptune by the action of Jupiter, Saturn, and
Uranus, as deduced fiom the mathematical investigations of Professor
Peirce, of Harvard University.

We have distributed copies of this ephemeris to all persons known
to us who are interested in practical astronomy, not only in this country

but in Europe. It has been received with high conimendation, and is
p 5

found to give the actual place of the planet in the heavens within the
limits of a few tenths of a second of arc; indeed, the coincidence of the
calculated and observed places is so marked, that, were the actual
planet of the heavens and that of the ephemeris to be considered as a
double star, they would have so close a proximity that no telescope yet
constructed could separate them.

Occultations for 1850.

A set of tables in continuation of those mentioned in the last and
preceding report for facilitating the calculation of the appearance of
occultations of fixed stars by the moon during the year 1850 has been
prepared by Mr. Downes, of Philadelphia, and published by the Insti-
tution. At the last session of Congress an appropriation was made for
establishing a Nautical Almanac, which will furnish, among other aids
to astronomical observation, sets of tables of the kind just mentioned.
Lieutenant Davis, of the United States navy, to whom the superintend-
ence of this national work has been entrusted, recommended that the
expense of the preparation of the tables for 1850 should be defrayed
from the appropriation for the Almanac; and this recommendation has
been concurred in by the Secretary of the Navy. The Institution has,
therefore, been called upon merely to pay for the printing and distribu-
tion of the tables, and thus again enabled, with a small outlay of its
funds, to afford important facilities for the advance of science.

Meteorology.

Under the general head of researches we may also give an account
of the progress made in establishing the system of meteorological ob-
174 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

servations proposed in the preceding reports. Circulars describing the
plan of operation were distributed to the several parts of the Union
through members of Congress at the last session, and the results fully
equalled our anticipations. From localities widely separated from
each other, and distributed over the greater portion of the United States,
about one hundred and fifty monthly returns are now regularly re-
ceived. ‘To carry on this system efficiently, much labor is necessarily
required in the way of correspondence ; but it bids fair to furnish the
Institution with a wide field of usefulness in bringing it into communi-
cation with individuals who, though secluded in position, are desirous
of improving themselves, as well as of promoting general knowledge.
The correspondence we have thus established, and which we hope to
extend, through the aid of the members of the present Congress, will
enable us to acquire definite information on a variety of subjects besides
those which relate te meteorology. We have already accumulated in
this way a mass of curious and instructive information, which we hope,
in the progress of the development of the plan of the Institution, to digest
and present to the public.

We would mention in this connexion that two of our meteorological
correspondents have proposed the collection of statistics of diseases in-
cluding the rise, progress, and decline of epidemics. ‘This is a subject
we would commend to the American Medical Association. The Smith-
sonian Institution could assist in an enterprise of this kind by receiving
the in‘ormation which is attainable, and collating it, under the direction
of a committee of gentlemen belonging to the medical profession.

It will be recollected that our plan of meteorological observations em-
braces three classes of observers—one to record the changes in the aspect
of the sky, the direction of the wind, beginning and ending of rain,

snow, &c.; another, in addition, to give an account of the changes of

temperature indicated by the thermometer ; and a third, furnished with

a full set of instruments for recording the most important atmospheric —

changes. The importance of the information which may be derived
from a careful record of the weather without instruments can scarcely
be realized by persons who have given but little attention to the subjects
The place of origin, direction, velocity of motion of a storm, as well as

the direction and velocity of the wind which composes it, whether gyra-_

tory or inward and upward, may all be determined by a sufficient amount
of data of the kind we have mentioned. Also, a careful record of the
observations of meteors seen by individuals from different positions

would furnish interesting data for determining the elevation and velocity

of these mysterious visitors.

There are other data which can only be obtained by the use of accu-
rate instruments ; fortunately, however, 2. comparativ ely small number
of observers are sufficient for determining these. The instruments should
be of the best possible construction, placed i in important situations, and

observed at suitable times and with undeviating regularity by competent _
observers. Few persons are acquainted with the difficulty of procuring —
accurate meteorological instruments. The ordinary thermometers for
sale in the s shops freque ntly differ several degrees from each other, par-
ticularly at the higher and the lower temperatures, and even the same
thermometer is liable, for a time after its construction, to undergo a
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 175

change in the size of the bulb, and thus to derange the accuracy of the
scale. An accurate barometer is another instrument which cannot
readily be obtained, unless at too great a price for the means of ordinary
observers. ‘The common weather glasses, sold under the name of
barometers, though they may be of use in indicating variations of atmo-
spheric pressure, and thus assist in furnishing data for determining the
progress of aerial waves, are inapplicable to the precise and accurate
observations necessary to determine the minute changes of atmospheric
pressure, or to ascertain the height of places above the level of the
sea.

Considerable pains have been taken during the past year to ascertain
the best form of a barometer, which could be procured at a reasonable
cost; and, after considerable inquiry and comparison of different instru-
ments, we have at length decided upon one, with an adjustable cistern
and enclosed in a brass: case, which may be transported to a distance,
and will serve as well for a mountain barometer as for indicating
meteorological changes. For the construction of these instruments, we
have employed Mr. James Green, formerly of Baltimore, now of New
York; and in order that the instruments furnished by him to ourselves,
or sold to our observers, may be comparable with each other, we have
procured a standard barometer from London, with which each in-
strument, previously numbered, is accurately compared, and the record
carefully preserved. We have also decided upon the forms of rain
and snow guages and wind vanes, and have ordered a number of these
to be constructed by Benjamin Pike & Son, Broadway, New York.

It is the policy of the Institution to do as much with its funds as possi-
ble, and to call m aid from every quarter whence it may be obtained.
With reference to the system of meteorology, I am happy to inform the
Board that we have received assistance from a number of sources from
which it could scarcely have been expected at the commencement of
the scheme. ‘The last Congress appropriated two thousand dollars for
meteorology, to be expended under the direction of the Navy Depart-
ment. It was understood that Professor Espy was to be engaged in
the investigations to be made in accordance with this appropriation,
and, in order that his labors might co-operate with those of the Institu-
tion, the late Secretary of the Navy directed him to apply to me for
instructions. During the past year he has been engaged in directing
observations and making preparation for a series of experiments having
an important bearing on the explanation of meteorological phenomena.
It is understood that the remainder of this appropriation, after paying
the salary of Mr. Espy, will be expended in defraying incidental ex-
penses, such as printing, engraving, &c.

The Regents of the University of the State of New York, in 1825,
organized a system of meteorology, which has continued ever since, and
which has added many interesting facts to the stock of scientific know-
ledge. In order to extend the usefulness of this system, the Regents of
the University have lately resolved to reorganize the whole, and to
supply ihe observers with accurate and well compared instruments.
This work has been intrusted to Dr. T. Romeyn Beck and one of our
Regents, Gideon Hawley, esq., both of Albany. They have adopted
the same system and instruments as those of the Smithsonian Institution,
176 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

and have agreed to co-operate fully with us in the observation of the
general and particular phenomena of meteorology. A similar move-
ment has been made in the legislature of Massachusetts for the establish-
ment of a system of observations; and it is hoped that the other States
of the Union will follow these examples. We are also happy to state
that the medical department of the army, under the direction of Surgeon
General Lawson, has signified its willingness to unite with us in the
same system, and to furnish the new military posts with instruments
constructed on the same plan, and compared with the Snuithsonian
standard. We hope, therefore, within the coming year, that there will
be established at least fifty stations in different parts of North America,
furnished with accurate instruments of this kind.

During the past summer I visited Canada, principally for the purpose
of examining the meteorological instruments and the method of using
them employed at the Observatory of Toronto. Captain Lefroy, the
director of this institution, afforded me every facility tor acquiring the
desired information. He also furnished me with a list of military posts
in Canada at which observations may be made, and gave assurance of
the hearty co-operation in our labors of the officers attached to these
posts. We have also a prospect of procuring permanent observations
from Bermuda, sume of the West India islands, and from Central
America.

From all these statements, it will be seen we are in a fair way of
establishing a general system of meteorology, extending over a great
portion of North America, including many stations furnished with com-
pared instruments referred to the same standard. When fully organ-
ized, it will constitute one of the most important systems ever instituted 5
but to bring it fully into operation will require a judicious expenditure
of all the funds at our disposal for this purpose. At the last session of
the Board one thousand dollars were appropriated for meteorological
purposes, the greater portion of which has been expended for instru-
ments, among which are those to serve as standards; an equal sum, at
least, will be required for the next year.

In connexion with the regular meteorological system, successful ap-
plications have been made to the presidents of a number of telegraph
lines to allow us, at a certain period of the day, the use of their wires
for the transmission of meteorological intelligence. We propose to fur-
nish the most important offices along the lines with sets of instruments,
and to give the operators special instructions for the observation of par-

ticular phenomena. It is hoped by this means to obtain results not —

otherwise accessible. Instruments for this purpose are now in process
of construction, and as soun as they are completed the transmission of —
observations will commence.

The establishment of the extended system of meteorology which we
have just described is a work of time and labor, the correspondence
alone being sufficient constantly to occupy the time of one person; and
the adjustment of the several parts of the plan has required more time
than my other engagements would permit me to devote to it.
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. L77
Magnetic Observations.

A set of magnetic apparatus was ordered from London for the pur-
pose of determining the lines of magnetic intensity, declination, and
inclination. These are intrusted to Colonel Emory, of the Boundary
Commission, and in his possession they will probably be made to do
good service in the cause of science. As soon as the funds will admit
of the appropriation, it would be advisable to purchase several sets of
instruments of the same kind, to be placed in the hands of the scientific
explorers of our new territories, and for determining the principal mag-
netic lines across the United States.

Physical Geography.

Another subject of much interest connected with the physical geo-
graphy of our country is the collection of the statistics of all railway
and canal explorations which have been made in various parts of the
United States and Canada. This information, at present in the pos-
session of individuals, is of little value, and, unless collected by some
public institution, will soon be lost to the world. Surveys of this kind
furnish the most exact data for the determination of what may be called
the mountain bases, or general water-sheds of the surface ; and no por-
tion of the world of the same extent has been so thoroughly traversed
with these explorations as the United States. Connected with these,
sketches should be made of the principal mountain ranges, barometri-
cal measurements of the higher peaks, with geological sections of the
strata through which the public works are carried. For the purpose
of commencing this collection, we have addressed letters to all persons
within our knowledge who possess information of this kind, requesting
memoirs from them containing results of their own measurements and
observations. By this means we hope to present a series of papers of
the same character as that of Mr. Ellet, and thus furnish materials for
a more accurate physical map of North America, as well as the means,
in connexion with our operations in meteorology, for a more exact
study of our climate.

During the past year Professor Guyot has made a barometrical ex-
ploration of the mountain system of New Hampshire, and he purposes
to devote a portion of each year to investigations of this kind.

Natural EXstory.

Our new possessions in Oregon, California, and Mexico offer interest-
ing fields for scientific inquiry, particularly in the line of natural history ;
and Dr. Gray, of Cambridge, and Dr. Engleman, of St. Louis, aided
by several scientific gentlemen interested in this branch of science,
have sent a number of collectors to develop the resources of those re-
gions, particularly so far as the botany is concerned.

Among these, Mr. Charles Wright has been engaged to make ex-
plorations during the past year in New Mexico, at the expense of a
subscription by individuals and institutions. He has just returned laden
with a valuable collection of plants, seeds, &c., which are to be divided

12
178 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

among those who defrayed the expense. Jn behalf of the Smithsormar
Institution $150 was subscribed towards this enterprise, and for this we
are entitled to a full set of all the objects collected. These are to be
submitted to Dr. Gray, of Cambridge, to be described in a memoir by
him, and to be published in the Smithsonian Contributions. Mr. Wright
is expected to start on another expedition early in the spring, for the
purpose of making explorations in natural history in the regions around
El Paso; and it oath be well for the Smithsonian Institution to further
assist this laudable enterprise with another subscription of an equal
amount.

We have also purchased, for the sum of $20, a set of the plants cok
lected by Mr. Fendler in the vicinity of Santa Fé during the year 1847.
This adventurous explore er, under the direction of the “gentleman pre-
viously mentioned, is now engaged in investigating the botany of the
great valley of the Salt ales an it is proposed fiicther to ussist him
by the purch ase of a set of the collections he may obtam. By co
operating in this way with individuals and institutions we are enabled,
at a small expense, materially to advance the cause of science.

Ancient Monuments.

Another object, the prosecution of which fatls particularly within
the province of the Institution, is that of obtainmg descriptions of the
ancient monuments of North America. Circulars have been sent to
gentlemen in various parts of the country, requesting them to furnish
surveys and explor ations of mounds, and other ancient works, which
are reputed to exist in their vicinity. ‘To facilitate these investiga-
tions, we have requested the authors of the first volume to draw up,
from the results of their experience, a set of instructions for the proper
examination and description of works of this kind. The same sub-
ject has also been placed before several historical societies, established
in places where mounds are known to exist. In connexion with this
subject, we cannot too highly commend the policy of the new Terri-
tory of Minnesota, which, among the first of its acts, has established
a Historical Society, to gather up the record of events as they occur,
and thus to preserve the unappreciated facts of the present—destined
to become history in the future. An important and interesting part of
the labors of such societies would be the surv« ey and exploration of
the ancient monuments which might be found in their vicinity. Brief
accounts of these might be published i in the proceedings of the socie-
ties, while detailed descriptions and drawings could be given to the
world at the expense and through the transactions of the ‘Smithsoumm
Institution.

The publication of our first volume has awakened a lively interest
in this subject, and we have received accounts of various locations of
mounds and other ancient works in different parts of the country which
were previously unknown. A gentleman, well qualified for the task,
is now engaged in preparing for us an ethnological chart indicaung the
relative positions, as far as they are known, of all the ae of
this kind. This chart may be improved from time to time, and will
be the means of eliciting important additional information. Indeed this
|

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTTON. 179

whole subject should be prosecuted by the Institution, until all acces-
ible information has been collected. The Smithsonian Institution owes
this to the world. The work should be done quickly; for the plough,
as well as the elements, are every year rendering less visible the out-
Jines and distinctive forms of these remnarts of the arts and policy ot
the ancient inhabitants of this continent.

Bibliographia Americana.

In the last report an account is given of the preparation of a work
‘on the bibliography of America, by Henry Stevens, of Vermont. This
work, it will be recollected, is to contain a brief f Aboot of every book
published in, or relating to, North America, prior to 1700, w ith refer-
ences to the differert libraries in. this and other countries in which
these works are to be found. The Institution agreed to publish thrs
work at its own expense, provided, on examination by a commission of
competent judges, it is found properly executed. Mr. Stevens is now
engaged in the British Museum cataloguing all the works embraced
in this plan, and informs me that he is making good progress in his
“enterprise.

Reports on the Progress of Knowledge.

Of the reports on the progress of knowledge proposed in the plan of
organization, none have as vee been published, though several of those
aentioned:i in my report of last year have been complete d, OF are’Very
nearly ready for the press. "The appropriations, however, for the last
year were not found safficient for carryimg out further this part of the
plan.

The most important report now in progress is that on the forest-trees
‘of North America, by Dr. Gray, Professor of Botany in Harvard Uni-
versity. {tis intended in this work to give figures from original draw-
ings of the flowers, leaves, fruit, &c., of aaa principal species in the
United States proper, for the most part of the size of nature, and so
executed as to furnish colored or uncolored Sa first being in-
_ tended to give an adequate idea of the species, and the second for
| ‘greater cheapness and more general diffusion.

This work will be completed in three parts, in octavo, with an atlas
of quarto piates—the first part to be published next spring. A portion
‘of this will be occupied with an introductory dissertation giving the
present state of our knowledge, divested as much as possible of all
unnecessary technical terms—of the anatomy, morphology, and physt-
ology of the tree—tracing its growth from the embryo to its full deve-
Jopment and reproduction in the formation of fruit and seed. This
will be illustrated by drawings from original dissections under the
microscope, and sketches made, in every instance, from nature. As

_ the work will be adapted to general comprehension, it will be of inter-

5 a
est to the popular as well as the scientific reader.

Report on the history of the discovery of the planet Neptune. —The first
part of a report on recent discoveries in astronomy has been completed,

and is ready for the press. ‘This is written by Dr. B. A. Gould, of
180 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

Cambridge, editor of the American Astronomical Journal. Copious
references to authorities are given in foot-notes, which will render the
work interesting to the professed astronomer as well as to the less
advanced student.

A report has been prepared by Professor Guyot, late of the Univer-
sity of Neufchatel, on the construction and use of meteorological instru-
ments, more particularly designed for distribution among our meteoro-
logical observers. This gentleman is now engaged, at ache expense of
the Regents of the Univers sity of the State of New: York, in establishing
a new system of met teorology, and in instructing the observers in the
use of the instruments; for which service he is well adapted by his
experience in a similar ‘undertaking in Switzerland.

The report on the application of chemistry to agriculture is also
nearly ready for the press. Thisis by Dr. Lewis C. Beck, of Rutgers
College, New Jersey.

Collections.
*

Apparatus.—The plan of organization also contemplates the forma-
tion of a museum of physical instruments, which may be used for ex-
perimental illustration and original research, and may serve as models
to workmen as well as to illustrate the general progress of inventions
in this line.

The munificent donation of Dr. Hare has enabled us to commence
this collection with very flattering prospects. It now contains, besides
the articles of Dr. Hare, instruments for the illustration of the principles
of light, heat, and sound, procured from Paris, and a full set of pneu-
matic instruments, of superior size and workmanship, constructed ex-
pressly for the Institution by Mr. Chamberlain, of Boston; also, a
number of chemical articles purchased during the last year ; a set of
magnetical instruments, already noticed ;°a standard barometer and
thermometers, and other meteorological instruments, procured from
Europe. Itis proper that I mention, in this place, that we are in-
debted to Professor Snell, of Amherst, for superintending the construc-
tion of a set of very ingenious instruments devised by himself for the
illustration of wave motion. It is believed that the collection of instru-
ments of research will, in due time, not only form a feature of great
interest, but that it will surpass in extent similar collections in other
countries.

It is intended to publish a descriptive catalogue of all the instru-
ments, for the use of visitors; and it may be advisable to illustrate this
by wood-cuts, particularly as we have had presented to us all the wood
engravings employed by Dr. Hare in describing his apparatus.

It is not in accordance with the plan of or ganization to confine the
instruments of observation to the immediate use of the officers of the
institution but to suffer them to be employed, under certain restrictions,
by others who are possessed of the requisite degree of skill. This
practice may be attended in some cases with loss, and the breakage of |
instruments; but the expenditure which may be incurred on this account
will probably be more than compensated by the advance to knowledge
resulting from the adoption of the plan.

'

|

|
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 18]
A small appropriation has been made for collections in natural his-
tory during the past year; and, under the direction of a distinguished
young naturalist, upwards of ten thousand specimens of vertebrated
animals, principally reptiles and fishes, have been obtained. Many of
these are rare specimens from unexplored parts of our country, and a
considerable number of them consists of undescribed species. They
furnish the materials for an interesting series of memoirs on physiology,
embryology, and comparative anatomy. The whole cost of making
this collection did not exceed $140. We are convinced, from the im-
portant results obtained by this small expenditure, that a most valuable
working collection of objects of the natural history of North America
ean be obtained at a very moderate outlay of funds.

Library.

During the past year the process of developing the plan of the
library, as given in the programme, has been carried out by Professor
Jewett as far as the funds which could be devoted to the purpose would
allow.

Considerable progress has been made in the plan of forming a gen-
eral catalogue of all the important libraries in the United States; and
Professor Jewett has wisely commenced the preparation of a catalogue
of all the books to be found in the different libraries in the city of Wash-
ington, including those of the several departments of the government;
and in this way he will be enabled to exhibit the importance of cata-
logues of this kind.

He has also devoted much time to the continuation of his researches
relative to the statistics of libraries ir this country, and for an account in
detail of his valuable labors in this line I must reter to his report here-
with transmitted. I will also direct attention to some important sug-
gestions in his report on the subject of the deposit ef books for securing
copyright, and the establishment of a bulletin.

Museum.

The formation of a museum of objects of nature and of art requires
much caution. With a given income to be appropriated to the purpose,
atime must come when the cost of keeping the objects will just equal
the amount of the appropriation ; after this no further increase can take
place. Also, the tendency of an Institution of this kind, unless guarded
against, will be to expend its funds on a heterogenous collection of ob-
_ jects of mere curiosity ; whereas the plan presented in the programme
contemplates complete definite collections arranged for scientific pur-
_ poses, rather than for popular display.

_ Inthis connexion there is one point which I beg to present to the
_ consideration of the Board as one of much importance, and which, if
_ possible, should be decided at this meeting, because on it will depend
_ the arrangement of that part of the building devoted to natural history.
_Tallude to the acceptance of the museum of the Exploring Expedition.
E82 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

By the law incorporating this Institution, ‘all objects of art and of
foreign and curious research, and all objects of natural history, plants,
and ecological and mineralogical specimens belonging to or hereafter
to belong to the United States, which may be in the city of Washing-
ton, in whosesoever custody the same may be, shall be delivered to
such persons as may be authorized by the Board of Regents to receive
them.”

This law evidently gives to the Smithsonian Institution the museum
in the Patent Office, the conserv ratory of plants, and all specimens of
nature and art to be found in the several offices and departments of the
government. "The aet, however, cannot be construed as SaaS it
obligatory on the Regents to take charge of these articles, if, in their
opinion, it is not for the best interests of the Institution that ie should
do so. ‘Though one of the reasons urged upon the Regents for the im-
mediate erection of so large a building was the necessity of providing
accommodation for this museum, I have been, from the first, of the
opinion that it is Imexpedient to accept It.

This museum was collected at the expense of the government, and
should be preserved as a memento of the science and energy of our
navy, and as a means of illustrating and verifying the magnificent
volumes which comprise the history of that expedition. If the ‘Regents
accept this museum, it must be merged i in the Smithsonian collectunes
It could not be the intention of Congress that an Institution founded by
the liberality of a foreigner, and to which he has affixed his own name,
should be charged with the keeping of a separate museum, the property
of the United States. Besides this, the extensive museum of the Patent
Office would immediately fill the space allotted for collections of this
kind in the Smithsonian edifice, and in a short time another appropria-
tion would be required for the erection of another building. Moreover,
all the objects of interest of this collection have been described and
figured in the volumes of the expedition, and the small portion of our
funds which can be devoted to a museum may be better employed in
collecting new objects, such as have not yet been studied, than in pre-
serving those from which the harvest of discovery has already been
fully gathered.

The answer made to some of these objections has usually been, that
the government would grant an annual appropriation for the support of
the museum of the Exploring Expedition. But this would be equally
objectionable; since it would atinually bring the Institution before Con-
gress as a supplicant for government patronage, and ultimately subject
it to political influence and control.

Afier an experience of three years, I am fully convinced that the true
policy of the Institution is to ask nothing from Congress except the safe-
keeping of its fands, to mingle its operations as little as possible with
those of the general government, and to adhere in all cases to its own
distinct organization, while it co-operates with other institutions in the
way of promoting knowledge; and on the other hand, that it is desira-
ble that Congress should place as few restrictions on the Institution as
possible, Panesicat with a judicious expenditure of the income, and
that this be judged of by a proper estimate of the results produced.

'
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION: 183
Lectures.

At the last meeting of the board an appropriation of five hundred
dollars was made to defray the expense of lectures to be given betore
the Smithsonian Institution, a part of which only is expended. The
first course, in accordance with this part of the plan of organization,
was by Professor Koeppen, of Denmark, on Modern Athens. These
lectures were illustrated by a number of large drawings, for the use of
which the Institution is indebted to the Lowell Institute, of Boston. A
second course was delivered by Dr. Hitchcock, President of Amherst
College, on geology, in the lecture-room of the east wing of the Smith-
sonian building; and both courses were attended by large and appar-
ently interested audiences. The results of these lectures indicate that
much good may be effected in Washington by this means of comimuni-
cating Tees: dge. No city, perhaps, Ton the same number of inbabit-
ants, Soe nine so many intelligent and well educated persons desirous
of obtaining information; and no point in our country Is so favorably
situated for the dissemination of opinions, by means of lectures, as the
political centre of the American Union. Invitations have been given
to a number of distinguished gentlemen in different parts of the United
States to favor us with courses of lectures during the present session of
Congress, and in almost every case the invitation has been accepted.
It is ended to extend these invitations so as to call here in succession
all who have distinguished tkemselves in literature or science. We
shall mot seek mere popular lecturers, whose chief recommendation is
fluency of speech, or powers of rhetorical declamation, but chiefly those
who are entitled, from their standing and acquirements, to spei ak with
authority om the subjects of their discourse, and whose character will
tend to give due importance to their communications. It is to be re-
gretted that the amount of funds which can be devoted to this object is
64 as great as could be wished. It is hoped, however, that many
persons al. eonsider the opportunity of visiting Washington, and the
compliment paid by the invitation, as im part a remuneration for the
labor and tume which their lectures may cost. But in all cases, sufh-
cient should be allowed to defray all necessary expenses, and, as soon
as the state of the funds will permit, to reward liberally, rather than
otherwise, those who are called to assist the Institution im this way. I
forbear to publish ¢he narnes of those who have consented to lecture,
lest they should be accidentally prevented from filling their engage-
ment, and the public thus be disappointed.

To facilitate the approach to the building, at the time of these lec-
tures, the walks were temporar ily improved, EA considerable expense
to the Institution. It is hoped that the authorities of the city of Wash-
ington will cause bridges to be erected across the canal, and walks to
be constructed through the public grounds, to facilitate the approach
to the building, and that the Institution will not be expected to provide
accommodations of this kind.
184 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF
Building.

The east wing of the building was taken possession of by the Secre-
tary in April last, and has since been constantly occupied. The west
wing is now finished, and it is contemplated to occupy it temporarily
as a library until the portion of the main building intended for this pur-
pose is completed.

The plan of the Smithsonian building was designed by the architect,
and recommended to the Board by a committee on the Regents, before
the programme of organization was adopted. It is not strange, there-
fore, when the building came to be occupied, that changes in ‘the i inter-

nal arrangement should be deemed advisable which would better adapt
it to the wants of the Institution. Such changes, at my suggestion,
have been made; and for the propriety of these I am responsible.
They are principally, however, those of simplification, and im them-
selves add nothing to the cost of the edifice. An increased expense,
however, will arise out of the furnishing of new rooms which have been
acquired by the alterations.

All of which is respectfully submitted.

JOSEPH HENRY,
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 185

FOURTH ANNUAL REPORT
Of the Secretary of the Smithsoman Institution, for the year 1850.

To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution :

GenTLEMEN: During the past year the several parts of the plan of
organization have been ‘prosecuted as efficiently as the portion of the
income which could be devoted to them would permit. The financial
affairs are in a prosperous condition, and though the funds are burthened
with the erection of a costly building, and the expenditures trammelled
by restrictions growing out of the requisitions of the charter of incor-
poration, yet the results thus far obtained, are such as satisfactorily to
prove that the Institution is doing good service in the way of promoting
and diffusing knowledge.

Though the programme of organization has been given in two of the
annual reports and extensively published in the newspapers, its char-
acter does not appear to be as widely known and as properly appre-
ciated as could be desired. Indeed it will be necessary at intervals to
republish the terms of the bequest, and also the general principles of
the plan which has been adopted, in order that the public may not only
be informed of what the Institution is accomplishing, but also reminded
of what ought reasonably to be expected trom its operations. More-
over, there is a tendency in the management of public institutions to
lose sight of the object for which they were established, and hence it
becomes important frequently to advert to the principles by which they
ought to be governed. I beg leave, therefore, as introductory to this
report, briefly to recapitulate some of the propositions of the programme
of organization, and to state some of the facts connected with its adop-
lion.

Smiruson left his property, in case of the death of his nephew, to
whom it was first bequeathed, “to tound at Washington, under the name
of the Smithsonian Institution, an establishment for the increase and
diffusion of knowledge among men.” These are the only words of the
testator to serve as a 1 guide to the adoption of a plan for the execution.
of his benevolent design. They are found, however, when attentively
considered to admit of legitimate deductions sufficiently definite and
comprehensive.

1. The bequest is made to the United States, in trust for the good of
mankind.

2. The objects of the Institution are two-fold; first, to increase, se-
cond, to diffuse knowledge ; objects which, though often confounded
with each other, are logically distinet and ought to be separately re-
garded. ‘The first is the enlargement of the existing stock of know-
ledge by the discovery of new truths, and the second 1s the dissemina-

| tion of these and other truths among men.
| 3. No particular kind of knowledge i is designated; hence a liberal

|

_ interpretation of the bequest will include no part of the great domain of
186 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

science and literature from the degree of attention its importance may
demand.

4. Since mankind are to be benefited by the bequest, any unneces-
sary expenditure on merely local objects would not be in accordance
with the proper administration of the trust.

5. Though the funds are generally considered large, and much is
expected of them, they are really small in proportion to the demands

made upon them. The annual income of the bequest is less than half
the cost of the publication of a single yearly report of the Patent
Office.

6. In order, therefore, that the limited income may effect the greatest
amount of good, it should be expended in doing that which cannot be
done as well by other means.

These views, which have commanded the assent of all unpreyudiced
and reflecting persons who have studied the subject, have been the
guiding princ ‘iple s in all cases in which [ have had any Pee of di-
rection; ; and | am happy to say they are fully adopted by the present
directors and officers of the Institution.

To carry out the design of the testator, various plans were proposed ;
but most of these were founded on an imperfect apprehension of the
terms of the Will. ‘The great majority of them contemplated merely
the diffusion of popular information, and neglected the first and
the most promine nt requisition of the bequest, namely, the ‘increase
of knowledge.” ‘The only plan in strict conformity with the terms of
the Will, and which espe cially commended itself to.men of science, a
class to which Smithson himself belonged, was that of an active living
organization, intended principally to promote the discovery and diffu-
sion of new truths by instituting original researches, under the direc-
tion of suitable persons, in History, “Antiquities, Ethnology, and the

various branches of Physical Science. and by publishing and distribut-
ing among libraries and other public institutions, accounts of the
results cliiele might thus be obtained, as well as of those of the labors
of men of talent which could not otherwise be given to the world.

This plan, which was probably in the mind of the donor when he
gave expression to the few but comprehensive words which indicate the
objects of the bequest, is found from our experience to be eminently
practical. It requires no costly building or expensive permanent estab-
lishment. Its operations, limited only by the amount of the income,
are such as to affect the condition of man wherever literature and science
are cultivated, while it tends in this country to give an impulse to ori-
ginal thought, which, amidst the strife of polities s, and the inordinate
pursuit of wealth, is of all things most desirable.

oO
It was with the hope of being able to assist in the practical develop-

ment of this plan, that [ was induced to accept the appointment of prin-
cipal executive oficer of the Institution. Many unforeseen obstacles,
however, presented themselves to its full adoption ; ; and its advocates
soon found, in contending with opposing views and adverse interests, a
wide difference between what, in their opinion, ought to be done and
what they could actually accomplish.

The plan was novel and by many considered entirely chimneriaall
indeed it could not be properly appreciated except by those who had
been devoted to original research. Besides this, the law of Congress

—
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 187

incorporating the Institution, while it did not forbid the expenditure of
a part of the income for other objects, authorized the formation of a
Library, a Museum and a Gallery of Art, and the erection of a build-
ing, on a liberal scale, for their accommodation. H was, indeed, the
opinion of many that the whole income ought to be expended on these
objects. The Regents did not consider themselves at liberty to disre~
gard the indications of Congress, and the opinion expressed in favor of
collections; and after much discussion it was finally concluded to divide
the income into two equal parts, and, after deducting the general ex-
penses, to devote one half to the active operations set forth in the plan
just described; and the other, to the formation of a Library, a Museum
and a Gallery of Art.

It was evident, however, that the small income of the original be-~
quest, though in itself sufficient to do much good in the way of active
operation, was inadequate to carry out this more extended plan—to
maintain the staff of attendants, and to defray other contingent expenses
incidental to a large establishment of this kind. Besides the Secretary
and an assistant to attend to the general operations, two principal as-
sistants would be required, one to take charge of the Library and the
other of the Museum of Natural History; and to these sufficient sala-
ries must be given, to secure the services of men of the first reputation
and talents in their respective lines. It, therefore, became absolutely
necessary that the income should be increased ; and in order to do this,
it was proposed to save the greater part of the $242,000 of accrued
interest which Congress had authorized to be expended in a building,
by erecting, at a cost not to exceed $50,000, the nucleus of an edifice,
which could be expanded as the wants of the Institution might require,
and to add the remainder to the principal.

Unfortunately, however, for this proposition, Congress had presented
to the Institution the great museum of the Exploring Expedition; and
a majority of the Regents, supposing it necessary to make immediate
provision for the accommodation of this gift, had taken preliminary
steps, previous to my appointment, to construct a large building, and
indeed a majority of the committee, to which the matter was referred,
had determined to adopt the plan of the present edifice. Strenuous
Opposition was, however, made to this; and as a compromise, it was
finally agreed to draw from the United States treasury $240,000 of
accrued interest, and instead of expending this immediately in complet-
ing the plan of the proposed building, to invest it in treasury notes, then
at par, and to finish the building in the course of five years, in part out
of the interest of these notes, in part out of the sale of a portion of
them, and also in part out of a portion of the annual interest accruing
on the original bequest. It was estimated that in this way, at the end
of five years, besides devoting $250,000 to the building, the annual
income of the Institution would be increased from $30,000 to nearly
$40,000, a sum sufficient to carry out all the provisions of the pro-
gramme.

After the resolutions relative to the division of the income, between
collections on the one hand and active operations on the other, had been
adopted, and the plan of finance as to the building had been settled, I
was requested to confer with persons of literary and scientific reputa~
188 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

tion, and to digest into the form of a general programme the several
resolutions of the Board. In the programme which was thus produced
and afterwards adopted, it is attempted to harmonize the different pro-
positions of the Board, and to render them all, library, collections, &c.,
as far as possible, subservient to a living, active organization. Though
a valuable library will in time be accumulated, by donation and_ the
exchange of the publications of the Institution, the design at first is to
purchase only such books as are immediately necessary in the other
operations of the Institution, or which cannot be procured in this coun-
try; andthe Librarian is required to perform other duties than those
which pertain to the office of an ordinary collector and curator of books.
He is directed to report on plans of libraries, and the best method of
managing them; to collect the statistics of the libraries of the United
States; to make a general catalogue as far as possible of all the books
in this country, and to procure all the information necessary for render-
ing the Institution a centre of bibliographical knowledge. Instead of
attempting to form a miscellaneous collection of objects of nature and
art, it is proposed to collect only those which will yield a harvest of
new results, and to preserve principally such as are not found in other
collections, or will serve to illustrate and verify the Smithsonian pubhi-
cations.

The tendency of an Institution in which collections form a prominent
object, is constantly towards a stationary condition; with a given in-
come, the time must inevitably come when the expenditures necessary
to accommodate the articles with house room and attendance will just
equal the receipts. There is indeed no plan by which the funds of an
institution may be more inefficiently expended, than that of filling a
costly building with an indiscriminate collection of objects of curiosity,
and giving these in charge to a set of inactive curators. Happily, the
programme of organization and the system of expenditure which the
Regents have adopted, if rigidly adhered to, will prevent this state of
things, and happily the spirit of the present directors and officers who
are to give the initial form to the character of the Institution, is im
accordance with as active operations as the state of the funds and
requisitions of Congress will allow.

It is to be regretted that Congress did not leave the entire choice of
the plan of organization to those who were to be entrusted with the
management of the bequest, and that, instead of the plan of a costly
building, there had not been adopted the nucleus of a more simple
edifice, which could bave been modified to meet the wants which
experience might indicate.

The original estimate for the building, furniture, and improvement of
the grounds was $250,000; and could the actual cost have been con-
fined to this sum, all the results anticipated from the scheme of finance
which had been adopted would have been realized at the end of five
years. During the past year, however, it has been found necessary,
for the better protection of the collections, to order the fire-proofing of
the interior of the edifice, at an increased expense of $44,000. ‘This
additional draft on the funds can only be met by extending the time for
the completion of the building; and even this will require the appropri-
ation of a portion of the income which ought to be devoted to other
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 189

purposes. The active operations will suffer most by this draft on the
income, since it will be made for the better accommodation of the
library and the museum.

It must not be inferred, from the foregoing account, that the affairs
of the Institution are in an unfavorable condition; on the contrary,:
though they are not in every respect what could be wished, still, under
the circumstances I have mentioned, they are much better than could
have been anticipated. The funds are in a very prosperous state, and
all the obstacles in the way of the usefulness of the establishment, may,
by judicious management, in time be removed. ‘The opposition which
was made to the building, led to the adoption of the plan of finance to
which I have heretofore adverted, and from this has been realized much
more than could have been expected.

After all the expenditures which have been made on the building,
grounds, publications, researches, purchase of books and apparatus,
not only is the original bequest untouched, but there is now on hand
upwards of $200,000 of accrued interest. This will be sufficient to
finish the exterior of the building, including all the towers, the interior
of the wings, ranges, and a part of the interior of the main edifice ;
which will afford sufficient accommodation for some years to come, and
leave $150,000 to be added to the principal.

This result has been produced by a rigid adherence to the determi-
uation of increasing the annual income; and in accordance with this,
and in obedience to the direction of the Board of Regents, a petition
has been presented to Congress, asking that $150,000 may be taken
from the Institution and placed in the treasury of the United States, on
the same terms as those of the acceptance of the original bequest, never
to be expended, and yielding a perpetual interest of six per cent.

If this petition be granted, all the funds will be permanently and
safely invested, and the original income will be increased from $30,000
to nearly $40,000. Out of this, beside carrying on the more important
object of the plan, it is-proposed to appropriate yearly a small sum for
the gradual completion of the interior of the building.

The great importance of a small addition to the income will be evi-
dent, when it is recollected that a definite sum is annually required to
defray the necessary expenses of the establishment, and that after this
has been provided, every addition will tend to produce a greater pro-
portional amount of useful effect. The proposed increase will be suf-
ficient to pay all the salaries of the officers, and leave the original
income in a great measure free to be applied to the objects contemplated
in the plan.

At the last meeting of the Board, Professor Baird, of Dickinson Col-
lege, Pennsylvania, a gentleman distinguished for his attainments in
science, Was appointed an Assistant Secretary in the department of
natural history. His appointment was made at this time more parti-
cularly in order that his services might be secured to take charge of
the publications, and that we might avail ourselves of the ample experi-
ence which he had gained in this line. He entered on his duties in
July last, and besides being actively engaged in organizing the depart-
ment of natural history, he has rendered important service in conduct-
ing our foreign exchanges and attending to the business of the press.
490 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

This addition to our force was absolutely necessary to a more efficient
discharge of the duties which devolve on us. No person, except from
actual experience, can form an idea of the amount of labor required
for the transaction of the ordinary business. The correspondence alone
is sufficient to occupy two persons continually during the usual office
hours. :

During the past year one half of the whole income has been appro
priated to the building; and after deducting the general expenses, the
remainder has been equally divided peneen the two great classes of
objects designated in the plan. The portion of the income after these
divisions, sien could be devoted to any one object, has been necessa-
rily small; for example, all that could be expended for researches,
publications, and lectures, and indeed for every thing of which the pub
lic at a distance could take immediate cognizance, has not exceeded
$4,500, and yet out of this sum we have besa expected to produce
results for which the whole income would be entirely inadequate. {
trust, however, that a proper consideration of the facts presented in the
remainder of this report, will show that much has been done in propor-
tion to the means at our command.

Publication of Original Memoirs.

The important aid which can be rendered to the promotion of know-
ledge by the publication, and in some cases by assistance in the prepa-
ration of important memoirs, is now beyond all question. Experience
has thus far abundantly shown that much more matter of the most
valuable character will be presented for publication, free of all charge,
than the portion of the mcome devoted to this object will allow us to
publish. Indeed, there is now on hand, er in preparation, more material
of this kind than we shall be able, with our limited income, to give to
the world in two or three years. In view of this fact, I cannot repress
the expre ssion of regret which I have alw ays felt, that the restrictions
arising from the requisitions of Congress do not permit a greater expen-
diture for this most impertant object. It is chiefly by the publications
of the Institution that its fame is to be spread through the world, and
the monument most befitting the name of Smithson erected to his
memory.

Most of the distinguished foreign literary and scientific societies have
placed the Tnentauion on their list of exchange, and in mary instances
have presented not only the current volume of their transactions, but
also full sets of the preceding volumes. We have reason to believe
that before the e xpiration of another year, we shall receive in exchange
the transactions of nearly all the learned societies of the world, and
that the Institution will be recognised by them as an active co-ope-
rator in the promotion of knowledge. Professor Baird has furnished a
list of the literary and scientific societies to which the quarto volumes
have been presented.

The following Memoirs, an account of which was given in my last
report, have been printed, or are now in press:

1. Researches relative to the planet Neptune; by S. C. Walker.

2. Contributions to the Physical Geography of the United States ; by
Charles Ellet, Jr.

WD ee ao ed a i). em.

————
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 191

3. Meinoir on the Explosiveness of Nitre; by Dr. Robert Leche

4. On the Aboriginal Monuments of the State of New York; by E.
G. Squier.

5. Memoir on the Reciprocal Action of two Galvanic Currents ;
by A. Secchi, of Georgetown College.

6. On the Classification of Insects, from Embryological Data ; by
Professor Louis Agassiz.

7. Monograph of Mosasaurus and the allied Genera; by Dr. R. W.
Gibbes.

Besides these, several other papers not described in my last report
have been printed, and are ready for separate distribution. ‘The first
of these I shall mention is by Professor Lieber, of the College of South
Carolina, on the vocal sounds of Laura Bridgman, the blind and deaf
mute, whose mind, apparently forever consigned to darkness, has been
almost miraculously enlightened, by the sagacity, ingenuity, and perse-
verance of Dr. Howe.

There is, perhaps, at this time, no living human being who offers te
the psychologist so attractive an object of study as this individual; and
hence every observation relative to her peculiar habits is of great interest.
Dr. Lieber has, from year to year, during his summer vacations, been
in the habit of visiting Laura Bridgman, and on one occasion spent
three months in her iene dicdie neighborhood for the purpose of study-
ing the sounds which she utters asindicative of ideas. These sounds con-
sist principally of such as she volutarily adopted to designate different
individuals. ‘The results of the observations given in ‘this paper are
accompanied by a series of philosophical dedupsion and suggestions
which cannot fail to interest the psychologist and physiologist. This
memoir is illustrated by an engraved fuc semile of a letter from Laura
Bridgman’s own hand.

The next paper is by Professor Bailey of West Point. This gentleman
has rendered himself favorably known to the world of science by his
researches on minute animals and plants, which, though mostly unseen
by the naked eye, are found as widely distributed, and as permanent
and definite in character, as the largest organized objects in nature. This
paper gives the results of a series ae microscopic observations which the
author made during his sojourn in the southern part of the United
States, whither he was ordered last winter on account of his health. It
designates numerous localities of microscopic animals and plants, and
furnishes lists of the species found in each. It also contains a series of
tables presenting a number of species with the different localities where
each was found. The species so classed include those of the Desmi
dize, Diatomacez, Infusoria, and Algee. Following these is a descrip-
tion of numerous other species, most of which are represented by litho-
graphic figures.

Among the interesting facts arrived at by the author, are the discovery
of an est e stratum roe fossil infusorize near ‘Tampa Bay, F lorida 5
the existence of infusoriz in the rice fields of the south; ; and the demon-
stration of the cosmopolite character of many microscopic ane cts hitherto
believed to exist only in Europe.

Another paper by the same author, but presented to the Institution by
Professor Bache, Superintendent of the U. 8. Coast Survey, has refer-
192 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

ence to a microscopic examination of soundings along the eastern coast
of the United States; samples of all the materials brought up by the
sounding apparatus of the Coast Survey having been carefully preserved
by Professor Bache in bottles, and so arranged as to present, as it were,
the surface geology of the ontoth of the sea within a certain distance
from the shore. Specimens of these were given to Professor Bailey for
microscopic examination, and the results are presented in this paper.
It exhibits the fact of a high development of minute organic forms,
mainly of Polythalamia, in ‘all deep soundings, varying from fifty-one
to ninety fathoms, occurring in an abundance similar to that in which
analogous fossil forms are found in the marls under the city of Charles-
ton. It also shows that each locality has its predominant species, by
means of which alone the region whence they were taken may be indi-
cated. Many of the conclusions derived are of much interest to the
mariner, the geologist, and the naturalist. The paper closes with a
brief description of the genera and species referred to, embracing sev-
eral that are new, the whole accompanied by numerous figures.

In connexion with the foregoing may be mentioned a paper by Mr.
Charles Girard, entitled ‘* A Monograph of the Fresh water Cottoids of
North America,” which has been accepted, and will soon be published.
The species of fish called Cottus gobio, was supposed to be common to
Europe and America, and thus toform an exception to a general rule in
regard to the fresh water species of the two continents. It has been dis-
covered by Mr. Girard and others, that the European species, as described
hy Linnzus, is really composed of several, and that while none of these
are found in North America, we have actually anumber of species pecu-
liar to this country. The memoir contains elaborate descriptions of the
known species as ‘well as of several new ones, together with copious notes
on their scientific history, their geographical distribution, affinities with
each other and with foreign species, anatomical structure, &c.,—the
whole illustrated by appropriate figures. It is worthy of remark, that
most of the hitherto undescribed species presented in this memoir were
collected by Professor Baird, and now form a part of the Smithsonian
collection.

Another memoir, now in course of preparation, is one which will of
itself occupy a considerable portion of one of the quarto volumes of the
Smithsonian Contributions. It affords an interesting illustration of the
working of the plan of organization in the way of “eliciting important
scientific knowledge which would not otherwise ‘be produced, or, if pro-
duced, could not be given to the world through any other channel.

This memoir consists of a description of the marine plants, or Algee,
which are found along the eastern and southern coasts of the United
States, and which are deserving of attention, not only on account of
their beauty, variety, and the illustrations they present of the growth
and development of vegetable forms, but also on account an their
economical value with reference to agriculture and the chemical arts.
This volume is in the course of preparation by Professor Harvey, of the
University of Dublin, Ireland, a gentleman who is recognised as the
first authority in this branch of botany. He was induced to visit this
country by an invitation to lecture on the Algze before the Lowell In-
stitute, and by the opportunity thus offered him of studying his favorite

ila.

ie

al
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 193

branch of science in a new region. After completing his lectures, he
made a collection of the marine plants of our coast, and offered to fur-
nish drawings of the genera and species, with detailed descriptions
free of all cost, provided the Institution would bear the expense of
publication.

Upon the warm recommendation of some of the principal botanists of
the country, the liberal offer of Professor, Harvey was accepted, and he
is now engaged in making with his own hand the drawings on stone.
The preparation of the work, besides the time expended in collecting
the specimens, will occupy two or three years. This voluntary contri-
bution to knowledge from a man of science may surprise those whose
minds are not liberalized by philosophical pursuits, and who cannot
conceive any object in labor unconnected with pecuniary gain.

To assist in defraying the heavy expense of the publication of this
work, it is proposed to color the plates of a part of the edition, and to
offer copies for sale. The work will also be issued in parts, so as
to distribute the cost through several years.

In addition to the foregoing, an appendix—added to Mr. Squier’s
paper on the ancient monuments of New York—has been printed. Also,
there has been such an urgent demand for copies of Mr. Ellet’s paper
on the physical geography of the Mississippi Valley, that it has been
thought advisable to reprint it and distribute the whole of the first edi-
tion among all persons to whom a knowledge of its contents would be
of peculiar importance.

The several papers which have been described in this and the pre-
ceding Report will, when collected together, form the contents of the
second and part of the third volume.

The plan adopted of printing each memoir with a separate title and
paging has been found to answer a good purpose. There is no delay
im printing one paper on account of the engraving of the plates of an-
other ; and long before a volume can be completed, a separate memoir
may be widely circulated among those most interested in its perusal.
As an example of this, 1 may mention that one of the papers which
forms part of the second volume of the Contributions has already been
reprinted in the London and Edinburg Journal, with due credit given
to the Institution.

Reports on the Progress of Knowledge.

The income of the Institution as yet has not been sufficient for fully
reducing to practice this part of the plan of organization. The prepa-
ration of these reports can only be intrusted to those who are familiar
with the subjects, and well skilled in the art of composition, and the
services of such persons cannot be obtained without an adequate remu-
neration. Of the several reports mentioned at the last meeting of the
Board but one has been published, viz: that on the discovery of the
planet Neptune, by Dr. B. A. Gould, of Cambridge, editor of the As-
tronomical Journal. It has been stereotyped, and copies distributed
amongst all our meteorological observers and other persons in the coun-
try known to us as being actively engaged in promoting the science of
astronomy.

13
194 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

The preparation of the report on the Forest-Trees of North America,
though delayed in consequence of the absence of the author, Dr. Gray,
of Harvard University, on a visit to Europe, is still in progress. The
illustrations are in the hands of the artists, and the first part will proba~
bly be published during the present year. The cost of this report, on
account of the elaborate illustrations, will:be greater than was at first
anticipated ; consequently the publication of the entire work must ne-
cessarily be spread over a number of years. It is believed, however,
that a considerable part of the expense will be repaid to the Institution
by the sale of copies at a small advance on the original cost.

The other reports on the Progress of Knowledge mentioned in my
last communication to the Regents are ready for the press, and will be
published, in whole or in part, during the present year.

The Report on the statistics of Libraries of the United States, pre-
pared by Professor Jewett, has been ordered to be printed by Con-
gress, as an appendix to the Regents’ Report. A sufficient number of.
extra copies will be presented to the Institution, for distribution to all
the libraries from which statistical information was received. It forms
a volume of about two hundred and twenty-five pages, and will, I am
sure, be considered an important contribution to bibliographical sta-
tistics.

Distribution of Publications.

e have found considerable difficulty in deciding upon the rules to
be observed in the distribution of the Smithsonian publications. It
is evident that, from the small portion of the income which can be de-
voted to this object, the distribution must be circumscribed. Fifteen
hundred copies of each memoir have been printed ; but this number,
though all that the income could furnish, has not been found sufficient
to meet a tenth part of the demand. It should be recollected that,
though these memotrs consist of the results of new investigations of the
highest importance to the well-being of man, in extending the bounds
of his Knowledge of the universe of aint and matter, yet rie -y are not
generally of ah a character as to be immediately appreciated by the
popular mind, and, indeed, they are better ad: apted to instruct the
teacher than to interest the general reader. They should, therefore,
be distributed in such a way as most readily to meet the eye of those
who will make the best use of them in diffusing a knowledge of their
contents.

The following rules have been adopted for the distribution of the
quarto volumes of collections of memoirs:

1. They are to be presented to all Learned Societies which publish
transactions and give copies of these in exchange to the Institution.

2. To all Foreign Libraries of the first class, provided they give —

in exchange their “catalogues, or other publications, or an equivalent
from their ‘duplicate volumes. .
3. ‘To all Colleges in actual operation in this country, provided they
furnish in return meteorological observations, catalogues of their libra-
ries and of their students, and all other publications issued by them
relative to their organization and history. |

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 195

4. To all States and Territories ; provided they give in return, copies
of all documents published under their authority.

5. To all incorporated Public Libraries in this country, not inclu-
ded in either of the foregoing classes, containing more than seven
thousand volumes; and to smaller Libraries, where a whole State
or large district would be otherwise left unsupplied.

The author of each memoir receives, as his only compensation, a
certain number of copies, to distribute among his friends, or to pre-
sent to individuals who may be occupied in the same line of research.
In this way single memoirs are distributed to individuals, and especially
to those who are most actively engaged in promoting discoveries.
Copies of the reports, and also in some cases of particular memoirs, are
sent to our meteorological observers. Besides these, we have placed
on the list the more prominent Academies and Lyceums, as recipients
of the minor publications. It is also intended, in order to benent the
public more generally, to place on sale copies of memoirs and reports;
though on account of the number required for the supply of Institutions,
we have not, as yet, been able to carry this plan into effect.

No copyright has been taken for the Smithsonian publications ; they
are therefore free to be used by the compilers of books, and in this way
they are beginning to reach the general reader and to produce a bene-

ficial effect on the public mind. ‘

Meteorology.

The system of meteorology under the direction of the Smithsonian
Institution has, during the last year, made good progress. And though
the whole number of stations has not been much increased, yet the
character of the instruments adopted, and consequently the value of
the observations, has been improved both in precision and variety.

This system is intended to embrace, as far as possible, the whole
extent of North America, and to consist of three classes of observers.
One class, without instruments, to record the changes in the aspect of

_the sky, the direction of the wind, the beginning and ending of rain,

the appearance of the aurora, &c. Another, in addition to the forego-
ing, to give an account of the changes of temperature, as indicated ‘by
fhe: sheen ney Se A third class, furnished with full sets of instruments,

to record all changes deemed important in the study of meteorology.

To carry on he system, the Institution has received or _ expects to
receive assistance from the following sources :
J. From the small appropriation made by Congress, to be expended

under the direction of the Navy Department.

2. From the appropriations made by different States of the Union.

3d. From the observations made under the direction of the Medical
Department of the United States army.

4. From the officers of her Majesty’s service in different parts of the
British possessions in North America.

5. From observations made by institutions and individuals, in different

parts of the continent, who report immediately to the Smithsonian

Institution.
A small appropriation has been made by Congress for two years past,
196 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

to be expended under the direction of the Navy Department for meteor-
ological purposes ; and Professor Espy, engaged under the act making
this appropriation, has been directed to co-operate with the Institution,
in promotion of the common object. Besides the aid which we have
received from Professor Espy’s knowledge of this subject, the general
system has been benefited in the use of instruments purchased by the
surplus of the appropriation, after paying the salary of the director and
other expenses.

During the last year, Professor Espy has been engaged in a series of
interesting experiments on the variations of temperature produced by
a a sudden’ change in the density of atmospheric air. The results
obtained are important additions to science, and directly applicable
to meteorology. ‘The experiments were made in one of the rooms of
the Smithsonian Institution, and with articles of apparatus belonging
to the collection which constituted the liberal donation of Dr. Hare.
An account of these investigations will be given in a report to the
Secretary of the Navy.

It was mentioned in the last Report that the Regents of the Univer-
sity of the State of New York, in 1849, made a hipaa appropriation of
funds for the re- organization of the meteorological system of observa-
tions established in 1825; and that Dr. T. Romeyn Beck and the Hon.
Gideon Hawley, to w eo the enterprise was entrusted, had adopted
the forms and the instruments prepared under the direction of the
Smithsonian Institution. Another appropriation has been made, for
1850; and the system has been carried, during the past year, into suc-
cessful operation by Professor Guyot, late of Neufchatel, in Switzerland.
This gentleman, who has established a wide reputation as a meteoro-
logical observer by his labors in his own country, was recommended
to Dr. Beck and Mr. Hawley by this Institution, and employed by
them to superintend the fittmg up of the instruments in their places, to
instruct the observers in the minute details of their duty, and to deter-
mine the topographical character and elevation above the sea of each
station.

The whole number of stations which have been established in the
State of New York is thirty-eight, including those which have been
furnished with instruments by the Smithsonian Institution, and the Adi-
rondack station by the liberality of Archibald McIntyre, esq., of Albany.
This number gives one station to twelve hundred and seventy square
miles, or about one in each square of thirty-five and a half miles ona
side. These stations are at very different heights above the level of

the sea. ‘They were selected in conference with Dr. Beck, Professor —

Guyot, and myself. The State is naturally divided into the following
topographical regions, namely :

J. The Southern or maritime region.

2. The Eastern, or region of ite Highlands and Catskill mountains,
with the valleys of the Hudson and Mohawk rivers.

3. The Northern, or region of the Adirondack mountains, isolated by
the deep valleys of the Mohawk, Lake Champlain, the St. Lawrence,
and Lake Ontario.

4. The Western, or region of the western plateau, with the small lakes.
and sources of the rivers.

= |
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 197

5. The region of the great lakes, Erie and Ontario.

I regret to state that no efficient steps have as yet been taken to
organize the system of Massachusetts, for which an appropriation was

made by the legislature, at its last session. Ihave lately written to
ae Briggs, urging immediate action, and offering, on the part of
the Institution, to render any assistance in our power towards further-
ing so laudable an enterprise. No answer has yet been received.*

The observations: made at the different military stations, under the
direction of the Medical Department of the United States army, have
been partially re-urganized, and a number of new stations and several
of the old ones furnished with unproved Smithsonian instruments. The
head of the Medical Department of the army, Dr. Lawson, has as-
signed the general direction of the system of observations to Dr. Mower,
aa New York, to whom we are indebted for the valuable aid which this
extended set of observations furnishes the general system. ‘The im-
mediate superintendence of the reduction of these observations is 1
charge of Dr. Wotherspoon, to whose zeal and scientific abilities the
cause of meteorology bids fair to be much indebted.

The most important service the Smithsonian Institution has rendered
to meteorology during the past year, has been the general introduction
into the country of a more accurate set of instruments at a reasonable
price. The set consists of a barometer, thermometer, hygrometer,
wind vane, and snow and rain guage.

The barometer is made by James Green, No. 422 Broadway, New
York, under the direction of the Institution. It has a glass cistern with
an adjustable bottom enclosed in a brass cylinder. The barometer
tube is also enclosed in a brass cylinder, which carries the vernier.
The whole is suspended freely, from a ring at the top, so as to adjust
itself to the vertical position. ‘The bulb of ae attached thermometer is
enclosed in a brass envelope communicating with the interior of the
brass tube, so as to be in the same condition with the mer cury, and to
indicate truly its temperature. Each instrument made according to
this pattern is numbered and accurately compared with a standard.
In the comparisons made by Projessor Guyot, a standard Fortin
barometer, by Ernst, of Paris, was employed; also a standard English
barometer, by Newman, of London, belonging to this Institution. These
instruments, for greater certainty, have heen compared with the stand-
ard of the Cambridge Observatory, and of Columbia College, both by
Newman; also with the standard of the Observatory of ‘Toronto, Upper
Canada.

The results of these examinations prove the barometers made by Mr.
Green, according to the plan adopted by the Smithsonian Institution,
to be trustworthy instruments.

The thermometers are by the same maker; and those intended for
the State of New York were compared with a standard by Bunten, of
Paris, and with another by Troughton & Simms, of London. ‘Those
found to differ more than a given quantity from the standards were
rejected.

+ _ ———- —

* A letter has since been received, and the system placed under the direction of this Insti-
tution.
198 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

The instruments for indicating the variation of the hygrometrical con-
dition of the atmosphere, consist of two thermometers, of the same
dimensions, accurately graduated. The bulb of one of these is envel-
oped in a covering of muslin moistened with water, and that of the
other is naked.

The rain and snow guages, and also the wind vanes, are made under
the direction of the Institution, by Messrs. Pike & Son; 166 Broadway,
New York. The rain guage is an inverted cone of sheet zine, of which
the area of the base is exactly one hundred square inches. This cone
or funnel terminates in a tube which carries the water into a receiving
vessel. The water which has fallen is measured by pouring it from
the guage into a cylinder, so graduated as to indicate hundredths of
inches. A smaller cylinder is also provided, which gives thousandths
of inches, and may serve, in case of accident, as a substitute for the
larger cylinder. ‘The rain gauge is placed in a cask sunk in the earth,
with its mouth near the lev Al ée the ground.

The snow gauge is a cylinder of zinc of the same diameter as the
mouth of the rain guage. The measurement is made by pressing its
mouth downward to ae bottom of the snow, where it has fallen on a
level surface, then carefully inverting it, retaining the snow, by passing
under it a thin plate of metal. The snow is afterwards melted, and
the water produced is measured in one of the graduated glass cylinders
of the rain: guage.

The wind vane is a thin sheet of metal, (it might be of wood,) about
three feet long, carefully balanced by a ball of lead, and attached to
the top of a long wooden rod, which descends along the wall of the
building to the sill of the observer’s window. It terminates in the
centre of a fixed dial-plate, and its movements indicate the direction
of the wind by a pointer attached to the rod.

The observer is by this arrangement enabled to determine the course
of the wind, by looking down on the dial-plate, through the glass of the
window, without exposing himself to the storm.

Besides the full sets of instruments furnished by the State of New
York, from the appropriation of the regents of the University, the
Smithsonian Institution has furnished a number of sets to important
stations; and, in order that they might be more widely disseminated,
we ave directed Mr. Green to dispose of sets, to individuals, at a re-
duced price, on condition that they will give us copies of the results of
their observations; the remainder of the cost being paid by this Insti-
tution. A number of persons have availed themselves of this privilege.

To accompany the instruments, and for the use of those who take
part in the Smithsonian system of meteorological observations, a a series
of minute directions, prepared by Professor Guyot, has been printed by
the Institution. It occupies for Ng octavo pages, with wood-cut repre-
sentations of the instruments, and is accompanied by two lithographic
engravings, to illustrate the different forms of clouds, and to facilitate
thetr notation in the journals, in accordance with the nomenclature
adopted by meteorologists. A set of tables has also been furnished for
correcting the barometrical observations, on account of variation of
temperature. <A set of hygrometrical tables, to be used with the wet

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 199

and dry bulb thermometers, and a set for the calculation of heights by
the barometer, will be pr epared.

We may also mention, in connexion with this subject, that a series
of preliminary experiments have been made, in the laboratory of this
Institution, for the purpose of constructing, from direct observation, a
scale of boiling temperatures, corre ssponding to different degrees of
rarefaction of the air. With a thermometer, each degree of which
occupies one inch in length of the scale, the variations of the boiling
point corresponding to a slight change in altitude are found to be more
perceptible than those in the length of the barometrical column.

A series of experiments has also been made for testing the perform-
ance of the aneroid barometer under extremes of atmospheric pres-
sure. The instrument, as usually constructed, has not been found, from
these experiments, very reliable though it may be improved, and thus
serve as an indicator of minute atmospheric changes. I think, how-
ever, it will not answer for the determination of changes of atmo-
spheric pressure of considerable magnitude.

For the better comprehending the relative position of the several
places of observation, now embraced in our system of meteorology, an
outline map of North America has been constr ‘ucted, by Prof. Foreman.
This map is intended also to be used for presenting the successive
phases of the sky over the whole country, at different points of time,
as far as reported ; and we have been waiting for its completion, to
commence a series of investigations, with the materials now on hand,
relative to the progress of storms.

A valuable collection of returns relative to the aurora, has been re-
ceived in accordance with the special instructions which we have
issued for the observation of this interesting phenomenon. ‘These are
to be placed in the hands of Captain Lefroy, of the Toronto Observa-
tory, and incorporated with observations of a similar kind which he
has collected in the British possessions of North America. An ac-
count in full of the whole series will be presented by Captain Lefroy,
to be published in the Smithsonian Contributions.

The meteorological correspondence is under the charge of Professor
Foreman. This is found not only to involve conedeaallle labor in the
way of arranging the regular returns and sending the required blanks
and directions, but also in the discussion of questions on almost every
branch of -science propounded by the meteorological observers, w hich
we think it our duty in all cases to treat with respect, and to answer to
the best of our knowledge.

Researches, Xc.

Explorations.—The programme of organization contemplates the insti-
tution of researches in Natural History, Geology, &c.; and, though the
state of the funds would permit of little being done in this line, yet we
have made a beginning. Besides the assistance rendered to the explor a-
tion of the botany of New Mexico, by the purchase of sets of plants
from Mr. Wright and Mr. Fendler, as mentioned in my last Report, a
small sum was appropriated, to defray the cost of transportation of the

articles which might be collected by “Mr. Thaddeus Culbertson, in the
200 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF ?

region of the Upper Missouri. This gentleman, a graduate of the insti-
tutions at Princeton, bad purposed to visit the remote regions above
mentioned for the benefit of his health, and was provided by Professor
Baird with minute directions as to the preservation of specimens and
the objects which should particularly engage his attention. His jour-
ney was undertaken, and executed, under particularly favorable cir-
cumstances for exploration. _He was accompanied by his brother, Mr.
Alexander Culbertson, for many years connected with the American
Fur Company, who was familiar with the whole country, and had him-
self sent valuable specimens of fossil mammalians to the Philadelphia
Academy of Natural Sciences.

Mr. Culbertson first visited an interesting locality called the Mau-
vases Terres, or Bad Lands, where his brother had previously found the
remains of the fossils sent to the Academy. He afierwards ascended
the Missouri, to a point several hundred miles above Fort Union. He
returned in August last in renewed health to gladden the hearts of his
parents and fr iends, with the prospect of long life and usefulness; but
though he had withstood the privations and. exposures of the wilder-
ness, he sank under an attack of a prevalent disease and died atter a
few weeks’ illness.

He left. a journal of all the important events of his tour, which is
thought of sufficient importance to be appended to this Report.

For a particular account of the interesting specimens which he pro-
cured, many of which are new and Thon enlnane I must refer to the
appended report of Professor Baird. A part of the specimens, those
of the fossil remains, have been referred to Dr. Leidy, of Philadelphia,
who will present the result of his investigations relative to them, for
publication in one of the volumes of the Smithsonian Contributions.

Asmall : appr opriation has also been made to defray in part the expense
of exploration, relative to the erosions of the surface of the earth, espe-
cially by rivers, and for investigations relative to terraces and ancient
sea-beaches, under the direction of President Hitchcock. An abstract
of these investigations, as far as they have been made, has been
received by the Institution; and a full account of the whole, it is
expected, will soon be ready for publication.

An exploration for the increase of the Smithsonian collection,
particularly in fishes and reptiles, of which our knowledge is most im-
perfect, was undertaken by Professor Baird, accompanied by a number
of young gentlemen, his former pupils. The result of this expedition,
which cost the Institution little more than the price of materials and
transportation, was a large number of specimens, including numerous
species before unknown to science.

Experiments—A series of experiments has been made, during the
past year, under the direction of Professor Jewett, to test the value of
a new plan of stereotyping. It the result of these experiments be
favorable, it is proposed to purchase the right to use the invention, for
the purposes of the Institution. Should the invention be found to pos-
sess the character to which it appears entitled, it will not only be of
much importance to the Institution, but to the world; and we shall
have done good service to the cause of knowledge, by giving it our

5
countenance and assistance. Professor Jewett has found it especially

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 201

applicable to his system of stereotyping catalogues of libraries, by
separate titles ; and in this way it will certainly be of great value, even
shonld it fail in other respects to realize the sanguine expectations of
its inventor.

The result of the experiments will be submitted to a commission of
persons properly qualified to judge of its merits; and if their report be
favorable, a small sum will be allowed for the use of it.

Besides the experiments mentioned under the head of meteorology,
made by Mr. Espy, on the cold produced by the rarefaction of air, Dr.
Hare, of Philadelphia, is employing articles of apparatus belonging
to the Institution, in a series of researches on the phenomena exhibited
in the air and ina vacuum by rubbing silicious minerals against each
other. ‘The results of these experiments, with the drawings of the
apparatus employed, he intends to present to the Institution in the
form of a memoir for the Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge.

Computations.

Occultations for 1851.—For the purpose of facilitating the accurate
determination of geographical points in the United States, a list of oc-
cultations and the co-ordinates of reductions for the years 1848, 1849,
and 1850, was prepared and published at the expense of the Smithso-
nian Institution. Congress has since ordered the publication of an
American Nautical Almanac; and as lists of occulations will form a
part of this ephemeris, Mr. Preston, late Secretary of the Navy, directed
that the expense of computing these tables for 1850 should be defrayed
from the appropriation for the Almanac, provided the printing and
distribution were at the expense of the Smithsonian Institution. The
same course has been authorized by Mr. Graham, the present Secre-
tary of the Navy.

Copies of these tables, computed by John Downes, of Philadelphia,
have been sent to all persons known to the Institution, who would pro-
bably make use of them in the way of improving our knowledge of the
geography of this country. They have been furnished particularly to
officers of the United States army, and other persons engaged in
exploring our new possessions and determining their boundaries. All
persons, to whom these tables were presented, have been requested to
send the result of their observations, made in connexion with the use
of them, to this Institution, or to publish them in some accessible
journal.

Ephemeris of Neptune.—It was stated, in the last Report, that the orbit
of the planet Neptune, established by the researches of Mr. Walker,
and comprised in his memoir published by the Institution, gives the
data for calculating an ephemeris or tables of the daily position of this
planet, rivallimg in precision the tables for any of the older planets.
Sets of these tables were computed and published for 1848 and 1849,
at the expense of the Smithsonian Institution; but those for 1850 and
1851 have been computed under the direction of Lieutenant Davis,
superintendent of the Nautical Almanac, and at the expense of the ap-
propriation under his charge, while the expense of printing the tables
has been borne by this Institution.
202 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

These tables are corrected for the perturbing influence of the planets
Jupiter, Saturn, and Uranus, by deductions from mathematical investi-
gations of Professor Peirce, of Harvard University. They have been
used in following the motion of Neptune, by all the principal astrono-
mers of the world, and have everywhere received the highest commen-
dation, reflecting honor on the Institution, and on the science of the
country.

° |

Museum.

The act of Congress authorizing the establishment of the Smithsonian
Institution contemplates the formation of a Museum of Natural History.
It would not, however, be in accordance with the spirit of the organi-
zation, to expend the income in the reproduction of collections of ob-
jects which are to be found in every museum of the country. Natural
history can be much more effectually promoted by special collections
of new objects; by appropriations for original explorations and re-
searches; and above all, by assistance in the preparation of the neces-
sary drawings, and by presenting to the world, in a proper form, the
labors of naturalists. In conformity with these views, it has been re-
solved to confine the collections, principally, to objects of a special
character, or to such as may lead to the discovery of new truths, or
which may serve to verify or disprove existing or proposed scientific
generalizations. A number of special collections, important in_ this
point of view, are mentioned by Professor Agassiz, in the Appendix to
my last Report; and, for a more enlarged statement relating to the same
subject, I would refer naturalists to the accompanying report by Profes-
sor Baird, to whom the charge of the collections of natural history has
been confided.

A considerable number of specimens in mineralogy, geology, and
botany, had been received previous to Professor Baird’s connexion
with the Institution ; and since he has entered upon his duties, a large
addition has been made to the stock, by the deposit of his own cabinet,
and by donations from various sources.

The collection is principally rich in undescribed species of fishes and
reptiles; and especial care will be taken, by Professor Baird, to enhance
its value, by procuring, in all cases, as far as practicable, such speci
mens as may help to solve questions of scientific interest. ‘The collec-
tion has been arranged in one of the rooms of the basement story, so as
to be available to the student in this branch of science, and has already
done service in this way, by furnishing the facts given in one of the
memoirs of the Smithsonian Contributions. Though letters are con-
stantly received requesting the Institution to purchase collections of
plants, minerals, and other objects of natural history, yet we have —
declined; in all cases, to avail ourselves of opportunities of this kind to
increase the cabinet. Experience has, thus far, shown that specimens
of all kinds will accumulate, from donations and exchange, as rapidly
as they can be accommodated with room, and properly arranged. f

I have given, in my last report, the reasons why it is not thought
advisable, on the part of the Institution, to accept the gift, proffered by
Congress, of the great museum of the Exploring Expedition, and I have
no reason to change my opinion on that point. :

5)

— =
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 203

For a detailed account of the specimens forming the Smithsonian
collection, I refer to Professor Baird’s report, herewith submitted.

American Antiquities.

During the past year, we have received information of the locality
of a number of mounds, and other remains of ancient art, in different
parts of the United States. A gentleman is now engaged in the exam-
mation of the mounds of Western Virginia, with the intention of pre-
senting the results of his labors for publication in the Smithsonian Con-
tributions.

The survey of the mineral land in the vicinity of Lake Superior has
disclosed the site of an ancient copper mine, whence, in all proba-
bility, the copper of the ornaments, instruments, &c., found in the
mounds, was derived. ‘The remains of the implements, and of the ore,
as left by the ancient miners, are exhibited in place, and afford an in-
teresting illustration of the state of arts among the mound-builders.
The geological surveyors have promised to make accurate measure-
ments and drawings of everything of interest connected with these
works, and to present them, with suitable descriptions, to the Institu-
tion, for publication.

Mr. EK. G. Squier, during his sojourn in Central America, as Chargé
@affaires of the United States, made some interesting explorations re-
lative to the antiquities of that country, and has sent to this Institution
five large stone idols and several smaller objects, as the beginning of
an ethnological museum. For the cost of shipment and transportation
of the three larger idols by way of Cape Horn, the Institution is indebted
to the liberality of B. Blanco, esq., of New York.

For some remarks relative to the importance of forming an ethnolo-
gical museum, I beg to refer to a paper by Mr. Squier, given in the

Appendix to this Report.

Apparatus and instruments of research.

[t is a part of the plan of the Institution to appropriate a small portion
of the funds to the purchase of sets of instruments for physical
research, to be used by the officers of the Institution, and, under certain
restrictions, by other persons. In accordance with this purpose, I was
requested, by the Board of Regents, to procure an astronomical clock,
with the electro-magnetic registering a pparatus, to be lent to Lieutenant
Gillis during the continuance of his astronomical labors in Chili. The
clock has been imported from Germany, and is now in the hands of the
instrument maker, to receive the registering attachments. The whole
will be sent to Chili, as soon as the apparatus is completed. T regret
that the difficulty of procuring the services of suitable workmen has
delayed so long the completion of these instruments.

A communication from Lieutenant Gillis, informs us that the Chilian
government has resolved to establish a permanent national observatory
at Santiago, and that it will purchase the instruments above mentioned.

fo)

The Institution will therefore again, as in the case, mentioned in a former
Report, of the purchase of a telescope for the same expedition, be the

means of promoting science without an expenditure of its income.
204 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

The apparatus for determining the elements of terrestrial magnetism,
mentioned in my last Report, as having been lent to Colonel Emory, has
been delivered to Colonel Graham, to be used on the Mexican Boundary
Survey. ‘To replace these, the Institution has received permission to
order another set, from London, at the expense of the government; and
thus, by an addition to the number of instruments of this kind, the means
of promoting the science of terrestrial magnetism, in this country, will
be increased.

The purchase of standard meteorological apparatus, and also the in- —
struments which have been distributed to different important stations,
throughout the country, is a part of the same plan. ;

During the past year a considerable portion of the apparatus consti-
tuting the liberal donation of Dr. Hare, of Philadelphia, has been repaired
and fitted up; and we hope, during the present season, to complete
the repairs of the remainder, and to place the whole in a proper posi-
tion for exhibition and use.

Library.

It has been stated, that the programme of organization is intended to
harmonize the several requisitions of Congress, and the resolutions of
the Board of Regents, with a system of active operations, the influence
of which shall be as widely extended as practicable. Though almost

t o

every one will admit the value of libraries, and the importance of col-
lecting in this country as great a variety of books as possible, yet it —
may well be doubted whether the accumulation of a large number of
books which are to be found in almost every library of the country, is,
in the present state of the funds, to be expected or aimed at. It is be-
lieved that a portion of the income devoted to.the library, may be more
efficiently expended in the promotion of the desired ends by other means,
and hence, it was resolved to make special collections of books 3 par-
ticularly to procure such as are not in the country, and also, in order
to render more available those which are now in our libraries, to pre-
pare, as far as practicable, a general catalogue of all the books they
contain.

In accordance with these views, Professor Jewett has devised a plan
of facilitating the publication of catalogues of libraries, which bids fair
to be of much importance to the literature of the country. This plan —
has been submitted for examination to a commission of gentlemen well
acquainted with the subject, and we have received from them a very
favorable report recommending its adoption.

The propositions submitted to the commission for examination, were
as follows :

1. A plan for stereotyping catalogues of libraries by separate mova-
ble titles 5 and

2. A set of general rules, to be recommended for adoption, by the —
different libraries of the United States, in the preparation of their cata-_
logues.

For a full account of Professor Jewett’s plan, and of the advantages
anticipated from it, | must refer to his report herewith submitted. fa
may, however, briefly allude to the leading principle of the plan, which
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 205

is to stereotype the titles of books on separate movable blocks. These
blocks once prepared, and kept in a central depository, may be used
for the printing of new editions of the catalogues for which they were
originally made, allowing the inter position of additional titles in their
proper order ; as well as for the printing of all other catalogues con-
taining the same titles. The collection of the stereotype blocks of the
titles of the several libraries will thus form the stereotyped titles of a
general catalogue of all the libraries. ‘They will lend themselves to
the construction of bibliographies of particular branches of know ledge,
and will adinit of being arranged alphabetically, chronologically, or in
classes, in accordance with any required system.

These blocks are not to be made in advance of a demand for their
use. ‘They are to be gradually accumulated, by an arrangement,
which, imposing only a temporary and light burden upon the funds of
this Institution, will ‘effect the great public object desired, at the same

time that it diminishes to but mae of the present cost the expenses
of publishing catalogues, and secures the construction of them upon a
uniform and approved system.

The details of a plan so comprehensive may well be supposed to be
difficult of adjustment, and not capable of being clearly described within
the limits of a few paragraphs. ‘These, however, have been fully con-
sidered by a competent tribunal; andthe plan has received commenda-
tion and promises of co-operation, from some of the principal institutions
of the country.

During the last year, the library has continued to increase by dona-
tion, by receipts under the copyright law, by exchanges for the
publications of the Institution, and by purchase. It now numbers, in
all, nearly ten thousand separate articles, and bids fair, from the same
sources, to become a very valuable collection.

Though one half of the annual interest is to be expended on the
library and the museum, the portion of the income which can be
devoted to the former will, in my opinion, never be sufficient, without
extraneous aid, to colleet and support a miscellaneous library of the
first class. Indeed, all the income would scarcely suffice tor this pur-
pose. Still, by means of exchanges, donations, and purchases, a
library of great value may be collected and sustained ; and ae with
the constantly i increasing library of Congress, the libraries of the De-
partments, and that of Geor getown College, will furnish a collection of
books not unworthy of the capital of this nation.

From the report of Professor Jewett, it will be seen that a Gallery
of Art has been commenced, and that it is already in possession of a
valuable collection of engravings.

In this connexion, I may Pcation that at the last annual meeting of
the Board a letter was presented from the Hon. Abbott eeecrice.
informing the Regents that a portrait of Smithson had been offered
through ine for sale to the Institution. This portrait, which was in
the possession of the widow of John Fitall, a servant of Smithson, men-
tioned in his will, was purchased for thirty guineas, and is now in the
Gallery of Art. It represents the founder of this Institution, in the
costume of a student of Oxford, and was probably painted when he
Was not more than twenty years of age. There is, also, in the pos-
206 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

session of the Institution a medallion of Smithson, in copper, taken in
after lite. It is from this that the head on the title-page of the Smith-
sonian publications has been copied.

Lectures.

During the past session of Congress a series of popular lectures has
been given to the citizens of this place and strangers, in the lecture
room of the Smithsonian building. These lectures, were delivered by
gentlemen distinguished for their standing, and for their attainments in
literature and science, who were invited for this purpose. ‘The interest
in these lectures has heen sustained to a wonderful degree. They have
been attended from the first by large audiences 3 Ap the results thus
far indicate that considerable aood ~ may be derived from the diffusion
of knowledge in this way, in a Seontral position like Washington, where
persons from every part of the Union are found. Although the lectures
appear to the public one of the most prominent objects : of the Tustitu-
tion, and although they are attended with much trouble and_ consider-
able expense, they really form the least important feature of the plan
adopted. So long, however, as there is a prospect of doing good by
means of them, it is due to the city in which the Institution is located
that they should be continued.

Much complaint has been made on account of the size of the lecture
room. It is certainly too small to accommodate all who have wished
to attend. We have, however, endeavored, in several instances, to
obviate this dificulty, by procuring a repetition of the lectures ; but this
plan is attended with additional expense, and cannot, in all cases, be
adopted. Should large audiences continue, it may be well to provide
a larger lecture room in the main building, and, by removing the seats
from the present lecture room, convert it into a museum of apparatus.
This change, if thought advisable, can be made at very little, if any,
additional expense; since the present wood-work of the interior of the
main building is to give place to a fire-proof structure, which will ad-
mit of being arranged as a lecture room. Indeed, the original plan
contemplated a room of this kind in the main building; but the arrange-
ment of it was such as to seat scarcely more than the room at present
used.

Many enquiries are made as to the publication of these lectures. In
some cases, reports of them have been given in the newspapers, and it ~
will be advisable to extend this practice to all; but the publication, in
a separate form, of lectures, which in many cases are not written out,
and not intended by their authors as additions to knowledge, would be —
attended with much expense and little useful effect. The Institution,
in several instances, is doing better service, by publishing in full the
original researches on which the lectures are based. The papers of
Professor Agassiz, of Professor Harvey, and of Lieutenant Davis, are
of this chara acter, and will be given to the world through the Smith- Y
sonian Contributions. ‘ |

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 207

The following is a list of the Titles of Lectures given before the Institution
during the last session of Congress, with the names of the distinguished
gentlemen by whom they were delivered :

A single lecture on Holland, by the Rev. Dr. George W. Bethune’
ot Brooklyn, New York.

A course of lectures on the Relations of Time and Space, the Vast-
ness of the Visible Creation, and the Primordial Arrangement of Ex-
isting Systems; by Professor Stephen Alexander, of Princeton, New
Jersey.

A course of lectures on Science applied to Agriculture; by Professors
J. F. W. Johnston, of the University of Durham, England.

’ Two lectures, one on the Tendencies of Modern Science, and the
other on the Spirit of the Age; ; by the’ Rt. Rev. Bishop Alonzo Potter,
of Pennsylvania.

One lecture on the Ability of the Individual to Promote Knowledge ;
by the Rey. John Hall, of Trenton, New Jersey.

A course of lectures on the Unity of the plan of the Animal Creation ;
by Professor Louis Agassiz, of Cambridge, Massachusetts.

A course of lectures on the Tides of the Ocean and their Geological
Relations; by Lieutenant Charles Henry Davis, of the United States
navy: |

A course of lectures on Marine Algze or Sea Weeds, and also on the
Morphology of the Vegetable Kingdom; by Professor William H.
Harvey, of the University of Dublin, Ireland.

Two lectures, one on the Origin and Growth of the Union during the
Colonial Period, and the other on some points of the History and Pecu-
liarities of the English Language; by Professor Henry Reed, of the
University of Pennsylvania.

A course of lectures on the Chemical Operations of Nature ; by Pro-
fessor Lewis C. Beck, of Rutgers College, New Jersey.

The first part of a general course, giving an exposition of the Dy-
‘namical Phenomena of Geology ; by Professor Henry D. Rogers, of
Boston.

Whatever may have been the effect of these lectures in the way of
diffusing knowledge, it is evident, from the character of the men by
whom they were delivered, that they presented truths intended to elevate
and improve the moral and intellectual condition of the hearers.

All of which is respectfully submitted :
JOSEPH HENRY,

Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.
208 ; EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

FIFTH ANNUAL REPORT

Of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, for the year 1851.

To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution:

GrnTLEMEN: Besides the care of all the property of the Institution,
and the responsibility of the direction of its operations, under the con-
trol of the Regents, the Secretary 1s required to give an account, at their
annual session, of the condition of the Institution, and of its transac-
tions during the preceding year.

In the discharge of this duty on the present occasion, lam happy to
inform the Regents, that the Institution under their care is still ina pros-
perous eoniGen: and that since their last meeting it has continued
silently, but effectually, to enlarge the sphere of its Tmfncnee and useful-

ness, and to elicit from every part of the civilized world commendations,
not only of the plan of or ‘ganization it has adopted, but also of the
results it has produced.

In my last Report I gave a brief account of the means employed _ to
increase the income, so ‘thata in addition to the requirements of Congress
in regard to the formation of a library and a museum, and the erection
of a building on a liberal scale, operations of a more active character
could be incorporated into the plan of organization.

During the past year the same policy has been observed ; and though
the Gfficers of the Institution have been subjected to the inconvenience
of transacting business in an unfinished building, and in rooms not in-
tended for the purpose, yet this has been considered of minor impor-
tance in comparison with the saving of the funds. Every dollar now
expended on the building lessens the amount of accr uing interest, and —
diminishes the means of ‘producing results which are to affect the world |
at large; hence the importance of an adherence to the plan of finishing
it by degrees. Since the last session of the Board, it has, therefore, not
been thought advisable to urge the contractor to a rapid completion of
his work, and all the expenditures on account of the building have been
made from the accrued interest of the current year, and from a portion —
of that of the year preceding. There is, consequently, still on hand }
the two hundred thousand dollars of eaainnalated interest mentioned in —
the last and preceding reports. Of this, it will be recollected, $50,000
are to be applied towards finishing the building, and the remainder to
be invested as part of the principal.

The importance of increasing the funds and of gradually developing
the operations embraced in the programme, was set forth in the last —
report. ‘The Institution, it is to be hoped, is not one of a day, but is
to endure as long as our government shall last; it is therefore neces aa
in the beginning, that we should constantly look to the future, and guard
against the temptation, to which we are continually exposed, of ex-
panding too rapidly.

By a resolution of the board, at their session in 1849, the Secretary
was directed to petition Congress to take from the Institution $150,000,

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 209

and such other sums, not exceeding in all $200,000, as may have been
or shall be received in accruing imterest or otherwise, upon the same
terms as those on which the original bequest had been accepted. This
petition was referred to a committee and favorably reported upon ; but
unfortunately the press of business prevented Congress from acting upon
it at their last session. The petition will again be renewed; and
it is believed that so reasonable a request will meet with a favorable
reception. It is, however, thought important that the amount should
be increased, and that the sum of $250,000 be inserted in the petition,
instead of that named in the resolution.

In addition to the $150,000 which the Regents thus seek to invest,
there is still a portion of the original legacy remaining in England, as
the principal of an annuity settled upon Madame De la Batut, the
mother of the nephew of Smithson, to whom the property was originally
bequeathed. Besides this, ]am informed, upon good authority, that the
Institution is the contingent legatee of an estate of considerable magni-
tude, depending on the demise without issue of a single individual.
We may also reasonably expect that if the affairs of the Institution are
properly conducted, and its funds judiciously husbanded or properly
expended on the legitimate objects of the bequest, other trusts will be
committed to its care. It therefore becomes important that the hmit
should be at least $250,000, so that the whole sum, including the ori-
ginal bequest, shall amount to a little more than $750,000. There can
surely be no just grounds of fear that the income of this sum will be
devoted to improper uses, so long as it is an essential part of the plan
to produce fruits, the value of which can be judged by all who are
capable of appreciating the advance of knowledge. 'This request is
also in accordance with the policy adopted by the Institution of asking
nothing from Congress but the safe keeping of its funds, and the ap-
pointment to its Board of Regents of gentlemen of intelligence and high
moral principles.

The government has thus far liberally fulfilled the obligations which
it imposed upon itself in accepting the trust. Not only has the original
sum been permanently invested in the treasury of the United States,
but interest has been allowed from the time of receiving the funds.
Congress has also made several donations to the Institution, which,
though they will not prove as valuable to us as could be wished, indi-
cate a liberal intention. The first gift was the great museum of the
Exploring Expedition, for the accommodation of which the larger por-
tion of the present building was originally intended; the second was a
grant of nineteen acres of land surrounding the building of the Institu-
tion; the third, a copy of every book published in the United States
for which a copyright might be granted; the fourth and last gift was
that of all the plates, manuscripts, &c., of the Exploring Expedition,
for the purpose of publishing a new edition for distribution.

These donations, though made with kindly feelings and in a spirit of
liberality, have proved singularly unprofitable. The maintenance of
the museum of the Exploring Expedition would subject the Institu-
tion to an annual expense which would materially interfere with more
important -operations. After expending several thousand dollars on
the improvement of the grounds, it has been deemed best to return
210 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

them to the charge of the general government. Were the copyright
act fully complied with, perhaps some benefit might accrue from it
to the Institution; but in the manner in which it is at present observed,
the expense of postage and of clerk hire in recording the titles and
furnishing the certificates of deposit, has more than equalled the value
to us of all the books received. Lastly, it has been estimated that the
publication of a new edition of the expensive volumes of the results of
the Exploring Expedition would cost at least fifty thousand dollars.
Fortunately, it has not been considered obligatory on the Institution,
except in the case of the copyright law, to accept these gifts.

Publication of Memoirs.

Since the adoption of the plan of organization, nearly fifty original
memoirs, purporting to be additions to the sum of human knowledge,
have been presented to the Institution for publication. ‘Though a num-
ber of these have been returned to their authors, principally on account
of not falling within the restricted class of communications accepted for
publication, yet they have generally been productions of much merit,
and have evinced a surprising activity of mind, and manifest a growing
attention in this country to original research. The probable success
of this part of the plan of or ganization was not overrated; for, were the
whole income of the Institution devoted alone to publishing the results
of the labors of men of literature and of science, which otherwise would
never see the light, it could be profitably expended. In this respect,
the Rae sonia bequest supplies the wants which in Europe are met
by richly endowed academies and national societies.

It will be recollected that each memoir is printed separately, and
with a separate title and paging, so that it can be distributed to persons
most interested in its perusal as soon as it comes from the press, with-
out waiting for the completion of the volume to which it belongs. In
this way, the author is enabled to present a full account of his dis-
coveries to the world with the least possible delay; while, by the rules
of the Institution, he is allowed to publish an abstract of his paper im
the proceedings of the American Association for the Advancement of
Science, or in “those of any other properly organized society.

The number of copies of the Smithsonian (onuabnsione distributed is
greater than that of the transactions of any scientific or literary society ;
and therefore the Institution offers the best medium to be found for
diffusing a knowledge of scientific discoveries.

Every memoir published by the Institution is issued with the stamp
of approval of a commission of competent judges: and in order to secure
a cautious and candid opinion, the name of the author, and those of the
examiners, are not made known to each other unless a favorable report
is given 5 badcs in this case, the names of the commission are printed, as
vouchers for the character of the memoir, on the reverse of the title-
page.

This plan. secures an untrammelled expression of opinion, while it
induces caution on account of the responsibility which it involves.

Besides deciding on the fitness of original memoirs for publication,
the Institution is continually applied to for information relative to almost

f
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 211

every department of literature and science. Respectful attention is
always given to these applications; and when the desired answer does

not fall within the line of study of any officer of the Institution, it is
sought for from those in whose knowledge and judgment we have full
confidence. No inconsiderable portion of time is occupied in giving
the information involved in the answers to these inquiries; but I am
happy to inform the Board that in this service, as well as in that of
examining memoirs, we have received the co-operation of a considera-
ble number of the most distinguished individuals in our country, and in
scarcely a single case has application for assistance in this way been
refused. By the operation of the plan adopted, the -Institution can
command the talents and the learning of the world, and with a small
corps of permanent officers, or a sufficient clerical force, can discharge
the duty ef an association to which subjects relative to all Branches
of knowledge can be referred.

There is one class of requests which, by a resolution of the Bo: ied of
Regents, we are directed to refuse, viz: those for the examination and
approval of the innumerable inventions by which the ingenious and
enterprising seek to better their own condition and that of the publie.
Were it not for this resolution, originally proposed by General Cass,
we would be overwhelmed with applications of this kind, and have
forced upon us the business of the Patent Office. Besides this, the
principal object of the erganization is the discovery of new truths,
rather than the application of known principles to uscful purposes.
Not that we would undervalue the labors of the inventor; but because
practical knowledge has a marketable value which always insures its
cultivation, provided the higher philosophical truths on which it is
founded are sufficiently developed and made known.

-The idea is still very generally entertained that Smithson bequeathed
his property to this country for the diffusion of useful knowledge*among
the people, and that his intention would be best consulted by the
expenditure of all the income in the publication and general distribu-
tion of tracts ou practical subjects. The adoption of this plan would
be to dissipate the funds without beneficial effect. A single report of
the Patent Office costs, in some instances, more than three times the
income of the Smithsonian fund, which itself would be insufficient for
the general diffusion of a single octavo page of printed matter. The
property, however, was not left to the inhabitants of the United States,
but to the government, in trust for the good of man; and not merely
for the dice eh or diffusion of knowledge, but, first of all, for
creating, originating, increasing it. Furthermore, Smithson does not
confine his bequest to the promotion of useful knowledge alone, in the
lower sense of the term, but includes all knowledge in wee liberal and
philosophical design. The true, the beautiful, as well as the imme-
diately practical, are all entitled to a share of attention. All knowledge
is profitable ; profitable in its ennobling effect on the character, in the
pleasure it imparts in its acquisition, as well as in the power it gives
over the operations of mind and of matter. All knowledge is useful;
every part of this complex system of nature is connected with every
other. Nothing is isolated. The discovery of to-day, which appears
212 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF

unconnected with any useful process, may, in the course of a few
years, become the fruitful source of a thousand inventions.

That the encouragement of the discovery of new truths, the publica-
tion of original memoirs, and the establishment of new researches, are
in conformity with the design of Smithson, is not only manifest from
the terms of his will. but also from the fact, which has lately come to
our knowledge, that he at first left his property to the Royal Society
of London, for the very object embraced in this part of the plan. And
what prouder monument could any man desire than the perpetual asso-
ciation of his name with a series of new truths? This building and alk
its contents may be destroyed; but the volumes of the Smithsonian
Contributions, distributed as they are among a thousand libraries, are
as wide-spread and lasting as civilization itself.

During the past year a number of memoirs have been accepted for pub-
lication, pad are either in the press or are waiting the drawings to illus-
trate them, now in the hands of the engraver. Iti is the duty of the Sec-
retary, in accordance with the original plan of the Institution, to give a
popular account of these memoirs in his annual Report.

1. The first is a memoir by Dr. Asa Gray, professor of botany in Har-
vad University, consisting of an account of a collection of plants made
by Mr. Charles Wright, in an expedition from Texas to El Paso, 1 in the
summer and autumn of 1849.

It was stated in my Report for that year that one hundred and fifty
dollars had been subscribed on the part of the Institution toward the
outfit of Mr. Wright, and that the plants colleeted by him would be sub-
mitted to Dr. Gray for examination and description. ‘The memoir now
mentioned is the result of this arrangement, though it also contains notices
of plants gathered by other collectors in adjacent regions, especially by
Dr. Wislizenus i in the valley of the Rio Grande and Chihuahua, and by
the lamented Dr. Gregg in the same district, and in the northern part of
Mexico. ‘This memoir is a good exposition of the character of the vege-

tation, and consequently of the climate, of the regions traversed. :

Specimens of all the plants obtained by Mr. Wright belong to this In-
stitution; and these, with sets collected by Fendler and Lindheimer,
form the nucleus of an important and authentic North American her-
barium.

2. Another paper on botany is by Dr. John Torrey, of the college of New
Jersey, Princeton. It gives illustrations of the botany of California, and
describes a number of new and interesting plants discovered by Colonel
Frémont in his different explorations in that country.

Some of the plants collected by this intrepid traveller have been de-
scribed in the appendix to his first and second report, but many are still
unpublished. Of the collections made during his third expedition no
descriptions have been given, except that two or three of the new plants
were briefly ch aracterized by Dr. Gray, in order to secure priority of
discovery.

In the memoir presented to the Institution, Dr. Torrey has given de-
scriptions of a number of genera of new and remarkable plants, all col-
lected by Colonel Frémont in the passes and on the sides of the Sierra
Nevada. With regard to this publication Dr. Torrey remarks, that he
had hoped that arrangements would have been made by the govern-

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 213

ment of the United States for the publication of a general account of
the botany of California; but as there 1s no immediate prospect of such
a work being undertaken, this memoir, on some of the more interesting
genera discovered by Colonel Frémont, has been prepared. for the
Smithsonian Institution.

The drawings to illustrate this paper have been made, at the expense
of the Thstitution, by Mr. Isaac Sprague, of Cambridge, who, in the
opinion of Dr. Torrey, ranks among the best botanical draughtsn nen of
our day.

3. The next paper presents the results of a series of observations made
in the years 1845-6-7, to determine the dip, inclination, and intensity
of the magnetic force in several parts of the United States, by John
Locke, M. D., professor of chemistry in the Medical College ot Ohio.
The results presented in this paper are a continuation of a series de-
rived from observations begun in 1837, and prosecuted annually for ten
years. The first parts of the series have been published in the Trans-
actions of the American Philosophical Society, and have been incor-
por ated by Colonel Sabine in his contributions to Terrestrial Magnet-
ism. A part of the observations given in this memoir were made at
the expense and under the direction of the United States Coast Survey.
Another portion was made in accordance with the direction of the Hon.
Robert J. Walker, late Secretary of the Treasury, as a part of the in-
vestigations instituted for the exploration of the mineral lands belonging
to the general government. This paper has been examined by compe-
tent judges, and recommended for publication in the Smithsonian Con-
tributions, as an important addition to knowledge.

4, A paper has also been presented for publication by the executors of
the late Dr. Troost, of Nashville. It consists of descriptions and draw-
ings of avery numerous family of extinct zoophytes, to which the
organic remains, called the stone lily, belongs. The vicinity of Nashville
appears to be a remarkable locality for these remains; and the paper of
Professor Troost describes several hundred species, of which two only
have living representatives.

The memoir, however, is not in a condition to be published without
revision, and additions to bring it up to the state of knowledge at the
present time. This labor has been gratuitously undertaken by Protfes-
sor Agassiz, of Cambridge, and Protessor James Hall, of Albany. The
collection of specimens from which the drawings were made is now in
the possession of these gentlemen, and the memoir will be published as
soon as the corrections and additions are made.

5. The next memoir is on the Winds of the Northern Hemisphere, by
Professor James Coffin. The design of this communication, in the
words of the author, is “to answer the following questions, viz:

“qa. What is the average direction in which the lower strata of the
air moves over different regions of the northern hemisphere?

‘““h, What is the rate of progress in the mean direction as compared
ae the total distance travelled by the wind?

- What modifications do the mean direction and rate of progress
et ale in the different months of the year?

ne ie What is the direction of the deflecting forces that cause the
modifications ?
214 EIGHPH ANNUAL REPORT OF
° \

‘‘e, What is the average relative force and velocity of winds from
several points of the compass?

“¢f, How will the introduction or omission of the latter element affect
the answer of the preceding quest tions?”’

The data used in answering these questions have been collected
with great labor, and consist of Pay a ations made at no less than five
endred and seventy-six different stations on land, and a large number

taken during numerous voyages at sea. The field of abaereanion in-
cludes a zone which Rasices from the equator to near the parallel of

85° of north latitude, and occupies a period, taken in the aggregate, of

2,800 years.

Several of the foregoing questions have been answered approximately
by other writers, but never, it 1s believed, from as extensive an induc-
tion as is presented in this memoir.

This paper is illustrated by a number of maps and diagrams, which
render its publication very expensive. It was presented to the Insti-
tution more than a year ago, but the appr opriation for printing was not
sufficient to allow of its publication at that time.

6. ‘The lnstitution has also commenced the publication of an extended
memoir, aoe of a grammar and lexicon of the Dakota language,
the results of the joint labors during eighteen years of the Dakota mis-
sion, assisted by the most intelligent natives of this tribe of Indians.
The whole has been arranged and placed in its present form by the
Rev. 8. R. Riggs, of the American Board of Missions.

This work was prepared under the auspices of the Historical Society
of Minnesota, and recommended by this association to the favorable
attention of the Smithsonian Institution. It is designed to meet the

requirements of the missionary in his labor of diffusing the lght of

religion and civilization among one of the most numerous and important
tribes of ‘Indians in the country. It also forms an interesting addition
to ethnology, which will be highly prized by all devoted to this branch
of knowledge.

A language i is not originally a thing of man’s device, or the result of

cony Sonal art, but the spontaneous production of human instinct,
modified by the mental character, the physical conditions, and other
peculhiaritic ‘s of the people or tribe among which it had its origin, or by
whom it is used. . It is subject to definite laws of formation and devel-
opment, and is intimately connected with the history of the migrations

and athliations of the people by whom it is spoken, ‘and hence becomes
an object of interest to the student of the natural histor y of man.

In accordance with the policy of not expending the Smithsonian fand
in doing with it what could be equally well done by other means, this
memoir was first referred to the Bureau of Indian Affairs, with the
hope that it might be adopted as a part of the materials of the volumes
published under the direction of that bureau; but this was not found
practicable, and the task was therefore undertaken by the Institution.

The memoir will oc scupy an entire volume, and would have been too
much for our present income, had not about one third of the whole cost
of publication been promised by subscription from the members of the
Historical Society of Minnesota and the American Board of Missions.

The latter institution defrays the expenses of Mr. Riggs while he is en-

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. PAI I's)

gaged in superintending the passage of the work through the press. It
is a pleasant circumstance that in this instance, as well as in many
others, the organization of the Institution enables it to co-operate with
other institutions, and to assist them in their labors of promoting
knowledge.

This memoir, which is now in the press, was referred for critical
examination to Professor Felton, of Cambridge, Massachusetts, and to
Professor Turner, of New York. The latter has furnished us with a
rononi Liber wtaees af collectrasinfnun;tionrelonve tothe differs
examination to Professor Felton, of Cambridge, Massachusetts, and to
Professor Turner, of New York. The latter has furnished us with a
rononi Liber wtaees af collectrasinfnun;tionrelonve tothe differs
examination to Professor Felton, of Cambridge, Massachusetts, and to
Professor Turner, of New York. The latter has furnished us with a
rononi Liber wtaees af collectrasinfnun;tionrelonve tothe differs
examination to Professor Felton, of Cambridge, Massachusetts, and to
Professor Turner, of New York. The latter has furnished us with a
rononi Liber wtaees af collectrasinfnun;tionrelonve tothe differs
examination to Professor Felton, of Cambridge, Massachusetts, and to
Professor Turner, of New York. The latter has furnished us with a
rononi Liber wtaees af collectrasinfnun;tionrelonve tothe differs
examination to Professor Felton, of Cambridge, Massachusetts, and to
Professor Turner, of New York. The latter has furnished us with a
rononi Liber wtaees af collectrasinfnun;tionrelonve tothe differs
examination to Professor Felton, of Cambridge, Massachusetts, and to
Professor Turner, of New York. The latter has furnished us with a
rononi Liber wtaees af collectrasinfnun;tionrelonve tothe differs
examination to Professor Felton, of Cambridge, Massachusetts, and to
Professor Turner, of New York. The latter has furnished us with a
rononi Liber wtaees af collectrasinfnun;tionrelonve tothe differs
examination to Professor Felton, of Cambridge, Massachusetts, and to
Professor Turner, of New York. The latter has furnished us with a
rononi Liber wtaees af collectrasinfnun;tionrelonve tothe differs
examination to Professor Felton, of Cambridge, Massachusetts, and to
Professor Turner, of New York. The latter has furnished us with a
rononi Liber wtaees af collectrasinfnun;tionrelonve tothe differs
examination to Professor Felton, of Cambridge, Massachusetts, and to
Professor Turner, of New York. The latter has furnished us with a
rononi Liber wtaees af collectrasinfnun;tionrelonve tothe differs
examination to Professor Felton, of Cambridge, Massachusetts, and to
Professor Turner, of New York. The latter has furnished us with a
rononi Liber wtaees af collectrasinfnun;tionrelonve tothe differs
examination to Professor Felton, of Cambridge, Massachusetts, and to
Professor Turner, of New York. The latter has furnished us with a
rononi Liber wtaees af collectrasinfnun;tionrelonve tothe differs
examination to Professor Felton, of Cambridge, Massachusetts, and to
Professor Turner, of New York. The latter has furnished us with a
rononi Liber wtaees af collectrasinfnun;tionrelonve tothe differs
examination to Professor Felton, of Cambridge, Massachusetts, and to
Professor Turner, of New York. The latter has furnished us with a
rononi Liber wtaees af collectrasinfnun;tionrelonve tothe differs
examination to Professor Felton, of Cambridge, Massachusetts, and to
Professor Turner, of New York. The latter has furnished us with a
