~—

Sau
sear
Sete pee

a

\ Ny ee
-

oe

“ah

- ae

ol van
is ane) vm F
me ri

ANNUAL REPORT OF THE
BOARD OF REGENTS OF

THE SMITHSONIAN
INSTITUTION

SHOWING THE

OPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES, AND
CONDITION OF THE INSTITUTION
FOR THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30

WASHINGTON
GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE
1912
LGN he ed Wel Se

SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,

THE ANNUAL REPORT OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS OF THE
INSTITUTION FOR THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1911.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,
Washington, April 3, 1912.
To the Congress of the United States:

In accordance with section 5593 of the Revised Statutes of the
United States, I have the honor, in behalf of the Board of Regents,
to submit to Congress the annual report of the operations, expendi-
tures, and condition of the Smithsonian Institution for the year end-
ing June 30, 1911. I have the honor to be,

Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
CuarLes D. Watcort, Secretary.
III
orevirenl reetecieameelee
fot foes a sail

Tab

‘ei Mo Psiaiate. bn: : A ,
eben te bewetl siif 0 ie

ig LP

CONTENTS.

Letter from the secretary submitting the annual report of the regents to pron

ORS S255 te Sh See aaa Sees eS Ra Ee rea ae ee a a era iii

Cy BST Sas Het Sy 2) 0,0) oy Rn aa ee gE Vv

sTeiE=(5 (09 01112) ea ek RE aS ee ge ee SRA SES Peep Nos see vii
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

MEIC SMNTENAOMIATE CNS LRLUMIOU = sh joino casos Aue sa oBn sd wie tie Soe cheese oo ere hoe 1
AU SSRI D ITED CY ISH ATT) 1) Sa Soe SO oe ey et ee eT a 1
fiire board Ol netenise: oot ese a as ae te ee ge ee 1
Generalrconsiderations..- -. 5==2--522+:+-+-22554-% ae we ie eet eeanete tel 2. ‘Darn 2
LeU S15) 2 i Co 1 Ag Roe ps Bean ON ane en ed Pe Pe 3
CID ITE: aig ee aN EE Oe & ED Ion ee eee Pe Se eee ae 3
Explorations and researches—

Studies in Cambrian geology and paleontology. .................-..- 5
Biological survey of the Panama Canal Zone..........-.....--....--- 5
Brolopical expeditionwin Canadar: 2... ss:6des. 2afeepe cas f-.-gse: - 6
Bainey expedition, tn Ati@a lh 8 coins. Sees a a ars hee 2 6
Bird studies in the Aleutian Islands and Bering Sea.................. 7
Anthropological researches in Peru.........-.- ee eae Seeore Ee 7
Researches under Hoadekins Timid -. 6. ccc 0¥s deem Sec = Sct cimaie Bein 8
Smithsonian table at Naples Zoological Station.....................- 9
Re Gl Tee cee eee a ae eee ana fe ER Pet hh eg ee le 10
[oo 0a Sais Slain nae ie oe a an OE SE een eae gE Oe 14
Raniple ys memos tap lets: eps nays «as ops co cP os SEE ma io wersin Fars 15
International congresses and celebrations. .............-........----+--- 15
Mitac Wane p is Sis, 2.2) seis Se ee ey 3 ts spree SE hg BE As eR 16

hie bette BUSOU. Seite ape gt Nt a ee ae ee ke 17

inureahion Amoenican BLNNOLOR Ys. <.0.5 220. <5 kas Se ee Do oe 19

CRO TIONAL KCNAR ECS 99 O ese ee ee ce 20

INEuiimuaeemOlopical Park: tctacrss (= 5 eS icon Aa) pba co oN ee ah ga 2

NING pny Ste Bly OOSCEN ALOU Fo age a et Ril US ek EE a 22

International Catalogue of Scientific Literature. ..............-...---s2+----- 23

RRM atari Scat ithe tS pa ae he ee i ed gee 25

Appendix I. Report on the United States National Museum.................. 26

II. Report on the Bureau of American Ethnology................- 31
III. Report on the International Exchanges.........:.......--+-.--- 45
IV. Report on the National Zoological Park. .............-...-.--- 53

VY. Report on the Astrophysical Observatory.......-.............-- 62
Pee POrvlOn Ne Ua DIAbY Kr GN e508 eee cigs te none ee ew ee 70

VII. Report on the International Catalogue of Scientific Literature... 75
Wadd; Report on. the Publications. a occ ce pie anata ote wceld ER Sha 78
IX. Report on Congresses of Librarians and on Bibliography........ 87
VI CONTENTS.

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE AND BOARD OF REGENTS.

Page.
Report of Executive Committee. ......---..-------------+---------:---- see 92
Proceedines of Board of Regents: 2.2 .\as os... 2 ccs 2c = oe tne ae pie 96
GENERAL APPENDIX.
The gyrostatic compass, by H. Marchand.....-...-.. Pa arches Sal eae em a)
Radiotelesraphy, by G. Marcend. #-ho-8 se noe cere el eine or ear 117
Multiplex telephony and telegraphy by means of electric waves guided by
SWAICH IN GEOL!) Ohi SGUMET Se = else rae eile alates ela ee eterna ey eter etre eee 133
Recent experiments with invisible light, by R. W. Wood...........--------- 155
What electrochemistry is accomplishing, by Joseph W. Richards.........--- 167
Ancient and modern views regarding the chemical elements, by William ire
See ed So) EE a Se eo eRe eee cor omocaereecmobae ee abc's: sso 2 183
The fundamental properties of the elements, by Theodore William Richards. . 199

The production and identification of artificial precious stones, by Noel Heaton. 217
The sterilization of drinking water by ultra-violet radiations, by Jules Cour-

Tif0) Es Sta ee Sisl SASERS ee a eee Aaa Cems MiriS Ab te aka eS 235
The legal time in various countries, by M. Philippot ..................------ 247
Some recent interesting developments in astronomy, by J. S. Plaskett........ 255
iPic-acerortheearth: “by Ue JOl yc. os G2 soe wee cmsicieee oe sae weitere eee 271
International air map and aeronautical marks, by Ch. Lallemand........-...- 295
Geologic work of ants in tropical America, by J. C. Branner.............----- 303
On the value of the fossil floras of the arctic regions as evidence of geological

climates by Ax G. Nathorsts2i.25. 05 < fees 92 eggs eee ee oe eee 335
Recent advances in our knowledge of the production of light by living organ-

isms, ye Adexe MeDermottcs s.4: 3 2a2 sams Some oe aya rege eee 345
Organic evolution: Darwinian and de Vriesian, by N. C. Macnamara. ......-- 363
Magnalia nature: or the greater problems of Nelo: ey, by D’Arcy Wentworth

PAGUIPSON 2282 8 Son. Sees oe doe SR ISO Rene a yao eee ener 379
A history of certain great horned owls, by Charles R. Keyes. ..............-- 395
The passenger pigeon, by Pehr Kalm (1759), and John James Audubon (1831). 407
Note on the iridescent colors of birds and insects, by A. Mallock..........---- 425
On the positions assumed by birds in flight, by Bentley Beetham. .........-- 433
The garden of serpents, Butantan, Brazil, by S: Pozzi-....-.-----~-.-.-.-_-- 44]
Some useful native plants of New Mexico, by Paul C. Standley.....-......- 447
The tree ferns of North America, by William R. Maxon....... Ee aia e tence eee 463
The value of ancient Mexican manuscripts in the study of the general develop-

ment of writing by A lired Me Tozzers 2 ce oe ee ee ere ee ee 493
The discoverers of the art of iron manufacture, by W. Belck...........--.--- 507
iPhe-Kapyles'of north Africa, “by A “Wissauer: = oso. nate ei cose sete 523
Chinese architecture and its relation to Chinese culture, by Ernst Boerschmann. 539
The Lolos of Kientchang, western China, by A. F. Legendre............-.--. 569
Phe physiology of sleep; by BiiLegendres 22253242. e cece. sek eee oe oe ee 587
Profitable and fruitless lines of endeavor in public health work, by Edwin O.

PORCAH NS RSS es CP ice oe pe ne eee EEE RS ee ere 603
Factory sanitation and efficiency, by C.-E. A. Winslow................------ 611
The physiological influence of ozone, by Leonard Hill and Martin Flack...... 617
Traveling at high speeds on the surface of the earth and above it, by H. S.

Hel e=Sbraiwn 5 3 via is ohne caw saeco oie es ee 629
Robertimoch, 1843-1910 "by-C. Mr heen ee ee ee ee 651

Sir Joseph Dalton Hooker, 1817-1911, by Lieut.-Col. D, Prain..... eon gaa 659
LIST OF PLATES.

Grostatic Compass (Marchand):
Plates 1-3.- eee a
Ranioreruasriy oni:
Pinte. 5.0252 Se
MULTIPLEX Loberemanes (inser
Pee Werle Mee weet opie orels
EXPERIMENTS WITH INVISIBLE
Liaxt (Wood):
JEG) Tepes ea i See
Platesig— tert ete ye a mah ote
JAAS ho OG Sane eee ee
ArtiriciaL Precious STONES
(Heaton):
1 ELLA: Velie a ae a

Lee@at Time (Philippot):
Plate 1 (colored map).........
Geotocic Work or Ants (Bran-
ner):
Plate 1.. pee:
GREAT Honan imme (Key ae
LE LES 221g ES Nee eee ane See
PASSENGER Pigeon (Kalm and
Audubon):
Plate 1 (colored half-tone). - . .
Cotors or Brrps anp INSsEcTS
(Mallock):
| el Fars (3 a ea ae
Birps IN Fiiaur (Beetham):
rated a8 {occ tie Se sar eae

Page.

116

126

136

160

162
164

220
226
230

254

314

406

424

Native Piants or New Mexico
(Standley):
LEE eo Es aS She ee
TreE FEeRNs (Maxon):
EAAKOnt eee ao eae eee
Mexican Manuscripts (Tozzer):
| 72) Deere tn a eee a
| Ee ENT) ity 75 et
Kapy.es or Nortu Arrica (Lis-
sauer):
Plates Dt hee Soe Wa a
| Ed CN TECRS TRY: SEMA TO Ree snie Negeri mae
PIRES ORB re eer pee eg eS
Pinter —i2e Se es
CHINESE ARCHITECTURE (Boersch-
mann):
labels: Woe es eae ee ea
IPISGGR Sad bee ait Syed ee tia

Loos or KrentcHana (Legendre):

Pe isteal ee c Ae ai caren

Bla testan As tesco se), eee

Rosert Kocu (C. J

Pe eee essa wate a cree peegutee

Str JosepH Darton JlooKxrr
(Prain):

<

Page.

659
ANNUAL REPORT OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS OF THE SMITH-
SONIAN INSTITUTION FOR THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1911.

SUBJECTS.

1. Annual report of the secretary, giving an account of the opera-
tions and conditions of the Institution for the year ending June 30,
1911, with statistics of exchanges, etc.

2. Report of the executive committee, exhibiting the financial
affairs of the Institution, including a statement of the Smithsonian
fund, and receipts and expenditures for the year ending June 30,
191k

3. Proceedings of the Board of Regents for the sessions of Decem-
ber 8, 1910, and February 9, 1911.

4. General appendix, comprising a selection of miscellaneous mem-
oirs of interest to collaborators and correspondents of the Institution,
teachers, and others engaged in the-promotion of knowledge. These
memotrs relate chiefly to the calendar year 1911.
THE SMITHSONTAN INSTITUTION,

a
JUNE 380, 1911.

Presiding officer ex officio.—Wutam H. Tart, President of the United States.
Chancellor —JAMES S. SHERMAN, Vice President of the United States.
Members of the Institution:
Wituram H. Tart, President of the United States.
JAMES S. SHERMAN, Vice President of the United States.
Epwarp Douciass WuiTeE, Chief Justice of the United States.
PHILANDER ©. Knox, Secretary of State.
FRANKLIN MacVeEaGH, Secretary of the Treasury.
Henry L. Stiuson, Secretary of War.
GEORGE W. WICKERSHAM, Attorney General.
Frank H. Hircucock, Postmaster General.
GEORGE von L. Meyer, Secretary of the Navy.
Watter L. FisuHer, Secretary of the Interior.
JAMES Witson, Secretary of Agriculture.
CHARLES NAGEL, Secretary of Commerce and Labor.
Regents of the Institution:
JAMES S. SHERMAN, Vice President of the United States, Chancellor.
Epwarp Doveuass Waite, Chief Justice of the United States.
SHELBY M. Cuttom, Member of the Senate.
Henry Casot Lopate, Member of the Senate.
Avueustus O. Bacon, Member of the Senate.
JoHN DauzELL, Member of the House of Representatives.
JamMEs R. Mann, Member of the House of Representatives.

Wiu1aM M. Howarp, former Member of the House of Representatives. Regent

until December 27, 1911.

JAMES B. ANGELL, citizen of Michigan.

ANDREW D. Wuite, citizen of New York.

JoHN B. HENDERSON, Jr., citizen of Washington, D. C.

ALEXANDER GRAHAM BELL, citizen of Washington, D. C.

GEORGE GRAY, citizen of Delaware.

CHARLES F, CHOATE, Jr., citizen of Massachusetts.
Executive Committee.—A. O. Bacon, ALEXANDER GRAHAM BELL, JOHN DALZELL.
Secretary of the Institution CHARLES D. Wa.corr.
Assistant Secretary in charge of National Museum.—RicHARD RATHBUN.
Assistant Secretary in charge of Library and Exchanges.—FREDERICK W. He
Chief Clerk—Harry W. Dorsey.
Accountant and Disbursing Agent.—W. I. ADAms.
Editor.—A. Howarp CLARK.

XI
XII ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1911.

THE NATIONAL MUSEUM.

Keeper ex officio—Cuartes D. Waxcort, Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.

Assistant Secretary in charge.—RicHARD RATHBUN.

Administrative Assistant.—W. DE C. RAVENEL.

Head Curators.—Wiuram H. Hoitmes, LEONHARD STEJNEGER, G. P. MERRILL.

Curators.—R. 8S. Bassuer, A. Howarp Cuark, F. W. Cuarke, F. V. Covitte, W. H.
Dati, B. W. Evermann, J. M. Fut, U.S. N. (retired), W. H. Hotmgs,
Watrer Hoven, L. O. Howarp, Atks HrouiéKa, G. P. Merritn, GERRIT
S. Muter, Jr., Richarp Ratrusun, Roper’ Ripeway, LEONHARD STEJNEGER,
CHARLES D. WALCOTT.

Associate Curators —J. N. Rost, Davip WHITE.

Curator, National Gallery of Art—W. H. Houmes.

Chief of Correspondence and Documents.—RANpDoutrH I. GEARE.

Superintendent of Construction and Labor.—J. 8. GoLDSMITH.

Editor.—Marcus BENJAMIN.

Photographer.—T. W. SMILLIE.

Registrar.—S. C. Brown.

BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY.

Ethnologist in charge.—¥. W. Hopes.

Ethnologists.—J. Waurer Frewxes, J. N. B. Hewirr, Francis La Fiescue, Tru-
MAN MicHEeLson, JAMES Mooney, MatinpA CoxE STEvENSON, JouHNn R.
SWANTON.

Philologist —FRaNz Boas.

Editor.—JosErH G. GURLEY.

Illustrator —Dr LAaNcEY W. GILL.

INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGES.

Assistant Secretary in charge-—F REDERICK W. TRUE.
Chief Clerk.—C. W. SHOEMAKER.

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK.

Superintendent.—F RANK BAKER.
Assistant Superintendent.—A. B. BAKER.

ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY.

Director.—C. G. ABBOT.
Aid.—F.. E. Fowuz, Jr.

REGIONAL BUREAU FOR THE UNITED STATES, INTERNATIONAL
CATALOGUE OF SCIENTIFIC LITERATURE.

Assistant in charge.—L. C. GUNNELL.
REPORT

OF THE

SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

CHARLES D. WALCOTT,

FOR THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1911.

To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution:

GrNnTLEMEN: I have the honor to submit a report showing the
operations of the Institution and its branches during the year ending
June 30, 1911, including the work placed by Congress under the direc-
tion of the Board of Regents in the United States National Museum,
the Bureau of American Ethnology, the International Exchanges,
the National Zoological Park, the Astrophysical Observatory, and the
United States Bureau of the International Catalogue of Scientific
Literature.

The general report reviews the affairs of the Institution proper,
with brief paragraphs relating to the several branches, while the
appendix presents detailed reports by those in direct charge of the
work. Independently of the present report, the operations of the
National Museum and the Bureau of American Ethnology are fully
treated of in separate volumes.

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

THE ESTABLISHMENT.

The Smithsonian Institution was created an establishment by act
of Congress approved August 10, 1846. Its statutory members are
the President of the United States, the Vice President, the Chief
Justice, and the heads of the executive departments.

THE BOARD OF REGENTS.

The Board of Regents consists of the Vice President and the Chief
Justice of the United States as ex officio members, three Members of
the Senate, three Members of the House of Representatives, and six
citizens, “ two of whom shall be resident in the city of Washington,
and the other four shall be inhabitants of some State, but no two of
them of the same State.”

38734°—sm 19111 1
9 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, LOIN:

On July 4, 1910, Chief Justice Fuller died and was succeeded on
December 19 by Chief Justice Edward Douglass White as ex officio
member of the board. ;

At a meeting of the Board of Regents on December 8, 1910, the
Hon. James S. Sherman, Vice President of the United States, was
elected Chancellor.

The personnel of the board has been further changed by the resig-
nation of Hon. John B. Henderson and the appointment of John B.
Henderson, jr., as a Regent.

GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS.

The Smithsonian Institution has had a powerful influence for more
than 60 years in the development of science in the United States.
Its achievements in many lines of research and exploration have been
of great good in the promotion of the welfare of the human race.
The Institution and its branches continue to be engaged in a wide
range of activities, covering practically the entire field of natural
and physical science, as well as anthropological and archeological
researches.

In my last report I referred to the establishment of a trust fund,
through the generosity of Mrs. E. H. Harriman, which yields an
annual income of $12,000, to be devoted to the definite purpose of car-
rying on scientific studies, particularly of American mammals and
other animals, the donor specifying Dr. C. Hart Merriam as the in-
vestigator to carry on the work during his lifetime. I believe it desir-
able to establish a number of such research associateships, whereby
especially capable men in other branches of science may be afforded
opportunities for research work without the care and burden of
administrative duties, and with full assurance that as long as their
work is properly conducted it will be continued and that provision
will be made for them when incapacitated for active service. The
field for scientific investigation is extensive, and there are numbers
of worthy projects that can not now be undertaken because of lack
of means—projects that could not properly be carried on through
Government appropriation, but which the Smithsonian Institution
could readily undertake were the means available.

Friends of the Institution have from time to time generously pro-
vided funds for carrying on important explorations and researches,
as in the case of the Smithsonian African expedition, and more
recently by largely supporting the Smithsonian biological survey of
the Panama Canal Zone. :

Tt seems proper that I should here call special attention to the
motive which led the late George W. Poore, of Lowell, Massachu-
setts, who died December 17, 1910, to make the Smithsonian Insti-
tution his residual legatee. By the terms of the will the estate, esti-

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 3

mated to be about $40,000, is bequeathed under the condition that
the income from this sum should be added to the principal until a
total of $250,000 should have been reached, and that then the income
only should be used for the purposes for which the Institution was
created. The fund will be known as the Lucy T. and George W.
Poore fund. The closing words of this item of the will read as
follows:

I make this gift not so much because of its amount as because I hope it will
prove an example for other Americans to follow, by supporting and encouraging
so wise and beneficent an institution as I believe the Smithsonian Institute to
be, and yet it has been neglected and overlooked by American citizens.

ADMINISTRATION.

On account of the large increase in the administrative work of the
Institution and its branches, brought about by the natural growth of
their activities and the addition of new interests, it appeared ad-
visable to appoint an additional Assistant Secretary, to have imme-
diate charge of the Library and International Exchanges. With the
approval of the Regents, I appointed to that position Dr. Frederick
William True, who entered the service of the Institution in 1878 and
for several years had been head curator of biology in the United
States National Museum. Dr. True entered upon the active duties
of his office on June 1, 1911.

FINANCES.

The permanent fund of the Institution and the sources from which
it was derived are as follows:

Deposited in the Treasury of the United States.

ECU eSt Olas mNGn SOM G4 G secant sow Se SE eee $515, 169. 00
Residianyalesacy Ob Smithson SGie = ses = ee ee ee 26, 210. 65
DEHOSiteerom! Savines-OL mCcomMe WSO —— =o = eae ae 108, 620. 37
BequestioL James Hamilton, l8iis=-— 22s eee $1, 000. 00
Accumulated interest on Hamilton fund, 1895_______--_ 1, 000. 00
a 2, 000. 00
Bequest. of Simeony Habel GlSS0 sas = see ee a 500. 00
Deposit from proceeds of sale of bonds, 1881___--________________ 51, 500. 00
CitOLepRoOmMassGwiaOd Slain Sachs Olle sn see ne SS Le ed ee 200, 000. 00
Part of residuary legacy of Thomas G. Hodgkins, 1894____________ 8, 000. 00
Deposit tromisavines of income; 190322 sees eS ee eS 25, 000. 00
Residuary legacy, om Loomas! Go Hodgkins 2326 esses ee ee 7, 918. 69
Total amount of fund in the United States Treasury___----- 944, 918. 69
Registered and guaranteed bonds of the West Shore R. R. Co. (par
value). part of legacy of Thomas G: Hodgkins: ——-—--<_ 7s 42, 000. 00

MotalepermanenichuMd ese os eee ee ee 986, 918. 69

4. ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1911.

In addition to the above, there are four pieces of real estate be-
queathed to the Institution by the late R. 5. Avery, some of which
yield a nominal rental and all are free from taxation. :

That part of the fund deposited in the Treasury of the United
States bears interest at 6 per cent per annum, under the provisions
of the act organizing the Institution and an act of Congress approved
March 12, 1894. The rate of interest on the West Shore Railroad
bonds is 4 per cent per annum.

The income of the Institution during the year, amounting to
$83,435.30, was derived as follows: Interest on the permanent foun-
dation, $58,375.12; contributions from various sources for specific
purposes, $14,518.43 ; and from other miscellaneous sources, $10,541.75 5
all of which was deposited in the Treasury of the United States to
the credit of the current account of the Institution.

With the balance of $35,864.88 on July 1, 1910, the total resources
for the fiscal year amounted to $118,800.18. The disbursements,
which are given in detail in the annual report of the executive com-
mittee, amounted to $86,374.52, leaving a balance of $32,425.66 on
deposit June 30, 1911, in the United States Treasury.

The Institution was charged by Congress with the disbursement
of the following appropriations for the year ending June 30, 1911:

jimierinminiemell GxeWeINYeS. eS Se Se $32, 000
AMERICA TOO) aa re ee SSS SSS 42, 000
SEO pHyA CAs CO SCL Vel COI y= ea ee ee eee 13, 000
National Museum:
Hurniturevand aixtures i= 22" ==! see ee ee 125, 000
Heahineand ichting# = ee 50, 000
Preservation Of collections 2122 2. seeee a. = ee ee ee 300, 000
BPG es ee sa EES ee ee de a ee 2, 000
POSURE Ca ee OS ee ee ee eee eee 500
Building. “repairs= 2.226 Soh th. Se se enh as ee eee sie Pee eee 15, 000
BU GIN ey 22S SS ee SA ee aS Se ee Ss See 77, 000
National Zo0o0logicaleP anes sss 32 2 Sk se eso Soe ees ee ee 115, 000
International Catalogue of Scientific Literature____________________-_ 7, 500
MievyavoOrs pO Mth sonian Bull ding sss Sees te eee 10, 000
ATO Teall Semesancr es 2s i Tak bree SC OP Re 789, 000

EXPLORATIONS AND RESEARCHES.

Various scientific explorations and researches have been carried on
during the past year by the Institution as far as its limited income
and the generosity of its friends would permit. There have also been
important biological, ethnological, and astrophysical researches by .
the National Museum, the Bureau of American Ethnology, and the
Astrophysical Observatory, respectively, which are discussed else-
where in this report.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 5

STUDIES IN CAMBRIAN GEOLOGY AND PALEONTOLOGY.

During the field season of 1910 I continued the study of the Cam-
brian strata of the section of the Rocky Mountains adjacent to the
main line of the Canadian Pacific Railway, special attention being
given to the Stephen formation. The outcrop of this formation was
carefully examined for many miles along the mountain sides, with the
hope of finding a locality where conditions had been favorable for
the preservation of the life of the epoch. The famous trilobite
locality on the slope of Mount Stephen above Field had long been
known and many species of fossils collected from it, but even there
the conditions had not been favorable for the presence and preserva-
tion of examples of much of the life that, from what was known of
older faunas and the advanced stage of development of the Upper
Cambrian fauna, must have existed in the Middle Cambrian seas.
The finding, during the season of 1909, of a block of fossiliferous
siliceous shale that had been brought down by a snowslide on the
slope between Mount Field and Mount Wapta led us to make a
thorough examination of the section above in 1910. Every layer of
limestone and shale above was examined, until we finally located the
fossil-bearing band. After that for 30 days we quarried the shale,
slid it down the mountain side in blocks to a trail, and transported
it to camp on pack horses, where the shale was split, trimmed, and
packed and then taken down to the railway station at Field, 3,000
feet below.

A number of sections of the Cambrian rocks were studied and
measured in the mountains north and south of Laggan, Alberta, and
many beautiful panoramic photographs secured.

BIOLOGICAL SURVEY OF THE PANAMA CANAL ZONE.

At the date of my last annual report the Institution contemplated
an exhaustive biological survey of the Panama Canal Zone, and it
was then hoped that definite plans would soon be completed and the
survey undertaken within a few months. I am glad now to report
that chiefly through the generosity of friends of the Institution the
necessary funds for carrying on the work became available. With
the cooperation of several of the executive departments, and of the
Field Museum of Natural History, a party of about 10 naturalists
was accordingly sent to the zone, and the results so far accomplished
have been very satisfactory. Large collections of biological material
have been received, including specimens of a considerable number of
genera and species new to science.

Much interest is manifest in the survey both here and in the zone.
The Republic of Panama was so impressed with the importance of
the work that it invited the Institution to extend the survey within
6 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1911.

the bounds of that country, which was done with gratifying results
as far as the limited means and time permitted.

As stated in my last report, it seemed to be highly important to
science that such a survey of the Canal Zone be made, for, although
it was known in a general way that a certain number of species of
animals and plants in the fresh-water streams on the Atlantic side
of the Isthmus were different from those on the Pacific side, no defi-
nite knowledge of the extent of these differences had been acquired.
It also seemed important to determine exactly the geographical dis-
tribution of the various organisms inhabiting the Isthmus, which is
one of the routes by which the animals and plants of South America
have entered North America and vice versa. When the Panama
Canal is completed the organisms of the various watersheds will be
offered a ready means of mingling together, the natural distinctions
as regards distribution now existing will be obliterated, and the data
for a true understanding of the fauna and flora will be placed for-
ever out of reach. Moreover, a great fresh-water lake will be cre-
ated by the construction of the Gatun Dam, and the majority of the
animals and plants inhabiting that locality will be driven away or
drowned, and quite possibly some species may be exterminated before
they become known to science.

BIOLOGICAL EXPEDITION IN CANADA.

Through the courtesy of the Canadian Government and of Dr.
A. O. Wheeler, president of the Alpine Club of Canada, the Smith-
sonian Institution was enabled to send a small party of naturalists
to accompany Dr. Wheeler on his topographical survey of the British
Columbia and Alberta boundary line and the Mount Robson region.
The party started in June, 1911.

The region to be surveyed includes a most rugged and broken
country in the midst of the Canadian Rockies, abounding in a great
variety of animals and plants, and it is expected that the expedition
will result in a large and valuable collection of birds, mammals,
insects, and plants to be added to the National Museum series.

RAINEY EXPEDITION IN AFRICA.

Mr. Paul J. Rainey, of New York City, having planned a hunting
and collecting trip of several months’ duration in Africa, offered to
present to the Institution the natural history material obtained dur-
ing the trip if there could be sent with him some person skilled in
the preparation of specimens. Mr. Rainey generously offered to
bear all the expenses of the trip. The route of travel was to be north
of that of the recent Smithsonian African expedition, through the
country lying between the northern portion of British Kast Africa
and the southern part of Abyssinia. Mr. Edmund Heller, who was
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. q

one of the field naturalists of the Smithsonian African expedition
under the direction of Col. Roosevelt, was accordingly detailed to
accompany Mr. Rainey, and letters have been received indicating
very successful results.

BIRD STUDIES IN THE ALEUTIAN ISLANDS AND BERING SEA.

A small party of naturalists made a brief visit to the Aleutian
Islands and Bering Sea during the season of 1911, chiefly in the
interest of the Smithsonian Institution and the Biological Survey of
the Department of Agriculture, especially for a study of land and
marine birds. Through the cooperation of the Treasury Depart-
ment the party was afforded transportation on the revenue cutter
Tahoma.

The principal results of the visit were the collection of a good
series of all the land birds of the islands visited, including a particu-
larly fine series of ptarmigan, and a large number of eggs, and the
securing of some interesting observations on the distribution and
habits of the birds of that region. These observations will be made
use of by Mr. A. C. Bent, who has undertaken to complete the work
on the life histories of North American birds, two volumes of which,
by the late Maj. Charles Bendire, have been published by the Na-
tional Museum and the Smithsonian Institution.

ANTHROPOLOGICAL RESEARCHES IN PERU.

During the summer of 1910 Dr. Ale’ Hrdlicka, of the National
Museum, visited the great ruins of the temples and city of Pachaca-
mac, about 18 miles south of Lima, and also the ruins and cemeteries
in the district of Trujillo, Peru, where he collected upward of 3,400
crania and a quantity of other skeletal parts. A large percentage
of the gathered skulls are free from artificial deformation and there-
fore afford a much better opportunity than previous collections for
a critical study of the peoples who centuries ago eccupied and con-
gregated in these regions.

Pachacamac was a religious center, much like the Egyptian Thebes
and the Mohammedan Mecca, to which pilgrims flocked from all
parts of Peru. After the destruction of the Temple of the Sun by
the Spaniards, the place became a desolate pile of ruins, with from
60,000 to 80,000 graves of pilgrims who had come from widely
separated regions. The Valley of Chicama, near Trujillo, with the
neighboring country, was the seat of the powerful people known after
one of their chiefs as Chimu.

As to the importance of the material collected, Dr. Hrdlitka
remarks:

Peru may well be regarded, even in its present territorial restrictions, as
the main key to the anthropology of South America. Due to the numbers of
its ancient inhabitants, and to their far-reaching social differentiations, indi-
8 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1911.

cating long occupancy, a good knowledge of the people of Peru from the earliest
times is very desirable, and would constitute a solid basis from which it
would be relatively easy to extend anthropological comparison to all the rest
of the native peoples of the southern continent. Such anthropological.com-
parisons will be greatly facilitated by the collections acquired on this expedition.
Some of the interesting results of his work are described by Dr.
Hrdlitka in a pamphlet recently published by the Institution.

RESEARCHES UNDER THE HODGKINS FUND.

With a view to aiding in the establishment of an international
scale for the measurement of solar radiation, as mentioned in my
last report, a limited grant from the Hodgkins fund has been
approved for the construction, in the Smithsonian workshops, of
several silver disk pyrheliometers, after the design of Mr. C. G.
Abbot, Director of the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory.

The International Solar Union has for some time been inter-
ested in the establishment of an international standard scale of
radiation, and pyrheliometers of varying types have been in use
at different observatories. The desire, however, for still another
simple but accurate instrument seemed general, and the Institution
has been gratified to learn that, by the use of the Abbot pyrheli-
ometer, a more exact knowledge of solar radiation and the influence
of the terrestrial atmosphere upon it have been promoted.

Arrangements have been made whereby the Abbot pyrheliometer
is now in use in widely separated localities. There is one in the
astronomical observatory established by Harvard College at Are-
quipa, Peru; another in the observatory at Teneriffe: and two have
been sent to the minister of agriculture in Buenos Aires for meteoro-
logical stations in Argentina. The Department of Agriculture, the
Bureau of Standards, and the United States Weather Bureau in
Washington are supplied with the instruments; Prof. Chistoni, of
the Royal University of Naples, has installed one there, and the
Imperial College of Science and Technology at South Kensington,
London, has secured one. Prof. Violle, of the National Observatory
of Arts and Crafts, Paris, was among the first to install one of the
Abbot instruments, and one has been sent to Dr. Hellmann, director
of the Royal Prussian Meteorological Institute, Berlin. The Uni-
versity of Toronto, Canada, the University of Wisconsin, and the
Central Physical Observatory of St. Petersburg also have them, and
inquiries from other institutions as to the mode of securing them
are frequent, so that the establishment of the desired international
standard of estimating and recording the variations of solar radia-
tion seems to have been already aided by the use of uniform instru-
ments in many widely separated localities.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 9

The distinguished specialists who form the committee on award
for the examination of the memoirs submitted in the Hodgkins prize
competition, announced in connection with the Congress on Tuber-
culosis of 1908, have not yet submitted their decision. ‘This delay
is regretted by the Institution as sincerely as by the competitors, but
has seemed to be unavoidable as the large number of papers pre-
sented and their technical character make it very difficult to render
a prompt decision.

Then, too, it is to be remembered that, according to the terms of
the competition, the successful paper is to embody an original theory
or discovery for the treatment of tuberculosis, not before published,
a difficult task at a time when the attention of the medical world is
so generally directed to the same subject.

The Langley Memoir on Mechanical Flight, the publication of
which by the Hodgkins fund of the Institution was unfortunately
delayed by causes beyond the control of the Institution, was com-
pleted just at the close of the fiscal year, as mentioned on another
page. .

SMITHSONIAN TABLE AT NAPLES ZOOLOGICAL STATION.

The Smithsonian Institution for 18 years past has maintained a
table for the use of American biologists at the Naples Zoological
Station. Exceptional opportunities are there afforded for the study
of marine life, and it is believed that the cause of biological science
has been thereby much advanced.

The application of Dr. R. S. Williams, of Miami University,
mentioned in the Secretary’s Report for 1910, was approved for
March and April, 1911. Dr. Williams was chiefly occupied at
Naples in ascertaining the rate of growth of recent encrusting
organisms, especially bryozoans, with a view to the use of this
information in researches on the Richmond division of the Ordo-
vician period. The results thus far obtained by him he considers
preliminary, and he proposes to continue the same research at some
future time on a float anchored in the open sea.

In addition to his work on the bryozoan fauna, Dr. Williams
secured a representative collection of the jaw apparatus of the
free-swimming annelids belonging to the Eunfidea and _ the
Glyceridea.

The appointment of Dr. Sergius Morgulis, a Parker Traveling
Fellow from Harvard for 1911, was approved for the Smithsonian
seat at Naples for the months of May, June, and July of this year.

Dr. C. W. Hargitt, of Syracuse University, a Smithsonian ap-
pointee at Naples for three months in 1903, was accorded a second
occupancy during the present year. Several papers, among which
10 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1911.

may be mentioned “The Hydromedusae of the Bay of Naples”
and “ Regeneration in Rhizostoma pulmo,” were published by Dr.
Hargitt as a result of his former appointment, and a report of his
work during the present year is now in hand. He mentions with
appreciation the cordial welcome accorded him by the director and
staff of the laboratory, and the generosity with which the facilities
for his work were provided.

Two papers embodying the results of Dr. Hargitt’s recent investi-
gations have been completed since his term at Naples, and are now
in course of publication in the Journal of Experimental Zoology.

The application of Dr. Ch. Zeleny, associate professor of zoology
in the University of Illinois, was approved for one month’s occu-
pancy, to cover part of June and July, 1911. No summary of the
work accomplished during this peviod has yet been received from
Dr. Zeleny.

When the same period is selected by more than one student the
earliest application is considered first, the approval of the later ones
becoming necessarily dependent on the ability of the station to pro-
vide for more than one Smithsonian appointee at the same time.
It should be added that the obliging courtesy shown in this connec-
tion to appointees of the Smithsonian Institution by the director of
the station often permits appointments to the seat which would
otherwise be impracticable.

The prompt and efficient aid of the advisory committee in examin-
ing and reporting on applications for the table is still, as it has al-
ways been, of great service to the Institution and is very thoroughly
appreciated.

PUBLICATIONS.

The Smithsonian Institution and its branches distributed during
the past year nearly 200,000 copies of their various publications.
These were sent chiefly to libraries and learned institutions through-
out the world and to a limited list of specialists in the subjects
discussed. It would be impracticable, without a very great increase
in the size of the editions, to meet the popular demand for copies of
Smithsonian publications. In the case, however, of the publications
issued by the Government bureaus fade direction of the Institu-
tion, which are printed under congressional appropriations, the law
eee that they may be aoneeewa by all who desire them at a
slight advance over the cost of printing by application to the Super-
intendent of Documents.

It is through its publications that the Smithsonian Institution per-
forms one of its principal functions—the diffusion of knowledge.
Two series of works are issued by the Institution proper at the ex-
pense of the Smithsonian funds, namely, Smithsonian Contributions
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. il

to Knowledge, in quarto, and Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections,
in octavo form. The editions of these series are necessarily limited
in number for distribution almost entirely to a carefully selected
list of libraries throughout the world, where they may be readily
consulted by students and investigators. There is also issued, at the
cost of Government appropriations, an annual report, in the general
appendix of which is included a considerable number of papers,
either original or selected from more or less inaccessible sources,
reviewing the progress and present condition of the natural and
physical sciences and other branches of human knowledge. AlI-
though the edition of the report is considerable, yet the supply is
each year exhausted within a very short time after its publication.
Contributions to Knowledge—The Langley Memoir on Mechanical
Flight, referred to in my last report, had been put to press and was
nearly ready for distribution at the close of the fiscal year. This
work forms a quarto volume of over 300 pages and a hundred plates.
The memoir was in preparation at the time of Mr. Langley’s death
in 1906 and part of it had been written by him, bringing the work
down to May, 1896, the date of his demonstration that a machine
heavier than air could be made to fly under its own power. The
account of later experiments, from 1897 to 1903, was written by Mr.
Charles M. Manly, who became Mr. Langley’s chief assistant in 1898.
Miscellaneous Collections Twenty papers on various subjects have
been added to the series of Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections,
including descriptions of a number of new species of animals ob-
tained by the Smithsonian African expedition and the biological
survey of the Panama Canal Zone, and several papers, mentioned
elsewhere, giving some results of my studies and field work in
Cambrian geology and paleontology, besides an interesting paper
by Dr. Hrdlicka on his anthropological investigations in Peru.
Smithsonian Tables——In connection with the system of meteoro-
logica! observations established by the Smithsonian Institution about
1850, a series of meteorological tables was compiled by Dr. Arnold
Guyot at the request of Secretary Henry, and the first edition was
published in 1852. Though primarily designed for meteorological
observers reporting to the Smithsonian Institution, the tables were
so widely used by physicists that it seemed desirable to recast the
entire work. It was decided to publish three separate sets of tables,
each containing the latest knowledge in the field which it covered,
but together forming a homogeneous series. The first of the new
series, Meteorological Tables, was published in 1893; the second,
Geographical Tables, in 1894; and the third, Physical Tables, in
1896. In 1909 another volume was added, so that the series now
comprises: (a) Smithsonian Meteorological Tables, (2) Smithsonian
Geographical Tables, (¢) Smithsonian Physical Tables, and (d)
12 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1911.

Smithsonian Mathematical Tables. Each of these works has been
published in revised editions, with such corrections and additions
as became necessary by the advance of scientific knowledge. ;

The years that had elapsed since the publication of the first edi-
tion of the Physical Tables in 1896 had brought such changes in the
material upon which these tables must be based that it became
necessary to almost wholly recast the work for the fifth revised
edition, which was published during the past year. Recent data and
many new tables have been added, including several mathematical
tables especially computed for this work, which forms a volume of
about 850 pages.

Opinions on Zoological Nomenclature.—As stated with some detail
in my last report, the Institution cooperates with the International
Commission on Zoological Nomenclature by providing clerical assist-
ance for its secretary and by the publication of the commission’s
opinions. During the past year two pamphlets were issued contain-
ing opinions 1 to 25 and 26 to 29, covering important questions of
nomenclature that had been matters of discussion among zoologists.
In connection with the summary of each opinion there is printed a
statement of the case and the discussion thereon by members of the
commission. The rules to be followed in submitting cases for
opinion 'as laid down by the commission are as follows:

(1) The commission does not undertake to act as a bibliographic or nomen-
clatural bureau, but rather as an adviser in connection with the more difficult
and disputed cases of nomenclature.

(2) All cases submitted should be accompanied by (@) a concise statement
of the point at issue, (0) the full arguments on both sides in case a disputed
point is involved, and (c) complete and exact bibliographic references to every
book or article bearing on the point at issue.

The more complete the data when the case is submitted the more promptly
ean it be acted upon.

(8) Of necessity, cases: submitted with incomplete bibliographic references
can not be studied and must be returned by the commission to the sender.

(4) Cases upon which an opinion is desired may be sent to any member of
the commission, but—

(5) In order that the work of the commission may be confined as much as
possible to the more difficult and the disputed cases, it is urged that zoologists
study the code and settle for themselves as many cases as possible.

Harriman Alaska series —The Institution has received from Mrs.
Edward H. Harriman several thousand copies of volumes descrip-
tive of the results of the Harriman expedition to Alaska in 1899.
The expedition was organized in cooperation with the Washingtor
Academy of Sciences, but entirely at the expense of Mr. Harriman.
He invited as his guests 3 artists and 25 men of science represent-
ing various branches of research. The expedition sailed from Seattle

1 Cases should be forwarded to the secretary of the commission, Dr. Ch. Wardell Stiles,
U. S. Hygienic Laboratory, Washington, D. C.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 15)

on May 30, 1899, on a special steamer, and was gone about two months,
visiting the Aleutian Islands, the Pribilof Islands, and the Eskimo
settlements on the Asiatic and American shores. The journey was
extended through Bering Strait and return, and covered 9,000 miles.
Large and important collections were made of mammals, birds,
insects, marine animals, fossil shells, and fossil plants. Studies were
also made of the great glaciers and of the geological formations of
the regions visited. The contents of the volumes received by the
Institution are enumerated by the editor in the appendix to the
present report. The series consists of 11 volumes, printed and illus-
trated in the best manner. These books, now known as the Harri-
man Alaska Series of the Smithsonian Institution, have been dis-—
tributed, under special Smithsonian title pages, to a selected list of
libraries throughout the world, the few copies of certain volumes
remaining after such a distribution being held for sale in accordance
with the terms of the agreement.

Museum publications——The National Museum published its an-
nual report, two volumes of proceedings and several bulletins, cover-
ing the usual wide range of subjects, but chiefly pertaining to zoology
and botany.

Ethnological publications—The Bureau of American Ethnolog
issued several bulletins, including part 2 of the Handbook of Ameri-
can Indians North of Mexico; part 1 of the Handbook of American
Indian Languages; Antiquities of Central and Southeastern Mis-
sissippi Valley; Antiquities of the Mesa Verde National Park, and
bulletins on other ethnological subjects. ©

Publications of historical and patriotic societies—Annual reports
of the American Historical Association and the National Society of
the Daughters of the American Revolution were as usual commu-
nicated to Congress in accordance with law.

Advisory committee on printing and publication—The committee
on printing and publication has continued to examine manuscripts
proposed for publication by the branches of the Institution, and has
considered various questions concerning public printing and binding.
Twenty-four meetings of the committee were held during the year
and 115 manuscripts were passed upon. The personnel of the com-
mittee is as follows: Dr. Frederick W. True, Assistant Secretary
of the Smithsonian Institution, chairman; Mr. C. G. Abbot, Director
of the Astrophysical Observatory; Mr. W. I. Adams, disbursing
officer of the Smithsonian Institution; Dr. Frank Baker, superin-
tendent of the National Zoological Park; Mr. A. Howard Clark,
editor of the Smithsonian Institution; Mr. F. W. Hodge, ethnologist
in charge of the Bureau of American Ethnology; Dr. George P.
Merrill, head curator of geology, United States National Museum;
14 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1911.

and Dr. Leonhard Stejneger, head curator of biology, United States
National Museum.

Allotments for printing—The allotments to the Institution and its
branches, under the head of “ Public printing and binding,” during
the past fiscal year, aggregating $72,700, were, as far as practicable,
expended prior to June 30. The allotments for the year ending June
30, 1912, aggregating $72,900, are as follows:

For the Smithsonian Institution, for printing and binding annual re-

ports of the Board of Regents, with general appendixes___________~ — $10, 000
For the annual reports of the National Museum, with general appen-

dixes, and for printing labels and blanks, and for the bulletins and

proceedings of the National Museum, the editions of which shall not

exceed 4,000 copies, and binding, in half turkey or material not more

expensive, scientific books and pamphlets presented to or acquired by

the National Museum elibranys—=2 == ee a ee 34, 000
For the annual reports and bulletins of the Bureau of American Eth-
nology and for miscellaneous printing and binding for the bureau____ 21, 000
For miscellaneous printing and binding:
Imternationalwexchanges*=— Pal kee. ar ee eee ee ee 200
International Catalogue of Scientific Literature __________________ 100
Nationale ZOoOlOocicaleban kas eh eS er ee a eee 200
NStrophy sical Observatory == === 2 eee ee eee 400
For the annual report of the American Historical Association_-________ 7, 000
DO} 6s meron 5 SS Sart Sls oe EN ee ceed Se eae Se Oe BS Sere ee ee ees 72, 900
LIBRARY.

The libraries of the Smithsonian Institution and of its several
branches show an increase of about 18,000 volumes and pamphlets
during the last year, being largely additions to the National Museum
library and the Smithsonian deposit in the Library of Congress.

During the last five years improved methods and consolidation of
work have been adopted in the interest of economy and efficiency, as
discussed by the Assistant Secretary in the appendix to this report.

The library of the Bureau of Ethnology has been transferred from
its former quarters in a rented building to the galleries of the main
hall in the Smithsonian Building where it is much more con-
venient for reference, though the books are still arranged on
temporary wooden shelves. It is hoped that this hall, which was
originally planned for library purposes, may in the near future be-
come available for such use. It is proposed, if necessary funds be-
come available, to remove the wooden galleries, stairways, win-
dow sashes and frames, and book cases in this hall and substitute
fireproof bookstacks, stairways, and windows. The new stacks
and cases would accommodate the books belonging to the several
bureaus under the direction of the Institution, including a part of the
library of the National Museum, which should be kept in a central
location. They would also provide a safe place to assemble the
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. a5

- Smithsonian books constantly used by the bureaus, of which several
thousand are now scattered through various rooms in the Smith-
sonian Building.

LANGLEY MEMORIAL TABLET.

The memorial tablet authorized by the Regents to be erected in
the Smithsonian building commemorative of the aeronautical work
of the late Secretary Langley has not yet been completed. <A design
for the tablet has, however, been prepared and is under consideration
by the committee appointed for the purpose.

INTERNATIONAL CONGRESSES AND CELEBRATIONS.

The Institution each year receives invitations to numerous scien-
tific congresses and celebrations in the United States and abroad,
but as funds are not available for the expenses of delegates few of
these invitations can be accepted. In some instances, however, it is
possible to arrange for representation by collaborators of the Insti-
tution who are visiting the localities on official or private business.

Congress of Americanists—Dr. AleS Hrdli¢ka was appointed rep-
resentative of the Smithsonian Institution and the National Mu-
seum and delegate on the part of the United States at the second
session of the Seventeenth International Congress of Americanists,
held in the Museo Nacional, Mexico City, September 8 to 14, 1910.
He presented an account of his recent explorations in Peru, and also
described the uncovering of an especially interesting sepulchre which
he had been invited by the Mexican authorities to open in the ancient
ruins of San Juan Teotihuacan.

The meeting was held in the Museo Nacional, and was well at-
tended, especially by scientific men from the United States.

Dr. C. W. Currier, of Washington, was also designated delegate
of the United States and a representative of the Smithsonian Insti-
tution at the above congress.

International American Scientific Congress—Mr. Bailey Willis, as
delegate on the part of the Smithsonian Institution, attended the
International Scientific Congress which was held at Buenos Aires,
Argentina, July 10 to July 25, 1910.

Geological Congress —In August, 1910, the Eleventh International
Geological Congress met in Stockholm. Dr. George F. Becker, of
the United States Geological Survey, was:a delegate on the part of
the Smithsonian Institution. The congress was more largely at-
tended than any of its predecessors, and nothing could exceed the
hospitality of its reception. The principal subjects of discussion
were the distribution and extent of the iron ore deposits of the
world, Cambrian paleontology, and the change of climate since the
last maximum of glaciation. To all of these subjects painstaking
16 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1911.

contributions were made from every quarter of the globe, and the
publications of the congress contain the most authoritative exposi-
tion of the present state of knowledge on these vital questions.
Among the papers presented to the congress was one expressing my
view on “ the abrupt appearance of the Cambrian fauna.”

Zoological Congress—The Seventh International Zoological Con-
gress was held at Graz, Austria, in August, 1910. The delegates on
the part of the United States and the Smithsonian Institution and
National Museum were Dr. H. H. Field, Dr. W. R. Kellicott, Dr. Ch.
Wardell Stiles, and Mr. Austin H. Clark. About 600 members were
present at this congress, of whom about 60 were from the United
States, the majority of these representing scientific societies or educa-
tional institutions. To facilitate its labors, the congress was divided
into sections, each section representing a definite subject or group of
subjects. Papers of general interest were read in the Stephanien-
salle, a large hall in the center of the city, while papers of more
restricted scope were presented in the various lecture rooms of the
university. Taken as a whole, the papers read were of a distinctly
progressive nature, the authors, especially the younger ones, showing
a marked disposition to depart from the time-honored and accepted
lines of work and thought, and to approach their subjects from
entirely new view points.

Congress of Bibliography and Documentation.—Myr. Paul Brockett,
assistant librarian of the Institution, who was appointed a delegate
to the International Congress of Bibliography and Documentation
at Brussels, August 25 to 27, 1910, attended the congress and sub-
mitted a report on its proceedings, which is printed in the appendix.

Congress of Archivists and Librarians—aAn International Con-
gress of Archivists and Librarians was held at Brussels August 29
to 31, 1910, when the Institution was represented by Mr. Paul
Brockett, whose report appears in the accompanying appendix.

MISCELLANEOUS.

Hambach collection of fossils —The Institution has secured from
Dr. Gustav Hambach, of St. Louis, a collection of about 20,000
specimens of fossil echinoderms and other animals, with more than
100 types. Almost all the fossils were collected in the Mississippi
Valley and are the choicest obtainable. The series of Blastoids, a
group of fossil echinoderms, is unique. The collection contains
representatives of the various classes of animals, among which may
be mentioned many insects from the Cenozoic formation in Colorado;
many specimens of Paleozoic fishes, including an especially inter-
esting series of teeth and spines; a complete series of fossil sea-
urchins; the jaws of a Carboniferous batrachian over a foot long,
and of a mastodon.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 17

Chinese photographs—tThe Institution has received a valuable
series of large photographic negatives taken by Mr. Bailey Willis in
connection with his geological work in China. These photographs
represent scenery, particularly landscapes in which the loess forma-
tion is conspicuous, and also Chinese buildings, monuments, and the
people themselves. The route of the expedition through the Prov-
inces of Chihli, Shansi, and Shensi led through the district of the
loess formation and some remote mountain regions of great interest
and scenic beauty. Copies of many of these photographs have been
furnished at cost to various institutions for educational purposes.

NATIONAL MUSEUM.

The most important item of interest in connection with the Na-
tional Museum during the year was the completion on June 20, 1911,
of all structural work on the new building, just six years after the
excavations for the foundation were commenced. On another page
the Assistant Secretary in charge of the Museum mentions the very
superior character of the building for museum purposes. It is mas-
sive and imposing in appearance. It is well lighted. There is little
room that can not be utilized. More than one-half of the 10 acres
of floor space is placed at the service of the public in the interest of
popular education, while the remaining space is used for reserve col-
lections and laboratories of the scientific departments and divisions
and for the maintenance of the building and the operation of the
heating, lighting, and ventilating plant. The greater part of the
natural-history collections, including ethnology, have been removed
to the new structure; while in the old building space is now afforded
for the proper display of objects pertaining to the arts and indus-
tries, including the collection illustrating the graphic arts and the art
textiles, and also for the large and interesting series illustrative of
American history. Although there has as yet been no formal dedi-
cation of the new building, the exhibition halls are being opened to
the public one after another as the reinstallation of the exhibits pro-
gresses. It is planned in the near future to admit visitors to the
new building, for a portion of the day at least, on Sundays in order
that the people of Washington may be afforded a long-desired op-
portunity to study the national collections in their leisure hours.

The number of visitors to the new building during the year was
151,112 and to the old building 207,010.

The auditorium in the new building has been utilized for meetings
of various scientific bodies and important lectures. The First Ameri-
can International Humane Congress was held there from October
10 to 15, 1910, and in connection therewith an interesting exhibit was
displayed.

38734°—sm 1911——2
18 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1911.

The accessions received by the Museum during the year include
more than 200,000 specimens of animals and plants, besides 6,600
specimens relating to geology and paleontology, and about 17,000
anthropological objects. To the National Gallery of Art were added
94 paintings and engravings. In addition, about 1,600 objects of
art and anthropology were accepted by the Museum as loans for ex-
hibition. Among important accessions that merit special mention
was a collection of 3,400 ancient crania, 6,000 bones, and 1,500 archeo-
logical objects, gathered chiefly in Peru by Dr. Hrdlitka, as men-
tioned on another page. Other interesting archeological objects were
received from the ancient pueblos of Arizona and New Mexico, be-
sides a valuable series of skulls and skeletons from Arkansas and
Mississippi. About 50,000 specimens of mollusks, collected in Alaska
by Dr. William H. Dall between the years 1871 and 1899, were re-
ceived during the year, together with many thousands of Japanese
mollusks from the Imperial University of Japan.

Many other interesting accessions of objects of zoology, botany,
geology, and anthropology are referred to by the Assistant Secre-
tary in his report.

The paintings of the National Gallery of Art, exhibited in the
middle hall of the new building, continue to attract much public
attention. Mr. William -T. Evans has added 13 canvases to his
notable gift, which now comprises 127 pictures, representing 90
contemporary American painters.

Mr. Charles L. Freer has also added a large number of objects of
oriental art to his most important gift to the Nation, the entire collec-
tion remaining, however, in his keeping at Detroit, Mich.

The great exhibition halls of the new building will afford op-
portunity for the proper display of the national collections illustra-
tive of natural history, and especially such large and striking objects
as groups of mammals, skeletons of fossil vertebrate animals, and
groups representing the habits and customs of the races of mankind.
The collections pertaining to the ethnology of America had increased
year by year so rapidly in extent that they long ago outgrew the
space that could be allotted to them in the old building. In the new
structure they are installed with adequate regard to their size and
importance.

The loan collection of laces and other art textiles has been largely
increased numerically and in variety of contents under the able
supervision of Mrs. James W. Pinchot, who initiated the movement.

The Museum has continued the distribution of collections of dupli-
cate specimens to schools and colleges throughout the country. About
3,000 specimens, chiefly recent and fossil animals, were thus dis-
tributed during the year, and about 23,500 duplicate specimens were
used in making exchanges.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 19

Considerable progress has been made in arranging the large
quantities of natural-history specimens collected by the Smithsonian
African expedition and the Smithsonian biological survey of the
Panama Canal Zone. Some of the African mammals of greatest
public interest have been mounted in groups.

BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY.

The Bureau of American Ethnology has been engaged for a
number of years in scientific studies of the American aborigines,
including their arts and industries, government, religious and soci-
ological systems, and languages, as well as their mental and physical
characteristics, their history, and antiquities. Much has been ac-
complished in this direction, and many of the results have been
permanently recorded and disseminated by means of publication;
but a large body of material still awaits final study and arrange-
ment, and much work remains to be done both in the field and in the
office.

The investigations of the bureau have, however, reached a stage
at which it has been found possible to summarize some of the results
in the form of handbooks, designed especially for the use of schools
and unprofessional students. The demand for those already issued,
or about to be published, is very large. Many changes are taking
place among the Indians, owing to their advance in civilization, and
for that reason the researches are being pressed with all possible
speed while knowledge of primitive conditions is still available. The
Indians form one of the great races of mankind, and the world
properly looks to our Government to gather and record accurate
knowledge of this branch of the human family, while by many the
work of the Bureau of American Ethnology is regarded as the basis
of American history.

One of the immediate demands upon the bureau is vigorous activity
in the exploration and preservation of antiquities, especially in
Arizona, Colorado, and New Mexico, before these important and
most interesting ruins are entirely destroyed by vandalism or the
elements.

Another important work that should speedily be undertaken is
an ethnological study of the Indians and Eskimo of Alaska before
the advent of greater numbers of white people shall have so modified
them as to destroy their primitive character. So also there is need
of further activity in the study of the few survivors of Indian tribes
in the Middle West.

The bureau has conducted various lines of field work among the
tribes which composed the Creek Confederacy of the Southern
States; the Tewa Indians of the Rio Grande Valley, New Mexico;
20 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1911.

the Winnebago Indians of Wisconsin and Nebraska; the Piegan,
Blackfeet, Cheyenne, and Menominee Indians of the Algonquian
family; the Chippewa Indians, especially with reference to. their
music; the Osage Indians, now in Oklahoma, and the Iroquois in
New York.

A study of the past and present population of the Indians, with
the various causes of their decrease is being conducted.

Some very interesting studies were made in Cuba, indicating that
the western end of the island, including the Isle of Pines, was once
inhabited by a cave-dwelling people of low culture and without agri-
culture. It is believed that these people were in that condition at
the time of the visit of Columbus, and that they were the survivors of
a cave-dwelling population once occupying all of Cuba and repre-
sented in Porto Rico and elsewhere in the West Indies.

The Smithsonian Institution, through its Bureau of American
Ethnology in cooperation with the Archeological Institute of Amer-
ica, has carried on excavations in prehistoric cliff dwellings and
pueblo ruins in New Mexico. In one locality these dwellings extend
along the walls of a canyon for about 2 miles. In cooperation with
the Colorado Cliff Dwellers’ Association, the Institution excavated
and repaired the celebrated Balcony House in Colorado. Excava-
tions have also been made in newly discovered cliff dwellings and
other archeological remains in northwestern Arizona.

INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGES.

An idea of the magnitude of the work conducted by this branch
of the Institution may be obtained from the statement that 228,698
packages were handled during the year, an increase over the number
for the preceding 12 months of 7,073. The weight of these packages
was 560,808 pounds, a gain of 76,124 pounds.

The total available resources for carrying on this work were
$36,954.99, $32,200 of which was appropriated by Congress, and
$4,754.99 was derived from the exchange repayments to the Insti-
tution.

Several changes made during the year in the routine of the Ex-
change Office have resulted in a more economical and efficient admin-
istration of the service.

It was stated in the last report that the German authorities had
under consideration the founding in Berlin of an establishment to
promote cultural relations between Germany and the United States,
and that one of its functions would be to conduct on behalf of Ger-
many the international exchange of publications which the Smith-
sonian Institution carries on for the United States. This establish-
ment, which is known as the Amerika-Institut, was organized in the
fall of 1910 and the exchange duties were assumed by it on January
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 91

1,1911. The exchange agency maintained by the Smithsonian Insti-
tution in Leipzig was discontinued on the latter date.

Packages for Luxemburg and Roumania have heretofore been dis-
tributed through the Leipzig agency. Since its discontinuance the
Amerika-Institut has been good enough to assume charge of the dis-
tribution of packages in Luxemburg, and the Academia Romana at
Bucharest has been asked to act as the Roumanian exchange inter-
mediary.

The Japanese Government has transferred the exchange agency of
that country from the Department of Foreign Affairs to the Imperial
Library at Tokyo. The regular series of United States official docu-
ments, which had been sent to the former for a number of years, has
also been deposited in the Imperial Library.

The Government of the United Provinces of Agra and Oudh,
Allahabad, India, has, at its request, been listed to receive a partial
set of United States official publications, the total number of such
depositories being now 34. The number of depositories of full sets of
governmental documents remains the same as at the close of last year,
namely, 55.

The Governments of the Argentine Republic, Denmark, and Great
Britain have entered into the immediate exchange of their parlia-
mentary record during the past year, 29 countries now taking part
in this exchange with the United States.

Important collections of foreign publications have, through the
efforts of the Exchange Office, been obtained during the past year
for the Library of Congress and for several other establishments of
the Government.

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK.

The accessions to the Zoological Park during the past year were
335 animals, and the total number of animals on hand June 30, 1911,
was 1,414, representing 876 species of mammals, birds, and reptiles,
about 20 species being new to the park.

Among the important additions to the collections I may mention a
pair of northern fur seals from Alaska, a hippopotamus, an Kast Af-
rican buffalo, three prong-horn antelopes, a pair of reindeer, and a
large Asiatic macaque monkey.

The number of visitors was 521,440, or a daily average of 1,428.
As an indication of the educational value of the park, it may be men-
tioned that it was visited by 169 schools, classes, etc., with 4,966
pupils, an increase of about a thousand over the year preceding.
While most of the classes were from the District of Columbia, some
of them belonged in various parts of the country, including all the
New England States, New York, Pennsylvania, and North Carolina.
22 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1911.

The equipment of the Zoological Park, both as regards the accom-
modations for the collections and facilities for visitors, is still in-
adequate and is inferior to that of other establishments of the kind
of equal importance.

Many of the animals are kept in temporary quarters that are in-
sufficient in size, more or less insanitary, and quite costly to maintain.
This is particularly true of the fine series of birds, which includes
some of exceptional interest and rarity. The rough temporary build-
ing in which they are now kept is too small for the exhibition of the
entire collection and tle conditions are such that it is difficult to keep
the birds in a good state of health. In a suitable structure the bird
collection would be one of the most attractive features of the park.

Permanent paddocks are also needed for the hardy deer, wild
sheep, goats, and cattle, which are now scattered in temporary inclo-
sures, some of them altogether unsuitable.

A new bridge across Rock Creek is urgently needed to replace the
present temporary log structure, and it should be of a permanent
character and sufficiently wide to provide for the greatly increased
travel when the valley of Rock Creek is fully developed.

The roadways and walks in the park were greatly improved at the
cost of a special appropriation for that purpose. Nearly a mile of
the roads were treated either by reshaping and supplying a top layer
of stone or by regrading and furnishing the entire thickness of road-
bed metal. About 1? miles of walks were also laid or repaired and steps
were constructed where grades had before been too steep. A consid-
erable amount of work was also done to provide proper drainage.

ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY.

The Astrophysical Observatory has been engaged in three principal
lines of work during the year.

Observations by the spectrobolometric method were continued in
order to confirm the view referred to in last year’s report that the
determinations of the intensity of the solar radiation outside the
earth’s atmosphere are independent of the observer’s altitude above
sea level, provided the conditions are otherwise good. Observations
for the “ solar constant ” were accordingly taken on Mount Whitney
in the summer of 1910, where opportunity was afforded also for
measurements of the brightness of the sky by day and by night, the
influence of the water vapor on the sun’s spectrum, and the distribu-
tion of the sun’s energy spectrum outside the atmosphere. The re-
sults of these observations show no discrepancy due to altitude be-
tween Mount Wilson (5,840 feet) and Mount Whitney (14,502 feet).

It also seemed important to confirm by further observation the
variability of the solar constant of radiation. Observations were ac-
cordingly continued daily at Mount Wilson until November 10, 1910,
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 93

and renewed again on June 11, 1911, which tend to confirm the con-
clusion that the sun’s output of radiation varies from day to day in
a manner irregular in period and quantity. Assurance seems now
complete that this latter result will be tested during the next fiscal
year by long-continued daily observations taken simultaneously at
two widely separated stations, where the atmosphere is believed to be
specially favorable for such research. The definite determination of
the laws governing the apparent variability of the “solar constant ”
it is expected will be of much value in the probable forecast of
climatic conditions from year to year. ;

Measurements have also been made of the transparency, for long
wave radiation, of columns of air containing known quantities of
watervapor. Thisline of research promises highly interesting results.

As mentioned on another page, arrangements have been made with
several observatories, widely separated through the world, for the
use of the standard silver-disk secondary pyrheliometer designed by
the director of the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory. It is
hoped to thus secure not only uniformity of radiation measures, but
also a more exact knowledge of solar radiation and the influence of
the terrestrial atmosphere upon it.

INTERNATIONAL CATALOGUE OF SCIENTIFIC
LITERATURE.

The International Catalogue of Scientific Literature publishes,
through the cooperation of countries in all parts of the world, a
current classified index tothe literature ofscience. Seventeen volumes
have been published annually, beginning with the literature of 1901.
The organization consists of a central bureau in London and regional
bureaus established in and supported by the 32 countries taking part
in the enterprise. Supreme control of the catalogue is vested in an
international convention, which met in London July, 1905, and July,
1910, and is to meet every tenth year hereafter. The second inter-
national convention met in London at the rooms of the Royal Society
on July 12 and 13, 1910, and Mr. Leonard C. Gunnell, assistant in
charge of the United States regional bureau, was sent by the Insti-
tution as the delegate from the United States. The convention de-
cided that on account of the success already achieved by the Interna-
tional Catalogue and the great importance of the objects promoted,
the enterprise would be continued. Attention was called to the ur-
gent need of a permanent fund to aid in carrying on and extending
the work. It was pointed out that although various regional bureaus
for the collection of material were supported by the countries in
which they were located, the maintenance of the central bureau for
general administration and actual publication of the 17 annua! vol-
umes was dependent entirely on the funds derived from the sub-
24 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1911.

scribers to the published volumes. ‘Though every care has been used
to edit and publish the work in the most economical way, the income
of the central bureau has proved to be insufficient to meet current
expenses and in addition pay interest on approximately $35,000 of
borrowed capital.

As a more detailed report of the work of the bureau and of the
proceedings of the convention will be found in the appendix to this
report, it will be sufficient here to call attention to the great value
and importance of the work, and to say that it would be difficult to
find an enterprise more deserving of endowment. A capital fund,
yielding an annual income of from $5,000 to $10,000, would enable
the central bureau not only to broaden the scope of the catalogue
but also to reduce the subscription price now charged for the annua]
volumes. This charge is $85 per year which, although not large
when the amount of matter published is considered, is found to be
far beyond the means of many who would otherwise be glad to
avail themselves of this important aid to scientific research.

The Smithsonian Institution has a peculiar interest in the Inter-
national Catalogue, for the reason that the original idea was con-
ceived by the first Secretary of the Institution in 1855. The Roya!
Society through its Catalogue of Scientific Papers later partly
carried out Secretary Henry’s idea. Experience proved that the
enterprise was too great for any one society, or, indeed, any: one
nation, to undertake, and the Smithsonian Institution, representing
the United States, joined in the movement to make the work
international.

The history of this international movement is briefly as follows:

The British foreign office in 1894, at the instance of the Royal
Society, requested the United States Government, through the De-
partment of State, to send delegates to a conference to be held in
London in 1896. The matter was referred to the Smithsonian
Institution, and the late Prof. Simon Newcomb and Dr. John S.
Billings were sent as delegates. The second conference was held in
1898, and Dr. Cyrus Adler, librarian of the Smithsonian Institution,
attended as a delegate.

In 1901, when success or failure depended on obtaining the co-
operation of the United States in the enterprise, the Smithsonian
Institution agreed to and did support a regional bureau from that
time until 1906, when Congress made its first annual appropriation
to carry on the work in this country. It will thus be seen that in each
step the United States has, through the Smithsonian Institution, been
prominent in the movement, and it would be a matter of much
gratification if now that the enterprise has been so auspiciously
started it could be further aided by an endowment fund originating
in this country.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 25

NECROLOGY.
Meuvitte Weston FUuuLier.

It becomes my duty to record here the death of Chief Justice Mel-
ville Weston Fuller, Chancellor of the Smithsonian Institution, who
was born at Augusta, Maine, February 11, 1833, and died at his sum-
mer home, Sorrento, Maine, July 4, 1910. For 22 years prior to his
death, Chief Justice Fuller had been deeply interested in the welfare
of the Institution, and only on one occasion was he absent from a
meeting of the Regents during the entire period of his service as a
member of the board.

During his long and useful life Justice Fuller served his country
faithfully in several civil offices of trust and as Chief Justice of the
Supreme Court of the United States. His achievements as a jurist
were most adequately portrayed by the resolutions and eulogies pro-
nounced in his memory at a meeting of members of the bar of the
Supreme Court on December 10, 1910, and at the session of the
Supreme Court on January 3, 1911.

The Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution expressed
their sorrow in the following words of tribute adopted at the annual
meeting of the board on December 8, 1910:

Whereas the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution have received
the sad intelligence of the death, on July 4, 1910, of Melville Weston Fuller,
Chief Justice of the United States, and for twenty-two years chancellor of the
Institution: Therefore be it

Resolved, That we desire here to record our profound sorrow at the severing
of the tie that has bound us to him for so long a period of honored service;
that we feel keenly the loss of a wise presiding officer, whose vast store of
learning and gracious dignity have proved so invaluable in the deliberations
of this board, and whose loyal interest in the Smithsonian Institution has been
a source of inspiration to his colleagues.

Resolved, That we share in the grief of the Nation at the passing away of
one who was at once a distinguished leader of the greatest legal tribunal of
our land, an eminent jurist, a patriotic citizen, a shining example of Christian
gentleness, and who also possessed so charming a personality as a man and as
a friend.

Resolved, That we respectfully tender to the members of the family of our
late associate our sincerest sympathy in their great bereavement.

Resolved, That an engrossed copy of these resolutions be transmitted to the
family of the late chancellor.

Respectfully submitted,
Cuaries D. Watcort, Secretary.
Apprenpix I.
REPORT ON THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM,

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the operations of the
United States National Museum for the fiscal year ending June 380, 1911:

COMPLETION AND OCCUPATION OF THE NEW BUILDING,

It is gratifying to be able to report the completion of all structural work on
the new building for the Museum on June 20, 1911, just six years after the
excavations for its foundations were commenced. While the time limit orig-
inally estimated was somewhat exceeded on account of delays in the fulfillment
of certain contracts, the work was purposely conducted slowly in order to
insure entire stability and permanency of construction, which it is confidently
believed have been secured. The building is massive and imposing in appear-
ance, a notable addition to the group of Government structures at the Capital,
and has already been proved to be admirably adapted to the purposes for
which it was designed.

There is comparatively little room in the building that can not be utilized.
Of the approximately 10 acres of floor space which it contains, fully one-half
has been allotted to the public in the interest of popular education. The other
half, after deducting the area required for the maintenance and operation of the
building, is assigned to the storage of the reserve collections and to the labora-
tories. The occupation of the building did not await its final completion, but
was begun during the summer of 1909, and has been continued as rapidly as
the necessary furniture could be provided.

The work done on and in connection with the building during last year com-
prised the finishing of the rotunda, the south approaches, and the auditorium;
the painting of the interior plastered walls and ironwork; and, under the
direction of the officer in charge of public buildings and grounds, the grading
and sodding of the grounds immediately surrounding the building and the
construction of roads and walks leading to the several entrances.

By the close of the year essentially all of the reserve collections and all of
the laboratories of the several divisions of anthropology, zoology, geology, and
paleontology had been established in the new building, as had also most of
the administrative offices which are to be located there. 'The collections had,
moreover, been nearly all arranged in a manner convenient for study and
reference, and in greater part had received their permanent systematic installa-
tion. Much remains to be done, however, in perfecting this arrangement and
in completing the catalogues and indexes.

The exhibition collections had also been moved with the exception of the
American mammals, the birds, the marine invertebrates, the osteological speci-
mens, the fossil plants, the building stones, the gems, and a small section of
ethnology. The only public installations that had been completed in the new
building, besides the paintings of the National Gallery of Art, were, however,
of ethnology, which occupied the sides and ends of the middle hall on the

26
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 97

main floor, and most of the two adjacent ranges. To these halls in greater or
less part the public had been admitted from March 17, 1910, when the building
was first opened. Work was actively progressing in the preparation of the
exhibits for all of the other branches, the delays being due in large measure
to the slow rate at which furniture was supplied, and had been well advanced
for archeology, mineralogy, and the fossil vertebrates.

ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS.

The permanent acquisitions received during the year comprised approxi-
mately 228,642 specimens and objects, of which 204,540 were of animals and
plants, 6,647 were geological and paleontological, 17,3861 belonged to the several
divisions included in the department of anthropology, and 94 were paintings
and engravings presented to the National Gallery of Art. In addition, 1,629
objects of art and anthropology were accepted as loans for exhibition.

One of the most important accessions of the year resulted from an inivesti-
gation in Argentina, conducted under the auspices of the Smithsonian Insti-
tution by Dr. AleS Hrdlitka, curator of physical anthropology, partly in con-
junction with Mr. Bailey Willis as geologist, for the purpose of determining
the nature and value of the evidence relating to man’s antiquity in that
country. The skeletal and archeological remains attributed to early man or
his forerunners preserved in the museums were studied, the more important
localities where such remains have been discovered were visited, and on the
journey to and from Argentina short stops were made in Brazil, Peru,
Panama, and Mexico. Some 3,400 ancient crania, 6,000 long and other bones,
and 1,500 archeological objects of human manufacture composed the collec-
tion brought to Washington. A large number of prehistoric utensils, im-
plements, ornaments, examples of weaving, etc., obtained by Dr. J. W. Fewkes
during excavations in the Nayaho National Monument and at the ancient
Hopi pueblo of Wukoki at Black Falls, Little Colorado River, Ariz., were
-transferred by the Bureau of American Ethnology. Collections of a similar
character, but including ancient human crania and skeletons, from the north-
eastern pueblo region of New Mexico, were received from the School of
American Archeology of the Archeological Institute of America, at Santa Fe,
and a valuable series of skulls and skeletons from Arkansas and Mississippi
was presented by Mr. Clarence B. Moore.

Two interesting ethnological collections, one from Liberia the other from
Abyssinia, were lent for exhibition by Mr. George W. Ellis, jr., and Mr. Hoff-
man Philip, respectively, and a number of specimens relating to the Indians
of North America were acquired by gift and purchase.

The final shipments from the Smithsonian African expedition, which arrived
in the early part of the year, contained several thousand specimens of mammals,
birds, reptiles, fishes, and mollusks. The notable collection of mammals
belonging to Dr. C. Hart Merriam and consisting of about 5,800 skins, 6,000
skulls, and 100 complete skeletons, was secured through the generosity of Mrs.
Edward H. Harriman, of New York, by whom it was purchased and donated
to the Institution. The other principal additions of mammals were from
British East Africa, Abyssinia, and China; while of birds the more important
contributions were from North and Central America, the Philippine Islands, .
and China. The United States Biological Survey and the United States
Bureau of Fisheries transmitted many reptiles from various parts of the
United States and Mexico, and the latter also an interesting series from the
Philippines. The fishes received were mainly from explorations by the Bureau
of Fisheries in the eastern part of the United States. Large numbers of
98 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1911.

insects were deposited by the Bureau of Entomology, and important collections
of hymenoptera were presented by Mr. S. A. Rohwer and Mr. P. R. Myers.

An especially noteworthy accession consisted of the collection of mollusks
made in Alaska by Dr. William H. Dall while in the field for the ‘United
States Coast and Geodetic Survey, and later for the United States Geological
Survey, between 1871 and 1899. It comprises about 15,000 lots and 50,000
specimens, and is undoubtedly the largest collection of the shells of moderate
depths of water that has ever been assembled from that region. Another
extensive contribution of mollusks, consisting of many thousands of Japanese
specimens, was obtained from the Imperial University of Tokyo. Important
type collections, recently described, of isopod crustaceans, medusx, hydroids,
and siphonophores, from explorations by the steamer Albatross in the Pacific
Ocean and at the Philippine Islands, were transferred by the Bureau of
Fisheries. Decapod crustaceans, representing a large number of species, were
received from the Indian Museum at Calcutta; many isopods from several
French explorations, including the Charcot expedition to the Antarctic Ocean,
were obtained from the Muséum d’Histoire Naturelle at Paris; and an inter-
esting series of recent crinoids was secured from the Zoological Museum at
Copenhagen.

The collection of plants was increased by over 38,000 specimens, of which
the largest contributions were from the biological survey of the Panama Canal
Zone and the Department of Agriculture, though many specimens were obtained
from the Bureau of Fisheries, and by gift and exchange. On the biological
survey of the Canal Zone, which is being carried on under the auspices of the
Smithsonian Institution, the Museum was represented during the year by one
member of its staff, Mr. W. R. Maxon, assistant curator of plants. Mr. Maxon
spent about two and one-half months in the field, working in conjunction with
Mr. Henry Pittier, who is in charge of the botanical investigations, and in
view of the richness of the region the exploration yielded exceedingly important
results. Dr. J. N. Rose, associate curator of plants, and Dr. Paul Bartsch,
assistant curator of mollusks, were members of an expedition by the Bureau
of Fisheries steamer Albatross, which visited Guadaloupe Island, proceeded
down the outer coast of Lower California and ascended the Gulf of California
for a considerable distance. Valuable series of marine animals and of plants
were secured, the former mostly by means of dredging, the latter during
stops made along the coast.

The accessions in geology and mineralogy from the Geological Survey and
other sources contained much interesting material and a number of type
specimens. Especially important were several type series of Cambrian fossils
described by Dr. Charles D. Walcott, and included in the noteworthy discoveries
resulting from his recent explorations in British Columbia. Investigations in
Kentucky and Tennessee by Dr. R. S. Bassler and Mr. Frank Springer yielded
valuable collections of Silurian and Mississippian fossils. In vertebrate
paleontology the more important additions consisted of mammalian and rep-
tilian remains obtained in exchange.

An interesting series of articles of nickel produced by the late Joseph Whar-
ton, of Philadelphia, who was recognized as the leader in the technology of
this metal, was received as a donation from the executors of his estate.
This collection, which had been preserved by Mr. Wharton in a cabinet at his
home, comprises over 60 pieces, including pure nickel in several forms, harness
and door trimmings, household utensils, forceps, magnetic needles, coinage
blanks, ete., and is of much historical value.

The historical collection was greatly enriched, mainly by loans, and, by
extending the exhibition space into a second hall, its installation has been much
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 99

improved. Rear Admiral R. H. Peary, United States Navy, retired, deposited
the many medals conferred upon him by various geographical societies in ree-
ognition of his service to science in arctic exploration; the silver model of a
ship and three loving cups presented to him; and two of the flags that he
carried to the North Pole in 1809; all of which have been arranged together in
a single case. Important additions to the collection of memorials of the
Bailey-Myers-Mason family were received from Mrs. Julian James; valuable
memorials of the Salter and Codwise families of colonial and revolutionary
New York and New Jersey were lent by Miss Louise Salter Codwise; and inter-
esting relics of the Schenck family of New Jersey dating back three generations
were contributed by Dr. Clara S. Ludlow. The Gustavus Vasa Fox collection
of Russian memorials was materially increased, and 11 pieces of furniture
that once belonged to Gen. Rufus Putnam were received as a gift from his
great-grandson, the late Judge EH. M. P. Brister. An inhaler of the type used
by Dr. William T. G. Morton in 1846, in the first operation which he performed
with the use of ether as an anesthetic, and two busts of Dr. Morton were
presented.
NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART.

The paintings of the National Gallery of Art continue to be exhibited in the
large middle hall of the new building, the central part of which was specially
fitted up for the purpose in 1910. While these quarters are already too re-
stricted for the needs of the Gallery, the excellent lighting of this space makes
possible an entirely satisfactory installation, which has attracted much
attention.

Mr. William T. Evans, of New York, added 13 canvases to his notable collec-
tion of the works of contemporary American painters, which now comprises 127
pictures representing 90 artists. Mr. Evans also presented 81 examples of a
series of 100 proofs designed to illustrate the work of the foremost American
wood engravers, which he announced some time ago his intention to contribute.
Mr. Charles L. Freer, whose important gift to the Nation of American and ori-
ental art still remains in his keeping at Detroit, Mich., secured many valuable
additions for his collection during an extended trip abroad, much of which was
spent in China. The Gallery was fortunate in obtaining several interesting
loans, including numerous examples of the paintings of early masters, and
contributed to a number of important exhibitions held in other cities.

; ART TEXTILES.

The loan collection of laces and other art textiles, which occupies one of the
northern ranges in the older Museum building, was very largely increased
both numerically and in the variety of its contents. Thirty-two loan contri-
butions and three gifts, comprising 249 specimens, many of great beauty and
value, brought the total number of specimens on exhibition up to 1,007. The
supervision of the collection has been continued by Mrs. James W. Pinchot,
to whose initiative and subsequent efforts, with the active cooperation of a
number of ladies of Washington, the movemert owes its success.

MISCELLANEOUS.

Of duplicate specimens taken from the collections, over 3,000, principally of
recent animals and fossils, were distributed to schools and colleges, and about
23,500 were used in making exchanges. Approximately 24,600 specimens of
various kinds were sent for study to specialists both in this country and abroad,
mainly to be worked up and identified for the Museum.
80 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1911.

The total number of visitors to the older Museum building was 207,010, to
the Smithsonian building 167,085, and to the new Museum building 151,112.
Considering that the buildings have been opened only during working hours
on week days, this is to be regarded as a fair attendance. That it was smallest
at the new building was owing to the fact that less than one-sixth of the
exhibition space had been made ready for the public.

The publications issued comprised the annual report for 1910, two volumes
of Proceedings, five bulletins, one volume of Contributions from the National
Herbarium, and a large number of separate papers belonging to three unfin-
ished volumes of Proceedings aud two of Contributions. With the exception
of the annual report, all were descriptive of material in the Museum collections.
The number of copies of the various publications distributed was over 110,000.

By the addition of 6,127 books, pamphlets, and periodicals, the Museum
library was increased to 40,211 volumes and 66,074 unbound publications.

The auditorium in the new building was used on several occasions for meet-
ings of important scientific bodies. The sessions of the First American Inter-
national Humane Congress, in connection with which an interesting exhibit
was installed, were also held here from October 10 to 15, 1910.

The position of head curator of the department of biology, made vacant by
the designation of Dr. F. W. True as an Assistant Secretary of the Institution
on June 1, was filled by the appointment of Dr. Leonhard Stejneger, curator
of reptiles and batrachians. For convenience of administration, the divisions
of invertebrate paleontology, vertebrate paleontology, and paleobotany were
combined, under the title of sections, in a single division of paleontology, with
Dr. R. S. Bassler as curator.

Respectfully submitted.

RIcHARD RATHBUN,
Assistant Secretary in Charge, U. S. National Museum.
Dr. CHARLES D. WALCOTT,
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.

NOVEMBER 18, 1911.
Apprenpix II.
REPORT ON THE BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY.

Siz: I have the honor to present the following report on the operations of the
Bureau of American Ethnology during the fiscal year ending June 30, 1911, con-
ducted in accordance with the provisions of the act of Congress approved June
25, 1910, authorizing the continuation of ethnological researches among the
American Indians and the natives of Hawaii, under the direction of the Smith-
sonian Institution, and in accordance with the plan of operations approved by
the Secretary June 15, 1910.

The systematic ethnological researches of the bureau were continued during
the year with the regular scientific staff, consisting of nine ethnologists, as
follows: Mr. F. W. Hodge, ethnologist in charge; Mr. James Mooney, Dr.
J. Walter Fewkes, Mrs. Matilda Coxe Stevenson, Mr. J. N. B. Hewitt, Dr. John R.
Swanton, Dr. Truman Michelson, Dr. Paul Radin, and Mr. Francis La Flesche.
In addition the services of several specialists in their respective fields were
enlisted for special work, as follows:

Dr. Fravz Boas, honorary philologist, with several assistants, for research in
connection with the preparation and publication of the Handbook of American
Indian Languages.

Miss Alice ©. Fletcher and Mr. Francis La Flesche, for the final revision of
_ the proofs of their monograph on the Omaha Indians for publication in the
twenty-seventh annual report. :

Miss Frances Densmore, for researches in Indian music.

Mr. J. P. Dunn, for studies of the tribes of the Middle West.

Mr. Jehn P. Harrington, for researches among the Mchave Indians of the
Colorado Valley.

Rey. Dr. George P. Donehoo, for investigations in the history, geography, aud
ethnology of the tribes of Pennsylvania for incorporation in the Handbook of
American Indians.

Mr. William R. Gerard, for studies of the etymology of Algonquian place
and tribal names and of terms that have been incorporated in the English
language for use in the same work.

Prof. H. M. Ballou, for bibliographic research in connection with the com-
pilation of the List of Works Relating to Hawaii.

Mr. James R. Murie, for researches pertaining to the ethnology of the Pawnee
Indians.

The systematic ethnological researches by members of the regular staff of
the bureau may be summarized as follows:

Mr. F. W. Hodge, ethnologist in charge, in addition to conducting the admin-
istrative work of the bureau, devoted attention, with the assistance of Mrs.
Frances S. Nichols, to the final revision of the remaining proofs cf Part 2 of the
Handbook of American Indians (Bulletin 30), which was published in January,
1911. This work met with such great popular demand that the edition of
the two parts became exhausted immediately after publication, causing the
bureau much embarrassment owing to the thousands of requests that it has

31
a) ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1911.

not been possible to supply. To meet this need in part, the Senate, on May 12,
adopted a concurrent resolution authorizing the reprinting of the entire hand-
book, and at the close of the fiscal year the resolution was under consideration
by the Committee on Pricting of the House of Representatives. The Superin-
tendent of Documents has likewise been in receipt of many orders for the work,
necessitating the reprinting of part 1 some months after its appearance, and
about the close of the fiscal year another reprint of this part was contemplated.
Much material for incorporation in a revised edition for future publication was
prepared during the year, but lack of funds necessary for the employment of
special assistants prevented the prosecution of this work as fully as was desired.

The bureau has been interested in and has conducted archeological explora-
tions in the Pueblo region of New Mexico and Arizona for many years. Since
the establishment of the School of American Archeology in 1907, following the
revival of interest in American archeology, by the Archeological Institute of
America, that body likewise commenced systematic work in the archeology of
that great region. In order to avoid duplication of effort, arrangements were
made between the bureau and the school for conducting archeological investiga-
tions in cooperation, the expense of the field work to be borne equally, a moiety
of the collections of the artifacts and all the skeletal remains to become the
property of the National Museum, and the bureau to have the privilege of the
publication of all scientific results.

Active work under this joint arrangement was commenced in the Rito de los
Frijoles, northwest of Santa Iré, New Mexico, in. July, 1910, work having
already been initiated there during the previous summer by the school inde-
pendently, under the directorship of Dr. Edgar L. Hewett. In August, 1910,
Mr. Hodge visited New Mexico for the purpose of participating in the work on
the part of the bureau, and remained in the field for a month.

The great prehistoric site in the Rito de los Frijoles is characterized by an
immense circular many-celled pueblo ruin, most of the stone walls of which
are still standing to a height of several feet, and a series of cavate dwellings
hewn in the soft tufa throughout several hundred yards of the northern wall
of the canyon. Accompanying the great community ruin and also the cavate
dwellings are underground kivas, or ceremonial chambers. In front of the
eavate lodges were originally structures of masonry built against the cliff and
forming front rooms, but practically the only remains of these are the founda-
tion walls and the rafter holes in the cliff face. The débris covering these
structures has been largely cleared away and the foundations exposed, and the
walls of about two-thirds of the great pueblo structure in the valley have been
bared by excavation: At the western extremity of the canyon, far up in the
northern wall, is a natural cavern, known as Ceremonial Cave, in which are a
large kiva, remarkably well preserved, and other interesting remains of aborig-
inal occupancy. This great archeological site in the Rito de los Frijoles is
important to the elucidation of the problem of the early distribution of the
Pueblos of the Rio Grande Valley, and there is reason to believe that when
the researches are completed much light will be shed thereon. There is a
paucity of artifacts in the habitations uncovered, aside from stone implements,
of which large numbers have been found.

At the close of the work in the Rito de los Frijoles the joint expedition pro-
ceeded to the valley of the Jemez River, near the Hot Springs, where a week
was spent in excavating the cemetery of the old Jemez village of Giusiwa.
About 30 burials were disinterred here, and a few accompaniments of pottery
vessels and other artifacts were recovered; but in the main the deposits had
been completely destroyed by aboriginal disturbance, caused in part by cover-
ing the burials with heavy stones and partly by displacing the skeletons pre-
e

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 33

viously buried when subsequent interments were made. Giusiwa was inhabited
in prehistoric times and also well within the historical period, as is attested
by its massive, roofiess church, built about the beginning of the seventeenth
century. Nevertheless, no indication of Spanish influence was found in the
ancient cemetery, and it is assumed that burial therein ceased with the com-
ing of the missionaries and the establishment of the campo santo adjacent to the
ehurch. AlIl collections gathered at Giusiwa have been deposited in the National
Museum.

Other immense ruins on the summits of the mesas bounding the valley on the
west were examined with the view of their future excavation. The exact posi-
tion of the Jemez tribe among the Pueblo peoples is a problem, and both
archeological and ethnological studies thereof are essential to its determination.

On completing this reconnoissance excavation was conducted in a cemetery at
the great stone pueblo of Puye, on a mesa 8 miles west of the Tewa village of
Santa Clara. About 50 burials were exhumed and sent to the National Museum,
but artifacts were not found in abundance here, and as a rule they are not ex-
cellent in quality. In the joint work in the Rito de los Frijoles the expedition
was fortunate in having the cooperation of Prof. Junius Henderson and Prof.
W. W. Robbins, of the University of Colorado at Boulder, who, respectively,
while the excavations were in progress, conducted studies in the ethno-zoology
and the ethno-botany of the Tewa Indians, and also on the influence of climate
and geology on the life of the early inhabitants of the Rito de los Frijoles. At
the same time Mr. J. P. Harrington continued his researches in Tewa geo-
graphic nomenclature and cooperated with Professors Henderson and Robbins in
supplying the native terms for plants and animals used by these Indians as
food and medicine in ceremonies and for other purposes. The expedition was
also fortunate in having the services of Mr. Sylvanus G. Morley in connection
with the excavations in the Rito, of Mr. K. M. Chapman in the study of the
decoration of the pottery and of the pictographs of the entire upper Rio Grande
region, of Mr. Jesse L. Nusbaum in the photographic work, and of Mr. J. P.
Adams in the surveying. Valued aid was also rendered by Messrs. Neil M. Judd,
Donald Beauregard, and Nathan Goldsmith.

The scientific results of the joint research are rapidly nearing completion and
will be submitted to the bureau for publication at an early date.

Throughout almost the entire year Mr. James Mooney, ethnologist, was oc-
cupied in the office in compiling the material for his study of Indian population
covering the whole territory north of Mexico from the first white occupancy
to the present time. By request of the Nebraska State Historical Society he
was detailed in January, 1911, to attend the joint session of that body and the
Mississippi Valley Historical Association, at Lincoln, Nebraska, where he de-
livered three principal addresses bearing particularly on the method and results
of the researches of the bureau with the view of their application in local his-
torical and ethnological investigations.

On June 4 Mr. Mooney started for the reservation of the Hast Cherokee in
North Carolina to continue former studies of the sacred formulas and general
ethnology of that tribe, and was engaged in this work at the close of the month.

At the beginning of the fiscal year Dr. J. Walter Fewkes, ethnologist, was in
northern Arizona examining the great cave pueblos and other ruins within
the Nayaho National Monument. He found that since his visit in 1909 con-
siderable excavation had been done by others in the rooms of Betatakin, and
that the walls of Kitsiel, the other large cliff ruin, were greatly in need of re-
pair. Guided by resident Navaho, he visited several hitherto undescribed cliff
dwellings and gathered a fairly good collection of objects illustrating prehistoric
culture of this part of northern Arizona, which have been deposited in the

38734°—sm 1911——3
34 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1911.

National Museum. In order to faciliate the archeological work and to make the
region accessible to students and visitors it was necessary to break a wagon road
from Marsh Pass through the middle of the Navaho National Monument to the
neighborhood of Betatakin, and by this means the valley was traversed with
wagons for the first time.

On the return journey to Flagstaff, Dr. Fewkes visited the ruins in Nitsi, or
West Canyon, and examined Inscription House, a prehistoric cliff dwelling of
considerable size, hitherto undescribed, the walls of which are built of loaf-
shaped adobes strengthened with sticks. On account of the size and great
interest of these ruins, it is recommended that the area covered thereby be
included in the Navaho National Monument and the ruins permanently pre-
served, and that either Betatakin or Kitsiel be excavated, repaired, and made
a “type ruin” of this culture area. Along the road to Flagstaff from West
Canyon, Dr. Fewkes observed several ruins and learned of many others
ascribed to the ancient Hopi. He visited the Hopi pueblo of Moenkopi, near
Tuba, and obtained considerable new ethnological material from an old priest
of that village regarding legends of the clans that formerly lived in northern
Arizona. He learned also of a cliff, or rock, covered with pictographs of Hopi
origin, at Willow Spring, not far from Tuba, the figures of which shed light
on Hopi clan migration legends.

Returning to Flagstaff, Dr. Fewkes reoutfitted in order to conduct investiga-
tions of the ruins near Black Falls of the Little Colorado River, especially the
one called Wukoki, reputed to have been the last habitation of the Snake
clans of the Hopi in their southern migration before they finally settled near
the East Mesa. A little more than a month was spent at these ruins, during
which time extensive excavations were made in numerous subterranean rooms,
or pit dwellings, a new type of habitations found at the bases of many of the
large ruined pueblos on the Little Colorado. Incidentaily several other pueblo
ruins, hitherto unknown, with accompanying reservoirs and shrines, were ob-
served. The excavations at Wukoki yielded about 1.800 specimens, consisting
of painted pottery, beautiful shell ornaments, stone implements, basketry,
wooden objects, cane “cloud blowers,” prayer sticks, a prayer-stick box, an
idol, and other objects. The results of the excavations at Wukoki will be in-
corporated in a forthcoming bulletin on Antiquities of the Little Colorado
Basin.

On the completion of his work at the Black Falls ruins, Dr. Fewkes returned
to Washington in September and devoted the next three months to the prepara-
tion of a monograph on Casa Grande, Arizona.

At the close of January, 1911, Dr. Fewkes again took the field, visiting Cuba
for the purpose of gathering information on the prehistoric inhabitants of that
island and their reputed contemporaneity with fossil sloths, shurks, and croco-
diles. A fortnight was devoted to the study of collections of prehistoric ob-
jects in Habana, especially the material in the. University Museum from caves
in Puerto Principe Province, described by Drs. Montoné and Carlos de la Torre.
With this preparation he proceeded to the Isle of Pines and commenced work
near Nueva Gerona. In this island there are several caves from which human
hones have been reported locally, but the Cueva de los Indios, situated in the
hills about a mile from the city named, promised the greatest reward. A
week’s excavation in this cave yielded four fragments of Indian skulls, not
beyond repair; one undeformed, well-preserved, human cranium; and many
fragments of pelves, humeri, and femora. The excavations in the middle of
the cave indicated that the soil there had previously been dug over: these
yielded little of value, the best-preserved remains occurring near the entrance,
on each side. The skulls were arranged in a row within a pocket sheltered by
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 35

an overhanging side of the cave, and were buried about 2 feet in the guano and
soil; beneath these crania were human long-bones, crossed. Several fragments
of a single skull or of several skulls were embedded in a hard stalagmitic
formation over the deposit of long-bones. No Indian implements or pottery
accompanied the bones, and no fossils were found in association with them. So
far as recorded this is the first instance of the finding of skeletal remains of
eave man in the Isle of Pines. Their general appearance and mode of burial
were the same as in the case of those discovered by Drs. Montoné and Carlos
de la Torre.

Dr. Fewkes also examined, in the Isle of Pines, about 30 structures known
as cacimbas, their Indian name, These are vase-shaped, subterranean recep-
tacles, averaging 6 feet in depth and 4 feet in maximum diameter, generally
constricted to about 2 feet at the neck, and with the opening level with the
surface of the ground. Although these cacimbas are generally ascribed to the
Indians, they are thought by some to be of Spanish origin, and are connected
by others with buccaneers, pirates, and slavers. They are built of masonry or
cut in the solid rock; the sides are often plastered and the bottoms commonly
covered with a layer of tar. On the ground near the openings there is gener-
ally a level, circular space, with raised periphery. The whole appearance sup-
ports the theory that these structures were used in the manufacture of turpen-
tine or tar, the circular area being the oven and the cacimba the receptacle for
the product.

Dr. Fewkes found that the Pineros, or natives of the island, employ many
aboriginal terms for animals, plants, and places, and in some instances two
Indian words are used for the same object. An acknowledged descendant of
a Cuban Indian explained this linguistic duality by saying that the Indians
of the eastern end of the Isle of Pines spoke a dialect different from those of
the western end, and that when those from Camaguey, who were Tainan and
of eastern Cuban origin, came to the Isle of Pines at the instance of the Spanish
authorities they brought with them a nomenclature different from that then
in use on that island. 7

Several old Spanish structures of masonry, the dates of which are unknown,
were also examined in the neighborhood of Santa Fé, Isle of Pines. The roof
of a cave at Punta de Este, the southeastern angle of the island, bears ab-
original pictographs of the sun and other objects, suggesting that it is com-
parable with the cave in Haiti, in which, in Indian legend, the sun and the
moon originated and from which the races of man emerged.

Dr. Fewkes has now collected sufficient material in Cuba to indicate that its
western end, including the Isle of Pines, was once inhabited by a cave-dwelling
reople, low in culture and without agriculture. His observations support the
belief that this people were in that condition when Columbus visited the Isle of
Pines and that they were survivors of the Guanahatibibes, a cave-dwelling
population formerly occupying the whole of Cuba and represented in Porto
Rico and other islands of the West Indies.

Dr. Fewkes also visited several of the coral keys southwest of Isle of Pines,
but, finding no aboriginal traces, he crossed the channel to Cayman Grande,
about 250 miles from Nueva Gerona. The Cayman group consists of coral
islands built on a submarine continuation of the mountains of Santiago
Province, Cuba. A cave with Indian bones and pottery, probably of Carib
origin, was found near Boddentown on the eastern end of the island, and a
few stone implements were obtained from natives, but as these specimens may
have been brought from adjacent shores they afford little evidence of a former
aboriginal population of Cayman Grande. The elevation of the Cayman
Islands, computed from the annual accretion, would indicate that Cayman
36 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1911.

Grande was a shallow reef when Columbus visited Cuba, and could not have
been inhabited at that time. The discoverer passed very near it on his second
yoyage, when his course lay from the Isle of Pines to Jamaica, but he reported
neither name nor people.

Dr. Fewkes returned to Washington in April and enete the remainder cs the
year in completing his report on Casa Grande.

Dr. John R. Swanton, ethnologist, devoted the first quarter of the year
chiefly to collecting material from libraries and archives, as the basis of his
study of the Creek Indians. From the latter part of September until early in
December he was engaged in field research among the Creek, Natchez, Tonkawa,
and Alibamu Indians in Oklahoma and Texas, and also remained a short time
with the remnant of the ‘Tunica and Chitimacha in Louisiana, and made a few
side trips in search of tribes which have been lost to sight within recent years.
On his return to Washington, Dr. Swanton transcribed the linguistic and
ethnologic material collected during his field excursion, read the proofs of
Bulletins 44, 46, and 47, added to the literary material regarding the Creek
Indians, collected additional data for a tribal map of the Indians of the United
States, and initiated a study of the Natchez language with the special object
of comparing it with the other dialects of the Muskhogean family. Dr. Swan-
ton also spent some time in studying the Chitimacha and Tunica languages.

From July, 1910, until the middle of April, 1911, Mrs. M. C. Stevenson,
ethnologist, was engaged in the completion of a paper on Dress and Adorn-
ment of the Pueblo Indians, in the elaboration of her report on Zufii Plants
and Their Uses, and in transcribing her field notes pertaining to Zuni religious
concepts and the mythology and ethnology of the Taos Indians.

Mrs. -Stevenson left Washington on April 12 and proceeded directly to the
country of the Tewa Indians, in the valley of the Rio Grande in New Mexico,
for the purpose of continuing her investigation of those people. Until the close
of the fiscal year her energies were devoted to the pueblo of San Ildefonso and
incidentally to Santa Clara, information particularly in regard to the Tewa
calendar system, ceremonies, and material culture being gained. Mrs. Steven-
son finds that the worship of the San Ildefonso Indians includes the same
celestial bodies as are held sacred by the Zuni and other Pueblos. From the
foundation laid during her previous researches among the Tewa, Mrs. Steven-
son reports that she has experienced littie difficulty in obtaining an insight
into the esoteric life of these people, and is daily adding to her store of
knowledge respecting their religion and sociology. A complete record of
obstetrical practices of the Tewa has been made, and it is found that they are
as elaborate as related practices of the Taos people. The San Ildefonso in-
habitants do not seem to have changed their early customs regarding land
tenure, and they adhere tenaciously to their marriage customs and birth rites,
notwithstanding the long period during which missionaries have been among
them. It is expected that, of her many lines of study among the Tewa tribes,
the subject of their material culture will produce the first results for publi-

. eation.

After completing some special articles on ethnologic topics for the closing
pages of Part 2 of the Handbook of American Indians, Mr. J. N. B. Hewitt,
ethnologist, pursued the study of the history of the tribes formerly dwelling
in the Susquehanna and upper Ohio valleys. Progress in these researches was
interrupted by the necessity of assigning him to the editorial revision and
annotation of a collection of 120 legends, traditions, and myths of the Seneca
Indians, recorded in 1884 and 1885 by the late Jeremiah Curtin. At the close
of the year this work was far advanced, only about 150 pages of a total of
1,400 pages remaining to be treated. It is designed to publish this material.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 87

with Mr. Hewitt’s introduction, notes, and explanatory matter, in a forth-
coming annual report. As opportunity afforded, Mr. Hewitt also resumed the
preparation of his sketch of the grammar of the Iroquois for incorporation in
the Handbook of American Indian Languages.

AS in previous years, Mr. Hewitt prepared and collected data for replies to
numerous correspondents requesting special information, particularly in regard
to the Iroquois and Algonquian tribes. Mr. Hewitt also had charge of the
important collection of 1,716 manuscripts of the bureau, cataloguing new acces-
sions and keeping a record of those withdrawn in the progress of the bureau’s
researches. During the year, 378 manuscripts were thus made use of by the
members of the bureau and its collaborators. Exclusive of the numerous manu-
scripts prepared by the staff of the bureau and by those in collaboration with
it, referred to in this report, 12 items were added during the year. These
pertain to the Pawnee, Chippewa, Zui, and Tewa tribes, and relate to music,
sociology, economics, and linguistics.

The beginning of the fiscal year found Dr. Truman Michelson, ethnologist,
conducting ethnological and linguistic investigations among the Piegan Indians
of Montana, whence he proceeded to the Northern Cheyenne and Northern
Arapaho, thence to the Menominee of Wisconsin, and finally to the Micmac of
Restigouche, Canada—all Algonquian tribes, the need of a more definite lin-
guistic classification of which has long been felt. Dr. Michelson returned to
Washington at the close of November and immediately commenced the elaboration
of his field notes, one of the results of which is a manuscript bearing the title
“A Linguistic Classification of the Algonquian Tribes,” submitted for publi-
cation in the twenty-eighth annual report. Also in connection with his Algon-
quian work Dr. Michelson devoted attention to the further revision of the
material pertaining to the Fox grammar, by the late Dr. William Jones, the
outline of which is incorporated in the Handbook of American Indian Lan-
guages. During the winter Dr. Michelson took advantage of the presence in
Washington of a deputation of Chippewa Indians from White Harth, Minne-
sota, by enlisting their services in gaining an insight into the social organiza-
tion of that tribe and also in adding to the bureau’s accumulation of Chippewa
linguistic data. Toward the close of June, 1911, Dr. Michelson proceeded to the
Sauk and Fox Reservation in Iowa for the purpose of continuing his study of
that Algonquian group.

The months of July and August and half of September, 1910, were spent by

r. Paul Radin, ethnologist, among the Winnebago Indians of Nebraska and
Wisconsin, his efforts being devoted to a continuation of his studies of the
culture of those people, with special reference to their ceremonial and social
organization and their general social customs. Part of the time was devoted
to a study of the Winnebago material culture, but little progress was made in
this direction, as few objects of aboriginal origin are now possessed by these
people, consequently the study must be completed by examination of their
objects preserved in museums and private collections. A beginning in this
direction was made by Dr. Radin during the latter half of September and in
October at the American Museum of Natural History, New York City. During
the remainder of the fiscal year Dr. Radin was engaged in arranging the eth-
nological material gathered by him during the several years he has devoted to
the Winnebago tribe, and in the preparation of a monograph on the Medicine
Ceremony of the Winnebago and a memoir on the ethnology of the Winnebago
tribe in general. In June, 1911, he again took the field in Wisconsin for the
purpose of obtaining the data necessary to complete the tribal monograph.
Both these manuscripts, it is expected, will be finished by the close of the
present calendar year.

88 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1911.

By arrangement with the Commissioner of Indian Affairs the bureau was
fortunate in enlisting the services of Mr. Francis La Flesche, who has been
frequently mentioned in the annual reports of the bureau in connection with
his studies, jointly with Miss Alice C. Fletcher, of the ethnology of the Omaha
tribe of the Siouan family. Having been assigned the task of making a com-
parative study of the Osage tribe of the same family, Mr. La Flesche pro-
ceeded to their reservation in Oklahoma in September. The older Osage men,
like the older Indians generally, are very conservative, and time and tact were
necessary to obtain such standing in the tribe as would enable him to estab-
lish friendly relations with those to whom it was necessary to look for trust-
worthy information. Although the Osage language is similar to that of the
Omaha, Mr. La Flesche’s native tongue, there are many words and phrases that
sound alike but are used in a different sense by the two tribes. Having prac-
tically mastered the language, Mr. La Flesche was prepared to devote several
months to what is known as the No*’ho*zhi"ga Ie’ta, the general term applied
to a complex series of ceremonies which partake of the nature of degrees, but
are not, strictly speaking, successive steps, although each one is linked to the
other in a general sequence. While at the present stage of the investigation
it would be premature to make a definite statement as to the full meaning and
interrelation of these Osage ceremonies, there appear to be seven divisions of
the No” ho*zhi*ga Te’ta, the names, functions, and sequence of which have been
learned, but whether the sequence thus far noted is always maintained remains
to be determined. From Saucy-Calf, one of the three surviving Osage regarded
as past masters in these ceremonies, phonographic records of the first of the
ceremonies, the Waxo’be-awatho’, have been made in its entirety, consisting
of 80 songs with words and music, and 7 prayers. All these have been tran-
scribed and in part translated into English, comprising a manuscript exceed-
ing 300 pages. In order to discuss with the Osage the meaning of these rituals,
Mr. La Flesche found it necessary to commit them to memory, as reading from
the manuscript disconcerted the old seer. At Saucy-Calf’s invitation Mr.
La Flesche witnessed in the autumn, at Grayhorse, a performance of the cere-
mony of the Waxo’be-awatho’, the recitation of the rituals of which requires
one day, part of a night, and more than half of the following day. It is Mr.
La Flesche’s purpose to record, if possible, the rituals of the remaining six
divisions of the No*’ho"zhi"ga Ie’ta. He has already obtained a pharaphrase of
the seventh ceremony (the Nik’ino"k’o"), and hopes soon to procure a phono-
graphic record of all the rituals pertaining thereto.

In connection with his ethnological work Mr. La Flesche has been so fortunate
as to obtain for the National Museum four of the waxo’be, or sacred packs, each
of which formed a part of the paraphernalia of the No’ ho"zhi"ga Ie’ta, as
well as a waxo’be-to"’ga, the great waxo’be which contains the instruments for
tattooing. Only those Osage are tattooed who have performed certain acts pre-
scribed in the rites of the No™”ho"zhi"ga TJIe’ta. The rites of the tattooing
ceremony are yet to be recorded and elucidated. While the waxo’be is the most
sacred of the articles that form the paraphernalia of the No*’ho"zhi*ga Ie’ta
rites, it is not complete in itself; other things are indispensable to their per-
formance, and it is hoped that these may be procured at some future time.

While not recorded as one of the ceremonial divisions of the No™’ho"zhi®ga
Ie’ta, there is a ceremony so closely connected with it that it might well be
regarded as a part thereof—this is the Washa’beathi" watsi, or the dance of the
standards. The introductory part of this ceremony is called Akixage, or weep-
ing over one another in mutual sympathy by the members of the two great
divisions of the tribe. There is no regular time for the performance of the
Washa’beathi"n ceremony. It is given only when a member of the tribe loses
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 39

by death some specially loved and favored relative and seeks a ceremonial
expression of sympathy from the entire tribe. It is the intention to procure
the songs and rituals of this ceremony, and specimens of the standards
employed in its performance.

Altogether Mr. La Flesche has made excellent progress in his study of the
Osage people, and the results are already shedding light on the organization
and the origin and function of the ceremonies of this important tribe.

The special researches of the bureau in the field of linguistics were conducted
by Dr. Franz Boas, honorary philologist, one of the immediate and tangible
results of which was the publication of Part 1 of the Handbook of American
Indian Languages. It seems desirable to restate at the present time the
development of the plan and the object of this work.

Through the efforts of the late Maj. Powell and his collaborators a great
number of vocabularies and a few grammars of American Indian languages
had been accumulated, but no attempt had been made to give a succinct
description of the morphology of all the languages of the continent. In order
to do this, a series of publications was necessary. The subject matter had to
be represented by a number of grammatical sketches, such as are now being
assembled in the Handbook of American Indian Languages. To substantiate
the inductions contained in this grammar, collections of texts are indispensable
to the student, and finally a series of extended vocabularies are required. The
plan, as developed between 1890 and 1900, contemplated the assembling in the
bulletin series of the bureau of a series of texts which were to form the basis
of the handbook. Of this series, Dr. Boas’s Chinook, Kathlamet, and Tsimshian
Texts, and Swanton’s Haida and Tlingit Texts, subsequently published, form a
part, but at the time Swanton’s Texts appeared it was believed by Secretary
Langley that material of this kind was too technical in character to warrant
publication in a governmental series. It was, therefore, decided to discontinue
the text series in the bulletins of the bureau and to divert them to the Publica-
tions of the American [thnological Society and the Columbia University Con-
tributions to Anthropology. Other series were commenced by the University
of California and the University of Pennsylvania. The method of publication
pursued at the present time, though different from that first planned, is
acceptable, since all the material is accessible to students, and the bureau is
saved the expense of publication.

Dr. Boas has been enabled to base all the sketches in the first volume of his
handbook on accompanying text series, as follows:

(1) Athapascan. Text published by the University of California.

(2) Tlingit. Text published by the Bureau of American Ethnology, but too
late to be used systematically.

(3) Haida. Texts published by the Bureau of American Ethnology.

(4) Tsimshian. Texts published by the Bureau of American Ethnology and
the American Ethnological Society.

(5) Kwakiutl. Texts published by the Jesup Expedition and in the Colum-
bia University series.

(6) Chinook. Texts published by the Bureau of American Ethnology.

(7) Maidu. Texts published by the American Ethnological Society, but too
late to be used.

(8) Algonquian. Texts published by the American Ethnological Society.

(9) Sioux. Texts in Contributions to North American Ethnology.

(10) Eskimo. Texts in ‘‘ Meddelelser om Grgnland,” but not used system-
atically.

Although Dr. Boas has urged the desirability of undertaking the publication
of the series of vocabularies, no definite steps have yet been taken toward the
40 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1911.

realization of this plan, owing largely to lack of funds for the employment of
assistants in preparing the materials. It is hoped, however, that such a series
of vocabularies, based on the published grammars and on the series of texts
above referred to, may be prepared for publication in the near future. Much
of the preliminary work has been done. There are, for example, extended
manuscript dictionaries of the Haida, Tsimshian, Kwakiutl, Chinook, and Sioux,
but none of them is yet ready for the printer.

The work on Part 2 of the Handbook of American Indian Languages is pro-
gressing satisfactorily. The sketch of the Takelma is in page form (pp. 1-296),
but Dr. Boas has undertaken the correlation of this sketch with the Takelma
Texts which meanwhile have been published by the University of Pennsylvania,
and a considerable amount of work remains to be done to finish this revision.
The Coos grammar is in galleys. The Coos Texts are at the present writing
being printed by the American Hthnological Society, and here also references
are being inserted. Dr. Leo J. Frachtenberg has continued his collection of
material for the handbook with commendable energy and intelligence. The
field work has been financially aided by Columbia University, partly through
a gift made by Mrs. Henry Villard and partly through funds provided by Mr.
Homer EH. Sargent. It has also been possible to utilize for the work on the
Alsea the collections made at a former time by Prof. Livingston Farrand on an
expedition supported by the late Mr. Henry Villard. On his last expedition
Dr. Frachtenberg was able to determine that the Siuslaw is an independent
stock, although morphologically affiliated with the Alsea, Coos, and Siuslaw
group. He also collected extensive material on the Alsea and Molala.

The most important result, which is appearing more and more Clearly from
the investigations carried out under the direction of Dr. Boas, lies in the fact
that it will be possible to classify American languages on a basis wider than
that of linguistic stocks. In 1893 Dr. Boas called attention to the fact that
a number of languages in northern British Columbia seem to have certain
morphological traits in common, by which they are sharply differentiated from
all the neighboring languages, although the evidence for a common origin of
the stocks is unsatisfactory. Dr. Boas and his assistants have followed this
observation, and it can now be shown that throughout the continent languages
may be classed in wider morphological groups. It is interesting to note that
phonetic groups may be distinguished in a similar manner, but these do not
coincide with the morphological groups. These observations are in accord
with the results of modern inquiries in Africa and Asia, where the influence of
Hamitie phonetics on languages of the Sudan and the influence of Sumerian
on early Babylonian have been traced in a similar manner. Analogous con-
ditions seem to prevail also in South Africa, where the phonetics of the Bush-
man languages have influenced the neighboring Bantu languages. In this way
a number of entirely new and fundamental problems in linguistic ethnography
have been formulated, the solution of which is of the greatest importance for
a clear understanding of the early history of the American Continent.

The Handbook of American Indian Languages as planned at the present
time deals exclusively with an analytical study of the morphology of each
linguistic family, without any attempt at a detailed discussion of phonetic
processes, their influence upon the development of the language, and the rela-
tion of dialects. Dr. Boas recommends that the present Handbook of American
Indian Languages be followed by a series of handbooks each devoted to a
single linguistic stock, in which the development of each language, so far as it
can be traced by comparative studies, should be treated.

The study of aboriginal American music was conducted among the Chippewa
Indians by Miss Frances Densmore, who extended her field of work previously
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 41

begun among that people and elaborated the system of analyzing their songs.
After spending several weeks on the Lac du Flambeau Reservation in Wis-
consin she accompanied the Chippewa from that reservation to the Menominee
Reservation in the same State, where the Lac du Flambeau Chippewa cere-
monially presented two drums to the Menominee. This ceremony was closely
observed, photographs being taken and the speeches of presentation translated,
and the songs of the ceremony were recorded by Miss Densmore on a phono-
graph after the return of the drum party to Lac du Flambeau. Many of the
songs are of Sioux origin, as the ceremony was adopted from that people; con-
sequently the songs were analyzed separately from those of Chippewa origin.
Numerous old war songs were recorded at Lac du Flambeau, also songs said
to have been composed during dreams, and others used as accompaniments
to games and dances. The analytical tables published during the year in Bul-
letin 45, Chippewa Music, have been combined by Miss Densmore with those of
songs collected during the year 1910-11, making a total of 340 Chippewa songs
under analysis. These are analyzed in 12 tables, showing the structure, tone
material, melodic progression, and rhythm of the songs, the rhythm of the
drum, the relation between the metric unit of the voice and drum, and other
points bearing on the development and form of primitive musical expression.
This material is now almost ready for publication. The Sioux songs of the
drum presentation ceremony, similarly analyzed, constitute the beginning of
an analytical study of the Sioux music, which will be continued and extended
during the fiscal year 1911-12.

Miss Alice C. Fletcher and Mr. La Flesche conducted the final proof revision
of their monograph on the Omaha tribe, to accompany the twenty-seventh
annual report, which was in press at the close of the fiscal year. This memoir
will comprise 658 printed pages and will form the most complete monograph
of a single tribe that has yet appeared.

Mr. J. P. Dunn, whose studies of the Algonquian tribes of the Middle West
have been mentioned in previous reports, deemed it advisable, before continu-
ing his investigation of the languages of the tribes comprising the former
Illinois confederacy, to await the completion of the copying of the anonymous
manuscript Miami-French Dictionary, attributed to Pére Joseph Ignatius Le
Boulanger, in the John Carter Brown Library at Providence, Rhode Island.
Through the courteous permission of Mr. George Parker Winship, librarian,
the bureau has been enabled to commence the copying of this manuscript, the
difficult task being assigned to Miss Margaret Bingham Stillwell, under Mr.
Winship’s immediate direction. At the close of the fiscal year 203 pages of the
original (comprising 95 pages of transcript), of the total of 155 pages of the
dictionary proper, were finished and submitted to the bureau. It is hoped
that on the completion of the copying the bureau will have a basis for the
study of the Miami and related languages that would not be possible among the
greatly modified remnant of the Indians still speaking them.

Prof. Howard M. Ballou, of Honolulu, has continued the preparation of the
List of Works Relating to Hawaii, undertaken in collaboration with the late
Dr. Cyrus Thomas, and during the year submitted the titles of many early
publications, including those of obscure books printed in the Hawaiian language.

Mr. John P. Harrington, of the School of American Archeology, proceeded in
March to the Colorado Valley in Arizona and California for the purpose of
continuing his studies, commenced a few years before, among the Mohave
Indians, and incidentally to make collections for the United States National
Museum. Mr. Harrington was still among these Indians at the close of July,
and the results of his studies, which cover every phase of the life of this
interesting people, are to be placed at the disposal of the bureau for publication.
42 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1911.
PUBLICATIONS.

The general editorial work of the bureau continued in immediate charge of
Mr. J. G. Gurley, editor. The editing of Part 2 of Bulletin 30, Handbook of
American Indians, was conducted by Mr. Hodge, while the editorial supervision
of Bulletin 40, Handbook of American Indian Languages, was in charge of
Dr. Boas. At the close of the fiscal year the twenty-seventh annual report
was nearly ready for the bindery; more than one-third of Bulletin 40, Part 2,
was in type (mostly in pages) ; and Bulletin 47, a Dictionary of the Biloxi and
Ofo Languages, by Dorsey and Swanton, was in page form. Some progress
had been made in the revision of the galley proof of Bulletin 46, Byington’s
Choctaw Dictionary, a work requiring the expenditure of considerable time
and labor. Much of Mr. Gurley’s time during the year was given to the work
of editing and proof reading the twenty-seventh annual report and its accom-
panying paper, the monograph on the Omaha tribe, by Miss Fletcher and Mr.
La Flesche, above referred to. The following publications were issued during
the year:

Bulletin 30. Handbook of American Indians North of Mexico (IF. W. Hodge,
editor), Part 2.

Bulletin 37. Antiquities of Central and Southeastern Missouri (Gerard
Fowke).

Bulletin 40. Handbook of American Indian Languages (Franz Boas, editor),
Part 1.

‘Bulletin 48. Indian Tribes of the Lower Mississippi Valley and Adjacent
Coast of the Gulf of Mexico (J. R. Swanton).

Bulletin 44. Indian Languages of Mexico and Central America and their
Geographical Distribution (Cyrus Thomas and J. R. Swanton).

Bulletin 45. Chippewa Musie (Irances Densmore).

Bulletin 50. Preliminary Report on a Visit to the Navaho National Monument,
Arizona (J. Walter Fewkes).

Bulletin 51. Antiquities of the Mesa Verde National Park: Cliff Palace (J.
Walter Fewkes). |

The preparation of the illustrations for the publications of the bureau and the
making of photographic portraits of the members of visiting deputations of
Indians were in charge of Mr. De Lancey Gill, illustrator. Of the 246 negatives
made, 120 comprise portraits of visiting Indians. In addition 372 photographic
films, exposed by members of the bureau in connection with their field work,
were developed and printed. Photographic prints for publication and exchange
were made to the number of 1,469, and 22 drawings for use as illustrations were
prepared. Mr. Gill was assisted, as in the past, by Mr. Henry Walther.

LIBRARY.

The library of the bureau has continued in the immediate charge of Miss
Ella Leary, librarian. During the year that part of the southeastern gallery
of the lower main hall of the Smithsonian Building which was vacated by the
National Museum, was assigned to the use of the bureau library, and three addi-
tional stacks were built, providing shelf room for about 2,500 volumes. Nearly
that number of books which had been stored, and consequently made inacces-
sible, were placed on the new shelves. The policy carried out from year to year
of increasing the library by exchange with other institutions has been con-
tinued, and special effort made to complete the collection of serial publica-
tions. Wspecially to be noted is the completion of the sets of publications of
the Maine Historical Society and the Archives of Pennsylvania, both rich in
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 43

material pertaining to the Indians. As in the past, it has been necessary for
the bureau to make use of the Library of Congress from time to time, about 200
volumes having been borrowed during the year. Twelve hundred books and
approximately 650 pamphlets were received, in addition to the current numbers
of more than 600 periodicals. Of the books and pamphlets received, 148 were
acquired by purchase, the remainder by gift or exchange. Six hundred and
eighty-nine volumes were bound by the Government Printing Office, payment
therefor being made from the allotment “for printing and binding * * *
annual reports and bulletins of the Bureau of American Ethnology, and for mis-
cellaneous printing and binding,” authorized by the sundry civil act. This pro-
vision has enabled the bureau, during the last two years, to bind many volumes
almost in daily use which were threatened with destruction. The catalogue of
the bureau now records 17,250 volumes; there are also about 12,200 pamphlets,
and several thousand unbound periodicals. The library is constantly referred
to by students not connected with the bureau, as well as by various officials of
the Government service.

PROPERTY.

As noted in previous reports the principal property of the bureau consists of
its library, manuscripts, and photographic negatives. In addition it possesses a
number of cameras, phonographie machines, and ordinary apparatus and
equipment for field work, stationery and office supplies, a moderate amount of
office furniture, typewriters, etc., and the undistributed stock of its publications.
The sum of $304.62 was expended for office furniture (including bookstacks at a
cost of $205) during the fiscal year.

RECOMMENDATIONS.

For the purpose of extending the systematic researches of the bureau and of
affording additional facilities for its administration, the following recommenda-
tions are made: g

A question having arisen in the Committee on Appropriations of the House
of Representatives as to the purpose for which an increase of $2,000 in the
bureau's appropriation in 1909 was intended, the work of excavating and re-
pairing antiquities existing in national parks and monuments has been cur-
tailed. The importance of elucidating the archeological problems connected
with these ancient remains and of repairing the more important of them for
visitors and for future students is so apparent that the need of continuing this
work is generally recognized, consequently an estimate of $4,000 “for the ex-
ploration and preservation of antiquities” has been submitted for the next
fiscal year.

Ethnological research in Alaska is urgently needed by reason of the great
changes taking place among the Indians and the Eskimo since the influx of
white people a few years ago. Unless this investigation is undertaken at once
the aboriginal inhabitants will have become so modified by contact with whites
that knowledge of much of their primitive life will be lost. It is recommended
that the sum of $4,500 be appropriated for this work.

The more speedy extension of ethnological researches among the remnants
of the Algonquian tribes formerly occupying the Middle West is desired. Ina
number of cases these tribes are represented by only a few survivors who retain
any knowledge of the traits, language, and customs of their people, hence it
will be impossible to gather much of this information unless the work is ex-
tended more rapidly, as the funds now at the bureau’s disposal for this pur-
pose are inadequate. The additional sum of $1,000 is recommended for this
purpose.
44 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1911.

As previously stated, the demand. for the Handbook of American Indians
has been so great that many schools and libraries have necessarily been denied.
The need of a revised edition is urgent, but the revision can not be satisfac-
torily undertaken and the latest information incorporated without the employ-
ment of special ethnologic assistants—those who have devoted special study to
particular tribes—and editorial and clerical aid. It is recommended that the
sum of $3,800 be appropriated for this purpose.

The bureau is constantly in receipt of requests from schools, historical
societies, compilers of textbooks, etc., for photographie prints of Indian sub-
jects, since it is generally known that the bureau possesses many thousands of
negatives accumulated in the course of its investigations. As no funds are now
available for this purpose, it is recommended that a reasonable sum, say $1,000,
be appropriated for the purpose of furnishing prints for educational purposes.
In most cases applicants would doubtless be willing to pay the cost, but at
present the bureau has no authority for selling photographs.

The manuscripts accumulated by the bureau form a priceless collection;
indeed many of them, if lost, could not be replaced, since they represent the
results of studies of Indians who have become extinct or have lost their tribal
identity. It is therefore urgently recommended that the sum of $1,350 be ap-
propriated for fireproofing a room and for providing metal cases for the
permanent preservation of the manuscripts.

Respectfully submitted.

F. W. Hover, Hthnologist in Charge.

Dr. CHARLES D. WALCOTT,
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.
AppEenpIx III.
REPORT ON THE INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGES.

Sig: I have the honor to submit the following report on the operations of the
International Exchange Service during the fiscal year ending June 30, 1911,
which was prepared under the direction of Mr. C. W. Shoemaker, chief clerk,
who was in charge of the service from January, 1910, until June 1, 1911.

The congressional appropriation for the support of the service during 1911
was $382,200 (the same amount granted for the past three years), and the sum
collected on account of repayments was $4,754.99, making the total available
resources for carrying on the system of international exchanges $36,954.99.

The total number of packages handled during the year was 228,698—an in-
crease over the number for the preceding year of 7,078. The weight of these
packages was 560,808 pounds—a gain of 76,124 pounds. For purposes of com-
parison the number and weight of packages of different classes are indicated
in the following table:

Packages. Weight.
Sent. /Received. Sent. /| Received.
Pounds. | Pounds.
United States parliamentary documents sent abroad........... 103 5769) 4) atc 202 =) 1165219) |e oa eacn
Publications received in return for parliamentary documents...|.....-.--- | UB GY ee camaro 18, 467
United States departmental documents sent abroad.........-.- Dog O4s eee oe ZIGHGSGNIES ee en
Publications received in return for departmental documents....|-.......-- CGN aARemceess 18, 837
Publications from miscellaneous sources sent abroad............| 28,834 |.......... DO, LG57|= ote. coetes
Publications received from abroad for miscellaneous distribu-
(HUGO Seer GER C HOS Ee IE rape ADEE He tae Ee a ase mE et) a) ERR 8? Oa SOLSZ4 Oe, iL Ss 134, 434
ROGAN Se ae ee oe inte cans, Beg Ce ee a ol ale 187, 707 40,991 | 389,070 171,738
Granditotalee 2252 Se See ae eae es Pet Te ECs & 228, 698 560, 808

The disparity between the number of packages received and those sent may
be accounted for, in part, by the fact that many returns for publications sent
abroad are forwarded to their destinations by mail and not through the exchange
service. This difference is further due to the fact that whereas packages sent
are made up in most cases of separate publications, those received contain
several volumes—in some instances the term “ package” being applied to large
boxes often containing 100 or more publications,

By referring to the above statement it will be noted that 66 per cent of the
work of the office has been conducted in behalf of the United States govern-
mental establishments,

Of the 2,380 boxes used in forwarding exchanges to foreign bureaus and
agencies for distribution (an increase of 347 boxes over 1910), 385 boxes con-
tained full sets of United States official documents for authorized depositories
and 1,995 were filled with departmental and other publications for depositories
of partial sets and for miscellaneous correspondents.

45
46 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1911.

Several changes have been made during the year in the routine of the Ex-
change Office looking to the economical and eflicient administration of the
service. ‘These changes are here briefly referred to. :

It had been the practice for many years to keep a ecard record of both in-
coming and outgoing packages—a credit and debit account with each establish-
ment or individual using the facilities of the Exchange Service—thus enabling
the Institution to answer inquiries concerning the transmisson of any particular
package without delay. As the keeping of these cards involved a great deal of
labor—quite out of proportion to the benefits derived therefrom—and also as
most of the information given thereon could, with the expenditure of a little
more time, be obtained from other records in the office, the detailed statement
of outgoing packages has been discontinued. This curtailment in the work
has made it possible to dispense with the services of one of the clerks in the
record room. The discontinuance of these cards has, furthermore, brought
about a change in the work in the shipping room whereby the preparation of
consignments for transmission abroad is facilitated.

Since the fiscal year 1897 there has been printed in the report on the ex-
changes, under the caption “ Interchange of Publications between the United
States and Other Countries,’ a statement showing in detail the number of
packages sent to and received from each country through the International Ex-
change Service. In most instances, the statistics contained in these state-
ments indicated that a much larger number of packages were sent abroad than
were received in return. While it is true that a certain disparity exists, the
statements were misleading, since, as already explained, a great many packages
are received through other channels by correspondents in this country in return
for those sent througb the Hxchange Service. In view of this fact, and also
because the statistics contained in these statements were seldom required for
the use of the Exchange Office, the keeping of the detailed record from which
they were derived has been discontinued. The time saved by this and other
minor changes in the receiving room has enabled the clerical ferce in that room
to keep the work required in handling and recording the large number of
packages received for transmission through the service more nearly up to date.

Mention was made in the last report that the German authorities had in
contemplation the founding of an institution at Berlin to further cultural
relations between Germany and the United States, and that one of its func-
tions would be the transmission and distribution of German exchanges. This
establishment, which is known as the ‘Amerika-Institut,’ was organized in
the fall of 1910, and the exchange of publications was taken up by it on
January 1, 1911. On the latter date the exchange agency maintained by the
Smithsonian Institution in Leipzig at the publishing house of Karl W. Hierse-
mann was discontinued.

Prior to the discontinuance of the Leipzig agency the interchange of publi-
cations between correspondents in Luxemburg and Roumania and those in the
United States was conducted through that medium. In @ompliance with the
Institution’s request, the Amerika-Institut has been good enough to assume
charge of the distribution of packages in Luxemburg. The Academia Romana
at Bucharest—the depository of a partial set of United States governmental
documents—has been approached with a view to enlisting its services in the
interchange of publications between Roumania and the United States, and it
is hoped that the academy may find it convenient to have this work conducted
under its auspices. ‘

The Japanese exchange agency and the depository of a full set of United
States governmental documents was transferred by the Japanese Government,
during the latter part of the year, from the Department of Foreign Affairs to

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 47

the Imperial Library at Tokyo. The regular series of official documents, as
well as all publications for distribution in Japan, are therefore now forwarded
to that library.

An application received by the Institution from the under secretary to the
Government of the United Provinces of- Agra and Oudh, Allahabad, India, for
copies of such United States official publications as might be of interest to it
was favorably acted upon by the Library of Congress, and that Government was
added to the list of those countries receiving partial sets of governmental
documents. The first shipment, consisting of six boxes, was forwarded to
the under secretary on October 11, 1910.

Two cases forwarded from Washington in October, 1919, containing exchanges
for miscellaneous addresses in New South Wales, were destroyed in transit
to that country, the steamship by which the consignment was transmitted
having been burned at sea. The senders of the packages contained in these
cases were communicated with, and it is gratifying to state that it was possible
for most of them to supply copies of the lost publications.

The work inaugurated in 1908 of actively seeking returns from foreign
countries for the exchanges sent to them by this Government has resulted dur-
ing the year in the acquisition of important collections of publications for the
Library of Congress and for several other establishments of the Government.

About 10,000 foreign governmental documents of a statistical character, re-
turned by the Library of Congress as duplicates, have been stored for some
time in the Smithsonian Institution. These books were arranged and listed
during the year under the direction of the assistant librarian, while the
Exchange Service, through which the documents were received from abroad,
provided the extra clerical assistance required. Upon completion of this work
most of the documents were forwarded to the New York Public Library to
complete its series of foreign governmental publications.

FOREIGN DEPOSITORIES OF UNITED STATES GOVERNMENTAL DOCUMENTS,

In accordance with treaty stipulations and under the authority of the con-
gressional resolutions of March 2, 1867, and March 2, 1901, setting apart a
certain number of documents for exchange with foreign countries, there are
now sent regu'arly to depositories abroad 55 full sets of United States official
publications and 34 partial sets, the United Provinces of Agra and Oudh
having been added during the year to the list of countries receiving partial sets.

The recipients of full and partial sets are as follows:

DEPOSITORIES OF FULL SETS. =

Argentina: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Buenos Aires.

Argentina: Biblioteca de la Universidad Nacional de La Plata.

Australia: Library of the Commonwealth Parliament, Melbourne.

Austria: K. K. Statistische Central-Commission, Vienna.

Baden: Universitats-Bibliothek, Freiburg.

Bavaria: Konigliche Hof- und Staats-Bibliothek, Munich.

Belgium: Bibliothéque Royale, Brussels.

Brazil: Bibliotheca Nacional, “Rio de Janeiro.

Canada: Parliamentary Library, Ottawa.

Cape Colony: Government Stationery Department, Cape Town.

Chile: Biblioteca del Congreso Nacional, Santiago.

China: American-Chinese Publication Exchange Department, Shanghai Bureau
of Foreign Affairs, Shanghai.

Colombia: Biblioteca Nacional, Bogota.

Costa Rica: Oficina de Depésito y Canje de Publicaciones, San José,
48 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1911.

Cuba: Secretaria de Estado (Asuntos Generales y Canje Internacional),
Habana.

Denmark: Kongelige Bibliotheket, Copenhagen.

England: British Museum, London.

England: Loudon School of Economics and Political Science, London.

France: Bibliothéque Nationale, Paris.

France: Préfecture de la Seine, Paris.

Germany: Deutsche Reichstags-Bibliothek, Berlin.

Greece: Bibliothéque Nationale, Athens.

Haiti: Secrétairerie d’Etat des Relations Extérieures, Port au Prince.

Hungary: Hungarian House of Delegates, Budapest.

India: Department of Education (Books), Government of India, Calcutta.

Ireland: National Library of Ireland, Dublin.

Italy: Biblioteca Nazionale Vittorio Emanuele, Rome.

Japan: Imperial] Library of Japan, Tokyo.

Manitoba: Provincial Library, Winnipeg.

Mexico: Instituto Bibliografico, Biblioteca Nacional, Mexico.

Netherlands: Library of the States General, The Hague.

New South Wales: Board for International Exchanges, Sydney.

New Zealand: General Assembly Library, Wellington.

Norway: Storthingets Bibliothek, Christiania.

Ontario: Legislative Library, Toronto.

Peru: Biblioteca Nacional, Lima.

Portugal: Bibliotheca Nacional, Lisbon.

Prussia: K6nigliche Bibliothek, Berlin.

Quebec: Legislative Library, Quebec.

Queensland: Parliamentary Library, Brisbane.

Russia: Imperial Public Library, St. Petersburg.

Saxony: K6nigliche Oeffentliche Bibliothek, Dresden.

Servia: Section Administrative du Ministére des Affaires Etrangéres, Belgrade.

South Australia: Parliamentary Library, Adelaide.

Spain: Servicio del Cambio Internacional de Publicaciones, Cuerpo Facultative
de Archiveros, Bibliotecarios y Arquedlogos, Madrid.

Sweden: Kungliga Biblioteket, Stockholm.

Switzerland: Bibliothéque Fédérale, Berne.

Tasmania: Parliamentary Library, Hobart.

Transvaal: Government Library, Pretoria.

Turkey: Department of Public Instruction, Constantinople.

Uruguay: Oficina de Canje Internacional de Publicaciones, Montevideo.

Venezuela: Biblioteca Nacional, Caracas.

Victoria: Public Library, Melbourne.

Western Australia: Public Library of Western Australia, Perth.

Wiirttemberg: Ko6nigliche Landesbibliothek, Stuttgart.

DEPOSITORIES OF PARTIAL SETS.

Alberta: Legislative Library, Edmonton.

Alsace-Lorraine: K. Ministerium fiir Elsass-Lothringen, Strassburg.
Bolivia: Ministerio de Colonizacién y Agricultura, La Paz.

Bremen: Senatskommission fiir Reichs- und Auswiirtige Angelegenheiten.
British Columbia: Legislative Library, Victoria.

Bulgaria: Minister of Foreign Affairs, Sofia.

Ceylon: United States Consul, Colombo.

Ecuador: Biblioteca Nacional, Quito.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 49

Hgypt: Bibliothéque Khédiviale, Cairo.

Guatemala: Secretary of the Government, Guatemala.

Hamburg: Senatskommission fiir die Reichs- und Auswiirtigen Angelegenheiten

Hesse: Grossherzogliche Hof-Bibliothek, Darmstadt.

Honduras: Secretary of the Government, Tegucigalpa.

Jamaica: Colonial Secretary, Kingston.

Liberia: Department of State, Monrovia.

Lourenco Marquez: Government Library, Lourenco Marquez.

Malta: Lieutenant-Governor, Valetta.

Montenegro: Ministére des Affaires Btrangéres, Cetinje.

Natal: Colonial Secretary’s Office, Pietermaritzburg.

New Brunswick: Legislative Library, St. John.

Newfoundland: Colonial Secretary, St. John’s.

Nicaragua: Superintendente de Archivos Nacionales, Managua.

Northwest Territories: Government Library, Regina.

Nova Scotia: Provincial Secretary of Nova Scotia, Halifax.

Orange River Colony: Government Library, Bloemfontein.

Panama: Secretaria de Relaciones Hxteriores, Panama.

Paraguay: Oficina General de Informaciones y Canjes y Commisaria General
de Inmigracion, Asuncion.

Prince Edward Island: Legislative Library, Charlottetown.

Roumania: Academia Romana, Bucarest.

Salvador: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, San Salvador.

Siam: Department of Foreign Affairs, Bangkok.

Straits Settlements: Colonial Secretary, Singapore.

United Provinces of Agra and Oudh: Under Secretary to Government, Allahabad.

Vienna: Burgermeister der Haupt- und Residenz-Stadt.

INTERPARLIAMENTARY EXCHANGE OF THE OFFICIAL JOURNAL,

As mentioned in previous reports, a resolution of the Congress was approved
March 4, 1909, setting aside such number as might be required, not exceeding
100 copies, of the daily issue of the Congressional Record for exchange, through
the agency of the Smithsonian Institution, with the legislative chambers of such
foreign governments as might agree to send to the United States in return cur-
rent copies of their parliamentary record or like publication. The purpose of
this resolution was to enable the Institution, on the part of the United States,
to more fully carry into effect the provisions of the convention concluded at
Brussels in 1886, providing for the immediate exchange of the official journal.

The Governments of the Argentine Republic, Denmark, and Great Britain
have entered into this exchange during the year. A complete list of the coun-
tries to which the Congressional Record is now sent is given below:

Argentine Republic. France. Prussia.

Australia. Great Britain. Roumania.
Austria. Greece. Russia.

Baden. Guatemala. Servia.

Belgium. Honduras. Spain.

Brazil. Hingary. Switzerland.
Canada. Italy. Transvaal.

Cape of Good Hope. New South Wales. Uruguay.

Cuba. New Zealand. Western Australia.
Denmark. Portugal.

4

38734°—sM 1911
50 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1911.

There are at present 29 countries with which the immediate exchange of
the official journal is carried on. To some of these countries two copies of
the Congressional Record are sent—one to the upper and one to the lower
house of parliament—the total number transmitted being 34.

It may be repeated in this connection that the exchange here alluded to is
separate and distinct from the exchange of official documents which has
existed between the United States and other countries for many years. It
is interparliamentary, and provides for the immediate transmission, direct by
mail, of the official journal as soon as published.

LIST OF BUREAUS OR AGENCIES THROUGH WHICH EXCHANGES ARE TRANSMITTED.

The following is a list of bureaus or agencies through which the distribution
of exchanges is effected. Those in the larger and many in the smaller countries
forward to the Smithsonian Institution, in return, contributions for distribution
in the United States:

Algeria, via France.
Angola, via Portugal.
Argentina: Comisién Protectora de Bibliotecas Populares, Reconquista 538,

Buenos Aires.

Austria: Kk. K. Statistische Central-Commission, Vienna.

Azores, via Portugal.

Barbados: Imperial Department of Agriculture, Bridgetown.

Belgium: Service Belge des Eehanges Internationaux, Rue du Musée 5, Brus-
sels.

Bolivia: Oficina Nacional de HEstadistica, La Paz.

Brazil: Servico de Permutacdes Internacionaes, Bibliotheca Nacional, Rio de

Janeiro.

British Colonies: Crown Agents for the Colonies, London.’

British Guiana: Royal Agricultural and Commercial Society, Georgetown.
British Honduras: Colonial Secretary, Belize. '
Bulgaria: Institutions Scientifiques de S. M. le Roi de Bulgarie, Sofia.

Canary Islands, yia Spain.

Cape Colony: Government Stationery Department, Cape Town.

Chile: Servicio de Canjes Internacionales, Biblioteca Nacional, Santiago.
China: Zi-ka-wei Observatory, Shanghai.

Colombia: Oficina de Canjes Internacionales y Reparto, Biblioteca Nacional,

Bogota.

Costa Rica: Oficina de Depdsito y Canje de Publicaciones, San José.
Denmark: Kongelige Danske Videnskabernes Selskab, Copenhagen.

Duteh Guiana: Surinaamsche Koloniale Bibliotheek, Paramaribo.

Ecuador: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Quito.

Egypt: Director-General, Survey Department, Giza (Mudiria).

France: Service Francais des Echanges Internationaux, 110 Rue de Grenelle,

Paris.

Germany: Amerika-Institut, Berlin, N. W. 7.
Great Britain and Ireland: Messrs. William Wesley & Son, 25 Essex Street,

Strand, London. ;

Greece: Bibliothéque Nationale, Athens.
Greenland, via Denmark.

1This method is employed for communicating with several of the British colonies
with which no medium is available for forwarding exchanges direct,
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY, 51

Guadeloupe, via France. y

Guatemala: Instituto Nacional de Varones, Guatemala.

Guinea, via Portugal.

Haiti: Secrétaire d’Htat des Relations Extérieures, Port au Prince.

Honduras: Biblioteca Nacional, Tegucigalpa.

Hungary: Dr. Julius Pikler, Municipal Office of Statistics, City Hall, Budapest.

Iceland, via Denmark.

India: India Store Department, India Office, London.

Italy: Ufficio degli Scambi Internazionali, Biblioteca Nazionale Vittorio EHman-
uele, Rome.

Jamaica: Institute of Jamaica, Kingston.

Japan: Imperial Library of Japan, Tokyo.

Java, via Netherlands.

Korea: His Imperial Japanese Majesty’s Residency-General, Seoul.

Liberia: Department of State, Monrovia.

Lourenco Marquez: Government Library, Lourenco Marquez.

Luxemburg, via Germany.

Madagascar, via France.

Madeira, via Portugal.

Montenegro: Ministére des Affaires Etrangéres, Cetinje.

Mozambique, via Portugal.

Natal: Agent-General for Natal, London.

Netherlands: Bureau Scientifique Central Néerlandais, Bibliothéque de 1l’Uni-
versité, Leyden.

New Guinea, via Netherlands.

New South Wales: Board for International Exchanges, Public Library, Sydney.

New Zealand: Dominion Museum, Wellington.

Nicaragua: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Managua.

Norway: Kongelige Norske Frederiks Universitet Bibliotheket, Christiania.

Panama: Secretaria de Relaciones Hxteriores, Panama.

Paraguay: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Asuncion.

Persia: Board of Foreign Missions of the Presbyterian Church, New York City.

Peru: Oficina de Reparto, Depdsito y Canje Internacional de Publicaciones,
Ministerio de Fomento, Lima.

Portugal: Servico de Permutacées Internacionaes, Bibliotheca Nacional, Lisbon.

Queensland: Board of Exchanges of International Publications, Parliament
House, Brisbane.

Russia: Commission Russe des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque Im-
périale Publique, St. Petersburg.

Salvador: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, San Salvador.

Servia: Section Administrative du Ministére des Affaires Etrangéres, Belgrade.

Siam: Department of Foreign Affairs, Bangkok.

South Australia: Public Library of South Australia, Adelaide.

Spain: Servicio del Cambio Internacional de Publicaciones, Cuerpo Facultativo
de Archiveros, Bibliotecarios y Arqueédlogos, Madrid.

Sumatra, via Netherlands.

Sweden: Kongliga Svenska Vetenskaps Akademien, Stockholm.

Switzerland: Service des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque Fédérale Cen-
trale, Bern.

Syria: Board of Foreign Missions of the Presbyterian Church, New York.

Tasmania: Royal Society of Tasmania, Hobart.

Transvaal: Government Library, Pretoria,
52 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1911.

Trinidad: Victoria Institute, Port of Spain.
Tunis, via France.
Turkey: American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions, Boston.
Uruguay: Oficina de Canje Internacional, Montevideo.
Venezuela: Biblioteca Nacional, Caracas,
Victoria: Public Library of Victoria, Melbourne.
Western Australia: Public Library of Western Australia, Perth.
I may add here, as a matter of record, that I was appointed assistant secre-
tary in charge of Library and Exchanges on June 1, 1911.
Respectfully submitted.
EF. W. TRUE,
Assistant Secretary in Charge of Library and Exchanges.
Dr. CHARLES D. WALCOTT,
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX IV.
REPORT ON THE NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK.

Sm: I have the honor to present herewith a report of the operations of the
National Zoological Park for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1911.

The general appropriation made by Congress for that year was $100,000, and
in addition to this an appropriation of $15,000 was made for roads and walks.

The cost of maintenance was $81,325, and the amount remaining from the
general appropriation, $18,675, was expended in various improvements and
repairs.

ACCESSIONS.

Among the important accessions of the year were a pair of Haytian soleno-
dons, a rare insectivorous mammal, presented by Mr. and Mrs. Franklin Adams
of the Pan American Union.. A pair of northern fur seals was received from
the United States Bureau of Fisheries, a fine female grizzly bear from Maj.
H. C. Benson, acting superintendent of the Yellowstone National Park, and
four Virginia deer from Gen. Joseph S. Smith, manager of the National Soldiers
Home, Bangor, Maine. By purchase, the park obtained a hippopotamus, an
East African buffalo, three prong-horn antelopes, a pair of reindeer, a large
Asiatic macaque monkey, and various other animals. Some important animals
were also obtained by exchange, as noted below. The accessions included about
twenty species not before represented in the collection.

Early in its history the park exhibited for two years a hippopotamus which
had been received as a loan. Since that was withdrawn the species has not
been represented in the collection. The present animal, a female about 2 years
old, is from East Africa and weighs 850 pounds. The buffalo was captured in
German East Africa and is believed to be the form described as Buffelus
neumanni. The African buffalo has for some time been rather difficult to
obtain, and the park was fortunate in being able to secure a specimen at com-
paratively small cost. It was also fortunate in obtaining in western Texas a
male and two female prong-horn antelopes, all adult, from which two vigorous
young have been born. Through an animal dealer on the Pacific coast the large
brown macaque monkey of southeastern Asia and several other species new
to the collection were obtained which had not been procurable elsewhere.

EXCHANGES.

Surplus animals were disposed of by exchange as usual, in accordance with
the terms of the act establishing the park. They were sent to the New York
Zoological Park, the London Zoological Garden, and various dealers and private
individuals. In return for these, the park secured a number of important ani-
mals, including a fine specimen each of bontebok, blessbok, and springbok, a
small anteater, a pair of tenrecs (insectivorous mammals of Madagascar), and
other mammals and birds. 'The bontebok and blessbok, which are very beautiful
African antelopes, are especially valued, as the former now exists only in a few

53
54

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1911.

semiwild herds in Cape Colony, 300 individuals, perhaps, remaining from the
“thousands upon thousands” described by early hunters in South Africa, while
the latter has been greatly reduced in numbers. ;

Whenever possible, direct exchange was made, but where the person who
desired to obtain an animal from the park had nothing acceptable to offer,
the exchange was effected through some one of the responsible dealers in

animals.

Black-crowned night herons had bred so freely in the flying cage that it be-
came a necessity to materially reduce their number and some were sent (as gifts)
to the New York Zoological Park, London Zoological Garden, and the park

departments of St. Louis and Rochester.

Animals in the collection June 80, 1911.

MAMMALS.

Grivet monkey (Cercopithecus sab@us) - 1 | American badger (Taridea americana) —
Green monkey (Cercopithecus callitri- Common skunk (Mephitis mephitica) __

GIUS)) a ed ee Se et Ps >|, Wolverine (Glo -luscus)is==s2e== — See
Mona monkey (Cercopithecus mona) ~~ 2 | American marten (Mustela americana) —
Diana monkey (Cercopithecus diana) ~~ 1 | Fisher (Mustela pennantii) ___-__--_-
Sooty mangabey (Cercocebus fuligino- Common ferret (Putorius putorius) ~~~

SNS Pee ne ee Se 2 | Black-footed ferret (Putorius nigripes) —
White-collared mangabey (Cercocebus North American otter (Lutra canaden-

COULOIS) eens ae ee ee eS Se 1 S18) sce oS ee PE ee ee ee
Bonnet monkey (Macacus sinicus) ~~~ 1 | Eskimo dog (Canis familiaris) ~~~
Macaque monkey (Macacus cynomol- Dinzo *(Oants- dingo) 2 ses. aa eee

GUS) jah ene SS ties ol eye et 5 | Gray wolf (Cunis occidentalis) _--___-~
Pig-tailed monkey (Moacacus nemecstri- Black wolf (Canis occidentalis) __--~-

(iy \ a ae 3] Coyote (Canis. Idtrans) —----——_—=-====
Rhesus monkey (Macacus rhesus) —~---- 15 | Woodhouse’s coyote (Canis frustror) __
Brown macaque (Macacus arctoides) ~~ 4 | Crab-eating dog (Canis cancrivorus) —~
Japanese monkey (Macacus fuscatus) — 4 | Red fox (Vulpes pennsylwanicus) —.—~
Formosan rock-macaque (Macacus cy- Swift fox (Vulpes velor) _._.._--_- ~~

CLOD 18) a Bee eee 1 | Acetic fox (Vaipes) lagopus)\ == === — =
Black ape (Cynopithecus niger) —~--~~ 1 | Gray fox (Urocyon cinereo-argenteus) —
Anubis baboon (Papio anuwbis) ~____-_ 1 | Striped hyena (Hyena striata) ___-__
East African baboon (Papio cynoceph- African palm civet (Viverra civetta) —

CUS) esa bees phe ee eh dee i 1 } Common genet (Genetta genetta) ____
Ghaema (Papio porcerius) —-—-——---— 1 Sudanmlion sChelisiieo)) === =
Mandrill (Papio maimon)__________-- 4 | Wilimanjaro lion (Felis leo sabakien-
Drill (Papio tewcopheus) —-= 22-2 === 1 StS) ae es Be Re A eee eee
Gray spider monkey (Ateles geoffroyi) — Hel eRisera(Hetis: ‘tignis)]222 2 ee ee

White-throated capuchin monkey (Cebus

hypoleucus)
Brown monkey (Cebus fatwellus)-----
Weeper monkey (Cebus capucinus) —~_~
Ruffed lemur (Lemur varius) —-~--~---~
Ring-tailed lemur (Lemur catta)—----~-
Tenrec (Centetes ecaudatus) —-_-_-~--
Polar bear (Thalarctos maritimus) —---
European brown bear (Ursus arctos)—-
Kadiak bear (Ursus middendorffi) _----~
Yakutat bear (Ursus dali) —=—--==--=
Alaskan brown bear (Ursus gyas)----
Kidder’s bear (Ursus kidderi) _-_---_~_
Himalayan bear (Ursus thibetanus) ___
Grizzly bear (Ursus horribilis) _-_--_--
Black bear (Ursus americanus) —~_~_-~
Cinnamon bear (Ursus americanus) —--~
Sloth bear (Melursus ursinus) ~-----~
Kinkajou (Cercoleptes caudivolwulus) —
Cacomistle (Bassariscus astuta) —-~-__
Gray coatimundi (Nasua narica) ~~~
Raccoons (Procyon, l0t0t,) == =— eee

H

AWEP HEE OORHH OPE woh Nd Hew Ww

Cougar (Felis oregonensis hippolestes)
Jaguar, CHeMN8) OCG) )=ao— ee
Mexican jaguar (Felis onca goldmani)
LeCOpard'= (Hels POTS) = ee ae
Black leopard (Felis pardus)—-----~
Servalin (Helis tserval)) = eee
Ocelot. (Felis, pardalis),——~—--— =
Canada lynx (Lynz canadensis) —--~-
Bis lynx (Chynr pis) aoe
Spotted lynx (Lynz rufus texensis) ——
Florida lynx (Lynx rufus floridanus) —
Steller’s sea lion (Humetopias stelleri)
California sea lion (Zalophus californi-

OnUs) Ue Pas se ies
Harbor seal (Phoca vitulina) _-------
Fox squirrel (Sciurus niger) ---------
Western fox squirrel (Sciurus ludovi-

cianus)
Gray squirrel (Sciurus carolinensis) -~
Black squirrel (Sciurus carolinensis) —
Prairie dog (Cynomys ludovicianus) —--
Alpine marmot (Arctomys marmotta) —

oe te ell © ool 0

ONRFrR ANN RHE OAKkREFORNA

Te te Ce Oe Co |
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Woodchuck (Arctomys monar)—-----~-
American beaver (Castor canadensis) —
Coypu (Myocastor coypus)—----------
Hutia-conga (Capromys pilorides) ~---
Indian porcupine (Hystriz leucura) —~
Mexican agouti (Dasyprocta mexicana)
Azara’s agouti (Dasyprocta azare@)---
Golden agouti (Dasyprocta aguti)---_
Hairy-rumped agouti (Dasyprocta

PTYMNOLOD NG) Sata mane
Paca (Celogenys paca)
Guinea pig (Cavia cutleri) _-___-_--_-
Patagonian cavy (Dolichotis patago-

nica)
Domestic rabbit (Lepus cuniculus) ---~
Cape hyrax (Procavia capensis) _____-
Indian elephant (Hiephas maximus) ~~
Brazilian tapir (Tapirus americanus) —
Grevy’s zebra (Mquus grevyi)--------
Zebra-donkey hybrid (Hquus grevyi-

asinus)
Grant’s zebra (Hquus burchelli granti) —
Collared peceary (Dicotyles angulatus) —
Wildvbodnn (Sus serofa)==-— === — =
Northern wart hog (Phacocherus afri-

Al pacienhiwid, pacOs) —— 2a
Vicugna (Lama vicugna) _-____-__---
Bactrian camel (Camelus bactrianus) —
Muntjac (Cervulus muntjac)—~------~
Sambar deer (Cervus aristotelis)_~___
Philippine deer (Cervus philippinus) -_
Hog deer (Cervus porcinus) _-___-_-_-
Barasingha deer (Cervus duvaucelii) __
AXIS Geer (CELUUS, GTAS) === ee
Japanese deer (Cervus sika)—~-------~
Red deer (Cervus elaphus) —____-_-___
American elk (Cervus canadensis) ~~~
Fallow deer (Cervus dama)-_----------~

European blackbird (Merula merula) —
Catbird (Dumetella carolinensis) _--~~
Brown thrasher (Toxzosioma rufum) —_
Japanese robin (Liothriz luteus) —-_~
Laughing thrush (G@arrulaxr_ leucolo-

Cordon-bleu (EHstrelda phenicotis) ___~
Cut-throat finch (Amadina fasciata) —_
Zebra finch (Amadina castanotis) ____
Black-headed finch (Munia _ atrica-

White-headed finch (Munia maja) ~~~
Nutmeg finch (Munia punctularia) ——~
Java sparrow (Munia oryzivora) —---
White Java sparrow (Munia oryzi-

Parson finch (Poéphila cincta)
Bearded finch (Spermophila sp.)----~
Madagascar weaver (Ioudia madagas-
cariensis)
Red-billed weaver (Quelea quelea) —--~

_
Com Ct mh bo bt & im Oe

ee
Rebbe te bo

CO me ee

=r
Om wot Oe Ree WH tl tis mM tok

=

Reindeer (Rangifer tarandus)_ ~______
Virginia deer (Odocoileus virginianus) —
Mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus)_____
Columbian black-tailed deer (Odocoileus

COUMUGTONLS)) = ee
Cuban deer (Odocoileus sp.) _-_--_____
Prong-horn antelope (Antilocapra amer-

SCOT) a eee ee
Coke’s hartebeest (Bubalis cokei)_-___
Bontebck (Damaliscus pygargus) ---__
Blessbok (Damaliscus albifrons)—~__-__
White-tailed gnu (Connochetes gnu) _-
Defassa water buck (Cobus defassa) ~~
Indian antclope (Antilope cervicapra) —
Springbuck (Antidorcas euchore)_____
Grant’s gazelle (Gazella granti)______
Nilgai (Boselaphus tragocamelus) —-_~
Congo harnessed antelope (Tragelaphus

ST OUUB)) pee a
East African eland (Oreas canna pat-

tersonianus) =. 323 222 ee
Chamois (Rupicapra tragus) ___--_-__
Tahr (Hemitragus jemlaicus)
Common goat (Capra hircus)
Angora goat (Capra hircus) -_______
Barbary sheep (Ovis tragelaphus) —__~
Barbados sheep (Ovis_ aries-tragela-

DiS) = eS 52 ee eee ee
Anoa (Anoa depressicornis)__~________
Hast African buffalo (Buffelus neu-

Manni) Seas SS a eae
Zebua (Bios Andicus) == ee ee
Yak (Poephagus grunniens) —~__-____~
American bison (Bison americanus) —~~
Hairy armadillo (Dasypus villosus)——_
Wallaroo (Macropus robustus)
Red-necked wallaby (Macropus ruficol-

TiS) aoe be Se Se ee ee
Brush-tailed rock kangaroo (Petrogale

NENLCULG TO) ee ee ee es
Virginia opposum (Didelphys marsupi-

BIRDS.

_
ar) i) tok OO bo NHR e

Nr oO

Whydah weaver (Vidua paradisea) ~~
Painted bunting (Passerina ciris) ___~
Red-crested cardinal (Paroaria cucul-

lata)

Rose-breasted grosbeak (Zamelodia lu-

devictana) 2 See
Siskin (Spinus spinus)) —-=—-=2--S2e=
European’ goldfinch (Carduelis_ ele-

SONS nse ns SE 8 St eS ae
Yellow hammer (Hmberiza citrinella) —
Common canary (Serinus canarius) ~~
Bullfinech (Pyrrhula europ@a) ——----~-
Cowbird (Molothrus ater) -----------
Purple grackle (Quwiscalus quiscula) ~~
Red-winged blackbird (Agelaius phe-

niceus )
Common mynah (Acridotheres tristis) —
European raven (Corvus corar)—----~
American raven (Corvus coraz sinu-

55

i | dw)

Om ROW eH

=

_
wm bolo oO

to —

Noe

be
56

European magpie (Pica pica) —------
American magpie (Pica pica hud-

sonica)
Piping crow (Gymnorhina tibicen) —---
Giant kingfisher (Dacelo gigas) ------
Sulphur-crested cockatoo (Cacatua ga-

LCnLt) ee
White cockatoo (Cacatua alba) —---~--~
Leadbeater’s cockatoo (Cacatua lead-

GCCQLETL) ee ee
Bare-eyed cockatoo (Cacatua gym-
GD 1S)
Roseate cockatoo (Cacatua vroseica-
GUC) ee ee
Gang-gang cockatoo (Callocephalon
UAT LTO ae ee
Yellow and blue macaw (Ara ararau-
(HAD) \ oa ee eee eee
Red and yellow and blue macaw (Ara
MNOCO0) a Sane ae eee aan
Red and blue macaw (Ara chlorop-
FOV) oa a ae

Great green macaw (Ara militaris) —-
Kea (Nestor notabilis) ——-——-_ = = =
Mexican conure (Conurus holochlorus)
Carolina paroquet (Conuropsis caro-
linensis )
Tovi parrakeet (Brotogerys jugularis) —
Cuban parrot (Amazona leucocephala) —
Orange-winged amazon (Amazona ama-
ZONE) = ea ne ere
Porto Rican amazon (Amazona_ vit-
GEN) es en ee a rae
Yellow-shouldered amazon (Amazona
OGHPODUCTG) a ee a a
Yellow-fronted amazon (Amazona och-
OCC DULY CU) ao ee
Yellow-headed amazon (Amazona levail-
lant )\e2= Se Hee ea a oa
Lesser vasa parrot® (Coracopsis nigra) —
Pigeon parrakeet (Palwornis colum-
boides )
Love bird (Agapornis pullaria) ~_----~-
Green parrakeet (Loriculus sp.) -----~
Pennant’s parrakeet (Platycercus ele-
CONUS eee ne ee ee ee ee
Pale-headed parrakeet (Platycercus pal-
VLGLCEDS) ee ee ee ee
Shell parrakeet (Melopsittacus undu-
UGEUS re a ee ees eee
Great horned owl (Bubo virginianus) —
Arctic horned owl (Bubo virginianus
SILUONCLICUS) ae eee
Screech owl (Otus asio) —___----___-_
Barred owl, (Stil vam) =—— =
Barn owl (Aluco pratincola) _-__------
Sparrow hawk (Falco sparverius) —~---~
Bald eagle (Haliwétus leucocephalus) ~
Alaskan bald eagle (Haliwétus leuco-
CODNRGUIS QUGS CONUS) ya
Short-tailed eagle (Terathopius ecauda-
L208) ee asec en ee ee
Harpy eagle (Thrasaétus harpyia) ———-~
Crowned hawk eagle (Spizaétus coro-
UCL ALS) te Eee Se aa ee Ee
Hast African hawk (Buteo sp.) ----__~
Red-tailed hawk (Buteo borealis) _--_-

=

me bo bo

to =

ro oo

tee

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1911.

Red-shouldered hawk (Buteo lineatus) -
Sharp-shinned hawk (Accipiter velox) —
Wenezuelanthaw kee = eee
Caracara (Polyborus cheriway)—~—-—-—~
Lammergeyer (Gypaétus barbatus) ~~~
South American condor (Sarcorham-

phus gryphus)
California condor (Gymnogyps califor-

Nianus )
Griffon vulture (Gyps fulvus) —~-----~
EHeyptian vulture (Neophron percnop-

Pileated vulture (Neophron pileatus) ——
Turkey vulture (Cathartes aura) _-----
Black vulture (Catharista urubi) —--~—~
King vulture (Gypagus papa) —---~--~-~
Ring dove (Cclumba palumbus) —~~-~ ~~
Red-billed pigeon (Columba flaviros-

Mourning dove (Zenaidura macroura) —
Peaceful dove (Geopelia tranquilla) —_
Cape dove (Gina capensis) ——-_______
Crested pigeon (Ocyphaps lophotes) ——~
Chachalaca (Ortalis vetula)
Purplish guan

CONS) (ee a ee
Mexican curassow (Crazv globicera) ~~~
Chapman’s curassow (Crav chapmani) —
Daubenton’s curassow (Craxr dauben-

(Penelope purpuras-

Wild turkey (Meleagris gallopavo sil-

VESTRISNigs= a eee ee
Peatowlee(RAvOChIS tL 0) =e
Jungle fowl (Gallus bankiva)—~--_---~~
Reeves’s pheasant (Phasianus reevesi) —
Golden pheasant (Thaumalea picta) _—_
Silver pheasant (Huplocamus nycthem-

CTU) i ea eee eee ees
Black coek (Lyrurus tetriz) —--______—
European quail (Cotwrniz communis) ——
Hungarian partridge (Perdix perdizr) —
Bobwhite (Colinus virginianus) __---~
Mountain quail (Oreortyr picta)—--~
Sealed quail (Callipepla squamata)_—_—
California quail (Lophortyzr califor-

NACA) eae el TaN Ses Rh ee
Massena quail (Cyrtonyx montezume@) —
Purple gallinule (Porphyrio cerulea)—
Black-backed gallinule (Porphyrio me-

LONOLUSY p= = sae es Se es
American coot (Fulica americana) —_~
Flightless rail (Ocydromus australis)—
Common cariama (Cariama cristata) —
Demoiselle crane (Anthropoides virgo) —
Crowned crane (Balearica pavonina) —
Sandhill crane (Grus mexicana) ~~~
Australian crane (@rus  australasi-

Thick-knee (Qdicnemus grallarius) ~~
Ruff (Machetes pugnazr) —__--__---_—
Black-crowned night heron (Nyctico-

rae nycticorax nevius) _—_______----—
Little blue heron (Florida cerulea) —-
Louisiana heron (Hydranassa tricolor

ruficollis)

1
1
1
3
1

Tee oe

=

wermh Oe

18
37

Dore wee tO

or

bo bo ot to Rt DD
REPORT OF

Reddish egret (Dichromanassa rufes-

THE SECRETARY.

American white-fronted goose (Anser

CONS) =e eS Se ee ee 3 aloijrons) gambeli =2_ ts es
Snowy egret (Hgretta candidissima) __ 4 Chinese goose (Anser cygnoides)_____
Great white heron (Herodias egretta) — 1 | Kked-headed duck (Marila americana) —
Great blue heron (Ardea herodias) ~~~ 44) Wood“ducks(A%rvsponsa)=— 2
Boat-bill (Cancroma cochlearia) ____-~ 2 | Mandarin duck (Dendronessa galeri-
Black stork (Ciconia nigra) ___-----~ 1 CULOTO) 5 tas a Sti es 8 a
White stork (Ciconia ciconia)_----- Senta live Dale Gaevle) ae ee
Marabou stork (Leptoptilus dubius) ——~ 1 | Shoveler duck (Spatula clypeata) —___
Wood ibis (Mycteria americana) _—~--_ 2 | Blue-winged teal (Querquedula dis-
Sacred ibis (Ibis @thiopica) _-------- 4 CO¥3) Sean a eee nea eee
White ibis (Guara alba) -__________— 21 | Green-winged teal (Nettion carolin-
Roseate spoonbill (Ajaja ajaja)——~~___ 3 ONSC) jee a a re ee
European flamingo (Phenicopterus an- Black duck (Anas rubripes) -_-_-____

ES AL OTT) ee ee ea ee ree 6 | Mallard (Anas platyrhynchos) ~______
Trumpeter swan (Olor buccinator) ——~_ 2 | American white pelican (Pelecanus
Whistling swan (Olor columbianus)-__ 2 erythrorhynchos) -_---_-_______-__
Mute swan (Cygnus gibbus) __------~ 2} European white pelican (Pelecanus
Muscovy duck (Cairina moschata) —--~ 2 OEE HUAN) Saeene
White muscovy duck (Cairina mos- Roseate pelican (Pelecanus roseus) ~~

CHUA) bon ee et een, 3 | Brown pelican (Pelecanus occidentalis)
Wandering tree-duck (Dendrocygna ar- Black-backed gull (Larus marinus) ——~

Snr); RO stn Ge eA Dg Le eae an 7 Herring gull (Larus argentatus ) —-____
Fulvous tree-duck (Dendrocygna _ bi- American herring gull (Larus argenta-

: tus smithsonianus) ~-.-_________._

color) Rea walt Cae RCN aes Se ES RS Se ee ae 2 i hi o ll Te “, tri ill
Australian Nees (Chenonetta ju- ieee cia ela Tate ae

bata) --------_--_-------------- 1 | Wiorida cormorant (Phalacrocorax auri-
Egyptian goose (Chenalopexr egypti- tus foridanus) 2 ee

acus) ~-__-~--------------------- 1] Mexican cormorant (Phalacrocorazr vi-
Brant (Branta bernicla glaucogastra)_ 1 gua mevicanus) _---_________
Canada goose (Branta canadensis)--_ 8 | Water turkey (Anhinga anhinga)—-___
Hutchins’s goose (Branta canadensis Somali ostrich (Struthio molybdo-

hutchinsii) —=-——-—-- — — ~~ — 4 phanes) errs renal pea ane EATEN 1) ED
Lesser snow goose (Chen hyperbo- Common cassowary (Oasuarius galea-

REDE) ee ee ee ee 2 CUS) PESO EF SS a OEP eel
Greater snow goose (Chen hyperboreus Common rhea (Rhea americana) —-___

MiVOQUS) nae an IS ee 1 | Emu (Dromeaus nove hollandie) ______

REPTILES.
Alligator (Alligator mississippiensis)_._ 16 Spreading adder (Heterodon platy-
Painted turtle (Chrysemys picta)_-__~ 4 CLAD ene eee ee a IS TSR MES oS SEE eet
Diamond-back terrapin (Malacoclemys Green snake (Cyclophis estivus)—____

PATUSUTS) =o SS Se ae ee 1 | Black snake (Zamenis constrictor) ____
Three-toed box-tortoise (Cistudo triun- Coach-whip snake (Zamenis flagellum) —

GUAR) eran gr Bee a Bere 6 | Corn snake (Coluber guttatus)_______
Painted box-tortoise (Cistudo ornata) _ 5 | Common chicken snake (Coluber quad-
Gopher turtle (Xerobates polyphemus) — 1 TTOUGCDUIS) eee oes eee aa ne eS
Duncan Island tortoise (Testudo ephip- Gopher snake (Compsosoma corais cou-

PAU) ei ee Bl Aes a A Se BBE 2 / LES) Ve ele ee Ge eet ya es a pe Ye ey
Albemarle Island tortoise (Testudo vi- Pine snake (Pityophis melanoleucus) —

CU ae Neha Se esa ee 2 | Bull snake (Pityophis sayi) _________
Comb lizard (Ctenosaura sp.)_----___ 1 | Texas chicken snake (Ophibolus calli-
Alligator lizard (Sceloporus undula- SORTER) BARES ERs EE ORE EE EAGT |

TALS) fee te a eh tebe Deus 9 2 | King snake (Ophibolus getulus) ______
Horned lizard (Phrynosoma_ cornu- Texas garter snake (Eutenia proxima) —

DLO eae pe eee a SRR a en 1 | Water moccasin (Ancistrodon pisciv-
Gila monster (Heloderma suspectum) — 4 OF US) Sask Seu ne See ee ES i
Green lizard (Lacerta viridis) _-_____ 1 | Copperhead (Ancistrodon contortri«) —
Anaconda (Hunectes murinus) _.--___ 2 | Diamond rattlesnake (Crotalus ada-
Common boa (Boa constrictor) ______ 1 DUM LCUS = = ee ee
Antillean boa (Boa diviniloqua)______ 1 | Banded rattlesnake (Crotalus horri-
Cuban tree-boa (Hpicrates angulifer) __ 3 iphone ost Se ee

GIFTS.

mh Oe to

bo

Mr. and Mrs. Franklin Adams, Pan American Union, two Haitian solenodons.
Miss M, Alexander, Moorefield, W. Va., a brown Capuchin monkey.
58 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1911.

Dr. Paul Bartsch, Washington, D. C., two common crows.

Frederick Carl, jr.. Washington, D. C., two screech owls.

Miss Catharine Carroll, Washington, D. C., a barn owl.

E. S. Case, Takoma Park, D. C., three blue jays.

Miss M. B. Cole, Washington, D. C., an alligator.

Mrs. Mary F. Crown, Washington, D. C., a yellow-headed Amazon parrot,

Mrs. R. 8. Day, Washington, D. C., a common canary.

Boris de Street, Washington, D. C., an alligator.

J. R. Eddy, Lamedeer, Mont., an American badger.

Mr. Eustis, Leesburg, Va., a red-tailed hawk.

Dr. Cecil French, Washington, D. C., four Hungarian quail.

Guy M. Gribble, Buckhannon, W. Va., a red-tailed hawk.

Jesse Hand, jr., Belleplain, N. J., two king snakes.

Mr. C. A. Holland, Fenwick, Va., a bittern.

Clarence Howard, Washington, D. C., a copperhead snake.

E.-C. Howe, Washington, D. C., two alligators.

W. H. Kelly, Sandusky, Ohio, two bald eagles.

Mr. Lansdale, Washington, D. C., two common opossums.

Carvel Leary, Washington, D. C., a guinea pig.

Miss Frances McMullen, Largo, Fla., an alligator snapping turtle.

C. W. Marks, Berryville, Va., a black snake.

S. S. Paschals, Chevy Chase, Md., two zebra finches.

L. E. Perry, Gorgona, Canal Zone, a spider monkey.

I. W. Pilling, Washington, D. C., 10 common canaries, 1 red-crested cardinal

and 2 white Java sparrows.
Mrs. J. E. Pleitner, Washington, D. C., a green Amazon parrot.
N. Schutz, Washington, D. C., a screech owl.
John B. Smith, Renovo, Pa., a banded rattlesnake.
Mrs. H. Clay Stewart, Washington, D. C., two common canaries.
J. P. Taylor, Washington, D. C., a copperhead snake and a black snake.
Dr. James R. Tubman, Washington, D. C., a great horned owl.
United States Bureau of Fisheries, two northern fur seals.
James Worcester, Washington, D. C., an alligator.
Unknown donors, a hawk, a parrakeet, and a woodchuck.

LOSSES OF ANIMALS.

The most important losses during the year were a pair of clouded leopards,
a lion, and a young Alaskan brown bear from parasitism; a leucoryx, a water
buck, and a nilgai, from tuberculosis; a female American bison and a caribou,
‘in the collection for 10 years, from peritonitis; two solenodons from sep-
ticemia, and two young fur seals from enteritis and heat stroke.

Dead animals, to the number of 142, were transferred to the United States
National Museum. Autopsies were made, as usual, by the Pathological Division
of the Bureau of Animal Industry, United States Department of Agriculture.

1The causes of death were as follows: Pneumonia, 10; tuberculosis, 8; pulmonary
edema, 1; aspergillosis, 7; pseudomembranous tracheitis, 1; enteritis, 9; gastritis, 1;
gastroenteritis, 7; pneumoenteritis, 1; intestinal coccidiosis, 7; peritonitis, 6; nephritis,
2; fatty degeneration of liver, 1; parasitism, 3; stomatitis, 2; strangulated hernia, 1;
rupture of gizzard, 1; internal hemorrhage, 1; abscess of scrotum, 1; abscess of head, 1;
unable to deliver young, 1; duodenitis, 1; colitis, 1; echinococcosis, 1; necrobacillosis, 1;
pyoscianeusbacillosis, 1; porocephalosis, 1; septicemia, 3; enterotoxism, 1; cystitis, 1;
endocarditis, 1; visceral gout, 1; sarcomatosis, 2; cancer of pouch, 1; leukemia, 1;
icterus, 1; impaction, 38; duodenal obstruction, 1; starvation, 2; accidents and
injuries, 13; killed because unfit for exhibition, 4; result of autopsy indeterminate, 3;
no cause found, 4

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 59

Statement of the collection.

ACCESSIONS DURING THE YEAR,

PETS GC ate re ee fea ete A ha 65
Receivederromp Yellowstone. National Parks 2 2 ncs a ee aL
Receivedsingex chains eke ae sae oe P eih eee es Ra a 13
ARBRE Ge ee a Ce eee eed See GL Se ee 1]
CHA SEU ere ee nc at Ties AIR olen St tae Ale Pa ee Sy Te a Te 130
Borneand hatched) in: National) Zoological Park ==. 115
CEO Galler Siete te oe a ae Ne A ee ree ein PTR re, Rene 335
SUMMARY. 4
JATUE CPE ASS Cay oto OETA LS) FU Ace Be OI Ye SA Ee eee ooo Ue ee eee 1, 424
ENC CESSION SE UULIN Sethe VCR Ie seers ae ee DE ee Re ee She ea 335
ARO 2 aA Saat 2 et ee a Sree es teres Sy 1, 759
Deduct loss (by exchange, death, and returning of animals)____________ 345
Onvghands June SO IO epee rs ae ee ee 1, 414
Class. Species. Tndivid.
UESR TUR TTL AS epee ee ca teria meh ey reap ee ae Sia Te es Ws RS ees amet 157 636
TEVVRT RIS 2 ae” sey Re OS Ie GS ee a Sr MCE ie ey ai aNd ae RT 186 685
TEL BD EAIOR peer cere eas ectea ce mia Ree ee a ied TO eR See oes Fe tenaneeeee eee 33 93
ED otis eiopso or atter crt fs a ars siete eevee as ee actors ato ie so tan as Rises cee oe 376 1,414

VISITORS.

The number of visitors to the park during the year was 521,440, a daily
average of 1,428. The largest number in any one month was 95,535, in April,
1911, a daily average for the month of 3,184.

During the year there visited the park 169 schools, Sunday schools, classes,
ete., with 4,966 pupils, a monthly average of 414 pupils. This number is an
increase over the previous year of 14 schools, 1,088 pupils, and an increase in
the monthly average of 90 pupils. While most of the classes were from the
District of Columbia, 47 of them were from neighboring States, and classes
came from Meriden, Hopedale, Norton, North Attleboro, Clinton, Hudson, and
Whitman, Massachusetts; Dover, Peterboro, Lancaster, and Exeter, New Hamp-
shire; Bath, Augusta, Biddeford, Gardiner, and Sanford, Maine; Bellows Falls,
Vermont; Raleigh, North Carolina; Middleport (two) and Penn Yan, New
York; Waynesburg, Pennsylvania; and Hartford, Connecticut.

IMPROVEMENTS.

A house for zebras, a frame building 35 feet square, was constructed, pro-
viding four good-sized stalls with yards attached. This is now occupied by a
male Grant’s zebra, the male Grevy’s zebra, which was returned from the
experiment station of the Bureau of Animal Industry at Bethesda, Maryland,
after use there in breeding, and a hybrid from the latter animal and a do-
mestic ass.

The existing yards on the west side of the antelope house were too small,
and the fences around them, which were of temporary character, had seriously
60 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1911.

deteriorated. The construction of new steel fences was begun, inclosing a
considerably larger area than the former yards, and was. nearly completed by
the close of the year. The yards on the north and east sides of the antelope
house, which had been begun during the previous year, were completed.

The temporary bird house, which had been in very bad condition, was exten-
sively repaired. New roof covering was put on, and the wooden floor, some of
the walls and cages, and much other interior work were renewed.

Some alterations were made in the large cages in the lion house to permit
more convenient handling of the animals during feeding and the cleaning of
the cages. The woodwork of this portion of the building was also refinished.

The public comfort room for women, which was in a very dilapidated condi-
tion, was removed to make way for the yards of the antelope house, and a new
ecomfort room was constructed beneath the outdoor eages of the small mammal
house. A small frame building for the same purpose was erected near the
Adams Mill Road entrance, that portion of the park being a much frequented
resort for women with young children.

A new public comfort room for men was also constructed in the basement of
the antelope house, providing permanent conveniences, which are much better
and more adequate than have existed heretofore.

The drainage culvert in the beaver valley was extended to the flying cage,
a distance of 800 feet, thus providing sewerage, as well as for the carrying
away of surface water without the erosion which had occurred previously.

Foundations were laid for cages on the east side of the small mammal house,
and a concrete walk was constructed there.

Various small improvements and repairs were made. A cage was built in
the lion house with a pool for the young hippopotamus, which was received in
May; a paddock with shelter was built for the chamois; an inclosure and pool
for fur seals; the condor cage and cage for horned owls were extensively re-
paired; an inclosure with shelter was built for kangaroos; an additional watch
house was built; new wagon scales were set near the shop and coal vault;
and the heating conduit and mains from the central heating plant were ex-
tended to the elephant house and zebra house.

The cost of this work was:

Eouses tor Zeb rashes sites 7 Deeg a Ee es Re Eee ai RI $2, 500
New yards on west side of antelope house.____-____-_-_-_-_§ 1S
Completing yards on north and east sides of arene houses. 2S asia 250
REpAlLESator temporalmy sind lO US Cs sees eee eee ee ee eee 1, 000
A LerationsianG repairs: TOMLOMMNO Seles en tewies BG ete eee 600
Cave MorAhinpopota mise ee es eae ee eee Se ee ees es 275
Raddocketor Chamol Ses e a See baa ie ee eee ee ee ee 300
Imeclosuresande PoOOlslor chiar +S CaN Sheela esa ee ae RD toe eee Pere Die
Repairing cond Or sande Owe CASES seeee ae ee Sea eee ee 350
Inclosure: for ‘kangvaroosee ss 161 teks Ue see Pie ae ee iin eee 75
Hxtendine <draina ce veuliviertss saws senor eo meina Ce een nase eee ates oe meemeoe 1,500
New concrete walk and cage foundations at small mammal house, with

LS mee THOTT Ove Aas, e210 SER =) H Ciena ON a eit Se tie ee Pa eo es Lua i 1, 050
PAC CU GLOTIA ayy ate DOU SG aiatees oe se a ipl ae ee es ee Te 125
JOGOS NUNES avernnbokey (Konao hun chatol iaysinolso ee 400
ING WA WAZ ONE SCALCS 1805p STi Op a Se ee a ie et cies 250
AWeeessory, comfort room. tO women=. 2. oe =e Sheen nae 350
Wiomentsrcomfiorteroome sro ee REE ENO raed aN aeons iy: 750

IVE TAS COME OT ty 10 0 Tia ee ir Te gk a ge a 750
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. S64
ROADWAYS AND WALKS.

From the appropriation for reconstructing and repairing roadways and walks
4,770 linear feet, or nine-tenths of a mile of road, was treated, from 10 to 45
feet wide, averaging slightly more than 20 feet, a total of 10,700 square yards.
The work varied from merely reshaping and supplying a top layer of stone to
furnishing the entire thickness of roadbed material, with considerable cxcavat-
ing and filling in some places where the existing grades were too steep. One
thousand six hundred square yards (the “concourse”) were finished with
tarvia. The work cost from 22 cents to $1 per square yard, and the total
amount expended for roads was $7,220. :

During the year 9,260 linear feet, or 1? miles, of walks were laid or repaired.
They were from 6 to 16 feet wide, or an average width of about 9 feet, com-
prising in all 9,280 square yards. Of this about 6,500 square yards was old
macadam walk, the remainder gravel or dirt walks. A considerable amount of
excavation and filling had to be done in certain places in order to secure
reasonably uniform grades, and steps were constructed at points where the
grade had before been too steep. The walks are of stone macadam, the surface
treated with tarvia by the penetration method. The cost of laying them was
from 85 cents to 85 cents per square yard. A considerable amount of work
had to be done also in providing proper drainage. The total expenditure for
walks was $7,780.

Respectfully submitted.

FRANK BAKER, Superintendent.

Dr. CHARLES D. WALCOTT,

Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX V.
REPORT ON THE ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY.

Sir: I have the honor to present the following report on the operations of
the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory for the year ending June 30, 1911:

EQUIPMENT.

The equipment of the observatory is as follows:

(a) At Washington there is an inclosure of about 16,000 square feet, con-
taining five small frame buildings used for observing and computing purposes,
three moyable frame shelters covering several out-of-door pieces of apparatus,
and also one small brick building containing a storage battery and electrical
distribution apparatus.

(bo) At Mount Wilson, California, upon a leased plat of ground 100 feet
square in horizontal projection, are located a one-story cement observing
structure, designed especially for solar-constant measurements, and also a
little frame cottage, 21 feet by 25 feet, for observer’s quarters.

There were no important additions to the instrument equipment of the
observatory during the year.

In 1909 the Smithsonian Institution, at the expense of the Hodgkins fund,
erected on the summit of Mount Whitney, California (height 14,502 feet), a
stone and steel house to shelter observers who might apply to the Institution
for the use of the house to promote investigations in any branch of science.
While this structure is not the actual property of the Astrophysical Observatory,
it affords an excellent opportunity for observations in connection with those
taken on Mount Wilson.

WORK OF THE YEAR.

In order to thoroughly confirm the results obtained on the summit of Mount
Whitney (4,420 meters or 14,502 feet) in 1909, discussed in my last annual
report, an expedition again occupied that place in August, 1910. ‘The person-
nel consisted of the director and Mr. G. F. Marsh, of Lone Pine, California.
Nearly all of the equipment for spectrobolometric work had been left on Mount
Whitney through the winter and was found in good condition. Additional
apparatus for measuring the brightness of the sky by day and by night was
carried up by pack train under the care of Mr. Elder, of Lone Pine. The good
fortune which had attended the 1909 expedition failed for a moment in 1910,
and one mule, carrying the silver-disk pyrheliometer and other loading, rolled
off among the rocks and was killed. The pyrheliometer fgrtunately received
no injury. _

Solar-constant measurements were made successfully on Mount Whitney in
1910 on three successive days. Mr. Fowle made solar-constant observations

62
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 63

simultaneously on Mount Wilson. I give below the results obtained at Mount
Wilson and Mount Whitney in 1909 and 1910:

Solar constant: :
MOWING llSON arn senna cs setoacte nes acmaase ecncoceicceecce 1. 943 | 1, 943 1, 924 1,904

Taking the mean of the differences between the results obtained simultane-
ously at the two stations, it appears that the results obtained on Mount Whitney
average 1.4 per cent higher than those obtained on Mount Wilson. But con-
sidering that the optical apparatus used on Mount Wilson comprised a silvered
glass mirror coelostat, an ultra-violet crown glass prism, and two silvered
glass mirrors, while that on Mount Whitney comprised only a quartz prism
and two magnalium mirrors, and, furthermore, that the pyrheliometers em-
ployed at the two stations were read at very different temperatures, it is prob-
able that the slight difference found between the results may be due wholly
to experimental differences and implies no discrepancy due to the difference
of altitude between the two stations.

This conclusion seems worth emphasizing. We have now made simultane-
ously solar-constant determinations at sea level (Washington), at over a mile
altitude (Mount Wilson), and again at Mount Wilson, and at nearly 3 miles
altitude (Mount Whitney). Although both the quantity and the quality of
the solar radiation found at these stations differ very much, neither tne “ solar
constant” nor the distribution of the solar energy in the spectrum outside the
atmosphere, as fixed by the wholly independent measurements at these three
stations, differs more than would be expected in view of the unavoidable small
errors of observation. We seem justified in concluding that we do, in fact,
eliminate the effects of atmospheric losses and actually determine the true
quantity and quality of the sun’s radiation outside the atmosphere as we might
do if we could observe in free space with no atmosphere at all to hinder.

Expeditions to Mount Wilson have now been made in 1905, 1906, 1908, 1909,
and 1910. The last, like the others, continued from May until November. In
the earlier years the observations were not made daily, but in 1908, 1909, and
1910 daily determinations of the solar constant were made when possible. As
stated in earlier reports, the results indicate a variability of the sun. In order
to show the strength of the argument for this conclusion, I give in the accom-
panying figure a diagram showing all the “solar constant” values obtained in
the first four years of observation (fig. 1).

The “solar constant” results lie between 1.80 and 2.00 calories per square
centimeter per minute. I call particular attention to the two later years. It
will be noted that successive days’ results march step by step regularly from
low to high values and the reverse, and that this order of march is not the
exception, but almost without exception the rule. This seems to render it
highly improbable that the fluctuations are due to accidental error, for such a_
regularity of fluctuation is incompatible with that supposition. As it has now
been shown that the altitude of the observing station is immaterial, at least
for altitudes below 38 miles, it seems also reasonable to conclude that the
fluctuation is not due to faulty estimates of the losses of radiation in the air.
Hence the most probable conclusion is that the sun actually varies from day to
64 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1911.

day in its output of radiation within limts of from 5 to 10 per cent in quantity
and in irregular periods of from 5 to 10 days. This conclusion I state tenta-
tively. Before it can be accepted without question it must be confirmed by
showing that the results obtained day after day at another equally good station,
at a great distance, confirm those obtained simultaneously at Mount Wilson.
Such a final test, it is now expected, will be made during the coming fiscal year.

Summary of solar-constant values.

ae Mount Wilson. Mount Whitney.
1902-1907 1905 1906 1908 1909 1910 1909 1910
Times observed...... 44 59 62 113 95 128 1 3

Mean value.........- 1.960 1.925 1.921 1.929 1. 896 1.914 1.959 1.956

1 Other days of observation not yet ready.

General mean, 1.922 calories (15° C.) per square centimeter per minute.
Number of determinations, 405.

Other observations made on Mount Whitney.—Although the main purpose
of the Mount Whitney expedition of 1910 was served by proving that the
determinations of the solar constant of radiation are independent of the altitude
of the observing station, advantage was taken of the unusual opportunity to
make several other kinds of observations. Kapteyn’s sky photometer was
employed there on two successive nights to measure the relative brightness of
the different regions of the night sky and to estimate the total quantity of sky
illumination per square degree compared with that of a first-magnitude star.
Yntema had employed similar apparatus in Holland. He found the average
brightness of the Milky Way about two or three times that of nongalactic
regions of the sky, such as the north polar region, but that the sky near the
horizon was of about the same brightness as the Milky Way. He concluded
that the sky at night is illuminated more by some terrestrial sources of light
than by the stars.

’ The results obtained on Mount Whitney at nearly 3 miles elevation agreed
in general with those of Yntema. The following is a summary of the prin-
cipal points. Mean values are given:

Brightness of night sky.

[Polar brightness=1. Mount Whitney, 1909-1910.]

Galactic latitude.

Near hori-
zon.

Peay wR | [
0° to+5° SEAS OE a oy core

Relative brightness.........-..--.--.-. 2.10 1.'25 1.19 1.17 1.40

The total illumination from 1 square degree of polar sky was found to be
0.0746 that of one first-magnitude star in the zenith. It is possible that the
fraction just given may be a little too small, owing to a source of error discov-
ered after the observations were ended.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 65

Computations from the Mount Whitney results confirm Yntema’s conclusion
that the great increase of brightness toward the horizon can not be due to any
arrangement of starlight, but must be caused by some terrestrial source of
light, perhaps a continuous faint aurora.

Bolometric measuremeuts were made on Mount Whitney to determine the
relative radiation of the sky by day in all directions, as compared with the

sens Han
Eee =
E qgeOks: at
Oo

9 i
feeeeect |
+) a 6 nea

fod

fou
oe a 4 Ee
ae

NAAN

Lh Th I

—_

ey
ee

(Gece!

eee
Kees
ae
een
(amald

Belge Set
Leta
eae
1906
ae
jyury | Aus.
Peo
(nl omnes
isl fe
fi

Se

Fig. 1.—Solar-constant values.

SEPT.

ieee a

ri bee Ce Sie

reece ee
OCT.

eat as thy
CAL UAE
Baio

PSS Rae es

2)
U

ce
BIN

Hite

—

Pare TER
ibomee eee aa
re nlublniscetaecceeees

sun. These measurements were numerous and seem to have been successful,
but are not yet reduced.

The sun’s energy spectrum.—A summary has been prepared showing the mean
result of determinations of the distribution of the sun’s energy in the spectrum,
as it would be found outside the atmosphere. The measurements on which it
is based include Washington, Mount Wilson, and Mount Whitney work of 1903

38734°-—sm 1911——5

I

nich
HY A

Baal

45 elt a
wim

UNE

TM NG :

ee

be
ee
Pee
eel eae ae!
Negi eae Se (alee a
aca

66 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1911.

to 1910, and have been made with many different optical systems. There is
great difficulty in getting an accurate estimate of the relative losses suffered
by rays of different wave lengths in traversing the spectroscope. TEspecially is
this the case for the violet and ultra-violet rays, where these losses are greatest.
The summary has shown that further determinations are needed to fix the dis-
tribution in the extreme ultra violet, and observations for this purpose were
made in June, 1911, on Mount Wilson, but are not yet reduced. I give below
the summary, excluding the work of 1911.

Intensities in normal solar spectrum, outside the atmosphere.

[Observed at Washington, Mount Wilson, Mount Whitney, 1903-1910.]

7 u u I ut ut Ke
Wiavelengther seen c- + sree 0.30 0.35 0.40 0. 45 0.47 0.50 0.60
Beiutonsity sa ete st. enone 440 2,700 4,345 6, 047 6,253 6, 064 5,047
Probable error (percentage)... .- 50 (?) 7.3 15 1.4 1.8 1.9 Qik:
Wavelength? 22. cos. san 55-2 a8 0. 80 1.0 1.3 1.6 2.0 2.5 3.0
Intensity 22 -4--seewese see oe 2,672 1, 664 897 526 245 43 12
Probable error (percentage)..-.- 12 0.7 0.7 1.4 2.4 4.8 45(?)

The sun’s temperature—If{f we employ the so-called “‘ Wien displacement
formula,” which connects the absolute temperature of a perfect radiation with
the wave length of its maximum radiation, we may proceed as follows, to esti-
mate the solar temperature, on the assumption that the sun is a perfect
radiator :

AmaxT=2930.
Tf Amx=0.470 pc then T=6230° abs. C.

Another radiation formula is that of Stefan, which connects the total quan-
tity of radiation of a perfect radiator per square centimeter per minute with
the absolute temperature. Employing this formula, still assuming the sun to
be a perfect radiator, its mean distance 149,560,000 kilometers, its mean diame-
ter 696,000 kilometers, and the mean value of the solar constant of radiation
1.922 calories per square centimeter per minute, we proceed as follows:

696,00 .
76.8X10-?X (sa sy 00) T1922) L—58302 abs: C:

A third means of estimating the sun’s probable temperature comes from com-
parisons of the distribution of the energy in its spectrum with that in the
spectrum of the perfect radiator, as computed according to the Wien-Planck
formula of spectrum energy distribution. The sun’s energy curve and that
of the perfect radiator at two temperatures are given in the accompanying
illustration (fig. 2). It appears at once from this comparison that the sun’s
radiation differs greatly from that of the perfect radiator at any temperature.
The solar radiation is greater in the infra-red spectrum, and much less in the
ultra-violet spectrum, than that of perfect radiators giving approximately the
same relative spectral distribution as the sun for visible rays. Taking every-
thing in consideration, the solar energy spectrum seems most comparable with
that of a perfect radiator between 6,000° and 7,000° in absolute temperature.

The causes of the discrepancies we have noted may be several. First, there
is the influence of the selective absorption of rays in the Fraunhofer lines,
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 67

These lines are much crowded toward and within the ultra-violet spectrum, so
that perhaps this indicates a principal reason for the weakness of the sun’s
spectrum in that region. Second, it seems probable that we are dealing with
a mixture of rays from sources at different temperatures. The cause and

Ramee bots aielie ded hal bal Lal TY
JO NSBR RS oe aaa ae Be
pale He |

h, =
SS

PRslied
ass
NS

bs
Ne
RS

Ea Pay
a
Sor
:

Wie. 2.—Hnergy spectrum of sun compared with black body.

Vea eae eee el sleds,
IN s \

REECE
eae che)

SaaS aa
Ne
NUN

.peeez—
peOp ZT
w

effect of this difference may each be twofold: For, firstly, at the center of the
sun’s visible disk we look probably to deeper-lying and hence hotter layers
than at the sun’s edge, where the line of sight is oblique; and, secondly,
since the transmission of the sun’s atmosphere is probably. like the earth’s,
68 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1911.

much less for violet and ultra-violet rays than for red and infra-red ones, we
probably get infra-red rays from deeper-lying and hence hotter layers in the
sun than we do ultra-violet ones. é
We conclude that the solar radiation comes from sources ranging in tem-
perature perhaps between the limits 5,000° and 7,000° absolute centigrade, but
mostly from sources between 6,000° and 7,000°.
Washington observations—Further experiments have been made,
under Mr. Fowle’s direction, on the transmission of radiation of great
wave lengths through long columns of air containing known qualities
of water vapor. Many of these observations are not yet reduced,
so that it is not yet proper to give a numerical summary of
results. The length of the column experimented upon has been
increased to 800 feet. The measurements cover the infra-red
spectrum, from the A line to a wave length of about 17p.
The observations of the water contents of the air column
are made by means of pairs of wet and dry thermome-
ters located at a number of points along the path.
The air is thoreughly stirred before readings. Check
experiments by Mr. Aldrich, in which he drew the
air through phospherus pentoxide tubes and
weighed the water absorbed, have confirmed
the accuracy of the water-vapor determina-
tions. Mr. Fowle has made a preliminary
comparison of the upper infra-red spec-
trum bands p, o, 7, ® WV, and ©, as
observed through the tube with
the same bands as observed
through the whole atmosphere
at Washington, Mount Wiison,
and Mount Whitney. The re-
sults are most interesting, though
not yet ripe for publication, and
will probably lead to more exact
knowledge of the total quantity
of water vapor in the atmos-
phere, and its variation with
the aititude of the observer and
the season of the year.
Reduction of observations.—
Upward of 100 days of solar-
constant measurements have
been made on Mount
Wilson on each of the
last several years. Each
day requires the equiva:
Fic. 3.—Abbot silver disk pyrheliometer. Jent of three full days of
computation. This work
is being done at Washington by Messrs. Fowle and Aldrich and Miss Graves
and certain graphical parts of it by minor clerk Segal. The solar-constant
reductions are computed as far as the middle of the observing season of 1910.
Pyrheliometry.—Additional comparisons of the Mount Wilson secondary pyr-
heliometers have been made with primary standard pyrheliometer No. 3. These
are not yet all reduced, but such as have been finished confirm the results of
the previous fiscal year, so that we may regard the scale of absolute pyrheli-

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 69

ometry as now satisfactorily established, and with it the mean value of the
solar constant of radiation for the epoch 1905-1910 as fixed at 1.922 calories
per square centimeter per minute.

Additional copies of the secondary silver-disk pyrheliometer shown in the
accompanying illustration (fig. 3) have been standardized and sent abroad by
the Institution as loans or purchases. There have now been sent copies to
Russia, Germany, France, Italy, England, Peru, Argentina, and several within
the United States, making in all 10 copies now in other hands than ours, be-
sides several now being made to order. The Institution has undertaken the
business relating to furnishing these pyrheliometers, which are standardized
at the Astrophysical Observatory, to promote exact knowledge of the sun and
its possible variability.

SUM MARY.

The year has been distinguished by a successful expedition to Mount Whitney.
The results obtained there confirm the view that determinations of the intensity
of the solar radiation outside the earth’s atmosphere by the spectrobolometric
method of high and low sun observation are not dependent on the observer’s
altitude above sea level, provided the conditions are otherwise good. The
Mount Whitney expedition furnished opportunities also for measurements of
the brightness of the sky by day and by night, the influence of water vapor on
the sun’s spectrum, and the distribution of the sun’s energy spectrum outside
the atmosphere.

Solar-constant observations and closely related researches were continued
daily at Mount Wilson until November, 1910, and were taken up again in
June, 1911. :

Further research tends to confirm the conclusion that the sun’s output of
radiation varies from day to day in a manner irregular in period and quantity,
but roughly running its courses within periods of 5 to 10 days in time and 3 to
. 10 per cent in amplitude. Assurance seems now complete that this result will
be tested in the next fiscal year by long-continued daily observations made
simuitaneously at two widely separated stations.

Many copies of the silver-disk secondary pyrheliometer have been standard-
ized and sent out to observers in this and foreign countries to promote exactly
comparable observations of the sun’s radiation.

Measurements of the transparency, for long-wave radiation, of columns of air
containing known quantities of water vapor have been continued, and promise
highly interesting results.

Respectfully submitted. :
C. G. ABgot, Director.
Dr. CHARLES D. WALCOTT,

Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.
Apprnpix VI.

REPORT ON THE LIBRARY.

Simm: I have the honor to present the following report on the operations of
the Library of the Smithsonian Institution for the fiscal year ending June 30,
1911, which was prepared by Mr. Paul Brockett, assistant librarian, who had
charge until June 1, 1911.

The following improved methods and consolidation of work have been
adopted during the past five years by the Library, in the interest of economy
and efficiency :

The catalogue has been modified so as to include the author and donor
ecards and all previous records, thus making it necessary to consult only one
file of cards for any information relating to the contents of the Library. The
accession record is typewritten on sheets in accordance with the loose-leaf
binding system, thus saving the time of copying titles by hand. The annuals
have been transferred from the periodical record to the author catalogue, thus
avoiding the making of two entries.

A new system of filing letters in numbered folders, with a card index, has
been introduced, making easily accessible the correspondence which, in con-
junction with the author and donor catalogue, forms a permanent record of
the exchanges for the Smithsonian publications. The old files are gradually
being rearranged and incorporated with the new system.

The lending of books in the reference room and periodical reading room has
been placed in charge of one person, in connection with other duties.

The titles of purchased books are now entered on cards which are filed
alphabetically. These card entries take the place of entries on sheets in book -
form, with card index.

With a thoroughly modern equipment in the way of furniture and fixtures
greater improvements could be made than is possible at present.

Hztension of space occupied by library.—Tentative plans have been prepared
and submitted for fireproof bookstacks and bookcases for the large hall on the
main floor of the Smithsonian Building to contain the libraries of the Govern-
ment bureaus under the Smithsonian Institution. More definite plans are now
in preparation.

International Congress of Archivists and Librarians and the International
Congress of Bibliography and Documentation.—The Institution was represented
by the assistant librarian, Mr. Paul Brockett, who presented a paper giving the
views of the Smithsonian Institution in the matter of international exchange.
At the same time he made observations on the methods and arrangement of
HKuropean libraries. A separate report on this matter has been submitted by
him.

ACCESSIONS.

°

.

For the Smithsonian deposit, Library of Congress, the accessions recorded
numbered 3,186 volumes, 1,277 parts of volumes, 3,137 pamphlets, and 489 charts,
making a total of 8,039 publications. The accession numbers run from 500,001
to 504,149.

70
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. vail

The parts of serial publications entered on the ecard catalogue numbered
24,426, and 1,100 slips for completed volumes were made, and 100 cards for new
periodicals and annuals.

These publications were forwarded to the Library of Congress immediately
upon their receipt and entry. In their transmission 230 boxes were required,
containing approximately the equivalent of 9,200 volumes. The actual number
of pieces sent, including parts of periodicals, pamphlets, and volumes, was
26,286. This statement does not, however, include about 3,200 parts of serial
publications secured in exchange to complete sets and transmitted separately.

Inaugural dissertations and academic publications were received from
universities at the following places:

Basel. Halle-an-der-Saale. Paris.

Bonn. Heidelberg. Prague.
Berlin. Kiel. Rostock.
Breslau. Leipzig. St. Petersburg.
Cuzco. Liege. Ttibingen.
Dorpat. London. Utrecht.
Freiburg i. B. Lund. Wiirzburg.
Giessen. Marburg. Ziirich.

Graz. New Haven.

Greifswald. Oviedo.

Similar publications have been received from the technical high schools at
Berlin, Braunschweig, Karlsruhe, and Munich.

The office library received 440 volumes and pamphlets, and 77 parts of
volumes and charts, making a total of 517 publications. Thirteen volumes were
purchased for the employees’ library and one received by donation.

As already mentioned, an author catalogue, combining author and donor
entries on cards of standard size was established this year and has taken the
place of the previous “donor” record. Catalogue cards made for the author-
donor catalogue numbered 3,199. In addition, a new finding list of 320 entries
was made for the periodicals in the reading room, making a total of 3,519 cards.
The recataloguing of scientific serials and annuals was commenced. ‘The
volumes recatalogued numbered 1,008.

The policy of sending foreign public documents presented to the Institution
to the Library of Congress without stamping or entering has been continued,
and the number of publications given above does not include these, nor does
it include other publications for the Library of Congress neeiwed through the
International Exchange Service.

The work of checking up and completing the Smithsonian deposit sets of
publications of scientific societies and learned institutions of the world has
been continued, and those of France have received special consideration.

DUPLICATES,

For a number of years about 10,000 duplicate Government documents returned
by the Library of Congress, principally relating to statistics, were stored in the
south tower of the Smithsonian Building. With the assistance of the Inter-
national Exchanges during the previous year these publications were arranged
and listed and later the larger part was turned over to the New York Public
Library to complete its sets. Public documents of the United States were re-
turned to the Superintendent of Documents.
72 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1911,

EXCHANGES.

The establishing of new exchanges and the securing of missing paris to
complete sets of publications in the Smithsonian Library required the writing
of 2,600 letters, resulting in the addition of about 100 periodicals and in the
receipt of about 3,200 missing parts.

The mail receipts numbered 32,647 packages, and 3,500 packages were re-
ceived through the International Exchange Service. The publications con-
tained therein were stamped and distributed for entry from the mail desk.

About 4,453 acknowledgments were made on the regular forms in addition
to the letters which were written in acknowledgment of publications received
in response to the requests of the Institution for exchange.

New exchanges of the annual reports of the American Historical Association
from the allotment agreed upon for that purpose resulted in the acquisition
of a number of publications of historical societies throughout the world, which
were added to the Smithsonian deposit in the Library of Congress.

READING ROOM.

The periodical bins in the reading room were rearranged and, as already
mentioned, a new finding list was made out on cards which were arranged
alphabetically. Publications no longer consulted were transferred to the per-
manent sets, either in the Smithsonian deposit or in some one of the libraries
of the Government branches of the Institution to which they belong. This
gives the Institution and its branches a thoroughly useful periodical reading
room.

As mahy of the publications kept in this room are not to be found in other-
American libraries, they are consulted not only by Washington investigators, but
by some from other centers. During the year the scientific staff of the Institu-
tion and its branches made use of 1381 bound volumes of periodicals, and
2,949 parts of scientific periodicals and popular magazines. In addition, the
yarious bureaus of the Government continue to avail themselves of the oppor-
tunity to use these publications, as well as those in the sectional libraries of
the branches of the institution, and the library is frequently visited by in-
vestigators from all parts of the world.

ART ROOM.

No additions were made to the art objects or engravings in this room during
the past year. With the additional space available for the use of the Division
of Graphic Arts in the National Museum, it is expected that some of the
engravings will be exhibited there.

THE EMPLOYEES’ LIBRARY.

The books added to this library by purchase numbered 138, and one publica-
tion was presented. By binding, 415 volumes of periodicals were made available
for circulation. The total number of books borrowed was 1,876. A number
of books selected especially for the purpose were sent to the National Zoological
Park, as in previous years.

LIBRARIES OF THE SMITHSONIAN BRANCHES.

United States National Museum.—The congestion in the museum library
reported last year has been relieved to a certain extent by the temporary
employment of four cataloguers and the assignment of space on two of the
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 73

galleries in the old Museum building for sorting and arranging ail the duplicate
material. The duplicates were arranged, placed on temporary shelving, and
roughly catalogued, and the question of disposing of such part of them as are
pot required in the general library or by the scientific staff will be taken up
during the early part of the coming fiscal year.

Many important gifts were received. during the year, and the following
members of the staff have presented publications: Dr. Theodore N. Gill, Mr.
J. H. Riley, Dr. C. W. Richmond, Mr. Robert Ridgway, Dr. W. H. Dall, Dr.
Paul Bartsch, Mr. W. H. Holmes, Dr. Walter Hough, Dr. F. H. Knowlton, Mr.
J. C. Crawford, and the late Mr. D. W. Coquillett.

The Museum library now contains 40,211 volumes, 66,674 unbound papers,
and 110 manuscrips. The accessions during the year consisted of 1,911 books,
4,014 pamphlets, and 202 parts of volumes; 878 books, 1,033 complete volumes
of periodicals, and 4,181 pamphlets were catalogued.

Attention has been given to-the preparation of volumes for binding, with the
result that 809 books were sent to the Government bindery.

The number of books, periodicals, and pamphlets borrowed from the general
library amounted to 28,028, among which were 5,582 obtained from the Library
of Congress and other libraries, and 4,142 assigned to the sectional libraries of
the Museum.

One sectional library has been added to those already established, and the
complete list now stands as follows:

Administration Geology Paleobotany
Administrative assist- History © Parasites

ant’s office Insects Physical anthropology
Anthropology Invertebrate paleontology Prehistoric archeology
Biclogy Mammals Reptiles and batrachians
Birds Marine invertebrates Superintendent’s office
Botany Materia medica - Taxidermy
Comparative anatomy Mesozoic fossils : Technology
Editor’s office Mineralogy Vertebrate paleontology
Ethnology Mollusks
Fishes Oriental archeology

The records of the Museum library consist of an authors’ catalogue, an
accession book, a periodical record on standard cards, and a lending record.
This lending record is on cards and includes the books borrowed from the
Library of Congress and other libraries for the use of the scientific staff. No
changes were made either in the arrangement or in the methods of carrying on
this work.

Letters requesting new exchanges and for the purpose of completing the sets
already in the Museum library have been given every consideration, and a
number of titles have been added in this way.

Owing to the crowded condition of the general library, it has been necessary
to use the reading room as a place for receiving and distributing publications
for the Museum library. The transfer and arranging of the duplicates on the
galleries will relieve this condition to some extent and make it possible for
that work to be done elsewhere.

Bureau of American Ethnology.—The report of this library will be made
by the ethnologist in charge and incorporated in his general report.

Astrophysical Observatory.—A thorough overhauling of this library and the
removal of duplicates and such other material as is not needed was undertaken
during the year. As a result, the observatory. now has for reference a very
efficient working library relating to astrophysics and allied subjects. During
74 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1911.

the year 93 volumes and 11 parts of volumes were added, making a total addi-
tion of 104 publications.
National Zoological Park.—A small reference library of zoological books is
maintained at the park, to which 15 volumes were added during the year.
Summary of accessions.—The following statement summarizes all the ac-
cessions during the year, except for the Bureau of American Ethnology, which
is separately administered:

Smithsonian deposit in Library of Congress, including parts to com-
VETO SC ES Hee i el a pe a ALB Re oe ae eS ee Eg 11, 239
Smithsonian office, Astrophysical Observatory, National Zoological Park,

OMe GET Atl OMAN ee eNC MANOS Ses maa eee a a ge 676
Uniteda Staves Nationals Miauseumylbibranye === eee eee 6, 127
FAG Beg Mai Si ar Up I aOR PA Ee Nhat Di 7 a ely te 18, 042

Respectfully submitted.
F. W. TRUE,
Assistant Secretary in charge of Library and Exchanges.
Dr. CHARLES D. WALCOTT,
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.
Appenpix VII.

REPORT ON THE INTERNATIONAL CATALOGUE OF SCIENTIFIC
LITERATURE.

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the operations of
the United States Bureau of the International Catalogue of Scientific Literature
for the year ending June 30, 1911, together with a report of the proceedings
at the Second International Convention of the International Catalogue of
Scientific Literature held in London July 12 and 13, 1910, outlining the general
condition of the whole enterprise:

The appropriation made by Congress for the maintenance of the bureau
during the year was $7,500, an increase of $1,500 over the appropriation for
the previous year.

Five persons are regularly employed in the bureau, and the services of
temporary clerical assistants occasionally engaged.

In order to properly analyze and classify the many scientific works now
being published in the United States it is not only desirable but necessary to
obtain the advice and assistance of scientific men who are specialists in the
several sciences included in the scope of the catalogue, and the increase of
$1,500 in the appropriation for the catalogue this year has made it possible to
have some of the more technical papers referred to such specialists.

It is a matter of gratification to report that the utmost interest has been
shown by all the scientific men who have been approached for aid, and that for
a nominal sum classification citations are prepared and furnished to the bureau,
thus rendering it possible for the scientific publications of the United States
to be not only indexed in a thorough bibliographical manner, but also, when
necessary, Classified by specialists. The classification numbers used in the
subject-catalogue refer to the subject-contents of the papers cited, and furnish
the equivalent of an abstract of each paper indexed.

During the year 26,020 cards were sent from this bureau, as follows:

Literature of—

BUS UE a et aes ee SE I ee en iipeenee ee ere 3
QO Date t ast oi tlh, A Whe DS ST ete aside gets Grid AO 26
QO ee ees As eee De ee A DN) ees 28
AN A apsk  ei  an re Ba EPS e ep a ehin sep eet  S 218
BLS (0 Fy am eee ER RE NAS ONS ete BS te et Ge 129
aS Ot eee ees ee Se a oe eee eee eee eee a ee 374
ALG tl AE ae gel at edd ei a 423
EO) G ts Stel dn dt dar SR Perk Foal a Le 1, 801
AES GS EO Se ee a eee AA ae MCE Oe aT OeS ee Oy Fy en een ele me 8, 836
ASTRO Soe 2 SOLS Deere UO ee Sy none SENN) Meeeenen Ss POR UNEr 14, 682

ADD iF eau ot aes J ng ate Fal oly geen Cnr SOR pe 26, 020

Thirty-two regional bureaus are now cooperating in the preparation and
publication of the International Catalogue of Scientific Literature. The cata-
logue consists of 17 annual volumes published by a central bureau in London.
The regional bureaus are maintained by the countries they represent, usually

75
76 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1911.

by direct governmental grants; the ‘central bureau is maintained by funds de-
rived from subscriptions to the work. Supreme control of the enterprise is
vested in a body known as an international convention which met in London in
1905 and again in July, 1910, thereafter to meet every 10 years. Hach
country maintaining a regional bureau has the right to send delegates to
this convention. ‘The assistant in charge of the regional bureau for the United
States was appointed by the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution to repre-
sent the United States at the second international convention. The principal
countries of the world sent delegates to the convention as follows: Austria, Bel-
gium, Denmark, France, Germany, Netherlands, India, Italy, Japan, New South
Wales, Russia, South Australia, Sweden, the United Kingdom, and the United
States.

At the opening meeting held in the rooms of the Royal Society on July 12,
1910, Sir Archibald Geikie, president of the Royal Society, was elected chair-
man, and Prof. Henry E: Armstrong, F. R. S., vice chairman. The report of
the executive committee was then laid before the convention. This report
stated that the seven annual issues of the catalogue already published, compris-
ing 117 volumes, had cost the London central bureau to edit, print, and pub-
lish, $257,980, for which $246,410 had been received from the subscribers to the
catalogue. Each annual issue of 17 volumes had averaged 9,117 pages. From
estimates made it appeared that when the first 10 annual issues were pub-
lished the receipts and expenditures of the central bureau would probably bal-
ance, and it was thought that taking into account the extent and difficulty of
the enterprise this result would not be unsatisfactory.

While the gross annual income received from subscriptions has exceeded the
estimate originally made by an average of over $8,000, the cost of editing and
printing has been much greater than was originally estimated. This is due
mainly to the fact that the size of each issue of the catalogue has greatly ex-
ceeded the original estimate, and also; in a lesser degree, to the fact that an
edition of 1,000 copies, instead of 500, was printed. The working capital needed
was also larger than originally estimated, it being necessary for the Royal
Society to advance to the central bureau $37,500, on which interest is paid.

Although the International Catalogue is understood to be a permanent or-
ganization it is one of the duties of each convention to authorize the continu-
ation of the publication for definite periods. The following motion, therefore,
was made and it was resolved:

That in view of the success already achieved by the International Cata-
logue of Scientific Literature and the great importance of the objects promoted
by it, it is imperative to continue the publication of the catalogue at least dur-
ing the period 1911-1915, and, on recommendation of the international council,
during the subsequent five years 1916-1920.

After several motions concerning details of organization, it was unani-
mously voted “that it is most desirable that a capital fund should be obtained
for the catalogue.” It is now apparent that a capital fund to be at the dis-
posal of the central bureau has been urgently needed since the beginning of
the undertaking. Lacking a capital fund, it has been necessary for the central
bureau to borrow money on which interest has to be paid, and on account of lack
of funds it has been impossible to carry out several plans looking to the gen-
eral improvement of the work. Had a capital fund been available in the begin-
ning of the enterprise, it would not have been necessary for the subscription
price to be placed at such a high figure. Consequently, a larger edition could
have been disposed of and at a lower rate to each subscriber. At the session
of the convention on July 18, methods of administration were discussed and the
following resolution passed:
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. ae

That each regional bureau be requested to prepare a list of journals in each
science which the catalogue will completely index in the annual issue following
the year of publication, and that the central bureau be authorized to publish
the lists thus prepared.

The new List of Journals will consist of titles of publications devoted almost
exclusively to scientific matters, and these journals will be given precedence
in the work of the regional bureaus, though references to scientific papers
published in other than regular scientific journals witl eventually find a place
in the catalogue. Some such action was necessary on account of the impossi-
bility of dealing promptly with the vast number of semiscientific journals now
published throughout the world, and, as promptness of publication is one of
the most desirable features in an index-catalogue, it was necessary to find
some means whereby an index to the more important papers could be ee
practically as soon as the papers themselves were published.

To render it possible to promptly publish future volumes of the catalogue
the following resolution was adopted:

That the resolution of the year 1900 authorizing the central bureau to close
these volumes at different stated dates, each volume to correspond to the
literature of a period of 12 months, be confirmed.

The effect of this resolution will be that the separate volumes of the catalogue
will not necessarily cover the whole calendar year but will cover a period of
12 months. A number of discussions then followed, pertaining to plans for
improvements in the organization and general work of the regional bureaus.
It was then resolved:

That in view of the resolution adopted unanimously by the representatives
of the various countries constituting the convention, desiring the Royal Society
to continue its responsibility for the publication of the International Catalogue
for a further period, the committee appointed be instructed: (1) To take ail
possible steps to prevent reduplication by the publication of several annual
and similar catalogues and indexes on the same subject, by making arrange-
ments such as those now in force with the Zoological Society of London.
(2) To obtain further assistance and cooperation in the preparation of the
material of the catalogue from the principal scientific societies and academies
and the organizations which collect materials for indexing scientific literature.

The idea now seems to prevail that the organization of the International
Catalogue of Scientific Literature will gradually be able to cooperate with the
present editors and publishers of the various scientific indexes and yearbooks,
so that the annual volumes of the International Catalogue will eventually
entirely supersede and take the place of all similar publications. This will
not only be of common benefit to the International Catalogue and to the
societies and private individuals now doing such work, but will greatly assist
scientific investigators and librarians in whose interest the EE Cata-
logue is prepared.

The question of publishing a decennial index was then discussed and it was
decided that on account of the great expense necessarily involved the work
could not for the present be undertaken. The matter was left for the action
of the next international council, which will be held within the next two years.

During the meeting of the convention the foreign delegates were the recipients
of numerous and gracious hospitalities from the Royal Society, the Royal
Society Club, and individually from the English members of the convention.

Very respectfully, yours,
LEONARD C. GUNNELL,
‘ Assistant in Charge.
Dr. CHARLES D. WALCOTT,
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution,
° Appenpix VIII.
REPORT ON THE PUBLICATIONS.

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the publications of
the Smithsonian Institution and its branches during the fiscal year ending
June 380, 1911:

The total number of copies of publications of the Smithsonian Institution and
its branches distributed during the year was 197,206. This aggregate in-
cluded 643 volumes and separates of Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge,
35,935 of Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections, 19,622 special publications, in-
eluding 2,743 volumes on the Harriman Alaska expedition; 518 publications
not included in the Smithsonian series; 22,482 annual reports and bulletins of
the Bureau of American Ethnology, and 110,000 copies of the various publica-
tions of the National Museum.

I. SMITHSONIAN CONTRIBUTIONS TO KNOWLEDGE.

The Langley Memoir on Mechanical Flight which was begun by the late Sec-
retary Langley in 1904, and continued by Mr. Charies M. Manly, assistant in
charge of experiments, was in type and nearly ready for distribution at the
close of the year. This work forms a part of volume 27 of the Contributions
to Knowledge.

II. SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS CCLLECTIONS.

In the series of Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections were published (1)
cover and preliminary pages for volume 51; (2) two papers of volume 53, with
cover, preliminary pages, and index, completing that volume; (3) thirteen
papers of volume 56; (4) four papers of volume 57; (5) and the Smithsonian
Physical Tables, by F. E. Fowle, forming part of volume 58.

The issues of the Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections during the year were

- as follows:

1928. Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections. Cover and preliminary pages for
volume 54. Octavo. Pages v.

1934. Cambrian Geology and Paleontology. No.6: Olenellus and other Genera
of the Mesonacide. By Charles D. Walcott. Published August 12, 1910.
Octavo. Pages 231-422 (unpaged index), with Plates 23-44. Volume 53,
No. 6.

1989. Cambrian Geology and Paleontology. No. 7: Pre-Cambrian Rocks of the
Bow River Valley, Alberta, Canada. By Charles D. Walcott. Published
August, 1910. Octavo. Pages 4238-431, with Plates 45-47. Volume 53. No. 7.

1940. Cambrian Geology and Paleontology. II. Abrupt Appearance of the
Cambrian Fauna on the North American Continent. By Charles D. Walcott.
Published August 18, 1910. Octavo. Pages 1-16. Volume 57, No. 1.

78
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 79

1941. Notes on a Horn-feeding Lepidopterous Larva from Africa. By August
Buseck. Published July, 1910. Octavo. Pages 2, with 2 plates. Volume 56,
No. 8.

1942. Description of Seven New Species of Hast African Mammals. By Edmund
Heller. Published July 22, 1910. Octavo. Pages 5, with three plates.
Volume 56, No. 9.

1945. Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections. Cover and preliminary pages for
volume 51. Octavo.

1944. Smithsonian Physical Tables. Fifth Revised Hdition. By F. E. Fowle,
aid, Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory. Published May 17, 1911. Oc-
tavo. Pages xxxiy, 318. Volume 58, No. 1.

1945. New Landshells from the Smithsonian African Expedition. By William
Healey Dall. Published July 22,1910. Octavo. Pages 3. Volume 56, No. 10.

1946. Development of the Digestive Canal of the American Alligator. By Albert
M. Reese, Professor of Zoology, West Virginia University. Published October
29, 1910. Octavo. Pages 25, with 15 plates. Volume 56, No. 11.

1947. The Flying Apparatus of the Blow-Ily. By Dr. Wolfgang Ritter. Hodg-
kins Fund. Published May 11, 1911. Octavo. Pages 76, with 20 plates.
Volume 56, No. 12.

1949. Cambrian Geology and Paleontology. By Charles D. Walcott. Cover,
preliminary pages, and index for papers 1 to 7. Published June 1, 1911.
Octavo. Pages ix, 4838-498. Volume 53.

1988. Two New African Ratels. By N. Hollister. Published October 10, 1910.
Octavo. Pages 3. Volume 56, No. 13.

2008. Descriptions of Ten New African Birds. By Edgar A. Mearns. Pub-
lished December 28, 1910. Octavo. Pages 7. Volume 56, No. 14.

2004. New Species of Insectivores from British Hast Africa, Uganda, and the
Sudan. By Edmund Heller. Published December 23, 1910. Octavo. Pages
8, with one plate. Volume 56, No. 15.

2005. Some Results of Recent Anthropological Exploration in Peru. By Ales
Hrdliéka. Published April 26, 1911. Octavo. Pages 16, with four plates.
Volume 56, No. 16.

2006. New Species of Rodents and Carnivores from Equatorial Africa. Pub-
lished February 28, 1911. Octavo. Pages 16. Volume 56, No. 17.

2007. Bibliography of the Scientific Writings of R. BH. C. Stearns. By Miss
Mary R. Stearns. With Biographical Sketch by William H. Dall. Pub-
lished April 12, 1911. Octavo. Pages 15, with one plate. Volume 56, No. 18.

2008. The Silver Disk Pyrheliometer. By. C. G. Abbot. Published March 31,
1911. Octavo. Pages 10, with one plate. Volume 56, No. 19.

2009. Cambrian Geology and Paleontology. II. No. 2. Middle Cambrian
Merostomata. By Charles D. Walcott. Published April 8, 1911. Octavo.
Pages 17—40, with six plates. Volume 57, No. 2.

2010. Descriptions of Fifteen New African Birds. By Edgar A. Mearns. Pub-
lished April 17, 1911. Octavo. Pages 11. Volume 56, No. 20.

2011. Cambrian Geology and Paleontology. II. No. 3: Middle Cambrian Holo-
thurians and Medusxe. By Charles D. Walcott. Published June 13, 1911.
Octavo. Pages 41-68, with Plates 8-13. Volume 57, No. 3.

2012. Cambrian Geology and Paleontology. II. No. 4: Cambrian Faunas of
China. By Charles D. Walcott. Published June 17,1911. Octavo. Pages 69-
108, with Plates 14-17. Valume 57, No. 4.
80 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1911.

The following papers of Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections were in press
at the close of the year:

2014. Cambrian Geology and Paleontology. II. No. 5: Middle Cambrian An-
nelids. By Charles D. Waleott. Pages 109-144, with Plates 18-28. Volume
5%, No. 5.

2015. Description of a New Genus and Species of Hummingbird from Panama.
By HE. W. Nelson. Volume 56, No. 21.

Ill. SMITHSONIAN ANNUAL REPORTS.

The annual report for 1909 was published in January, 1911.

1986. Annual Report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution,
showing Operations, Expenditures, and Conditions of the Institution for the
year ending June 30, 1909. Octavo. Pages x, 751, with 73 plates and 4
maps. Containing publications 1915, 1916, and 1950-1985.

Small editions of the following papers, forming the general appendix of the
Annual Report of the Board of Regents for 1909, were issued in pamphlet form:

1950. The Future of Mathematics. By Henri Poincaré. Pages 123-140.

1951. What Constitutes Superiority in an Airship. By Paul Renard. Pages
141-156.

1952. Researches in Radiotelegraphy. By J. A. Fleming. Pages 157-1838, with
two plates.

1958. Recent Progress in Physics. By Sir J. J. Thomson. Pages 185-205.

1954. Production of Low Temperatures, and Refrigeration. By LL. Marchis.
Pages 207-224.

1955. The Nitrogen Question from the Military Standpoint. By Charles E.
Munroe. Pages 225-236.

1956. Simon Newcomb. By Ormond Stone. Pages 287-242, with one plate.

1957. Solar-radiation Researches, by Jules César Janssen. By H. de le Baume
Pluvinel. Pages 248-251, with one plate.

1958. The Return, of Halley's Comet. By W. W. Campbell. Pages 253-259,
with four plates.

1959. The Upper Air. By E. Gold and W. A. Harwood. Pages 261-269.

1960. The Formation, Growth, and Habit of Crystals. By Paul Gaubert.
Pages 271-278. :

1961. The Distribution of Elements in Igneous Rocks. By Henry S. Wash-
ington. Pages 279-804.

1962. The Mechanism of Voleanic Action. By H. J. Jonston-Lavis. Pages
305-315, with 8 plates.

1968. Conservation of Natural Resources. By James Douglas. Pages 317-829.

1964. The Antarctic Land of Victoria. By Maurice Zimmermann. Pages
331-558. AOS

1965. Some Results of the British Antarctic Expedition, 1907-9. By BE. H.
Shackleton. Pages 355-868, with 6 plates and 3 maps.

1966. The Oceanography of the Sea of Greenland. By D. Damas. Pages
369-3838, with 2 plates.

1967. From the Niger, by Lake Chad, to the Nile. By Lieut. Boyd Alexander.
Pages 385-400, with 3 plates.

1968. Mesopotamia: Past, Present, and Future. By Sir William Willcocks.
Pages 401-416, with 4 plates and 1 map.

1969. Albert Gaudry and the Evolution of. the Animal Kingdom. By Ph.
Glangeaud. Pages 417-429.

1970. Charles Darwin. By August Weismann. Pages 4381-452.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 81

1971. Present Problems in Plant Ecology: Problems of Local Distribution in
Arid Regions. By Volney M. Spalding. Pages 453-463.

1972. The Instinct of Self-concealment and the Choice of Colors in the
Crustacea. By Romuald Minkiewicz. Pages 465-485.

1973. The Origin and Development of the Parasitical Habits in the Cuculide.
By C. L. Barrett. Pages 487-492, with 2 plates.

1974. Some Remarks on the Protective Resemblance of South African Birds.
By Alwin Haagner. Pages 493-504, with 2 plates.

1975. An inquiry into the History of the Current English Names of North
American Land Birds. By Spencer Trotter. Pages 505-519.

1976. Condition of Wild Life in Alaska. By Madison Grant. Pages 521-529,
with 1 plate.

1977. Recent Discoveries Bearing on the Antiquity of Man in Europe. By
George Grant MacCurdy. Pages 531-583, with 18 plates.

1978. European Population of the United States. By W. Z. Ripley. Pages
585-606.

1979. The Republic of Panama and its People. By Hleanor Yorke Bell. Pages
607-637, with 14 plates.

1980. Ceramic Decoration: Its Evolution and Applications. By Louis WFran-
chet. Pages 639-650.

1981. Some Notes on Roman Architecture. By F. TT. Baggallay. Pages
651-667, with 4 plates.

1982. The Relation of Science to Human Life. By Adam Sedgwick. Pages
669-682.

1983. Intellectual Work among the Blind. By Pierre Villey. Pages 683-702.

1984. The Relation of Mosquitoes, Flies, Ticks, Fleas, and other Arthropods
to Pathology. By G. Marotel. Pages 703-722.

1985. Natural Resistance to Infectious Disease and its Reinforcement. By
Simon Flexner. Pages 723-788.

The report of the executive committee and Proceedings of the Board of
Regents of the Institution, as well as the report of the Secretary, for the
fiscal year ending June 30, 1910, both forming part of the annual report of the
Board of Regents to Congress, were published in pamphlet form in December,
1910, as follows:

2001. Report of the Executive Committee and Proceedings of the Board of
Regents for the year ending June 30, 1910. Pages 21, with 1 plate.

2002. Report of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution for the year end-
ing June 30, 1910. Pages 89.

The general appendix to the Smithsonian Report for 1910 was in type, but
actual presswork could not be completed before the close of the fiscal year.
In the general appendix are the following papers:

Melville Weston Fuller, 1833-1910, by Charles D. .Walcott.

Ornamentation of Rugs and Carpets, by Alan §S. Cole.

Recent Progress in Aviation, by Octave Chanute.

Progress in Reclamation of Arid Lands in the Western United States, by F. H.

Newell.

Hlectric Power from the Mississippi River, by Chester M. Clark.

Safety Provisions in the United States Steel Corporation, by David S. Beyer.

The isolation of an Ion, a Precision Measurement of its Charge, and the Cor-
rection of Stokes’s Law, by R. A. Millikan.

The Telegraphy of Photographs, Wireless and by Wire, by T. Thorne Baker.

Modern Ideas on the Constitution of Matter, by Jean Becquerel.

Some Modern Developments in Methods of Testing Explosives, by Charles H,

Munroe.

38734°—sM 1911

6

82 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1911.

Sir William Huggins, by W. W. Campbell.

The Solar Constant of Radiation, by C. G. Abbot.

Astronomical Problems of the Southern Hemisphere, by Heber D. Curtis.

The Progressive Disclosure of the Entire Atmosphere of the Sun, by Dr. H.
Deslandres.

Recent Progress in Astrophysics in the United States, by J. Bosler.

The Future Habitability of the Earth, by Thomas Chrowder Chamberlin.

What Is Terra Firma? A review of current research in isostasy, by Bailey
Willis. ;

Transpiration and the Ascent of Sap, by Henry H. Dixon.

The Sacred Ear-Flower of the Aztecs, by William Hdwin Safford.

Forest Preservation, by Henry S. Graves.

Alexander Agassiz, 1835-1910, by Alfred Goldsborough Mayer.

Recent Work on the Determination of Sex, by Leonard Doncaster.

The Significance of the Pulse Rate in Vertebrate Animals, by Florence
Buchanan.

The Natural History of the Solitary Wasps of the Genus Synagris, by EH.
Roubaud.

A Contribution to the Ecology of the Adult Hoatzin, by C. William Beebe.

Migration of the Pacific Plover to and from the Hawaiian Islands, by Henry
W. Henshaw.

The Plumages of the Ostrich, by Prof. J. HE. Duerden.

Manifested Life of Tissues Outside of the Organism, by Alexis Carrel and
Montrose T. Burrows.

The Origin of Druidism, by Julius Pokorny.

Geographical and Statistical View of the Contemporary Slay Peoples, by
Lubor Niederle.

The Cave Dwellings of the Old and New Worlds, by J. Walter Fewkes.

The Origin of West African Crossbows, by Henry Balfour.

Sanitation on Farms, by Allen W. Freeman.

Hpidemiology of Tuberculosis, by Robert Koch.

IV. SPECIAL PUBLICATIONS.

The following special publications were issued during the year:

1871. A Reprint of Smithsonian Mathematical Tables: Hyperbolic Kunctions.
By George F. Becker and C. E. Van Orstrand. Published June, 1911. Octavo.
Pages li, 321. -

19382. Classified list of Publications available for distribution May, 1910.
Octavo. Pages 37. July, 1910.

1988. Opinions Rendered by the International Commission on Zoological No-
menclature. Opinions 1 to 85. Octavo. Pages 62. July, 1910.

1989. Opinions Rendered by the International Commission on Zoological
Nomenclature. Opinions 26 to 29. Octavo. Pages 63-68. October, 1910.
The following special publication was in type but had not been issued at the

close of the year.

2018. Opinions Rendered by the International Commission on Zoological
Nomenclature. Opinions 30-387.

HARRIMAN ALASKA SERIES.

The Institution received from Mrs. Edward H. Harriman several thousand
copies of volumes descriptive of the Harriman expedition to Alaska in 1899.
Special Smithsonian title pages were added to the volumes before distribution
by the Institution. The subjects were as follows:

1990. Volume I: Narrative, Glaciers, Natives. By John Burroughs, John Muir,
and George Bird Grinnell. Pages 184, with 60 plates and 4 maps.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 83

1991. Volume II: History, Geography, Resources. By William H. Dall,
Charles Keeler, B. E. Fernow, Henry Gannett, William H. Brewer, C. Hart
Merriam, George Bird Grinnell, and M. L. Washburn. Pages 200, with 64
plates and 1 map.

1992. Volume III: Glaciers and Glaciation. By Grove Karl Gilbert. Pages
231, with 17 plates and 1 map.

19938. Volume IV: Geology and Paleontology. By B. K. Hmerson, Charles
Palache, William H. Dall, H. O. Ulrich, and F. H. Knowlton. Pages 173,
with 83 plates and 1 map.

1994. Volume V: Cryptogamic Botany. By J. Cardot, Clara HE. Cummings,
Alexander W. Evans, C. H. Peck, P. A. Saccardo, De Alton Saunders, I.
Theriot, and William Trelease. Pages 424, with 44 plates.

1995. Volume VIII": Insects. Part I. By William H. Ashmead, Nathan
Banks, A. W. Caudell, O. F. Cook, Rolla P. Currie, Harrian G. Dyar, Justus
Watson Folsom, O. Heidemann, Trevor Kincaid, Theo. Pergande, and E. A.
Schwarz. Pages 238, with 17 plates.

1996: Volume IX: Insects. Part II. By William H. Ashmead, D. W.
Coquillett, Trevor Kincaid, and Theo. Pergande. Pages 284, with 4 plates.
1997. Volume X: Crustaceans. By Mary J. Rathbun, Harriet Richardson,

S. J. Holmes, and Leon J. Cole. Pages 337, with 26 plates.

1998. Volume XI: Nemerteans. By Wesley R. Coe. Bryozoans. By Alice
Robertson. Pages 251, with 25 plates.

1999. Volume XII: Enchytreids. By Gustav Eisen. Tubicolous Annelids.
By Katherine J. Bush. Pages 355, with 44 plates.

2000. Volume XIII: Land and Freshwater Mollusks. By William H. Dall.
Hydroids. By C. C. Nuttmg. Pages 250, with 15 plates.

VY. PUBLICATIONS OF THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM.

The publications of the National Museum are: (a) The annual report to
Congress; (b) the Proceedings of the United States National Museum; and (c)
the Bulletin of the United States National Museum, which includes the Con-
tributions from the United States National Herbarium. ‘The editorship of these
publications is in charge of Dr. Marcus Benjamin.

The publications issued during the year comprised the annual report for
1910; papers 1750 to 1771 of volume 88, proceedings; papers 1772 to 1845 of
volumes 39 and 40, proceedings; papers 1846, 1847, 1849-1852, 1854, and 1855 of
volume 41, proceedings; five bulletins and seven parts of volumes of Contribu-
tions from the National Herbarium.

The bulletins were as follows:

No. 71. A Monograph of the Foraminifera of the North Pacific Ocean. Part II,
Textulariide. By Joseph Augustine Cushman.

No. 73. An account of the Beaked Whales of the Family Ziphiide in the Collec-
tion of the United States National Museum, with Remarks on some Specimens
in other American Museums. By Frederick W. True.

No. 74. One some West Indian Echinoids. By Theodor Mortensen.

No. 75. North Pacific Ophiurans in the Collection of the United States Na-
tional Museum. By Hubert Lyman Clark.

No. 76. Asteroidea of the North Pacific and Adjacent Waters. By Walter
Kendrick Hisher.

In the series of Contributions from the National Herbarium there appeared:

Volume 15. The North American Species of Panicum. By A. 8S. Hitchcock and
Agnes Chase.

1 Volumes VI and VII have not yet been prepared for publication,
84 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1911.

Volume 14, Part 2. History of the Coconut Palm in America. By O. F’. Cook.
Volume 13, Part 6. The Type Localities of Plants First Described from New
Mexico. A Bibliography of New Mexican Botany. By Paul C. Standley.
Volume 13, Part 7. A Preliminary Treatment of the Genus Castilla. By
Henry Pittier.

Volume 13, Part 8. The Genus Talinum in Mexico, by J. N. Rose and Paul C.
Standley ; and Two new Species of Harperella, by J. N. Rose.

Volume 13, Part 9. Studies of Mexican and Central American Plants. No. 7.
By J. N. Rose.

Volume 13, Part 10. Miscellaneous Papers. By Albert W. C. T. Herre, William
H. Brown, Joseph H. Painter, Paul C. Standley, Edward S. Steele, and EH. A.
Goldman.

VI. PUBLICATIONS OF THE BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY.

The publications of the bureau are discussed in detail in another appendix
of the Secretary’s report. The editorial work is in charge of Mr. J. G. Gurley.
The following eight bulletins were published by the bureau during the year:
Bulletin 30. Handbook of American Indians North of Mexico. Edited by

Frederick Webb Hodge. Part 2. Published 1911. Octavo. Pages iv, 1221,

with many figures.

Bulletin 387. Antiquities of Central and Southeastern Missouri. By Gerard
Fowke. (Report on explorations made in 1906-1907 under the auspices of
the Archeological Institute of America.) Published 1910. Octavo. Pages
vii, 116, with 19 plates and 20 figures.

Bulletin 40. Handbook of American Indian Languages. By Franz Boas. Part
1. With illustrative sketches by Roland B. Dixon (Maidu), P. BE. Goddard
(Athapascan: Hupa), William Jones, revised by Truman Michelson (Algon-
quian), John R. Swanton (Tlingit, Haida), William Thalbitzer (Eskimo) ;
(Franz Boas: Introduction, Chinook, Kwakiutl, Tsimshian; John R. Swanton
and Wranz Boas, Siouan). Published 1911. Octavo. Pages vii, 1069.

Bulletin 48. Indian Tribes of the Lower Mississippi Valley and Adjacent Coast
of the Gulf of Mexico. By John R. Swanton. Published 1911. Octavo.
Pages vii, 387, with 82 plates (including 1 map) and 2 figures.

Bulletin 44. Indian Languages of Mexico and Central America, and their Geo-
graphical Distribution. By Cyrus Thomas, assisted by John R. Swanton.
Accompanied with a linguistic map. Published 1911. OGctavo. Pages vii,
108, and 1 map.

Bulletin 45. Chippewa Music. By Frances Densmore. Published 1910. Oc-
tavo. Pages xix, 216, with 12 plates, § figures, and many musical pieces.

Bulletin 50. Preliminary Report on a Visit to the Navaho National Monument,
Arizona. By Jesse Walter Fewkes. Published 1911. Octavo. Pages vii, 35,
with.22 plates and 38 figures. '

Bulletin 51. Antiquities of the Mesa Verde National Park: Cliff Palace. By
Jesse Walter Fewkes. Published 1911. Octavo. Pages 82, with 85 plates and
4 figures.

VII. PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY.

There were no new publications issued by the Astrophysical Observatory dur-
ing the year.
VIII. AMERICAN HISTORICAL ASSOCIATION.

The annual reports of the American Historical Association are transmitted
by the association to the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution and are
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 85

communicated to Congress under the provisions of the act of incorporation of
the association.

Volume I of the report for the year 1908, sent to the printer in June, 1909,
was published in July, 1910. Its contents were as follows:

Report of the Proceedings of the Twenty-fourth Annual Meeting of the American

Historical Association. By Waldo G. Leland, secretary.

Report of the Proceedings of the Fifth Annual Meeting of the Pacific Coast

Branch. By Jacob N. Bowman, secretary of the branch.

Report of Conference on Relations of Geography to History. By Erle Sparks.
Proceedings of Conference on History in Secondary Schools. Wdited by Andrew

C. McLaughlin.

Report of Conference on Research in English History. By Edward P. Cheyney.

Report of Conference on Research in American Colonial and Revolutionary His-
tory. By Herbert L. Osgood.

Report of Conference on Research in Southern History. By Lyon G. Tyler.

Report on Fifth Annual Conference on the Problems of State and Local His-
torical Societies. By St. George L. Sioussat.

The Viceroy of New Spain in the Eighteenth Century. By Don E. Smith.

Notes Supplementary to any Edition of Lewis and Clark. By Frederick J.
Teggart.

The Historical Value of the Census Records. By Joseph A. Hill.

The American Newspapers of the Eighteenth Century as Sources of History.

By William Nelson.

The Wilderness Campaign:

1. Grant’s Conduct of the Wilderness Campaign. By Gen. Edward P. Alex-

ander, Confederate States Army.

. Lee’s Conduct of the Wilderness Campaign. By Col. William R. Liver-
more, United States Army.

3. The Wilderness Campaign from Our Present Point of View. By Maj.

Eben Swift, United States Army.
Ninth Annual Report of the Public Archives Commission. By Herman V.

Ames, chairman.

Appendix A. Report on the Archives of the State of Maine. By Allen
Johnson.

Appendix B. Report on the Archives of the Te of Missouri. By Jonas
Viles.

Appendix C. Report on the Archives of the State of Washington. By
Jacob N. Bowman.

Appendix D. List of the Journals of the Courciis and Assemblies and the
Acts of the 18 Original Colonies in America Preserved in the Public
Record Office, London. Edited by Charles M. Andrews.

Volume II of the 1908 report, sent to the printer April 26, 1910, had not been
entirely completed June 380, 1911. It will be made up, for convenience, in two
parts, pages 1-807, 808-1617, containing Parts II and III of Texas Diplomatic
Correspondence. Edited by Prof. George P. Garrison.

The manuscript of the 1909 report, to form one volume, was sent to the
printer January 10, 1911, and was practically all in type before June 30, 1911.

The manuscript of the 1910 report was sent to the printer June 8, 1911.

bo

Ix. SOCIETY OF THE DAUGHTERS OF THE AMERICAN REVOLUTION.

The manuscript of the Thirteenth Annual Report of the National Society of
the Daughters of the American Revolution, for the year ending October 11,
86 4 NNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1911.

1910, was received from the society February 24, 1911, and was communicated
to Congress on February 27, in accordance with the act of incorporation of
that organization.

X. SMITHSONIAN ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PRINTING AND PUBLICATION.

The editor has continued to serve as secretary of the Smithsonian advisory
committee on printing and publication. To this committee have been referred
the manuscripts proposed for publication by the various branches of the Insti-
tution as well as those offered for printing in the Smithsonian Miscellaneous
Collections. The committee also considered forms of routine blanks and vari-
ous matters pertaining to printing and publication, including the qualities of
vaper suitable for text and plates. Twenty-four meetings were held and 115
manuscripts were acted upon.

Respectfully submitted.

A. Howarp CrarKk, Hditor.

Dr. CHARLES W. WALCOTT,

Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.
ApprenpiIx IX.

REPORT ON CONGRESS OF ARCHIVISTS AND LIBRARIANS, AND CON-
GRESS OF BIBLIOGRAPHY AND DOCUMENTATION.

Sir: I have the honor to present the following report as the representative
of the Smithsonian Institution at the International Congress of Archivists and
Librarians and the International Congress of Bibliography and Documentation,
held at Brussels, Belgium, in August, 1910.

The Congress of Bibliography and Documentation, the first of the two
congresses at Brussels, held its meetings from Thursday, August 25, through
Saturday, August 27. On the printed list of members there were enrolled 24
associations, bureaus, and other organizations; 34 individual libraries and
other institutions; and 160 persons by name, including duplications on lists.
Forty-six countries were scheduled as in relation with the congress or with the
Institut International de Bibliographie, under whose auspices this congress
was held, and there were actually present representatives from at least 16
countries, including, besides the United States, Great Britain, France, Belgium,
the Netherlands, Germany, Austria, Russia, Sweden, Switzerland, Spain, Bul-
garia, Denmark, Norway, Monaco, and Turkey, about a hundred persons being
actually present at most of the meetings.

This congress was officially opened by M. Paul Otlet, one of the secretaries.
He spoke of the work of the Institut International de Bibliographie in collect-
ing catalogue cards for every known scientific publication and their arrange-
ment according to the Dewey decimal classification system; also an auther’s
catalogue arranged alphabetically; a collection of picture postal cards of
institutions and public buildings from all parts of the world, as well as of
prominent persons, and a collection of photographic negatives covering all
subjects, from which prints could be made, for persons pursuing a certain line
of study. He explained that by documentation was meant the collection and
preserving for reference of a series of newspaper and magazine clippings with
their illustrations. He referred to the International Exchange Service and
mentioned in glowing terms the work of the Smithsonian Institution in organ-
izing and conducting the service in the United States. The congress then pro-
ceeded to consider the following subjects:

I. Documents:
1. Books, reviews, journals;
2. Illustrations, foreign photographs;
38. Archives, ancient and administrative.
II. Works and collections:
1. Editing;
2. Library cataloguing.
3. Collections;
4. Wneyclopedic arrangement.
III. Methods:
1. Cards;
2. Rules and classification.
87
88 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1911.

IV. Service, loan copies and exchanges:
1. Partial, general, and special;
2. National; =
3. International, special;
4, International, scientific.

The subject of “ International Exchanges” was briefly reviewed, and the fol-
lowing resolution was passed:

It is desirable to promote further developments of international exchange
service, especially in obtaining frequent dispatch, in increasing the number of
countries taking part in the international convention, and in providing for
gratuitous transmission of all correspondence relative to request for exchanges,
to the receipts for publications and to their return. It is especially desirable to
admit free or beneficial associations and institutions to such exchange.

It is desirable that the Smithsonian Institution, the initiator of the service of
international exchanges, should itself promote the revision of the international
convention of 1885 for the purpose of realizing these improvements.

The congress officially visited the Congo Museum at Tervueren and closed
with a banquet on the evening of August 27.

Yhe Congress of Archivists and Librarians, second to assemble, but first in
point of numbers and scope, met at Brussels from Sunday, August 28, through
Wednesday, August 31, under the auspices of the Association of the Belgian
Archivists and Librarians, M. Louis Stainier, administrator-inspector of the
Royal Library of Belgium, being the official in charge of the preliminary prepa-
rations. The printed list showed 18 countries represented by national com-
missions (with especial reference to archives), 12 countries represented by ofti-
cial delégates, delegations from 9 Belgian learned societies, 49 libraries and
other institutions entered on the registry and 389 individual names, these last,
of course, representing the personnel of the representative delegations as well as
individual members. These 389 enrolled participants represented 21 different
countries, including, besides the United States, England, Canada, Germany,
France, Belgium, Holland, Austria, Hungary, Spain, Switzerland, Portugal, Rus-
sia, Italy, Brazil, Cuba, Denmark, Sweden Norway, Luxemburg, and Monaco.

This congress was convened on the afternoon of the 28th of August with
addresses of welcome, and immediately divided into two sections, the archivists
and the librarians, which held separate meetings. My time was largely de-
voted to the library section, and the discussions relating particularly to library
methods included cataloguing, classification, and the placing of books upon the
shelves. My paper on the International Exchange Service, having been printed
in advance and distributed, was read by title. This paper is as follows:

There is no more important subject to be discussed at the Congrés Inter-
national des Archivistes et des Bibiiothecaires than that of the international
exchanges, aS the value of that service to libraries can not be overestimated.
The time has come when the scientific and learned institutions, the public, the
research workers, and the students of literature demand the scientific and
literary publications of the world.

Considering the question “Dans quel sens a-t-il lieu de réorganiser et
a’étendre le service des échanges internationaux”’ from an American point of
view, it does not appear that reorganization is what is needed, for a system
of international exchanges working with the hearty cooperation of all nations
has not yet ever been developed on the lines of the existing conventions.

The present international exchange service is operating under two conven-
tions made between certain powers, and the work is based upon them. One
of these, signed at Brussels in 1886 and officially proclaimed in 1889, made
provision for the exchange of official documents and scientific and literary
publications. The other, which was concluded and proclaimed at the same
time, provided for the immediate exchange of the official journal, as well as
of the parliamentary annals and documents of the contracting parties. ‘The
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 89

conventions were broadly worded and allowed for the adherence of other
states than those that became signatories at the time. The signers were the
pienipotentiaries of the United States of America, Belgium, Brazil, Italy, Portu-
gal and the Algarves, Servia, Spain, and the Swiss Confederation. Later the
Argentine Republic, Paraguay, and Uraguay signified their adherence, while
Bolivia, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, France, Liberia, the Netherlands, New
South Wales, Peru, Queensland, and Russia have established international
exchange bureaus without, however, giving their formal adherence to the con-
ventions. From this it will be seen that there are eleven states that have
adhered to the conventions and an equal number that have established bureaus
without adherence, while Great Britain, Germany, and the other countries
contribute no funds toward the organization of this movement.

It is therefore obvious that under the existing conditions it is not reorganiza-
tion but organization that is needed, and this may readily be accomplished under
the conventions now in force, as they form a firm foundation for a great
internationai institution. The provisions in these conventions made twenty
years ago may need revision in order to conform to recent international advance-
ment, and it is possible that the powers that have already agreed to the con-
ventions and lent their support might be willing to reopen them, provided
that the powers that have not come in are willing to join in the organization
of an international exchange service.

The international exchanges as now carried on are of two classes—scientifie
and literary publications and official Government publications. The first
named of these is of the utmost importance to the cause of education, both
scholastic and technical, which the present service has materially advanced
by enabling individuals and institutions of learning to disseminate knowledge
without restriction and practically without cost to themselves. The scientific
institutions are appreciating more and more the fact that their endowmerts are
entirely inadequate to provide for the many calls made upon them, and if
in addition to printing their own publications they shouid have to purchase
those of foreign institutions and pay the cost of transportation it would mean
that some part of their work would have to be abandoned. It is therefore to a
system of international exchanges that they must look for relief in this matter.

The Government exchanges are necessary in, order that Governments may
ascertain what is being accomplished along similar lines in other countries,
and as such publications are issued at the expense of the Governments they
should also be distributed at their expense.

The International Exchange Service of the United States is under the direc-
tion of the Smithsonian Institution, and was originally inaugurated for the
purpose of transmitting publications presented by institutions and individuals
in the United States to correspondents abroad, in exchange for like contribu-
tions from such recipients, as one of the most eflicient means for the ‘ diffusion
of knowledge among men,” and the entire expense, including that for the
exchange of documents published by the Government from 1850 to 1881, was
paid from the private funds of the Institution. >

Through the action of Congress, upon recommendation of the Department of
State, the Smithsonian Institution is recognized by the United States Govern-
ment as the American agency for the international exchange of governmental,
scientific, and literary publications. By the congressional resolutions passed in
1867 and 1901 a certain number of United States Government publications
are set aside for exchange with those of foreign countries, to be sent regularly
te designated depositories. In accordance with those resolutions there are
now forwarded abroad 55 full sets of United States official publications and
33 partial sets; the official journal of the preceedings of Congress, the
Congressional Record, is transmitted by mail daily to each of the Parliaments
that is willing to reciprocate.

During the fiscal year ending June 30, 1909, the number of packages for-
warded through the international exchanges of the United States amounted
to 228,875. These packages were sent direct from this country to the one
for which they were intended, and from long experience this has been found
to be the quickest and most satisfactory method. During the last year nearly
2,000 boxes were shipped in this way without the loss of a single consignment.
Shipments are made regularly at least once a month, should the sending be
but one package, and to the larger countries every week.

A card index is kept of all correspondents, and upon these ecards are
recorded the packages sent and received by each institution and individual.
90 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1911.

There are now in the United States 3,900 institutions and 8,000 individuals
recorded in this index, while the foreign institutions number 16,500 and indi-
viduals 34,252. <A list of the foreign societies and institutions is published
from time to time under the title of ‘‘ International exchange list,” the latest
issue being that of 1904.

The public documents received from abroad in exchange are placed in the
Library of Congress. The publications received from the scientific and learned
societies and institutions of the world form an important part of the Library
of the Smithsonian Institution, and while these remain the property of the
Institution they are in great part deposited in the Library of Congress.

The needs of the international exchanges under present conditions may be
summarized as follows: The adherence of all the civilized nations of the
world to the present conventions. The members of the Congress of Archivists
and Librarians can do much to further the movement by lending their efforts
to arouse the interest of the scientific and literary institutions and societies
and governmental authorities in their respective countries, to the end that
official action may be taken. The scientific institutions and societies of each
country should examine the workings of the international exchange system
and solicit exchange of publications from like societies abroad, using the
service as a medium of transmission.

Governments should provide a sufficient number of sets of their official
publications for exchange purposes in order that each country may have a
full set if desired, and in addition there should be copies of the official journals
of the Parliaments, or similar bodies, for the interparliamentary exchanges.

Bureaus already established, as well as those to be established, should be
granted an appropriation that will allow the carrying out in full of the stipu-
lations of the conventions. A well-paid and energetic staff with a well-equipped
office would insure expeditious work and prompt delivery. ‘The present facilities
for rapid transportation would be greatly increased by each international
exchange office having the franking privilege, such as is allowed in the United
States, dnd the granting of special concessions by the postal authorities, through
the International Postal Union, which could possibly be arranged should every
nation become a party to the present conventions.

The international exchanges should be extended to every quarter of the
globe, and efforts should be made to bring the powers to realize the necessity
of perfecting an institution already established which has for its object the
“inerease and diffusion of knowledge among men.”

I gave a résumé of the contents of the above paper and was asked for some
resolution which could be passed by the congress incorporating a suggestion con-
tained in the paper “that the members of the Congress of Archivists and Li-
brarians could do much to further the movement by lending their efforts to
arouse the interest of the scientific and literary institutions and societies and
governmental authorities* in their respective countries, to the end that official
action may be taken.”

The resolution was presented in English, translated into French, and again
translated into English, and appears as follows in the Library Journal:

That the scientific and literary institutions, as well as the governmental au-
thorities of all countries, should unite their efforts to obtain the official pro-
vision for international exchanges.—VI. Q. 7. International Exchanges (Paul
Brockett, Washington).

Regarding the use of the exchange service by private institutions, M. Langlois,

Bibliothécaire-en-chef de l’Institut Catholique, of Paris, having experienced some
difficulty in sending packages from France, presented the following resolution :

That the international exchanges should be accorded, liberally and in the in-
terest of all workers, to establishments of private initiative (libraries of free in-
stitutions and learned societies), which conform to the general regulations and
provide reciprocity.—VII. Q. 7. (M. Langlois, Paris, as amended by M. Gros-
jean, Bruxelles. )
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 91

I had with me a copy of Article VII of the conventions of 1886, in both
English and French, which was read:

Art. VII. The bureaus of exchange will serve, in an official capacity, as in-
termediaries between the learned bodies and literary and scientific societies,
ete., of the contracting States for the reception and transmission of their pub-
lications.

It remains, however, well understood that, in such case, the duty of the
bureaus of exchange will be confined to the free transmission of the works
exchanged, and that these bureaus will nut in any manner take the initiative
to bring about the establishment of such relations.

One more resolution was presented:

That the service of international exchanges should be developed in the most
complete manner in the participating countries, and that like organizations
should be created in the other States—VIII. Q. 7. (M. Sury, Bruxelles.)

In connection with attending this congress permission was given me to visit
the principal libraries of London, Paris, and Berlin, and observations were
made and are contained in a series of notes taken down at the time for refer-
ence in the Smithsonian Library. When the libraries were closed, I occupied
my time in visiting the museums, taking notes of methods, etc.

Respectfully submitted.

PAUL BROCKETT,
Assistant Librarian.

Dr. CHARLES D. WALCOTT,
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE OF THE BOARD OF
REGENTS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION FOR THE YEAR
ENDING JUNE 380, 1911.

To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution:

Your executive committee respectfully submits the following
report in relation to the funds, receipts, and disbursements of the
Institution, and a statement of the appropriations by Congress for
the National Museum, the International Exchanges, the Bureau of
American Ethnology, the National Zoological Park, the Astrophysi-
eal Observatory, and the International Catalogue of Scientific Lit-
erature for the year ending June 30, 1911, together with balances of
previous appropriations.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

Condition of the fund July 1, 1911.

The permanent fund of the Institution and the sources from which
it has been derived are as follows:

DEPOSITED IN THE TREASURY OF THE UNITED STATES.

LEAS MEESIB one Spaniel ovSonai! ISHN Gye ea ee eS Sales 1G,
Resa, IEA OR Sramiiory INo7 ee 26, 210. 63
WEHosit fromeEsavines: Ole 1M COM eS (lee 108, 620. 37
ROME: OF Tanne Ieicmiliven, dS7ipj se $1, 000. 00
Accumulated interest on Hamilton fund, 1895__________ 1, 000. 00
2, 000. 00
Bequest of Simeone Habel dSs0h sass ke ee ee ee 500. 00
Deposits from! proceeds of Sale of honds) 88ls=2 22s eee 51, 500. 00
(Grin He GU avon gavsisie Ges Wore Fed ten asp wale iis eek es ee 200, 000. 00
Part of residuary legacy of Thomas G. Hodgkins, 1894___________ 8, 000. 00
DEPOSI EROMmSA WANS SO bein COME il (hens ee eee ee ee 25, 000. 00
MIiLesiduarywescacvwoOn-lhomass Gr hodekin t= 7, 918. 69
Total amount of fund in the United States Treasury__---~~ 944, 918. 69

OTHER RESOURCES.

Registered and guaranteed bonds of the West Shore Railroad Co.,
part of legacy of Thomas G. Hodgkins (par value) —--__________ 42, 000. 00

Mo Gales erm avert. tery ee a ee ee 986, 918. 69

Also four small pieces of real estate bequeathed by Robert Stanton Avery, of
Washington, D. C.

92
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 93

That part of the fund deposited in the Treasury of the United
States bears interest at 6 per cent per annum, under the provisions of
the act of Congress of August 10, 1846, organizing the Institution,
and the act approved March 12, 1894. The rate of interest on the
West Shore Railroad bonds is 4 per cent per annum. The real estate
received from Robert Stanton Avery is exempt from taxation and
yields only a nominal revenue from rentals.

Statement of receipts and disbursements from July 1, 1910, to June 30, 1911.

RECEIPTS.
CASheOMMA WOT Ul ye el el OM Oe oe 8 eres eda gd 535, 364. 88
Interest on fund deposited in United States Treasury
Guecwrhulyele O10 wands san. el, Ou ee 6206, 090. LZ
Interest on West Shore Railroad bonds due July 1, 1910,
oayOl ienoly Se IEG Res eee ee ee eee eres 1, 680. 00
Repayments, rentals, publications, ete__________________ 10, 541. 75

Contributions from various sources for specific purposes. 14, 518. 48

83, 435. 30

118, 800. 18

DISBURSEMENTS.
HGS eC AMe cam O eT Cp iT ease ee eo 5, 675. 55
PRIMER ATG ete XT CS 2e ee ee Sees ee ee ee Se =e eer eo ee, 943. 09
General expenses:

Solent] CS eet ets eye ee ea ee a ee $16, 453. 13

NEEL TAU SAS Sf Se a Se ne ra 230. 00

ASS EL ETT OUR ha a a 916. 40

Postage, telegraph, and telephone__________________ 738. 45

REG TSG Geers ee ea eee ee ee ete S eee eee 105. 35

mene em tals iso eae eae Se ee ae Es 787. 35

GEA OREN ee ere aaipe Ee ath Bh on ages 6 Boe gh Be sy do ES 5, 578. 75

DEORE ET Eeta Yo Uae die 0 se Se pe ER Oe ea 213. 94
; —_———— _ 25, 028. 87
I AG ee eee ee eee ee eee Be ea NS St Ee a ees 2, 847. 14
Publications and their distribution :

Miscellaneous? collectionse2] = = 2 eee Set 5, 295. 95

Contributions’ to? knowledge. 2 oo) hao eee 230. 00

IRE WOGLS eee et so ee Ep e 58 ea pee 640. 10

Sneeialeepuplicnhlons! === asses es Pes ee 381. 16

Puplicaciony SUppIGS2= > ans oe Sa 261. 88

NEUES CS = eee a ee ee ee 6, O79. 31

PNTASK DE SCRICSE SOLE 2h bias PDEA EEA 1h NRey ES EN Bs 3, 149. 87

16, 0388. 27

Hxplorations, researches, and collections] = -- = 19, 169. 17
Hodgkins specific fund, researches and publications_______________ 6, 127.16
[GNOME OMENS Tope Tihs eS ee ee eee eee 4, 868. 41

Ty ttbid bar (ebg OLS OS GY Spee aE Sa ap aan ca et RN ep eyeune a ee 1, 000. 00
94 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1911.

Gailllenyaol Atte 5.0 sie were eel ag UG) 8 es ccm Oe $31. 60
ANAC eSslOr Tela OX) CW SCS eee ans we Hee pe iol ea es ok 4, 450. 76
PANTOJO EDIE GUS ee Re ek oe ce eerste err ee erect gr, eI 2 Se ne BIg oe 200. 00
86,374. 52

Balance June 30, 1911, deposited with the Treasurer of the United -
States eas ees oe OE a aed OL I ee Ope RE ENR Dc SE A, TE ol caerulea 52, 425. 66
118, 800.18

By authority, your executive committee again employed Mr.
William L. Yaeger, a public accountant of this city, to audit the
receipts and disbursements of the Smithsonian Institution during
the period covered by this report. The following certificate of ex-
amination supports the foregoing statement, and is hereby approved:

WASHINGTON, D. C., August 5, 1911.
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE, BOARD OF REGENTS,

Smithsonian Institution.

Srrs: I have examined the accounts and vouchers of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1911, and certify the following to be a
correct statement:

Ua DORE). SECS Gh PS SS ee ees peg ae ge eee et eee es $83, 435. 80
ROCA GISDUESEIMENTS os oe oe ee aks ae ea ee ee ee 86, 374. 52
Excess of disbursements over receipts_--_--_____-_§_--§_- 2; 939. 22
Amo un tetromedlyseley ONO eee eee See SE ee ee eee eee 35, 364. 88
TSMC Crm aeHaYel Afwaavey Gk), WNL ee ee 32, 425. 66
Balance shown by Treasury statement June 30, 1911_______________ 34, 445. 95
NeesSsvoutStanding Checks =s Stam eat a eee oe eee 2, 020. 29
Mriven balancer sune: 304 i Oils e ee ee 32, 425. 66

The vouchers representing payments from the Smithsonian income during the
year, each of which bears the approval of the secretary, or, in his absence, of,
the acting secretary, and a certificate that the materials and services charged
were applied to the purposes of the Institution, have been examined in connec-
tion with the books of the Institution and agree with them.

(Signed) WILEIAM LL. YAEGER,
Public Accountant and Auditor.

All moneys received by the Smithsonian Institution from interest,
sales, refunding of moneys temporarily advanced, or otherwise, are
deposited with the Treasurer of the United States to the credit of the
Institution, and all payments are made by checks signed by the
secretary.

The expenditures made by the disbursing agent of the Institution
and audited by the Auditor for the State and Other Departments
are reported in detail to Congress and will be found in the printed
document.

Your committee also presents the following summary of appropria-
tions for the fiscal year 1911 intrusted by Congress to the care of the
Smithsonian Institution, balances of previous appropriations at the

°
.

REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.

95

beginning of the fiscal year, and amounts unexpended on June 30,

J aS i ig

Available
: G Balance
ater aly a June 30, 1911.
Appropriations committed by Congress to the care of the Institution:
international-bxchangessl900"4 eee 254 es Soas eto es eset. $0. 34 1 $0. 34
intem~ationalsbxchanges, 1 910l 5 oe ecko aslo te Se ae conse aa ae 5, 506. 23 11. 47
intermationalb xehanves, (9M ae eaciae coe seca saaele een asens ses 32,000. 00 2,323. 68
American, Ethnology, 1909......--- BSE ee Se ese a aaa oat hee Spa aye 1.15 | LA
IAMmenicanes Chnology sO Me Ss ose soo sans eee ee eee oe ne cee eels 3, 890. 50 237. 06
AGT ETACADEB CHO LOS yal OL Leto eset eee ree eee Sy Peete ge A 42,000. 00 2,644. 60
AStrophy sical ODServalLotyg G00. soo 5 8 eee eee eee noelsiosinseti=i os 314. 50 1 306. 50
AStLOpMVSicalyObsenyatoryy el OlOse iat cece eee ee ope en eee ese ce 699. OL 119. 42
Astrophysical Observatory, 1911...-.-.-.-.----- eget este Eno gae eee 13,000. 00 | 1,063. 22
International Catalogue, 1909.-...--.--.-.----2-2.4-+-6-e MS a Fe op soe 3 2.97 | 12.97
International Catalogue, 1910.....-.--.----- Se ee Ee eres ere aoe 212. 51 | 1.71
nbennational Catalorite toll ase ssee eee aise eae See tose 7, 500. 00 437.12
BAeVAators, Smmibnsonial Wilding. esis ee. oe tea es SEE A: 10,000. 00 946. 06
National Museum—
MERI ILC aAN Gur x CULES | G00 == rene ee ee ce heer ees nme see te. 66. 61 1 66. 61
Furniture and fixtures, 1910........--- REO NESE eae See 87, 885. 97 60. 20
iMeroaWenolcewe velo lTao.gnornech a KY) ele oe ol nn eee Seen ee 125, 000. 00 34, 166. 16
eatin man dilichtine 1900s jem see ee a RY eee 137. 16 1 137. 16
eatin giana ehc ine ue OT ORL mek ee en Seelam Se aah eae st alee 14, 526. 90 3,592. 42
iHeatineian Giieh Ging nl Oe ae i eae eae ae See ee id= 50, 000. 00 9,658. 11
ipreservationorcollections; 1900822 man sees semen eee ace a Sere 322. 30 1 253. 68
EreseLyanonloncoleccions OO see nee ee ae eae ete naires 23,790. 15 8,461. 84
Preservation of collections, 1911..-...-.-. SBE Ae ane eco e Moe eee 300, 000. 00 20, 623. 80
BOOKS LOG ee an ree S REL EE LE RA AE GS AG 8 8 77.05 11.75
Books, 1910... -- PEO SP Se seem nie Sane See eae cinema eee 1,302. 08 19. 56
TES OOS 0G ie ee ee eee ae erate me nie eo eee sicepneios 2,000. 00 608. 05
OSTEO sph Oil eee = ae ee te ee eet eh a ee ie ge re 500) OO ss eaeks ae
PB UGE DAES nl G00! seas oe seen ee ees ee ela cea © Seis se aes seers 26. 62 1 26. 62
Buildinginepasirsy 1910 emake’ yas eee ee hs ye eae dle See se eS S 6, 486. 30 20. 30
IB Gimp alTS so) O Mili tec ae ele Soe Rn Cee a eae sere See Store 15, 000. 00 3, 513. 87
enti workshops; 1909! 2274... 2. ae. Abert ey eh Sigs Sk Sekese -08 1.08
Temporary occupancy of Government buildings for tuberculosis con-

TOSS E Sete a eS Tee ee SORES Rise eee eshte see ec eiasee meee 15, 678. 92 115,678. 92
Transfer of Greenough statue of Washington...............-..------ 409. 74 1 409. 74
Movine:collections tomew, Dill ding ees 8S Lk os eee ee eee eee 24. 73 124.73
BUNCIno MN a lOMale Muse ITMee = see eee enon Saar eee e eae. 77,000. 00 22,902. 78

National: ZoolopiealPark=1900ss)me! a (Pe 3a ete eB ele Be 13. 25 113.25
National Zoological Park, 1910................-- 2 NS REE Si ey BS 5, 276. 60 4. 56
National-Zoological sparks 191d¢ < 22 So asip aise 5: Ee ee er | 115,000. 00 6, 589. 53

1 Carried to credit of surplus fund.

Statement of income from the Smithsonian fund and other revenues, accrued
and prospective, available during the fiscal year ending June 30, 1912.

Balancers unex lille ees = eg ge ea

Interest on fund deposited in United States Treasury,

CuveRulyele Olde ands Janda Oona se Dee ae
Interest on West Shore R. R. bonds, due July 1, 1911,
and sans ale Ola ers ree h os ae MRO EY 11 Uyiet fe rer Lah eh
Exchange repayments, sale of publications, rentals, etc__
DEROSITS TOR ES PeCiiG DULDOSCS a. eo eee ee ee
Total available for year ending June 30, 1912_____

Respectfully submitted.

A. O. Bacon,

32, 425. 66

ALEXANDER GRAHAM BELL,
JoHN DawzeEtt,
Executive Committee.

Wasuincton, D. C., December 5, 1911.
PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS OF THE SMITH-
SONIAN INSTITUTION FOR THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30,
1911.

At a meeting of the Board of Regents held December 14, 1909, the
following resolution was adopted:

Resolved, That hereafter the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion shall hold their annual meeting on the second Thursday in December and
a supplementary meeting on the second Thursday in February.

In accordance with this resolution the board met at 10 o’clock
a.m., on December 8, 1910, and on February 9, 1911.

ANNUAL MEETING, DECEMBER 8, 1910.

Present: The Hon. James 8S. Sherman, Vice President of the
United States; the Hon. John M. Harlan, presiding Justice of the
United States Supreme Court; Senator S. M. Cullom; Senator Henry
Cabot Lodge; Senator A. O. Bacon; Representative John Dalzell;
Representative James R. Mann; Representative William M. Howard;
Dr. Andrew D. White; the Hon. John B. Henderson; Mr. Charles F.
Choate, jr.; and the secretary, Mr. Charles D. Walcott.

The meeting was called to order by the Vice President.

DEATH OF THH CHANCELLOR.

The secretary announced the death of the chancellor of the Smith-
sonian Institution, Melville Weston Fuller, Chief Justice of the
United States, which occurred at Sorrento, Maine, on July 4, 1910.

The intelligence of this sad event was received at the Institution in
the absence of the secretary, and Mr. Richard Rathbun, the acting
secretary, sent a telegram of condolence, both official and personal, to
Mrs. Nathaniel Francis, who was with her father at the time of his
death. Mr. Rathbun attended the obsequies at Sorrento as the repre-
sentative of the Institution, and accompanied the funeral party to
Chicago, where interment took place on July 8.

The secretary stated that the advice and suggestions of the chan-
cellor in relation to matters affecting the Institution that were
brought to his attention had always been most helpful. He added
that he had enjoyed a personal acquaintance with the chancellor that
had extended over 20 years, and that it was with a deep sense of the

96
PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS. 97

loss sustained by the Institution as well as by himself personally that
he formally announced his death to the Board of Regents.

Senator Bacon then presented the following resolutions, which on
motion, were adopted:

Whereas the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution have received
the sad intelligence of the death, on July 4, 1910, of Melville Weston Fuller,
Chief Justice of the United States, and for 22 years chancellor of the Institu- —
tion; therefore be it J

Resolved, That we desire here to record our profound sorrow at the sever-
ing of the tie that has bound us to him for so long a period of honored service;
that we feel keenly the loss of a wise presiding officer, whose vast store of
learning and gracious dignity have proved so invaluable in the deliberations
of this board, and whose loyal interest in the Smithsonian Institution has been
a source of inspiration to his colleagues.

Resolved, That we share in the grief of the nation at the passing away of
one who was at once a distinguished leader of the greatest legal tribunal of our
land, an eminent jurist, a patriotic citizen, a shining example of Christian
gentleness, and who also possessed so charming a personality as a man and as
a friend.

Resolved, That we respectfully tender to the members of the family of our
late associate our sincerest sympathy in their great bereavement.

Resolved, That an engrossed copy of these resolutions be transmitted to the
family of the late chancellor.

ELECTION OF CHANCELLOR.

The chairman announced as the next business in order the elec-
tion of a chancellor to succeed the late Chief Justice Fuller.

Senator Lodge moved—

That the Vice President of the United States be elected chancellor of the
Smithsonian Institution.

Senator Lodge put the question, and, there being a unanimous
vote in the aflirmative, announced that the Vice President was duly
elected.

RESOLUTION RELATIVE TO INCOME AND EXPENDITURE.

Senator Henderson, chairman of the executive committee, pre-
sented the following customary resolution, which was adopted:

Resolved, That the income of the Institution for the fiscal year ending June
80, 1912, be appropriated for the service of the Institution, to be expended by

the secretary, with the advice of the executive committee, with full discretion
on the part of the secretary as to items.

ANNUAL’ REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.

Senator Henderson submitted the report of the executive com-
mittee for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1910, stating that the
members of the board had already been supplied with copies in
printed form.

On motion the report was adopted.

38734°—sm 1911——7
98 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1911.

ANNUAL REPORT OF THE PERMANENT COMMITTEE.

Senator Henderson presented the following report:

To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution:

GENTLEMEN: The only matter of unfinished business in the hands of this
committee is the Andrews will case. A report upon the case was made to the
board at the meeting of February 10, 1910, which after discussion was referred
back to the committee with power to act.

As a result of a very thorough consideration of the matter, it is recom-
mended by the committee that all proceedings in the Andrews will case be

dropped.
JOHN B. HENDERSON, Chairman.

On motion the report of the permanent committee was adopted.

ANNUAL REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

The secretary stated that his report for the year ending June 30,
1910, had been printed and sent to the members of the board.

Delay in formal opening of the new building for the National
Museum.—tThe secretary said that on account of the nondelivery of
eases it had been impossible to install the exhibition series in time for
the opening of the building before the present Congress adjourned.
In view of this and of the great desirability of first having the com-
plete exhibition series thoroughly installed and the entire building in
condition for critical inspection he had thought it best to postpone
the formal opening until later. In the meantime the collections in
cases were so arranged as to be viewed by visitors.

Additions to art collections—tThe secretary remarked further that
Mr. William T. Evans had presented 32 more paintings to the col-
lections illustrating the work of American artists, and that he under-
stood that Mr. Evans contemplated assembling also a collection illus-
trative of wood engraving, an art which, because of the development
of the various photo-engraving processes, had practically fallen into
disuse.

He added that Mr. Charles L. Freer had returned to China for the
purpose of enlarging his great collection illustrating the early devel-
opment of Chinese art, all of which it was expected would come to
the Institution. Many of these articles were exceedingly rare and
very difficult to obtain, and the Institution would be most fortunate
in securing them.

Smithsonian African expedition—The secretary stated that Col.
Roosevelt’s final account of the expedition would be found in the
secretary’s report to the board. This, however, gave the scientific
results of the expedition in general terms only. He would state that
the total amount subscribed for the expedition was $51,700, and that
the expenditures to date amounted to $48,353.09, leaving a balance of
$3,346.91, which was being held for expenditures necessary to the
PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS. 99

completion of the final reports on the expedition being prepared by
the Smithsonian members of the party.

The secretary added that the collections were being permanently
arranged by the experts of the National Museum. It was intended
to mount certain of the animals in groups, with accessories, so as to
show their environment and habits.

On motion the secretary’s report was accepted.

LANGLEY MEMORIAL TABLET.

Senator Lodge, chairman of the committee on the Langley me-
morial tablet, reported that the desire of the board that this tablet .
should commemorate the work of Mr. Langley in aerial navigation
had been carried out in a design representing him as seated, engaged
in a profound study of the great problem. ‘The committee had en-
tered into an arrangement with a New York sculptor to design a
tablet 4 feet 6 inches high by 2 feet 5 inches wide. It had been ex-
pected that the model could be exhibited at this meeting, but a letter
had been received from the artist stating that an accident to the
model necessitated the working over of a large portion of it, and
therefore it could not be submitted at this meeting.

BIOLOGICAL SURVEY OF THE PANAMA ZONE.

The secretary stated that the plan for a biological survey of the
_ Panama Canal Zone, under the direction of the Smithsonian Insti-
tution, was described in his annual report, which had already been
distributed to the Regents.

Since the preparation of the report, a letter had been written to
the President outlining the plan, and asking if it would meet his
approval if cooperation were asked of the Isthmian Canal Com-
mission of the War Department, the Bureau of Fisheries of the De-
partment of Commerce and Labor, and the Biological Survey and
Bureaus of Entomology and Plant Industry of the Department of
Agriculture. The President gave his approval and authorized the
secretary to communicate with the departments mentioned, which was
done. All have signified their desire to cooperate and have assigned
experts to aid in the work. The estimated cost of the survey which
would have to be met by the Institution is $11,000, of which $5,750
has been subscribed.

For several years American and foreign naturalists have been
asking that a biological survey of the Canal Zone be undertaken,
and various attempts have been made to arrange for such a work.
The only plan that had materialized was one by the Field Museum
of Natural History, Chicago, for the collection and study of the fishes
of the Canal Zone. By agreement, this work will now be carried on
in conjunction with that of the Smithsonian Expedition,
100 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1911.

In answer to Senator Bacon’s inquiry as to the scope of the work
intended, the secretary said it was to cover studies of the animal
and plant life of the land and waters of the Canal Zone. Such a
survey is necessary before the canal is completed, as it is believed
that conditions will be changed after the canal is opened to commerce
and the waters of the Atlantic Ocean are joined with those of the
Pacific: The organisms of the various watersheds would then be
offered a ready means of mingling together, the natural barriers
would be obliterated, and the data for a true understanding of the
fauna and flora placed beyond reach.

THH HARRIMAN TRUST AND GIFT.

The secretary stated that he was desirous of establishing at the
Institution a number cf research associateships. He wished to give
exceptionally strong men an opportunity to do research work with-
out the care and burden of administrative duties, and with full
knowledge that as long as their work was properly conducted it
would be continued and that in the event of incapacity for active
work, provision would be made for them.

As an illustration, he cited the case of Dr. C. Hart Merriam, who
has been provided for through the hberality of Mrs. Edward H.
Harriman. He also mentioned that the Carnegie Institution of
Washington has a number of men engaged in special fields of work,
but added that there would be no probability of duplication of work.
The Carnegie Institution does not undertake exploratory work such
as that of the African expedition or the biological survey of the
Panama Canal*Zone. The field for scientific investigation is exten-
sive and there are numerous worthy projects that can not be*under-
taken because of lack of means.

In this connection the secretary announced that Dr. Merriam’s
splendid collection of American mammals had been purchased by
Mrs. Harriman for $10,000 and presented to the Institution.

HODGKINS GOLD MEDAL.

The secretary called the attention of the board to the establishment
some years ago of a gold medal under the name of “The Hodgkins
Medal of the Smithsonian Institution.” This was in honor of Mr.
Thomas George Hodgkins, the donor of the Hodgkins fund, and was
to be awarded for exceptional contributions to our knowledge of
the nature and properties of atmospheric air, or for original and
practical applications of existing knowledge of the air to the welfare
of mankind.

The first Hodgkins medal was awarded in 1898 to Prof. James
Dewar for his researches on the liquefaction and solidification of
PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS. 101

atmospheric air and for his discovery of the extraordinary magnetic
properties of liquid oxygen. The second award of the medal was
to Prof. J. J. Thomson in 1902 for his investigations on the conduc-
tivity of gases, especially on the gases that compose atmospheric air.

It is now proposed to award a third Hodgkins medal, provided it
is determined that sufficiently meritorious discoveries or investiga-
tions of the character mentioned have been made, and in order to
pass upon the matter an advisory committee on award has been
appointed.

PUBLICATION FUND FOR THE INSTITUTION.

The secretary stated that under the general appropriation for
public printing and binding, the Institution is allotted $10,000 for the
printing of its annual reports, but that its other publications were
paid for from private funds of the Institution.

He exhibited a set of the publications issued by the Institution
and its branches during the past two years, many of which had been
published at the cost of the Institution.

Mr. Mann inquired if the secretary would like to have a larger
edition of the annual report, to which the secretary replied that it
would be desirable. Mr. Mann responded that this might be possible
by a special resolution for any one year.

There was some further discussion, during which it was suggested
that. it would be proper for the secretary to speak of the matter of
an appropriation for the publications of Smithsonian works when
he was before the Committee on Appropriations.

DEATH OF OCTAVE CHANUTE.

The secretary recalled to the board that when the committee on
award of the Langley medal was appointed, Mr. Octave Chanute
was designated its chairman. Mr. Chanute died on November 23
last. His eminence as an engineer and his own important work in
the science of aeronautics peculiarly fitted him for the duties of
chairman of this committee, and his death wiil be a severe blow to the
new science.

The secretary added that it seemed best to defer the selection of his
successor as chairman of the committee for the present.

FULLER MEMORIAL SERVICE.

Senator Cullom said that he thought some more formal action
should be taken-in regard to the death of Chief Justice Fuller than
had been adopted at this meeting, and inquired whether the maiter
was being considered.
102 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1911.

The secretary replied that it had been his intention to request
certain members of the board to prepare sketches of Chief Justice
Fuller’s life, which might later be printed in the annual report.

Senator Cullom added that he would like very much to have an
address delivered before the Regents by Justice Harlan, who above
all others was the most competent to prepare it.

After further discussion, Senator Cullom moved—

That Mr. Justice Harlan be requested to deliver, under the auspices of the
Board of Regents, and at such time as will best suit his convenience, an address
upon the life and work of the late Chief Justice Melville W. Fuller.

The motion was carried, and Justice Harlan said that he would
be glad to deliver the address and that he would confer with the
secretary on the subject.

ADJOURNMENT.

There being no further business to come before the board, on mo-
tion the meeting adjourned and the Regents inspected the exhibit of
skins and mounted specimens from the African expedition collection.

REGULAR MEETING, FEBRUARY 9Q, 1911.

Present: The Hon. James §. Sherman, Vice President of the
United States (chancellor), in the chair; the Hon. Edward Douglass
White, Chief Justice of the United States; Senator S. M. Cullom,
Senator A. O. Bacon, Representative John Dalzell, Representative
James R. Mann, Dr. James B. Angell, the Hon. John B. Henderson,
the Hon. George Gray, and the secretary, Mr. Charles D. Walcott.

ORDER OF BUSINKESS.

In accordance with the previously adopted order of business, the
following matters were next reported on by the secretary:

Appointment of Regents—Section 5580 of the Revised Statutes
provides that the Chief Justice of the United States shall be a
Regent of the Smithsonian Institution. The vacancy in the office of
Chief Justice caused by the death of Chief Justice Fuller has been
filled by the appointment by the President of Mr. Justice Edward
Douglass White, who therefore, under the operation of the section
named, becomes a Regent ex officio.

Dr. James B. Angell has been reappointed for a term of six years
by joint resolution of Congress. ;

Closing up of Andrews will case-—At the annual meeting held
December 8, 1910, the board adopted a recommendation of the per-
manent committee that all further proceedings in the Andrews will
case be dropped. The instructions of the board have been complied
with.
PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS. 103

Fuller memorial meeting.—It having appeared to be the wish of
the board at its annual meeting on December 8 last that a formal .
meeting in memory of the late Chief Justice Fuller should be held
by the Regents, a resclution was then adopted inviting Justice Har-
lan to deliver such an address on a suitable occasion, the time of
which was to be left entirely to his convenience. The secretary re-
grets to report that Justice Harlan has written him to say that he
finds himself unable in the near future to comply with the wishes
of the board.

After discussion, in which it was suggested that the proposed trib-
ute to the late chancellor take the form of a memorial to be published
in the annual report, the following resolution was adopted:

Resolved, That the secretary be requested to prepare a suitable memorial of
the life and work of the late Chief Justice Melville Weston Fuller, chancellor
of the Smithsonian Institution from 1888 to 1910, which memorial is hereby de-
ciared approved for inclusion in the next annual report of the Board of Regents.

Langley memorial tablet.—At the last meeting of the board it was
reported that the Langley memorial tablet had met with an acci-
dent and would have to be remodeled. This work of repair has been
going on, but no photograph showing the present condition of the
tablet has been submitted by the sculptor.

Hodgkins gold medal of tke Institution—The committee ap-
pointed by the secretary to consider whether sufficiently important
investigations into the phenomena of atmospheric air in relation to
the welfare of mankind had been made to merit the award of the
third Hodgkins gold medal have reported their findings with a
recommendation, which report is now being considered.

Biological survey of the Panama Canal Zone.—The secretary
stated that the board would recall that at the late annual meeting
lke had spoken of the organization of a biological survey of the
Panama Canal Zone to include studies of the life of the land and
waters of that region, and had explained the necessity for immediate
action, as the opening of the canal would mingle the waters of the
Atlantic and Pacific Oceans, which might permanently destroy the
possibility of a true understanding of the fauna and flora now
existing there.

Since that meeting a party of naturalists designated to carry on
the work has reached the zone, and the collections resulting from
their work are already arriving. Those engaged in the survey are
the following:

Prof. S. E. Meek, of the Field Museum of Natural History; Prof.
Henry Pittier, of the United States Bureau of Plant Industry; Mr.
EK. A. Goldman, of the United States Biological Survey; Mr. S. F.
Hildebrand, of the United States Bureau of Fisheries; Mr. E. A.
Schwarz and Mr. August Busck, of the United States Bureau of
104 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1911.

Entomology; and Mr. William R. Maxon, of the United States
National Museum.

Much interest is being manifested in this survey both here and in
the zone. The Republic of Panama is so impressed with the im-
portance of the work that it has invited the Institution to extend
the survey into that country.

The Institution is indebted to the Departments of State, Agricul-
‘ure, Commerce and Labor, the War Department, and the Panama
Railroad & Steamship Co. for courtesies which have insured the
success of the enterprise.

As previously stated, a very considerable part of the funds neces-
sary for the survey has been received by subscription.

Appointment of an additional assistant secretary.—The secretary
called attention to the large increase in the work of the Institution
and its branches, brought about by the natural growth of their
activities and the addition of new interests, and stated that there was
need for the appointment of an additional assistant secretary.

He desired the permission of the board to appoint to that position
before the close of the present fiscal year Dr. Frederick William —
True, who entered the service of the Institution in 1878, who was
a zoologist of established reputation, and who was now head curator
of the Department of Biology in the United States National Museum.
After discussion, the following resolution was adopted:

Resolved, That the proposed appointment by the secretary of Dr. Frederick
William True as assistant secretary of the Smithsonian Institution be approved.

Bequest of George W. Poore.—The secretary announced that since
the annual meeting notice had been received that the Institution had
been made the residual legatee of the late George W. Poore, of
Lowell, Mass., who left an estate estimated to be $40,000, under the
condition that the income from this sum should be added to the prin-
cipal until a total of $250,000 should have been reached, and that then
the income only was to be used for the purposes for which the Insti-
tution was created. The portions of the will relating to the bequest
are as follows:

ford

IreM 7. The large and small photographs of myself I desire given to the
Smithsonian Institute hereinafter mentioned; to be given a place in their Insti-
tute where they may be seen, as one of the conditions of the gift to them
herein made by me.

Item 8. All the rest, residue, and remainder of my estate, real, personal, and
mixed, of whatever name or nature and wherever found or situate, of which
I shall die seized, possessed, or entitled, whether at law or in equity, I give,
devise, and bequeath to the Smithsonian Institute, at Washington, D. C., but in
trust nevertheless and upon the condition, in addition to the condition as to
photographs of myself as above, that the fund realized from my estate and
from turning the real and personal estate into money shall he held for-
ever by said Smithsonian Institute as a fund to be called the Lucy T., and
George W. Poore fund, and upon condition that the income only of said fund
PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS. 105

shall be used for the purposes only for which said Smithsonian Institute was
created, said Lucy T. and George W. Poore fund to be kept separate from all
other funds, and the income from the same not to be used until the principal,
by accumulation of the income to be added to the principal from year to year,
shall have reached the sum of two hundred and fifty thousand dollars. I make
this gift not so much because of its amount as because I hope it will prove an
example for other Americans to follow, by supporting and encouraging so wise
and beneficent an institution as I believe the Smithsonian Institute to be, and
yet it has been neglected and overlooked by American citizens.

The secretary said: “At my request the Institution’s interests in
the matter are being looked after by Mr. Choate, of the Board of
Regents, who has assured me that he will be glad to act as agent or
attorney for the Institution without charge.”

The Paul J. Rainey expedition to Africa—The secretary said
that Mr. Paul J. Rainey, of New York City, recently called at the
Institution and stated that it was his intention to make a hunting
and collecting trip in Africa, and asked if a man could be sent with
him to prepare the specimens which he wished to present to the
Institution. The route of travel was to be north of that of the recent
Smithsonian expedition, through the country lying between the
northern portion of British East Africa and the southern part of
Abyssinia. Mr. Rainey agreed to bear all expenses in connection
with the trip.

It was thought desirable to accept this offer, as it was hoped to
add new material to the present collections; and Mr. Edmund
Heller, who was one of the field naturalists on the Smithsonian
expedition, and who was now engaged in working up that collection,
had been authorized to suspend work upon it temporarily, and de-
tailed to accompany Mr. Rainey. He expected to sail on February
18, and to be absent about eight months.

Portrait of Washington.—The secretary called attention to a por-
trait of Gen. Washington, which was hanging in the room in which
the board was then meeting.

This portrait was part of the Lewis collection of Washington
relics purchased by the Government in 1878 and stored for a time
at the Patent Office. When the collection was transmitted to the
National Museum in 1883, the Commissioner of Patents retained
this picture, and it is only recently that the matter came up, with
the result that the portrait was sent to the Institution by the Secre-
tary of the Interior, Mr. Ballinger.

The picture has been attributed to Gilbert Stuart, but a careful
investigation fails to reveal anything to substantiate the claim, and
it is now recorded as having been painted by an unknown artist.
By some it is regarded as a copy of an original painting. Mrs. Lewis
had said that there was a tradition in the family that this was con-
sidered the best likeness of Washington ever painted.
106 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1911.

American Indian memorial and museum building.—It was stated
by the secretary that a request to Congress to erect in Washington
an American Indian memorial and museum building, under the con-
trol of the Secretary of the Interior, had been embodied in two iden-
tical bills designated as follows: House joint resolution 274 and Sen-
ate bill 9830.

This subject is one which, by direction of Congress, has long been
fostered by the Smithsonian Institution through the National
Museum and the Bureau of American Ethnology, all material objects
being deposited in the former, and all records of investigations in
the latter. The Museum collection is the richest in the world as
regards the Indians of North America, to which the proposed new
building is intended to be devoted. In extent and variety the col-
Jections of the National Museum are not what they might and should
be, but this is due to the fact that appropriations sufficient to perfect
these collections have never been obtainable.

The founding of a new museum, especially under the proposed
auspices, could only result in the partial duplication of objects and
records and in an increase in the cost of bringing together a proper
representation of the North American Indians. Should Congress
take any action in this matter, it would seem desirable that it be
directed toward giving increased funds for the use of the Institution
and Museum. If the movement is one tending to bring individual
help from different parts of the country, such cooperation could best
be turned toward increasing the present collections, which are already
extensive and important.

Commercial museum.—The subject of establishing at the National
Capital a trade or commercial museum to be maintained at the ex-
pense of the Government has been recently agitated in connection
with the Board of Trade of Washington. While no bill in support
of such a measure has been submitted to Congress as yet, it is appar-
ently the intention to request congressional action in connection with
any celebration which may be held here in commemoration of the
completion of the Panama Canal.

While such a museum would follow lines in large part not included
in the plan of the National Museum, yet in some respects the tendency
would be to duplicate its collections,

It would, furthermore, appear to those who have given the matter
consideration that Washington is not the proper place for the loca-
tion of a museum of this kind. It should be established and con-
ducted in a large commercial center like New York City.

Prehistoric ruins.—The secretary exhibited a number of photo-
graphs showing the excavations among prehistoric cliff dwellings
and pueblo ruins in New Mexico resulting from the joint work of
the Bureau of American Ethnology and the Archeological Institute
PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS. 107

of America. In one canyon in which these excavations were con-
ducted the cliff dwellings extend along the wall of the canyon for
about 2 miles, while in another locality in the same general region
one of the many pueblo ruins covers an area of about 600 feet square.
Other photographs were presented showing the excavation and re-
pair of the celebrated Balcony House in southern Colorado, conducted
under the joint auspices of the Smithsonian Institution and the Colo-
rado Cliff Dwellers Association. Excavations were made also in
newly discovered cliff dwellings and other archeological remains in
northwestern Arizona.

Field work has been conducted by the Bureau of American Eth-
nology among the tribes which composed the Creek Confederacy of
the Southern States; the Tewa Indians of the Rio Grande Valley,
New Mexico; the Winnebago Indians of Wisconsin and Nebraska;
the Piegan, Blackfeet, Cheyenne, and Menominee Indians of the
Algonquian family; the Chippewa Indians, especially with reference
to their music; the Osage Indians, now in Oklahoma, and the Iro-
quois in New York. A study of the past and present population of
the Indians, with the various causes of their decrease, is being con-
ducted, and a bibliography of the Hawaiian Islands is in prepa-
ration.

Resignation of Senator Henderson.—Senator Henderson stated
that he had served the Institution as a Regent for 19 years, but that
he had now reluctantly come to the conclusion that it was neces-
sary to relieve himself of all possible work, as the condition of his
health would not permit him to continue his duties with satisfaction
to himself and justice to the Institution. He therefore desired to
tender his resignation as a Regent to take effect at such time as would
best suit the board’s convenience.

After discussion, the Senator first submitted his resignation as a
member of the executive committee to take effect at once, and on
motion it was carried—

That the resignation of the Hon. John B. Henderson, chairman of the execu-
tive committee, as a member of that committee, be accepted with regret.

The Senator then presented his resignation as a Regent to take
effect March 1, 1911.

Judge Gray offered the following resolution, which was unani-
mously adopted: a

Whereas the board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution having learned
that the Hon. John B. Henderson has tendered his resignation as a Regent, a
position he has filled with signal ability for 19 years;

Resolved, That the Regents desire here to express to him their high apprecia-
tion of his services as a member of the board, their sincere regret at the termi-

nation of his official connection with the institution, and their cordial good
wishes for his future health and happiness.
108 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1911.

Mr. Mann then offered the following resolution, which was adopted:

Resolved, That the resolution in relation to the resignation of the Hon. John
B. Henderson as a Regent of the Smithsonian Institution be engrossed and
transmitted to him.

The chanceilor stated that the secretary would communicate to Con-
gress the announcement of Senator Henderson’s resignation.

Executive committee vacancy filled—The matter of the vacancy in
the membership of the executive committee was brought up, and
Senator Bacon was nominated for the position. After discussion,
the following resolution was adopted :

Resolved, That the vacancy in the membership of the executive committee,
caused by the resignation of the Hon. John B. Henderson, be filled by the
election of the Hon. A, O. Bacon.

Models of patents—Mr. Mann said that there were pending in
Congress bills providing for the destruction of the old models that
had been on deposit in the Patent Office for many years, and asked
if the Smithsonian Institution could make any use of them.

The secretary explained that this matter had been brought to the
Institution’s attention two or three years since, and that about
12,000 of the models had been selected for the use of the industrial
exhibit in the Museum. Those left were not suited to museum pur-
poses.

Adjournment.—There being no further business to be transacted,
on motion the board adjourned.
GENERAL APPENDIX

TO THE

SMITHSONIAN REPORT FOR 1911

109
ADVERTISEMENT.

The object of the GeNERAL APPENDIX to the Annual Report of the
Smithsonian Institution is to furnish brief accounts of scientific dis-
covery in particular directions; reports of investigations made by
collaborators of the Institution; and memoirs of a general character
or on special topics that are of interest or value to the numerous
correspondents of the Institution.

It has been a prominent object of the Board of Regents of the
Smithsonian Institution, from a very early date, to enrich the annual
report required of them by law with memoirs illustrating the more
remarkable and important developments in physical and biological
discovery, as well as showing the general character of the operations
of the Institution; and this purpose has, during the greater part of
its history, been carried out largely by the publication of such papers
as would possess an interest to all attracted by scientific progress.

In 1880 the secretary, induced in part by the discontinuance of an
annual summary of progress which for 30 years previous had been
issued by well-known private publishing firms, had prepared by com-
petent collaborators a series of abstracts, showing concisely the prom-
inent features of recent scientific progress in astronomy, geology,
meteorology, physics, chemistry, mineralogy, botany, zoology, and
anthropology. This latter plan was continued, though not altogether
satisfactorily, down to and including the year 1888.

In the report for 1889 a return was made to the earlier method of
presenting a miscellaneous selection of papers (some of them original)
embracing a considerable range of scientific investigation and dis-
cussion. This method has been continued in the present report for
1911. ;

110
THE GYROSTATIC COMPASS.!
[With 3 plates. ]

By H. MarcnHanp.

The gyrostatic compass may be looked upon as one of the most
interesting inventions made during recent years.

The gyroscope is familiar to all. Nor are we ignorant to-day of
the fundamental laws which govern it. The great physicist Fou-
cault first completely formulated them as the result of his profound
researches on the subject.

The first of these laws is that a gyroscope with perfect freedom of
movement—that is, the power to move in any direction, and free from
the action of gravity—will tend to maintain the initial position given
to it. The second law is that if a gyroscope has only two degrees of
freedom, in such a way that it can undergo displacement in two planes
only, it must, if subject to the action of gravity, and provided that it
is not at the poles of the earth, tend to place itself so that its axis is
‘parallel to that of the earth and accordingly will indicate the direc-
tion of true north.

A system of this kind is free from the errors which affect the mag-
netic compass, and therefore the idea of taking advantage of it for
navigation must have early attracted the attention of investigators,
especially as the general use of steel in the construction of vessels
entails grave difficulties in the use of magnetic instruments.

Formerly the means at hand were insufficient for constructing a
satisfactory, practical instrument, and so, during the time of Foucault,
and even much later, the numerous scientists who approached the
problem did not meet with much success.

A German investigator, Dr. Anschiitz, has recently succeeded in
constructing an instrument on gyrostatic principles which is prac-
tical. In 1900 he commenced the study of a gyroscope with perfect
freedom of movement. Later, however, in 1906, be abandoned that
for one having only two degrees of freedom.

Even with the latter conditions the problem required great nicety.
A grave difficulty comes from the fact that such a device is affected,
under ordinary circumstances, not only by the rotation of the earth
but also by all the forces to which it is subjected beeause of the rolling

1 Translated by permission from Cosmos, Paris, New Series No. 1385, Aug. 12, 1911, pp. 181-184.
lll
112 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1911.

of the ship. Therefore, in order to get a good result, it was necessary
for the compass to have a very great gyrostatic resistance, so termed,
opposing energetically any force tending to change the direction of its
axis of rotation, and that the friction of its bearings should be made
as small as possible. A consequence of the latter condition, however,
would be that the gyrostat would come to its normal position only
after a relatively long time, oscillating to and fro about that normal
position. Meanwhile it would be subject to new perturbations.

Accordingly one great desideratum was to provide some device for
lessening these oscillations; at first, Anschtitz tried for this purpose
a second gyrostat; later he developed a much more simple and effi-
cient method. His gyrostatic compass was tried on the steamer
Deutschland in 1908 and has since been used in the German Navy.
It has just been adopted by the English Navy, and other navies are
also trying it.

Let us consider its principles: We know that a gyroscope once
started tends to maintain its axis in an invariable direction, and
that if any force is applied tending to change this direction, preces-
sional movement takes place, which displaces the axis perpendicular
to the direction of the disturbing force. Such being the case, let us
imagine a gyroscope, inclosed in an appropriate box, suspended from
a float which rests in a liquid bath in such a manner that the gyro-
scope is perfectly free to swing in any direction like a pendulum
which is at rest; the center of gravity of the system is below the
metacenter; the gyroscope is mounted at the lowest point possible.
Because of its weight the axis of the gyroscope tends to maintain
itself, as well as the whole attached mechanism, in a horizontal
position.

Let us set the gyroscope disk rotating. In the past such rotation
could be effected only by rough and very unsatisfactory means; now
we have a much more advantageous method at our disposal. We
may, for instance, drive it by alittle three-phase motor fed by means of
fine conducting wires so that the rotation may be kept up indefinitely.

As soon as the gyroscope disk is in rapid rotation with its axis hori-
zontal, then if this axis is not in the plane of the terrestrial meridian,
the rotation of the earth will tend to alter the axis from its original
position. The gyroscope tends to respond, but, restricted by its
weight, which forces the axis to remain horizontal, it will undergo
only a horizontal displacement.

This leads it to take a north and south direction, because as long as
its axis 1s not parallel to that of the earth, the cause of this movement
is still effective, so that if it is sufficiently free to move, it will indicate
true north.

Plate 1 shows a model designed to show experimentally this action.
It consists of a small gyroscope, driven by a small three-phase elec-
THE GYROSTATIC COMPASS—-MARCHAND., 43

tric motor, and entirely free to turn in any direction were it not for
two small springs, which serve to represent the attraction due to
gravity and tend to keep the gyroscope’s axis tangent to the surface
of the sphere upon which it is mounted. This apparatus may be
slipped along a large movable metallic circle representing a meridian.

When the springs are detached the axis of the gyroscope tends to
take an invariable direction and to depart from it only because of the
inevitable friction which is present at the pivots.

However, once these springs are attached, if the meridian circle
is moved to another place on the globe, then the axis will change so as
to come into the plane of the circle, one of its extremities being directed
toward the upper pole of the circle. According to the direction of
the gyroscope and that
of the circle, one or the
other end of the axis
moves so as to point to
this upper pole.

In the Anschiitz
compass, of which fig-
ure | is asectional and
plate 2 a perspective
view, the gyrostat is
similarly driven by a
three-phase electric
motor; the float from
which the gyroscope is 2
suspended is a hollow Fira. 1—Anschiitz gyrostatic compass. Vertical section. A, three-
Beg cipal partially, .isot tise t ahha cae cere
immersed in & mer- float, floating in the mercury Q and counterbalancing the weight

Z . of the moving system; K, compass box, suspended as usual by
cury bath contained in gymbals; S, T, special suspension, made of two insulated conduct-
an annular box also of ors for leading in two branches of the three-phase current, the third
ste el T 0 th a + op of circuit being made through the floating ring and the surrounding

this float is fixed the
compass card. The north-south line of the card coincides exactly
with the direction of the axis of the gyrostat.

The small motor which rotates the gyrostat disk is so constructed
that its stationary part is built on the box of the gyrostat. The
electrical connections to the exterior are made for two of the circuits
through small cups of mercury. The third circuit passes through the
mercury bath containing the float and then through the case itself.
The rotor is rigidly built on the gyrostat disk. It is of one piece,
spindle and all, and made of nickel steel. It is provided with ball
bearings of extra-hard steel and makes 20,000 revolutions per min-
ute. The axle is of the Laval type or ‘‘flexible axle.” Its great

38734°—sm 1911——8

114 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1911.

velocity of rotation frees it from any danger of deformation due to
shocks.

A small level is attached to the compass card to assure that the
instrument is horizontal. The whole system is mounted on gymbals
and attached to the binnacle with springs after the usual manner with
marine magnetic compasses.

The damping of the oscillations of the compass is effected in a very
ingenious manner. Near the center and on both sides of the gyrostat
box are bored small holes. A third hole is bored in the surrounding
case. The rotation of the gyrostat produces a current of air within
and a pressure toward the exterior.

The jet of air at its exit is cut by a small blade attached to a
pendulum. When the compass is exactly horizontal, the jet is divided
equally on both sides of the blade. If it is not horizontal, the pen-
dulum displaces the blade with reference to the aperture; then the
divided portions of the jet of air are no longer equal and a damping
couple is produced.

As with other compasses, this, too, is subject to disturbing influences.
But a great advantage of the gyrostatic compasses lies in the fact
that in all cases the causes of the disturbances are independent of the
special instrument and may be corrected by specially prepared tables.

Another important property is that the directing force can be made
much greater than is possible with the magnetic needle. Generally
it is five times that of an ordinary well-constructed magnetic compass.
Further, since the axis remains both in the meridional and in the
horizontal planes, the dial can oscillate only slightly about the north
and south direction. This renders it easy to fix contact points at
the extremities of the east and west line for the electrical transmission
elsewhere of the indications of the compass.

A gyrostatic compass equipment consists of a master compass,
provided with a transmitter, and secondary compasses connected
electrically with the master. The master compass, together with
the transmitter, is placed in a convenient, well-protected place, and
the secondary ones placed wherever they are needed; or two master
compasses may be used with two systems of secondary ones.

The master compass, with its transmitter, of which a photograph
is shown in plate 3, figure 1, differs from the others in that the binnacle
is moved by a reversible electric motor controlled by contacts under
the gyrostat itself, so that it turns rapidly when necessary and follows
at all times the motions of the axis of the gyrostat.

Tt is this moving binnacle which sends the currents controlling the
secondary compasses and keeps them in synchronism with the master
compass. The latter carries on its axis the necessary commutator.

Special secondary compasses are employed, as shown in the illus-
tration (pl. 3, fig. 2). It may be noted that it has at its center a
THE GYROSTATIC COMPASS—MARCHAND, 115

second limb, which makes one complete rotation for each 10 degrees
of deviation and thus renders visible very small deviations. The
current for the motors of the gyrostat and of the transmitter is fur-
nished at 120 volts, 333 periods per second by a 16-pole motor
generator working on an ordinary direct-current lighting cireuit. It
runs at a speed of 2,500 turns per minute. The motor of the gyrostat
is bipolar. An Anschititz compass uses normally 700 watts. Besides
the apparatus already described, there is furnished a short description,
with the necessary directions for starting the compass and regulating
it. Ammeters are placed in each of the three circuits, and a voltmeter
may be connected between any two of them. For each wire there is
a pair of fuses so contrived that, by means of a quick-working switch,
if one of the fuses fails the other may be quickly inserted.
Smithsonian Report, 1911.—Marchand. PLATE 1.

DEMONSTRATION MODEL OF GYROSTATIC COMPASS.
Smithsonian Report, 1911.—Marchand. PLATE 2.

GYROSTATIC COMPASS.
Smithsonian

Report, 1911.—Marchand.

1. COMPASS AND TRANSMITTER. MASTER COMPASS.

2. RECEIVER. SECONDARY COMPASS.

PLATE
RADIOTELEGRAPHY.?

[With 1 plate.]
By ComMENDATORE G. Marconi, LL.D., D.Sc.

The practical application of electric waves to the purposes of wire-
less telegraphic transmission over long distances has continued to
extend to a remarkable degree during the last few years, and many of
the difficulties, which at the outset appeared almost insurmountable,
have been gradually overcome, chiefly through the improved knowl-
edge which we have obtained in regard to the subject generally and
to the principles involved.

The experiments which I have been fortunate enough to be able
to carry out, on a much larger scale than can be done in ordinary
laboratories, have made possible the investigation of phenomena often
novel and certainly unexpected.

Although we have—or believe we have—all the data necessary for
_ the satisfactory production and reception of electric waves, we are yet
far from possessing any very exact knowledge concerning the con-
ditions governing the transmission of these waves through space,
especially over what may be termed long distances. Although it is
now perfectly easy to design, construct, and operate stations capable of
satisfactory commercial working over distances up to 2,500 miles, no
really clear explanation has yet been given of many absolutely authen-
ticated facts concerning these waves. Some of these hitherto
apparent anomalies I shall mention briefly in passing.

Why is it that when using short waves the distances covered at
night are usually enormously greater than those traversed in the day
time, while when using much longer waves the range of transmission
by day and night is about equal and sometimes even greater by day ?

What explanation has been given of the fact that the night dis-
tances obtainable in a north-southerly direction are so much greater
than those which can be effected in an east-westerly one?

Why is it that mountains and land generally should greatly obstruct
the propagation of short waves when sunlight is present and not dur-
ing the hours of darkness ?

1 Reprinted by permission from author’s separate of Proceedings of the Royal Institution. Read
before Royal Institution of Great Britain at weekly evening meeting, Friday, June 2, 1911.
117
118 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1911.

The general principles on which practical radiotelegraphy is based
are now so well known that I need only refer to them in the buelene
possible manner.

Wireless telegraphy, which was made possible by the fields of
research thrown open by the work of Faraday, Maxwell, and Hertz, is
operated by electric waves, which are created by Bloons currents
of very high frequency, induced in suitably placed elevated wires or
capacity areas. These waves are received or picked up at a distant
station oh other elevated conductors tuned to the period of the waves,
and the latter are revealed to our senses by means of appropriate
detectors.

My original system as used in 1896 consisted of the arrangement
shown diagrammatically in figure 1, where an elevated or vertical wire

was employed.
: This wire some-
; times terminated
in a capacity or
was connected to
earth through a
spark gap.

By using an in-
duction coil or
other source of
sufficiently high
tension electricity
sparks were made
to jump across the
gap; thisgave rise
to oscillations of
high frequency 1 in
the elevated conductor and earth, with the result that energy in the
form of electric waves was radiated through space.

At the receiving station (fig. 2) these waves induced oscillatory
currents in a conductor containing a detector, in the form of a coherer,
which was usually placed between the elevated conductor and earth.

Although this arrangement was extraordinarily efficient in regard
to the radiation of electrical energy, it had numerous drawbacks.

The electrical capacity of the system was very small, with the
result that the small amount of energy in the aerial was thrown into
space in an exceedingly short period of time. In other words, the
energy, instead of giving rise to a train of waves, was all dissipated
after only a few oscillations, and, consequently, anything approaching
good tuning between the transmitter and receiver was found to be
unobtainable in practice.

Fig. 1. Fig. 2.
RADIOTELEGRAPH Y— MARCONI. 119

Many mechanical analogies could be quoted which show that in
order to obtain syntony the operating energy must be supplied in the
form of a sufficient number of small oscillations or impulses properly
timed. Acoustics furnish us with numerous examples of this fact,
such as the resonance produced by the well-known tuning fork
experiment.

Other illustrations of this principle may be given; e. g., if we have
to set a heavy pendulum in motion by means of small thrusts or
impulses, the latter must be timed to the period of the pendulum, as
otherwise its oscillations would not acquire any appreciable amplitude.

In 1900 I first adopted the arrangement which is now in general
use, and which consists (as shown in fig. 3) of the inductive associa-
tion of the elevated radiating wire with a condenser circuit which may
be used to store up a considerable amount of electrical energy and
impart it at a slow rate to the radiating
wire.

As is now well known, the oscillations in
a condenser circuit can be made to persist
for what is electrically a long period of
time, and it can be arranged moreover that
by means of suitable aerials or antenne
these oscillations are radiated into space
in the form of a series of waves, which
through their cumulative effect are emi-
_ nently suitable for enabling good tuning
and syntony to be obtained between the
transmitter and receiver.

The circuits, consisting of the condenser
circuit and the elevated aerial or radiating
circuit, were more or less closely coupled
to each other. By adjusting the inductance in the elevated con-
ductor, and by the employment of the right value of capacity or
inductance required in the condenser circuit, the two circuits were
brought into electrical resonance, a condition which I first pointed
out as being essential in order to obtain efficient radiation and good
tuning.

The receiver (as shown in fig. 4) also consists of an elevated con-
ductor or aerial connected to earth or capacity through an oscil-
lating transformer. The latter also contains the condenser and
detector, the circuits being made to have approximately the same
electrical time period as that of the transmitter circuits.

At the long distance station situated at Clifden, in Ireland, the
arrangement which has given the best results is based substantially
upon my syntonic system of 1900, to which have been added numerous
improvements.

8
8
tA
3

Fi4. 3.
120 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1911.

An important innovation from a practical point of view was the
adoption at Clifden and Glace Bay of air condensers, composed of
insulated metallic plates suspended in air at ordinary pressure. In
this manner we greatly reduce the loss of energy which would take
place in consequence of dielectric hysteresis were a glass or solid
dielectric employed. A very considerable economy in working also
results from the absence of dielectric breakages, for, should the
potential be so raised as to even produce a discharge from plate to
plate across the condenser, this does not permanently affect the value
of the dielectric, as air is self-healing and one of the few commodities
which can be replaced at a minimum of cost.

Various arrangements have been tried and tested for obtaining
continuous or very prolonged trains
of waves, but it has been my expe-
rience that, when utilizing the best re-
ceivers at present available, itis neither
economical nor efficient to attempt to
make the waves toocontinuous. Much
better results are obtained when
groups of waves (fig. 5) are emitted et
regular intervals in such manner that
their cumulative effect produces a
clear musical note in the receiver,
which is tuned not only to the period-
icity of the electric waves transmitted .
but also to their group frequency.

In this manner the receiver may be
doubly tuned, with the result that a
far greater selectivity can be obtained
than by the employment of wave tun-
ing alone.

In fact, it is quite easy to pick up simultaneously different messages
transmitted om the same wave length, but syntonized to different
group frequencies.

As far as wave tuning goes, very good results—almost as good es
are obtainable by means of continuous oscillations—can be achieved
with groups of waves, the decrement of which is in each group 0.03
or 0.04, which means that about 30 or 40 useful oscillations are
rudiated before their amplitude has become too small to perceptibly
affect the receiver.

The condenser circuit at Clifden has a decrement of from 0.015
%o 0.03 for fairly long waves.

% This persistency of the oscillations has been obtained by the
@mployment of the system shown in figure 6, which I first described
in a patent taken out in September, 1907. This method eliminates

FIG. 4.
RADIOTELEGRAPHY——-MARCONI. iPAl

almost completely the spark gap and its consequent resistance, which,
as is well known, is the principal cause of the damping or decay of
the waves in the usual transmitting circuit.

The apparatus shown in figure 6 consists of a metal disk a, having
copper studs firmly fixed at regular intervals in its periphery and
placed transversely to its plane. This disk is caused to rotate very
rapidly between two other disks, 6, by means of a rapidly revolving
electric motor or steam turbine. These side disks are also made to
slowly turn round in a plane at right angles to that of the middle
disk. The connections are as illustrated in the figure. The studs
are of such length as to just touch the side disks in passing, and
thereby bridge

the gap between ie
the latter. RESONANCE CURVE =

ye a CurOEN :
quency employe

4 PRIMARY CIRCUIT kK

at Clifden, name- z
ly, 45,000, when §reAT=-025 ec
a potential of — torarresistance _ 1405 ws)
15,000)5, Hy.olésy ois)... PEAUOING SPARE SSe2088 2888 Wave Len
used on the con- he BARShSR SAS R IN FEET
denser, the spark KE

gap is practically
closed during the
~ time in which one
complete oscilla- geri ations CORRESPONDING TO ABOVE RESONANCE CURVE
tion only is taking

place, when the
peripherical alge eas re acre Se ee
speed of the disk S_- =f Se e~-
isabout 600 feet  SERIES.or WAVE TRAINS RADIATEL rom CLIFDEN AERIAL
second. The re- SPARK FREQUENCY SOD FER Sec.

sult is that the oor

primary circuit can continue oscillating without material loss by
resistance in the spark gap. Of course the number of oscillations
which can take place is governed by the breadth or thickness of the
side disks, the primary circuit being abruptly opened as soon as the
studs attached to the middle disk leave the side disks.

This sudden opening of the primary circuit tends to immediately
quench any oscillations which may still persist in the condenser
circuit; and this fact carries with it a further and not inconsiderable
advantage, for if the coupling of the condenser circuit to the aerial
is of a suitable value the energy of the primary will have practically
all passed to the aerial circuit during the period of time in which the

122 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1911.

primary condenser circuit is closed by the stud filling the gap between
the side disks; but after this the opening of the gap at the disks
prevents the energy returning to the condenser circuit from thé aerial,
as would happen were the ordinary spark gap employed. In this
manner the usual reaction which would take place between the aerial
and the condenser circuit can be obviated, with the result that with
this type of discharger and with a suitable degree of coupling the
energy is radiated from the aerial in the form of a pure wave, the
loss from the spark gap resistance being reduced to a minimum.

I am able to show a resonance curve taken at Clifden which was
obtained from the
oscillations in the
primary alone (fig.
5).

An interesting
feature of the Clif-
den plant, espe-
cially from a prac-
tical and engineer-
ing point of view,
is the regular em-
ployment of high-
tension direct cur-
rent for charging
the condenser.
Continuous cur-
rent at a potential
which is capable
of being raised to
20,000 volts is ob-
tained by means
ARGER of special direct-
rs | current genera-
tors; these ma-
chines charge a
storage battery consisting of 6,000 cells, all connected in series, and
it may be pointed out that this battery is the largest of its kind in
existence. The capacity of each cell is 40 ampere-hours. When
employing the cells alone the working voltage is from 11,000 to 12,000
volts, and when both the direct-current generators and the battery
are used together the potential may be raised to 15,000 volts through
utilizing the gassing voltage of the storage cells.

For a considerable portion of the day the storage battery alone is
employed, with a result that for 16 hours out of the 24 no running

DISK DISCH

nTRUOUS it

Fa. 6.
RADIOTELEGRAPH Y—MARCONI. 123

machinery need be used for operating the station, with the single
exception of the small motor revolving the disk.

The potential to which the condenser is charged reaches 18,000
volts when that of the battery or generators is 12,000. This poten-
tial is obtained in consequence of the rise of potential at the con-
denser plates, brought about by the rush of current through the
choking or inductance coils at each charge. These coils are placed
between the battery or generator and the condenser ¢, figure 6.

No practical difficulty has been encountered either at Clifden or
Glace Bay in regard to the insulation and maintenance of these high-
tension storage batteries. Satisfactory insulation has been obtained
by dividing the battery into small sets of cells placed on separate
stands. These stands are suspended on insulators attached to girders
fixed in the ceiling of the battery room. A system of switches,
which can all be operated electrically and simultaneously, divides the
battery into sections, the potential of each section being low enough
to enable the cells to be handled without inconvenience or risk.

The arrangement of aerial adopted at Clifden and Glace Bay is
shown in figure 7. This system, which is based on the result of tests
which I first de-
scribed before the
Royal Society in
June, 1906,1 not
only. makes it pos-
sible to efficiently
radiate and receive
waves of any desired length, but it also tends to confine the main
portion of the radiation to any desired direction. The limitation of
transmission to one direction is not very sharply defined, but
nevertheless the results obtained are exceedingly useful for practical
working.

In a similar manner, by means of these horizontal wires, it is
possible to define the bearing or direction of a sending station, and
also limit the receptivity of the receiver to waves arriving from a
given direction.

The commercial working of radiotelegraphy and. the widespread
application of the system on shore and afloat in nearly all parts of
the world has greatly facilitated the marshaling of facts and the
observation of effects. Many of these, as I have already stated, still
await a satisfactory explanation.

A curious result which I first noticed over nine years ago in long-
distance tests carried out on the steamship Philadelphia, and which
still remains an important feature in long-distance space telegraphy,

Fig. 7.

1**On methods whereby the radiation of electric waves may be mainly confined, etc.’? Proc. Roy.
Svc., A, vol. 77, p. 413.
124 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1911.

is the detrimental effect produced by daylight on the propagation of
electric waves over great distances.

The generally accepted hypothesis of the cause of this absorption
of electric waves in sunlight is founded on the belief that the absorp-
tion is due to the ionization of the gaseous molecules of the air
affected by the ultra violet light, and as the ultra violet rays which
emanate from the sun are largely absorbed in the upper atmosphere
of the earth, it is probable that that portion of the earth’s atmosphere
which is facing the sun will contain more ions or electrons than that
which is in darkness, and therefore, as Sir J. J. Thomson has shown,!
this illuminated or ionized air will absorb some of the energy of the
electric waves.

The wave length of the oscillations employed has much to do
with this interesting phenomenon, long waves being subject to the
effect of daylight to a very much lesser degree than are short waves.

Although certain physicists thought some years ago that the day-
light effect should be more marked on long waves than on short, the
reverse has been my experience; indeed, in some transatlantic experi-
ments, in which waves about 8,000 meters long were used, the energy
received by day at the distant receiving station was usually greater
than that obtained at night.

Recent observation, however, reveals the interesting fact that the
effects vary greatly with the direction in which transmission is taking
place, the results obtained when transmitting in a northerly and south-
erly direction being often altogether different from those observed
in the easterly and westerly one.

Research in regard to the changes in the strength of the received
radiations which are employed for telegraphy across the Atlantic has
been recently greatly facilitated by the use of sensitive galvanom-
eters, by means of which the strength of the received signals can be
measured with a fair degree of accuracy.

In regard to moderate power stations such as are employed on ships,
and which, in compliance with the international convention, use wave
lengths of 300 and 600 meters, the distance over which communica-
tion can be effected during daytime is generally about the same,
whatever the bearing of the ships to each other or to the land stations
—whilst at night interesting and apparently curious results are
obtained. Ships over 1,000 miles away, off the south of Spain or
round the coast of Italy, can almost always communicate during the
hours of darkness with the post-office stations situated on the coasts
of England and Ireland, whilst the same ships, when at a similar
distance on the Atlantic to the westward of these islands and on the
usual track between England and America, can hardly ever communi-

1 Philosophical Magazine, ser. 6, vol. 4, p. 253.
RADIOTELEGRAPH Y—-MARCONI. 125

cate with these shore stations unless by means of specially powerful
instruments.

It is also to be noticed that in order to reach ships in the Mediter-
ranean the electric waves have to pass over a large portion of Europe
and, in many cases, over the Alps. Such long stretches of land,
especially when including very high mountains, constitute, as is well
known, an insurmountable barrier to the propagation of short waves
during the daytime. Although no such obstacles lie between the
English and Irish stations and ships in the North Atlantic en route
for North America, a night transmission of 1,000 miles is there of
exceptionally rare occurrence. The same effects generally are notice-
able when ships are communicating with stations situated on the
Atlantic coast of America.

Although high power stations are now used for communicating
across the Atlantic Ocean, and messages can be sent by day as well
as by night, there still exist periods of fairly regular daily occurrence
during which the strength of the received signals is at a minimum.

Sea

.
Zz re
sin DAYTIME OVER os ”
“THWHOLE ATLANTIC & mu =

WHOLE ATLANTIC
OURING VHICH SIGNALS

ARE VERY VARIABLE yy"
IM STRENGTH VARYING
> FROM VERY WEAR To
VERY STRONG , STORNSE

= NIGHT OVER
u
«

td
<
wu
2
4
z

>

GLACE GAY

SUNRISE av

GL

\ CLIFDEN

—_—— _—_—_—o
ANO MGONLICHT MAY it
AVE f AN INFQUENEES rg

Thus in the morning and the evening, when, in consequence of the
difference in longitude, daylight or darkness extends only part of the
way across the ocean, the received signals are at their weakest. It
would almost appear as if electric waves, in passing from dark space
to illuminated space and vice versa, were reflected and refracted in
such a manner as to be diverted from the normal path.

Later results, however, seem to indicate that it is unlikely that
this difficulty would be experienced in telegraphing over equal dis-
tances north and south on about the same meridian, as, in this case,
the passage from daylight to darkness would occur more rapidly over
the whole distance between the two stations.

I have here some diagrams which have been carefully prepared
by Mr. H. J. Round. These show the average daily variation of the
signals received at Clifden from Glace Bay.

The curves traced on the diagram (fig. 8) show the usual varia-
tion in the strength of these transatlantic signals on two wave lengths
—one of 7,000 meters and the other of 5,000 meters.
126 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1911,

The strength of the received waves remains as a rule steady during
daytime.

Shortly after sunset at Clifden they become gradually weaker, and
about two hours later they are at their weakest. They then begin to
strengthen again, and reach a very high maximum at about the time
of sunset at Glace Bay.

They then gradually return to about normal strength, but through
the night they are very variable. Shortly before sunrise at Clifden
the signals commence to strengthen steadily, and reach another high

- maximum shortly
womine ePan ‘VARIATION OF SIGNALS = after sunrise at Clif-
ae AT CLIFDEN den. The received

FROM MAY 1910 +o APRIL 1917 energy then steadily

CURVE FOR FIRST DAY OF f
u decreases again until
EACH MONTH BEING SHEWN

DATE yoy 2Ge2len. cauenge i’ Teaches a very
tn ectickenge>” marked minimum, a

: f= short time beforesun-
rise at Glace Bay.
After that the signals
gradually come back
to normal day
strength.

It can be noticed
that, although the
shorter wave gives on
the average weaker
signals, its maximum
and minimum varia-
tions of strength very
sensibly exceed that
of the longer waves.

Figure 9 shows the
variations at Clifden
during periods of 24
hours, commencing at
12 noon throughout
the month of “aes 1911, the vertical dotted lines representing sunset
and sunrise at Glace Bey and Clifden.

Figure 10 shows the curve for the first day of each month for one
year, from May, 1910, to April, 1911.

I carried out a series of tests over longer distances than had ever
been previously attempted, in September and October of last year,
between the stations of Clifden and Glace Bay, and a receiving station
placed on the Italian Steamship Principessa Mafalda, in the course of
a voyage from Italy to Argentina (pl. 1, fig. 1).

Fia. 9. Fia. 10.
Smithsonian Report, 1911.—Marconi. PLATE 1.

1. Lona DISTANCE WIRELESS TESTS IN 1910.

2. RECORD OF WIRELESS SIGNALS,
RADIOTELEGRAPHY——MARCONI. 127

During these tests the receiving wire was supported by means of a
kite, as was done in my early transatlantic tests of 1901, the height
of the kite varying from about 1,000 to 3,000 feet. Signals and mes-
sages were obtained without difficulty, by day as well as by night, up
to a distance of 4,000 statute miles from Clifden.

Beyond that distance reception could only be carried out during
nighttime. At Buenos Aires, over 6,000 miles from Clifden, the
night signals from both Clifden and Glace Bay were generally good,
but their strength suffered some variations.

It is rather remarkable that the radiations from Clifden should
have been detected at Buenos Aires so clearly at nighttime and not
at all during the day, whilst in Canada the signals coming from Clif-
den (2,400 miles distant) are no stronger during the night than they
are by day.

Further tests have been carried out recently for the Italian Gov-
ernment between a station situated at Massaua in East Africa and
Coltano in Italy. Considerable interest attached to these experi-
ments, in view of the fact that the line connecting the two stations
passes over exceedingly dry country and across vast stretches of
desert, including parts of Abyssinia, the Soudan, and the Libyan
Desert. The distance between the two stations is about 2,600 miles.

The wave length of the sending station in Africa was too small to
allow of transmission being effected during daytime, but the results
obtained during the hours of darkness were exceedingly good, the
received signals being quite steady and readable.

The improvements introduced at Clifden and Glace Bay have had
the result of greatly minimizing the interference to which wireless
transmission over long distances was particularly exposed in the
early days.

The signals arriving at Clifden from Canada are as a rule easily
read through any ordinary electrical atmospheric disturbance. This
strengthening of the received signals has moreover made possible the
use of recording instruments, which will not only give a fixed record
of the received messages, but are also capable of being operated at a
much higher rate of speed than could ever be obtained by means of
an operator reading by sound or sight. The record of the signals is
obtained by means of photography in the following manner: A sen-
sitive Einthoven string galvanometer is connected to the magnetic
detector or valve receiver, and the deflections of its filament caused
by the incoming signals are projected and photographically fixed on
a sensitive strip, which is moved along at a suitable speed (pl. 1, fig. 2).
On some of these records, which I am able to show, it is interesting
to note the characteristic marks and signs produced amongst the
signals by natural electric waves or other electrical disturbances of
128 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1911,

the atmosphere, which, on account of their doubtful origin, have been
called “ X’s.”

Although the mathematical theory of electric wave propagation
through space was worked out by Clerk Maxwell more than 50 years
ago, and notwithstanding all the experimental evidence obtained in
laboratories concerning the nature of these waves, yet so far we
understand but incompletely the true fundamental principles con-
cerning the manner of propagation of the waves on which wireless
telegraph transmission is based. For example, in the early days of
wireless telegraphy it was generally believed that the curvature of
the earth would constitute an insurmountable obstacle to the trans-
mission of electric waves between widely separated points. For a
considerable time not sufficient account was taken of the probable .
effect of the earth connection, especially in regard to the transmission
of oscillations over long distances.

Physicists seemed to consider for a long time that wireless teleg-
raphy was solely dependent on the effects of free Hertzian radiation

through space, and it was years

ask or ae before the probable effect of the

Beye se fois conductivity of the earth was con-
nose Lens tx. sidered and discussed.

Lord Rayleigh, in referring to
transatlantic radiotelegraphy,
stated in a paper read before the
Royal Society in May, 1903, that
the results which I had obtained in signaling across the Atlantic
suggested ‘‘a more decided bending or diffraction of the waves round
the protuberant earth than had been expected,” and further said
that it imparted a great interest to the theoretical problem.' Prof.
Fleming, in his book on electric wave telegraphy, gives diagrams
showing what may be taken to be a diagrammatic representation of
the detachment of semiloops of electric strain from a simple vertical
wire (fig. 11).

As will be seen, these waves do not propagate in the same manner
as does free omiatien from a classical Hertzian oscillator, but instead
glide along the surface of the earth.

Prof. Zenneck? has carefully examined the effect of earthed receiv-
ing and transmitting aerials, and has endeavored to show mathe-
matically that when the lines of electrical force, constituting a
wave front, pass along a surface of low specific inductive capacity—
such as the earth—they become inclined forward, their lower ends
being retarded by the resistance of the conductor, to which they are

1 Proc. Roy. Soc., vol. 72, p. 40.
2Annalen der Physik,’’ vol. 23, p. 846, ‘ Physikalische Zeitschrift,”’ 1908, pp. 50, 553
RADIOTELEGRAPH Y—MARCONI. 129

attached. It therefore would seem that wireless telegraphy as at
present practiced is, to some extent at least, dependent on the con-
ductivity of the earth, and that the difference in operation across
long distances of sea compared to over land is sufficiently explained
by the fact that sea water is a much better conductor than is land.

The importance or utility of the earth connection has been some-
times questioned, but in my opinion no practical system of wireless
telegraphy exists where the instruments are not in some manner con-
nected to earth. By connection to earth I do not necessarily mean
an ordinary metallic connection as used for wire telegraphs. The
earth wire may have a condenser in series with it, or it may be con-
nected to what is really equivalent, a capacity area placed close to
the surface of the ground. It is now perfectly well known that a
condenser, if large enough, does not prevent the passage of high-
frequency oscillations, and therefore in this case, when a so-called
balancing capacity is used, the antenna is for all practical purposes
connected to earth.

I am also of opinion that there is absolutely no foundation in the
statement which has recently been repeated to the effect that an earth
connection is detrimental to good tuning, provided of course that
the earth is good.

Certainly, in consequence of its resistance, what electricians call a
bad earth will damp out the oscillations, and in that way make tuning
difficult; but no such effect is noticed when employing an efficient
earth connection.

In conclusion, I believe that I am not any too bold when I say that
wireless telegraphy is tending to revolutionize our means of communi-
cation from place to place on the earth’s surface. For example, com-
mercial messages containing a total of 812,200 words were sent and
received between Clifden and Glace Bay from May 1, 1910, to the
end of April, 1911; wireless telegraphy has already furnished means
of communication between ships and the shore where communication,
was before practically impossible. The fact that a system of imperial
wireless telegraphy is to be discussed by the imperial conference,
now holding its meetings in London, shows the supremely important
position which radiotelegraphy over long distances has assumed in
the short space of one decade. Its importance from a commercial,
naval, and military point of view has increased very greatly during the
last few years as a consequence of the innumerable stations which
have been erected, or are now in course of construction, on various
coasts, in inland regions, and on board ships in all parts of the world.
Notwithstanding this multiplicity of stations and their almost con-
stant operation, I can say from practical experience that mutual
interference between properly equipped and efficiently tuned instru-

38734°—sm 1911——9
130 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1911,

ments has so far been almost entirely absent. Some interference
does without doubt take place between ships, in consequence of the
fact that the two wave lengths adopted in accordance with the rules
jaid down by the international convention, are not sufficient for the
proper handling of the very large amount of messages transmitted
from the ever increasing number of ships fitted with wireless teleg-
raphy. A considerable advantage would be obtained by the utiliza-
tion of a third and longer wave to be employed exclusively. for com-
munication over long distances.

In regard to the high-power transatlantic stations, the ‘facility
with which interference has been prevented has to some extent ex-
ceeded my expectations. At the receiving station situated at a dis-
tance of only 8 miles from the powerful sender at Clifden, during
a recent demonstration arranged for the Admiralty, messages could
be received from Glace Bay without any interference from Clifden
when this latter station was transmitting at full power on a wave
length differing only 25 per cent from the waye radiated from Glace
Bay, the ratio between the maximum recorded range of Clifden
and 8 miles being in the proportion of 750 to 1.

Arrangements are being made to permanently send and receive
simultaneously at these stations, which, when completed, will consti-
tute in effect the duplexing cf radiotelegraphic communication be-
tween Ireland and Canada.

The result which I have last referred to also goes to show that it
would be practicable to operate at one time, on slightly different
wave lengths, a great number of long-distance stations situated in
England and Ireland without danger of mutual interference.

The extended use of wireless telegraphy is principally dependent
on the ease with which a number of stations can be efficiently worked
in the vicinity of each other. |

Considering that the wave lengths at present in use range from
200 to 23,000 feet, and moreover that wave group tuning and direc-~
tive systems are now available, it is not difficult to foresee that this
comparatively new method of communication is destined to fill a
position of the greatest importance in facilitating communication
throughout the world.

Apart from long-distance work, the practical value of wireless
telegraphy may perhaps be divided into two parts, (1) when used
for transmission over sea and (2) when used over land.

Many countries, including Italy, Canada, and Spain, have already
supplemented their ordinary telegraph systems by wireless-telegraphy
installations, but some time must pass before this method of commu-
nication will be very largely used for inland purposes in Europe
generally, owing to the efficient network of land lines already existing
which render further means of communication unnecessary; and
RADIOTELEGRAPH Y—-MARCONI. 131

therefore it is probable that, at any rate for the present, the main use
of radiotelegraphy will be confined to extra-European countries, in
some of which climatic conditions and other causes absolutely pro-
hibit the efficient maintenance of land-line telegraphy. A proof of
this has been afforded by the success which has attended the working
of the stations recently erected in Brazil on the upper Amazon.

By the majority of people the most marvelous side of wireless
telegraphy is perhaps considered to be its use at sea. Up to the
time of its introduction, ships at any appreciable distance from land
had no means of getting in touch with the shore throughout the
whole duration of their voyage. But those who now make long sea
journeys are no longer cut off from the rest of the world; business men
can continue to correspond at reasonable rates with their offices
in America or Europe; ordinary social messages can be exchanged
between passengers and their friends on shore; a daily newspaper is
published on board most of the principal liners, giving the chief news
of the day. Wireless telegraphy has on more than one occasion
proved an invaluable aid to the course of justice—a well-known
instance of which is the arrest, which took place recently through its
agency, of a notorious criminal when about to land in Canada.

The chief benefit, however, of radiotelegraphy lies in the facility
which it affords to ships in distress of communicating their plight to
neighboring vessels or coast stations; that it is now considered
indispensable for this reason is shown by the fact that several govern-
ments have passed a law making a wireless-telegraph installation a
compulsory part of the equipment of all passenger boats entering
their ports.
ee EK ae
Ont Se

ansgiy

=

pare gis
ae : aay

oe

=

fi aries gd te SS Ee oh
oe = it

Bis ttt aye Nee $4

g Ae.

z as a er ¥s sone

_ sotmarberndat abt 1p qed.
rede 3:10" Snaosit a ton }
pene wel NeAYo ie feild to fs otitis G

Ass j'seegeisd ti oun Bel
: Br i

areca oes BatH x sit oF tl
es Fs Pa We
Wes

“i Ge
Tey

Laggis arg pa) tb te toon

if agate
= E Rare Me

Bysietcil . ited

ar

se guia aenty ae

‘i Bu Seonityaips al As Wis

gr) Sey
eet

MULTIPLEX TELEPHONY AND TELEGRAPHY BY MEANS
OF ELECTRIC WAVES GUIDED BY WIRES.

[With 1 plate.]

Dr. GEORGE O. Squier,

Major Signal Corps, United States Army.

I.—INTRODUCTION.

Electrical transmission of intelligence, so vital to the progress of
civilization, has taken a development at present into telephony and
telegraphy over metallic wires; and telegraphy, and, to a limited
extent, telephony, through the medium of the ether by means of
electric waves.

During the past 12 years the achievements of wireless teleg-
raphy have been truly marvelous. From an engineering viewpoint,
the wonder of it all is, that, with the transmitting energy being
radiated out over the surface of the earth in all directions, enough
of this energy is delivered at a single point on the circumference of a
circle, of which the transmitting antenna is approximately the cen-
ter, to operate successfully suitable receiving devices by which the
electromagnetic waves are translated into intelligence.

The “plant efficiency” for electrical energy in the best types of
wireless stations yet produced is so low that there can be no com-
parison between it and the least efficient transmission of energy by
conducting wires.

The limits of audibility, being physiological functions, are well
known to vary considerably, but they may be taken to be in the
neighborhood of 16 complete cycles per second as the lower limit
and 15,000 to 20,000 cycles per second as the upper limit. If, there-
fore, there are impressed upon a wire circuit for transmitting intelli-
gence harmonic electromotive forces of frequencies between 0 and 16
cycles per second, or, again, above 15,000 to 20,000 cycles per second,
it would seem certain that whatever effects such electric-wave fre-
quencies produced upon metallic lines, the present apparatus em-
ployed in operating them could not translate these effects into audible
signals,

1A paper presented at the twenty-eighth annual convention of the American Institute of Electrical

Engineers, Chicago, Ill., June 26-30, 1911. Copyright, 1911, by A. I. E. E. Reprinted by permission
from Proceedings of the Institute for May, 1911, pp. 857-905.

133
134 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1911.

There are, therefore, two possible solutions to the problem of
multiplex telephony and telegraphy upon this principle by electric
waves, based upon the unalterable characteristics of the human ear,
viz, by employing (1) electric waves of infra sound frequencies, and
(2) those of ultra sound frequencies. One great difficulty in design-
ing generators of infra sound frequencies is In securing a pure sine
wave, as otherwise any harmonic of the fundamental would appear
within the range of audition. Furthermore, the range of frequencies
is restricted, and the physical dimensions of the tuning elements for
such low frequencies would have a tendency to become unwieldy.

The electromagnetic spectrum at present extends from about four
to eight periods per second, such as are employed upon, ocean cables,
to the shortest waves of ultra-violet light. In this whole range of
frequencies there are two distinct intervals which have not as yet
been used, viz, frequencies from about 3X10” of the extreme infra-
red to 5X10", which is the freqeuncy of the shortest electric waves
yet produced by electrical apparatus, and from about 80,000 to 100,000
cycles per second to about 15,000 to 20,000 cycles per second. The
upper limit of this latter interval represents about the lowest frequen-
cies yet employed for long-distance wireless telegraphy.

Within the past few years generators have been developed in the
United States giving an output of 2 kilowatts and above at a fre-
quency of 100,000 cycles per second, and also capable of being ope-
rated ea at as low a ee as 20,000 cycles per second.
Furthermore, these machines give a practically pure sine wave.

The necessary conditions for telephony by electric waves guided
by wires are an uninterrupted source of sustained oscillations and
some form of receiving device which is quantitative in its action. In
the experiments described in multiplex telephony and telegraphy it
has been necessary and sufficient to combine the present engineering
practice of wire telephony and telegraphy with the engineering
practice of wireless telephony and telegraphy.

The frequencies involved in telephony over wires do not exceed
1,800 to 2,000, and for such frequencies the telephonic currents are
fairly well distributed throughout the cross section of the conductor.
As the frequency is increased the so-called “skin effect’? becomes
noticeable, and the energy is more and more transmitted in the ether
surrounding the conductor.

It has been found possible to superimpose, upon Ane ordinary tele-
phonic wire circuits now commercially used, electric waves of ultra
sound frequencies without producing any harmful effects upon the
operation of the existing telephonic service. Fortunately, therefore,
the experiments described below are constructive and additive,
rather than destructive and supplantive.
MULTIPLEX TELEPHONY AND TELEGRAPHY—SQUIER. 135

Electric waves of ultra sound frequencies are guided by means of
wires of an existing commercial installation and are made the vehicle
for the transmission of additional telephonic and telegraphic messages.

APPARATUS AND EQUIPMENT.

Under a special appropriation granted to the Signal Corps by Con-
gress in the army appropriation act of 1909, a small research labora-
tory has been established at the Bureau of Standards, in the suburbs
of the city of Washington. This laboratory is equipped with the
latest forms of apparatus now employed in the wireless telephone and
telegraph art, and also with the standard types of telephone and
telegraph apparatus now used upon wire circuits. The small con-
struction laboratory of the United States Signal Corps is located at
1710 Pennsylvanue Avenue and is also equipped with the usual types
and forms of apparatus used in transmitting intelligence by electrical
means. Hach of these laboratories is supplied with a wireless tele-
phone and telegraph installation with suitable antenne. In addi-
tion, these two laboratories are connected by a standard telephone
cable line about 7 miles in length, which was employed in the experi-
ments described below.

THE 100,000-CYCLE GENERATOR.!

The high-frequency alternator, ‘which is shown complete with
driving motor and switchboard in the accompanying illustrations, is
a special form of the inductor type designed for a frequency of 100,000
cycles with an output of 2 kilowatts, making it adapted for use in
wireless telephony or telegraphy (pl. 1). :

Driving motor—The motor is a shunt-wound 10-horsepower ma-
chine with a normal speed of 1,250 revolutions per minute. It is
connected by a chain drive to an intermediate shaft which runs at a
speed of 2,000 revolutions per minute. The intermediate shaft
drives the flexible shaft of the alternator through a De Laval turbine
gearing, having a ratio of 10 to 1. The flexible shaft and inductor
thus revolve at a speed of 20,000 revolutions per minute.

Field coils —The field coils, mounted on the stationary iron frame
of the alternator, surround the periphery of the inductor. The
magnetic flux produced by these coils passes through the laminated
armature and armature coils, the air gap, and the inductor. This
flux is periodically decreased by the nonmagnetic sections of phos-
phor-bronze embedded radially in the inductor at its periphery.

Armature coils—The armature or stators are ring-shaped and are
made of laminated iron. Six hundred slots are cut on the radial
face of each; a quadruple silk-covered copper wire, 0.016 inch (0.4

—

1 Alexanderson, Trans. Amer. Inst. Electr. Eng., vol. 28, p. 399, 1909.
136 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1911.

millimeter) in diameter, is wound in a continuous wave up and down
the successive slots. The peripheries of the armature frames are
threaded to screw into the iron frame of the alternator. By means of
a graduated scale on the alternator frame, the armatures can be
readily adjusted for any desired air gap.

Inductor.—The inductor or rotor has 300 teeth on each side of its
periphery, spaced 0.125 inch (3.17 millimeters) between centers.
The spaces between the teeth are filled with U-shaped phosphor-
bronze wires, securely anchored, so as to withstand the centrifugal
force of 80 pounds (36.3 kilograms) exerted by each. Since each
tooth of the inductor gives a complete cycle, 100,000 cycles per
second are developed at 20,000 revolutions per minute. The diame-
ter of the disk being 1 foot (0.30 meter), the peripheral speed is
1,047 feet (319 meters) per second, or 700 miles (1,127 kilometers) per
hour, at which rate it would roll from the United States to Europe
in four hours. By careful design and selection of material, a factor
of safety of 6.7 is obtained in the disk, although the centrifugal
force at its periphery is 68,000 times the weight of the metal there.

Bearings.—The generator has two sets of bearings, as shown in the
illustrations, the outer set being the main bearings which support
the weight of the revolving parts. These bearings are self-aligning
and are fitted with special sleeves, which are ground to coincide
with longitudinal corrugations of the shaft, thus taking up the end
thrust. A pump maintains a continuous stream of oil through these
bearings, thus allowing the machine to be run continuously at full
speed without troublesome heating.

The middle bearimgs normally do not touch the shaft, but take up
excessive end thrust and prevent excessive radial vibration of the
flexible shaft.

An auxiliary bearing or guide is placed midway between the gear
box and the end bearing. Its function is to limit the vibration of
that portion of the shaft.

Oritical periods.—In starting the machine, severe vibration occurs
at two distinct critical speeds, one at about 1,700 and the other at
about 9,000 revolutions per minute. ‘The middle bearings prevent
this vibration from becoming dangerous.

Voltage.—With the normal air gap between the armatures and
revolving disk of 0.015 inch (0.38 millimeter), the potential developed
is 150 volts with the armatures connected in series. It is possible,
however, to decrease the air gap to 0.004 inch (0.10 millimeter) for
short runs, which gives a corresponding increase in voltage up to
nearly 300 volts. It is considered inadvisable, however, to run with
this small air gap for any considerable length of time.

The machine is intended to be used with a condenser, the capacity
reactance of which balances the armature induction reactance, which
PIRATES:

Smithsonian Report, 1911.—Squier.

ame i

ey

DRIVING MOTOR

FREQUENCY ALTERNATOR

FRONT AND REAR VIEW OF HIGH-

AND SWITCHBOARD.
MULTIPLEX TELEPHONY AND TELEGRAPH Y—SQUIER. £37

is 5.4 ohms at 100,000 cycles. This would require a capacity of
about 0.3 microfarad for resonance at this frequency, but in the
experiments conducted at 100,000 cycles it was found necessary to
decrease this amount on account of the fixed auxiliary inductance of
the leads.

CONSTANTS OF THE TELEPHONE LINE.

The telephone line used in these experiments extends from the
Signal Corps laboratory at 1710 Pennsylvania Avenue to the Signal
Corps research laboratory at the Bureau of Standards.

This line is made up of the regular standard commercial equipment
and consists of paper-insulated, twisted pairs in lead-covered cable,
placed in conduit in the usual manner employed for city installation.
For the sake of convenience, one of the pair is designated as No. 1
wire and the other as No. 2 wire.

The air-line distance between the two laboratories is a little over
3 miles (4.8 kilometers), but the telephone line, by passing through
three exchanges, covers about 7 miles (11.27 kilometers). The course
of the line, with the size and type of conductor, is as follows:

Laboratory to main exchange, underground cable, No. 22 B. & S.

Main exchange to west exchange, underground cable, No. 19 B. & S.

West exchange to Cleveland exchange, underground cable, No. 19 B. & S.

Cleveland exchange to Bureau of Standards, underground cable, No. 19 B. & S.

All underground cable except from Bureau of Standards to Wisconsin Avenue and
Pierce Mill Road, about 3,400 feet, which is aerial cable.

This line is equipped with protective heat coils of a standard type,
one in each wire of the metallic circuit, at the Cleveland exchange and
the main exchange, but none at the west exchange. The constants of
each of these coils are as follows:

Mirecieurteat resistances oF 65° IO A OR IOY, ee ohms')** 558

Size of wire, No. 30 B. & S.

Pen GEWITR 2. ssa oy Eb args etn giiy- hansen ds? sit siewesesr 3 cm... 40

PER eTOL LEAS imHeACh COM -ADOUG. eS EO ee te 38

Measured inductance:at 70,000 eycles.. 2.2922 2S 22g ee bs ke em.. 4,400
Or 4.4X10~ henry.

The above constants were measured from a sample of one of these
coils selected at random.

einianeei GL metallic CLC icf. 42) Pasig. f2- be. gered ses ot HaGe ohms.. 776
Capacity measured (one minute electrification) between No. 1 and No. 2 wires

mal SS A OE Re aE ae es ea ON alten See ee a ee te microfarad.. 0. 69
Insulation resistance:

Between No: P wire and earth: J)... 222.202 20272) i222). ..2.megohms.: 009
Between No. A svireand(earthuyp rast: Os. Same st LOLLOe .edeaIA Vas
Between No. 1 and No. 2 wires in parallel and earth...............-. do.... 0.8
Botween No, ang No. 2 witeses 2860 oc occ b a aw nen = eee MOgee yen

The line included the usual house-wiring at each station, which was
undisturbed in taking the measurements.
1388 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1911.
Il.—DUPLEX-DIPLEX TELEPHONY OVER WIRE CIRCUITS.

Such has been the development of telephone engineering that at
present any proposal which requires for its success the supplanting oi
the present low-frequency battery system would be mostradical. It
would surely be admitted that any plan which permits the present
engineering telephone system to remain intact and superimpose
thereon additional telephone circuits would possess cardinal advan-
tages. Accordingly, the first preliminary experiments were directed
to the inquiry as to whether or not it is possible to superimpose upon
the minute telephonic currents now employed in telephony over wires,
electric waves of ultra-sound frequencies without causing prohibitive
interference with the battery telephone currents. Manifestly, this
fundamental point can best be determined by experiments, at the
generator itself, with the most sensitive part of the telephone equip-
ment, viz, the telephone receiver. Accordingly, experiments were
first conducted with various forms and types of telephone receivers in
connection with local circuits at the generator. Such is the sensibility
of the telephone receiver that it was thought possible that, although
currents of frequencies entirely above audition were applied to the
receiver from a dynamo as a source, there might be some frequency or
frequencies from the operation of the apparatus which would be within
the range of audition. Such was found, in fact, to be the case at cer-
tain critical frequencies of the machine, but they were of no practical
importance, as will be shown later.

With a collection of telephone receivers ranging from about 50 to
over 8,000 ohms and of a variety of designs, a series of tests was made
under severe conditions to determine the above point. It was found,
in general, that alternating currents of frequencies ranging from 30,000
to 100,000 cycles per second, when coupled conductively, inductively,
or ee ostatically to local circuits from the generator produced abso-
lutely no perceptible physiological effects in the receivers, excepting
only that at certain of the lower fr equencies a distinct audible note
could be faintly heard in one of the receivers of about 250 ohms
resistance.

A search for the cause of this note Showed that it is due to a slight
variation of the amplitude of the high-frequency current of the gen-
erator, since no evidence of it could be detected on the battery ‘ele.
phone side of the circuit. It appears to be caused by a very slight
vibration of the rotor as a whole in the magnetic field of the generator.
It was almost entirely removed by the simple device of opening out
the stators, which increases the clearance and materially cuts down
the flux of the machine. In practice it is a distinct advantage, how-
ever, to have a trace of this note still left on the high-frequency eile of
the éircuit, otherwise there is no ready means of | determining at the
MULTIPLEX TELEPHONY AND TELEGRAPH Y—SQUIER. 139

receiving end of the cable line whether or not the high-frequency cur-
rent is present on the line, whereas this note, which has to be searched
for in tuning and which was entirely tuned out when speech was best,
gave a very convenient method of testing for the presence of high-
frequency current.

Having determined the general nature of this disturbance and its
comparative unimportance, no further investigation of it was consid-
ered necessary at that time.

The next fundamental point to determine was whether or not at
these frequencies a telephone can receive enough energy to make it
operative for producing sound waves in air.

Since the self-induction of a standard telephone receiver is high,
energy at these frequencies is effectively barred from it. In the wire-
less telegraph art, where the frequencies involved are from one hun-
dred thousand to several million per second, this problem has been
uniformly solved by the introduction of some form of detector for
electromagnetic waves, whose function is to transform the energy of
the high-frequency oscillations into other forms suitable to a type of
instrument such as a telephone receiver.

The next step, therefore, consisted in introducing various forms of
detectors, such as are now used in wireless telegraphy, between the
telephone receiver itself and the energizing circuit. Since the fre-
quencies being here considered are entirely above audition it was
necessary, In order to produce a physiological effect, to introduce
another element in this transformation, viz, some method of modify-
ing the continuous train of sustained oscillations from the generator
into groups or trains, the period of which falls within the limits of
audition. ‘This was accomplished by employing the regular forms of
automatic interrupters, such as are now used in wireless telegraphy,
with the expected result that with these two additional and essential
pieces of apparatus operatively connected between the telephone
receiver and the generator, the energy of the generator was delivered
to the ear in a form well suited for physiological effects. Since it is
well known that the human ear is most sensitive at a period of about
500 cycles per second, or 1,000 alternations, interrupters giving this
frequency were employed.

The presence of the detectors in this chain of transformations is
necessitated by the use of the telephone receiver as a translating
device.

Although some of the detectors for electric waves are very sensitive
to electrical energy they are here employed not because they are more
sensitive to electrical energy than is the telephone receiver itself,
which is not the case, but becausethe telephone receiver is not adapted,
for the reasons stated above, to translate electrical energy of these fre-
quencies into movements of its diaphragm.
140 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1911.

The elements of the apparatus thus far include a generator of sus-
tained high-frequency oscillations, an interrupter to modify the am-
plitude of these oscillations into groups of a period within the range of
audition, some form of detector to rectify these oscillations, and a tele-
phone receiver. Manifestly here are all of the elements that are neces-
sary for telegraphy, using the telephone receiver to interpret the
signals.

Tf in the above mentioned chain of apparatus the interrupter is
replaced by some form of telephone transmitter, such as the micro-
phone, this is all that is necessary for the transmission of speech.

Experiments were made over local circuits with apparatus arranged
in this order over a range of frequencies from 20,000 to 100,000 per
second, with the result that speech was transmitted very satisfac-
torily. Upon removing the detector from the above arrangement all
perceptible effect in the telephone receiver ceased; in fact no arrange-
ment of connections of a telephone receiver to such a high frequency
circuit which did not include some form of detector was found to be
operative for telephony, unless certain low resistance telephones were
used in which case the speech was so much weaker as to be of an
entirely different order of magnitude.

The presence of a detector in this chain of operations, is not abso-
lutely necessary in the case of telegraphy, since if the interrupter
automatically produces a definite number of wave-trains per second,
each train consisting of at least several complete oscillations’, an effect
may be produced upon a telephone receiver directly without a detector.
The physiological effect, however, is quite different, the clear funda-
mental note corresponding to the frequency of the interrupter being
no longer audible, but, instead, a peculiar dull hissing sound. If, how-
ever, a telephone receiver was used, which, instead of having a per-
manent magnet as a core, had one of soft iron, no effect without the
detector was produced with the energy used.

As stated above in the case of telephony, the energy required for
telegraphy without a detector is of a different order of magnitude.

Having determined the necessary and sufficient conditions for the
accomplishment of telegraphy and telephony by means of electric
waves guided by wires upon local circuits, the next step was to apply
these means and conditions to an actual commercial telephone cable
line, the constants of which have been given above.

The machine was run at a frequency of 100,000 cycles per second
with the circuit arrangements as shown in figure 1, where one wire of
the telephone cable was connected to one terminal of the secondary
of an air-core transformer, the other terminal being connected to
earth.

At the receiving end of the line, which was the Signal Corps con-
struction laboratory, at 1710 Pennsylvania Avenue, Washington,
MULTIPLEX TELEPHONY AND TELEGRAPH Y—SQUIER. 141

D. C., this wire was connected directly to earth through a “perikon”
crystal detector, such as is well known in wireless telegraphy, and a
high resistance telephone receiver of about 8,000 ohms was shunted
around the crystal. In this preliminary experintent no attempt was
made at tuning, either at the transmitting end or at the receiving
end of the line.

In the primary circuit of the generator, arrangements were made
by which either an interrupter and telegraph key or a telephone
transmitter could be inserted by throwing a switch.

In the line circuit a hot wire milliammeter was inserted in a con-
venient position so that the effect of the operation of either the
telegraph key or of the human voice upon the transmitter could be
observed by watching the fluctuations of the needle of the milliam-
meter.

A loose coupling was employed between the two circuits at the
transmitting end, and the line circuit adjusted by varying the coup-
ling until the current in the line was 20 to 30 milliamperes. With
this arrangement (1) telegraphic signals were sent and easily received,
and (2) speech was transmitted and received successfully over this
single wire with ground return.

The ammeter showed marked fluctuations from the human voices
and enabled the operator at the transmitting station to be certain
that modified electric waves were being transmitted over the line.

The actual ohmic resistance of the line apparently played an
unimportant part for telegraphy at 100,000 cycles, since with one
of the wires of the pair and a ground return, the effect of doubling
the conductivity of the wire by joining both wires in parallel, although
this arrangement increased the capacity of the wires, could not be
detected with certainty by an operator listening to the signals and
unaware of which arrangement was being used.

Inserting in the line wire a noninductive carbon rod resistance
of 750 ohms, which is practically the resistance of the line itself,
could not be detected by any change in the intensity of the received
signals.

The next experiment was to determine what effect, if any, such
sustained electrical oscillations would have upon the minute tele-
phonic currents employed in battery telephony.

DUPLEX TELEPHONY, USING ONE GROUNDED CIRCUIT.

To determine the fact that electric waves of ultra sound frequency
produce no perceptible effect when superimposed on the same circuit
over which telephonic conversation is being transmitted, the next
step was to use such a train of sustained oscillations as the vehicle
for transmitting additional speech over the same circuit. For this
142 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1911,

purpose the twisted-pair telephone line was equipped with a com-
plete standard local battery telephone set, as installed for commercial
practice, and in addition one of the wires of the pair was equipped as
in figure 1, the circuit beimg shown diagrammatically in figure 2.
This particular arrangement was employed in this experiment for the
reason that it was desired to have the battery telephone operate
on its usual circuit with the introduction of ground connections
at the ends of the
BUREAU LaBorATORY line for the super-
Be OF oe :
SIGNAL corPs positionof the high-
frequency circuit.
When such ground
connections were
introduced directly
without tuning ele-
ge: io ments therein the
metallic circuit ex-
a perienced the usual
disturbances found
under city conditions, but the metallic circuit could be reduced to
silence again by introducing in the ground connections the necessary
tuning elements of magnitudes suited to wireless telegraphy.

Next, the twisted-pair telephone line was equipped with a com-
plete standard local battery telephone set, as installed for commercial
practice, with the exception that the local battery circuit of the
transmitter tele- :
phone set was

opened and a few NRRL LE eee ND. ve

STANDARDS Sake parte See

turns of coarse wire
inserted in series
with the two dry
cells which are nor-
mally used, as shown
in figure 3. Induc-
tively connected
with this coil was
the armature circuit
of the generator. A hot wire milliammeter was placed in the line
circuit to indicate the magnitude of the high-frequency current which
was flowing on the line. With this arrangement tests were made to
determine whether or not there were any effects upon the transmission
of speech, due to superimposing high-frequency currents upon the
‘battery telephone sets. With an operator at each end of the line,
using the equipment in the regular commercial way, the direct-current
voltage and the alternating-current voltage in series with it in the

Fig. 2.
MULTIPLEX TELEPHONY AND TELEGRAPHY—SQUIER, 143

primary circuit of the transmitter were varied individually and rela-
tively in a variety of ways, with the striking result that just at the
point where the direct-current voltage was decreased, so that no
sounds were received, the line became absolutely silent, although the
alternating voltage in the circuit was at its largest value, or, again,
speech would reappear at the receiving station at the moment when
sufficient direct-current voltage was introduced to produce it, and the
simultaneous presence of both the maximum direct voltage and
maximum high-frequency voltage in a cireuit produced exactly the
same result as the

maximum direct-cur- {7 AANA |

rent voltage did alone. el ERED tex
When, however, the | FeuTen are
high-frequency cur-
rentin the local circuit
was forced to a point
which caused ‘ burn-
ing”’ in the transmit-
ter itself, then, and
then only, did the

high-frequency cur- ah a

rent in any way inter-

fere with the trans- Pore gee
mission. ae ij i (op
waitin

By transferring this
coil from the local
circuit of the tele-
phone set directly into
the line itself, so that
the high-frequency
oscillations would be superimposed upon the line beyond the iron-
cored induction coil of the telephone transmitter, it was not possible
to detect the presence or absence of high-frequency currents.

As a test under severest conditions the effect was noted upon
speech received at the same station at which the high-frequency
current is being impressed, for here are the attenuated telephonic
currents at the ‘receiving end of the telephone line, on which is super-
imposed a high-frequency current of vastly greater magnitude at
the same point. No effects of any kind could be detected under
these conditions. From the above experiments it appears that in

-any attempt at multiplex telephony by means of electric waves of
ultra sound frequencies superimposed upon the minute telephonic
currents employed in battery transmission there is nothing to fear
from disturbances of such currents upon the operation of the ordinary
battery equipment.

Fig. 3.
144 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1911.
SILENT EARTH CIRCUITS.

The electromagnetic constants of the apparatus employed in tele-
graphy and telephony over wire circuits are of the order of magnitude
of microfarads and henrys, and since no attempt is made at tuning,
these are constructed at present with no provision for continuously
varying the units.

In wireless telegraphy and telephony these electromagnetic con-
stants are of the order of magnitude one thousand times smaller, or
are expressed in thousandths of microfarads and of henrys; further-
more, these forms of apparatus are provided with convenient means
of continuously varying their values for tuning.

In the operation of providing tuning elements for earth connections
there is at the same time afforded a certain means of eliminating any
harmful disturbances from the earth, for the condensers employed
for tuning to frequencies above audition possess an impedance to the
frequencies involved in speech and also any disturbances from the
earth, which effectively prevents the passage of any disturbance of
audible frequency. These condensers offer a comparatively free pas-
sage to the electrical oscillations of the frequencies here being con-
sidered. When such earth connections are selectively tuned with the
line to frequencies entirely above audition it is evident that no audible
frequencies, either in the earth itself or from the line, can pass. Sim-
ple experiments proved the efficiency of this arrangement, and when
the metallic telephone circuit, equipped with a standard local battery
set, was connected to earth in the manner described, the operation
of the battery set was perfectly quiet and equally good with and with-
out such earth connections.

The point was now reached where the road was clear for duplex
telephony, and for this purpose the apparatus and methods employed
in wireless telephony were applied to one of the wires of the metallic
circuit as though it were an antenna. The actual arrangement of this
circuit is shown in figure 4, in which G is the source of sustained high
frequency oscillations; C’ is the tuning condenser of the oscillatory
circuit; L’ is the tuning inductance of the oscillatory circuit; P is the
primary of the oscillation transformer; A is the ammeter; M is the
transmitter microphone; S is the secondary of the ocsillation trans-
former in the line circuit; C is the tuning condenser in the line circuit;
Lis the tuning inductance in the line circuit; A’ is the ammeter in the
line. At the receiving end of the line C, is the line tuning condenser;
L, is the line tuning inductance; P, is the primary of the oscillation
transformer; S, is the secondary of the oscillation transformer; L,’
is the tuning inductance in the oscillatory circuit; e,’ is the tuning
condenser in the oscillatory circuit, between which and the tele-
MULTIPLEX TELEPHONY AND TELEGRAPHY—SQUIER. 145

phone F’ the detector D is operatively connected; E is the earth
connection.

The local battery telephone sets are connected across the two line
wires in the usual manner. In both sets 1 is the microphone trans-
mitter; 2 is the local battery; 3 is the induction coil; 4 is the ringing
system, including the bell and hand generator; 5 is the switch hook;
6 is the telephone receiver.

Tt was found that cross-talk was heard in the detector circuit from
the battery transmitter at the transmitting end when the detector
circuit alone was connected directly to earth from the line without
any tuning coil or condenser. If, however, the tuning condenser was
inserted, this cross-talk entirely disappeared, even though the tuning
coil was not inserted. This is because the impedance of the small
tuning condenser is large for telephonic frequencies, while the tuning
coil impedance admits these telephonic frequencies. Both elements
of tuning are required for selective absorption of energy, so that the
high-frequency circuit is available as an additional telephonic circuit.
With this arrange-
ment talking in the
transmitter of the
high-frequency side
of the system was
heard only in the
detector and there
was no. cross-talk
from the ordinary
local battery  cir-
cuit. Similarly,
there was no effect of the high-frequency transmission on the local
battery transmission, and the two telephonic messages were com-
pletely separated. Both circuits were entirely free from earth dis-
turbances.

The volume of speech at the receiving end of the cable is greatly
increased by simply inserting the transmitter in the dynamo circuit
and operating this circuit at or near resonance. In addition, the
coupling at both transmitting and receiving stations should be so
designed as to permit adjustment for optimum.

The frequency used in this experiment was about 100,000 cycles
per second. The talk on the regular battery circuit was of the usual
high standard both ways, so that the only reason at this point why
complete duplex-diplex telephony was not obtained was the fact that
there was no high-frequency dynamo available at the laboratory.
There is, however, available at this laboratory one of the latest forms
of the high-frequency arc, and accordingly this was arranged with
suitable electromagnetic constants to give a period of about 71,000

38734°—sm 1911——10

Fig. 4.
146 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1911.

cycles per second, as measured by a standard wave meter such as is
now commonly used in wireless telephony and telegraphy. ‘This
source of high-frequency electromotive force was induced upon the
high-frequency line wire in a similar manner to that described in the
station at the Bureau of Standards, with the result that one of the
wires of the twisted pair was made to carry simultaneously the bat-
tery telephonic currents from the two transmitters, the high-frequency
oscillations of about 100,000 cycles per second, applied at the Bureau
of Standards, and the high-frequency oscillations of about 71,000
cycles per second, applied at the laboratory. No influence from these
conditions was perceptible upon the excellence of the battery trans-
mission and reception of speech either way.

DUPLEX TELEPHONY, USING METALLIC CIRCUIT.
(A) BRIDGING ARRANGEMENT.

The next experiments pertained to the standard metallic circuit
as universally used on telephone toll lines in congested districts.
The electric constants of this line have already been given.

The next step was to remove entirely the earth connections from
the metallic circuit and superimpose both telephonic circuits upon
the same pair of wires, as shown in figure 6, in which the high-fre-
quency apparatus, shown diagrammatically in figure 5, is bridged
across the line wires A and A’. G is the source of sustained high-
frequency oscillations; C, is the tuning condenser of the oscillatory
circuit; L, is the tuning coil of the oscillatory circuit; P is the pri-
mary of the oscillation transformer; A is the ammeter; M is the
transmitter microphone; S is the secondary of the oscillation trans-
former in the line circuit; C is the tuning condenser in the line circuit;
L is the tuning inductance in the line circuit; A, is the ammeter in
the line. At the receiving end of the line, C’ is the line tuning con-
denser; L’ is the line tuning inductance; P’ is the primary of the
oscillation transformer; S’ is the secondary of the oscillation trans-
former; L’’ is the tuning inductance in the oscillatory circuit; C’’ is
the tuning condenser in the oscillatory circuit, between which and
the telephone F the detector D is operatively connected.

The local battery telephone sets are connected across the line wires
in the usual manner. In both sets, 1 is the microphone transmitter;
2 is the local battery; 3 is the induction coil; 4 is the ringing system,
including the bell and hand generator; 5 is the switch hook; 6 is the
telephone receiver.

Since the high-frequency apparatus as commercially developed in
the wireless telegraph art was used, each of the units was variable
and had been previously carefully calibrated by reference to the
standards of the Bureau of Standards. The coupling coils were of
MULTIPLEX TELEPHONY AND TELEGRAPH Y—SQUIER. 147

the design adapted for wireless telephony, the coefficient of coupling
being adjustable between wide limits. It was therefore a matter of
hours to run through a large number of experiments in which various
combinations were tried.

The transmitters first tried were those of the microphone type
inserted in the armature circuit of the dynamo and provided with
water cooling when currents of several amperes were to be used.

It was soon found, however, that the efficiency of transmission of
this cable line was so good for electric waves ofthese frequencies that
a very small current, in the neighborhood of 2 milliamperes, sent into
the line was amply
sufficient for good
speech at the re-
ceiving end about
7 miles distant.
No attempt was
made to determine
to what lower limit the transmission current could reach in this
respect, but such small currents enabled the ordinary telephone
transmitter to be used without any provision for cooling, especially
when it was inserted in the line circuit instead of in the armature
circuit of the dynamo.

The telephone receivers were those regularly furnished for wireless
telephony, ranging in resistance from 2,000 to 8,000 ohms.

Resonance.—As was expected, the phenomena of resonance under

re

i

MI

=>
=

oO

Fia. 6.

the conditions which here obtained were very pronounced and highly
consistent, since there is here a definite circuit free from the disturb-
ances and variations inherent in radio telegraphy and telephony.
In wireless telegraphy and telephony it is well known that within a
few minutes transmission will drop off many fold from causes not en-
tirely understood, and from diurnal variations and electrostatic dis-
turbances, effective transmission is often prevented.

In general, the different circuits were tuned to resonance in the
same manner, for the same purpose, and with the same effect as in
wireless telephony and telegraphy.
148 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1911.

The line circuit itself was readily tuned to resonance for the par-
ticular frequency of the dynamo by noting the maximum reading of
the hot wire ammeter A, in the line itself. This maximum is readily
found by varying either the capacity C or the inductance L, or both.

At the receiving end of the line, coil L’ and the condenser C’, as well
as the coil L’’ and the condenser C’’, were tuned to give a maximum
intensity of signals in the receiving telephone of the audion.

The audion, a detector of the so-called vacuum type, consists of an
exhausted bulb containing (a) a tungsten filament maintained at in-
candescence by a current from a local battery of 6 volts and (6) two
platinum electrodes insulated from the filament and from each other.
To these electrodes, one of which isa platinum plate and the other a
platinum grid, there are applied through the high resistance receivers
about 35 to 45 volts from a local battery. The brilliancy of the fila-
ment is controlled by a small series rheostat, and the voltage applied
to the insulated terminals by a local potentiometer.

The gases in the bulb, becoming ionized by contact with the glowing
electrode, serve as a conductor of electricity, having a high unilateral
conductivity. If the platinum wire grid is close to the hot filament
and the plate at some greater distance, the direction of greater con-
ductivity is from the plate through the gas by the ionic path to the
erid, so that if the positive terminal of the telephone battery is ap-
plied at the plate terminal and the negative at the grid terminal, a
sufficient current to operate the telephone will flow.

If the terminals of the condenser of a resonant receiving circuit are
connected to the grid and to one terminal of the filament the high
frequency e.m‘f. impressed from this resonant circuit will cause a
greater current to flow through the gas in one direction than in the
other, as in the case of the direct-current potential applied through
the telephone receiver. This rectifying effect will be reproduced in
the telephone receivers, causing them to make audible the received
signals.

By changing the coefficient of coupling or the potential across the
audion, which is adjustable, or the amount of ionization of the gases
in the tube by adjusting the current through the filament, or any
combination of these, it was found that the receiving operator could
bring out the speech to suit his particular fancy.

As stated above, the dynamo operated regularly at ranges from
160,000 cycles per second down to 20,000 cycles per second. It was
therefore possible to try the effect of a comparatively wide range of
frequencies in these experiments, covering three octaves, the induc-
tances and capacities being chosen to correspond to each particular
frequency. It was found that more energy was delivered over this
particular type and length of circuit by using the lower frequencies of
MULTIPLEX TELEPHONY AND TELEGRAPHY—SQUIER. 149

this range than the higher ones, although meine results were easily
obtained at any point.

The battery telephone side of the equipment was left absolutely
intact, as it would be commercially used, and severe tests were made,
employing four operators, to determine the efficiency of two simulta-
neous conversations over this same pair of wires.

The ringing circuit was operative both ways with no apparent effect
on the high frequency telephone transmission. This ringing circuit
develops a comparatively large alternating current deine in ake wire
at about 30 cycles per second and at a polteee of many times that of
either the high frequency or the battery side of the circuit.

Articulation tests, including music, numerals and other difficult
combinations, gave satisfactory results, with no interference what-
ever between the two sides of the circuit.

By holding one telephone receiver to one ear arid the other receiver
to the other ear the receiving operator could hear two entirely
different conversations simultaneously over the same pair of wires.

(B) SERIES ARRANGEMENT.

A circuit was next made up with high-frequency apparatus inserted
directly in the line in series, instead of in the bridging arrangement
shown in figure 5. The

Miemscniscu as Snowl clas ep Um pelted
grammatically in figure 7, ee “ais
in which Land L’ arethe ~~~ oi 0 oz

secondary coils of the a U
transmitter and receiver,
respectively. C and C’

represent variable con- rere
densers of the order of magnitude used in wireless telegraphy and serve
as low impedance paths for the high-frequency oscillations, and at the
same time prevent the short circuiting of the low-frequency battery
telephone current. It was found that this arrangement gave appar-

ently as good results as the bridging arrangement of the circuit.
TII.—DUPLEX-DIPLEX TELEGRAPHY.

Having described in detail the experiments for obtaining the
simultaneous transmission of two telephonic messages over a single
circuit, it will be apparent that the problem of transmitting two
telegraphic messages over the same circuit may be solved by methods
and apparatus as far as the high-frequency side of the circuit is con-
cerned, which are practically identical with those described above.

In this connection the metallic circuit referred to was equipped
with a standard Morse set for manual operation, and upon this cir-
150 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1911.

cuit was superimposed an equipment for transmitting in one direction
telegraphic messages by means of sustained high-frequency oscilla-
tions, employing the telephone as the means for receiving the signals.
The circuit used is shown diagrammatically in figure 8, in which, in
the Morse set, there are shown between the line wire and the ground G,
the line relay S, the key K, and the line battery B; and the local
battery 6 and the sounder s; and in which, in the high-frequency
set, are similarly shown between the line wire and the ground G the
tuning elements C and L; and at the transmitting end the oscillation
transformer T, the primary of which is in circuit with the dynamo
as a source of sustained oscillations, the telegraph key K’, the inter-
rupter I and the tuning elements OC’ and L’, and at the receiving end
the oscillation transformer R in the secondary circuit of which are
included the usual tuning elements and operatively connected to
them the detector and its telephone as a means of receiving the
signals.

As noted in the case of the preliminary local circuit tests, it was
found that over this particular line it was not necessary to use a

Fig. 8.

detector for electromagnetic waves, since enough energy was delivered
to operate the telephone receiver by connecting it directly between
the line and the earth.

The sound produced, however, was. characteristically different
in the two cases. With the detector the individual signals had the
characteristic tone corresponding to the interrupter at the trans-
mitting end of the line, whereas without the detector this tone was
entirely absent, and a general dull sound, due to the resultant action
of the wave-trains was heard. If, however, a telephone receiver was
employed with a soft iron core, instead of a permanent magnet, no
result was obtained with the limited power used on this line.

Although little mention of telegraphy by high-frequency electric
waves has been made thus far, as a matter of fact it was found
convenient during the experiments upon telephony actually to
MULTIPLEX TELEPHONY AND TELEGRAPHY—SQUIER. aS |

employ telegraphy as a quick and ready means of determining
resonance between the circuits in each particular case.

When any particular arrangement was being employed the first
steps were invariably to send simple Morse signals over the circuit
until the operator at the distant end of the line reported maximum
loudness in the receiving telephone, which indicated that the ter-
minal apparatus with the line circuit was properly tuned. This
being accomplished, it was necessary only to throw a switch to
substitute for the automatic interrupter and telegraph key the
telephone transmitter, and the experiments could then proceed on
telephony without any material change being made at the receiving
station. Telephony and telegraphy thus proceeded hand in hand
as a mere matter of convenience, and one of the practical advantages
in the use of electric waves for transmitting intelligence is that the
whole set-up of apparatus is practically the same for each and they
can be used interchangeably over the same circuit.

Considering the Morse equipment, indicated in figure.8, the electro-
magnetic units involved are of the order of magnitude of microfarads
and henrys, and the period of the interrupted direct current for
Morse sending is not more than the equivalent of about 10 complete
cycles per second, whereas in the high-frequency side of the circuit
the electromagnetic units are of the order of magnitude of thousandths
of a microfarad and of thousandths of a henry and with frequencies
not less than 2,000 times greater than those involved in manual
Morse sending. Furthermore, the ohmic resistance of the line which
plays a prominent part in limiting the distance and speed of Morse
working, 1s comparatively unimportant in the case of electric waves
euided by wires. The operation of the line equipped as in figure 8
was perfectly satisfactory, there being no perceptible interference
between the two messages in either direction.

Since the standard telegraph circuits of the world use a ground
return, this same equipment was arranged to operate on one of the
wires of the twisted-pair in the telephone cable as such a circuit
with earth connections at each end, and its operation was equally
successful.

Since it is a well-known characteristic of high-frequency apparatus
used in tuned circuits that there shall be no iron involved in the
circuit, it is evident that in cases where such a high-frequency cur-
rent is to be superimposed upon a line comprising way stations,
where line relays are inserted directly in the circuit, it will be neces-
sary and sufficient to shunt such way stations by condensers of the
order of magnitude of thousandths of a microfarad. Such con-
densers offer a comparatively free path for the high-frequency electric
waves, but interpose a practical barrier to the Morse frequencies.
152 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1911.

The same general statement can be made relative to any of the
standard forms of low-frequency telegraphy over wires as now
practiced, such as the polar duplex, the differential duplex, and the
duplex-diplex, employing alternating currents of low frequency and
standard keys, relays, and sounders.

Inserting a regular 150-ohm telegraph relay in series in the line
cuts down the high-frequency current to a small percentage of its
original value, which indicates the marked influence of the presence
of iron in such a circuit. Furthermore, it was noted that at 100,000
cycles the hysteresis of the iron core was so great that it became
heated very perceptibly in a few moments.

Since a portion of the telegraph lines now used is still composed
of iron wires, it would be expected that electric waves would be
propagated over such wires less efficiently than over copper wires,
although it is well known that electric waves penetrate only about
one-thirteenth as deeply into soft iron for a given frequency as into
copper, but this is modified by the fact that the iron in telegraph
wires is not soft iron and in addition is galvanized.

[Section 4 of this paper, giving details of measurements of electric
waves of frequencies from 20,000 to 100,000 cycles per second on a
standard telephone cable line, is omitted from the present reprint
by the Smithsonian Institution.]

SUMMARY.

Radiotelegraphy has no competitor as a means of transmitting
intelligence between ships at sea and between ships and shore stations,
and on land it-is also unique in its usefulness in reaching isolated
districts and otherwise inaccessible points. To what extent it may
be also developed to furnish practical intercommunication according
to the high standard now enjoyed in thickly populated districts it
is not attempted to predict.

The foregoing experiments indicate that either the existing wire
system, or additional wires for the purpose may be utilized for the
efficient transmission of telephonic and telegraphic messages, and
the former without interfering with the existing telephone traffic on
these wires.

The fact that each of the circuits created by the use of super-
imposed high-frequency methods is both a telephone and a telegraph
circuit interchangeably, makes it possible to offer to the public a new
type of service, which it is believed will offer many advantages to
the commercial world. This type of circuit should be particularly
applicable to press association service, railroad service, and leased
wire service of all kinds.

The experiments described should not be interpreted as in any way
indicating limitations to radio telegraphy and telephony in the future,
for their present rapid development gives justification for great pros-
MULTIPLEX TELEPHONY AND TELEGRAPH Y—SQUIER,. oo

pect for the future. It is rather considered that the whole system of
intercommunication, including both wire methods and wireless
methods, will grow apace, and as each advance is made in either of
these it will create new demands and standards for still further
development. We need more wireless telegraphy everywhere, and
not less do we need more wire telegraphy and telephony everywhere
and, again, more submarine cables. The number of submarine
cables connecting Europe with America could be increased many
times and all of them kept fully occupied, provided the traffic were
properly classified to enable some of the enormous business which
is now carried on by mail to be transferred to the quicker and more
efficient cablegram letter. That time will surely come when the
methods of electrical intercommunication will have been so developed
and multiplied that the people of the different countries of the world
may become real neighbors.

Accustomed to the methods of transmitting energy for power pur-
poses by means of wire, it is a matter of wonder that enough energy
can be delivered at a receiving antenna from a transmitting point
thousands of miles distant to operate successfully receiving devices.
The value of a metallic wire guide for the energy of the electric waves
is strikingly shown in the above experiments, and it furnishes an
efficient directive wireless system which confines the ether dis-
turbances to closely bounded regions and thus offers a ready solution
to the serious problems of interferences between messages which of
necessity have to be met in wireless operations through space.

The distortion of speech, which is an inherent feature of tele-
phony over wires, should be much less, if not practically absent,
when we more and more withdraw the phenomena from the metal
of the wire and confine them to a longitudinal strip of the ether which
forms the region between the two wires of a metallic circuit.

The ohmic resistance of the wire as shown can be made to play a
comparatively unimportant part in the transmission of speech, and
the more the phenomena are of the ether, instead of metallic con-
duction, the more perfectly will the modified electric waves, which
are the vehicle for transmit‘ing the speech, be delivered at the receiv-
ing point without distortion.

It has been shown that the phenomena of resonance, which are
met with in so many different branches of physics, exhibit very
striking and orderly results when applied to electric waves propagated
by means of wires. By utilizing this principle it has been shown
that the receiving current at the end of the line may be built up and
amplified many times over what it would be with untuned circuits.

The tuned electrical circuit at the receiving end readily admits
electromagnetic waves of a certain definite frequency, and bars
from entrance electromagnetic waves of other frequencies. This
permits the possibility of utilizing a single circuit for multiplex
telephony and telegraphy.
a. iat me ‘nee sertento

ne at = thier ater. vitod’-ivtartotey gamit eat

tnt ane a ih wee engine a oie
F Siiwinniind iniwawniancicinak Sars ~
haa pate isnd Lossthi horny emaateee AL hee Re

Sr Seater @eanitenh eeigetnc oA io an pe f

iy ean iohinr et wee AE Ligh “ish coy bobeuea wow
. piven ek Livi at aD out

ON Ke, = cea,
a « rh AR i " A

| seneheanate lem banoo ihe cop wads nisin

TS Sse! We a ee

= haunt ‘et aenai pn Hine cay Tytink eomtigage ante ie ONG

wi aiehiicate: Bis a iaweds Wits pada dome gt saben i
rein woker abate ican Beuee ae doagtachetohs ">
peere Mes TP eee ona beet eat wae.

ki denersgsl tne? acemaae
‘kha: ‘tondwhelieaner |

piece ipitmais St: mceret Se ntheeccia hae on
Ge ae er eet a sane Lia Dei svi: de 2
| gennlee nen pie Tate, ACL Ta pons : wok et eset OF 4a ae gn ay

RECENT EXPERIMENTS WITH INVISIBLE LIGHT.!
[With 6 plates.]

By R. W. Woop, LL. D.,
Professor of Experimental Physics, Johns Hopkins University.

By far the greater proportion of the discoveries which have been
made in natural science up to the present time depend upon observa-
tions made with the eye, either with or without the aid of optical
instruments. The eye is, however, sensitive to only a very small
part of the total radiation which reaches it, and it seems not unlikely
that, if its range could be extended, many new phenomena would
immediately come to light. By the employment of photography and
of instruments which detect and measure the intensity of the infra-
red or heat rays, much new information has been gathered, especially
in the science of spectroscopy; but usually these methods have been
applied only in cases where the invisible radiations were known to be
present. It seemed quite probable that if photographic methods
were applied to various physical phenomena which excluded the
action of any but invisible rays, new facts would probably be dis-
covered. I can illustrate what I mean by taking two striking cases
which were found at the very outset of the investigation, and which
will be more fully discussed presently.

If the finger be dipped into powdered zinc oxide and rubbed
over a sheet of white paper, eye observation is absolutely unable
to detect the presence of the streaks made by the white powder,
unless it has been very thickly applied. If, however, we photo-
graph the paper with ultra-violet light we obtain a picture in which
the streaks are as black as if made with powdered charcoal. This
suggests that if we apply the process to the photography of themoon
and planets, we have some reason to suspect that substances which
can not be detected visually may come out in the photographs, a
surmise which has been justified in one case at least. This and
other similar cases will be taken up in detail presently.

As an illustration of how the method may be applied to the inves-
tigation of various physical phenomena, we may take another
interesting case, in which a new radiant emission from the electric
spark has been discovered. It was suspected that the very short

1 Lecture before the Royal Institution of Great Britain, Friday, May 19,1911. Reprinted by permission
from author’s separate of Proceedings of the Royal Institution.

155
156 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1911.

waves discovered by Schumann, which are powerfully absorbed by

air, might possibly render the air fluorescent, the emitted light being *
invisible, however, on account of its short wave length. A heavy

spark discharge was accordingly placed behind a small disk of metal,

which cut off all the direct light, and the surrounding region photo-

graphed with a quartz lens, which is transparent to the ultra-violet

rays. It was found that the air in the neighborhood of the spark

actually did give off actinic invisible rays, the photograph giving.
the impression of a luminous fog surrounding the metal disk.

I will now show you an experiment which illustrates that two objects
which can not be distinguished under ordinary Ulumination may
appear quite different when the light which illummates them is
restricted to certain regions of the spectrum. I have here two pieces
of scarlet silk which can not be distinguished the one from the other
in the light of the incandescent electric lamps which uluminate this
room. I now extinguish the lamps and place the two pieces of silk
under this Cooper-Hewitt mercury are lamp, and as you see, one of
them still appears scarlet as before, while the other appears very dark
blue, almost black, in fact. The peculiarity of the mercury lamp lies
in the fact that it gives out little or no red light, consequently red
objects in general appear almost black. The peculiarity of this
particular piece of silk, by virtue of which it appears quite as red as
in ordinary lights, lies in the fact that the red dye with which it is
colored is fluorescent under the action of the green rays from the
lamp; the red light is manufactured, so to speak, from the green
light by the coloring matter of the silk. If I place the are lamp
and the piece-of silk behind this large sheet of red glass, you will
observe that the fabric is actually brighter than the lamp itself,
probably eight or ten times as bright. We can form an image of the
lamp on the silk with a Jens, and the image will be many times
brighter than the-lamp, which might be taken as a refutation of the
old and well-known theorem in optics that no optical system can
yield an image brighter than the source (!) Here is another piece of
white suk upon which I have made some red spots with this same
dye. By the ordinary iiumination of the room it is seen to be white,
with large pink polka dots, something quite suitable for a young lady’s
summer gown. I now place it behind the red screen under the
mercury are and it at once becomes quite diabolical in appearance,
bluish-black with flaming spots of scarlet, entirely unsuitable for the
aforementioned purpose. The dye which-was used for coloring
these fluorescent fabrics was rhodamin. ‘The conditions of illumina-
tion and observation are, of course, rather special in these cases, and
I have introduced them merely to illustrate how the eye may be
deceived under certain conditions.
EXPERIMENTS WITH INVISIBLE LIGHT—WOOD. 157

Practically all sources of light in ordinary use give out more or
less ultra-violet light which plays no part in vision, but which can be
rendered apparent in various ways. I have on the table a new
arrangement by which these rays can be separated from the visible
ones. The apparatus is practically identical with the device quite
recently used by Prof. Rubens and myself for isolating the longest
heat waves that have been discovered up to the present time. It
can be used as well for the isolation of the ultra-violet, since its
action depends upon the high refractive index which quartz has for
these two types of radiation. The source is, in this case, an electric
spark contained in this box, and the ultra-violet rays are brought to
a focus upon a small circular aperture in a cardboard:screen. The
focal length of the lens is so much greater for visible light that these
rays do not come to a focus at all, but are spread over a circular area
of a diameter nearly half that of the lens.

A penny has been fastened to the center of the lens with wax, and
this shields the aperture from the cone of visible rays coming from
the central portions of the lens. If I hold a sheet of white paper
above the aperture you observe that it remains dark—that is, no
visible rays pass through to the paper; if, however, I substitute for
the paper this mass of uranium nitrate crystals, the presence of the
ultra-violet rays is made manifest, the crystals shining with a brilliant
green light.

Certain vapors shine with a brilliant light when exposed to these
invisible rays. One of the most. striking is the vapor of metallic
mercury, which I can show you by boiling the metal in this flask of
fused quartz placed above the aperture. The metal is boiling now,
and you can all see the brilhant cone of green light which marks the
path of the ultra-violet rays through the metallic vapor. If I hold
a thin sheet of glass between the aperture and the flask, you will
observe that the vapor instantly becomes dark, for the glass stops
completely the rays in question.

The vapor of mercury exhibits an absorption band in the ultra-
violet region which resembles the band at wave-length 5893 shown
by dense sodium vapor. So powerful is this absorption that I have
detected it in the vapor of mercury at room temperature. It occurred
to me that this light instead of being absorbed might possibly be
reemitted by the vapor laterally in all directions. To test this point
I sealed up a drop of mercury in an exhausted flask of quartz, and
focused the light of the mercury are (burning in a silica tube) at the
center of the bulb, which was not heated. The bulb was then photo-
graphed with a quartz lens, and the picture clearly showed the cone
of focused rays precisely as if the bulb were filled with smoke. This
is another very good example of how new discoveries may be made
by ultra-violet photography.
158 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1911.

If the object to be photographed gives off visible rays in addition
to the invisible ones, it is necessary to remove these by a suitable
screen or ray filter. We will begin by considering some remarkable
effects which are obtained when sunlit landscapes are photographed
by means of the obscure rays at the extreme red end of the spectrum.
A screen can be prepared which transmits these rays, and is at the
same time opaque to all other radiations, by combining a sheet of the
densest blue cobalt glass with a solution of bichromate of potash or
some suitable orange dye.

Such a screen transmits a region of the spectrum comprised
between wave lengths 6900 and 7500. Though this region is visible
to the eye if all other rays are cut off, it is so feeble in its action that
it plays no part in ordinary vision, being overpowered by the other
radiations. We may thence, for convenience, call photographs made
through such a screen infra-red pictures, though the infra-red region
is usually considered as beginning at the point where all action upon
the human retina ceases.

The photographs which I am now going to show you were taken
through such a screen, with the spectrum plates made by Wratten and
Wainwright. The time of exposure was about three minutes in full
sunlight, with the lens stop set at f/8. The views were, for the most
part, made in Sicily and Italy, and have a very curious appearance,
for while the sky comes out in all of them almost as black as mid-
night, the foliage of the trees and the grass come out snow white.
This peculiar effect results from the failure of the atmosphere to
scatter these long rays. The green leaves, however, reflect them very
powerfully, or, more correctly, transmit them, since we are dealing
with pigment or transmission color. If we look at a landscape
through the screen, carefully protecting the eye from all extraneous
light with a black cloth, we shall find that the trees shine with a
beautiful rich red light against a black sky. This condition obtains
only on very clear days, for the presence of the least haze in the air
enables it to scatter the long rays, and you will notice that in those
pictures which show the sky down to the horizon there is a pro-
gressive increase in its luminosity as we pass from the zenith down-
ward,.as a result of the greater thickness of the mass of air sending
the scattered rays to the camera.

Another point to be noticed is the intense blackness of the shadows
in the infra-red pictures, due to the fact that most of the ight comes
directly from the sun and little or none from the sky, which reminds
one forcibly of the conditions which obtain on the moon, where
there is no atmosphere at all to form a luminous sky.

When we come to the subject of photographs made with ultra-
violet light, we shall find that we have the conditions reversed, for
EXPERIMENTS WITH INVISIBLE LIGHT—WOOD. 159

practically all of these very short waves are scattered by the atmos-
phere, and we have no shadows even in full sunlight.

We will now run through the series of infra-red pictures as rapidly
as possible, for I have a considerable number of them. The one
which is on the screen is one of the finest in the collection (pl. 1). It
was made in the park at Florence, and shows the long drive, over-
shadowed by trees, the one in the foreground being particularly fine
in appearance. The next one (pl. 2) was made at the bottom of
one of the old quarries or latomisz at Syracuse, the view looking out
through a cavelike formation at a group of almond trees, with which
the quarry is overgrown.

Here is a fine row of cypresses growing by an old gate, taken on
a somewhat hazy day, with the sky appearing a little lighter than
usual. Some of the pictures show the advantage gained in bringing
out the detail of distant objects seen through the atmospheric haze,
and it does not seem impossible that photographs of the brighter
planets made through an infra-red screen might prove interesting if
the planets are surrounded by a light scattering atmosphere, for we
must bear in mind that the surface of the earth, as seen from a neigh-
boring planet, would be seen through a luminous haze, equal in
brilliance to the blue sky on a clear day; that is, it would present
much the same appearance as is presented by the moon when seen at
noonday.

_ We will now look into the question of how things would appear if

our eyes were sensitive only to ultra-violet light. In applying the
same method which we have used for the infra-red, we require a
screen which is opaque to all visible light, but which transmits the
ultra-violet.

Glass is opaque to these rays, cutting them off almost completely,
and for this reason we can not employ glass lenses. Quartz, on the
other hand, is exceedingly transparent to these invisible rays, but it
is a little difficult to find a medium which is transparent to them and
at the same time quite opaque to visible light. Indeed, there is only
one substance known which completely fulfills such a condition,
namely, metallic silver. If we deposit chemically a thin film of
metallic silver'on the surface of a quartz lens, a certain amount of
ultra-violet radiation between 3000 and 3200 is able to struggle
through and form an image on the plate.

I have used silver films through which the filament of a tungsten
lamp is invisible. The best thickness is that at which the tungsten
lamp is just barely discernible. If the objects to be photographed
are illuminated with the light of an electric spark, or some other
source, rich in ultra-violet rays, much thinner films of silver can be
employed, but in the case of sunlight, which has passed through the
earth’s atmosphere, the ultra-violet in the region for which silver has
160 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1911.

its lowest reflecting power and greatest transparency has been so
tremendously weakened by atmospheric absorption, that it is neces-
sary to employ thick films and long exposures, otherwise the action
upon the photographic plate results chiefly from the violet and ultra-
violet rays, which are capable of traversing glass.

As an illustration of the behavior of silver films of different thick-
nesses, used as ray filters, we may take some pictures which were
made for the purpose of studying the reflecting power of various
metals, suitable for telescope mirrors, for ultra-violet photography.
As silver reflects only about 4 per cent of the ultra-violet in the
spectrum range for which it is transparent, a silvered glass reflecting
telescope for this purpose is obviously out of the question. Speculum
metal is fairly suitable, but speculum mirrors of large size are trouble-
some, and difficult to procure. I accordingly worked out a method
of depositing nickel on glass. The glass is first silvered, and then
electro-plated with nickel, by a process which I have described
recently in the Astrophysical Journal (Dec., 1911). The double
sulphate of nickel and ammonia is used with one or two dry cells.
The solution must be very dilute (10 grams or less to the liter),
otherwise the nickel strips the silver from the glass. We have here ~
four pictures of a silvered glass dish, partially plated with nickel
(pl. 8, fig. 1). The silvered portion is marked Ag, the nickel Ni,
while at G we have a spot of clear glass from which the metal has
been removed. The dish stands against a flat plate of polished
speculum metal Sp, and the metal surfaces reflect the light of the
sky to the camera. The first picture was made by blue and violet
light without any ray filter, and as you see the glass surface G is
quite black, while the silver reflects much more powerfully than the
nickel. The following three pictures were made with a quartz lens,
coated with silver films of increasing thickness. The silver and
nickel reflect to about the same degree in the second picture, in the
third the silver is much darker than the nickel, while in the fourth
the silver is seen to reflect no more than the spot of clear glass G.
This last was made through a film, through which a tungsten lamp
was invisible. If these ultra-violet rays were visible to us, metallic
silver would appear to have about the same reflecting power and
appearance as anthracite coal.

We will next take up the action of our atmosphere on these ultra-
violet rays. J have taken two photographs of a man standing in the
road in full sunshine, in the one case by ordinary light and in the
other by ultra-violet radiation. In the latter the shadow is com-
pletely absent. Ultra-violet behaves in exactly the opposite way to
the infra-red. The infra-red rays are enabled to drive through the
atmosphere without being scattered laterally by the molecules of the
air or the dust particles. The short or ultra-violet rays, on the other
PLATE 1.

Smithsonian Report, 1911.—Wood.

PHOTOGRAPHED BY INFRA-RED Rays.

PARK IN FLORENCE.
Smithsonian Report, 1911.—Wood. PLATE 2.

QUARRY IN SYRACUSE. PHOTOGRAPHED BY INFRA-RED RAYS.
EXPERIMENTS WITH INVISIBLE LIGHT—-WOOD. 161

hand, are completely scattered, so that the greater part of the ultra-
violet light which reaches the surface of the earth comes from the sky
and not directly from the sun. If our eyes were sensitive only to
ultra-violet we should find the world appearing not greatly different
from the aspect which obtains at the time of light fog. We should,
indeed, see the sun, but it would be very dull, and there would be no
shadows, just as there are none on a foggy day. We should walk the
earth like Peter Schlemeil, the shadowless man of the German fable.

The next picture (pl. 3, fig. 2) illustrates the opacity of ordinary
window glass to ultra-violet radiation. It will be noticed that there
is no trace of the landscape seen through the glass window, although
it is clearly rendered in the companion picture taken with visible light.
Another difference to be noted in these pictures is that the flowers in
the garden, which are white in the picture taken with visible light,
disappear entirely in the picture taken by means of the ultra-violet
radiation. The white garden flowers become almost black, as is
shown in plate 4, figure 1, which shows white phlox photographed by
visible and ultra-violet light. It occurred to me that this ability of
the white flowers to absorb the ultra-violet rays might play some
economic part in the growth of the plant. I therefore experimented
with some flowers which had been grown under glass, and had thus
been deprived of ultra-violet, but I was unable to find any marked
difference between those which had been grown in the open and
others which had been deprived of their full quota of this radiation.
It is possible that if the experiments were carried on through the
course of a number of generations, we should find a difference. I
have found, however, that all white flowers are not equally dark when
photographed with ultra-violet light. White geraniums, for example,
come out much lighter than common white phlox, which is practically
black when photographed through the silvered quartz lens.

Tn order to demonstrate the difference in the appearance of one of
the common pigments when viewed respectively with visible light and
with ultra-violet radiation, some letters were painted in Chinese white
on a page of amagazine. In the photograph (pl. 4, fig. 2) taken with
visible light the Chinese white appears as white as the paper itself, if
not indeed whiter; but, photographed with the ultra-violet radiation,
it comes out absolutely black. One may say that what is Chinese
white in visible ight becomes Japan black in ultra-violet. Under
this radiation also black printer’s ink becomes lighter than in visible
light. ‘This failure in the reflecting capacity of Chinese white is a
source of some annoyance in reproducing drawings executed in part
in this medium, as has been pointed out by Mr. A. J. Newton. In
working with my Chinese white I made a mistake in one letter in the
word “appears,” and carefully wiped it out, leaving no trace of the

38734°—sm 1911——11
162 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1911.

correction discernable in visible light; but when the photograph was
made with the ultra-violet, the erasure, otherwise invisible, showed as
a black smudge. The ultra-violet camera is evidently very much
more sensitive than the eye to the presence of traces of Chinese white
on the printed page, for so far as I could see every particle of the
pigment had been removed. Whether this has any bearing upon the
detection of forgeries has yet to be discovered.

Another class of work in which this comparative study is likely to
be of service is the photography of celestial bodies. For the full
moon the exposure through the silver screen was two minutes with
ultra-violet light belonging to the region 3000 to 3200. This length
of exposure necessitated an equatorial telescope with some means of
driving it to compensate for the moon’s movement. The support for
my telescope was the framework of an old bicycle minus the wheels.
This carried a 4-inch refractor and a quartz-silver telescope, and by
the operation of a little screw it was possible to follow the moon
accurately for half an hour. It will be seen at once (pl. 5) that there
is very little difference between the ordinary image of the moon and
the one which is shown us by the ultra-violet radiation. Nevertheless
in the neighborhood of Aristarchus, which is the brightest crater on.
the lunar surface, the photograph taken with the ultra-violet rays
shows a dark patch which is absent on the one taken with visible
light. I made an enlargement of the region in which this crater
appears, and it is evident that there is in its neighborhood a large
deposit of some material which can only be brought out by means of
the ultra-violet. These photographs of the moon make it appear
extremely probable that by carrying on experiments of this nature
on a larger scale we might get a good deal of new information as to
the materials of which the moon is composed. It is possible to
examine the igneous rocks of the earth under the different radiations,
and then compare them with the pictures of celestial objects obtained
at the same wave-lengths. Ihave found that some rocks, which when
illuminated by ultra-violet rays appear darker than others, are lighter
than the others in visible light.

[Note added October, 1911.]

[I have had constructed a 16-inch mirror of 26-feet focus which
I have coated with nickel, for extending the study of the ultra-
violet photography of the moon and planets. This is now being used
in combination with a plate of the new ultra-violet glass, 12 centi-
meters square and 1 millimeter thick, heavily silvered. The plate
was made by Zeiss, and I find that it is quite as transparent as quartz
for the rays transmitted by the silver filter. This reflector was
mounted on the 23-inch equatorial of Princeton University, and
some very fair pictures have been obtained, though the moon’s motion
Smithsonian Report, 1911.—Wood. PLATE 3.

VISIBLE LIGHT. ULTRA-VIOLET LIGHT.
Fic. 2.
Smithsonian Report, 1911.—Wood.

VISIBLE LIGHT. ULTRA-VIOLET LIGHT.
FelGaaalte

VISIBLE LIGHT. ; ULTRA-VIOLET LIGHT.
Fig. 2.
EXPERIMENTS WITH INVISIBLE LIGHT—WoopD. 163

‘ in declination could not be followed with sufficient accuracy to
secure the best results. Figure 7 (pl. 5) shows two views of the
region around Aristarchus (indicated by an arrow), one made with
yellow, the other with ultra-violet light. The dark deposit to the
right of the bright crater comes out very clearly in the latter. The
markings to the right of this region are quite different in the two
pictures. Immediately below the pictures of the moon are three
photographs made of two samples of volcanic “ tuff’? arranged one
upon the other, with the crater Aristarchus marked with white chalk
(as a check upon the exposure). The left-hand picture was made
with yellow light, and the central specimen is lighter than the one
surrounding it. The right-hand one was made with ultra-violet,
and shows the central specimen distinctly darker. The middle
picture was taken with violet light, which shows the two specimens
of very nearly the same luminosity. I made an analysis of the
fragment of tuff which photographed dark in ultra-violet light, and
found that it contained iron and traces of sulphur. Photographs of
rocks stained with iron oxide did not show the required peculiarity,
and I accordingly attributed the result to the sulphur. A light deposit
of sulphur was formed on the surface of a piece of light-gray rock by
directing a fine jet of sulphur vapor against it. The deposit was so
slight that absolutely no trace of it could be detected by the eye. The
specimen was then photographed with yellow, violet, and ultra-
violet light, and it was found that the deposit was quite invisible in
the first picture, faintly visible in the second, and quite black in the
third—precisely the peculiarity shown by the deposit surrounding
the crater Aristarchus. Plate 6, a, b, c, show the gradual appearance
of the deposit, which is an oval spot in the center of the specimen. I,
feel inclined, therefore, to attribute this spot to an extensive deposit
of sulphur, resulting from vapor ejected from the crater. The shape
and vast extent of the deposit has always suggested to me that it
resulted from material driven out in a volcanic blast.]

Returning now from the moon to the physical laboratory, we will
consider a further phenomenon which has been discovered and studied
by means of photography in the ultra-violet region. The vapor of
mercury has an absorption band in this region at wave length 2536,
which I have made the subject of a somewhat extended investigation.
At low pressures the line is very narrow, resembling one of the D
lines of sodium, and I have detected its presence in mercury vapor
at room temperature by employing a tube 3 meters long closed with
quartz plates. It occurred to me that this vapor might prove to
be the substance which I have long sought for the study of what I
have named resonance radiation, i.e., a re-emission of light by absorp-
ing molecules, of precisely the same wave length as that of the light
absorbed. Sodium vapor was found to exhibit the phenomenon,
164 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1911.

but the experimental difficulties were so great that very little was
accomplished. A small box was made of brass and square plates of
quartz. ‘The inside was varnished and blackened with soot, a drop
of mercury introduced, and the box exhausted. The camera with its
quartz objective was now trained on the box, and a beam of light
from a mercury lamp (quartz) focused at the center of the box.
Though the eye could see no trace of the cone of rays, the photograph
brought it out as distinctly as if the box was full of smoke. An ex-
posure of only 1 second was necessary, and with a 10-second expo-
sure the spectrum of the light scattered by the vapor was secured.
It was found to consist of a single line only (the 2536 line), though the
light entering the box was the total radiation of the mercury are, the
spectrum of which contained hundreds of lines. The pressure of the
mercury vapor was about 0.001 millimeter, in other words, zeso00
of the pressure of the air in the room. It seems most extraordinary
that a vapor at such a very low pressure and at the temperature of
the room should glow so brilliantly with invisible ight. A little fur-
ther experimenting resulted in a further discovery. It was found
that if the box was filled with air at atmospheric pressure, the cone
of rays glowed feebly in the mercury vapor with which the air was
saturated. As the pressure wasreduced the glowincreased in brilliancy,
reaching its maximum at a pressure of about 5 millimeters. As the
exhaustion was pushed further the mercury vapor outside of the
cone became luminous, and at the highest vacuum attainable the glow
filled the entire box. This is secondary resonance radiation excited
by the primary radiation of the mercury vapor, which is excited by
the cone of focused rays. The brilliancy of the cone remained about
the same, so that we can not attribute the bursting out of this sec-
ondary fluorescence to a mere increase in the brilliancy of the directly
excited vapor.

Experiments are now in progress to determine why the presence of
a few millimeters of air destroys all trace of the secondary radiation.
Photographs of the glowing vapor in air at pressures of 5 millimeters,
1 millimeter, and 0 are reproduced in plate 6, d, e, f.

If we put the drop of mercury in a small flask with very thick
walls, exhaust the air, and seal the neck of the flask with the oxy-
hydrogen flame, we are in a position to study this interesting type
of radiation in mercury vapor at high pressures. I found that as
the temperature of the flask was raised the radiation came from a
region nearer and nearer the front surface, which was illuminated by
tht rays from the lamp, and that when the pressure was about 10
atmospheres the ray from the lamp, which had a wave length of
2536, was selectively reflected from the surface of the vapor, pre-
cisely as if the inner surface of the bulb were plated with silver. The
other rays passed through the bulb with their usual facility. I am
Smithsonian Report, 1911.—Wood. PLATE 5:

THE MOON PHOTOGRAPHED WITH INVISIBLE LIGHT.
Smithsonian Report, 1911.—Wood. PLATE 6,

EXPERIMENTS WITH INVISIBLE LIGHT
EXPERIMENTS WITH INVISIBLE LIGHT—WOOD. 165

at the present time engaged in the study of just how the change
from the resonance radiation (which is, scattered in all directions) to
the regular reflection takes place, a matter of great interest in con-
nection with the theory of absorption and reflection. As a matter of
fact, I expect it to turn out that the mercury light does not absorb
the light at all, for experiments indicate that the lateral emission of
the ultra-violet light is about as bright as when white paper is used
to scatter the light.

Another interesting line of investigation which I have recently
carried out illustrates how new discoveries may be made by the aid
of ultra-violet photography. It occurred to me that the air sur-
rounding an electric spark might possibly be rendered fluorescent by
the absorption of the very short ultra-violet waves discovered by
Schumann, but that the flourescence might be made up wholly of
ultra-violet light and consequently invisible. I therefore photo-
eraphed the region surrounding a powerful spark discharge with a
quartz lens, shielded from the direct light of the spark by a circular
disk. The photograph, when developed, showed a highly luminous
aureole surrounding the spark and extending out in all directions to
a distance of nearly 2 centimeters. It was now necessary to prove
that this was not light scattered by the dust particles in the air. To
do this we have only to protograph the spectrum of the aureole. If
it is similar to the spectrum of the spark we are safe in attributing
it to scattered light. It it differs we know that it must be fluores-
cence, or the genesis of waves of different wave length from any pres-
ent in the light of the spark. A photograph of the region surround-
ing the spark was made with a quartz spectrograph, and it was at
once found that the spectrum was wholly different from that of the
spark; in fact, it was almost identical with that of the oxy-hydrogen
flame. For the further study of the phenomenon, a piece of appa-
ratus was devised by which the light of the spark could be more effec-
tually shut off. A small hole was bored through a plate of aluminum
fastened to the end of a short vertical brass tube. This plate formed
one electrode, the spark passing between an aluminum rod lying
along the axis of the tube and the underside of the plate at the point
perforated by the hole.

In a perfectly dark room, if the eye was held a little below the
plane of the plate, no luminosity could be seen in the air above the
hole, if it was reasonably free from dust, yet a photograph taken with
a quartz lens showed a bright beam, or squirt, of light issuing from
the hole. A photograph of the phenomenon is here shown, and you
will notice the strong resemblance which it bears to a comet (pl. 6, g).

Many weeks have been spent in an attempt to determine the
exact origin of this radiation, and the question has proved to be the
most baffling one which I have ever attempted to solve. The work
166 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1911.

is still in progress, and many remarkable observations have been
made, each one leaving us more in the dark than before. As an illus-
tration I may mention a circumstance discovered by Dr. Hemsalech
and myself last winter in Paris. We found that if a jet of air was
blown through the squirt of light, the luminosity was destroyed in the
region traversed by the moving current of air, but was of undimin-
ished intensity both above and below this region. This makes it
seem as if the emanation which comes from the spark, and which
causes the luminosity of the air, must act for a brief time upon the
air in order to cause the luminosity. It also shows that the emana-
tion, whatever may be its nature, is not swept aside by the air current.
We have also found that other gases become luminous when sub-
jected to the spark emanations, the spectrum in each case being
different and peculiar to the gas used, electrolytic hydrogen, for
example, giving a strong luminosity.

It is thus apparent that by employing this ‘‘photographic eye” of
quartz many new phenomena may be brought to light which have
previously hidden themselves behind the limitations of the human
eye. A study of the absorption by the candle-flame of ultra-violet
has also been made. In this case the light emitted by the candle
falls out of the problem, for its flame emits little or no ultra-violet.
I can show you a photograph of the shadow cast by a flame of this
description, and you will observe that the shadow is blackest at the
point where the flame is brightest, that is, at the pomt where the
minute carbon particles, which, by their incandescence, cause the
luminosity, are being set free from the hydrocarbon vapor.

There are other questions which can doubtless be investigated to
advantage by means of ultra-violet photography. It is well known,
for example, that the amount of ultra+violet light emitted by a body
increases with the temperature. By photographing groups of stars
through the quartz silver filter, and comparing the photometric
intensities of the images obtained in this way with the intensities
as shown on a plate made by means of yellow light, valuable data
might be obtained. This method is merely an extension of one
already in use at the Harvard Observatory.
WHAT ELECTROCHEMISTRY IS ACCOMPLISHING.1

By Josrra W. RicHarps,
Professor of Metallurgy, Lehigh University.

My theme is to depict for you, as clearly as I may be able, the part
which electrochemistry is playing in modern industrial processes.
T have no exhaustive catalogue of electrochemical processes to present,
nor columns of statistics of these industries; but my object will be
to classify the various activities of electrochemists and to analyze
the scope of the electrochemical industries.

SCOPE OF ELECTROCHEMISTRY AND ELECTROMETALLURGY.

Chemistry is the science which investigates the composition of
substances and studies changes of composition and reactions of
substances upon each other. As an applied science, it deals chiefly
with the working over of crude natural material, and its conversion
into more valuable and more useful substances. |

Some common examples, to illustrate this statement, are the
conversion of native sulphur into sulphuric acid, the manufacture of
soda and hydrochloric acid from common salt, the conversion of
phosphate rock into superphosphate fertilizer, etc. Several pages
would not suffice to merely catalogue the great variety of chemical
industries; immense amounts_of capital are invested in them and
they are some of the most fundamental industries in their relation to
supplying the needs of a rapidly advancing civilization.

Metallurgy is the art of extracting metals from their ores, and of
purifying or refinmg them to the quality required by the metal-
working industries. It is a branch of applied chemistry. The
metallurgical industries form a highly important part of our national
resources; on them we depend for iron, steel, copper, brass, gold,
silver, lead, zinc, aluminum, etc., in fact for all the supply of metals
used in arts and industry.

Electrochemistry is the art of applying electrical energy to facilitat-
ing the work of the chemist. It is chemistry helped by electricity.
It is the use of a new agency in accomplishing chemical operations,
and it has not only succeeded in facilitating many of the most difficult

1 An address delivered at the seventeenth general meeting of the American Electrochemical Society, in
Pittsburgh, Pa., May 7, 1910, President L. H. Baekeland in the chair. Reprinted by permission from the
Transactions of the American Electrochemical Society,vol. 17, 1910, being the transactions of the seventeenth
general meeting, at Pittsburgh, Pa., May 4-7, 1910. In the presentation of this paper Prof. Richards
showed a large number of lantern slides illustrating electrochemical works in operation.

167
168 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1911.

and costly of chemical reactions, but it has in many cases supplanted
them by quick, simple, and direct.methods; it has even, in many
cases, developed new reactions and produced new materials which
are not otherwise capable of being made. A few examples will
illustrate these points: Caustic soda and bleaching powder are made
from common salt by a series of operations, but the electrical method
does this neatly and cheaply in practically one operation; lime and
carbon do not react by ordinary chemical processes, but in the electric
furnace they react at once to form the valuable and familiar calcium
carbide; carbon stays carbon except when the intense heat of the elec-
tric furnace converts it into artificial graphite. The list of such opera-
tions is a long one, and it may be said that the chemist has become a
much more highly efficient and accomplished chemist since he became
an electrochemist, and he is becoming more of an electrochemist daily.

Electrometallurgy applies electric energy to facilitating the solution
of the problems confronting the metallurgist. Its birthis but recent,
yet it has rendered invaluable service; it has made easy some of the
most difficult extractions, has produced several of the metals at a
small fraction of their former cost, and has put at our disposal in com-
mercial quantities and at practicable prices metals which were formerly
unknown or else mere chemical curiosities. It has, further, refined
many metals to a degree of purity not previously known. The metal-
lurgist is rapidly appreciating the possibilities of electrometallurgical
methods and they already form a considerable proportion of present
metallurgical practice.

Applied electrochemistry, covering in general all of the field
just described, “is therefore an important part of chemistry and
metallurgy, and is rapidly increasing in importance. It is a new
art, people are really only beginning to understand its principles
and to appreciate its possibilities; it is an art pursued by the most
energetic and enterprising chemists, with the assistance of the
most skilled electricians. Some of its most prominent exponents
are electrical engineers who have been attracted by the vast possi-
bilities opened up by these applications of electricity. The chem-
ists have worked with electricity like children with a new toy, or a
boy with a new machine; they have had the novel experience of
seeing what wonders their newly applied agency could accomplish,
and it is no exaggeration to say that they have astonished the
world—and themselves.

THE AGENTS OF ELECTROCHEMISTRY.

The operating agent in electrochemistry is, of course, electric
energy, which may be used in three classes of apparatus, viz:
I. Electrolytic apparatus.
If. Electric arcs and discharges in gases.
Ill. Electric furnaces.
ELECTROCHEMISTRY—RICHARDS. 169

ii

Electrolytic apparatus and processes use or utilize the separating
or decomposing power of the electric current. Whenever an
electric current is sent through a liquid material which is compound
in its nature, i. e., a chemical compound, the current tends to decom-
pose the compound into two constituents, appearing respectively
at the two points of contact of the electric-conducting circuit with
the liquid in question, i. e., at the surface or face of contact of the
undecomposable conducting part of the circuit with the decompos-
able part. If the current has a definite direction the constituents
appear at definite electrodes. The action is simply the result of
the current extracting (or tending to extract) from the electrolyte
one of its constituents at each of the two electrode surfaces. All
subsequent changes following upon this primary tendency of the
current are called secondary reactions, and are practically simul-
taneous with the primary. These may even be regarded as truly
primary reactions also, the primitive decomposing or separating ©
power of the current passing being regarded only as a tendency
or a determining cause which practically results in the reactions
actually taking place.

This agency is an extremely vigorous and potent force for produc-
ing chemical transformations. It enables us, for instance, to split
up some of the strongest chemical compounds into their elementary
constituents, to convert cheap materials into much more valuable
derivatives, to purify impure materials, in short, to perform easily
some very difficult chemical operations and in some cases to perform
chemical operations otherwise impossible. A description of all
these various processes would take a volume, but a short explanation
of a few of them will make the principles clear and suffice for my
present purpose.

Electrolysis of water—As a raw material, water may be said to
cost nothing. Apply an electric current to it in the proper way,
and it is resolved into its constituent gases, hydrogen and oxygen,
as cleanly and perfectly as anyone could desire. These gases have
many and various uses, and are valued each at several cents per
pound. A whole industry has thus grown up, based on the simple
electrolysis of water, to supply these two gases for various industrial
uses. Europe possesses many of these plants; there are a few in
the United States. The speaker has translated from the German
a small treatise on this industry.

Electrolysis of salt—Common salt, sodium chloride, is one of
the cheapest of natural chemicals. It has some uses of its own,
but centuries ago chemists and even alchemists devised chemical
processes for transforming it into other sodium salts, such as caustic
170 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1911.

soda or soda lye for use in soap, soda ash or carbonate, for washing
or glassmaking, and into chlorine bleaching materials. Chemical
works operating these rather complicated chemical processes exist
on an immense scale in all civilized countries; it 1s estimated that
$50,000,000 is thus invested in Great Britain alone. The electrolytic
alkali industry is barely 20 years old, yet it is already more than
holding its own with the older chemical process, and advancing
rapidly; 20 years more will probably see the older processes entirely
superseded—they are at present fighting for their existence. As
for the electrolytic process, the salt is simply dissolved in water
and by the action of the current converted into caustic soda at one
electrode and chlorine gas at the other. By some special devices
these are kept separate and collected by themselves, and the work
is done. The principles involved are simplicity itself as compared
with the older chemical processes, the only agent consumed is electric
energy, and the products are clean and pure.

Chlorates.—These are salts used on matches and in gunpowder.
Chlorate of potassium is a valuable salt with important uses. It is
made from common cheap potassium chloride, in solution in water,
by simply electrolyzing the solution without trying to separate the
products forming at the electrodes. It is a simpler operation than
the production of electrolytic alkali. Chlorate thus forms in the
warm solution, and is obtained by letting the solution cool and the
chlorate crystallize out. The ordinary chemical manufacture of this
salt was tedious and dangerous; the electrolytic method has practi-
cally entirely superseded it.

Perchlorates.—These salts have more limited uses, but are made by
expensive chemical methods. The electrolysis of a chlorate solution
at a low temperature, without separating the products formed at the
two electrodes, results in the direct and easy production of perchlo-
rates. I cite this more to illustrate what I might call the versatility
of the electrochemical methods, rather than because of its commercial
importance.

Metallic sodium.—The caustic soda produced from salt can itself be
electrolytically decomposed; this is the easiest way of producing
metallic sodium. Sir Humphry Davy discovered sodium by electro-
lyzing melted caustic soda, and at this moment several large works
are working his method on an immense scale. The caustic contains
sodium, hydrogen, and oxygen, and the current simply liberates the
sodium as a molten metal and frees the other two as gases which
escape into the air. The process is simplicity itself—when the exact
conditions are known and rigidly adhered to. Metallic sodium is a
very useful material to the chemist, and the electrolytic method
produces it at probably one-fourth the cost of making it in any purely
chemical way.
ELECTROCHEMISTRY—RICHARDS. 174

Magnestum.—This is a wonderfully light metal, whose chief use is
in flashlight powders. Its compounds are abundant in nature, but
its manufacture by any other than the electrolytic method is almost
impracticable. The operation consists in simply passing the decom-
posing current through a fused magnesium salt—a chloride of
magnesium and potassium found in abundance in Germany.

Aluminium.—The most useful of the light metals; an element more
abundant in nature than iron, yet which costs by chemical methods
at least $1 per pound to produce; electrochemistry enables the
makers to sell it at a profit at $0.25 per pound. This is probably the
most useful metal given to the world by electrochemistry. Although
the French chemist Deville obtained it by an electrolytic method in
1855, yet he had only the battery as a source of electric current, and
the process was too costly. This very city of Pittsburgh was the real
eradle of the electrolytic manufacture of aluminium, when in 1889
Mr. Charles M. Hall, with the financial assistance of the Mellons and
the business assistance of Capt. A. E. Hunt, commenced to work his
process up at Thirty-third Street on the West Side. The principle of
the process is here again one of beautiful simplicity—when it is once
made known. Aluminium oxide, abundant in nature, is infusible in
ordinary furnaces, but easily melts and dissolves, like sugar in water,
im certain very stable and liquid fused salts—double flourides of alu-
minium and the alkali metals. On passing the electric current

through this bath, the dissolved aluminium oxide is decomposed,
appearing at the two electrodes as aluminium and oxygen, respec-
tively. When all the oxide is thus broken up, more is added, and
the operation continues. One of the most difficult problems of
ordinary chemistry is thus simply, neatly, and effectively solved by
electrochemistry. The lower cost of power at Niagara Falls drew the
industry away from Pittsburgh in 1893, and it is now run on an
immense scale at several places where water power is cheap and
- abundant. Mechanical power is, however, being produced cheaper
every year; gas engines have halved the cost of such power, steam
turbines on exhaust steam may even do better; there is no inherent
impossibility in the return of the aluminium industry to the Pitts-
burgh. district. Many other factors besides cost of power bear on
the question—cost of labor, abundance of labor, cost of carbon, coal
for heating, various supplies, railroad freights, nearness to the con-
sumers, and many other considerations must be taken into account.
Aluminium is certainly destined to become the most important metal
next to iron and steel, and, as far as one can now foresee, will always
be produced electrochemically. To have accomplished the estab-
lishment of this one single industry would of itself have proved the
usefulness of electrical methods and their importance to chemistry
and metallurgy.

172 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1911.

Refining of metals—Unless metals are of high purity they are
usually of very little usefulness. Electrolytic methods enable almost
perfect purity to be easily attained, and in addition permit the separa-
tion at the same time of the valuable gold and silver contained in small
amounts in the, baser metals. Over $100,000,000 worth of copper is
electrically refined every year in the United States; the metal pro-
duced is purer than can be otherwise obtained, giving the electrical
engineer the highest grade of conducting metal, while several million
dollars’ worth of gold and silver are recovered which would otherwise
have to be allowed to remain in the copper. Again, the method is so
simple that but a few words are necessary to set it forth in principle.
The impure copper is used as one electrode—the anode—in a solution
of copper sulphate containing some sulphuric acid; the receiving elec-
trode—the cathode—is a thin sheet of pure copper, or of lead, greased.
The electric action causes pure copper only to deposit upon the cath-
ode, if a properly regulated current is used, while a corresponding
amount of metal is dissolved from the anode. Silver, gold, and plati-
num are undissolved, and remain as mud or sediment in the bottom
of the bath; other impurities may go into the solution, but are not
deposited on the cathode if the current is kept low. The cost of this
operation is small, and the results are so highly satisfactory that 90
per cent of all the copper produced is thus refined. Similar methods
are in use for refining other metals, silver, gold, and lead are thus
refined on a large scale; antimony, bismuth, tin, platinum, zinc, and
even iron can be thus refined; the field is very inviting to the experi-
menter and to the technologist, and is rapidly increasing in industrial
importance. °

Metal plating.—A\i electroplating is done by the use of electrolytic
methods similar to those just described. If we imagine the impure
metal anode replaced by pure metal, and the receiving cathode to be
the object to be electroplated, we have before us the electroplating
bath ready for action. Everybody knows the value and use of gold,
silver, and nickel plating; less well known are platinum, cadmium,
chromium, zinc, brass, and bronze plating. These are among the
oldest of the electrochemical industries. Electrotyping is only a
variation of this work; also the electrolytic reproduction of medals,
engravings, cuts, etc., and even the production of metallic articles of
various and complicated forms, such as tubes, needles, mirrors, vases,
statues, etc. The speaker has translated from the German a mono-
graph concerning these last-named uses of the electric current. There
is opportunity here to hardly more than catalogue these various
branches of electrometallurgical activity. Pittsburgh people will be
interested, however, in knowing that many of the newer buildings in
this city contain thousands of feet of electrical conduits zine plated
in splendid fashion by electrolysis, at a works within a few miles of
ELECTROCHEMISTRY—RICHARDS. Lie

this city. At McKeesport tubes are coated on an immense scale,
by dipping into melted zinc, but the electrolytic method is gaining a
foothold, and we may live to see all galvanizing in reality practiced
as it is spelled. The removing of metallic tin from waste tin scrap is
also accomplished on a large scale by the application of similar prin-
ciples. It is being operated at a distance from Pittsburgh, but your
open-hearth furnaces use up annually thousands of tons of the scrap
steel thus cleaned and saved for remanufacture into useful shape.
Without having mentioned or described more than a fraction of the
electrolytic methods in actual industrial use, I hope that I have made
clear the importance and extent of this kind of electrochemical proc-
esses. Assuming this, we will pass to the consideration of another
entirely different and yet important class of apparatus and processes.

Il.

Electric arcs and high-tension discharges through gases are capable
of producing some chemical compositions and decompositions which
are very useful and profitable to operate. This is a branch of electro-
chemistry which has not been as thoroughly studied as some others,
its phenomena are not as thoroughly under control as electrolysis and
electrothermal reactions, and its possibilities are not as thoroughly
understood or utilized.

Ozone is being made from air by the silent discharge of high-tension
electric current. The apparatus is so far simplified as to be made in
small units suitable for household use, ready to attach to a low-tension
alternating current supply. The uses for the ozone thus produced
are particularly for purifying water and air. It makes very impure
water perfectly safe to drink and purifies the air of assembly halls
and sick rooms, acting as an antiseptic. According to all appear-
ances, this electrochemical doubling up of oxygen into a more efficient
oxidizing form is developing into a simple and highly efficient aid to
healthy living.

Nitric acid is an expensive acid made from the natural alkaline
nitrate salts, such as Chili saltpeter. These nitrates are the salvation
of the agriculturist, for they furnish the ground with the necessary
nitrogen which plants can assimilate. The Chili ‘‘nitrate kings”’
have gained many millions of dollars, even hundreds of millions, in
thus supplying the world’s demand for fertilizer. But electro-
chemistry has another solution to this problem, which is rapidly
rendering every country which adopts it independent of the foreign
fertilizer. The air we breathe contains uncombined nitrogen and
oxygen gases, which, if combined and brought into contact with
_ water, furnish the exact constituents of nitric acid. The way to do
this has been laboriously worked out, and the electric are is the agent
which does it. Air is simply blown into the electric arc, where it for
174 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1911.

an instant partakes of the enormous temperature, and on leaving the
are is cooled as quickly as possible. In the are the combination of
nitrogen and oxygen is effected to a certain extent, and the mixture
is cooled so suddenly that it does not find time to disunite. The
nitrogen oxides thus obtained are drawn through water, and this
solution of nitric acid is run upon soda to produce sodium nitrate or
on lime to produce calcium nitrate, the latter called nitrolime or
‘‘Norwegian saltpeter.”” These salts entirely replace the South
American natural salt.

The materials used in this industry are air and lime, and to these is

added electrical energy. Air is universal, lime cheap almost every-
where, and electrical energy is cheapest where water powers are most
abundant. In Norway water power can be developed and electrical
energy supplied from it at a total cost of $4 to $8 per horsepower year.
Some other countries can do nearly as well. Under these conditions,
almost every country can afford to make its own nitrates and so be
independent of other countries for the fertilizer needed in peace and
the gunpowder used in war. Norway felicitates itself already on
being thus independent. Nearly 200,000 horsepower is being utilized
there by a $15,000,000 syndicate, and the industry is spreading
rapidly over Europe. The study of this problem, its solution, and
the rapid development of this vigorous industry, is one of the most
remarkable chapters in the history of recent industrial development.
In this accomplishment electrochemistry has signally aided the agri-
culturist and demonstrably multiplied the food-supply resources of
all civilized and highly populated countries.
- Boron is an element which has until recently defied the best efforts
of chemists to isolate in a pure state. It is an element which may
have important application in the manufacture of a high-class special
steel—boron steel. Dr. Weintraub, one of our felow members, has
recently solved the problem of its production by an adaptation of the
‘‘oxygen-nitrogen”’ are apparatus and utilizing the same principle
of introducing the material into the are and very rapidly cooling the
products obtained. We mention this not because of its great commer-
cial importance at present, but because it shows how the ‘‘arc method”’
may be of wide application in solving other difficult chemical prob-
lems. It has opened before us a new method in chemical science, and
may give birth to many and various new chemical industries.

LiL.

Electric furnaces are furnaces in which the necessary heat or
degree of temperature is produced or attained by means of electrical
energy. ‘The electric current is used in these furnaces solely for its
heating or thermal effect, and either alternating or direct current may
ELECTROCHEMISTRY—RICHARDS. 175

be used, but alternating is preferred because of its easier generation
and management, capability of being stepped up or down by trans-
formers, and absence of electrolytic effects.

Electric furnaces render remarkable and highly valuable service to
the chemist and metallurgist, for two distinct and unique capabilities;
they can generate heat within themselves without the use of combus-
tion and the consequent products of combustion to complicate the
working of the furnace, and they can besides, if desirable, produce
temperatures absolutely unapproachable in furnaces using fuel, and
thereby enable the carrying out of operations only possible at these
extremely high temperatures. The upper limit of electric furnace
temperature is simply the volatilizing point of carbon, the tempera-
ture at which the material of which the lining of the furnace is made
is boiled away. This is about 3,700° C. or 6,700° F. The simple
statement that this is three times as high as the melting point of cast
iron may give some notion of the enormous temperature here at one’s
command. Besides intense temperature, the efficiency of application
of electrical heat to the useful purpose is usually high; in many cases
50 to 75 per cent of all the heat developed can be ieefally applied, as
against 5 to 50 per cent utilized in fuel-fired furnaces. The heating
value or thermal equivalent of the electric current is perfectly defi-
nitely known; 1 kilowatt-hour will furnish 860 calories (3,400 B. t.u.),
which if applied usefully at 100 per cent efficiency would bring to
boiling and convert into steam 1.35 kilograms (3 pounds) of water, or
bring to melting and melt about 3 kilograms (7.5 pounds) of cast iron,
or 2.5 kilograms (5.5 pounds) of steel.

Artificial graphite is a product particularly electrochemical in its
manufacture. Your fellow townsman, Dr. E. G. Acheson, has prac-
_ tically created this industry and his name sticks to the product—
Acheson graphite. No temperature but that of the electric furnace
can convert the ordinary amorphous carbon, containing small amounts
of foreign substances, into pure, soft, homogeneous, unctuous
_ graphite. The purity of the product and its quality has even sur-
passed the artifice of mother nature herself. Whereas, before, graphite
in small scales was laboriously gathered from Ceylon and Siberia,
and with great pains worked up into graphite articles, now the articles
_ are simply molded in ordinary impure amorphous carbon, and con-
verted through and through, retaining their shape, into finished and
complete graphite articles. What this highly pure product is going
to do for lubrication, for annihilating the friction of the world’s
_ machinery, perhaps only a few suspect and only Mr. Acheson knows.
- You will all know more about this soon, and everyone of you who
uses machinery will profit by it. Meanwhile, in another direction,
_ probably half the electrochemical industries now operating are bene-
176 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1911.

ficiaries of this invention, using artificial graphite anodes in electro-
lytie operations or as electrodes in electric furnaces. The electro-
chemical industry in general has been most wonderfully helped by
this one electrochemical process.

Carborundum stands for a large industry, centered at Niagara
Falls, and founded also by Mr. Acheson. ‘Twenty years ago the name
was not in the dictionary; now it is known all over the world as the
most efficient abrasive material in use. First produced just across
the Monongahela, in a little furnace as large as a cigar box, and sold
for polishing diamonds at many dollars per ounce, it is now made by
tons in electric furnaces of 2,000 horsepower capacity, and competes
successfully with such common natural abrasives as emery and com-
mon sand. And in fact, common silica sand, the most abundant
material on earth, with common carbon, like coke, furnish all the
ingredients necessary for the furnace to work upon to produce SiC
(silicon carbide). Mr. Acheson not merely founded another new
industry, but he discovered a new chemical compound; he has
enriched science, promoted industry, and created new instruments of
service; no wonder that his scientific friends have showered on him
honors—the Rumford Medal, the Perkin Medal, and two years ago
the presidency of this Electrochemical Society.

Silicon is the metal whose oxide is silica sand, and is by far the
most abundant metallic element on earth. Up until very recently it
was to be seen only in chemical museums, costly and useless—a
chemical curiosity. Now Mr. F. J. Tone, one of Mr. Acheson’s former
lieutenants, is producing it by the ton and selling it by the carload at
a few cents per pound. The chemical world has found uses for it,
large uses, such as in solidifying steel, making good copper castings,
reducing other metals from their oxides, chemical ‘‘pots and pans,”
etc. This illustrates again the variety of the achievements of electro-
chemistry. Here is a new material furnished the world at a low price
and all sorts of workers are finding all sorts of advantageous uses for
it. The electric furnace makes it from simply sand and carbon, with
electric energy plus considerable “‘ brains.”

Calocum carbide is the product of another American invention.
The name was scarcely in the chemical books, and the purveyors
of the rarest chemicals did not have it on their lists, when Mr. Thomas
Willson, trying to make something else in the electric furnace, made
this compound from ordinary lime and carbon, and started an elec-
trochemical industry which has spread all over the civilized world.
I am almost tempted to say that there is a calcium carbide works
everywhere but in Pittsburgh, but that would really be an exaggera-
tion, and I will not say it. The best thing about calcium carbide is
that it is easy to make; the raw materials may be found almost
ELECTROCHEMISTRY—RICHARDS, LT

everywhere, and wherever power is cheap a flourishing calcium car-
bide industry may be built up. The curious thing about it is that its
chief use is based on destroying it, acting upon it by water and form-
ing acetylene gas. How great a boon acetylene gas has been to the
bicyclist, automobilist, for lighting trains, isolated houses, stations,
and towns needs no recital before this audience, but the value of
acetylene as a means of welding with the blowpipe is only commencing
to be appreciated. ~ Acetylene welding is a convenience which owes
its existence entirely to the electrochemical production of calcium
carbide, and the iron and steel and other metal industries are being
greatly helped by its use.

Titanwum carbide is not as familiar as calcium carbide. It is made
in a manner similar to the production of carborundum, using titanium
oxide (rutile) and carbon. It has no uses similar to calcium car-
bide, nor any like silicon carbide. But electrical engineers have
discovered that as arc-light tips or electrodes it gives the most efficient
arc light yet discovered, with a light efficiency running up to 8 candle-
power per watt of electrical energy. This is probably 50 per cent of
the theoretically possible conversion of electrical energy into light
energy, and is doubly as efficient as has ever before been attained.
What this means for street lighting everywhere is difficult to realize;
perhaps the best and most easily understood comparison is to say
that the titanium carbide arc lamp is to the ordinary arc as the
tungsten filament incandescent lamp is to the carbon filament lamp;
you will all grasp the scope of that statement. With acetylene light-
ing on one hand and titanium arc lighting on the other we need
say no more about the influence of electrochemistry on modern
illumination.

Phosphorus.—1 stated before that the potassium chlorate on
safety matches was all being made electrochemically. We can say
practically the same of phosphorus. The electric furnace enables
us to distill phosphorus much more easily and safely from the natural
phosphates than the older chemical methods. Calcium carbide
gives us acetylene gas, and another electrochemical furnace gives us
the phosphorus to ‘“‘strike the light.”

 Ferroalloys are alloys of iron with the more expensive metals,
used in manufacturing steels of: various kinds. Ferromanganese
is used in practically all steel, ferrosilicon is used in almost all.
Ferrochromium, nickel, tungsten, molybdenum, boron, uranium,
vanadium are some of the alloys used to make the special alloy steels,
such as find great use in rapid tool steel, automobile axles, armor
plate, gun steel, etc. These alloys are of great importance to the
steel industry, and are made almost exclusively in electric furnaces.
The industry has flourished most in countries having cheap power,

38734°—sxui 1911 12

178 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1911.

such as among the French Alps, and the importations into this coun-
try have been on a large scale. Fortunately, we are commencing at
Niagara Falls, in Virginia, and in Canada to supply ourselves with
these necessities of the steel industry, and we may look forward to
a steady and large domestic development of this industry. Within
a few miles of this hall a small electric furnace is now at work making
ferrotungsten to go into expensive high-class steel. Pittsburgh is
going to take its share in the running of this particular electrometal-
lurgical industry.

Pig iron would seem to be about the last item to find a place in an
address upon the electrochemical industries. But the truth must
‘“‘out’”’—electric-furnace pig iron is now being made, and made and
sold at a profit. We will hasten to admit that the furnaces are small,
that they are in California and Sweden, where fuel is expensive and
power is cheap, that a great deal of money has been sunk in bringing
them to their present condition; but after all has been admitted, the
fact remains that electric furnace production of pig iron is not a
chimera, but an accomplished fact. Pittsburgh has been able to
boast that she “could manufacture a ton of pig iron and put it down
anywhere in the world cheaper than it could be there produced.”
That may be still true of the kind of pig iron which Pittsburgh is able
to make, but there are grades and qualities of pig iron (Swedish
charcoal pig iron, for instance) which are still imported into this
country and sold at double the price of our domestic pig iron. And,
in the country where that charcoal pig is slowly, laboriously, and
skillfully made, the electric shaft furnace is able to compete with the
charcoal blast furnace in producing this high quality pig iron. Dr.
Haanel, of the Canadian department of mines, has in a recent report
given us the most reliable information about the running of this
furnace. The construction is peculiar, and still somewhat experi-
mental, the full power for which the furnace was designed has not
yet been available for running it, the workmen are new to their tasks,
the overseers are still learning, the irregularities in the running are
not yet all overcome, and many of the minor details are yet being
adjusted. The furnace is still, in brief, decidedly in the formative or
experimental stage. Yet, notwithstanding, Prof. Odelstjerna, one of
the most expert of Swedish metallurgists, states that the cost of pro-
duction is $1.50 per ton less than in the Swedish blast furnaces. If
that is true now, it needs little gift of prophecy to figure out at least
$2.50 per ton saving when the furnace is properly run. Three similar
furnaces of greater capacity, 2,500 kilowatts each, are to be erected in
Norway; three similar ones are to be put up at Sault Ste. Marie,
Canada. These are only the forerunners, we may be sure, of dozens
or perhaps even hundreds which will be built and operated within the
ELECTROCHEMISTRY—RICHARDS. 179

lifetime of most of this audience. The time at our disposal forbids
my describing these interesting furnaces; I can only refer you to Dr.
Haanel’s interesting reports and to the transactions of this society,
particularly to our Volume XV. One surmise of my own I will, how-
ever, take time to mention: I have predicted that this electric-furnace
pig iron, made without the admittance or use cf air blast, will be far
superior to ordinary pig iron for conversion into steel, because of the
absence of oxygen or, particularly, of nitrogen. Time will test this
prediction, too.

Electric steel is at present a topic of absorbing interest and great
potentialities. It was primarily a competitor of the most expensive
kind of steel—crucible steel. It was first made commercially in 1900,
by Mr. F. A. Kjellin, of Sweden, by melting together in an electric
furnace the same high-grade materials which are usually melted
down in crucibles to form crucible steel. The product was made
equal in quality to crucible steel, it was produced in lots of a ton or
more at a melt, of very satisfactory uniformity, and with cheap water
power to furnish electricity the cost was considerably below that of.
crucible steel.

The steel melting pot or crucible is a siliceous vessel, holding about
100 pounds of steel, lasting only a few heats, and lifted in and out of
the furnace by manual labor. The consumption of fuel to get the
required melting heat is wickedly wasteful; not over 5 per cent of
the heat-developing power of the fuel used is efficiently utilized as
heat in the melted steel, and the actual proportion is usually less than
half that much. The cost of labor, crucibles, and fuel is excessive,
and to this must be added the high cost of the pure material which
must be used—practically the purest iron which can be made.

The electric furnace is changing all this, rapidly in continental
Europe, slower in Sheffield, and still slower in America; but the change
is spreading surely and inevitably. Real crucible steel will soon be a
thing of the past, supplanted entirely by electric furnace steel of
equal quality, made and sold much more cheaply.

The electric furnaces used are of almost all types. The induc-
tion furnace was developed commercially by Kjellin in Sweden,
improved, enlarged, and greatly developed by his associates in
Germany, combined with the Colby pattern in America, and still
further modified by Hiorth in Norway. Thirty-six of these furnaces,
the maximum capacity being one at Krupp’s works at Essen, 84 tons
at a charge, are now built or building. The American Electric
Furnace Co. is organized to push their building and operation in
America. ‘The arc radiation furnace was developed by Maj.Stassano,
an Italian artillery officer. It melts by heat radiated from powerful
electric arcs. Several of these are in operation in Europe, and a
180 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1911.

gentleman managing one of the large American steel companies, who
has just returned from an inspection of the different electric steel
furnaces operating in Europe, tells me that he considered the Stassano
furnace as doing the best work, all around, of all the furnaces he saw
in operation. I have seen this furnace operating smoothly and regu-
larly in Turin, producing steel for castings which were being sold in
competition with open-hearth and Bessemer steel castings in the open
market. The single arc furnace is best illustrated by the Girod ©
furnace, which is built like the body of an open-hearth furnace with
the electric current entering the bath by carbon electrodes suspended
above it, and springing arcs to it, while the current leaves the bath
through metallic conductors passing through the saucer-shaped
hearth below the level of the metallic surface. These furnaces work
with great regularity, and a large number are operating in Europe, in
capacities up to 12 tonseach. Iam informed that the Krupp Works
at Essen has just contracted to put in five of these of the 12-ton size,
which would confirm statements made to me by my European friends
that this furnace is working the best of all the electric steel furnacesnow
operating in Europe. The double-arc furnace, of which the Heroult
furnace is the most familiar type, works with two arcs in series, the
current entering the bath and leaving it also through electrodes
suspended above it. The general style is that of an open-hearth
furnace with electrodes passing through the roof. The current used
is roughly 100 kilowatts per ton of steel capacity, and the largest so
far operated is 15 tons. A 3-ton furnace of this type was seen by you
at the Firth-Stirling Steel Works at Demmler, yesterday, producing
crucible-quality steel. The United States Steel Corporation has
acquired licenses to operate the Heroult furnace, and has already
two 15-ton furnaces in operation. Without doubt, the Heroult fur-
nace is at the present time the most popular and successful electric
steel furnace in the United States. I have not time to more than
name the Keller, the Hiorth, the Harmet, the Frick—all of which are
operating at this present moment in Europe.

There are other ways of making steel than the crucible method.
Bessemer steel is the cheapest, and open-hearth steel is next best.
These two varieties grade into each other in quality, but between
open-hearth and crucible steel there is an enormous gap in price and
in quality which is destined to be bridged over by intermediate qual-
ities of electric steel as it becomes cheaper and is manufactured on a
larger scale. This will soon become one of thelargeusesof the electric
method, occupying a field peculiarly its own. It will enable steel
manufacturers to supply steel better than the best open-hearth prod-
uct at less than the price of crucible steel. I need not enlarge upon
the advantages of this to a Pittsburgh audience.
BLECTROCHEMISTRY—RICH ARDS. 181

There are also varieties of methods of manufacture of steel, aside
from the melting together of highly pure materials as in the crucible
method, which are equally available in most types of the electric
furnace. The Bessemer converter takes liquid pig iron as it comes
from the blast furnace and by rapid oxidation by air blast converts
it into steel. Mr. Heroult has tried to combine the Bessemer con-
verter with the electric furnace in one apparatus the idea being to
first oxidize the metal by air blast and then to finish it while electric
current supplied the necessary heat. I have no information that this
combination furnace is anywhere in successful operation, but the
equivalent of the same operation performed first in the Bessemer
converter and then on the blown metal transferred into an electric
furnace for finishing is already in regular commercial operation at
the South Chicago Works of the United States Steel Corporation. I
have had the privilege and pleasure, thanks to Mr. Heroult, of study-
ing that operation, in company with Mr. Heroult and the editor of
Metallurgical and Chemical Engineering. You may find a description
of the process in the April number of that journal, so I will not repeat
it here—except so far as to say that 15 tons of the product of the
Bessemer blow, oxidized to the extent usual in the Bessemer converter,
was kept melted less than two hours on the basic hearth of the electric
furnace, treated with two different slags to refine it from phosphorus
andsulphur, deoxidized or “‘ dead-melted,’’ and then poured into ingots
of steel intended for axles. The steel produced was of better quality
than the usual corresponding open-hearth metal, and was produced
at slightly less total cost. This combination process bids fair to give
a new lease of life to the declining Bessemer steel industry; its eco-
nomic importance will appeal particularly to this audience.

The open-hearth steel furnace is at present the most important
of the methods of manufacturing steel—‘‘tonnage steel.” It makes
steel from pig iron and scrap of proper quality, or from pig iron and
iron ore (mill scale), or from pig, scrap, and ore. It makes its best
steel on silica hearths from high-grade material low in sulphur and
phosphorus, and its cheapest steel on basic hearths from almost any-
thing. The electric furnace can do any or all of these things, and, as
a general proposition, produce better steel from given materials than
the open-hearth furnace. Under what circumstances it will pay to
use the electric furnace instead of the open-hearth furnace would
take at least one lecture to discuss; we will not go deeply into it here.
In Europe, countries which have very cheap water power, around $10
per horsepower year, and fuel costing $4 to $6 per ton, are finding the
electric furnace the cheaper; with power costing $20 and coal $5, the
two are about on equal terms; in Pittsburgh, with power at $30 and
coal at $1, the open-hearth furnace is by far the cheaper for produc-
182 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1911.

ing such steel as it can produce. However, even here the combina-
tion of Bessemer and electric furnace is possibly cheaper than the
all open-hearth process; the combination of open-hearth and electric-
furnace processes is quite possible and practicable to produce crucibie-
quality steel on a large (tonnage) scale, and the combination of the
open-hearth and electric furnace into one furnace is not only a
possible combination, but is actually being ‘“‘tried out.”’ The latter
idea is to take an open-hearth furnace and to place electrodes in the
roof. The furnace is run as an ordinary open-hearth furnace, with
the electrodes withdrawn, and at the close of the open-hearth heat
gas and air are shut off entirely, the electrodes lowered into proximity
to the bath, and the heat finished as an electric-furnace heat. The
idea is sound and practicable and will result in the production of
better steel than can be obtained from any open-hearth furnace at
but a slight advance on the cost of the open-hearth steel, say $2 to
$3 per ton.

As to the capacity for enlargement of electric steel furnaces, they
started out to duplicate the crucible-steel process, producing 100
pounds of melted steel at a heat, and in eight years have risen to 15
tons’ capacity. In Europe an electric calcium-carbide furnace of
18,000 kilowatts, capable of producing 200 tons of carbide daily, is
in practical operation. A furnace of like power capacity could be
built to make steel, and would be a 200-ton steel furnace or larger.
We can therefore say with assurance that with a little more expe-
rience and experiment electrometallurgists will be able to furnish
the steel maker with electric steel furnaces as large as are wanted—
up to 200 tons’ capacity, if desired.
ANCIENT AND MODERN VIEWS REGARDING THE
CHEMICAL ELEMENTS.!

By Prof. Sm Wru1am Ramsay, K.C.B., Ph.D., LL.D., D.Sc., M.D., F.R.S.

It has been the usual custom of my predecessors in office either to
give a summary of the progress of science within the past year or to
attempt to present in intelligible language some aspect of the science
in which they have themselves been engaged. I possess no qualifica-
tions for the former course, and I therefore ask you to bear with me
while I devote some minutes to the consideration of ancient and
modern views regarding the chemical elements. To many in my
‘audience part of my story will prove an oft-told tale; but I must
ask those to excuse me, in order that it may be in some wise complete.

In the days of the early Greeks the word ‘element’ was applied
rather to denote a property of matter than one of its constituents.
. Thus, when a substance was said to contain fire, air, water, and earth
(of which terms a childish game doubtless once played by all of us
is a relic), it probably meant that they partook of the nature of the
so-called elements. Inflammability showed the presence of concealed
fire; the escape of “airs”? when some substances are heated or when
vegetable or animal matter is distilled no doubt led to the idea that
these airs were imprisoned in the matters from which they escaped;
hardness and permanence were ascribed to the presence of earth,
while liquidity and fusibility were properties conveyed by the pres-
ence of concealed water. Ata later date the Spagyrics added three
hypostatical principles to the quadrilateral; these were salt, sulphur,
and mercury. The first conveyed solubility, and fixedness in fire;
the second, inflammability; and the third, the power which some
substances manifest of producing a liquid, generally termed “ phlegm,”
on application of heat, or of themselves being converted into the liquid
state by fusion.

It was Robert Boyle, in his Skeptical Chymist, who first contro-
verted these ancient and medieval notions, and who gave to the word

1 Presidential address by Prof. Ramsay at the Portsmouth meeting of the British Association for the
Advancement of Science, 1911. Reprinted by permission from author’s separate, omitting introductory

matter on work of the association.

183
184 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1911.

element the meaning that it now possesses—the constituent of a
compound. But in the middle of the seventeenth century chem-
istry had not advanced far enough to make his definition useful; for
he was unable to suggest any particular substance as elementary.
And, indeed, the main tenet of the doctrine of phlogiston, promul-
gated by Stahl in the eighteenth century, and widely accepted, was
that all bodies capable of burning or of being converted into a calx,
or earthy powder, did so in virtue of the escape of a subtle fluid
from their pores; this fluid could be restored to the calces by heating
them with other substances rich in phlogiston, such as charcoal, oil,
flour, and the like. Stahl, however false his theory, had at least the
merit of having constructed a reversible chemical equation:

Metal — phlogiston=Calx; Calx + phlogiston = Metal.

It is difficult to say when the first element was known to be an
element. After Lavoisier’s overthrow of the phlogistic hypothesis,
the part played by oxygen, then recently discovered by Priestley and
Scheele, came prominently forward. Loss of phlogiston was identi-
fied with oxidation; gain of phlogiston with loss of oxygen. The
scheme of nomenclature (Méthode de Nomenclature chimique),
published by Lavoisier in conjunction with Guyton de Morveau,
Berthollet, and Fourcroy, created a system of chemistry out of a
wilderness of isolated facts and descriptions. Shortly after, in 1789,
Lavoisier published his Traité de Chimie, and in the preface the
words occur: ‘“‘If we mean by elements the simple and indivisible
molecules of which bodies consist, it is probable that we do not
know them; if, on the other hand, we mean the last term in analysis,
then every substance which we have not been able to decompose is
for us an element; not that we can be certain that bodies which we
regard as simple are not themselves composed of two or even a larger
number of elements, but because these elements can never be sepa-
rated, or rather because we have no means of separating them, they
act, so far as we can judge, as elements, and we can not call them
simple until experiment and observation shall have furnished a proof
that they are so.”

The close connection between crocus of Mars and metallic iron,
the former named by Lavoisier oxyde de fer, and similar relations
between metals and their oxides, made it likely that bodies which
reacted as oxides in dissolving in acids and forming salts must also
possess a metallic substratum. In October, 1807, Sir Humphry
Davy proved the correctness of this view for soda and potash by his
famous experiment of splitting these bodies by a powerful electric
current into oxygen and hydrogen, on the one hand, and the metals
sodium and potassium, on the other. Calcium, barium, strontium,
and magnesium were added to the list as constituents of the oxides,
THE CHEMICAL ELEMENTS—RAMBAY. 185

lime, barytes, strontia, and magnesia. Some years later Scheele’s
dephlogisticated marine acid, obtained by heating pyrolusite with
spirit of salt, was identified by Davy as in all likelihood elementary.
His words are: ‘‘All the conclusions which I have ventured to make
respecting the undecompounded nature of oxymuriatic gas are, I
conceive, entirely confirmed by these new facts. * * * It has
been judged most proper to suggest a name founded upon one of its
obvious and characteristic properties, its color, and to call it chlo-
rine.” The subsequent discovery of iodine by Courtois in 1812 and
of bromine by Balard in 1826 led to the inevitable conclusion that
fluorine, if isolated, should resemble the other halogens in propreties,
and much later, in the able hands of Moissan, this was shown to be
true.

The modern conception of the elements was much strengthened by
Dalton’s revival of the Greek hypothesis of the atomic constitution
of matter and the assigning to each atom a definite weight. This
momentous step for the progress of chemistry was taken in 1803; the
first account of the theory was given to the public with Dalton’s
consent in the third edition of Thomas Thomson’s System of Chem-
istry in 1807; it was subsequently elaborated in the first volume of
Dalton’s own System of Chemical Philosophy, published in 1808.
The notion that compounds consisted of aggregations of atoms of
elements united in definite or multiple proportions familiarized the
world with the conception of elements as the bricks of which the
universe is built. Yet the more daring spirits of that day were not
without hope that the elements themselves might prove decompos-
able. Davy, indeed, went so far as to write in 1811: “‘It is the duty
of the chemist to be bold in pursuit; he must recollect how contrary
knowledge is to what appears to be experience. * * * To inquire
whether the elements be capable of being composed and decomposed
is a grand object of true philosophy.” And Faraday, his great pupil
and successor, at a later date, 1815, was not behind Davy in his aspira-
tions when he wrote: ‘‘To decompose the metals, to re-form them,
and to realize the once absurd notion of transformation—these are
the problems now given to the chemist for solution.”’

Indeed, the ancient idea of the unitary nature of matter was in
those days held to be highly probable. For attempts were soon
made to demonstrate that the atomic weights were themselves mul-
tiples of that of one of the elements. At first the suggestion was
that oxygen was the common basis; and later, when this supposition
turned out to be untenable, the claims of hydrogen were brought
forward by Prout. The hypothesis was revived in 1842 when Liebig
and Redtenbacher, and subsequently Dumas carried out a revision
of the atomic weights of some of the commoner elements and showed
that Berzelius was in error in attributing to carbon the atomic
186 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1911.

weight 12.25 instead of 12.00. Of recent years a great advance in
the accuracy of the determinations of atomic weights has been made,
chiefly owing to the work of Richards and his pupils, of Gray, and of
Guye and his collaborators, and every year an international committee
publishes a table in which the most probable numbers are given on
the basis of the atomic weight of oxygen being taken as 16. In
the table for 1911, of 81 elements no fewer than 43 have recorded
atomic weights within one-tenth of a unit above or below an integral
number. My mathematical colleague, Karl Pearson, assures me
that the probability against such a condition being fortuitous is
20,000 millions to one.

The relation between the elements has, however, been approached
from another point of view. After preliminary suggestions by
Débereiner, Dumas, and others, John Newlands in 1862 and the
following years arranged the elements in the numerical order of
their atomic weights and published in the Chemical News of 1863
what he termed his law of octaves—that every eighth element, like the
octave of a musical note, is in some measure a repetition of its fore-
runner. Thus, just as C on the third space is the octave of C below
the line, so potassium, in 1863 the eighth known element numerically
above sodium, repeats the characters of sodium, not only in its
physical properties—color, softness, ductility, malleability, ete—
but also in the properties of its compounds, which indeed resemble
each other very closely. The same fundamental notion was repro-
duced at a later date and independently by Lothar Meyer and Dmitri
Mendeléeff; and to accentuate the recurrence of such similar ele-
ments in periods, the expression ‘‘the periodic system of arranging
the elements’? was applied to Newlands’s arrangement in octaves.
As everyone knows, by help of this arrangement Mendeléeff predicted
the existence of then unknown elements under the names of eka-
boron, eka-aluminium, and eka-silicon, since named scandium,
gallium, and germanium by their discoverers, Cleve, Lecoq de Bois-
baudran, and Winckler.

It might have been supposed that our knowledge of the elements
was practically complete; that perhaps a few more might be dis-
covered to fill the outstanding gaps in the periodic table. True, a
puzzle existed and still exists in the classification of the rare earths,
oxides of metals occurring in certain minerals; these metals have
atomic weights between 139 and 180, and their properties preclude
their arrangement in the columns of the periodic table. Besides
these, the discovery of the inert gases of the atmosphere, of the
existence of which Johnstone Stoney’s spiral curve, published in
1888, pointed a forecast, joined the elements like sodium and potas-
sium, strongly electro-negative, to those like fluorine and chlorine,
highly electro-positive, by a series of bodies electrically as well as
THE CHEMICAL ELEMEN'TS—RAMBSAY. 187

chemically inert, and neon, argon, krypton, and xenon formed links
between fluorine and sodium, chlorine and potassium, bromine and
rubidium, and iodine and cesium.

Including the inactive gases, and adding the more recently dis-
covered elements of the rare earths, and radium, of which I shall
have more to say presently, there are 84 definite elements, all of
which find places in the periodic table, if merely numerical values be
considered. Between lanthanum, with atomic weight 139, and tan-
talum, 181, there are in the periodic table 17 spaces; and although
it is impossible to admit, on account of their properties, that the
elements of the rare earths can be distributed in successive columns
(for they all resemble lanthanum in properties), yet there are now
14 such elements; and it is not improbable that other 3 will be sepa-
rated from the complex mixture of their oxides by further work.
Assuming that the metals of the rare earths fill these 17 spaces, how
many still remain to be filled? We will take for granted that the
atomic weight of uranium, 238.5, which is the highest known, forms
an upper limit not likely to be surpassed. It is easy to count the
gaps; there are 11.

But we are confronted by an embarras de richesse. The discovery
of radioactivity by Henri Becquerel, of radium by the Curies, and the
theory of the disintegration of the radioactive elements, which we owe
to Rutherford and Soddy, have indicated the existence of no fewer
than 26 elements hitherto unknown. To what places in the periodic
table can they be assigned ?

But what proof have we that these substances are elementary ?
Let us take them in order.

Beginning with radium, its salts were first studied by Madame
Curie; they closely resemble those of barium—su!phate, carbonate,
and ehramate incaluhla: ehlaridea and hramida cimilar in arcvatallina

Beginning with radium, its salts were first studied by Madame
Curie; they closely resemble those of barium—su!phate, carbonate,
and ehramate incaluhla: ehlaridea and hramida cimilar in arcvatallina

Beginning with radium, its salts were first studied by Madame
Curie; they closely resemble those of barium—su!phate, carbonate,
and ehramate incaluhla: ehlaridea and hramida cimilar in arcvatallina

Beginning with radium, its salts were first studied by Madame
Curie; they closely resemble those of barium—su!phate, carbonate,
and ehramate incaluhla: ehlaridea and hramida cimilar in arcvatallina

Beginning with radium, its salts were first studied by Madame
Curie; they closely resemble those of barium—su!phate, carbonate,
and ehramate incaluhla: ehlaridea and hramida cimilar in arcvatallina

Beginning with radium, its salts were first studied by Madame
Curie; they closely resemble those of barium—su!phate, carbonate,
and ehramate incaluhla: ehlaridea and hramida cimilar in arcvatallina

Beginning with radium, its salts were first studied by Madame
Curie; they closely resemble those of barium—su!phate, carbonate,
and ehramate incaluhla: ehlaridea and hramida cimilar in arcvatallina

Beginning with radium, its salts were first studied by Madame
Curie; they closely resemble those of barium—su!phate, carbonate,
