~

oe

ia ee oe
na OO See ema

a .

( Le
; . "6-75.

®,

i .
vs
<

>
,
Ww _. & 7 N

hh ye
4 a.

491TH CONGRESS, } HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES. Bx. Doc,
3d Session. No. 83.

ANNUAL REPORT

OF

THE BOARD OF REGENTS

OF THE

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,

SHOWING THE

OPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES, AND CONDITION OF THE
INSTITUTION FOR THE YEAR 1868.

Sr 4-0 0 - a ____—_——_

WASHINGTON:
GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFIOE.
1869.
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES.

Marcu 1], 1869.

Resolved, That five thousand copies of the report of the Smithsonian Institution for the
year eighteen hundred and sixty-eight be printed—three thousand for the use of the Senate,
and two thousand for the Institution; and that said report be stereotyped: Provided, That
the aggreeate number of pages of said report shall not exceed four hundred and fifty, with-
out illustrations, except those furnished by the Institution,

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.

FEBRUARY 27, 1869.

Resolved, 'That there be printed five thousand extra copies of the report of the Smithsonian
Institution—three thousand for the use of the House, and two thousand for the Institution—-
the same to be stereotyped at the expense heretofore provided for. !
LETTER

FROM THE

SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,

TRANSMITTING

The annual report of the Smithsonian Institution for the year 1868.
FEBRUARY 13, 1869.—Laid on the table and ordered to be printed.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,
Washington, February 3, 1869.
Sm: In behalf of the Board of Regents I have the honor to submit ta
the Congress of the United States the annual report of the operations,
expenditures, and condition of the Smithsonian Institution for the year
1868.
I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
JOSEPH HENRY,
Secretary Smithsonian Institution.
Hon. B. F. WADE,
President of the Senate.
Hon. SCHUYLER COLFAX,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
ANNUAL REPORT OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS

OF THE

Sab T PSO N LAN Ss PI TON:

SHOWING

THE OPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES, AND CONDITION OF THE INSTITUTION
FOR THE YEAR 1868.

To the Senate and House of Representatives:

In obedience to the act of Congress of August 10, 1846, establishing
the Smithsonian Institution, the undersigned, in behalf of the Regents,
submit to Congress, as a report of the operations, expenditures, and con-
dition of the Institution, the folowing documents:

1. The Annual Report of the Secretary, giving an account of the ope-
rations of the Institution during the year 1868.

2. Report of the Executive Committee.

3. Proceedings of the Board of Regents.

4, Appendix.

Respectfully submitted.
S. P. CHASE, Chancellor.
JOSEPH HENRY, Secretary.
OFFICERS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,
FeBruary, 1869.

ANDREW JOHNSON, ez officio Presiding Officer of the Institution.
SALMON P. CHASE, Chancellor of the Institution.

JOSEPH HENRY, Secretary of the Institution.

SPENCER F. BAIRD, Assistant Secretary.

WILLIAM J. RHEES, Chief Clerk.

RICHARD DELAFIELD,

PETER PARKER, > Executive Committee.

JOHN MACLEAN,

REGENTS OF THE INSTITUTION.

B. F. WADE, Vice-President of the United States, (pro tempore.)
S. P. CHASE, Chief Justice of the United States.

8S. J. BOWEN, Mayor of the City of Washington.

L. TRUMBULL, member of the Senate of the United States.
GARRETT DAVIS, member of the Senate of the United States.
W. P. FESSENDEN, member of the Senate of the United States.
J. A. GARFIELD, member of the House of Representatives.

L. P. POLAND, member of the House of Representatives.

J. V. L. PRUYN, member of the House of Representatives.

W. B. ASTOR, citizen of New York.

T. D. WOOLSEY, citizen of Connecticut.

L. AGASSIZ, citizen of Massachusetts.

JOHN MACLEAN, citizen of New Jersey.

RICHARD DELAFIELD, citizen of Washington.

PETER PARKER, citizen of Washington.
MEMBERS EX OFFICIO OF THE INSTITUTION,

ANDREW JOHNSON, President of the United States.
B. F. WADE, Vice-President of the United States, (pro tempore.)
W. H. SEWARD, Secretary of State.

H. McCULLOCH, Secretary of the Treasury.

JOHN M. SCHOFIELD, Secretary of War.

G. WELLES, Secretary of the Navy. ‘
A. W. RANDALL, Postmaster General.

WM. M. EVARTS, Attorney General.

S. P. CHASE, Chief Justice of the United States.
ELISHA FOOTE, Commissioner of Patents.

8S. J. BOWEN, Mayor of the City of Washington.

HONORARY MEMBER.

O. H. BROWNING, Secretary of the Interior, (ex officio.)
PROGRAMME OF ORGANIZATION

OF THE

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

.

[PRESENTED IN THE FIRST ANNUAL REPORT OF THE SECRETARY, AND
. ADOPTED BY THE BOARD OF REGENTS, DECEMBER 18, 1847. ]

INTRODUCTION.

General considerations which should serve as a guide in adopting a Plan of
Organization.

1. WILL oF SmiTHson. The property is bequeathed to the United
States of America, ‘‘to found at Washington, under the name of the
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, an establishment for the increase and diffu-
sion of knowledge among men.”

2. The bequest is for the benefit of mankind. The government of the
United States is merely a trustee to carry out the design of the testator.

3. The Institution is not a national establishment, as is frequently sup-
posed, but the establishment of an individual, and is to bear and perpet-
uate his name.

4, The objects of the Institution are, 1st, to increase, and, 2d, to diffuse
knowledge among men.

5. These two objects should not be confounded with one another. The
first is to enlarge the existing stock of knowledge by the addition of new
truths; and the second, to disseminate knowledge, thus increased, among
men.

6. The will makes no restriction in favor of any particular kind of
knowledge; hence all branches are entitled to a share of attention.

7. Knowledge can be increased by different methods of facilitating
and promoting the discovery of new truths; and can be most extensively
diffused among men by means of the press.

8. To effect the greatest amount of good, the organization should be
such as to enable the Institution to produce results, in the way of increas-
ing and diffusing knowledge, which cannot be produced either at all or
so efficiently by the existing institutions in our country.

9. The organization should also be such as can be adopted provision-
ally; can be easily reduced to practice; receive modifications, or be aban-
doned, in whole or in part, without a sacrifice of the funds.

10. In order to compensate, in some measure, for the loss of. time
occasioned by the delay of eight years in establishing the Institution, a
considerable portion of the interest which has accrued should be added
to the principal. ;

11. In proportion to the wide field of knowledge to be cultivated, the
funds are small. Economy should, therefore, be consulted in the con-
struction of the building; and not only the first cost of the edifice should
8 ° PROGRAMME OF ORGANIZATION.

be considered, but also the continual expense of keeping it in repair,
and of the support of the establishment necessarily connected with it.
There should also be but few individuals permanently supported by the
Institution.

12. The plan and dimensions of the building should be determined by
the plan of the organization, and not the converse.

13. It should be recollected that mankind in general are to be bene-
fited by the bequest, and that, therefore, all unnecessary expenditure on
local objects would be a perversion of the trust.

14. Besides the foregoing considerations, deduced immediately from
the will of Smithson, regard must be had to certain requirements of the
act of Congress establishing the Institution. These are, a library, a
museum, and a gallery ef art, with a building on a liberal scale to con-
tain them.

SECTION I.

Plan of organization of the Institution in accordance with the foregoing
deductions from the will of Smithson.

TO INCREASE KNOWLEDGE. It is proposed—

1. To stimulate men of talent to make original researches, by offering
suitable rewards for memoirs containing new truths; and,
2. To appropriate annually a portion of the income for particular
researches, under the direction of suitable persons.

TO DIFFUSE KNOWLEDGE. It is proposed—

1. To publish a series of periodical reports on the progress of the dit-
ferent branches of knowledge; and,

2. To publish occasionally separate treatises on subjects of general
interest.

DETAILS OF THE PLAN TO INCREASE KNOWLEDGE.

I. By stimulating researches.

1. Facilities afforded for the production of original memoirs on all
branches of knowledge.

2. The memoirs thus obtained to be published in a series of volumes,
in a quarto form, and entitled Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge.

3. No memoir on subjects of physical science to be accepted for pub-
lication which does not furnish a positive addition to human knowledge,
resting on original research; and ail unverified speculations to be re-
jected.

4, Hach memoir presented to the Institution to be submitted for
examination to a comission of persons of reputation for learning in the
’ branch to which the memoir pertains; and to be accepted for publica-
tion only in case the report of this commission is favorabie.

5. The commission to be chosen by the officers of the Institution, and
the name of the author, as far as practicable, concealed, unless a favora-

le decision is made.

6. The volumes of the memoirs to be exchanged for the transactions
of literary and scientific societies, and copies to be given to all the col-
leges and principal libraries in this country. One part of the remaining
copies may be otiered for sale, and the other carefully preserved, to form
compiete sets ef the work, to supply the demand -from new institutions.

>
PROGRAMME OF ORGANIZATION. 9

7. An abstract, or popular account, of the contents of these memoirs
to be given to the public through the annual report of the Regents to
Congress.

Il. By appropriating a part of the income, annually, to special objects of
research, under the direction of suitable persons.

fouls, Tihe objects and the amount appropriated, to be recommended by

counsellors of the Institution.

2. Appropriations in different years to different objects; so that in
course of time each branch of knowledge may receive a share.

3. The results obtained from these “appropriations to be published,
siti the memoirs before mentioned, in the volumes of the Smithsonian
Contributions to Knowledge.

4. Examples of objects for which appropriations may be made.

(1.) System of extended meteorological observations for solving the
problem of American storms.

(2.) Explorations in descriptive natural history, and geological, mag-
netical, and topographical surveys, to collect materials for the formation
of a Physical Atlas of the United States.

(3.) Solution of experimental problems, such as a new determination
of the weight of the earth, of the velocity of electricity, and of light;
chemical analyses of soils a nd plants; collection and publication of scien:
tifie facts accumulated in the oftices ‘of government.

(4.) Institution of statistical inquiries with reference to physical,
moral, and political subjects.

(5.) Historical researches, and accurate surveys of places celebrated in
American history.

(6.) Ethnological researches, particularly with reference to the differ-
ent races of men in North America; also, explorations and aceurate sur-
veys of the mounds and other remains ot the ancient people of our
country.

DETAILS OF THE PLAN FOR DIFFUSING KNOWLEDGE.

I. By the publication of a sertes of reports, giving an account of the new dis
coveries tr science, and of the changes made from year to year in ail
branches of knowledge not strictly professional.

1. These reports will diffuse a kind of knowledge generally interest-
ing, but which, at present, is inaccessible to the public. Some of the
reports may be published - annually, others at longer intervals, as the
income of the Institution or the changes in the branches of knowle dge
may indicate.

2. The reports are to be prepared by collaborators eminent in the dif-
ferent branches of knowledge.

3. Hach collaborator to be furnished with the journals and publica
tions, domestic and foreign, necessary to the compilation of his report;
to be paid a certain sum for his labors, and to be named on the title-
peer of the report.

The reports to be published in separate parts, so that persons inter-
ated in a particular branch can procure the parts relating to it without
purchasing the whole.
» These reports may be presented to Congress, for partial distribu-
tion, the remaining copies to be given to liter: wy and scientifie institu-
tions, and sold to indiv iduals for a moderate price.
10 PROGRAMME OF ORGANIZATION.

The following are some of the subjects which may be embraced in the
reports:

I. PHYSICAL CLASS.

1. Physics, including astronomy, natural philosophy, chemistry, and
meteorology.

2. Natural history, including botany, zoology, geology, &c.

3. Agriculture.

4, Application of science to arts.

II. MORAL AND POLITICAL CLASS.

5. Ethnology, including particular history, comparative philology,
antiquities, &c.

G. Statistics and political economy.

7. Mental and moral philosophy.

8. A survey of the political events of the world; penal reform, &c.

III. LITERATURE AND THE FINE ARTS.

. Modern literature.

10. The fine arts, and their application to the useful arts.
11. Bibliography.

12. Obituary notices of distinguished individuals.

ve)

Il. By the publication of separate treatises on subjects of general interest.

1. These treatises may occasionally consist of valuable memoirs trans-
lated from foreign languages, or of articles prepared under the direction
of the Institution, or procured by offering premiums for the best exposi-
tion of a given subject.

2. The treatises should, in all cases, be submitted to a commission of
competent judges previous to their publication. :

3. As examples of these treatises, expositions may be obtained of the
present state of the several branches of knowledge mentioned in the
table of reports.

SECTION II.

Plan of organization, in accordance with the terms of the resolutions of the
Board of Regents providing for the two modes of increasing and diffusing
knowledge.

1. The act of Congress establishing the Institution contemplated the
formation of alibrary and a museum; and the Board of Regents, includ-
ing these objects in the plan of organization, resolved to divide the in-
come into two equal parts.

2. One part to be appropriated to increase and diffuse knowledge
by means of publications and researches, agreeably to the scheme before
given. The other part to be appropriated to the formation of a library
and a collection of objects of nature and of art.

3. These two plans are not incompatible with one another.

4, To carry out the plan before described, a library will be required,
consisting, 1st, of a complete collection of the transactions and proceed-
ings of all the learned societies in the world; 2d, of the more important
current periodical publications, and other works necessary in preparing
the periodical reports.
PROGRAMME OF ORGANIZATION. 11

5. The Institution should make. special collections, particularly of
objects to illustrate and verify its own publications.

6. Also, a collection of instruments of research in all branches of ex-
perimental science.

7. With reference to the collection of books, other than those men-
tioned above, catalogues of all the different libraries in the United States
should be procured, in order that the valuable books first purchased may
pe such as are not to be found in the United States.

8. Also, catalogues of memoirs, and of books and other materials,
should be collected for rendering the Institution a centre of bibliograph-
ical knowledge, whence the student may be directed to any work which
he may require.

9. It is believed that the collections in natural history will increase by
donation as rapidly as the income of the Institution can make provision
for their reception, and, therefore, it will seldom be necessary to pur-
chase articles of this kind.

10. Attempts should be made to procure for the gallery of art casts
of the most celebrated articles of ancient and modern sculpture.

11. The arts may be encouraged by providing a room, free of expense,
for the exhibition of the objects of the Art-Union and other similar
societies.

12. A small appropriation should annually be made for models of an-
tiquities, such as those of the remains of ancient temples, &ce.

13. For the present, or until the building is fully completed, besides
the Secretary, no permanent assistant will be required, except one, to act
as librarian.

14. The Secretary, by the law of Congress, is alone responsible to the

regents. He shall take charge of the building and property, keep a
record of proceedings, discharge the duties of librarian and keeper of
the museum, and may, with the consent of the Regents, employ assist-
ants.

15. The Secretary and his assistants, during the session of Congress,
will be required to illustrate new discoveries in science, and to exhibit
new objects of art. Distinguished individuals should also be invited to
give lectures on subjects of general interest.

This programme, which was at first adopted provisionally, has become
the settled policy of the Institution. The only material change is that
expressed by the following resolutions, adopted January 15, 1855, VIZ:

ftesolved, That the 7th resolution passed by the Board of Regents, on
the 26th of January, 1847, requiring an equal division of the income
between the active ‘operations and the museum and library, when the
buildings are completed, be, and it is hereby, repealed.

Resolved, That hereatter the annual appropriations shall be appor-
tioned specifically among the different objects and operations of the
Institution, in such manner as may, in the judgment of the Regents, be
necessary and proper for each, according to its intrinsic importance and
a compliance in good faith with the law.
REPORT

OF
PROFESSOR HENRY, SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,
‘ FOR
1868.

To the Board of Regents :

GENTLEMEN: Nothing has occurred during the past year of a charac-
ter demanding the special action of the Board. Indeed, the policy of the
Institution originally adopted has become so firmly settled and so widely
known, as well as properly appreciated, that few difficulties are now
likely to present themselves in the administration of the trust which do
not find a solution in some precedent in the experience of the past. The
funds appropriated at the last session have been devoted to the different
objects for which they were designated, and the several classes of opera-
tions which were inaugurated at the commencement of the Institution
have been prosecuted with as much efficiency as the means at disposal
would permit. From the first there has been no want of unoccupied
fields inviting attention, and well adapted with judicious cultivation to
yield a plentiful harvest of additions to science. Indeed, the only sub-
ject of regret suggested by a review of the past, or a survey of the pres-
ent, is the application of so large a portion of the income to objects which,
though in most cases important in themselves, are not, as is now gener-
ally conceded, strictly reconcilable either with the scope or the terms of
the endowment. The guardians of the Institution are not, however,
responsible for these expenditures, which had their origin in a general mis-
conception of the import of the bequest at the time when Congress enacted
the law organizing the Institution. On the contrary, the administration
has been such as to correct, as far as possible, the errors above mentioned,
and to present to the world an example worthy of imitation in the manage-
ment of other establishments founded on trust funds. The directors have
ever been deeply impressed with a sense of the importance of the trust .
committed to their charge, not only in consideration of the good which
might directly result from it, but also on account of the influence which
so conspicuous, and in many respects so original an enterprise, could not
fail to have upon the world. Man is an imitative being, and among the
many individuals in this country who have aécumulated princely fortunes
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 13

by the energetic exercise of native talents, there are probably not a few
who only need the assurance of a successful precedent to induce them
to emulate the liberality of Sinithson in the endowment of other institu-
tions for the advancement of knowledge.

At the last session of the board it was resolved that a memorial should .
be presented to Congress, setting forth the large expenditure to which
the Institution had been subjected by reason of the accommodation and
maintenance of the National Museum, and asking that the usual appro-
priation of $4,000 which had been made on account of these objects
might be increased to $10,000; also that $25,000 might be appropri-
ated towards fitting up the large room in the second story of the
main building for the better exhibition of the government collections.
In accordance with this resolution the petition was prepared, signed by
the Chancellor and Secretary of the Institution, and presented to the
House of Representatives by General Garfield, one of the regents. It was
referred to the Committee on Appropriations, and although forcibly and
eloquently advocated by the members of the Board of Regents belonging
to the House, it was not granted, and only the usual appropriation of
$4,000 was made. The reasonableness of this petition, which I doubt

“not under a better condition of the national finances will meet with a
more favorable reception, must be manifest when it is considered that
$4,000 is the sum which the maintenance of the museum cost the gov-
ernment when it was under the charge of the Patent Office, and that
since its removal to the Institution it has been enlarged to threefold its
previous size, while the money has been depreciated to one-half its former
value; and furthermore, that the amount expended since the fire in
1865, for the reconstruction of the building and supply of furniture, is
over $140,000, the greater part of which was for the accommodation of the
National Museum. This large sum was rendered necessary by the pecu-
liar character of the architecture, the cost of fire-proof materials, and
the high price of labor. Of the above amount, more than $20,000 was
defrayed from the annual income of last year, and after this reduction
of the resources it was scarcely to be expected that the operations of
the Institution could be carried on with as much efficiency as had been
the casein years previous to the disaster which entailed on it this heavy
incidental expenditure. Yet we venture to hope that the exposition given
in the following parts of this report will show the results attained to
have been little inferior in value or extent to those of any preceding year.

It will appear from the report of the Executive Committee, that notwith-
standing the large draughts which have been made upon the funds on
account of the building, they are still in a highly prosperous condition.
Thus, while at the beginning of the year 1868 there was a balance in the
treasury of about $11,000, with outstanding liabilities contracted prin-
cipally for repairs and reconstruction to the amount of $22,000; on the
other hand, at the beginning of 1869, there is a disposable balance of
14 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

*»

$10,352, with bills falling due to the amount of not more than $3,000.
The funds are therefore in a better condition at present than they were
a year ago by upwards of $18,000. The Institution having paid all
indebtedness incurred by repairs on the building, could to-day wind up
its affairs not only without debt, but with the capital exhibited in the
following statement:

The whole bequest of Smithson, in United States treasury.. $541,379 63

Additions from savings, &c., in United States treasury... 103,620 37
Virginia State stock, $72,760, valued at................- 40,000 00
(OPISING) MIEN MABE NOE mene ana rats aie aS Scmodahobina aro cer 7,000 00

otal capivalls: oer s, see ee cytes ee, rele Meet wane eta 697,000 00

While every part of the original programme has been rigidly carried
out, the large increase in the capital exhibited in the foregoing state-
ment may justly be claimed as the result of frugal management and
a judicious investment of the interest annually accruing.

At the commencement of operations definite lines of policy were
adopted, the object of which was to insure the expenditure of the income
in such a manner as most effectually to realize the conceptions of the
founder in his generous purpose of promoting the“ increase and diffusion
of knowledge among men.” Of the principles judged conducive to this
end an important one was embodied in the resolution to co-operate,
as far as possible, with individuals and institutions engaged in the
same work, especially with those in the city of Washington. An obvious
corollary of this was the determination to make no appropriation of the
funds to the furtherance or support of any object which could be accom-
plished as well by other instrumentality. This policy has been frequently
referred to in previous reports under the concisely expressed motto,
‘¢ co-operation not monopoly.”

It was in the spirit of this policy that the books of the Institution
were last year incorporated with those of Congress and results produced
which fully justify the measure as well as illustrate the importance of
the principle ; for, while by this union under one system and superintend-
ence a library has been formed worthy the National Capital, the capacity
of the Smithsonian fund to advance knowledge has been materially
increased. In pursuance of the same policy another important arrange-
ment has been made during the past year. I refer to the transfer of the
herbarium of the Institution to the care of the Department of Agriculture.
This herbarium consists of from 15,000 to 20,000 specimens from all parts
ofthe world, properly classified and labeled. Itis the result, in the line of ©
botany, of the various expeditions of the government and of the special
explorations of the Institution. The collections have from the first been
in the charge of Dr. Gray and Dr. Torrey—the two most eminent botan-
ists in this country—who have scientifically arranged them and formed
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 15

the duplicates into sets for distribution. Dr. Gray has, however, left the
country for an absence of some years in Europe, and Dr. Torrey, who
has devoted at least two entire years of his life to these specimens, is
unable longer to continue this gratuitous and disinterested service on
account of the more imperious duties of his oflicial position, and
consequently intimated to us that the botanical specimens would have
to be removed from Columbia College, New York, where they have
been deposited under his care. To render such a collection of any
practical use, and to preserve the plants from decay, the constant super-
intendence of a competent botanist is obviously indispensable ; but as
the appropriation hitherto made by Congress is far too meagre to meet

he cost of the present support of the museum it was necessary to seek
some other means of providing for these plants. Now, as the Agricul-
tural Department requires for continual reference such a collection of
plants, and had begun to gather one ; and as, also, in the course of its in-
vestigations it has need of the services of a practical botanist, nothing
could seem more advisable than to unite the two collections. By this
arrangement not only are the series of plants themselves rendered more per-
fect and more readily accessible, but the Institution is in the same degree
relieved of the burden imposed upon it in the support of a multifarious
and rapidly increasing museum. The transfer, however, is made with
the understanding that the superintending botanist shall be approved
by the Institution, that the collection shall be accessible to the public
for practical or educational purposes, and to the Institution for scientific
investigation or fer supplying any information that may be asked for by
its correspondents in regard to the names and character of plants. It
is further stipulated that due credit shall be given to the Institution in the
publications of the department for the deposit of the original specimens
as well as for the additions which from time to time may be made to them
by the Institution.

Agreeably to the policy above mentioned, the Institution has also entered
into an arrangement with the medical department of the United States
army by which it was thought mutual convenience and harmonious co-op-
eration would be promoted. By this arrangement the Institution transfers
to the museum in charge of the Surgeon General its large collection of
human crania, and also all its specimens pertaining to anatomy, physi-
ology, medicine, and surgery, while it takes, in return, from the medical
museum all the collections which more properly relate to ethnology.
It will be seen that the object kept constantly in view in these trans-
actions is to render the various collections in Washington, which have
been made under the direction of the government and the Institution,
defivite parts of one harmonious system, and at the same time:to avoid
the loss of labor and of means, in duplicating and preserving articles of
a similar character in separate establishments.

The disposition, which up to this time, has been made of the plants
illustrates the plan which was adopted, from the first, in order to pro-
16 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

duce the most important results with a given expenditure of means.
The funds of the Institution, it was seen, were not sufficient to carry
out all the objects contemplated in the original law of organization. To
sustain properly a national museum and render it an efficient means of
popular instruction would require a number of professors of the ditter-
ent branches into which natural history has been divided. But, as the
income was manifestly insufficient for this purpose, the plan was adopted
of calling in, as far as possible, the aid of individual collaborators and
of other institutions. Agreeably to this principle of action the plants
were given in charge, as has been stated, to Doctors Gray and Tor-
rey for naming and arrangement into sets, and to the latter gentleman
for safe keeping until such time as means could be provided for their
maintenance in Washington.

For the same reason as that just given, all the type specimens of in-
sects which have been collected by the Institution have been divided
among collaborators for study and arrangement, to be reclaimed at any
time when required by the Institution. Nor is this system of co-operation
confined to this country, for while through its exchanges the Institution
holds friendly correspondence with all the principal scientific and literary
establishments of the Old World, with a number of them it maintains
relations of mutual co-operation in the way of affording assistance by
sending rare specimens and furnishing required data in cases of special
investigations.

While the result of the policy which has been adopted is the imme-
diate advancement of knowledge, it tends incidentally to render the
seat of government a venter of scientific activity, which enlarges its
reputation and extends its influence. Indeed, though Washington has
generally been regarded as almost exclusively a focus of political
agitation, it in reality contains a greater number of persons connected
with scientific operations, and interested in intellectual pursuits, than
any other city of equal population in this country. In illustration of
this remark I need only mention the officers of the Engineer Department,
of the Coast Survey, of the Light-house Board, of the Ordnance Bureau,
of the army and the navy, of the Patent Office, and of the Agricultural
Department; also the computors of the Nautical Almanac, the profes-
sors of the National Observatory, and those of three colleges, three
medical schools, a law school, and of an institution for the deat and
dumb; besides the the directors and assistants of the asylum for the
insane, two hospitals, and of the various bureaus of the government,
the greater part of whom are men of more than ordinary culture, on
many of whom the Institution can call for assistance and co-operation.

.

Pubiications—The Smithsonian publications, as has been frequently

stated before, are of three classes: the Contributions to Knowledge, the
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. jl

Miscellaneous Collections, and the Annual Reports. The first consists of
memoirs containing positive additions to science resting on original
research, and which are principally the result of investigations to which
the institution has in some way rendered assistance. In all cases the
memoirs are submitted to a commission for critical examination, and
ouly accepted for publication on a favorable report. The Miscellaneous
Collections are chiefly composed of works intended to facilitate the
study of certain branches of natural history or of meteorology, and
are designed especially to induce individuals to engage in stu«ies as
specialties, to which in leisure moments their thoughts may reenr, and
by observations and collections in relation to which they may mot only
contribute to their own pleasure but also advance the cause of science..
The Annual Reports are published at the expense of the government,,
with the exception of the illustrations, which are furnished by the Insti-.
tution. Up to the year 1854 these reports were published in «pamphlet
form, and contained merely an account of the operations of the Institu--
tion for the year; but since that date an appendix has been aulded, prin--
cipally consisting of translations, from foreign journals, of articles not
accessible to the English reader, but of interest to our meteorological
observers, and to persons generally who are interested in the progress.
of knowledge. With the addition of this appendix each report forms a
volume of between 400 and 500 pages, bound in boards, with a cloth
cover. The first volume of this series contains a reprint of all the pre-
vious reports of the Secretary, the will of Smithson, and the enactments,
of Congress in regard to the bequest, and hence in the full set of these:
reports a continuous history of the Institution is given from its organiza-
tion to the present time. The whole number of volumes, including the:
present, is fifteen; of these it is to be regretted that the greater part. of the:
extra numbers were destroyed in the fire of 1865. All the reports:
since 1862 have been stereotyped, and the plates of these have beem
preserved.

During the past year the 15ch volume of the Smithsonian Contribu-
tions to Knowledge has been published, and, in conformity with the rules:
adopted, has been distributed to institutions in this country and abroad.
The volume contains 604 pages, and is illustrated with 43 woodcuts
and 17 plates. The several articles contained in fine volume which
were published separately, and an account of which was given in pre-
vious reports, are as follows:

1. An investigation of the Orbit of Neptune, with general tables of
its motion, by Professor Simon Newcomb.

2, On the fresh-water glacial drift of the northwestern States, hy
Charles Whittlesey.

3. Geological researches in China, Mongolia, and Japan, during the
years 1862 to 1865, by Raphael Pumpelly.

4, Physical observations in the Arctic seas, by Isaac I. Hayes, M. D.

Another publication during the year, which is intended to form a part

28
18 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

of the 16th volume of the Contributions, is entitled “Results of
meteorological observations at Marietta, Ohio, between 1826 and 1859,”
by Dr. S. P. Hildreth. An account of this was given in the last report
under the head of meteorology, and copies of it have been distributed
to the meteorological observers. It contains 46 quarto pages, and is
illustrated with 14 woodcuts.

Several parts of the miscellaneous collections havealso been published.
The first is a catalogue of the Orthoptera or upright winged insects
of North America, described previous to 1867, prepared for the Smnith-
sonian Institution by Samuel H. Scudder, of the Boston Society of Nat-
ural History. This work is intended as an index in which the student
can find a reference to every published account of any species of
Orthoptera found on the continent of North America or in the West
Indies, together with the exact names given to the insects in the origi-
nal descriptions. The publication and distribution of this list will assist
the author himself in obtaining materials for a contemplated elaborate
monograph on the same subject, while it will tend to advance science
by calling attention to this interesting but heretofore little studied
order of insects; an order which includes, however, among others, the
cockroach and the grasshopper—the one so prejudicial to domestic com-
fort, and the other so often subversive of the hopes of the farmer. The
preparation of this work is a gratuitous contribution by Mr. Seudder to
the branch of natural history in which he is specially interested. It con-
sists of 89 octavo pages, and will form a part of the eighth volume of mis-
cellaneous collections.

The next publication of the year 1868 is a volume forming part
four of a series of monographs of the Diptera, or two-winged insects
of North America, by Baron R. Osten Sacken. Parts one and two
of the same series previously published by the Institution were prepared
by Dr. H. Loew, of Prussia, and the third part is in an advanced state
of preparation by the same author. This volume contains the first
part of a monograph of the North American Tipulidae, the representa-
tive of which is known as the crane-fly, an inseet whose larvze are
extremely destructive to crops of various kinds, devouring the roots of
cereals and pasture grasses, and almost all the plants ordinarily culti-
vated in fields or gardens. The ground covered by the author in this
monograph embraces all the known North American species, exclusive
of those of the West Indies and Mexico. The principal areas from
which the specimens described have been obtained are the environs of
the cities of Washington and of New York, but the author also made
collections during occasional excursions to different parts of New York,
Pennsylvania, and New England, besides receiving contributions from
other parts of this continent. Thus, as far as the more common species
are concerned, the middie and northern States may be said to be tolera-
bly well represented in this volume, the regions west of the Allegha-

s

~

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 19

nies and the British Provinces not so fully, while the country south of
Washington is, in this respect, almost entirely unexplored. The author
as well as the Institution is indebted to Mr. Samuel Powel, of Newport,
Rhode Island, an amateur and patron of science, for the devotion of
much time and practical skill to the preparation of magnified photo-
graphs of the wings, from which the illustrations presented on the steel
plates were reduced. This volume contains 345 pages, illustrated with
four plates and seven woodcuts.

Among the memoirs accepted for publication, and formerly described,
is one by Dr. John Dean, giving the results of a series of microscopical
investigations of the medulla oblongata. This paper was stereotyped and
about to be published as a part of the 13th volume of the Contributions,
when the expensive steel plates for its illustration were destroyed by
the fire of 1865. Owing to the absence of Dr. Dean in Europe, aconsid-
erable delay has occurred in procuring a new set of these illustrations.
The stereotype plates of the letter-press were, fortunately, preserved,
and we are now ready to publish an edition of the memoir for distribu-
tion as a part of the i6th volume of the Contributions.

Since the last report an elaborate work founded principally on original
research has been presented to the Institution, by Lewis H. Morgan,
esq., of Rochester, New York. It is on the systems of relationship
adopted by different races and tribes of men. About 20 years ago the
author found in use among the Iroquois Indians, of the State of New
York, a system for the designation and classification of family relationship
ofa singular character and wholly unlike any with which he was previously
familiar. Under this system, forexample, all the children of the several
brothers and sisters of an individual are considered as his own children ;
all the brothers of his father are habitually regarded and addressed as his
own father; all the sisters of his mother as his mother, &c. Mr. Morgan
afterwards found the same system in use among other Indian nations, in
which, while every term of relationship was radically different from the
corresponding terms in the Iroquois, the classification was the same.
Extending the research to other fields of inquiry, he found before the
close of 1559 that the same system prevailed among the principal Indian
nations east of the Rocky mountains, and that traces of it existed both in
the Sandwich Islands and in south India. He therefore resolved to prose-
cute the investigation upon a still more comprehensive scale, and to
attempt, if possible, to investigate the systems adopted by the different
families of mankind. This, however, required a more extensive foreign
correspondence than a private individual could hope suecessfully to
maintain. He therefore made application to the different boards of for-
eign missions, and also to the Smithsonian Institution, for such co-ope-
ration in the furtherance of his object as it migst be in their power to
afford. The Institution accordingly issued cirewlars and schedules,
which were distributed to its correspondents in all parts of the world.
Through his own immediate labors and the assistance just mentioned,
¥

20 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY

the author has been able to construct tables of relationship of as many
as 70 Indian nations, speaking as many independent dialects, and also
tables of the systems of the principal nations of Europe and Asia, a
portion of those of Africa, of Centrai and South America, and of the
islands of the Pacific. The tabulated schedules will represent the sys-
tems of relationship of upwards of four-fifths of the entire human family.

The memoir presents in a brief form the following systems or
methods of indicating the relatiops cf consanguinity: 1st. That of the
Aryan family, as typified by the Roman form. 2d. That of the Malayan
family, as indicated by the Hawaiian mode. 3d. That of the American
Indian family, as represented by the Seneca-Iroquois. According to the
author’s generalizations all these systems of consanguinity resolve
themselves into two radically distinct forms, one of which he calls the
descriptive and the other the classificatory form. The first assumes as
its fundamental basis the antecedent existence of marriage between sin-
gle pairs. Before it could have come into existence mankind must
have made some advanees in civilization; it follows the regular course
of descent, describing each individual with reference to his parental
derivation. In the second form the relation of cousanguinity is only
given in classes, the same term of consanguinity being applied to a
numberof persons not standing in precisely the same proximity of actual
relationship. This system, according to the author, seems to indicate
that it was adopted in a state of society in which marriage between sin-
ele pairs was unknown or exceptional. This memoir was first referred
to a commission, consisting of Professor J. H.Mecllvaine and Professor
William Henry Green, of Princeton, New Jersey, who recommended its
publication, but advised certain changes in the method of presenting
the subject. After these modifications had been made it was submitted
to the American Oriental Society and was by it referred to a special
committee, consisting of Messrs. Hadley, Trumbull, and Whitney, who,
having critically examined the memoir, reported that it contained a
series of highly interesting facts which they believed the students of
philology and ethnology, though they might not accept all the conclu-
sions of the author, wouid welcome as valuable contributions to science.

Besides the foregomg the following papers have been accepted for
publication and are now in the hands of the printer:

The IndiansofCape Fiattery: by J. G. Swan; Investigation of the Path
of a Meteorice Fire-ball: by Professor J. H. Coftin, of Lafayette College;
Description ofa part of a Mummy Case: by Dr. Gharits Pickering; Lane
and Fresh-water Shells of North America: by W. G. Binney and Thos.
Bland.

In addition to the foregoing the discussion and reduction of all the
observations relative to the rainfall of the north American continent
have been completed and will be published during 1859. The whole
ainount expended during the past year for publications was about $5,800,
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 21

A larger sun, however, will be required for this purpose during the pres-
ent year.

The Smithsonian Institution is now in possession of a large amount of
manuscript material relative to the natural history, geology, and ethnology
of the whole of the northern part of the American continent, extending
from Labrador to Behring’s straits, and northward to the Arctic sea, includ-
ing Greenland and the vicinity of Von Wrangell’s land. These materials
have been derived principally from special explorations, directed by
the Smithsonian Institution, and with the co-operation to a greater or
less extent of the Chicago Academy of Sciences. They ae e been
gathered by the officers of the Hudson’s Bay Company, at their stations
in various parts of the northern portion of the continent, by the scien-
tifie corps of the Russian telegraph expedition, and by special explorers
acting under the immediate auspices of the Institution. That part which
relates to natural history is now nearly ready for the press, and will
probably be published during the coming year, while that relative to
physical geography is in an Aeieanoedl stage of preparation. This includes
all the scientific reports made to the Rican telegraph company by its
employés, and liberally furnished, by the company or its officers, to the
Institution. The material also contains a large number of vocabularies
as well as other information relative to the languages of the country,
which we hope soon to have in a proper state for publication. All
these contributions, together with the observations of Kane, McClintock,
and Hayes, which have been discussed and published by the Institution,
form no small addition to the knowledge of the North American conti-
nent, and will forever remain a monument of the munificence and a
memorial of the name of Smithson.

The annual report for the year 1867 was printed as usual by order of
Congress, and the extra number of 10,000 copies ordered as heretofore.
In addition to the report of the secretary, giving an account of the
operations, expenditures, and condition of the Institution for the year,
and the proceedings of the Board of Regents to May 2, 1868, it contains
the following articles: biographical notices of Professor C. C. Jewett,
formerly librarian of the Institution; of William Henry Harvey, of
Dublin, author of an extensive work on Algi, published by the Institu-
tion; memoirs of Legendre, Peltier, and Faraday; a sketch of the
history of the Royal Institution of Great Britain; a memoir on the
family Jussieu, and the natural method of classification in botany; the
natural history of organized bodies; the electrical currents of the earth;
considerations and facts relative to electricity; queries about expression
for anthropological inquiry; the various modes of flight in relation to
eronautiecs; man as the cotemporary of the mammoth and reindeer
in middle Europe; photo-chemistry; an account of the astronomical
observations at Dorpat and Poulkova; traces of the early mental con-
dition of man, account of Indian remains, ancient mounds, &e.; explora-
tions in Central America and Lake Winnepeg; sketch of the flora of
22, REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Alaska; various letters on meteorology; prize questions of societies in
Europe; and a list of abbreviations used in England at the present time.
This publication is constantly growing in popularity, and, next to the
report of the Agricultural Department, no document is in greater demand.
We may mention, as a proof of this, that a considerable portion of the
copies allowed the Institution for distribution among its own correspond-
ents has been absorbed, during the last year, in meeting the applications
of members of Congress for the supply of their constituents. In com-
plying with these applications we have never failed to represent that
a larger edition of the report is highly desirable for distribution, both by
the Institution and Congress, and that an addition of 5,000 copies to the
number which has been printed would cost comparatively but a trifle
after the stereotype plates have been placed upon the cylinder of the
printing press.

Explorations and collections in natural history —From the first estab-
lishment of the Smithsonian Institution until the present time a consid-
erable portion of its annual resources has been devoted to explorations
for the development of the natural productions of North and Central
America, particularly in relation to zoology, botany, and mineralogy. Of
late years a number of other institutions have entered the same field,
either independently or in co-operation with this Institution. Foremost
among those which have made separate explorations is the great museum
of comparative zoology at Cambridge, under the direction of Professor
Agassiz. The late expedition of this renowned naturalist to South
America has been crowned with a larger collection of specimens in
zoology than has ever been obtained through the exertions of private
enterprise. Among societies which have co-operated during the past year
with the Smithsonian, and scarcely in a rank below any other in regard
to zeal and efficiency, are the Chicago Academy of Science, the Boston
Society of Natural History, and the Peabody Museum of American
Archeology and Hthnology of Cambridge, Mass., as also the Kentucky
University of Lexington. In giving an account of what has been done
during the year under review in the line of natural history we shail
adopt, as in previous reports, the geographical order.

In reference to Arctic America the contributions from Mr. Macfarlane
and Mr. McDougal of the Mackenzie river district have added largely to
the materials previously received from that region, and are of special
interest in regard to Odlogy. The last invoice from Mr. Maefarlane is
fully equal to those with which he has favored the Institution in previous
years, and entitles him to the credit of being the largest contributor to’
the Smithsonian collections, and of having done more than any other
person in making known the productions and character of the regions
he has explored. The record of specimens bearing his name already
ainounts to over ten thousand’ entries, including some of the choicest
contributions to natural history and ethnology. A collection of birds

°
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. ao

and eggs, including some new species of the latter from west of Lake
Winnipeg, has been received fror Mr. Donald Gunn, and of insects
and birds from the vicinity of Hudsen’s bay from Mr. James Lockhart
and Mr. B. R. Ross, to both of whom acknowledgments for valuable
services have been frequently rendered in previous reports.

Mr. W. H. Dall, who was mentioned in the last report as having suc-
ceeded Mr. Kennicott as chief of the natural history corps of the Russian
telegraph expedition, remained after the abandonment of that enterprise
to continue his explorations among the Indians and Esquimaux along the
Yukon, and within the Arctic Circle, including the most northern part of
our new possessions. He has just returned and brought with him a valua-

ble collection of the natural productions, as well as illustrations of the
ethnology of the regions he has visited. Mr. Dall visited Sitka with
the telegraph expedition, in 1865, then went to the Aleutian islands,
and afterwards to Plover bay, in Eastern Siberia. He spent the winter
of 1866 in the vicinity of St. Michaels, Norton’s sound; went the next
spring, with a single companion, to Fort Yukon, near the headwaters of
the river of the same name, and continued his explorations on either side of
the Arctic Circle until September, when he returned to Norton’s sound to
report the result of his labors to the engineer-in-chief of the telegraphic
expedition. But learning that the enterprise had been abandoned, he
concluded to remain in the country and continue the exploration on his
own account. In the prosecution of this purpose he left St. Michael’s
in October, and spent the following winter. among the Indians and
Esquimaux, in the region between the Yukon and Norton’s sound. In
the spring he descended the Yukon, and in July commenced his home-
ward journey. His collections are rich in birds, eggs, plants, smaller
animals, fish, fossils, and especially in ethnological illustrations. He
also made copious notes on the physical geography, geology, and meteer-
ology of the country. The first winter—1866~67—was very cold, the
thermometer descending, near Nulato, as low as 68° below zero. The
second was much warmer; rain fell almost every day, and, with the
exception of one occasion, the thermometer ranged from 10° below to
8° or 10° above the freezing point. <As if, however, to compensate for
his, the spring was longer and colder than had been known for 16 pre-
vious years. The short summers are quite warm, no show remaining on
the ground. Rapidly growing vegetables are cultivated by the Russian
traders, such as turnips, radishes, and lettuce. An attempt to grow
potatoes failed at St. Michael’s, although a similar experiment is said to
have been successful at Fort Yukon. This part of the country is of no
value in an agricultural point of view, but affords an abundance of rich
furs. It is thickly wooded in the interior, principally with spruce, pep-
lar, and willow. Mr. Dall was kindly entertained by the inhabitants,
who, on all the coasts north of the Aleutian islands and on that of the
Arctic sea, consist of Esquimaux, while the inhabitants of the interior
are Indians.

24 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

The expenses of original outfit for making collections in natural his-
tory during the telegraphic expedition were defrayed by the joint
contributions of this Institution and the Chicago Academy of Science.
Subsequently the telegraphic company itself made liberal provisions for
facilitating the same object, and for furthering, as far as compatible
with the primary intention of the enterprise, the advance of science.
The costs of the expedition of Mr. Dall, after he left the service of the tel-
egraph company, were borne by himseli, and the results generously pre-
sented as a contribution to the cause to which he has shown himself so
ardently attached. The transportation of all the collections from the west-
ern coast devolved upon the Lnstitution, and but for the generous assist-
ance of the Pacifie Mail Steamship Company, it would have called for a
larger outlay than we couid well have afforded. Since Mr. Dall’s return he
has occupied a room in the Smithsonian building, and has been engaged
in arranging and labeling his specimens preparatory to the forma-
tion of a descriptive catalogue. While he has been occupied in this
work the Boston Socrety of Natural History, as well as the Institution,
has contributed to his support, with the understanding that the former
is to have a portion of the duplicates set apart for distribution.

Other collections of interest have also been received from Alaska, viz:
those made by Mr. Bischotl, at Kodiak; and by Dr. Minor, in various
localities visited during the cruise of the Wayanda; others still, from.
Captain White, of the same steamer; also from Captain Tinea and
Mr. George Davidson, of the United States Coast Survey.

Western United States.—The Institution still continues to receive speci-
meus from the Pacific coast, and frequent communications relative to the
physical geography, meteorology, and ethnology of the country. Dur-
ing the past year among the more important collections from California
was a series of nests and eggs from Dr. Canfield, of Monterey, and of
birds and shells from Mr. kh. E. C. Stéarns. But the most important
exploration undertaken since the date of the last report has been that
uuder the direction of Mr. Clarence King, authorized by Congress for a
geological survey of the 40th parallel of latitude, principally in Nevada
and the western portion of Utah. The resuits of this exploration are
especially important from’ the facts obtained relative to the physical
geography aud meteorology ad the country. A base line in a north and
south direction was measured by astronomical observations at the two
extremities, and from this a het-work of triangles was extended over the
region surveyed, by which the topography was determined and the
materials furnished of an accurate map of a part of the country previ-
ously imperfectly known. The party consisted of four geologists,
including Mr. King, four topographers, two botanists, one zoologist, and
one meteorologist. All the specimens collected, filling 60 boxes, with the
exception of those of botany, have been received at the Institution, and
are now in process of being arranged for study and subsequent distribu-
tion. The botanical collections have been given in charge to Professor
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. pa)

Eaton, of Yale College, for the determination of the species and their
relations to the flora of other portions of the United States, but will finally
be sent to the Institution, to the care of which all specimens collected
by government expeditions are assigned. Inthe same connection it may
be mentioned that Dr. Hitz has continued his explorations on the upper
Missouri, and contributed specimens of fossils, skins of birds, eggs, &e.

At the last session of Congress an appropriation was made for explor-
ations under the direction of the Land Oifice. This survey, the conduct
of which was consigned to Dr. IF’. V. Hayden, extended over the Black
hills, Laramie plains, the headwaters of the Little and Big Laramie
rivers to Bridger’s: pass. It also included a survey along the Pacific
railroad from Fort Saunders to Green river. The report of this survey
has been made to Joseph 8. Wilson, esq., the Commissioner of the Land
Office, with whom ail the specimens collected have been deposited. Dr.
Hayden, however, made an independent su-vey under the auspices of
the Institution, along the eastern base of the Rocky mountains to Den-
ver city, and southward to the Sangre de Christo pass, across the San
Luis Potosi park and the valley of the Rio Grande, and thence into New
Mexico, returning northward through the Poncho pass, across the Arkan-
sas into the South park, and through this into the mining regions of Col-
orado. Besides the geological notes whith were made during this
expedition, a large number of specimens was collected; and as no appro-
priation of Congress was made for the transportation of the latter, the
cost has been defrayed by the Institution. ‘The specimens have been
received and are now awaiting their examination and final disposition.
Another exploration which will be mentioned under the head of
ethnology, was conducted by Dr. KE. Palmer, in the Indian territory,
the collections from which were but little less important as illustrative
of natural history than of Indian life and ethnology. Dr. Palmer is now
in the Institution assorting the specimens and preparing his notes for
publication.

Middle and South America.—Colonel Grayson has been engaged in prose-
euting his exploration in northwestern Mexico, and has furnished large
collections of its ornithology. To him more than to any other may justly
be ascribed, says Professor Baird, a knowledge of the species of birds of
that region. Under the joint auspices of the Smithsonian Institution and
the Kentucky University, at Lexington, Professor Sumichrast, a well-
known naturalist long resident in Mexico, has gone to the Isthmus of
Tehuantepec to make observations and collections in natural history,
which will doubtless throw light upon the geographical distribution of spe-
cies. Two boxes of specimens have just been received as the first fruits of
this expedition. Dr. Sartorius has also continued his important contribu-
tions from Mirador. Explorations have been further prosecuted in Costa

tica, a region which has been the subject of much attention on the part
of the Institution, and a valuable collection of specimens has been
received from Mr. M. Calleja, made by himself and Mr. J. Zeledon, as
26 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

well as contributions from Dr. Von Frantzius, from Captain J. M. Dow,
Mr. Henry Hague, Mr. George Latimer, Dr. Destruges, and other cor-
respondents mentioned in the list of donors. A series of birds of the
Galapagos islands has been presented by the Swedish Academy

Sciences through Professor Sundevall, furnishing us with the first illus-
trations of the fauna of that group, so remarkable for its land and marine
animals. Mr. W. H. Hudson has continued to make collections of birds
in the Argentine provinces, and Mr. Albuquerque and Dr. Smith have
rendered the same service in regard to those of Brazil. Specimens from
Peru have been received from Dr. Sclater, while Mr. Salvin has sent
types of several new species from Veragua, on the isthmus of Panama.

Explorations and collections in ethnology.—During the past year greater
effort has been made than ever before to collect specimens to illustrate
the ethnology and archeology of the North American continent. This
subject, it is true, has from the first been an object of interest to the
Institution, as being a common ground on which the cultivators of
scienee and of literattire might harmoniously co-operate. It embraces
not only the natural history and peculiarities of the different races of
men:as they now exist upon the globe, but also their affiliations, their
changes in mental and moral development, and also the question of the
geological epoch of the appearance of man upon the earth. So a
interest has been awakened in the general subject, that Mr. George -
body, with an enlightened liberality, has presented $159,000 to Hi: ona
University, at Cambridge, for the foundation and maintenance of a
museum and professorship of American ethnology and archeology,
Although the funds of that establishment are not yet fully available.
measures have been taken, under the direction of Professor Jeiiries
Wyman, to secure European specimens for comparison, and also to com-
mence the collection of original records of the races of our continent.
The Smithsonian Institution having inaugurated a number of special
explorations, embracing ethnology as well as natural history, has
invited the Peabody museum to co-operate in the enterprises, by con-
tributing funds, witha view to sharing the results of the expeditions.

his proposition has been favorably entertained, and an appropriation
been made to assist an important exploration of ancient mounds in
Kentucky, under the direction of Mr. Sidney 8S. Lyon. We cherish the
hope that, as the funds of the Peabody museum become more and more
available, our union of effort to extensively examine the monuments
and collect all the relies, to illustrate as fully as possible the archeology
and ethnology of the American continent, will be crowned with success, °

The interest in the archeological remains of America is by no means
confined to this country. They are considered of much importance in
Europe in the way of comparison with those of the old worid, and speci-
mens have been diligently sought for by collectors from abroad. Mr.
William Blackmore, of Liverpool, in particular, a gentleman of wealth

ry
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. QF

and intelligence who has founded an ethnological museum at Salis-
bury, has made several visits to this country for the purpose of obtain-
ing additions to his collections. He has purchased of Dr. E. H. Davis,
for a large sum of money, the archeological specimens described and
figured in volume I of the Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge.
Though it may, perhaps, be a matter of regret that Congress did not
make an appropriation for the purchase of these interesting specimens,
it is still gratifying to the lovers of science, irrespective of nationality,
that they will be perpetually preserved and rendered available for the
advancement of ethnology. While we ourselves were not able to retain
in this country the originals, we have procured a complete set of fac-
similes in plaster, which, for general investigation, are nearly as valua-
ble as those from which they were taken.

The Institution is indebted to Mr. Blackmore for a series of pho-
tographs of American Indians; a model of Stonehenge; a number
of electrotype copies of ancient medals; and a copy of a work writ-
ten by Thomas Inman, M. D., for private distribution, on “ Ancient
Faith embodied in Ancient Names.” Mr. Blackmore is enthusias-
tically interested in ethnology, and devotes his spare time, as weil
as a large portion of his ample means, to the prosecution of the
subject. The museum which he has founded and munificently endowed
consists of specimens intended to illustrate the anthropology of every
part of the world, and is freely opened to the public, either for casual
visits or for critical study. An account of it will be given in the appen-
dix of this report, under the head of ethnology. We have found in Mr,
Blackmore an efficient and liberal collaborator, who evinces a disposi-
tion amply to repay, in returns of specimens and information, the con-
tributions we may be able to make to the stores he has already accumu-
lated. In his late visit to this country he thinks he has found speci-
mens of the early drift period, or of the first indications of the works of
man on the earth, not previously known to exist on this continent. The
locality of these remains is about 50 miles from Fort Bridger, in Utah
Territory, and will not be forgotten as a point of special interest in our
explorations.

It is now generally known that, in times long anterior to the dawn of
authentic history, the practice extensively prevailed of constructing
human habitations upon wooden piles driven into the shallow water of
lakes, remains of which have been found especially in Switzerland, but
also in other countries. Upon these piles platforms were placed and
habitations erected, not for temporary occupation, merely, but for pro-
longed residence. Of these archeological remains accounts have been
given in previous reports, and during the past year arrangements have
been made, through the exchanges of the Institution, to obtain speci-
mens from the more important localities in which they are found.

The following is an account of the more important explorations and
additions to the collections of the Institution which have been made
28 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

during the past year in the line of ethnology. The first in value is that
already referred to as having been undertaken under the joint auspices of
the Institution and the Peabody Museum, by Mr.8.S. Lyon, of Indiana. In
this exploration a number of mounds in Kentueky were opened, and more
than fifty perfect crania, with many imperfect ones, andaconsiderable num-
ber of skeletons, were procured. There were disinterred also about thirty
vases more or less periect, a large number of stone axes, hammers, orna-
ments, beads, bone awls, &c., the whole filling seven barrels and four
boxes with extremely valuable material. The crania and bones were
referred to Dr. Wyman for special investigation, who reports that they
had been received, that he had nearly finished cleaning the skulls, which
would require many repairs, but that he hoped to do justice to a collec.
tion which affords an opportunity never before equaled of examining the
skulls of American aborigines. Mr. Lyon’s exploration has also fur-
nished a series of ancient implements as well as casts of footprints
sculptured in the rocks. Inmitations of this kind, which have been fre-
quently found, were for a long time supposed to have been formed by
the actual impressions of human feet when the rock was in a soft con-
dition, but subsequent investigations have shown them to be undoubtedly
sculptured imitations of footprints. They have occasionally been found
in rocks containing pebbles, but in these cases the pebbles, instead of
bearing evidence of having been pressed down into a plastic material
by a human foot, show clearly that they have been cut by the tool of a
workman.

Professor J. W. P. Jenks, of Middleboro’, Massachusetts, who has for
many years been collecting objects of ethnology, has, in a spirit of praise-
worthy liberality, allowed the Institution to select any specimens it
might desire from his extensive cabinet. From the same place, some
choice objects have also been received from Mr. Sylvester, as well as
an interesting stone mortar and a stone axe, respectively the gift of Mr.
E. Shaw and Mr. U. Sampson. Mr. Gregory, of Marblehead, has fur-
nished some desirable specimens from castern Massachusetts, as have
also Mr. Levi Cole, of Beverly, Dr. Palmer, of Ipswich, Mr. Blake, of
Boston, Mr. Burr, Mrs. Bryant, Mr. Jas. T. Ames, &c. To Amherst
College, through Professor Hitchcock, the Institution is indebted for a
large nuinber of stone implements from western Massachusetts and Con-
necticut. Explorations of ancient Indian graves were also made, with
satisfactory results, near Hingham, Massachusetts, by Professor Baird,
in conjunction with Dr. Brewer, Messrs. John Brewer, T. J. Bouve, F.
Burr, Gerrish, and Wells.

To Dr. W. Wood, of East Windsor Hill, Connecticut, the Institution
is under obligations for his diligent efforts to increase its archaeological
collections; a number of boxes have been received from him filled with
articles illustrative of the primitive stone implements of Connecticut.
Valued contributions from an adjacent locality have also been received
from Mr. Andrus. Special contributions of implements previously col-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 29

lected in Maine, New Brunswick, and Pennsylvania, were likewise made
by Mr. Boardman, Dr. Todd, Mr. Blake, Mr. Haley, Mr. Leonard Pea-
body, Mr. Hollis, and Mr. J. Hamiiton. From Colonel E. Jewett, of
Utica, the Institution has received an extensive and chvice coliec-
tion of relics especially rich in pipes and ornaments, beads, amuiets,
&c., gathered principally in New York and adjacent States. Mr. Robert
Howell, of Tioga county, New York, has made several interesting con-
tributions in the same line, and others have been received from the same
region at the hands of Mr. Stephen Forman and Mr. Jacob Stratton.
Scarcely inferior in exteyt and variety to the collection of Mr. Jenks is
one made by the late Hon. George M. Keim, of Reading, principally ia
central Pennsylvania, but also in Texas and Ohio. In this is found the
first specimen of a choice flint hoe, similar to that described by Professor
Rau, in the Smithsonian Report for 1863, a second specimen of which has
just been received from Mr. Granville Turner, of Lilinois. The collection of
Gereral Keim was presented to the Institution by his children as a memo-
rial of their father, and a very large and choice cabinet of minerals has, we
learn, been given by them to Lehigh University with a similar object,
Specimens from western Pennsylvania have been received from Dr. Wal-
ker.

The principal donations from the vicinity of Washington have been
made by Mr. O. N. Bryan, some of which are very choice; by Mr. J. W.
Slagle, and Mr. Tyler. Specimens from the eastern shore of Virginia
have been presented by Mr. C. KR. Moore. Mr. W. H. Edwards, of West
Virginia, has contributed a-number of choice articles from the Kanawha
river and elsewhere, some of them unique. Mr. E. A. Dayton, an
esteemed correspondent of the Institution, in the course of an extended
tour through Tennessee and Kentucky last year, took advantage of the
occasion to gather collections, and awaken an interest in the subject
which has resulted in large additions to our cabinet. Our attention
having been called by Mr. Dayton toa remarkable stone idol found near
the mouth of a cave at Strawberry Plains, Tennessee, a correspondence
was entered into with its owner, Captain E. M. Grant, which resulted
in its being sent to the Institution. The most important collection of
ethnological material yet received, however, is that presented by Captain
J. H. Devereux, of Cleveland, Ohio, embracing a large number of nearly
every variety of ancient stone implements, principally of Tennessee and
Ohio, among them specimens of pottery of very different patterns
- from those usuaily met with. Some of them are remarkable for smooth-
ness of surface and symmetry of outline, as well as for the style of orna-
mentation. We have stated before that a series of casts of the principal
objects described in the first volume of the Smithsonian Contributions to
Knaowledge had been purchased, and it may be mentioned in this con-
nection that other articles described in the same volume are in posses-
sionof Mr. W. S. Vaux, of Philadelphia, who obtained them through the
purchase of the valuable collection of Mr. James McBride, of Ohio, whose
0 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

oo

cabinet was freely open for study to Squier and Davis. From Lieu-
tenant Belden and Captain Mills, of the United States army, Drs. C.
C. Gray and Matthews, fine collections of dresses and implements of exist-
ing tribes of Indians have been received. The most extensive series,
however, of modern objects of this kind pertaining to the United States,
and obtained during the year under review, is that gathered by Dr.
Edward Palmer, in the Indian territory, including specimens relating to
the Comanches, Kioways, and other neighboring tribes. The collection
consists of war implements, such as bows, arrows, shields, battie-axes ;
hunting and fishing implements, such as hooks, spears, nets, &¢.; a
large variety of dresses, ornaments, including ear and finger rings,
breast-plates, &c.; tobacco-pouches, pipes of various materials, bowis,
spoons made of wood and horn, a variety of whips, articles used for
gainbling, including packs of cards made of skins, and bundles of sticks
with which bets are decided, from the manner in which they fall when
thrown upwards; also floor coverings made of parallel sticks attached
by sinews; the whole forming very complete illustrations of the manners
and customs of the tribes before mentione 1.

Some of the most important additions of the year to the stone series
were included in a collection presented by Dr. Yates, of California.
This collection embraced, in addition to a number of characteristic
implements of the natives of California, moulds of those found under the
lava of Table mountain, and which formed the subject of an animated
discussion at the meeting of the American Association in Chicago last
summer. Itis proposed to make casts from these moulds for distribution
to the principal museums in this country and abroad. Hxtensive collec-
tions were made in Alaska, during the year, by Dr. T. T. Minor, surgeon
of the United States steamer Wayanda, embracing stone articles of supe-
rior finish. Other objects, to which much value is attached, from the
same region, have been received from Captain Howard and Captain J.
W. White; and very extensive collections made by Mr. Dall are on their
way. Mr. R. Macfarlane and Mr. Strachan Jones have furnished con-
tinuations of collections previously contributed, in articles relative to the
Esquimaux of the northern coast of America. Thanks to the co-opera-
tion of the officers of the Hudson’s Bay Company, among whom may be
mentioned Messrs. Ross, Gaudet, Hardisty, and Kirkby, but especially
Maciarlane, the Institution is in possession of what would appear to be
a full representation of the life of the Esquimaux of that region, as illus-
trated by their dresses, weapons of war, their implements for fishing and
the chase, household articles, ornaments, &e.

In this connection mention should not be omitted of a number of
interesting stone implements contributed by Mrs. H. R. Schoolcraft, of
Washington, the widow of the celebrated ethnologist, some of which are
described in his elaborate work on the Indian tribes of North America.
Among other articles for which the Institution is indebted to the liber-
ality of Mrs. Schooleraft is a cast of the inscription on Dighton Rock,

.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 31

Massachusetts, sometimes supposed to be of Runic origin, but which,
like the drawings on the same rock, are generally considered as having
been made by the primitive Indian occupants of that region.

It will have been observed that nearly all the additions to the ethno-
logical collections referred to, have been from the United States and
British possessions. Very important donations have, however, been
received from other parts of America. Captain J. M. Dow, of New
York, has presented the Institution with a collection of ancient pottery,
of stone images and implements from Nicaragua, Costa Rica, and Chiri-
qui, some of them of remarkable character. Other specimens of Chiriqui
pottery were included in the collection of Colonel Jewett, already referred
to. Mr. George A. Latimer, of Porto Rico, has presented remarka-
ble stone implements of the ancient inhabitants of the West Indies,
among which is a specimen in the shape of an ellipsoidal stone ring, not
unlike a horse collar in form, though rather less in size, being about 15
inches in its largest diameter. It was possibly worn about the neck as
a badge of office in public processions. From Captain Dow we have
received ancther wrought stone in the form of a large inverted U. It is
conjectured that it might have been placed across the neck of the
victim when stretched on the altar of sacrifice.

The occasion here presents itself of stating that in a communication,
through the Department of State, from Mr. de Cesnola, United States
consul at Cyprus, we were informed that a remarkable discovery of
Pheenician and Greek antiquities had lately been made in that island,
and that two boxes of the specimens were in readiness to be transmitted
to Washington as presents for the National Museum. On the receipt of
this information a letter was addressed to the Secretary of the Navy,
asking that, if not incompatible with the rules of the service, some
United States vessel, being in the vicinity, might be authorized to stop
at the island and procure the articles above designated. To this letter
a prompt answer was received from the Navy Department, containing
the information that orders in accordance with the request had been
issued to the commander of the Mediterranean squadron. The follow-
ing are some of the facts in regard to the discovery in question. In the
month of December, 1867, a Greek laborer, digging for building-stone
within the precincts of a little village called Galli, found a very old oven-
shaped tomb, containing pieces of skulls and other bones, and also some
curious colored vases. On examining the ground a few yards in circuit
other tombs were found, indicating the existence of an ancient burial-
site. The discovery was kept secret from the authorities of the
place, but was disclosed to the foreign consuls on the island, by whom
the search was prosecuted. The American consul, Mr. Cesnola, obtained
from the Turkish government at Constantinople a firman allowing him
to search for antiquities wherever he might desire. With this he sue-
ceeded in discovering the existence of a series of Phcenician tombs
beneath the ancient .Greek burial ground. These tombs, which were
34 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

oven-shaped, with the mouth closed by large stones, were six and a hal¢
feet below the level of the Greek interments, and ae nine to eleven
feet below the surface of the earth. The articles found in the graves
and tombs were of gold, silver, precious stones, bronze, copper, giass
marble, and terra cotta. The whole collection numbered 2,310 pieces;
the expense of the digging, $7,300 in gold, was defrayed by an asso-
ciation composed of the English, French, onl American cousuls, and an
English banker. We need not say that the safe arrival of the portion
of these relies intended by Mr. Cesnola for the Smithsonian Institution
will be looked forward to with much interest.

But the explorations of the Institution in regard to ethnology have
not been confined to the contents of mounds or to implements gathered
from the surface of the ground, or brought to light by casual excavation.
It is well known that in almost every part of the world contiguous to
the sea there exist accumulations of shells collected into heaps or
mounds. These mounds were long supposed to have been produced by
natural causes, but comparatively recent investigations have shown that
they are the remains of the festal or daily repasts of the ancient inhabit-
ants. Thus their examination becomes an object of special interest; yet
nothing had been done in this department of research in our Own coun-
try until lately, when examinations were commenced by Professor Rau
in New Jersey, Professor Wyman on the coasts of Florida, Maime, and
Massachusetts, and by gentlemen connected with the Essex Lustitute,
(now the Peabody Academy of Science,) in the vicinity of Salem,
Massachusetts. During last summer, Professor Baird, of this Institu-
tion, after taking part in the Salem exploration, instituted an investiga-
tion as to the shell-heaps of the coast of New Brunswick. In this
enterprise he received the voluntary assistance of Mr. G. A. Boardman,
Dr. Todd, of St. Stephens, Mr. Josiah Simpson, of St. David's, and Dr.

-arker, a St. Andrews. They examined several new depositories, which
yielded unexpectedly large numbers of implements of horn, bone, and
stone, together with the remains of the animals which had served as food.
Of this exploration a full account will hereafter be prepared for pubii-
cation in the report of the Institution.

Nor yet are lacustrian struetures and shell heaps the only sources
from which a knowledge of the manners and customs of pre-historic times
may be acquired. The early inhabitants of almost every part of the
world took advantage of natural caverns as places of shelter, and in
these have left the indications of their former presence. An examination
of the deposits of earth on the floors of these caverns, and sometimes
even beneath the incrustations produced by the evaporation of the water
charged with lime, which has dripped from the ceiling, have often dis-
closed the bones of men, and also artificial implements, mingled with
the remains of extinct animals. A cave of this kind, in central Penn-
sylvania, was examined a number of years ago by Professe Baird, not
with a view to the discovery of archeological remains, but those of the
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 30

animals which might have inhabited the cavern in previous geological
periods. The débris which he obtained were carefully preserved, but
not subjected to a critical examination. The Professor, however, has
more recently resumed the investigation in the light which new facts
haye shed upon the connection of these caves and their contents with
the character, the pursuits, and the condition of men in pre-historic
times. An account of the result of these researches will also, in due
time, be published.

The ethnological specimens we have mentioned are not considered as
mere curiosities collected to excite the wonder of the illiterate, but as
contributions to the materials from which it will be practicable to recon-
struct by analogy and strict deduction the history of the past in its rela-
tion to the present. in the case of the remains of animals and plants,
from which the geologist reconstructs the flora and fauna of ancient
times, inferences are drawn from petrifactions, shells, bones and teeth.
These, however, are not sufficient in the case of anthropology, and, in
addition to the study of human skeletons and crania, recourse must be
had to the relies of the works of the men of the past; to the remains of
their houses, tombs, fortifications, temples, implements, and ornaments,
in order to determine their relation to the races which now inhabit the
earth. Ethnology, it must be admitted, is at present in an elementary
condition: in the period through which all science must necessarily
pass—that of the collection of material; and, consequently, the only
deductions which can be drawn to-day are principally of a provisional
character. It is true that the evidences in favor of the greater antiquity
of the appearance of man on the surface of the earth than has been
heretofore generally admitted have been accumulating from year to
year, yet it can scarcely be said with fairness that the question is fully
settled. Other hypotheses than those which have been advanced may
be suggested to explain the facts observed. But, be this as it may, the
investigation should be prosecuted without regard to preconceived
views. We may rest satisfied that religion and true science cannot be
at' variance; the one properly understood, and the other rightly inter-
preted, must agree in final results. In short, we should follow the rule
laid down by the Bishop of London in a lecture delivered at Edinburg,
that: “The man of science should go on honestly, patiently, diffidently
—observing and storing up his observations and carrying his reasonings
unflinchingly to their legitimate conclusions, convinced that it would be
treason to the majesty at once of science and of religion if he sought to
help either by swerving ever so little from the straight line of truth.”
Care however must be taken that the provisional hypotheses of science
are not mistaken for absolute truths, and premature attempts be made
to explain discrepancies between the two great domains of thought,
which, after all, may arise from partial views of the connection of
phenomena.

358
34 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Museum, and care of specimens.—The exhibition rooms, to which the
public generally have admission, have been limited since the fire to the
large hall on the first floor of the main building, and the apartment on
the same floor in the southern projection, the latter containing ethno-
logical specimens of a large size, principally from Central America, the
former, the general collection brought home by the Wilkes Exploring
Expedition, and the large additions since made to it by the several
explorations under the direction of officers of the general government.

It is greatly to be regretted that in the original plan of the building
proper attention had not been given to the purposes to which it was to
be applied. The spacious room, in which the rich collections of ornitho-
logy and ethnology are contained, presents to the eye a succession of large
pillars which obstruct the view of the cases containing the specimens,
and it is only by a separate examination of the contents of these cases
that the value of the collections can be duly estimated. In fitting up
the room of corresponding dimensions in the second story, an opportu-
nity will be afforded of adopting arrangements far better suited for a
comprehensive display of the vast number of objects with which in time
it will be furnished.

During the past year, in addition to the rooms before mentioned, the
west connecting range has been provided with cases for which the Insti-
tution is indebted to the Commissioner of Patents, and to which will be
transferred, in the course of a few weeks, the ethnological specimens from
China and Japan, a part of which are still in the Patent Office. It is
intended to devote the whole of this room to ethnological specimens,
especially those illustrating the dress of the different inhabitants of North
America. The west wing of the building, previously occupied by the
library, is temporarily appropriated to the alcoholic specimens, and to
such other collections as are not of special interest to the zeneral public;
it is used also for storing duplicates for distribution.

For the support of the museum during the last year Congress appro-
priated $4,000, while the actual expense of the care and preservation of
the collections, independent of the interest on the cost of the building,
was upwards of $10,000. If to this be added only $10,000 for the rent
of the apartments, it will be seen that the cost of the museumto the Insti-
tution cannot be estimated at less than $20,000 per annum.

The steady increase in the receipt of specimens has been maintained,
and has fully equalled in number and value that of any preceding year.
The different additions were from 186 different parties, and were contained
in 308 boxes, 149 bundles, 19 jars and cans, 2 kegs, and 7 casks ; 485 in
all, inclosing many thousand specimens, a detailed notice of which will
be found in the appendix to this report. It should be remarked that all
these specimens are not intended to swell the number exhibited in the
nationai museum, but that only the type specimens of such as are not
already in the collection are to be devoted to this purpose, and the
remainder made up into sets for distribution.

.

-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 35

From the large accessions of specimens received during the year, much
labor has been required merely to unpack, arrange, and catalogue thein.
The great importance should be borne in mind of prompt action in regard
to affixing some permanent mark to each article so as to presevre all the
data necessary to render it of value as material for scientifie research.
The locality and date of capture of every object of natural history, the
‘name of the collector and donor, its association in place with other objects,
its sex and age, are all points which can rarely be learned from the spe-
cimen itself and must be immediately recorded. This is done by affixing
an ineffaceable number to the specimen and making an entry correspond-
ing to that number in a bound record book kept in a fire-proof room.
Whenever a specimen admits of it, the items above mentioned are marked
upon the object itself, but as long as the numbers and records are in
existence the identity of the article can always be verified and the facts
in regard to it ascertained. The determination of the exact name of the
specimen at the time of entry is a secondary matter, as the specialist can
at any time ascertain this point from the internal evidence; the other
data, being entirely those of association, cannot be ascertained in the
same way.

Special attention has been given to the large ethnological collections
belonging to the Institution, and considerable progress been made towards
their permanent arrangement. The smaller objects, such as pipes, carved
bones, stone implements, &c., will be mounted as soon as practicable on
suitable tablets; all the older articles have been washed with a solution
of carbolic acid, to destroy the mould produced by the water with which
the building was deluged at the time of the fire, and such of the new ones
as are liable to attacks from insects have been impregnated with poison.
Each object of the collection will have the name of the donor, locality, &e.,
placed upon it, and the whole series will be completely arranged for
study and exhibition during the present year. The principal work in
this branch has been done under the direction of Prof. Baird, by Dr. E.
Foreman and Dr. E. Palmer.

Other objects that have received attention in the way of rearrange-
ment and improvement are those of human and other crania, shells,
mounted birds, nests and eggs, &c., in which labor Professor Baird has
been assisted by Dr.T M. Brewer, Dr. William Stimpson, Dr. E. Foreman,
Mr. W. H. Dall, Mr. Zeledon, and Mr. R. Ridgway.

Among the most interesting collections received from abroad, in return
for specimens presented by the Institution, may be mentioned a series
of minerals and rocks from the K. Ober-Berg Amt, of Breslau, and a
skeleton of the moose of Europe, from the zoological museum, Copenha-
gen. The latter will furnish the means of comparing the European va-
riety with the closely allied if not identical moose of northern America.
Of the living animals received from different parts of this country, it will
suffice to mention a golden eagle, from Professor H. Shimer; a number of
menopomas from Dr. Walker; gopher turtles from Dr. Wilson; and a
36 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Rocky mountain salamander from Mr. J. C. Brevoort. It will be recol-
lected that the living animals of a larger size heretofore presented to
the Institution have been transferred to the National Asylum for the
Insane, under the care of Dr. Nichols.

Distribution of specimens.—The distribution of duplicate specimens to
public museums and in exchange has been prosecuted as extensively
during the year as was compatible with the large additions continually
coming in and requiring immediate attention. The surplus material of
plants, shells, minerals, and fossils has been, however, to a considerable
extent, made up into sets, and supplied as far as they would go to the
parties having the first claim. Other collections, however, wail be ready
for similar distribution as soon as the investigations connected with them
and their arrangement into sets can be completed. The great amount
of. labor required for this will be evident when it is recollected that every
specimen sent out is numbered and accompanied by a label giving the
1ame, locality, and donor. Professor Baird, who has the special charge
of this branch of the operations, has been assisted in his labors by a
number of young gentlemen, who having been engaged during the sum-
mer in explorations, avail themselves in the winter season of the facili-
ties of the library, the collections, and apartments furnished by the Insti-
tution to prepare their reports for publication. Those who are at present
rendering service of the kind above mentioned are Messrs. Meek, Dall,
Palmer, Zeledon, Bannister, and Ridgway.

Agreeably to theresolutionsadopted by the Board of Regents at its last
session, that “the distribution of specimens to foreign establishments, ear-
ried on by the Smithsonian Institution, be continued and extended, but
that at the same time proper returns be required,” we have applied to
the leading foreign museums which have been favored by our contribu-
tions for desiderata especially needed in this country, and have the assur-
ance that in due time valuable collections will be transmitted to us from
all parts of the world.

Among the establishments to which application has thus been made
and a favorable response received, are: The British Museum and Royal
College of Surgeons, London; Archeological Museum, Zurich; Public Mu-
seum, Berne; Museum of Lausanne; Academy of Sciences, and Botanical
Garden, St. Petersburg; Royal Museum, Lisbon; Kthnological Museum,
Moscow; Ethnological Museum of University of Christiania; Zoological
Museum, Copenhagen; Zoological Museum of University of Berlin;
Academy of Sciences and National Museum of Antiquity, Stockholm;
Imperial Geological Institute, Vienna; University of Chile; Philosophical
Society, Leeds; Ethnological Museum, Paris; Melbourne Museum, Aus-
tralia.

Investigations.—It has always been the policy of the Institution to furnish

specimens for special study and investigation to naturalists of established
reputation, either in thisecountry orabroad. The use of these specimens is

s
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 37

granted under the express condition that they are to form the subject of
investigation, the results of which are to be published by the Institution
or some other establishment, and that in all cases full credit is to be
given to the Institution for the assistance it has rendered. Furthermore,
in the case of the preparation of a monograph, a full set of the type
specimens, correctly labeled, is to be put aside for the National Museum,
and the remainder of the specimens made up into sets for distribution.
The following list presents the more important cases of the loan or
assignment of materials during the past year. Some of the specimens
have already been returned, while the remainder are still in the hands
of the parties to whom they were intrusted:

Crania of the recent and fossil bison, musk ox, &c., to Professor L.
Agassiz, of Cambridge, Mass.; land shells of Central and South America
to Thomas Bland, of New York; land and fresh water shells of North
America to W. G. Binney, Burlington, N. J.; nests and eggs of North
American birds to Dr. T. M. Brewer, Boston; birds of South America and
Alaska to John Cassin, Piiadelpina Ales aa of North America to Dr.
Elliott Coues, United States army; collections of American and foreign
reptiles to Professor E. D. Cope, Philadelphia; fungi from the Indian
territory to the Rev. M. A. Curtis, Hillsborough, N. C.; unfigured species
of North American birds to D. G. Elliott, New York; diatomaceous
earths and deep-sea soundings to Arthur M. Edwards, New York; Lep-
idoptera from various North American localities to W. H. Edwards,
Coalburg, Va.; seeds of Boehmeria, received from the Department of
Agriculture, to Dr. Earl Flint, Nicaragua; plants collected in EKeuador
by the expedition under Professor Orton to Dr. Asa Gray, Cambridge ;
miscellaneous specimens of North American insects to Professor T. Glover,
Department of Agriculture, Washington; general collection of birds of
Costa Rica and Yucatan to Georze N. Lawrence, New York; American
Unionidie to Isaac Lea, Philadelphia; series of North American salaman-
ders to St. George Miv art, London; American Diptera to Baron R.
Ostensacken, New York; eiteprdeuiers of Ecuador and Yucatan to Tryon
Reakirt, Philadelphia; “ nts collected in Alaska by various expedi-
tions to Dr. J. T. Rothrock, McVeytown, Pa.; birds of Buenos Ayres,
received from W. H. Hudson, and a series of small American owls, to
Dr. P. L. Sclater and Osbert Salvin, London; miscellaneous collections of
American Orthoptera to S. H. Scudder, Boston; collections of American
Hemiptera to P. R. Uhler, Baltimore; American myriapods and spiders
to Dr. H. C. Wood, Philadelphia; human crania from northwestern
America and the ancient mounds of Kentucky, also collections from the
ancient shell-heaps of Massachusetts and New Brunswick, to Dr. Jefireys
Wyman, Cambridge.

Few persons are aware of the seat extent to which this Smithsonian
material has been used by American and foreign naturalists, or the
number of new facts and new species which have been contributed to
natural history through its means. A complete bibliography of the titles
8 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

(oh)

of the various books and memoirs containing in part or entire the
esults of these examinations, with lists of the new species, would form
alarge volume. Among the published results of the examination of the
materials furnished by the Institution during the last year may be
mentioned the following:

A monograph of the Alcadz, by Dr. E. Coues, in the Proceedings of
the Philadelphia Academy of Natural Sciences; various herpetological
papers in the same Proceedings, by Professor E. D. Cope; portions
of various fasciculi of his work on North American birds, by D.
G. Elliott; monograph of the North American Lepidoptera, by li
H. Edwards; catalogue of the birds of Costa Rica in the museu
of the Smithsonian Institution, and some special papers in the annals of
the New York Lyceum of Natural History and the Proceedings of the
Philadelphia Academy, by George N. Lawrence; paper on the Unionidee
in Proceedings Philadelphia Academy, by Isaac Lea; monograph of the
North American Diptera, Part IV, by Baron R. Ostensacken, pub-
lished by the Smithsonian Institution; catalogue of Alaskan plants in
the Report of the Smithsonian Institution for 1867, by Dr. J. T. Rothrock;
list of birds sent from Buenos Ayres to the Smithsonian Institution, and
other papers, in the Proceedings of the Zoological Society of London, by
Dr. P. L. Selater and O. Salvin; ‘on crania of Tschuktchi and Esquimaux
tribes,” by Professor J. Wyman, in the Proceedings of the Boston Society
of Natural History. In all these cases full credit is given for the aid
which has been afforded by the Institution.

The Secretary, during the past year, has given a large amount of
thought and labor to investigations relative to light and sound as aids
to navigation, in connection with his duty as one of the members of the
United States Light-house Board. He has also, in his connection with
ae National Academy of Sciences, devoted nearly all his time, for the

pace of two months, to investigations relative to the proper form of
Hotei for gauging the quantity of proof spirits produced by distilleries,
in order to determine the amount of tax to be paid to the government.

Professor Baird has continued his investigations relative to the birds
of North America, especially those of Alaska, the result of which has been
the addition of fifteen species to those previously known to exist in this
country. He has also edited a report by Dr. Cooper on the birds of
California, for the geological survey of that State under Professor J. D.
Whitney, and is now engaged in the preparation of a new manual of the
ornithology of the United States. This work, which is to be illustrated
by numerous engravings on wood, will be published by Little & Brown,
of Boston, in the course of next year.

Hxchanges.—The cost of the international system of exchanges in the
transportation of books and specimens is constantly increasing, and
now forms no inconSsiderable part of the annual expenditures. Were it
not for the liberality of various companies, we should be unable to eon-

’
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 39

tinue the system, at least in its present dimensions; and we embrace
this occasion again to express acknowledgments for the efficient aid
thus rendered to the cause of science and to the promotion of kindly
feeling between the United States and the other nations of the world.
The following are the companies to which special thanks are due,
namely, The Pacific Mail Steamship Company, North German Lloyd.
Hamburg American Steamship Company, General Transatlantic Steam-
ship Company, Pacific Steam Navigation Company, Inman Steamship
Company, Cunard Steamship Company, California and Mexico Steam-
ship Company, and Panama Railroad Company. To this list must be
added several other lines which have granted similar facilities during
the past year, namely, the Mexican Steamship Company, Union Pacific
Railroad, United States and Brazil Steamship Company, North German
Lloyd, (Baltimore line,) and the Atlantic Mail Steamship Company.

Acknowledgments are also due for favors rendered in connection with
foreign exchanges to E. J. Davison, esq., Argentine consul; José I. San-
chez, esq., consul of Venezuela; Seftor b. Blanco, consul-general of Gua-
temala; L. H. J. d’Aguiar, consul-general of Brazil; R. C. Burlage, con-
sul-general of Netherlands; Hon. EH. Gutierez, minister from Costa Rica;
to the American Board of Commissioners of Foreign Missions; Real Socie-
dad Economica, Havana; Board of Foreign Missions, New York; Amer-
ican Colonization Society, Washington; Society of Geography and Sta-
tistics, Mexico; University of Chili; Bataviaasche Genootschap, Java;
Institute of History, Geography, and Ethnology, of Rio Janeiro.

The Institution frequently receives applications from foreign govern-
ments and societies for official publications of the States or general gov-
ernment relative to certain branches of political economy, statistics,
education, &e. During the last year a request of this kind was received
from the Belgian government, desiring us to procure all the publications
of the States in regard to public schools. In answer to our circular ask-
ing for these documents, a large and valuable collection was received,
for which the thanks of the Institution were returned to the following
persons, namely: to A. Rogers, second auditor of Virginia; T. Jordan,
secretary of state, Pennsylvania; 8S. C. Jackson, assistant secretary
Board of Educa-ion, Massachusetts; J. A. Morris, school cominissioner,
Ohio; N. Bateman, superintendent education, Illinois; C. J. Hoadley,
state librarian, Connecticut; F. Rodman, secretary of state, Missouri;
Rt. A. Barker, secretary of state, Kansas; Ed. Wright, secretary of
state, lowa; C. W. Wright, secretary of state, Delaware; J. E. Tenney,
secretary of state, Michigan; and the secretary of state, Wisconsin.

Another application of a similar character was received from the gov-
ernment of Norway for the publications of the United States relative to
military affairs, which, on being referred to the heads of departments
and bureaus, secured a large number of the desired publications. <Ac-
knowledgments for these favors are due to General E. D. Townsend,
adjutant general; General A. A. Humphreys, chief engineer United
40 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

States army; Surgeon General Barnes; Paymaster General Brice; Gen-
eral Dyer, chief of ordnance; Commodore Jenkins, chief of bureau of
ordnance and hydrography, Navy Department; General Myer, chief
signal officer.

For official co-operation with the Institution in its various plans for
the promotion of knowledge and important assistance rendered, besides
the foregoing, we may mention Hon. William H. Seward, Secretary of
State; Hon. Hugh McCuiloch, Secretary of the Treasury ; Hon. Horace
Capron, Commissioner of Agriculture; General Meigs, Quartermaster
General; Mr. Spofford, librarian of Congress; Professor J. H. C. Coffin,
superintendent Nautical Almanac; and Commodore Sands, of the Na-
tional Observatory.

In 1867 a proposition was made to the Institution by the librarian of
Congress relative to establishing and conducting a system of exchange
of official documents between the government of the United States and
those of other nations. In accordance with this, a circular was addressed
to the different governinents having relations with the United States for
the purpose ef ascertaining their views as to such an exchange. In
every case the proposition was regarded with favor, and at the ensuing
session of Congress an act was passed directing that 50 full sets of all
documents published at the Government Printing Office should be set
apart for the purpose in question, and appropriating a sufficient sum
to defray the necessary expenses. Unfortunately, however, Congress
neglected to direct the public printer to strike off the necessary copies
for this purpose, in addition to the regular number previously required
for the use of the government, and it was not until recently that the
necessary legislation was procured to remedy this omission. As soon
as the printing of the documents of the present session of Congress is
completed, the exchange proposed will be initiated. In anticipation of
the receipt of the annual supply of the documents of our government,
several large packages containing documents of foreign countries have
been already received.

At the commencement of the system of international exchanges, great
delay and considerable expense were incurred in conseczence of custom-
house requirements and tariff duties, but as the importance of the system
became more evident, and the reputation of the Institution better estab-
lished, one government after another consented to the entrance of pack-
ages without examination and free of all restrictions, until at the present
time there is no exception to this practice.

The first effort towards the establishment of this desirable condition
of free intercourse was made in 1852, through Sir Henry Bulwer, then
minister from Great Britain to the United States. Through his recom-
mendations the British authorities at first permitted the entry of such
‘books from the Institution intended as presents to learned bodies as
might be recommended for that privilege by the Royal Society of London.
This, though,an important concession, was still attended with consider-

.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. Al

able delay, and on further solicitation the rule was so relaxed that at
present the Smithsonian agent finds no difiiculty in obtaining the pas-
sage of the packages at a mere nominal charge through the custom-house.
With the precedent of the British authorities the Institution experienced
no difficulty in making a satisfactory arrangement with the French offii-
cers of customs. “Packages for Germany and central Europe, addressed
to our agent, Dr. Flugel, are entered at Bremen or Hamburg, then
transferred to the Leipsie custom-house, from which they are released
on the formal application of the agent to the authorities of the Zoi-
verein. Parcels for Belgium and Holland are entered at Amsterdam,
which is a free port. Those for Italy are entered at Genoa, which is
also a port of free entry. In all cases of transmission of packages an
invoice of the contents is sent to the agent, which serves as the basis of
his application for remission of duties and charges.

Library. —The works which have been received from all parts of the
world in return for the Smithsonian publications, after being recorded
at the Institution, have been transferred to the national library in ae-
cordance with the rules given in former reports. They are there under
the care of an accomplished librarian and a corps of able assistants,
accessible to all persons who desire to consult them, during every week-
day of the whole year, with the exception of a month in summer. The
transfer of the library of the Institution still continues to be approved
by ali who have attentively considered the advantages it affords to the
Institution, the government and the public. It has relieved the Smith-
son fund of a serious burden in the cost of binding and cataloguing the
books, in the pay of a librarian and his assistants, and in the expense
of the maintenance of a separate establishment. It has enriched the
library of Congress with a class of valuable works which could scarcely
be procured by purchase, and it has facilitated the use of the books by
collecting them in one locality, under the same system, readily accessible
to the public. Some special works required for immediate use are still
occasionally purchased, and besides these a working library is retained
at the Institution, principally, however, of duplicate volumes, while such
series as are needed for special investigation are brought back for the
purpose. The care of these and the cost of those purchased make up
the small expenditure given in the report of the executive committee
under the head of the library.

The Library of Congress, or, as we think it should now be denomina-
ted, the ‘“ National Library,” contains about 180,000 volumes, exclusive
of unbound pamphlets and periodicals, and is rapidly increasing, the
accessions during the year ending December 1, 1868, according to the
report of Mr. Spofford, the librarian, amounting to 8,498. This library
is emphatically a library of progress, for while it continues to increase
by purchase in its own series of standard works of all times, its addi-
tions, through the contributions to it of the Institution, include the trans-
42 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

actions of the principal learned societies of the world, or the works
which mark more definitely than any other publications the actual
advance of the age in higher civilization.

An idea has, in some cases, been entertained abroad that the Institu-
tion, since the transfer of the library, no longer desires to receive books,
but measures have been taken tocounteract thisimpression and toassure
Societies and other correspondents that no change in this respect has
taken place in the policy of the Institution, and that books on all subjects
are still desired both for its own collections and for presentation to other
establishments in this country.

The following is a statement of the books, maps, and charts received
by exchange in 1868:

Volumes:
OGAVO Leh RE OE CMON ee Macro tele (cp ame, aie et ea nep eters 1,516
QUAN HONS ee ae hte ere U evn CIE, ec ees OLE ee eee 394
OUMOR HIUERS, Oe Ue UES ial LN ha eraiae 60
—— 1,770
Parts of volumes and pamphiets:
CLAN Oe eeje his ey teraieveheooycnctaeiers eae laais) eae See 2,565
COUATEO ee etme oe eater Ae Ls a da ange ee uo TOL
U ANC) Uo pentose ceig ae aver als isp oh YES asl AME ie 279
~ 3,605
Maps and “charts. .)222002 22 aan: 22k POSS ee 13
MOtAl TECCLPES 2). 3 < <eeae sie wine byaioee oe eietaere Sievers rere ioe Beck 5,509

The following are some of the larger donations received in 1868:

From the Royal Northern University, Christiania, 24 volumes and 27
pamphlets.

The Royal Society of Northern Antiquaries, Copenhagen, 9 volumes
and 8 pamphlets.

The Imperial Academy of Sciences, St. Petersburg, 25 volumes and 27
pamphlets.

From His Majesty the King of Prussia, ‘“ Kunstdenkmialer des christ-
‘ichen Mittelalter in den Rheinlanden,” ist part, vol. iii. ‘‘ Preussen’s
Schlésser und Residenzen, von A. Duncker,” vol. ix, and ‘Scriptores
Rerum Prussicarum,” vol, iii; all in continuation of works previously
sent.

The Hungarian Academy of Sciences, Pesth, 51 volumes and 178
pamphlets.

The Ducal Library, Oldenburg, 34 volumes, consisting of a series of
state calendars and other statistical works.

From J. G. Cotta, Augsburg, 11 voiumes :

From H. De Saussure, Geneva, 10 volumes and 13 pamphlets:

From the Chamber of Commerce, Bordeaux, 7 volumes:

The Société Imp. des Sciences, de ’Agriculture et des Arts, Lille, 12
volumes of ‘‘ Memoires :”
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 43

The Société Mencouragement pour VIndustrie Nationale, Paris, 14
volumes “ Bulletin :”

The Société Imperiale et Centrale d Agriculture, Paris, 26 volumes
“ Memoires,” 12 volumes “ Bulletin.”

From the Museum de Douai, 11 volumes and 15 pamphlets: consisting
principally of transactions and proceedings of societies.

National Library, Madrid, 12 volumes and 15 pamphlets.

The Meteorological Office, London, 6*volumes, 37 pamphlets, and 16
charts.

The Hydrographic Office, London, 6 volumes,.10 pamphlets, and 43
charts, giving the results of the latest maritime surveys?

From the National Library of Greece, Athens, 112 volumes and 39
pamphlets, principally on the philosophy and literature of ancient Greece.

Thomason College of Civil Engineering, Rourkee, 13 volumes and 44
pamphlets. :

Royal Asiatic Society (North China branch) Shanghai, 4 volumes
“ Journal.”

Library of Parliament, Melbourne, 10 volumes and 14 pamphlets.

Real Sociedad Economica de la Habana, 630 volumes, 13 pamphlets,
and 1 chart.

University and Government of Chili, Santiago, 55 volumes, 13 pam-
phiets, and 30 charts.

Massachusetts State Library, 11 volumes.

Ohio State Library, 10 volumes.

Vermont State Library, 11 volumes.

But, perhaps one of the most interesting contributions is a work rela-
tive to history and philology published in folio parts of fac-similes of the
national manuscripts of England, presented by Right Honorable the Sec-
retary of Statefor War. These fac-similesare executed with minute pre-

cision as to accuracy, by the photozincographic process, under the direc-
- tion of Colonel H. James of the ordnance department. Theseriesincludes
documents belonging to each reign, from William the Conqueror to
Queen Anne, arranged chronologically so as to illustrate the changes
in the handwriting, and the language of different periods of English
history. A translation is given of each document into modern English,
together with a short account of its history. The first volume extends
from William the Conqueror to Henry V{I, and includes autographs of
each sovereign, beginning with that of Richard I, and of many princes,
prelates and nobles, whose names have become famous in history.
Among the number are a series during the reign of Richard IL, and
several from the king himself.

The second part is made up of fac-similes selected from the public
records of the reigns of Henry VIIi and Edward VI. Among them
are holograph letters, and autographs of Henry VIII, Queen Catharine
of Aragon, Cardinal Wolsey, the Emperor Charles V, Anne Boleyn,
Archbishop Cranmer, Queen Catharine Parr, Ann of Cleves, &c. The
44 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

third part contains fac-similes of state papers, royal letters, and other
documents, both public and private, belonging to the reigns of Queen
Mary and Queen Elizabeth. Among those of the former are auto-
graphs of her Majesty and of her cousin and rival, Lady Jane Grey, holo-
graphs and autographs of King Henry the Second, of France, the King of
Hungary Cosmo de Medici, the Lady Elizabeth of England, Thomas Gres-
ham, Roger Ascham, &c. Among those of the reign of Queen Elizabeth,
besides those from herself, are letters of Mary Queen of Scots and her
husband Bothwell, and of the most distinguished nobles of Scotland;
of John Knox, Sir Humphrey Gilbert, James VI of Scotland, Sir
Francis Vere, sir Walter Raleigh, and other celebrated personages. The
exaggerated terms of courtesy which were in use among eminent per-
sonages at that period are illustrated by several examples in this vol-
ume. The publication of the fac-similes of these valuable and interest-
ing documents is to be continued, and we learn from the preface that
similar fac-similes of the national manuscripts of Scotland have been
undertaken, and those of Ireland recommended.

It may be proper to recall the fact that the library of Smithson, or so
much of if as was received by the Institution, with his personai effects,
was not destroyed by the fire, andhas been placed in a suitable case for
permanent preservation.

Mr. Theodore Gill, who was formerly assistant in the library of th:
Institution, has been appointed one of the principal assistants in the
national library, but he still continues his investigations in natural his-
tory at the Institution, and acts as the intermediate agent between the
two establishments. Miss Jane Turner, who vindicates by her accuracy
and efiiciency the propriety of employing her sex in some of the depart-
ments of government, still continues to register the books as they are
received through the extended system of international exchange.

Gallery of Aré.—The original act of Congress organizing the Institu-
tion directed that, in addition to the support of a museum, library, &e.,
provision should also be made for a gallery of art. In compliance with
this direction a commencement was made by the purchase of a series of
valuable engravings, illustrative of the progress of the art from the
earliest times, and also a series of Indian portraits was’ received on
deposit. With these and a number of plaster casts of distinguished
individuals, principally donations, a collection of articles was formed to
which the name of a gallery of art was given. ‘The Indian portraits,
which had been deposited by the author, Mr. Stanley, together with a
series of ‘portraits also of Indians, belonging to the government, were
destroyed by the fire. Fortunately the engravings, with few exceptions,
were saved, and are now deposited with the books in the library of Con-
gress. It was evident, however, that the proportion of the Smithson
fund which could be devoted to the purchase of specimens of art worthy
of preservation in a public gallery at the seat of government was far too
smail to do anything of importance in this line. It was therefore with

»
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 45

gratification that the Regents learned that a citizen of Washington,
William W. Corcoran, esq., with an enlightened liberality, commensurate
only with his means, had resolved to found an institution exclusively
devoted toart. This design, which would otherwise have long since been
fully carried out, was interr Hted by the war. The large building which
Mr. Corcoran had erected for the purpose was found necessary by the
government for the use of the Quartermaster General and is still retained
in possession of that officer. As soon as possession of it is restored to
Mr. Corcoran, which it is believed will be done in the course of the
present year, ae together with a liberal endowment equal in amount to
the original fund of Smithson, will be given in charge to a board of trus-
tees, who will immediately proceed to carry out the views of the generous
founder. In accordance with the policy which the Institution has
adopted in regard to the library of Congress, the Agricultural Depart-
ment, and the Army Medical Museum, it will probably be considered
advisable to enter also into friendly co-operation with this new establish-
ment, and instead of attempting to support a separate gallery of art to
turn over to it the articles which have already been collected, and thereby
increase the space in the Smithsonian building for articles of natural
history and ethnology.

Meteorology.—It was stated in the last report that with the dimin-
ished expenditure on the building, and the larger amount which could
be appropriated to the active operations of the Institution, the reduction
and discussion of the meteorological material which had been collected
for 20 years would be resumed, and that we had commenced upon the
rain-fall of the North American continent. Observations relative to this
subject from upwards of 1,200 localities were placed in the hands of
the computers. This work fie been completed under the direction of
Mr. Charles A. Schott, and will be pat to press as soon as the illustra-
tions are engraved. We are confident it will be considered by all who
are competent to properly estimate its value, as one of the most import-
ant additions to the climatology of North America and the agricultural
interests of the community which has ever been made. The same com-
puters are now engaged upon the large amount of material relative to
temperature, but the reduction and discussion of these will require more
time than that which has been devoted to the rain-fall. It is estimated,
however, that at the rate at which the work is now going on, it will be
completed in the course of the next year.

The diseussion of ali the observations relative to the winds has been
resumed under the direction of Professor J. H. Coflin, of Lafayette Col-
lege, Pennsylvania, and will be prosecuted with as ae" rapidity as the
nature of the subject, and the assistance afforded him, will permit.

All the more important meteorological observations which have been
collected at the Institution during the last 20 years, are now in process
of reduction, and when completed and the rabalié published, we think
AG REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

they will fully justify the expenditure of the Smithson fund which has
been devoted to this subject.

The importance of a thorough knowledge of the climate of a country
in relation to the well-being of the inhabitants can scarcely be over-
estimated. The character of the animal and vegetable productions of
any part of the world mainly depends on the climate, and if, as in
geological periods, we, suppose this in any case to undergo a change,
we are certain, from the operation of general laws, that the fauna and
flora of the region will undergo a corresponding change. It is true that
civilized man has in a degree, through science, the power of resisting
the influence of climate to which his race has not been long subjected,
yet if sufficient time be allowed for the weather to produce its effect,
marked peculiarities of physical constitution and even mental charac-
teristics will eventually be produced, though these will be somewhat
modified by the artificial conditions which have been introduced. Even
a difference in the degree of moisture of the atmosphere has been shown
by a critical observer to induce marked changes in the manners and
customs of Europeans in their emigration to this country.

The average temperature and moisture of each region, as well as the
periodical fluctuations to which these elements are subjected, are essen-
tial data on which to base the choice of special objects of culture and to
estimate the probable results as to success or failure in a given number
of years. It is a fact to which the statesman and the intelligent
farmer cannot be teo much alive, that the great material prosperity of
this country in the past has been due to the large quantity of fertilizing
material originally in the soil, and that this has been exhausted to a far
greater extent than is generally supposed. It is well known that the
same soil which in the eastern States originally yielded 30, and in some
cases 40 or 50 bushels of wheat to an acre, now produces but eight or
ten. From a late estimate by the Commissioner of Agriculture the
average yield of the whole United States is less than 12 bushels, while
that of Great Britain is 28; the great excess of the latter over the for-
mer must be mainly due to the improved methods of agriculture. Indeed
with the large extent of virgin soil in this country, producing sponta-
neously rich harvests, with the expenditure of a minimum amount of
labor, we have had comparatively little necessity to adopt methods of
scientific agriculture, but we have now arrived at the condition in which
every year a new demand will be made for the application of knowledge
and skill of this kind, and for all the light which can be shed upon the
subject by meteorology, chemistry, physiology, and other branches of
science.

It will be remembered that the meteorological system of the Smith-
sonian Institution wasin a considerable degree interrupted, particularly in
the southern States, on account of the late war. We have, however, during
the past year succeeded in obtaining a number of copies of registers
which were continued with but little interruption through the whole
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 47

period of the disturbance, and have also supplied a deficiency occasioned
by the loss of the registers of 1860 in the fire which occurred at the
Institution in 1865. For the purpose of exhibiting the extent of the
material in possession of the Institution, and to give credit to the faith-
ful and persevering observers who have so long gratuitously furnished
contributions to this branch of science, there is given in the appendix to
this report a full list of all the observers and of all the stations where
records have been made from the beginning of the year 1849 to the end
of 1868. The whole number of observers at present reporting to the Insti-
tution is about 400; of these 74 are furnished with full sets of instru-
ments. The number of observers under the direction of the army is
upwards of 100, of whom 50 are supplied with standard barometers and
other compared instruments. With this combined system, interspersed
with full sets of standard instruments, trustworthy data is obtained for
determining the general climatology of the country. It is true that
many of the instruments in use are not as perfect as could be desired,
yet they serve to indicate differences in the elements, and thus afford
the data for tracing the progress, as it were, ef waves of atmospheric
pressure, and also of waves of changes in atmospheric temperature.

Anticipating the important benefits which may result to our system
of meteorological observations, particularly to those which relate to the
prediction of storms on the Atlantic coast, we look forward with much
interest to the completion of the Pacific railway. A well equipped
physical observatory placed at the highest point of the road, namely,
‘“ Sherman’s station,” is very desirable, and we think it probable that
assistance from the railway company may be obtained to establish and
support an observatory of this character.

During the past year a large number of rain gauges of a simple form,
such as were mentioned in the last report, have been procured and dis-
tributed to observers in various parts of the country. This gauge con-
sists of a hollow cylinder of tinned iron 24 inches in diameter, and 12
inches in height, coated inside and out with varnish to prevent rusting.
The depth of rain is measured by inserting a graduated scale into the
gauge, and noting the height to which it has been wetted, in tenths and
parts of tenths of an inch. The quantity of water in a fall of snow is
measured by melting a column equal in diameter to that of the gauge.
This is obtained by pressing the gauge, mouth downward, through the
snow to the ground and isolating the contents by passing under the
mouth of the gauge a thin plate of metal. <A rain gauge of this form,
after an experience of many years~is found to give the most satisfactory
results when used by ordinary observers.

The diseussion of all the material which we have collected in regard
to rain-fall, has served to point out the parts of the country in which the
registration is most deficient, and exertions have especially been made
to obtain observations from the great plains of the west and at the base
of the Rocky mountains. The great current of the return trade wind,
48 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

which continually flows through the higher regions of the atmosphere

over the whole United States and which at intervals reaches the

suriace of the earth, deposits its moisture, obtained from the Pacific,.
on the Sierra Nevada and other chains of the Rocky Mountain system,

and thus gives rise to the arid basins and woodless plains of the western

portion of our domain. A part, however, of thisregion may be rendered

arable by means of irrigation, or, in other words, a portion of the pre-

cipitated vapor may be, as it were, reclaimed for agricultural purposes, °
by artificial means; and in determining the available resources of the

ecuntry itis important that the amount of water, either in the hquid

state or in the form of snow, which is precipitated in the mountains,

should at least be approximately determined, and hence we have directed

special inquiries to this point, supplying rain-gauges in all cases of
explorations and giving definite directions as to ascertaining the depth

of snow, the gauging of streams, &c.

Much has been written on the subject of reclaiming arid wastes by
planting trees, but the facts which have been collected in regard to this
matter are frequently misinterpreted, and the result of much research
in reference to it misapplied. It should be recollected that trees cannot
grow without moisture and that they have no power within themselves
to create this essential element of their existence. It is true that in
some cases where moisture exists but is retained in an aeriform condi-
tion by the radiating character of the soil, or carried away by the wind, it
may be precipitated and rendered applicable to the uses of agriculture
by the judicious planting of trees; while it is equally true that there are
other localities in which the necessary water for vegetation can never be
procured by artificial means. The necessary data for the investigation of
this question in relation to the western portion of the great valley of
the Mississippi can only be obtained by extensive series of observations
on the relative humidity and the direction of the moisture-bearing winds
of different portions of the country.

During the past year a self-registering barometrical apparatus, in-
vented by Professor George W. Hough, of the Dudley Observatory, has
been erected in the Institution, but owing to the position in which it was
first placed the series of records has not been continuous, though from
the records which have been obtained it would appear that the instru- »
ment is capable of giving valuable results. This instrument consists of
an iron tube in the form of a siphon closed at the upper end and filled
with mereury, and two cylinders or drums moved by clock work, to
the surface of which is attached the paper receiving the register. On
the surface of the mercury, in the shorter leg of the siphon, is an ivory ©
float, fastened by a fine thread to one end of a lever, the other end of
which terminates between two points connecting the opposite poles of a
galvanic battery. As soon as the mercury begins to rise and while
it continues to ascend, the end of the lever is*pressed against the upper
point, thus completing the cireuit of an electro-magnet, which unlocks
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 49

the printing part of the machine, and a record is made in the form
of an ascending curve on the drums and on a slip of paper in figures,
‘on the principle of the printing telegraph. When the mercury falls the
motion of the pencil is reversed by bringing into operation a second
electro-magnet by which is traced a descending curve. Two drums are
used, one giving the curve for two weeks and the other the same more
developed for two days, the one serving as a check on the other. An
interesting series of observations furnished from the United States engi-
neer depot at Willett’s Pomt, New York, by General Abbot, exhibits
the almost perfect parallelism of two curves for nearly a month, one
by an apparatus similar to this at Albany and the other at Wiilett’s
Point, from observations with an ordinary standard barometer, the
distance between these places being upwards ‘of a hundred and fifty
miles. The parallelism of these curves exhibits not only the probable
accuracy of the self-recording apparatus, but also the extent in a north
and south direction of a wave of atmospheric pressure. The great
improvement in meteorological data must depend in future on the intro-
duction of self-recording instruments, especially at important points.
Beside the contributions made directly from the ordinary observa-
tions of the Institution, the following is an acccount of a memoir belong-
ing to meteorology, previously noticed under the head of publications:
On the evening of July 20, 1860, a meteoric fire-ball passed over the
northern parts of the United States and the adjacent parts of Canada,
of so extraordinary a brillianey as to attract the attention of numerous
observers along its entire visible track of nearly 1,300 miles. The phe-
nomenon was of so interesting a character that the Smithsonian Insti-
tution made exertions to collect observations in regard to it from its
meteorological observers and other correspondents, which, together
with accounts from newspapers and other sources, were placed in the
hands of Professor Coffin, of Lafayette College, for the determination of
the orbit of the meteor. In order to correct the observations, in cases
where instruments could not be obtained, Professor Coffin directed that
estimates should be made of the position of the meteor, by means of an
extemporaneous quadrant, consisting of a graduated paper attached to
a board, from an angle of which a small plumb-line was suepended.
The edge of this instrument being directed to the place in the heavens
where the meteor was seen at its greatest elevation, gave approximately
the angle of altitude. The meteor was first observed moving from a
point over the western shore of Lake Michigan, though it is not improb-
able that it became luminous when it was somewhat fiirther west, as the
sky in that region was obscured by clouds, and it was not until it had
reached a point 150 miles further east that the first reliable observation
of its position was made; from this point many eyes watched its course,
until it disappeared out at sea, in a southeasterly direction, beyond the
island of Nantucket. Whatever may have been the orbit of this meteor
before ra became visible, it is obvious that the portion of the path that
Ss
50 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

was subject to observation was so near the earth as to be controlled
almost entirely by its attraction, and not sensibly perturbed by other
bodies. The orbit therefore ascertained, is not the path of the meteor in
space, but that having the center of the earth in one of its foci. Pro-
fessor Coffin proceeded with the data at his command, to determine the
path upon the assumption that the earth was a sphere 7,912 miles in
diameter, not taking into account its spheroidal form, nor the difference
between the true and the apparent zenith. In prosecuting the investi-
gations, the method adopted was as follows: The parallax and position
of the meteor were obtained by combining in pairs observations taken
on or near the same vertical plane. Unfortunately, the number of pairs
of reliable observations was too few for much accuracy. An approxi-
mate orbit was, however, determined, from which azimuths and alti-
tudes. were deduced, and these compared with those given by the obser-
vations. The form of the orbit was then altered so as to diminish the
discrepancies, and it was not until over fifty changes of this kind had
been made that the final result was attained. The velocity per second,
relative to the earth’s center, which best corresponded with observations,
was nine and three-fourths miles. The first approximate orbit satisfied
the most reliable observations west of about longitude 76° or 77°; but
further east the discrepancies were so great that they could be recon-
ciled only by a sudden change in the curvature of the path, one at the
point just named, and another two or three degrees further east. In the
vicinity of the former of these points a remarkable rupture in the body
of the meteor was observed, where it separated into two parts that
appeared nearly of equal size, thus affording a rational explanation of
the change in the elements. That a change should take place at a point
of explosion was not difficult to understand, but the fact that the
meteor descended quite rapidly towards the earth, until it reached the
meridian of 74°, and afterwards rose, was difficult to comprehend. The
most plausible explanation was suggested by Professor Lyman, viz:
that the change in direction was due to the increased resistance of the
air as the meteor descended into a denser portion. An attempt was
made to deduce the quantity of the change from this hypothesis; the
result, however, was not entirely satisfactory, an empirical change
being assumed in the path near longitude 74°. An orbit was computed,
the path of the meteor divided itself into three sections, the first and
last of indefinite length, through only a small portion of which the
meteor was visible; the other an intermediate portion of 160 miles in
Jength, where it was most brilliant. The most important omission in
the caleulation of the elements of this meteor, according to Professor
Coftin himself, was that of the spheroidal form of the earth, which be-
came of importance in comparison with the small height of the meteor;
but with the hope that the subject might hereafter receive at the hands
ot others a more thorough discussion, he concluded to slightly modify
the elements, so as to afford an unperturbed orbit that would differ so

s
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. Al

little from the disturbed one, that the azimuths and the altitudes which
he had already computed for the one might serve for the other. The
velocity of the meteor, when nearest the earth, was 9.76 miles per second ;
its least distance from the surface of the earth was 39.19 miles, at about
the middle of New York.

Correspondence.—ASs the collaborators of the Institution generally
reside at a distance, the business with them is principally carried on
by mail. The same is also the case in regard to all the exchanges, and
consequently the record of nearly all the transactions of the Institution
is contained in the correspondence. besides those relating to official
business, hundreds of letters are received during the year, containing
inquiries relative to the various subjects on which the writers desire
information. If these cannot be immediately answered without much
research, they are referred to collaborators who are experts in the vari-
ous branches of knowledge, and who can readily supply information in
regard to subjects within the range of their special studies.

In addition to the foregoing it may also be mentioned that there are
four hundred meteorological observers, from each of whom several letters
are received annually. The correspondence of the Institution being of
such importance, it has been considered necessary to adopt a system in
regard to it, which consists in registering in a book prepared for the
purpose, every letter received which pertains to the business of the In-
stitution. The mail is opened every morning by an assistant, who
assigns to each letter a number, gives a synopsis of its contents, and
notes to whom it is referred for answer. The letters are afterwards
bound in volumes and indexed. Press copies are kept of all the answers.
An idea may be formed of the amount of labor bestowed upon this
branch of operations, when it is mentioned that the number of letters
registered during 1868 was 5,141. This does not include letters
acknowledging the receipt of donations from the Institution, which
would swell the number of actual receipts by the mail to upwards of
10,000.

During the past year references of inquiries above referred to have
been made to the following gentlemen: Dr. Torrey, of New York; Pro-
fessors Gray and Wyman, of Cambridge; Dr. Leidy and Mr. Isaac Lea,
of Philadelphia; Professors Whitney, Brush, and Newton, of New
Haven; Drs. Woodward, Otis and Craig, of the Surgeon General’s
office; Prof. Schaeffer and Mr. W. B. Taylor, of the Patent Office; Pro-
fessor S. Newcomb, of the Naval Observatory; and Mr. George Gibbs
and Mr. J. H. Lane, of Washington.

Grounds.—The Smithsonian building, as is well known to the visitors of
Washington, stands in the midst of a park, adorned with a collection
of the principal ornamental trees which are susceptible of cultivation in
this climate. This forms part of a reservation of the government
denominated the “Mali,” extending from the Capitol to the Potomac,
52 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

which, in accordance with the design of Mr. Downing, was to be entirely
devoted to an extensive park.

This plan has been revived by the present Commissioner of Public
Buildings, General Michler, of the United States army, who strongly
advocates an appropriation for carrying it into execution. On the
grounds adjoining the Institution to the west, also a part of the pro-
posed park, within the last year a spacious building has been erected
for the uses of the Department of Agriculture, and designs have been
made under the present Commissioner, General Capron, for the estab-
lishment of an extensive arboretum. With the renewed interest which
has been excited on this subject, and the rapid advance of the city in
wealth and population, we doubt not the original plan will soon be real-
ized. In the mean time, however, we would call attention to the fact
that many of the valuable trees originally planted by Downing are being
injured by the luxuriant growth and consequent crowding of those too
near each other. Though the visitors to the Institution—and the numn-
ber of these is by no means small in the course of a year, and from every
part of the world—are delighted with the general appearance of the
grounds and the picturesque effect of the building, yet their sense of
propriety is shocked and their olfactory nerves outraged, in approaching
the-building from the city, by having to cross that most disgusting ob-
ject known as the “canal,” though for years it has done no service of
any value in that capacity. It is, in fact, a Stygian pool, from which
are constantly ascending in bubbles, as from a caldron, mephitic vapors.
That part of it which bounds the Smithsonian grounds and those of
the Agricultural Department, on the north, consists of a basin 150 feet
wide, extending from Seventh street to Fourteenth street. Into this is
poured most of the excrementitious matter of the city, which is suifered
to decompose into offensive gases, and exposes with each ebb of the
tide a mass of the most offensive matter conceivable. This subject, at
the last session of the Board of Regents, was referred to the executive
committee, who have given it special attention, and prepared a report
which will be presented to the Board at the present session, and should
be ordered to be published.*

The only reason assigned for suffering this nuisance to remain so long
unabated is the difficulty of settling upon a plan of remedying the
evil, but surely this need not longer to stand in the way since there is
engineering ability enough in the country to solve problems of greater
intricacy than the one under consideration. The only effectual cure of
the evil is, in my opinion, to fill up the present basin, and construct
a covered sewer of sufficient capacity to receive that part of the
drainage of the city which cannot be turned in other directions. A
wide street with concave surface to discharge very rare freshets,
would afford a series of building lots of sufficient value to pay the

* This report will be found in the journal of proceedings of the Board of Regents in
this volume.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 53

expense of the improvement, while the value of property south of the
canal would be greatly enhanced.

Before concluding this sketch of the history of the operations of the
Institution for the year 1868, it becomes my duty to mention the death
of Mr. William B. Randolph, who for many years has acted as book-
keeper for the Institution, posting and auditing its accounts, and who
for GO years had been connected with the Treasury Department of the
government. He was a gentleman of extensive information, a graduate
of Princeton’ College, of inflexible integrity, esteemed and beloved by
all who knew him. His life was prolonged with vigor of intellect be-
yond the usual term of earthly existence, and he died on the 15th of
May last at the age of ‘81.

Since the death of Mr. Randolph the entire charge of the accounts
has been given to the chief clerk, Mr. William J. Rhees, by whom they
are prepared for quarterly examination by General Delafield and Dr.
Parker, of the executive committee.

Tn conclusion, from all the facts which have been given in this report,
as well as in previous ones, we think it may reasonably be claimed that
the administration of the Smithson fund, on the whole, has been success-
ful. Though the Institution has been subjected to loss by casualties,
and has been exposed to adverse conditions during the most troublous
times in the history of the nation, yet it has continued noiselessly and
unostentatiously to extend its influence and benefits not only to every
part of this country, but to all portions of the civilized world. This
success, if mainly due to the definiteness of conception in the original
plan, must, in no small degree, be attributed to the fact that the Chief
Justice of the United States is the head of the Board of Regents, whose
permanence of office, aside from other considerations, could not fail to
secure, as has been conspicuously evinced in the caseof both Judge Taney
and Judge Chase, a warm and intelligent interest in the affairs of the
Institution. Neither is it possible to overlook, in this connection, the
favorable influence of the policy which, from the first, has invested in a
single officer, the Secretary, the executive charge of the operations, thus
confiding to him their conduct and rendering him responsible for their
results, without in a single case interfering with his acts. Moreover,
simple justice would require that due credit should be given to the capa-
ble and zealous assistants whom the Secretary has associated with him-
self in carrying on the multifarious and arduous duties of his office.

Respectfully submitted.

JOSEPH HENRY.

WASHINGTON, D. C., January, 1869.
APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Table showing the entries in the record books of the Smithsonian Museum in
1866, 1867, and 1868.

Lal
Class. 1866. 1867. 1868.

Skeletonsjandskulls. sasscee emer eee soci 7,100 7,500 8, 150
Mammals’ i ccu.co > aseiseiicescee em a tecener coe ee ecosee 8, 685 8, 900 9, 300
Birds tls eee eect eee. oS Se 45, 000 50, 000 54, 000
Reptiles sce Sete ieee ee aera Sieger clone clare mcrae Se 6, 582 7, 150 7, 200
Bushes). sete see eee ee Oe ai varaeec e operetta mye 5, 591 5, 625 5, 625
Bmostof/birdse- poet sees asicisee eet ete sleet ieee cetera 10, 400 13, 300 14, 100
G@rustaceans ae cise eee eee ech s Sean eee one ere 1, 287 1, 287 1, 287
Mollusks sss. ss. Pe Mavens oan ata eta eie Ste acetate ciety ters 18, 500 18, 500 18, 500
adiatesyssshee ioe as hee See ee fe hh ee ele 2,725 2.425 2, 725
iAmnelids7 sets e hess aoe somes Soo me eee eee 110 110 110
Possilsiscts.ct secur scettseu mene ee ee nea cene Mate cetera 5, 920 6, 600 7, 200
Mineralsis 2 452 semitone cocina eae beeen Se ae 4,941 5, 150 6, 625
ithnolosicalispecimensis: cijcces asec see eee leas 2, 260 5, 400 7,400
Plants een tescicemespiseeccisine ection Getek cumcinec ate slemecerre eae 175 175

Rotel ea ccise ey ate aidisisiaps winaineeibicteerodiewise ei sicicicerens 119,101 | 182,322 142, 400

The total number of entries during the year thus amounts to about
10,000; of which 4,000 are of birds, 2,000 of ethnological objects, 800
of eggs, &e.

Approximate table of distribution of duplicate specimens, to the end of
1868.

peepee ae end | Distribution in 1868. Total.

Species. |Specimens.| Species. |Specimens.| Species. |Specimens.

Skulls and skeletons - 105 105 24 58 129 163
Mamimals!scescc se 808 1,588 44 79 852 1, 667
Bieta ead Wa yh 9,437 | 14,579 571 861 | 10,008 15, 440
RE PHLES ice ote acre 1, 662 2,715 37 107 1,699 2,822
Risto oe 2, 424 BOO i os eae uae ane 2, 424 5, 200
Eggs of birds..--..-- 3, 887 10,101 264 526 4,151 10, 627
Shellspaezeecoseteeti 71,764 | 169, 866 1, 206 2, 606 72, 970 172, 472 .
Radiateseaseo- see 551 Woke ns eecetectes| seeemereake sol 727
Crustaceans -..----- - 1,013 25 OG, Seen ee see eee 1,013 2,516
Marine invertebrates. - 1, 838 By 152) | ames ae rt |e AGC beat 1, 8838 5, 152
Plants and packages
Of seedsuieeee aes. 13, 358 18, 703 300 515 13, 658 19, 218
Fossils) 2 c0 seeep eee. 3, 361 8, 927 40 75 3, 401 9, 002
Minerals and rocks.-. - 1,718 6, 059 400 595 2,118 6, 654
Ethnology .2---is4-2 1, 048 1,048 Balint 59 1, 107 1, 107
Imsects:2c2t 2) aes 1,190 1, 937 230 650 1, 420 2, 587
iDiatomaceousveanthwea|peeseae eee e ase eerac 15 555 15 555
Potala seas 114,164 | 249, 223 3, 190 6,686 | 117,354 255, 909

m,
ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS. 55

Additions to the collections of the Smithsonian Institution in 1868.

Adams, Dr. A.—Nest and egg of white-winged crossbill, New Brunswick.

Adams, W. H.—Arrow-head, Hlinois.

Agnew, Samuel A.—Fossils and Indian relics, Mississippi.

Albuquerque, Frederick.—Two boxes of birds and mammals, Brazil.

Ames, James T.—Beads, &c., from Indian graves, Lake Superior and Massa-
chusetts.

Andross, W.—Indian relies from Connecticut.

Arnold, Benjamin W.—Phalangide and myriapods, Kentucky.

Baggett, J. B.—Box of novaculite and associated minerals, Arkansas.

Baird, P; ‘of. S. F.—Stone implements, worked bones, s shells, and bones of ver-
tebrates, from ancient shell-heaps in } New Brunswick and Massachusetts; bones
from cave near Carlisle, Pennsylvania.

Barnes.—(See Surgeon General.)

Bauermeister, W.—Box of minerals, Indiana.

Belden, Lieutenant, U. S. A—Box Indian objects, Wyoming Territory.

Berenilt, Dr.—Bottle of reptiles and nest of caterpillar, from Mexico and Gua-
deraln earth eaten by Indians of Mexico.

Berthoud, Dr. E. L.—Box human bones and fragments of mastodon, Colorado
Territory.

Bischoff, Ferd—General collections from Japan, East Siberia, Gulf of ‘Califor-
nia, and Alaska.

Blackmore, W.—Collection of electrotypes of ancient British coins and medals;
model of Stonehenge.

Blake, Charles.—Stone axe, Massachusetts.

Bliss, L. W.—Three skulls of mound builders, Wisconsin.

Boardman, G. A.—Indian relies, ancient Indian anchor, skins of birds and mam
mals, and birds’ eges from Maine, and bird skins from Florida.

Bolles, Rev. E. C._—Box of diatomaceous ¢ earth, Maine.

Bowman, J. B.—Two pieces marble, one of ash-wood, from Ashland, Kentucky.

Brewer, John.—Relics from ancient shell-beds and Indian graves, alt Hingham,
M: ssachusetts.

British Musewm.—One can of fishes from Zanzibar.

Brown, Dr. G. H.—One box petrified wood, jasper, agate, &c., from the West
Indies.

Lryan, O. N.—Indian pottery and stone implements, Maryland.

Bryant, Mrs. E. B.—Indian relics, Massachusetts.

Burr, Feariny.—Brass trinkets from modern Indian graves, Massachusetts.

Burroughs, J—Geothlypis philadelphia and eggs, New York.

Calleja, Manuel L.—Box of birds, Costa Rica.

Canfield, Dr. C. A.—T'wo boxes specimens of natural history from California.

Carmichael, Daniel_—Stone implements, Maine.

Christ, Richard.—Stone axes, arrows, &c., Pennsylvania.

Cole, Levi.—Stone sinker and arrows, Massachusetts.

Coole, J. M.—Specimens of corundum and emery, Pennsylvania.

Cope, Prof. E. D.—One can of the fresh-water fishes of Virginia; one box miocene
shells, Maryland; one can alcoholic specimens.

Corbin, N. J.—One lamprey eel and one snake, District of Columbia.

Curtis, Dr. M. A.—Field mice in alcohol.

Dall, W. H.—General zoological and other collections, Youkon river, Alaska
Territory.

Davidson, George, United States Coast Survey—One box geological specimens,
two cans shells, and one lot of botanical specimens, and. specimens of woods,
Alaska Territory.

Davis, Henry.—Package shells, myriapods, &c., Iowa.
56 ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS.

Davis, Dr. FE. H.—Casts of North American antiquities, types of figures in
“ ancient'thonumients of Mississippi valley.

Davison, C. #.—Lepidoptera in alcohol, Michigan.

Dayion, FE. A.—Indian implements, pottery, bones, and minerals, Tennessee.

Destruges, Dr. A——Box of bird skins, reptiles, &c., in alcohol, South America.

Devereux, J. H.—Three boxes Indian relies from mounds in 'Tennessee, Ohio, &e.

Donahoe, Thomas.—Pileated woodpecker (Hyl. pileatus) in the flesh.

Dole, £. T.—Insects from Ohio.

Dow, Captain J. M.—Tapirus Bairdit, and other specimens in alcohol, minerals
and fossils s, Insects, of Central America; antiquities from Costa Rica and Chiti-
qui. j

Harle, W. H.—WMallotus in clay nodule, Ottawa river, Canada.

Katon, Frank.—Indian stone relics, Pennsylvania.

Edwards, Dr. W. H.—Two boxes of fossil coal plants, Indian relics, &c., West
Virginia.

Ellsworth, Mr.—Stone implements and marine animals, Massachusetts.

Engelmann, Dr. George.—Series of Juncee, (American.)

feltz, George B.—Stone hoe, Massachusetts.

Fenton, Elisha.—Minerals and Indian relics, Pennsylvania.

Fernald, C. J—Ancient pipe, Aroostook county, Maine.

Fink, Hugo.—Specimens of wood of Mexican trees.

Fitski, Edward.—Silver quartz, Zellerfield, Hanover.

Flint, Dr. Karl.—Collection of plants from Nicaragua.

forte, A. E.—Box of insects, Lake Superior.

frolich, Jacob, jr.—One inferior maxillary, bone, (human,) Arkansas.

Gerrish, Noah W.—Indian relics, Massachusetts.

Giraud, J. P—Type of Icterus Audubonii, Texas.

Glover, Prof. T.—Bone of bear, horns of spike buck, Florida; African tattooing
apparatus, Indian arrow-heads.

Gordon, T. W.—Mole cricket, Ohio..

Grant, Captain E. M.—Stone idol from Tennessee.

Gray, Dr. C. C., and Dr. Mathews.—One box Indian curiosities from Montana
Territory.

Grayson, Colonel A. J—Three boxes birds, &c., Mazatlan, Mexico.

Gregory, J. J. H.—Indian relics, Massachusetts.

Grinnan, A. G.—Bottle of reptiles and Indian relics, Virginia.

Gruber, I’.—One box birds, California.

Gunn, Donald.—Two boxes birds’ eves from west of Lake Winnipeg ; zoological
specimens, Hudson’s Bay territory,

Hackenburg, Dr. G. P., United States ar my.—Baculite, Mauvaise Terres.

Hague, Henry. — Alcoholic collections and specimens of natural history, Gua-
temala.

Hagemann, G. A.—Cryolite, &c., Greenland.

Haley, Mir.—Stoue axe from Maine.

Hamilton, James.—Stone chisel, Pennsylvania.

Hammond, Phillip—Lower jaw of a porpoise, Massachusetts.

Hathaway, Gideon P.—Large Indian pestle, Massachusetts.

Haymond, Dr. Rufus.—Box Indian relics from Indiana.

Hawkins, Samuel.—Sharks’ teeth, Mississippi.

Hazzard, G. W.—Sulphuret of iron, Pennsylvania.

Hielscher, Thomas —TVhree bottles insects, minerals, &c., Minnesota.

Hitchcock, Prof. Edward.—Indian relics from New England.

fitz, &. B.—Collections of specimens of natural history, geology, and ethnology,
Dakota and Montana.

Hoover, Harry.—Minerals and Indian relics, Pennsylvania.

Hopkins, Prof. W. H.—Newly-formed sandstone, New York.

.
ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS. 57

Horan, Henry.—Skin and skeleton of Madagascar rabbit, and skull of goat.

How ard, Captain W. A., U. S. R. M—T wo skeletons of the sea otter, one skin
of sea otter, (young,) ‘and ethnological collections, Aleutian islands.

Howell, R.—Indian relics, southern New York.

Hudson, W. H.—Box of bird skins, Buenos Ayres.

Ives, Frank. —Specimen of orthoceratite.

Imper ial Botanic Garden, St. Petersburg.—T wo boxes of plants, Russian empire.

James, Prof. Charles A. Living horned frog.

Jefiries, J. B.—One box tit wniferous ore, Virginia.

Jenks, Prof. J. W. P.—Large collection of Indian relics, Massachusetts.

Jewett, Charles—Recent marine shells, coast of Maine.

Jew ett, Colonel E.—Collection of Florida shells, Indian relies, New York, New
Jersey, &e.

Jones, Pr “of, C. M—Geological and zoological collections, Connecticut.

Keenan, T. J. .—Insects, fossils, and Indian relies , Mississippi.

Keim, the late Hon. Geon ‘ge W., through his children. ”Three boxes Indian relics,
Pennsy lvania.

King, Clarence.—Fifty boxes of general collections, made in Nevada and Utah,
during United States eeological survey of 40th parallel.

Larkin, E. P.—Birds, &c., in alcohol.

Latimer, George-—Six jars alcoholic specimens, and one oval stone ring, West
Indies.

Lawrence, George N.—Thvee species of humming birds, South America.

Linceum, Dr. G.—Zoological specimens and fossils, from Texas, &e

Lincoln, Benjamin.—Box Indian relics, Maine.

Limpert, W. R.—One box birds’ eggs, and two bird skins, Ohio.

Lockett, S. H.—Minerals and fossils, Louisiana.

Lockhart, James.—Insects, &c., of Hudson’s bay.

Logan, Thomas M. Skull of Digger Indian, Galifornia.

Lowe, Abram.—Relics from ancient shell heaps and Indian graves, Massachusetts.

Lyon, Sidney S.—Seven barrels and four boxes of bones of mound builders, and
relics from mounds in Kentucky.

McComas, Dr. I. Lee.—Skin of Lepus americanus, (white,) two goshawks, and
skull of red fox, from Maryland.

McCulloch, Hon. H., Secretary of the Treasury, United States—Specimens of
coal at Cook’s inlet, Alaska ‘Territory.

McDougal, I—Two boxes birds’ egos, Youkon river.

Dickarlane, R.—Sixteen boxes, eleven packages, and one keg of specimens of
natural history and ethnology, Mackenzie River district, Hudson Bay territory.

Maloney, H. Dz an relics, ‘Tennessee.

Merritt, J. C_—Indian arrows, Long island.

Mills, Major W. H.—Bow, arrows, and equipment of Apache Indians.

Minor, Dr. Thomas T.—Two boxes minerals, animals, and ethnological speci-
mens, Alaska Territory; drawings made by Winnebago Indians.

Moore, C. &.—Indian relics, and skin of Jaculus hudsonicus, Virginia.

Nelson, W.—Fulgora, and large grasshopper and sea snake, Panama.

Orton, Pr of —Box of plants, Venezuela; ; can of alcoholic f fishes, South America.

Palmer , Dr, Edward.—Ten boxes specimens of natural history and ethnology,
Kansas and Indian territory.

Palmer, Dr. Charles.—Stone gouge and axe, Massachusetts.

DS
Parker, Dr. N.—Bones from aieeat shell heaps i in New Brunswick.

Payne, Dr.—Box of minerals.

Peabody, Leonard.—Indian relies from Maine.

Pearsall, R. F.—Nest and eggs of Empidonax trailli, New York.
Peyton, Robert E., M. D.—Micaceous ore of iron, Virginia.
Pollis, Mr.—Slate spear, Maine.

58 ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS.

Powell, Prof—Two boxes birds, Colorado.

Reeve, J. #.—Collection of bird skins, South America.

Reid, Peter.—Box of flint arrow-heads, New York.

Reinhardt, Dr. J—Skeleton of Cervus alces, Scandinavia.

Rice, Louis V.—F¥ossils from Lake Huron.

fiodifer, Jacob— Minerals from Virginia.

toss, A. C.—Indian relics and elephant’s tooth, Zanesville, Ohio.

toss, B. R.—Specimens of Lernicla leucopsis, and other birds, fossils, &c., Hud-
son’s Bay territory.

Salvin, O.—Four birds, and box of eggs, Central America.

Sampson, Uriah.—Stone gouge, Massachusetts.

Sargent, Daniel.—One box flamingo eggs, from the Bahamas.

Sartorius, Dr.—Collection of birds and alcoholic specimens, Mexico.

Schoolcraft, Mrs. M. H.—Indian relics, axes, arrow-heads, &c., and plaster casts
of inscription on Dighton rock.

Schott, Dr. A.—Botanical and zoological collections, Yucatan.

Sellman, Dr. J—Sharks’ teeth, Mississippi.

Seagrave, O. B.—One snake and two lepediptera, Florida.

Shaw, Eben.—Stone mortar, Middleboro’, Massachusetts.

Sheppard, Lewis.—One milk snake.

Sherwood, Andrew.—One box of rocks and fossils from Pennsylvania.

Shimer, Prof. Henry.—Living golden eagle, from northern Hlinois; bird skins
from Lllinois.

Slagel, J. W.—Indian stone axe and other relics, and miocene fossils, from
Maryland.

Smith, Dr. J. B—Box of birds, Bahia, Brazil.

Spencer, Dr. L. B.—Stalagmite from Virginia.

Starke, Mr.—Insects, shells, minerals, &c., Venezuela.

Stearns, i. HL. C—Collection of shells, California.

Steele, G.—Indian relics, California.

Stinson, Captain James.—Tertiary shells, New Brunswick.

Stone, J. M.—Fossil shells, Ulinois.

Stratton, Thomas.—Two packages minerals, &ec., Mt. Baker, Washington Ter-
ritory.

Stratton, L.—Indian relics from New York.

Sumichrast, Dr.—Zoological collections, Orizaba, Mexico.

Sundevall, Prof. C. J., stockholm.—Birds of St. Bartholomew and Galapagos
islands, (for Academy of Sciences.)

Surgeon General United States Army.—Minerals, &c., Upper Missouri; box of
minerals collected by Dr. B. B. Miles, United States army.

Sylvester, S, H.—Indian relics, Massachusetts.

Tulen, Kev. V—Specimen of granite used in Mormon temple, Salt Lake City;
also photograph of the building.

Thaxter, L. L.—Turdus swainsoni and pallasi, Massachusetts.

Thomas, M., & Sons. —A complete skeleton, and separate head of Irish fossil elk.

Thompson, Rev. D.—Box fossils and Indian relies, Ohio.

Thompson, Mrs. J—Cane carved by Nisqually Indians.

Todd, Dr. W. H.—Kelies from ancient shell beds in New Brunswick.

Tolman, Mr.—One box birds’ eggs, Llinois.

Tyler, Samuel.—Indian stone axe, Prince George county, Maryland

Ullrich, Lewis.—One specimen garfish, and two boxes lepidoptera, Ohio.

University of St. Thomas, Costa Rica, Prof. Lucien Platt—Two boxes miner-
als, &c.

Van Patten, Dr. C. H.—Two mammals, Guatemala.

Von Frantzius, Dr. A—Birds, mammals, &c., from Costa Rica.

Wakefield, Dr. £. St. George.—Skin of Arkansas siskin, Arispe.

ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS, 59

Walker, R. L.—Specimens of living menopoma, and one box Indian relics, one
living tortoise, and other collections, Pennsylvania.

Walter, William.—Twenty-five bird skins, District of Columbia.

Wilcox, H. B.—Fresh-water shells, Michigan.

Wilkes, Admiral, Charles.—Two stone axes, Gaston county, North Carolina.

Wilson, Dr. S. W.—Living gophers, (Testudo polyphemus,) Georgia.

Wise, H. G.—Cock’s spurs, New York.

Wood, Dr. William.—Indian relics, Connecticut.

Wright, Charles.—One box land shells, fishes, insects, &c., from Cuba.

Wyman, Professor J—Humerus of Alca.impennis, from shell heap, in Maine.

Yates, Dr. L. G.—Natural history and archelogical specimens, California, &c.
LITERARY AND SCIENTIFIC EXCHANGES.

Table showing the statistics of the Smithsonian exchanges in 1868.

Agent and country.

Dr. Felix Flugel, Leipsic :
‘Russia
Germany
Switzerland

Royal Swedish Society of Sciences, Stockholm :
Sweden

twee ew ee eens eee wee wee ween ome

Norway

Royal Danish Society of Sciences, Copenhagen:
Iceland

wees eee ew ce wm ee cee eee wows wees ee

ee

Frederic Muller, Amsterdam:
Holiand
Belgium

France
Spain
Portugal

wm ree wees we ee wee ewe ee wee ee we
ee

Italy

W. Wesley, London:
Great Britain and Ireland

Rest of the world

meee wee ee we ee we eee ewe

1 ‘ wa f=} n
3 S al os x.
Se ltoeme | Sails
sii dl aeveNalhie oles cere
oo o 5) Se 3.9
2 4 Qs 2 o,2 es
ee ies EB) es) es
A A Pie ea =

52 SB ecstcscl| me sisteeters)| tee oesine

370 BAM ee ajai| Soars evel eee ie

38 lal xia scl Ba cistene recess

460 580 36 378 10, 821

12 29 2) 21 650

8 17 2 21 650

1 (35| Sees Nee eal eeitim sess

14 lke seal (aerated tel | eterna

15 27 2 21 650

50 Chole Berese) SAE lass Habe

26 SO reeled eins vcne esl |e eee

76 Ts, 6 63 1, 950

147 PSS? |e See tee seen ee 2

8 UB a) ee he a ec ee

4 GulREeeee leseckeoen less cece

159 19] 15 157 4, 875

81 91 5 53 1, 625

219 317 | 22 931! 7,150

99 77 14 112 2, 800

1,129 | 1,557 | 104| 1,057 | 31,171

LITERARY AND SCIENTIFIC EXCHANGES.

61

Packages received by the Smithsonian Institution from parties in America,
Sor foreign distribution, in 1868.

Address.

ALBANY, NEW YORK.

New York State University......-..-
Professor J. Hall

ANN ARBOR, MICHIGAN.

J. E. Watson

BALTIMORE, MARYLAND.

DrSb Re Ohler see teen sors cicie ses -
thigh, WAVY Ase6ce coepobocboscseos

BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS,

and

American Academy of Arts

Sciences
Boston Society of Natural History- - --
Massachusetts Board of State Chari-

BIOSIS tc ears (ois s/o aintapdebeisiatepe eis sia yaisians
PUBUGGIDIElY <2 cnlemoe seein aes
robert) Bia ©; Steg Sn ao cmiee S56) c's
Dre ME SLOLOM ess see eas tnfs- eas. 2e'e 2
VEL UOLGL nvslcice) ooo Sayeseapate twas

CAMBRIDGE, MASSACHUSETTS.
Cambridge Observatory..---- -------
Harvard Collere..---- --- 65... oe
Museum of Comparative Zoology...- -
Professor L. Agassiz.----...---..----

CHICAGO, ILLINOIS.
Chicago Academy of Sciences..... -.
COLUMBUS, OHIO.
Ohio State Board of Agriculture......

State of Ohio
Lieo hesqereux-----. <0 02-2 2. - coon

DORCHESTER, MASSACHUSETTS.
Dr. E. Jarvis ..---- che re
ERIE, PENNSYLVANIA.
Revs G. Olmsteadaee-. cscs sacs
HAVANA, CUBA.

Protessor EH: Fqeyerseessicecc ccc anes

HARTFORD, CONNECTICUT.

American Asylum for Deaf and Dumb.

No. of
packages.

22

m 0

74

ou

12

on

| American Oriental Society
| Cabinet of Yale College..........-.

Address.

INDIANAPOLIS, INDIANA,

Indiana Institution for Deaf and
Dumb

Blinds ecto ce eee eee eee
IOWA CITY, IOWA.
Iowa Grand Lodge Masons......--.
ITHACA, NEW YORK.
Cornell University. ---. 52 22.5-22,-
LOWELL, MASSACHUSETTS.
James B. Francis

MONTREAL, CANADA.

Ore iaveD awsOMoccsoeesee seer

NEW HAVEN, CONNECTICUT.

were ewww

Professor G. J. Brush

Professors WDanasteese see o.
|) Professors aduoomiss gaceocucwe eee

Professors Silliman and Dana. -.-..-.
Professor A.) Paielnl-- enemas eee

NEW ORLEANS, LOUISIANA.

New Orleans Academy of Natural
Science

NEW YORK, NEW YORK.

American Bureau of Mines ......---
American Christian Commission ---.-
American Microscopical Society -.-. -
New York Lyceum of Natural His-

tor
PASSIVIBSE, Chi AT Siscars iciste ie neue nic
DmViane NOstrandasccseescaccsidece.-

NORTHAMPTON, MASSACHUSETTS.

State Lunatic Hospital...-..---.---
PHILADELPHIA, PENNSYLVANIA,

Academy of Natural Sciences-.---..

Academy of Natural Sciences, (Con-
chological section) ...-. sYdaime lesa

No. of
packages. |

34

27

17

190°
12
62

LITERARY AND SCIENTIFIC EXCHANGES.

Packages received from parties in America, &e.—Continued.

Address. Sau
As
ry
PHILADELPHIA, PA.—Continued.
American Entomological Society .. -.| 48
American Pharmaceutical Association-| 25
American Philosophical Society ---- -- 278
Historical Society of Pennsylvania--.| | 22
Pennsylvania Institution for Instruc-
HonlomBlind sess ceee eee see sce 59
James! J.\ Barclay: csmetie neice 209
GWG hilds-Usceyeesmeecsee amas 600
Drilisaacdbea occ onesie oe sleiniseiss ]
Drv Packard tere seeececi ects e 250
Edw Shippen, President of Board of
Controllers of Public Schools ....--| 200
PRINCETON, NEW JERSEY:
AND) SBrOwNee casei eecesleccsie scceer 2
PROVIDENCE, RHODE ISLAND.
Bidwant MsSnowseccesssscciecicemese= 31
ROCHESTER, NEW YORK.
Darrow & Kempshall ..---....--.-- 2
ROCKFORD, ILLINOIS,
MOS OBER Di ns. cw cis iocccassieiecineaien One 1
ST. LOUIS, MISSOURI.
St. Louis Academy of Sciences ...--- 24
DriGsEnrelmanne.ssseeer- snes 14
SALEM, MASSACHUSETTS.
Bissex Institute tec - shes =estece cee} 69

A. Hyatt

4
yy O
Address. Z Ee
As
Py
SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA,
California Academy of Natural Sci-
ONCES oe cae eheaeeinte sesame aieteatn= 54
SANTIAGO, CHILE.
University of Chile.............-.. 20
SPRINGFIELD, ILLINOIS.
AWEL, Worthen tse cotclccosclsmcieee sie 9
TORONTO, CANADA.
Canadian Institute...... ...2....-. 9
WASHINGTON, D. C.
American Nautical Almanac.....-..-
Columbia Institute for Deaf and
ID Die eee SoS Ossian 125
Department of Agriculture .....-..- 323
Department of Education ....-..--.- i
Department of Interior. ...----....- 14
General Land Office ..--...-.....-- 2
Library of Congress -------.5.-.2-: 17
Surgeon General United States army . 2
United States Coast Survey ----.---- 260
United States Naval Observatory ---- 87
United States Patent Office. ....-.--. 484
Dh DevPourtales---s--cceseece == 14
Avy MROCSSIOL- esac eae eect rats 1
Henny Wilke Peascess cme ee aceon 1
ADDRESS UNKNOWN.
Charles'PS Clevers2sc2> sssoccsce= = 9
DreshGwards a= ascetics aeee ee 12
ih NwElasselquint!2s2- caesieeecelnoce 1
Mrs. Mary Mann’ =< ccrescistaciattetiein == 6
Gis aWarnerssse\esseiseeseaepisac et 1

LITERARY AND SCIENTIFIC

EXCHANGES. 63

Packages received by the Smithsonian Institution from Europe, in 1868, for
distribution in America.

Address.

ALBANY, NEW YORK.

Albany Insittutes ayia. sa'odo ence sae
Bureau of Military Statistics
Dudley Observator
New York State Agricultural Society - -
New York State Library, Albany. .--.
New York State Medical Society --..--
New York State University.......---
State Cabinet of Natural History,
PUPA Ye ecre we ccis sn soci emceaieet

AMHERST, MASSACHUSETTS,
Amherst Collere x= <0 =o celeiwine sl =1
ANNAPOLIS, MARYLAND.
United States Naval Academy -..-....
ANN ARBOR, MICHIGAN,

Ohsenvatonys--) soso clsceee eee
University of Michigan ...--...-.-.-

ATHENS, OHIO.
SO MIMEG ISIN ne oe note aaieieraie cm aime
AUBURN, NEW YORK.

New York Lunatic Asylum for Con-
WiGkijcasdedtisestaced eecgsGHeu esse

AUGUSTA, MAINE.
State Lunatic Hospital..............
AUSTIN, TEXAS,

hae MI DIANY eae) see oe sees ae eters
Texas State Lunatic Hospital...-...-

BALTIMORE, MARYLAND.

Maryland Historical Society. ....-....
Maryland Hospital for Insane
Mount Hope Institution.-......-.---
Peabody institite:-= 2 -)-/sa0- aaa bans

BLACKWELL’S ISLAND, NEW YORK.
City Lunatic Asylum.....-.........
BLOOMINGTON, INDIANA,

Indiana State University. ...........

No. of
packages.

mm ON

oii

ee et et

Address.

No. of
packages.

BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS.

American Academy of Arts and Sci-
ONCOS\ ey ats 2 Lp EE tse tera late
American Christian Examiner
American Social Science Association -
American Statistical Association .--.
American Unitarian Association... ~~
Bostow Christian Register...---..-.
Boston Society of Natural History - -.
Bowditeh Eoibrary 22/5 - siete ote
City Lunatic Asylum...--. .--- 22.)
Massachusetts Historical Society. ---.
Massachusetts School of Technology -
NewEngland Historico-Genealogical
SOCietyeaaesewset eee ecisiacie nasal
North American Review.-.--..------
Perkins Institution for Blind . ..----
Prison Discipline Society. .-....---.
Public) Librany2 2 ss-sisese sees - se
StatepWibrarys 1-250 ses lus comeme =

Je)

CWWOE Wr

_
fe 8)

—
WOR mW ewe CO

BRATTLEBORO’, VERMONT.
Vermont Asylum for Insane ..-..-.- 1
BRUNSWICK, MAINE.

Bowdoin! Collereito-. ai else ck 2
Historical Society of Maine........- 3

BURLINGTON, VERMONT.
University of Vermont. ............ 2
CAMBRIDGE, MASSACHUSETTS.

American Association for Advance-
ment Of SCIENCE Lose see awe eee

S08

Harvard College
Harvard Natural History Society ..-.
Herbarium of Harvard College.-.-.-..
Museum of Comparative Zoology --.-
Observatory of Harvard College ...-

©2 t
BS Owe

CHARLESTON, SOUTH CAROLINA.

Charleston Journal of Medicine. ----
Elliott Society of Natural History -- -
Society Library
South Carolina Historical Society...

1
12
1
1

CHARLOTTESVILLE, VIRGINIA,

University of Virginia...........--- 2
64 LITERARY AND SCIENTIFIC EXCHANGES.

Packages received from Europe, &c.—Continued.

w n
S & S &
Address. Gig Address. Sa
Ag As
a roy
CHARLOTTETOWN, PRINCE EDWARD FRANKFORD, PENNSYLVANIA.
ISLAND.
Asylum for Insane-----.-.2-.-2--+- i
Royal Agricultural Society..---.---- 1
FRANKFORT, KENTUCKY.
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS.
Geological Survey of Kentucky... -- - 4
Chicago Academy of Sciences -.----- 51
Dearborn Observatory .------------- 8 || FREDERICTON, NEW BRUNSWICK.
Mechanics’ Institute... .-.---.----- 1
Board of Agriculture. --.-. Seoondiones 1
CINCINNATI, OHIO. Kino’s Collepe:. 22 seats. oo cose es 1
Legislative Library..:::----<s:---. i
Mechanies’ Institute..---.---.------ 5)
Observatonyeneee cee = seein te eae 1 FULTON, MISSOURI.
COLUMBIA, MISSOURI. Bunatic Hospitals== s2-stelse-e <2 1
Geological Survey of Missouri --..---- 11 GAMBIER, OHIO.
Universitysso. eee eae tes 1
Kenyon Collesevstemts nase ae sepenee if
COLUMBIA, SOUTH CAROLINA.
GEORGETOWN, D. C.
South Carolina College.........----. 1
State Lunatic Asylum -......-<..-.- 1 || Georgetown College .----..--.-.--- 6
COLUMBUS, OHIO. GREENCASTLE, INDIANA.
Central Lunatic Asylum ...-.. .-.--- 1 || Indiana Asbury University ...--.--.| 1
Ohiowunate Asylum) een 1 |
Ohio State Board of Agriculture....-- 60 HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA.
CONCORD, NEW HAMPSHIRE. Dalhousie Wniversity .-255-.------- |
Nova Scotian Institute of Natural Sci-
New Hampshire Asylum for Insane. - - 1 enCerzccseccsserscescssesesssees 1
New Hampshire Historical Society - -- 2
HAMILTON, NEW YORK,
DAYTON, OHIO.
Madison University.-.--...-....-.-- 1
Southern Lunatic Asylum........--- 1
HANOVER, NEW HAMPSHIRE.
DECORAH, IOWA,
Dartmouth College ------ --=------- 2
Lutheran College...--...----. apis fare J
HARRISBURG, PENNSYLVANIA.
DES MOINES, IOWA.
State wbibranyeicavslomts ical ele) eeiiaaial> 1
Statengtlow es soccsccceue od wece-ee-| 19 || State Lunatic Hospital...-..-----.- 1
DETROIT, MICHIGAN, HARTFORD, CONNECTICUT. :
Sei Bs : ietreatior IMSane@ ier ic occ coeciee
Michigan State Agricultural Society..| 14 Young Men’s Institute ......-.-..--
FLATBUSH, NEW YORK, HOPKINSVILLE, KENTUCKY.
Kings County Lunatic Asylum ...--. 1 | Western Lunatic Asylum...--.-.--- :
FLUSHING, NEW YORK. INDIANAPOLIS, INDIANA.
Hospital for Imsane==2s 22 -eece-- 1
Sanford Hall Asylum .....- ageoo ceos 1 || Indiana Historical Society.........- J

LITERARY AND SCIENTIFIC EXCHANGES.

65

Packages received from Europe, &c.—Continued.

us §
Address. 4 Fi
AE
ry
INMANSVILLE, WISCONSIN.
Wisconsin Scandinavian Society -.-.. 1
IOWA CITY, IOWA.
Towa State University. .............. 14
ITHACA, NEW YORK.
ComelliCollepeises csc +- so. se <iclese= J
JACKSON, LOUISIANA.
PUNStCVAS YIU ssrme/atic ss sicicsciais\er ft
JACKSON, MISSISSIPPI.
State lunatic Asylum. -----5 2+. 0... 1
JACKSONVILLE, ILLINOIS,
Hospital/for Insane- css cacace soca i|
nstitutionifon Bind) <25.5--- ereincc. 3 1
JANESVILLE, WISCONSIN.
Institution for Blind --....-5....-..- 3
JEFFERSON CITY, MISSOURI.
Historical and Philosophical Society- - 1
JESUS ISLE, CANADA.
Observatory of St. Martin........... 1
KALAMAZOO, MICHIGAN.
Hospital for insane.-- S22cieee costes 1
KINGSTON, CANADA.
Botanical Society of Canada. -.-....-. ]
ONG ~oscocse sobecocesape.core 1
KINGSTON, JAMAICA.
Jamaica Society of Arts...-......... 1
LEBANON, TENNESSEE.
Cumberland University .....-....... 1
LEWISBURG, PENNSYLVANIA.
WIV CIBIY;s «60.002 os eee ae a 1
LEXINGTON, KENTUCKY,
Eastern Lunatic Asylum............ 1

58

Address.

LITCHFIELD, CONNECTICUT.
Retreat for Insaness sto. s aise 1

LITTLE ROCK, ARKANSAS.

State: Bibrary. ease seioceeece es 16
LOUISVILLE, KENTUCKY.

University of Louisville........-.-. 1
_ MADISON, WISCONSIN.

Skandinaviske Presseforening.----. : 1

State Historical Society of Wisconsin- 5

Slate) Wibranyee es seca eee wees 6

Wisconsin Natural History Society -- 1

Wisconsin State Agricultural Society - 24

MIDDLETOWN, CONNECTICUT.
Wesleyan University -...----..---- 1
MILL CREEK, OHIO,
EunaticrAsyiumy. see soe aegeess 1
MILLEDGEVILLE, GEORGIA,

State Lunatic Asylum..........---- 1

(Gniversity. = sme aceite ery 1
MONTPELIER, VERMONT.

Stateglbibrany ce. actcise ajeicitec'el ania 3

MONTREAL, CANADA.

Geological Survey of Canada ..-.-. 1

Elistonical Sociehy=jaa=milasee te eer 1

McGull Colleme-< oe --f- 1s =e joe mlenia= 1

Natural History Society....-...---. 28

Société d’ Agriculture du Bas Canada- L
NASHVILLE, TENNESSEE.

Hospital for Insane. ---- Senden ase 1

University of Nashville .........-.. 1

NEW BRUNSWICK, NEW JERSEY.
Geological Survey of New Jersey-. - 9
NEWBURG, OHIO.
Northern Lunatic Asylum....-...-- 1
NEW HAVEN, CONNECTICUT.
American Journal of Science and Art. 42
66 LITERARY AND

SCIENTIFIC EXCHANGES.

Packages received from Europe, &c.—Continued.

Address.

Address.

NEW HAVEN, CONN.—Continued.

American Oriental Society-...---..--
Connecticut Academy of Sciences... --
Walew@ olleper rec ereyee eect eietetee

NEW ORLEANS, LOUISIANA.
New Orleans Academy of Sciences - --
NEW YORK, NEW YORK.

American Christian Commission - -.-..
American Eclectic Medical Review. --
American Ethnological Society
American Geographical and Statistical
SOCLER yar eh eR eee ee ee
American Journal of Mining ..-..-..-.
Americanvinstitutere sere eeeemccne
American Microscopical Society..---.
AstoniMbibtaryoso-ne wee cee esas oee
Bloomingdale Asylum for Insane .--.-
ColumbiaiCollecee eee yee serena
Herbarium of Columbia College...--.
HistonicaliSociety, 2. 226 ci-6- sc
Lyceum of Natural History... ..-- 6
Mercantile Library Association .....-
New York Academy of Medicine -.-.-.
New York Christian Inquirer -....-.
New York Journal of Medicine. .-..--.
SchoolioteMinest seen stems ses ece oe
United States Sanitary Commission -
HUMIVERSIbys Soc eee oh eweineee cee oe

NORTHAMPTON, MASSACHUSETTS.
State Lunatic Hospital. ......-..---.

OXFORD, OHIO.

Miami University 225-2) 085 soe ae
PHILADELPHIA, PENNSYLVANIA,

Academy of Natural Sciences ......-.
American Entomological Society.... -
American Journal of Medical Science. -
American Pharmaceutical Associa-

MOMs Mss s sak eee ae ee
Anierican Philosophical Society. ....-
Centralmieh Schoole. i: 2/2502...
Trankdimylimstitute ss 22sec 52 a.
Historical Society of Pennsyivania -. .
House ot Retugey = a2 Se ees eer
Journal of Conchology -.-.........-
Library Companyenaes os see.
Medical Chirurgical Review ...-...-.
Observatory of Girard College ..---- -
Pennsylvania Horticultural Society - - -
Pennsylvania Hospital for insane... -
Pennsylvania Institution for Blind ...

28

baad
A OPE 4)

7
~~

Bw

thd)

mem ce WNW CSE NOK ON

pe et 0D

PHILADELPHIA, PA.—Continued.
Pennsylvania Institution for Deaf
andiDumbmececne - se cs ceseee eae:
Philadelphias Hospitals. 3.72254
Philadelphia Journal of Medicine. .--
Philadelphia Society for Alleviating
the Miseries of Public Prisons --.--
Wagner Iree Institute. .........---
PITTSBURG, PENNSYLVANIA.
Western Hospital for Insane..-...-. -
PORTLAND, MAINE.
Portland Society of Natural History .
POUGHKEEPSIE, NEW YORK.
WVascar College cosee ce ae nienceicieee
PRINCETON, NEW JERSEY.
College of New Jersey .........----
PROVIDENCE, RHODE ISLAND.
BRO WMMUMIVETSIby<ee =o .oe cel se cee

Butler Hospital for Insane.----.-.-.
Rhode Island Historical Society ..-..

QUEBEC, CANADA.

Astronomical Observatory......-.--
Library of Parliament.-..-...--2-2-
Literary and Historical Society of

Quebec... sees Scenes eee eee

RALEIGH, NORTH CAROLINA.
Insane Asylum..---..-.----- Wace
_ RICHMOND, VIRGINIA.
StatedMibrany; ses.) seca ce cess ls ce se
ST. JOHN’S, NEW BRUNSWICK.
Natural History Society of New

Brunswick eeeesgs20 5s cere.
Newfoundland Agricultural Seciety -

ST. LOUIS, MISSOURI.

Deutsche Instituts zur Beforderung

von Wissenchaften
MercantilevMibrary eee eeee eee eee
St. Lonis Academy of Science .-,---
University. 2. Jscsenonee sogcbSacs

No. of
packages.

—

22

C2 et

2

Co
LITERARY AND

SCIENTIFIC EXCHANGES.

Packages received from Europe, &e.—Continued.

2 mn
S & ‘5 &p
Address. eae Address. ais
ae ae
3 Ay
ST. PAUL, MINNESOTA. UTICA, NEW YORK.
Minnesota Historical Society -..-... 1 || American Journal of Insanity ..---- 5
State Lunatic Asylum ...........-. 1
SALEM, MASSACHUSETTS.
WASHINGTON, D. C.
BssoxUnstitUte a= - esos ec <5 <n. 37
American Nautical Almanac.....-.. 7
SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA. Bureau of Navigation...........-.. 3
Bureau of Statistics.--55<-4 <=s--4- 3
California Academy of Natural Sci- Department of Agriculture -...-.--- 17
ONCGn so sclaiee ans jo aseinaio See eae 49 || Department of Education....-. .... 3
Tnbrary, of Congress 2224). =<.ica 46
SAVANNAH, GEORGIA. Might-house) board soc. ee eyes 1
Medical Depattment United States
Historical Society of Georgia. ...-.. 1 Oni oeeie ORO SAS SE SorbBade See 59
National Academy of Science. .----.. 19
SHELBYVILLE, KENTUCKY. National Deaf-Mute College....---- 1
Odd Fellows’ Library ....-.-...-.. 1
BHeINy, Collere = 325272 te socks 1) Ordnance: Bureag 5°25. os oot oae 2
Secretary of the Interior.......----- 2
SOMERVILLE, MASSACHUSETTS. NecrotanyiomWans: sos cesses) voce ae 4
State Department... .-...-..-.---- 4
Mebean Asylumssoe..22225 So... 1 || Treasury Department.-.-..-......- 2
United States Coast Survey.--- -.-. 22
STAUNTON, VIRGINIA, United States Government Hospital
fORMINSAnere eae cmteemet a ec 1
Western Lunatic Asylum.... ...... 1 || United States Land Office..---...--- 8
United States Naval Observatory. -- 93
STOCKTON, CALIFORNIA. United States Patent Office......... 140
Washington public schools..... 2... 2
Hospital for Insane....-......-...- it
WATERVILLE, MAINE.
TAUNTON, MASSACHUSETTS. Waterville College eps sani): PS 1
State Lunatic Hospital .-.... ...... 1 WEST POINT, NEW YORK.
TORONTO, CANADA. United States Military Academy .... 2
Magnetic Observatory...-... ....-. 5 WILLIAMSBURG, VIRGINIA.
i a i Bence im ae : Eastern State Lunatic Asylum....-. Q
TRENTON, NEW JERSEY. WORCESTER, MASSACHUSETTS.
American Antiquarian Society...... 6
State Lunatic Asylum....-.. ....-. 1 || State Lunatic Hospital............. 1
Totalaameescerenmnmrit Ons 25255 20 os on oe eee win Sabie atieiconieciwace 245
TG Ue aC NACA IM ie ot) otic ioc ee seo hwo etnies sate Su ie nice cis) mechs 191
436
Total numberof parcels: toinstitutions ess. . eee cee occu ce coke wonsce 2, 208
Total number of parcels to individuals...............- a al AOR pe 686

Name of station.

ANTILLES,

Sombrero Island. --
Sombrero Island. --

BAHAMAS.

Turk’s Isiand
Turk’s Isiand

Turk’s Island
Turk’s Island
Turk’s Island
Turk’s Isl., Salt Cay

Nassau, N. P......

BERMUDA.

Hamilton
Hamilton s22 252.
Shelby Bay
St George’s....---
St. George’s..-....

Treland Island..-...

CANADA.
Clifton

Michipicoten ....--
Montreal
Montreal ....--.-.

Niaganaie sn <6- ier
Port Neuf....-.---

St. Martin’s, near
Montreal.
Stanbridge........
Stanbridge.....-..
Stratford ass. ss--2
Toronto
Toronto

COSTA RICA.

Timon oe ce aces a1:
San Jos6nesc sesso:
San José....--.---
San JosGeceesonoce

GUATEMALA,
Guatemala

HONDURAS.
Belize

THE END OF THE YEAR 1868,

LIST

OF

SMITHSONIAN METEOROLOGICAL STATIONS AND OBSERVERS IN NORTH
AMERICA AND ADJACENT ISLANDS FROM 1849 UP TO

Those marked with a* are deceased.

Name of observer.

MexisiJmlien:-.-----
Milton Brayton...-.-.

Di MOE ayMNes cis ciscis/-/5
J. C. Crisson, Capt.
W. Hamilton.
*A. G. Carothers .--.
United States consul
J. C. Crisson, United
Samuel G. Garland. .
States vice consul.
ANIME Sinvith) 5 ectetet-

Capt. Alexander, R.E.
Royal Gazette .....--
James B. Arnold .--.
James Crawlord....-
Centre signal station,
Royal Engineers,
in Royal Gazette.
John G. Calder....-.

W. Martin Jones, U.
States consul.

Dr. W. Craigie ..--- e

J. Williamson, (dire’r
Kingston Observ’y.)

Colin Kankin...---..-

Dre Aspe alee ao os

Thos. Blackwell....-

He Phillips. ese

Observations publis’d
in the Naturaliste
Canadien.

Dr. Chas. Smallwood.

J. ©) Baker. see =
A.H. Gilmour .. ..--
C. J. Macgregor-.---
Maguetic Observatory
Capt. J. H. Leiroy ---

Felipe Valentin
GHNERiottenceescace
Dr. A. Von Frantzius.
Oficina Central di
Estadistica,

Antonia Canudas....

S. Cockburn

E. Purdot

Years of
observa-
tions,

1863-"64
1865

1859
1860

1861
1862-'65
1868
1861

1858-59

1852
1857
1857
1858
1858-68

1859

1867-68

1857-62
1859-’60

186066
1855-63
1861
1861-63
1868

1852-62

1857-65
1868
186'~62
1856-68
1849
185152

1865-66
1862-66
1866-67
1867-68

1858-62

Name of sfation.

HUDSON’S BAY
TERRITORY.

Abbitibbe post ....
Fort Anderson .-

Fort George..... }
Port Giand) ./.- 42.2
Fort Nascopec ....
Fort Norman....-.
PortyRaeci ose
Fort Rae, Great

Slave L.
Fort Simpson, Grt.

Slave L.
Kenoquimissee...-.
Little Whale River
Moose Factory ---.
Moose Factory to

Lake Superior,
Red River settlem’t.
Rigolet, Labrador

JAMAICA.

Upper Park Camp.
Upper Park Camp.

MEXICO.

Chinamaca........
CWordovaylaso- cies
Frontera, Tabasco.
Mexico

Minititlan .........
MUNA OT teen eerie
San Juan Bautiste-
PALS Alleetara sais

Werai@ruz ccseeeee

NEW BRUNSWICK.
St: Johns) 223-73 5e8
NEWFOUNDLAND.
St. Johns

St. Johns
St. Johns

NEW GRANADA,

Aspinwall ..
Aspinwall

Aspinwall

NICARAGUA,

Name of observer.

Jas. Lockhart
R. Macfarlane
*R. Kennicott .--.---
H.'Connolly 22 <-.5--<
Andrew Flett...----.-
Lawrence Clark, jr --
Mrs. Lawrence Clarke,

jr.
B. R. Ross

Thos. Richards...-..
Walter Dickson
J. Mackenzie. -. oe
Colin Rankin..-.....-

Donal? Gunn.-.-.----
H. Connelly-..--.-.-

games G. Sawkins.- --
Col. W. B. Marlow -.

Charies Laszlo
J. A. Hieto

Charles Laszlo ...---
Prof. L. C. Ervendberg
Charles Laszlo
Dr. Chas. Sartorius. -
Charles Laszlo
Benjamin Crowther. -
Herman Berendt, M.D.

G. Murdock

*Jno. Delany, jr., and
*. M. J. Delany.
H. B. M. Milit’y Post.
Rev. R. C. Caswell,

M. A.

W. T. White, M.D.-
*J. P. Kluge, M. D.--

*J. P. Kluge, M. D.,
and G. V. Rucker,
M. D.

Years of
observa-
tions.

1868
1863
1863
1€60
1863-65
1862-63
1859-"60
1&6 1-64

1848-61

181-’63
1862
1857-62
1862

1857-"61
1859-60

1855-56
1855

1859
1858-60
1862, 64
1865
1855-56
1858-60
1858—'68
186164
1867
1859

1859-68

1857-'64

1849
1868

1857-"65
1865-66
1868
1867

1855
METEOROLOGICAL

STATIONS AND OBSERVERS.

List of Smithsonian meteorological stations and observers—Continued.

69

Name of station.

NOVA SCOTIA.

Hoalifaxs--~----2-
Halifaxss.picncman ne

Clic eee

Bralitex s<.0---%,--

Horton

Pictou,
Mines.)

WWANGSOY: co - a cs.4,;

Wolfville

( bion

Wolfville
Wolfville
Wolfville

PORTO RICO.
Est. San Ysidro ..-.
SAN SALVADOR.
a tinion-—--....-.

ST. DOMINGO.

VANCOUVER’S ISL-
AND.
WiltOnia. 3... scses2

ALABAMA.

Benton
Boligee. 2a scat «
Bon Secours ......
Cahaba
Carlowville

Fish River .......:
Greensboro’.......
Greensboro’. .....-
Green Springs.....
IRVANRS cous acid

Havana, six miles
east of.
Livingston ......-.
MecMuth’s P. O....
Mobiles. ce s.ccco.
WMODNGis oa ren sos

‘Montgomery
Montgomery
Moulton
Moulton
Moulton
Moulton: 3-0-2. sce.
Opelika......-naeee
Orvillan ces ana are
OPVuleee saiyas seco

Prairie Bluff ......
Prairie Bluff ......
Belinea. oc...
Spring Hill........
Tusculoosa .......
Tuscaloosa........
Union Springs..--.
Uniontown........

Name of observer.

Royal Engineers... --
Col. W. J. Myers, F.

B. M.

Board of Trade......
Reo NEON cence pe.

C.F. Hartt
Henry Poole

King’s College.......

Acadia College

Prof. D. F. Higgins. --

C. F. Hartt

Prof. A. P. 8. Stuart...

George Latimer......

Charles Dorat, M. D..

Jonathan Elliott ...-.

David Walker, M. D

Thomas M. Barker ..
Prof. John Darby. ...
Dr. Chas. F. Percival.

Col. Horace Harding
W. J. Van Kirk ..-:.
Matthew Troy, M. D

H. L. Alison, M.D ...

Dr. Sam’1K. Jennings
Dr. T. C. Oxborne....
A. Winehe)l........:
W.J. Van Kirk......

Robert B. Waller...

Ne Dalapton .<cccs<.
EE utwilerk 25.056.

S. K. Jennings, M. D.

Rev. S. U. Smith...
R. T. Meriwether. ...

Dr. S. B. North.----

Rev. J.J. Nicholson...

8. J. Cumming

Rev. J. A. Shepherd.

W. L. Foster

Audrew J. Harris....
Thomas J. Peters....
Prof, J. Shackelford. .

Ashley D. Hunt....
J.T. Shields

T. A. Huston and J.
A. Coleman,

William Henderson. .

R. M. Reynolds... .

br. 5. i Jennings...

A Cornette, S. J ...

Piot M. Tuomey....

George Benagh.....
J. UL. Moultrie

Dr. S. K. Jennings. ...

Rev. KR. A, Cobbs....
Benj. EF. blallvacseass

Years of
observa- || Name of station.
tions.
ALASKA.
1859-61 | Fort Youkon......
1863—'65) |) Nulatos.<.==.<t-..<
SitKeeese a= ss5-4-6
1854 St. Michaels. .-..--
1#59 St. Michaels ......-
1858 Unalakleet .......-
1843-55
fae | ARIZONA,
857-62
1854 Fort Whipple .....
1260-62
1867-68 ARKANSAS.
1859
1855-58 || Arkadelphia-....-.-
Arkadelphia.......
Bentonville......--
Brownsville -....--
1868 Buckhorn -........
Doaksville.........
Fort, Smith: <<< <..
Gainesville ........
1858 Green Grove ....-.
Helena eos. crc
Jacksonport.....-.
1860 Little Rock........
Miccoretsetess-s—0
Mountain Home...
Pernyivillenciccijaant
1863-’64 || Perryville.........
Spring Hall. 05.
Spring Hill. -2:..2.-
se Spring Hill........
1854-’58 || Waldron ......-...
1849-51 || Washington ....-.--
1860 || Washington .....-.
1866-67 || Yellville .......--.
1€59 . }\) Wellyilleis-. 5525-4
1256-"60 |
3 a CALIFORNIA,
1849
185152 || Auburn...-.---...
185!-"52 || Columbia..........
1268 Crescent City.-....-
1856-"62 |} Downieville.....-.
1868 MOlSORME ce <asroi erste
1854-58 || Fort Yuma........
1853 ELON OMPs oi ciownisee
eae MP HOnCUt esac. sccace
1866-"68 || .
1868 ELOnCu ts ese ns ae
Mare Island .....--
1859-60 || Marsh’s Ranche....
1854 ll) Martinez 3.03. 226.
1849 Marysville........-
1859 |
1849 Meadow Valley. ...

1851-55 |
1859-"6L |
1859-"60 |
1866
1866-68 |
1861
1859

le 67-68
1859-60
1960

1867 +
187
1858-59
J&06
1853-54 |
1854-55 |
1 68
1859-"60
1849
1851-54 |

Meadow Valley..-.

Meadow Valley...-
Mokelumne Hill. -.
Monterey -.--.....
Murphy! sie...
Presidio of San

Francisco.
Presidio of

Francisco.
Presidio of

Francisco.
Sacramenvto......-
Sacramento .......

Sacramento .......
Sacramento ......

Name of observer.

*RokKennicott..-....:.
W.H. Dall

Dennis Barlow.......
Female College......
PanliGraham... 2. .<.
Bb Coulter <2... sn
Armistead Younger...
Miss Sue McBeth .-..

Rev. Francis Springer.

James T. Davies..-..

Robert Burris, M. D..

O. F. Russell

G. Alexander Martin,
M.D

Philip L. Anthony..-
Rey. H. F. Buckner ..

EVA Hardy 22 o/a)sc <2
Pub Hime yea. ae
Ue YHOIARS 22. 1-2-3
P. F. Finley and J.
Reynolds.

Geo. W. Featherstone.
Alex. P. Moore, M.D.
Dr. N. D. Smith......
PUEIN VEN Bete eae

Robert Gordon......
Silas Earle, M. D..-..
Robert B. Randall. ..
T.R. Kibbe, M.D....
Rey. S. V. Blakeslee. .

James Slaven....-.-..
J. Slaven and Mrs. E.
S. Dunkum.
Mrs. E. S. Dunkum ..
U.S. Naval Hospital
Francis M. Rogers...
Edwin Howe........
W.C. Belcher.......

James H. Whitlock . .

Colbert A. Canfield,
M.D.

M. D. Smith

Wesley K. Boucher ..

Colbert A. Canfield,
M. D.

Ephraim Cutting. ..-

W. W. Hays, M.D...

D. F. Parkinson. ..- --
Post surgeon ......-.

Dr. F: W. Hatch .....
Drs. F. W. Hatch and
T. M. Logun.
Dr. T. M. Logan.....
Yharles:Craft....2...
W. O. Ayres, M. D....

Dr. H. Gibbons ......

Years of
observa-
tions.

1861

1866-67
1867-68
1865—"66
1865-66
1866~67

1865

1859
1860
1859-61
1859-60
1859
1860
1866-67
1859
1860
1865-68
1859-69

1849
1860
1861
1859-61
1856
1859
1859-"60
1860

1859-60
1861

1849-61
1859-60
1859-60

1859-60
1857-69
1859-60
1860
1861
1867
1859
1860

1¢61-"63
1868
1867-68
1860
185759
1861-63
186U~'62
1864

1863-68
1859-61
185960
1864-68
1868
1862

1863-64

1849-"68
1863

1856-63
1865-"68
1854-55
70

METEOROLOGICAL

STATIONS AND OBSERVERS.

List of Smithsonian meteorological stations and observers.—Continued.

Name of station.

CALIFORNIA—-Con.

Santa Barbara ....
Santa Clara-.....-.-
Savta Clara......-
Spanish Ranche...-
Spanish Ranche -..
Stockton. 25522
Stockton....
Union Ranche.....

COLORADO,

Central City.....--
Denver City..-.--.-
Denver City....-.-
Fountain...... S8cic
Golden City......-
Montgomery
Mountain City-.--.

CONNECTICUT,

Brookfield...-... Bete
Canton
Colebrook....-- a
Columbia
East Windsor Hill.
Georgetown....-..
Grotinees cee
Hartford). 2228 eae
Middletown

Middletown ......-
New Haven......-
New Haven.....-.

North Colebrook -.
Norwich
Piymouth
Pomireteseneecssce
Salisbury-......---

Saybrook
Wallingford....-.-
Waterbury.-.....--
West Cornwall. -..
Windsor

DAKOTA,

Fort Union.......-
Greenwood.......-
Yancton
Yancton

Dovers-eoaseses
Ge ‘rgetown......-
Lewes ......-...--
Milford sesiseteet

Newark. \ccenn eee

Newark. socsccesee

Newarko sss. ene
TRENT Rea ininicing es oe
Wilmington -.... :

Name of observer.

W. W. Hays, M.D...
Prof. O. S. Frombes. -
Lewis A. Gould...-.--
M. D. Smith
Mrs. M. D. Smith.....
Dr. Robert K. Ried -.
Walter M. Trivett...
W. L. Dunkum

D. C. Collier
Fred. J. Stanton -....
Arthur M. Merriam ..
EB. L. Berthoud....-.-
James Luttrell.......
Dr. William T. Ellis. .

Sanford W. Roe.....-
DanVAs WASe. acc es
Miss C. Rockweil .-.-.
W.G. Yeomans...-...
P. A. Chadbourne....
Aaron B. Hull. ...-.--
Rey. E. Dewhurst. -..
Charles H. Hoadley-.
Prof. J. Johnston. .-...

* Prof. A. W. Smith..

H. G. Du Bois, jr --...

D. C. Leaveuworth...

Profs; Cutler. 2-2.

Rev. Tryon Edwards,
D.D.

M. H. Cobb
N. Scholfield-......--
Dwight W. Learned -
Rev. Daniel Hunt....
Dr. Ovid Plumb...-...

James Rankin..-....
Benj. F. Harrison -....
Rey. R. G. Williams. -
T.S. Gold
Reo. Phelpsice..

UNG Rete Nie otsiersieieiaicis =
Freeman Norvell....
M. K. Armstrong...-.
G.D. Hill, G.W. Law-

son, H.G. Williams.
H. G. Williams.......

bs Vankekle vccecteee

Jake Walkereeeeeee ss

Dr. D. W. Mauld.....

John Burton. -:-..\.2.

Re AL Mantinis= seen

Prof. W. A. Norton...

Prof. E. D. Porter ....

Prof,.W. A. Crawford

Prof. W. A. Crawford,
Rk. A. Martin.

Prot. W. A. Crawford,
R. A. Martin, and T.
J. Craven.

Thos. J. Craven and
Mrs. E. D. Porter.
Mrs. E. D. Porter ..-.
Robert Crawford ..-.
*Urban D. Hedges. -.

Years of
observa-
tions,

1864
1859-61
1859
1862-63
1864-66
1855-56
1867
1858

1860-’61
1859
1862
1866-67
1867
1863-65
186U-"62

1868

1861-63
1860-68
1856-’68
1852

1855~’57
1866-68
1849-51
1854, ’58
1859-68
1£49, 51
1852

1£59

186264
1849, ’51
1849, ’51
1852-58
1849, '51
1855~58
1862-64
1853~68
1849, ’51
1853-54
1853-61
1856-’62
1867-68
1854

1851

1857-58
1859-61
1865
1862

1863

1866-67
1854
1859
1849
1857—’58
1849
1852
1854
1855

1856

1857
1858
1856
1863~’65

Name of station.

DIST. OF COLUMBIA.

Georgetown.....--

Washington .......

Washington -......
FLORIDA.

Allinator ee seseres
Atsena Otie....-..
Cedar Keys
Cedar Keys -
Chesnut Hill ...-..
Fernandina.......-
Gainesville. ....-..
Gretone eee eee sce
Gordonveaeeteseee
Green Cove Spring
Hibernia <2 = sles
Jacksonville.....-.

Key West (Salt
Pond.)

Key West (Mag-
netic Observa’y.)

Key West (Mag-
netic Observa’y.)

ligivep gis UiblsA Ss Aporas

Take Citye canis

Lake City. <-sc2 2
Lake City......-..
Micanopy
Orange Hiils
Pensacola-.....-..

Pensacola: scesesncs
Pensacola-.....-..

Pensacolassueesee-
iPensacolazieciqe = 5

Pensacola: --5-s---
Port Orauge-.-.---.
St. Augustine......
St. Augustine......
Tallahassee.....---
Tallahassee....-- pet
Tallahassee....---.
Uchee Anna.......
Warrington

GEORGIA,

Augusta
Augusta
Augusta
Boston..--- bose
Ciarksville
Clarksville
@ovingtons-ceeee 6
Culloden
Cuthbert
Daiton
Darien
Factory Mills.-...-
FISD OLO) =f =
Macon

IMIRICOM ee ce aeic </-
Milledgeville
Milledgeville
IPG elaseeeeeeeees
Perry :
Philomath: -<ecci-rei

Name of observer.

Rev. C. B. McKee ..-
U.S. N. Observatory.

J. Wiessner.........-

Edward R. Ives...-.--
Hon. Aug. Steele ....
Benj. F. Whitney .-..
Judge Aug. Steele...
W.C. Andrus
John Newton........
*Henry M. Corey....
James B. Bailey
P. C. Garvin, M D....
HeBuseothesee eee
G. A. Boardman ....

F. L. Bachelder
Dr. A. 8. Baldwin..-..

W. C. Dennis

George D. Allen -.-..
G. F. Ferguson, and
J.G. Oltmans.
John Newton........
Edward R. Ives....-

Galen M. Fisher...-..
IRV. Wis We KC Dinca
Dr. James B. Bean .-.
John Newton.....--.

J. Pearson, U.S. N-.-.-
J. Pearson and Lieut.
Jose; bh Fry.
Lieut. Joseph Fry-....
Lieuts. Jos. Fry and
J. W. Hester.
Lieut: J. W. Hester. .-
J. M. Hawks, M, D...
Dr. John E. Peck .-..

P. B. Mauran, M. D-.
Benj. F. Whitner.....
W..S. Bogert.-...- dos
Laidner Gibbon .....
John Newton.....-.-

Thayer Abert -.-----

Prof. John D. Easter
J. G. Westmoreland

Fred. Deckner & Sou.
William Haines..----
William Schley..---

Wwm.H.Doughty,M.D
Rev. W. Blewitt
Jarvis Van Buren....
Col. J. R. Stanford...
Benjamin F. Camp -.
John Darby. .
Charles C. Seavey - --
J. R. McAfee geet...)
Charles Grant
F. T. Simpson..-....-
Eli S. Glover
Miss L. J. Whitney --
John A. Rockwell -.-.
Joe Pedamseee ite cet
Prof.Wi. D. Williams
J. Me Cotting.-.-- --
Prof. C. W. Lane....
Prof. J. E. Willet.-..-
Dr. Geo. F. Cooper. -
James M. Reed

Years of
observa-
tions.

1860-"63
1852-60
1864-67
1857-"58

1€57—58
1859-61
185758
185!1~58
1867
1851 4
1867
1855-61
1806
1866-68
1868
1857-58
1653-60
1866-68
1854-64

1860-61
1861-62

1852-53
1859-60
1866-68
1e67
1r68
1858-60
1854
1849
1857-60
1851-'54
1655

1856
1857

1858
1867-68
1849
1856-60
1859-61
1852
1859-60
1849
LBoyv- 60

1857—59
1859="60
1865—68
1854-57
1854
1858-60
1865-68
1859-61
1859
1859-61
1852-53
1860
Te6L
1H49 |
1857
1857-58
1868
1868
1868
1854
1849
1849
1852
185152
1857
METEOROLOGICAL STATIONS AND OBSERVERS.

List of Smithsonian meteorological stations and observers. —Continued.

Years of
Name of station. Name of observer. observa-
tions.

a |
—

Name of station.

GEonG1A—Con'd.

Powi llten......... P. C. Pendleton....-. 1852
Suvannah ...-.---- * Dr. John F. Posey.| 1852-59
Savaunah..-...... IRASr Galson.... 0. 1859-61
PT) es, Se Dr E. M. Pendleton 1852-61
Suuweiville ....-- Stephen Elliott Ha- | 1868
bersham.
MHGEGROCK =. -6 4 Dr. James Anderson.} 1855~’69
Thomasville. ...... Rev. W. Blewitt ....| 1860
‘Thomson... = cae Dr. W. TV. Grant ....] 1858~"59
Whitemarsh Island | R. T. Gibson ......-. 1849-58
Zebulon ...-...... Mrs. J. T. Arnold ...} 1857-59
IDAHO.
Cantonment Jordan} W. W. Johuson...... 1859
Fort Benton....... MG Rosseaw-<)\.'-'- - 1863
Fort Halleck ...... Just Bintrock. a. .4=. 1864
Fort Laramie...... Col. W O. Collins...| 1863-64
Fort Lurumie...... A. F. Ziegler, M. D.-.| 1865
ILLINOIS,
Alhany-cs---2--1- Warren Olds .-.-...... 1861-62
Albigness=~ tae sieie Edgar P. Thompson -} 1857
Ds tay eR RR ee S. Y. McMasters..... 1849
F007 ee EE ees Norton Johnson ...... 1849
Andalusia..\..-.... E. H. Bowman, M.D-} 1866-68
PAU A St ee ae Joel Hall...-. eee cee 1851-58
Augusta .......... Dr. S. B. Mead .-..... 1849-50
1851-68
BT ORA) sons som * Andrew J. Babeock| 1857-’61
FACOG = Aa oe roaeae Abiram Spauldiug...| 1865-’68
Batavia -.--.-----. Prof. Wm. Coffin... | 1853-54
‘Batavia: -=<<0:- 0 ace *Thomp’n Mead, M.D) 1857-61
LS aioe aed mp Gaperes: occ ccecee 1858-59
IBRPAV Ii === 5/-'5 1 Frank Crandon...... 1861-62
Belleville - 2252--5: INFO aBere sess 1860-63
Belleville ...-..... Dr. John J. Patrick..| 1861
Belleville ......... Dr. J. J. Patrick and | 1862
N. T. Baker,
Belvidere... -. Seer lip Grape Ml OBS saa '5) 5) <i man 1868
Bloomington ...... Jesse Allison ........ 1859-61
Brighton’-=----. -- Wm. V. Eldridge ....} 1855-58
Carbon Cliff....... Mrs. Wm. 8S. ‘bhomas.| 1859
Carthage. -.</.--.- Samuel J. Wallace...| 1857
Cariiscps- ee seee Mrs. E. M. A. Bell, | 1859
& Sam’l J. Wallace.
Centralia.......... H. A. Schauber...... 1865
Channahan.-...... Rev. D. H. Sherman.| 1860
Channahan........ Dr Oss Wu ce be etee see 1861
@Ricaeo: =e ------ Henry TValeott....... 1851
Chicago: 255... G:) Ds Hikcox.----—.- 1856-"57
Chicakora----s--- = Samuel Brookes...-. 1859-68
Chicago: <-----..-. M. C. Armstrong and | 186U-’61
J. H. Roe.
Chicagos.sssecuse. Gustave A. Boettner. eet
1863
Chicago...... --.-.| A. M. Byme, J. H. | 1862
Roe, aud others,
@iiickeon-n-2--.0=- John O’Donoghoe....} 1862
Chiesgo.nn~ <0... Arthur M. Byrne.-...| 1863-64
OUIGRRD> ae oe Isaae A. Pool..-..... 1866
Chicago: <----..- =. John G. Uangguth, jr.} 1867-"68
GinitGit soaoecunces (p05 (pls LS) (Ce 1864-06
Dé Weal -o ese en John D. Parker...... 1866
Dix cs. assecses= J. Thos. Little...<.... 1859-"63
1867
Dongola .........- Ralph BE. Meeker ....| 1861-62
TAN on 0.0'0 ot Wm. C Spencer..... 1865-68
Dit Quoin ......... Meee RIELS «2 (ion = = 1864
Biigar county ..... Dea e LOW 0). <''a3 1858
Edgington......... Dr. E. H. Bowman..| 1857-61
ROMs ae PoP oc Jno. B. Neweomb ...| 1858-61
Piitrneesss..o.2. Orestes A. Blanchard.| 1862~'63
1865-68
BO) C110) 0: pepe ee W.H. Adams ....... 186468
Evanston ........ *H. G. Meacham....| 1858
Evanston ........- Chas. E. Smith ...... 1859-60

Evanston ......... | A. D, Langworthy ..| 1864

ILLINOIS—Con'd.

Bvanston ......-..
Evanston ......-..
Evanston .........
TOVADREOD f= s'25 oe
Evanston .........
Farmbridge .......
Fremont Centre...
Galena .-26. See <2
Galesburg....-....
Goleonda. ........
Granville. <=. <<;
Granville ....5. 22.
Hazel. Dell)... 226
Hennepin. sack oe
Highland os...
Pnlleboro 2 see— see
Holton. mir -1-)4
Hoyltonys- menial
Jacksonville ......
Jacksonville ......

WACON a= welea atin Se
Lebanon........-.
Gam MY w= 2's sso
Maonolia 2,-/2.:6 5
Manchester. ......
Manchester . ...-.-..

Manchester . ...-..-
Marengo .-........

Marengo ...... pene

MMONTOGicencle=cleai-
Mount Sterling. .-.
Naperville ..-...-

Naperville ........
INGryitony.s- <c ecie

RGGI te eire a s ape
Plymouth .........
Quincy, ~~ --.- ssdic
Ridge Farm, Ver-
milion county.

Ble vieee ans clocana
Robinson’s Mills. -.
Rochelle, (Alta)...
Rockford. <2. 525.
Sandwich .........
South Pass........
South Pass. ....-..
South Pass.....--.
Springfield........
Tiskilwea..- 2 -.-- =
Upper Alton ......
Upper Alton ......
Upper Alton ......
Upper Alton ..-...
Wianellan. 222"...
WHRUBAW oo ne wc
WHtOnLOO es onc 35

Waukegan .-.-......
Waverley .... ----
Waynesville .....-.
West Salem.....--
West Urbana......
Wheaton..........

Name of observer.

* W.H. Morrison. ....
enw SCOVill /5 0 5 a2
Jos. H. Gill and others
Hred: Jn Huse. 25... ...
Prof. Oliver Marcy...
Elmer Buldwin ....-.
Isaac H. Smith ......
Emil Hauser ........
Prof. Wm. Livingston
Rey. Wim. V. Eldridge
L. G. Edgerly .-.-..---
Jie (JON KINS Sete ccc
Henry Grifling ......
Smiley Sheppard ....
A. F. Bandelier, jr ..
John S, Titeomb.....
J. Ellsworth..........
Ond. Marsh to Ss se...
Prof. Wm. Coffin. ...
Timothy Dudley -..-..

A. H. Thompson ....
Prot. N. EB. Cobleigh.
Timothy Dudley ...

Henry K. Smith .....
JvobniGrant:-.-.-.-.=+
John Grant and Miss

Ellen Grant.

John & C. W. Grant.
OvpPaRogerssc asc <ata.s

0. P.& J. 8. Rogers.

WUROPSTS! -sseceecicce
Silas Meacham..--.-.-.
Rev. Alex. Dunean..
Lewis Ellsworth. ....
Milton 8. Ellsworth...
Rev. Wm. V. Eldridge
CE Bryant. <2~ os.
Rey. H. H. Bricken-
stein.

J.S. Pashley, M. D..-
Dr. J. O. Harris .....
Geo. O. Smith, M. D.
Samuel L. Shotwell. .
Mrs. Emily H. Merwin.
Gibevingy. oacaece aes
Jere iD labeee eect
Dr. Fred. Brendel --..
ME ASW NEG loa ones
Dr. J. B. N. Klinger.
Rev. G. B. Giddings

B. C. Williams ......

ES Babcock.)...5-.<...
E. Brendel, M. D....
Daniel Carey........
William Holt ........
N. E. Ballou, M. D -.
Fi ank Baker ........
S. C. Spuulding.....-
Te, Mee MAN ...5.:.
Geo, W. Brinkerhoff
“Verry Aldrich ....-...
Prof, P. P. Brown...
* Dr. John James.-..
Anna James.-.-......
Mrs. Anna C. Trible -
ovis Grol. so. ue
3enj. Whitaker......
El. Keunstet.s occas

Dr. Wm. Joslyn.....
Timothy Dudley ....
Joshua &. Cantril...
Henry A. Titze......
| Jobn Swain, M.D ...
| Prof. Geo, H. Collier.

Years of
observa-
tions.

1864
1864
1865
1866-67
1866
1860
1857-58
1850-60
1861-"G8
1866—"68
1854
1857
1863-"65
1868

1859-61
1867-68
1866-68
1854-61
1862-69

1866-68
1856-58
1868
18. 9-63
1865-"66
1868
1849
1866-'68
1859
1859-"60
1859
1862
1860

1860-'61
1852-61
1859-60
1860
1862-68
1868
185765
1855~’68
1861-62
1852
1849
1868

1856-'67
1860

1£66-"68
1849

1859-68
1857-58
In62-'66
1867-68
1865-68
1859-68
185152
1853-09
18A7

1861-64
1868

1855-58
165

1867-'68
1849

1805-"66
185859
1855-60
185759
1858-61
(2

METEOROLOGICAL STATIONS AND OBSERVERS.

List of Smithsonian meteorological stations and obscrvers—Continued.
. «

Name of station.

ILLINOIS—Con’d.

Willow Creek.-...
Willow Hill:-..---
Winnebago Depot
Woodstock..-.--..
Wyanet.....2..2-
Wiyanet.e25-scee.

York iNeck: -.2..2-

Balbects)) = seis ece
Bloomingdale
Bloomingdale
Bloomington

Cadiz ceess seca:
@arthage:t=ss-o2e.
Columbia .......-.
Evansville .-..--.-.
Fort Wayne .....-
Fort Wayne-......
Greencastle
Greencastle
Indianapolis. ....-.
Indianapolis. ..---.
Indianapolis. ..-.-.

Indianapolis. ..--.-.
oalapar cise ce ocet
Kendallville. ....-.
Kendaitville-...--.
Knightstown.....-
Lafay: tte
Lafayette
Latayette
Daporteecscess.--6

Logansport.-....-.
Logansport..-.....
Logansport.-....-.
Madivontiusseesccue
Madisony 222s -scc8
Miadizon\ js. cee
Meérom) 3-25 2-e ce
Michigan City .....
Michigan City

Milton

New Albany
New Albany
New Albany
New Castle......-
New Castle
New Garden ..-.-..
New Harmony ...-.
New Harmony .-.-

Ratoka- so. ee esse

Pennvilles:.o5.os8
Rensselaer ........
Richmond.........
Richmond: 252. 2ek

Richmond... ...<.:
MICHMONG: = <5. 2 = 2:
Richmond! 22552...
Richmond.........

Name of observer.

AB SACOM carers ea
Henry Grifling
DeWen LOlman= seems
Geo, R. Bassett......
E. S. Phelps
E. 8. Phelps and Miss
L. E. Phelps.
WarbeiGayennaswoecae

Geo. Sutton, M. D..-

Miriam Griest ......-.
Wm. H. Hobbs...-...
Miss M. A. Hobbs....
Prof. C. M. Dodd,
assisted by T. H.
Mallow and others.

Years of
observa-
tions.

Name of station.

1859-63
1862
1858-68
1859-61
1864
1865-68

1864-65

1859
1866-68
1865-'66
1864
1865
1868

Win. Dawson
Hamilton Smith, jr--.
Charles M. Hobbs. -.-.
Dr. F. McCoy and
Miss Lizzie McCoy.
John F. Crisp
Prof. A. C. Huestis -.
Miss G. Webb
Prof, Jos. Tingley. --
Wn. H. Larrabee. -..
* Royal Mayhew
W. W. Butterfield - --
W. W. Butterfield
and Mrs. Butterfield.
W. J. Elstun
Albert C, Irwin...-.-.
W. B. Coventry
J. Knauer
D. Deem
AV UX DY;sie\s\olels a=1=
EPP etersiieesecicec a:
Isaac E. Windle..-.
R. M. Newkirk.-.....
W. W. Spratt, M. D.
Charles B. Laselle - --
Isaac Bartlett... ..2.

CoiBames nee sec =i
Rey. Samuel Collins-
Oliver Mulvey. .-...-.
Thomas Holmes
C. 8S. Woodard
W. Woodbridge, B.
D. Angell, and H.
Blake.
Dr. Vi. Kensey,-'-5- <->
Geo. C. Muntield .-.-.
K. J. Rice

Gy; Barnesioyscseeesse
Dr. Alex. Martin ....
Dr. E. 8. Crozier ....
Prof. Jos. Tingley -..
Thos. B. Redding. .-.
Dens Roberts. 1ease-
John Chappelsmith -.
Dr. D. D. Owen.....

Daniel H. Roberts - --
NSW EM i desea
vohn Griest.... 5-221.
J. H. Loughridge, M.D

Dr. Jno. T. Plummer
Wi. Wer Sustines. 2c:

Joseph Moore
JcohnvElames! sae sea
Edward B. Rambo...
John Valentine

1854-63
1856-61
1868

1865~'68

1857-58
1849

1851-54
1859-63
1861-65
1864-65
1866-67

1867-"68
1868
1854
1854
1868
1854
1854
1865
1849
1861
1857-58
1859-61
1863
1854
1864-66
1865
1866-’68
1857-"58
1859-60

1853-55
1859
186:}-"64
1866-68
1855-58
1859
1863-65,
1849
1863-65
1854
1852-68
1849-51
1867
1851
1859
1864
186465
1867~68
1849, 51
1851-55
1859-61
1855-59
1859-63
186263
1865-68

>

186)-61 °

| Fairfield

INDIANA—Con’d.

Rockville. .......
Rockville
Shelbyville. .......
South Bend
S uth Bend, (Notre

Dame Univer’y.)
South Bend
South Bend
South Bend
South Hanover....
Spiceland
Veva
Walnut Hills......

INDIAN TERRI-
TORY.

Armstrong Acade’y
Doaksville
Talequah

IOWA.

Algona
Algona

ANTONE ect ine eta
Algona -...
AAS s a tec cvatce
Bangor
Bellevue
Boonsboro
Border Plains
Border Plains ..--.
Bowen’s Prairie ---
Burlington
Burlington
Burlington
Ceres

Glinton.-225-ne2—-
Clinton
Dakota
Davenport
Davenport
Davenport
Davenport

Davenport

Davenport......-.
Davenport .-2 2. --
Davenport ....--..
Davenport
Davenport
Davenport

Davenport
Des Moines. --..----
Dubuque

Dubuque, (Alex-
ander College.)
Dubuque
Rairbanks:...-..<.
Fairfield

Hay etic ==
Fontanelle
Forrestville -....--
Fort Madison....-..

Franklin

Mrankline soeecsicac

Name of observer.

H. H. Anderson

Prof. Gardner Jones

Prof. Thos. Vagnier. -

Miss G. Webb

James H. Dayton....
Reuben Burroughs. - -

Prof. S. H. Thomson
Wim. Dawson

Charles G. Boerner --
Wey Austin' a. ccc

Prof. A. G. Moffatt --
Pe Pabrowle see ccaee
T. B. Van Horne ..-.

F. McCoy, M. D.....

F. McCoy and Miss
Elizabeth MeCoy.

Philip Dorweiler-.--.
James H. Warren ...

B. Carpenter

E. Babeoek

Louisa P. Love

S. H. Kridelbaugh,
M. D.

Nathan H. Parker...
P. J. Farnsworth ....
Wm. O. Atkinson. --..
Nathan H. Parker. ...
Ages EuNIGY:2/. sii sials

H. 8. Finley

H.S. Finley and W.
P. Dunwoody.

J. Chamberlain, W.
P. Dunwoody, H.
H. Belfield.

Dr. Ignatius Langer -

H. H. Belfield andW.
P. Dunwoody.

J. Chamberlain and

W. P. Dunwoody.

J. Chamberlain. -...-..
Geo Be Pratiecc..e

G. B. Pratt and Syd-
ney Smith.
D. S. Sheldon
Rey. J. A. Nash

IDV cA a cEIOrn: = cciiceis
Rey. Joshua Phelps. .

Dr. W. W. Woolsey -
Dexter Beal.........
Jeo, Shafer se ine
Miss Sue McBeth --...
Johu M. McKenzie. -.
AIS ya RYAN teeter miele

Daniel Sheldon

Daniel McCready. -..

Dexter Beal and W.
W. Beal.

Dexter Beal.........

J. W. Tenbrock.....
Je Li. Bullock. == 257

Isaac M. Gidley... ---
John ©. Forey. .-..--
G. C. and W. K. Goss
Wim I<S (Goossen
Samuel Woodworth -
John M. Corse. ....--
Mrs. James Love .-..
John M. Hagensick..-

Years of
observa-
tions.

1859-"66
1859
1859-62
1851
1858-59

1859
1860-63
1863-65
1849
1863-68
186468
1849

1849
1849
1849

1860
1861-65

1866~"68
1867-68
1867

186163
1856-60
1867-68
1856

1857-59
1868

1859-60
1866-68
1868

1865-'68
1865-"66

1856-758
1866-68
1867-68
1858
1859
1859
1860

1861

1861
1862

1863

1864
1865
1866

1867-68
1865-67
185!—55
1857-63
1854

1856
1856
1856-60
1859
1859-60
1866~68
185963
1852, 54
1855—68
1857

1858
METEOROLOGICAL STATIONS AND OBSERVERS.

List of Smithsonian meteorological stations and obserr:rs—Continued.

Years of

Name of station. Name of observer. | observa- Name of station. Name of observer.
tions. ‘
Iowa—Continued. || Kansas—Con'd.
|
Fort Dodge ..-..... C. N. Jorgenson ..... 1867-68 || Fort Riley .-...... J. M. Shaffer and E.
Grove Hill ........ Dexter Beal...-..-.- 1859-60 P. Camp.
Grove Hill ........ Dexter Beal and W. | 1861 Gardner ss -cen ce G. F..Merriam.....-..
W. Beal. Gardner’ 2 -.-.5.-2: James Scott ......--.
Grove Hill ........ Mrs. Celia Beal...-... 1862 Molfone ccs socees Dr. James Walters ..
Guttenburg ....... Philip Dorweiler- ..-. 1864-66 || Junction City. ....| E. W.Seymour, M. D.
Guttenburg . ....-. James P. Dickinson | 1866-68 || Lawrence...-...... Ge wWebrowm: 22:20...
Harris Grove...... Jacob F. Stern ...... 1866-"68 || Lawrence......... W. J. R. Biackman..
Hesper! 22. .cs222 HB: Williams: <- <2: 1860-61 || Lawrence......... ACN: Buller?>.-- "5
Independence .... | D. S. Deering -.-.-.--- 1861~’67 || Lawrence..-..--.- W. L. G. Soule. ..-.
Independence ..... Alex. Camp Wheaton] 1862-66 |) Lawrence..-.-..-.. Geo. W. Hollingworth
Independence ..... Mrs. D. D. Wheaton.| 1866-’68 || Lawrence.......-. P of. F. H. Snow....
Independence ..... Geo. Warne, M. D-..-} 1867-’68 || Leavenworth ..... H. D. MeCarty..-...
Iowa City.-....... Hermann H. Fairall -| 1856 .
Towa City......-.. W. Reynolds. .-.-..-. 1857-58 || Leavenworth.....- E. L. Berthoud ...--.
Towa City......... Prof. Theo. 8. Parvin] 1861-'68 || Leavenworth...... Me Saw see) ashen
Towa Falls........ Nathan ‘'ownsend...| 1863-'68 || Leavenworth...... Dr. J. Stayman...---
WRG es aocc aman Miss Ida E. Ball..-.-.. 1851-"54 || Leavenworth -...-. I Bastowell2.. c= -<.
RGORWe 55 oe sco Dros neiballsss ==. 1853 Lecompton........ Dr. Wim. 'T. Ellis: -..
Keokuk: =~. 2222-4 Prof. K. M. 'Vaylor..| 1866 Lecompton..-...-- Wm. A. McCormick
Kossuth .-......... Wm. P. Leonard ....| 1862 Lecompton........ David G. Bacon .....
Kossuth.........-. Isaiah Reid .......-. 1860-"61 |) Leroy...........-- J. G. Shoemaker ....
BYONS otes sche s A. T. Hudson, M. D 1259-’67 || Manhattan ........ Isaac ‘I’. Goodnow...
BIVONSEe as occ caseek P. J. Farnsworth ....| 1862-65 || Manhattan .-...... Rev. N. O. Preston .-.
PVOHE Sosicas saan Dr. J. Messman....-. 1866 Manhattan ........ I. T. Goodnow and
Manchester . ...-... * Allen Mead .-.-...-- 186566 H. L. Denison,
Maquoketa. ....... Edward F. Hobart. --.| 1857 Manhattan ........ Henry L. Denison -.-
Marble Rock ..---. Pi Wiada yeeros son. 1867-68 || Manhattan .-...... Agricultural College,
Monticello ........ Chauncey Mead ...-. 1864-66 (B. F. Mudge, and
Monticello ........ M. M. Moulton....... 1866-68 and others.)
Mount Pleasant....| E. L. Briggs-.-...-.. 1863-"64 || Mapleton........-. S. O. Himoe, M. D --
Mount Vernon ..-..| Prof. B. Wilson Smith] 1857 Monekals. osaiscy=1 J. O. Wattles and
Mount Vernon ....| Prof. Alonzo Collins .| 1860-68 Celestia Wattles.
Muscatine......... Rossi Anvil </-)='ciatsl= 1849-50 || Neosho Falls....-. Ba beiGosseee eens ia
1851-"52 || Neosho Falls...... Mrs. E. W. Groesbeck
18s5—09) || ‘Olatha; os... 2-5 -- W. Beckwith..-..-..
Muscatine. ......-.. 12h (Ep leiin tl seneeae 1853-54 || Ridgeway ......-. QU By Brown =ce- =="
Muscatine......... Suel Poster...--..... 1869-64 || Topeka ........--- VV onl Sie alsin eter
Muscatine......... T'. S. Parvinand Rey.| 1860 Wiyandot <-- =... - John H. Millar ......
John Ufford.
Muscatine......... Rev. John Ufford..-.| 1861-62 KENTUCKY.
Muscatine......... Josiah P. Walton..-.| 1863-68
Onowa=-5-<- 325 Richard Stebbins ....| 1864 Ballardsville ...-.. Dr. John Swain. ....
Ossper-sacss cess Rev. Alva Bush ..... 1866-'67
Pellige ceca ates E. H. A. Scheeper...| 1854~56 || Bardstown.-...--. *John H. Lunemann
Pleasant Plain..... Townsend McConnell) 1855-65 || Bardstown......-. J. H. Lunemann and
Pleasant Spring -.-| Rev. B. ©. Odell .-..| 1858 Thos. H. Miles.
Plum Spring .-..-... B. F. Odell and Miss | 1855 Bard~-town .....--. Thos. H. Miles ..----
Mary G. Odell. Beech Fork ....-.. Dra Cages.
Plum Spring ...... Rev. B. F. Odell.-... 1859 Bowling Green....| J. E. Youngiove.....
Poultney..-........ Dri 3. 8. oelle os... 1853-"54
Quasqueton ....... Dr. E. C. Bidwell....| 1853-’56 || Bowling Green..-..| F. C. Herrick ...-.-.
BLOHGES. oo aco ee Oscar I. Strong .--..-. 1868 Chilesburg .....-.. Dr. Samuel D. Martin
Rossville..... -----| Carlisle D. Beaman..| 1957-59 || Clinton. .......... Rev. T. H. Cleland -
Sioux City ......-.. Dr. J.J Saville...-.. 1857-58 || Danville .......... Omnpentinvnesssssjse%
Sioux City s.--<--- ide LANG 32 ain = a= 1861-’63
Sta Marys... 225- 1D) VO to Ge Re sae 1853 Danvitles- tn. R. H. Caldwell ....
Vernon Springs.-...| Gregory Marshall..-.| 1861-'63 || Drennon Springs ..} Prof. S. Y. MeMasters
Washington ...... Ge be Bogle --n..055- 1861 Hardinsburg .-.-.-.-. Mrs. Mary A. Walker
Waterloo -........ L. H. Doyle..-.....- 1859~'64 and J. C. Barbage.
Waterloo.......... LODO ee jo sea 5m 186468 || Hardinsburg ...... Joshua C. Barbage -.
Whitesboro ....... David K. Witter..... 1867-'68 || Lexington ..-..... J. Do Shane: .---.--
Lexington ........ Rev. S. R. Williams
KANSAS,
PEON CON er ase teste sia WS. DOAK. ........
Atehigon:.22se0=s~- Dr. H. B. Horn and | 1865-'68 |} Louisville......... Rev. S. R. Williams
Miss Clotilde Horn. Louisville ......... E. N. Woodruff
A VOW: . 20a. eee Allen Crocker. ..... 1866 Maysville ......... Bp. L. Berthoud ..-..
Baxter Springs..-..| Ingraham & Hyland .| 1&67-'68 || Millersburg. ...-.. Rey. J. Miller... 22.
Burlingame ....... * Lucian Fish.....-.. 1859-61 || Millersburg. ...... Rev. J. Miller, Rev.
Cayuga .. 220 wcwsers Wao. H. Gilman..... 1858 G. 8. Savage.
Celestville......... Rev. J. H. Drummond} 1859-’60 || Millersburg - ...-.-.- Dr. Gro. S. Savage ..
Couneil City ....-- Ikdmund Fish .. ... 1857-58 || Newport..-....-.. Prof. M. G. Williams.
Council Grove .-..| A. Woodworth, M. D| 1865-’68 || Nicholasville ....-- Jos. MeD. Matthews,
Emporia ........ C. F. Oakt#ld....... 1862 D. D.
Fort Riley ........ Rev. David Clarkson.| 1859-60 || Nolin ......---.--- J. Grinnell -...--...
Fort Riley ........ Dr. Fred. P. Drew, | 1862-64 || Paducah .......--. Andrcew Mattison. ...
. U.S. A. atin c= 52 aanes TM Giaeetlyi eee ere a e's
Fort Riley ........ Post Surgeon........ 1865 Pleasant Valley ...| A. H. Bixby.....-...

1866

1860
1861-62
1867-68
1860-61
1862-64
1862-64
1867
1868
1857-59
1868
1858-60
1861-62
1866-68
1868
1859-"60
186061
1866
1867
185762
1859-60
1863

1864
1865-68

185758
1859

1859-61
1868
1864-"68
1863
1858
1859-’60

1853~"56
1860-"62
1848
1859

1860-61
1860
184950
1851-52
852
1865-"68
[68
1853-"62
1865-68
1864 ¢
L851
1859

1860-61
}e54
1859
1867-68
1865-66
1858-59
186 -"63
1852-54
1853
1854

185562
186
1861-63

1858

1859-"62
74

METEOROLOGICAL

STATIONS AND OBSERVERS.

List of Smithsonian meteorological stations and observers—Continued.

Name of station.

KENTUCKY—Con’d.

Prospect Hill...-.--
Russeliville ....---
Springdale, (near
Louisville. )
Taylorsville

LOUISIANA.

Benton
HallsiRiver. -.<.-=-
Grand Coteau
Independence
Independence
Jackson

New Orleans....--
New Orleaus.....-

New Orleans.-.-.---
New Orleans....--
New Orleans.-.-.---
St. Francisville. -..
Tripity
Trinity

Vidalia plantation -
MAINE,

Paneoresccesdeases
Bangor
IBCMEASb Eo coi insti
Bethel
Biddeford

Biddeford. -=2-- <2:
Blue Hill
Blue Hill
Brunswick

Castine
Cornish
Cornish
Dexter

Freedom
Fryeburg
Gardiner
Gardiner
Gardiner

Gardiner
Hartland

Hiram cesses
Houlton...... boter
Lee.
Lee

WISDOM) pscclen ee see
Monson .-.
Newcastle ........
New Sharon .....
North Belgrade... .
North Bridgeton. -.

North Prospect.-..| Virgil G. Eaton

Name of observer.

O. Beatty
JG Baits Cd vee eaaea ce
Margo,  MOUN EL sasmioe

H. C. Mathis ........

JH Carter-- cece:
A. W. Jackson, M. D.
B. F. Anthonios ...--
Col. C. B. Swasey - --
Mrs. M. J. Mankard-.
Prof. W. P. Riddell--
* Dr. KE. H. Barton .-

Lewis B. Taylor.....

Dr. S. P. Moore, U.
S A.
Harrison Thompson. .
Robert W. Foster..-.
Bs Ranlett.25 << -
B. R. Gifford
A. R. Kilpatrick, M. D
Edward Merrill, M. D.

Rev. A. K. Teele ....

Stephen Gilman
C. L. Nichols. .-... va
G. Emerson Brackett.
Rey. A. G. Gaines. .-.
J.G. Garland

BAIN Mel Steet

Rev. S. H. Merrill....

H. H. Osgood

*Prof. Parker Cleave-
land.

Ruts Bucks... oenisoe

Jen beleseee BHO AE
Dri J. L.\Stevens----.-
G. W. Guptill
Silas West
BoP. Wilbur a...
Stephen Gilman
Henry Reynolds, and
Lauriston Reynolds.
Dri J.B. Wilson...
M. Pitman
BA Bullervss.sesce 2
G2 BB Barrows)... sae e
* Hon. Rk. H. Gardiner.
Rev. F. Gardiner. ....
Rev. F. and R. H. Gar-
diner.
R. H. Gardiner. ......
E. E. Brown, S. W.
Hall, L. S. Strick-
land, and others,
Peleg Wadsworth. -..
Milton Welch........
Benj. H. Towle
I. Pitman
W.G. Lord
Asa P. Moore......--
IBEW WADURS <= 6
Ci DLaNichols2o-.-<-2
J.F. Pratt, M: D
A.H. Wyman....----
M. Gould

Norway....... ess] Gs We Werrll, jroce cc.

Years of
observa-
tions.

1849-51
1860
1849-50
1851-55
1857-68
1866

1867-68
1859
1860
1859
1860
1854
1249, ’50
1851-57
1856~57
1859, 61
1860

ig6l
186768
1868
1856
1856-"59
1856-58
1860
1867

1849

1859-’60
1859-’64
1861-62
1849-"50
1851-53
1854

1854-55
1864

1849-59

1849-50
1851-52
1853-57
1e51

1855-68
1857-68
1260-63
1858

1861-"63

1860-61
1863-64
1859
1849-56
1855-64
1804
1865

1866-68
1859

1849-"64
1849

1866-67
1864-66
1859-61]

1859-60
1860-61
1867

1859-'61

>

Name of station.

Name of observer.

MAINE—Con'd.

Oldtown 2b. oe5e8 Rev. S. H. Merrill .--.
Oxtondte epee eener Howard D. Smith. -..
PALtenI aS jo semen cee Sribiveleth) 7-222 see
Pembroke ......- icv. E. Dewhurst. ...
Gi Yeereniciaietes eee William D. Dana....
Portland. -- oes se lenny Wallis. .:-12
Portland = -\---s-- John W. Adams .....
Rumford Point .--.| Waldo Pettingill.....
Sebecea.. at sasceee Edwin Pitman.......
South Thomaston .! Joshua Bartlett...---
Standishy-p ice sae John P. Moulton...

Steuben tecseeneeee eu wankers see seers
Thomaston........ George Prince and

Chr. Prince.
Mopsham)- ~~... sci. Warren Johnson...-.
Vassalboro........ James Van Blarcom..
WiAERENS < oe secee Calvin Bickford......
Websters. eerer Almon Robinson.....
West Waterville...-; B. F. Wilbur......-..
Whitehead -.....-. Joshua Bartlett.....-
Williamsburg .-..-. Edwin Pitman......-
Wiliamsburg...... Pitan soe l<eeice *
Wyndham ........ Samuel A. Eveleth --
MARYLAND.

Agricult’l College,
Pri ce George Co.

Montg. Johns, M.D ..

Annapolis......--- Prof. W. F. Hopkins. .
Annapolis........-. A. Zuinbrock, M. D--
Annapolis......... W.R. Goodman....-.
Baltimore ~~ 5.2 - Dr. Lewis F. Steiner -
Baltimore -........ Prof. Altred M. Mayer
Bladensburg ....-- Benj. O. Lowndes. - --
Catonsville........ George 8. Grape-.--.
Chestertown ....-- James A. Pearce, jr. --
Chestertown ...--- Prof. A. W. Clark..-.
Chestertown .----.- Rev. A. Sutton...----
Chestertown .....- Prof. J. Russell Dut-
ton.

Cumberland.....-. Mm. C. Atkingon:. 5. 5)
Ellicott’s Mills...--. BhilipyRabbe- seer
Emmittsburg ..-.-.-.- BN Smith’ see weems

Emmittsburg.-...-- Prof. C. H. Jourdan -.
Biredenick: 2.2. === Dr. Lewis F. Steiner.
Riredenclessmassen Henry E, Hanshew --
Frederick .........- Miss H. M. Baer..... -
Hagerstown. .-.---- Rev. J. P. Carter -....
Leitersburg ......- Lewis J. Bell -.....--
Leitersburg ....--- Jacob Ewell... =

Leonardtown. ....

New Windsor
New Windsor

Dr. Alex. McWilliams.
Prof. J. P. Nelson ....
Prof. J. F. Maguire...

Nottingham........ A. P. Dalrymple-.....
Oakland ee escort lO Wwikte Ooi his Reese
Port Deposit ...--- Henry W. Thorp...-.
Moke) Soe Sateeoseee EL NG STAC Ee arcjetei= loos
Sandy Hill....-... Isaac Bond ..........
Sykesville .-.....-- Prof. William Baer. -.
Sykesville ........- Prof. Wim. Baer and
Miss H. M. Baer,
Sykesville .......-. Miss H. M. Baer...--.
Sr. Imigoes.-.....-. Rey. Jas. Stephenson
Union Bridge..---- Warrington Gilling-
ham.
Walkersville ....-- Josiah Jones. ...-----
Woodlawn ......-.. James O. McCormick.
MASSACHUSETTS.
Ameret.< oc-ccs == Prof. B.S. Snell. ..--
Baldwinsville . ....| Rev. E. Dewburst....
Barnstable ........ BAR aGiOrd oe oclei<i= a=

Years of
observa-
tions,

1849-50
185153
1x68

1849

1862

185365
1855-60
1859~'6L
185668
1864

1853~’54
186568
1849-50
1851-68
1849-50
1851-52
1859-61
185¢- 63
1859-60
1865-67
1863-68
1849-150
1851~52
1863, '66
186768
1849-50
1851-56

1861-62

1851

1855-56
1856-"68
1852-53
1857-"59
1854-64
1805-67
1855-57
1858

1859-60
1861-64

1849
1864
1866-68
1867-68
185]
1852-54
1856-63
1805-66
1852, 54
1852
1858-"62
1858-59
1852
1854
1849
1857-"58
1849
1856-57
1849
1849-50
1851-52
1853-'54

1855-65
1859-68
1864

1849-51
1865-68

1849-68
1863~'65
1832-'53
METEOROLOGICAL STATIONS AND OBSERVERS.

List of Smithsonian meteorological stations and observers—Continued.

Name of station.

Mass.—Contmued.

Boston ....--....--
Bostenn--- cs. ses
Bridgewater..-..--
Bridgewater......-
Bridgewater.......
Bridgewater. ....--.
Brookline .... ....
Ty le eS See
Cambridge -.......
Cambridge ........

Ganton: - 62. 33
@hilses, 25 -2.5-5.-

PAX PUHy 2. nee
WaligRiver- = 230...
Fitchburg. -.......
1S) WGC a eee
Framingham ......
Georgetown.....--
Georgetown.......
Gratton. .sJeetee:
Himndaie = ose
Kingston -_~./.....-
Bawrence .......--.

GYM eats else ale

Mendon...-......-.
Mendon. 222...
Milfone. ss ocenn Se!
Nantucket ........
New Bedford......
N- w Bedford......
New Bedford....-.
Newbury .--..2.22-
Newburyport......
North Attleboro’ -.
Nortb Billerica .-..
Plainfield. .....--..
Price >. 2.222.
Randolph .........
Bichmond=>-.22s2¢

Rockport-:.....5..
Moexpary 25-655.

Sandwich ........

Southwi k .....--.-
Sprivgfield........
Spri igfield......-.
Stockbridge .......
Lt en an A
Dopsheld......22..
FPONSHCIG. ~o2cese 22
TROPRROI se 5 a ceecee
Topsfield. ......--.
Uxbridge-2..0.5-.>
West Dennis ......
Weekteld "22.5 cees
West Newton .....
Weymouth........

Williamstown.....
Williams own.....
Williamstown.....

Williamstown.....

Williamstown .....
Williamstown .....
Wood's Hole ....--
Worcester ........

Name of observer.

A SIDI cewcclcss
TAL PAGAINRS. ote saie

Ts As Dann p= 5's.
C. W. Felt and others.
Normal Schoo) ....-..
Rev. John B. Perry..
Martin N. Root....--
SIW.C.b0nd. 222/52...
Harvard College Ob-
servatory.

Augustus Fendler....
1095 50 ee epee es
Naval Hospital ..--.-
Geo. M. Morse, M. D.-
ASW. Mack). 2-----
James Ritchie......-.-
Charles C. Verry.....
George Raymond....
L. F. Whitecomb......
Gustavus A. Hyde...
Henry M. Nelson....
S. Augustus Nelson...
Rev.Wm.G. Seandlin.
‘Rev. BE. Dewhurst. --.
Guilford S. Newcomb.
John Fallon..-.......
Charles J. Gilliss-..--

Geo, A. Cunningham.
Jacob Bachelder...-.

Henry Rice. -42-s-1e
Dr. Jobn G. Metcalf...
Rev. A. K. Teele.....
Hon. Wm. Mitchell...
Thomas Baiiey .---.-.
Samuel Rodman.....
Edward T. Tucker...
John H. Caldwell....
Dr. H.C Perkins ....
Henny RICe 6 nn
Rev. Elias Nason....
Francis Shaw......-..
Hon. Jobn Brooks....
Orrin A. Reynolds... -
William Bacon ....-.

Rot Mussey o-.22..
Benjamin Kent .....-
N. Barrows, M.D....
Alfred Collin .. ......
Amasa Holcomb -....
Lucius C. Allin ....-.
Francis A Brewer...
Abraham S. Peet ....
Albert Schlegel......
Nathan W. Brown...
John H. Caldwell....
Arthur M. Merriam ..
Sidney A. Merriam -.
Dr. James Robbins. ..
Eugene Tappan......
* Rev. Dr. E. Davis...
John H. Bixby..-....
Dr. N. Q. Tirreil......

C. M. Freeman.......
Prof. P. A.Chadbourne
D. J. Holmes, Jas. Or-
ton, Lavallette Wil-
son, and others.
I. McGee, C. J. Lyons,
M.L.Berger & others.
As ronomical Obsev’y.
Prof. Albert Hopkins.
Bee GUrordiss2s50e0-
8. F. Haven. 252.56...

Years of
observa-

tions.

1857
1859
1854
1856-57
1858-59
1860-61
1868
1851
1855-58
1859-"60

1865-66
1857-58
1861-64
1860-61
1858-'59
1849

1861

1860-61
1857-61
1849

1865-"67
1867-68
186061

_ 1868

1866~68
1857~68
1849-51
18: i668
1849-50
1851-"52
1849

1849-68
1867-68
1853-61
1849, ’51
1853-68
1866-67
1865-68
1653-58
1851-58
1866-68
1857

185357
1861-62
1849-50
1851-63
1865-"68
1854

12849

1863-65
1859

184957
1853-56
1859

1849

185457
1860-62
1863-64
1864~66
1866-"68
1854

1864

1654-66
1867-68
1856-"57
1259

1851-"52
1854

1854~-'57

1857-'59

1860-68
1868

1854-55
1849-52

Name of station.

Mass.—Continued.

Battle Creek
Breste os: so eee

Central Mine

Copper Falls

East Saginaw

Grand Haven
Grand Rapids
Grand Rapids ..--.
Grand Rapids ...-.
Grand Rapids
Grand Rapids
Grand Rapids ...-.
Grand Rapids
Grand Traverse. . .

LUE TD Dene pedc

Lower Saginaw ...

Name of observer.

Drs. Ed. A. Smith, PF.
H. Rice, and others,

Dr. Geo. Chandler...

John §. Sargent and
others.

Dr. H. ©. Prentiss ....
Joseph Draper, M. D.

Je Wie EaktOD eo ccs ss.

Dr. H. R. Schetterly- -

ye VWoodrutt '~\=-)-\2)>

Prof. A. Winchell. ...

L. Woodruff and A.
Winchell.

Dr. W. M. Campbell.
Dr. Thos. Wheipley -
Dr. M. K. Taylor-....
Charles: Betts) 5.2.2...
S. H. Whittlesey...-.
Wm. Van Orden, jr-.
KElmore Wainwright. -
N. C. Southworth. .~

Mrs. Octavia C. Walk-

er.
Chas. S. Whittlesey - .
Heber Crane -...--...-
Wm. A. Raymond...
*Rev. Geo. Duffield. .
Dr. Zena Pitcher and
L. 8. Horton.
U.S. Engineers .....-.
Dr. Zena Pitcher ....
Mrs. M. A. Goff....-.
Dr. S. F. Mitchell--..
Drv Oe Clarke oss.

Lieut. C. N. Turnbull.

Lieut. C. N. Turnbull,
U.S. A.

Edwin Ellis, M. D....

Heber Squier.....-..

Franklin Everett ....

Dr. J. Hollister......

Alfred O. Currier....
i He Streng Vascee oe
Edwin A. Strong ..-.
De Die ar ery setae
KE. S. Holmes..-.-....

H. R. Schetterly.....
DPE Stren ge tsa stl='-

George E. Steele ....

Urea ine seme iee we
Dr, H. R. Schetterly - -

Harmon M. Smith....
Milton Chase ..-...-..
Frank Litile.......--
J. H. Foster and Ed-
ward Perrault ...-.
Cleveland Abhe ..--.
OO EL ONMNOS .'-< <i oom
Prof, R. C. Kedzie....
RU ANGe -es oeeres
James G. Birney..---
F. M. Reasner, M. D.
Peter White.........
Dr. G. H. Blaker, jr..
Dr. G. H. Blaker, jr.,
and I. M. Bacon.
Rev. L. M.S. Smith ..
Thomas Whelpley- ..

Capt. A. D. Perkins -.

Miss Fl. I. Whelpley..
G. W. Bowlsby .-....-

75

Years ot
observa-
tions.

185356
1865
1854
1857-58

1859-64
1866~'63

1865~"68
1852
1852-"54
1856-57
1854
1856-57
1855

1849-60
184854
1852-54
184952
1867-"68
1862-63
185152
1268

185458
1860-62
1856—57
1855

1249

1849-56
1858-60

186063
1861-62
1856
3854
1854~55
1858
1858-59

1864
1859-/63
1849
184951
185458
1857~60

1860-61
1864
1865-"68
1854
1860-63
1865-68
1864-67
1865-"66
1849-50
1851-52
1864-"67
1865-67
1868
1859
1859
1859
1859
1863-"68
1865-68
1849
1864
1857
1858-61
1862-"63

1860-'63
1852
1854
1855-60
1859-'61
“1
o>

METEOROLOGICAL

STATIONS AND OBSERVERS.

List of Smithsonian meteorological stations and observers—Continued.

Name of station.

MIcHIGAN—Con’d.

Monroe

Muskegon .-......
New Buffalo ......
Northport..2: 2...
Northiport-.....-..
Ontonagon.......-
Ontonagon
Ottawa Point

Oshtemo & elsew’e

Pennsylvania Mine.
Pleasanton
Pontiac

Redford Centre. As i:
Romeo\s2 2c... 5 so:

Romeossacereeeee-
Saugatuck
Sty James! as aecse
Sugar Island
Tawas City
Thunder Bay
Ypsilanti
Ypsilanti

MINNESOTA.

Avitoneen: Sa sess ee
Beaver Bay....---
Beaver Bay-.--.:-.
Beaver Bay....---
Beaver Bay ...-.---
Bowles Creek
Buchanan je. e
Burlington
Cass Lake
Cass Lake Mission-
Chatheldie 2s s2555-
Danville

Forest City
Forest City
Fort Ripley
Grand Portage ....
Hastings)... .422.
Hazelwood. -.-.....
Hennepin county...
Ttascayes soo i4 cee

Lae qui Parle
Lac qui Parle .....
Lake Winnibigosh-
ish.
Lapham
Lapham ..... gece

Lapham
Mankuto.-.--......
Minneapolis. ......
New Ulm
Pajutazee
Pembina
Brinceon 2524 see
Princeon
Red Lake
Red Wing
ted Wing
Sandy Luke
Sauk Centre
Sibley
Sibley

Name of observer.

Miss Helen I. and

Florence Whelpley.

Miss F. E. Whelpley -
John Wane ss-- 2. ==!
H, A. Pattison
J.B. Crosbye seein
H. R. Schetterley ----.
Rev. Geo. N. Smith. -.
H. Selb
Edwin Ellis, M. D-..
John Oliver
Matthew Coffin......
Milton Chase
Henry H. Mapes.-...
Richard H. Griffith. --
Joseph D. Millard....
James A. Weeks ....
James Allen, jr--.---
Geo. A. Stockwell -..
Chas. C. Smith, M.D .
Isaac Stone..........
Seth L. andG. P. An-
drews.
8. L. Andrews, M.D .-
L. H. Strong
James J. Strong
U.S. Engineers
U.S. Engineers
J. J. Malden
Miss G. Webb..-.....
C. 8S. Woodward ....

Dr. B. F. Babeock....

Thomas Clark

Henry Wieland......

Thos. Clark and C.
Wieland.

St: phen Walsh
A. A. Hibbard. .....-

Thomas A. Kellett. --
Rey. Joseph W. Holt.
A. C. Smith
Henry L. Smith
Rev. 8. W. Mauncey.
tichard Burdon......

SPAT atid So bedefsp vey ah
J. B. Clough
O. H. Kelley

Rev. S. L. Riggs --.-.
S.R. and A. L. kiggs.
Rey. Benj. F. Odell...

E. M. Wright
J. F. MeMullen and
D. F. Shoriwell.
Samuel Locke.......
Wm. Kilgore
Wm. Chene
Charles Roos
Rey. 8. R. Riggs..--.
Charles Cavilecr
O. E. Garrison
S. M. Byers
Rev. E. W. Carver ..
Rev. Jabez Brooks -.
Prof. A. M. Stephens -
Samuel Spuatesy..---.
Smith Bloomfield ....
C. W. Woodbury....
C.W. and, E.Wood-

Years of
observa-
tions.

Name of station.

Name of observer.

1861

186268
1859-63
1868
1857-62
1862-63
1865-68
1859-63
1865—68
1859-61
1859-62
1861
1864-68
1868
1868
1864
1257-59
1860
1861
1855
1856

1855, “57.
1854-56
185356
163

1261-63
1859-63
1859

1859-63

1865-67
185859
1859-60
1260

1861-68
1865-'66
1857-"58
1858-60
1852
1856 °
1859-61
1868
1849-51
1859-61
1862-66
1#54
1867
1861-62
1855-58
1864-65
1860-61
1863
1852-53
1854
1859

1857 *
1858

1858
1864
186468
1864- 68
1859~'62
1852
1856-’60
1260
1853-54
1856
1867
1852
1868
1865-67
1868

| Como

MINNESOTA—Co’d.

Smithfield
Stillwater ...-...-.
St. Anthony’s Falls.
St. Cloud
Dis WOSeDNISa seek
St. Joseph’s..-...-
Sv. Paul

St. Paul

Tamarack: © c--

| Travers des Sioux -

Wabashaw.....---
MISSISSIPPI.

Brook Haven......-
Columbus-¢ 222255
Fayette
Gainesville........
Garlandsville......
Granville i
Grenada
Grenuda

EHemando: 2a:
JACksone eee ase

Mariont yb see

Natchez
Natchez
Nutchez

Rauldinerss cc ees
PortiGabson: 225
PrainewWMine ses se
Vicksburg
Westville

Augustus
Bethany
Bolivar

Canton
Canton
Cape Girardeau .- .-
Carrollton-........
Carrollton...
Carrollton
Cassville

Dundee

Hiding sewesisiscioc aie
Farmington
Fort Pierre
Greenfield
Greenville
Hannibal
Hannibal

>

BAC Miiviness 2555
A. Vau Voorhies.....
C. F. Anderson
O. E. Garrison
Rev. D. B. Spencer...
ANOn Kellam: 272!
Rey. A. B. Paterson,
D. D.
John W. Heimstreet .
bury.
Mary A. Grave......
Rev. R. Hopkins ....
Spencer L. Hillier -.-

T. J. R. Keenan.....
James 8. Lull
E. W. Beckwith. ....
Rey. T. H. Cleland ..
Charles A. Folsom...
Rev. KE. 8. Robinson.
James H. Vincent. ...
Wim. Henry Waddell.
Prof. Albert Moore --

Wm. M. Johnston ...
Thomas Oakley

A. Greent\= sje 2 :

J. Edward Smith....
T. W. Florer, M. D..
David Moore
Ju CuibDse ane cee ae
Geo. L. C. Davis .....
J. Edward Smith...
TARY WUCW ALY; =~ \4\a15is[e/2

W. McCary
Prot. L. Harper.....-.
Rey. J. A. Sheppard .
Rey. E. 8. Robinson- .
Prof. J. Boyd Elliott -
Rey. B.S. Robinson...
A. L. Hatch
J. R. Cribbs
Col. C. B. Swasey....

Aug. Fendler........
Jobn T. Caldwell... .
Conrad Mallinckrodt
D. J. Heasten
W. J. Vankirk
James A. Race
Norris Sutherland. ...
George P. Ray
Dr. J. M. Parker ...
Rev. James Knoud ..
John Campbell
S: J. Huffaker. 2.2.
D. J. Kirby
M. L. Wyrick
George Whitcomb - ..
O. H. P. Lear
Ses. eal. cee eee
P. B. Sibley
Jobn BE. Vertrees ..-.
J.C. Agnew
WB Rizer22 5. 28

Fred. Behmer
S. B. Bowles, M. D--
OD; Dalton. sse2ee6
OU Pa hear. seer
Edw d Duffield, M. D
Jobn Christian. ......
John M. Smith
Philip Weber 2. <2...

Years of
observa-
tious,

1868
1858
1854
1x61-"62
1853-55
1854
1862~'68

1866-"67

1863-64
1849-51
1857-58

1867-'68
1855-59
1849

1866-67
1849

1853~55
1849

1854

1859-60
1866-68
1859-60
1849-52
1854

1866-67
1868

1849

1860-61
1849~51
1856

1858-61
1864-66
1866-68
1851-756
1860

1858-59
1855-57
185u—’61L
1849-52
1859-60
1860-61

1865-"68
1864-66
1859
1859-60
1859-61
1868
1859-61
1861—68
1868
1856~58
1859
1859
1269
1859-"61
1868
185455
185961
1864-66
1866-67
1859-’66
1859
1859
1854
1859-62
185060
1853
1855-56
1859-68
1868
1859-60
METEOROLOGICAL STATIONS AND OBSERVERS.

List of Smithsonian meteorological stations and observers—Coutinued.

Name of station.

MissourI—Cont’d.

Hermitage
Hornersville......-.
Jefferson City .....
Kinksyville 222s 2...
Kirksville
Laborville
Lancaster .........
Lexington
Lexington
L) xington

Sishaond Eat ee
Rockport
Rolla
Springfield........
St. Joseph
Stj bonis. ..< 22:

St.
St.

St.
St.

St.
St. L
St.
Storkton).-..2.5..:
Toronto

Union
Warrensburg.-....
Warrenton ........
Warrenton........
Waynesville
Westport

MONTANA.

Benton City-.......
Cainp Cooke .....-
CantonmentWright
Helena City.......

NEBRASKA,

Bellevue ..........
Belleyme:a-...se
Bellevue
Bollewne’: jeousse
Blackbir id Hilles 2

Daneta Gity sans.
Deer Creek
DeSoto... .~ 20
Elkhorn City......
Elkborn City......
Fontanelle ........

Fontanelle ........
Fort Pierre... ..22)
Forti Onion. saseae
Glendule..........

Glendale..........

Jonin
Kenosha
Nebraska City ...

Nebraska City ....
Nursery Hill
Omaha

~weceee weer

77

Name of observer.

Miss Belle Moore ...
WW Eis Elormer- 2542
Nicolas De Wyl -
Robert Byers, M
Sere Moyers... 22 ct
William Muir........
Jobn M. Weatherford.
dite A. Wilson....
ee W. Wilson, jr -
P. S. Wilson
B. P. ROA.

Char les Vogel
RoW) Binley.- - 224-2
C. Q. Chandler, M. D-
Homer Ruggles...--.
J. A. Stephens
Edward B. Neely-....
Dr. Geo. Engelmann.

A. Wislizenus, M.D -

G. Engelman, M. D.,
and A, Wislizenus,
M.D.

Augustus Fendler ...

*J. H. Lunemann....

Rev. P. W. Koning -.
Rey. F. H. Stuntebeck
Rev. I. Straetmans ..
VAIN VV CLINE ce ee cae
B. D. Dodson
Thomas J. Conkling -
Wn. M. Lumpkin ...
Ors Wie Moore). 2.220
Miss Belle Moore .-.-..
Rev. J. E. Pollock...
Marion F. Hamaker...
Mary A. Tidswell ...
B. G. Lingow
Rev. N. Scarritt.....

*Dr. H. M. Lehman .
*Dr. H. M. Lehman .
T. Koleski

D. E. Reed
Rey. Wm. Hamilton..
Henry M. Burt
Miss I. E. Caldwell ..
Rev. Win. Hamilton. .
Charles B. Smith.....
ll. HW. Brown
Major Thos. S. T'wiss-
Charles Seltz........
Anna M. J. Bowen...
John 8S. Bowen
John Evans

Henry Gibson
M. C. Rosseau .......
18) A) Df)

Dr. A. C. Child and
Miss J. 2. Child.
UT Ds ea
Bela White
Edgar E.
Py ZANNGG 2a 6.cc oes
R. O. Thompson .....
Wm. N. Byers.......
John G. Bain........

Years of

observa- Name of station.
tions.
NEBRASKA—Con’d.
1867-’68 || Omaha...--.......
1859='615)||" Omaha. 2-20 S288
1868 Bergisis 2. oer
1859 Rock Bluffs .......
185963 || South Pa-s wagon
1863~'64 road expedition.
1859
1859 NEVADA,
1860
1861 Stam Citye 22a
1859-61
1867-’68 NEW HAMPSHIRE.
1859-’62
1859060) Antrim 2220. S28
1859-’60 || Claremont -.......
1855-56 || Claremont ........
1867—68 || Claremont ........
1857—58 || Claremont ........
WES T58 | eoneerd, q---<scen
185957, || Concord|.22 ee 2-2
1859-67 || Concord ..........
1856257) || KConcord a2. beeeee
1858 Concorde oc eeial
10x01) 7) be eee
r 1859~'64 || Dunbarton........
186062 IDXGtCr atin acoeee
1864 1Ob 202) a ee
1861 Farmington .......
1865-’68 || Francestown ......
1868 Francestown ......
1859~’61 || Great Falls......--
1859-60 || Hanover..........
1859
1859 Isle of Shoals....--
1866 Waconia: = (-,</cs
1867 Lake Village.... ;
1868 Pantlton 2.2. 355/22
1859 Londonderry......
1859-63 || London Ridge... ..
1859 Manchester .......
1851
North Barnstead. ..
North Barnstead. -
North Littleton...
1868
1867 Portsmouth .......
1861-’62 || Portsmouth -......
1866-’68 || Salmon Falls.....-
Shelbourne -......-
Strattordscic5.-.e
1854 Stratham, -\.....-22
185767 || Stratford..........
1857 Tamworth’. ........
1868 Top of Mt. Wash-
1867-68 ington.
185e-"60 || Wentworth .......
1867-68 || West Enfield......
1859
1867~’68 NEW JERSEY.
1858-64
1865-'68 || Belleville .........
1859 Bloomftield........
1862~'63
1868 Burlington
1860-61 || Burlington
1854
1861 Burlington.......
1866-67
1868 Burlington ........
Cinnaminson ....-.-
1865 Cole’s Landing ---.
1859-62 || Dover ...... ..---
1859 BWOOd - }\..< sedis
1868 MTEGUOIl a)e.-s<acne
1865
1857-59 || Freehold..........
185060 Greenwich ........

J.S. Fritts.

|
Name of observer.

James P, Allan......
ChBYWrellsec.. 25.8
H.C. Pardee . inane
CxHEMillert 3 a2225.0!

Rev. Wm. Hurlin ....
PF. N. Freeman .......
Arthur Chase........
*Stephen O. Mead ...
Linus Stevens .....--
Dr. Wm. Prescott ..-.
H. BE. Sawyer...-....
HePaColbyee-. sec
John T. Wheeler.....
James C. Knox ......
Rey. L. W. Leonard. .

Alfred Colby
Rev. L. W. Leonard. .
Rev: E:ias Nason ....
WowisvBelNe s crlssce ISS
Dr. Martin N. Root...
A. H. Bixby
Henry E. Sawyer....
Prof. Ira Young and
A. A. Young.

Thos. B. Laighton - ..
J.W.French, agt. L. }
W.C.&W.M.Co..
Robert C. Whiting -
Robert C. Mack......
Tsaac S. French, M. D.
Hon. 8. N. Bell.

R. F. Hanscom. .....-.
Charles H. Pitman ...
Rufus Smith

C. Chase, U.S. N -
Jobn Hatch
George B. Sawyer -.-

Fletcher Odell. .--.---
B. Gould Brown ...-.
Andrew Wiggins .--.
Branch Brown ....-.

Peter L. Hoyt -
Nath. Purmort.

Thos. B. Merrick.....
Rall, COOKGso a. seo cs

Prof. Adolph Frost. --
Dr. E. R. Schmidt. --.-

Prof, A. Frost and Dr.
BE. R. Schmidt.

John C. Deacon......

William Parry.......

James S. Lippincott. .

Howard Shriver .....

B. ©. Simpson and O.
R. Willis.

Years of
observa-
tions.

186961
1868
1867
1860-"61
1859-69

1865

1866-"68
1857-53
1859-'68

1864-67
1&867—68
1849- 57
1857-58
1858
1865-’68
1868
1849
1851-52
1868

1853-"55
1861-65
1860—"61
1857

1857-58
185457
1853-54

1849
1857-61

1863~64
1849-57
162 2 ce

18602 ee
1859—'60
1863-64
1849
186768
1853-54
1856
1856-’68
1855-758
1849-60
1859-68
18 7
1859

1859
1856-58

1849
1849-58
1862-63
1849-54
1855
1857-58
1856

1863-’68
1859-60
1864-66
1266-68
1867-"68
1857-'58

1859~62
1856-61
=~l
o/9)

METEOROLOGICAL STATIONS AND OBSERVERS.

List of Smithsonian meteorological stations and observers—Continued.

Name of station.

N. JERSEY—Con’d.

Greenwich
Greenwich

Greenwich ........
Haddontield....-..
Haddonfield. .....-
Lambertville .-..--
Long Branch....--
Long Branch..-....-
Morristown .-.....-
Morristown -.-..--.
Morristown ..--.--.
Morristown ..-..---
Mount Holly ....-.
Ne@witle 22). ses -ie
New Brunswick. --

New Brunswick. -..
New Brunswick...
New Brunswick. --.

New Brunswick. --
Newfield. ....-----
New Germantown.
Newton )= 5.5.05
Passaic Valley...-.
Patersonieseesaeai-s
IPrOgTess)sm\=» -=</=1-\-
Readington -......
Riceville. --)...2/5: 5
Rio Grande ...--.-.-
Salemie ose ssseecice
Salemies tees ee
Seayilless..0..2c25
Seaville:<-3..4-eee
Sergeantsville.....
Trenton wis25.<a¢ 5-8
Mineland!2.o (52.
Woodstown....--.

NEW MEXICO.

Pope's Expedition.
NEW YORK.

Adam’s Centre ....

All pSieecinssetecreee
Angelica... .-----
Auburn ees). c.eees
Baldwinsville .....
Beaver Brook .....
Ballport jn .e see
Beverley....-..-2-.2
Blackweil's Island,
Nii:
Brookhaven.....-..

Bufialow eee bac
Buitaloy eee. cn'

Buifalo}-------eees
Cantons: 2ae2-c253
Cazenovia.......-
Cazenovia ........

Charlotte ..o2csse5
@hatham.- <2 52 se.
Chatham)... <2...
Olinton<25-. 55-52
Clinton. te aeciaen

Clockville.........

Name of observer.

Clarkson Sheppard ..

C. Sheppard and Miss
R. C. Sheppard.

Miss R. C. Sheppard...
John Clement, jr-----
Samuel Wood .....--
Jacob S. Gary ..-.--.
Howard A. Stokes. .-
Arch. Alexander.....
Dr. S.C. Thornton -.-
Miss E. E. Thornton

Jos. W. Lippiccott ---
Morgan J. Rhees, M.D
W. A. Whitehead ....
Prof, Geo. H. Cook. --

Edwin Allen and G.
W. Thompson.

Geo. W. Thompson .-
BD Couch 22a 2-5
Arthur B. Noll....-..
Thos. Ryerson, M.D.
Wm. Brooks.........
Wm. Brooks..-.......
Thos. J. Beans.......
John Fleming -...--.
Prot. L. Harper ......
Jerusha R. Palmer. --
CAMeDodd eo --m- 08
George Watson......
Barker Cole......-.

BO Coleco
John T. Sergeant ..-.
Ephraim R. Cook..-.
Jno. Ingram, M. D ...
George Watson....-.

James M. Reade.....

C. D. Potter, M. D ..
H. M. Paine, M. D.--
ieph) Sy Munper=./oe-
James H. Ball-.......-
Bee yAlbasceccneccs

BROW ieitns! once
Thos. B, Arden....-.
W. W. Sanger, M. D.

E. A. Smith and
daughters,

AC Hiesmer ao. . cece

Elias O. Salisbury -..

DriS) Babunt..s-2o-
WD. Allene o2)5 545 5
William Ives ........

U. S. Engineers......
I. W. Johnson ......
Prof. Aaron White. --
Prof. Wm. Soule .-...

Andrew Mulligan. -..
Ccrnelius Chase. ..-.
C. Thornton Chase. - -
Prof. 0. Rogm.-.....
H. M. Paine, M. D...

J. P. Chapman ......

Years of

observa-
tions.

1864
1865-'67

1849, ’61
1859
1865-’68
1865 °
1861-'68
1849—68
1854
1865-"68
1854
1859
1860

1861-65
1867-68
1868
1868
1863~"65
1866-68
1863-65
1866-'67
1860-’61
1868
1856
1859
1865-67
1868
185758
1865-68
1267~68

1860

1855-"57

1859-61
1865-66
1849-54
1849-51
1854-58
1860-65
1849-67
1853-54
1857-62
1853-59
1855-57

1868

1849-52
185354
1860
1854
1854
1858-62
1866-'68
1860-63

Name of station.

N. YORK—Con’d.

Depauville........
East Franklin

Farmingdale ......
Fishkill Landing --

Fort Niagara

Great Valley

Inst. for Deaf and

Little Genesee ..--
Lockport). sc.

McGrawville

Newark Valley-..-.
Newburg .- ........

Name of observer.

Matthew Mackie.....
L. L. Fairchild ......
Sereno Clark........
Rey. John J. Brown.
Henry Hass. nar
Drs Je We Smith-..2-
A. S. Wadsworth....
Stephen Landon.....
Anna 8. Landon.....
Laurens A. Langdon.
ARB Covert <<<
John C, Merritt......
* Wi. Hl. Denning. ..- -
Rey. Thos. H. Strong
Rey. R. D. Van Kleck
Rev. W. W. Howard.
Rev. BE. T. Mack .-...

JohnvAubier® -25<.- sce

Claudius Pernot .....
H. M. Paine, M. D...
Rey. Jno. Aubier and

Prof. A. T. Monroe.

eA MCMOnel woe

Prof. Solomon Sias -.

I. Wefimanteos5.-cce

George W. Fries.....

Thos. B. Arden.....-.
Rev. W. D. Wilson. - -
Job Elleston.......-.

Wm. Tompkins...-..
Rev. Sanford W. Roe

Dr. P. O. Williams. --

Cyrus H. Russell .-..

Warren P. Adams...
Kathalo Kelsey...--.

Col. B.C. Frost.-....

David Trowbridge. .-
A. A, Hibbard.......

Prof. Oran W. Morris.

J. D. Ingersoll......-
Rev. Sanford W. Roe.
Albert G. Carll ....--
Peter Ried....-.-.. ae
beh Munger: -s.c—s-
CxGAMemiam: s=--
JORNWelt = sa--s2.< c=
Prof. S. A. Lattimore.
Daniel Edwards -.-.-.
BY GidGin gs) -c\n\-.c< ee
James B. Trevor ....

“e) Johnbefterts ... s+

Trah R. Adams ......
J. Caroll House......
Dr. E. W. Sylvester -
HK. A. Dayton....-...
Lewis Switt .........
J. Metcalf Smith.....
Jobn R. French......
D. S. Bussing and J.
W. Bussing.
J. W. Bussing. .....-
James Lewis ........
William Day .-..-..--.
®. A. Smith and Miss
N. Smith.
Ezra Parmelee ...---
Rey. Samuel Johnson
Jamts H, Gardiner --
U.S. Naval Station. -
J, S. Gibbons .......

Years of
observa-
ticns.

1859-62
1852
1861
1859-61

1856~60
1860

1862~68
1856

1856~'57
1858

185-62
1864

186366
1857-59
185963
1854, 63
1864

1866—67
1860-61
1863-68
185557
186468
1859

1859

186668
1852~54
1860~68
1854

1859-60
1859-'60
1865~'67
1860-62
1855~57
184954
1856—60
1865~68
1849-68

1859-60
1863-66
13849
1856-58
1854
1868
1855-56
1861
1866-68
1849
1849-"52
1849-58
1854
1854-58
1859-’62
1849-59
1863
1856-57
1855-57
1867

1868
1861-68
1859
1864-67

1849
1868
1864~'68
18497

_ 1854
METEOROLOGICAL STATIONS AND OBSERVERS.

List of Smithsonian meteorological stations and observers—Continued.

Name of station. Name of observer.

N. YORK—Con'd.
S. De Witt Bloodgood

Caleb Swann and Dr.
J. P. Loines.,

New York
New York, (East-
ern Dispensary.)

NGéw:¥ ork 21-02 Fred. I. Slade. ..... 32
New York, (Ruth- | Charles C. Wakely. -.
erford’s Obser-
vatory.)
New Sork <-a.-<.6: Naval hospital-. ....
New York, (N. Y. | E. B. Cook-.-.......-..
Skating Club.)
New York ....-...- Rev John M. Aubier-

New York, (Colum- | Prof. Chas. A. Joy...
bia College.)
New York, (Cen-

tral Park Obser-

Haden Patrick Smith

vatory.)
North Argyle ..... Geo. M. Hunt .......
North Hammond ..| Charles A. Wooster. -
North Salem ....-.. John F. Jenkins ....-.
North Salem .....- Mrs. M. J. Lobdell..
North Volney -.... od; Mo Partrick - <5. =.
INIcnOIS'= Soo see on Re Howell’ 2: --\ioe.
Ogdensburg. .....- Viviowld, (SiGe ease
Oneida: =. 4.25.22 Dr. Stillman Spooner.
Oiwiro: siss.o83- GAStrongy 335220527
Ofwepos.-22s2s-5- io deb 2 Cin pee oamee
Oswego-.......-.. Capt. W.S. Malcolm.
(0102 Soe ate Prof. Weston Flint -.
Ohyidee sa s- oe cena J. W. Chickering -.--.
Palizades)- <i cece W. S. Gilman, jr ....
Palmyra ..-....-=: Stephen Hyde-......
IPEGKSEUY. ---10a=5-% Charles A. Lee .---..
Penna ssa Dr. H. P. Sartwell --
isiyny Leite Goeeeee David Trowbridge. ..
Philipstown. .....- Thos. B. Arden..-.--.
Pine well o-oo Godfrey Zimmerman.
Plainville ......-..- ated NOTROD 5.22 ooo
Plattsburg ......-.|. Joseph W. Taylor. ..
Rompey = 22-<2.5\5-15 S. Marshall Ingalls --
Pompey Hill .....-. John F. Kendall.....
Poughkeepsie -.... Prof. C. B. Waring ..
Rochester «=~ <.../..- Prof. Wetherell...--.
Rochester ......... * Prof. C. Dewey. -.
Rochester ..-...... *Prof. M.M Matthews
Rochester ......... H. Wells Mathews...
Rochester ......... WOM ae Bisk) o,< 3e2
Sackett’s Harbor ..| U. S. Naval Station...
Sackett’s Harbor -.| Mandrin Linus ...-..
Sackett’s Harbor ..| H. Metealf .... ....-
Sag Harbor ..-...-. BD. N. Byram ..-..5..
Saratoga.......... Walter H. Riker.....
Saugerties -....... R. G. Williams ..--..
Saugerties -....... Jas. W. Grush, Jas.
M. Alexander, and
Levi 8. Packard.
Schenectady ...... Robert M. Fullerand
Haren V. Swart.
Schenectady ....-. Alexis A. Julien.....
and H, A. Schauber,
Seneca Falls ...... Blisha Foote.........
Seneca Falls ...... John P. Fairchild....
Seneca Falls ...... Chas. A. Avery.....-
Seneca Falls ...... Philo Cowing........
Sennett 2: ssa... Henry B. Fellows ...
Sherburne ........] Rev. Jas. R. Haswell
Sivug Sing -.......!] C. F. Maurice .......
Skaneateles ....... W. M. Beauchamp. -.
Sloansville........ iW, -roetter .-.....;
Smithville ........ J. Everett Breed.....
Somerville ........ Dr. F. B. Hough ....
South Edmeston...| L. A. Beardsley..-..
South Hartford....| Grenville M. Ingals-
bee.
South Trenton ....| Capt. Storrs Barrows.
Spencertown...... A. W. Morchouse....
Spencertown...... Irvivg Magee........

Years of
observa-
tions.

1854-'55
1854-61

1860-61
1860-63

1860-"68
1863-"66

1865-'67
1865-68

1867-68

1864

1866-68
1849-53
1855-"56
18628

1857-68
1849-52
1854-63

1864-"68 |

1849
1851—'54
185468
1861
185558
1868
126465
1854
185457
1859
1864
185152
1859~60
1856~'57
1855-57
185758
1856
1849
1849
1855-67
1859-67
1868
1868
1819
185152
1859-63
1849-58
1856~'59
1863—66
1859-60

1864
1858-59

1849

1849-52
1853-54
1861-"64
1857

1865

1849-52
1860—'67
1868

1849-52
1854-56
1849-51
1849-"51
1863-'68

1863-'68
1855-57
1858

Name of station.

N. YORK—Con’'d.

Spencertown......
Springville........
Springville........
Stapleton
Suffern
Syraense. os 4225s cn
Theresa

Witieseessccer on oom

Wialesia sis dee aac
Warsaw
Waterburgh
Waterford

West Concord.....
West Day... ......
West Farms.
West Morrisania. -.
White Plains......
Walsone-2 62) sosc5

NORTH CAROLINA,

Asheville
Asheville

Chapet Hill
Davidson College. .
Gastonecs.<~Jjse 0.
Goldsborough ...-.
Greensboro’. ......

Jackson....-.-....

Lake Scuppernong
Lake Scuppernoug
Lincolnton ........

(REIGIPM oc cic ele cieiare
Ralereh) Ooo a. seni
Rutherfordtown . ..
Statesville
Thornbury........
Thornbury........
‘Trinity College,

Warrenton ........
Vial 23) ee

OHIO.

JATIGVOWES s orn\0icu cian’
Athens

Austinburg
Austinburg
Austinburg

Name of observer.

Levi S. Packard.....
J. W. Earle
Moses ane... <=. <=.
Spencer L. Hillier ...
James H. Warren ...
Uenry L. Dinsmore...
S O. Gregory
Francis M. Rogers...
Miss Elizabeth Morris.
John W. Heimstreet .
Prof, E. A. H. Allen.
Prof. Dascom Greene -

Joseph Graham..-..-..
i. B: Bartlett. 2.2...
S. O. Carpenter......
Dr. Stillman Spooner.
ee MLOLRC wate scree ee
David Trowbridge. -.
Joun C2 House. 22...
Dr. P. O. Williams ..
James M. Tower.....
H. M. Sheerer......-

Lewis Woodward....
Jude M. Young.....-
Jey sp GOLLON =r Syste iarats
Te ABCA) asjececne |
CO Aint Hea ae areal '

IE. S. Holmes .-.....- !

E. J. Astcn
J. F. E. Hardy, M. D.
F. J. Koon

Prof. James Phillips. .
Prot WijCs Korres.
Geo. F, Moore, M. D.
Prof. D. Morelle.....
Geo. F. Moore, M. D-
Prof. E. W. Adams -.

Sam’l W. Westbrook.
Alexander Wray ....
Rey. Fred. Fitzgerald
Prof. N. B. Webster .
Rey. J. A. Sheppard.
De Morrell. 22508 /s.c5
Dr. J. Bryant Smith.
Robert H. Drysdale...
Rev. A. McDowell...
JOnnges Mills. << <..\2.2.
Wm. R. Hicks, M. D
T. Carter and W. H.
Hamilton,
W. H. Hamilton..-..
Rev. Fisk P. Brewer
J. W. Calloway- .---
Thos. A. Allison..-..
Rey. F. Fitzgerald. -.
Dan. Morelle .....-...
Rev. B. Craven...-.-.
Dr. W. M. Johnson. .
I. W. Adams

Dr. W. W. Spratt ....

Prof. W. W. Mather. -

J. G. Dole and C.S,
S. Griffing,

David S. Alvord.....

Years of
observa-
tions.

1861
1849
1851
1867-68
1863
185!—"52
1861-"68
1264, 66
1865-"68
1849-68
1853-54
1856-57
1860-61
1856-57
1868
1260
1860-68
1854
1853-63
1865
1868
1856-63
1855-57
1849~’5L
1857-58
1860
1856-"57
1858-59
1856-57
1857-59
1862-’68
185864

185758
1867—68
1868
1849-62
1867-68
1849~6L
1858-59
1856-58
1855-758
1859-61
1860-"61
1868
1859
1867
1852-54
1868
1849-52
1851
1854
1858
1856-61
1866-67
186768
1859

1860
1866-68
1849
1866-68
1854 y
1854 *
1860~'61
1857-58
1866

1860-61
1849-51
1862-"63

1864
1864
1864-66
50

METEOROLOGICAL

STATIONS AND OBSERVERS.

Last of Smithsonian meteorological stations and obsemvers—Continued.

Name of station.

OxnTO—Continued.

Avon
Bellecentre

Bowling Green.-..
Bowling Green....
Breckville
Cardington== 223-2
Centralia
@heyvistesseeeesee:
Cincinnati. <3.

Cincinnati. 25.222:

Gincinnatil= 222232:
Cincinnatizee ee
Cincinnati... 2222.-:
Cincinnatis:. 222.
Cincinnati=>. 2.2.2.
Cleveland.......-.

Cleveland-........

Cleveland: -....2..
Cleveland=<222¢324
Cleveland.........

Cleveland.........
College Hill-....-.
College Hill ....-.-

Coliege Hill.....-.
College Hill......-
Collingwood
‘Collingwood
Coshocton.......-..
Columbusee tees
Croton
Crotoneesee. 2. Ste

Crotonesseece ence:
Cuyahoga Falls .--
Dallasburg......-.
Dayton sence

Daytonecsess setae
Mayitonl-ceeecece as
East Cleveland. ..-.
East Fairfield -....
East Rockport .-..
Watonv. eee esac
Edinburg
Hrankliniesooe cee.
ireedomeeneecse
Hréedomit a. wesc

Freedom. -.-- ~~~
Gallipolis
Gallipolis

Garrettsville ......
Germantown...-..
Germantown....-.
Granville
Granville
Harmar

Hillsborough ......
Hillsborough......
iran? s22 222 neee
Hiram
Hiram
Hocking Port .....
Homerneseseacece ss

Dro Job wsintland! ssa.
Thomas J. Lirsh ....
Smith Savford.....-.
W.L. Schenck, M. D.
H. M. Davidson....--
H. M. Davidson and
Wilson Davidson,
Wilson Davidson ....
GOW. hivesay =i...
AES Rogerkivee. tess

Warren Pierce ....-.
L. Groneweg......-.
JS ein kerdieeoet os

Dr. 8. N. Sanford ....
Wi GiiBollers +... <2
Rev. J. MeD. Math-
ews,
CUCuTanesse ee oe Je
Dr. C. C. Samms ....
S. L. Hillier and 8.
M. Luther.
Spencer L. Hillier -.-
S.M:. Lutheme..:-2-2
Dr. John Rhoades .-..
Thos, F. Withrow ...

1854
1863-65
1857-58
1855-57
1859-’60
1861

1862
1854-'56
1857-58
1864-"68
1861-"63
1852-756
1856-57
1849
1849-58
1860-61
1851-60
1863-68
1857
1863
1855

1856
1856-60
1859-60
1852

Years of
Name of observer. observa- Name of station.
tious.
OHIO—Continued.
Rev. L. F. Ward ...-. 1858-60 || Hudson ...........
Rey. 2. Shields and J.| 1857-"59
C. Sinith, Hudson\seevceee see
Rey. Robert Shields..} 1854
1860-"61 || Hudson ...........
Joseph Shaw........ 1855-’60
Prof. G. M. Barber ...} 1854
George W. Crane....| 1859-68
W.R. Peck, M.D ..-.| 185763 || Hudson ...........
ohn Clarkessss-.2 ss 1866-68
RevaSeulscbuillier . 2.41) 859-61), Munroe. so oes.
Hubert A. Schauber | 1863 Nenana coe tase ene
Hubert A. Schauber .| 1864-66 || Jack-on-..........-
HKbenezer Hannaford.| 1855-57 || Jackson........--.
Ao} rbot) et aes eee ee 1849
BOY PELULtt alee e scio 2 1854 JACKSONE oa)ssineso5-
185158 | |PeacCKSONe sasc kee eas
Geo. W. Harper:-:--. 1255-"68 || Jacksonburgh .....
A. A. Warder -..-..- 185963 || Jefferson. ........-
RC. & J. H. Phillips:| 185964 || Keene .--.. 2-222. -
Ba Mappan’ 22.222 186062) || "Keene! = <2 2 eee. #
RACH Phillipsee sees: 1865—68 || Kenton -.-.--:---:
Gustavus A, Hyde...} 1851
1855-61 || Kelly’s Island ..--.
1868 Kine ston: 5-2. e eae
Edward Wade....-.. 1852 Vatdyette sates
Edward Colburn -...| 1858-’63 || Lancaster .........
U.S. Engineers. --..-. 1860-63 || Lancaster......--
G. A. Hyde and Mrs. | 1862-’67 || Lancaster.........
Hyde. Lancaster. sn...
Me rAVe Sma: See ee tee 186668 || Lebanon ..........
Gass Onnisby= =e 1854 Little Hocking .-...
Prof. R. S. Bosworth 1853-57 || Little Mountain .- --
Prof. J. H. Wilson. --.| 1858-65 || Madison .......-.
J. W. Hammitt...... 185968 || Madison ..........
L. B. Tucker.can ....} 1855-67 || Mansfieid .........
Henry Bennett .....- 1856-57 || Marietta ...-...--.
Sarah E. Bennett....| 1858 Marictta 2.220.522 52-
Thos. H. Johpson....| 1861-’62 || Marion ...........
Theo. G. Wormley...} 1851,’52 || Marion...........-.
Mark Sperry ...-...- 1860 Martin’s Ferry ..-.
Rev. E. Tiompson | 1861 Me grin ee) eatece
and Mark Sperry. Medinairee Secret
Rev. Elias Thompson.| 1862-'63 || Middlebury .......
‘D. M. Rankin ......- 1864—65 || Milnersville .......
BGs lai sae? 1859-63 || Monroe county ..-.
Cooper Female Semi- | 1856 Mount Auburno....
pary.
Jas. rd Fischer, M.D_} 1856 Mt. Pleasant ...---
Lewis Groneweg ..-..| 1858 Mount ‘labor...-..-
Mrs. M. A, Pillsbury..| 186!-’62 || Mount Union....-.
S. B. MeMillan....... 1859-67 || Mount Vernon...-.

Mount Victory -.-.
Newark. ba. cae

New Concord ...-
New Lisbon..-...-.-
New Westfield ....
North Bend -
North Fairfield ..-.

Oberlin): sees esse
Oberlin
Perrysburg. 2.0.

Perrysburg ...--.-

Portsmouth
Portsmouth
Portsmouth
Rennbhic: Seecces es
Richmond.........

Years of

Name of observer. observa-
tiots.
Prof.C. A.Youngand | 1858-’59

E. W. Childs.
Prof. C. A. Young
and A. C. Barrows,
Prof. C. A. Young, EB.
W. Stuart, J. C. El-
lio t. W. Pettingill,
H. R. Watterson.
Prof. C. A. Youngand
J. C. Eilioit.
Edmund W. West --.
DOA es ONL epee re

Geo. L. Crookham...
G. L Crookham and
M. Gilmore.
SeaBeWiogd seerstee = it
MsGilmorei- set cece
J. B. Owsley, M. D-.
James D. Herrick --.

Dr. E. C. Bidwell. --.
BE. Spooner.-.--.-...

C. H. Smith, M. D...

Geo. C. Huntingdon. .
Prof. Jno. Haywood
Samuel Knoble....--
Lewis M. Dayton....
HUW JaeCeere ewe:
Vie OE KARE Saas “|
JeiWer Lowsonese cess
Joseph C. Hatfield. -..
James Fraser ......--
Be De Rerniss meee eee
Rev. L. S. Atkins. --.
Mrs. Ardelia C. King.
He wARnBentoneerree ce
DiPyAdamse ee ace
Prof. J. W. Andrews -
EP ASP Lnteteeerer eae

Charles R. Shreve -..
Rev. L. F. Wuard....
Wan) iGlarkesk 22%

Rev. D. ‘Thompson ..
Enoch D. Johnson...
Senior class Mt. Au-
burn Female Inst.
David H. Tweedy...
William Lapham ....

Newton Authony.-.-.
IF. A; Benton==22-=2-
W.C. Hampton...---
Lewis M. Dayton. ..-.
Isaae Dille
Prof. S. G. Irvine .-.-
JE IBENNEM os cceai
AC ee eLOMe! re Hee
RABS Wardera-o--2e

O. Burras
Prof J. R. W. Sloane.

Rev. Alfred Newton.
Profs. Fairehild and
Dascomb.
Prof. J. N: Allen .....
Prof. J. H. Fairchild. .
Frederick Allen .....
F., Hollenbeck -...-..-

F. and D. K. Hollen-
beck.
James H. Poe
D. B. Cotton, M.D ..
Lud. Engelbrecht. -. .|
Stephen S. Dorsey- .-
Jacob N. Desellem -.

1860-61
1862

1863

1854
1859
1849-54
1855

1866-68
1859-68
1863—67
1867
IB57
1258
1859
1866
1849
1862-63
1867-68
1857-60
1859-’63
1851-52
186 63
184955
1865-68
1259
1867
1857-58
1858-63
1849
1862-68
1859
1868

1859-’60
1849
1857-60
1853-55
1859-60
185455
1859-63
1849
1857-68
1862-63
1868
1867-68
1852
1849
1854
1861—68
1849-50

1851-52
1857
1853-756
1860
185456
1858
1857

1855-58
1859-63
1863-65
1851

1854-55
METEOROLOGICAL STATIONS AND OBSERVERS.

List of Smithsonian meteorological stations and observers—Continued.

Name of observer.

Name of station.

Oxn1o—Continued.
Ripley ....-....-.: Uh, SRG oc eeoOSsor
Ripleyesses a=. Dr. G. Bamback.....
Riplty,:-------.-- Mrs. M. M. Marsh ...
Russell Station....| J. W.Gamble -.-...-.
Sandusky ..-...-... Thomas Niell.....-...
Savaunah......... Dr. John Ingram ....
Saybrook -.....--. Rey. L. S. Atkins -...
Saybrook.... .... James B. Fraser.....
MEWHIG fs ao eis ea Rev. L. F. Ward ....
Sharonville ....--.. Wm F. Bowen .---..
SURE Re RES SS Joseph Shuw.....-..-
Smithfield......... DIHeiweedy =~-ss..
Smithville ......-- John H. Myers ......
Smithville ......- Wm. Hoover .....-.-
Steubenville ...--. R swell Marsh ......
Steubenville ...... Dab. DOVIO! 22sec
Springtield........ Samucl C. Frey .....
Moledoy-nsa0'= ean Sarah E. Bennett. --.
E. Bb. Raffensperger - -
J.B. Trembley, M. D
--.| Charles L. McClung. .
Twinsburg......-. N. A. Chapman. ....
Unionville ........ Miss A, Cunningham.
Unionville ........ Mrs. Ardelia C. King
WGrpann)-s.S eos Piof. M. G. Williams
West Bedford ..... H. D. MecUarty......
Welchtield ........ BEB Abela sf sscc.- 2
Wellington........ Rev. L. F. Ward .....
Westerville .-..... Prof. Jno. Haywood. .
Westerville ....... Prof. H. A. Thompson
Western Star...... A SSS iIVer. =e. =.
West Union....... Rev. Wm. Lumsden .
WWVOOSLER Joico 0s.2 Eugene Pardee ...-..
WiGomer!--. J. .- Martin Winger ....-..
Williamsport ...... John R. Wilkinson. .-
Windham ..-....... Samuel W. Treat....
Yankeetown ..... A Jacque —------.-
Yellow Springs....| W. A. Anthony ......
Zauesfield ........ John F. Lukins....-.
Zanesville......... L. M. Dayton ........
Zanesville......... Adam Peters ........
Zanesville ........ J.G. FE. Holston, M.D.
OREGON,
Albany. .s-so-ese- S. M. W. Hindman ...
AUST ie oti cece R. B. Ironside. ......
AuDURMecsews were s S.M.W. Hindman ..
Copvailisina-.=- -=—- A.D. Barnard ...-.-..
Fort Snyder. ...... James A. Snyder....
Fort Thompson ...| W. H. Wagner.......
Oregon City..-.--. Geo. A. Atkinson .-..
Portland.......... Geo. H. Stebbins...-..
SPAT) cel eee Spee oe Thos. H. Crawford. -.
CE Gy A Beene Lah Se eas
PENNSYLVANIA,

Abington ......... Rodman Sisson ......
Altoona........... W.R. Boyers.....-.-
Altoona........... Thomas H. Savery -.

Andersville ..-. TO WGIRED sic occ eens
Beaver. deseeaes a. Rev. R. T. Taylor....
Beaters ssesesee ee *Samuel Brown.....
Bedford ..2ss8 oe: Rev. H. Heckerman..
Bellef nte......... MOL OOIYVON) 2552.05.45.
Bendersville....... Franklin W. Cook...
Bendersville ...... T. E. Cook & Sons...
Berwick .......... John Eggert....-.---.
Bethlehem ........ L. R. Huebener ......
Bethlehem ......-. Nathan C. Tooker ...
Bethlehem ......-. Prof. A. M. Mayer....
Blairsville......... W.R. Boyers........
Blooming Grove...| John Grathwohl.....
Brookville ........ D. S. Deeriug.-.....-
Byberry ...... »--.| John Comly .... ....

68

Years of
observa-
tions.

1857-6]
{864-67
1807-68
1859-’60
1854-68
1854-"03
1862-’63
1864-66
1861-62
1859—60
1857
1866
1e(4-66
1868
1849-63
1865-68
1859-61
1859
1r59
1860-68
1859-63
1860
1854-57
1858
1855-68
1856-57
1#57-66
1863
1858-62
1868
1863-67
1861
1860-61
1849
1864-68
1867-68
1857-59
1854
1868
1854
1856
1859
1853-57

1865-"68
1863-"65
1864-65
1866-"68
1858

1857-58
1851-52
1858-59
1861

1863-65

1864-"68
1859-60
1863

1854

1867-68
1852-"58
1859-61
1858-59
1859

1859-60
1856-61
1863-"65

1857-58

Name of station.

Name of observer.

81

Years of
observa-

PENN.—Continued.

Byberry
Byberry
Canonsburg .......
Canonsburg .......
Canonsburg ....-.

Canonsburg .......
Canonsburg ....-.

Cariisle
Carlisle
Carlisle
Caxpenter: o> --<---
Ceres
Chambersburg ..-.
Chromedale ...-....
Chromedale -......

Clarksburg........
Connellsville ......
Darby
DD VDERIY sees siecacia =
Hastone ee, eeee

EGstonicas sence:
PAStON acs ccisanis ne
Baston! sesce sass
Bastonies ses cece:

STO Eaen cfee ears
East Smithfield. ...
Erie
Ephrata
allsington

MReéepotte sso. csc.
Keeportese soc
Wreeport. a-02 oa
WIRGe HONG seca is)
Fleming
Fountain Dale ....
Germantown....--
Germantown....-..

Germantown......

Gettysburg
Gettysburg

Gettysburg -.-....
Grampian Hills...
Harrisburg. .......
Harrisbuig........
Harrisburg........
Haverford
Hollidaysburg.....
Honesdale
Horsham. 2%. ~<a
Huntingdon.......
Tekesburg)..-----.
MUCIEN Sie soe sao ae
THOUEN Bee als ne cine

Johnstown ........
Kingsleys .........
Laucaster.........
Lancaster.........
TisteonOescca-secc.
Latrobeescse senso:

Lima
Lima
PHUOGWecue ne vcie.-=-
Manchester
Meadville
Meadville .........
CULE sana wel eae

John W. Saurman ..-
Tsuac C. Martindale. .
Prof. J. R. Williams --
F. L. Stewart
Rev.Wm.Smith,D. D

Charles Davis .....-

Lyceum Jefferson Col.
Prof. S. F. Baird .....
Prof. W. C. Wilson. -
W. H. Cook

E. L. McNett
R..P.Stevens*=.--..--
Wu. Heyser, jr-----.
Joseph Edwards....

Joseph Edwards and

John H. Smedley.

Barnet McElroy .....
John Taylor. .......-
John Jackson

Theodore Day
A. R. McCoy
Profs dels COM -<</a5
BE. L. Dodder

Selden J. Coffin and
G.S. Houghton,
Geo. S. Houghton....
James EI, Tracy.....-
Benjamin Grant
W. H. Spera
Ebenezer Hance.....
Rey. M. A. Tolman ..
Dr. A. Alter

A. D. Wier
John H. Baird
Samuel Biugger...-.
S. C. Walker
S. Ebert
Thos. Meehan and J.
Meehan.
Thomas Meehan.....

Prof. M. Jacobs......
Rev. M. Jacobs and
D. Eyster.
Rev. M. Jacobs and
H. b. Jacobs.
Elisha Menton
Dr. J. Heisely...-....
Wi. buCKOK oc em<n
Keay aris ae sear
Dr. Paul Swift.......
Vee OW TIOS sca sclas
Man (opus .c esses <
Miss Anna Spencer --
Win. Brewster, M. D .
Wn: E. Baker .......
David Peelor........
Wim. D. Hildebrand
and David Peelor.
David Peelor ........
Francis Schreiner. -..
F. A, Muhlenburg, jr -
John Wise
Prof. Rudolph Muller.
WY Wt BOyers <<... .-
Prof. C. S. James.....

Messrs. Edwards and
Miller.
Joseph Edwards .....
Jobn H. Smedley ....
James Buarrett....-..
Corydon Marks......
Prof. L. D. Williams. .
T. H. Thiekstun ae
Isaac N. Kerlin, M. D-

tions.
186061
186/~67
. 1849
1849
1855-61
1863-68
1860
1861-63
1849
1855-59
1868
1862

185862
1854-'57
1858

1852
1849-68
1849-52
1865-68
1849
1851
1851
1857—58
1859-60

1861
1859
1849
186568
1865-68
1867-68
1849
1849-"51
1854
1860
1856-'67
1868
1859
1862-"64

1859-’61
1865-68
1849-60
1861

1862-65

1864-'68
1849-68
1857-64
1860-61
1853-63
1853
1852
1864-68
1859
1867-68
1849.51
1858

1868
1852
1849
1849-"51
1860-"62
1861
1855-"60
1865-68
1849-52

* 1853

1859
185859
1849-52
1849-51
1854-58
1860
METEOROLOGICAL STATIONS AND OBSERVERS.

List of Smithsonian meteorological stations and observers—Continued.

Name of station.

PENN.--Continued.

Moorhead
Morrisville
Morrisville
Mors Greve
Mount Joy
Mount Joy..-..---
Murrysville ....---
Murrysville
Nazareth.......---
Nazareth.....-...--

Nazareth. 2. -csecie-
INZareth ac] eicineiae =
INAzarethe were sects
Nazareth: c-s-= si

INAZATCED ecilee ee
New Castle
Norristown
Northeast
North Whitehall. -.
OilCityooe- eee ene
Oxtord sss scccec-
Paradise
Parkerville........

Philadelphia
Philadelphia
Philadelphia
Philadelphia
Philadelphia

Philadelphia
Philadelphia
Philadelphia ...--.
Philadelphia
Philadelphia
Philadelphia
Pittsburg
Pittsburg
Pittsburg
Pittsburg
Pittsburg

Pittsbure’ = cece.
Pittsburg
Bittsburg cemieceei-c
Plymouth Meeting.
Pocopson

Pottsville
Pottsville
Pottsville
Pottsville
Randolph’.........

ReadinPiescccesee =
Reading

Seranton cece
Sewickleyville ..-.
Sewickleyville ....

Sewickleyville ....
Shamokings.. 1-5:
Silver Spring....--.
Somerset.-.....---
Somerset... 22o2 5-2
Somerset.-.....-.--
Stevennsville.......-
St. Maryjs.. 2.222
Sugur Grove
Sugar Grove .....-.
Summit Hill......-
Suminirville....__-
Susquehanna Depot
Warentum\..2-0se¢

Name of observer.

R. L. Walker
Ebenezer Hance..-.-.
Muhlon Moore......

Francis Schreiner. -..
Mary BE. Hoffer
Dr. Jacob R. Hoffer--
Thomas H. Stewart-.
F. L. Stewart
E. T. Kluge
E. T. Kluge and E.

Kummer.
H. A. Brickenstein - --
J.C. Harvey
O. T. Huebuer
O. T. HuebnerandL.
E. Ricksecker.

L. E. Ricksecker...-.
E. M. MeConnell..--.
Rev. JG. Ralston. .-..
John T. Milliken...-.
Edward Kohler
Janies A. Weeks..--.
Henry Duffield, M. D.
Jacob Frantz. 2.<2.:-
Fenelon Darlington. .

U.S. Navy-yard ....
Lt. Jos. Reed, U.S. N-
Dr. Paul Swift
J. F. Coorlies
Prof. J. A. Kirkpat-
rick.
U.S. Naval Hospital
J.C. Martindale, M.D.
P. Friel
Homer Eachers....--
Penn’vania Hospital. -
J. M. Ellis
Edward Fenderich. -.
Dr. H. Smyser
W. W. Wilson
Wm. Martin
John Hastings and
Wm. Martin.
Wm. Martin and Dr.
Alex. M. Speer.
Dr. Alex. M. Speer - --
Prof. Rudolph Muller.
Marcus H. Corson..-.
Fenelon Darlington. .

John Hughes ....-.-..
Dr. A. Ieger
Rev. B. R. Smyser - --
D. Washburn

John Heyl Raser -...

Dr. J. B. Peale and

* Charles Hah.

Dr. A. P. Meybert..--
John I. Travelli :
J. I. Travelli and G.

H. Tracy.

George H. Tracy ..-..
LE OS Ci sats Reese tae

Rey. David J. Byler...
Dr. F. Ckorpenning- -

reorge Mowry
J. Russell Dutton....
Wm. A. Stokes .....-
Lorin Blodget .......
W. O. Blodgett
MPA DO ttinh tee ine se
Thos. Seabrook.....-
H. H. Atwater ......-
John H. Baird.,.....

Yvars of
observa-
tions.

1863
1849-64
1X59
185357
1857-58
1860-68
1857-59
1867-68
1¢51
1852

1855-"57
1859-60
1861
1862

1863-66
1866—"68
1851-63
1867
1856-68
1863-64
1265
1854-58
1859-63
1865
1849
1849
1849-52
1849-52
1852-"60
1862-68
1857-68
1860-61
1863
1864
1864-65
1867
1849-51
1849-54
1852-’58
1857
1855

1858

1859—61
1863
1868
1853-"58
1&66-"68
1854-55
1855
1857
1858
1851-52
1854-56
1857-"63
1866-68
3858

1858
1859-'60
1861

1862
1856-'63
1863-68
1852
1856
1857-61
1866-67
1849
1849-51
1852-54
1852
1852
1863
1856-60

2

Name of station.

PENN.—Continued.

MOP Been cence

Troyes Hille eee ey
Uniontown........
Valley Forge. .---.
Warrior’s Mark....
Waynesboro’....-.
Wellsboro’........
Westchester......-
Westchester-......

Westchester. ..-...
Whitehall Station .
Williamsport... -.
Worthington
Youngsville

RHODE ISLAND.

East Greenwich - -.
New porto. ocecn--
Newport -..<1.6 ac:
North Scituate ..-.
Portsmouth

Black Oak
Camden

Camdsntteccecsecc
Charleston
Charleston
Charleston) Jo.2 a.
Charleston ........

Columbia
Columbia
Columbia
Columbia
Columbia
Columbia
Edisto Island.--..--

-Georgetown..----.

Gowdysville .....-
Hilton Head.....--

Hilton Head.......

Mount Pleasant - --
Orangeburg
Orangeburg
St. Johns
St. Johns
Waccaman........
Wilkinsville......-.

TENNESSEE,

Austin
Austin
Chattanooga ......
Clarksviile........
Dixon Springs... -.
Dover

Name of observer.

HOT Bentley... ---..-

S.J. Coffin, W. Ii.
Dean, i. H. Kings-
bury.

Victor Seriba.-.....

CrP) Jonestesesenser
Js Re LuOWwrie! 2-2 = cee
Rev. LD. J. Eyler
Henry W. Thorp....
Samuel Alsop
Prof, A. G. Clark and
T. H. Aldrich.
Dr. Gro. Martin....--
Edward Kohler..-.-.-.
H.C. Moyer
Samuel Scott.....---
Dr. A. C. Blodget ....

E. G. Arnold
Samuel Powel..---.-..
Wm. H. Crandall.-.-..
Henry C. Sheldon -.-
Geo. Manchester -..-

Prof. A. Caswell..-..
iH Caoneldontes. <<:

H. W. Ravenel......-
Rev. J. H. Cornish ..-

ys: Warle!s..-sc-c

Dr. Jno. P. Barratt - --

Dr. M. M. Marsh and
Mrs. Marsh.

Thos. P. Ravenel. .-:

J. A. Young. M. D...

T. Carpenter
Prof. L. R. Gibbes..-.
Dr. Jos. Johnson
J. L. Dawson, M. D-.
Jos. Johnson, M. D.,
and J. L. Dawson,
M. D., and G. S.
Pelzer, M. D.
Col. W. Wallace..--.
F. H. Harleston
Prof. J. B. White ..-.
Capt. C. C. Tew ....
E. H. Barton, M. D..-
Sup’t Arsenal Acad’y -
BONE Wullers-s.. ~~
Rev. Alex. Glennie --
Charles Petty
Maj. J. W. Abert, U.
S. Eng., Capt. C.
Rk. Suter.
Maj. C. R. Suter, U.
S. Engineers.
E. N. Fuller, M. D .-
Thos. A. Elliott ......
Joseph T. Zealy.....
H. W. Ravenel
Thos. P. Ravenel --.-..
Rev. Alex. Glennie. -
Chas. Petty..---.....

S. K. Jennings, M. D-
P. B. Calhoun
Dr. G H. Blaker -....
Prof. W. M. Stewart -
Thos. L. Sawyer ....
B. F. Tavel

Years of
observa-
tions.

1863-68
1861

1855-56
1849
1849
12854
185354
1849
1858—-'59
1864-"65

1868
1859-'60
1864
1859-62
189354

1855-56
1854

1865-"65
1853-"54
1854

1849-’67
1860-'64

1854-56
1857-61
1867-68
1868

1849-751
1863-'65

1858-61
1849-"51
1854-57
1851-"54
1851

1855-57
1857

1858-61

1851
1856
1856
1858
1859
1859
1855-57
1859-"61
1868
1864

1865

1857

1849

1°49 .
1849-52
1859-60
1854-58
1866-67

1860-"61
1868
1864
1251-'68
1852
1849
METEOROLOGICAL STATIONS AND OBSERVERS. 83

List of Smithsonian meteorological stations and observers—Continued.

Years of
Name of station. Name of observer. observa-
tions.
TENN.—Continued.
Elizabethton ...... Charles H. Lewis ---..} 1868
Fayetteville......- Dr. W. W. McNulty-} 1849-51
1 ys) eee ae Jos. M. Parker, M. D.| 1867
Friendship ....---- Dr. Robert T. Carter.| 1854-55
Greenville........ S. S. & W S. Doak..| 1866-68
Knoxville ......... Ga MOLDS 3-26 1851!~"52
Moroz yille:- 5. 5 =. Prof. Geo. Cooke ..-..|, 1853
Kuioxville:-.-. 2... Prof. Geo. Cookeand | 1854
L. Griswold.
MnoOxvill€. 0°. --<=3 T. L. Griswold ...... 1855-56
Knoxville ......... Stephen C. Dodge .--} 1860
La Grange .-...... A ce SIEGE 1859-60
190): Gee Gees Prof. A. P. Stewart..| 1851-54
Pen anOD soc cc - 33 Prof. B. C. Jilson ....| 1854

Lookout Mountain | Edward F. Williams .| 1866-’67
Lookout Mountain.| Rev. C. F. P. Bancroft} 1867-68
Lin: ee ee U.S. Navy Yard ....| 1849, ’53
Memphis .....----. PEP ANIA aieicicialo etcies 1851-"52
Memphis..........| * W. J. Tuck, M. D..| 185758
Memphis ..........| Dr. Daniel F. Wright | 1857

Memphis .........-. Drs. W J. Tuck and | 1859
R. W. Mitchell.
Memphis......-.-.. R. W. Mitchell, M. D.| 1860-61
Memphis.......... Edward Goldsmith. ..| 1867-’68
Nashville -.....--.: Prof. Jas. Hamilton..| 1849
Nashville -........ Wm. Rothrock ....-.. 1849
WORIGHIO! = care oe cae James Higgins....-.- 1854
Nashville ......... Fred. H. French..... 1867-68
IROMONA cas .necce J. W. Dodge & Son..| 1859-61
ERVONLOW Ss a <sainicl=< ' Prof. Hamilton ....-. 1854
University Place, | Chas. R. Barney..-.-.. 1859-61
Pranklin county. |
Walnut Grove..... | James B. Bean ...... 1856-57
Winchester - ...... S. W. Houghton..... 1859-60
TEXAS
PRPOUINEG Se eee micisi- Frederick Kaler.-.-.--. 1860
PDNUN ES cet ete Dr. Sam’l K. Jennings} 1852-56
TU nes Res Je We Glenn... 25 s2 52 1854
AUB ss. ses 5-- Dr. S. K. Jennings | 1837
and J.Van Nostrand.
UAE Sea aaatd Swante Palm........| i858~64
ARAL ae caueeees> J. Van Nostrand ..-.-. 1858-61
1867-68
WOELOP'= == <n asda J. D. Cunningham..-.-} 1859
Bonham 735-2. <5 Prof. Solomon Sias .-| 1859-’60
BOstORs cco. 5 ecace- (COREE ey Be Eee 1860-61
Boundary Survey .| John H. Clark-..----- 1859
Burkeville ........ Dr. N. P. West.-..-- 1859-’61
Cedar Grove Pl’n..| Hennell Stevens ...-. 1867-'68
Chappell Hill...... W. H.. Gantt :....... 1866-67
Columbus ......... Dr. W. G. De Graf- | 1859
fenried.
Cross Roads....... Lp MEG eee 1859-60
DP Jobn M. Crockett....| 1859
Galveston......... Drs. C. H.Wilkinson, | 1867
H. A.McComly,and
others.
Geological Survey | Geo. G. Shumard ..-..| 1859
Gilmiane 2s. e2- =. J. M. Glasco.....-.-: 1859-61
. 1867-"68
Golisdieseaesees>- John C. Brightman ..| 1857-’58
Gonzales ;.-.....-% Melvin H. Allis ...... 1859-61
Greenville ........ Dr. R. De Jernett.-..| 1859-'60 |
Helena, -2-552225-- John C. Brightman ..} 1856-57
EIGUBUON: sae ace ata * Dr. A. M. Potter ...| 1862-’65
OUMCON o.oo eme ese Miss E, Baxter ...... 1867-68
Huntsville ........ Hs MOSM) ...., . 20. 1849-’51
Huntsville ......-. J. H. Browne........ 1852
Huntsville ........ AY QO itela Sos sivas 1858-"60
IRS USUGI Sc 40 = :0inio James T, Rayal ..... 1859-’66 |}
Kaufman, .....054. James Brown........ 1866
Jefferson... ceccec. W. T. Epperson..... 1859
Vy CC eee eee BG. Youkumy. 5. 12858-'60
Long Point. ...... M. Rutherford ....... 1867
New Braunfels ....| A. Forke and Otto | 1857
Friedrich.

New Praunfels....| Otto Friedrich ....... 1858~-’60

Years of
Name of station. Name of observer. observa-
tions.
TEXAS—Continued.
New Wied T.C. Ervendberg -.-.| 1849-54
New Wied At 10s NOG) eee 1855—ov
Pope's Expedition -| James M. Reade ...-. 1855-"57
Port La Vaca ..... James Gardiner...... 1859
Roundtop:---csccee Bruno Shuman ....-.. 1859-61
San Patricio.....-. J. O. Gaffney......-- 1859-60
Sisterdale ........- Ernest Kapp ........ 1859-'60
Springfield........ TAURI Oletretstcto ae 1859
Marrant ss saceiems Dr. B. L. D’Spainand | 1859-60
J. M. Ewing.
Mexana? 2.225 William Colman ...-.. 1859
Turner’s Point ....| James Rayal ..-...-. 1861
Union) Mill. 52a.2 Dr. Wm. H. Gant ...} 1857-61
WHHGGme > aoe p eae Edward Merrill, M. | 1867-’68
DE
Washington ....... BHEH Rucker:= cece 1856-’60
Webberville....... Prof. C. W. Yellowby| 1859-61
Wheelock maKelloge--sescesac 1859-61
Woodboro .. .-.--- Dr. Jas. E. Moke .-...| 1859-60
UTAH.
Gt. Salt Lake City.| H, E. Phelps ........ 1857
Gt. Salt Lake City.| H. E. Phelpsand W. | 1858
W. Phelps.
Gt. Salt Lake City.; W. W. Phelps..-.---. 1859-61
1863-68
Harrisburg. ...---- James Lewis ........ 1867-68
Heberville .......- Harrison Pearce ..-.-. 1860-61
Rockville -.-.....- Andrew L. Siber...-. 1866
St. George .--..... Harrison Pearce -.... 1862-64
St. George ..--.---. H. Pearce and G. A. | 1865~66
Burgon.
St.pelary’s\-o-zsce- Thomas Bullock -.... 1865
Vineland.........- Andrew L. Siber ....}| 1864
Wanship. 22-2 Thomas Bullock ..... 1866-68
Washington....... Harrison Pearce ..... 1860
VERMONT,
iBarmoatsicccsecseee B. F. Eaton, M. D...| 1866-’67
(Bradford)5- <2 209222 fireaWWietlinseteaaae 1856-57
Brandows: s- ome Dp Buckland ..2-s- 1852-64
Brandon ...- --| Harmon Buckland ...} 1864-67
Brattleboro’ . --| Charles C. Frost ..... 1849-’51
Brookfield ........ iy er OWAard la selaict 1863
Burlington ........ Prof. Zadok Thomp- } 1849-54
son.
Burlington .....--4 Meck: Petty. ---/--.528 1857-64
(CET aeons James K. Toby -.----. 1861-64
@astleton:..-----32 D. Underwood....... 1852-54
Charlotte ...-.---. Mom Wing) --- 2: 2: 1868
Craftsbury .....-.. Chas. A. J. Marsh ...} 1853-54
Craftsbury’........ ‘ James A. Paddock .| 1855-67
East Bethel ....--- Charles L. Paine...-. 1865
East Montpelier ...| B. J. Wheeler .....-. 1855
Lunenburg. .-...... Hiram A, Cutting....| 1859-68
Middlebury ...... Prof. W. H. Parker ..| 1849-52
Middlebury ..-.... Harmon A. Sheldon..| 1865-'68
Montpelier ........ D. P. Thompson..-..} 1849, ’51
| Montpelier ........ Mi Marsh: < =<. ..5.. 1863
North Craftsbury..| Rev. Edward P. Wild} 1867-’68
Norwich) <7.% 323215 A. Jackman ..-....- 1855-59
Randolph ...-..... R. M. Manley..-..... 1849-51
Randolph ......... Charles L. Paine..... 1866-68
ROpertijs- as. .se= Joseph Parker....--- 1857-"63
Rutland. .-...-.5.% “iS. O. Mead .2--.2.. 1862-64
Saxes’ Mills -...---. OHO DAKEY.< 55500007 1855
Shelburne......... George Bliss.....---. 1855-57
Springfield........ Rev. J. W. Chickering] 1860-'63
| St. Johnsbury. .... J. K. Coiby and J. P. | 1853-55
} Fairbanks.
St. Johnsbury..... Franklin Fairbanks ..| 1857-’61
West Fairlee ....-- Li Wi. Blikes osescauee 1858
Wilmington ....... Rey. John B, Perry..| 1866-'67
Woodstock. ....--. Charles Marsh ....... 1857-58
Woodstock....-.-.--. Lester A. Miller...... 1867
Woodstock.....--- H. Doten and L. A. | 1868
Miller,
84

METEOROLOGICAL STATIONS

AND OBSERVERS.

List of Smithsonian meteorological stations and observers—Continued.

Name of station.

VIRGINIA.

ANNA 218s caaete ce

Ashland isccrsiciseciey
Berryville.........
Berry ville
Bhdpeton......-'e
Bridgewater
Buffalo
Buffalo
IB AlOy es Le coecies
Cape Charles....-.
Charleston
Charl \ttesville...-.
Charlottesville ..-.
Chiistiansburg ....
@obham: a.) 22527
Cobham Depot ....
Crichton’s Store...
Diauiond Grove .-..
Halmouthiee cen nee
Fredericksburg. -...
Fredericksburg. ...
Fork Union
Garysville
Garysville
Gosport =< -=-5:

Hartwood......-..
Heathsville . ....--.
Hewlctt’s
Holliday’s Cove ..-
Jobnsvuntown..---.
Leesburg
Leesburg
Lexington
Lexington
i0}\0) 70 ees
Longwood
Lynchburg........
Lynchburg.....-..
Madison-.-.--..-<:

Moi trovs
Mossy Creek
Mount Solon

Mustapha ....-..-.
New England .....
Norfolk mene rena

Portsmouth
Portsmouth .......
Powhatan Hill ....
Prince Edward....
Richmond
Richmond’... . .s<!=:
Richmond, oo 5:
RGN GREL II Hewes a
Rougemont
Ruthven
Salem
Simi hfield
Snowville.........
Staunton ssoseeec es
Stauntonea.escs.
Strioling Springs --
Surry 22s aes
The Plains css:
Winchester. .......

Wytheville . ......
Wytheville. ......
Wythbeville........

Name of observer.

Rev. C. B. McKee ..-
Benj. Hallowell.....-

Samuel Couch.....--

Miss E. Kownslar. -..
Dr. R. Kownslar.....
C. R. Moore
J. d. Hotchkiss
Prof. G. R. Rossiter. -
Samuel Couch.......
Wm. R. Boyers...-.-
*Jéan Ga Potts 2.526
Jas. E. Kendall....-.
Chas. J. Meriwether -
J. Ralls Abell. .......
Win. C, Hagan
Chas. J. Meriwether. .
Geo. C. Dickinson ---
R. F, Astrop
US Bh AUSERO Dy aieeisisi ==
Abraham Van Doren.
Chas. H. Roby
B. R. Wellford
Silas B. Joney ....--
T. S. Beckwith, M. D.
Julian C. Rutiin ....
United States Navy
Yard.
Abraham Van Doren
J. C. Wills

C. R. Moore
N. F. D. Browne ....
Samuel X, Jackson ..
Wino Kew Pankis sce.
W. H. Ruffner
Geo. W. Upshaw....
Thos. J. Wickline - --
A. Nettleton......--.
Chas. J. Meriwether -
Dr. A. M. Grinnan...
James Slaven........
L. ©. Breckenstein --
Cha-. J. Meriwether .
H. H. Fauntleroy. .--
Edwd. E. Spence .-.-
Jed, Hotehkiss .....-
Jas. TS Clarke... 5.

James Fraser......-.
James Frayser......-.
Un ted States Naval
Hospital.

N. B. Webster. ....-.
Naval Hospital ..----
Edward T. Tayloe. -.
Prof. rs. J. Nuttaner
David Turner ....--.
Chas. J. Meriwether .
Jotun Appleyard
Geo. W. Upshaw..-.
Geo. C. Dickinson -..
Julian C. Ruffin .....
J. Carson Wells......
John R. Purdie.....-

Benj. W. Jones
Joh Pickett .......,-
Jt Wie Marvin. /-- cea:

W. D. Roedel
Howard Shriver -.--.
Rey. Jas. A. Brown..

Years of
ob-erva-
tions.

1858-'59
1849
1853~58
1834
185657
1855~’57
1858
1868
1852, 754
1851-54
1855, ’58
1852759
1867~68
1856-57
184951
1859-61
1851
1852
1859-61
1852-61
1849-51
1859-61
1859-61
12849
18. 9-61
1856
1259
1849

1858
1849
1867
1858
1868
184g
1854
1861
1867-68
1859
Le57
1854
1866-68
1851-52
1857-5
1852
1854
1856-57
185859
1856-"58
1855-56
1867-68
1857-"58
1859-61
1868

1852-69
1860-61
1849-68
1849-52
1849-54
159-61
1860

1857-58
1857-58
1856-58
1857-58
1856-61
1867-68
1849

1868

1859

1867-68
1859-60
1852-61
)859~61
1861

1865-66
1868

Name of station.

| Kanawha

WASHINGTON TER-
RITORY.

Fort Colville .....
Fort Steilacoom. --
Fort Vancouver - .-
Neeah Bay.--..-.-
Neeah' Bay---...-.
Port Townsend....

WEST VIRGINIA,

Ashland).-2 <2.) eee
Burning Springs- --
Capon Bridge
Crackwhip...-..-...
Giafton
Hampshire county.
Harpee’s Ferry...-.
Huntersville
Kanawha

Kanawha Salines. -
Lewisburg
Lewisburg
Lewisburg

Lewisburg
New Creek Station.
Point Pleasant ..-..

Romney, ea) -
Sistersville.... ..-
Wardensville...-..

Wellsburg
Weston
West Union.....-.-.
Wiheeling, 52/os<-
Wanita eb cee

Aippletonii. seek e 2
Appleton, ......-.
Ashland

Barsboogesescose
BayiGiby s.sos-ecie8
Bayfield ......-.-..
Bayfield
Bellefontaine... -.

Beloit
B'ack River Falls. .
Brighton sscesas =
Burlington ..-.....
Burlington
Burlington
Caldwell Prairie. --
Cascade Valley. --.
Cereseosaa--ee 2.
Dartford
Delafield
Delafield)... .<....2:
Delavan ..-...---

Edgerton.........-.
Emerald Grove....
Embarras

Falls of St. Croix...
Falls of St. Croix...
Gales ville

Name of observer.

Capt. Hague
David Walker, M. D.
rw arneg see sees ae =
James G. Swan...-.--
Alexander Sampson. .

§. S. Bulkley........

Charles L. Roffe...-.
Robert H. Bliven.-...
J.J. Offutt, Me Ds. 22
JDL 0 3 edu eodaeMeeer
D. W. H. Sharp
S. J. Stumps
IL. Je Bell ewww ene eee
Wim Skeen.<..--2..-
David L. Ruffner ....
James I. Keudall.-.-..

W. ©. Reynolds .....

Dr. Win. N. Patton..

Dr. Thos, Patton ....

Thos. Patton and J.
W. Stalmuker,

J. W. Stalmaker ....

Marshall MeDonald. -
W. H. McDowell ....
Enoch D. Johnson. --

1D 18 ol DID b YR ee oe
BSD Sanderst---- =
Benjamin Owen ..--.
W C. Quiney......°.
* Geo. P. Lockwood .
Josiah W. Hoff....-.

Prof, R. Z. Mason....
John Hicks... --
Dr. M. J. &. Hurlburt
Prof. J. C. Foye: ..--
Edwin Bilis .........
Jumes C. Brayton....
Dr Bb Millsse22
M. C. Waite
Edwin Bilis...... ...
Harve, J. Nourse-...
Andrew Tate..-.....
Thomas Gay
Prof. §. P. Lathrop. -
J. MeQuigg and W.
Porter,

Prof. Wm. Porter. ...
Prof. Henry §. Kelsey
Henry D. Porter...-.
BmilHausereN.. 2.
George Mathews..__.
D. Matthews
D. and G. Matthews...
George Mathews...-..
S. Armstrong
Samuel R. Seibert -.-
Miss M. E, Baker ....
M. H. ‘Towers
Prof. A. W. Clark -..
Chas. W. Kelly.-.---.
Levens Eddy. ...-.-.
Henry J. Shintz
Orrin Dinsmore-.-.--.
J. Everett Bead

M. T. W. Chandler ..
Wm. M. Blanding --.
Wire) Galesce eerie =.

Years of
observa-
tions,

1860-"61
1863-64
1259
1862-66
1867
1867-68

1865-'68
1867-68
1857

1858-"59
1851-52
1853-57
1858

1859-"60
1868

1855-56
1859-60
1856-58

1856~’61
1867

1867

1867-68
1862

1849-"52
1849-52
1864-'68
185758
1858-59
1867-68
1851-54
1849-54
1854

1855-60
1861-62
1863—67
1859
1262-63
1859
1860
1861
1860-61
185A
1854- 55
1861-62
1859-60
1861-’63
1864-"67
1867—68
1849-52
1864
1866-'68
1857
1858
1867-68
5

METEOROLOGICAL STATIONS AND OBSERVERS,

List of Smithsonian meteorological staiions and observers—Continued.

Name of station.

Name of observer.

Wis.—Continued.

Geneva..-...

Wm. H. Whiting -.-...

Green Bay ........ Col. D. Underwood...
Green Bay ........ Frederick Deckuner. - .
Greeu Lake....... C. F. Pomeroy Me
HMaxrtiorde..s6 2-6 Judge Hopewell Co
Hingham - ........ John De Lyser ----.-
Hndkwon! = 02 sone oo G. F. Livingston..-...
Janesville......... OH NWAMArC sence
Jinesville......... Geo. J. Kellogg ..-...
Janesville-........ Dr. Clark G. Pease -.
Janesville... se | Daniel Strunk. .2..2
Kenosha .........- Rey. John Gridley. -
Kilbourn City.--.. James H. Bell .......
Dake Mills) seks -e Isaac Atwood ......-
MeDanon,...-serteer SAO! Hicks) 22-5055
BAe oe ote cielarm wie R. H. Struthers. ....-
MTABOM Cee scat sree Prof. S. H. Carpenter.
Madison:<=.52-2-)- S. H. Carpenter and
J. W. Sterling.
Madison’... ssc A. Schue,. M. D...--.
Madison -:-; --.--- Prof. J. W. Sterling -
Madison 522-2224 J. VENDINGS:-~. = Joe cece
Madison ......-..- Prof. J. W. Sterling
and S. P. Clarke.
Madison .... .....- Prof. J. W. Sterling
and W. Fellows.
Manitowoc........ Jacob Lips ......--
Menasha ..-.....<. Col. D. Underwood -..
Milwaukee........ I. A. Lapham.......
Milwaukee........ Carl Winkler, M. D..
Milwaukee......-. F. C. Pomeroy .--.-.
Milwaukee........| Prof. E. P. Larkin...
Mositee ........--. Sense 2010) oeeeeeee
Mount Morris ..... Ww. F. Horsford ....
New Holstein...... Ferdinand Hachez. ..
New Lisbon.-..-.... John L. Dunegan- ---.

Years of
observa-
tions

1863-68
1859
1864-65
1851-52
1859-"62
1867-"68
1854
1853~'58
1859
1860~61
1862
1851-752
1857-63
186 J—'62
12°59-"62
1864
1858
1853
1854

1856-58
1856-59
1863-65
1860
1860

1861-"62

1857~’68
1857-58
1849-52
1854
1857~'68
1854-67
185559
1859-61
1859
1858
1865
1867-"68

Name of station. Name of observer.
WIs.—Continued,
New London ...... J. Everett Breed.....
PO NOLW Sync wine ese John E. Himoe ......
Odangh osss vacases Edwin Ellis, M. D- -.
Otsepol en. ase = ste DRE OY} Cicia~s.e'= <10\-
Pardeeville........ S. Armstrong.......-
Platteville .... .... Dr. J. L. Pickard. ...
Platteville........ A. K. Johnson....--.-
Bilymou he 5.2 cose: Ge Moeller. csc. ser
Rrenvottcnascs eee Spencer L. Hillier - .-
Racine Rev. Roswell Park- -.
Racine Wied ahha cee
Racine -| Hiland W. Phelps ---
Ripon) .cso- coos sieeroL, W. El. Wardace
Rocky Run -....-.- Wie we Cuntis® eteec.
Ruralis sciss-ccscee R H. Struthers......
Southport......... Rev. John Gridley...
Summit'.22 22-1. Edward 8S. Spencer --
Superior... 2c -.- Win. H Newton and
L. Washington.
Superior.......... L. and R. Washington,
and C. Loring, jr.
Superior: .-.-.--.-.0 WitasWann oases
SUperion “saeco seas G. R. Stuntz and E.
: H. Bly.
Waterford .....-.. S. Armstrong....-.-.
Watertown ....... William Ayres. .-..--.
Waukesha .....-.. Prof. S. A. Bean ....
Waukesha .....--. Prof. S. A. Bean and
L. C. Slye, M. D.
Waupacca ........ J. Everett Breed ....
Waupaccay..<ss--- HC LCAGs oa erecta
Wiaupacar. ccs: C. D. Webster. .-----
Wiankanl so. ogee W. A. Gordon, M. D-
Weyauwega ...... Melzar Parker...-..-.
Weyauwega ...... William Woods.-..-..-
Weyauwega ....-. John C. Hicks ....---
Weyauwega ....-.. * Dr. Jas. Matthews .
Whittlesey.....--. Edwin Ellis, M. D. ..

85

Years of
observa-
tions.

1857-58
1855-57
1863-66
1859-"6@
1859-"60
1851-59
1859-'60
1865-"68
1857

1856

1856-’58
1860-61
1865-66
1859~68
1860-61
1849

1851-54
1855

1856

1859-63
1859-63

1863
1852
1855-56
1858~'59
1857

1856, 765
1863-"68
1867
1859-60
1860-61
186164
1866
1866
1859-60

86

Alphabetical list of meteorological observers of the Smithsonian Institution,

LIST OF METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS.

up to the end of the year 1868.

Name.

Abbe, Cleveland......--.--
Ab bottwMieeeeeeceeaos eee
Abell pRB Hee essere once
Abeil, J. Ralls
Abert, Major J. W..----- 5
Abert, Thayer:-:.--..--- :
Acadian Collevess-==2/-225,-

wee ee ee eee eee

Adams WeHete toe ee
Adams *iWrie osc ecoceeice
Aomewirol Griscmesiccionei
Agricultural College. -.---
Alba, E. M
ATCO SW eile cece scene E
Aldrich, YS de be

Aldrich, Verry

Alexander, (ichest ies:
Alexander, Captain Rime
Alexander, J. M.-
Alison: Heenan sen
Allen, Edwin ...----
Allien brome. A. EL. eee
Allen, Frederick..........
Allen, George D..........
Allen, Prof Gs Ni... koe.
Allen, James, jr- :
Alten, DPE cease othe eh
Allen, W. D
Allinevucius Oso a5.<- 500
Allis, Melvin H.-.--..--.. 2
Allison, Jesse -----
Allison! M@homas*aAv seo. 2
Alsop; eamuele too. 2c
Asters 5 uDe ees ce oaeeice Mi
Aiviord DIES acess esas
Ammens Jia-oehe coerce
Anderson, Crk ceases
Anderson, Ee ees weeeee
Anderson, Dr. James
Anderson, W. H
‘AntdrewsG Poo sces See
Andrews, Prot. J. W
Andrews, Seth L
Andrus. WiC 22. - - !
Angell BaD )s- 2. scons
Anthonioz, B. F
Anthony, Newton..-..----
Appleyard, John
Arden; hoswBaecc ceiecic ce

Armstrong wMiyiKe Ss 2)2-/- 2/2)

Armstrong, §
Arnold, E. G..-- 4
Ainoid, James B. Lah ees
Arnold, Mrs. J. %
Astron, Observatory, Wil-

liams College

State.

Michigan.
Pennsylvania.
Ohio.
Virginia.

South Carolina.

Florida.
Nova Scotia.
Massachusetts.

North Carolina.

New York.
Virginia.
Georgia.
Maine.
Illinois.

New York.
Missouri.
Kansas.

New York.
Massachusetts.

-| Pennsylvania.

Lilinois.
New Jersey.
Bermuda.
New York.
Alabama.
New Jersey.
New York.
Ohio.
Fiorida.
Ohio.
Michigan.
Nebraska.
New York.
Massachusetts.
Texas.
Tilinois.

North Carolina.

Pennsylvania.
Pennsylvania,
Ohio.

Ohio.
Minnesota,
Indiana.
Georgia.
Indiana.
Michigan.
Ohio.
Michigan.
Florida.
Indiana.
Louisiana,
Ohio.
Virginia.
New York.
Dakota Ter.
Wisconsin.
Rhode Island.
Bermudas.
Georgia.

Massachusetts.

|

Name.

PNUD) O18, Ee Soe
Atkins, hevadaneuse 222
Atkinson, George A..---.
Atkinson, William A ...-
Aten ERE

rene W. W.. PON Ceeee
Avery, Charles A.......-.
Ayres, W
Ayres: Dr. Wry Onsen sea:
*Babcocks Aci Jescee secee
babcock.sbeee acco cee
Babcock, Waacins sooscee:

Bacon OwGeees aeseeeee
Bacon, E. E
Bacon, Frank M.... 2.22.
| Bacon, Wiiliam
Baer, Miss H. M
Baer brot, Wicoencecse ce
Bailey, James B..2.- 22.
Baileys suseeees scenes
Bailey, Thomas
Baird, Jobn H
Baird, Prof. S. F

| Baker, Miss M. E .-.-..-
| Baker, N. T.....-.--..--
Baker, William E .....-.-
Baldwin; 2Dr. A/S 22.) 221.
Baldwin, Himen-ceemeces
| spalliMissilda Hscees o-2-
Ballers oerence essen
Ball, James H
BallowWNe Biccstice ances
BambachwDraiGieeeen se
Baucroft, Rev. C. F. P.-.
Bandelier, Adolphus F-., jr.
Bannister, H. Mc.-22225-
Barbage, Joshua C
Barber, Prof. G. M
Barker, Thomas M..-----
Barlow, Dennis ..-..-.--.
| Barnard, Alonzo.......- -
| Barnard, A. D
Barnes's Caacte Se.cs eesccee
BamessDrieep osc cc
Barney, Charles R...--. S
Barratt-whevisd)) 2. ecec a.
| Barrett, James ...--...-.
| Barrows, A. C
Banrow Ss Gaxbteoo5 «cj =
BancOwswN acta c1 va.c2 He
Barrows, Storrs
| Bartlett, EK. B
| Bartlett, Isaac..------..--
| Bartlett, Joshua

 weceee

*Deceased,

State.

Virginia.

Ohio.

Oregon.

lowa.
Pennsylvania.
Wisconsin.
New York.
Indiana.

New York.
Wisconsin.
California.
Tlinois.
Minnesota.
Lilinois.

Towa.

Florida.
Massachusetts.
Kansas.
T)linois.
Michigan.
Massachusetts.
Maryland.
Maryland.
Florida.
Missouri.
Massachusetts.
Pennsylvania.
Pennsylvania.
Tihnois.

Vt. & Canada.
Wisconsin.
Tilinois.
Pennsylvania.
Florida.
Illinois.

Towa.

Towa.

New York.
Iilinois.

Ohio.
Tennessee.
Illinois

Alaska Ter.
Kentucky.
Ohio.
Alabama.
Arkansas.
Minnesota.
Oregon.
Indiana.
Washington Ter
Tennessee.
South Carolina.
Pennsylvania.
Ohio.

Maine.
Massachusetts.
New York.
New York.
Indiana.
Maine.

&
LIST OF METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS.

87

Alphabetical list of meteorological observers, &c.—Continued.

Name.

*Barton, Dr. E. H.
Bassett, G. R -- E
Batcheldery Pile. =-7-5.-
Baxter, Miss E
Beale Mext6r- ose -2/<a22 At
Beal, W. W
Beawan, Carlisle D...--.-
Bean, Dr. James B
Beau, Prof. 8. A
Beans, ‘Thomas J..-..--.-
Beardsley wl Ae - ° s.2 1:
Beatny: (Oss ee ee oe ssc:
Beauchamp, W. M...-.----
Beckwith, E. W
Beckwitht, Drv Rob. ss. -
Beckwith.
Beecher, Michael
Behmer, Frederick
Belcher ewe Cres - aos — fate =
Belfield H. H
Bell, Miss E. M. A
Belly Jacobu Bees. .esssce
Bell, James H
Bellis bone.
Bell, Louis
15%c) el Deg oat Ae
Bell Howisty 23 scseceot
Bell, Hon. 8. N
Benagh, George.-...--<.-
Benners Joc sieen~ orce ee
Benrett, Henry ......-..-
Bennett, Sarah E.....-..--
Benton WMAtees2 ss ooe-
Berendtn Grecees. «2st For
Berger Meese 5s csiacier:
Berky, W. H
Berthoud) Relies 5525..5-
Betts# Charlestets 255-555
Bickford, Calvin .......- ‘|
Bird wells Drab Oras sss4-
Binkerd. Jiseeerac< saan
Birney, James G....-.....-
Bixby, A.
Bixby, J. H
Blackman, W. J. R..-----
Blackwell, Thomas ...----
Blackwell, W. H
Blake, TH
‘Biskewy Ree seine soc!
*Blaker rrGa ti. 2.2.2
Blakeslee, Rev. S. V.-..-
Blanchard, Orestes A
Blanding, William M
Blewitt, Rev. W
Bliss, George
Bliss, i. Wee eee ‘
Bliven, Robert H.-.......
Blodeett: Dir Ale Ceeeea=
Blodget, Lorin -.. os
Blodget, W. O

Bloodgood, 8. De Witt -.- .

State.

S. Car. and La.
Ilinois.
Florida,
Texas.
Towa.

Towa.

Towa.

Fla. and Tenn.
Wisconsin.
New Jersey.
New York.
Kentucky.
New York.
Mississippi.
Virginia.
Kansas.
Obio.
Missouri.
California.
Towa.
Illinois.
Maryland.
Wisconsin.
Maine.

New Hampshire.

Virginia.
Maryland.

New Hampshire. |

Alabama.
Ohio.

Ohio.

Ohio.

Ohig.

Mexico.
Massachusetts.
Kansas.

Ky. Kas.,&Col.
Michigan.
Maine.

Towa and Ohio.
Ohio.
Michigan.

N.H.,Ky ,&Ind.|

Massachusetts.
Kansas.
Canada.
Arkansas.
Indiana.
Tennessee.

Tern. and Mich.

California.
Illinois.
Wisconsin.
Georgia.
Vermont.
Vermont.
West Virginia.
Pennsylvania.
Pennsylvania.
Pennsylvania,
New York.

|
|
|
|

Name.

Bly HESS see eecec.<0 <2\-
Boardman? GwAe-n 22) 52-
Boerner, Oj Geeee- ses.
Boettner, Gustave A.... -
Boventay Wi sence ec cer-
Bondwisaagcheeeeeeet ee
“BONS Wis Cake ae

Bosworth. Prof. R. S..-.-
Boucher Wether. es
Bowen, Miss Anna M. J- -
Bowen Janes cere cece
Bowen, Wimt Bb a--os eo.

Bowles, Dr. 8. B
Bowlsby, G. W..........
BOWMAN TE Eee chiece ee
Bowman, Jobn.......---
Boyd Siilsesneese eee
BoyerssWokeeesens ace
Boyle Giese s-)2\lenat
Brackett. Gaebler =e ae
Braytony ase Ceeeiancees-
Brayton, Milton......22 -
Breckenstein, L. C
Breed,v J. Everette. --\---)-
Breeds) Mi Areeee vorcictetens
Brendel Wry Bras oe ote
Brendel a Wry banat
Brewer, Rev. Fisk P....-
Brewer, F. A
Brewster, Alfred.....-..-
Brewster, Wm., M. D.-..-
Brickenstein, Rev. H. H-.-
Brinkerhoff, G. M
Bag rsie isa ipmerecnte rece
Brightman, J.C
Brovuks, Rev. Jabez... --
Brooks, Hon. J

WBIOOKS; Willer «22 =n ens)

Brookes, Samuel...-.-. -
Brown, Branch
IBNOMth Ley Ce eames ae
Browne bresses ose
Brown Geawietes nce cext=
Brown, H.H
Brown! James =... ..--1-
Brown, Rev. J. J-
Brown, J. W

UB rowan Witte atc

Brow erofers bec aes

WB TOT eam bee okt ee

*Brown, Samuel ....-..-
Brown: WB G@....-.-.-

State.

Wisconsin.
Nova Scotia.
Florida.
Indiana.
Illinois.
Florida.
Maryland.
Massachusetts.
Ohio.
California.
Kansas.
Kansas.

Ohio.

Missouri.
Michigan.
Illinois.

New York.
Ohio.
Pennsylvania.
Towa.

Maine.
Wisconsin.
Sombrero fsl’d.
Virginia.

N. Y. and Wis.
Illinois.
Illinois.
Illinois.

North Carolina.
Massachusetts.
New Hampshire.
Pennsylvania.
THlinois.
Illinois.

lowa.

Texas.
Minnesota.
Massachusetts.
New Jersey.
Illinois

New Hampshire.
New Hampshire
Maine.

Kansas,
Kansas.

Texas.

New York.
Hiinois.
Massachusetts.
Tlinois.

Ind. ‘Ter.
Pennsylvania,
New Hampshire

Brower ae lee 6 et sicce Texas.
Browne, N.F.D ....-.-.-| Virginia.
STOW OME cco ore. Kansas.
FELTING Sipe @ Wail or Pennsylvania.
[eb riremer Se eea. io \.. - Pennsylvania,
| Bryant, A.F....--..-..-| Towa:
Bryant, CEs 222. --~<..~ .|/ Wlimorst
Buck, Rufus: --../0+.- 3]/\ Maine:

* Deceased,
88

LIST OF METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS.

List of meteorological observers, &c.—Continued.

Name.

{Buckland Djsseseeeeee ce
Buckner, Rev. H. F..-...--
BulkeleysissSeie-ec-----
Bullard, Ransom-..----.-.--
Buller sheAeeceecersece ee
Bullock, J.T
3ullock, Thomas-..-----. 5
Burgon. G. A
BunrassOben ceestae seis
Burrell, J. I
Buns, Dr. Robert...--. --
Burronghs, R..--. ae
Buri, Lenny Mee" ooo. =.
Burton. John
Bush, Rey. Alvias-cs--:---
Bussino Dy Specs csc sis. <=
BUSSsIN Oe Wae ees once
Butterields WeWi..---- + -
Buttenields Mrsa225 2222-2
Byers, Dr. Robert
Byers poo Mieaeecis eels
Byers, William N..---.--
Byram eb Na cfso.s on- er
Byine, Arthur M.......--
Calder, J. G
Caldwell, John H ...--- x
Caldwell, John 1... =... -
Caldwell, WRitss.-2 .-.....<
CalhounieyBacce-s seceas
CallowayandsWieses- ca. 22
Camp, Benjamin F..-.....
Camp pbs Beer satey-)s 1-41
Campbell, Jj. seers s-n- a
Campbell, Dr. W.M.. -..-
Cantield Drs Cava ce. 22
Camtniliieih eee. oe io oe
@Canudas; Amt) mss. ccc cre =
Capen; Misceosaes secs ~
Carey, Wanitelvcse: o--4 --
Gari), AlbertiGens- 2... 5. -
* CarotherswAwiGaene cecce
Carpenter; Be ssas-\eacce-
Carpenter, Prof.S. H....-.
Carpenter, SiOesces.-s5-
@arpenter, le oe. s-e seen
Carter JS Hws.cee.s je-2 8
Carter RevaJ.be sce cece
Carter Propubees. 222. s-
Carter, Dr. Robert T......
Carteraihomasien. 225.2.
Carver, Rev. E. W........-
Carver ures): 225. -
Case, Dr, C. D
Cases Janvismereees cs cake
Caswell, ProfAwee: 5.2.2. -
Caswell, Rev. R.C ...-.-..-
Cavileer: (Chasieee noes:
Chadbourne, Prof. P. A...
Chamberlain, Jace. ose -ne
Chandler, Charles Q..... 2
Chandler, Dr. George --..-
Chandler, M. 7. W

State.

Vermont.
Arkansas.
Wash. Ter.
Michigan.
Maine.
Indiana.
Utah.
Utah.
Ohio.
Pennsylvania.
Avkansas.
Indiana.
Nebraska.
Delaware.
Iowa.

New York.
New York.
Indiana.
Indiana.
Missouri.
Minnesota.
Nebraska.
New York.
Tilinois.
Bermudas.
Massachusetts.
Missouri.
Kentucky.
‘Lennessee.

North Carolina.

Georgia.
Kansas.
Missouri.
Michigan.
California.
Illinois.
Guatemala.
liliuois.
Illinois.
New York.
Bahamas.
lowa.
Wisconsin.
New York.

South Carolina.

Louisiana.
Maryland.
Ohio.
Tennessee.
North Carolina.
Miunesota.
Tennessee.
Kentucky.
Connecticut.
Rhode Island.
Newfoundland,
Minnesota.
Mass. & Conn.
Towa.
Missouri.
Massachusetts.
Wisconsin.

Name.

Chapman; Jetbia---— o406 =
Chapman, NwvAv--.:....-
Chappelsmith, J ...--...
ChasevArthuyetees.--.
Chase, Dr. Charles..---- -

Chase. Cornelius -
Chase, C. Thornton. .--. -
Chase,eMiltonseeses ceo. <
Chase, JP oe ere setae sei s)=
Cheney Wee ereeyae seein
Chickering, J. W..----.-
Chickering, Rev. J. W-.-
Child DAs eee
Child//Miss Jie cs. seen

Childs wHeaWiseee soeeecee
Chorpenning, Dr. F
Christian, Johnis-- 22...
Clark serofseAsuGarecens-
Clarke "RrofeAtaweeacce.
Clark iD rsp eee ose ernie
Clark Serenotes= 2. =e
Clark, Hendricks. ...--.
Clark, (Mhomas@en.-c-45-
Clark WeReaents oo ee-
Clarkes Wohneas2 =. 525-
Clarkeyaieeeee cence
Clarke, Lawrence, jr- -.--
Clarke, Mrs. Lawrence. --
Clarkson; Revel). oe
Cleland; ReyaQoH. 2525:
Clement, John, jr.--... --
Clouch, Js Beets -cscee
Cockburn, S.. BES oi eis loiees
CobbyMMiees-s neces
CobbiMe ees ee eee
Cobbs ReyvalkwAveses.5 2 a.
Cobleigh, Prof.N.E. --.-
CofinvRrof Jak. 2.5 22.2
Coffin, Matthew.... -...-
Coffin, Selden, Ji2.2.. <.--
Coffin, Prof. William. ..--
Cotran ote see os eee
Colburybdiss st -tceoee
Colby, Alfred
ColbyhuRe aceearecnee
Colby; J. dee eee eee
Cole\Barkemeeecen-ese:
Cole; Ei Ceteseeeeiccecee
ColemanJpASes- 4 -- oo.
CollierAlireds.5- 55-5 --
Collier sDiCre ey session
Collier, Prof. George H. --
Collin, Prof. Alonzo -.--.
Collins, Rev. Samuel. ..--.
Collins, Colonel W.O....
Colman, William........
ComimpsiGubeee =f ssccne
Comly,jJohnee= =... s---
Conant, Marshall........
Conkling, Thomas J.-.-..-
Connolliysgelee se) soa
CookBe Bees eee

State.

New York.
Ohio.

Indiana.

New Hampshire.
New Hampshire.
New York.
New York.
Michigan.
Ohio.
Minnesota.
New York.
Vermont.
Nebraska.
Nebraska.
Ohio.
Pennsylvania.
Missouri.
Pennsylvania.
Maryl’d & Wis.
Michigan.
New York.
West Virginia.
Minnesota.
Ohio.

Ohio.

Virginia.

Hud. Bay Ter.
Hufl. Bay Ter.
Kansas.
Kent’y & Miss.
New Jersey.
Minnesota.
Honduras.
Pennsylvania.
Connecticut.
Alabama,
Illivois.
Pennsylvania.
Michigan.
Pennsylvania.
Illinois.
Maryland.
Ohio.

New Hampshire.
New Hampshire.
Vermont.

New Jersey.
New Jersey.
Alabama.
Massachusetts,
Colorado.
Illinois.

Towa.

Indiana,
Idaho.

Texas. ©
Missouri.
Pennsylvania.
Massachusetts,
Missouri.

Hud. Bay Ter.
New York,

* Deceased.

ry
LIST OF METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS.

89

List of meteorological observers, &c.—Continued,

Name.

Cook, Epbrghees.).o-- <2).
Cook sh Wisse seh cen 2sc.5/
Cook, Prof. George H
Cook, Thomas E., & Sons -
Cook, W. H
Cooke, Prof. George.
GCookey Rel 3238 322.2:
Cooper Female Seminary -
Cooper, Dr. George F. .--
Coorliess JGR ese oo.
*Corey, Henry M.... . ..-
Cornette, Rev. At... .-.. a
Commish; Reveds bss... -
Gorse; JohneMessss-5- 25. =
Corson, Rev. Marcus H.-- -
@ofting; J. Metso. 22... -
Cotton Drs DSBs a. 35.5
Conehs ws 45424225...
Couch, Samuel....
@oues; Dri hist 35223:
Coulter, Bubs es s5555. -
Covelli J. Gees S56 ce05-
Coventry, W«BiS... ...2-
Covert, Av ;Breee S45 ce:
Cowing,Philo....-. ....-
Cox, Judge Hopewell
Craigie, Dr. W
Crandall, William H..-..-
Crandonah ye soos
Crane, George W.-.......-
Crane, Heber--..-.. .
Craven, Rev. Bi
Craven, Thomas J....-....-
Crawford); Retic2. j...-.:-
Crawiford,}WieAce........-
Crawford) THe = 2/.3)-
CribbsiJi Rees aae ioc
Crisp, Jobb ses
Crisson, Jae see" baa, -
Crocker, Allen
Crockett, John M-. .....-..-
Croit, Charles. ..-.
Crookham, George L....-
Crosby, J. B
Crozier, Dr. E. 8
Crowther, Benjamin. ....-
Cumming, 8. J
Cunning ham, Miss Ardelia-

es

Cunningham, G. A......-
Cunningham, J. D......-
Currier, Alfred O. ......

Curtis Win sees 2 .2c5.-.-.
Cutler, Profs Wav2 |... ....<
Cutting, Hphr-s22 .-....-

Cuttiney, Hiram A....--..-
Dall, W. H
Dalrymple; A.P 2... 2... 4
Delton! Doosan ee
Daua, William D. .......
Darby, Prof. John........
Darling: DwAci2 5... ccaee

State.

New Jersey.
Pennsylvania.
New Jersey.
Pennsylvania.
Pennsylvania.
Tennessee,
New Jersey.
Ohio.
Georgia.
Pennsylvania.
Florida.
Alabama.
South Carokna.
Towa.

. New Jersey.
Virginia.
Arizona,
Arkansas.
Virginia.
Indiana.

New York.
New York.
Wisconsin.
Canada West.
Rhode Island.

' Illinois.
Ohio.
Michigan.
North Carolina.
Delaware.
Delaware.
Delaware.
Oregon.
Mississippi.
Indiana.
Bahamas.
Kansas.
Texas.
California,
Ohio.
Michigan.
Indiaua,

« Mexico,
Alabama,
Ohio.
Massachusetts.
‘Texas.
Michigan.
Wisconsin.
Connecticut.
California,
Vermont.
Alaska Territ’y.
Maryland.
Missouri.
Maine.

Georgia & Ala.
Massachusetts.

Name. State.
Warlingtonwbease <6. 2. Pennsylvania.
Dascomub, Professor... --. Ohio.
Davidsony HoMr =.= 95-2: Ohio.
Davidson seawWees occ. <:- Ohio.

Davies, James F'........ Arkansas.
Davis, Charles.:--.. -..- Pennsylvania,
*Davis, Rev. Dr. Emer-

SON PSH aisiaase oak Massachusetts.
Davis, George L. C.---.- Mississippi.
Davis Mideeoae <taj252 sc Virginia,
DavissWabee st J ci55.- Ohio.

Dawson; John, Li... .-.. South Carolina.
Dawson, Wissyeee oo2 52 Indiana.

Day, Rheodore2= 2). =.=. - Pennsylvania.
Day wWalliames <2) New York,
Dayton hrwAwes sio5 Less New York.
Daytun, Lewis M. ...... Ohio.

Dayton, James H. ...-.-.. Indiana
Deacons JohniCe2.: y=5..- New Jersey.
Meany Wiebe.) ss /s2\- Pennsylvania.
Dearing Sev... 5. Pennsylvania.
Deckner, Frederick, &Son.| Georgia & Wis.
Deom Dees ose eee oe | Indiana.
Deenin ey Oi saae to ucs5s)- Towa & Penn’a.
De Graffenreid, Dr. W. G-.| Texas.
Deemer DrRe sy... Texas.
Depliysered esses <li Wisconsin.
*Delaney, BE: M: J.-=--- Newfoundland,
*Delaney, John, jr.- ...- Newfoundland,
Denig,, Ei seemes aman Nebraska.
Denison sede hips sae iste Kausas.
*DenningyawWrekl-t .-, <coc New York.
Denmiss Wirt Chek ch) cise ae Florida.
DesellentedepNe es --4sse.- Ohio.

Dewey, biota @n 2.2 ssi. New York.
Dewhurst, Rev.E- .--..-. Me, Mass.,& Ct.
DenWivliRN Aaeeee kilos: M:ssouri.
D’Spam, Dre Bil... Texas.
Dickinson, George C..... Virginia.
Dickinson, James P....- Towa.
Dickson, Walter. = -—--.- Hud. Bay Ter.
ls Johnette. ain se New York.
Hille: Tsraelewt foo Ohio.
DiMsmore wee Miss /1tecn New York.
Dinsmore; OFBasetie seats Wisconsin.
Doak, SaSeestk 3. 2ke Tennessee.
Doak Wii SRI gcc eciecice Tenneysee.
Dodd; ProkC ones. 222 Indiana.
Dodder pe wakes: soo. Pennsylvania.
Dodge, J. W., & Son....| Tennessee.
Dodge, Stephen C.....-. Tennessee.

1D (ofok (oye pel oh 1 ee ee Missouri.
WO] Ot ede ee nercite) oe Gr c.cso- Ohio.

Dorat, Dr Charles ..---. San Salvador.
ID. Te fincas ae Meee Ohio.
Donweilervbytace - oc. lowa,

IDitens Hine eet 2 <1. Vermont.
Doughty, William H-.--.| Georgia,
Doyle, Joseph B...- ---- Ohio.

Divs a6) nl ee ae eee se Wisconsin.
Draper, Dr. Joseph.----.- Massachusetts.

* Deceased.
90

LIST OF METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS.

List of meteorological observers, &e.—Continued.

Name.

Drew, Drghweeeee eee
Drummond, Rev. J. H-.
Drysdale, Robert H- ..-.-
Dubois) HEIGsiyrs-5- -----
DudleyAaiyeeeeee oi. s.k
Duffieid, Dr. E
Duftield, Rev. Dr. George. -
Duffield, Dr.
Dunean, Rev. Alexander. -
Dunvant Johnple.c sce.
Dunkum, Mrs. E. S.~ .....
Dunk Wess os ee ec=
Dunwoody, W. P-
DurkammwiJeeae-s seco
Dutton, J. Russell..----..
Eachers, Hiomenss. se2)o 55.
Earle, E. S- x
Barend Witeseee) acdsee
Earle, Silas.
Easter, Prof. J. D-.
Eaton, Dr, B. F
Ebert, Se pe te) ee
Eddy, Levens
Kidgenlyagus Geeks ecco
Edwards, Daniel....-....-
Edwards & Miller.
Edwards, Joseph...-----
Edwards, Rev. Dr.Tryon. -
Powent Johns. se. 2

eee eee

Eldridge, Rev. W. V.....-
Eletsont Jiobaeeisecss cic en
TOWNS TD) Bi «Se ore
TONS JO bleh 4 ae oe eenete
ists Meseeaeey os cas
Bilis Drybdwine...—...-

Ellis, Dr.
Elliott, Jonathan..........
Elliott, Prof. J. Boyd-...-
MLO tt Gmese he aoe
AOA boy rata DS shes ie ‘
Hillsworth poe nee: Scheie
Ellsworth, Lewis.....----
Mlisworth, AMiSeeesc cece <
stuns Wiese cre oe ses
Engelbrecht, Lud -.-..2..
Engelmann, Dr. George. --
EGppersonwiNVianles = occ:
Ervendberg, Dr. L. C..---
Ervendberg, T. C. .----.-
ByvansJonmeeeee 2. 2c
FivelethiiSseereeine-ccncce
Eveleth, Samuel A
Everett, Franklin... ....

Biwin oper ai. oi
Byler, Reve Diseees w 22s
Eyster, D
Fairall, H. H

See

Bairchild, JohnvPis sae
Mairbankeahyeeeioss esos
Hairbanks Jie Puee ss o5 se
Hallion Johns sco. -50 coe

State.

Kansas.
Kansas.

North Carolina,
Connecticut,
Illinois.
Missouri.
Michigan.
Pennsylvania.
Illinois.
Wisconsin.
California.
California,
Towa.
Wisconsin.
Pennsylvania.
Peunsylvania.
South Carolina.
New York.
California.

-| Georgia.

Vermont.
Pennsylvania.
Wisconsin.
Tilinvis.

New York.
Penusylvania.
Pennsylvania.
Connecticut.
Pennsylvania.
Illinois.

New York.
Massachusetts.
Virginia.
Peunsylvania.
Mich. & Wis.

Coloiado & Kas.

St. Domingo.
Mississippi.
Ohio.

South Carolina.
Tilinois
Illinois.
Tilinois.
Tudiana.
Ohio,
Missouri.
Texas.
Mexico,
Texas.
Nebraska.
Maine.
Maine.
Michigan,
Texas.
Pennsylvania.
Pennsylvania.
Towa.

Ohio.

New York.
Vermont.
Vermont.
Massachusetts.

Name.

Hamswortheby dos. scce-
Fauntleroy, H H
Featherston, G W
Fellows, H. B

Welt; Sabie ae es eeieseieie ==
Female College, Arkadel-

phia
Fenderick, E
Fendler, Ang
HendlerwAti eset esensisee
Ferguson, GF
Berriss, ph Jiesee sevssisec

Finfrock, J.H
Finley, iN J
Pine yeh as eerselsia\=cicirn
Finley: Meagh seek oe: cicmiss
HinleyatkvanwWier-eaetsiaier2 =
Fischer, Dr. James C ....
Fish, Edmund
= Mish: uucienes- = «see
Fisher, Dr. J. C
Fisher, Dr. Galen, M ..-.
Miske, (Wey vitae ee
Fitch, Dr. Joseph
Fitzgerald, Rev. F
Fleming, John
Flett, Andrew
Flint, Prof. W
Flippin, W. B
Florer, Thomas W
Foote, Elisha
Folsom, C. A

es

es

ese eee
eccee-

Foster, J. H
Foster, Robert W........
Foster,
Foye, Prof. J. C
Prantz, Jacobeeeaca. sees
Fraser, James
Fraser, SAaAMESieeeaciet eee
Fraser, James B a-------
Freeman, F.
Freeman, 16 CAS eee a
Freese, G. RPE Se ees ls a aie

eee ees ewe ene

Reach, ie Ss.
Brenchauepeeeee. cacces
ren Che eukueee a oan is cis
Frey, Samuel C
Friedrich, OMttoesac seas

Virginia.
Arkansas.

New York.
Wisconsin.
Massachusetts.
New York.

Arkansas.
Pennsylvania.
Massachusetts.
Missouri.
Florida.

Ohio.

Idaho.

Towa.

Towa.
Arkansas.
Missouri.
Ohio.

Kansas.
Kansas.

Ohio.

Florida.

New York.
Lilinois.

North Carolina
New Jersey.
Hud. Bay Ter.
New York.
Arkansas.
Mississippi.
New York.
Mississippi.
Missouri.
lowa.

Michigan.
Louisiana.
Alabama.
Wisconsin.
Pennsylvania.
Ohio.

Virginia.

Ohio.

New Hampshire.
Illinois.

Texas.
Tennessee.

New Hampshire.
New Hampshire.
New York.
Ohio.

Texas.
Pennsylvania.
New York.

New Jersey.
California,

New Jersey.
Vermont.

New York.

* Deceased.
LIST

OF METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS.

91

List of meteorological observers, &e.—Continued.

Name.

Fry, Lieutenant Joseph. -.
Puller Drebrine.s).22
Puller; RE Meee... 3-5-2 =
Maller. We Gretes. as5.
Gaffney.
Gaines, "Rev A] G: 2c. --.
Galeewiess a eee eee
Gamplewd2 wwe see. eke
Gantt -Dr2 Weblo sees
Gardiner, James
Gardiner ke Eee see
Gardiner Re He... S'<
* Gardiner, Hon. R. H....
Garnlandidei Geen. = case 55 +
Garland, Samuel G..---.

Garrisons Oeibicer = css 2.

Ganvine Dries Or... -
Gacy, JACODIS 2 2h...5-225:-
Ga ‘RhGOMASes-..c ss se

Gibbes, Erotalimien sats 222:
Gibbon, Lardner -...-....
Gibbons, H
Gibbons, J. S
Gibbs, T
Gubsom shHeeesse c= 26k
Gibson, R. T
Giddings, Rev. George B .-
Gidley ey Meenn scons se:
Gairord- nEvie sees e 255s
Giftord svete os 28 es
Giles. WstWiiese.-c5sse2
Gill; Josephwkt cos 3-255-
Giliingham, Wire a2 se2
Gilliss, Charles J........-
Gilman, Stephen -........
Gilmany Weak cS 22
Gilman WerSeagh- 4-5225-
Gilmore MiSs eces ioesc5-
GuilmourwAetlier dl ooo see.
Gilasco., Jae Miee esse ce ee
lenin, dia aee fen eae
Glennie, Rev. Alex
Gover veo ede. 2. <o2. -
Goff, ae M.A
Gold, '
Coen: 1) =e
GoodmanpW ths... 2 2523:
Gogdnow ke Dees eee
Gordon, Robert. . --. .-.'-
Gordon; Drew? AS... 2...
GOrtons iy Se eon

Goss,. George’ Ge eo. 2 2.
Goss, W: Heese ot
Gould, Lewis Aves sioo., -
Gould, M-.
Graham, J

Graham, Paul.
Grant, Benjamin ....-....
Grant, (Charles 32...

State.

FI rida.

South Carolina.

New York.
Ohio.
Texas.
Maine.
Wisconsin.
Ohio.
Texas.
Texas.
New York.
Maine.
Maine.
Maine
Bahamas.
Minnesota.
Florida.
New Jersey.
Wisconsin.
Illinois.

South Carolina.

Florida.
California.
New York.

.| Texas.

Nebraska.
Georgia.
Illinois.

Towa.
Louisiana,
Massachusetts.
Kansas.
Illinois.
Maryland.
Massachusetts.
Maine.
Kansas.

New Yerk.
Ohio.

Canada.
Texas.

Texas.

South Carolina.

Georgia,
Michigan.
Connecticut.
‘Tennessee.
Maryland.
Kansas.
California,
Wisconsin,
New York.
Kansas.
Iowa.

Towa.
California,
Maine.

New York.
Arkansas.
Peuusylvania.
Georgia.

Name.

Grant, Joos teeec etn
Grant, Dr. W. T
Grape, George S......---
Grathwohl dieses -ae =
Graves ManyyAno-s- 2-0
Green AMR, er: sees
Greene, Prof. Dascom....
GreroryaisaO ste -cicaaoe
Gridley Reverd!=---. st =
Giriestrohn s 445-55 —-
Griest, MisseViee 2.7. =
Guiffine sHenrys.->- = ----
Griffith, R. H
Grinnell sie soe es sees
Griswold, L
Guiswold¥ Raye. 2 = eee
Groesbeck, Mrs. E. W-..
Grofi nh ewoulseeee see.
Gronewerrlineates- = cee:
Guest, W. E
GunneDonaldtacs sss el
GuptiliGen Wie een iccs = a5
liaise lleninyeccrtia~o- == =
Habersham, S. E.....--..
aches mRerdeees o-sc cee
Hagan, W. E

Hague, Captain.......-.-
Hahn @harleste--22 5-55
Hainess Jonme sens sossc.:
Haines, William ........
Bally Dra. sae 5 Se
Hall i Jeelseeere oss sss
Hall Josephvktye. = +5525
Hall, S. W
Hallowell, Benjamin. ....
Hamaker, Marion F
Hamilton, Prof. J-
Hamilton, Captain W....
Hamilton, Rev. W ..-.-.
Hamilton}!wWe Hi e522
Flamrmitter seis acco ste
Hampton, Wi. © ~~. 2. -
Plana eee esos ce se
Hance, Ebenezer.--..----
Hanna, Gab iess.cioocc
Hannatordeveae. sae se
Hanscom, R. F
Hanshew, Henry E
Harding, Colonel Horace.
Hardy, H. F
Hardy, Dr. J. FS B..-..-
TST RNESS: Witten © ni</='n'-'
la Fena(einy, (ein. Nive Gee ee mer
Hanper, Prof. 7 .=-..---:
TRanper, ETOte Mule «<0 <>-
LEDS PAC te ets «> wie
lnlehg uly | Diy eo Seo

eee eee ee wee

[pidiaeriae Res see eG So saat

* Deceused,

State.

Illinois.
Illinois.
Illinois.
Georgia.
Maryland.
Pennsylvania,
Minnesota.
Mississippi.
New York.
New York.
Wisconsin.
Indiana.
Indiana.
Illinois.
Michigan.
Kentucky.
Tennessee.
Tennessee,
Kansas.
Illinois.

Obio.

New York.
Hud. Bay Ter.
Maine.

New York.
Georgia.
Wisconsin.
Virginia.
Towa.
Washington Ter,
Pennsylvania.
Indiana.
Georgia.
Canada.
Hlinois.

New Hampshire
Maine.
Virginia.
Missouri.
Tennessee.
Bahamas.
Nebraska.
North Carolina.
Ohio.

Ohio.
Missouri.
Pennsylvania.
Massachusetts.
Ohio.

New Hampshire.
Maryland,
Alabama.
Arkansas.
North Carolina,
New York.
Obio.

New Jersey.
Mississippi.
Alabama.
Iliinois.

Tennessee.
92

LIST OF METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS.

List of meteorological observers, &e.—Continued.

Name. State.
Harrison, babieesion 2. Connecticut.
lagna eke J 2 oGee Hetepoe New York.
Hartt Chae na siesis is 2% Nova Scotia,
Hanvey, daeaee-\s-\- == - Pennsylvania.
Haskin, W L...-.-.-.-.-.| New York.
Teles tinverseie pesto slate == el = Pennsylvania.
Haswellikev. d2k>.2--- .| New York.
Flatichy Agile. cite: < -in\= == Mississippi.
Ela ha nae ky. oVVileesi<ieleeisl= California.
Hateh; His. 22..-:.------. |) Mississippi,
Hatch, J-.- -.-.-----| New Hampshire.
Hatfield, Jos Gi goose | Obiows
eiausen, Bim se aioe Kilinois & Wis.
Havens Siebusoeee sen oars Massachusetts.
Hawks; Drivde Mass... Florida.
Hayes: Dra nWie cesses 2 California.
Haynes ra Bee ces secce or Bahamas.
Haywood, Prof. J ..------ Ohio.
easton Ds rae meeele Missouri.
Heckeiman, Rev. H -....-| Pennsylvania.
*Hedves, Urban D-.-...-.-| Delaware.
Heger, Dr. A ...---------| Pennsylvania.
Heimstreeton wwii. N. Y. and Minn.
HeiselyaarRy eso an: Pennsylvania.
Helmiihosgiberie soe Indiana.
HendersonwiWee wee... <= Alabama.
Herrick WE @ eee coe Kentucky.
Herrick: td peyote ere Ohio.
Hester laeuts id. Wo... - Florida.
Heubner Qi aysoie eco... Pennsylvania,
ey sere Winyrmeicee sinicles 2 - Pennsy|vania.
itbbamed AeA eae ke cca N. Y.and Minn.
Hickok. Wi Os a2 sos os Pennsylvania.
ickss/Jobnetesees cals oo Wisconsin.
Bickce iC eeesas since « Wisconsin.
Hicks (Dr Weheecs os. - North Carolina.
Hicton Agencia tse s Mexico.
Higgins, Prof. D. F--...-.| Nova Scotia.
Higgins, James.-..-.---- Tennessee.
MBildrethyS ype se sce Ohio.
1S CINE DSN Cee ee Sea essere Ohio.
1B GHEG DAS seed cosaesaee Dakota.
1 UUM US aE Se ere eee Nebraska.
Hillier, Rev. Spencer L -...| N.Y.,Obio, Wis.,

and Minn.

Himoe, John E .-.....-- Wisconsin.
Flimoen Dry sOree-s cee = Kansas.
Hindman, S. M.N .----.- Oregon.
Hiscox, G DP eee. =!) Lalimors:
Hoadley,.@ Eye e. oo. Connecticut.
Hobantashda hese fo Ss. <1 Towa.
Hobbs, Chas. M.....-.--.-| Indiana.
Hobbs, Miss M. A...----..}| Indiana.
Hobbs, O.rin T .---.-.--.-.| Pennsylvania.
Hobbs, Williamgia 22: Indiana.
Hoff, Dr. Alex. H..-.--.-|, Alaska Ter.
Lelio Kee nea? Sobdooa. Virginia.
Hoffer, Dr. J. R..-.------| Peunsylvania.
Hofer, /Maryab tesa Pennsylvania.
Kol comb spAGh austere acer Massachusetts.
Hollenbeck, D. Ki. 2222222 Ohio.

Name.

Hollenbeckwweese ss See
Holley, Benj. F-..:.--.-
Hollingworth, G. W ..--.
Hollister wD rvolemerrs cis aie
Holmes Dieses + sci
Holmes, E. 8S
Holmes, Dr. BE. S......-.
Holmes, J. C
Holmes, Thomas
Holstons Dr J..G.E: .-
Holt, Rev. Jos. W
Holt, Walliams ss. 3-2 Joe
Hoover) Wie oseee ses sae
Hopkins perotyae e572 as
Hopkins, Rev. Robert ---
Hopkins, Prof. W. F -..-
Horn, Miss Clotilde......
Horn, Dr. H. B

Horr, Ed. W....-..--.--

FHosmerjaneceen te aecsere
Hotchkiss, Jee Be eae ate
Hough, Dr.
Houghton, G s mY ort
Houser de Cesta eee
House, J. Caroll
Howard, J. S
Howe, Edwin..........-
Howell hiseceaete sy ccek
Hoyt, Peter Woah. 22500
Hudson Drv Aceh. 3-52.
Huebener an hy se... se =. 2
Huestis; Prof. Ay C2252 --
ButakerSn Secs. ces ee.
Hughes, ‘Jno Deets eae
Hull, YN | BYSs eee  oeeeae
Hunt, Ashley D-.--..-.--..
Hantihev. aces esse
Hunt, George M
Hunt, Dr. 8. B
Huntingdon, George C...
Hurlburt, Dr M. J. E-...
ifurlin. RevaaWieeeereeee
lartt, HeaWireaeee see

ecw eee wee

Hyde, Stephen...--.....-.
Hydel Reve iGi bs 2.
Imboden, J. B
Ingalls, S. Marshall
Ingalsbee, Grenville M- -

Ingersoll gests else ce

ee es

| Ingraham & Hyland ...-.
laknorema Drediatet. 5.256.

ronsidewhiwbr seems occ
Irvine, Professor 8. G -.-

State.

Obio.

Alabama.

Kansas.

Michigan.

Massachusetts.

New York.

Michigan.

Michigan.

Indiana.

Ohio.

Minnesota.

Illinois.

Ohio.

Massachusetts.

Minnesota.

Maryland.

Kansas.

Kansas.

Missouri.

Iowa.

lowa.

Wisconsin.

New York.

Virginia.

New York.

Pennsy|lvania.

Tennessee,

New York.

New York.

Arkansas.

California,

New York.

New Hampshire.

Towa.

Pennsylvania.

Indiana.

Missouri.

Pennsylvania.

Connecticut.

Alabama.

Connecticut.

New York.

New York.

Ohio.

Wisconsin.

New Hampshire.

Ohio.

Illinois.

Alabama.

Mass. and Ohio.
hio.

New York.

New York.

Virginia

New York.

New York.

New York.

Kansas.

Ohio and N, J.

Oregon.

Ohio.

eA AN ty eNO el aro ane ST Le
* Deceased.

.
LIST OF METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS.

93

List of meteorological observers, &c.—Continued.

Name.

Ives. Bdward he. <2. 22522
Eves wWalligna: 22242... -2
Jackman, A
Jackson, Dr.
Jackson, doline. fee
Javkson, Samuel X ....-.
JACODS LE Be choc S 2555 =
Jacobvs, Prot..M- 222-2...
JROGET Te We ae secs cee
James, Miss Anna
James, Prof. C 8
*James. Dr soon: -22o.--
Janes, C. C
Jaques Aeros ss 55%\s525 5
Jenkins, John F
Jenkins die dae esses escc 2
Jennings, J
Jennings, Dr. Samuel K -.-

Jilson, B. C
Johns, Dr. Montgomery. --
Johnson, A. K
Johnson, Enoch D.......-
Jubnsou, E. W

Johnson, Joseph
Johnson, Norton.....-..-.

Jonson He © ee: e< S22
Johnson, Rev. Samuel. --.
Jobnson, Thomas H......
Johnsou, Warren.....----
Jvhnson, Dr. W. M.....--
Johnsons Wels oases foe
Johnston, Prof. John
Johnston, William M
Jones, Benjamin W-...---.
Jones CMP eee oie
Jones, Prof. Gardner. ..---
JONES JOSIa = fees.
Jones, Silas B.
Jones, W. Martin
Jorgenson, C.N..-.-.....-
Jourdan; Prof. C. H......-
Joy, Prot. Charles A..... -
Julien, Alexis A...
Kaler, Fiederick
Kapp. Ernst
Kaucher, William
Kedzie, l’rof. R. C
Keenan, T. J R
Keep, kev. W. W....-..-
Keliett. 'homas A....-...
KelleyOPhee: 2.000...
Kellaporines ms 2s: 5. ot

Kellogo, Ghose to!
Kellnin, A. O
Kelly, Charles W.........
Kelsey,’ Profe Ho 8-22 2<: =.
Kelsey, Kathaly..........
Kemper, G. W. H.:....-

Kendall. Jamies

Kendail, John F

State.

Florida.
New York.
Vermont.
Lonisiana.
Pennsyivania.
Virginia.
Pennsylvania.
Pennsylvania.
Ohio.
Illinois.
Pennsylvania.
Tilinois.
Ohio.
Ohio.
New York.
Illinois.
Wisconsin.
Ala., Texas, and
Tenn.
Tennessee,
Maryland.
Wisconsin.
Virginia & Ohio.
New York.
South Carolina.
Tllinois.
Nevada.
New York.
Ohio.
Maine.
North Carolina.
Montana.
Connecticut.
Mississippi.
Virginia.
Pennsylvania,
Indiana.
Maryland.
Virginia.
Canada.
Iowa.
Maryland.
New York.
Antilles.
Texas.
Texas.
Missouri.
Michigan.

| Mississippi.

Florida.
Minnesota,
Minnesota.
Texas.
Wisconsin.
Wisconsin.
Minnesota.
Wisconsin.
New York.
Indiana.
Virginia.
New York.

Name.

*Kennicottilve.so- -<c2 -

Kent. Benjamin
Kerli re rN i ae
Kerr -ProfuweCus-.
Kersey. ieaVieeeseele ces
Kibbe, T. R
Kilgore, W
Kilpatrick, Dr. A. R.-.--
King, Mrs. Adelia C....-
King’s College
Kiugsbury, J. H
Kirby, D. J
Kirkpatrick, Prof. J. A-.--
Koirntlande Dry ewes. sss -
Kizer, W. B
Kluge, E. T
*ldsen Dre Je (beeen
Knauer, J
Knox, James C
Knoud, Rev. James....--
Kohler, Edward
Kohleski, Theo... ...--..
Koning Rev. P-Wi.---22
Kownslar, Miss E
Kowunslar, Dr. R
Kridelbanohy SiH .s2.:
Kron, F. J
uMMer Biss cee Se
Kunster, H

Laighton, Thomas B.....

i ed

lt Landon: Antla S2css oss. 2
Wane; Prot snw sees.
Lane, John
Wane! Moses) -jso5.5-522-
Langdon, Laurens A.... -
Laugee, Dr. Ignatius ..-.
Langeuth, J. G., jr.----.
Langworthy, A. Darwin. -
Lapham, Darius. .--...--
MBE GGY tél Gey. Oo eeseeeee
Larkin, Prof. E. P
Larrabee, W. H......-.-
Saran pir eoce se oe
aselle, Ce Be tes ae
Laszlo, Charles...-.. 2...
Mathrop, ero. S..P--2 =~
Latimer, George.......-.
Lattimore, Prof. S. A ..-.
Dosw SOs Ge WW eset = oe ce
Lea, John
Pear Orie be 23.25.52
Learned, Dwight W....-
Leavenworth, D. C...--.
Lee, Charles A..._......
PWeneris Onn. 22.5 L2.
Leffman, L
Letroy, Capt. J. H
Pleimane Or. El, Mi t.23

|| Leonard, Rev. L. W ....

* Deceased.

Landon, Stephen........

State.

Alaska & Hud.
Bay Territory.
Massachusetts.
Pennsylvania.
North Carolina.
Indiana.
California.
Minnesota.
Louisiana,
Obio.
Nova Scotia.
Pennsylvania,
Massachusetts.
Pennsylvania.
Ohio.
Missouri.
Pennsylvania.
New Granada.
Indiana.
New Hampshire.
Missouri.
Pennsylvania.
Montana.
Missouri.
Virginia,
Virginia.
lowa.
North Carolina,
Pennsylvania.
I|linois.
New Hampshire,
New York,
New York.
Georgia.
Michigan.
New York.
New Yok.
lowa.
T)linois.
I}linois.
Ohio,
Wisconsin.
Wisconsin.
Indiana,
Ohio.
Tndiana.
Mexico.
Wisconsin,
Porto Rico.
New York,
Dakota.
Otio.
Mis-ouri.
Connecticut,
Connecticut.
New York,
New York.
New York.
Canada,
Montana.
New Hampshire.
g4

LIST OF METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS.

List of meteorological observers, &e.—Continued.

Name.

eonandsmWepbeae cose eee
Levings, Chas
Lewis} Charles His. --..,..-
Lewis, James
Lewis; Jamesec)o-..-.-228
Eingows BiG on io...
Linus, M
Lippincott, James § -.----
Lippincott, Joseph W..-. -
Witte tHrankyss - cca eee
Ditties homes). <i\- 2

ive Za; | Gey W asses sne =.
IVAN SHU Ok mcmisie (nale eps
Givin oSstonGe hase eee
Livingston, Prof. Wm...--
Lobdell, Mrs. M. J..-.--. F
ocke: (Samuel... 2. ec.
Lockhart, James ....-...-
MbockwoodG. Ps. eae
Morante rake Meas nee
Homes WOT bes scciss oo
Toord AWieiGeee esa. =-ceae
d Dray ohayed (Oe ae ee
Loughridge, Dr. J. H...--
Love, Mrs. James
Wove sbousapkscccnciesee
Mowndes: ABO se. 2-5 soc. ce
TeOWiale we vee ese roe ee a
Lips, Jacob
ukins Sohne cock
Lull, James 8

eee eee -

DumpkinwWieeM . 222 sod :

Lumsden, Rev. William.. -
*Lunemann, John H......
Lupton, N. T
ther ows ee Se ee
Ibutivell Jamies 2 ~ os sccce.c
hynden@ ademas = aaen\< asnhe
Lyous, Curtis J.
McAfee, J. R
McBeth, Miss Sue
McCarty, HD... 22 2228
*McCary, Robert
MeCary, Walliam 25222). 52
Me@lnnes Gita ee o.coee
McComly, Dr. H. A....-.
McConnell, E. M.......-.
McConnell, Townsend -. --
MeCommiecks J. O22. ccc
McCormick, William A...
Mc Coyaraewtue es: em mtoneee
McCoy, Dr. F
McCoy, Miss Lizzie -...--
McCready, Daniel..--..--
McDonpidyiMereoss. se ee
McDowell, Rey. A...---.-
McDowell, W. H-..------.
McDowell, W. W
Mc lrathJindiea- eee
McElroy, Barnet
McGee, J-

State.

Iowa.
Illinois.
Tennessee.
Utah.

New York.
Missouri.
New York.
New Jersey.
New Jersey.
Michigan.
Tllinois.
Ohio.
Minnesota.
Wisconsin.
Tllinois.
New York.
Minnesota.
Hud. Bay Ter.
Virginia.
California.
New York.
Maine.
Wisconsin.
Indiana,
Towa.

lowa.
Maryland.
Pennsylvania.
Wisconsin,
Ohio.
Mississippi.
Missouri.
Ohio.
Missouri & Ky.
Alabama.
Ohio.
Colorado.
Wisconsin.
Massachusetts.
Georgia.
Arkansas.

Kansas & Ohio.

Mississippi.
Mississippi.
Ohio. un
Texas.
Pennsylvania,
Iowa.
Maryland.
Kansas.
Pennsylvania,

Jowa & Indiana.
Towa & Indiana.

Iowa.

Virginia.

North Carolina.
West Virginia.
North Carolina.
Arkansas.
Pennsylvania.
Massachusetts.

Name.

MecKeesReve Cs Be o-c<cc

McKenzie, J. M........-

Mean aWeeen on. oes

MecMasters, Professor 8S. Y-

McMillan aise Bie concseee

MeMnuillensye she. 22

McMoreieAes. 2S oscek
McNelty, Dr. W. W....-

McNettaph ness 2222 ae

McQ@nico dere ise seesee

MeWilliams, Dr. Alex... -

Mactanlanewitisc-ccss ccc

Macereconi@. ds <n cs os

Mack vAciwVyie ae cccistineee

Mack, E.
Mack Revewla A. ccsicee
Mack, Robert C....-...-
Mackenziewdseceses ieee
Miac ie mips re NS ea
Maree secre eo cicae
Magnetic Observatory -.-
Maguire, Professor J. F..
MalcolmaWwiaS-cn coeecce
Malden Woe decr aecseocse
Mahinekrodt/C (22.2628
Manchester, Geo
Mankard, Mrs. M. J-..--
Manley, R.
Manan: Whanle sce cose Au
Mapes; pr gie cco
Mar«y, Professor O
Marks; Conydon..-.-~ 226
Marlow, Colonel W. B-..-
Marsh ii@haish-— e528
Marsh eA ss. 12. oau
Marsiay MraMie2e 2 ioe ice
Marsh, Mrs. M. M...-...
MarshjOinJee p36 eocous
Marsh, Roswell -......- a
Marshall, Gregory.----.-
Martins DiwAlex:.2- eee
Martin, Dr.
Martin, Dr. G. Alex
Martin WiepAwe enn Lune
Mien bina Ae secrete
Martin, Dr. Samuel D--.-
Martini\Wikteacen ss cec8
Martindale, Dr. Jos. C...
Martindale, Isaac C..---.
Manville 2 o's/ss.c)aeus
Mason, Edgar E.... ....
Mason, Professor R. Z-..
Mather, Professor W. W.-
Mathews: Deer <o-.c8e
Mathews, Geo..--.. ...-
“Matiners silted <2. closes
Mathews, Jos. McD
Mathis HouG@ 0) ooo .22
Matthews, H. W......--
*Matthews, Prof. M. M..
Mattison, Andrew

* Deceased,

.

State.

Dist. Col. & Va,
Towa & Neb.
Colorado.

Tl’s and Ken.
Ohio.
Minnesota.
New York.
Tennessee.
Pennsylvania.
Wisconsin.
Maryland.
Hud. Bay Ter.
Canada. °
Massachusetts.
New Jersey.
New York.
New Hampshire
Hud. Bay Ter.
New York.
New York.
Canada.
Maryland.
New York.
Michigan.
Missouri.
Rhode Island.
Louisiana.
Vermont.
Wisconsin.
Michigan.
Illinois.
Pennsylvania.
Jamaica,
Vermont.
Vermont.
Vermont.
Ohio.

Tllinois.

Ohio.

Iowa.
Indiana.
Pennsylvania.
Arkansas.
Pennsylvania.
Delaware.
Kentucky.

Pennsylvania.

Pennsylvania,
Pennsylvania.
Virginia,
Nebraska,
Wisconsin.
Ohio.
Wisconsin.
Wisconsin.
Wisconsin.
Ky. and Ohio.
Kentucky.
New York.
New York.
Kentucky.
LIST OF METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS.

95

List of meteorological observers, &c.—Continued.

Name.

Mauld Dr. D. W
Mauncey, Rev §
Mauran, Dr. P. B
Maurice, Gaby = ..-..-.0. 2
Maxey iWeals 22-2 5-4

Mayer, Professor Alfred M.
*Mayhew, Royal
*MeachannellaG: 5.2). 2
MeachamuSs2.-... <iseusse
*Mead, Allen
Mead, Chauncey
Meadwhe CARE. o52)5- <2
Mead, Dr. S. B
*Mead, Stephen O.-.--..--
*Mead, Dr. Thompson... -
Meehan) IRAs 0S 5 0/0055
Meehan: hosts -25<; 32.4 -
Meeker, Ralph E.........
Meusfield, Geo. C........-
Meriwether, C .
Meriwethern@s J).2.2..%-..5
Meriwether, R.
IMerianmevAt eM. 25.5. 655)
Mermam-vAwMee.. = 5 5
MoerniamnCaCs=. 55:6 has5
Moernnuanin Gage. ..o5 5-55
Merriam, Sidney A
Merrick. “Rhoss -B..ss002 5:
Merrill, Dr. E
WMiennnlioy Reverse lel =...5.5,<)-
Merritt, John C..-...
Merwin, Mrs. E. H......:
Mesemiany Dri J. <<. 51-4.
Metcalf, H
Metcalf, Dr. John G....--
MeybertaiDrayA. Po. .28
Miles Rhoss 322... oe
Military Post
MillardiAvnver 450 50a5;22
Millard, Joseph D..-.-.-.-
Millers C aH ae. 2 2 iosacnae
Miller, Rev. J
Millers Fobmub 22552228
Miller, L. A

wee eee tt eee ee

es

Millis Wonks a cocens ass oe
Wind's or
Mitcnell, Dr. R. W..---.-
Mitchell, Dr. S. F
Mitchell, ‘ons W..----.-
MocllariGoseer 2... 2. 2
Moffatt. Professor A. G ..-
Moke, Drake Boss 22 22%
Mooie, Professor A...--.-
Moore: Dra Alex cP... 2)
Moore; Anan Pe) 28522508.
Moore, Mrs. Belle
Moores: Cs Binal oe ee
Moore; David 7-2. 52232
Moore;..Dry,.G: BY. -4 se J
Moore, J. A

State.

Delaware.
Minnesota.
Florida.
New York.
Missouri
Md. & Pa.
Indiana.
Illinois.
Illinois.
Towa.
Iowa.
Wisconsin.

| Illinois.

Vt. and N. H.
Illinois.
Pennsylvania.
Pennsylvania.
Illinois.
Indiana.
Virginia.
Virginia,
Alabama.
Massachusetts.
Colorado.
New York.
Kansas.
Massachusetts.
New Jersey.
La. and Texas.
Maine.

New York.
Illinois,

Towa.

New York,
Massachusetts.
Pennsylvania.
Kentucky.
Newfoundland.
lowa.
Michigan.
Nebraska,
Kentucky.
Kansas,
Vermont.

| Pennsylvania.

Wisconsin.
North Carolina.
Michigan.
Tennessee.
Michigan.
Massachusetts.
Wisconsin.
Indian Territory.
Texas.
Mississippi.
Arkansas.
Maine.
Missouri.
Virginia.
Mississippi.
North Carolina,
North Carolina,

| Myers, J. H

Nettleton, A

Name.

Moore, Jos
Moore, Mahlon.......---
Moores ra Seba ---4-25-
Moores: Drie aca.5--
Morebouse, A. W
Morelle, Professor D..-- -
Morris, Miss E......-...
Morris, Professor O. W--
Morris’ OW 2 .<2--ols cee
e Morison ow... Hie. acces
Morse;:Geos Mi... --.....--
Morsesid).) bassecccecetes
IMGSeS*t deo et ous capers cicers
Moss, G. B
MoultonyIoiR en ou tee
MoultonswMia Mie careeoeks
Moultrie eno sce aoe
Mo wary Geos 5555-105
Moyer, ERA @i = 2)s50526
Muhlenberg, F. A., jr----
Manis WWW Se Soy os ccie

| Muller, Professor R.-.-.--..

Muli om gars ses siera sei

| Mulvey Oliver... <--4:2

Munfields Geo. C’..5.,-3.2

INashap eves Atcenacis-:5
Nason, Rev. Elias.....-.
Naturaliste Canadien -.--
Naval Hospital..-.-...--
Naval Hospital.......-.-
Naval Hospital..--.....-
Navaliiospitall-- ccc acs
Naval Station

Neely ppb -=)52-5,<<5 01
Nelson; Hin Mis 2 55 jsctese
Nelson, Professor J. P---.-

le Nelson thadle- oa--.scsnee

Nelson‘ ivAs. -2ecosiess
Newcomb, Guilford S----
Newcomb, J. B
Newkitk, RAM: .2.5 5.2.
Newton, Rev. Alfred...- -
Newton ON=\.-.0<5...c0.5-
Newton; Wis EL =. <26.c.:0,.
Nichols, C. L
Nicholson, Rev. J. J.---.-
Nie Le NHOBI 20. oc0cise ~<a
NollsAxthunm B\...,.-,.225.
Normal School
North slrS: 1B -)-1--;-\-)-)--
NOntOn ede bie <= s.0: a0 sere
Norton, brot. Wi. A.soasee

* Deceased,

State.

Indiana.
Pennsylvania.
Louisiana.
Missouri.

New York.
North Carolina.
New York.
New York.
Tennessee.
Illinois.
Massachusetts.
New York.
Nicaragua.
Illinois.
Maine.

Towa.
Alabama.
Pennsylvania.
Pennsylvania.
Pennsylvania.
Missouri.
Pennsylvania.
New York.
Indiana.
Indiana,

New York.
Kentucky.
New Brunswick.
Massachusetts.
Missouri.
Towa.

N. H. and Mass.
Canada.
California,
New York.
Massachusetts.
Pennsylvania.
New York.
Florida.
Pennsylvania.
Virginia.
Tennessee.
Missouri.
Massachusetts.
Maryland.
Nova Scotia.
Massachusetts.
Virginia.
Massachusetts.
Illinois.
Indiana.

Ohio.

Florida.
Wisconsin,
Maine.
Alabama.
Ohio.

New Jersey.
Massachusetts.
Alabama.

New York.
Delaware.
LIST OF METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS,

List of meteorological observers, &c.—Continued.

Name.

Norvell, F
Nourse, H..
Nutianer, Prof. Frs. J... --
Oakfield C.F
Oakley, Thomas. - !
Observatory Harvard Col-

lege
O’ D. Pecae ohnys-asn-
Odell, Dr. BL F
Gaal bKietcher
Offutt, Dr. J. J
Oficiana Central de Esta-

distica
Olds, Warren
Oliver ohnBeeeetics.ccee
Ormsby, G.S
Oxtonwmlanmesyee = ese) e
Osborne, Di. T. C
Osgood, H. H
Owen, Benjamin

Owen, Dra yD

Owsley wear aeickecsicinr | 4

Packard wWévitS:.-.-. 54.
*Paddock, James A .-.----
Paine; Charnles i. so2scec2
Paine, Charles S
Bainey aD railepMe oct eiee
Pa MPS Males —aiecs cares
Palmer, Miss Jerusha R---
Pardee, Eugene......-..-
RardeetyHi@ exec ciceciysce
Park, William K.....-.---
Park, Rev. Roswell.....--
Parker, J. B
Parker, J. D
Barker John a<2-)< 02
Parker, Joseph.-----.-. .-
Parker, Dr. Joseph M-.---
Parker, Melzar.....
Parker,
Parker,

Nathandiics)- s.oeis<
Prot. W., H-
Parkinson, D. F
Parmelee, Ezra
Parry, William
Parsons, B. W.
pansonsvalivbles: soeecice see
Ractnickt avis. ok ce lejcie
Banvin wees aofen s cclezee
Parvin Prof Theo. S222
Be NN USS) Kees onenecer
Paterson, Rev. Dr. A. B
Patrick, Dx. John J
PattisonsalAg eet oe.
Patton, Thomas... .
Paiton, Dr. Wm. N
Pax toni Ware cecrien tecice
Payne, DiJeWieseeeere ae
Peabody, Prof.S.H -....-
RealevO rT Bison ceseree
Pearce, Harrison... cece
Pearce, James A., jr..----

ecw ee- we oe

State.

Dakota Territ’y.

Wisconsin.
Virginia.
Kansas.
Mississippi.

Massachusetts.
Llinois.

Minn. and Iowa,
New Hampshire.

Virginia.

Costa Rica.
Tliinois

Mi higan.
Ohio.
Mass.
Alabama.
Maine.
West Virginia.
Indiana.
hio.

New York.
Vermont.
Vermont.

Vermont.

New York.
Texas.

New Jersey.
Ohio.
Nebraska.
Virginia.
Wisconsin.
Michigan.
Maine.
Iilinois.
Vermont.
Tennessee.
Wisconsin.
lowa.
Vermont.
California,
New York.
New Jersey.
Massachusetts.
New Jersey.
New York.
Towa.

Towa.
Wisconsin.
Minnesota.
Iilinois.
Michigan,
Virginia.
Virginia.
Michigan.
Alabama,
Vermont.
Pennsylvania.
Utah.
Maryland.

——=

| Pettingill,

| Post Surgeon

Name.

Pearsons John, 2.22252. 26
Peck, Drs John E..: 2. -
PeckssDraws Rec shee
Peclor Davide. 22-2
Peet, Abraham §...-..-.-
Pelzee. GeorgeS......---
Pendleton, tr. E.M
Pendleton we aths: 2. pene
Percival, Dr. Charles F.. .
Perkins,.Capt. A. D_...-..
Perkins, Drivin © soc. S.

Pernot, Claudius...<<- = 2
Rerraultbidia 2. eee

Hermy, Revi J: Bas .e2e
Perrys sWittseseticoseseet
Peters, Adam
eters Weer ee beccbesoee
Peters, PhosiwM: ..2-ce-<
Pettingill, Waldo......--
W

Petty euch ee ee eisens
Phelps; ily bos oe

Phelps, Highland W...--
Phelps, Rev. Jushua.-...-
Phelps MRGEe oe oo eee
Phelipstw awit te. .oocca
Phillips Heese ee esr
Phillips, Prof. Jas., D. D-
Phillips weak occk see
Phillips} ReCee. 2s 2
Pickard; Dred. sce
Pickett; Johne =... o-4e%
Pierce, Warren.........-
Palllsbuny.yMevAt =. 2. se
Pillsbury, Mrs. M.A..-.-
Pitcher, Dr. Zeno. ...-..-
Pitman, Charles H...-..-
Pitmanweuecenee eee ees
FlimaneMibeme i: Seep
Plummer, Dr. John T..-.-
Roe; Jamesth 22 Sse ee
*Pollara iss Bye 22 ase eeen
Pomeroy, WaCe-eescee ee
Pool) misaacvAetss s2a2 22 =
Poole Heats sauces cts
Porter aw Dieeees sear a
Porter Mrs) BoD. 22.222
Porter, Henry D.-.-.....-
Porters rorywy os: 5622
*Posey, Dr. John F.....-
Potters Drea Me ss ses 2.
*“PobtersO wee seas. see a,
Potters Gowieaesa. .22222
PotiswiemnvyGee set .2524
Powel, Samuel:.---:~..:
Prathie bros Jes. s24 42

| Pratt, George B.----...-

State.

Florida.
Florida.

Ohio.
Pennsylvania.
Massachusetts.
South Carolina.
Georgia,
Georgia.
Alabama.
Michigan.
Massachusetts.
New York.
Michigan...
Mass. and Vt.
New Jersey.
Ohio.

Indiana.
Alabama.
Maine.

Ohio.

South Carolina.
Vermont.
Utah.
Wisconsin.
Towa.
Connecticut.
Utah.

Canada.

North Carolina.
Ohio.

Ohio.
Wisconsin.
Virginia.
Ohio.

Ohio.

Ohio.
Michigan.
New Hampshire
Maine.

Maiue.
Connecticut.
Indiana.

Ohio.
Vermont.
Missouri.
Wiscunsin.
lilinois.

Nova Scotia.
Delaware.
Delaware.
Wisconsin.
Wisconsin.
Georgia.
Kansas and Cal.
Texas.

New York.
New York.
Virginia.
Rhode Island.

* Deceased.
LIST OF METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS.

oe

List of meteorological observers, &e.—Continued.

Name.

Pratt: Drei se sees
Prentiss, Dr. H. C
Prescothyiore VWs a 2 2 8
Preston, Rev. N.O..-.----
Prince, Charles
PrmcesiGwsatee sss) 2255 s2
Purdie, John R
Purdot, E

@nincyse Wess - oe
Race; amegay so... ees. 22
Raffensperger, E. B..--..--
Rain: J obntGee f=. <5 5/2:
Ralston; Reved.iG..---- --
Rambo pbb rac ses. ss. vee
Randall Bee eens 3
Rankin © olinkec=-= oss. 2:

Rankin DaMezs co. <==: -
Rankin Jamese cs. <.2 2
Ranletieehyiee os oo sae
Raser,; John Heyl... ... ..
Raver Hewes - <<... 22:

Rayal, James T
Raymond, George..------
Raymond, W.A----.--.--
Read, D. E
Reade: emote ao oe eas. 5s
Reasure, Dr. F. M
Redding, Thomas B
Reed, Edwin C
Recdeilsarhe se eee ease) o
Reed? itavoste usc ss 8
Reid!) *Jaswvets 526555 <1.
Reid, Dr. Robert K .-..-.
Reid; Peterseeeen- o> -2r--
Reynolds, IEfentypss Joe ot
Reynolds esses sist cee
Reynolds, Lauriston-.-. -.
Reynolds, Orrin A...---.-.

wee eee we ee ee

Reynolds, W.C...---..--
Rhees, Dr. Morgan J.... -.
Rhoades, Dr. John ....-...
Rhodes, Wat eo
Bible yee oe nooo oc
Rice, Mianknebe te).
Kice, Henmyee sete i.
Richards, Thomas...... --
Ricksecker, 1G 0f. Ses eae

riddell, Prof. W.. Besse... --
ipos; A: EL Soe ese we
Ries, Revi avracscenia:
Riker Walter H.2-.sen.
Riotte, Hon. C.N...--.-..
Ritchie, James..........-
Gers Menten co ichsck re
Robbins, Dr. James ...--.
Bla) oy pT OE 8 eee ee
Robinson, Almon...-.-. ie

“Ss

State.

Maine.
Massachusetts.
New Hampshire.
KXKansas.

Maine.

Maine.
Virginia.
Honduras.

New Hampshire.

Virginia.
Missouri.
Ohio.
Nebraska.
Pennsylvania.
Indiana.
California.
H. B. T. & Can-
ada.
Ohio.
Connecticut.
Louisiana.
Pennsylvania.
South Carolina.
South Carolina.
Kentucky.
Kentucky.
Texas.
Massachusetts.
Michigan.
Neb. and Iowa.
Tex. & N. Mex.
Michigan.
Indiana.
New York.
Iowa.
Pennsylvania.
Georgia.
California.
New York.
Maine.
Arkansas.
Maine.
Massachusetts.
Alabama.
Towa.
Virginia.
New Jersey.
Ohio.
Texas.
Tlinois.
Massachusetts.
Massachusetts.
H. B. Ter’y.
Pennsylvania.
Louisiana. ,
Minnesota,
Minnesota.
New York.
Costa Rica.
Massachusetts.
Dakota.
Massachusetts.
Indiana.
Maine.

Name.

Robinson, Rev. f. S....-
Roby, Charles Et
Rockwell, Miss Charlotte.
Rockwell, Jonna sete.
Rodman, Samuel...

Roe, J. TE ecw
Roe, Rev. Sanford wW..
rKOLEXO CAN USU\Y sd DER ye teeta 2

Koffe, C. L
Rogers, Avi - 2 2)...

Rogers, Francis M....--.
Rogets, J. S-----
Rogers, ONPawssschs sae
Roos, Charest 22002555 -
Root, Dr. Martin N-.-
Root, Professor O. ....---
Ross, Byki
ROSSeaUpN Ls Cent eee setae
Rossiter, Professor G. R --
Rothrock, William
Hays Gapks ss
Royal Engineers ....-.-..-
Royal Engineers -....---
Royal Gazette... .-..
Rucker, B. H
Reutiny Dawrde less. ee oe
Rufins Jnlians© 222 S\22%
Ruggles, 15 iGi00 (3 (ee eeSee
Russell, Cyrusstiee sees
Russell, oO. F
Rutherford, M-
Ryerson, Dr. Thomas... -
Salisbury, Elias O..-----
Sanne Cae soos lene
Sampson, Alexander....-
Sanders, "By Oeste oss cs.
Sanlord woes menses
Sanford, Dr. S. N
Sanger; Dr. W. W ....---
Sargent, John S
Sartorius, Dr. Charles - - -
Sartwells Drs Hi Pesce ise
Saurman, John W.......
Savage, Dr. G. &.......-
Savery, Mhomas H..---.-
paville, Aa}
Sawkins. James G..-.-...
Sawyer, George B....-.-
Pawyeruteeme ce. coos)
Sawyer, Thomas L.....-
Scandlin, Kev. Wm. G-.--
ScarritiiheverNesess 2225.
Scheuborsbys Assos 2 52:

ween eee

tance ee wee

see e eee

Scheeper, E. H. A -...--.
Schenck, Dr. W. L.-.---
Schetterly, Dr. H. R...--
Schlegel, Albert
SchlowWeessat oS
Schmidt, Dreb hoses

Scholefield N
Schriever, Francis. .
Schue, Dr. A
MCOt Ben neces

wee ee wee ee

State.

Mississippi.
Virginia.
Connecticut.
Georgia.

-| Massachusetts.
-| Illinois.

Con. and N. Y.
Virginia.
West Virginia.

Illinois.
Llinois.
Minnesota.

-| Mass. and N.H.

New York.
H. B. Territory.
Idaho.
Virginia.
Tennessee.
Missouri.
Bermudas.
Nova Scotia.
Bermudas.
Texas.
Virginia.
Virginia.
Missouri.
New York.
Arkansas.
Texas.
New Jersey.
New York.
Ohio.
W. Territory.
Virginia.
hio.
Ohio.
New York.
Massachusetts.
Mexico.
New York.
Pennsylvania.
Kentucky.
Pennsylvania.
Towa.
Jamaica.
N. Hampshire.
N. Hampshire.
Tennessee.
Massachuseits.
Missouri.
New York, Ohio,
and Illinois.
Iowa.
Ohio.
Michigan.
Massachusetts.
Georgia.
New Jersey.
Connecticut.
Pennsylvania.
Wisconsin.
Florida.

98

LIST OF METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS.

List of meteorological observers, &e.—Continued.

Name.

Scott, Jiamesceeeecese. ee
Scott, Samuel.----..-----
Sco vill eMWie ats. sis oye
Scriba, Wa chOnee ce acme toe
Seabrook, Fhomas..--.-- --
Seavey, C. C
Seibert, Samuel R -.----- Me
Selby.tdlenny 222 5)25-2—
Selizi@harless. 7502 ---
Senior class, Mount Au-
burn Female Institute - --
Sergeant, John T....--.--
Seymour, Musee see ae
Seymour, Dr.-E. W.....--
Shackelford, Prof. J
Shaffer, J. M
Shanes Je esac. sacs
Sharp mDraWreeklbceccyscee
Shaw, Francis ---- -
Shaw yJ0see ss ce
Shaw, M
Sheerer selene eerie =
Sheldon, Daniel --...-----
Sheldon MDaSec- 225 Soece
SheldonWHeAs sae. 2224
Sheldon, H. C.-
Shephard, J. A-
Skepherd, Sunil ey.
Sheppard, Benjamin
Sheppard, Clarkson
Sheppard, Rev. J. A..----
Sheppard, Miss R. C...-.--
Sherman, Rev. D. H
Shields, J. H
Shields, Rev. R
Shintz, H. J
Shoomakers J. G sos... 2: 42
ShortwellsDs i 22525 2525
Shotwell, Samuel L-., -- --.
Shreve, Charles R.... ----
Shriver, Howard
Shuman, Bruno ...-------
Shumard, G. G. Bese
Sias, Professor Solomon. ne
SiberseAmdrvass. 2222 See
Sibley, IPB ete eiiee maccces
Simpson, bots lee
SIMPSON He Vsacis = sso ee
Sisson; Rodman-n.. oc. ee
DK GCDNAVW ie vemee ee cee eae
Slade, Frederick J.-----..
Slaven we sooo 5 sco oc1ee
Slaven; James ce. ons 2. a
Sloane, Prof. J. R. W- .-.-
Slye) WC aes ese). ces
Smallwood, Dr. Charles -.
Suna Aes soe
Smedley, John H --.. -.--
Sinithy Agere prea
Smith cA. Meee eee
*Smith, rot; Ac Wi seen ee
Smith, Prof. B. Wilson ..-

State. Name. State.
Kansas. Smith WCwBesee se. .s =.= Nebraska.
Pennsylvania. Seait) N Die Ca Ope saae se Michigan.
Tilinois. Smarty @ ah ase ee Illinois.
Pennsylvania. SoithyOreCarki He. 5.6 Ohio.
Pennsylvania. Swnith yells soe = 2) Maryland.
Georgia. Smith, Dr. E. A.. ...-..-| Massachusetts.
Wisconsin. Smith, E.A.,and daughters} New York.
Michigan. Smith Ge ea a.) 22 Massachusetts.
Nebraska. Smith, Rev. George N -..| Michigan.

Smith, Dr. George O .--..} Illinois.
Ohio. Smith, Haden Patrick....| New York.
New Jersey. Smith, Hamilton, jr..---. Indiana.
Wisconsin. Smiths Welennyie seis. Tilinois.
Kansas. Sra wea eye Minnesota.
Alabama. Smith, Harmon M.....-. Michigan.
Lowa. Smith, Howard D -...---.. Maine.
Kentucky. Smith, Vs aacwe ee. ye Illinois.
West Virginia. || Smith, Dr. J. Bryant .---| North Carolina.
Massachusetts. Smith, AG (ONS bene means eee sit ON eKOys
Ohio. Smith, J. Edwards ...-.. Mississippi.
Kansas. Smiths Johuy Vi ieee Missouri.
New York. Smith, J. Metcalf ....--- New York.
Towa. Smith Dr AW.o osee ese New York.
Iowa. Smith, Rey... MiaS. 252 Michigan.
Vermont. Simiit aie VO ee ere meywers California.
Rhode Island. SmithiMis. M.D soe California.
Mississippi. Smith wD Na Doe Arkansas,
Illinois. Smith whatusy: 22. - 22052 New tLlampshire
New Jersey. Smith Sydney 2-2..22-2- Towa.
New Jersey. Smith, Rev. 8: U-..- 25-2 Alabama.
N. C. and Ala. || Smith, Rev. W.-.-------- Pennsylvania.
New Jersey. SmurreDryAn.- saetocce Ohio.
Illinois. Smyser Or: saeco Peunsylvania.
Alabama. SM sen wD topless Pennsylvania.
Ohio. Snell Protas S222 seas. Massachusetts.
Wisconsin. Snow, eroighY Hoses Kansas.
Kansas. Snyder, James A..-..--.- Oregon.
Minnesota. SoulemProty Wi see secre see New York.
Tilinois. Soulesew 7. skGre onciersee Kansas,
Ohio. Southworth, N. © ~...-:: Michigan.
Va. and N. J. Spaulding, Dr. Abiram.-..} Illinois.
Texas. Spaulding!S.C <2 <= ee Illinois.
Texas. Spates, Samuel... ..-.-- Minnesota.
Tex. and N. Y. Doers DrvAlex. Min eee Pennsylvania.
Utah. | Spencer, Miss Anna -.-..| Pennsylvania.
Missouri. Spencer, Edward E.-.---- Virginia.
New Jersey. Spencer, Rev. D. B.----- Minuesota.
Georgia. Spencer, E. ie teen ee ae Wisconsin.
Pennsylvania. Spencer WG eee sos, seee Illinois.
Virginia. Spera, W. i, sSuEsbienass- Pennsylvania.
New York. SpemyayVieee- = een. ose Ohio.
California. Spooner bros st. - =n Ohio.
Virginia. Spooner Dr-iS 5-- <= --- New York.
Ohio. Spratt, Dr. W. W..-----| Indiana & Ohio
Wisconsin. Sprinsenpievs Mr... ccee Arkansas.
Canada. Squier ih ermine = nner Michigan.
Maine. Stee wbnGy es. 2 co. 22 a Maryland.
Pennsylvania. Stalnaker J, Woe. = Jick Virginia.
Minnesota. Stanford, Colonel J. R...| Georgia.
Bahamas. Stanton, Pred. J .... J.52 Colorado.
Connecticut. Stayman, Dr. J -......--| Kansas.
Towa. Stebbins, George H.-.---- Oregon.

=

* Deceased..

LIST OF

METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS.

99

List of meteorological observers, &e.—Continued.

Name.

Stebbins, Richard
Stead hee na ss s-225- 52-5
Steele, Hon. Aug. .-...---
Steele, George E
Steiner, Dr. Lewis F .----
Stephens, Prof. A. M
Stephens, J. A
Stephenson, Rev. James - -
Syn bites Ua) Vic acess Bese
Sternackacobies- s2<.c.5- ce.
Sternbergh, W. H....--.-
Stevens, Hennell
Stevens, Dr. J. L
Stevens lainus2-22.0-25-.
SiGVenS, bree oe cee
Stewart ProtvA. (P5525... -
Stewaliphbr yess coco. 8
Stewart, Thomas H..-..-...
StOWALL. VWeUl = = 250-2
Stockwell. George A-.--.-
Stokes iepAwea= 5.2555 25.-
Stokes, William A....-...
Stone, Isaac
Stouffer, And
Stowell, T. B
WiIACHMANS wel wke==.1- <2 = =
imine Jodie. bac neaesae
Streng, L. H
Strickland iS. 2.25 22 48
Strong, Edwin A.---..>.-
pirong, Oscar i=... 2225
Strong, Rev. Thomas H..- -
Sith eaniely- 5-55 ....-
SinitiliGs. Wer ls) Sees
DtUATi EE Wkseso=-6 35 ce
Stuart, Prof. A. P. S
DiMDI PH N-wWissen <= soa <n
Stuntebeckwhs pel ..-.---.-
Stuntz,iGakess-.- 2.52
Stuver, A. S
Suter, Captain C. R
Sutherland, Norris...---.-.-
SULON MOVE Ae coos, 0555
Suton wOreGert sos. oc5.
Swain, Dr.
yan Cslebsee* oot
Swan, james 'G* .......--
Swart, Haren V..........-
Swazey, C. B.-.-..-....-
SwittWovwids so. = oe n
Swift; Drsbanlee 5.51.
Sylvester, Dr. E. Ware..-
Ralcotts bia ees ses.
Tappan, Eugene ........-
appany, Bay oeeeeeenen os
Tate, And
WBAVE], Bs Buccettas, «sass
Tayloe, E. T.----: eerie
aRAVIOL, JONNs so 55~ 4a
-Laylor, Joseph W....---.
Taylor, Prof. K, M
BVI OL ep Es ace on oa cata

mare wese

State.

Iowa.

Iowa.

Fiorida.
Michigan.
Maryland.
Minnesota.
Missouri.
Maryland.
Wisconsin.
Towa.

New Granada.
Texas.

Maine.

New Hampshire.
Pennsylvania.
Tennessee.
Pennsylvania.
Pennsylvania.
Tennessee.
Michigan.
New Jersey.

Pennsylvania,
Michigan.
Minnesota.
Kansas.
Missouri.
Michigan.
Michigan.
Maine.
Michigan.
Towa.

New York.
Wisconsin.
Wisconsin.
Ohio.

Nova Scotia.
West Virginia.
Missouri.
Wisconsin.
Ohio.

South Carolina.
Missouri.
Maryland,
Indiana.
Illinois and Ky.
New York.
Washington Ter.|
New York.
La. and Miss.
New York.
Pennsylvania.
New York.
Illinois.
Massachusetts.
Ohio.
Wisconsin.
Tennessee.
Virginia.
Pennsylvania.
New York.
Iowa.
Louisiana.

|| Trembley, Dr. J. B

Name.

Taylor, Dr. M. K
TaylompReverkwests == =<
Teele: RevatAnyKeccon sce
Tenbrock: Jk: Wistsscjosee
Terry) Charles! C22. 2.
Tew, Captain C. C
Thatcher, AwBy. so se eens
Thickstun, T. F
Thickstun, T. F
Thomas, Mrs. W.S..----
Thompson; AsvH --2< 2252
Thompson, Rev. D
Thompson, D. P
Thompson, Rev. E
Thompson, E. P
Thompson, George W.. --
(hompsonwblers-s2225 >
Thompson, Prof. H. A..-
Thompson, Mrs. Pheebe.-
Thompson, R. O
Thompson, Prof. Zadok. -
Thomson, Prof. 8. H ....
Thornton, Miss E. E ....
Thomtonporvios Cosess =
TRhozpr Henny. Wies.22225
Tidswell, Miss Mary A -.
Tingley, Prof. Joseph.---
Tirrell, Dr. N. Q
Ttcomb:.Jeuss-essseosee

sees

Toby, JamesvkKe 22555 22 2
Tolman,*J. W
Tolman, Rev. Marcus A.-.
Tompkins, W
Tooker, Nathan C..-.----
Tourtellot, Dr. L. A-....
Tower, James M
Towiersy MvES. a2 ss2se5
Townsend, Nathan .-.---
Towson, J. W
Tracy, George H.......-
Tracy, James E
Dravellijrdwlestatamvtsas ete
Treat, Samuel W

Trevor, James B..-....-.
Trible, Miss Anna C ....
Trivett, Walter M..-.....
Trowbridge, David...-.--
Troy, Dr. M
Tacky rs Wied eratnrc eo
Tucker, Edward T
Tuckerman, L. B-.--.----
Tuomey, Prof M.--2-..'.
Turnbull, Lieut. C.N---.-
Abigale
Turner, David
Turner, T. A
Tutwiler, H
Tweedy, D. H

State.

Michigan.
Pennsylvania.
La. and Mass.
Indiana.
Massachusetts.
South Carolina.
New York.
Minnesota.
Pennsylvania.
Illinois.
Illinois.

Ohio.
Vermont.
Ohio.

Illinois.

New Jersey.
Louisiana.
Ohio.
Vermont.
Nebraska.
Vermont.
Indiana.

New Jersey.
New Jersey.
Md. and Penn.
Missouri.
Indiana.
Massachusetts.
Illinois.

New York.
Tilinois.
Vermont.
Illinois.
Pennsylvania.
New York.
Pennsylvania.
New York.
New York.
Wisconsin.
Towa.

Ohio.
Pennsylvania.
Pennsylvania.
Pennsylvania,
Ohio.

Illinois.
California.
New York.
Alabama.
Ohio
Tennessee.
Massachusetts,
Ohio.
Alabama.
Michigan.
Indiana.
Virginia.
Texas.

SE ee ee ee ee
* Deceased.
100

LIST OF METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS.

List of meteorological observers, &c.—Continued.

Name.

Twiss, Thomas S..-.-----
United States consul. -----
Ufford, Rev. John.-.-....-
Underwood, D
Underwood, Colonel D -- -
Upshaw, G. W
United States engineers - - -
Vagnier, Thomas
Valentine, John
Valentine, Felipe
Van Blascom, J
Van Buren, Jarvis
Vian Doren yAvese sess seas).
Van EHorne;baB22-+-..-- =
Vankekle, L
Vankirk, W. J
VanlkinkiWwie dice ss. 5 ==.
Vankleek, Rev. R. D -----
Van Nostrand, J
Van Orden, W
Vian Viorheessie -)-))2 2-1
Von Frantzius, Dr. A ----
Verrill, G. W., jr
Vertrees, John E
Vincent: ilies. eee
Vogel |\Ciaeee a2. io. aes
Waddell, William H-.--..-
Wade, Edward...-.- ----
Wade HaSien shel cece
Wiadeyat times foo: oo. =
WiadsworthteAns) 352. -
Wadsworth, General P--.- -
Waemner, WieiEit = -i-.- =. 5)-
Wainwright, Elmore
WialtesMa@ ee oc 5-
Wakeleyi GG 225.2. 222.)
Walker, David, M.D ...--
WralkensduPcce sree ccis =
Walker, Mrs. Mary A.-.--
Walker, Mrs. Octavia C---
Walker Rab 2s-25-,2- =
WialkerniS..Cicac se oe ei=
Wallace, Samuel J ...-..-
Wallace, Coionel W--.-...-
Waller te eetsss ccc cele
Walsh, Stephen ..---.. -.-
Walter, Dr. James.......-
Walton, Joseph P -..-..--
WiardReyjkisH 2-202 22
WiaxdProfsw Els. o.\-- 1
WrandersvAnrAiy sea Vs So
Warder Rance = A600.
Waring Prof, Cs B) .-.- -- §
Warne, Dr. George
Warren, James H
Warren, James H -.-.----.-
Washbum)Diesessassece.
Washington, ds 422 sco...
Watkins, Wi. Det oteteoe
Waison, George. --
Wiatterson Eh ineese one
Watiles, Miss Celestia ...-

State.

Nebraska,
Bahamas.
Towa.
Vermont.
Wisconsin.
Virginia.
Michigan.
Indiana.
Indiana,
Costa Rica.
Maine.
Georgia.
Virginia.
Indian Territory.
Delaware.
Alabama.
Missouri.
New York.
Texas.
Michigan.
Minnesota.
Costa Rica.
Maine.
Missouri.
Mississippi.
Missouri.
Mississippi.
Ohio.
Texas.
Towa.

New York.
Maine.
Ovegorf.
Michigan.
Wisconsin.
New York.
Vancouver’s isl.
Delaware.
Kentucky.
Mithigan.
Pennsylvania.
Pennsylvania.
Illinois.
South Carolina.
Alabama.
Minnesota.
Kansas.
Lowa.

Ohio.
Wisconsin,
Ohio.

Ohio.

New York.
Towa.

New York.
Towa.
Pennsylvania.
Wisconsin.
Ohio.

New Jersey.
Ohio.
Kansas.

==

Name.

Wattles, J.O
WiGast. heuer tice cree
Weatherford, John M.-...
Webb, Miss G’:2..---.-.
Webb, Dr. Robert D--.---
Wieberieer ee a so 2
Webster, Prof. N. B..-.-.
Weeks, James A ..-...--
Weir, A. D
Weiser, ieesesaecescs ce
Wrelltord Ss BaReshsoe 2-2
Wells (Cabrera ent ee co.
Wells, J. Carson ....----
IWiel SMaVWaps ate Sear ee
West, Edmund-:....-:--
Wiestsehiwrer sonce sceice

WestiSilaseeeos.ceceec2
Westbrook, Samuel W ---
WreestdahiiByeiy a2 2 228
Westmoreland, J. G -----
WetherillivProf..22.) 2222
Wheaton, Alex. Camp ---
Wheaton, Mrs. Daniel D-
WiheelertBiJeie ss seen
Wheeler, John T ....-.-.--
Whelpley, Miss Flor’e E,
Whelpley, Miss Helen I--
Whelpley, Dr. Thomas... -
Whipple, Capt. A. W....
Whitaker Bee tsc's see
Whitcomb, George
Whitcomb; Es Fs... 225.
White, Prof. Aaron...-.--
WihiteyBelares. 22/8:
Whites ProfsdmB -s525552
iWihite, (Retersee 42s osc
White; Drv We Te asas-s-
Whitehead, W. A
Wibitiield: Wiyee2 1222s 22%
Whiting, Robert C ..---.
Whiting, William H-.-.-..-
Whitlock, James H.---.-..
Whitner, Bib): oo 5-56<
Whitney, Miss L. J------
Whittlesey, C. 8
Whittlesey, S. H....-.-.
Wickline, Thomas J---.- -
Wieland y Ceri a ic icrarcove
Wieland Mises) cis cic mare
Wiessneraiaetere ie aca oeers
Wiggin, Andrew -.......
WalburnvbsiBysoe 2 cna, o en
Wild; Rev. Edward P-..-
Wilkinson, C. H., M. D--.-
Wilkinson, John R.-.-.--.
Will andeid jaye. bec jacctseoe
Willet, Prof. J. E
Williams, B. @......--5.
Williams, Ed. F
Williams, H. B

State.

Kansas.
’ Arkansas.
Missouri.
Mich. and Ind.
labama.
Missouri.
Virginia & N.C.
Pennsylvania.
Pennsylvania.
Pennsylvania.
Virginia,
Nebraska,
Virginia.
Missouri.
Ohio.
Ohio.
Wisconsin.

.| Texas.

Maine.

North Carolina,
Alaska Ter.
Georgia.

New York.
Jowa & Mon. T.
Towa.

Vermont.

New Hampshire.
Michigan.
Michigan.
Michigan.
Michigan.
Tilinois.
Missouri.
Massachusetts. -
New York.
Nebraska.
South Carolina.
Michigan.

New Grenada.
New Jersey.
Minnesota.

New Hampshire.
Wisconsin.
California,
Florida.
Georgia.
Michigan.
Michigan.
Virginia.
Minnesota.
Minnesota.
Dist. Columbia.
New Hampshire.
Maine.
Massachusetts.
Texas.

Ohio.
Wisconsin.
Georgia.
Illinois.
Tennessee.

Towa.

en eee ee eee see SS

* ‘Deceased,
LIST OF

METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS.

101

List of meteorological observers, &c.—Continued.

Name.

Wailhamss Prof...) this ss).
Williams, Prof. L. D ....-
Williams, Prof. M. G
Williams, Dr. P.
Williams, Rev. R. G....-.
Williams, Rev. S. R.--.-.
Williams, Prof. Wm. D..

Wallis sienry so c0;2- 7 <1
Willis, Quiaece se ctse ss

Wilson, G. W. je seb sce
Wilson, Joseph A....---.-
Wilson, Dye ase
Walson,) Prof. J.; ss <<< -
Wilson, Lavallette .......
IWtIsOn gE Semen ic sine.
Wilson, Prof. W. C..-----
Wilson, Rev. W. D.-.----.-
Walson} We Wis. Ses. 92% 2
Winchell, Prof. A ..-...-.
Windle, Isaac E
WineniMceb ss siccce ete
Winger; Martin. 5-2 -

Winkler jDriCsc. 22. 25228

WIS. ODM sc. cei-1-5 > ce je'= =
Wislizenus, Dr. A ....--..

Withrow, Thomas F..-....
WILLE TSE Kees ce oso 2

Woodbridge, NY aes He

Woadbary. C: Bn <. 2.5. -
Woodbury. C2.Wi-- oo 5-

Wood, Samuel ..........-

Wood,
Woodbridge, Wieete co tees
Woodin, 8. F

’
ee

-| Indiana.

State.

Pennsylvania.
Pennsylvania.
Ky. & Ohio.
New York.

N. ¥. & Conn.
Kentucky.
Georgia.
Maine.

N.Y. & N. J.
Oregon.
Virginia.
Missouri.
Missouri.
Maine.

Ohio.
Massachusetts.
Missouri.
Pennsylvania.
New York.
Pennsylvania.
Ala. & Michigan.

Vermont.
Ohio.
Wisconsin.
Pennsylvania.
Missouri.
Ohio.

Towa.
Indiana.
Minnesota.
Minnesota.
New Jersey.
Ohio.
Indiana.
New York.

Name.

State.

Wissdands Gig
Woodward, Lewis .
Woodworth, Dr. A.------
Woodworth, Samuel...-.-
Woolsey, sr Wi) Wievess
Wrooster, (OVA... 2 52522522
Wormley, Theo. G--...---
Wray, Alex 2- oe cl ces
Wright, Dr. Daniel F.--.
Waihi Vi oan rs
Wyman, AY. Eliseo serge Se
Wiymicks Mpa ociec eo
Vales Walter): sss. soos.
Yellowby, Prof. C. W..-.-
Yeomans, W-'Go-.222
Vos kumsshe iy. Soot ae oe
Noakumy sho. s2c- seston
MOUNg, ACPA ca. ao-jncee ee
Younes Proti@ vac ccna
Youn), Protas. oe
Young, Je Aes ois Beene
Young, Jude. M...-.....-
ounce Mins ier 25. sa
Younger, Armistead .--. --
Younglove, J. H...-.----
Zaepptel, J.---- potsreee Seer
Zaher, esa = 5-25 2255-
Zealy, Joseph T..---.---
Helolery Wier Pica om <i
Zimmerman, G.--....-.--
Zumbrock, Dr. A

Kentucky.
Michigan.

, Wisconsin.
Michigan & Ind.

.-| New York.
-| New York.

Kansas.

Towa.

Towa.

New York.
Ohio.

North Carolina.
Tennessee.
Minnesota.
Maine.
Missouri.

New York.
Texas.
Connecticut.
Texas.

Texas.

New Hampshire
Ohio.

New Hampshire
South Carolina.
New York.
Kentucky.
Arkansas.
Kentucky.

New York.
Nebraska.
South Carolina.
Idaho Territory.
New York.
Maryland.

102 METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL.

METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL CONTRIBUTED IN ADDITION TO THE REG-
ULAR OBSERVATIONS, DURING THE YEAR 1868.

Académie Impériale de Lyon.—Mémoires de VYAcadémie Impériale des
Sciences, Belles-Lettres et Arts de Lyon, classe des sciences, tome seiziéme,
Lyon, 1866—67, 8vo., 446 pages. [Contains: Observations Météorologiques faites
& 9 heures du matin a Vobservatoire de Lyon du ler Décembre 1865, au ler
Décembre 1866, par M. Aimé Drian, sous la direction de M. Lafon, professeur
a la Faculté des Sciences et directeur de Pobservatoire, 26 pp. Résultats de la
nouvelle série Vobservations ozonométrigues faites pat MM. le Docteur Lembert
et F. Rassinier, durant année 1866, 32 pp. Classification des phénoménes
produits par l’électricité météorique dans le bassin du Rhéne et aux alentours,
par M. J. Fouret, president de la commission des Orages, lue dans la séance
du 6 Mars 1867, 122 pp-]

Aguilar, F. C. —Boletino Meteorologico del observatorio del Colegio Nacional
de Quito, dirigido por los padres de la Compania de Jesus, segundo ano 1866,
F. C. Acuilar, S. J., Quito, 1868, 36 pages, 8vo.

Asiatic Society Ly of Bengal. —Journal, Part II, No. IT, 1868, containing abstract
of the results of meteorological obser vations taken at the sur veyor gener al’s office,
Calcutta, September, 1866, to June, 1867, inclusive; also tables of mean
monthly readings of the barometer reduced to freezing point, for 10 years, from
1856 to 1865, and of barometric curve and registered Tainfall.

Bache, R. M.—Notes on the climate of San Francisco, California, and table
of temperature.

Berkey, W. H.—Meteorological record kept at Ossawatomie, Kansas, during
the month of March, 1868.

Boardman, G. A.—Meteorological observations made during the month of
January, 1868, at Green Cove Spring @, Florida.

Boerner, Charles G.—Aceount of the meteoric shower of November 13 and
14, observed at Vevay, Indiana.

Bruhns, Dr. C—Resultate ans den Meteorologischen Beobachtungen ange-
stellt an mehreren Orten im KGnigreich Sachsen in den Jahren 1826 bis
1861, und an den fiinfundzwanzig K6niglichen Sachsischen Stationen im Jahre
1866. Nach den monatlichen Zusammenstellungen i im Statistischen Bureau des
KGniglichen Ministeriums des Innern, bearbeitet von Dr. C. Bruhns, Director
der Sternwarte und Professor der Astronomie in Leipzig. Dritter Jahrgang,
Leipzig, 1868, 4to, 136 pp.

Bush, Richard J. —Meteorological observations made during the exploration
of the country between Okhotsk and Nicolaefsk, Hast Siberia, i in the service of
the Western Union Telegraph Company, October 21, 1865, to March 4, 1866.

Chase, Pliny Earle, Philadelphia.—Curves indicating the relation of the moon
to temperature at the ‘surface of the earth.

Christiania Observatoriwm.—Meteorologiske Takttagelser, 1867.

Cornelissen, J. D.—On the temperature of the sea near "the south point of
Africa. Royal Meteorological Institute of the Netherlands, Ato.

Cox, Judge Hopewell.—Meteor ological observations made at Hartford, Dodge
county, Wisconsin, from April, 1859, to September, 1862; copied by 8S. G.
Lapham, for the Smithsonian Institution.

Dall, W. H—Meteorological observations made at Nulato, Alaska, from
December 1, 1866, to May 26, 1867, by W. H. Dall; also meteorological obser
vations at Unalakleet, Alaska, from October 19, 1866, to January 23, 1867, by
EF. Westdahl.

Davis, R. J—Observations of temperature near Glasgow Station, Amherst
county, Virginia.

Destruge, A.—Meteorological register for the month of October, 1868, at
Guayaquil, Ecuador.

METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL. 103

Draper, Dr. Joseph.—Meteorological observations made at the State peee
Hospital, Worcester, Massachusetts, during the years 1859, 1860, and 186

Engineer corps, United States ar my. —Horary curves at 'Willet’s Point, New
York, from 12 days’ hourly observations, July 14 to July 25, 1868; S8vo, 2 pp.

French, J. B., agent W. Lake C. & W. Manufacturing C ompany, Lake Village,
New Hampshire —Tables of rainfall at Lake Village and Laconia, New Hamp-
shire.

Galveston City Hospital_—Meteorological observations made at the Galveston
City Hospital, Galveston, Texas, during the year 1867, by Drs. C. H. Wilkin-
son, H. A. McComly, and others.

Gesellschaft fiir Natur-und Heilkunde in Dresden—Die Vertheilungen der
Windstarke in der Windrose von Dresden, von Dr. Ed. Loisler ; 8vo.

Gibbs, George—Meteorological statement for the year ending October 31,
1868, Sitka, Alaska Territory.

Gilman, W. S., Jr—Weather items, Palisades, Rockland county, New York,
1868.

Hann, Dr. Julius-—Die thermischen Verhiltnisse der Luftstrémungen auf dem
Obir (6,288 Par. Fuss) in Karnthen, mit 1 Tafel; December, 1867.

Die Temperatur-Abnahme mit der Héhe als ein Function der Windes-
richtung, mit 1 ‘Tafel; March, 1868.

Zur Charakteristik der Winde des adriatischen Meers, mit 1 Tafel; 1868.

Hart, Charles H—Meteorological register kept at Parana, South America,
from October, 1843, to July, 1850, inclusive.

Heis, Dr—W ochensehrift fiir ’Astronomie, Meteorologie und Geographie.
Neue Folge, Elfter Jahrgang; (der “ Astronomischen Unterhaltungen,” 22ter
Jahrgang.) Redigirt von Professor Dr. Heis, in Minster, 1868; (Svo, each
number eight pages.)

Hoff, Alexander H., Assistant Surgeon United States Army.—Meteorological
statement for the year "ending October 31, 1868. Sitka, Alaska Territory.

Huntingdon, Geor: ge C.—Meteorological tables for Kelley’ s island, Ohio, com-
piled from ten years’ observations, 1859 to 1868 inclusive. Newspaper slip.

Third annual report of the Lake Shore Grape-growers’ Association, contain-
ing article on climatology and grape culture, by George C. Huntington. 8vo.

Institut Egyptien —Mémoires ou travaux originaux presentés et lus a l’Insti-
tut Egyptien, publi¢s sous les auspices de S. A. Mahommed-Said, Vice-Roi
d’Egypte, sous la direction de M. le Docteur B. Schnepp, Secrétaire de l'Institut
Egyptien. Tome premier. Paris, 1862, 4to, 776 pages. [Contains: Etudes
sur le climat de Egypte, par le Docteur B. Schnepp, 192 pages. Du Khamsin
et de ses effets; du Blé retrait, par M. Grégoire, membre de l'Institut Egyptien,
14 pages. | (The Khamsin ig a desert wind called elsewhere Simoon.)

Jelinek, C.—Zeitsebrift der ésterreichischen Gesellschaft fiir Meteorologie.
Redigirt von C. Jelinek und J. Hann. 8vo, Vienna, published twice a month

Jourdan, C. H., Prof.—Meteorological curves and summary of observationy
for 1868, at Mount St. Mary’s College, Emmettsburg, Maryland.

Kaiserlich-Konigliche Central-Anstalt fiir Meteorologie und Erdmagnetismus.—
Jahrbiicher der KX. K. Central-Anstalt fiir Meteorologie und Erdmagnetismus, vor
Carl Jelinek, Director, und Carl Fritsch, Vice- Director. Neue F olge, II Band
Jahrgang 1865. Der ganzen Reihe Xtor Band. Wien 1867, Ato, § 212 pages

Jahrbicher, Wien. 1868, 4to, 205 pp.

Kluge, J. P., MM. D.—Meteorological observations made at asp U.S
C., from the week ending January "18, 1868, to week ending January 2, 1869

Koninklijk Nederlandsch Meteorolog. Instituut. —Jaarboek voor 1867. Parte
1 and 2, oblong 4to, pp. 244 and 114.

Koninklijk Nederlandsch Meteorologisch Instituut. —Meteorologische Waar-
nemingin in Nederland en zijne bezittingen, en Afwijkingen van Temperatuur

fo)
en Barometerstand op vele Plaatsen in Europa. Uitgegeven door het Koninklijk
104 METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL.

Nederlandsch Meteorologisch Instituut. 1864. Utrecht, 1865. Oblong 4to, 308
AGES.

; Lewis, Charles H.—Thermometrical record at Elizabethton, Carter county,
East Tennessee, for the month of February, 1868.

Lewis, Dr. James.— Hourly records ae the year 1868, by his self-record-
ing barometer and thermometer, and reductions of the same, at Mohawk, New
York.

Little, Frank —Thermometriéal observations at Kalamazoo, Michigan, during
May, June, and July, 1868.

Livings, B. C—Meteorological register at Smithfield, Wabash county, Min-
nesota, during the month of January, 1868.

Lupton, NT. —Abstract of meteorological register for 1868, at the Southern
University, Greensboro, Alabama. (Newspaper slip.)

Macgregor, C. J., M. A.—Abstract of meteorological observations at Strat-
ford, Canada, for the year 1867. (Newspaper slip. i

Mackey y, Robert—Thermometrical record for J uly, 1868, at Island creek,
Jefferson county, Ohio.

Magnetic Observatory, Toronto, Canada—General meteorological registers
for the year 1867. 8vo, 6 pp.

Marsh, Roswell—Summary of meteorological observations during the year
1868, at Steubenville, Ohio.

Merriam, C. C. —Meteorological report for the year 1868, at Locust Grove,
Lewis county, } New York. .

Meteorological Society, (British.)—Proceedings of the Meteorological Society,
edited by James Glaisher, esq , F, Rus: president. Svo. London, monthly.

Meteorology of England. By James Glaisher. Quarterly.

Meteorologische Centralanstalt. der Schweizerische Naturforschende Gesell-
schaft—Meteorolog. Beobachtungen, 1867, and January and February, 1868.

Michigan Boa de of Agriculture —Report for 1867, containing a paper on the
influence of forest trees on agriculture, and a meteorological register for 1867,
by Professor R. C. Kedzie, State Agricultural College. Lansing.

Miller, Lester A-—Maxima and minima of temper tature at Woodstock, Ver-
mont, during the month of November, 1867.

Moore, U. R.—TVhermometrical record for the month of March, 1868, at
Bridgeton post office, near Eastville, Northampton county, Virginia.

Moultrie, J. L.—Summary of rainfall at Union Springs, Alabama, during
1868.

National Military School of Medicine of Roumania, [through the United States
Naval Observatery, Washington.] Meteorological tables.

Naturaliste Canadien —{Contains: Met eorological register at Port Neuf, Can-
ada, for 1868.| .

Naturforschende Gesellschafé zu Gérlitg—Abhandlungen der Naturforschen-
den Gesellschaft zu Gérlitz. Dreizehnter Band. Gdérlitz, 1868, Svo, 296 pp.
[Contains: Meteorologische Beobachtungen in Gérlitz vom 1 December, 1863,
bis 30 November, 1866, von R. Peck. P. 125-208.|

Norske Meteorologiske Institut—N orsk meteorologisk aarbog for 1867,

Observatory of Upsala—Observations météorologiques faites a V’observa-
toire @ Upsala pendant les années 1855 et 1861.

Observatoire Royal de Bruxelles—Annales météorologiques de Vobservatoire
Royal de Bruxelles, publiées, aux frais de Vétat, par le directeur A. Quetelet,
Premiére Année. Bruxelles, 1868, 4to, 96 pp.

Palm, Swante—Meteorological registers kept at-Austin, Texas, from 1860 to
1864, inclusive.

Parvin, Prof. T. S—Summary of meteorological observations at Lowa City,
Towa, during the year 1868. Svo, 2 pp.

METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL. 105

Pattison, H. A.——Report of meteorological observations at Muskegon, Mich.
gan, during part of the month of Angust, 1868. é

Physikalischer Verein.—Jahresbericht des Physikalischen Vereins zu Frank-
furt am Main, fiir das Rechnungsjahr 1866-67, 8vo., 120 pages. [Contains :
Vermischte Meteorologische Notizen, von Professor Dr. Oppel, 19 pp. Ueber
tigliche Barometerschwankungen und das Gesetz der taglichen Drehung des
Windes, von Dr. Berger, 20 pp. Meteorologische Notizen vom Jahre 1867,
7 pp. Wasserhéhe des Mains vom Jahre 1867, 1 page- Gewonnene Ergeb-
nisse aus den im Jahre 1867 angestellten meteorologischen Beobachtungen des
Physikalischen Vereins, 4 pp. ‘Graphische Witter angst: abelle des Jahres 1867.]

Poey, M. André.—Bibliographie Cyclonique, denxiéme edition, Paris, 1866.

“‘Generalités sur le climat du Mexique, et sur Véclipse totale de lune du 30
Mars dernier,” Paris, August, 1866.

“Sur Vinversion diurne et nocturne de Ja température jusqu’aux limites de
Vatmosphére, et a sa repartition de Vhorizon au zénith,” January, 1865.

“Sur la non-existence sous le ciel du Mexique, de la grande pluie @étoiles
‘ filantes de Novembre, 1866, et du retour périodique du mois d’Aoat,” 1867. °

“ Sur la non-existence sous le ciel austral des retours périodiques des étoiles
filantes, et sur leur extinction graduelle du pole nord a ’équateur,” October, 1865.

es Description @un ozonographe et d’un actinographe destinés a enregistrer, de
demi-heure a demi-heure V’ozone atmosphérique, et Vaction chimique de la
lumiére ambiante,” December, 1865.

“ Remarques sur les colorations ozonoscopiques obtenues a Vaide du réactif de
Jaine (de Sedan,) et sur échelle ozonométrique de M. Berigny,” October, 1867.

“Travanx sur la météorologie, la physique du globe en general, et sur la clima-
tologie de Vile de Cuba et des Antilles,” October, 1861.

Appel aux nations Hispano-Americaines. (Meteorological circular.)

Pratt, W. H—Account of meteoric shower observed on the night of Novem-
ber 13 and 14, 1868, at Davenport, Iowa. .

Radcliffe Observatory.—Results of astronomical and meteorological observa-
tions made at the Radcliffe Observatory, 1865.

Ravenel, T'. P.—Meteorological val for the year 1860, kept at St. John’s,
Berkeley parish, South Carolina, for the Black Oak Agricultural Society, by T.
P. Ravenel, secretary. Pamphlet, Svo, 15 pp. Charleston, 1861.

Ray, Dr. John D.—Observations at Paris, Kentucky, during January to July,
1855.

Teal Academia de Ciencias, &c., Habana—Anales. (Containing meteorolog-
ical registers.)

fteal Observatorio de Madrid.—Observaciones Meteorolégicas effectuadas en el
Real Observatorio de Madrid, desde 1° de Diciembre de 1865, al 30 de Noviem-
bre de 1866. Madrid, 1867. 16mo. 175 pp.

Informe del Director del Real Observatorio astronomico y meteorolégico de
Madrid al Exemo, Sr.Comisario Regio del mismo establecimiento. Madrid, 1867.
16mo. 72 pp. .

Resumen de las Observaciones Meteorologicas efectuadas en la Peninsula desde
el 1° de Diciembre de 1865, al 30 de Noviembre de 1866. Madrid, 1867. 16mo.
364 pp.

Rt. Osservatorio di Palermo.—Bulletino Meteorologico del R. Osservatorio di
Palermo. (HEstratto del Giorn. di Scienze Naturali ed Econ.) 4to, monthly.

Rijks Observatorium, Leiden—Ondersockingen ombrent den Gang van het
Hoofduurwerk des Sternwacht te Leiden de Pendule. Nohwii No. 17. Door
F. Kauser.

Roche, Edoward. —Recherches sur les Offuscations du Soleil et les Météores
Cosmiques. Paris, 1868.

Royal Agricultural Society of Eingland.—The Journal of the Royal Agricul-
tural Society of England. Second series, Volume LV. London, 1868. 8vo,

‘
106 METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL.

294 pages. [Contains: Meteorology for the six months ending December 31,
1867—5 pp. On the Temperature of the Sea and Its Influence on the Climate
and Agriculture of the British Isles; by Nicholas Whitley, F. M.S.—31 pp.

Ruffner, W. H.—Weather notes taken at Tribrook farm, one and a half mile
southwest of Lexington, Virginia, during the years 1867 and 1868.

Sawyer, Henry, United Siates consul.—Meteorological register at Paramaribo,
Dutch Guiana, from January 12, 1868, to January 3, 1869. (Newspaper slips.)

Scolei Nationale de Medicina—Tabloi General de Observatiunele Meteori
ologice ale Scolei Nationale de-Medicina facute la Sptalul militar din Bucurest-
in Anul 1863. Directorul scholei, Davila. observator: A, Lessman. (One large
lithograph sheet of tables and diagrams. Similar sheets for 1864, 1865, 1866,
1867.)

Scottish Meteorological Society—Journal of the Scottish Meteorological Soci-
ety. Published quarterly. Svo. Edinburgh.

Scudder, S. H—Meteorological observations taken during a trip to Cuba and
the Isle of Pines in the spring of 1864.

Shepherd, Smiley.—Abstract of observations for each month of the year 1868,
at Hennepin, Illinois.

Sisson, Rodman.—A table showing the temperature of the seasons for the three
years from December, 1864, to November, 1867, inclusive, at North Abingdon,
Luzerne county, Pennsy lvania.

Siniheart, Dr. C. ’.—Meteorological observations made at Houston, Texas,
by Dr. A. M. Potter, from September, 1862, to October, 1865. (Dr. Potter died
October 10, 1865, and this register was presented to Dr. Smiheart by his family.)

Société Météorol ogique de France—Nouvelles Meétéorologiques, publices sous
les auspices de la Société Météorologique de France. 8vo. Paris. (Issued
monthly.) Annuaire 1866, 1867.

Societa Reale di Napoli.mRendiconto dell’ Academia delle Scienze Fisiche e

Matematiche. April, 1865, to May, 1867. Quarto, monthly. [April, 1865, con-
tains: “Nuovo anemografo elettro-magnetico. Memorio del Socio Ordinario L.
Palmieri ;” pp. 105- 106. June, 1865: “Tremblement de terre de 1862 dans
les environs du Lac Baikal, (Sibérie Orientale,) par P. Kropotkine et A. Pali-
bine;” pp. 181-195. August, 1865: “Se le osservazioni di meteorologica elet-
trica fatte con Velettrometro bifiliare e col condutore mobile siane comparabili ;
nota del Socio Ordinario L. Palmieri ;” pp. 244-249. September, 1865: “ Pro-
cella magnetica contemporanea all’ apparizione delle stelle cadenti; nota del
L. Palmieri;” pp. 277-282. January, 1866: “ Sull’ elettrografo atmosferico
del Thomson; nota del L. Palmieri;” pp. 19-21. April, 1866: “Intorno alla
determinazione della vera direzione del vento; nota del L. Palmieri;” pp.
104-105. ‘Sopra un nuovo metodo ordinato allo studio dell elettricita atmos-
ferica proposto dal Signor Monnet alla Societa delle Scienze Industriali di Lione;
nota del L. Palmieri;” pp. 124-125. August, 1866: “Dell ozono e dell’ anti-
ozono; nota L. Palmieri ;” pp. 268-270. September, 1866: ‘“ Sul ricorso delle
stelle cadenti nell’ Agosto del 1866 ; nota L. Palmieri ;” pp. 293-294. “Sulla
pressione media del barometro in Napoli, dedotta dalle osservazioni del Prof.
“austino Brioschi; communicazione del Socio Ordinario A. de Gasparis ;” pp.
300-304, January, 1867: “Sulla pioggia di stelle cadenti _Prevista pel 14
Novembre del passato anno; communicazione del L. Palmieri ;” p. 18.] (Hach
monthly number also contains daily notices of the weather and meteorological
observations made at Naples.)

Societa Reale di Napoli.—Atti del? Accademia delle Scienze Fisiche e Mate-
matiche. Vol. II. Napoli, 1865. 4to. 602 pp. [Contains: “Sopra un nuovo
udometro autografico”—2 pp.; “Sul? ozono atmosferico nuove indagini”—

16 pp.; “Del pericdo diurno del? elettricita atmosferica e delle sue attenenze
con quello delle correnti telluriche’—4 pp.; ‘“ Nuovo anemografo elettro-mag-
netico”—4 pp. These four articles are all by Luigi Palmieri.]

ee
i

METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL. 107

Stevens, Linus.—Abstract of rainfall, &c., at Clarernont, New Hampshire,
for six months ending April 30, 1868.

Stonyhurst Observatory.—Meteorological reports for the years 1860, 1861,
1862, 1863, 1864, 1865, 1866, and 1867.

Stumps, S. J—Meteorological observations made in Hampshire county, West
Virginia, from July 1, 1868, to January 1, 1869.

Thornton, Dy.—Summary of meteorological observations taken at Morpeth,
New South Wales, during the year 1865.

Trembley, Dr. J. B—Meteorological synopses for the years 1865, 1866, and
1867, from observations made at Toledo, Ohio. Svo, 12 pp. each.

United States Naval Observatory.—The November meteors of 1868. 8vo,
10 pp. and chart.

Von Frantzius, Dr. A—Gaceta Oficial, San José, Costa Rica, containing
abstract of meteorology of San José for the year 1867.

Von Octtingen, Dr. Arthur.—Meteorologische Beobachtungen angestellt in
Dorpat im Jahre 1867. Redigirt und bearbeitet von Dr. Arthur von Oettingen,
Professor der Physik an der Kaiserlichen Universitat Dorpat. Svo. Dorpat,
1868. 118 pp.

Waller, Robert B.—Meteorological observations made at Greenesboro’, Greene
county, Alabama, during the year 1862.

Walton, J. P—Account of meteors, November 13, 1868. (Newspaper slip.)

Whitcomb, George—Abstract of meteorological record kept near Charleston,
Mississippi county, Missouri, from. January to September, 1868, inclusive.

Williams, B. C—Thermometrical record for the month of February, 1868, at
Ridge farm, Vermillion county, Illinois.

Wilkams, S. &.—Abstract of observations for each month during the year
1868, at Lexington, Kentucky.

Wright, Captain J. W. A.—Facts in Meteorology. (Separate papers pub-
lished in the Alabama Beacon, Greensboro’, Alabama. Newspaper slips.)

Zeledon, José C_—Observationes meteorologicas hechas en la ciudad de San
José (Costa Rica) durante el afio de 1868. (Made at the Oficina Central de

. Estadistica and published in the Gaceta Oficial, San José.)

Unknown.—Abstract of meteorological register kept at Fort Yuma, California,
during the year 1867.
Miscellaneous meteorological notes, Philadelphia.
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.

WASHINGTON, January 14, 1869.

The Executive Committee of the Smithsonian Institution respectfully submits
the following statements in relation to its invested capital, the receipts and
expenditures during the year 1868, and an estimate of receipts and proposed
appropriations for 1869 : ;

CAPITAL INVESTED.

The Smithson fund in the Treasury of the United States on the
lst of January, 1869, remains as stated in the last annual

TOPO tis iccsjaloserc. ates sia es loko is atece (Ae 2 fein ges =, stapaiel woke IR Rie SRE $650,000 00
And in Virginia State 6 per cent. bonds..........--. $53, 500 -
With coupon bonds issued for unpaid interest to Jan-

RABY sh ES Oey tere oto detin eet te taretetny = yay Mesa acim acta 19, 260

MPA

The value of which at the present time may be estimated at 55 per
GERI HOMPEIG IAT AV ENO r= terlas cc noha aN sick eee eae em Nene 40,018 00
Wotalumvested capital 2’. ..s2).)5 leis c'aiae oe se alate ue ee wale 690, 018 00

RECEIPTS IN 1868.
Interest from the Treasurer of the United States on $650, 000

at 6 per cent. for the year ending 31st December .... .. ...- $39, 000 00
IP Rem SAlGGON COMM eegeye ie toc eda eet tee cee nia ele ick 14, 527 50
Interest on Virginia 6s, old bonds, 2 per cent. on $53,500 for the

first isixmonths of 2868, less. brokerage. -2 2/7. 2c)ecs'2)-- oo 1,067 33
From) salesjof publications... 220. Gels sc/sos eects Bice ein wie craeeote 385 52
Hrom/salesvotiold sand mseless maternal -.-)ccrss 92. te, ojne ee er 188 88
Repayment of expenses of explorations from parties co-operating

withthe winstituirOnes ams etersese elaine acter oe) « fevelare = anette 698 54
Repayment for freights incurred on account of parties sending

books to foreign lilbrames\.): 25 feiss a arose Cee eee 100 00
Cash balance im bank, January, 1868-~... 2... 222. 26 oo as 11,485 56

Amountavailable tor 1868) ..22/ 2.) sic Seenia eee 67,453 33

Inaddition to this amount the Institution received from, and accounted for, to the
Department of the Interior, the sum of $5,116 31, appropriated by Congress for
the preservation and care of the property in the museum collected by govern-
ment exploring expeditions. Of this sum $4,000 was the appropriation for the
year 1868-69, and $1,116 31 the balance of the previous year’s appropriation.

The State of Virginia paid during the year 2 per cent. on its old bonded
debt for the first six months, leaving 1 per eent. still due for that period,
claimed to be payable by Western Virginia, as a just proportion of the original
State debt. On its new bonds, issued for coupon interest past due, nothing has
been paid. ‘The State proposes to sell its interest in certain canals, rail and
other roads, to liquidate this and other indebtedness, and favorable results may
for the future be anticipated from this investment.
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE,

Statement in detail of expenditures during the year 1868

BUILDING. ’

For the reconstruction of parts of the building
destroyed by fire, completed in 1867 and paid in

HE GHEEE Satce OO eee. rue It SG. $18, 457
Repairs of other parts of the building........-- 2, 746
Furniture and fixtures to meet the general wants of

pho nsitntion stone ee ile eee ee Oe 2, 982

Amount expended on the building .....-...
GENERAL EXPENSES.
For meetings of the Board of Regents........-.-- $303
Lighting the building, offices, &c........-..---..- 276
Warming the building, offices, &c-.......2....--.- 1, 086
POSE 5 5 Sao oh ool whey anche SEN tes ea Ns 456
eS EEIE YG RENEE TREAD Sree Utes Oa a ee on 345
Printing labels, blanks, circulars, &c...- -..-..---. 189
Tools, materials for cleaning, binding records, &c., &. 614
Salaries of secretary, chief clerk, and assistants, labor-

étp; and icontingent: labor: ..- 2 52. 5 0 int 28-4 9, 552

Interest on temporary over-draft .....2........--.. 2
PUBLICATIONS, RESEARCHES, &c.
Publishing transactions, researches, &e., for Smithso-

tian Contributions, quarto ...... ......-2-...---$4, 633
Miscellaneous collections, octavo.........2-.-.--.- i ir iP
Smithsonian reports, illustrations, stereotyping, &Xc.,

SEIN OS BO Serie me eset Semen ihe OU.
Meteorology, computations, &c-......-.--.-----.- 1, 011
Be QUT 2 is, Aye? Se ee RR 99
Explorations, natural history, and archeology .....-. 1, 682

LIBRARY, MUSEUM, AND EXCHANGES.

For purchase of books and binding.....-......... $775
Literary and scientific exchanges.................
Assistants in museum, janitor, watchmen, laborers, and

for labelling and arranging shells and ethnological

20 1S) IS a a a a BaP CS a 3, 226
Incidentals for museum—alcohol, bottles, &e....... 1, 488
Freight on books, specimens, and other property

recenved and sentiawayss.. 2.2.22. 22 L.. 2, 068

Expenditures during the year............2.-- ;

Deducting this amount from the receipts of the year
and cash in bank on 1st January, 1868, as pre-
maously stated: tem es eo ci sierw's os $67, 453

Leaves a balance in bank January, 1869, of

.

33

109

fh
()

4,186 07

12, 898 34

9,655 03

10, 361 15

57,100 59

$10, 352 74

110 REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.

EXAMINATION OF ACCOUNTS.

The committee has examined 576 receipted vouchers for payments made dur-
ing the four quarters of the year 1868. Evidence of the receipt of materials
and property, and of services rendered, and payment to the claimants or legal
representatives, was found for the whole amount expended during the year. An
examination of the quarterly accounts current, bank-book, check-book, and
ledger showed that the payments were made as required by the regulations pre-
seribed by the regents; and the cash balances stated in the accounts current were
in the authorized depository after the payment of all the quarterly accounts
charged in the abstracts of expenditures.

In the receipts for the year 1868, the sum of $5,116 31 is noted as hay-
ing been received through the Department of the Interior, appropriated by Con-
gress for the preservation and charge of its property in the museum collected by
government exploring expeditions. The expenditure of this sam was made and
accounted for in strict conformity with the financial regulations prescribed by
the regents.

ESTIMATED RECEIPTS FOR 1869.

Interest on the Smithsonian fund in the treasury of the United
States $650,000, payable 1st July, 1869, and 1st January,

1870, at 6 per cent, in SON C7 HRI ee Cece BP ey SP geo ere a $39, 000 00
Probable premium on Sais ot come ee aaah 13, 000 00
Imterest on ViroiniaN6 pericent. Stock. 2.5.cccise =e oie ie 1,067 00
Sales of useless property and other incidental sources during the

year.....----- Iai NEN Ry A Nee STON ge Hares lien omer Pen NY 9 Fk 500 00

otal meome in: L869. 2 )si cate eee cela eg eee _53, 567 00

APPROPRIATIONS FOR 1869.

It is proposed to apply the income of the year as follows:

Woreoneral expenses: ets eres eit etait ae $15, 000° 00
Publications and: researches--.-...:-..4. <.)-- - = /2' 15, 000 00
Library, collections for museum, and exchanges. . 10, 000 00
Continuing the repairs of the building.......... 5, 000 00
45,000 00

Leaving from the yearly income a balance of. 8, 567 00

$53, 567 00

Tt will thus be seen that the Institution has paid all its indebtedness ; provided
all needful accommodation in the gradual reconstruction of parts of its building
destroyed by fire; published large editions of annual contributions to science;
accumulated a saving from its income of 1868 of $10,352 74, and an estimated
saving of $8,567 from its income of 1869—making the sum of $18,919 74 as
an available fund in January, 1870, to enable the Institution to conduct its opera:
tions on a cash basis from the beginning of the year, and to continue and extend
its investigations in the various branches of physical science; at the same time
supplying apparatus for warming the various apartments in the building.

RICHARD DELAFIELD,
PETER PARKER,
Executive Committee.
Wasuineron, January, 14, 1869.
JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

THE BOARD OF REGENTS

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

WASHINGTON, January 20, 1869.

Tn accordance with a resolution of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian
Institution, fixing the time of beginning of the annual session on the third
Wednesday of January in each year, a meeting was called for this day.

No quorum being present, the board adjourned to meet on Wednesday, 27th
January, 1869, at 74 o’clock.

WASHINGTON, January 27, 1869.

A meeting of the Board of Regents was held at 74 o’clock p. m. at the Insti-
tution. Present, Hon. B. F. Wade, Hon. W. P. Fessenden, Hon. L. Trumbull,
Hon. G. Davis, Hon. J. A. Garfield, Hon. J. V. L. Pruyn, Hon. R. Delafield,
Hon. P. Parker, Rev. Dr. John Maclean, Hon. 8. J. Bowen, and Professor
Henry, the secretary.

My. Wade was called to the chair. The minutes of the last meeting were
read and approved.

The secretary stated that since the last session, Mr. Sayles J. Bowen had been
elected mayor of the city of Washington, and thereby became ex-officio a mem-
ber of the board in place of Mr. Wallach, and that Professor Agassiz’s term had
expired, but a resolution reappointing him a Regent had passed the Senate.

General Delafield, in behalf of the Executive Committee, presented the annual
account of receipts and expenditures for the year 1868, with estimates for the
year 1869; which was read, and,

On motion of Mr. Pruyn, the report was adopted.

General Delafield also presented the following report relative to the Washing-
ton city canal, which was read:

Report of the executive committee on a resolution of the Regents of the Smithson-
ian Institution on the influences of the Washington city canal on the health of
the population of the city, May 15, 1868.*

‘The executive committee, to which was referred the resolution of the Regents
of the Smithsonian Institution of the 22d of April, 1868, instrueting it to ascer-

* Senate Mis. Doc. No. 95, 40th Congress, 2d session,
12 PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS.

tain what measures are proposed to be taken by the city authorities of Wash-
ington in regard to the canal, so far as concerns the Smithsonian Institution,
has examined the snbject and now report, for the information of the Regents:

That the Washington city canal has been constructed under the authority
granted by the folowing laws:

On the Ist of May, 1802 , Congress passed an act incorporating the Wash-
ington Canal Company, to raise $80,000, and construct a canal from the Potomac
to the Eastern Branch, to admit boats drawing three feet water to pass through
the whole extent of said canal, with the right to charge and collect tolls and -
wharfage. If not so completed within five years, it was to revert to the United
States.

This act seems to have expired by the failure of the company to execute the

work, and on the 16th of February, 1809, Congress incorporated other parties,
to raise $100,000, with the same title, to construct the canal through part of the
city of Washington, as laid down on a plan of the city defining its limits, to
acdimit of boats drawing three feet water to pass through it; and if, at any time,
the canal shall become obstructed so thut boats and scows drawing three feet
water cannot pass through from the Potomac to the Eastern Branch, the com-
pany shall not collect tolls or wharfage, and all the rights under this act shall
cease, unless the canal is completed within seven years from the passage of the
act.

Before the expiration of this seven years, and on the 6th of May, 1812, ia
egress authorized money to be raised by lottery for completing the canal, render-
ing it navigable, and draining the marshes and low grounds contiguous thereto,
and on the 7th of May, 1822, authority was ox ranted by Congress to the city of
Washington to contract with the canal company to change the direction of parts
of the canal, to drain and dry the low grounds on the borders of Tiber creek.

On the 20th of May, 1826, the canal company was authorized to increase the
width of the canal along the present boundary of the Smithsonian grounds, and
elsewhere, to 150 feet in width, and also to construct basins; and within five
years shall construct the canal through its whole length to contain water at least
one foot in depth at ordinary low water.

On the 2d of May, 1831, the canal company sold all its interest to the city of
Washington, which was conveyed by a deed dated the 23d of July, 1831; and
on the 31st of May, 1832, Congress confirmed this sale, and enacted that all the
right, title, mterest, property, and estate of the Washington Canal Company are
vested in the mayor, aldermen, and common council, for the aforesaid use, with
the proviso, that the canal shall be finished and completed, of the breadth and
depth and in the manner and within the time hereinafter prescribed, and not
otherwise. The act then prescribes the width at different parts, and then that
the canal, throughout its whole length and breadth aforesaid, and the basins, shall
have a depth of at least four feet water at all times, and that the whole shall
be walled on its sides, and made suitable for steam-vessels, to be used therein,
and finished by the 1st of March, 1833, and in default, all the rights and _privi-
leges granted by this act shall cease and determine. No tolls or “wharfage were
allowed to be charged or collected whenever the canal was so out of repair as to
impede the free navigation with four feet water. By the same act all the right,
title, property, interest, and estate of the United States, of, in, and to that part
of the public reservation designated as the mall, was vested in the city corpora-
tion, in fee, to be sold, and the moneys applied to the construction of the canal.
A street of 80 feet wide on the south side, in addition to the 40 feet landing,

was also authorized, and previous specified acts, conflicting with this act, were
repealed.

On the 2d of March, 1833, Congress appropriated $150,000 to aid in fulfilling
the objects and requirements of the act of 31st of M: ay, 1832, provided the city

corporation relinquished all title to the land vested in it by the 8th section of

2
PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS. 113

the act, and all the rights and privileges granted by the 8th, 10th, 11th, 12th,
13th, and 14th sections of said act.

On the 3d of March, 1849, Congress appropriated $20,000 for clearing out
and deepening that portion of the canal which passes through and along the
public grounds, provided the city expends a like sum in cleaning out and deep-
ening the other portions.

On the 3d of March, 1851, Congress appropriated $20,000 for completing,
clearing out, and repairing that portion of the canal which passes through and
along the public grounds, provided the city expends a like sum in clearing and
repairing the other portions.

On the 23d of February, 1865, Congress authorized the city corporation te
lay taxes * * to introduce the necessary sewerage and drainage facilities under
or upon the whole-or any portion of any avenue, street, or alley.

On the 16th of February, 1866, a bill was reported in the House of Repre-
sentatives creating a sewerage commission, with power to improve and regulate
the Washington city canal, as may be necessary; and on the 6th of March an
amendment to the bill of the 16th of February, 1866, was reported, limiting
the number of commissioners to three, giving them power to adopt and lay down
a complete and uniform plan of sewerage, as it may deem necessary and most
advisable, with reference to the public health and general interest; the city to
raise $150,000 to execute the work by contract, and the United States not to be
responsible for an amount exceeding one-half the outlay or expenses incurred
under this act. There was no further action on this bill or amendment.

About the same time, to wit, on the 7th of March, 1866, the Senate of the
United States passed a resolution requiring the appointment of a board of United
States engineers, to report a plan for improving the canal and sewerage of the
city. This board, on the 2d of April, 1866, made a partial report for the tem-
porary improvement of the canal, which the city authorities adopted, and appro-
priated $75,000 to carry into effect.

Such is all the legislation on this subject the committee has been enabled to
find, up to the end of the year 1867; from which it appears the United States
granted to a company the right to construct the canal in question, on certain
conditions and for specified uses; that this company sold all its rights to the
corporation of the city of Washington, and the United States approved the sale
and transfer, granted additional rights, and exacted additional facilities, limiting
the uses to navigation by steamers, barges, and scows over the whole surface and
length of the canal and basins, from the Potomac to the Eastern Branch. No
authority is found for converting the canal into a sewer or recipient for the sewer-
age matter of the city, nor can the committee find that the purposes of the <anal
for navigation have ever been carried into full effect. It would further appear
that the city can make no sale, transfer, disposition, or change of its rights, inter-
ests in and uses of the canal, without the authority of the United States, and it
may well be questioned whether or not the city has lost all its rights in the pre-
mises, by failing to make the canal navigable, and using it as a sewer and
reservoir for the excreta from a large proportion of the population of the city.

PROPOSED ACTION.

On the 6th April, 1868, a bill was reported in the board of aldermen, grant-
ing to certain citizens all the rights now held by the city in the canal for a term
of 30 years. It proposes to grant, for the sole use and benefit of the parties
named, all the rights, &c., of the city to the canal, and all the rights conferred by
the United States, under the act of the 31st May, 1833. The corporators are to
narrow the existing canal, and deepen it to one foot at low water, and finish
the same in June, 1873, and may collect tolls and dockage. 'The company shall
extend all sewers now leading into said canal to the outer surface of the canal

8 s
114 PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD .OF REGENTS.

wall, and at no time interfere with the canal being used for sewerage. It was
provided that this transfer, with the proposed modifications, be submitted to Con-
gress for approval.

The mayor of the city, in a communication to Congress of the 23d April, 1866,
states that the condition of the canal is such as to require an abatement of the
nuisance caused by deposits from the sewers, while the bill now under considera-
tion of the council greatly increases and prolones this nuisance.

The committee concurs in the opinion of the mayor of the city that the pro-
posed grant of the canal to a private corporation would be a grievous injury to
the inhabitants of the city, and would defeat the much-desired object of both
Congress and the community of securing the health of the city.

The committee learns from the mayor that it is proposed to extend the Ches-
apeake and Ohio canal from Georgetown, through the city, to the deep water
along the Eastern Branch, with the view of establishing a shipping port for large
vessels, and depot for the Cumberland coal, thus sharing with Georgetown and
Alexandria the profits of this branch ef industry. The project is one to which
the committee should present no objection, provided it does not interfere with the
general health of the city, or works ey for promoting the health of the
inhabitants.

The committee considers that a canal for such a purpose, or any other, through
this city, should not lock down to tide-water until it has passed entirely throngh
the city, and recommends that neither the existing canal, the proposed modifica-
tions, nor transfer of the existing canal to any private corporation, be approved
by Congress unless the subject of public health and sewerage be first provided
for, and insured against all hindrance and interruption for all time to come, and
that no sewage matter be allowed to enter any open canal whatever, within the
limits of the District of Columbia.

INFLUENCE OF THE CANAL ON THE HEALTH OF THE POPULATION.

At the present time the Washington city canal is an extended cesspool, the
bottom of which is below the level of low w ater, the surface varying with the
slow and gradual rise and fall of the tide, without any current to act upon the
bottom or of sufficient velocity to move insoluble ponderous matter that is
received into it.

The sewage from the water-closets, kitchens, laundries, stables, cattle-pens, and
street outters is now received into this immense trap, there to remain, without
power of any kind to carry it into the river or other place to protect the city
against its pernicious effects and influences. The existing sewers now enter this
reservoir so much below low water as to have caused one-half their entire height
to be closed by deposit, and as a consequence filling every such sewer with
poisonous matter into the city to the level of the intersection of the water in the
canal with the inclined plane of the bottom of the sewer. This mass cannot be
removed by any means now available. On the supposition that the canal re-
ceives the sewage from a population of only 30,000 of the inhabitants of the
city, the est timated annual cubic mass that is on into the canal is not less
than 300,000 cubic feet, or at the rate of 10 cubic feet per head per annum of
solid and fluid human excrement.

This fecal matter has for some years past been accumulating in the canal, in
proportion to the extent and number of sewers constructed from time to time,
without any power of removal of the solid parts, and only a slight power for
moving the fluid portions backwards and forwards, there bemg no continuous

current to force even the fluid and soluble parts into the Potomac or Eastern
Branch.

From the experience of other cities, and the investigations of chemists and

engineers, we learn that open sewers, as the canal in this city, evolve gases very

e-

SSS
PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS. 115

prejudicial to health. Observation has shown that the death rate is much greater
among the population along these open sewers than in streets removed but a
short distance from them.

The signs of animal life visible to the naked eye in small rivers after receiv-
ing sewage matter consists of myriads of minute worms, characteristic of all
sewage Ww rater, and may be regarded as the last rémains of animal life which can
survive in such a locality; and even these die off in summer.

The putrescence of the organic liquids and deposits in the open sewers and
bottoms and beds of streams in all weathers, and the evolution of noxious gases
therefrom, lead to the sensible contamination of the surrounding atmosphere, and
consequently decreases the purity and healthiness of the air, and the discharge

of sewage matter into streams and small rivers pollutes the w ater by the mis sture
of much organic matter in a state of active putrescence.

Analysis gives 15 to 80 grains per gallon of suspended matter, and from 35
to 76 grains “of dissolved matter, of the sew age of large towns. Of the former
about 35 per centum is organic, ’and of the. latter about 28 per centum. The
organic matter consists of vegetable and animal fibre with a soluble extractive in
a high state of decomposition. The organic constituents give off such an abund-
ance of foul gases that they are a constant source of annoyance. ‘These gases
consist of about 73 per centum of light carburetted hydrogen, 16 per centum of

carbonic acid, 10 of nitrogen, and traces of sulphnretted hydrogen, ammonia, and
a putrid, organic vapor that is in the highest degree offensive.

Every gallon of sewage will discharge from 14 to 14 cubic inches of this gas
per hour, and the fermentation continues for weeks. » Whenever this gas escapes
from privies, cesspools, or sewers, it causes disease, and finally sets up a putrid
form of fever which is exceedingly fatal.

Every effort is made elsewhere to prevent the diffusion of these feetid gases
into the houses and public ways, while in Washington we promote the evil to an
incalculable extent and danger in that vast fermenting vat, the city canal.

It fullows that the sewage é of lar ee populous cities and towns can only be con-
ducted into large rivers near the sea, that they may not contaminate the atmo-
sphere, and should never be discharged into fresh-water streans used or required
for man or beast.

If conducted into closed harbors or bays, they create such a deadly pollution
as soon to lead to the most alarming consequences.

The magnitude of this evil, and the suddenness with which it may come upon
us in its most fatal form, are exemplified by the experience of London. ‘The
committee asks attention thereto, as fully illustrating the evil we have to com-
bat in this city, and the necessity of prompt attention :

“On the introduction of the water-closet system in London, and the abolition
of cesspools, with the increase of gas-works, the Thames began to give indica-
tions of receiving a larger quantity of decomposing matter than it could purify
or get rid of by the tide movement. In 1856 it became apparent in the summer
mouths that the river emitted a disagreeable stench. ‘This became still more
evident in 1857, and was obviously dependent on the increased attention paid to
the removal of all refuse from houses by the aid of drainage. In 1858 the stench
appeared with increased intensity, and especially in the neighborhood of the new
houses of parliament. very one felt it was necessary to meet so gigantic an
evil. The river had become one elongated cesspool, and the effect upon the
teeming population of its banks might be in a short time of the most disastrous
Kind, In 1858 an act was passed for preventing, as far as practical, the sewage
from passing into the Thames within the metropolis, g giving authority to expend
three millions of pounds sterling to effect the object.”

‘This experience may very properly be received as a trathful representation
of what is being done in this city, and the consequences.

The specific gravity of sewage gases is lighter than that of the atmosphere
116 PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS.

Generated in large volumes in the canal, and lower end of as well as in the sewers,
it ascends the sewers to escape at every higher level, and creates the pestilential
influences heretofore referred to. We had some experience in this city in 1857,
causing death and prolonged disease among the inmates of one of our hotels.
Thus the deleterious eases ascend and the poisonous liquids descend, making the
ventilation of the sewers as important as conveying away the solids and liquids
to insure the health of the city. No system of cleansing sewers by manual labor
is justifiable.

Laborers employed in this disgusting business in the culverts for fluid excre-
ments, as in the Paris system, are subject to two terrible diseases, both due to
the deadly effluvium of feeces, the one caused by ammonia gas, creating distem-
pers of the nose and eyes, and the second by sulphuretted hydrogen, nitrogen,
and hydrosulphuretted ammonia, causing sudden death. In the sewers for fluid
and solid excrementa, as in London and Washington city, the effects are even
more fatal. In the report of the engineer relating to the London sewers, it is .
stated that he witnessed several cases of death, and others in which men were
taken out insensible, after only a few seconds’ exposure. In Warwick street,
Fimlico, five men were killed, in 1852, by this gaseous sewage. Three of them
had gone into the sewer early in the morning, and, not returning for breakfast,
alarm was felt for their safety. A surgeon entered the sewer and was killed on
the spot. A young policeman followed and was struck dead in a few minutes.
On examination after death it was shown that he could not have made more than
two respirations before death after entermg the sewer. On making an opening
from the street into the sewers to get the bodies of these men, the ¢ gases as they
escaped were set fire to by a match and burnt with a yellow flame, rising twenty
feet. Within three months of the date of the engineer's S report three more lives
were lost near Whitechapel by breathing sewage gases as it escaped from an
opening made into another sewer.

It is now a well-established fact, deduced from the medical statistics of the
English armies in India, and of our army in its marches during ‘the past two
years, that cholera is propagated mainly by atmospheres contamigated and poi-
soned by the excrement of cholera patients.

In this city the canal would be the reservoir for such matter, first to be con-
taminated by travellers from infected districts, sojourning temporarily at the hotels,
all the sewers from which now or are hereafter to empty in the canal.

The committee is of the opinion that the canal, as it now éxists, is a great cause
for creating and propagating disease, and should at the earliest possible moment
be filled up and discontinued for use as a sewer and reservoir for excrement and
waste waters of kitchens, water- closets, laundries, and other sources of contam-
inating matter, and is also of the opinion that, if the proposition of granting the
city rivhts to this canal be confirmed, the evils herein set forth cannot be efli-
ciently corrected by any means left in the power of the public authorities with-
out incurring a heavy expenditure to purchase rights and property now proposed
to be given away.

It is proper to state that part of this system of sewage, and, it is believed, the
commencement of making the canal a reservoir and cesspool, was made under
appropriations of Congress for building sewers from the Capitol and the execu-
tive buildings from lifteenth to Seventeenth streets.

REMEDIES FOR THE EXISTING EVILS.

The committee has pointed out the probable evil consequences of our existing
system of sewage, as a result of using the canal as a cesspool and reservoir for
the fecal matter, from whence it cannot be removed by any existing means. It
has also shown that the air and water from the canal are contaminated bj y the
sewerage of the city, and produce fatal diseases tending to virulent epidemics,
and that the canal is neither fit for navigation, sewerage, or drainage, in its pre-

sent form and dimensions. 4
PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS. 117

Tt remains for the committee to propose some method by which these evils may
be remedied.

The old, thickly populated cities and towns of Europe have been compelled,
for self- preservation, to expend millions of money, and adopted a variety of sys-
tems to remove excrement from the limits of their abodes.

The systems last adopted for Paris and London, at an immense outlay, give in
general the main reliable features of the most acceptable plans.

In Paris metallic vessels for every family are so arranged that the solid feeces
are separated from the urine. The latter passes into street sewers of large
dimensions, conducting it, with the surface drainage from the streets, into the
Seine, and the solids are removed from the dwellings by scavengers with carts,
and conveyed some miles from Paris, where it is converted into dry poudrette and
sold for manure. No less than 278,000 cubic metres of these solid excrementa
were collected from the tenements in Paris and removed to La Vilette for con-
version into fertilizing matters in one year.

In London a system commenced in 1859 of sewers at different levels, running
parallel with the Thames, receives all the house and street drainage, both solid
and fluid, and conducts the same, miles below the city, into the river, to find its
way to the sea. ‘These longitudinal sewers drain the entire city surface of 117
square miles, and are together 82 miles in length. Their fall does not exceed
two feet per mile, and are carried over rivers, railways, roads, and streets, by
wrought-iron aqueducts. Of the surface thus drained 254 square miles are below
the level of high water % and drained by a sewer of 10 miles in length. A part
of the sewerage, or 145 miles of this surface, has to be pumped up 174 feet to
discharge it into the T hames; and at what is called the Abbey Mills Siution: the
whole mass of sewage is pumped up 36 feet to the level of the outfall sewer.
This system is peculiar i in having culverts parallel with the river, to receive the
sewage at high levels as far as practicable, and not allow it to fall into basins or
valleys below the river surface, and by steam pumps raising all the sewage mat-
ter from surfaces below the river level into the main drains leading to the river.

Another system is advocated, by which all the excrementa is received from the
water-closets, both solid and fluid, into small boxes in the streets, from whence
it is drawn by pneumatic portable engines into tight barrels, and thence in its
liquid state distributed in drills underground by ploughs, as a manure for the sur-
rounding country. It is claimed to be the only effectual way of removing this
offensive matter and preserving the whole of it for manuring the soil.

With subsoil ploughing, rotation of cr ops, lime, marl, green sand, barn-yard
manure, guano, and other fertilizers, the use of sewage matter is not likely to be
acceptable to our agriculturists, and no demand will probably exist sufficient to
absorb the quantities that by this system must be daily disposed of in summer
and winter.

The committee has come to the conclusion that we must construct the sewers
of the city of Washington on levels above high water, and conduct them to dis-
charge their contents in the strong ebb current of the Potomac river at high water,
that the entire accumnlation of twelve hours may have six hours of ebb tide to
carry it towards the Chesapeake, which, with the annual freshets and constant
flow of the Potomac, will always carry it beyond the distance it can be brought
back by the flood.

It is indispensable the ontlet of these main sewers should be below the Long
bridge, (and as distant as practi¢able,) otherwise all the solid matter would accu-
mulate on the shoals between this bridge and Georgetown, and in time create as
great an evil as the canal.

To effect this object all the main sewers must be carried across the site of the
present canal on closed aqueducts or causeways, at the most advantageous levels
above high water, and thence under the grounds south of the canal, to suitable
places on 1 the bank of the riv er, where closed and covered reservoirs may be con
118 PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS.

structed to retain the sewage until the ebb-tide makes, when gates or valves will
be opened to allow it to escape into the river, under the water surface, using the
waters of Rock creek and the Tiber to cleanse them.

The present canal should then cease to be used for any other purpose than as
an escape for the waters of the Tiber during extraordinary freshets, and for such
surface drainage as cannot be carried across it into the sewers leading to the
Potomac, and to this end must be filled up and reduced in size and form.to an
arched culvert. The proposed canal for commercial purposes, with an outlet in
the Eastern Branch, should, in like manner, be carried over the valley of the
present canal on an aqueduct or causeway, and then through or along the high
ground to the Eastern Branch.

We have found that the canal is not useful for navigation. A railroad over
the same ground, extended along the river front, with turn-outs and sidings to

warehouses and depots, free to every owner of a car, would better subserve the
publie welfare, it is believed, than any water transportation that can be derived
from the existing or other canal. Such a road for heavy traffic, with a well-
constructed paved street for light vehicles, and a paved walk along the south side,
adjacent to the public reservations, connecting the Capitol, botanic ¢ garden, Smith-
sonian, agricultural, and W ashington monument grounds with the “erounds about
the President’s house, would insure greater he alth, promote public convenience,
and greatly enhance the value of property now separated from the settled portions
of the city by an impassable barrier. These are additional considerations for
using the site of the existing canal as a covered drain or culvert for surface water
only. :

The committee has confined itself to pointing out the evil effects of the exist-
ing sewerage, the necessity for immediate correction, and a general plan therefor,
leavi ing it for the talent and genius of the most experienced engineers to select
the most advantageous sites “for the outlets of the sewers, at the most distant
points from dense population, and mature the details of a project for carrying this
system into effect.

All of which is respectfully submitted by

RICHARD DELAFIELD,
For the Committee of the Regents.
RICHARD WALLACH, Jfayor.
RICHARD DELAFIELD, U. S. Army.
PETER PARKER, M. D.
Wasurneton, D. C., May 15, 1868.

After discussion,and the nnanimons expression of opinion that the canal was
a nuisance which should speedily be abated, on motion of Mr. Pruyn the fol-
lowing resolution was adopted :

“ Resolved, 'That the report of the executive committee be accepted, and that
the committee be authorized, in their discretion, to unite with the corporate
authorities of Washington in a memorial to Congress for such relief as may
eventually lead to an abatement of the nuisance complained of.”

On motion of General Delafield, it was

“ Resolved, That the vacancy in the executive committee be filled by the
election of Rev. Dr. John Maclean.”

Professor Henry presented his annual report ‘& the operations of the Institution
during the year 1868, which was read, accepted, and ordered to be presented to
Congress.

On motion of General Garfield, it was

“ Resolved, That the regents renew their application to Congress to increase
the annual appropriation for the care of the government collections to $10,000.”

The board adjourned, to meet at the call of the seeretar Vs
GENERAL APPENDIX

TO THE

REPORT FOR 1868.
The object of this appendix is to illustrate the operations of the Institution
by reports of lectures and extracts from correspondence, as well as to furnish
information of a character suited especially to the meteorological observers and
other persons interested in the promotion of knowledge.
MEMOIR OF CUVIER.

By M. FLOURENS.

Translated for the Smithsonian Institution by C. A. Alexander.*

When a nation loses one of those men whose sole name would suffice for its
own glory and that of an epoch, the grief which it feels ds so profound that
voices are raised on all sides to deplore the common calamity. ‘There isa general

5
emulation to pour forth the public regret at their tomb; a universal impulse to

5
make known all that can be learned respecting lives so illustrious and so honorable
to humanity.

So it should have been, and so in effect it has been in regard to M. Cuvier. Men
of science, men of letters, whole Academies, indeed, have already published
accounts of his life and person, and it would be too late to-day for the Academy
of Sciences to say anything new of the great man whom it has lost. But, among
the labors on which rests his renown, there are such as pertain more specially
to this Academy, and the study of which is far from being exhausted. I allude to
the progress which the natural sciences owe to M. Cuvier, a progress which has
renovated all those sciences, and which has so greatly extended them that it has
in reality extended, through them, the reach of the human mind and the domain
of genius.

In M.C uvier, therefore, I consider here only the savant, and even in the savant
shall, above all, consider the naturalist. Fontenelle said, in his account of
Leibnitz, that he had been obliged, in some sort, to divide and decompose that
ereat man; and that quite the contrar y of antiquity, which had made one Hercules
out of many, he had made of Leibnitz alone, many savants. So it is necessary
to decompose M. Cuvier, if we would at all measure his genius; this great intel-
lect which, like that of Leibnitz, “ conducted all the sciences abreast,” ‘and which,
not restricting itself to the sciences, diffused its hght on the hig hest institutions
of the state, requires, in order to be properly comprehended, as many separate
discussions as it has manifested different capacities. I repeat, therefore, that I
here consider in M. Cuvier only the naturalist; but even so, my task ‘will be
immense, and, in venturing to approach it, I need all the indulgence of those
to whom I address myself.

The history of M. Cuvier, if we recall all that the nataral sciences owe to
him, is scarcely less in fact than the history of those sciences in the earlier part
of the nineteenth century. ‘The eighteenth had already communicated to them
a rapid movement in advance. ‘T'wo individuals, Linneus and Buffon, had espe-
cially co-operated in producing this mov ement: and although endowed other-
wise with very different qualities, it is to be remarked, nevertheless, that it was
from the same cause that both had failed in their aim. ‘Those phenomena, in
effect, those beings, those facts, which the comprehensive genius of Linneus
souk 't to distinguish and to cl: assify ; ; those facts which the. soaring genius of
Buffon sought to combine and to explain, were not yet sufliciently known in
their intimate nature to supply either their true classification or their real explana-
tion.

The primary merit of M. Cuvier, and it was by this merit that he communi-
cated from the first a new life to the natural sciences, was the distinet perception

“* Read before the Academy of S Sciences, 29th December, 1834,
£22 MEMOIR OF CUVIER.

that the classification as well as explanation of facts could be founded only on
their inmost nature thoroughly understood. In a word, and taking into view
only the natural history of animals, that branch of natural history in general
which M. Cuvier has most directly elucidated by his labors, it is evident that
what had been wanting to Linnzeus and to Buffon, whether for the classification
of animals or for the proper explanation of their phenomena, was the adequate
knowledge of their,internal structure or organization; and it is not less evident
that the laws of all classification, as of the whole natural philosophy of these
beings, could spring only from the laws of that organization itself.

It will presently be seen that it was by the assiduous study of these fruitful
laws that M. Cuvier renovated in succession zoology and comparative anatomy ;
that he renovated them one by means of the other; and that he founded on both
the science of fossil animals—a science altogether new, wholly due to his genius,
and which has thrown light in its turn on the science of the earth itself. But
before we come to these last and astonishing results, the fruits of somany grand
conceptions and so many unexpected discoveries, let us first see what he has
done in particular for each of the sciences just mentioned, in order that we may
afterward be better able to comprehend and embrace in a general view what he
has done for all. I commence with zoology.

Linnzeus, who of all the naturalists of the eighteenth century had exerted the
most general influence on the human mind, particularly in point of method,
divided the animal kingdom into six classes: quadrupeds, birds, reptiles, fishes,
insects, and worms. In this Linnzeus committed a first general error, for in
placing in the same line these six primitive divisions, he assumed that an equal
interval separated them one from another; than which nothing could be less
exact. On the other hand, almost all these classes, especially the last, at one
time separate animals the most nearly related, at another unite those which are
most incongruous. In a word, classification, which has no other end but to
mark the true relations of beings, in this instance almost everywhere severed
those relations; and that instrument of method which only serves the under-
standing in so far as it conveys just ideas of things, communicated to it, nearly
throughout, only false ideas.

This whole classification of Linneeus was, therefore, to be recast, and nearly
the entire framework of the science to be reconstructed. Now, to attain this
end, it was first necessary to found the classification on organization, for it is
organization alone which gives the true relations; in other terms, it was neces-
sary to found zoology on anatomy ;.it was next necessary to introduce into the
method itself views more just and elevated than had been previously applied.
It was, in effect, these elevated views as regards method, these profound studies
on organization, which shone forth in the first labors of M. Cuvier: potent
resources, by means of which he succeeded in effecting successively the reform
of all the branches of zoology, one after the other, and in finally renovating in
its whole extent that vast and grand science.

I have said that it was chiefly in the class vermes of Linneus that disorder
and confusion prevailed. He had thrown into it all animals with white blood—
that is to say, more than half the animal kingdom. It was in the first of his
memoirs, published in 1795, that M. Cuvier pointed out the great difference of
the beings till then confounded under this vague name of white-blooded animals,
and that he separated them with precision from one another, first into three great
classes: Mollusks, which, like the poulp, the cuttle-fish, the oyster, have a heart,
a complete vascular system, and respire by means of branchiz or gills; désects,
which have, in place of a heart, only a simple dorsal vessel, and respire by
tracheze ; and, lastly, zoophytes—animals whose structure is so simple as to have
gained them this name, signifying animal plants, and which have neither heart,
nor vessels, nor distinet organ of respiration. By subsequently forming three -
other classes—vermes, crustacea, echinodermata—all the animals with white
MEMOIR OF CUVIER. “Wa

blood are found to be distributed into six classes: mollusks, crustaceans, insects,
worms. echinoderms, and zoophiytes.

Everything was new in this distribution ; but everything was at the same time
so evident that it was generally adopted, and thenceforward the animal kingdom
assumed a new face. “Moreover, the precision of the characters on which each
of these classes was founded, the perfect conformity of the beings which were
assembled under each of them, could not but prove convincing to naturalists;
and what doubtless appeared to them not less worthy of admiration than these
direct and immediate results, was the sudden heht w vhich thereby broke on the
highest points of the science—the grand ideas on the subordination of the organs
and on the office of. this subordination in their employment as characters—those
great laws of the animal organization thus and so early apprehended: that all
animals with white blood which have a heart have also branchie or a cireum-
scribed respiratory organ; that all those which have no heart have only a
trachea; that wherever the heart and the branchiz exist, the liver exists; that
wherever they are wanting the liver is wanting.*

Assuredly, no one had as yet thrown a glance so comprehensive, so penetrat-
ing on the general Jaws of the organization of animals, and it was easy to fore-
see that if he should pursue the investigation of those laws with anything like
the same continuity, Cuvier, whose first views had imparted to science so brilliant
an impulse, would not be ‘long in extending its boundaries in every direction.
He has often recalled since, and even in his last works , this first memoir, from
which, in truth, date the germs both of the grand renovation which he effected
in zoolosy and of the oreater part of his most fandamental ideas in comparative
anatomy.

Never, indeed, had the domain of a science been so rapidly angmented. With
the exception of Aristotle, whose philosophic genius had neglected no part of
the animal kingdom, scarcely had any one studied, at any epoch, more than the
vertebrate animals alone, at least in a general and thoroug h manner. "The ani-
mals with white blood, or, as M. Lamarck has since called them, the animals with-
out vertebre, formed in some sort a new animal kingdom, almost unknown to
naturalists, and of which M. Cuvier had at once revealed to them as well the
different plans of structure as the particular laws to which each of these plans
is subjected. All these animals—so numerous, so varied in their forms, and the
knowledge of which has since so greatly extended the basis of general phiysi-
ology and natural philosophy—were then of scarcely any account to the physi-
ologist and the philosopher; and even long after these ereat labors of M. Cuvier
of which I speak, how many systems have we not seen which, pretending to
embrace under one sole point of view the entire animal kingdom, have embraced
in reality only the vertebrata? So vast was the new route which he had traced
for naturalists, and so difficult was it found to follow him therein, on account of
its very vastness. :

-In this first memoir, then, M. Cuvier had succeeded in finally establishing the
true division of animals with white blood. Ina second, taking up specially
one of their classes, that of the mollusks, he laid the foundations of his great
work on those animals—a labor which oceupied him for so many years, and
which has produced an assemblage of results the most surprising, perhaps, and
at least the most essentially new of all modern zoology, as of all modern com-
parative anatomy.

Till then there had been no example of an anatomy so exact and bearing on
so great a number of fine and delicate parts. Daubenton, that model of precis-
ion and ex xactness, had scarcely described with equal det ail more than the skele-
ton and the viscera of quadrupeds; here there was the same attention and a

4d By the liver I mean a thassive and compact organ, a conglomerate eland ; ; in insects the
secretions in effect are accomplished simply by tubes very long and siender, which float in
the interior of the body and are fixed only by the tracheze.
124 MEMOIR OF CUVIER.

still more eminent degree of sagacity of observation transferred to all the parta
of the animal—to its muscles, its vessels, its nerves, its organs of sense. Swam-
merdam, and Pallas,* w ho had embraced all the parts of the animal in their anatom-
izations, had confined these to certain species; in another genus Lyonnet had
confined himself to a single one; in the case of Cuvier there was an entire class
of animals, and of all animals the class least known, of which almost all the
species were described and all the details, even the most delicate and obscure,
of their structure were brought to light and developed.

The mollusks have all a heart, as already said; some, however, have but a
single one, like the oyster and snail; others have two; others again, like the
poulp and cuttle-fish, have as many ‘as three distinct hearts. And yet it was
with these animals whose organization is so rich, which have a brain, nerves,
organs of sense and of secretion, that it had been the custom to confound others,
Ww hich, like the zoophytes and polypes, for example, have for their whole organi-
zation only an almost homogeneous pulp.

The experiments s of ‘Trembley have rendered famous the polypus of fresh
water, that animal which puts forth buds like a plant, and each part of which,
separated from the others, forms a new and complete individual. The whole
structure of this singular zoophyte reduces itself to a sac—that is to say, to a
mouth and stomach. M. Cuvier has made known another zoophyte,t whose
structure presents something still more surprising, for it has not even a mouth;
it is nourished by means of ramified suckers, like plants, and its internal cavity
serves by turns as a stomac -h and sort of heart, for vessels enter it which con-
duct to it the nutritive juices, and other vessels issue from it which convey these
juices to the members.

One of the most curious problems of the physiology of white-blooded animals
which has been resolved by M. Cuvier is that of the nutrition of insects. Insects,
as has been already said, have, in place of a heart, only a simple dorsal vessel ;
and, moreover, this dorsal vessel has no branch, no ramification, no particular
vessel which either enters or issues from it. This was already known through
the celebrated researches of Malpighi, Swammerdam, and Lyonnet. But M.
Cuvier goes much further; he examines, one after the other, all the parts of the
bodies of insects, and by this detailed examination he shows that no sanguineous
vessel, or, what amounts to the same thing, no circulation, exists in these ani-

mais. How, then, is their nutrition effected?

M. Cuvier begins by remarking that the final object of the circulation is to
conduct the blood to the air. Hence all animals which have a heart have a cir-
cumscribed respiratory organ, whether langs or branchie, and the blood returned
from the members to the heart is invariably constrained to traverse this organ,
in order to be there subjected to the action of the air before returning to the
members. But in insects the apparatus of respiration is wholly different. It is
no longer a circumscribed organ which receives the air; it is an immense nam-
ber of Blache vessels, called tr ache, which convey it ie all parts of the body,
and which thus conduct it even to the nuiritive fluid itself, which continually
bathes those parts. In a word, while in other animals it is the nutritive fluid
which by means of the circulation goes in search of the air, the phenomenon is
reversed in insects, and it is the air, on the contrary, which goes to seek the
nutritive fluid, and thereby renders all circulation useless.t

Another discovery of M. Cuvier, not less important, is that of the circulatory
apparatus of certain worms, such as the earth-worm and leech, which had until
then been confounded with those zoophytes of a structure inconparably more

* Poii had-also preceded him in the anatomy of several molluscs, but of multivalve and

Sivalve molluses only.
t Namely, the blue rhizostome. .
} We are speaking here only of perfect insects. Siace the researches of M. Cuvier which

T have at present in view, M. Carus has discovered in certain larvee a sort of circulation, or
rather a movement of the blood, which movement, however, is not effected in vessels proper.
MEMOIR OF CUVIER. 125

simple, which live only in the interior of other animals.* By a remarkable sin-
gularity the blood of these worms, with a circulatory apparatus,t is red: a new
circumstance to show how inexact and vague was the denomination of animals
with white blood, given till then, in a general manner, to animals without
vertebree.

By means of these admirable investigations M. Cuvier, it will be seen, had
fixed the limits of the class of mollusks: he had determined that of the vermes
with red blood, he had completely separated both from that of the zoophytes ;
finally, he had marked the true place of the zoophytes themselves, thenceforth
consi ioned to the extreme limit of the animal kingdom. But a principle which
he had employed in all these researches must needs lead him still further. This
principle is that of the subordination of organs or of characters.

Method should not limit itself, in effect, to representing indistinctly the rela-
tions of structure ; it ought to mark, besides, the particular order of theserelations
and the relative importance of each, and it is precisely to this end that the prin-
ciple of the subordination of organs serves. Bernard and Laurent de Jussieu
had already applied this principle, as fruitful as it is infallible, to botany, but
the zoologists had not yet ventured to make the application of it to their own
science, determined, no doubt, by the great number and complication of the
organs ’ which constitute the animal body, and which, for the most part, are

W anting in vegetables.

The principle of subordination of organs could only be introduced into zoology
when preceded by anatomy. The first step to be taken was to know the organs ;
the determination of their relative importance could be only the second. ‘These
two steps accomplished, there remained only to found the characters on the
organs, and to subordinate these characters one to the other, as the organs are
subordinated among themselves. Such was properly the object. of the Animal
Kingdom distr ibuted according to its organization, (Legne Animal, de.,) that
great work in which the new zoological doctrine of the illustrious author is dis-
play ed as at length reproduced in all its entireness and co-ordinated in all its
parts.

Dating from this work the art of methods has assumed a new face. Linneus,
as is well known, had seen in this art only a means of distinguishing species.
M. Cuvier was the first who undertook to make method the very instrument of
the generalization of facts. Method, viewed in itself, is for him only the sub-
ordination of propositions, of truths, of facts, one to another, according to the
order of their generality. Applied to the animal world, it is the subordination
of groups among the -mselves, according to the relative imports uce of the organs
which constitute the distinctive characters of those groups. Now, the most
important organs are also those which involve the most general resemblances.
Whence it follows that in founding the inferior groups ou the subordinate organs,
and the superior groups on the dominating organs, the superior groups will
always necessarily comprise the inferior, or, in ‘other terms, it will always be
practicable to pass from one to the other by. progressive propositions, becoming
more and more general in proportion as we ascend from the inferior groups
towards the superior.

Meihod, therefore, properly considered, i is but the generalized expression of
science ; it is science itself, but science reduced to its most simple CXPressions ;
it is still more: this linking together of facts according to their analogies, this
linking together of analogies according to their degree of comprehensiveness, is
not limited to the representation of known relations zl it brings to light amultitude
of new relations, contained one in another; it disengages them from one another
it thus gives new forces to the understanding for perceiving and discovering 5 it
creates for the mind new processes of logic.

* Namely the intestinal worms, that class of zoophyte s which, for the most part, can only
live and propagate in the interior of the bodies of other animals.
t Worms with red blood of Cuvier: annélides of Lamarck.
126 MEMOIR OF CUVIER.

Hitherto M. Cuvier had seen, in each of these grand classes of invertebrate
animals, mollusks, insects and zoophytes, only a group like each of the four
classes of vertebrate animals, geadrupeds, birds, reptiles and fishes. It was
because he had as yet considered only the organs of circulation.

In considering the nervous syStem, which is a much more important organ, he

saw that each of the three great classes of animals without vertebree corresponded
or Was equivalent not to such or such a class of vertebrate animals taken sepa-
rately, but to all these vertebrate animals taken together. A first form of the
rervous system unites all these vertebrate animals in a single group; a second
form unites all the mollusks; a third unites the insects to the worms with red
blood, and both to the crustacea, constituting the group of articulata; a fourth
form, finally, unites all the zoophytes. There are thus four plans, four types in
the animal king dom, four embranchements, as M. Cuvier calls them ; or, in plainer
terms, and divested of everything vague, there ave four gener ral forms of the
nervous system in animals.

Tn the sciences of observation and experiment the supreme art of genius is to
transform questions from simple questions of reasoning into questions of fact.
For more than a century the question had been debated whether, in animals,
there was but one plan of or ganization, or whether there were several. This
question, couched till then in terms so vague, is transformed by M. Cuvier into
this other question, positive and to the point, namely, how many distinct forms
are there of the nervous system in animals? Now, as I have just said, there are
four—one for the vertebrata, one for the mollusca, one for the articulata, one for
the Zoophyta ; these four plans or types comprising the whole animal kingdom.

Such is the light thrown upon the animal kingdom by the great work ‘under
consideration that, guided by this, the mind is enabled precisely to appreliend
the different orders of relation which connect animals with one another; the
relations cf conformity (d’ensemble) which constitute the unity, the character of
the kingdom; tbe relations more or less general which constitute the unity of
the embranchements, of the classes ; the more particular relations which constitute
the unity of the orders, of the genera.

Nevertheless, this work of so vast a scope, of such immense detail, was not
yet what M. Cuvier would have wished. 1t is the property of genius always to
sce something beyond and better than all that it has done. And, indeed, though
all the species s had been reviewed in this great work, the greater part of them
had been searvely more than indicated ; it was, therefore, only an abridged, not
a complete system of animals. Now, the idea of a complete system of animals,

o system in which all the species should be not only indicated, distinguished,
elesied. but represented and described in their whole structure, was one of
those with which M. Cuvier was most constantly occupied. Hence, eae
was this great treatise on the animal kingdom terminated, when another we
already commenced, and on a plan not less vast. I mean the “ Natural aeons
of Fishes,” (Histcire naturelle des poissons,) the first volume of which appeared
in 1828.

After having effected, in the earlier of these two works, the complete reform
of the system “of animals, what he lad wished in the secoud was to show, by a
detailed and thorough e <position of all the known species of a class, what could be
done for all other species and all other classes. With this view he had chosen
the class of fishes as being, among all those of the vertebrata, the most numerous,
the Jeast known, and that most enriched by the recent discoveries of travellers.
The latest xuthors of note in ichthyology, ‘Bloch and Lacépede, were scarcely
acquainted with so many species of fish as 1,400; in the work of M. Cavier
the number of species would have amounted to more than 5,000; the entire
work would have ineluded not tess than 20 volumes, al! the materials were placed
in order, and the nine volames which made their appearance in less than six
years fully attest the wonderful rapidity with which it was intended that this
yast undertaking should proceed ;
MEMOIR OF CUVIER. 127

Pressed by want of time I must deny myself all details on this work, so
astonishing for its extent, and yet still more astonishing for that profound art in
the formation of genera and families, of which the ¢ author seems to have delighted
to unveil the most hidden secrets, and for that science of characters which no
one ever possessed in an equal degree, results of experience and fruits of a
genius arrived at its full maturity.*

Such is the assemblage of great labors by which M. Cuvier has renovated
zoology ; but a reform still more important, and of which that is in rez ality but
the consequence, is what he had already effected, or was at the same time effecting
in comparative anatomy. It is impossible to speak of the progress which this
science owed to the researches of M. Cuvier without profound respect and even
grateful acknowledgment; he himself regarded this branch of investigation, and
with justice, as the ; ‘regulator of all those which relate to organized beings, and
death surprised him still meditating that great work which he had consecrated
to it, and in which, collecting anew all its forces, his vast genius would have
undoubtedly appeared in all its grandeur. But though this work remained
unaccomplished, its principal elements subsist, as they are scattered in various
memoirs, especially in his Legons @anatomie comparée and his Recherches sur les
ossements fossiles, immortal labors which have communicated to comparative
anatomy such an impulsion that, after having been so long the most neglected
of the branches of natural history, it has suddenly outstripped and taken the lead
of all of them.

The history of comparative anatomy counts three epochs clearly marked—
the epoch of Aristotle, that of Claude Perrault, and that of Cuvier. Every
one knows with how much genius the foundations of the science were laid by
Aristotle among the ancients. But what is not as well known, though not less
worthy of being so, is the force of intellect with which Claude Perrault, at the
middle of the seventeenth century, undertook the reconstruction of the! entire
science from its very base—that is to say, from the consideration of particular
facts. His descriptions are the first assured step taken by comparative anatomy
in modern times. Daubenton advanced it still another, for he rendered those
descriptions comparable. Vicq-d’Azyr went yet further. Rich through the
labors of Daubenton, of Haller, of Hunter, of Monro, of Camper, of Pallas,
Vicq-d’ Azyr embraced comparative anatomy in its completeness ; he brought to it
that penetratimg genius which sees in science the end to be attained, and that
spirit of sequence which attainsit; and by no one more than by him was that
great reform promoted which M. Cuvi ier finally achieved for the science in question.

It was certainly fortunate for this ‘science to have passed immediately from the
hands of one of these two eminent men into the hands of the other. Vi ieq-d’ Azyr
had thrown on it the glance of the physiologist; M. Cuvier threw on it more
particularly that of the zoologist, and we may concede that it had an equal
need of being considered under both these points of view. It may well be
thonght that its reform would not have been so complete and its influence so
gener ral except that, having been by turns studied and adapted with a view both
to zoology and physiology, it has beconie alike for both the guide and the Imni-

nary.

However this may be, comparative anatomy was still but a collection of par-
ticular facts touching the structure of animals, when M. Cuvier transformed it
into the science of the general laws of the animal organization. Atter having
transformed, as we have seen, the zoological method from being a simple nomen-
clature into an instrument of generalization, he now proceeded to dispose the facts
in comparative anatomy in such an order that, from their simple collocation, have
proceeded so many admirable and progressively ascending laws; as, for ex cample,
that each kind of organ bas its fixed and determined modifications that a con-

* See, respecting this work, the developments which I present in my Histoire des Travaux
de M. Cuvier.
125 MEMOIR OF CUVIER.

stant relation connects all modifications of the organism with one another; that
certain organs exert on the collective animal economy a more marked and
decisive influence, whence the law of their subordination ; that certain facts of
otganization necessarily involve the presence of each other, while there are such,
on the contrary, as are incompatible and exclusive, one of the other, whence the
law of their correlation or coexistence ; besides so many other laws,,so many
other general relations, which have, in the end, created and developed the
philosophic part of the science.

Among so many discoveries, so many particular facts with which he has
enriched that science, I must necessarily confine myself to a citation of the most
prominent, and still the catalogue of even these will be far from complete. The
researches of Hunter and of enon had already afforded valuable contributions
to the theory of the development of the teeth ; it was Cuvier who carried this theory
to a perfection beyond which there can be little to desire. Those little bones
which we call teeth appear at first glance to be very simple, and scarcely to
merit the attention of the observer. ‘These little bodies, however, are very
complex; they possess secretory organs, as their g germ, their proper membrane ;
secreted substances, such as their enamel, their ivory ; and each of these sub-
stances appears in its turn, each at a fixed epoch. They spring up, are devel-
oped, push forth their roots, die, fall, and are replaced by others with admirable
order and regularity. Nor is it less admirable, though under another point of
view, that all the circumstances of their organization and development are to-
day rigorously demonstrated. It was chiefly through a study of the teeth of
the elephant, where everything is scen on a large scale, that M. Cuvier succeeded
in establishing the precise epoch at which each part of the tooth is formed, and
by what mechanism it is formed ; how each of these parts, having performed its
function of productive organ, disappears; how the entire tooth disappears in its
turn to give place to another, which will also have its development, both in the
whole and in det ail, its point of complete organization, and its decay and its fall.

Perrault, Hérissant , Vieq-d’Azyr, had, before Cuvier, distinguished some points
in the structure of the vocal organs of birds ; he has made that structure known
in a general manner and by detailed comparisons. It was he also who first
placed i in a clear light the ‘singular arrangement of the organ of hearing, and
still more singular arrangement of the nasal Joss@ in the cetaceous tribes.

Every one ‘knows the marvellous metamorphosis experienced by the frog in
passing from the state of foetus or tadpole to the adult state. It is known that
after having respired, in the first case, by gills, like the fishes, it respires, in the
second, by ‘lungs, like the terrestrial animals. M. Cuvier has taught us the
structure of the organs of respiration and of circulation in a species of reptiles,
which presents something still more curious. The frog is by turns a fish in its
first stage, and a reptile in its second. ‘These new reptiles, still more singular,
such as the proteus, the axolotl, the siren, are all their life reptiles and fish;
have all the time both branchie@ or gills and lungs, and can hence breathe alter-
nately in the air and in water.

M. Cuvier again was the first to give a connected comparison of the brain in
the four classes of vertebrate animals 3; the first to point out the relations of the
development of that organ with the development of intelligence, a branch of
comparative anatomy which has since become so fruitful and extensive ; the first,
in fine, to deduce in a rigorous manner from the respective quantity of respira-
tion of these animals, not only the degree of their natural heat, but that of all
their other faculties, their force of movement, their subtility of perception, their
rapidity of digestion.

But the most novel and brilliant application which he has made of compara-
tive anatomy, is that which relates to fossil bones. Every one now knows that
the globe which we inhabit presents, almost everywhere, irrefutable traces of
stupendous revolutions. ‘The productions of the actual creation, of living nature,

.
MEMOIR OF CUVIER. 129

everywhere cover the remains of an earlier creation, of a ruined nature. On
the one hand immense masses of shells and of other marine bodies are found at
great distances from any sea, at heights to which no sea could now attain, and
from thence have been derived the first facts in support of all those traditions of
deluges preserved among so many tribes of mankind. On the other hand, the
large bones discovered from time to time in the bowels of the earth, inthe caverns
of the mountains, have given rise to those other popular traditions, not less
diffused and not less ancient, of races of giants which have peopled the world in
its first ages.

The traces of the revolutions of our globe have, therefore, at all tinies im-
pressed the minds of men, but they long impressed ther m in vain, and only with
a fruitless astonishment. Fora long time, indeed, ignorance was ’ cartied to such
a point that an opinion very nearly univ ersal, and I speak not here of popular
opinion, but of the opinion of savants and philosophers, regarded the stones
charged with the impressions of animals or plants and the shells found in the

earth as sports of nature. “ It was necessar y,” says Fontenelle, “ that a common
potter, who knew neither Latin nor Greek, should dare, about the end of the
sixteenth century, to say in Paris, and in the face of all the doctors, that the
fossil shells were real shells, deposited heretofore by the sea in the places where
they were then found; that animals had impressed on the figure-bearing stones
all their different figures, and that he should boldly defy the whole school of
Aristotle to contest his proofs.”
' ‘This potter was Bernard Palissy, renowned for having made barely a first step
in a route traversed since then by so many great men, and which has conducted
them to such astonishing discoveries. In truth, the ideas of Palissy could
scarcely be expected to attract notice at the epoch when they appeared, and it
was not till about a century later—that is to say, toward the close of the seven-
teenth century—that they began to revive, and, again to recall an expression of
Fontenelle’s, “to thrive in the world as they deserved to do.” But from that
time such was the activity put forth, both in ‘collecting the remains of organized
bodies buried beneath the surface of the earth and in Y studying the strata which
contain them, and under this twofold relation so rapidly were significant facts
multiplied, that some bold and perspicacious minds were not afraid even then to
combine them i generalizations and attempt to ascend to their causes. It was,
in effect, at the close of the seventeenth century, and during the first half of the
eighteenth, that the celebrated systems of Burnet, Leibnitz, Woodward, Whis-
ton, and Buffon made their appearance—all of them premature and more or less
erroneous, no doubt, but productive of this advantage, that they accustomed the
human intellect to contemplate these astounding ‘phenomena i in a philosophic
spirit, and not to shrink from measuring itself against them.

Another advantage, of even greater Say ee was, that all these systems, by
exciting a strong interest, prese mntly drew together from all parts observations at
once more numerous, precise and complete ; the first effect of which was to over-
turn all that was imaginary and absurd in those systems; and the second, to
found on their ruins the true theory, the positive history of the earth.

The eighteenth century, which advanced so rapidly in so many directions, per-
haps witnessed nothing more rapid than the progress of the science of which
we are speaking. ‘The same ce utury which in its first moiety had seen all the
systems just spoken of, structures as brilliant as frail, either rise or fall, this cen-
tury s saw, in its second, the first foundations of the ‘enduring monume ont which
was to succeed them, cast by the hands of a Pallas, a Delue, a de Saussure, a
Werner, a Blumenbach, a Camper, and others who so ably seconded them.

Among these advances it is proper that I should here especially recall those
which relate to the fossil remains of organized bodies. It was these remains, in
effect, subsisting witnesses as they are of so many revolutions, so many violent
subversions sustained by the globe, which had given rise to the first hypothesis

98
130 MEMOIR OF CUVIER.

of the fantastic geology ; and it was again these remains which, in the hands of
M. Cuvier, furnished the results the most evident and the laws ‘best ascertained
of the positive geology. The researches of M. Cuvier were principally directed
to the fossil bones of quadrupeds—a part of the animal kingdom till then little
studied under this new point of view, but the study of which was calculated to
lead to consequences much more precise and decisive than that of any other
class.

T have already mentioned the large fossil bones discovered at different epochs,
and the absurd ideas of giants, which were renewed at each discovery which was
made of them. Daubenton was the first to overthrow all these ideas; it was he
who first applied comparative anatomy to the determination of the remains in
question; but, as he himself avows, this science was as yet far from being suth-
ciently advanced to furnish, in all cases and with sufficient certainty, the species
or genus of animal to w hich an unknown and isolated bone might appertain, and
yet such was the problem to be solved. ‘The memoir in which Daubenton
attempted for the first time the solution of this important problem was of the
date of 1762.

In 1769 Pallas published his first memoir on the fossil bones of Siberia. It
was not without surprise that the demonstration was here seen of the fact that
the elephant, the rhinoceros, the hippopotamus—animals which at present live
only under the torrid zone—had heretofore inhabited the most northern portions
of our continents. The second memoir of Pallas could not but excite still more
wonder, for he there reports the fact, which could scarcely seem credible at,
that time, that a rhinoceros had been found entire in the frozen earth with its
skin and flesh—a fact since renewed, as is known to all, in the elephant discov-
ered in 1806 on the shores of the Glacial sea, and so well preserved that dogs
and bears devoured its flesh and disputed its remains with one another.

The impulse once communicated by Pallas, the relics of animals of the south
were soon found, not only in the countries of the north, but in all the regions of
the old as well as new world. Buffon, from these facts, hastened to deduce his
hypothesis of the gradual refrigeration of the polar regions and of the succes-
sive migration of animals from the north to the south. But the last fact observed
by Pallas, and which has just been cited, had already overthrown this assump-
tion. That fact effectually demonstrated, in the most formal manner, that the
refrigeration of the globe, far from having been gradual, had, on the contrar Y>
necessarily been sudden, instantaneous, without any gradation; it demonstrated
that the same instant which destroved the animals in question had rendered the
country of their habitat glacial; for had they not been frozen as soon as killed
it is evident that they could not have descended to us with their flesh and skin
and every part in perfect preservation. The hypothesis of gradual refrigeration
being thus untenable, Pallas substituted that of an irruption of water coming
from the southeast—an irruption which, he maintained, would have transported
into the north the animals of India; but this second hypothesis was not more
happy than the first, for the fossil animals are very different from those of India,
and indeed from all animals now living—a final fact more extraordinary still
than all which preceded it, and which it was reserved for M. Cuvier to place in
the clearest light.

The fact of an ancient creation of animals entirely distinct from the existing
creation, and long since entirely lost, is the fundamental fact on which rest the
most evident proofs of the revolutions of the globe. It cannot, therefore, be
without interest to observe how the idea of this fact, assuredly the most extra-
ordinary which scientific research has been enabled to discover and to prove,
had its first rise, its subsequent development, and final confirmation.

We have seen how, toward the end of the sixteenth century, Bernard Palissy
had ventured, first among the moderns, to maintain that the bones, the impres-
sions, the fossil shells, so long regarded as casual freaks of nature, were the

.
MEMOIR OF CUVIER. 131

remains of real creatures, the veritable spoils of organized bodies. In 1670
Augustine Scilla renewed the opinion of Palissy and sustained it with vigor.
Shortly after, in 1683, Leibnitz lent to it the authority of his name and genius.
¥ inally, from the first half of the eighteenth century, Buffon reproduced it with
still more splendor, and directly made it popular.

But are these organized beings, of which innumerable relies are scattered
everywhere, the analogues of those which are now living, whether in the places
where these relics are found or in others? or have, indeed, their species, their
genera, perished? It is here that the difficulty lies, and we may well believe
that this difficulty would never have been resolved, at least with complete cer-
tainty, as long as the inquiry had been restricted, for example, to the study of
fossil shells or of fishes. It would have availed little, in effect, to find new
shells, new fishes; we should have been always at liberty to suppose that their
species were still living, whether in distant seas or at inaccessible depths. Not
so, however, as recards quadrupeds. ‘The number of these is greatly more lim-
ited, especially for the larger species , we may count on attaining a knowledge of
all of them—how vastly more easy then to satisfy ourselves whether certain
unknown bones belong to one of these species still ‘living, or whether they pro-
ceed from such as are ‘lost.

This it is which gives to the study of fossil quadrupeds a peculiar import-
ance and to the deductions which may be drawn from it a force which dedue-
tions derived from a study of most of the other classes gould not possess. Buffon
seems to have felt this. It was chiefly on the great fossil bones of Siberia and
Canada that he sought to sustain the conjecture (for, in view of the state of
comparative anatomy at the time when he wrote, it could be only a conjecture)
of certain lost species. Besides, even this conjecture was so imperfectly estab-
lished in his own mind, at least in relation to quadrupeds, that after having
regarded, in his Théorie de la Terre, all the animals to which these ext? aordinary
bones had belonged as lost, he afterwards declared, in his Epoques de la Nature,
that he no longer recognized more than a single ‘ost species—that which has
been called the mastodon—and that all the other bones in question are merely
those of the elephant and the hippopotamus.

Camper went much further, as might have been expected, for comparative
anatomy had not failed to advance by long strides since the days of Buffon.
In 1787, in a memoir addressed to Pallas , Camper boldly enunciates the opinion
that certain species have been destroyed by the catastrophes of the globe, and,
moreover, sustains it by the first really positive facts, though still very incom-
plete, which had yet been advanced in its support. T ‘hus, in proportion to the
determination of fossil bones has been the progress of the idea of lost anitnals,
and it has always been by the light of comparative anatomy that this progress
was accomplished. It was, in effect, this light of comparative anatomy which
had been wanting to so many laborious researches of so many naturalists. But
it is easy to see that towards the epoch of which I speak, towards the close,
namely, of the eighteenth century, everything was prepared for the long-sought
solution; that the moment was at hand for some revelation, some complete and
definitive result respecting these strange and marvellous phenomena.

The 1st Pluviose, an 1V, (February, 1796,) being the day of the first public
session held by the National Institute, M. Cuvier read before the assembled body
his memoir on the fossil species of the elephant compared with the living species.
It was in this memoir that he announced, for the first time, his views on extinct
animals. Thus, on the same day when the Institute opened the first of its public
sessions, was opened also the career of the greatest discoveries which natural
history has made in our age: a singular coincidence, which the history of the
sciences should not fail to mark and ¢ commemorate.

M. Cuvier had now initiated that brilliant series of researches and labors
which occupied him so many years, and which, during the whole time, called
LZ? MEMOIR OF CUVIER.

forth renewed surprise and admiration on the part of his contemporaries. In this
first memoir he does not confine himself to demonstrating that the fossil elephant
is a distinct species from the existing species—that it is a species extinct and
lost ; he expressly declares that the greatest step which could be made towards
the perfection of the theory of the earth, would be to prove that none of those
animals whose remains are found dispersed over nearly all points of the globe,
any longer exist. He adds that what he then established in regard to the
elephant he would soon establish in a not less incontestable manner in regard to
the fossil. rhinoceros, bear, and deer, all of them species equally distinct from
living species, all of them equally lost. Finally he concludes with the following
remarkable words, in which he seemed to announce all that he has since dis-
covered: “If it be asked why we find so many remains of unknown animals,
while we find none of which it can be said that they belong to species that we
know, it will be seen how probable it is that they have all pertained to the
creatures of a world anterior to our own; to creatures destroyed by some catas-
trophe of the globe; to creatures whose place has been filled by those which
exist to-day.”

Thus the idea of an entire creation of animals anterior to the actual creation,
the idea of an entire creation destroyed and lost had at last been fully conceived ;
and had found an utterance which proved to be a final solution of the doubts
which, for a century, had so strongly occupied the human mind.

But, in order to transform into a positive result views thus vast and elevated,
it was necessary to assemble from all quarters the remains of the lost animals,
to pass them in review, to study them under this new aspect ; it was necessary to
compare them all, one after the other, with the remains of living animals; and,
first of all, it was necessary to create and determine the art itself by which this
comparison was to be made.

Now, for a right conception of all the difficulties of this new method, this new
art, it is sufficient to remark that the debris of the animals in question, the fossil
bones, are almost always isolated and dispersed; that often the bones of several
species, and those the most diverse, are mingled in confusion ; that almost always
these bones are mutilated, broken, reduced to fragments. It was requisite, there-
fore, to refer each bone to the species to which it pertained; to reconstruct, if
possible, the complete skeleton of each species, without omiting any of the
pieces which were its own, without intercalating any which were foreign to it.
Let us now represent to ourselves this confused intermingling of mutilated and
imperfect relics assembled together by M. Cuvier; let us conceive each bone,
each portion of a bone, taking its place under his skilful hand, each uniting
itself to the bone or portion of bone to which it had pertained; let us
observe all these species of animals, destroyed for so many ages, thus rising
before us in their various forms, with each character, each attribute restored, and
we shall scarcely realize that we are witnessing a simple anatomical operation,
but rather a sort of resurrection; nor will it abate anything of the prodigy that
it is a resurrection effected at the voice of science and of genius.

I say at the voice of science. 'The method employed “by M. Cuvier for this
wonderful reconstruction is, in effect, but the application of the general rules of
comparative anatomy to the determination of fossil bones. And these rules
themselves are a not less grand, less admirable discovery than the surprising
results to which they have led.

It has been seen above how a rational principle, that of the subordination of
organs, everywhere applied, everywhere reproduced in establishing the groups
of the method, had changed the face of the classification of the animal king-
dom. ‘The principle which presided at the reconstruction of lost species is
that of the correlation of forms, a principle by means of which each part of an
animal may be given by each other part, and the whole animal by a single part.
In a mechanism as complex, and yet as essentially a unit as that which constitutes

s
MEMOIR OF CUVIER. 138

the animal frame, it is evident that all the parts must necessarily be constructed
one with reference to the others, so as to correspond, to adapt themselves to one
another, to form, in a word, by their assemblage, one being, one unique system.
A single one of these parts, therefor e, cannot change its form without necessitating
a change i in form of all the others. Hence fermi the form of one part may be
deduced the form of all the other parts.

Suppose a carnivorous animal; it will necessarily have the organs of sense
and of movement; the claws, teeth, stomach, intestines, adapted for scenting
seizing, tearing, digesting its animal prey, and all these conditions will be
rigorously linked with one another ; for, if one be wanting, the others would be
without effect, without result; the creature could not subsist. Suppose, on the
other hand, an herbivorous animal; all this assemblage of conditions will have
changed. ‘The teeth, the feet, the stomach, the intestines, the organs of move-
ment and of sense, will all have assumed new forms, and these new forms will
always be proportioned and related one to the others. Irom the form of a sin-
gle one of these parts, therefore, from that of the teeth alone, for example, we
may infer, and infer with certainty, the form of the feet, that of the jaws, that
of the stomach, that of the intestines.

All the parts, all the organs, are deducible, then, one from the other; and
such is the rigor, such the infallibility of this deduction, that M. Cuvier has been
often known to recognize an animal by a single bone, nay by the facet of a
bone; that he has been known to determine unknown genera and species from
a few broken bones, and this from such or such a bone taken at random, recon-
structing in this way the entire animal from a single one of its parts, and causing
it to reappear, as at will, from each of them; results which cannot be recalled
without recalling in effect all that admiration, mingled with surprise, which they
at first inspired, and which is not yet exhausted.

That precise and rigorous method of distinguishing bones confounded together—
of referring each bone to its species; of reconstructing the entire animal from
some of its parts—that method once conceived, it was no longer by isolated
species but by groups and masses that these extinct populations, antique monu-
ments of the revolutions of the globe, reappeared. An idea might then be
formed not only of their extraordinary appearance, but of the prodigious multi-
tude of their species. It was seen that they comprised creatures of all classes,
quadrupeds, birds, reptiles, fishes, down to crustacea, mollusks, and zoophytes.
Nor, though I speak here only of animals, does the study of fossil vegetables
furnish consequences less curious than those drawn from the animal kingdom.
All these organized beings, all these first occupants of the globe, are distinguished
by their proper characters, and often by characters the most singular and
grotesque.

Among the quadrupeds, for example, we first observe the palwotherium, the
anoplotherium, those strange specimens of pachydermata, discovered by M.
Cuvier in the environs of Paris, and of which none bearing this peculiar charac-
ter has descended to our times. Afterwards comes the mammoth, that elephant
of Siberia, covered with long hairs and a thick wool; the mastodon, an animal
almost as ‘large as the mammoth, and whose teat lis armed with points, long
caused it to be regarded as a arnivorous elephant, together with those enormous
sloths, the megatheri tum, the megalonyz, animals of which the existing species do
not exceed the size of a dog, while some of those which are lost equalled the
largest rhinoceros. Still more extraordinary were the reptiles of those first ages
of the world, * whether from their gigantic proportions, for there were lizay ds as
large as w hales, or from the singularity of their structure, for some had the aspect
of the cefaceu’or marine mammifers, and others the neck and beak of birds, and
even a kind of wing.

* Such as the megalosaurus, which was more than 60 feet in length; the ichthyosaurus and
the plesiosaurus, whose inembers are called those of the cetacea ; the pterodactyls, which have a
very long projection from the anterior extremity, bearing a membrane or sort of wing.
134 MEMOIR OF CUVIER.

And what is still more surprising is that all these animals did not live at one
and the same epoch; that there were several generations, several populations,
so to speak, successively created and destroyed. Of these M. Cuvier has
counted as many as three distinctly marked. The first comprised the mollusks,
the fishes, the reptiles, all those monstrous reptiles just spoken of; among them
were already found some marine mammifers, but no terrestrial mammifer, or
scarcely any, then existed. The second epoch was chiefly characterized by those
strange species of pachydermata of the environs of Paris, above mentioned, and
it was now only that the terrestrial mammifers began to predominate. The third
was the epoch of the mammoth, the mastodon, the rhinoceros, the hippopotamus,
the gigantic sloths. A remarkable fact is that among all these animals there is
scarcely one of the quadrumana ; scarcely one of the ape tribe.* And still
more remarkable, there was no man; the human race therefore was neither
cotemporaneous with any of these lost species nor with the catastrophes which
destroyed them t

Thus, then, after the age of reptiles, after that of the first terrestrial mammi-
fers, after that of the mammoths and mastodons, arrived a fourth epoch, a fourth
snecession of created beings, that which constitutes the actual population, that
which may be called the age of man, for from this age only dates the human
species. The creation of the animal kingdom, therefore, has undergone several
interruptions, several successive destructions; and what is not less wonderful,
though altogether certain, is, that there was an epoch, the first of all, when no
organized being, no animal, no vegetable existed on the globe.

All these extraordinary facts are demonstrated by the relations of the remains
of organized beings to the strata which form the crust of the globe. Thus there
was a first epoch when these beings did not exist, for the primitive or primordial
formations contain none of their remains; the reptiles prevailed in the following
epoch, for their remains abound in the formations which succeed the primitive ;
the surface of the earth has been several times covered by the seas, and again
left dry, for the remains of marine animals cover turn by turn the remains of
terrestrial animals and are alternately covered by them.

Thus has science, guided by genius, been enabled to ascend to the most remote
epochs of the history of the earth ; to compute and determine those epochs; to
mark both the first moment when organized beings appeared on the globe, and all
the variations, modifications, and revolutions they have experienced. It were unjust,
doubless, to convey the impression that all the proofs of this great history have
been collected by M. Cuvier; but even where others after him have made discoveries
in the same field, some portion of glory must redound to him by whose footsteps
they have been gnided. It may be said, indeed, that the more valuable those
discoveries, the more important all those which shall be made in the future, the
more will his renown be enhanced, even as the name of Columbus has been
exalted in proportion as the navigators who have come after him have rendered
better known the whole extent of his conquest.

This unknown world opened to naturalists is undoubtedly the most brilliant
discovery of M. Cuvier. Yet I do not hesitate to place beside it that other dis-
covery, in my eyes not less important, of the true method in natural history.

The need of methods to our understanding arises equally from the need it has
of distinguishing in order to know, and the need it has of generalizing what it
knows in order to be able to embrace and clearly to conceive the greatest possi-

* Since the above was written some remains of apes have been found among fossil bones.
See Hist. des travaux de M. Cuvier.

+ More recent investigations have led to a different conclusion; from these it seems to have
been established that the appearance of man upon earth must be carried back much further
than has been generally supposed ; that he witnessed more than one of the catastrophes
alluded to, and was obliged to dispute his mundane inheritance with several of the gigantic
or ferocious animals of the ‘‘ third epoch.” See Smithsonian Report for 1867, ‘‘ Manas a cotem-
porary of the mammoth, &c.”—TR.

2
MEMOIR OF CUVIER. 135

ble number of facts and of ideas. All method has, therefore, a double object,
namely, the distinction and the generalization of facts. Now, till M® Cavier’s
method had been limited to separating and distinguishing ; it was he who made
of it, as I have already said, an instrument of gener ralization, by which he has
rendered a lasting service hot only to natural histor y, but, I venture to assert, to
all the sciences.

For method, understanding thereby the true method, is essentially one. Its
object everywhere is to raise itself to the most general relations, to the most sim-
ple expression of things, and in such sort that all these relations shall spring
one from the other, and all from particular facts which are the origin and source
of them. It is this which Bacon meant when he said that all our sciences are
but generalized facts, a phrase which admirably denotes the process followed by
M. Cuvier,

This generalization of facts was, in effect, the potent instrument by which he
created the science of fossil remains; by which he renewed, in every part,
geology and comparative anatomy ; by which he was enabled, in every order of
facts, to ptrsue them to their principle, and their ultimate principle, carrying
zoological classification to its rational principle, the sbordination of organs ;
founding the reconstruction of extinct animals on the principle of the correlation
of forms ; demonstrating the necessity of certain intervals, certain interruptions
in the scale of beings, by the very impossibility of certain coexistencies, of cer-
tain combinations of organs. It is in this habit of his intellect of ascending in
everything to a principle unassailable and demonstrated that we must seck the
secret of that inimitable clearness which he sheds over all the sul yects of which
he treats; for clearness results in all cases from the ordering of the thoughts
and the unbroken chain of their inter- dependence. It is in this habit, moreover,
that we find the reason why his opinions, in every kind, are so fixed, so final;
it is because he never contents himself with isolated and fortuitous relations, but
always ascends to those which are necessary, and of these allows none to escape
him.

In M. Cuvier two things equally strike us: the extreme precocity of his views,
for it was by his first memoir on the class vermes of Linnzeus that he reformed
not only that class, but, through it, the whole of zoology; it was by his first
course of comparative anatomy that he recast the entire science and re-estab-
lished it on a new basis; it was by his first memoir on fossil elephants that he
laid the foundation of a science wholly new, the science of extinct animals; and
again, that spirit of sequence, of perseverance, of undiverted constancy, by which
he developed and fertilized his views, conseerating an entire life to establish, to
demonstrate them, to mature them by experiment, to transform them finally from
simple views, fruits of a bold conception, of a sudden inspiration, into truths of
fact and observation.

If we follow this celebrated man in the different paths he has traced, we find
throughout those dominant qualities of his genius, order, comprehensiveness,
elevation of thought, clearness, precision; force of expression. We find all
these qualities united to a style still more animated, varied, and forcible in those
Eloges Historiques which long formed so large a part of the charm and éclat of
the public meetings of the ace ademy. On these memoirs praise has been already
lavishly bestowed, nor would it be easy too highly to extol the spirit and anima-
tion which diffuse through them so much movement and life; the art of so
piquantly recounting an anecdote or painting a characteristic ; the v igor of con-
ception which binds all the parts of the discourse into a whole so compactly put
together that it might seem to have been created at a single stroke ; the singular
aptitude, i in fine, to rise to the most varied and comprehensive consider rations and
to depict so many different personages in a manner equally just and striking.
If examined with somewhat closer attention we remark, and with perhaps even
greater pleasure, the same sagacity of observation, the same analogical subtlety,
136 MEMOIR OF CUVIER.

the same art of comparing and subordinating, of ascending to the ultimate gen-
eralizatidh of facts, here transferred to another field; and, in addition to all this,
those luminous and penetrating touches which suddenly arrest the attention of
the reader and transport him to the level of an elevated order of ideas.

M. Cuvier seems, in effect, to have been destined to give a new character to
whatever passed through his hands. Into his instructions upon natural history
he introduced those philosophic and general views which had scarcely before
penetrated to the schools. In his eloquent lectures the history of the sciences
became the history of the human mind itself, for in going back to the causes of
their progress and their errors he was always careful to point out that those
causes were to be found in the right or the wrong processes which the human
mind had pursued. It was here that, to use one of his own happy expressions,
he submitted the human mind to experiment, showing, by the whole testimony of
the history of the sciences, that the most ingenious hypotheses, the most brilliant
systems, do but pass and disappear, and that facts alone remain ; ; Opposing every-
where to the methods of speculation, which have never produced any durable
result, the methods of observation and experiment, to which we owe all the dis-
coveries and all the real knowledge which constitute the actual heritage of man-
kind.

Ah! in what mouth could these great results, drawn from the history of science—
that experimental theory of the “human mind, if I may so speak—have more
authority than in his?) Who has shown hiaeele more constantly attached to
observation, to experiment, to the rigorous study of facts, while at the same time
enriching his era with truths the most novel and sublime?

Since men have observed with precision, and have pursued experiment in a
consecutive manner, a space of some two centuries, they ought, it would seem,
to have renounced the mania of seeking to divine, ‘instead of observing ; for, in
the first place, it must prove wearisome in the lone run to be always divining
unskilfully ; and, in the next place, it should by this time have been recognized
that what we wmagine is always below what really exists, and that, in a word,
and to consider only the brilliant side of our theories, the marvellous of the
imagination is always very far from approaching the marvellous of nature.

The delivery of M. Cuvier was in general erave, and even somewhat slow,
especially towards the opening of his lectures; but soon his utterance became
animated by the movement of his thoughts, and then this movement, communi-

vated by the thought to the expression, the penetrating voice, the inspiration of
his genius reflected in his eyes and on his features, all conspired to produce upon
his audience the most vivid and profound impression. One felt exalted even
less by those grand and unexpected ideas which shone throughout than by a
certain force of. conception and of thought which seemed by turns to arouse and
penetrate the mind of the hearer. Into the career of the. professor he carried
the same character of invention as into the career of research and discovery.
After having remodelled the school of comparative anatomy at the Jardin des
Plantes, we have seen him convert a simple chair of natural history at the Col-
lege of France into a true chair of the philosophy of the sciences: two crea-
tions which well portray his genius, and which in the eyes of posterity must
reflect honor on our age.

M. Cuvier has left memoirs of his life, designed, as he himself writes, for him
who should have to pronounce his eulogy before this Academy. The eare which
he has thus taken in favor of my auditory makes it imperative on me to add
some details taken from those memoirs: “I have composed (he says in begin-
ning) so many éloges historiques that there is no presumption in thinking that
some one will compose mine, and knowing by experience what it costs the authors
of this sort of writings to become informed respecting the life of those of whom
they have to speak, [ wish to spare that trouble to him who shall occupy him-

self with my own. Linnzeus, enon, and others, perhaps, have not judged this

MEMOIR OF CUVIER. 1a7

attention to be beneath them, and they have therein rendered a service to the
history of the sciences. These (he continues) are respectable examples, and
which I may oppose to those who shall tax me on this point with a trifling vanity.”

He did not foresee that the details of his life were destined to become so popular
that he who should have the honor of pronouncing his eulogy would scarcely
dare to reproduce them.

George Cuvier* was born August 23, 1769, at Montbéliard, a city then belong-
ing to the duchy of Wurtemberg, but which ‘has since been reunited to Fr rance.
His family was originally from a 2 village of the Jura which still bears the name
of Cuvier. At the era of the Reformation it had established itself in the little
principality of Montbéliard, where some of its members have filled distinguished
places. ‘The grandfather of M. Cuvier was of one of the poorer branches; he
was town clerk. Of two sons whom he had, the second entered a Swiss regiment
in the service of France, and having become, through good conduct and bravery,
an officer and chevalier of the order of merit, married, at the age of fifty years,
a woman still quite young, and whose memory should be dear to posterity, for
she was the mother of Cuvier, and, moreover, his first preceptor.

A woman of superior mind, a mother full of tenderness, the instruction of her son
soon became her whole occupation. Although she did not know Latin, she made
him repeat his lessons; execute his drawings under her eyes; read to her many
books of history and literature; and it was thus that she developed, that she
nourished in her young pupil that passion for reading, and that curiosity about
all things, which, as M. Cuvier himself says in the memoirs intrusted to me, had
formed the mainspring of his life.

At an early age there was seen in this child that prodigious aptitude for all,
mental labor, which still later formed one of the distinctive traits of his genius.
Everything aroused, everything excited his activity. A copy of Buffon, which
he finds by chance in the library of one of his relations, suddenly kindles his

taste for natural history. He immediately sets about copying the figures and
coloring them from the descriptions—a labor which, at so early an age, certainly
denoted a sagacity of observation of a high order.

The residence of the young Cuvier at the academy of Stuttgard is too well known
to be long dwelt upon. 'The sovereign of a small state, Charles, duke of Wur-
temberg, seemed to have proposed to show to the greatest nations what they
might do for the instruction of youth. “There were here collected in a magnifi-
cent establishment more than 400 pupils, who received the lessons of more than
80 masters. Here were trained, at the same time, painters, sculptors, musicians,
diplomatists, jurists, physicians, soldiers, professors in all the sciences. Of the
higher faculties there were five: law, medicine, administration, military art, and
commerce. ‘The course of philosophy finished, the pupils passed into one of
these faculties. Cuvier chose that of administration, and the motive he assigns
for it should be reported: “It was,” he says, “ because in this faculty there was
much to do with natural history, and, consequently, frequent opportunities of
herborizing and of visiting the cabinets.”

Everything in the life of a great man interests us, but doubly so whatever
serves to throw light on the process of his labors. We would gladly follow him
through the whole course which he has traversed in changing the face of the
sciences, and even from his earliest steps would divine something of the direction
and character of his thoughts. It has just been seen that our naturalist, yet a
child, at sight of the first figures of natural history which fall into his hands, at
once conceives the idea of coloring them after the descriptions. While still at
Stuttgard one of the professors, w hose lectures he had translated into F1 ‘ench,
makes him a present of Linnzus. It was the tenth edition of the Systeme de
la nature, and this book forms, for ten years, his whole library of natural history.
But, in default of books, he had the objects; and this direct, exclusive e study

* His name in full was Georges Léopold Chrétien F rederic Dagobert.
138 MEMOIR OF CUVIER.

of the objects engraved them much better in his mind than if, to use his own
expression, he had had at his disposal any number of prints and descriptions.
Besides, having neither figures nor descriptions he made them for himself.

Still, all these excursions into natural history had not interfered with the pre-
scribed studies ; he had borne off almost all the prizes; had obtained the order
of chevalier which was accorded to only five or six of all those young persons ;
and, according to appearances, he might have promptly obtained an appointment.
But, fortunately for him and for natural history—and these two destinies were
thenceforth inseparable—the situation of his parents did not permit him to wait.
Tt was necessary for him to decide, and the place of preceptor having been
offered to him by a family of Normandy at the moment when he was quitting
Stuttgard, he hastened to accept it, and at once set out for Caen, where he
arrived July, 1788, being then something less than 19 years of age.

From this moment his 1 passion for natural histor y acquired new force. ‘The
family of Herici, to which he was attached, went to reside at a country seat of
Caux, a short distance from Fécamp. It was here that our young naturalist
lived from 91 to 94, surrounded, as he says, with the most diversified products,
lavished upon him, as if in emulation, by the sea and land ; always in the midst
of such objects, almost without books, having no one to whom he could commu-
nicate his reflections, which, therefore, only acquired the greater depth and
energy. It was at this period, in effect, that his mind began to open for itself
new paths; it was then that at the sight of some ¢erebratule, disinterred near
Fécamp, he conceived the idea of comparing fossil with living species; that the
dissection of some mollusks suggested to him that other idea of a reform to be
introduced in the methodical distribution of animals; so that the germs of his
two most important labors, the comparison of fossil with living species, and the
reform of the classification of the animal kingdom, ascend to this epoch.

Irom this epoch also date his first relations with M. Tessier, whom the
storms of the revolution then retained at Fécamp, and who had there occupied
for some time the place of physician-in-chief of the military hospital. M. 'Tes-
sier could not see the young Cuvier without being struck with the extent of his
‘knowledge. He first eng: aged him to deliver a course of botany to the physicians
of his hospital ; he afterwards wrote to all his friends in Paris to impart, to them
the happy discovery which he lad made, and especially to those of the Jardin
des Plantes, who at onee conceived the idea of calling the young naturalist
thither as assistant of Mertrud, then in charge of the department of comparative
anatomy. “ Often,” says M. ‘Cuvier, in reference to this circumstance, “has a
phrase of M. Tessier, i in his letter to M. de Jussieu, recurred tome: You remem-
ber, he said, that it was I who gave Delambre to the academy ; im another walk
this also will be a Delambre.” It was to M. Tessier, therefore, that the Academy
of Sciences owed both Delambre and Cuvier. A man who should have rendered
but these two services to the sciences might count on the respect and gratitude
of all who cultivate them. But how ine more vividly do such fnideatis touch
us when they embellish a life wholly consecrated to science, its progress and
application, and spent in a long succession of useful labors and virtuous actions !

It was said by Fontenelle to be a piece of good fortune on the part of savants,
whom their reputation might afterwards call ‘to the capital, to have had leisure
to lay up a good stock of funds in the repose of a province. M. Cuvier’s stock
Was so eood that some months after his arrival in Paris, in 1795, his reputation
already equalled that of the most celebrated naturalists, and the same year, which
was also that of the creation of the National Institute, he was named adjunct of
Daubenton and Lacépide, who formed the nucleus of the section of zoology. ‘The
year following he commenced the courses which became so rapidly celebrated at
the central school of the Pantheon. In 1799, the death of Daubenton led to his
appointment tothe much more important chair of natural history at the college of
France; and, in 1802, Mertrud being dead, he became titular professor at the
Jardin des Plantes.
MEMOIR OF CUVIER lou

It will be recollected that the funetions of secretary of the Institute were at
first temporary. M. Cuvier was called, among the first, to fulfil these functions
in his class, and soon afterwards, in 1803, a new organization of the learned
body having re-established the perpetuity of these offices he was chosen per-
petual secretary for the physical or natural sciences, with nearly entire unanimity.

It was in this new capacity of perpetual secretary that he composed his mem-
orable Leport on the progress of the natural sciences since 1789. Delambre had
been charged with the report on the mathematical sciences, and thus each class
of the institute was called upon to present one on the sciences or arts which fell
within its province. It is well known with what state the Emperor receive A
these reports. The peculiar satisfaction which that of M. Cuvier gave him wi:
expressed by a happy turn of words. ‘He has praised me,’ ’ said the emi
personage, ‘as I like to be praised.” ‘And yet,” remarks M. Cuvier, “ I had
done no more than invite him to imitate Ale: xander, and to make his power
instrumental to the progress of natural history.” But this sort of praise is pre-
cisely that which must most flatter a man who had comprehended all kinds of
glory, and would willingly remain a stranger to none. We are at liberty to
think, morover, that the praise which has no other object but to induce a sover-
eign to do worthy things is not unworthy of a philosopher.

To all these occupations, as historian of the sciences, perpetual secretary, pro-
fessor at the Museum and at the College of France, M. Cuvier added several
others. He was named member of the council of the University in 1808, and
master of requests in 1813. Nor was the Restoration insensible to his merit. He
preserved his position, and was even invested with new functions. Appointed
successively counsellor of state,* president of the commission of the interior,
chancellor of public instruction, and finally, in 1831, peer of France ; his genius
embraced all orders of ideas and lent itself to all kinds of labor.

It may well be supposed that he was a member of all the learned Academies
of the world; for what Academy could have afforded to omit the inscription of
his name on its list? And that which is an honor, of which there were few
examples before him, he belonged tothree Academies of the Institute, the Acade-
mie Francaise, the Academy of Sciences, and that of Inscriptions and Belles-
letters.

His great renown brought to him, from all parts, whatever occurred in the
way of observation and discovery. It was, moreover, in great part lis genius,
his lectures, his works, which animated all observers, and everywhere created
them ; and never could it have been said of any man with more truth than of
him, that nature heard herself everywhere interrogated in his name. Hence
there is nothing comparable to the rich collections which he created at the museum,
and which were all placed in order by him. And when we think of that direct
study of objects which was the principal occupation of his life, and through which
he has occasioned the outgrowth of so many results, it ¢: annot surprise us that
he was often heard to say: “That he believed himself to have been not less
useful to science by his collections alone than by all his other works.”

In the course of a career so full of success and of honors, M. Cuvier had sus-
tained not a few severe blows. He had lost his first two children, either a few
days ora few years after birth; the third, who was a son, died at the age of
seven, and all these sorrows were renewed, and with far more bitterness, when
he lost his daughter, a young lady of rare qualities, who offered, not only in
mind but in features, no faint resemblance to her father. In all the misfortunes
of life his consolation was ordinarily sought in redoubled labor; but a consola-
tion still more efficacious consisted in the affectionate attentions with which his
family, and above all, Madame Cuvier, were sedulous to surround him.

If we consider the numerous public appointments of M. Cuvier, his uninter-

* He was also baron and grand officer of the Legion of Honor. It is well to recall these
titles; a nation honors itself by thus bestowing them.
140 MEMOIR OF CUVIER.

mitting researches, his voluminous and important works, it seems astonishing that
a single life could have sufficed for so much. But, besides the superior faculties of
his under standing, he possessed an ardent curiosity which impelled him to the pur-
suit of all knowledge ; ; amemory which partook of the wonderful, and a facility
even still more wonderful of passing from one labor to another immediately,
without effort; a singular faculty, and which, perhaps, contributed more than
any other to multiply his time and his ener ey. Moreover, no one ever made so
thorough, and, if I may thus express my self, so methodical astudy of the art of
not losing a single moment. Each hour had its stated labor ; each labor had
a cabinet which was destined for it, and in which all was found that related to
that labor; books, drawings, objects. Everything was prepared, everything
foreseen, so that no external cause might intervene to distract or retard the mind
in the course of its meditations and researches. The address of M. Cuvier was
grave, and his was not a politeness which diffused itself in words, but he possessed
a goodness of heart and a kindness which were prone to proceed always directly
to action. It might be said that in this kind also he dreaded any loss of time.

I need not, in concluding, recal] to my auditors that death, so much deplored
and so sudden, which surprised him in the midst of so many labors and great
dlesigns. That event is too recent, the remembrance too painful, and the regrets
of his colleagues in this Academy, still vivid and profound, are the homage most
worthy of his memor vt Besides, in my feeble sketch of the labors of this great
man, T have less considered the a than the savant. I have chiefly sought to
retrace that series of sublime truths for which the sciences are indebted ‘to his
genius, a genius which is henceforth immortal.

His elory must increase with the progress of the sciences which he created.
Time, which effaces so many other names, perpetuates and surrounds with an
ever renovated lustre the memory of those rare individuals who seem to have
revealed new activities in the intellect, and to have given new forces to thought.
And as their minds, outstripping their age, had posterity chiefly in view, so it is
only posterity, it is only the succession of ages, from which they can expect all
the gratitude and admiration which is due to them.

od

*M. Cuvier died Sunday, May 13, 1882.
HISTORY OF THE WORKS OF CUVIER.-*

By M. FLOURENS. a

*vanslated for the Smithsonian Institution, by C. A. Alexander.

I.—OF METHOD CONSIDERED IN ITSELF.—RATIONAL METHODS.—EMPIRICAL
METHODS.

Method is a part of logic; it is the approximation of like things, and the sep-
aration of things unlike. Hence, there have always been methods, especially in
natural history, where the number of objects is so great. It was in vain, then,
for Buffon to revolt against methods; in proportion, as passing from quadrupeds
to bird s, he sees the number of species increase, he himself resorts to methodical
approximations; he groups together like species, he constitutes genera; “he
silently submits,” says M. Cuvier, “to the necessity imposed on all of-us, of
classifying our ideas in order clearly to represent to ourselves their ensemble, their
collective import.” Aristotle himself had a method, and indeed an excellent one,
at least for classes.t| He knew that the cetacea are mammiferoust he distin-
guishes in animals with white blood, the mollusca, the crustacea, the insects, &c. §
After the revival of letters the learned were content at first with the method of
Aristotle ; but it was soon found necessary to extend it.

Natural history always resolves itself into specific objects. Method really aids
us only in so far as it leads to species; and since it should lead to species, it is
necessary that it should embrace all species. Now, before Linneeus, it was cus-
tomary to stop, in several classes, at the genera; in other classes, while proceed-
ing to species, only a few were particularized. Linneeus proposed that method,
the distinctive catalogue of beings, should embrace them all; no species, there-
fore, was neglected ; all were studied, independently of their shape, size, relative
utility; all were named. ‘Twenty years after Linneus, the number of known
beings was quintupled.

On the other hand, specific names did not yet exist, only generic ones. Lin-
nzeus founded a nomenclature. Each species had two names: a substantive name
for the genus, an adjective name for the species. || The name of the species no

*From the ‘‘ Histoire des Travaux de Georges Cuvier,” by M. Flourens, late perpetual
secretary of the French Academy of Sciences, &c.

tSee the fine eulogy of M. Cuvier himself on the principles of Aristotle: ‘‘Far be it
from us to detract from the glory of the great philosopher whom we recall. We think, on
the contrary, that it is necessary to revive his principles, if we would give to natural history
all its perfection, and we observe with satisfaction that they are beginning to revive.” A
surprising thing, surely! Aristotle had already discovered the great principles of the science
twenty centuries ago; and to rediscover those principles we must come down to Cuvier.

¢ ** The dolphin,” he says, ‘thas teats, and suckles its young.’’— Hist. of Animals, Book Il,
External differences do not, in his eyes, mask internal resemblances ; he places the serpent,
which has no members, by the side of the lizard, which has. ‘‘The serpent,” he says, ‘‘ en-
tirely resembles the lizard, by supposing the latter to be lengthened and retrenching its feet.”

§ The strong envelope of the shell, however, imposes on him; and to the four natural
classes: mollusks, crustacea, insects and zoophytes, he improperly joins that of the testacea,
Still, an attentive perusal of the work of Aristotle shows us a surprising number of just
conceptions, even in what may be called the anatomy of detail. ‘‘The ear,” he says, ‘* has
no opening into the brain, but into the palate of the mouth.”—Hist. ef Animals, Book I.
This was a plain indication of the eustachian tube.

| It is this second name, proper to the species and commonly an adjective, which Linnzeus
calls the trivial name.
142 HISTORY OF THE WORKS OF CUVIER.

longer changed, for species is a thing fixed and changes not; but the name of
the genus might change, for the genus only denotes relations, and relations may
vary in proportion as the number of species varies. ‘These simple ideas had,
till then, not been comprehended.

But Linneus, who rendered these two great services, is perhaps, of all nat-
uralists, he who most contributed to the prevalence, at least for a certain time,
of the use of artificial methods. Now, an artificial method gives only the name
of species; the natural method alone gives the name and the relations of species.
An artificial method may conduct to names, even while placing in approxima-
tion objects the most dissimilar, and for the very reason that it gives only the
name of objects. Thus the connections not being consecutive, the artificial
method is not of a logical order. That method is alone logical in which species
the most similar are placed beside one another, and species the most unlike are
furthest removed from one another. Each group therein has the greatest possible
number of common properties. And if the groups are contained one in another,
if we ascend from one to others by a series of propositions more and more gen-
eral, we possess the science entire. But what are the means for arriving at this
logical or natural method? These means are of two orders: rational or empirical.

“An organized being is a whole; its different parts, therefore, have necessary
relations to one another. Now, the more important any part, that is to say, the
more essential by the order of its functions, the more do its modifications involve
corresponding ones in all the rest. Every thing, therefore, consists in knowing
the relative importance of the parts, and in subordinating one to the other in the
method, as they are subordinated in the organization itself. In this resides the
whole rational principle of method. Thus, the nervous centres, the brain, the
spinal marrow, by which the animal is essentially what it is, give the first groups
of the method; the respiratory and circulatory centres, the lungs, the heart, by
means of which it partakes of its present life, give the second ; the digestive cen-
tres, by which it sustains that life, give the third, and so on in succession.

The naturalists have only succeeded by long tentatives in conducting the dis-
tribution of animals to the point of perfection which it has reached; they have
arrived at that point a posteriori; they might have arrived at it a priori, by
the direct determination* of the relative importance of the organs. Now, so far
as the relative importance of the organs is known, we have a rational method; a
method @ priori. When the relative importance of the organs is not known, we
are guided by their constancy ; we have then only a method a@ posteriori, an em-
pirical method. The most constant organ is regarded as the most tmporlant ;
the constancy of arelation, taken as a fact, supplies the reason of that relation,
until that reason is known.

Thus, for example, all ruminating animals have the foot cloven; all animals
which have horns, ruminate, &e. ‘These are constant relations, but what is the
reason of this constancy? We know it not. And yet, since these relations are
constant, we may employ them, with confidence, in our methods. Again, insects
which breathe by means of trachee, are deficient in conglomerate and compact
glands. Their secretory organs are only canals or simple tubes. We know at
present the reason of this fact. It is because animals which respire by tracheee
have no circulation, and there needs a circulation to make the blood penetrate
into conglomerate and compact glands. But before the reason of the fact was
known, the fact itself was known; it was shown to be constant; and from the
very circumstance of its being constant, it might thenceforth be employed in
method. Constancy, therefore, represents importance.

Thus, there are two kinds of method, or, to speak with more exactness, there

* Direct determination, which is only obtained through physiology. And herein, as has been
already said, is the true secret of the great results obtained by M. Cuvier. It was because
his vast genius embraced all—anatomy, physiology, zoolugy ; and made each of those sciences
co-operate in turn to the progress of the others.
HISTORY OF THE WORKS OF CUVIER. 143

are, for method, two distinct states: the rational and the empirical. And as
method is always bound to be natural, when, in order to become so, it has no
longer the rational way, it becomes so by the empirical way ; when it has no longer
the known importance of the organs to direct it, it is guided by their constancy.

II.—CLASSIFICATION OF THE ANIMAL KINGDOM.

* * * Linneus divided the animal kingdom into six classes : quadrupeds,
birds, reptiles, fishes, insects, and worms. No precise limit circumscribed these classes
in which the cetacea were found among the fishes ; the cartilaginous fishes among
the reptiles ; the crustacea, the articulated worms, animals which have a true
circulation, were ranged among the insects which have none ; ; and the intestinal
worms, the polypes, ‘the infusoria, the mollusks, even certain fishes were united
and confounded in the class vermes, the last and most chaotic of all. * *
Into this class, in effect, Linnzeus had introduced endless confusion, and Bru-
guiéres left it just as Linnzeus had done. So little attention was still paid to the
internal organization of these animals that the last-named author, for example,
taking for tnollusks all that had no shell, separates from the class in question,
under the name of testacea, all that have a shell, asif the slight external character
of havinga shell hindered the testacea from being true mollusks by virtue of their
entire nature or internal organization.

It was in 1795 that M. Cuvier pointed out the extreme difference of the objects
confounded in this class, and separated them distinctly, one from another, after a
detailed examination and agreeably to characters derived from their organization

itself. This examination produced a new general distribution of animals with
white blood into six classes, mollusks, crustaceans, worms, insects, echinoderms,
and zoophytes. From this new distribution of the white-blooded animals dates
the revolution of zoology.

Still later M. Cuvier associated the crustaceans with the insects, on account of
the common symmetry of their parts, and the articulated structure, alike common,
of their members and body ; he separated the annelids, or worms with red blood,
from the intestinal worms ; for he pointed out that the former have a true circu-
lation, a distinct nervous system, an articulated body, while the others have
neither circulation nor distinct nervous system, nor body properly articulated.
He showed that the mollusks, which have so rich an organization, a brain, eyes,
often very complex, sometimes ears, always numerous secretory glands, a double
circulation, &c., should in the first place be raised greatly above “the polypes and
other zoophy tes, the greater part of which have not even distinct organs, and
with which, nev ertheless s, they had been so long ranged ; and, in the next place,
that the collective assemblage of these mollusks formed a group which, by the
importance of its general characters and the number of species which compose it,
corresponds not to such or such a class or fraction of the vertebrate animals, but
toall the vertebrata joined together ; and then, taking up each of the great masses
ot the animal kingdom, he saw that scarcely any of the general divisions there-
tofore admitted could be sustained, at least with the characters and limits which
had been thus far assigned to them. or instance, it was customary to oppose
the vertebrate animals to the animals without vertebre, as if these two divisions
had been of the same rank; and to designate equally by the name of class the
whole of the mollusks and a mere fraction of the vé ertebrata, as if, in effect, the
whole body of mollusks was only equivalent to a fraction or subdivision of the
vertebrata, &e. Now, since the infinitely varied organization of the animals
without vertebree was at last known, it was impossible any longer to pretend that
there was not, between all these varied animals, vastly more difference than
between certain vertebrates and certain others. But if, of these two divisions,
one comprised structures far more varied than the other, the one could not be
equivalent to the other; they were not of the same rank; they should not then
144 HISTORY OF THE WORKS OF CUVIER.

be called by the same name. In like manner, since the organization of the
mollusks had become known, it could no longer be pretended that there were
not between these animals many more differences than between the animals of
a single class of vertebrata; and consequently again, since there was no parity
between the beings comprised in these two divisions, there was no parity of division,
and there ought, therefore, to be no parity of name.

But this was not all. By still comparing the structures, and taking them for
a guide, it was not less evident that the erwstaceans united to the insects, and these
two groups to that of the worms with red blood, or annelids, formed by their
importance, by the number of their species, by their structures so essentially diverse,
a third division, similar either to that of the vertebrata or to that of the mollusks ;
and that all other animals, united thenceforth under the name of zoophytes, formed
a fourth division similar to each of the three preceding. Considered under this
new point of view the animal kingdom presents therefore four grand divisions or
branches: that of the vertebrata, that of the molluscas, that of the articulata,
and that of the zoophyta.

Each of these divisions is formed on a particular and distinct plan; that is to
say, one which cannot be reduced to that of the others; and they are all like
one another in being of the same order ; that is to say, that the beings they include
present, in their structure, similar or equivalent resemblances or differences.
Thus the vertebrata have their plan, the mollusks have theirs, the articulata,
the zoophytes have theirs, and all these plans are alike circumscribed ; that is to

say, that no shading, no intermediary, no lien, can make them pass from one to
the other without a rupture, withouta'saltus. A kind of cir cumvallation separates
them. We can pass by modifications more or less graduated from man, con-
sidered in his organization to the other mammifers, from mammifers to birds,
from birds to reptiles, from reptiles to fishes; but from fishes to mollusks, from
mollusks to articulata, from articulata to zoophytes, there is no longer any grad-
ation or natural transition. All at once the plan changes and a new form shows
itself; but taken in itself this new form, this new type, is equally constant, preva-
lent, uniform; all the mollusks repeat as exactly their own type as the vertebrata,
the articulata, the zoophytes, repeat theirs. ‘Thus, in the immense chain of the
animal kingdom there are four great forms, four grand types, and there are but
four.

This capital fact is equally worthy of note whether we consider it as showing
that, with the exception of a few secondary modifications, all animals enter exactly
into one or the other of these great forms, or whether we consider it as showing
that between each of these great forms there is no shading, no gradation, no
intermediate form. The vertebrata alone havea spinal marrow, a long medallar Vv
cone, into the sides of which enter the nerves, and which is enlarged at its ante-
rior extremity to form the encephalon; they alone have a double nervous system,
that of the spinal marrow and that of the great sympathetic; they alone have a
canal composed of bony or cartilaginous vertebree. But all of them have this
spinal marrow, this great sympathetic, these vertebre; all have senses to the
number of five, horizontal jaws to the number of two, red blood, a muscular heart,
a system of chyliferous and absorbent vessels, a liver, a spleen, a pancreas, kid-
neys, &c. In a word, the more we examine their whole organization the more
resemblances do we discover.

But the more differences do we also find as regards the other embranchments.
The mollusks, for example, have also a brain, though infinitely reduced; but
they have no spinal marrow, and consequently no vertebrae ; they have no oreat
sy mpathetie, and their single nervous sy stem, instead of being placed hace the
digestiv e canal, as in the vertebrate animals, is always placed, wil the exception
of the single ganglion which represents the brain, ‘below that canal, being con-
signed to the viscera; In fine, they have neither a true skeleton nor absorbent
vessels, nor spleen, nor pancreas, nor vena-porta, nor kidneys ; the organ of smell

.
HISTORY OF THE WORKS OF CUVIER. 145

is wanting in all; that of sight in many; asingle family possesses that of hearing,
&c., but they all have a complete and double system of circulation, circumscribed
respiratory organs, a liver, &c. In a word, if, by the want of a spinal marrow,
of vertebrae, of a skeleton, a great sympathetic, &e., they differ essentially from
the vertebrates, they seem, ee the richness of their vital organs, by their double
circulation, their respiration, their liver, &c., to come immediately after them, and
hence to deserve to form the second of the four branches of the animal kingdom.

The third, or that of the articuata, differs not less from that of the mollusks
than these differ from the vertebrata. The animals of this branch have a small
brain like the mollusks, and this small brain is also situated upon the cesophagus ;
but, what is wanting in the mollusks, they have a sort of spinal marrow com-
posed of two cords which run along the belly and unite themselves with it from
space to space by knots or ¢ anglions from which issue the nerves; and yet this
spinal marrow, which distinguishes them from the mollusks, does not associate
them with the vertebrates, for, inversely as regards that of the vertebrates, always
placed above the digestive canal, it is always placed below. By an opposite
inversion the heart, which is below this canal in the vertebrata, is above in the
articulata; and what I have just said of their spinal marrow may be said of their
skeleton, when they have one; itis that this skeleton, while it divorces them
from the mollusks, is not a feature which unites them with the vertebrates ; for,
inversely to that of the vertebrates, which is internal and covered by the muscles,
it is external and covers the muscles. Again, in a word, the features which sepa-
rate the articulata from the mollusks are essential and profound, and such as decide
the nature cf beings, and the features which seem to connect them with the
vertebrates do so only in appearance.

The fourth branch presents characters not less circumscribed, not less deter-
minate than the others. The first of these characters is that ali the parts are
disposed around a centre, like the radii of a circle; the second is the degrada-
tion, the successive simplification of their structure. From the first character is
derived the name of radiata, or animals of which all the parts are radiate or

stellate; and from the second that of zoophytes, or animal plants, animals which,
in the simplicity of their organization, approach most nearly to plants. Thus
the animal kingdom has four great types or forms, and a little consideration will
disclose that each of these general forms of the body depends on the form itself
of the dominant system of “the animal economy; that is, on the nervous system.

The vertebrate animals have a trunk on each side of which all their parts are
Una eae y arranged ; it is because their nervous system forms a central med-
ullary cone, from each side of which proceed, in symmetrical order, the nerves of
ali those parts. The mollusks have a mass-like body; it is because their nervous
system has but a confused arrangement. ‘'T’o the body of the articulata some
degree.of symmetry is restored, but it had been first impressed on their nervous
system ; the body is articulated externally, for the nervous system is articulated
in the interior ; - in fine, even in the radiaied animals, whenever the last vestiges
of the nervous ’ system are distinguishable it presents that star-like form which is
affected by the whole body.

The form of the nervous system, then, determines the form of the animal;
and the reason of this is simple : it is that, on the whole, the nervous system is
virtually the animal, and all the other systems are present only for its service
and sustentation. It is in nowise surprising, therefore, that, the form of this sys-
tem remaining the same for each enbranchment of the animal w orld, the gen-
eral form of each should remain the same; nor that, this form changing from ona
embranchment to another, the form of each embranchment should change.

‘she egeaitenes Cy gst thus seen that the modifications of the nervous system g vive
the first groups, the first divisions or embranchments, it follows from the principle
of subordination of characters, which is but another expression for the subordi-
nation of the organs themselves, that the modifications of the organs of circula-

10s
146 HISTORY OF THE WORKS OF CUVIER.

tion and respiration, which come immediately after the nervous system in the
order of their importance, will give the first subdivisions, or the classes. The
vertebrate animals present either a simple and complete respiration, with a dou-
ble circulation, which is the case with the mammifers; or a double respiration
and double circulation, which is the case with birds; or a simple respiration, but
complete one, since it is always aerial, and this combined with a simple circula-
tion, being the case of reptiles; or a double circulation, combined with an incom-
plete, that is to say an aquatic, respiration, which is the case with fishes. Hence
the vertebrate animals are distributed, according to their organs of circulation
and respiration combined, into four classes—the mammifers, *pirds, reptiles, and
fishes.

So it is, also, with the mollusks; some have three hearts, others two, others
one: of these hearts there are such as have but a single ventricle and a single
auricle; others a single ventricle and two auricles; others, again, a single ven-
tricle without an auricle, &c.; in fine, certain mollusks respire by a pulmonary
cavity, others by branchie, &e.; ; and it will be readily conceived that the com-
bination of all these variations of respiratory and circulatory organs will furnish
classes of mollusks as it farnished the classes of vertebrata. The classes of
mollusks, thus determined, are six in number—cephalopods, gasteropods, acephalates,
Gs brachiopods, and cirrhopods.

‘The combination of the organs under consideration will give us, likewise, and
in even a still more striking manner, the subdivision of the third branch
into four classes: the annelids, whose blood is red like that of the vertebrata;
the crustacea, whose blood is white like that of all other animals without verte-
bree, and which, moreover, have a heart placed in the back, &c.; the arachnids,
which have for heart only a simple dorsal vessel which sends forth arterial branches
and receives venous ones; and insects, which have no vessels at all, neither
arteries nor veins, which have only the vestige of a heart, and whose respiration
is not effected by circumscribed organs, but by trachee, or elastic vessels distrib
uted through the whole body. In this branch of the articulata we observe,
therefore, the transition from’ animals which have a circulation to those which
have none, and the corresponding transition from those which respire by means
of circumscribed branchiz to those in which trachez distribute the air to every
part.

It is in the fourth branch, or that of zooph ytes, or the radiata, that we
observe the disappearance, the gradual and successive fusion of all the organs
into the general mass. ‘Thus, some of these animals have still closed vessels,
distinct organs of respiration, &c.; others, which have neither such vessels. for
circulation nor such organs for respiration, have still visible intestines; it is only
in the last of ali that everything seems reduced to a homogeneous pulp; and it
is on the different degrees of comptication in their structure that is founded their
subdivision into five classes: echinoderms, intestinal worms, gees pol YPS,
and infusoria. - - %* 7 *

Thus the nervous system has furnished the branches ; the organs of cireu-
lation and respiration combined, the classes ; and it is easy to conceivethat organs
more and more subordinate w ould successively supply the orders, the families,
the tribes, the genera, the sub-genera, in a word, the whole scaffolding of the
method. ‘Thus as regards the mammals, for instance, (for it would detain us too
long to follow the unfolding of the method in all the classes ,) the combined
organs of touch and of manducation divide this class into nine orders : man, who
has three sorts of teeth, (molar, canine, and incisive,) and who has the opposable
thumb on the two anterior extremities alone; the quadr umana, which have also
the three sorts of teeth, and, moreover, the opposable thumb on the four extrem-
ities ; the carnivora, which again have the three sorts of teeth, but no opposable
thumb and consequently no hands, which have only /eet, but feet of which the
digits or toes are movable, like those of the two above orders; the rodents, whose

.
HISTORY OF THE WORKS OF CUVIER 147

toes differ little from those of the carnivora, but which have only two sorts of
teeth, the molar and incisive ; the edentata, in which order the toes have become
less movable, and are almost confounded with large claws, and which have never
any teeth but the molar and canine, sometimes only , molar, and sometimes none
at all; the marsupials, or animals with a pouch, a small series collateral to the
three preceding orders, some of them corresponding to the carnivora, others to the
rodentia, and others to the edentata; the raminants, which form a strikingly dis-
tinct order in view of their cloven ‘feet, their upper jaws without true incisors,
their four stomachs; the pachydermata, which comprise all the other quadrupeds
with hoofs; and mae cetacea, which are wholly destitute of posterior extremities.

The principal medifications of the combined organs of touch and manducation
having given the orders, secondary modifications of these same organs will sup-
ply the families ; and modifications more and more subordinated will give all the
other groups, the tribes, the genera, the sub-genera, until we finally reach the
species for which the whole scaffolding is constructed.

Thus, to confine ourselves again to a single order of the mammifers, that of the
carnivora, for example, it has just been seen that one of tlfe characters of that
order is to have movable toes. Now, if we suppose these toes to have become
very long, and to be united by membranes, so as to form an organ of flight, as
in the bats, we shall have the family of cheiroptera ; if we suppose that the
animal, the toes remaining free, supports itself in w alking on the entire sole of
the foot, or, on the contrary, that it walks only on the ends of its toes, we shall
have in the first case the tribe of the plantigrades, and in the second that of the
digitigrades. And similarly as regards the organs of manducation, it has been
seen that this order has three sorts of teeth, and it is this which constitutes its
character as an order ; but let us suppose that the molar teeth (which by their _
form always decide the diet of the animal) ave feeble and furnished with conic
points, and we shall have the family of insectivora ; or that these same teeth
have become stronger, and, instead of simple conic points, are armed with parts
more or less incisive, ‘and we shall in that case have the family of carnivora ;
and in this latter fainily, according as the molar teeth are entirely cutting or
incisive, or more or less mingled with blunt tubercles, we shall have either the
genus bear, of which almost all the teeth are tubercular ; or that of dogs, which
have only two tubercular; or that of cats, &c., which have none tubercular, and
which consequently are exclusively carnivorous, while the dog is capable of re-
ceiving a certain amount of vegetable nourishment, and the bear may be entirely
nourished on vegetable food. And herein lies one of the necessary relations
between the organs which enables us to calculate with considerable certainty the
proportions of the alimentary canal, from the extent of the tubercular surface of
the teeth of animals, compared with the cutting or incisive surface.

What has been here said might be easily exemplified as regards all other
families, tribes, and genera; and it will hence be seen that the simple placing of
an animal ih one of these g groups, teaches us as exactly as the most detailed
description, all that relates to the organization of that animal, or to the degree
of organization which corresponds to the group in which it is placed. Let me be
told, “for instance, of some creature that its place is in the genus cat, and I shall
at once conclude not only that its molar tee th are all sharp or incisive, as beg
a cat, but further, that it has three sorts of teeth, movable toes, &c., as being car-
nivorous; that it "has a double circulation and a complete respiration, as being
a mammal ; that it has, also, a spinal marrow, a canal composed of vertebrae,
five senses, &c., as being one of the vertebrata. Thus I shall know the whole of
its organization ‘from its “place alone, and what will remain for ‘me to say of it
will, of course, be reduced to a few words, for the indication of its proper or
specific characters.

Now, as the number of known beings is immense, and, immense as it is, can- -
not fail to be much more augmented, we perceive the : ad vantage of being able
148 HISTORY OF THE WORKS OF CUVIER.

thus to substitute a few words for a complete description; of having to say nothing
of each species but what is proper to it; of being able to suj pply, by its place
alone, all that it has in common w ith all the rest of the kingdom ; but we also
perceive that, for method to afford this advantage, it is necessary ‘both that all
its groups should be rigorously subordinated among one another, and that each
of them should comprise only beings of the same structure,

Groups well constituted, alone admit of general propositions. Without gen-
eral propositions there can be no method; without method no brevity; the high-
est merit of all science in which the number of facts is immense, as it is In every
branch of the history of the beings of nature. A genus, a family, an order, ill-
constituted, stands in the way of every general proposition relating to that genus,
family, or order. Thus, by placing the stven and the cel in the same genus,
Gmelin rendered it impos ssible to say anything general upon that genus ; by
placing the cudtle-fish and the fresh-water polyp in the same order, he made it
impossible to say anything general upon that order ; and by placing the mol-
lusks, the wor ms, and the zoopha ytes in the saine class, Tinnseus had rendered every
gener ral proposition relative to that class impossible, &c.

By means of well-constituted groups, then, we are enabled to say, at one time,
for all the species they contain, what it would have been necessary, otherwise, to
repeat as many times as there had been species remaining dispersed and detached.
But, among all these groups, and under the pomt of view with which I am here
concerned, “the genera have an importance which is proper to themselves. It is,
that being the first approximation of species, all the rest of the scaffolding is, so to
Say, founded upon them, and an ill-constructed genus would suffice to break the
unity of a family, of an order, of an entire class. Besides, being nearer to the
species, the more they shall combine only such species as are conformable with
one another, the less there will remain to oy for each of them; and it is herein
that may be seen a]! the inconvenience of those large genera, into which, even
of late, so many incongruous species have been thrust, and all the advantage of
intersecting those genera by sub gencra—a happy expedient which forestalls con-
fusion, by” approximating in a closer manner the species which present resem-
blances more particular or more intimate. * is i * a ~

But all this work of genera, sub-genera, &c., of which we have been speak-
ing, supposes a work not less ‘consider ‘able, the positive establishment, namely,
of species—a point in w hich the animal king dom presented not less confusion
than in all the others. It was not sufficient to have remodelled or created almost
all the divisions of that kingdom ; it was incumbent on M. Cuvier to revise all
the species, to revise them one by one, and even their synonyms; for sometimes
several were confounded under the same name, sometimes a single one passed,
under different names, for several; and this criticism of so many names, imposed
right or wrong, on such a number of species, was assuredly neither the part of
the work which offered least difficulty to the author, nor that which has saved
his successors least embarrassment. It suffices, in effect, to cast the eyes on the
works upon natural history which have appeared since the first edition of the
Regne animal, to see the happy fruits which have resulted from these labors
upon synonyms of which I now speak, and that art of establishing divisions in
the comprehensive genera of which I had been previously speaking,

T have said, with reference to branches, and again with reference to classes,
that each of these groups is definitely circumscribed ; as much may be said of all
other groups in every degree. Linnzeus had pronounced that “nature makes no
leaps;” and Bonnet, that “the chain of beings is but one continuous line.” ‘The
very reverse of these propositions would be much more exact. The truth is , that
the different groups are separated from one another by intervals more or less
marked and profoand ; and there is, in the very organization of the animals, an
evident reason for all these intervals.

The organization of an animal is only, in effect, a certain combination of organs;
HISTORY OF THE WORKS OF CUVIER. 149

but all combinations of organs are not possible. For example, a stomach of one
of the carnivora necessarily supposes incisive teeth for rending its prey, movable
toes for seizing it, &c. ; for a like reason, animals with hoofs are, of necessity, all
herbivorous, because their immovable toes would not allow of their seizing a ‘liv-
ing prey—their molar teeth, with a flat crown, could not tear it, &c. There is a
necessary harmony, therefore, which regulates the combination of or gans ; there
are such as exclude one another, such as necessitate one another, so that al comn-
binations are not possible; and it necessarily follows, if only from the fact that
all combinations of organs are not possible, that there must be certain gaps, cer-
tain chasms between the possible combinations and the impossible, or between
different groups of creatures; and that this sort of hiatus is determined by the
laws or conditions under which these creatures exist.

The first edition of the Régne animal (which itself sueceeded the Tableau
élémentaire de Vhistoire naturelle des animaux, wherein the first germs of Cuvier’s
ideas on classification had been developed) occupied but four volumes, the second
five; of which the last two, relating to the crustaceans, the arachnids, and the
imsects, were the work of M. Latreille, who, as M. Cuvier himself pronounced,
had, ‘of all the men of Europe, studied those animals the most profoundly.”
Jt may well be supposed that a work of the nature of that of which we speak, a
work which, on its appearance, became at once the guide of all zoologists, would
be translated into all languages. It was so, in effect, into English, by M. Grif-
fith; into Italian, by the Abbé Ranzani; and into German, by M. Schinz.

III.—NATURAL HISTORY OF FISHES.*

This work may be considered under two distinct relations: under that of the
great number of new species with which it has enriched zoology, and under that
of the application which the author has therein made of the empirical laws of
method to a definite class of the animal kingdom. I shall say but a few words
on the work considered under the former point of view, which would adapt itself
but little to the philosophical studies which I have in hand.

Aristotle knew and named 117 kinds of fish ; Pliny knew but 95 or 96; Oppian
names 125; Athenzeus, 130; Adlian, 110; Ausonius names tor the first time the
salmon-trout, the common trout, the barbel and some other fresh-water fishes.
In all, the ancients had distinguished and named 150 species of fish ; only about
40, therefore, had escaped the research of Aristotle; and, as regards the structure
of these animals, nothing was added to what he had said. In the middle of the
16th century Rondelet, ‘Belon, and Salviani make their appearance; the three
original authors who founded ichthyology. Belon describes and names about 13
fishes; Salviani, 99; Rondelet, 244, of which 197 belong to the sea and 47 to
fresh water. Neglecting some ’ secondary authors, if we come to Ray and Wil-
loughby, we find the number of known fishes already more than 400; the same
is nearly the case with Artedi and Linneeus ; there are about 1,400 in "Bloch and
Lacépéde; there are nearly 5,000 in the work of M. Cuvier. * * * #*
But to come at once to the philosophic al part of the work under consideration,
we proceed to the distribution of species, or rather to the views which have guided
the author in that distribution. Aristotle had recognized that the true characters
of fishes consist in the branchie (gills) and in the jfivs. The class of fishes is
composed, therefore, of vertebrate animals with these appendages; the features
common to all being the vertebra, or, more exactly, an inter mal skeleton, (for
the vertebrae do not alone compose that skeleton,) the branchi@ and the fins.
The differential features are an osseous or a cartilaginous skeleton; gills, now
Tree, now fixed; fins, soft or spinous; ventral fins placed by turns before, behind,

* The first volume appeared in 1828; 8 of the 20 volumes, which the work was intended to
comprise, were published before Cuvier’s death, and several others have since made their
appearance through the care of M. Valenciennes, the coadjutor of Cuvier for the entire work.
150 HISTORY OF THE WORKS OF CUVIER.

or under the pectoral; teeth placed by turns on the intermazillaries, the maxillaries,
the vomer, the palatine, the tongue, the arches of the branchia, &c.; the
form of these teeth, plate-like, villiform, pointed, &e. ; the opercula or covers of the
branchie, whether smooth, scaly, serrated, sharp-pointed, and armed with spines,
or obtuse and without spines, &e.; and it is on the varied combination of
these differential features or characters that all the different methods which have
been successively imagined for the classification of fishes depend.

It will be readily understcod that he who should employ but one or two of
these characters would have only an artificial or incomplete nethod, like Linnzeus;
that he who should indistinctly employ them all would have only a confused
method, like so many ichthyologists, and that the xatwral method—that is to say,
the exact and complete one—consists at once in employing them all, and in
employing none but according to the relative order of its importance. ‘There are
two points, in effect, which control the whole idea of a natural method: one to
employ only true characters ; the other to accord to each of these characters only
the precise degree of its importance. But, to employ only true characters—that is
to say, not to attribute to such or such a species such or such a character which
it wants, and, reciprocally, not to suppose it destitute of such or such another
which it possesses—we perceive that it is necessary to know all the species. On
the other hand, to attribute to each character only the degree of its importance,
we perceive that this complete knowledge of species, in itself so vast and so diffi-
cult, still would not suffice, and that it is, moreover, necessary to have compared
these characters under all their relations; that it is necessary to have varied, multi-
plied, exhausted all their coml nations.

Now, on these two points which constitute, in fact, the whole of ichthyology—
that is to say, both for the determination of species and the valuation of the
characters according to which those species are composed or discriminated up to
the time of M. Cuvier—everything was yet to be done. The species of fishes
were not known; the proof of it is in every page of the book we are considering.
No just idea existed of the characters which decide their union or distribution,
the proof of which is found in those perpetual transpositions undergone by the
same species in the different classifications of authors. is i ‘3

IV.—LECTURES ON COMPARATIVE ANATOMY.*—LAWS OF ANIMAL ORGAN-
IZATION.

Two great laws control and comprise all the others; the first is that of organic
correlations ; the second that of the subordination of organs.

A necessary correlation binds all the functions one to another. Respiration,
when executed in a circumscribed respiratory organ, cannot dispense with circu-
lation, for it is necessary that the blood should arrive at the respiratory organ,
the organ which receives the air, and it is the circulation which carries it thither ;
circulation cannot dispense with irritability, for it is irritability which deter-
mines the contraction of the heart, and consequently the movements of the blood ;
muscular irritability, in turn, cannot dispense with the nervous action. And if
one of these things is changed, it is necessary that all the others should change.
Tf circulation is wanting, the respiration can no longer be circumscribed ; it is
necessary that it should become general, asin insects; the blood no longer seek-
ing the air, it is necessary that the air should seek the blood.

‘There are organic conditions, therefore, which call for one another; there are
such as exclude one another. A circumscribed respiration necessarily demands
a pulmonary circulation; a general respiration renders a pulmonary circulation
useless, and excludes it. Liverything is thus regulated by necessary relations.

* Two volumes of this work appeared in 1800, three more in 1805. In the former, M.
Cuvier had for his coadjutor M. Duméril; in the latter series he was assisted by M. Duvernoy,
who is publishing at the present time a second edition of the entire work.

HAISTORY OF THE WORKS OF CUVIER. 152

The mode of respiration is in constant dependence on the circulation, which car-
ries the blood to the air, or to the organ which receives the air; the force of the
movements is in constant dependence on the quantity of the respiration, for it is
respiration which restores to the muscular fibre its exhausted irritability.

The quantity of respiration everywhere determines the vigor, the rapidity, and
the kind of movement. The movement which requires most muscular energy is
that of flying, and the bird has a double respiration. The mammal has move-
ments more limited, and it has a simple respiration. The reptile has movements
more feeble still, and it has but an incomplete respiration. ‘The bird respires
not alone by its lungs, but by its whole body. The air, after having traversed
the lungs, which are transpierced like a sieve, penetrates into the cellules of the
abdomen, into the cavities of the bones, &c. It is, therefore, not alone the blood
of the lungs, but the blood of the whole body, which respires. The mammal has
but a simple respiration, for there is but the blood of its lungs which respires ;
but this simple respiration is complete, for all the blood of the body passes
through the lungs before returning to the members. Finally, the reptiles have
but an incomplete respiration ; their pulmonary circulation is only a fraction of
the general circulation ; there is but a part of their blood which respires, or
which, returning from the members to the heart, passes from the heart to the
lungs before returning to the members. Hence, the reptiles have only cold blood,
only slow movements, interrupted by long repose; they are all subject to hiber-
nating torpor, &c. On the other hand, fish have a complete pulmonary circu-
lation ; but they have only an aquatic respiration, that is to say, an imperfec
one, since they have, for respiring, only the small quantity ef air contained in the
water ; quite the contrary of what has been just said of reptiles, which have an
aerial or per fect respiration, and an incomplete pulmonary circulation.

Now, these two things are mutually compensatory : an aerial or perfect respi-

ration is compensated by an incomplete pulmonary circulation, and a complete
pulmonary circulation by an aquatic or imperfect respiration. Tish, therefore,
have only cold blood, like the reptiles—only movements which require littlo
muscular energy, &c. Thus, there are in vertebrate animals four definite degrees
of respiration : the complex respiration of birds, the simple but complete respi-
ration of mammals, and the incomplete respiration, incomplete by two different
means, of reptiles and fishes. And there are four kinds of mov ements which
correspond to these four degrees of respiration: the flight of the bird, which cor-
responds to the duplicate respiration ; the step, the leap, the run of mammals,
which correspond to the complete, but single respiration; the crawling of the
reptile, a movement by which the animal ‘does no more than drag itself along
the earth; and the swimming of the fish, a movement for which the animal hag
need of being sustained in a liquid, the specific gravity of which is nearly equa!
toitsown. And as of movement, so too of digestion. The greater the capacity
of respiration, the more rapid he digestion. ‘The most r apid digestion is that
of the bird, the slowest that of the reptile; the bird surprises us by ‘the frequency
of its repasts, the reptile by the duration of its abstinences.

Ev erything i in the bird is formed for flight. It required a wing of wide sur-
face to strike the air; ; for this wing large muscles were needed to move it; these
muscles required very large bones for their insertion. And the bird has a sternum
developed into a salient Dl: ade, into a crest, it has a pectoral muscle re ‘latively
enormous, &c. So much for the exterior; internally, it has a duplicate respira-
tion, an animal heat and muscular energy which correspond to that respiration ;
and, for this duplicate respiration, it has lungs perforated like a sieve, air cells,
which are the appendix of its lungs, &e. Nor did all this sutlice ; my own exper-
iments have shown that the brain is composed of three parts essentially
distinct :* the cerebrum, exclusive seat of intelligence; the cerebellum, seat of the

*See my Recherches expérimentales sur les propriétés et les fonctions du sysiéme nerveut,
&c. Second edition, Paris, 1842. -
152 HISTORY OF THE WORKS OF CUVIER.

principle which governs or co-ordinates the movements of locomotion; the
medulla oblongata, seat of the principle which controls the movements of respira-
tion. Now, in the bird, the part of the brain which, relatively to the brain of
other vertebrate animals, predominates, is precisely that which governs or co-ordi-
nates the movements of locomotion; itis the cerebellum. All the parts, all the
functions, all the modifications of the parts and of the functions, are therefore
formed each for the others, and all for a given purpose.

We have seen this as regards respiration, as regards the act of flying, &c. It
is easily shown as regards digestion. 'The system of an animal is, in effect, by
no means an arbitrary thing. It is not by hazard that incisive teeth coincide
with a single stomach; flat and dull teeth witha multiple stomach ; flat teeth,
a multiple stomach, with a herbivorous diet, &c. A single one of those things,
necessarily supposes all the others, or excludes them all. An animal with long
intestines, a multiple stomach, flat teeth, is necessarily herbivorous. A carniy-
orous animal has, necessarily, incisive teeth, a single stomach, short intestines ;
it has, moreover, and just as necessarily, divided and movable digits, to seize its
prey; and, even in the brain, it has a peculiar instinct which impels it to nour-
ish itself on flesh. Never will such an instinct nor an incisive tooth co-exist in
the same animal, with a foot enveloped in horn, for these things are incompatible
and contradict one another; the animal in which they presented themselves
together could not subsist. The laws of organic correlations, properly viewed,
are the very conditions of the existence of beings.

After the law of organic correlations, comes, as we have said, the law of the
subordination of organs. A recognized subordination everywhere subjects cer-
tain organs to others: the organs of locomotion to those of digestion ; the organs
of circulation to those of respiration ; all functions and all organs to the nervous"
system. Circulation, for stance, does or does not exist, according as respira-
tion is conducted in such or such a manner. All animals with a circumscribed
respiration (the vertebrata, the mollusks, the erustacea, &c.,) have, necessarily,
a circulation; for it is necessary that the blood should arrive in the organ which
receives the air, and it is the circulation which carries it thither. The insects,
in place of a circumscribed respiration, have a general respiration, executed by
means of trachee, which carry the air everywhere; in their case, there was no
need of ¢irculation, and there is none.

The same subordination connects the organs of locomotion or of prehension with
the digestion. And such is the force of this subordination that one of these organs
seems incapable of making any progress without manifesting a similar progress
in the other. ‘Thus, for example, the ruminant animals have, in general, neither
canine nor incisive teeth in the upper jaw, and there are but five bones to their
tarsus ; the camel has canines, and even two or four incisives in the upper jaw,
and already we observe an additional bone in the tarsus, because the scaphoid is
here not consolidated with the cudoid ; further, the common ruminants have, for
the whole fibula, only a small bone articulated at the base of the tibia, and the
chevrotain or moschus, which has canines well developed, has a distinct and
complete fibula, &c.

V.—COMPARATIVE OSTEOLOGY.

This branch of science, sprung from the labors of Daubenton, of Camper, of
Pallas, has become, in the hands of M. Cuvier, a new instrument; it was by
comparative osteology that he reconstructed the lost species of ancient worlds;
and it is well worthy of remark thai in this long and laborious series of researches
and efforts none of these learned men ever diverged from the domain of positive
facts. Such, effectively, is the empire of these facts over the human mind that,
except in their default, it scarcely ever throws itself into the domain of con-
jecture and lypothesis. In almost every line it is only when the facts are not

-
HISTORY OF THE WORKS OF CUVIER. 153

known, or begin to be exhausted, that recourse is had to systems; and what is
unfortunate for the history of science is not the mania of systems, which prevails
before the acquisition of facts, but that which seeks to reproduce itself afterwards.

The great work of M. Cuvier on fossil bones shows that there is not a single
bone, a single part of a bone, of which the study is not valuable, necessary, often
indispensable, for the distinction of fossil species from existing species. This
work seems everywhere a living proof of the saying of a celebrated writer, that
never, except in the profound study of details, have the secrets of nature been
surprised; and it cannot be observed without pain that while there remain to
be discovered any of those facts of which the least circumstances possess such
an importance, so many authors turn away from this curious and solid research
for so many other researches as vain as they are idle; these, for example, choosing
to discover, in any event, all the parts in each; the entire body in the head, the
members in the jaws, the thorax in the nose, &c., those, making by turns the
pieces of an apparatus pass into another, in order thus to arrive at a unity of
number which this overturning of everything does not itself yield them. 'The
object of M. Cuvier, it may easily be conceived, was not to follow the authors in
question into these researches, more hardy than philosophic ; he nowhere pretends
to find in an apparatus either representations of parts foreign to that apparatus,
or constant numbers of pieces or bones, but he seeks how far the correspondence
of these pieces goes and where it stops.

At no epoch has it been possible to compare the different beings which compose
the animal kingdom without remarking, at the same time, their resemblances and
their differences, and the difficulty has never been other than to fix the precise
limit between the analogies which constitute, on the one hand, the characters
more or less general of species, and the differences which, on the other, constitute
their characters more or less distinctive and peculiar. Hence arise two branches
of the same study, which both date from the first ages of science; one the search
for analogies, the other the search for differences. Now, it is readily conceivable
that, according to the epoch, such or such of these researches should appear more
or less important in relation to the other; but, at bottom, it is easy to see that
one always supposes the other, and that it is neither the evident analogies nor
evident dissimilitudes which could ever have been the subject of serious discus-
sion, but, in truth, the real differences hidden under apparent analogies, or
inversely, the analogies hidden underdifferences. In a word, as it is impossible
to mark the point where dissimilarity commences without marking that where
analogy ceases, it would be impossible to carry the study of differences as far
as M. Cuvier has done without recognizing the point where the analogies com-
mence ; and perhaps it was necessary, in effect, to exhaust first the study of differ-
ences in order to be sure of allowing no analogies afterwards to stand but suck
as are real and incontestable.

However this may be, the profound sentiment that an immense analogy, o«
rather that analogies of all kinds bind together more or less all the beings of the
animal kingdom, is a sentiment which, as | have just said, dates from the first
ages of science. The whole work of Aristotle bears on the conformity of the
different species with one another, and of all with man, taken as a common term
of comparison. Buffon wonders at the constant uniformity of design, and asks
if this latent resemblance be not more surprising than the apparent differences
(Histoire de Pame). Daubenton points out the conformity of structure in the
greater part of the skeleton, and particularly in the foot—that is to say, the part
of the skeleton which varies the most (Description du cheval). Camper, in two
ingenious discourses,* dilates on the astonishing analogy between the structure

* Discours sur Vanalogie qwil y a entre la structure du corps humain et celle des quadru-
pédes, &c.—Belon, before Camper, by placing vertically the skeleton of a bird, had rendered
conspicuous a multitude of relations tillthen unnoticed, with the human skeleton. Histoire
de la nature es oiseaux, &c.
154. HISTORY OF THE WORKS OF CUVIER.

of the human body and that of quadrupeds, birds, and fishes, and shows how, by
gradual changes from a horizontal to a vertical attitude, it is possible “ to trans-
form a cow intoa bird, a quadruped into aman, &c.” Finally this striking idea
is seen pervading the writings of Vicq-d’Azyr, who says that “ naturescems always
to work after a primitive and general pattern, from which she deviates only with
reluctance; that we observe everywhere those two characters which seem impressed
on all beings, that of constancy in the type and variety in the modifications.” *

Nevertheless, this opinion of a constant uniformity of design, of an astonishing
analogy, of a primitive and general patiern, rested as yet only on a perception
vague and more or less confused. And it is in our own times alone that this
complicated question of the analogy of structure has been disentangled and
divided; that it has adopted as a field of discussion determinate and precise
facts; that, become a positive question, it is capable of being discussed in a
rigorous and detailed manner.

“This question has been termed the question of wnity of organization; it might
quite as well have been termed the question of variety of organization ; all depends
in effect on the point of view under which it is considered; for since there are
different species of animals, unity here supposes necessarily a certain variety ;
and since, on the other hand, these different species all resemble one another,
at least on that common ground which consigns them to the same kingdom, it is

‘evident that this variety necessarily supposes also a certain unity or conformity.
The true title of the question, or rather its trne object, was therefore the deter-
mination of the limits where stop, by turns, the resemblances and differences in
the organization of animals; an organization at once so similar and so varied.
Once divided, as I have just said, the question has taken quite another aspect.
The general resemblance of animals has been no longer concluded from sone
particular resemblances, nor limited to certain branches, to certain classes. An
regards the osseous system, for example, it had been presently perceived that,
only pertaining to vertebrate animals, this system can only yield results limited
to that embranchment, to that type. The resemblances of the osseous system
which testify so strongly to a common ground-plan, to a unity of structure, testify
to them, therefore, only in reference to the sole type which possesses an osseous
system, the type of vertebrates.

Considered collectively, the osseous system forms the skeleton, which is
divided into several parts: the apparatus of the vertebree, that of the cranium,
those of the face, of the ear, of the hyoide, of the opercula, of the ribs, of the
sternum, of the shoulder, of the pelvis, of the limbs. Now, there is not a mem-
ber of this diversified apparatus which does not, in the different classes, vary in
the form, the numbet, the complication of the pieces which constitute it. For
the most part, and saving the variations just spoken of, they are reproduced in
all. ‘lhere are, however, some which are wanting in such and such a class ;
there are some which are the exclusive attribute of a single one. ‘The question
is to see what is the particular character of each apparatus in each class; that is
to say, of what pieces it is there composed, what there is the form and the com-
bination of those pieces. Now, such an examination shows that, among all these
parts of which the skeleton is composed, some are essential, and hence more con-
stant; others accessory, and hence more variable; that the vertebrae, the cra-
nium, which lodge the spinal marrow, the encephalon, may readily vary from one
class to another in the number and form of their bones, but are found in all;
that, on the contrary, the ossicles of the ear, the opercula, the limbs, &c., all
accessory and subordinate parts, may be wanting, and are so in effect, when the
conditions of audition, of respiration, of locomotion, are no longer the same.
These are analogies, then, graduated like the importance of the parts which pre-
sent them; each part has its proper limits, both of variety and analogy; each
should be studied apart; and it might hence be said that there is a particular

* See especially his memoir ‘ Sur le varalléle des extremités. &c.”
HISTORY OF THE WORKS OF CUVIER. 155

comparative osteology of each osseous apparatus, as there is a general compara-
tive osteology of the whole system.

The cranium, that most complicated apparatus of the skeleton, presents, in
all mammifers, a composition very nearly the same; we may there follow each
bone, from man to the quadrumana, from the quadrumana to the carnivora, to the
rodentia, to the edentata, the pachydermata, the ruminants, the cetacea; every-
where are recognized frontals, parietals, occipitals, temporals, the sphenoid, the
ethmoid; and they are everywhere recognized as well by their position as their
use. It is as much if the interparietals appear to be wanting in certain species.
It is the same with the face. The bones of the nose, of the cheek, of the jaws,
of the palate, &c., are never wanting. ‘The lachrymals alone fail in the phoce,
the dolphins, &e. All other differences of number are but apparent, and result
only from the greater or less promptness with which, according to the species,
the bones or parts of bones, constantly separated in the first stage of life, unite
and are confounded in adult age. It is thus that, according to the species, the
occipital, the parietal, the sphenoid, the temporal, &c., appear sometimes single,
sometimes donble, triple, or quadruple ; but when we recur to the foetus the occi-
pital is always divided into four parts, the parietal into two, or rather into four,
counting the inter-parietals, which, in the end, constantly become united there-
with, the temporal into four, the body of the sphenoid intv two, &e. Thus, in
the mammals, there isa normal number for the bones of the cranium; and when
this number appears masked by the obliteration of the sutures in the adult state,
the primitive division is always reproduced and restored in the foetal state; and
what I say of the bones of the eranium may be said also of the bones of the
face, and of their more numerous subdivisions in the earlier stages.

It would naturally be curious to see whether this singular analogy was main-
tained in the other classes, in the birds, the reptiles, the fish; whether the same
number of bones is there everywhere reproduced ; whether, masked in the adult
state, it would appear in the foetal; whether, in fine, reptiles and fish, in which
the bones of the cranium are always much more numerous, could be ‘regarded as
corresponding in this respect to the early age of birds and mammals. ‘This
interesting question was successively treated by M. Cuvier in reference to rep-
tiles (Reserches sur les ossemens fossiles, tome 5,) and to fish (Histoire naturelle
des poissons ;) it will suffice to indicate here the manner in which he has resolved
‘it relative to reptiles. i

The reptile whose head presents the most striking traits of conformity with
that of the mammifers is the crocodile; from the crocodile M. Cuvier passes in
succession to the tortoises, the lizards, the serpents, and finishes with the batra-
chians, which conduct from reptiles to fish, as the crocodile from reptiles to mam-
mals. The head of the crocodile is composed of a much greater number of
bones than that of the adult mammifer, but by recurring to the foetus of this
last class we recognize in the head of the crocodile and that of the mammifer
very nearly the same number of bones. ‘Thus M. Cuvier, after having found in
the crocodile, and in the same place as in the mammals, the intermaxillary
bones, the maxillary, the nasal, the lachrymal, the jugal, the palatine, the ethmoid,*
the body of the sphenvid, the parietal, finds also, and again in the same place,
the occipital, but divided into four parts, as it is in the foetus of mammals, the
ereat wings of the sphenoid, vestiges of its lesser wings, its internal and external
pterygoid wings, but all these parts separate from the body of the bone, as they
all are, except the last,t in the mammal at its earliest age; finally a temporal

* With its cribriform lamina, its lateral wings, its superior cornets, its vertical lamina, but
all these pieces or dependences of the ethmoid, in great part, in a cartilaginous state,

{ For this reason M. Cuvier gives the special name of transverse bone to the external ptery-
goid apophysis, which, in the mammals, is not at any age effectually separated from the
great temporal wing. It is, therefore, not properly a new bone, but a dismemberment of
the sphenvid, as the frontal bones, anterior and postetior, are dismemberments of the frontal.
156 HISTORY OF THE WORKS OF CUVIER.

bone, but composed of four bones, as it is in the foetal mammals, the squamosal,
the mastoid, the cavity of thetympanum, and the petrous bone. There remained
only the bones which “correspond to the frontal to reduce to analogy, but these
bones are six in number in the crocodile, and asthe frontal of mammifers is never
divided but into two, M. Cuvier was obliged to admit here a peculiar dismem-
berment of this bone, a dismemberment which, in the crocodile, or, to speak more
generally, in the greater part of oviparous vertebrates, subdivides each of the
two frontals of mammals into three others, the principal, the anterior, and the
posterior frontals.

This determination of the bones of the head of the crocodile, compared with
those of the head of mammals, being once established, it is easy to reter to it, as
a sort of type, the bones of the head of all other reptiles, particularly tortoises,
lizards, and serpents. ‘Thus, with due regard to the differences of form and pro-
portion, the greater part of the bones of the crocodile reappear in the head of the
tortoise ; but this head wants the nasal bones , which are here represented only
by cartilaginous laminze, the transverse or external pterygoid and the lachrymal
bones. Moreover, the parietal, which is single in the crocodile, i is double in the
tortoise ; but in the lizards this parietal again becomes single, the lachrymal and
transverse bones reappear, anew bone is disclosed which M. Cuvier calls columella,
&c.; all but slight differences, which do not hinder us from recognizing throughout
the predominance of one same plan in the heads of the crocodile, the tortoise,
and the lizard.

A new and more difficult study commences with the batrachians. First, the
general composition of the head is singularly simplified. We find here only the
two lateral occipitals, with neither upper occipital nor basilar; a single phew
with neither temporal nor orbital wings; a single bone replaces _ at once the
principal frontal and the ethmoid ; there are no posterior frontals, but there are
two anterior frontals, two parietals, and two petrous bones. Nor is the face less
simplified, for the transverse forms only one with the pterygoid, the temporal but
one with the tympanic, and there is no mastoid. ‘The cranium of the frog, there-
fore, has but 10 bones, one ethmoid, two frontals, two parietals, two occipitals,
one sphenoid, two petrous bones; its face has but 16, two intermaxillars, two
maxillars, two nasals, two palatines, two vomers, two pterye goids, two tympanics,
and two jugals or zygomatics. In ally its head hes but 26 bones . while that of the
crocodile has nearly 40. And this difference of number presents itself in each par-
ticular apparatus of the face; thus the lower jaw of the crocodile has six bones
on each side, and each side of the j jaw of the frog has but three, &c.

IT have said that the apparatus of the vertebre is, with that of the cranium, the
most constant; each vertebra may itself be considered as a small distinct appa-
ratus, composed of a certain number of bones, which is not the same for all the
vertebree in each species, nor for each vertebra in all the species; the atlas of
the crocodile has six bones, its axis has five; the atlas of the tortoise has only
four, that of the monitor three, &c. But it is chiefly by their total number that
the vertebree vary from one class to the other, and even in the different orders,
the different genera of each class. Not to depart here from the reptiles, the
crocodile, for example, has 26 vertebree—7 cervical, 12 dorsal, 5 lumbar, and 2
sacral; 200 are counted in the adder, the boa, &c.; the frog has but nine. As
recards other apparatus of the animal system, "being only accessory, the greater
part may be wanting, and is wanting, in effect, in such or such a class, such or
such an order, such or such a venus, &c. The hinder extremities fail in the
cetacea, both the anterior and posterior extremities in the serpent, the ribs are
absent in the frog, the auricular apparatus in fishes, &e.

Nothing is better calculated to give a just idea of the manner in which a certain
general conformity i is combined in certain cases with all the variations of detail
than what is seen in the shoulderand the sternum. The shoulder, which is com-
posed, in the mammifer, of but one bone, the scapula, or of, two, the scapula and

2
HISTORY OF THE WORKS OF CUVIER. 157

the clavicle, has always three in the bird: the scapula or omoplate, the clavicle,
and the coracoid bone; it has only two in the crocodile, the scapula, and the
coracoid, the true clavicle being wanting ; the three bones reappear in the lizards;
there are two in the tortoise, the scapula and coracoid, or perhaps three, for there
are traces of a clavicle ; there are certainly four in the frog, the clavicle, ’ coracoid,
and an omoplate, divided into two pieces; and, what is remarkable, it is precisely
of these two pieces of the omoplate that the shoulder of fishes is composed. The
sternum in the crocodile is a single hone; in the tortoise it is always composed
of nine pieces; it recovers in the lizard the simplicity which itexhibits in the croco-
dile; it has but two ossified pieces in the frog; a sort of sternum is hardly dis-
coverable in certain fishes; inthe mammals, onthe contrary, it is highly developed;
here we count as many as seven, eight, nine pieces, placed ordinarily on a single
line; and as to birds, there are five pieces in the gallinacea; there are not more
than two in ducks; its composition is again changed i in pigeons, in sparrows, in
birds of prey, &c. Thus the sternum not only varies from one class to another,
it varies in the same class, and that in the very class of birds where, in general,
unity or conformity of organization is so constant and conspicuous.

But, in reference to this question of osteological unity in vertebrate animals,
there are two apparatus which have a peculiar importance : : these are the auricular
and the hyoid apparatus. By the auricular apparatus we here designate a chain
of small bones, placed within the tympanum of the ear, and which extends from
its membrane to the fenestra ovalis. In the mammals we count always four
of these small bones, the malleus, the incus, the lenticular, and the stapes; in
the birds we find but one, formed of two branches, one of which adheres to the
tympanum, the other presses upon the fenestra ovalis; in like manner a single
ossicle replaces, in the crocodile, the four small bones of the ear of mammals ; i
is a stapes still more simple than that of birds; * there is but a single ossicle in
the tortoise, the lizard, the serpent; in the frog, the auricular chain might be pro-
nounced somewhat complex did it not remain in great part cartilaginous ; lastly,
in the salamanders, the sirens, the protei, the Tast auditory ossicle itself, the
stapes, is reduced to a simple cartilaginous plate. From this to the complex
apparatus of the mammals is certainly a wide interval, and when we thus follow
step by step this successive simplification, when we arrive thus at that final
reduction of the whole apparatus to a simple cartilaginous plate, we recognize
the full force of M. Cuvier’s opinion that this apparatus, after having dis appeared
in the aerial vertebrates, is not all at once restored in the class of fishes, there to
form the opercula, and that these opercula are consequently a special apparatus
appropriate to this latter class.

‘The facts which concern the inverse progression of the hyoid apparatus, that is
tosay, its gradual development from the mammals to fishes, are still more import-
ant, and, in relation to theories of the skeleton, more decisive. In man this appa-
ratus is composed of five parts: of a body, of two branches or anterior processes
which suspend the hyoid to the cranium, and of two posterior ones which suspend
the larynx to the hyoid. Even in the mammals the apparatus undergoes great
modifications, depending on the form of its body, the soldering of this fo the pos-
terior branches more or less promptly, the number, shape, and proportion of the
anterior branches. In birds these anterior branches are no longer attached to
the craninm, but simply pass around and behind it; to the back part of the body
of the bone i is soldered a single slender bone, oii which rests the larynx, and
which, in itself alone, represents the two posterior branches; in front is another
borie which penetrates into the tongue, being the lingual bone.

The hyoid of the crocodile is one of the most simple. lts body consists of ¢ a

*We might, in truth, give the name of malleus to that branch which in birds and croco-
diles is inserted in the membrane of the tympanum, but still there would be neither tncus nor
lenticular ossicle.
158 HISTORY OF THE WORKS OF CUVIER.

thick and broad cartilaginous plate, without any very distinct vestige of the pos-
terior branches, and a single ossified piece, representing the anterior branches.
The hyoid of lizards is much more complex, and that of the tortoise even more
so than that of the lizard. * * * But it is in the batrachians, chiefly, that
the hyoid acquires importance, and thus leads by degrees to the hyoid of fishes,

so rich and complicated. To explain this richness of the hyoid apparatus in
fish, recourse had been had to a pretended intercalation which has taken place

of pieces borrowed at once from the sternum, the larynx, and the ribs. It will
be perceived that the metamorphosis of the frog, which, in its first period, respires
by bronchiee or gills, like the fish, which at a mares period respires by lungs, like
the land animals, and the bronchial apparatus of which changes by degrees,
and visibly, into a true hyoid, should have settled all difficulty. in this respect.
M. Cuvier, therefore, made this singular metamorphosis a detailed study; he
followed it in its w hole progress ; he saw the branchiew and branchial arches sue-
cessively fall; he saw the proper hyoid of the adult frog take shape proportion-
ably; and at no time, even at that of the greatest complication, when the bran-
chial arches and the branchi existed, neither did the sternum nor the larynx
take, nor could they take, any part in this whole composition; for the branchial
apparatus still very distinctly exists, with all its parts, which are clearly to be
seen, as well as the larynx, with its dependent lungs, and the sternum, with
the bones which rest against it. The hvoid of the salamander is metamorphosed
like that of the frog, and the branchial apparatus, in the same way, still very
distinctly subsists, although the larynx, the lungs, and the sternum, are also pres-
ent; and all this acquires new force from what is observed so plainly in the
axolotl, the proteus, the siren, animals in which the branchial apparatus exists
sithultaneously, and in a constant manner, with the larynx, the tracheal artery,
&c. The branchial apparatus is, therefore, only a more complex hyoidian appa-
ratus, and not one resulting from the combination of parts foreign to it, and
derived from neighboring organs.

Each apparatus has, therefore, its proper constitution ; it has its marked inere-
ments and decrements; its parts change from one class to another in form, in
number, in complexity ; and it is these very changes which determine the organic
characters of classes, of orders, of genera, of species. What, then, must be
understood by anity, or, to speak more exactly, by conformity of organization,
by conformity of plan, in the vertebrate animals, at least in what regards their
osseous system, if not an assemblage of graduated analogies, more constant in
the essential apparatus, more variable in the acc eSsOry, and of which the limit
cannot be given, for each apparatus, except by the direct and consecutive study
of all the modifications of that apparatus, in all the classes? Now this consecu-
tive study of an apparatus through all the classes, and of all the graduated mod-
ifications which it undergoes from one class to another, is precisely what consti-
tutes the most distinctive feature of Cuvier’s method, and the pomt which ought
perhaps most to fix the attention of right-minded inquirers; for it is on the rig-
orous and special adaptation of the method to its object, that depends the exact-
ness of the results. Now, what is here the question? Of following, of recog-
nizing an apparatus through all its metamorphoses of number, of form, of com-
plication of parts. And is it not plain that to lose sight of a single intermedi-
ate metamorphosis would suffice to render impossible all recognition of those
which follow, would be to lose the thread which connects one with the other, nay,
to lose the apparatus itself? 'The principle of successive and graduated modifi-

cations, employed by M. Cuvier, is one, then, of the most fruitful as well as most
ingenious means of investigation with which he has enriched science, and the
only one which can give, in a sure and precise manner, both the determination
of each apparatus, and the limit of its analogies or its dissimilarities in each class
HISTORY OF THE WORKS OF CUVIER. 159

VI.—RESEARCHES ON FOSSIL BONES.*

The first object of this work is the comparison of fossil with living species ;
and this comparison bears principally on two classes of vertebrate animals: maim-
mals and reptiles. The author commences this comparative history of the
species of the ancient and the actual world, with the pachydermata ; he contin-
ues it with the ruminants, the carnivora, the rodenti: a, the edentata, and the ceta-
cea; and concludes with the reptiles. The fund: amental result of the whole
work is, that no fossil species, or scarcely any, at least in the two classes of mam-
mifers and reptiles, has its analogue among living species. It has been already
said that to arrive at this result, it was necessary that the author should review
all the fossil species, that he should compare them all, and one by one, with all
the living species, and it has been shown to what precise, rigorous, and almost
infaliible laws he has subjected the admirable art of reconstructing all thes:
lost species from their scattered remains. I shall apply myself here chiefly +4
another point: that of the particular and detailed comparison of fossil with exist-
ing species.

I begin, as M. Cuvier hae done, with the pachydermata. This family, natural
as it is, was almost entirely overlooked by Linnzeus. Storr, who had clearer
conceptions of it, characterizes it by this definition: mammals with hoofs with
more then two toes. But without speaking of the anoplotherium, a fossil species
which has only two toes, and which is not the less a true pachyderm, it is
evident, from a consideration of the whole structure, that the solipeds should be
united to the ordinary pachydermata. The number of the toes, therefore, can
no more be taken into consideration in this family than in the others. Cuvier
defines it: animals with hoofs, non-ruminants. Before him, the order or family
of pachydermata comprised but five genera: the elephant, the rhinoceros, the
hippopotamus, the tapir, and the hog. M. Cuvier introduced into it two other
genera, the horse and the daman. * * * Considered in their relations to the
revolutions of the globe, the fossil pachydermata form two groups: the pachy-
dermata of loose and alluvial formations, and those of the plaster quarries, so
abundantly accumulated in the epvirons of Paris. To the former pertain the
fossil elephant, mastodon, hippopotamus, rhinoceros, horse, &c.; to the second,
the palzotherium, the anoplotherium, the lophiodon, the anthracotherium, the
cheropotamus, the adapis. All the species of the first of these two groups are
now lost; but the greater part of its genera subsists. Not so with the second,
in which both genera and species are equally extinct. * * * Beginning
with the pachydermata of loose and alluvial formations, the first of these animals
which M. Cuvier studied under this new point of view, of the comparison of
fossil with living species, was the elephant.

Till then, almost everything relative to this singular quadruped was alike
unknown. It was not known, at least with any precision, whether there was
only a single species of elephant or several species, nor, with stronger reason,
whether the fossil bones might be referred or not to the living species. The first
truly specific distinction of these animals, that which is founded on the structure
of their molar teeth, only goes back to Camper. Blumenbach had also seen this
difference in the form and number of the laminee of the molar teeth, which dis-
tinguishes the elephant of Africa from that of the Indies; but so far this was
all, and it is to Cuvier that we owe the determination of all the other differ-
ences, derived from the bones of the skull, from those of the face, and of the

*The first edition of this great work, published in 1812, was scarcely more than the
reunion of the memoirs, inserted successively by the author, in the Annales du Muséum
Whistoire naturelle. The second edition appeared from 1812 to 1824. It is nut only enriched
with a great number of new facts, but the entire work is recast throughout, and arranged in
more methodical order. The third edition is of 1828, and is distinguished from the second
by certain additions to the Introduction, which latter has been olten printed separately, and
has become celebrated under the title of Discours sur les révolutions de la surface du globe.
160 HISTORY OF THE WORKS OF CUVIER.

entire skeleton. He shows that it is from these bones, especially those of the
skull, as well as from their teeth, ears, &c., that the two living species, that of
Africa and that of India, are distinguished from each other; thus the species of
India has the head long, the forehead flat, or even concave, while that of Africa
has the head round and forehead convex; the former has the lamine of its molar
teeth in the form of wavy or festooned ribands; in the latter these lamine are
lozenge-shaped; this last has larger ears and tusks, &c. As to the fossil species
or mammoth of Russia, it is essentially distinguished from the two living species,
and in particular from the species of India, to which, however, it is most nearly
allied, by its molars, the laminz of which are closerand straighter, by the alveoli
of its tusks, which are longer, by its lower jaw, which is more obtuse, &c.;
finally, the entire individual, discovered in 1806, on the coast of Siberia, has
taught us that it had two sorts of hair, a reddish, coarse, and tufted wool, and
long, black and stiff hairs.* To this it may be added that the bones of this
last species are never found but in a fossil state, and that, on the contrary, the
bones of the other two species are never found in that state. The fossil is, theve-
fore, a lost species. Further, its bones, dispersed through almost all the coun-
tries of the world, are always found in the same strata as those of the mastodon,
the rhinoceros, and the hippopotamus. All these species, then, are of the same
epoch, and are all alike extinct. Among them the species which approaches
nearest to the elephant is the mastodon; it was of the same general form, had
feet of the same structure, a proboscis, and long tusks; yet these were essential
differences, as well from these tusks being curved in the opposite direction to
those of the elephant as from the circumstance that the molar teeth, instead of
being formed of transverse laminz, presented a simple corona well furnished
with tubercular or mamillated prominences. The mastodon is the largest of
fossil animals, yet Danbenton fell into the error of referring a part of its bones
to the elephant and another part to the hippopotamus. W. Hunter pointed out
that the mastodon differs sensibly from both those animals. Camper showed
that it more closely approximated to the first than to the second. Finally, M.
Cuvier has completely demonstrated that the mastodon was neither elephant
nor hippopotamus, and that, though nearer to the former, it is essentially distin-
guished from it by its jaw-teeth; and that not only as regards species but genus.
That genus itself already comprises as many as six species, of which the most
’ celebrated is the great mastodon or animal of the Ohio, which has left its bones
only in North America. Another species, long confounded with the latter, has

been distinguished from it by M. Cuvier; this was the mastodon with narrow
tecth, the bones of which are found in both continents. Of four other species,
two pertained to America and two to Europe. The genus of elephants showed
us but one species destroyed; the entire genus of mastodons has perished.

The genus hippopotamus, which, so far, is known to possess but one living
species, numbers already several fossil species. The first or largest, and the only
one regarding which some imperfect notions were entertained before M. Cuvier,
differed nearly as much from the living species as the fossil elephant from living
elephants. A second, the small fossil hippopotamus, differed much more. The
others are as yet little known. The bones of the hippopotamus accompany, in
many places, those of elephants and mastodons, but they are much more rare ;
the upper Val @’Arno is hitherto the only site where they have been found in any
abundance.

After the genus hippopotamus comes that of the rhinoceros. Here, as with
the rest, the osteology and the distinction of living species are always the two
points of comparison to which the whole study of fossil bones and species refers

*'The bones which were shown at Paris, towards the commencement of the 17th century,
as being the bones of King Teutobochus, and which were the subject of a long controversy
between Habicot and Riolan, arenow at the museum. They are not those of an elephant, as
Riolan thought, but of the mastodon.
HISTORY OF THE WORKS OF CUVIER. 161

itself. We know at present four living species of the rhinoceros. The first is
the rhinoceros bicornis, of the Cape, which has molars, but no incisors; the see-
ond is the rhinoceros wnicornis, of the Indies, which has incisors separated from
the molars by a vacant space; the third, the rhinoceros of Sumatra, appears to
form, as it were, an intermediate species between the two preceding, for it has
two horns like the rhinoceros of the Cape, and incisors like that of India. The
fourth is the rhinoceros unicornis of Java. ‘Thus, there are four living species ;
two having one horn, two having a second horn. ‘The number of fossil species
is not clearly established. ‘The most celebrated, that whose nostrils are sepa-
rated by a bony partition, is found in Siberia, and in different parts of Ger-
many. The second, that whose nostrils are not separated by a bone, has been
thus far found only in Italy. Both species had two horns, and both appear to
have wanted incisors. As to other species, to the number of two or three, they
are as yet indicated only by a few fragments. It was to the species with parti-
tioned nostrils that the entire rhinoceros, withdrawn in 1770 from the ice on the
banks of the Wilhoui, belonged. This rhinoceros was covered with a thick coat
of hair, much like the fossil elephant, which seems to prove that both could live
at the north. “Thus,” savs M. Cuvier, “the cold countries which surround the
pole must have had, at the epoch which preceded the last revolution of the globe,
the great pachydermata, as they have now the great ruminants; the musk-ox, the
bison, the elk, the Canadian stag, the reindeer, the great carnivora, the white bear,
the morse, and so many large seals.”

We know, as yet, only the lower jaw of the elasmotherium, a fossil genus of
Siberia, discovered by M. Fischer, a genus entirely lost, like the mastodon, and
which, to judge from this jaw, must, in form and stature, have approximated to
the rhinoceros. ‘The genus equus has left a great number of its bones, mingled
with those of the elephant and rhinoceros; but there has been thus far no osteo-
logical difference observed between these fossil species and the living species;
and what is not less singular is, that none has been found, at least none sufh-
ciently fixed and decided to be really characteristic, between the different living
species of this genus: the horse, the ass, the zebra, the quagga, &c. The bones

.of the hog have not yet been discovered in any strata so old as those of the fos-
sil elephant, horse, and rhinoceros. M. Cuvier gives, however, the osteology of
this genus, for his work has two objects equally important: the determination of
fossil species, and the elements and means of this determination; that is to say,
the general laws of comparative osteology. Thus, it is only to establish this
great assemblage of osteological facts and laws that he gives the description of
the daman, for neither have the remains of this animal been found among fossil
bones. The daman, a small animal of Africa and Arabia, passed for a rodent.
M. Cuvier shows that it is a true pachyderm, and the one, indeed, which of all
others, approaches nearest to the rhinoceros. A genus not less singular than
that of the daman, and the osteology of which was not less unknown, is that of
the ¢apirs. 'Vhese number at present three living species: two of America and
one of the Indies; and M. Cuvier describes several fossil animals related to the
tapirs.*

The elephant, the rhinoceros, the hippopotamus, the mastodon, &c., as here
described, were the pachydermata of the alluvial formations. We see that all
their species are distinct from the living species; that they are all lost, and that
they were all destroyed at the same epoch and by the same catastrophe ; for their
bones are found in the same deposits, everywhere united and mingled together.
‘Lhe fossil pachydermata which we are about to consider are all of another epoch,
and one much more remote; arid nearly all of these were discovered by M.
Cuvier, in those plaster-quarries of Paris, which have thence become so celebra-

* As regards his gigantic tapir, we now know that it is a very different animal from the
tapirs. This great tapir of M. Cuvier is the Deinotherium giganteum, the head of which has
been made known to us by MM. de Klipstein and Kaup. M. Cuvier scarcely knew any
part of it but the molar teeth.

lls
‘

162 HISTORY OF THE WORKS OF CUVIER.

ted; they are the palcotherium, the anoplotherium, the cheropotamus, the adapis.
The bones of all these genera— most of which ‘nende several species — were
mingled and confounded together. It was necessary to begin by separating them;
it was necessary, then, to assign each bone to its species, and finally to recon-
struct the entire skeleton from each of them ; and it was here that the method
devised by the author for this reconstruction was exhibited in all its efficacy.

In regard to fossil species, the tecth are always the first part to be studied,
and the most important, for it is from the teeth that it must be determined
whether the animal was carnivorous or herbivorous, and even, in some cases, to
what particular order of such animals it pertained. M. Cuvier then having
re-established the complete series of teeth which were found to be most common
among those which he had collected, soon saw that they proceeded from two dif-
ferent. species, of which one was provided with prominent canine teeth, and which
the other wanted. The restitution of the teeth thus gave two species of pachy-
dermata: the one with prominent canines, being the paleotherium; the other,
without them, or with a continuous series of teeth, the anoplotheriwm. Further,
this restitution of itself showed, in each of these species, the type of a new
genus; two genera related to he tapir and rhinoceros, but two genera entirely
lest; for no living pachyderm reproduces, even generically, their dental system.
And such, on the other hand, was the rigor of the zoological laws followed by
the author, that the teeth having given him two distinet genera, it could not be
doubted that all the other parts of the skeleton, the he: ad, trunk, feet, all min-
gled indiscriminately with one another and with these teeth, would be also of
two different genera. He at once foresaw, therefore, for Ascth of these genera,
a head, a trunk, feet of a particular form, as he had found for them an appro-
priate dental system ; and he was not long in finding all that he had foreseen.

The teeth being re-established, the restitution of the heads claimed his atten-
tion, and it was soon evident that these also were of two genera. Next to the
teeth and head, the feet are the most characteristic part ‘of the skeleton, and
their restitution gave likewise two genera. It remained, therefore, only to refer

each foot to its head, and each head to its dental system. Now, the restitution
of the hind feet had shown them to be of two kinds, some with three toes, others
only two; and the restitution of the fore feet had yielded the same result. A-vail-
ing himself, by turns, of the general analogy of the species which he reproduced
with the nearest living species, and of the particular relations of proportion
and size of the different paris in question, one with another, M. Cuvier first
united the hind feet with two toes to the fore feet with two, and repeated the
process with those having three; and always guided by the same analogy, the
same relations, he united the former with the dental system which was destitute
of prominent canines, and the latter with the dental system which had them.
He thus united in succession, for each genus, all the bones of the head, the trunk,
the extremities; he reproduced, finally, the entire skeleton, and scarcely was
this great labor terminated when, by a singular hazard, a nearly complete skele-
ton of one of them, found at Pantin, came to confirm all the results which had
been obtained. In this skeleton, so fortunately discovered, all the bones were
united together as M. Cuvier had united them; nature having acted no other-
wise than. the admirable laws discerned by him and his own w ronderful sagacity
had acted.

A first species of each genus being in this manner reconstructed, their number
was not slow in aug ementing. M. Cuvier soon counted five species of anoplothe-
rivums, and not less than 11 or 12 paleotheriums. All the former are from the
environsof Paris; the most common was of the size of the ass; another of that of
the hoe; a third, of that of the gazelle; a fourth, of that of the hare ; a fifth was
still smaller. Among the palaotheriums there were, at Paris alone, seven species;
one the size of the hort, one of the tapir, one of the sheep, one of the hare, &c;
another species discovered near Orleans, nearly equalled in size the rhinoceros.

s
HISTORY OF THE WORKS OF CUVIER. 163

The palzotherium which, at Paris, always accompanies the anoplotherium, is
accompanied almost everywhere else by another genus not less remarkable, and
which, by a singular exception, is absolutely wi anting at Paris, the lophiodon.
This new genus, “also approximated greatly to the tapirs, like the paleeotherium
and anoplotherium ; i is, like these last, entirely lost, and like them, already rich
in species. M. Cuvier has made known a dozen, all of France. The genus
cheropotamus and the genus adapis number each but one species. The genus
anthracotheriwun numbers tw 0, one of which approached the rhinoceros in size.
The two former genera are of the environs of Paris; the third was first found
near Savona, and afterwards in Alsace and Velay.

With these numerous pachydermata, first among terrestrial mammals to
occupy the earth, M. Cuvier collected the remains of carnivora of the genus of
the dog, the genet, the raccoon, &c.; a bat of the genus vespertilio; a species of
didelphys; two rodents, one pertaining to the dormouse, the other to the squirrel ;
‘six species of birds, relics of the crocodile, the trionyx, the emys, and certain
species of fresh- water fish. But to restrict ourselves to the pachydermata which
form, beyond comparison, the most important part of this antique animal colo-
nization of the globe, we have nearly 40 species and five genera totally lost;
and what is not less ‘noticeable, none of their species are found mingled with
those of the elephant and the mastodon. 'The two classes of animals: belonged
therefore to two essentially distinct ages.

To the pachydermata succeeded, in M. Cuvier’s investigations, the ruminants.
It is only in the alluvial formations that the bones of these abound, and here
two genera especially show themselves in great number: the stag and the ox.
* * * It isin the caverns of Germany, England, France, Ke. that the fos-
sil remains of the carnivora especially abound. ” After having extricated the liv-
ing species of these animals from the confusion which had thus far attended their
determination, M. Cuvier proceeds to describe the fossil species—four species of
pears: that of the caves, the most numerous of all, the arctoid bear, the inter-
mediate bear, the bear with flattened teeth; a hyena, almost as abundant as
that of the bears, which is most so; two tigers, a wolf, a mouffet, two weasels,
a glutton, &c. The fossil rodentia are not numerous. The oreat beds of the
loose formations have yielded hitherto but one large species of the beav er, called
by M. Fischer the trogontheriwm. The bone breccia gives two species ‘of the
lagomys, two of the rabbit, of the field mouse, the rat, &e.

The order of the edentata has two fossil, but gigantic species: the megalonyz,
of the size of the largest ox, and the megatherium, of that of the largest rhi-
noceros. These two enormous species are from America. An unguiculate
phalanx, found in a canton of the Palatinate, not far from the Rhine, indicates
a third species related to the pangolin, and quite as gigantic as the two others.

So much for the inhabitants of the land formations. The cetacea all pertain
to strata essentially marine. Here, with the cetacea, occur the amphibious mam-
mals, the seal and the walruss. A first group of these marine mammals, whose
osteology and living species themselves were then so little known, preceded all
the terrestrial mammals. Their remains disclosed to M. Cuvier bones of the
dolphin, the lamantin or manatee, and the walruss. A second group had suc-
ceeded the palezotheriums; and among them M. Cuvier recognized a dolphin, a
whale, and an entire genus wholly lost, the ziphius, related to the sperm whales
and hyperoodons.

We come now to the reptiles. M. Cuvier considers in succession the crocodiles,
tortoises, lizards, batrachians, and concludes with the extraordinary family of
the ichthyosaurus and the plesiosaurus. The fossil crocodiles are very numerous,
M. Cuvier having described as many as fifteen species. The fossil tortoises are
even more numerous still, from sixteen to seventeen species having been already
discriminated ; among them, several of the drionyx, several of the emys, or the
tortoise of fresh water, several of the chelonia, or tortoises of the sea, and some
164 HISTORY OF THE WORKS OF CUVIER

terrestrial tortoises. The order of batrachians has but one fosst species: the
gigantic salamander of Giningen, or the pretended fossil man—the homo diluvit
testis of Scheuchzer. The order of reptiles which presents the most extra-
ordinary fossil species is that of the saurians. In the first place, most of them
were gigantic. A first species, the great saurian of Manheim — the lacerta gigantea
of Semmering, the geosaurus of M. Cuvier—was twelve or thirteen Yeet in
length; a second, the mosasaurus, the great saurian of the quarries of Maes-
tricht, long taken for a crocodile, was more than twenty-four; and a third, truly
gigantic, the megalosaurus, was more than seventy. Here, then, we have a liz-
ard which surpassed the largest crocodiles, and in size even approached the
whale. This, it is known, was discovered by Dr. Buckland, in the oolitic beds
of Stonesfield, near Oxford. M. Cuvier further makes known some remains of
the fossil monitors of Thuringia, of a great saurian at Honfleur, of a gigantic
saurian in the quarries of Caen, &c.

The genus of pterodactyls, or flying lizards, though not remarkable for its
size, is eminently so for its singular structure : a very short tail, a neck very long,
a bird’s beak, a finger of the anterior extremity prodigiously elongated, and thus -
elongated to support a sort of wing. ‘There are two species of pterodactyls:
one of the size of a bat, the other rather larger. It is needless to add that the
genus is wholly extinct. But something still more strange in point of structure,
is that presented by two other genera of saurians, both likewise extinct: the
ichthyosaurus and plesiosaurus; the former uniting at once the snout of a dol-
phin, the teeth of a crocodile, the head and sternum of a lizard, paws of the
cetacea, but to the number of four, and the vertebre of a fish; the latter join-
ing to these paws the head of a lizard, and a neck of such inordinate length that
more than thirty vertebre are counted therein. Both these extraordinary animals
were found for the first time in England, but have since been discovered in Ger-
many and France. The discovery of the first of these genera was due to Sir
Everard Home; that of the last to Mr. Conybeare. Already four species of
the ichthyosaurus are known, and five of the plesiosaurus.

These reptiles, so numerous and so varied, crocodiles, tortoises, the vast sal-
amander, the strange or gigantic saurians, joined with crustacea, mollusks, zoo-
phlytes, fishes, marine mamials formed the first animal colonists which occu-
pied the globe; the second were those of the epoch of the paleeotherium; the
third, those of the epoch of the mastodon; the fourth are those of the actual
epoch. Without counting the last, there have been three distinct eras of animal
life: that of the reptiles, that of the paleotheriums, that of the mastodons; and
after each successive family of living beings, the sea has returned to repossess
itself of the land, retreating afterwards in favor of a new order of creatures;
for marine strata constantly sueceed to the terrestrial strata, and animals which
have lived in the sea constantly succeed to animals which have lived on dry land.

Such is the assemblage of fossil species, reconstructed by M. Cuvier. We
have seen the precise laws on which this reconstruction is founded. The high-
est of these laws is the principle of the correlation of forms; a principle by means
of which we are.enabled, to a certain point, to determine from each part all the
others; for each part has a necessary relation to all the others, and all to each.
Thus, and to cite again a new example of this great law of organic correlations,
the form of the teeth, and even, in certain cases, the form of a single tooth, gives
that of the condyle of the jaw; the form of this condyle gives that of the
glenoid cavity which receives it; this condyle, this cavity, give the zygomatic
arch, the temporal foss, in which the muscles are attached which move the jaw.
The form of all these parts, that is to say, the mode of manducation, gives the
stomach, the intestines, that is to say, the mode of digestion; this again gives the
mode of prehension, or the form of the feet; for if the animal is herbivorous, it
has no need of the feet except to support its body, it will suffice for it to have
hoofs; and if it is carnivorous, it will necessarily require, on the contrary, divided
fect, that is to say digits for seizing its prey and tearing it.
HISTORY OF THE WORKS OF CUVIER. 165

By proceeding thus from one part to another, we apprehend the relations which
bind each of them, first to that which follows, and then nearer and nearer to all
the others, even to the most remote, without the chain of relations being ever
at any part broken or detached. From each part, and even in appearance the
most insignificant part, we may therefore infer all the others, and the entire
animal itself.

For example: that claw of the pangolin, found in the Palatinate, huge as it
is, demonstrates of itself a lost species; and from this claw alone we might infer,
as M. Cuvier well says, all the revolutions of the globe. In effect, this claw
necessarily gives us a toe, and this toe a limb, and this limb a trunk, and this
trunk a cranium, a head, proportionate all with one another; that is to say a
gigantic pangolin, consequently a lost species, consequently revolutions, subver-
sions experienced by the earth, and which have destroyed that species. But I
confine myself here to recalling those great laws on which I have dwelt at more
length elsewhere, and which astonish us less, perhaps, by their extent than by
the amount of evidence which they carry with them.
MEMOIR OF OERSTED.

BY C. M. &LIE DE BEAUMONT,* PERPETUAL SECRETARY OF THE FRENCH ACADEMY OF
SCIENCES.

[ Translated for the Smithsonian Institution by C. A. Alexander. ]

Science, like nature, is one; the frontiers of states, the limits of populations,
arrest not its propagation. In all civilized countries men calculate with the
same figures, measure with the same instruments, avail themselves of the same
classifications. Scientific bodies animated by a common spizit collect, by analo-
gous means, the results of the general labor; and all these associations, to give
a higher sanction to their mutual collaboration, have desired that the most
eminent and celebrated of the savants of foreign countries should constitute a
part of their official list.

Among the illustrious persons on whom the Academy has successively con-
ferred the title, so justly coveted, of one of its eight foreign associates, few have
better justified the distinction than he to whom we owe the knowledge that the
mariner’s compass and the lightning conductor present only different effects of
identically the same physical agent.

Jean-Christian Oerstedt was born August 14, 1777, at Rudkjébing, in the
island of Langeland, one of the smallest’of the archipelago of Denmark. His
father exercised the profession of apothecary, and, although the town of Rudk-
jObing then counted less than 1,000 inhabitants, he had full occupation. or
fear that the young Christian should not be properly looked after in the paternal
dwelling, he was sent every day to the house of a wig-maker, whose wife enjoyed
the confidence of his parents. A brother, one year younger, who became im after
life the celebrated jurisconsult André Sandée Oersted, acccompanied him thither
the following year. The wig-maker and his wife formed a warm attachment for
the two brothers. The wife taught them to read; the husband instructed them
in German, which was his mother tongue. ‘The pupils made rapid progress,
owing, perhaps, in reality more to a happy natural aptitude than to any talent
in the teachers, but which sufliced to induce many other families to send their
own children likewise to this improvised school where knowledge was imparted
so quickly and so well. The wig-maker, transformed into schoolmaster, daily
read to his pupils some pages of a German Bible, which was thus perused from
beginning to end, and afterwards, in great part, read over anew. It was the
daily task of the young Christian to translate word by word into Danish what
had been read in German, and this exercise so far profited him that at the age
of seven years he often embarrassed by his citations those who sought to put his
‘sagacity to the test; whence the gossips of the vicinage .used to say of him,
This child will not live; he has too much smartness !

* Read at the annual public sitting of the Academy, December 29, 1862.

tI write the name of Oersted as it has always been written in the publications of the
Academy: In this the German orthography has been followed, while it would perhaps have
been preferable to conform to the Danish orthography, in which the name is written Orsted,
or without the majuscule Orsted. In Denmark it is pronounced Eursted, which is also the
German pronunciation of the word Oersted, whence we are wrong in habitually pronouncing
it as if it were written Ersted.
MEMOIR OF OERSTED. 167

The wig-maker further taught him addition and subtraction; it was all he
himself knew of arithmetic; but witha slight help from others, and a book found
at his father’s, the child was not slow in learning the rest as far as the rule of
three, inclusive ; no equivocal proof of unusual precocity of intellect. An extra-
ordinary memory was early remarked in him, and was retained till death, eqnally
with all the other happy endowments which he had received from nature.

When Christian had reached-the age of 12, he and his brother, who was then
11, entered as apprentices the pharmacy of their father, whereby their secret
wishes were at first contravened, for both had conceived the project of devoting
themselves to the study of theology. The elder of the two, however, soon began
to acquire a taste for pharmaceutical operations, and labored zealously in the
paternal laboratory, reading at the same time all the books of chemistry and
natural history which fell into his hands. Thus early was developed the incli-
nation which led him to the study of nature. A student in theology daily devo-
ted some hours to the instruction of the brothers in Greek and Latin. 'The elder
applied himself moreover to the acquisition of the French, the younger to that of
the English language. From this period the former evinced a decided taste for
poetry, a taste which adhered to him all his life. He translated about this
time several odes of Horace and a part of the Henriade into Danish.

These rather precarious means of instruction still bore happy fruits. In the spring
of the year 1794, the brothers, aged respectively 17 and 16, were qualified to pro-
ceedto Copenhagen, where, after but afew months’ preparation by a skillful master,
who perfected them in the study of the ancient languages, they sustained with
much honor an examination at their exit from the academy. Some two years
afterwards Christian, who had in the meantime earned testimonials of distinction
on all hands, bore off an academic prize for his reply to a question “On the
shades to be observed in the choice of expressions, according as one writes in
prose or in verse.” Finally, during the autumn of 1799, he obtained the degree
of doctor of philosophy upon the presentation of a thesis in metaphysics, (de
Jorma metaphysices elementaris nature externe.)

In the year last named, and those immediately following, he published divers
short dissertations and critical analyses, which were generally inserted in the
periodical collections. He thus evinced in turn the tendency of his mind to
literature, to poetry, and to philosophy. These formed, indeed, only an accessory
occupation; but, apart from his natural predisposition, favorable circumstances
rendered these momentary efforts of singular advantage in the development of his
faculties. His brother, with whom he always lived inthe most cordial intimacy,
had chiefly devoted himself to the study of philosophy, and the habit, which was
maintained during life, of a daily interchange of ideas, led our physicist to a profit-
able participation in the same pursuit. Having become familiar with the
writings of Kant, Fichte, Schelling, he caught sight of a great general law of
unity in the physical world, which continued always to be one of the habitual
subjects of his meditation. Struck at the same time with the beauty of natural
laws, he became sensible of something profoundly poetic in nature, on which his
innate taste for poetry seized with avidity.

His first essays, which had fixed the attention of the citizens of Copenhagen,
placed him on terms of friendly intimacy with most of his young cotemporaries
who were rising into distinction, particularly with Oclenschliger, who, as a poet,
achieved some years afterwards so brilliant and well-merited a reputation. ‘This
attractive intercourse impelled him to the study of belles-lettres. ‘To no import-
aut production of Danish or German literature, or of the elder French literature,
was he a stranger. His admirable memory was garnished with the choicest pas-
sages, which, even at an advanced age, he was wont to cite with singular apposite-
ness. Nor did he fail sometimes to exercise his own poetic powers, and, in the
eyes of persons competent to judge of Danish verse, an Ode to the French, which
he composed about this time, appeared to give indications of genuine talent. A
168 MEMOIR OF OERSTED.

happy concurrence of circumstances brought Oersted also into intercourse with
Stetfens, and the two brothers Mynster, with whom he long continued to main- -
tain philosophical and even theological discussions, which, whatever their vivacity,
were never permitted to interfere with the claims of a reciprocal friendship.

The rectitude of his judgment always prevented these accessory exercises of
thought from impairing the progress of his scientific studies; buat they did not a
little contribute to draw general attention to him; a kindly attention which
greatly facilitated the development of his subsequent career.

Of that career positive science was always the basis, and his success was rapid.
At his examination in pharmacy, May 20, 1797, he astonished his judges by the
extent of his knowledge, and one of them, on goiug away, having met with Pro-
fessor Manthey, proprietor of the pharmacy in which Oersted had labored,
addressed him in these words: “ What a candidate is this you have sent us; he
knows more than all of us together!” The following year Oersted obtained a
new prize from the Academy; this time on a question of medicine. In 1800
Professor Manthey, being about to travel abroad, devolved on him the direction
of his pharmacy, and nominated him to supply his place, during absence, in the
lecture-room of the Academy of Surgery. ‘The same year Oersted was received
as adjunct of the faculty of medicine.

At this epoch he occupied himself very actively with chemistry. Theresearches
of Wintrel on the simple galvanic chain had already led to the conception of an
electro-chemical theory, and Ritter had inferred, from the ordinary chemical and
eleetrical facts, the identity of the forces whieh produce them. ‘The labors of
Berthollet on the laws of affinities had also introduced new ‘general views on
chemical forces. Herein lay the subjects of Oersted’s investigations during the
years 1799 and 1800. Earlier studies had prepared him for these general views,
and efforts to surmount certain lines of demarcation established in science by dis-
tinctions too decisive, had even directly revealed to him some of them. An
analysis of the chemical philosophy of Foureroy, read by Oersted m 1799 to the
Scandinavian society, and printed the following year in its bulletin, is unfortu-
nately the sole trace which remains for the public of these first essays. We find
there the alkalis and earths already ranged in a single series, which, commencing
with the most energetic alkalis, terminates with a body rather acid than alkaline,
silicium preceded by aluminium.

But, in 1800, the discovery of the electric pile by Volta threw all the chemists
into commotion. Throughout Europe there was a desire to witness its effects.
Everywhere were constructed similar piles or columns formed of pairs composed
each of a disk of copper and a disk of zinc, pairs superposed on one another and
separated by a piece of moistened cloth. Soon, every one, inthe modish as in the
learned world, knew by experience the strange shocks and sensations felt in the
wrists, in the elbows, when in each hand is held a metallic wire terminating at
one of the two opposite poles of the pile, and one is thus placed in the conrse of
the electric current to which the pile gives rise. Odcrsted was not among the
last to make experiments with this wonderful instrument. Having applied it
especially to the decomposition of divers saline solutions, he gave expression to
this first law, that the quantities of alkalis and acids set at liberty in a solution,
by the action of the pile, are in proportion to their respective capacities of satu-
ration. Here, then, was a step in the career in which he was destined one day
to immortalize himself.

Oersted was now 23 years of age; the time had come for him to travel, as, in
their youth, the German and Scandinavian savants almost always do. He set
out in 1801, and his absence extended to two anda half years. Everywhere
he found with the learned a reception which surpassed the hopes of his friends.
His natural animation, joined to a candid and unaffected self-reliance, stood him
in better stead than the strongest letters of recommendation. His countenance
seemed to announce a certain timidity, but no sooner did any subject awaken in

.
MEMOIR OF OERSTED. 169

him a special interest, such as a point of science to discuss or error to combat,
than he was seen to put forth a boldness, a force of intellect, an eloquence which
would searcely have been suspected from his modest exterior and reserved
demeanor.

He first traversed a great part of Germany, passed six months at Berlin, and
sojourned for some time at Friburg, Jena, and Munich. A new life then ani-
mated thatcountry. Poets and philosophers of eminence had there given to the
human mind an unexpected impulse. ‘This movement bore especially on the
natural sciences, and that assemblage of somewhat vague ideas which was called
the philosophy of nature was in process of development. Od6crsted, with his
philosophic and poetic views on the unity and the beauty of nature, was sufli-
ciently disposed to lend attention to the new German doctrines, and he himself
avows their influence by saying, in the preface of one of his works, published in
1813: “The philosophy of nature, which has been cultivated within 20 years
in Germany, might also assert its claim to some of the views which we are about
to offer.” Yet he never allowed himself to be turned aside from the severe and
positive study of facts and of experiment.

He enjoyed constant conversations with Klaproth, Hermstadt, Paul Erman,
Trommsdorff, with Kielmeyer, the master and friend of Cuvier, with the celebrated
Werner, at Friburg, and with the profound mineralogist and crystallographer Weiss.
He met also Fichte, Schelling, Franz Baader, Schleiermacher, 'Tieck, and the
two Schlegels. But he associated himself more particularly with the ingenious
physicist Ritter, already celebrated for his experiments in galvanism, in which
he had established, among otherthings, that a constant development of electricity
accompanies the phenomena of life. They executed in common a series of
remarkable experiments, and Oersted conceived from that time a high opinion
of the scientific capacity of his collaborator, which frequently appears in his
writings, and particularly in the following passage of the preface of his Researches
on the Identity of Chemical and Electrical Forces, published in 1813: “ Ritter may,
in this respect, be regarded as a creator.* His grand conceptions, and his
labors encountered with a zeal which obstacles and sacrifices were incapable of
subduing, have shed light on almost all parts of the science.” Oecersted often
expressed the opinion that, with more of sequence in his labors, Ritter would
have discovered the electric pile before Volta. Unfortunately Ritter joined with
a very ingenious mind great eccentricity, which crippled his pursuits and abridged
his days.

After sojourning some time at Munich with Ritter, Oersted published at Ratis-
bon, in 1803, a small work entitled Materials for a Chemistry of the XIXth
Century, in which occur highly interesting views respecting the new horizons
opened to chemistry by the discovery of the Voltaic pile. Before parting with
Ritter, who remained at Munich, Oersted had rendered him services which could
only have been inspired by a warm and sympathizing friendship. He proceeded
afterwards to Paris and passed there 15 months in habitual intercourse with
Cuvier, Hatiy, Vanquelin, Charles, Berthollet, Biot, Guiton-Morveau, Thenard ;
assiduously following the courses of, the distinguished professors and sometimes
making communications, on his own experiments, to the Philomathic Society.

During his stay at Paris he translated into French a German memoir of Ritter
on the pile a charger, or secondary pile, (Ladung’s Sdule). This translation,
accompanied by notes on the experiments made by himself, was presented to
the first class of the Institute and printed in the Jowrnal de Physique, number
for Brumaire, an XII, (1803.) Ritter, who had co-operated in the translation by
an uninterrupted correspondence with Oersted, was ‘fully satisfied with it, and
even avowed that he comprehended himself in the French version better than in
his own original German text. He died soon afterwards, and Oersted, independ-

“See Researches sur l’ Indentité des Forces Chimiques et Electriques, by M. Oersted, trans-
lated from the German by M. Marcel de Serres, 1813, p. 10.°
170 MEMOIR OF OERSTED.

ently of his own original ideas, remained the representative and, in some sort, the
heir of those of Ritter, of whom he had been the last collaborator and interpreter.

Some prepossessions, whatever their origin, perhaps the fear of being received
with a certain superciliousness, had led Oersted to pass almost the w vhole time
of his sojourn in Paris without going to present to the celebrated Fourcroy, pro-
fessor of chemistry at the Poly ieolmie School, a letter of professor Manthey, of
Copenhagen. He decided at last to do so at the instance of the chargé affaires
of Denmark. The elegance, the clearness, the authority with which Fourcroy
discharged the functions sof professor, gave him great ascendency over his pupils ; ;
but, out of the chair, he did not always sufficiently divest himself of the magis-
terial dignity. He congratulated the young and modest Oersted on having come
to Paris and having acquired a knowledge of so many remarkable men, superior
beyond doubt to all the chemists of the north. “T must acknowledge,” replied
Oersted, “that you possess at Paris more dexterity than exists elsewhere in
Chemical manipulations ; ; but there is scarcely to be “found in the north a single
chemist who cannot read i in the original the Systéme des connaissances chimiques
of M. de Fourcroy, which few French chemists could do for works written in the
Scandinavian languages. ” To the question, if he had seen the Polytechnic
School, Oersted replied of course afhirmatively, and Foureroy having made him
duly se msible that this school gave to Paris a great superiority over Denmark,
Oersted rejoined, with perhaps. too ingenuous a confidence: “TI admit that my
country wants much which is needed for the fruitful development of chemistry,
but I do not despair of contributing hereafter to establish there something not
unlike the Polytechnic School.” Upon which, Fourcroy begged him, somewhat
ironically, to be sure to preserve, when he returned home, a kind recollection of
the F rench chemists. This Oersted did not fail to do, and I shall show further
on how he proved it.

In returning to Denmark, Oersted traversed Holland, and, at Harlem, made
a great number of electrical experiments with the learned physicist Van Marum.
At Bremen he contracted a friendship with the astronomer Olbers, and with
Treviranus, celebrated for his labors m physiology and comparative anatomy,
and finally re-entered his country in the month of January, 1804, On hisreturn,
the duty, at first temporary and limited to three years, of delivering lectures on
physics at the University of Copenhagen was confided to him ; In 1806 he was
named professor extraordinary of physics in the same university. He had here
the first opportunity of combining his scientific views in a sy stematic shape, the
outline of which he preserved during his entire life, only modifying certain parts
according to the progress of science. :

His lectures commanded a large attendance; they bore a form which was
peculiar to himself. The skilifal: professor usually commenced in a subdued
tone, with particular considerations and explanations; frequently, indeed, with
the definition of certain expressions, turning on the translation of technical words
into the Danish language. Assured thenceforth of being fully understood, he
followed the logical course of ideas, and warming by degrees, collected the facts
into groups, and these groups into a whole still more comprehensive. ‘The ani-
mation of the lecture, in giving more freedom to his delivery, called forth his
favorite thoughts on the unity, ‘the beauty of nature, and fioures and images pre-
sented themselves which keenly interested his auditors , expecially the younger
portion of them, for those who had already followed other lectures were more sur-
prised at still finding something unusual in his.

It was sometimes objected to Oersted that he saw or imagined in nature com-
binations much more rational than those which can be expected to occur in an
assemblage of material objects ; but he replied that nothing is too rational to be
attributed to the supreme reason which has created every thing. On such a theme
it would be easy to argue a long time without coming to an understanding. It
would be to plunge into the depths of those German discussions in which so

* e
MEMOIR OF OERSTED. Tél

many a subtle genius has exhausted itself without exhausting the subject. But
the obscurity of these depths is sometimes quite d@ la mode on the shores, always

a little foggy, of the Baltic sea.

It seems certain, however, that the lectures of Oersted were well received by
the youth and the public of Copenhagen, for they were always much frequented,
and they secured for the professor an eminent position among his fellow-citizens.
He was not long in establishing agreeable relations with persons of the highest
position in the capital of Denmark, and even with the princes of the royal family.

But a part of his success might also be attributed to his lively and intellectual
conversation, to the frequent articles which he put forth on various subjects, and
to the works which he published at this epoch, such as his Considerations on the
history of chemistry, his Experiments respecting the figures produced by nodal
lines on vibrating surfaces, a subject to which Chladni had already devoted an
important work ; and a Discourse on the pleasure produced by sound, a discourse
in which he developed, under a point of view peculiar to himself, the laws of
the beautiful.

He thus continued to publish, as he had done from his youth, a multitude of
memoirs and articles of more or less extent on different subjects relating to the
natural sciences and to philosophy, all of which met with appreciative readers.
Nevertheless, Copenhagen was not a center to which everything converged as
is Paris or London. In a city of secondary importance one may keep himself
informed of what is written, but the inconvenience is soon felt of not knowing
what is talked about in the learned world. Oersted, who had need of direct
communication with entire Europe, felt himself impelled to undertake new expe-
ditions. He set out for Berlin May 7, 1812, where he passed three months and
gave to the press, in the German language, one of his most important works,
entitled “‘ Views of the chemical laws of nature,” (Ansichten der chemischen
Naturgesetze.) In passing through Germany he visited Oken, Schweiger, and
Hegel, and established friendly relations with the ingenious physicist Seebeck,
who, some years afterwards, made the discovery of thermo-electricity. He then
revisited Paris, where he made quite a long stay, and, about the middle of the
year 1813, returned to Copenhagen, there to receive anew from his countrymen
tokens of the cordial consideration which he had long before inspired.

In 1814 Oersted published, in the programme of ‘the university, an essay on
a chemical nomenelature common to all the Germano-Scandinavian languages.
The names proposed were so happily appropriate to the genius of those tonones
that they were generally adopted, and are still in use in all the countries of we
north. In 1815 the Royal Society of Sciences of Copenhagen, having lost its
excellent secretary, Bugge, Oersted was chosen to replace him, and, the same
year, the King named him a chevalier of the order of Danebrog. - Two years
afterwards the university conferred on him the title of professor in ordinary,

(professor ordinarius,) a title superior to that of professor extraordinary waieh
he had borne for more than 10 years.

About this time Oersted undertook a remarkable series of experiments on the
compressibility of water, and found almost exactly, though by new means of his
own invention, the numbers which the celebrated English phy sicist Cantor had
obtained half a century before.

In 1818 and 1819 he undertook, with MM. Esmarch and Forschhanmer,
explorations in the island of Bornholm, for the purpose of examining its geo.ogical
constitution with reference to the working of the coal and iron ore which are
found there, and he made these investigations the subject of several publica-
tions. ‘This was the commencement of a geological study of Denmark, estab-
lished on new scientific bases. Oersted, however 7, was unable to prosecute this
operation, which, continued by M. Forschhammer, has given to Denmark the
excellent geological chart well known to this Academy.

The journeys to Bornholm did not interrupt the habitual course of Oersted’s
72 MEMOIR OF OERSTED.

publications on science and philosophy. Among his memoirs on physics should
be particularly cited one on the trongh-battery, executed in conjunction with his
friend, Professor Esmarch. Another work, entitled Principles of the New Chem-
istry, which appeared at Copenhagen in 1820, had been composed for the auditors
of his course, with a view to placing within their reach the doctrines taught in
his numerous writings on chemistry and electricity, and particularly in his Views
of the chemical laws of nature. First printed at Berlin, as I have said, this
exposition of his favorite ideas had been translated into French by M. Marcel
de Serres, and published at Paris, in 1813, with the concurrence of its author
and that of our distinguished colleague, M. Chevreul, under the title of Researches
on the identity of chemical and electric forces, a title which clearly defined its
object.

This learned and ingenious work, dedicated to the author of the Statique
Chimique, our illustrious Berthollet, was in truth the principal fruit of the labors
and meditations of Oersted from his earliest youth. A citation of some passages
of this admirable book will suffice to give an idea of the profound and original
views which had presided over its composition: “* * * * The chemical
part of the natural sciences,” says Oersted, “is far from having attained the
perfection which their mechanical part has reached, and cannot, like the latter‘
deduce from a small number of principles, already connected with one another,
all the other principles; but it has been obliged to seek each particular propo-
sition, each particular law, by means of experiments undertaken solely with that
particular view. Now the greater part of these laws have hitherto so little
enabled us to see the bonds which unite them, that it was necessary to be con-
vinced, by general considerations, of the unity which exists in all the works of
nature, in order not to be deceived as regards that unity.

“The actual state, in 1813, of the chemical part of the natural sciences might
be compared to that of their mechanical part before Galileo, Descartes, Huyghens,
and Newton had taught us to reduce the more compound movements to their
most simple principles. Before these illustrious physicists, it is true, agreat num-
ber of important facts were known, even some remarkable series of facts, but
that great principle of unity to which science owes its present high degree of
perfection had not yet been arrived at. * * * *”

Oersted saw this great principle of unity in the uniformity of the general laws
of mechanics, and he found an example of the duality, which also he every-
where sought, in the two forces which concur in producing circular or curvilinear
motion. ‘To find examples of the confusion which had preceded the discovery
of these forces, it is sufficient, he said, “‘to read what was written on the classifi-
cation of motions by the celebrated Bacon, who, although a cotemporary of
Galileo, still speaks of a violent and natural motion, and of so many other kinds
of motions, which he knew no better how to reduce to a single principle than do
the chemists at the present time know how to reduce the affinities of the alkalies,
acids, earths, oxides, combustible bodies, and oxygen to one identical primitive
BCUONs 5), Miitinue te

“By referring all motions to their fundamental laws, the mechanical part of
the natural sciences,” adds Oersted, “ has been raised to that present degree of per-
fection which embraces all the movements of the universe as one great mechanical
problem, whose solution enables us to calculate in advance an infinitude of par-
ticular phenomena. In order to prepare the chemical part of the natural sciences
for a like perfection, we must endeavor to reduce all chemical actions to the
primitive forces which produce them; we shall then also be in a position to
calculate all the chemical properties of the primitive forces and their laws. Thus,
chemistry being only occupied with these properties, this whole science will be
converted into a theory of forces, to which mathematics may be applied, and it
will thereby acquire perhaps new capacities, like those which have been derived
from the application of mathematics to movement.

.
MEMOIR OF OERSTED. Lig

“The discoveries which have been made since the commencement of this
century may so far contribute to advance chemistry towards this state of perfec-
tion that I have thought it would be useful” (it is still Oersted who speaks) “to
collect here the scattered materials, in order to attempt the formation of a system.
A first attempt of this kind can, doubtless, be but imperfect ; but it must at last
be necessary to take this first step, and I have judged it proper not to defer

taking it, * * * * forthe investigator of nature will make no great das-
covery except in so far as he shall have a certain idea which leads him to pro-
pound, so to say, his questions to nature, as well as a determinate scope for his
observations. "The object, therefore, of the system which we here present is
chiefly to draw attention to certain important problems, and to serve as prelimi-
nary to other more perfect systems which the rapid progress of science will not
fail soon to call forth. It is only by the united efforts of a great number of
savants, and after some generations, that chemical science can attain that degree
ef perfection which, with perhaps too much boldness, we have ventured to antici- —
pate.

“Tt will not be useless, at our first step in this undertaking, to cast a glance
over the space which we shall have to traverse. We shall commence our
researches by a general classification of all the inorganic bodies according to
their chemical nature. We shall then present some considerations on the chem-
ical actions best known, in order to prove that all the chemical phenomena which
have been studied up to this time may be attributed to two forces diffused through
all nature. We shall show that these forces act not only in the immediate con-
tact between two bodies, but that they can also be transmitted, by some medium,
from one to the other. ‘This will lead us to discover, independently of electrical
considerations, the chemical action which we have recognized in galvanism. By
means of these successive approaches we shall be able finally to present the
chemical forces in the state in which they are most free, and to render evident,
at the same time, the identity of those forces with electrical forces.”*

I should have abridged this long passage still more than I have done, had I
not desired that it should be comprehended to what extent, according to Oersted,
is to be found in the general uniformity of the laws of chemical composition that
great principle of unity which, agreeably to his philosophical conceptions, exists
in all nature, and, at the same time, the duality which he also sought there in
the two electricities, positive and negative. ‘“ Finally,” Oersted continues, “ we
shall endeavor, in order still better to prove the universality of the two chemical
or electrical forces, to show that they also produce the magnetic phenomena and
the principal changes in organic nature.”t These lines already contained, so to
say, the programme of the. great discovery which he was on the point of making,

‘In this work, as in his varlier essays of 1799, Oersted placed aluminium in the
rear of the alkaline earths, ¢ as less alkaline than all these latter, and indeed
almost an acid. After aluminium came silicium, more acid than alkaline ; while
glass, he said, might be considered as a salt.§ It will be admitted that from
thence to the ‘theory of the silicates there was but a step; this new advance was
achieved some time afterwards by Smithson Tennant; but, as every one knows,
it was Berzelius, beyond all others, who developed the theory of the silicates.

The work of Oersted, which the limits prescribed to this notice do not permit
me completely to analyze, contains a multiplicity of views; all equally marked
by justness of thought, and more than one of which offers even at this day some-
thing of the piquancy of novelty.

In another passage, seeking to find among authors already become antique—
such as Winterl, Ritter, &c. —the first rudiments of the ideas which oceupied
him, and which it was the object of his book to develop, Oersted added: “The

* See Recherches sur Videntité des forces chimiques et électriques, p. 2.
+ Lord; p. 9. ¢ Ibid., p. 57. § Ibid., p. 60.
174 MEMOIR OF OERSTED.

advantage which we may attain over these predecessors of ours will be, for the
greatest “part, due to the “profound researches of the celebrated Berthollet, and to
the grand discoveries of Davy and Berzelius, three illustrious savants on the
possession of whom our era can never cease to pride itself.”

There was the more merit on the part of Oersted in thus ranking Berzelius
among the great lights of chemistry, inasmuch as Berzelius, rather younger than
himself, was his rival in the branch ‘of the science to which he attached the most
interest ; and it should never be forgotten that if the honor of having completely
unfolded the electro- chemical system reverts to Berzelius, Oersted had arrived
before him at a closely analogous result, although one less developed. Tor the
rest, what at the present day is of most import to the memor y of Oersted in rela-
tion to this work, is perhaps the palpable proof found therein of his ceaseless
preoccupation with the subject of electrical phenomena. He had conferred
great improvements on the pile; he was one among the most practiced experi-
menters in employing it; he had formally indicated magnetism as one of the
phenomena of which it w vould some day furnish the explanation, and no one was
better prepared than himself to advance to the practical realization of this new
conquest.

Yet all the attempts thus far made had remained unfruitful. The expedient
had been tried of placing the two poles of a battery as highly charged as possi-
ble in a parallel line with the poles of a strongly magnetized needle ; no effect,
however, had been produced. Nevertheless, the conviction. still ’ prevailed,
especially with Oersted, that a relation must exist between galvanism and elec-
tricity. The route to the discovery was unknown, though hazard might open it
unexpectedly.

Fortune, it might be ; cae ceased to be blind at the moment when to Oersted
was allotted the privilege of first divining that it was not electricity in repose
accumulated at the two poles of a char eed battery, but electricity in movement
along the conductor by which one of the poles is discharged into the other,
which would exert an action on the magnetized needle. “While thinking of
this—it was during the animation of a lecture before the assembled pupils—
Oersted announces to them what he is about to tr y; he takes a magnetic needle,
- places it near the electric battery, waits till the needle has arrived at a state of
rest; then seizing the conjunctive wire traversed by the current of the battery,
he places it above the magnetic needle, carefully avoiding: any manner of col-
lision. ‘The needle—every one plainly sees it—the needle is at once in motion.
The question is resolved! Oecrsted has crowned, by a great discovery, the
labors of his whole previous life.

{t was on the 21st July, 1820, that Oersted communicated to learned Europe
the important fact with ey his genius had just enriched science. He con-
signed it to a small tract written in Li atin, of only four pages in 4to, which, not-
withstanding its conciseness, presented with perfect clearness, the results of.
more than fifty experiments, and left scarcely anything to be added on the
subject. [his composition, entitled Experimenta circa effectum, ete.—(Hixperi-
ments on the effect of the electrical conflict upon the magnetic needle)—was
addressed the same day by post to all the societies in Europe which occupy
themselves with the natural sciences. A French translation of it appeared in
the number of the Annales de chimie et de physique for August, 1820, from which
I transcribe a few expressions employed by Oersted on this occasion:

“The first experiments on the subject I undertake to explain were made in
the lectures which I gave last winter on electricity and magnetism. They
evinced in general, that the magnetic needle changed its direction through the
influence of the voltaic apparatus, and that this effect took place when the cir-
cuit was formed, and not when it was interrupted; a process which had been
attempted in vain by celebrated physicists, some years before. But, as my

*
MEMOIR OF OERSTED. 175

experiments had been made with an apparatus of small energy, the effect of
which was not so striking as was called for by the ‘Importance of the fact to be
established, I invited my friend Esmarch, judicial councillor to his Majesty; to
unite with me in repeating them with a more powerful apparatus. We had
also for associates and witnesses the Chevalier de Vlengel, MM. Hauch and
Reinart, professors of natural history ; Jacobson, a very skillful physician and
chemist, and Zeise, professor of philosophy. I made other experiments when
alone, and if these taught me anything new, I took the precaution of repeating
them in the presence of these eminent men of science. * * * In order to make
the experiment, we put in communication the opposite poles of the voltaic appa-
ratus by a metallic wire, which we will call, for brevity, the conducting or con-
junctive wire ; and we will designate the effect which is manifested in this con-
ductor and around it during the voltaic action by the term electric conflict.

“ Let us suppose now that the rectilinear part of this wire is horizontal, and
placed above and parallel to a magnetic needle freely suspended * * * the
latter will move in such a manner that, under the part of the conjunctive wire
which is nearest to the negative pole of the apparatus, it will deviate towards
the west. * * * Ifthe conjunctive wire is arranged horizontally ender the
needle, the effects are of the same nature with those w vhich take place when the
wire is above the needle; but they act in an inverse dire at is to say, the
pole of the needle, under which is the part of the conjunctive wire that receives
the negative electricity of the apparatus, irclines towards the east. * * *
It appears, from the facts stated, that the electric conflict is not inclosed in
the conducting wire, but that it has around it quite an extensive sphere of activ-
ity. We may conclude from the observations that this conflict acts by a vorti-
cal or whirling movement.”

Such was the theory of Oersted: we shall presently see that he was less
happy in his theory than in his experiment.

In publishing the memoir of Oersted in the Annales de chimie et de physique,
M. Arago added a note in which he said that the results there recorded, “ how-
ever singular they might appear, are acconipanied by too many details ‘to leave
room for any suspicion of error.” He cited, moreover, the experiments of veri-
fication made in his presence, at Geneva, by M. de la Rive.

. The explanation proposed by Oersted for the capital fact which he had just
discovered, recalled in some respects the vortices of Descartes. This did not
much savor of the spirit of the present epoch; it met consequently with but
little acceptance. At the end of barely a few weeks, Ampére had replaced it
by another, based on a law of attraction. I borrow the recital of this scientific
event from the spirited and learned loge of Ampere, read by M. Avago to this
Academy, 21st August, 1839:

“The ‘discovery of Oersted reached Paris by Switzerland. In our weekly
session of Monday, 11th September, 1820, an academician who had come ee
Geneva” (it was M. Avago himself) “ repeated before the Academy the expe:
ments of the learned Dane. Seven days after, Ampére laid before us a Pact
much more general than that of the physicist of Copenhagen. In‘so short an
interval of time he had divined that two conjunctive wires, that two wires
traversed by electric currents, would act one on the other; he had devised
extremely ingenious arrangements for rendering these wires movable, without
the necessity. of detaching the extremity of each of them from the respective
poles of their batteries ; “he had realized, transformed these conceptions into
instruments susceptible of operating ; he had finally submitted his capital idea
to a decisive experiment. I know not if the vast field of physics ever presented
so admirable a discovery, conceived, made and completed with equal rapidkty.

“OF this brilliant discovery of Ampere the following statement may suffice :
two parallel conjunctive wires attract each other when electricity traverses them
in the same direction; they repel one another, if the electric currents move in

176 MEMOIR OF OERSTED.

opposite directions.” The sequel of Ampére’s labors showed “ that the recipro-
cal action of the elements of two currents is exerted in conformity with the line
which unites their centers; that it depends on the mutual inclination of those
elements, and that it varies in intensity in the inverse ratio of the square of the
distances.” Ampere finally succeeded in establishing that a conjunctive wire
wound into a helix with very close spires, is sensitive to the magnetic action of
the earth. For many weeks there was to be seen in his cabinet “a conjunctive
wire of platina whose position was determined by the action of the terresirial
globe.” Ampere, by constructing a galvanic compass, had shown that the forces
which act in the magnetic needle are electric currents, and by his learned calcu-
lations on the reciprocal action of those currents he accounted for all the actions
which the conjunctive wire of the pile exerts, in the experiments of Oersted, on
the magnetic needle.

Electro-magnetism had thus become the common glory of Oersted and Ampére,
and renown, by uniting the names of these two illustrious savants, not unnat-
urally calls attention to the resemblances or the contrasts which existed between
them.

They were throughout nearly cotemporary, Ampére having been born the 22d
January, 1775, and Oersted the 14th August, 1777. Both had entered upon life
in a very modest condition as regards fortune; both had had slender means of
instruction, and had at first informed themselves with little help from masters
and even little from books. Ocrsted had composed poetry not destiiute of
merit; Ampere, in his youth, wrote French verses replete with delicacy and
grace, some of which have appeared to M. Arago no unworthy ornaments for
his eulogy. Oersted always saw in the harmonies of nature a poetry superior
to all other poetry ; Ampere, in the evening of his life, composed in Latin
verse a general tablet of the classification of the sciences, in which elegance
disputes the palm with precision. -

Oersted, a declared disciple of Kant, applied his ideas to the material world
as a consummate physicist; Ampére, an enthusiastic sympathizer with Maine de
Biran, Royer Collard, and Cousin, exercised his acute and powerful faculties
and manifested a lively interest in disentangling the most subtle problems of
metaphysics. Both were skilled in communicating to their learned instructions
a peculiar attraction, though each in a different kind. Each of them has left,
among friends, colleagues, pupils, remembrances full of that affectionate admi-
ration which can never be effaced.

Oersted made his first scientific essays in the pharmacy of his father; before
all else he was a chemist. Ampére, at the age of thirteen, borrowed from the
public library of Lyons the mathematical works of Bernouilli; he was born a
geometer, but the Encyclopedia having been his first book, he had, from his
infancy, embraced all the branches of human knowledge and had even become
profound in many of them. M. Arago has felt authorized to say of him, in
speakine of his labors in chemical classification, “that, during one of the last
revolutions of science, Ampere, the geometer Ampere, proved always in the
right, even when his opinions were opposed to those of almost all the chemists
of the world.”

Without Oersted, electro-magnetism might not have existed ; without Ampére,
it might have been confined to an exceedingly curious, but limited experiment.
‘The co-operation of Oersted and Ampére made it, in a very little time, a com-
plete science, a science destined to change the face of the world by the sur-
prising applications of it which have been already realized, and in which it is
employed entire without distinction as to the origin of its different parts.

I have often heard it asked who was the true inventor of the electric tele-
graph. Reference has been made to ingenious physicists, who in the course of
the last century transmitted to a distance, by means of the electric spark,
instantaneous signals. As well might the learned, when the brothers Chappe

s
De ail

MEMOIR OF OERSTED. LU

had, in 1792, invented the aerial telegraph, recall the fact that the Gauls had
transmitted distant signals by means of wooden beams set in motion. Neither
the Gauls nor the older physicists had created any regular means of correspond-
ence.

Among those whom I haye the honor of addressing, several may be able, like
myself, to recall the memorable lectures which M. Ampére delivered at the Col-
lege of France at the commencement of 1832, in which he had the boldness to
express his ideas on the relations of the structure of different classes of animals
in contradiction to Cuvier, who lectured in the adjacent amphitheater; ingenious
ideas which M. Cuvier overwhelmed at each lecture with peremptory facts,
and which M. Ampére, accommodating himself to those facts, reproduced still
more ingeniously in his subsequent lecture. In this course, naturally much
frequented, and which was in substance a course of experimental physics, M.
Ampere spoke one day of electrical currents, and, after having represented on
the table four small magnetic needles with metallic wires suitably encompass-
ing them, he explained how an electric current transmitted at will in such
or such a manner, by means of these wires, would cause a declination of such or
such of these needles in definite directions, so as to produce divers combinations,
to each of which might be attributed the value of one of the letters of the
alphabet ; how, in fine, by varying at will and with the rapidity of writing the
mode of propagation of the electric current, words, phrases, discourses might be
formed by the succession of these conventional letters.

M. Ampere particularly cherished this idea and often recurred to it in con-
versing with his friends; but his fertile imagination did not stop with a single
process, and sometimes, instead of needles, he proposed the employment of vases
filled with water in which should be produced alternately disengagements of
oxygen and hydrogen by the decomposition of the liquid. On the whole, it is
impossible to deny that from that time the fundamental idea of a future electric
telegraph existed among the auditors and friends of M. Ampére. ‘There
remained nothing more than to execute it practically. Such execution was
rendered much more easy by the result of the experiments of M. Arago on the
momentary magnetization of soft iron by the electric current, and by the
knowledve of the laws of the remarkable phenomenon of induction, established
by M. Faraday. — ;

Every one knows how, from station to station, long metallic threads, placed
on insulating supports, have been stretched in order to transmit the electric cur-
rent from point to point. In the first arrangements of apparatus for this pur-
pose, in that especially which M. Wheatstone established between Paris and
Versailles and which was in operation in 1845, the electric current was produced
by magnets, for which was afterwards substituted an electric battery, as being
susceptible of more energetic action. ‘The conducting wires were reduced, for
each apparatus, to a single one, the mass of the earth sufficing for the return of
the current. The needles were also reduced to a single one, which stopped in
any desired position before a dial-plate bearing on its circumference the 25 let-
ters of the alphabet, the 10 numerals, points, &e. To bring the needle to a
certain radius of the dial and to a definite letter, the dentated wheel on which
it depended was made to traverse a suitable number of notches, by as often
interrupting and re-establishing the electric.current. This idea of suspending
and restoring the current by interruptions variously diversified, was the most
essential addition which had been made to the fundamental idea of Ampere.
The interruptions and re-establishments of the current occasion, so to speak, a
succession of electric waves, comparable, in a certain measuye, to the sonorous
waves by means of which our voice is propagated, but infinitely more rapid.

Since these first essays, the mechanism employed has been singularly varied.
The dials and needles have been suppressed and replaced by other combinations.
A ae of ingenious instruments, cut-offs, pole-changers, manipulators,

258
178 MEMOIR OF OERSTED.

electro-magnets, magnets variously armed, have been devised by a throng of men
of talent. This pursuit, still so new, is one of those in which the inventive
spirit of our age has most favorably displayed itself; but, whatever the process,
it always substantially consists in operating, at a distance and even beyond the
seas, with the electro-magnetic currents of Oersted and Ampere.

[This statement can scarcely be considered as correct, even in view of the
rhetorical license of the ealogist. The currents used in telegraphing are, strictly
speaking, neither the discoveries of Oersted nor of Ampére, but of Volta and of
Faraday. There are three different forms of the telegraph : first, that of pure
electricity which transmits messages by a galvanic current, and makes signals
by sparks or by marks on chemical paper. Second, that of the needle moved
by a galvanic current, first suggested by Ampere. Third, that of an _electro-
magnet which produces sounds, and also marks on paper at a distance. The first
of these depends essentially on the discovery of Volta, and the other two on the
primary fact of Oersted, extended, applied, and modified by others—J. H.]

In a very interesting account of Oersted, from which I have borrowed many
of the details here cited, professor Hauch, of Copenhagen, compares, with no
unjustifiable enthusiasm, his master Oersted discovering, after long meditation,
the action of the pile on the magnetic needle and thus opening for science hor-
izons altogether new, to Christopher Columbus discovering America, after having
dreamed all his life of the existence of a great continent beyond the ocean.*
He might have added that Oersted, more fortunate than Columbus, encountered
no Americus Vespucius to dispute with him the glory of his discovery. _ Ampere,
the most modest of men, had need of no glory but his own, if, indeed, he ever
occupied himself with that; and moreover, in electro-magnetic science, the parts
of Oersted and of Ampére have remained perfectly distinct. If the fundamental
experiment is the incontestable property of Oersted, the developments immedi-
ately added by Ampere were the frnit of a spirit of invention which yields not
in merit tothe most original experiment, and of an analytical science which
could only be met with in a geometer like Ampere, and, it may be added, in
those colleagues of ours who bore a part in his calculations, M. Savary, M.
Liouville, and our actual president M. Duhamel.

It pertained to the members of this Academy, the colleagues of Ampére, to be
first in proclaiming all the merit of Oersted. The occasion was embraced with
the ardor which, in such circumstances, is always native to it. We read accord-
ingly, in the statement regarding the prizes awarded, 8th April, 1822, as follows :

* The first idea of this comparison reverts to Sir John Herschel, as may be seen by the
following letter of M. de Humboldt to Oersted, a translation of which has been obligingly
communicated to me by M. de la Roquette, former consul of France in Denmark :

‘« Assuredly, M. Councillor, it wiil be a pleasure to the King to see you again and to
express to you how much his Majesty is personally flattered at receiving among us a man of
your celebrity.’ You are invited for to-morrow noon to the King’s table, and in the evening
at the new palace to the first representation of Medea in the Court Theater. * * * * *
I have just read to-night in Herschel’s Study of Natural Philosophy, p. 340, this fine passage
concerning you: ‘‘In Oersted there is something which reminds us of the obstinate adherence
of Columbus to his notions of the necessary existence of the new world, and the sole history of
Oersted’s beautiful discovery may serve to teachus * * * * .” This is a just eulogy
expressed in very ingenious terms. With the highest consideration, your obedient,

‘‘A, DE HUMBOLDT.”

A second letter of M. Humboldt to Oersted, also communicated to me by M. de la
Roquette, will further contribute to show with what regard and cordiality Oersted was
received at Berlin:

‘*May I count, dear doctor, on the pleasure of seeing you again before your departure ?
I desire not only to rgad once more your instructive memoir on the repose of the voléanoes
of Nicaragua, but also to have some doubts respecting Squier resolved. The King being
to arrive to-day, I shall be occupied until Friday. On that day or the following, may I
flatter myself with the hope of seeing you at Berlin? * * * *.* With distinguished
consideration, &c. A. DE HUMBOLDT.”
MEMOIR OF OERSTED. 179

“ The Academy announced in its public session of the 27th March, 1820, that in
that of March, 1822 it would award the prize of mathematics, consisting of a gold
medal of the value of 3,000 franes, to the best work or memoir on pure or
applied mathematics, which shall have appeared or been communicated to the
Academy during the space of two years which are accorded to competitors.

‘Many physico-mathematical researches, worthy of high praise, have appeared
in that interval. * * * But the importance of.the discovery of the action
of the voltaic pile on the magnetic needle, a discovery which furnishes a new
principle to applied mathematics,-and which has already given rise to interesting
applications of analysis, has determined the commission to award to it the prize
of mathematics. ‘The commission charged with the examination of articles for
the prizes of mathematics is in the habit of adjudging those prizes without the
co-operation of the Academy. But as the discovery in question is not explicitly
eomprised in the programme, it has been thought that the authorization of the
society should be invoked for awarding the prize to this admirable discovery.
This proposal having been submitted to the deliberations of the Academy, was

unhesitatingly adopted.”

A place having soon afterwards become vacant among the correspondents of
the Academy for the section of physics, the nomination of M. Oersted to supply
it took place 9th June, 1823. In the sequel, the highest scientific distinction at
the disposal of the Academy was conferred on him, 11th April, 1842, by his elee-
tion as one of its eight foreign associates, to replace the distinguished botanist
de Candolle.

The just eclat which had attended the discovery of Oersted, by no means
diminished his desire of sometimes placing himself in personal communication
with the savants of other countries. In 1822 he again went to Germany,
where, independently of those who more peculiarly ranked as savants, Goethe,
the illustrious poet, to whom nothing in the domain of intellect was alien,
received him with distinction ; as is testified by the manner in which Oersted’s
discovery is spoken of in several passages of his writings.

Oersted was now, for some time, engaged in thermo-electric experiments with
Seebeck, and afterwards came to Paris in 1823. The Academy shared the
pleasure which he experienced on taking his place in its ranks, and, during his
sojourn, was entertained by several series of experiments which he performed
in its presence, not the least curious of which were those executed in common
by himself and Fourier.* In these, bars of bismuth and of antimony soldered
together alternately and forming a closed circuit, were employed. By heating
or cooling the solderings, electrical currents were produced which appeared more
abundant but less intense than the currents developed by weak hydro-electric
action, and gave occasion to many interesting observations. x

‘Towards the middle of summer Oersted passed into England and Scotland,
and was received, as he had been in France, with a cordiality and attention
which testified the high estimation in which the author of the discovery of
electro-magnetism was equally held in those countries. On his return to Copen-
hagen, he resumed his life of labor with more ardor than ever. The north of
Enrope then exhibited the spectacle of a brilliant scientific arena. At Stock-
holm, Berzetins, one of the princes of chemistry, at Copenhagen, Oersted, one
of the princes of physics, formed, as it were, two centers of labor and discovery,
around which gravitated, like so many brilliant satellites, men destined them-
selves to a just and well-earned celebrity—Arfvedson, Nordenskiold, Bonsdorff,
Mitscherlich, Gustave and Henry Rose, &c.

The noble emulation which established itself between the laboratories of the
two capitals is easily conceived. Oecersted reapplied himself to chemistry.
Resuming at the end of a quarter of a century his investigations of 1799 on
alumina, he accomplished, in 1824, a work which placed him in the rank of the

* See Annales de chim. et de physique, t. xxxii, p. 575, (April, 1823.)

180 MEMOIR .OF OERSTED.

most eminent practical chemists, and obtained, after prolonged efforts, the chlo-
ride of aluminum. No one before him had effected the decomposition of alu-
mina. Yet he did not succeed in insulating the aluminum; this last and import-
ant step was reserved for M. Vohler, the distinguished chemist of Gottingen.
Still later, our young and learned colleague, M. Henri Sainte-Claire Deville,
has formed of aluminum a new and valuable element of metallurgic industry.

One of the last labors of Oersted relates to the celebrated diamagnetic dis-
coyeries of our illustrious colleague M. Faraday, whose experiments had already
added so many curious facts to electro-magnetism, as well as to the researches
made on the same subject by some German savants, especially by M. Reich, of
Friburg.

Oersted presented his first results to the Royal Society of Sciences of Copen-
hagen, 30th June, 1848, and gave a review of them in the Compte Rendu of the
transactions of the society. He soon afterwards drew up a more complete
memoir, which has been published in French.* ‘Therein he recognizes a decreas-
ing magnetic progression which includes the magnetic bodies properly so-called,
the attractable diamagnetic bodies, the repellable diamagnetic bodies. The
magnetism of these last may, according to him, be considered as negative, if we
regard the magnetism of iron and of the attractable diamagnetic bodies as posi-
tive. Oersted showed herein that, experiment in hand, he always kept himself
abreast of the progress of physics, and particularly of electro-magnetism.

In effect, the weight of years never relaxed the activity of Oersted. Were I
to undertake a bare enumeration of the researches and writings of every kind
which he executed at Copenhagen during the last twenty-five years of his life,
I should much exceed the time at my disposal. But, while omitting this long
catalogue, in which are numbered nevertheless important memoirs on electricity
and magnetism, on the compressibility of liquids and of gases, on the heat
developed by the compression of water, on capillary phenomena, works of liter-
ature and philosophy, &c.,t I feel bound to point out what contributed in quite

* See Annales de Chimie. et Physique, 3d series, t. xxiv, p. 424, (December, 1848.)

+ The following note, for which I am indebted to M. de la Roquette, makes us acquainted
with one of these last works:

“Oersted published, about 1850, two volumes under the title of Aandeni Naturen, a
philosophic work which appears to me of high import; it forms a series of treatises in which
the author introduces us, ina manner at once philosophic and popular, to the study of
nature, by revealing to us the eternal spirit which determines all its phenomena, and the
relation under which this spirit exists towards the material and intellectual world. The
following is the substance of the tracts or chapters of which the work is composed :

“Vol. I. (1) Of spirit manifested in matter, The author develops what is constant or
immutable in the continual changes of bodies; it is the single thought or design which
exists therein. The unity of this thought pertains to nature, for the natural laws, which are
constant and invariable, are laws of reason; not of the reason which is in us, but of that
which prevails in the entire universe. It is the assemblage of laws determining the activity
of an object, which constitutes its real essence. These laws, which may be properly called
the ideas of nature, form in every object a unity which may be qualified as the essential
meaning of the object or its idea. This idea does not exist solely in the thought; it is real-
ized, on the contrary, in the acting forces of the objects. The being of the object is thus an
animated or living idea. In order to place these interesting reflections within the reach of
all, the author has recourse to the form of dialogue, like Plato, Fontenella and Fenelon ; his
style is at once simple and clear, rich and varied. (2) The fountain and the jet d’eau.
He here characterizes the different impressions produced by this phenomenon. (3) The
relation between the conception of nature by thought and that which is effected by help of
the imagination. (4) Superstition and incredulity in their relations to the natural sciences.
(5) All existence considered as the empire of spirit. (6) The culture of the sciences rep-
resented as a worship offered to God.

‘Vol. II. (1) The relation of the natural sciences to poetry. (2) The relation of these
sciences to different important notions of religion. (3) Of the salutary influence which the
study and employment of the natural sciences must exert on the intellectual development of
man. (4) Two discourses on occasion of the reunion of the Scandinavian naturalists. (5)
On the passage from the school to active life. (6) Comparison of aneient and modern
times; the author here demonstrates that neither the world nor humanity have deteriorated ;
that the temperature of the air has not changed; (the physical state of Greenland was, six
MEMOIR OF OERSTED. 181

a special manner to the honor of Oersted, by observing that, in him, the favors
of fortune never weakened his devotion to the duties of the savant, and that after
having made a discovery whose brilliancy rendered it difficult further to aug-
ment his reputation, he believed that he still owed to science and his country
the constant tribute of assiduous labor.

It was one of the happy events of Oersted’s life that he witnessed, in 1829,
under the reign of Frederic VI, the founding at Copenhagen of a Polytechnic
School. Of this he was named director, an honorable title which he retained
till his death. We will not examine whether this Polytechnic School, in which
courses were appropriated to the arts and trades, entirely resembled our own.
In such a country as Denmark, less extensive than civilized, it is necessary to
unite many branches in order to compose a solid faggot. The object was, in the
main, analogous, and the very name of the school was a memorial of the first
journey of Oersted to Paris, as well as an homage rendered to the celebrated
school of Monge and Fourcroy. In the Danish institution, Oersted continued to
profess physics till his last year, with unremitting zeal, animation and success.
As director, he treated the pupils with a mixture of kindness, sagacity and
firmness which secured their unreserved devotion and willing obedience.

During his third journey, Oersted found himself crossing the channel from
France to England, on his forty-sixth birthday, 14th August 1823; it is an anni-
versary which the people of the north style the day of one’s fete. Accustomed
in Denmark to pass it in the bosom of his family and friends, he was now left to
his solitary thoughts; and these naturally reverting to his country, inspired him

~ with the design of founding something on his return which should be at once a
profitable and pleasant memorial of the vows which on this occasion he addressed
to his distant home. ‘The plan of a society for the promotion of the study of
nature formed itself in his mind, and was so thoroughly wrought out during the
short navigation, that nothing was required on landing at Dover but to reduce
it to writing. The plan met with cordial acceptance in Denmark, and by aid of
the new association, courses of natural history were established not only at
Copenhagen, but in other cities of the country; nor has this institution since
ceased to bear the useful fruits which Oersted had anticipated.

He was also member of a literary society. In connection with this a monthly
publication was edited, in which he often inserted articles on the most varied
subjects, not excepting religious and philosophical ones. He belonged, more-
over, to an association established for the right use of the liberty of the press.
In fact, his co-operation seems to have been claimed almost universally at
Copenhagen, nor was a sense of its value without frequent manifestations in other
cities of Denmark, and even in those of the neighboring countries. _To the last,
he was accustomed to make numerous excursions as well into the north of Ger-.
many as into the Scandinavian peninsula, in attendance on the assemblages of
naturalists which were held at different places. It was a cherished idea of his
that, through these assemblages, not only might the exchange of scientific views
be facilitated and a more intimate union among the representatives of science be
cemented, but that their benefits might be extended to a wider circle by exposi-
tions placed within the reach of all and contributing to introduce, even among
the popular masses, the habit of comprehending and mutually exchanging their

idioms and forms of literature; especially was it his hope that the three Scan-

hundred years ago, the same that it is to-day;) the olive had in France, eighteen hundred
years ago, the same limit in the north which it has at present; the men of antiquity were
not stronger and attained not a more advanced age than those of modern times ; the human
race, far from retrograding, has made sensible progress in regard to morals. (7) The rela-
tion of the natu®al sciences to different ages and to their philosophy; * *” * Christianity
and mental cultivation as lending each other mutual support.”

The interest which this work excited in Germany led to its translation under the title
of Der Geist in der Natur, (The Soul in Nature). [It was also translated into English. ]
182 MEMOIR OF OERSTED.

dinavian nations might thus become, as it were, three branches drawing in com-
mon their intellectual nourishment from the same radical stock.

It was never the misfortune of Oersted to witness any diminution of reputa-
tion. In 18446, in the sixty-ninth year of his age, he again traveled into Ger-
many, France and England. In an interesting notice of Oersted read 7th Novem-
ber, 1851, before the Roy al Society of Sciences of Copenhagen, M. Forchham-
mer, who had accompanied him, tells us that this journey resembled an ovation.
In England, especially, Oersted was received by the most eminent politicians
and men of science with a distinction which has rarely been the portion of a
stranger, and, above all, of a simple savant. His purpose was to take part in
the meeting at Southampton of the British Association for the Advancement of
Science. In one of the sessions of that body, Sir John Herschel, made an
address to him, remarkable for the bigaal and intelligent justice which it ren-
dered to his scientific labors,

Honored in his public, Oersted was happy in his private life. His younger
brother, whom he had taught to read under the roof of the wig-maker of Rud-
kjébing, ever continued to be his faithful and inumate companion. The latter
had himself acquired great celebrity by his labors in philosophy and jurispru-
dence, and had filled the position of president of the Royal Society of Copen-
hagen. Only with the death of the elder brother terminated the auspicious
habit, contracted in childhood, of daily exchanging their impressions and ideas.
In 1814, Oersted had espoused Mademoiselle | Brigitte Ballum, daughter of a
Lutheran minister of Kjedby, in the isle of Méen, and found in her an accom-
plished companion, whose character, admirably adapted to his own, formed their
mutual happiness. Of five daughters and three sons born of this union, only
three of the former and two of the latter survived Oersted, to be the consolation
of their mother. One of his daughters is married to M. Sharling, professor of
chemistry in the University of Copenhagen, long known for important researches
on respiration.*

Around Oersted, however, there existed a still more extensive family. It was
composed, we might say, of the whole city of Copenhagen, where he was as
much loved as esteemed, as much esteemed as admired. Of this his fellow-
citizens gave him a touching proof in the latter days of his life. The day (7th
November, 1850) which marked the fiftieth anniversary of his entrance upon
public Patene and was what is called in the north his jubilee, was celebrated by
a general festival in Denmark, with the somewhat quaint forms of Teutonic
eood- fellowship, but accompanied by a substantial testimonial of gratitude to
the man who was regarded as the honor of the whole nation. It had been
determined by the friends, the pupils, and indeed the simple admirers of the phi-
losopher, to make this the occasion of securing to him for the remainder of his
life the possession of Fasanenhof, (Pheasant- -court,) a delightful summer resi-
dence in the garden of Fredericksburg. The choice of the dwelling was so
much the more delicate and so much the more pleasing to Oersted from its hav-
ing been previously the habitation of Ochlenschlager, the friend of his youth.

‘Oersted was conducted tiither on the day of his jubilee. At the same time
the King raised him to the rank of councillor of private conferences, a title
never before conferred on a professor of the university, and much higher than
that of councillor of ordinary conferences, which Oersted had borne for ten
years. His bust, executed by a celebrated statuary, was set up at Fasanenberg
in presence of an immense crowd, in which were intermingled the most illustrious
personages of the kingdom. ‘The rector of the university formally presented

* His treatise on respiration was published in 1843, some months before the researches of
MM. Andral and Gavarret on the same subject. (See Comptes Rendus of the Academy of
Sciences, t. xvii, p- 1205.) M. Alexandre Oersted, son of the celebrated jurist M. André
Sandée Oersted, and nephew of the renowned physicist, is at present professor of botany in
the University of Copenhagen.
MEMOIR OF OERSTED. 183

him with the gold ring of a doctor, on which was engraved a head of Minerva
encircled with diamonds. ‘The Seignior y of the association of students notified
him that he had been elected an honorary member of that society, and a depu-
tation of the Guild of arts and trades tendered him thanks for what he had done
in behalf of the industry of the country.

‘To all the discourses addressed to him Oersted replied with a force, a com-
posure and a choice of expressions which surprised the assistants. ‘The choir of
the students commenced and terminated the féte with a chant, the words of
which had been composed by one of the best poets of Denmark. In the even-
ing a procession with torches and a new chant by the students greeted the object
of this enthusiastic commemoration. :

The day on which classes so numerous and so diversified had vied with each
other in testifying for him their affection and admiration must have been to
Oersted one of the sweetest of his life. He had received from his sovereign and
his fellow-citizens the most exalted testimonials of esteem with which any Dan-
ish savant had been ever honored, and, in spite of his modesty, his conscience
could not have failed to insinuate to him that he was not unworthy of them.
The hope of passing his last years, surrounded by his family and dedicated to a
tranquil scientific activity, in the smiling retreat which his countrymen had
thought proper to offer him, was calculated to blend the satisfaction of the heart
with the consecration of his renown. Yet this pleasing hope was but a decep-
tive gleam, and although his mind, still vigorous, and his frame replete with life,
seemed yet to promise Jength of days, it was not granted to Oersted so much as
to take possession of his new domicil, for before the return of spring he had
ceased to live.

He died at Copenhagen, 9th March, 1851, at the age of seventy-three years and
seven months, removed unexpectedly and in but a few days, by a simple
catarrh contracted by studying of a morning in too cold an apartment. His
death was a profound and general grief for the city of Copenhagen and for all
Denmark.* In that grief, this Academy, in common with the whole scientific
world, bore no indifferent or simulated part.

Oersted was replaced in the list of our eight foreign associates by the cele-
brated chemist of Berlin, M. Mitscherlich, to whom crystallography is indebted
for the most important progress it has made since Haiiy. M. Mitscherlich had,
in his youth, associated himself with the labors of the Scandinavian scientific
school; and this choice, justified by other reasons, might be regarded as a new
and last homage rendered to the memory of Oersted as well as to that of Ber-
zelius.

No scientific body had been backward in crowning with its suffrage the great
discovery of Oersted. ‘To make an enumeration -of more than fifty societies
which inscribed his name among those of their correspondents or their foreign
associates, would be little less than to draw up a complete list of the princi ipal
Academies of the two hemispheres. More than one sovereign had been emulous
of associating himself with the movement of public opinion in his behalf. He
was advanced to the class of grand-cross of the Danish order of Danebrog,
grand-cross of the Swedish order of the Polar Star, member of the order of
Merit of Prussia, and officer of the Legion of Honor.

Oersted was not only eminent as a phy sicist, profound as a thinker, he was
aman of rare excellence of character. Author of one of thecapital discoveries of
the century, promoter of one of the schools which confer most honor on his country,
founder of many important scientific and literary institutions, dear to the youth
and to the public of Copenhagen, whom he had charmed during 50 years by a
system of poetic and philosophic ideas in harmony with their natural instincts,

* Two-hundred thousand persons, preceded*by the princes of the royal family, followed
the body of Oersted to its resting place.
184. MEMOIR OF OERSTED. .

he had never failed to avail himself of the credit which his high position in
science had given him with an enlightened government, and even of the friend-
ship of a well-informed King*, to render innumerable services to studious youth,
to savants less fortunate than himself, to a multitude of persons whom he recog-

nized as worthy of his countenance. Had his characteristic modesty not equaled —

his other merits, he also might have adopted the boast ascribed by a poet to his
hero:
Some little good I’ve done—it is my noblest work.

* Prince Christian of Denmark, who reigned afterward under the title of Christian VIII,
was an eminent mineralogist and deeply versed in many parts of the sciences.

NOTICE OF CHRISTIAN nine see THE DISCOVERER OF

Translated for the Smithsonian Institution, from the ‘* Avchives des Sciences Physiques et
naturelles,’ Geneva ‘

The death of C. F. Schoenbein has sent a pang of regret not only through
Switzerland but through the scientific world. We cannot better fulfil the painful
duty of reviewing the life of this eminent man than by borrowing the following
pages from a notice published in the Basle Nachrichten, for which we are probably
indebted to the pen of Professor Hagenbach :

The mortal remains of Christian Frederic Schoenbein have been carried to
their last resting place. He has been so suddenly arrested in a life full of activity,
so abruptly called away, that we can hardly realize he has ceased to be among
us. These pages which we now consecrate to his memory can only faintly express
the sentiments awakened in us by the loss of one so much beloved and so much
mourned. 'The complete appreciation of his scientific career cannot be given in
a few rapid sketches.

Schoenbein was born the 18th of October, 1799, at Metzingen, Suabia. From
his parents he receiveda limited, though religious, education. He left the paternal
root at the early age of 14, in order to enter an establishment for the manufactory
of chemicals ; buta mere practical career could not satisfy his aspirations; the
occupation only awakened in his youthful mind an ardent desire for the more
elevated science of chemistry. He commenced the study of Latin, and went to
the universities of Tiibingen and Erlangen. After he had finished his studies at
the universities, he tanght chemistry and physics in a school at Keihan, near
Rudolstadt. Afterwards, he pursued his scientific education in England and in
France, and at length, in 1828, went to Basle, where he was installed as lecturei
on physics and chemistry. This office was formerly intrusted to Counsellos.
Merian, who still continues his active career among us. An attack of illness
obliged him to discontinue this course of instruction, by which he had rekindled
the love of those sciences which of old were so brilliantly represented at Basle
by such men as James and Daniel Bernoulli.

In 1835 Schoenbein was elected full professor of physics and chemistry in the
University of Basle, and discharged the duties of this position without interruption
until 1852, when the professorship was divided into two distinct chairs, he retaining
that of chemistry and continuing in it until the time of his death. Thus, Schoen-
bein has been connected with our university nearly 40 years, and has never, except
temporarily, during that period quitted Basle; his two longest journeys, the one
to England the other to Germany, are well known from the accounts of them
which he has published, and to which the mingling of serious and humorous
observations with scientific reflections and sketches of personal adventures give
a peculiar charm.

Schoenbein was married in the year 1835, but the tranquil happiness which
he found in domestic life was unfortunately disturbed by the sudden death of
his eldest daughter in 1859, an event which sadly afflicted his entire household.

His energies were unreservedly consecrated to science, and he always remained
faithful to the counsels of his master, the celebrated Schelling, who taught him
to regard her as his bride. ‘Thus all his faculties, all his efforts were continually
exerted to draw nearer each day to scientific trath, and to penetrate ever more
profoundly into the mysteries of the forces which govern the changes of the
186 NOTICE OF CHRISTIAN FREDERIC SCHOENBEIN,

material universe. He worked with ardor and an indefatigable perseverance,
and all the time he could command was employed in his experiments; even the
short wintry days found him at early morn in his laboratory. When astonish-
ment was expressed that one of his advanced age should be so eager in the pur-
suit of science, he was wont to say, with a smile, that he knew “there remained
for him but little time in which to work, and that there was still much flax upon
his distaff.”

He preserved to the end all the freshness of his faculties as well as the juvenile
enthusiasm with which from the first he had made known his discoveries to his
colleagues and to the scientific world.

Among the works of Schoenbein we may first mention those which relate to
subjects which are neither entirely physical nor entirely chemical, but which
rather appertain to both, such as his researches upon the passivity of iron and
of other metals ; the changes of color of bodies under the influence of temperature ;
the chemical action of luminous rays, and finally the theory of voltaic electricity.
In this latter domain he has thrown much light upon the well-known controversy
relative to the theory of contact and chemical action; in studying with impar-
tiality the two opposite opinions, and in demonstrating wherein they were faulty:
He ascribes the origin of voltaic electricity to chemical action, although he showed
a positive difference between the electricity developed in the open current of the
battery and that which produces the curent and the chemical decomposition
which are manifested when the current is closed.

His researches on the voltaic current date from 1836 to 1840; since that epoch
his views relative to the source of the voltaic current have become gradually
adopted by physicists in general. In 1839, while in England at the meeting of
the British Association, he made the personal acquaintance of the celebrated
English lawyer and physicist, Grove, who presented at the session a small voltaic
battery, of which the cells were constructed of the bowls of tobacco pipes; this
was the first exhibition of the celebrated constant battery which bears the name
of its inventor. As Schoenbein had been engaged on a similar investigation,
we soon see the two physicists pursuing the same object. They planned one of
these batteries of large size, and thus produced an apparatus which, in proportion
to its dimensions, exhibited an unusual electro-motive force. This first large
constant battery is still preserved in the Museum of Physics at Basle, a souvenir of
Schoenbein and of Heussler, a friend of science brought up among us, who bore
the expense of its construction and gave it to our academy. 'The possession of
this apparatus gave to Schoenbein a fresh incentive to resume with new energy
his researches upon the relations of electric and chemical forces. Thanks to this
battery it became possible to decompose water into its elements in greater quan-
tities than had ever before been done; it was during an experiment of this kind
that, in the autumn of 1839, he per ceived a peculiar odor from the oxygen obtained
by the decomposition of water similar to that produced when a large electrical
machine is in active operation, or when a discharge of lightning ‘takes place
between a cloud and the earth. This odor he at first attributed to a new sub-
stance mixed in small quantities with the oxygen, and as this body ought to have
a special name, after consulting with his colleague, M. W. Kischer, he gave it
that of ozone.

His first publication of the discovery of ozone excited but little attention in the
scientific world. But nowise disheartened by this, he continued his investigations
with a persistency only to be met with among those who are thoroughly possessed
with a subject. He pursued during 29 years, or what may be considered the
active life of a man, the same end, the study of the chemical properties of oxygen ;
a labor which, though it might appear to lead to no valuable results, is really
connected with the properties of one ot the most important elements of our globe.

In consequence of his.own researches and those of other physicists, Schoenbein
was soon forced to renounce the idea that ozone was an elementary substance, and

2
THE DISCOVERER OF OZONE. 187

torecognize in it a peculiar condition of oxygen in which it is endowed with
special properties.

We cannot here enumerate the many discoveries connected with this subject,
and still less retrace the important steps that have been made in the domain of
chemistry and of physiology in connection with it; we must limit ourselves to
the remark that Schoenbein has contributed much to enlarge the field of science
in this direction, and as the names of Priestley, Scheele, and Lavoisier are men-
tioned in connection with the early discoveries relative to oxygen, so the name
of Schoenbein will always be recalled when we speak of the new form under
which this element appears, and the varied action, when thus changed, it pro-
duces upon organic and inorganic bodies,

Among the discoveries which have rendered Schoenbein known, even beyond
the scientific world, we must mention that of gun-cotton.’ This substance was
not doomed merely to administer to the malevolent passions of men, and to play
adestructive part in war, as its name would seem to indicate; the subsequent dis-
covery of Schoenbein gave it functions of a mgre pacific character ; a solution of
gun-cotton in ether forms collodion, an admirable dressing for wounds, and a pre-
cious ingredient in the art of photography. The first application of collodion as a
medicinal agent was made at the instance of Schoenbein by his friend, Dr.
Jung, of Basle.

The tardiness that Schoenbein found in the acceptance of his ideas on their
first presentation was afterwards fully compensated by the approbation they
received from all parts of the scientific world. The most distinguished philoso-
phers of Germany, of France, and of England adopted essentially by his views, and
several learned societies, among others the academies of France and Munich,
elected him a corresponding member.

His manner of working deserves to be noticed. However important the results
at which he arrived, the means that he employed for obtaining them were extremely
simple. ‘There is no doubt that the great progress male in modern times in the
construction of apparatus and instruments of research has had an important influ-
ence on the development of science, but the investigations of Schoenbein show
us what can be effected, at least in some lives, without the aid of costly appliances.

Schoenbein was so much occupied with his special researches that it is not
Surprising he did not keep entirely posted up in the general progress of chemistry.
Though he by no means confined himself exclusively to the special objects of
his investigations, yet he could not give to other branches that study which was
necessary to render them fully appreciated. He did not adopt the views and the
methods of the leading chemists of this day; he often compared the production
of the varied combinations of the same elements with the rotation of a kaleidoscope,
giving constantly new images, doubtless amusing, but not very instructive. He
also frequently compared chemical phenomena to a theatrical exhibition, in which
many regard only the denouement of the last act, while it is often in the develop-
ment of the drama that the most interesting truths are exhibited. In the judg-
ment which he formed of the ideas of other philosophers, Schoenbein may have
been at times somewhat prejudiced. ‘The vivacity of his mind often presented to
him in too strong a light the defects in the conceptions of others, while the pre-
occupation of his thoughts with his own ideas left him no time to reflect upon them
with calmness and impartiality.

[is peculiarity as a professor will remain as a precious souvenir to many. It
follows, from what we have said relative to his manner of work, that his specialty
was not to exhibit the actual state of science and to deduce from it the various
theories which have been devised. The most remarkable feature of his course
was the ardor of his connection and the clearness with which he discussed his
favorite subjects ; it was not only instruction in science but also the love of science
itself that he imparted to his pupils, and for which many among them will always
remember him with gratitude.
188 NOTICE OF CHRISTIAN FREDERIC SCHOENBEIN, ETC.

Schoenbein did not limit his instruction to the course of the university ; he under-
stood in the best possible manner how to impart his knowledge to others. Above
all, we should speak of the activity which he imparted to the Society of Natural
Sciences of Basle, of which, during 40 years, he was a prominent member ; he con-
sidered it as a dear friend, to whom he always first confided his most important
discoveries. The published proceedings of this society give the entire series of
the results of his scientific labors. ‘The Helvetic Society of Natural Sciences lost
in him one of its most zealous and valued members; he almost always animated
the meetings of the physical section by interesting communications, and this year,
at the session of Einsiedeln, his absence was noticed and deeply regretted; the
society, feeling the want of his cheering presence, transmitted to him by tele-
graph a friendly salutation ; alas, this found him upon a sick bed, soon to become
his bed of death. All the inhabitants of Basle, interested in sciences, were
indebted to him for the series of interesting lectures which he addressed to the
public of that city. In former days he gave complete courses of popular instruc-
tion, and in later years he did not refuse to share the efforts of younger men in
the organizations for the same purpose. But his enthusiasm for instructing
extended beyond the confines of the lecture-room, in society, in the street, even
at the refreshment saloons he knew how to give a scientific turn to conversation
without assuming the pedantic tone of a master. Schoenbein knew how to gain
the hearts of all by his amiable qualities, and consequently numbered many
friends. But his general popularity did not prevent him from contracting close
friendships, to which he remained faithful during life; he was intimately attached to
several of his colleagues, of whom some have preceded him to the tomb ; the youngest
of his associates felt that it was not only benevolence but a true friendship which
attached him to them. Among the foreign philosophers with whom he was on
terms the most intimate, and with whom_he regularly corresponded, we may
mention Faraday, Grove, Liebig, Wéhler, Eisenlohr, Pettenhofer, Sainte Claire
Deville, and Sebetellen de Metz, author of a well-known work on ozone.

The meetings of the Helvetic Society furnished him the opportunity of inter-
course with the savants of Switzerland. He was particularly associated with
M. M. Escher, Studer de la Rive, Pictet, Heir, Desor, Lang, and many younger
philosophers who also shared his ‘friendship.

If we would sum up in asingle sentence the character of Schoenbein, we should
say that at all points of view “he represented an individual of peculiar develop-
ment; he was an original in the best sense of the term, and such men ought to be
more appreciated, as they become ever more rare in our age of universal medi-
ocrity. Schoenbein was a complete man, for although an absorbing idea, the
love of science, governed his entire life, yet, all his other faculties had received
an entire and vigorous development. His general health was good; he was
hardened against exterior influences. It is but a short time since he worked
during the middle of winter in an unheated laboratory. For several years he
suffered occasionally from attacks of gout, from which, however, he always com-
pletely recovered. On this account he ’ resorted, during the vacation of last
summer, to Wildbad, thinking to fortify himself for the approaching winter. In
returning, however, he was detained at Sauersberg, near Baden Baden, at the
house of a friend by an abscess on his neck, which, rapidly. assuming a dangerous
character, rendered his return home impossible. The greatest care and medical
aid could not arrest the march of this disease, and on the 29th of August he died
peacefully in the house of his kind and attentive host. His obsequies took place
at Basle, the 2d of September. ‘The funeral was conducted by friends, among
whom was Eisenlohr, who had visited him on his death-bed. <A long train of
colleagues, pupils, relations, and admirers accompanied him with emotions of
deep sorrow to his last resting place.
APPENDIX TO NOTICE OF SCHOENBELN.

[The phenomenon called passivity of metals mentioned in the foregoing eulogy
as one of the discoveries of Schoenbein, consists in the fact that iron, for example,
which, under ordinary conditions, is readily disolved in nitric acid, may while in
a peculiar state remain for weeks in the same liquid without being acted on.
This phenomenon is, without doubt, due to a galvanic action, which, when the
iron is first plunged into the liquid deposits a coating of oxide which protects
the metal from the further action of the acid. ‘To illustrate this let a piece of
clean iron wire be immersed in strong nitric acid together with a slip of platinum,
the former being introduced first and the two connected with the ends of the wire
of a galvanometer, a powerful current will be inducted at the first completion of
the circuit, the iron acting as the positive metal, but the strength of this current
will quickly decline to a small amount and then remain constant for several
days. The iron thus treated is no longer attacked when plunged alone into
nitric acid, and is said to be passive. Instead of using a galvanometer, which
was merely introduced to prove the existence of a galvanic current, the same
effect will be produced by touching the iron wire while the acid is acting on
it with a piece of gold or platinum, also immersed in the liquid, the action will
immediately cease and the iron become passive. When an iron wire in the
passive state is plunged into nitric acid and the upperend touched with another iron
Wire, as soon as dipped into the acid the latteralso becomes passive. In these experi-
ment, the iron, which is rendered passive, acts as the zinc element of a galvanic
pair, andis rapidly covered with an oxide which protects it from further action except
of a very feeble character. In this state it may serve as the copper or negative
metal of a galvanic pair, and really performs this part in the second experiment
in which a galvanic couple is formed by the contact, while in the acid, of the
passive and non-passive iron. The formation of an oxide sufficiently thick to
protect the iron is not produced in nitric acid, of ordinary strength, unless a gal-
vanic arrangement such as we have described is adopted, but if it be plunged into
very strong acid the action, though violent for an instant, will soon cease, and the
metal assume the passive condition. If this wire be withdrawn from the acid
and exposed to the air for a short time, or rubbed with sandpaper, it will resume
its ordinary state. An iron wire may also be rendered passive by holding it for
a few minutes in the flame of a spirit lamp.

Other metals—namely, silver, copper, tin, aluminum, and especially bismuth,
may be brought into the passive state by the methods we have mentioned, but
the effect is not as marked as with iron. Dr. Hare constructed a galvanic
battery in which the platinum was represented by iron in the passive state, but
the action was capricious; though at one moment powerful at another it became
almost nothing.

Another discovery of Schoenbein, mentioned in the foregoing sketch, is that
of gun-cotton, a very explosive substance, produced by steeping cotton-wool in
fuming nitric acid, or in a mixture of nitric and sulphuric acids, afterwards washing
and drying the product. This discovery was,announced by Schoenbein in 1845,
but the mode of preparation was kept secret. It was, however, soon rediscovered
independently by Bettger and Otto, while Kopt improved the process of pro-
duction by the addition of sulphuric acid to the active liquid. From the first it
was proposed as a substitute for gunpowder, over which it possesses the advan-
tages of burning without smoke, and leaving no residuum to foul the chamber of
the cannon. Large establishments were erected for its preparation, but the
190 NOTICE OF SCHOENBEIN. ’

occurrence of several severe accidents during its production, attended with great
loss of life, caused it to be regarded as too dangerous for military purposes, “and,
accordingly, its manufacture was for a time almost abandoned. * Within the last
few years, ‘how ever, the attempt to make use of it as a substitute for gunpowder
has been renewed ‘and brought to a successful issue by an Austrian officer of
artillery.

Gun-cotton is used in military operations in the form of a spun yarn, in which
it conducts combustion slowly i in the open air at a rate of not more than one
foot per second. ‘This yarn is used to form cartridges for large guns, by being
wound round a bobbin, so as to form a hollow spindle and thus give an interior
surface for the action of the flame and the production of the most effective explo-
sion. The effect of the explosion of gun-cotton under water is remarkable; the
action is so instantaneous that the water has no time to yield, and consequently
transmits the impulse as a solid material; hence it is unnecessary to place the
charge in immediate contact with the body to be destroyed. In one experiment
two parallel rows of piers, 10 inches thick, in water 13 feet deep, with stones
between them, were blown to pieces by a barrel of 100 pounds of gun-cotton,
placed at a distance of three feet from one side and eight feet under water. It
raade a breach of 15 feet, and threw the water to a height of 200 feet. In another
experiment with 400 pounds of gun-cotton a vessel was blown up, the pieces pro-
jected into the air to a height of 400 feet, and the fishes for nearly half a mile
around were so stunned as to float on the water. The rapidity of expansion and
great elastic force of gun-cotton renders it a valuable agent in blasting. Its
power when exerted against a great resistance, as in the case of splitting a rock,
when compared with that of gunpowder, is in the ratio of 64 to 1.

The discovery which has rendered the name of Schoenbein most snhenaively
known is that of ozone. Before the end of the last century Van Marum, of Hol-
land, had observed that when an electric discharge was passed through oxygen
the latter acquired a peculiar smell and the power of attacking mercury, but it
was not until 1840 that any notice was taken of these facts, when Schoenbein
published his first paper on ozone. In this he announced the fact that in the
decomposition of water, by means of a galvanic battery, an odorous gas was given
off at the positive pole, and that this might be preserved for a long time in a
well-closed vessel. He also pointed out the fact of the similarity of this odor to
that which accompanies a discharge of electricity, especially from points, and
also the slow oxidation of phosphorus. Opinions as to the cause of the odor
were long divided, but through the experiments of Schoenbein and the investi-
gations of Andrews, and Tait, and others, it is now generally referred to oxygen
in a changed or allotropic condition.

One of the simplest methods of exhibiting the production of ozone consists in
transmitting a current of oxygen through a glass tube, into the sides of which a
pair of platinum wires have been sealed, with their points a small distance apart.
On connecting one of these wires with the prime conductor of an electric machine,
in active operation, while the other is connected with the ground, the odor of
ozone is immediately perceptible in the stream of gas. But in order to produce
a maximum effect it is necessary to transmit the discharge silently in the form of
a brush or a star, since sparks appear to produce an opposite effect, and are,
therefore, to be avoided. Ozonized air may also be obtained by placing a stick
of clean, moist phosphorus in a bottle of air or oxygen, when, after an hour or
so, the smell of ozone will be obvious. The stick of phosphorus is then to be
taken out and the gas washed with water to remove the phosphorous acid. Or
ozone may at once be produced by plunging a heated glass rod into a mixture
of air and a vapor of ether. The galvanic decomposition of water acidulated
with sulphuric acid, or better, perhaps, with the addition of chromic acid, affords
at the positive pole a large supply of ozone. 'The general characteristics of
ozone are those of an oxydizing agent; it corrodes organic matter, as shown in

2
. NOTICE OF SCHOENBEIN. 191

its energetic action on the caoutchoue tubes through which it is conducted. It
bleaches most vegetable colors; it changes the black sulphide of lead into white
sulphate, the yellow ferrocyanide of potassium into the red ferrocyanide. It oxy-
dizes moist filings of iron, copper, mercury, and silver. In some cases, however,
ozone acts as a deoxy dizing agent. It decomposes peroxide of iron and barium,
It exists in variable quantities sin the atmosphere, and its presence is indicated
by what is called ozone test-paper, namely, paper steeped in iodine of potassium,
which is rendered brown by the liberation of the iodine. If starch be added to
the solution in which the paper is steeped the ozone produces a blue color; but
according to some authorities this test is not as reliable as that of the solution
of the iodide of potassium alone. As ozone is an energetic oxydizing agent, it
combines with animal matter and other impurities in the air, and “hence ‘its
absence, as evinced by the want of coloration in the test-paper, is considered as
an indication of the presence of malaria in the atmosphere of the locality in
which such indications are observed. It is evident from what has been stated
that ozone must be produced in the atmosphere by electrical discharges, but
whether it exists from other sources in the air is at present unknown. Neither
are the test-papers we have mentioned decisive proofs of its relative quantity,
since there are other substances generally present in the air which are competent
to produce similar effects.

One of the most plausible hypotheses as to the nature of ozone is that of Clan-
sius, who considers all gases, whether simple or compound, as made up of a num-
ber of atoms combined together to form molecules. That, for instance, a mole-
cule of oxygen consists of at least two atoms, and that it may happen that a
portion of each of the great number of molecules which exists in a given quantity
of oxygen can be decomposed into two atoms which distribute themselves in
their separate state among the remaining undecomposed molecules, and that
these isolated atoms, which in their relations to foreign bodies must differ from
the molecules of ordinary oxygen, constitute ozone.

In accordance with this hypothesis, the production of ozone by passing elec-
tricity through oxygen or atmospheric air may be attributed simply to the repul-
sive power of the electricity by virtue of which the two atoms of oxygen, being
charged with the same kind of electricity, are driven apart, as in the case of the
well known experiment of two pith-balls. When oxygen is evolved in the
decomposition of water, a similar repulsive separation takes place at each pole
or electrode, but most of the atoms immediately combine again upon the elec-

trodes to form ordinary oxygen. A small portion only of the atoms remain ina
separate condition, and these constitute thé ozone with which the oxygen is
mixed. Finally, in the case in which ozone is developed during the oxidation
of phosphorus in moist air or oxygen, we may suppose that the atoms which
make up the oxygen molecules are in different states or degrees of electricity ;
that one of these tends more energetically to combine with the phosphorus than
the other; and that the latter, removed from the sphere of its attraction by
the heat generated in the combination of the former, remains in an isolated con-
dition. The fact that these atoms do not immediately recombine into molecules
to form ordinary oxygen may be due to their similar electrical state. When
ozonized air is heated, the ozone disappears, because the high temperature deter-
mines the union of the atoms ‘as it does of hydrogen and oxygen in the
application of a flame to a mixture of these two gases. It has ‘been found
that the ozonification of oxygen by the electrical spark or brush can only be
carried on to a certain extent if the ozone remain mixed with the oxygen; but if
the ozone be removed as rapidly as it is formed by the oxidation of silver , all
the oxygen may be gradually converted into ozone. In this case, when the
number of separate atoms become too great in a given space, they are brought
within the sphere of mutual attraction ; combination ensues, and the ozone dis-
192 NOTICE OF SCHOENBEIN.

appears as fast as it is produced in the reproduction of ordinary oxygen. The
power of combination with metals and other bodies exhibited by ozone becomes
a consequence of this hypothesis, inasmuch as separate atoms must from analogy
have more combining power with foreign bodies than atoms which are already
in combination with each other.

The hypothesis of Clausius is ‘very suggestive, and with a few supplementary
assumptions can be made not only to render a plausible explanation of known
phenomena, but also to indicate new experiments. It must be stated, however,
that it is at variance, as presented in the foregoing sketch, with the experiments
of Soret on the density of ozone. This chemist finds, from an elaborate inves-
tigation, that when ordinary oxygen is converted into ozone its density is
increased instead of being diminished, as it should be, according to the hypoth-
esis of Clausias. This result was arrived at by two different methods, that of
absorption and that of diffusion. Both gave approximately the same result,
from which it appears that the density of ozone is one and a half times that of oxy-
gen. According tothe hypothesis of Clausius a molecule of oxygen consists of two
atoms, and may be represented by 00, while an atom of ozone would be indica~-
ted by 0. From this it is evident that the density of ozone should be only one-
half of that of oxygen. In order to make the hypothesis of Clausius agree with
the result obtained by Soret, we must suppose that while an element of oxygen
consists of two atoms, and is represented by 00, an element of ozone con-
sists of three atoms represented by 00,0; that when by electrical repulsion oy
other action, the two atoms of oxygen are separated, one of them immediately
unites with a molecule of ordinary oxygen and the other to a second molecule,
forming two molecules of ozone out of three molecules of oxygen. Or, in other
words, by the decomposition of one of three molecules 00 00 00 of oxygen, and
recomposition with the remaining two, we shall have two molecules 00,0 00,0 of
ozone. It is not necessary that we should limit a molecule of oxygen to two
atoms; on the contrary, we may suppose that it consists of an indefinite number
provided we admit that under the action of electricity or other forces it is
divided into two portions, each containing an equal number of atoms. In the
present state of science, if we adopt the atomic constitution of matter, we must
consider what was formerly assumed as the ultimate atoms of bodies, as groups’
of atoms held in relative position by attracting and repelling forces. It is only
by an assumption of this kind that we are enabled to obtain a mechanical con-
ception of matter in any degree applicable to various chemical and physical
phenomena. | J. H.
MEMOIR OF ENCKHE.

By G. HAGEN.

Translated for the Smithsonian Institution by C. A. Alexander*

Last year died the director of our observatory, Professor Encke. Besides his
other scientific and serviceable labors, he acted for eight and thirty years as
secretary of the physico-mathematical classof our Academy, and during that long
interval administered the affairs pertaining to the office with the utmost dis-
interestedness, skill and discretion.

Johann Franz Encke was born in Hamburg, September 23, 1791. His
father, archdeacon in the Jacobi-church at that place, died four years afterwards.
Although his mother brought to the rearing of her eight children remarkable
energy of character, yet the moderate pension which the family still drew from
the church by no means sufficed for the expense of extensive studies.

As a preparation tor the business of life Encke first resorted to a private school
kept by Hipp, the author of several mathematical works, and later, from 1805
to 1810, frequented the Johanneum, where Hipp was still his teacher. Under
these circumstances he very early developed a singular predilection for mathe-
matical studies. At this time he voluntarily imposed on himself the task of
repeatedly going over the collection of problems propounded by Meyer-Hirsch,
and is stated in the parting certificate awarded him, October 11, 1810, to have
been a model to his school-fellows for diligence, correctness of deportment, and
modesty.

It was now that he expressed to his mother the wish to study astronomy, and
his two elder brothers, who had entered into trade and who recognized his talent,
devoted themselves to the furtherance of his purpose, which they were enabled
to gratify through the intervention of the pastor, Schafer. During a year he
attended a gymnasium in Hamburg, and proceeded in 1811, shortly after the
death of his mother, to Géttingen. Here an older fellow-countryman named
Gerling introduced him to Gauss, whom he was accustomed afterwards to regard
as pre-eminently his instructor, and to whom he referred almost exclusively his
mathematical and astronomical culture. Esvecially instructive did he consider
an entirely private course (privatissimum) which, together with Gerling, he
attended in the summer of 1812, at the residence of Gauss, who, on his own
part, in a letter to Schumacher of this date, already calls Encke “ his highly
accomplished and well-informed pupil.”

Political events led Encke, in the beginning of 1813, to enter into the Han-
seatic artillery service. He was engaged in the bloody fight for the fortress of
Géhrde, September 16, where Wallmoden attacked and defeated the corps
which Davoust had despatched thither under Pecheux. He also took part, the
following month, in 'Tettenborn’s bold advance upon Bremen. In the honorable
discharge granted him, June 24, 1814, he is styled sergeant-major of cavalry.

He resumed his studies in Gottingen, but as the war broke out anew the fol-
lowing spring, he at once decided, in company with his younger brother who

*Abhandlungen der kénigl. Academie der Wissenschaften zu Berlin, 1866. Read 5th
July, 1866, before the Royal Academy of Sciences at Berlin

13 8

194 MEMOIR OF ENCKE.

was studying theology, to serve under the Prussian standard. He seems to have
affixed to his offer of service a testimonial wherein Gauss certifies that Encke
had “at first attended and afterwards borne an active part in his manifold astro-
nomical occupations and labors, and had manifested throughout distinguished
talent, great diligence, and uncommon knowledge.” ‘The brothers were required
to undergo an examination, which, in the case > of our astronomer, at least, was
never repeated. He received, June 10, 1815, the commission of second heu-
tenant of artillery, and was first ordered to Thorn, and later to Graudenz.

Encke would, probably, like his brother, have still further pursued a military
career had not Von Lindenau, the director of the Seeberg observatory, at the
recommendation of Gauss and Gerling, offered him in the beginning of 1816 the
place of adjunct therein. ‘This induced him to ask a discharge from the army,
which was accorded on the 8th of March. Hereupon he went once more to
Géttingen, and remained there till July 5, 1816, when his nomination to the
observatory was confirmed. The appointment was by no means dazzling. ‘The
salary was but $15 a month, and the place of service consisted of a garret so
lowly that he touched the ceilmg when he raised his hand above his head. Not
the less did there go forth from hence such labors as soon turned the general
attention on the young astronomer. With so much zeal did Encke apply him-
self to his duties that ‘only once a week did he leave the observatory and go to
Gotha.

He first occupied himself with the newly discovered small planets, especially
Vesta, whose orbit he traced with superior accuracy, and of whose apparent motion
he published the ephemerides. Another labor, if one of subordinate importance,
was not without consequence by placing him in friendly correspondence with
Bessel. The Fundamenta Astronomia had been printed at Gotha, and Lindenan,
on whom the correction of the press devolved, transferred this task to his assistant.
Encke, however, did not confine himself to a comparison of the manuscript with
the impression, but repeated the calculations. Hence Bessel s says, in the preface
to his work, “Mr. Encke, who occupies the second place in the Seeberg
observatory, but who would be an ornament to the first, has given himself with
unsurpassed skill to the revision of the imprint, even to the detection and cor-
rection of the errors of the manuscript. I must acknowledge this with the more
thankfulness, inasmuch as bis timeis worthily occupied with his own astronomical
researches, and between us no other bond exists than that which embraces all
who devote themselves with zeal to the same science.”

The first of the more important labors of Encke relates to the comet of 1812.*

This had been observed for two months at all the greater observatories. Encke
had, at his first residence in Gottingen, and therefore immediately on the appear-
ance of the comet, begun the calculation which, in the well-considered and careful
employment of numerous observations and the exact execution of extended com-
putations, takes rank with the most admirable investigations of this nature. It
was crowned with a special result, since an elliptical orbit corresponded with
the revolution of nearly 71 years.

How important this discovery was considered at that time is seen from a letter
of Bessel’s: “You have adduced the strongest proof for the shortness of the
revolution of this comet, and placed the result in the clearest light. We have
now, since we begin more narrowly to observe and to calculate the comets, quite
other views to maintain. Halley’s comet seemed only to be an exception. As
regards that of Olbers, I scarcely trusted my own calculation, as this gave but a
middling revolution. Yours is now the third. Our successors , through an exact
investigation of the planet-masses, will be enabled to recognize the true move-

fo)
ment of the heavenly bodies witha perfection of which we have scarcely an idea.”

— the second volume of the Zeitschrift fur Astronomic und verwandte Wissenschaften,
p- el seq.

‘MEMOIR OF ENCKE. 195

Encke immediately thereafter addressed himself to a similar yet more tronble-
some inquiry. The editors of the Zeitschrift fiir Astronomie had chosen as the
thesis for the prize offered by Cotta, the computation of the orbit of the comet of
1680. This comet, on account of its luminosity, the length of its tail, which
comprised 80 degrees, as well as the duration of its visibility, had presented one
of the grandest phenomena of which the history of the heavens makes mention.
It had been extensively observed by the astronomers of the period, especially
by Flamsteed, Newton, and Cassini, though the observations had been limited
to the measurement of the distances of the fixed stars, and the comets’ place had
been in part only estimated, inasmuch as the observers had been content to sup-
pose the body bisected by two great circles drawn through four neighboring
stars, which circles only approximately touched it.

Encke wrote to Bessel that, at the special request of Lindenau, he would attempt
the solution of the problem, and with this view requested the communication of
a number of stellar positions from the catalogue of Bradley. With this request
Bessel at once complied, but expressed the apprehension that the result would
scarcely justify the expenditure of time, as he deemed the observations too uncertain.
And, indeed, of so large a number of measurements there were but few that
were available. In many cases it was even uncertain from what fixed stars the
distances were measured. Nevertheless it was found, on critical examination, that
Flamsteed’s observations disclosed a high degree of accuracy, since their probable
errors amounted to but 15 seconds of are spherical. With due regardto planetary
disturbances this orbit was also shown to be elliptical, and the period of revolu-
tion was found to be 8,813 years.

Gauss cordially congratulated Encke “on this admirable prize essay, to which
he was indebted for so much pleasure.” Bessel expressed himself in more
specific terms: “It is without example that the more ancient observations have
been reduced to so small a probable error. We learn from this, that to a good
astronomical result there is indispensable, besides a tolerably good instrument and
a capable observer, an able calculator also. If the last be wanting, the rest is
little worth.”

Together with these great labors Encke occupied himself in many ways with
the incidental calculation of cometary orbits. As often as one was discovered,
and had been for some time observed, he was accustomed to publish, not only
its orbital elements, but, to facilitate further observations, its ephemeris as well.
The constant practice and fine perception which guided him in the choice and
grouping of the observations enabled him to arrive with wonderful certainty at
a correct result. Ayvemarkable example of this was furnished by the third comet
of 1819, for which Encke, from some scanty Marseillese and a few Milanese
observations, so accurately caleulated the elements of an elliptic orbit and a
revolution of 54 years, that on the re-discovery of the comet at the Bonn obser-
vatory after seven revolutions (in the year 1848) no important qualifications were
almissible. This practical knowledge and perspicacity led, no doubt, to the
discovery through which Encke’s name is most generally known.

A comet was discovered November 26, 1818, by Pons at Marseilles, the path
of which, as Olbers soon remarked, was nearly coincident with that of the comet
of 1795 and 1805. It had been already surmised that the orbit was elliptical
and the period of revolution short beyond example. The elucidation of this
remarkable circumstance was probably undertaken by many astronomers, though
it was Encke who first succeeded in shedding complete light upon it. ‘The time
of revolution amounted to 1,207 days, or nearly 34 years, and it was this comet
respecting which Bessel had expressed a conjectural opinion that it moved in an
elliptical orbit.*

In a communication on this comet Olbeis extols “the skill, the care, and the

* In the Berliner Astronomiches Jahrbuch for 1822, which was published in 1819.
196 MEMOIR OF ENCKE.

genius” which Encke had lavished on the calculations. Bessel, who had heard
of the comet during an absence from Kénigsberg, wrote to one of his scholars:
“Tt becomes clearer and clearer that this comet is the most important scientific
discovery of the present century.” Olbers also expressed himself in the same
terms in a letter to Bessel.

Although the short period was in itself of the most pregnant consequence as
affording the prospect of a more certain determination of the masses of the planets
which exert an influence on the comet, yet further investigation soon led the way
to another wholly unexpected result. Encke found, in effect, that this comet
had been observed, also, in 1786, and hence four times in all, while no less than
seven times in the interval its return had not been noticed. From a comparison
of the three intervals -between the observed transits it resulted, with all due
allowance for the planetary disturbances, that each revolution, as regards the
next preceding one, had been shortened by about three hours.

Olbers was the first to conjecture that the comet encountered a certain resist-
ance whereby its approximation to the sun, and, consequently, the shortening of
its period of revolution might be accounted for. Encke concurred in this view,
while Bessel dissented from it. In the correspondence between the two, the
reasons for and against the hypothesis were, for many years, fully discussed.
In 1830 Bessel writes: ‘ What admirable results are yielded by careful labor
is now again seen in the conformableness of that unknown disturbance which
you call resistance. Of the existence of such disturbance there can be no doubt,
nor could there be long ago, but that it is a real resistance becomes more /proble-
matical to me the more I reflect upon it.”

Encke continued assiduously to observe this comet, which he always called
the comet of Pons, though his own name was, with perfect justice, commonly
applied to it. Before each of its returns he made known its ephemeris in order
to facilitate observation, and as the shortening of the period of revolution con-
stantly recurred, in which fact he saw a confirmation of the above hypothesis, he
developed, in 1831, his theory of the movement of heavenly bodies in the resisting
medium. For the constants introduced, the values admitted of determination
from foregoing observations.

Halley’s comet, which re-appeared in 1835 after a period of 76 years, occupied
very exactly the same positions which Rosenberger had previously calculated
from the earlier observations. By this body, therefore, the hypothesis of the
resisting medium was not confirmed, though it was by no means decidedly con-
tradicted, because neither the earlier measurements nor the masses of the planets
relied upon as a ground of calculation could be regarded as altogether certain;
perhaps, also, this comet might have a denser mass, and the effects of resistance
be on that account not so conspicuous.

The comet discovered still later by Faye seemed at last to remove the doubt
previously existing. The period of this body, 74 years, was, according to M6l-
ler’s computation, shortened at each revolution by about 17 hours, and Encke
showed (Lerliner Astronomisches Jahrbuch fiir 1864) that this acceleration could,
with very close approximation, be explained by the resistance which the comet
of shorter circuit had undergone. In the meantime Méller communicated the
results of a more rigorous calculation, (Astronomische Nachrichten, vol. 64, p.
145,) in which were considered those quantities of the second order in the
co-ordinates of the disturbances which arise from the changes sustained by the
elements through the addition of new fundamental places at the more recent
returns. By this it was found possible to bring all the three phenomena into
harmony without the assumption of the resisting medium. ‘The errors remaining
over were, through this procedure, it is true, considerably greater than after the
first calculation, but Moller entertained the hope of being able, by a renewed
and stricter calculation, to attain a still closer conformity. Whether, therefore,
Faye’s comet does or does not confirm the hypothesis of the resisting medium,

.
MEMOIR OF ENCKE. 197

or, in more general terms, that of a yet unknown cause operating upon both
comets, still remains undecided.

Two other important investigations of Encke related to the sun’s parallax, as
derived from the transits of Venus in 1761 and 1769, the last of which Cook
had observed at Tahiti. After correction of the observations, revised by
Father Hell in Vienna, Encke found the parallax to be 8.57 seconds. “You
have turned to account,” wrote Bessel, “what had been collected by the expen-
diture of vast sums and by the efforts of many, and thus those efforts have first
achieved success and still point onward to a step in advance.” This magnitude
of the parallax was for a long time generally accepted; but subsequently, from
the opposition of Mars and the disturbances of the moon, was estimated at 8.9
seconds. The difference between this value and that found by Encke arose
from the circumstance that the position of the places of observation was not
ascertained with the requisite precision. After a more accurate determination of
this point in later times, the sun’s parallax, as deduced from those old observa-
tions, has been shown by Powalky to amount to only 8.832 seconds.*

Encke’s personal position had so far changed, soon after his accession to the
observatory, that the charge of its management had devolved on him, at first
partially, through the intermitting attendance of Lindenau, and soon wholly,
from the absorption of the latter in administrative affairs. As no other duties
claimed his time, Encke could now resign himself to scientific labor with free and
entire devotion. ‘The value which he placed upon this rare immunity is seen
from a letter in which he declined an appointment tendered him of a professor-
ship in the University of Greifswald. The chair of mathematics and astronomy
had there become vacant by the death of Professor Droysen, in 1814, and for
some vears no successor was appointed. Bessel called Encke’s attention to this,
and as, in regard to external circumstances, the situation presented great advan-
tages over that of Seeberg, proposed to recommend him for it. The philcsoph-
ical faculty at the same time consulted both Gauss and Bessel in regard to a
choice. The preference of Gauss fell upon Gerling, who had already approved
himself as a teacher, though next he recommended Encke, whom, in regard to
knowledge and capacity, he rated quite as highly. Bessel, on the other hand,
named Encke in the first place: ‘He is a young man whose character is as
amiable as his acquirements in astronomy and mathematics are distinguished ;
nor is his skill as a practical astronomer lessso. Many are the admirable labors
for which we are already indebted to him, evincing a diligence and conscienti-
ousness beyond praise.”

To the question now addressed by the faculty to Encke, whether he would
permit himself to be placed in nomination for the office, he replied, March 16,
1818, as follows: ‘My place here as adjunct of the observatory I have now
occupied for two years, and must, in justice, regard it as eminently fortunate,
seeing how much my student years were abridged by the distractions of the war,
that I have been assigned to a position so wholly free from the demands of
other business, provided with so excellent a stock of instruments, under a direc-
tor (Herr Von Lindenau) whom Germany honors as one of its first astronomers,
and where, in short, it is permitted me to live exclusively for science. This posi-
tion has at present so far changed that the director, involved in many other affairs,
and but just returned after a year’s absence, has no prospect but to be again and
repeatedly absent in the course of the current year. Under these circumstances
my employers have taken occasion so clearly to indicate their wish that I should
remain here, that I should little respond to their previous kindness were I not
ready to forgo the great advantages proffered me by the Greifswald University.

* [This element has been recently investigated at the Naval Observatory, Washington, by
Professor Newcomb, from all.the more valuable data of recent times, and its value is thus
fixed at 8’.85, with a probable error of not more than two or three hundredths of . oh
198 MEMOIR OF ENCKE.

How highly soever, therefore, I may appreciate the honor of the proposal made
to me, Tam under the necessity of declining its acceptance.”

We learn from a note by Gauss that the ducal government had taken the
occasion of this call to increase the salary, and also to confer upon Encke the
title of professor. Two years later he was named vice-director, and in 1822
director of the observatory.

In the last named year Walbeck died in Abo. Encke, though widely solic-
ited to propose for the vacant place, could not be induced to comply, though
here ag ain the opportunity of greatly bettering his circumstances was presented
to him. The erounds of his refusal were freely communicated to Bessel, and
among them we find his recently contracted marriage: he was unwilling to
transport his young wife to so northern a latitude.

Not the less did the discomforts and inconveniences of the residence at the
observatory continue to be sensibly felt. During storms it was impossible to
leave the building or have access to the city. Even with moderate winds the
stroke of the pendulum clock could not be heard, and thus the observations
were rendered difficult. Particularly annoying to Encke was the loss of the
library, which belonged partly to Zach and partly to Lindenau, and which, in
1822, was withdrawn by both owners. At last, however, the prospect of a
favorable change offered itself. 'Tralles, till then secretary of the physico-
mathematical class of our Academy, had died in 1822. Gauss was nominated
as his successor, but at the close of 1824, after long negotiations, peremptorily
declined the offer. At the same time Bode took his discharge, and it thus
became practicable to unite with the above named place that of director of the
academical observatory.

Bessel wrote to Encke, February 16, 1825, that this place had been offered
to him, but that he had unconditionally declined, because he could not leave his
own observatory. He had named Encke as the only one suited for it. The
academy had approved of the proposition, and committed to him the negotiation
respecting it. He goes on to say: “You will see what rare fruits will “proceed
from our co-operation. I know your modesty, and feared that you might not
deem yourself qualified. ‘To any such objection I oppose the firm conviction
that you, and you alone, are fully qualified for the position ; and I expect you
on this point to believe me rather than yourself, which, in view of your modesty,
cannot be so very difficult.”

Encke answered that he hoped indeed that he was competent to the continu-
ance of the journal (Jahrbuch) and the execution of astronomical calculations,
though he must absolutely decline if the demands went any further. Bessel,
who was just setting out on a journey to Berlin, wrote, March 20: “1 will
make inquiry about « everything, and when I learn that your wishes in regard to
the definite occupation can be complied with, and if a suitable provision be stipu-
lated, I shall, in your name, say yes. Do not be startled at this liberty which
Tam taking. You can limit it by a letter which will reach me at Berlin.”

Such a letter accordingly came, but it contained no decided refusal, and hence
Bessel could write in reply: “ You have not forbidden the agreeement, so I now
hold you fast ; you are now one of us.”

The election which ensued in the academy was confirmed by the higher
authorities, and Encke was named, June 21, member of the academy, secretary
of the class, and director of the observatory. ‘The ducal ministry, at the head
of which Lindenau then stood, soon after accorded him a discharge from his
previous situation, adding that “it dismissed so distmguished an ‘official with
regret, and only not to be a hindrance to his prospects in life.”

Encke arrived at Berlin, October 11, 1825. He soon felt himself on a level
with the duties devolved on him, and found, complete satisfaction in their dis-
charge. He was not bound to make reports to the university, but he voluntarily
adopied the practice the following year. By the philosophical faculty of the
university the honorary diploma of doctor was conferréd on him, September 11,

+
MEMOIR OF ENCKE. 199

1826, as a testimonial “to the sagacious mathematician and successful investi-
gator of the cometary system’”—mathematico sagacissimo, cometarum indagatori
felicissimo. 28

Previously to these events an important scientific undertaking had been set
on foot by Bessel—the editing, namely, of stellar charts, which should represent,
in 24 sheets, the zones included between 15° north and 15° south latitude, with
all the stars, to those of the 9th and 10th magnitude, which could be discerned
with a Frauenhofer comet-searcher of 34 lines opening and tenfold magnifying
power. Very soon after Encke’s accession the academy invited the friends of
astronomy to. participate in the enterprise, stipulating a suitable honorarium for
each available sheet. It was Encke who undertook the correspondence i in regard
to the repartition of the task, as well as the critical examination of the sheets
and care of the engraving. The business part thus assumed, while in itself the
most unthankful of the whole, was rendered more difficult ‘bec cause those who
contracted engagements often failed to fulfil them, and sometimes what was pro-
duced did not answer to the requirements. At the close of 1858, and hence
after 33 years, the last sheet made its appearance. ‘The results of this under-
taking surpassed, even before its completion, all expectation. The first discov-
ery of a new planet, Astreea, occurred in 18445, and others rapidly followed. At
present, with the use of these charts, or m consequence of the completeness ren-
dered attainable by them, 81 planets have been detected, while the discovery
and observation of comets have been essentially facilitated.

The editing of the astronomical Annual (Jahrbuch) had still oceupied Bode
on his withdrawal from the observatory. ‘The tables for 1829 had already ap-
peared and the calculations for the following year been begun, when Bode died,
November 24, 1826. Encke undertook the continuation, and as the tables in
their then extent and precision no longer satisfied the new demands of science,
it was found necessary to give them greater enlargement and completeness, as
well as to employ a still more rigorous computation. If Encke in this labor
availed himself of extraneous help, it was still so exacting that he was con-
strained at once to forego his lectures at the university.

What acceptance the new Annual found with astronomers may be gath-
ered from Bessel’s letters. “This is indeed an ephemeris,” he said, “ such as it
should be. You make an offering of yourself for astronomy, and one can but
wish that the progress which you aim at in doing so may indeed be realized, and
that the result may correspond to the magnitude of the sacrifice. I haye always
thought that an ephemeris of this calibre must produce great results, but I had
not believed that any one would subject himself to so gree ifatrouble” * * «T
have been completely charmed with your work, and ‘confess that I can imagine
nothing more complete. It is all excellent. But explain to me, I pray, why it
is that the French have not a Connaissance des Tems and the English a Nautical
Almanac such as vour Year-book affords, although both, and especially the latter,
do not want for money to pay hosts of calculators. But what is absent, in fac ,
and is almost always absent, is the clear insight into science and its true wants.”

In the course of the following year many “complementary improvements were
introduced, the Annual for 1844 being especially enlarged, at the instance of the
ministry of commerce, by several extensive tables for the use of mariners. 'T hese,
however, were but little employed in the Prussian marine, chiefly for the reason
that the sea charts were constructed with reference to another meridian, that of
Greenwich, and the nautical tables in question were withdrawn from the Annual
for 1852 and the following years.

The Berlin observatory, in Dorothea street, which Encke had undertaken to
conduct, answered not long to the demands of the new astronomy. It had been
erected in 1711, and was furnished with the instruments corresponding to that
period. It was situated, at first, without the city, but Berlin had in the mean-
time spread so much in that direction that high buildings overtepped it. About
the year 1800 the necessity was seen of adding an additional story, but the
200 MEMOIR OF ENCKE.

steadfastness of the instruments was thereby still more prejudiced, and the con-
cussion of the intercourse in the streets hindered all exact measurement. ‘T'o
this must be added the continued noise and the impurity of the atmosphere.
Encke wrote, soon after his arrival, to Bessel, that the only serviceable instru-
ment was the Frauenhofer heliometer, though this, too, could scarcely be used
on account of the insecure stability. The best thing about the observatory was
the library, limited as it was.

After Bode’s death the erection of a new observatory was canvassed, and if
at first Encke expressed himself with some humor about the proposed destina-
tion thereof, he nevertheless soon entered earnestly into the scheme. Bessel
urged him to consider well “whether the satisfaction in the possession of an
observatory or the hindrance to those labors to which he owed his renown, were
greatest.” In a following letter it is said: “I regard you as the astronomer on
whom the superintendence of the calculations is obligatory. Others have other
functions: you, my dear Encke, can undertake nothing new without neglecting
what has earlier claims upon you, and is in reality of more essential importance.
Be cautious, I pray you, in this matter.”

Encke now addressed himself to Humboldt with the request that he would
decide upon the proper objects of an observatory for this country. Ordinary
observations, such as can here be scarcely conducted, are at present, he argued,
without value. If it were proposed to afford opportunity for serviceable astro-
nomical observations, a new observatory would be indispensable. ‘This commu-
nication led Humboldt to second the movement for building a new observatory,
which was authorized October 15, 1828, at the same time with the ordering of
several important instruments from artists of the best repute. The purchase of
a large refractor, which Franenhofer had nearly finished, immediately followed.

Encke’s questions drew from Bessel a prompt answer respecting the judicious
arrangement and equipment of the observatory, but still accompanied with pre-
cautionary counsels: “I think that neither your efficiency nor satisfaction will
gain anything if you convert yourself into an observatory astronomer. In my
opinion the observatory should not be the main point with you. An assistant,
adjunct, or whatever you may please to call him, should do the work therein.
Immeasurably more is to be done in order to save the material collected from
being lost and suitably to use it. If this is once accomplished, it will be then
for you to show to what ends further observations may be directed with the most
fruitful results.”

In the beginning of 1835 the building was finished, the instruments soon after
put in position, and the activity of the new observatory commenced with the
observation of Halley’s comet. The observations which, since that epoch, have
been instituted, partly by Encke himself and pa:tly by his assistants, have been
published in four volumes, which will soon be followed by a fifth.

How close were the friendly relations between Bessel and Encke is seen from
the foregoing communications. They were knit still more closely when Encke
took charge of the corrections of the press for the Fundamenta Astronomia.
After Bessel, on a journey in 1819, had formed a personal acquaintance with
Encke, he wrote to him: ‘TI seein you not only a firm stay of astronomy in Ger-
many, but a cherished and outspoken friend; both considerations prompt me to
wish that you should continue to accord to me a portion of your affectionate regard.”

On his return to Kénigsberg Bessel spoke with enthusiasm of the gifted and
estimable astronomer whose first labors had deservedly raised him to the highest
consideration. ‘The correspondence which followed was not restricted, like that
between Olbers and Bessel, to scientific communications and the more serious
affairs of life, but was rather a confidential intercommunion, which embraced at
once their respective enterprises, whether begun or contemplated, and the frankest
“iiterances on subjects of every nature. It is not to be disguised, however, that.
Bessel gave freer scope to his feelings, while Encke often observed a certain
legree of reserve. ‘This intercourse had already lasted some years, when we
MEMOIR OF ENCKE. 201

find Bessel constrained, as it were, to beg of “the highly respected professor”
that he would not allow their correspondence to languish. “ You cannot do me
the injustice to suppose that any one in the world is dearer to me and more highly
confided in than yourself. Wherefore, then, a formality which, on my part, has
been long ago discarded ?”

That views and conceptions should sometimes have differed was, of course,
inevitable. The differences, however, were calmly discussed in the correspond.
ence, but they failed not progressively to become more and more pronounced and
frequent. The last friendly letter Bessel closed with the words, “I cannot
imagine that different relations should find an entrance between us.” Not the
less, however, did such relations find entrance, and that immediately. The
occasion was given far less by any single controverted points which had arisen
in the course of astronomical journalism than by the contrast of personal position.
Bessel, easily excited in oral as in written intercourse, as Warmly maintained the
opinions which he conceived to beright as he emphatically repelled those opposed

S
to them, and so sometimes forgot that he who had begun earliest had not only

erected himself into a master, but expressly assumed a higher and more influential
position than was his due. ‘Thus in one of the last letters Bessel styles himself
“the experienced friend,” and, as such, thought himself authorized to counsel and
warn, whereupon Encke explained “that he could only take the course which
alone was consonant to his nature.”

Since 1837 only a few formal and professional letters had been exchanged
When Encke, however, in 1845, sought to obtain Bessel’s views with regard to!
a new edition of the treatise of Olbers on the calculation of the orbits of comets,
he made, as in earlier years, various communications respecting his own labors,’
and added the assurance of his deepest concern for Bessel’s afflictions. The
answer, besides the desired opinion, conveyed a thankful acknowledgment. At.
the Blade of the same year Encke communicated the first result of the stellar‘
charts in the discovery of a new planet. A mutual approach was thus again in
progress, when some months later the death of Bessel occurred.

The words which, from this place, Encke 20 years ago dedicated to the memory
of Bessel, contain the fullest recognition of his great services in behalf of
astronomy, but make no mention of the friendly relations which had existed
between them. On that subject nothing could be ventured without, at the same
time, recalling their later and well-known estrangement. However much that
estrangement is to be regretted, it now no longer forbids us to recur to a friend-
ship which not only endured with singular devotion for 30 years, but was of
great importance for the advancement of science.

It only remains to recount the occupations of Encke’s life during the last ten
years. ‘The extensive calculations for the Year-book, if, to a certain extent,
devolved on the assistants, continually required his co-operation, and the more
as the numerous newly discovered planets were to be taken into consideration.
The academical functions connected with the editing of the stellar charts, the
discourses before the university, the participation in the observations at the
observatory, and in the accurate testing of the new and older instruments there
deposited, together with his activity in the commission of studies for the military
academy, and in the deputation respecting the calendar, to say nothing of the
manifold inevitable demands which await the director of an observatory in a
large city, all these appear so engrossing that we have only room for wonder
that Encke should still have found time for the communication of so lar 2e a
number of scientific papers to the transactions of the academy, the astronomi-

cal Year-book, and various mathematical and astronomical Fournals, Many
of these relate to the execution of calculations, such as the method of least
squares, interpolation, the mechanical quadrature and the like. ‘They are chiefly
of astronomical import, and bear relation to the parallax of the sun and moon,
the dimensions of the terrestrial globe, the constants of the Berlin observatory,
the masses of the planets, the determination of the orbits of planets and those
202 MEMOIR OF ENCKE.

of comets ; the latter as well with reference to parabolic as elliptical and hyper-
bolic orbits; the calculation of occultations and transits, the testing of different
astronomical instruments, and in an especial manner the disturbances arising
from the approximations of the heavenly bodies. Not only did he set forth in
more than one treatise, and, with singular clearness, rules for the calculation of
these disturbances according to the old method of Lagrange, as perfected by
Gauss and Bessel, but almost simultaneously with the younger Bond at Cambridge,
in America, he suggested a new method by which the calculation of the orbital
elements of many “of the rec cently discovered small planets was essentially facili-
tated. By this, instead of the changes which the disturbances produce in the
elements of the orbits , it was proposed immediately to calculate those which the
rectangular co-ordinates undergo. This method, if somewhat uncertain for long
periods of time, was, on account of its convenience, extensively employed, till
the later method devised by Hansen became more generally introduced. Encke
also composed some physical treatises on dioptries and the ballistic problem, as
well as several popular lectures on different astronomical subjects. ‘The latter,
though but partially published, were distinguished for an ingenious co-ordination
of facts, and were received with unqualified applause.

Towards his numerous friends and acquaintances Encke maintained that
uprightness of intention which, with his sympathetic and open nature, his clear
and unperverted judgment, won him the highest consideration and love. In his
domestic circle the course of a serene life was disturbed by no loss until, in 1856,
the news arrived of the death of his second son at Rio Janeiro.

On the 17th of November, 1856, Encke fell in the street from sudden vertigo.
Although the apprehensions at first felt were not realized, yet the rare vigor of

earlier years did not return. A new and severe loss befell him the next year in
the death of his brother, the same with whom he had entered the Prussian artil-
lery, 45 years before, and who had since been advanced to the rank of lieutenant
general. A few years later he lost his sister, who had lived in his house. In
February, 1863, he sustained an apoplectic attack, from which he so far recovered
as to be able to return to his labors, and even to journey to Leipsic in order to
witness the nuptials of his old scholar, professor Bruhns, but his condition
remained so critical that soon all intellectual effort was forbidden him. He
therefore spent the summer with his friends in Goslar and Wernigerode, and, on
his return, was still bent upon resuming his labors, but his physician, the more effec-
tually to prevent this, ordamed hin a new journey to Kiel; from Kiel he went with
his family in December, 1863, to Spandau, where his eldest son was established.
At his urgent and oft repeated request he was permitted by his medical adviser
again to visit the observatory. Here he traversed with interest the observing
rooms, and marked with particular attention the changed erection of the great
refractor, which was now borne upon a stone pillar instead of the old wooden
support. He soon tired, however, and returned contentedly to Spandau, From
this time his bodily strength and mental activity continued to decline, until a
second apoplectic attack occurred in July of the next year, and was followed by
complete paralysis. A painless death released him, 26th August, 1865, from
long sufferings.

If Encke’s services in behalf of astronomy secure him an enduring remem-
brance, it continues also to survive in the grateful recollection of his numerous
pupils. In the calculations for the Year-book, as well as in the prosecution of
other astronomical labors, he delighted to find himself surrounded by young
people, to whose instruction in all parts of knowledge he gave himself with a
rare talent for conveying it; ever entertaining with them the most friendly rela-
tions, and thus winning to the pursuit of his science a number of pupils unequalled,
perhaps, by any other astronomer. Among them may be counted the present
directors of the observatories of Berlin, Breslau, Leipsic, Hamburg, Bilk, Copen-
hagen, Helsingfors, and Dublin, who, with many others, have contributed through
their scientific labors greatly to extend his reputation.
MEMOIR OF EATON HODGKINSON,

PROFESSOR OF ENGINEERING, UNIVERSITY COLLEGE, LONDON.
By ROBERT RAWSON.

(From the Transactions of the Literary and Philosophical Society of Manchester, Englana
vol. II, third series, 1865.)

The subject of this memoir was born, of respectable parents, at the small
village of Anderton, in the parish of Great Budworth, Cheshire, on the 26th of
February, 1789; died at Kelesfield House, Higher Broughton, Manchester,
June 18, 1861, in his seventy-second year, and wasinterred at his native village.
His father died when he was about six years of age, leaving his mother with three
children, whose education and maintenance depended upon her exertions and
prudence. He left his native village, with his mother and sister, at the age of #2, and
came to reside at Salford, Manchester, where he remained the greater portion of
his after life. He was elected a member of this society in the year 1826, and
he enriched the society’s memoirs with the following important papers, thus laying
the foundation of his reputation as a sound mathematician and an original thinker :

“On the Transverse Strain and Strength of Materials,” (read March 22, 1822.)

“On the Chain Bridge at Broughton,” (read February 8, 1828.)

“On the Forms of the Catenary in Suspension Bridges,” (read February 8,
1828.)

“A few Remarks on the Menai Bridge,” (read December 12, 1828.)

“Theoretical and Experimental Researches to ascertain the Strength and
best Forms of Iron Beams,” (read April 2, 1830.)

“ Appendix to the Paper on the Chain Bridge at Higher Broughton, Man-
chester.”

“Some account of the late Mr. Ewart’s paper on the Measure of Moving
Force, and of the recent applications of the Principle of Living Forces to esti-
mate the effects of Machines and Movers,” (read April 30, 1844.)

He occupied in succession the distinguished positions of vice-president and
president of this society. He was a leading member of the British Association
for the Advancement of Science from its commencement, and contributed greatly
to the interest and efficiency of the mathematical and mechanical sections. He
also gave active help to the association in several valuable reports on pure and
mixed science. These reports, which have in a great degree assisted in main-
taining the high scientific renown of the association, are as follows:

Third report, 1833: “On the Effect of Impact on Beams.” “On the direct
Tensile Strength of Cast Iron.”

Fourth report, 1835: “On the Collision of Imperfectly Elastic Bodies.”

Fifth report, 1835: “ Impact upon Beams.”

He held the distinguished position of vice-president of the association in the
year 1861.

In the year 1841 he was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society, and contrib-
uted to its transactions two elaborate papers :

“})xperimental Researches on the Strength of Pillars of Cast Ivon and other
materials,” (read*eMay 14, 1840.)

The aim of this paper was greatly extended in the second communication :

“Experimental Researches on the Strength of Pillars of Cast Lron from various
parts of the kingdom,” (read June, 1857.)
204 MEMOIR OF EATON HODGKINSON.

For the first paper the council of the Royal Society awarded the gold medal
as a mark of their appreciation of its practical investigations.

He was appointed professor of the mechanical principles of engineering at
University College, London, on the 6th of February, 1847, and lectured during
the sessions of 1847 to 1853, inclusive. In 1847 he was appointed a member of
the royal commission to inquire into the properties of wrought and cast iron and
their application to railway structures. The results of his labors in this impor-
tant inquiry are given, with marked reference to their magnitude and efficiency, in
the commissioners’ report of 1849. He was consulted by the late Robert Stephen-
son in reference to the construction of that great national work, the tubular bridge
over the Menai straits. His experience and mathematical knowledge enabled
him to suggest and carry out a series of experiments, at the cost of several
thousand pounds, with a view to investigate the bearing properties of wrought
iron rivited tubes, and to satisfy the mind of this great engineer as to the sta-
bility and safety of the Britannia and Conway tubular bridges. He edited an
edition of “'Tredgold on Cast Iron,” to which he added a second volume, giving
an account of his own experiments and discoveries, published by Weale, 1846.
The title of the second volume is, “ Experimental Researches on the Strength
and other Properties of Cast Iron, with the development of New Principles, caleu-
lations deduced from them, and inquiries applicable to Rigid and Tenacious Bodies
generally.”

The most novel and important conclusions here given are as follows:

The strengths of long pillars of cast iron, wrought iron, cast steel, and
Dantzic oak, of the same dimensions, are in proportion to the numbers 1,000,
1,745, 2,518, 109. Cast iron is not reduced in strength when its temperature is
raised to 600°.

The sets, in cast-iron beams, vary nearly as the square of the force of deflec-
tion; hence any force, however small, will injure the elasticity of cast iron.
The strength in tons of beams approaching the best form is measured by the
formula 2.166ad~1, where a= area of section of bottom flange in the middle,
d= the depth in inches of the beam, and l= the distance in feet.

A general investigation of the position of the neutral line is given on the
principle that the forces of extension and compression of a particle - vary as any
function of its distance from the neutral line. This includes every hypothesis
which has been proposed in order to compute the strength of material bodies
subjected to strains.

BIRTH AND EDUCATION.

As I have already stated, Mr. Hodgkinson was born at Anderton, Cheshire,
in the year 1789. His father, a respectable farmer, died of fever when his son
Eaton was about six years of age, leaving Mrs. Hodgkinson with two danghters
anda gon. On his father’sdecease his mother determined to continue the farm ; and
by industry, thriftiness, and business-like habits she was enabled to educate her
children respectably, and to send her son to the Grammar School of Northwich.
At this school he received the rudiments of a classical education, as he studied
the Latin, Greek, and Hebrew languages under the immediate supervision of
the head master, Mr. Littler. This was done to meet the wish of his uncle, the
Rev. Henry Hodekinson, rector of Aberfield, Berkshire, who was very anxious
that his nephew should be educated with a view of going to Oxford or Cam-
bridge, to prepare for the church. The desire of his uncle was, for a time, grati-
fied, : and the hope was strongly indulged that one day Eaton Hodgkinson would
be a student of one of the universities ; hence the study of classics i in his early
youth was considered indispensable, although it was not exactly in conformity
with his tastes and habits of thought, as at an early age he was naturally more

inclined to the study of mathematics than of languages.

*
MEMOIR OF EATON HODGKINSON. 205

To the severe treatment which he here suffered, his cousin, Mrs. Thompson,
attributes the nervous tremor of his hands and speech which continued with him
through life, and was a serious impediment to his success. The Rev. Mr. Littler
was a very severe disciplinarian, and if a boy could not learn he tried to flog it
into him; and young Hodgkinson, owing to his inaptitude for languages, having
received a sound thrashing for not having learned his lessons periectly, was
removed from the grammar r school and placed in a private school in Northwich
of far less pretensions, but more in unison with his aspirations.

This private school, to which he was removed because he did not show a
decided taste for the study of languages, was conducted by Mr. Shaw, a gen-
tleman of superior mathematical attainments, and possessing great tact in teach-
ing and in the general management of boys. It was at this school that Mr.
Hodgkinson finished his youthful education. He obtained a good degree among’
his school -fellows, and a ‘distinguished position in the affections of his master.
The instructions of Mr. Shaw in mathematical subjects were fully appreciated
by Hodgkinson, and consequently he made rapid advances in the various studies
to which his attention was directed. Here he laid the foundation of that math-
ematical knowledge which he afterwards applied with singular success to the
extension and development of the theory and practice of the strength of mate-
rials. The bias of Mr. Hodgkinson’s mind at this period, and the position in
which his mother was left, seemed to require a reconsideration of his future. He
was now growing in stature as well as in knowledge, and his mother found him
very useful to her in the outdoor work on the farm; therefore it was deemed
desirable to abandon the idea, once strongly entertained, of prosecuting her son’s
education with a view of entering the church, and to allow him to devote his
attention and energies to the skilful management of farming.

Mr. Hodgkinson therefore gave up all thoughts of the church, and Latin,
Greek, and Hebrew were changed for more congenial subjects of study. He
commenced at once his career as a Cheshire farmer; but although he felt it a
duty to assist his dear mother, and meet her wishes to the best of his ability,
still he made but little progress in his new vocation. Farming, which had been
thrust upon him by sheer necessity, was not suited to his genius; but he pur-
sued it for a time as a paramount duty, from which his conscientious devoted-
ness to his mother and sisters would not allow him to escape. The seeds of
pure and mixed science, which had been-thrown broadcast into his youthful
mind by Mr. Shaw, were now beginning to germinate, and to rise from their
latent state into full and sensible existence, creating, as they advanced to matu-
rity, new wants and fresh desires, which could not be gratified by farming or the
society of a Cheshire village. The fruit thus developed at the village school
indicated, with unerring certainty, a different direction from Cheshire farming or
the cece: His mother saw this, and she was ready to bend to circumstances
which she could not successfully resist. Hence he persuaded her to give up her
farm in Cheshire, and embark her small capital in a ,pawnbroking business at
Salford, Manchester. Their friends advised this stép, as the best to promote
the interests of the family and satisfy, the thirst of Mr. Hodgkinson for scientific
knowledge and society. The family, therefore, moved from Great Budworth,
Cheshire, to Salford, Manchester, in the year 1811, when Mr. Hodgkinson was
about 22 years of age. ‘This step was the turning- -point of his career, and but
for this in all probability he would have past a life of inglorious ease in a Che-
shire village, unknown as a cultivator of mathematical and physical science.

His residence in Manchester was soon productive of important consequences
his habits of thought became fixed, and the line of scientific inquiry in which ho
was to advance was not long left indeterminate. Manchester at this period was
in its youthful vigor ; it contained men of great intellectual endowments, each
anxious to distinguish himself in some department of useful knowledge ; among
these the names of Dalton, Henry, and several others stand out pre- eminent.
206 MEMOIR OF EATON HODGKINSON.

The business, under the control and management of Mrs. Hodgkinson, assisted
by her son and daughter, was successful.

Mr. Hodgkinson’s spare moments from business were now entirely devoted to
reading any standard works on science which he could procure. The works of
Simpson, Emerson, and Dealtry contributed greatly to his knowledge. He read
these authors with earnestness and fidelity, and was wholly indebted to them for
his knowledge of the higher departments of mathematical research. Many of the
self-taught men of the last and the beginning of the present century have
expressed their obligations to Thomas Simpson and William Emerson. Their
works, whatever prejudice may think or say to the contrary, were the best stand-
ard works of the age; and it may be affirmed that the scientific literature of
the eighteenth century is accurately and faithfully reflected from the pages of
the weaver of Market Bosworth, ‘Thomas Simpson, and the Hurworth village
schoolmaster, William Emerson. These humble but highly gifted men were more
catholic in their writings than are the authors of the present age. ‘They wrote
to instruct the mass ite mankind, but the writers in these days lanor for a “special
purpose, which is limited in its operation: they write only to supply the daily
routine of the school, without casting a single thought beyond its boundary.

The late Rev. Robert Murphy, a Cambridge mathematician of distinguished
eminence, speaks of ‘Thomas Simpson as an analysist of firstwate genius. (See
es Murphy’s Equations.”) M. Clairaut, when in England, paid Simpson a visit
at Woolwich, in order.to compare his own investigations on the motion of the
moon’s apogee with the investigations of Simpson on the same subject. This fact
alone shows the high position in which Simpson stood in the estimation of the most
eminent mathematicians of Europe.

In consequence of his ardent love for scientific pursuits, Mr. Hodgkinson
became acquainted with the most gifted men then living in Manchester. Dr
Dalton, Holme, Henry, Ewart, Sibson, Johns, Fairbairn, were among the scien-
tific friends with whom he could freely converse on subjects which “possessed a
mutual interest. In his mathematical reading he sought and obtained the help
of Dr. Dalton, who was then a private teacher of mathematics in Manchester.
He became one of Dalton’s pupils, and read with him the works of Lagrange,
Laplace, Euler, and Bernoulli, whose writings were now engaging the attention

tole fo)

of the best and foremost mathematicians of England. These authors had been
instrumental in producing a great change in the mathematical sciences at Cam-
bridge ; their investigations were models of elegant algebraical demonstration,
both with regard to symmetry of notation and subject- snatter of i inquiry. ‘The
friendship of Dalton and Hodgkinson, cemented by genial minds and kindred
pwsnuits, continued uninterruptedly till the death of Dalton. Though each of
these men had his distinctive field of labor, yet each could hold converse with
the other on their respective researches, and ‘Mr. Hodgkinson entertained through
life a profound respect for the high character and great chemical discoveries of his
friend. ‘The extent of his mathematical reading at this period may be estimated
by referring to his paper’ entitled “On the Transverse Strain and Strength of
Materials,” printed in the fourth volume of this society’s memoirs.

HIS CHARACTER.

The late Professor Hodgkinson, like a true philosopher, was satisfied with a
small but adequate competency, and, retiring from business at an early period,

he devoted a long life and rare mental gifts to the development of science. And

it is a pleasing reflection that while many men very eminent in the history of

science have had to wait a long time before their discoveries have been recog-
nized and adopted, Mr. Hodgkinson had the unusual pleasure of seeing the
fruits of his labors appreciated and applied to the construction of great prac-
tical engineering enterprises. ‘The youthful days of Mr. Hodgkinson were not
MEMOIR OF EATON HODGKINSON. 207

marked by precocious talents and wonderful achievements; still he possessed,
even in youth, a quick perception of the relations of abstract magnitudes, and
manifested, like Newton and Stephenson, a strong propensity for making sun-
dials.

Manhood developed in him a profound intellect, a highly cultivated intelli-
gence, unwearied perseverance, and a kind and an affectiunate heart. He dis-
charged every relation of life with fidelity, and has left behind him a name
ereat in the annals of science, reflecting every manly virtue, and unsullied by
any act of meanness. He was, however, very je alous of the products of his
own mental labors, which he regarded as pe rsonal property, and was also equally
just in the use of the mental property of other cultivators of science, as he
would not appropriate the conclusions of any man without due acknow ledement

If he did entertain any hostile feeling, it was against those who, as he con-
ceived, were unscrupulous in their appropriation “of the fruit of other men’s
brains. His sense of justice would not allow him to show the slightest sympa-
thy with this class of offenders.

“~The efficiency of Mr. Hodgkinson’s lectures at University College, and of his
oral instruction generally, was somewhat circumscribed by his hesitancy of speech.
This peculiarity interfered with his usefulness as a speaker and teacher, and
rendered his explanations of subjects, even those with which he was most familiar,
somewhat tedious to the student. And it is perhaps one of the greatest evidences
that can be recorded of the power of his mind, that he was thought worthy, in
spite of his embarrassed address and slow ness of speech, to be installed i in a pro-
fessorial chair in one of the leading scientific colleges of the kingdom. As a
relaxation from severe mental toil, he cultivated a taste for general literature
and the architecture of the middle ages. Of late years he frequently travelled,
both on the continent and in the British empire, to examine those stupendous

vathedrals and other public buildings which adorn western Europe, and which
testify to the good taste, piety, and intellectual culture of the age in which they
were built. He was fond also of investigating the remains of antiqnity. And,
what is valued above all by a man of science, he enjoyed the friendship and
esteem of his contemporaries, who were able to estimate his worth, appreciate his
talents, and apply his discoveries to useful purposes. ‘The most eminent engineers
of the age placed unbounded confidence in the results of his experiments,
believing” them to be faithfully recorded and accurately reduced to meet the
requirements of mathematical formule. As a confirmation of this, it may be
stated that the engineers’ pocket and text-books of the present time are full of
Hodgkinson’s formule for calculating the strength and deflection of pillars and
beams.

Mr. Hodgkinson was twice married, but without issue in each case. His first
wife was Miss Catherine Johns, daughter of the respected Rev. William Johns,
a distinguished member of this society, Who contributed an interesting paper to
its memoirs, entitled “ Remarks on the Use and Origin of Figurative Lan-
guage,” (vol. ii, new series.) His second wife was Miss Holditch, daughter of
Henry Holditel, esq., captain in the Cheshire militia. This lady, who is now
left to mourn her loss, devoted her powers to comfort and sustain her husband
when his health and memory would not admit of his having recourse to his favor-
ite pursuits. Of late his great mental powers became prostrate, and his mem-
ory failed so much that it was obvious to his friends the time had arrived when
his faculties required repose. In this state of mental lassitude the services of
Mrs. Hodgkinson were of great value to him. It is not unusual with men
whose mental powers have been overstrained by excitement and hard labor that
the desire for intellectual activity does not cease when the physical power neces-
sary to sustain it is feeble. Myr. Hodgkinson was the subject of this painful
experience : the desire for mental activity continued unabated to the last; and
it was only a few months before his decease that he was engaged in arranging

~,
208 MEMOIR OF EATON HODGKINSON.
his papers, with a view to publish them, so that they might be more accessible
to engineers than they now are in the volumes of learned societies.

Mr. Hodgkinson’s religious emotions were silent, devotional in the highest
sense—not sectarian ; they were strictly confined to the channel between his
Maker and his own soul. "And in this way they were purified by the truth from
heaven, bearing the precious fruit of meekness, charity, and implicit confidence
in Him who is all and sustains all. His religion was the arbiter of his life, the
judge of the many and important obligations between God, his fellow-man, and
himself. His end was peaceful, and he has left a name marked by strict integ-
rity, which will be well remembered in the walks of science for ages yet to
come.

Let us now pass on to notice more in detail the works of Mr. Hodgkinson,
which have raised him to a good degree among his contemporaries, and will also
be the introduction to future thinkers in the same field of labor which he suc-
cessfully cultivated.

“On the Transverse Strain and Strength of Metals,” (read March 22, 1822.) \

The objects aimed at in this paper are, as stated by the author, to unite, in a
general formula, the commonly received theories in which all the fibres are con-
ceived to be in a state of tension; and next, to adapt the investigation to the
more general case, where part of the fibres are extended and part compressed,
and to. seek experimentally for the laws that regulate both the extensions and
compressions. ‘The manner in which these objects have been sought and devel-
oped is a model worthy of every commendation, of clear, sound, geometrical
reasoning and refined artifice. And the data necessary to give practical effect
to the various analytical formule have been obtained from experiments, than
which none have been recorded with ereater fidelity and less contortion to meet
the demands of particular theories. No painstaking or expense was considered
too great to make the results of the experiments successful and trustworthy, so

that the engineer and philosopher alike could place implicit reliance upon them.
In these experiments there is recorded, for the first time, an element which has
furnished a theme for many animated discussions of late years among philoso-
phers and practical engineers, and which became an important object of research
in ei Hodekinson’ s subsequent experiments, viz., set, or the difference
between the original position of a strained body and the position which it assumes
when the strain is removed.

This point, which is full of interest and important consequences to the prac-
tical man, cannot now be discussed. On examination I believe that I shall be
borne out in the statement that, notwithstanding the number of books which have
been written during the last 830 years on the strength and strain of materials,
some of a more ambitious kind, and others having the humbler object of being
useful in communicating information to the artisan, still there is none from w hich
a clearer and more satisfactory exposition of this subject can be gathered than
from the paper above referred to by Mr. Hodgkinson, in the volume for 1822.
The Tuscan philosopher, Galileo, has the merit of first propounding a theory of
the strength of materials, and applying the unerring principles of geometry to
the computation of the strength of beams of given dimensions. With Leibnitz
originated the idea of the force of extension of a fibre being proportional to its
distance from the lower side of a bent beam. ‘James Bernoulli first suggested
the notion (for it never assumed any other shape in his mind) of a neutral line
in the section of rupture. But to the late Professor Hodgkinson belonged ,the
merit of giving practical effect, in this paper, to the happy suggestion ‘Of Ber-
noulli, by showing, both theoretically and experimentally, the true method of
deter mining, in the section of fracture, the exact position of the neutral line, and
of calculating the strength of the beam.

In order, then, to show more clearly the steps taken by Mr. Hodgkinson in
MEMOIR OF EATON HODGKINSON. 2V9

the establishment of sound practical views of this subject, it will be necessary
to give a brief exposition, by reference to diagrams, of the history of the section
of fracture.

Every beam of material is Fig. 1.
supposed to be composed of an
indefinite number of parallel
filaments in the direction of
its length, and the breaking
of the beam necessitates the
breaking of each of the fila-
ments of which it is composed.
Suppose a beam. AB, placed
on the fulerum CF, to be bro-
ken at the section CDIEFL by
the weights W and w, suspend- Ww
ed from the points G and H.

The theory of Galileo assumes the beam to turn about the fulerum CF, and
each of the filaments (2m) in the section of fracture CLD to sustain an equal
force. This hypothesis implies the incompressibility and extensibility of the
material. Leibnitz, the great rival of Newton, assumed the beam to turn
about the fuletum CF, as did Galileo, but assumed, what experiment has con-
firmed, the force of each filament in the section of rupture to vary in proportion
to its distance from the fulcrum CF. This theory implied the incompressi-
bility and extensibility of the material. James Bernoulli, to whose labors
science is under great and varied obligations, in reviewing the theories of Gali-
leo and Leibnitz, felt convinced of their incorrectness, and that of course they
could have no favorable response Fis. 2

. . J. Ae

from the voice of nature. He as-
sumed, or rather suggested, the
beam (fig. 2) to turn about the line
Nn, which is now commonly called
the neutral line, and the filaments
above Nv to be extended, and those
below Nz to be compressed. He
supposed, with Leibnitz, the force
of each filament to be proportional
to its distance from Nv, the neutral
line. A EB \

This theory clearly indicates the compressibility and extensibility of the
material, and so far agrees with all recorded experience. Bernoulli never pushed
this idea beyond a suggestion, and it remained unfruitful im consequences till
Mr. Hodgkinson, in this paper, followed it up, and fixed, for the first time, the
exact position of the neutral line, and made it subservient to the computation of
the strength of a beam of given dimensions. We can scarcely exaggerate the
importance of this step, as it forms the connecting link between the correct
assumption of Leibnitz and the complete theory of the transverse strength of
beam. Without the position of the neutral line, the section of fracture appeared
dark and uncertain, and we now wonder that the determination of this line had
escaped the penetration of Professor Barlow and others who had examined the
subject. ‘The opinions here expressed are founded upon the results obtained by
reading the works of the best authors previous to 1822.

Dr. Robison, Playfair, Barlow, Dr. O. Gregory, and Sir J. Leslie are suffi-
ciently known in the walks of science to justify the assertion that their works on
elementary subjects represent the true state and progress of the knowledge of
the strength and strain of materials. Playfair’s “Outlines of Natural Philoso-

14s

uw

210 MEMOIR OF EATON HODGKINSON.

phy,” a work of great merit and well adapted for the time in which it appeared,
contains only the following paragraph on the subject of the neutral line :

“But it is also said that a tube of metal has been found to support a greater
transverse strain than a solid cylinder of the same diameter; or that a cylinder,
when bored in the direction of the axis and a considerable part taken away, was
stronger than before.” “This must undoubtedly arise from a change taking
place in the position of the fulcrum or hinge round which the fracture is made.
In the case of a cylinder, and indeed of all solids, the fulcrum is not the mere
outward edge, but a point in the interior, on the one side of which the fibres are
elongated and on the other crushed together. The point, then, which serves as
the fulcrum, will be found within the solid, at a greater or less distance, as the
parts resist lengthening more than crushing. The consequence of this is that
when the centre of gravity and the fulerum are brought nearer to one another,
the strength of the beam or bar is diminished. When the heart of a solid mass
is cut out, as is supposed of the cylinder, the fulcrum, or the axis of the frac-
ture, is perhaps kept nearer to the surface than when the whole is a solid mass.
This, at least, seems to be the most probable account that can at present be
given of a phenomenon not a little paradoxical and not yet sufficiently exam-
ined.” (See Playfair’s “ Outlines,” vol. i, p. 153.) Professor Barlow, in his
““Wssay on the Strength and Stress of Timber,” published in 1817, at page 32,
shows in an admirable manner the inaccurate views of Dr. Robison respecting
the determination of the neutral line, but fails entirely to remedy the defect.
Barlow proposes, what is equally ineffective, to fix the position of the neutral
line, by supposing the moments of the extended fibres about the neutral axis to
be equal to the moments of the compressed fibres about the same line.” Sir J.
Leslie, in his “ Elements of Natural Philosophy,” published in 1823, at page
234, states that “in the case of a horizontal beam supported at both ends, but
depressed by its own weight, the upper surface becomes concave and the under
surface convex. he particles of the upper surface ate therefore mutually con
densed; in a certain intermediate curve the particles are not affected longitud
inally, theugh bent from their rectilineal position. This curve of neutral action
may be assumed in the middle of the beam.” Dr. O. Gregory, in his “ Mechan-
ics,” published in 1826, at page 122, vol. i, states, in reference to the subject of
the neutral line, “There is, moreover, the consideration that, when a beam
deposited horizontally, or nearly so, is ruptured by a vertical pressure, a horizon-
tal stratum, from end to end, is compressed, and the other portion extended or
stretched, the thin lamina between these two being regarded as a neutral axis.
This, again, isa curious topic of inquiry.” This author gives several theories
of the strength of materials from Venturoli, not any one of which contains the
correct determination of the neutral line. From these quotations of the best
informed writers, are we not justified in the inference that to the late Professor
Hodgkinson belonged the merit of first accurately conceiving the true mechan-
ical principle by which the position of the neutral line in the section of fracture
could be determined? He did this by equating the forces of extension with the
forces of compression—a method which is now universally adopted in comput-
ing the strength of beams. This method of fixing the neutral line, like all
new methods, advanced to its present position by slow degrees; but, after many
conflicts and discussions, the triumphant declaration of Professor Barlow, at the
British Association of 1833, established this great principle, which was first con-
ceived by Mr. Hodgkinson, who, single-handed, had maintained his position
against the formidable powers of acknowledged authorities. Professor Barlow,
in his report “On the Present State of Our Knowledge Respecting the Strength
of Materials,” printed in the third volume of the reports of the British Associa-
tion for the Advancement of Science, 1833, very justly alludes to this subject,
and states as follows: “ Mr. Hodgkinson, however, in a very ingenious paper
read at the Manchester Philosophical Society in 1822, has pointed out an error

s
MEMOIR OF EATON HODGKINSON. id

in my investigation, by my having assumed the momentum of the forces on each
side of the neutral axis equal to each other, instead of the forces themselves.
This paper did not come to my knowledge till the third edition of my essay was
nearly printed off, and the correction could not then be made.” The Rev. Dr.
Whewell, in his “ Analytical Statics,” refers to this paper, and gives the inves-
tigation of the neutral line on the same principle as that adopted by Mr. Hodg-
kinson, who always maintained that “we could see no cause why it should be
rejected, especially since it seems to us to be everywhere consistent and just.”
(See Manchester Philosophical Society’s Memoirs, vol. iv, p. 241.) It appears
that his friend, Dr. Dalton, took great interest in the deductions of this paper,
and discussed them freely with him as he proceeded with his experiments, which
will ever be regarded as marking an epoch in the subject of the strength of mate-
rials. Indeed the theoretical investigations of this paper, though new and
important, form only a small portion of its merits. The experiments recorded
in it established the laws, “that the extensions of the fibres of a bent beam were
proportional to the forces during the early stages of flexure; but as the exten-
sions arrived nearer to fracture they increased faster than the forces,” and, “ that
so long as the forces are moderate and are applied in the direction of the fibres,
the compressions will be as the forces; but when the beam becomes bent the
fibres, being then crushed, offer a feeble resistance to the force.” These results
were obtained direct from the unerring voice of nature. The first of these laws
was announced by Dr, Robison, as a general law of nature, on the simple
authority of a few experiments on the slips of gum caoutchoue and the juice of
the berries of the white bryony, of which a single grain will draw to a thread
two feet long, and again return to a perfectly round sphere. (See “‘ Manchester
Memoirs,” vol. iv, p. 252.)

“On the Forms of the Catenary in Suspension Bridges,” (read February 8,
1828, vol. v.)

The chain bridge at Broughton, Manchester, which broke down by a troop of
soldiers marching over it, and the celebrated Menai suspension bridge, built by
Telford, had stimulated inquiries respecting the best form of such structures.
These inquiries, naturally enough, led to a reconsideration of the catenary, a curve
the properties of which, under given conditions, were first discovered by James
Bernoulli. (See Leslie’s ‘“ Geometry of Curved Lines.”)

In this paper a great degree of generality is given to the catenarian curve.
After the known properties of the common catenary are clearly investigated,
the formule are then applied with great ability to determine the form of suspen-
sion bridges when the weight of catenarian chain, the weight of the roadway, and
the weight of the suspension rods are taken into account. The introduction of
these complex, though necessary, elements into the question led to the forma-
tion of the following difficult and comprehensive differential equation :

adx
e=beteyte { wly si tie at Oe se

where 2, y are the current co-ordinates of a point in the curve, and z the length
of the curve from this point to the lowest point. The explanation of the con-
stants a, b, c, e is as follows:

a=the tension of the curve at its lowest point.

b=the weight of a unit of length of the curve.

c=the weight of a unit of length in the roadway, which is supposed to be
divided transversely into separate parts, and may include any weight uni-
formly distributed over it, with that of the suspension rods below the
horizontal line.

e=the weight of a unit of vertical surface in the suspending rods, the rods
being here supposed to be uniformly distributed, and indefinitely near to
one another, and therefore reckoned as a uniform surface,
ie, MEMOIR OF EATON HODGKINSON.

This differential equation, under given conditions of the constants, is treated
in this paper in a very able manner, showing great command over the resources
of medern analysis, and facility in the use of the varied artifices employed in
the integration of differential equations. The results arrived at have been referred
to by the ablest writers of the age, Dr. Whewell and the Rev. Canon Mose-
ley—by the former in his “ Analytical Statics,” where the solution of equation
(A,) as given by Mr. Hodgkinson, occupies a distinguished place ; by the latter
in his “ Engineering and Architecture,” in which the labors of our late friend
are honcrably mentioned :

“This problem appears first to have been investigated by Mr. Hodgkinson in
the fifth volume of’ the ‘ Manchester Memoirs ;* his investigation extends to the
case in which the influence of the weights of the suspending rods is included.”
After such testimony it would be presumption on my part to enter more into detail
on thispaper. Toa modern student, however, the notation and procedure adopted
may possibly contrast unfavorably with the notation and procedure which charac-
terize the elementary works of the present day. ‘l’o such student, if there be
any, | would suggest that in forming an opinion on a paper like this, written
more than 30 years ago, it would be unfair to exclude the comparison of the state
of mathematical and physical science at that period with the present. It must
be remembered that Lord Brougham and his coadjutors in a great work have
done much to popularize and spread amongst their countrymen a knowledge of
the arts and sciences. These interesting subjects can now be read as they have
come from the hands of Euler, Lagrange, and Laplace, by means of cheap pub-
lications, which are within the reach of the humblest artisan. In consequence
of this, it is not high praise to state that questions in mathematics which could
have been accomplished with difficulty 30 years ago can now be readily solved
by the present methods, which are now extensively known amongst the youth
of all ranks in society through the warming stimulant of competitive examina-
tions. In this statement I am anxious not to be misunderstood, and to guard
against giving an opinion as to the question “‘ Has mathematical power increased
in the degree commensurate with the increase of mathematical learning?” This
will form a nice question for the future historian of the inductive sciences to
determine. I may, however, express my views on this debatable question so
far as to say that I have but little confidence in the products of unnatural growth
of any kind.

There is a very marked difference in the mathematics of this and his former
paper “On the Strength of Materials.” The great battle between the dots and
the d’s had been fought at Cambridge University with earnestness on both sides,
and, chiefly through the invincible courage and inexhaustible armory of Wood-
house, Peacock, Babbage, and Herschel, the d’s of Leibnitz wrested the victory
from the dots of Newton. The effects of this victory, which has produced a
great change in the mathematical literature of this country, are clearly seen in
this paper, the principles investigated in which are applied to the numerical
computation of the strength and strains of the Menai and Broughton suspension
bridges.

“Theoretical and Experimental Researches to ascertain the Strength and
best Forms of Iron Beams,” (read April 2, 1830.)

Whether we consider the theoretical exposition of the section of fracture, or
the faithfully recorded experiments and their practical deductions, we must
regard this paper as the most valuable and original contribution to the history
of the strength of materials which this century can boast. ‘There is no work in
our language on the same subject which contains sounder theoretical views, and
there is none which can be more practical than it has been to meet the demands
of the engineers and the architect. From the theoretical expositions here given
of the neutral line, the experiments to determine the strongest beam were devised
nnd successfully carried out.
MEMOIR OF EATON HODGKINSON. pi3

The result was the discovery of the celebrated ‘‘ Hodgkinson’s Beam,” that
is, the strongest beam which can be made from a given weight of material
and a given length and depth of beam. George Stephenson, who was at this
time chief engineer to the Manchester and Liverpool Railway Company, took
great interest in these experiments, and he was frequently present when they
were made. Several pages are devoted again to the subject of the neutral
line, indicating, from the manner of its discussion, that the subject was not at
this time clearly fixed in the minds of the foremost investigators ; and no one can
read these pages, and the views of Professor Barlow, without feeling convinced
that the learned professor has scarcely done full justice to Mr. Hodgkinson in
reference to the fixing of the neutral line in the section of fracture. ‘The state-
ment of Professor Barlow, in his report to the British Association, and in his
essay “On the Strength of Materials,” would lead to the conclusion that Mr.
Hodgkinson had only rectified a small error into which he, Barlow, had inad-
vertently fallen. This is nota complete statement. Mr. Hodgkinson did much
more than correct a slight error in an adopted theory ; he showed the fallacy of
the theory which it appears Professor Barlow had obtained from M. Dulean,
a distinguished French writer. There can be no doubt that Mr. Hodgkinson
was the first to give the correct theory of fixing mathematically the position of
the neutral line. Mr. Hodgkinson’s paper was published in 1822, and we find,
in 1824, Dr. Whewell, in his “‘ Mechanics,” stating, “I would gladly have given
a section on the strength and fracture of beams had there been any mode of
considering the subject which combined simplicity with a correspondence to facts.
The common theory, which supposes the material incapable of compression, is
manifestly and completely false; and though Mr. Barlow’s experiments and
investigations give us much information, they do not appear to lead to any con-
clusions sufficiently general and simple to anthorize us to present the subject as
an elementary one.” (See Preface, page xii, Whewell’s “ Mechanics,” 1824.)
It is obvious that the learned professor had not seen Mr. Hodgkinson’s paper at
this time, or he would have given, without doubt, in this place the same chapter
which he published in his “ Analytical Statics’ in 1833.*

The first series of experiments in this paper show that in cast iron the exten-
sions and compressions from equal forces are nearly equal. Tredgold asserted
that the same force which destroyed the elasticity of a body by tension would
destroy it by compression. The next two experiments disprove this assertion,
and show that the resistance to compression in cast iron is greater than to exten-
sion. This discovery is important, and modified considerably the best con-
structed cast-iron beams of this period. The succeeding experiments, which are
many and carefully recorded, were devised for the purpose of extending the con-
sequences of this practical discovery. And I shall here avail myself of the
Rey. Canon Moseley’s concise and able exposition of the experiments and reason-
ings of Mr. Hodgkinson by which he established the best form of cast-iron beam:

“ Since the extension and the compression of the material are the greatest at
those points which are most distant from the neutral axis of the section, it is evi-
dent that the material cannot be in the state bordering upon rupture at every
point of the section at the same instant, unless all the material of the com-
pressed side be collected at the same distance from the neutral axis, and like-
wise all the material of the extended side, or unless the material of the extended
side and the material of the compressed side be respectively collected into two
geometrical lines parallel to the neutral axis—a distribution manifestly impossi-
ble, since it would produce an entire separation of the two sides of the beam.

“The nearest practicable approach to this form of section is that represented
in the accompanying figure, where the material is shown collected in two thin

*I have Dr. Whewell’s authority, in a letter which I received from him a few days ago,
in stating that he had not seen Mr. Hodgkinson’s paper when he wrote his ‘‘ Mechanics” of
1824,
214 MEMOIR OF EATON HODGKINSON.

but wide flanges, but united by a narrow rib. That which constitutes the
streneth of the beam being the resistance of its material to compression on the

one side of its neutral axis and its resistance to extension on the other side, it is

Fig.3. evidently a second condition of the strongest form of any

given section, that when the beam is about to break across

7 that section by extension on the one side, it may be about to

break by compression on the other. So long, therefore, as

the distribution of the material is not such as that the com-

: pressed and extended sides would yield together, the strongest

y form of section is not attained. Henceit is apparent that the

7 strongest form of the section collects the greater quantity of

f 7 the material on the compressed or the extended side of the

Ll. Lda beam, according as the resistance of the material to compres-

sion or to extension is the less. Where the material of the beam is cast iron,

whose resistance to extension is greatly less than its resistance to compression,

it is evident that the greater portion of the material must be collected on the
external side.

“'Thusit follows, from the preceding condition and this, that the strongest form of
section in a cast-iron beam is that by which the material is collected into two unequal
flanges joined by a rib, the greater flange being on the extended side, and the
proportion of this inequality of the flanges being just such as to make up for the
inequality of the resistances of the material torupture by extension and compres-
sion respectively. Mr. Hodgkinson, to whom this suggestion is due, has directed
a series of experiments to the determination of that proportion of the flanges by
which the strongest form of section is obtained.
“The details of these experiments are found in the following table:

Number of ex- | Ratio of the section of | Area of whole section in | Strength per square inch

periment. the flanges. square inches. of section.
1 1—1 2.82 2368
2 1--2 ‘ 2.87 2567
3 1—4 3.02 2737
4 1—4.5 3.37 3183
5 1—5.5 5.0 3346
6 1—6.1 6.4 4075 *

“In the first five experiments each beam broke by tearing asunder of the
lower flange. The distribution by which both were about to yield together—
that is, the strongest distribution—was not, therefore, up to that period reached.
At length, however, in the last experiment, the beam yielded by the compression
of the upper flange. In this experiment,
therefore, the upper flange was the weakest ;
in the one before it the lower flange was the
weakest. For a form between the two, there-
fore, the flanges were of equal strength, to
resist extension and compression respectively,
and this was the strongest form of section.
In this strongest form the lower flange had six
times the material of the upper. It is repre-
sented in theaccompanying figure. Inthe best
form of cast-iron beam or girder used before
these experiments, there was never attained
a strength of more than 2,885 pounds per
square inch of section. 'There was, there-
fore, by this form a gain of 1,190 pounds per square inch of the section, or of
two-fifths the strength of the beam.” (See Moseley’s “ Engineering and Archi-
tecture,” art. 411.)

Fig, «

MEMOIR OF EATON HODGKINSON. 215

The Rev. Canon Moseley further observes on this point, “ It is only in cast-
iron beams that it is customary to seek an economy of the material in the strength
of the section of the beam; the same principle of economy is surely, however,
applicable to beams of wood.”

This victory over the material foe is entirely Mr. Hodgkinson’s own; and,
using the language of the president of the British Association at Manchester,
1861, there is no one to divide the honor of this useful achievement with him.
The Hodgkinson beam is really what its name would imply, as he originated the
éonception and pursued it with judgment and industry until the best form of
beam was fully determined. 'This beam has been the pole star for engineers
and builders during the last 20 years, a period in which construction of all kinds
has been in great demand, : and in which the ingenuity and skill of the constructor
has been confronted with many and formidable difficulties. Railways, ship-
building, and public works of various kinds have opened out new Werk for
the application of cast and wrought iron; and when this material is placed in
new and untried positions, it is no little point which is gained when its tensile
and crushing strength is determined, and the best form investigated by which
the safety of large | structures is secured. This was the life-work of Professor
Hodgkinson.

It is a great thing, which no man of science lightly appreciates in these days
of mental activity, for a man to point to a useful discovery and claim it as his
own without a rival, to say to himself, (his own precious reward,) “I drew it
forth from the dark chaos in which it had been entombed for ages to the light
of day, and now I leave it asa legacy to my countrymen, trusting ‘that the chance
of calamities such as that which happened at Hartley Colliery, where 200 men
lost their lives by the breaking of a cast-iron beam, may be diminished, if not
entirely obviated.” In this paper Mr. Hodgkinson acknowledges his deep
obligations to the liberality of his friend Mr. Fairbairn, in procuring for him the
beams whereon to experiment.

The contributions of Professor Hodgkinson to the “ Reports” and “ Sections
of the British Association were numerous and important. In proof of this it is
only necessary to refer to the opening as of the president, Professor Sedg-
wick, at the meeting at Edinburgh in 1834: “The association may claim some

S
credit for having brought into canal nptiCe the ingenious investigations of Mr.

Hodgkinson of Manchester.” ~
In the Report of 1833 there are two papers by Mr. Hodgkinson:
“On the Effect of Impact of Beams.”
“On the Direct Strength of Cast Iron.”

Th the Report of the British Association of 1834, we find an extended inquiry
into the collision of imperfectly elastic bodies. After alluding to Newton’s labors,
as recorded in the “ Principia,” Mr. Hodgkinson proceeds to describe the methods
by which his experiments were made, and derives from them the following non-
clusions ;

1. All rigid bodies are possessed of some degree of elasticity, and among
bodies of the same nature the hardest are generally the most elastic.

2. There are no perfectly hard inelastic bodies, as assumed by the early and
some of the modern writers on mechanics.

3. The elasticity, as measured by the velocity of recoil divided by the velocity
of Taiaael is a ratio which (though it decreases as the velocity increases) is
nearly constant when the same rigid bodies are struck together with considerably
different velocities.

4. The elasticity, as defined in 3, is the same whether the impinging bodies
be ee or small.

The elasticity is the same, whatever be the relative weights of the imping-
ing ibis

6. Oni impacts between bodies differing very much in hardness, the elasticity
with which they separate is nearly that of the softer body.

”
216 MEMOIR OF EATON HODGKINSON.

7. In impacts between bodies whose hardness differs in any degree, the result-
ing elasticity is made up of the elasticities of both, each contributing a part of
its own elasticity in proportion to its relative softness or compressibility.

The following rule, given by Mr. Hodgkinson, agrees remarkably well with
the results of experiments :

Let ¢ =the elasticity of A \

6 B

e/—

as determined by A striking against A, &c.

m =modulus of elasticity of A } as determined by extending the material

mn! = pense B in the ordinary way.
/ /
Then the elasticity of A against i iin
m +m

This paper concludes with a table of elasticities of 60 various substances used
in the construction of. buildings, &c.

The Fifth Report of the British Association contains a paper on the “ Impact
of Beams.” ’

The author has deduced from the experiments the following laws:

1. If different bodies of equal weight, but differing considerably in hardness
and elastic force, be made to strike horizontally with the same velocity against
the middle of a heavy beam supported at its ends, all the bodies will recoil with
velocities equal to one another.

2. Hf, as before, a beam be struck horizontally by bodies of the same weight,
but different in hardness and elastic force, the deflection of the beam will be the
same, whichever body be used.

3. The quantity of recoil in a body, after striking against a beam as above, is
nearly equal to what would arise from the full varying pressure of a perfectly
elastic beam as it recovered its form after deflection.

4. The effects of bodies of different natures striking against a hard, flexible
beam seem to be independent of the elasticities of the bodies, and may be cal-
culated, with trifling error, on a supposition that they are inelastic.

5. 'The power of a uniform beam to resist a blow given horizontally is the
same in whatever part it is struck.

6. The power of a heavy uniform beam to resist a horizontal impact is to the
power of a very light one as half the weight of the beam, added to the weight
of the striking body, is to the weight of the striking body alone.

7. The power of a uniform beam to resist fracture from a light body falling
upon it (the strength and flexibility of the beam being the same) is greater
as its weight increases, and greatest when’ the weight of half the beam, added
to that of the striking body, is nearly equal to one-third of the weight which
would break the beam by pressure.

‘There can be but one opinion as to the importance of these deductions, direct
from the voice of nature, made, as they were, at a time when such an appeal was
by no means common.

‘There are several interesting problems on impact, of a high mathematical
character, solved in this paper. In these inquiries Mr. Hodgkinson is very
particular in acknowledging his many obligations to his friend Mr. Fairbairn,
engineer, of Manchester, to whose labors and liberality practical science is deeply
indebted.

We now pass on to notice his contributions to the transactions of the Royal
Society.

Tn the Philosophical Transactions for 1840 there is an extensive inquiry by Mr.
Hodgkinson, “On the Strength of Pillars of Cast Iron and other Materials.”

The object of this inquiry is to supply a desideratum in practical mechanics,
which had been pointed out by Dr. Robison and Professor Barlow. In order
to accomplish this it was necessary to institute a series of expensive experiments
more varied and extensive than any which had hitherto been made public. The
MEMOIR OF EATON HODGKINSON. 217

subject was mentionedto Mr. Fairbairn, who at once, with his characterisac liber-
ality, supplied his friend with ample means for investigating experimentally the
strength of cast-iron pillars. For this paper the council for the Roya Society
awarded Mr. Hodgkinson the royal medal as a mark of their appreciation of
his labors, the value and importance of which are confirmed by every ngincer’s
pocket-book in Europe during a period of 20 years.

The inquiry is naturally divided into two parts, viz., long pillars and short
pillars,

LONG PILLARS.

The first object was to supply the deficiencies of Euler’s theory of the strength
of pillars, if it should appear capable of being rendered practically useful, and if
not, to endeavor to adapt the experiments so as to lead to useful results. For
this purpose solid cast-iron pillars were broken, of various dimensions, from five
feet to one incli in length, and from half an inch to three inches in diameter. In
hollow pillars the length was increased to seven feet six inches, and the diameter
to three inches and a half.

With pillars of cast-iron, wrought iron, steel, and timber, whose length is upwards
of 30 times their diameter, the strength of those with flat ends is three times as
great as those with rounded ends.

Experiments were next made upon pillars with one end flat and the other end
rounded, and the result is summed up in the following interesting and impor-
tant law:

With pillars of the same diameter and length, both ends rounded, one end rounded
and the other flat, and both ends flat, their strengths are as 1, 2, 3, respectively.

When the pillars were uniform, and the same shape at both ends, the fracture
took place in the middle. This was not the case when one end was flat andthe
other rounded, as the fracture then took place at about one-third of the length
from the rounded end. Hence, in these pillars, the metal may be economized
by increasing the thickness in the point of fracture.

It follows, from Euler’s theory, that the strength of pillars to bear incipient
flecure is directly as the fourth power of the diameter, and inversely as the square
of the length.

This incipient flexure was sought for by Mr. Hodgkinson without success,
and he states his conviction that flexure commences with very small weights,
such as could be of little use to load pillars with in practice. Although Mr.
Hodgkinson was unable to find the point to which Euler’s computations refer,
still he has shown that Huler’s formula is not widely from the truth when applied
to the breaking point of the pillar. From a great number of experiments Mr.
Hodgkinson deduced the following formula for pillars with rounded ends:

D = diameter of pillar in inches.
L= length of pillar in feet.
W = breaking-weight in tons.
3 76
Then, W= 14.9077 -

The above rule applies to pillars the length of which is 15 times the diameter
and upwards. Perhaps not quite so lowas 15 times the diameter in large pillars,
as there is a reduction of the strength of such pillars, owing to the softness of
the metal in large castings. This remark is significant, and gave rise to many
interesting experiments at Portsmouth dockyard by the royal commissioners,
conducted by Colonel Sir Henry James.

When the pillars are flat at the ends, the formula becomes

y DT3-55
N= 44.16 5-25 .

This rule applies to pillars whose lengths vary from 30 to 121 times the diameter,
218 MEMOIR OF EATON HODGKINSON.

SHORT PILLARS.

In order to estimate the breaking-strength of short pillars, Mr. Hodgkinson
considered the strength of the pillar to be made up of two functions,

1. To support the weight.

2. 'To resist flexure.

When the breaking-weight is small, as in long pillars with small diameters,
then the strength of the pillar will be employed in resisting flexure. When the
breaking-weight is one-half the pressure required to crush the pillar, one-half of
the strength may be considered available to resist flexure, and the other half to
resist crushing. And when the breaking-weight is so great as in the case of short
pillars, it may be considered that no part of the strength of the pillar is applied
to resist flexure. These two effects may be separated in all pillars by dividing
the pillar into two portions, one of which would support the weight without
flexure, and the other would support the flexure without crushing, to the extent
indicated by the preceding formule.

Let c= the force which would crush the pillar without flexure.

Let P =the utmost pressure the pillar would bear without being weakened

by crushing.
& = breaking-weight as calculated by the preceding formule.
y = the actual breaking-weight of short pillars.
Grae — where P=*

Cree

The value of ¢ is obtained from the formula
c = (area of section) X 109,801 pounds.
The reasoning by which the above formule are established is well deserving
of attention, and shows that the author was a worthy successor of Euler, Lagrange,
and Poisson in this important branch of practical science.

HOLLOW PILLARS OF CAST IRON.

Mr. Hodgkinson has shown that solid pillars with rounded ends and enlarged
in the middle are stronger than uniform pillars of the same length and weight.
This is proved to be the case in hollow pillars. The formule for the breaking-
weight of hollow pillars, as derived from experiment, are as follows:
w = breaking-weight in pounds.
D =external diameter in inches.
d = internal diameter in inches.
L = length in feet.

For pillars with rounded ends,

D3-76__ 3-76
w= 29074 Li

For pillars with flat ends,

w=99318

P3-55__g3-55
aia as

The strength of short hollow pillars must be calculated in the same manner
as the strength of short solid pillars. These formule, derived from experiments
made with great judgment and care, embody our present knowledge and prac-
tice of cast-iron pillars for bearing-purposes.

“The Power of Cast-iron Pillars to Resist Long-continued Pressure.”

Mr. Hodgkinson has recorded in this paper several very interesting experi-
ments on this subject. Two beams, rounded at the ends, six feet long and one
inch diameter, were cast of Low Moor iron, No. 3. The first bore a weight of
MEMOIR OF EATON HODGKINSON. 219

1,456 pounds during a period of from five to six months, and then broke. The
second broke with 1,500 pounds laid on immediately. From this experiment
Mr. Hodgkinson inferred that time has but little, if any, influence on the
strength of cast iron.

This inference seems, at least to me, to be theoretically correct. If the weight
laid on the beam and its molecular forces be statically equal, the forces will
remain inthis state of equilibrium until the molecular forces are weakened by the
influence of unequal temperature or other causes. Our knowledge, however, of
this practical subject is indeed very limited. The inquiry would amply repay
any one who has the ability, opportunity, and means to pursue it. Mr. Hawk-
shaw has made some admirable remarks on this subject in his evidence before
the royal commissioners in 1847. (See Report, page 296.)

The opinion of experienced engineers appears to be that vibrations produced
by continual impact and change of temperature affect the strength of iron to a
greater extent than a continued strain, which preserves the molecules of the iron
in the same fixed position. Mr. Rastrick, in his evidence before the commis-
sioners, gives the result of an experiment made by a friend, bearing on this ques-
tion, at Pontypool Iron Works. He hung a bar of iron, an inch square, up by
one end perpendicularly, and contrived a small hammer to be continually ham-
mering it; after a period of more than 12 months the bar of wrought iron
dropped in two.

That the internal structure of iron becomes changed by continued vibrations
is commonly believed by engineers of experience; but in what way this change
is produced, both in speciality and magnitude, does not appear to be very definite.
One thing, however, seems clear, viz., that wrought iron is more affected by
vibrations than cast. The evidence given before the commissioners on this
important question is very striking, and contains all the practical information
which has been recorded or known on the subject. Mr. Fairbairn states “ that
if you take any material whatever, and destroy its original form, and repeat the
changes, it is only a question of time how long it will be before it breaks.”

According to my view, this statement from an engineer of so great experience
should convince those whose duty leads them to the application of iron, timber,
and stones to the erection of structures, the first characteristic of which is stabil-
ity, of the existence and destructive nature of vibrations. Notwithstanding
these views on the effect of continued vibrations, there are not wanting engineers
of great eminence who think the subject of but little practical importance, how-
ever interesting it may be in a scientific and philosophical sense.

The late Robert Stephenson refers to the beam of a Cornish engine, and
states that it receives a shock 8 or 10 times a minute equal to about 55 tons,
during a period of 20 years, without the slightest perceptible change in its strue-
ture and strength.

The connecting-rod of a locomotive engine is another illustration in point:
“One I know,” says Mr. Stephenson, “ which hasrun 50,000 miles, and received
a violent jar eight times per second, or 25,000,000 vibrations, and yet there is
not the slightest appearance of change in the strength of the connecting-rod.”

The same distinguished engineer says, with respect to the question of the
effect of vibrations on materials, “as to the change being produced in wrought
iron, which is a very popular and almost universal theory now, I have not known
one single instance in which I have traced it to its origin, where the reasoning
is not deficient in some important link.” On the whole, Mr. Stephenson attaches
but little importance to the question of vibration in a practical sense.

Mr. Brunel, in answer to the question whether the internal structure of an
iron beam becomes altered by a succession of slight blows at a low temperature,
as in rails long used, railway axles, or springs of carriages, says, “I have turned
my attention a good deal to this inquiry, and I haye long acted on the assumption
that iron is so changed; but I must confess that I have doubts as to the fact.
220 MEMOIR OF EATON HODGKINSON.

And I believe that if the subject were thoroughly examined it would be found
that the different appearances shown by iron when broken arise from the com-
binations of the causes producing fracture as often as from any change in the
texture of the material itself. This opinion was strengthened by various speci-
mens of irons broken, some with a fibrous fracture by means of a slow heavy
blow, and some with a crystalline fracture by means of a sharp, short blow. Mr.
May refers to the case of a cast-iron beam of a steam engine, vibrating hundreds
cf thousands of times per annum, being as good at the end of 20 or 30 years as
when first put up. In this case, though the strain has been in opposite directions,
and constantly varying, still the vibrations have not weakened the beam. On
the other hand he says, “I have seen a cast-iron gun absolutely broken across
by many years’ dropping pig-iron upon it.”

In order to facilitate the calculation of the strength of short pillars, Mr.
Hodgkinson has given the crushing strength of a great variety of timbers used
in practice. ‘The above is but a hasty and imperfect glance at this important
paper, which appeared at the time when the railway system was developing
itself by means of the application of cast and wrought-iron pillars to the con-
struction of bridges, &c. No engineer who has in future to deal with this sub-
ject must omit the reading of this paper.

In the Philosophical Transactions for 1857 there is another paper by Mr.
Hodgkinson on the strength of pillars. The object here is to confirm the con-
clusions of the first paper by means of larger experiments, made by an appara-
tus three times as great as the apparatus used on the former occasion. Having
been unsuccessful in finding the weight producing incipient flexure, Mr. Hodg-
kinson devoted his attention to finding the breaking-weight, the deflection, and
decrement of length produced by the weight laid on the pillars. The pillars
with both ends rounded broke in one place, in the middle; but the pillars with
both ends flat broke in three places—the middle and at each end. When one
end was flat and the other rounded it broke at one-third the distance from the
rounded end.

The formule in the former paper are here slightly corrected, as being more in
accordance with the results of larger experiments.

Thus, in pillars whose ends are flat and well bedded, the formula becomes

D35__g35
w= 42.347

instead of

T)3+55__J 3-55
w= 46.65 ce ne

as given in the first paper.

It is a matter of observation long recorded, both by Mr. Hodgkinson and
other experimentalists, that the metal in large castings is not uniform in density,
the density diminishing from the outside of the casting to the centre. Hence it
was justly inferred that the crushing, tensile, and transverse strength of large
castings would vary, being the greatest towards the outside and less towards the
centre. In cast-iron pillars of 24 inches diameter, the crushing force varied from
39 tons per square inch outside to 334 tons per square inch centre. Mr. Hodg-
kinson discovered that the difference in the strength between the outside and
centre of large castings is much less than in small ones. Colonel Sir Henry
James found that the central part of bars of iron planed was much weaker to
bear transverse strain than bars of the same size. By planing out three-fourth
inch bars from the centre of two-inch square and three-inch square bars, the
central portion was little more than half the strength of that from an inch bar.

The fall of the railway bridge over the river Dee at Chester, when several
lives were lost, led Mr. Hodgkinson to investigate the position of the tension-
rods, which were intended as auxiliary supports to the structure. The particu-
MEMOIR OF EATON HODGKINSON, yy

lars of this inquiry have escaped my memory, but I well remember that Mr.

Hodgkinson showed, on the clearest geometrical evidence, that the position of
the tension-rods was ‘not only no additional support to the stability of the bridge
but positively aided its downfall. This circumstance induced Mr. Stephenson t to
reconsider the construction of the bridge, and devise a new arrangement for these
auxiliary supports. It was at this time, and in consequence of the accident above
alluded to, that Mr. Robert Stephenson made the personal acquaintance of Mr.

Hodgkinson, the friend of his father, the man to whom he had steadily looked
as his authority and guide in the application of iron to railway purposes. When,
therefore, Mx. Stephenson was engaged in the novel construction of the Conway
and Britannia tubular bridges, he requested the assistance of his friend Mr.

Hodgkinson in fixing the best form and dimensions of tubes. The experiments
which were devised and carried out by Mr. Hodgkinson with a view to answer
the above questions are recorded in the report of the royal commissioners
appointed to inquire into the application of iron to railway structures.

Mr. Hodgkinson, by these experiments, sought—

1. To ascertain how far the strain upon a square inch at the top and bottom
of the tube would be affected by changing the thickness of the metal, the other
dimensions being the same.

2. To obtain the strength of similar tubes.

3. To find the strength of tubes of various forms of section in the middle,
and to furnish means of judging of the proper proportions of the metal in the
bottom, top, and sides of the tube,

4. 'To ascertain the relative strength of uniform tubes to bear a weight in all
parts of their length; and whether tubes, tapering in thickness from the middle
towards the ends, according to theory, would be equally strong in every patt.

5. To obtain the resistance of the tubes, previously tried vertically, to bear a
side pressure, with an intention to ascertain the effect of the wind upon a tube.

6. To ascertain the strength of small tubes of different forms of section to
resist best a force of compression applied in the direction of their length.

7. To ascertain the resistance of wrought-iron plates to a crushing force in
the direction of their length.

8. To determine the strength of tubes to sustain impact, with reference to
riveting.

9. 'T'o determine, by bodies let fall upon tubes, the probable effect, if any, of
trains rushing rapidly upon tubular bridges, to produce resilience, or springing
up at the ends.

10. To determine the transverse strength of tubes stiffened in the top with

cast iron, joined with wrought iron, to increase the resistance of the top to a
crushing force.

These are important practical problems ; and when the issue is considered, viz.:
the continued stability of the Conway and Britannia tubular bridges, they
required for their solution great skill in the subtilities and artifices of mathe-
matical and experimental science. ‘The answers which Mr. Hodgkinson obtained
to the above problems were deemed by Mr. Stephenson to be so satisfactory as
to enable him with confidence to build the tubular bridges. :

A concise but clear exposition of these answers is given by Mr. E. Clark
before the commissioners appointed to inquire into the application of iron to rail-
way purposes. (See report, page 359.)

It was impossible that such assistance in the execution of a novel design
could be lightly esteemed or inadequately appreciated by the great engineer.
Hence, in the history of these tubular bridges, where Mr. Stephenson is anxious
to record the merits of his assistants, he frankly acknowledges his deep obliga-
tions to the mathematical philosopher “for devising and carrying out a series of
experiments which terminated in establishing the laws that regulate the strength of
tubular structures, in a manner so satisfactory that I was enabled to proceed with
222, MEMOIR OF EATON HODGKINSON.

more confidence than I otherwise should have done.” (See vol. i, p. 3&, of the
“ Britannia and Conway Tubular Bridges,” by E. Clark, esq.)

This declaration of Mr, Stephenson completely disarms all future praise or
detraction with respect to the part which Mr. Hodgkinson took in the execution
of the tubular bridges. It places him before the public in his right position as
a most important contributor to the success of an enterprise which will represent
the engineering skill of the present time, and will be the admiration of future
ages. E. Clark, esq., who superintended the building of the tubular bridges,
speaks in the highest terms of the importance of Mr. Hodgkinson’s labors in
fixing the proper dimensions of the bridges.

We are indebted to him also for nearly the whole of the mathematical calcu-
lations in reducing the experiments which were made into a form fit for applica-
tion to a large structure. But we are also indebted to Mr. Fairbairn for a great
portion of the practical construction of the bridges.

The answers given by Mr. Hodgkinson to his inquiries, and which rendered
such signal service to the engineer in the execution of his novel design, are as
follows :

1. The value of (f) the strain upon a square inch at the top or bottom of the
tube is constant in material of the same nature, while it varies from 19, 14, to
72 tons when the thickness of metal varies from .525, .272, to .124 of an
inch. The determination of (/) is the chief obstacle to obtaining a formula for
the computation of the strength of tubes of every form.

The strength of the Conway tube was calculated to bear 1,084 tons when the
value of (f) was taken at § tons, and the deflection about 153 inches in the
middle.

2. The strength of similar tubes was somewhat lower than the square of their
linear dimensions, being about 1.9 power instead of the square.

3. The tubes may be reduced in strength and thickness towards the ends,
corresponding to the ratio indicated by theory, viz., that the strain at any point
of the tube is proportional to the rectangle of the two parts into which that
point divides the length of the tube.

4. The power of the tube to resist a vertical strain is to its power to resist a
strain on its side, as from the wind, as 26 to 15, nearly.

5. The resistance of tubes to crushing follows the law of cast-iron pillars
when the crushing force is not more than 8 tons per square inch. It appears,
however, that cast iron was decreased in length double what wrought iron was
by the same weight; but the wrought iron sunk to any degree with a weight of
12 tons per square inch, while cast iron required double the weight to produce
the same effect.

6. The power of plates to resist buckling varies nearly as the cube of the thick-
‘ness. Myr, Clark refers to this property as being most useful in the construction
of the tubular bridge.

7. The tube bent by pressure had borne a deflection of five inches without
serious injury; but its riveting was destroyed by repeated impacts deflecting it
through less than one inch.

8. Resilience is perceptible, but very small.

9. The introduction of cast iron on the top of the tube would be attended with
advantage in resisting the force of compression. Practical objections, however,
of a serious nature prevented Mr. Stephenson from availing himself of the power
of cast iron to resist compression. He thought it advisable to increase the thick-
ness of wrought iron to resist compression, rather than use a combination of
wrought with cast iron. It may be stated that Mr. Stephenson has used cast
iron, for the purpose recommended by Mr. Hodgkinson, with success in tubes of
smaller dimensions than the Conway tubes.

In 1847 Mr. Hodgkinson was appointed one of the commissioners to inquire
into the application of iron to railway structures; and during the space of two
MEMOIR OF EATON HODGKINSON. 223

years the whole of his time and abilities were devoted to the subjects of this
inquiry. The exertions, both physical and mental, which he made at this period
for the advancement of engineering science were so great as materially to
affect his health and prostrate his powers. Immediately after the publication of
the commissioners’ report in 1849, he sought the restoration of his exhausted
faculties by a tour on the continent of Europe.

His labors for this commission are published in the report, and comprise 114
closely printed pages. The high importance of these labors may be, to some
extent, inferred from the circumstance of the commissioners pointing them out
for special notice. “Although we are aware that to point out the labors of indi-
vidual members of the commission would be impossible, and that it may appear
invidious to single out one for praise, we cannot resist the expression of our
thanks to Mr. Hodgkinson for the zeal and intelligence with which he has car-
ried out the remarkable series of experiments which are detailed in the appen-
dix A to this Report, and which constitute a large proportion of those which
have been already described.” (See the Commissioners’ Report, page 15.) Such,
then, was the estimate of the labors of Mr. Hodgkinson by Lord Wrottesley,
Professor Willis, Colonel James, Mr. Rennie, and Mr. Cubitt; and it has been
amply confirmed by the engineering experience of the last 13 years.

The objects for which Mr. Hodgkinson sought in this inquiry were—

1. The determination of the longitudinal extensions and compressions of long
bars of cast and wrought iron by weights varied by equal increments, up to that
producing fracture.

2. The establishment of general formule connecting the longitudinal exten.
sions, and compressions, and sets of cast iron with the forces producing them.

3. To determine the deflection of horizontal bars produced by various trans-
verse pressures, and to compare the effects with those produced by impacts.

4. To determine general formule connecting the transverse pressure, the
deflection, and set remaining after the pressure was removed.

If e =elongation of a bar of cast iron one inch square and (/) inches long by
a weight w, ,

then w = 13934040, —2907432000-,.

If d=compression of a bar of cast iron one inch square and (/) inches long } gy
a weight w,

d a

then w= 129815605 =50220979200-5--

These formule were derived from the mean results of four different kinds of
cast iron.

The mean tensile strength was found to be 15,711 pounds per square inch, and
the ultimate extension was 1-600th of the length of the bar.

With respect to wrought iron, the extensions and compressions were found to
be nearly proportional to the pressures producing them.

The extension is proportional to the pressure up to about 12 tons per square
inch ; after this the pressure is not proportional to the extension. The weight
necessary to elongate a bar of wrought iron to double its length is 27,691,200
pounds, which is usually called the modulus of elasticity. One striking and
important fact was elicited by these experimental researches, viz., cast-iron bars
are decreased in length double as much as wrought-iron bars by the same pres-
sure; but wrought-iron bars sink to any degree with little more than 12 tons’
pressure per square inch of section, while cast-iron bars require three times the
pressure to produce the same effect. It appears, also, that the tensile force of
cast iron depends but little upon the form of the section, except so far as the
form contributes to the better consolidation of the casting when in a fluid state.

The above results were obtained for the commissioners by the individual
224 MEMOIR OF EATON HODGKINSON.

labors of Mr. Hodgkinson himself, who alone is responsible for their accuracy,
usefulness, and general adaptation to promote the ends of physical and engin-
eering science; but there were other important results obtained by other mem-
bers of the commission, to which it may not be deemed out of place to refer.

The experiments at Portsmouth dockyard, conducted by Colonel Sir Henry
James, and the discussion of the results by Professor Willis and Professor
Stokes, were also the work of the commissioners. And it would be no easy task
to over-estimate the value of these labors, both on account of the novel nature
of the experiments and the mathematical deductions to which they conducted
when placed in the hands of Professor Stokes.

Colonel Sir Henry James and Captain Galton subjected cast-iron bars, placed
between fixed supports, to 100,000 successive deflections, at the rate of four per
minute, by means of acam. When the deflections were one-third of the ulti-
mate deflection, the bars were not weakened; when, however, the deflections
were one-half of the ultimate deflection, the bars were broken with less than
900 depressions. ,

Professor Hodgkinson subjected cast-iron bars, firmly fixed between supports,
to 4,000 continued impacts. When the blow was such as to deflect the bars
one-third of their ultimate deflection, they resisted the concussion of 4,000
impacts without injury ; but when the blow was such as to deflect the bars one-
half of their ultimate deflection, no bar could resist 4,000 depressions. These
results strikingly confirm each other.

Colonel James and Captain Galton caused a weight equal to one-half the
breaking weight of the cast-iron bar to be drawn backwards and forwards from
one end of the bar to the other. The bar was not weakened by 96,000 transits
of the weight. No perceptible effect was produced in wrought-iron bars by
10,000 successive deflections, each of which was equal to that produced by half
the breaking weight.

Professor Hodgkinson notices the following results which he obtained from his
experiments on the impact of cast-iron bars:

All cast-iron bars of the same sectional area require the same blow to break
them in the middle. ;

The deflections of wrought-iron bars produced by the striking ball were pro-
portional to the velocity of impact; but in cast-iron bars the deflections were
greater than the proportion to the velocity of impact.

The most striking and novel experiments, however, were those made by
Jolonel Sir Henry James and Captain Galton, at Portsmouth dockyard. These
gentlemen constructed a large apparatus by which weights could be made to
move over cast-iron beams placed horizontally between fixed supports, with
velocities varying from 0 to 30 miles per hour. These experiments developed
the singular fact, at variance with the impressions of the most eminent engineers,
that a train passing over a bridge at a given speed will produce a greater deflection
than that produced by the train being placed upon the bridge in a state of repose.
This important fact was confirmed in all its entirety by the larger experiments
made by the commissioners on the Ewell bridge, on the Epsom line, and the
Godstone bridge, on the Southeastern line.

Colonel James found that when a carriage was loaded with 1,120 pounds and
placed at rest upon a cast-iron bar, it produced a deflection of six-tenths of an
inch; when, however, the carriage moved over the bar at the rate of 10 miles
per hour, the deflection was increased to eight-tenths of an inch; when the speed
of the carriage was increased to 30 miles per hour the deflection was increased
to one inch and a half, which is more than double the statical deflection. It
follows from this that a much less weight will break a bar of cast iron when it
moves over it at a great speed than if it be placed at rest upon the bar. The
bars, when broken by a load passing over them, were fractured at points beyond
their centres, often into four or five pieces, indicating the unusual straius to which
MEMOIR OF EATON HODGKINSON. 225

they had been subject. From these unexpected results there is no appeal, how-
ever much they may be at variance with the impressions of the most gifted
engineers. It now remains to connect these results with well-established
mechanical laws, a problem of great difficulty, the solution of which has been
accomplished by the labors of Professor Willis and Professor Stokes. (See
“ Preliminary Essay on the Effects produced by causing Weights to travel over
Elastic Bars,” by the Rev. Robert Willis, F. R. 5., &c.)

By neglecting the inertia of the bar, as being small in relation to the moving
weight, Professor Stokes has shown that—

D=S+4/VS\?
rT):

D=central dynamical deflection of, the bar, produced by the weight moving

at the velocity V. '

S=central statical deflection produced by the same weight.

l=the length of the bar in feet.
Hence the dynamical deflection is double of the statical, when the velocity of
the moving weight is /2 times the length of the bar between the supports.

These results were not readily accepted by practical men, as they had been
accustomed to connect high velocities of the train with small deflections of the
bridge over which it passed.

The late Robert Stephenson, in his evidence before the commissioners, states
that he had seen the deflections less as the train passed over than when it was
in repose. From the observations which he had made he felt quite satisfied upon
the point, that no revision of the practical rules respecting the deflection of the
bridges was necessary. ‘ You will sometimes find,” he adds, “an exceptional
case occurs, if the engine happen to jump on the springs, which may, of course,
accidentally occur; but if it be a mere question of velocity Ido not think it
increases the strain upon the girder. There may be a lateral strain backwards
and forwards when the whole train comes into play and causes a jerk.”

Mr. Locke, after making many experiments with locomotives passing over
bridges, arrives at the conclusion that there is but little difference in the deflec-
tion between high velocities and low. “If there be,” he remarks, “three or
four bad rails or joints upon the top of a bridge there is far more effect produced
upon the bridge. A bad joint is more serious than 10 or 12 miles’ increase or
diminution of velocity.”

Mr. Hawkshaw’s opinion is, that there would be a greater deflection ina bridge
by running a weight over it than by allowing the same weight to rest upon it,
because there is always an irregularity in the surface of the rails, and the force
of impact is thereby brought into activity. W. H. Barlow stood under a wooden
viaduct while a heavy goods train passed over it. There was a slight deflection
produced by the heavy train, but the express, with a much lighter engine, and
moving at a greater speed, produced a much worse effect. It seemed to pro-
duce a wave through the bridge, as it ought to do from the ordinary principles
of dynamics. This load was passing over the bridge in a very few seconds, and
therefore the total deflection is performed by the weight in a few seconds; and
it therefore becomes a kind of blow—the descent of a heavy weight—and the
bridge has not time to accommodate itself to the deflections required of it. These
deflections are propagated throughout the structure; and may prove e«ceedingly
dangerous and disagreeable,

Mr. Rastrick always considered that when a weight passed rapidly over a
structure, there would be less deflection than if it were stationary. Ile takes the
example, for comparison, of a man skating upon ice, and states that if he remain
stationary for a length of time he would soon go through the ice; but he may
skate ae it without any danger of going through, because the ice has no time
to break.

15s
226 MEMOIR OF EATON HODGKINSON.

Mr. Brunel’s impression was that where the rails are perfect the deflection is,
as it ought to be, less with a weight passing rapidly over it than when it rests
upon it; “but the experiment is so difficult to make, from the number of inter-
fering causes, that perhaps my impression is still only prejudice rather than
positive information.”

Mr. Cubitt, engineer of the Great Northern railway, could perceive no differ-
ence in the deflection of a large girder between the weight being stationary upon
it and passing over it ata great speed. The experiment was made upon a girder
47 feet span, and a heavy locomotive engine, the deflection being a tenth of
an inch, :

The opinion of Mr, Charles Fox, engineer, is very decided on this point. He
states positively that, if the rails have been carefully laid over the portion of the
line resting upon the bridge, less deflection is caused in the girder by a load
passing at a high speed than at a low one, and that there is less deflection with
any rate of speed than when the weight is stationary. i Bas imagine this arises,
in a great measure, from the short time there is to overcome the inertia of the
mass ; of course the higher the velocity the less time is expended in the train
passing over the bridge.”

Mr. Glynn, of Butterly Iron Works, Derbyshire, thinks that, if the strength
of the beam were not great in proportion to the stress it had to sustain, the
weight, being stationary upon it, would tend to deflect it permanently more than
aW eight passing rapidly over it. “This opinion is not formed from experience;
experiments on the subject would be very desirable.”

This is the testimony, conflicting as it is, of the highest authorities in the
engineering profession respecting a most important part of their practice, viz:
the permanent stability of structures over which thousands of people are being
continually conveyed with rapid velocities.

Perhaps the simplest method to gain the conviction that the dynamical deflection
of a structure is different from its statical deflection is to place a weight, capable
of motion, and producing a sensible deflection, on the middle of a horizontal

‘flexible beam, between fixed supports. Let us now inquire what effect is pro-
duced by moving the weight to a point very near to its original position. It is
evident that the w eight, “being at the lowest point of the “beam, cannot move
from this position without the application of aforce. 'The effect of thisforce upon
the moving weight and flexible beam will, of course, depend upon its magnitude

and direction. If the direction of the force be vertical, whatever may be its
magnitude, it will not produce any horizontal motion in the moving weight.

If the direction of the force, however, is not vertical, the case is very different.

The movable weight, abandoned to the influence of gravity and the reaction
of the beam, will have a complex, vertical, and horizontal motion, while the
flexible beam will be, from the same cause, put into a state of periodical oscilla-
tions, the number and amplitude of which will depend upon the moving forces

Fig. Da

A B F

D

and inertia of the beam. Let A B be the fixed supports of the beam, A D Bits
position after the weight has been placed upon it. Ifthe point E in the beam
is sufficiently near to D, then the line D E may be considered straight ; produce
D E to meet the horizontal line A B in F, and put the angle DF B=é. Let
the force H, applied to move the weight from D to E upon the inclined plane
DE, be in the direction of D E. It is evident that the force H can be decomposed
into two, viz., H sin @ acting vertically npwards, and H cos @ acting horizontally
MEMOIR: OF EATON HODGKINSON. 22¢

from D to E. If we examine the effect of these two decomposed forces it will
be found that the foree H cos @, which is nearly equal to H, since the angle 0
is small, will produce an elongation in the beam A D, and a compression in the
beam D B. When the elongation of A D is greater than the compression of
D B, the beam between the supports is increased in length ; hence the middle point
D, where the weight is placed, is moved vertically as well as horizontally into
another position. From this force alone the beam would become a wreck if the
force H, or the velocity with which the weight is moved from D to FE, was suffi-
ciently large; but, to prevent this catastrophe, the vertical compouent force H
sin @ diminishes the reaction of the weight and beam. The vertical force of the
weight, instead of being the weight alone, is now diminished by H sin @, and is
become W—H sin 0, where W is the weight of the movable body. ‘The effect
then of the vertical component is directly opposite to that of the horizontal com-
ponent ; and it is evident that under certain conditions either one or the other of
these two forces may prevail. Hence the indications of theory are in harmony
with the observations of engineers, and fully justify the conflicting evidence
which they have given on the subject. Sometimes the conditions of the moving
weight and the beam are such as to produce a statical deflection greater than the
dynamical, and sometimes the conditions produce a dynamical deflection greater
than the statical. The computation of the effects of these component forces is
attended with great difficulty, as they bring into full activity the elastic forces
of the beam and its inertia. The solution, however, of this intricate problem,
under certain restrictions, viz., when the weight of the beam is small compared
with the moving weight, and the deflection small compared with the length of
the beam, has been given by Professor Stokes. (See “Transactions of the
Cambridge Philosophical Society,” vol. viii, p. 707.)

The same distinguished analyst has given another solution to this problem
when the mass of the moving weight is neglected, or the effect of the weight
reduced to a travelling pressure. ‘The exact solution of the problem lies between
these extreme cases, and is therefore circumscribed by the labors of Professor
Stokes in such a manner that it can be approached to any degree of proximity
required. The general dynamical equations from which the dynamical deflection
is computed are so complex that a complete solution of the problem, as exhibited
in practice by the moving weight being sustained by the beam in two points, is
not likely soon to be furnished. Still, what has been accomplished by Professors
Willis and Stokes is sufficient to show to practical engineers that the startling
results of Sir Henry James and Captain Galton, as obtained at Portsmouth, and
confirmed on the Ewell and Godstone bridges, are indicated by dynamical laws,
the truth of which cannot be controverted. If this be true—and there can be
little doubt of it—no engineer will be justifiedin neglecting a just estimate of its
effects on the stability of structures on the safety of which human life depends.
The commissioners appointed to inquire into the application of iron to railway
structures haye rendered essential service to the public by the discovery and
experimental development of the difference between statical and dynamical
deflection in iron girders. It is true they have not exhausted the subject, nor
divested it wholly of its perplexity ; but they have gained a positive and useful
result, by showing to practical engineers the falsity of their position when they
affirm that dynamical deflection is always less than the statical. I may state,
in conclusion, that Professor Willis, by a train of reasoning which depends on
the assumption of each particle of the beam moving into its position, forming
the trajectory, atthe'same instant of time, has shown that the inertia of the beam
is the same as it would be by placing half its weight at the centre.

This result is derived from a principle which is purely hypothetical, and the
correct determination of which is the chief difficulty in the mathematical discus-
sion of the problem. In the Appendix B to the commissioners’ report, Professor
228 MEMOIK OF EATON HODGKINSON.

Willis has given the following dynamical equation, from which the trajectory of
the curve described by the moving load may be computed :
LONG 9 Lge) ie
dV? VS (2aa—2")?*
y and & are the rectangular co-ordinates of the moving weight, the origin being
at the extremity of the beam; y is vertical and x horizontal.
V=the velocity of the moving weight.
2a=the length of the beam.
.g=the force of gravity.
S=the central statical deflection.

This equation, and the reasoning by which it is established, accidentally fell
into my hands during the time the commissioners were considering it, and in a
letter to the secretary, Captain Galton, I pointed out the hypothetical principle
on which the equation is founded. This principle is, that the reaction between
the moving weight and the beam is equal to the weight which would be neces-
sary to deflect the beam, when placed on it at rest, as much as the travelling
load deflects it. This position is purely hypothetical, which may or may not
give results approximating to the truth, according to the dimension of the quanti-
ties which constitute the fixed data of the problem. It is not improbable that
this reaction, the amount and direction of which influence the motion of the
moving weight over the beam, is continually vibrating between a maximum
amount and zero, and that many times during the passage of the weight over the
beam the reaction may be nothing, and therefore the moving load be abandoned
to the influence of its own gravity only. However this may be, it is certain that
its amount is never accurately measured by a formula which produces an accelerat-
ing force of

ga Yy
S (2ax—x")?’
as given by Professor Willis.

This subject has received considerable attention from Mr. H. Cox, in a paper
entitled “ Dynamical Deflection and Strain of Girders,” which is printed in the
“Civil Engineer and Architects’ Journal” for September, 1848. It appears
that Mr. Cox has established, from the principle of vis viva, that the moving
body cannot in any case produce a deflection greater than double the central
deflection, the elasticity of the girders being supposed perfect. Professor Stokes,
however, has shown that this conclusien of Mr. Cox is not true; that among the
sources of laboring force which can be employed in deflecting the girders Mr.
Cox has omitted to consider the vis viva arising from the horizontal motion of
the body, and therefore has been led to an inference which is not correct. The
recorded experimental facts connected with the dynamical deflection of bridges
and bars of iron are given in the report of the commissioners as follows:

EWELL BRIDGE.

The span is 48 feet ; the statical deflection produced by the engine and tender,
39 tons, and weight of half bridge 30 tons, was only .215 inch. This deflection
was increased to .245, with a speed of 37 miles per hour, <A speed of 51 miles
per hour produced a deflection of .235.

Greatest dynamical deflection
Statical deflection

=1.14.
MEMOIR OF EATOM HODGKINSON, 229

GODSTONE BRIDGE.

The span is 30 feet, the weight of engine and tender 33 tons, and weight of
half bridge 25 tons; the statical deflection was .19 inch. This was increased
to .25 by. a speed of 49 miles per hour.

The dynamical deflection
Statical deflection

=1.315,

showing an increase of nearly one-third.
A pair of steel bars, two feet three inches by two inches broad and one-fourth
inch deep, gave the following results:

tna
Velocity, in, feetper: second ..<... --. J 5-\. --|--22-5| 15 14 29 34 44
Centralidesectionininches -2) si. sae a= eal Oy) DOS F132 | le45.) > Ves0)|) 1.103

A bar of wrought iron nine feet long, one inch broad, and three inches deep,

with a load of 1, 778 pounds, gave the following results:

Weltecihy WisoGh pel SOCOME. 9. - <4 icin des cleiencasleoce at) 1D 2g 36 43
Central*deflection in inches=. 22.222 050022 2222 25...]) 29 .30 . 50 462 . 46:

In the commissioners’ report Mr. Hodgkinson has given the results of a variety
of experiments on the transverse strength of cast, mixture of cast and w rought,
and wrought iyon. The experiments were made with great care, and every
source of error that could be was eliminated, notwithstanding the trouble and
expense which such a procedure necessitated. Still there was a great difliculty,
which was always felt by Mr. Hodgkinson, and which occupied, at various times,
much of his attention, viz., to connect the breaking-weight of the beam with its
deflection in such a manner as to indicate true practical results. For this pur-
pose he entered into a very general theoretical investigation on the transverse
flexure of beams, which is given in the second volume of Tredgold “On the
Strength of Cast Iron ;” but, in order to make the results of this very general
investigation practical, he is compelled to assume, first, that the forces of exten-
sion and compression are proportional to the extensions and compressions ;
second, that the force of extension is equal to the force of compression ; third,
the reaction at the points of support is always vertical. It is not surprising,
then, that a formula, based upon so many assumptions, should fail to represent
correctly the relation between the breaking-weight and the dimensions of the
beam; this is exactly what has taken place.

The discordance here alluded to has arrested the attention of W. H. Barlow,
esq., C. E., F. R. S., and the results of his investigations are given in two very
interesting ‘memoirs, printed in the “Transactions of the Roy al Society” for
185557. It would be great presamption on my part to enter into any profound
criticism on the mode of procedure and results of these memoirs, revised as they
have been by Professor Barlow, who is justly distinguished by his genius, high
attainments, and long life devoted to the interests of science ; but still it m: Ly
not be out of place here to make one or two observations which occurred to me
while reading the memoirs. I quite agree with Mr. Barlow that there must be
other forces in operation when a beam is broken transversely than those simply
and usually designated tensile and compressive. Ifa peal) is broken transversely,
and the existence and position of the neutral surface are admitted, then it is not
difficult to coneeive the existence of a third force bet een two adjacent laminge
unequally extended or compressed.

This is really what happens, and the existence of which was well known to
230 MEMOIR OF EATON HODGKINSON.

Mr. Hodgkinson, who thonght it to be so small in practical cases that its aecumu-
lated action would not produce much effect on the breaking strain of the beam.
Be this, however, as it may, there is some little difficulty i in subscribing to all
that Mr. Barlow advances on this important and interesting subject. In the first
place there might be an exception taken to Mr. Barlow’s method of fixing the
position of the neutral line. Does he not fix it by an appeal to his senses rather
than by the result of the mathematical analysis of the data he has obtained from
experiment? The position which he fixes upon, viz., the centre of the beam,
necessarily involves the equality of tensile and compressive forces, a conclusion
which is not justified by Mr. Hodgkinson’s experience. In the second place
Mr. Barlow makes it appear that the error in the breaking strain of a beam is
nearly one-half by neglecting the force of adhesion between “the adjacent lamin.
We hardly think this “conclusion is based upon sound premises, although it neces-
sarily follows from the results of a formula which has been obtained by consider-
ing only the two forces, viz., tensile and compressive. But it is hardly fair on
the part of Mr. Barlow to institute acomparison between the resistance to flexure
and the results of a formula (W=2adf—/) in which that resistance to flexure is
neglected, without applying the well-known corrections to that formula. When
a beam is strained to a considerable extent the deflection becomes sensible, and of
course the reaction at the supports, beg perpendicular to the surface of the beam,
makes an angle with the vertical. This circumstance affects the above formula
in two ways: - first, it alters the amount of the moment about a line in the neutral
surface ; and, second, its tendency is to change the position of the neutral line.
T herefore, unless these corrections are approximated to and applied to the for-
mula, it is not safe to infer, as Mr. Barlow has done, that, by neglecting the
resistance to Jlexure, the ordinary formula only gives nearly half the breaking
weight.

Another source of error is in the law “ut tensio sic vis,” as it is well known,
from Mr. Hodgkinson’s experiments, that the forces of extension and compression
are neither equal nor vary with the extension and compression when the strains
are large. I quite agree,as did Mr. Hodgkinson, with Mr. Barlow as to the exist-
ence of a resistance to flexure i in the transverse strain of beams besides the ordi-
nary forces of tension and compression ; but the mode of estimating this resist-
ance to flexure in Mr. Barlow’s second memoir amounts to the assumption that
the force of extension varies by a law expressed by ax--b, where a and 6 are
constants, and x the distance of the particle from the neutral axis. I may add,
in conclusion, that Mr. Hodgkinson has computed the tensile and compressive
forces, subject toa law much more general than the one here alluded to, with
great clearness and adaptation to include practical cases.

Mr. Barlow’s two memoirs, however, are the first on this subject to insist on
the existence of a distinct force to resist flexure ; and although I do not see the
force of his comparison of the resistance to flecure with the ‘Tesults of the ordi-

nary formula, or the theoretical method by which he estimates its amount, still I
can with confidence recommend these memoirs to the engineering student as
being worthy of his attentive perusal.

In concluding this memoir of one of the most distinguished members of the
society, I cannot help feeling that the description herein given of his character
and labors falls short of the real position which they occupy in the public mind ;
and although I have had much pleasure in reading and collating the discoveries
of Mr. Hodgkinson, I regret that the preparation of this memoir has not been
placed in abler hands. One thing, however, consoles me, and supplies me with
an ample reward, which no criticisms on my effort can possibly cancel, and that
s, [have been engaged, to the best of my ability, in the endeavor to perpetuate
the memory of a great and good man, whose singular praise it is to have spent
his life and his great powers ‘for the good of mankind, with a single aim to truth

5S
and science, without desiring or gaining pecuniary reward.
RECENT PROGRESS IN RELATION TO THE THEORY OF HEAT.
By A. Cazin.

Translated for the Smithsonian Institution.*

The study of heat presents a remarkable example of the connection which
exists between the physical properties of matter. Restricted as the limits of
this discourse must necessarily be, I propose on the present occasion to consider
heat under two points of view only, first in its relations to light, and next in its
relations to movement. It may thus be practicable to furnish a rapid sketch of
the actual state of this part of physics.

The fact that the same laws are applicable to the propagation of heat and
to that of light, is one which science leaves no longer in doubt. ‘To every expe-
riment in optics there corresponds a similar experimentin thermotics. ‘Uhe methods
of observation are to-day carried to such perfection that M. Desains has been
able quite recently to reproduce with heat the remarkable phenomenon of the
luminous interference from striated surfaces.

A pencil of horizontal luminous rays traverses a plate of glass on which are
traced parallel lines extremely close to one another, (6,000 lines in an extent of
one inch.) ‘This pencil is divided by the plate into many distinct pencils,
which spread themselves in fan-shape in a horizontal plane, and we see, on the
screen upon which these pencils are made to fall alternate intervals of light and
_obseurity. With the violet light the dark intervals are not so large as with the
red. This is the phenomenon of diffraction discovered by Frauenhofer. By
applying a thermo-electric battery, the most delicate of thermometers, at different
_ places in the plane where the pencils transmitted by the luminous rays are
distributed, M. Desains has verified the existence of pencils of heat distributed like
those of light. Moreover, by causing obscure heat, proceeding from a solar peneil
which has passed through. M. Tyndall’s solution of iodine in bisulphide of carbon,
to fall on the rays ,M. Desains has observed that the intervals without heat
are greater than the obscure intervals given by the red light. Remark now the
gradation: the violet is more refrangible than the red, the red more refrangible
than the obscure heat, consequently the magnitude of the intervals destitute of

rays varies in inverse proportion to the refrangibility.

‘Several other re carr in optics have been transferred by M. Desains to
the domain of radiant heat. I will cite one of those relating to the polarization
of obscure heat. The rays of heat employed issue from a common oil lamp; a
lens of glass collects them and causes them to converge on a prism of Iceland
spar achromatized. 'T'wo pencils issue from this spar: that which is called the
ordinary pencil encounters a second prism of spar like the first; it is bifurcated
in its turn. Of the two pencils thus obtained, that which is called ordinary-ordi-
nary falls on a lens and converges towards the thermo-electric battery. When
the principal sections of the two spars are perpendicular, neither light nor heat
arrive at the battery; the ordinary-ordinary pencil is said to be e tinguished. If
one of the spars benow made to turn upon itself, helt and heat immediately appear
in this pencil. Let us now place between the two spars a trough, containing
Tyndall's solution; the luminons rays are arrested, and beyond the trough there
remains only the obscure heat. Tho destruction of this heat is complete when

*From the Revue des cours scientifiques de la [rance et de Vétranger, “* Associution
Scientifique de France, (conférences de la Sorbonne,” 1867.
“ #

232 RECENT PROGRESS IN RELATION TO THE THEORY OP HEAT.

the principal sections of the two spars are perpendicular. Here, ts we have
the experimental demonstration of the polarization of obscure heat.

Let us next place between the trough and the second spar a lamina of quartz,

the thermo-electrie battery manifests heat anew, just asif, without i interposing the
quartz, we had caused the first spar to turn by a certain angle. It is usual to
say that the ordinary pencil which issues from the spar is polarized i in the prin-
cipal section, and that the transmission of this pencil through the quartz causes
the plane of polarization to revolve. ‘To conclude the experiment, we cause the
first spar to turn until the ordinary-ordinary pencil which encounters the battery
is extinguished anew, and the angle of this rotation measures the rotation of the
plane of polarization.
_ The perfect resemblance of a luminous and a calorific ray has led to the infer-
ence that the forces which are at play in the two radiations place matter ina similar
state of movement. Would we figure to ourselves a siate of movement capable
of producing all the phenomena of light, we have but to imagine an infinitude of
particles situated upon the ray and oscillating @ from one side to the other of an
intermediate position, like the particles of a chord which yields a sound; two
consecutive particles act one on the other in such a way that every modification
of movement in the one induces a determinate modification in the other. While
a particle executes a complete oscillation the movement is transmitted to a certain
distance which is called length of wave. Here we have the point of departure
of the theory of undulations ; the same hypothesis is applicable to heat.

From the fact that the propagation of heat and light takes place as well in a
vacuum as through ponderable bodies, the above hypothesis must be thought
incomplete unless it be supposed in addition that the matter which transmits the
undulations is different from ponderable matter; to the former, therefore, has been
given the name of ether. Were this vibrating matter even of the same nature
with the matter of ponderable bodies, it would ‘still be useful to employ a special
word to indicate that it is in a particular state, capable of propagating light; as
the purpose in using it is to represent to ourselves the possible mechanism of the
phenomena, we should, above all, seek simplicity of language, and the use of
the phrase luminous ether satisfies this condition.

It may naturally be asked whether there is a calorific ether distinct from the
luminous ether, or whether one sole ether is sufficient for the mechanical repre-
sentation of the radiation of light and of that of heat. Only one, it is evident,
should be admitted, if that suflices for the explanation of all the known facts, and
the question here relates to facts which take place in the material world, outside
of ourselves and independently of our sensations. To the well-known researches
of MM. Jamin, Masson, and De laprovostaye, which corroborate the hypothesis
of a single ether, we should now add the late investigations of M. Desains on the
rotation of the plane of polarization of the rays of obscure heat in passing through
quartz.

When the question relates to luminous rays we know that the rotations of the
plane of polarization are inversely proportional to the squares of the lengths of
wave. If there be luminous rays having a length of wave four times oveater
than that of the violet rays, their rotation, according to this law, would be 16
times smaller than the rotation of these last. Now, MM. Delaprovostaye and
Desains had heretofore established that calorific rays and luminous rays of the
same length have the same rotation. And now M. Desains shows us that the
rays of obscure heat satisfy the law as enunciated, and among these rays there are
such as have, in fact, a rotation 16 times less than that of the violet, and a length
of wave four times greater.

Instead of assuming that two like systems of waves propagate, the one heat,
the other light, while they undergo the same modifications by reflection and
refraction, is it ‘not more simple to “admit but a single system, the longest waves
producing the effects of heat, and the shortest those of light 2 Such is the import

.
RECENT PROGRESS IN RELATION TO THE THEORY OF WHAT. 233

of the principle of the identity of heat and light; it explains all observed pecu-
liarities of radiation, whether chemical, calorific, or luminous.

If we would comprehend, for example, how a solution of sulphate of quinine is
luminous in a dark chamber, when it is placed in the ultra-violet region of the
solar spectrum? Imagine a series of tuning forks of different magnitudes assem-
bled together in the same place, and a sound produced at a distance. Several
of the forks will be thrown into vibration, namely, those which are capable of
rendering the harmonic sounds of the exciting sound. Sonorous waves, longer
than the incident wave, will proceed from the forks which render grave har-
monic sounds : the exciting sound will have generated graver sounds. Such is the
analogy of fluorescence. The radiations incident to waves too short to excite the
retina generate in the sulphate of quinine longer waves, which are capable of pro-
ducing “the sensation of licht. Inversely an obscure radiation of awave tov long
to be ‘Luminous may, by encountering certain bodies, occasion therein more rapid
ethereal vibrations, and eenerate shorter waves which shall be luminous. ‘These
vibrations are analogous to those which correspond to the sharp harmonies in
the acoustical experiment which I have adopted for exemplification. Here we
have the image of that kind of calorific and luminous phenomenon which M.
Tyndall has termed calorescence.

‘The ray of heat which penetrates into a body is absorbed therein either in
whole or in part. So long as the question concerns a solid or liquid body we
feel no doubt as to the exactness of this proposition ; it is the simplest expression
of observed facts. But when it relates to a gas or to vapor the absorption is
much more difficult to demonstrate. We owe to M. Tyndall, in England, and
to M. Magnus, in Germany, the experimental proof of the absorption of heat by
gases and the measure of that absorption.

The experiments of M. Pouillet on the solar heat long since taught us that the
atmosphere retained a considerable portion of the rays emanating from the sun ;
but which of the gaseous elements of the air exerts the greatest absorption 2 At
present some approximation has been made to the solution of this important
question, and I shall attempt to show at what point it has arrived.

To ascertain the absorption of heat by a gas, we will take, like M. Tyndall,
a tube of plate-tin of the length of two metres, which bears a tubulure in the
middle and a tubulure towards each end. A pencil of obscure heat traverses this
tube, and encounters the thermo-electric battery. The calorific effect indicated
by the galvanometer is due, in part, to the rays which pass into the tube parallel
to its axis, in part to those which have undergone sundry reflections on the walls
of the tube; the tube contains at this time only common air, naturally humid.
We exhaust this air by the tubulure of the middle, by means of a pneunatic
machine; as the tube is open at both ends the atmospheric air enters freely, and
notwithstanding the removal of the strata of air, the needle of the galvanometer
remains at rest. If coal gas be now introduced through the terminal tubulures
the deviation of the needle diminishes, which shows that heat no longer traverses
the tube as freely as before. Arrest the introduction of the gas by continuing
the action of the pistons of the pneumatic machine, air replaces the gas, and the
needle returns to its former deviation. From this experiment it is inferred that
coal-gas has an absorbing power superior to that of atmospheric air.

M. 'Tyndall varied this experiment by causing dry air to pass into the tube,
and observed an augmentation in the deviation of the needle of the @ oalvanometer.
From this he concludes that the absorbing power of humid air is ereater than
that of dry air, and that aqueous vapor exerts on heat a consider able degree of
absorption. A great numberof experiments made by other methods has led him
to the same conclusion. On the other hand M. Magnus, in operating after M.
Tyndall’s or by other methods, found that humid air acted very nearly as dry
ar, and that any great difference was only manifested when water exists in the
air in a vesicular state, similar to the water of clouds.
234 RECENT PROGRESS IN RELATION TO THE THEORY OF HEAT.

The experiment of M. Tyndall, of which I have attempted to give an idea,
seemed to be of a nature to decide the question in favor of the English physicist.
But it is in reality a very complex question, as is shown by the latest observa-
tions of M. Wild, of Berne, and those of M. Magnus. The state of the wall of
the tube exerts a highly important influence on the effects obtained. It is true
that humid air communicates less heat to the battery than dry, if a tube polished
on the inner side be employed. But if the tube be blackened or lined with
velvet an inverse effect is observed; humid air then conveys more heat to the
battery than dry. The complication of the phenomenon is connected with the
condensation of the vapor of water on the walls of the tube. It appears, there-
fore, extremely difficnlt to measure the absorbing power of aqueous vapor by the
methods which have heretofore been practiced; all that can be concluded from
numerous observations up to the present time is that this power is not so con-
siderable as M. Tyndall thinks. If we consider, however, the terrestrial atmos-.
phere in relation to the vesicular water it contains, absorption will appear due
principally to that water, and the climatological conclusion of M. Tyndall be
free from objection.

In what light should we regard the mechanism of absorption? If we admit
in bodies the existence of ponderable particles and an ether, we can suppose that
the movement of the ether is transformed into a different movement, effected by
the particles of the body when absorption occurs. We are led to believe that
this transformation is more facile in compound bodies that in simple, from seeing
that the absorbent power of the former is in general greater, and we can imagine
compound bodies to be aggregations of particles whose form is opposed to the
vibrations of the ether. M. Tyndall says that simple gases are to compound
gases what a smooth cylinder, revolving in water, is to a wheel with paddles.
The verification of such a law is of very great importance, and we thus see how
the research respecting the absorbent powers of gases and vapors may disclose
remarkable correlations between the different properties of matier.

In the same way that we just represented to ourselves the absorption of heat
by gases, we can also represent its emission; it will be the transmission of the
movement of the particles of gas to the ether, and two gases will present the
same relation between their absorbent and their emissive powers. ‘The emission
of heat by gases is well established by the experiments of MM. Tyndall and
Magnus; there remains no uncertainty but with regard to the numbers which
measure it. On this head new researches are indispensable.

There exist other phenomena calculated to reveal to us the relations of heat
and light. It has been long known that the refractive properties of bodies vary
with the temperature, and the study of this variation must greatly contribute to
our knowledge of the constitution of bodies. M. Fizeau has been occupied with
this study for many years, and he has been led to the origination of a new expe-
rimental method, the principle of which I proceed to explain.

The heat absorbed by a body is employed to produce many effects, among
whichis the change of its volume. Whenthe question relates toa body sufficiently
voluminous, the methods practiced leave nothing to desire. It is not so, however,
in regard to bodies which can be obtained only in small fragments, such as
crystals. The process of M. Fizeau is essentially as follows: The solid frag-
ment, having the form of a lamina with two parallel faces, is placed on a hori-
zontal metallic plane, supported by three long adjusting screws. The upper.
points of these screws support a plane of glass, beneath which is the solid lamina
designed to be studied. By working these screws the lower face of the plane
of glass is brought parallel to the upper face of the solid, at a distance of about
two hundredths of a millimetre. By causing rays of simple light to fall perpen-
dicularly on the lamina, rings, alternately brilliant and obscure, will be seen
reflected on the latter. If the thickness of the small stratum of air interposed
between the glass and the solid be gradually increased, the rings approach the
RECENT PROGRESS IN RELATION TO THE THEORY OF HEAT. 235

centre by a centripetal movement; the central dark ring becomes a black point
and disappears; the second dark ring has taken its place, disappears in its turn,
and so on in succession. Inversely, if the thickness of the stratum of air is
diminished, the movement of the rings is centrifugal ; a point appears at the centre,
grows larger, becomes a ring; then a new ring is formed at the centre, and so
in succession. When a ring proceeds thus to occupy the place of another ring,
we know, according to the laws of light, that the thickness of the stratum of
air has varied by a v half length of the wave; for yellow light this variation is
294 millionths of a millimetre. Observation of the rings, therefore, will enable
us to know the slightest variations in the thickness of the stratum of air.

The apparatus is placed in an air-bath, and is gradually heated. If the solid
lamina dilates it tends to diminish the thickness of the stratum of air; the three
screws, on the contrary, by dilating, tend to increase that thickness. ‘The result-
ing effect will be a diminution or augmentation of the thickness, and consequently
the centrifugal or centripetal movement of the rings will be observed, according
as the dilatation of the lamina shall be greater or less than that of the screws.
From the degree of displacement of the rings we deduce the dilatation of the
lamina.

This method, the precision of which is extremely great if we take all the pre-
cautions indicated by M. Fizeau, enables us to resolve a great number of ques-
tions relating to the properties of crystals, and to establish new relations between
heat and light. ‘Thus there existin acrystal three rectangular directions, which
are called axes of elasticity, around whichare grouped the most remarkable opti-

cal phenomena, and also the phenomena ofconductibility and electricity discovered
by De Sénarmont. ‘These axes play the same part inthe phenomena of dilatation
by heat, and the ingenious researches of M. Fizeau have now completed our
knowledge of the admirable structure of er ystallized solids. Among the numerous
unexpected results at which he has arrived, I may cite the contraction of the
ioduret of crystallized or amorphous silver at every temperature which has been
employed, and the existence of a maximum of density for the beryl, the protoxide
of copper, and the diamond.

I pass now to the second part of my subject, the relations which exist between
heat and movement. During the heating or the cooling of a body, there are in
general three sorts of effects to be considered, the variation of temperature, the
external mechanical labor which results from the change of the volume of bodies
and from pressures exerted on their surface, and the internal mechanical labor
which consists in the change of aggregation. There are definite relations between
these effects and the quantities of heat lost or gained by the body, and the dis-
covery of these relations is one of the most remarkable advances of modern
physics. It serves as the basis for the mechanical theory of heat.

It is now well established by experiment that a given quantity of heat is
equivalent to a definite mechanical labor, as if heat were convertible into labor,
and vice versa. ‘This experimental law leads us to regard the effects of heat as
the result of the movement of the particles of bodies, and to frame hypotheses
which enable us to conceive of this movement; but such is not the object of the
mechanical theory of heat. Without forming any hypothesis respecting tho

nature of heat, it only sets forth a small number of principles, a sort of postu-
lata suggested by experiments, and it links together all the known facts by means

of gener ‘alrelations deduced mathem: atically from those principles. It isa physical
theory i in the rigorous acceptation of the word.

Till now two fundamental principles have served as a point of departure; but
according to the recent researches of M. Hirn, the second principle would be a
rational consequence of the first, so that thermodynamics would seem based in
reality on the sole principle of the equivalency of heat and. of labor. So important
is such a proposition that I could not pass it by in silence.

The thermodynamic theory has opened a new horizon to all those who study
236 RECENT PROGRESS IN RELATION TO THE THEORY OF HEAT.

the physical and natural sciences. . Admirable as has been its previous career, it
fas before it the most brilliant future. When ourillustrious Ampére had divined
the connection which exists between magnetism and electricity, electrodynamics
was founded, and brilliant discoveries arose on every side. Our own generation
nas no cause to envy its predecessor; to the former pertains the credit of the
development and application of thermodynamies.. The formulas deduced from
this branch of science have undergone the test of experimental scrutiny, applied
by M. Reenault and other physicists ; those formulas have other tests to undergo,
by sug gesting new experiments which had probably never been attempted without
them.

The scientific association of France will contribute to this progress by facili-
tating and stimulating research. In this spirit its committee of physics has
charged me with the study of the properties presented by saturated vapors when
they. undergo expansion or compression, and the results obtained have been pub-
lished. ‘The creation of new apparatus has led to other researches. It is thus
that M. Hirn and myself have recently solved an important problem, respecting
which there had not, to our knowledge, been any previous experimental infor-
mation. J may be permitted here to give a statement of that problem: “A

vapor supersaturated with heat is suddenly expanded by producing an external

labor, without addition or subtraction of heat; what is the relation of the pressure
to the temperature during the expansion?” ‘There is an agreement between the
results we have reached and the principles of thermodynamics; they prove that
the changes of volume in vapors are accompanied by a considerable internal
labor.

The laws which govern the internal labor of bodies are of the highest importance
towards a knowledge of the constitution of matter, and yet those laws have been
scarcely so much as surmised. To this day, experiments have had for their
principal object the relations of heat and of external labor; it is from these exper-
iments that have been deduced the numerical data now in use. The experl-
ments relative to internal labor are more difficult and more rare. We have had
recently the researches of M. Edlung, in Germany, on the thermic effects of the
traction of metals. ‘The principal experiment, and which the author has submit-
ted to careful study, is the following: Along a stout piece of vertical wood is
arranged a bar of metal terminated below by a ring, and firmly fixed by its
upperextremity. Through the ring a strong iron lever is passed, one extremity of
which rests on an,axis attached to the piece of wood at a short distance from the
ring, and the other extremity bears a basin at nine times that distance from the
ring. When we place on this basin a weight of 60 kilograms, we exert on the
bar of metal a traction of about 600 kilograms, the lever being of the second
order. A thermo-eleetric battery has one of its faces applied against the bar, and
a galvanometer shows the depression of the temperature. Let us now gradually
lift the weight in order to allow the bar to return to its primitive length ; the
ealvanometer indicates a corresponding elevation of temperature. Finally, if
we suddenly remove the weight, there is again an elevation of temperature ;
but this time greater than before.

How is this phenomenon to be explained? Let us consider the bar as elon-
gated by the external traction; its particles have taken ae positions that the
internal forees form an equilibrium to the external forces. Hf we suppress the
latter, the body resumes its original volume through An ‘effect of the internal
forces, and there is an internal labor expended ; there is a manifestation, there-
fore, within the body itself of a quantity of heat proportional to that labor, and,
consequently, a spontaneous elevation of temperature ; it is here taken for granted
that the calorific action of neighboring bodies may be overlooked.

In place of suddenly suppressing the traction, let us allow the molecular forces
to restore the body, little by little, to its original volume, by gradually dimin-

ro)
ishing the force of traction. The external labor thus pr oduced will correspond
RECENT PROGRESS IN RELATION TO THE THEORY OF HEAT. 23

to an equal part of the internal labor eapended, and the other part will be equiva-

lent to the heat made apparent, consequently, to the elevation of temperature.
This elevation will be less, therefore, than that of the preceding operation, and
the difference will be proportional to the external labor produced.

But this operation may be reversed, and when we proceed in such manner as
to dilate the body mechanically, there is an internal labor produced which remains
eveater than the external labor expended; the difference of these two labors cor-
responds to the disappearance of a proportional quantity of heat, hence a spon-
_taneous lowering of the temperature,

Thus experiments of this kind furnish us a relation between the external labor,
the internal labor, and the heat created or destroyed. On the other hand the
mechanical theory establishes a mathematical relation between these quantities.
It is practicable, therefore, to submit a conseqnence of this theory to the test of
experiment. Such is the object which M. Edlune proposed to himself, and it
may be said that the verification has been as complete as possible. But it does
not appear possible to draw from such experiments the exact value of the
mechanical equivalent of heat, on account of the impossibility of preventing the
calorific influence of neighboring bodies. As the traction is not instantaneous,
neither can the thermometric effect be so; the effect which we observe is there-
fore toosmall, and the theoretic formula which serves to calculate the mechanical
equivalent yields a value too great. If we establish a system of corrections in
regard to the effect of the surrounding bodies, the uncertainty is not less great,
because of the minuteness of the thermometric effect that is measured.

By the side of the speculative researches which have aggrandized our knowl-
edge respecting heat within a few years past, of which I have been able to sig-

nalize but a small number, may be ranged certain interesting experiments which
have been devised for the popularization of science, and with which most of us
are already familiar. I have selected one of those which we owe to the celebrated
English professor, M. 'Tyndall, because it is the reproduction of a striking natural
phenomenon. I refer to the intermittent eruptions of water and vapor met with
in Iceland. M. Bunsen has furnished a very simple explanation of volcanoes of
this kind, which are called geysers, and M. Tyndall has very ingeniously imitated
them.

Imagine a pit of a depth of twenty metres, and a breadth of three; at the
bottom theré is water heated by the volcanic substances which proceed from the
depth of the earth. The different strata of water occur under pressures increasing
from above downwards, since each stratum must sustain the pressure of the atmo-
sphere and that of the column of water which is above it. The temperature of
ebullition of these strata will therefore increase, in like manner, from above
downwards. Let us consider a stratum having a temperature a little below that
of its ebullition, under the conditions in w hich it actually exists: if its pressure
be diminished, it is thrown into ebullition. This is precisely what takes place
in the geyser. Aqueous vapor being formed at the bottom of the pit, where the
heat is strongest, lifts up the strata of water above. If one of them be raised
sufficiently high, it passes into a state of ebullition; the water which is below it
is less compressed ; it boils in its turn, and a mass of vapor is instantly formed
at the bottom of the pit. This vapor expels the upper strata of water, and itself
issues with them, forming an immense sheaf-like jet. The expelled vapor io
cooled, becomes liquid, and falls back with the projected mass of water; by its
re-entry the temperature of the pit is reduced, and ebullition is suddenly arrested.
We now hear a concussion proceeding from the formation of new bubbles fs
water, because all the parts of the pit are not instantaneously chilled; until
finally, repose is re-established. But the central heat gradually restores the col-
wun to its former state, and a new eruption takes place. In the experimental
demonstration, the geyser is represented by a tube of metal, two metres in length,
surmounted by abasin. It is filled with water, and two sources of heat are estab-
238 RECENT PROGRESS IN RELATION TO THE THEORY OF HEAT.

lished—one at the bottom, the other 60 centimetres higher up. By regulating the
heat, the water of the latter region is maintained at a temperature a little below
103 degrees, and therefore cannot boil; but if the strata of the bottom are raised
to 105 degrees, they are thrown into ebullition, and the steam raises the middle
stratum. This is immediately reduced to vapor, and the erruption takes place.
The mixture of water and steam falls back into the basin, re-enters the tube, and
a certain interval elapses before the fires can re-establish the temperatures requi-
site for a new erruption.
In thus presenting to my auditors a view of some of the recent researches of
physicists, I have endeavored to indicate the philosophic tendency of those
researches. ‘They lead us to presage new advances which will draw closer the
bonds which science has discovered between the various forces of nature. Is it
enough for us to picture to ourselves the mechanism of phenomena by the help
of ingenious hypotheses? Hypotheses are useful to the physicist for the dis-
covery of the numerical laws, which reveal to us the harmony of the universe;
they do not suffice for the philosopher who wishes to ascend higher in the search
for causes. But to the data of experimental science it is necessary to join prin-
ciples of a wholly other order, the ge1m of which has been implanted in our souls
by the Creator. 'The origin and essence of natural forces are questions of phi-
losophy whose solution, if it is possible, exacts all the powers of investigation
of which the human mind is capable.

THE PRINCIPAL SOURCES OF HEAT.*

In selecting as the subject of this discourse the principal sources of heat, T
have proposed to give a very simple example of the connection which exists
between natural phenomena, even those to which we might, if we contented our-
selves with a superficial examination, deny a community of origin. But when
mental practice has habituated us to observe what surrounds us, and to draw gen-
eral conclusions from our observations, when we have learned to read, in some
sort, the great book of nature, we hesitate no longer to recognize the connec-
tions which escaped us at first, and we seek an expression for those connections ;
when we have found that expression, we have constructed a physical theory.
The theory which will serve me to show the connection of the sources of heat
is very recent; it is alluring from its very simplicity. But being a work purely
human, it is but a rough portraiture, a pale reflection of the grand unity which
reigns throughout nature. All the merit of this theory consists in its being bet-
ter than those which preceded it, and in seeming to approach nearer to the truth.
This must justify us in adopting it.

Let us understand, then, the limits to which we are restricted; as far as con-
cerns us at present, to explain a phenomenon is to show the connection which
exists between that phenomenon and a general principle which is the expression
of a fact more simple than experiment has revealed to us. I shall commence by
establishing the fundamental principle on which I propose to sustain myself.

When a ball of ivory falls on a horizontal plane of marble, it rebounds and
returns almost to its point of departure. Repeat the experiment, by replacing
the ivory with lead, and the ball will rise to a less height in rebounding; but
now it will grow warm, which was not the case with the ball of ivory. Cause
soft bodies or liquids to fall; these will no longer rebound, and if we measure
their temperature we shall find the heat created by the impact to be greater than
in the previous instance.

It is now known that every pound of every ponderous body, which loses its
velocity by falling from a height of about 720 feet, and which does not rebound,
disenages a quantity of heat capable of raising by one degree the temperature

* Conférence de M. Cazin. ‘‘Soirée scientifique de Chartres.” Revue des cours scientifiques
de lu France, &c., July, 1867.

s
RECENT PROGRESS IN RELATION TO THE THEORY OF HEAT. 239

of a pound of water. This datum of experiment serves asa basis for all calcula-
tions relating to the mechanical theory of heat.

Here, then, there is a source of heat whose importance cannot escape our
attention. Consider the innumerable falls of water which exist upon the earth,
the waves of the ocean which resemble immense cataracts, incessantly renewed,
and if we would represent to ourselves the enormous quantity of heat they pro-
duce, take as an example the falls of the Rhine at Schaffhausen. It has been
calculated that this single water-fall creates in a day the heat required to melt
12,060 tons of ice.

Nor is heat created by the impact of heavy bodies alone. When any force
has put a body in movement, it often happens that this movement is afterwards
annihilated, that is to say, it stops without being communicated to other bodies,
and heat becomes apparent. ‘This is seen in the well-known experiment of the
fire syringe. We exert a muscular effort on a piston; this compresses the air,
and our foree seems fruitlessly expended. But if it is not employed in commu-
nicating motion, it serves to produce heat; the compressed air is heated sufh-
ciently to kindle gun-cotton. We will lay it down then as a principle that heat
may arise from the destruction of movement.

Our habitual sources of heat are chemical combinations. I take sulphuric
acid, diluted with water, in which I have immersed a small balloon containing
ether; I put zinc in this acid; a lively chemical action is produced, and the mix-
ture is sufficiently heated to throw the ether into ebullition. The jet of vapor
rushes out by a slender tube, and may be made more conspicuous by kindling it.
The solution of zine in an acid is therefore accompanied by a disengagement of
heat.

The heat disengaged in a chemical reaction is often sufficiently intense to pro-
duce incandescence, and when the vivacity of action is very great, an explosion.
I shall cite some examples recently discovered, without going however into detail.
A leaf of paper is moistened with pyroligneous acid; we touch it with a glass
rod coated with amixture of sulphuric acid and hypermanganate of potassium, and

the paper immediately takes fire. Again, we let fall some drops of the essence
of anise on the same mixture placed in the bottom of a glass; there is now both
incandescence and explosion.

To manifest to my auditors the connection which exists between the heat cre-
ated by impact and that created by chemical action, I take an example, well
known, but on account of its simplicity, serving better than the preceding for the
purpose of explanation. The powdered iron, suitably prepared, takes fire when
exposed to the air. What is it that occurs in this phenomenon? One of the
elements of the air, oxygen, combines with the iron and forms a brown powder,
which is called oxide of iron. If the iron be weighed before and after the com-
bination, it will be found to have increased in weight; this proves the fixation
of the oxygen in the iron. Now, we shall very well represent to ourselves the
mechanism of the combination, by imagining that the particles of oxygen have
been precipitated on the iron and become fixed, just as the stone which falls on
the earth remains fixed to the soil. Heat, then, has been created by the impact,
and the connection we sought is established.

The chemical sources of heat are so important in the arts, that I shall moro
particularly dwell upon them, with a view to point out the recent improvements
of which they have been the object. It was only the combustion of charcoal,
accelerated by the insufflation of a considerable quantity of air, which for a long
time was made use of in industry ; such is the fire of the smelting furnace, which
can melt iron, but is incapable of melting platina. This metal, as precious as
gold, could be melted by no known chemical process until quite recently, when
the means were devised by M. H. Sainte-Claire Deville. At present we melt it
very easily by the combustion of illuminating gas with pure oxygen. In this pro-
cess the oxygen contained in a gasometer issues by a copper pipe terminated by
2940 RECENT PROGRESS IN RELATION TO THE THEORY OF HEAT.

a tip of platina. This pipe is in the axis of a second and larger pipe of cop-
per, whose extremity is also of platina. ‘The illuminating gas issues forth, fill-
ing the interval comprised between the two pipes. We have thus a jet formed
by. a mixture. Wekindle this jet and introduce it intoa furnace composed of lime ;
the flame whirls with resonance in the midst of the furnace, heats it intensely, and
issues by a lateral opening. It is by this opening that we introduce the platina
ander the form of thin lamine. Each lamina disappears as if swallowed up,
and a sparkling liquid trickles to the bottum of the furnace.

We stop the jet of flame and uncover the furnace; the liquid platina is so
dazzling that we may extinguish the gas burners in the hall, and we are illu-
minated as by the electric lieht. We pour the liquid in a vase of limestone,
and can see its perfect fluidity . By degrees it grows cool in the air, and finally
becomes a solid; but it is so heated that it will remain a long time luminous.

When there is need but of a moderate heat, the combustion of illuminating
gas by the ordinary air is often preferable to that of coal, and the construction
of apparatus for warming by gas is at present carried to great perfection. ‘The
principal improvement is due to the distinguished German chemist Bunsen, who
has devised an excellent arrangement for completely burning the gas.

The Bunsen burner is essentially formed of two concentric pipes; the gas
is conducted into the inner one; the external pipe being open at the two extrem-
ities, the atmospheric air naturally enters, mingles with the gas, and it is this
mixture which is kindled. The flame is but slightly luminous, but very hot; if
we prevent the access of air, the flame becomes brilliant, because the carbon of
the gas is not immediately burned by the oxygen of the air, and it remains for
some time as a solid dust raised to a very high temperature. It is the presence
of the free carbon which enables the flame to be illuminative ; the form of the
burner for giving light is such that the carbon is not burned so soon as the hydro-
gen of the gas, while in the burner of Bunsen it is burned at the same time. A
single one of these burners, of a suitable size, is sufficient to melt silver.

At present the Bunsen burners are of the greatest service in our laborato-
ries; they are employed for heating the tubes for chemical analysis, and quite
recently an arrangement has been contrived which secures for this mode of heat-
ing the greatest regularity. The mixture of air and gas issues by some sixty
small holes pierced in a cylinder of fire-proof earth, and all these small flames
raise the cylinder to ared heat, in such sort that the caloric is uniformly diffused
in all directions. Some hundred jets of this sort, suitably disposed around a
glass tube, raise all its points to the same temperature without risk of fracture
or distortion of the tube. Is it possible to attain a temperature sufficient for the
fusion of platina by burning simply a mixture of air and coal-gas? It is the
presence of nitrogen, an element of the air altogether inert, which hinders the
temperature of combustion of such a mixture from being as high as that of the
mixture of gas and pure oxygen. ‘The nitrogen appropriates a part of the heat
created by the chemical combination, and moreover it embarrasses the contact of
the oxygen and the combustible. The employment of air would nevertheless
be much preferable to that of pure oxygen, when an industrial interest is in ques-
tion, on account of the dearness of the latter and the difficulty of its prepara-

ration. Hence it has been sought to solve this problem ; and, by applying to

the hlow-pipe of M. Schleesing the principle of the ventilator of M. Demontdésir,
M. Wiesnegg has succeeded in melting platina by means of a mixture of air
and coal gas.

In the blow-pipe of M. Wiesnegg, as in that of M. Schlesing, compressed air
arrives by a small orifice at the bottom of a tube, and the g oas penetrates into
this tube by a lateral tubulure in advance of the jet of air. The mixture is
kindled at the outlet from the tube. But in the blow-pipe of M. Wiesnegg, the
air being very strongly compressed, issues with great velocity; it briskly draws
in the gas, and holes being pierced around the orifice of efflux, the atmospheric

ry

t
RECENT PROGRESS IN RELATION TO THE THEORY OF HEAT. 241

air is itself drawn in, and penetrates into the blow-pipe, which considerably aug-
ments the total quantity of air mingled with the gas. In order to evince this
fact of the aspiration of the surrounding air, we kindle the jet and direct it into
a small furnace of brick, analogous to the furnace of lime, which has served us
for melting platina. The flame issues with resonance by a small aperture, and the
walls of the furnace are rapidly raised to a red heat. We now let fall powder
ef iron around the holes of the blow-pipe; this powder becomes heated in the
furnace and issues with the flame in brilliant sparks. The necessary accessory
of the blow-pipe consists in a powerful bellows, which impels the jet of air under
a pressure of two atmospheres. or this purpose a pump compresses the atmos-
phere in a reservoir, while a tube of resistant caoutchouc conveys the compressed
air from this reservoir into the blow-pipe.

In this way theinconveniences of the nitrogen contained in the air are lessened.
In the blow-pipe of M. Wiesnegg, the air is so intimately mingled with the
gas that the inertia of the nitrogen offers the least possible opposition to the
rapidity of the chemical combination. Now, it is on this rapidity that depends
the temperature of the flame. The more rapid the molecular movements which
create heat, the higher the point to which the temperature is raised ; because the
environing bodies have not time within a certain limit to absorb that heat.

I limit myself to these applications of the chemical sources of heat, and pass
to a source of quite another kind—to that which has furnished us the highest
known temperatures, and which can reduce to vapor the diamond itself. None
of the preceding methods enable us to modify this substance; it is the most
refractory of which we have any knowledge.

Conceive a sheet of zinc and one of copper plunged into sulphuric acid, diluted
with water. We know that the zinc combines with the elements of the liquid,
producing heat. If we unite the two sheets by a metallic wire, the latter becomes
heated, which indicates that it is the seat of a peculiar modification. The cause
of this modification we name electricity, and we say that the assemblage formed
of the acid, the metals and the wire, is traversed by the electric current. Now,
if we measure the heat produced in the acid and in the wire, we find it to
be, for a certain weight of zinc dissolved, the same as if the metal were simply
dissolved in the acid without the wire, which gives passage to the current. ‘The
sole difference which exists between these two modes of operating consists in
the heat being differently distributed; in the act of the dissolution of the. zinc
in the acid without an electrie current, the heat is only produced at the place of
the chemical action; when there is a current, this heat is produced simultane-
ously in all the parts of the circuit traversed by the current. In order to exhibit
the heat disengaged in the electric circuit, a battery has been arranged outside
of the apartment occupied by my audience ; that battery being an assemblage of
sheets of zine and acidulated water in which the chemical combination is effected,
while the metallic wire which serves to close the’ circuit extends to myself for
the performance of the experiments. At this moment the wire is divided, and I
hold in my hand its two extremities; I touch with them the two ends of a fine
wire of platina, 50 centimetres in length, so that the circuit is now closed. The
current passes, and we see that the wire of platina is heated to a white red; it
in fact melts, and no doubt therefore can remain of the disengagement of heat
which I announced. The two wires with which I touched the platina were of
copper, and their diameter was about two millimetres; these also have become
heated, but the elevation of their temperature was slight, simply because of their
thickness.

I shall not seek on this occasion to explain how electricity effects the distribu-
tion of heat in the circuit of the battery ; I propose merely to mention this means
of producing heat, the discovery of which we owe to Volta, and which dates but
a half century ago. It has been seen that this source of heat is of chemical

168
242 RECENT PROGRESS IN RELATION TO THE THEORY OF HEAT.

origin, and consequently the connection which it has with the sources previously
spoken of is sufficiently established.

It remains for me to show how the Voltaic cireuit realizes the highest tempera-
ture known. We attach to the extremities of our two copper wires cylindrical
pieces of charcoal ; we then bring these cylinders into contact with one another.
The circuit is now ‘closed. If we separate these two pieces of charcoal, a mass
of dazzling light fills the inter val between them and re-establishes the continuity
of the cirenit. What is this light, which has received the name of the Voltatc
arch? It is a volume of incandescent particles of charcoal, avhich acts in like
manner with the platina wire of the preceding experiment. This mass of par-
ticles is vehemently heated by the passage of the current. In order that its
enormous temperature may be ‘appreciated, we project it on a tablet by means of
lenses, having first enclosed it in a suitable box, that the eyes of the spectators
may be sheltered from its blinding brightness. By this expedient, we are enabled
to view all the details of the Voltaic arch. Onthe tablet we may see the reversed
image of the sticks of charcoal, themselves heated to white- red, as well as that
of the arch, which appears as a violet flame. Let us place a sheet of platina in
this flame; it melts rapidly, and the fused platina collects in a sparkling globule
on one of the pieces of charcoal. Thus, the heat is at least as strong as in the
furnace which, an instant ago, we heated by a chemical process. But it ismuch
stronger, and if we placed a diamond instead of platina in the Voltaic arch, it
would be seen to become soft and begin to melt. Were we to conduct this opera-
tion in a vacuum, the vapor of the diamond and that of the charcoal of the
apparatus would be deposited on the walls of the vase. This experiment was
made for the first time by Despretz, at the Sorbonne, with a battery of adequate
power.

The sources of heat which I have thus far noticed are at the disposal of man,
who can regulate them at his pleasure; these are artificial sources. It remains
to speak of the natural sources —of those whose power the Creator has regulated,
in order to constitute the universal harmony of nature.

It is impossible to explain in this short discourse, by what admirable laws heat
is incessantly generated by animals. It suffices to recall the fact that this heat
has a chemical origin, in order to comprehend that it is referable to the same fun-
damental principle with the others. In effect, the carbon and hydrogen furnished
by our aliments are placed in presence of the atmospheric oxygen ‘by the act of
respiration, and their chemical combination is effected in the plood, attended with
the customary disengagement of heat. I should add, however, that animals
further create heat by another process purely mechanical. When a man, for
instance, goes down stairs, his body is displaced and fi alls, as it were, from a
small height; he displaces it anew, again falls, and continues doing so. Now,

each of these little descents creates heat, like the fall of every heavy body whieh
does not rebound. One of our most distinguished savants, M. Hirn de Colmar,
has succeeded in measuring the heat thus produced, and finds that it very com-
petently satisfies the general law.

I might also speak of the heat disengaged by vegetables, at certain epochs,
when their organs are the theatre of intense ‘chemical reactions ; at the same time,
I should say that it is much rather their rdle to consume heat than to produce it,
and that in this the functions of vegetable life are made to compensate those of
animal life. But I am about to transport my audience into other regions, in
essaying to lift a corner of the veil which renders them so mysterious.

The grand and most wonderful source of heat is the sun. The genius of man,
bursting at a bound its terrestrial shackles, has long since ov erleaped the dis-
tance which separates us from that marvellous luminary. It has measured, it has
weighed it, and we are to-day very remote from the time when men bowed in awe
before it as before a divinity. Taking as a guide the observations conducted by
RECENT PROGRESS IN RELATION TO THE THEORY OF HEAT. 243

M. Pouillet, we find that the sun disengages in a year a quantity of heat capable
of melting a covering of ice 1,500 leagues in thickness, which might envelop
a globe one million four hundred thousand times larger than the earth.

How are we to explain this enormous production of heat? Is it the result of
a combustion analogous to those which take place on our hearths? 'T’o be con-
vinced of the impossibility of such an origin, it suffices to know that if the sun
were a globe of charcoal burning in oxygen, it would be consumed in 5,000
years.

The new theory of heat has led to an hypothesis which satisfies the mind up
to a certain point. The universe is filled with bodies called asteroids, which
gravitate under the control of undiscovered laws. It is they which produce the
shooting stars and meteorites. Now, it is easily conceivable that such bodies may
fall regularly upon the sun and create heat by the impact. - It has been caleu-
lated what would be the mass of asteroids capable of thus producing the solar
heat, and it has been found that it would form in a year a simple stratum of 20
metres (21.872 yards) at the surface of the sun. It would, at this rate, require
more than a million five hundred thousand centuries for the diameter of the solar
disk to appear doubled. Our instruments of astronomy are not sufficiently sensi-
tive to enable us to observe an augmentation so slow; thus the hypothesis does
not stand in opposition to facts. We should not forget, however, that all this is
conjecture, nor can we plume ourselves on having discovered the cause of the
phenomena which have been observed.

After the solar heat, it remains to speak of the terrestrial heat, of which we
have striking manifestations in volcanic eruptions, in the geysers, those gigantic
eruptions of boiling water which are met with in Iceland, to say nothing of the
tranquil indications of artesian wells. The laws of these phenomena are not in
general completely known, though that of the geysers has been artificially repro-
duced upon the ingenious theory of Bunsen. What shall it be said is the origin
of this terrestrial heat? Everything would lead us to believe that the earth was
primitively an incandescent fluid mass, and thus its condition would be analogous
to that of the sun. An incessant fall of cosmical matter would maintain its heat
and gradually enlarge its mass. Some time or other this supply has failed, and
the globe, in cooling, undergone solidification at the surface. Then only did it
become the earth.

Thus it will be seen that the generation of heat by the destruction of move-
ment will serve to explain the production of heat in chemical combinations, in
the Voltaic circuit, in the organs of living beings—nay, it will furnish no improb-
able hypothesis of the origin of solar and terrestrial heat. Ave we not tempted
hence to conclude that heat is likewise a movement? We thereby associate the
connection we have observed with a great and more general principle than the
preceding, that of the conservation of energy. In virtue of this principle, if *
movement ceases in one body, it commences in a neighboring body, so that noth-
ing is lost; all the phenomena of the material world result from an exchange of
movement between bodies, one gaining what the other loses.* There is nothing
which seems to oppose itself to this generalization ; it offers us a picture of what
we learn by the senses, and by accepting it as a law, we yield to the sentiment
of unity which the Creator has implanted in our souls. But we should be cir-
cumspect ; we must not allow ourselves to be swayed by imagination, nor sur-
render reason to the seductive creations of our own invention.

The generation of heat may be a transformation of movement, but what is the
intermediary of that transformation? In order to raise the veil which conceals
from us the mystery of creation, is it sufficient to say that matter fransmits

* The statement requires limitation. It cannot be said that the motion or energy of a
cannon ball is all transferred to the side of the ship which it penetrates—a large part is
expended in making the hole, another portion in producing the noise of the percussion. and
the remainder in generating heat.—J. H.
944 RECENT PROGRESS IN RELATION TO THE THEORY OF HEAT.

movement to matter, and to imagine a species of movement constituting heat?
Never did savant, who had painfully learned to observe what surrounds him, enter-
tain that thought. For him, the cause of heat is of the same order with that of
the fall of bodies to the surface of the earth. It is a force, an abstract principle,
which it is not his mission to fathom. And if, having become philosopher, he
aims to ascend higher in the scale of causes, he must advance with an extreme
sagacity, under the penalty of encountering the most mortifying failures. Few
men are endowed with those qualities of mind which are congruous to the phi-
losopher, and those who carry into this rugged enterprise the science and the
modesty of the sage are apt to arrive, in their conclusions, at principles of the
purest spiritualism.
PRINCIPLES OF THE MECHANICAL THEORY OF HEAT.

By Dr. Jou. MULLER,
Professor of Physics in the University of Freiburg, in Berne.

(COMMUNICATED BY THE AUTHOR, IN GERMAN, TO THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, FROM HIS LEHRBUCH
DER PHYSIK, AND ACCOMPANIED BY HIS ALTERATIONS AND CORRECTIONS. ]

I.—DEVELOPMENT OF HEAT BY MECHANICAL MEANS.

It is well known that by compression of the air heat is disengaged; and under
certain circumstances, as, for example, by means of the fire syringe, may be ren-
dered so considerable as readily to kindle combustible matter. Such develop-
ment of heat, however, also takes place through the compression of a solid body.
To how high a degree the hardest bodies may be heated by violent compres-
sion may be observed in the hammering of metals and the coining of money.

But among all mechanical means of generating heat none is more available
than friction; and it is this which is almost universally employed when fire is
to be provided anew. Every one knows that, for this purpose, uncivilized tribes
make use of two pieces of wood—Fig. 1, for example, shows an arrangement of
which the Dakota Indians avail themselves. A staff, a b, of hard wood, about

Fig. 1.

six inches long and somewhat sharpened at both ends, is inserted in a small
cavity of the board A, is pressed on the upper end by the board B, and, in the
manner represented in the figure, is thrown into rapid revolution. As soon as
fire makes its appearance, a piece of tinder, applied by a second person, effects
the desired purpose. The kindling of fire by steel and flint depends likewise
on the application of heat, developed: by attrition, which suffices to kindle to a
glow some of the small detached particles of steel, and the now widely-employed
246 PRINCIPLES OF THE MECHANICAL THEORY OF HEAT.

friction match derives its great utility from the heat supplied by aslight rubbing
of the kindling matter.

The first scientific experiments on the development of heat by friction were
those which Count Rumford instituted in the cannon foundry of Munich, (Gil-
bert’s annal. xu, p. 554.) In order that the muzzle of-the cannon, which in
founding is uppermost, may not become porous, a massive cylindrical piece of
metal is cast thereon, usually called “the rejected head,” (der verlorene Kopf.)
In one experiment Count Rumford inclosed the rejected head of*a six-pounder
in an oblong wooden box, open at the top and filled with water. Through one
end of this box was passed, water-tight, the narrow neck which united the head
to the cannon; and through the cther, also water-tight, the stem of a steel borer.
The cylindrical head was 9.8 inches long and 7.75 inches in diameter. The box
was charged with 182 pounds of water; the arrangement, being horizontal, the
cannon and the attached head were made to revolve by horse-power at the rate
of 32 revolutions per minute, the borer, at the same time, being pressed against
the end of the head. The temperature of the water was raised after one hour
41° C.; after one and a half hour, 61° C.; after two hours, 81° C. To
the wonder of the spectators the water, at the expiration of two and a half
hours, was actually boiling. The cylinder and the spindle of the borer were
also heated to the same temperature. During the two and a half hours 4,145
. grains (about 17 half-ounces) of metal shavings had been turned out.

The experiment not being easily repeated in the form above given, a very
elegant and commodious apparatus for exhibiting the same result has been
devised by Professor Tyndall. On the axis of rotation of a small wheel (driven
by a large one) is screwed a glass tube a, (Fig. 2,) open above and closed below,
and having a length of about 12 centimetres, with a diameter of rather more than
two centimetres. This tube is not quite filled with water, and is held firmly

Fig. 2.

between two boards of hard wood, provided with semi-circular grooves, the boards
being comected by a hinge on one side, and on the other pressed against the tube
with the hand. If the fly-wheel be now thrown into rapid rotation, so strong a
friction is exerted upon the circumference of the tube that the temperature of the
water is quickly raised, as may be easily shown by a thermometer, and finally
attains the boiling point. If the tube be made air-tight, with a cork not too
firmly fixed, the latter will be thrown out through the elasticity of the enclosed
PRINCIPLES OF THE MECHANICAL THEORY OF HEAT. 247

vapor. Should the experiment require too much time, the tube may be at first
filled with warm water.

Sir. H. Davy succeeded in melting two pieces of ice by rubbing them together in
a space exhansted of air and cooled below the freezing point, while Mayer first
showed (1842) that heat is developed by the friction of water against solid bodies,
having, by simple agitation, raised its temperature from 12° C. to 13°C. (Annal.
der Chem: und Pharm., May, 1842.) :

II.—THE NATURE OF HEAT.

As regards the explanation of the phenomena of heat, two contrary hypotheses
have stood, from an early period, in opposition to one another. According tothe
one, these phenomena proceed from an imponderable element, which, fillmg up
the intervals between the separate atoms of matter, operates as a repulsive prin-
ciple. Through an augmentation of the particles of heat in a body, its tempera-
ture is raised, its constituent atoms still further separated from one another, and
thus its volume increased, while cohesion becomes more and more enfeebled and
the conditions of aggregation are changed; solid bodies melting, and fluids
passing into vapor. ‘his mode of explanation has, till the most recent times,
formed the basis of the doctrine of heat as presented in most popular works on
the subject, without any positive assertion however, as to the correctness of such a
theory. It was employed, in the interim, for want of a better, in order more easily
to combine the various phenomena of heat under a common point of view.

The hypothesis of which we speak, namely, that the phenomena of heat result
from the quiescent presence of an imponderable calorific element, and which, on
that account, we will call briefly the material theory, stands opposed to another,
according to which heat is the result of a vibratory motion of the minutest par-
ticles of bodies, and which thus refers the explanation of the phenomena to
mechanical principles ; on this account we shall designate the latter in our further
discussion of those principles as the mechanical theor ry of heat. It was long ago
said by Locke that “heat is a most active concussion of the imperceptibly small
particles of a body, which produces in us the feeling we term warmth ; the cause
of our perception of heat is, in reality, therefore only a motion.” ‘There is nothing,
in fact, which argues more conclusively in favor of the mechanical explanation

5
of the phenomena of heat than its production through mechanical forces, as

exhibited in preceding paragraphs. Certainly, neither the experiment of Rumford
nor that of Davy gives the smallest countenance to the conduction of calorific
matter from without.

The adherents of the material theory sought to explain the development of
heat by the agency of compression, on the assumption that the capacity of bodies
for heat decreases with their density, whence a body, when its density is increased,
must give out heat. The difference between the specific heat of gases under
constant pressure and with constant volume seemed to argue in favor of this
hypothesis till Regnault had proved that the specific heat of a given weight of gas
is independent of its densit) y. With regard to the development of heat by friction,
the material theory endeavored to account for it by assuming that friction is always
attended by a corresponding compression, and by the diminution of specific heat
thereby occasioned. But more exact inv estigation showed that the specific heat
of the shavings, which fall away from the cannon in boring, differed not sensibly
from that of the metal before the boring; while in the experiment of Davy a body
is formed, namely, w ater, whose specific heat is not only not smaller than that of
ice, but is actually twice as great. Here, then, the development of heat in
nowise admits of being referred to a diminution of the specific heat.

Rumford, as well as Davy, had instituted their experiments with a view to
prove the necessity of having recourse toa mechanical explanation of heat. But
though they had certainly indicated the right course for answering the question
as to the nature of heat, that course was, for the time at le: ast, not followed up;
9248 PRINCIPLES OF THE MECHANICAL THEORY OF HEAT.

not so much perhaps because the generality of physicists had declared, in oppo-
sition to the two English philosophers, for the material theory, as that the sclens
tific inquirers of that | period scarcely occupied themselves at all with the question.
Still, however, the material in hand did not cease to accumulate, which, when
thrown at a later period into the scale, was destined to give an unquestionable
preponderance to the mechanical theory. :

The study of radiant heat had taught that every heated body in a colder
medium sends forth on all sides calorific rays in like manner as a luminous body
distributes rays of light. And as the luminous rays pass through air and other
transparent bodies, without communicating to them the property of luminosity,
so the rays of heat traverse the air and other diathermanous substances without
imparting to them any sensible warmth. The rays of heat are then only con-
verted into pereeptible heat when they are absorbed by some body upon which
they strike, in the same way that certain bodies (phosphorus, for instance) become
themselves luminous under the influence of strong rays of light.

Like the rays of light, the rays of heat are propagated with a velocity which,
in relation to terrestrial distances, may be termed instantaneous. They follow
the same laws of reflection and refraction as the rays of light. In the rays of
heat just such differences appear as those which, in the case of the rays of light,
determine the diversity of colors. In a word, it is now fully recognized that the
rays of light and heat are, in their nature, identical, and that if any modification
distinguishes them, it can only be of a quantitative nature; whence it follows
that the phenomena of light and heat must be referred in principle to the same

explanation. Since, then, in regard to the phenomena of light, the theory of
vibration has triumphantly vindicated its claims against the theory of emanation,
no doubt can any longer be properly entertained that the phenomena of heat
also are to be referred to mechanical principles.

A body is luminous when its several atoms oscillate with a sufficient degree
of intensity and velocity about their position of equilibrium. ‘These atomic
vibrations call forth in the surrounding ether an undulatory movement, by which
the rays of light are propagated, and hence many analogies exist between sound
and light. While sound is generated through the vibratory motion of elastic
bodies, light arises from a far more rapid oscillatory motion of the minutest or
ethereal particles of matter. As sound is propagated through an undulatory
movement of the air, so is light through an undulatory movement of the ether.
Like the diversity of tones, so the diversity of colors arises from a difference in
the duration of the oscillations of the conducting medium. But, seeing that the
rays of light and of heat emitted by a’ body in combustion are identical, can we
avoid the conclusion that the cause of its light and its heat is the same; that the
heat of bodies proceeds, also, only from an oscillatory movement of its atoms ?

Perhaps it may be objected that non luminous bodies also emit heat; that the
sun’s light, as wellas electrical light, is accompanied in large proportion by invisible
rays of heat. It might hence seem that a difference exists between the rays of
light and those of heat. But more exact investigation has shown that it is only
a quantitative difference which is here in question. The obscure rays of heat are
not different in their intrinsic nature from those which are at the same time lumi-
nous; there are rays which areendued with a greater amplitude of oscillation than
the red, and whose period of vibration, therefore, exceeds the limit to which the
organization of the eye restricts its visual perceptions.

Thus the study of radiant heat has led to the same consequences which Rum-
ford and Davy had deduced from their experiments on the production of heat
by friction.” But, though the majority of physicists shared the views of the two
philosophers, and entertained the conviction that the emanation theor y was
thenceforth untenable, for a long time nothing further was done to bring this
question to a decision ‘until some 24 years ago it was again taken in hand with

great energy and prosecuted with ardor in various quarters. The first by whom
PRINCIPLES OF THE MECHANICAL THEORY OF HEAT. 249

this important subject was resumed, and who again recalled it to the attention
of physicists in a treatise published, in 1842, in the Annals of Chemistry and Phar-
macy, under the title of Observations on the forces of inanimate nature, was Mayer,
a practising physician of Heilbronn.

IIIL—THE MECHANICAL EQUIVALENT OF HEAT.

Mayer first enunciated the idea that, as a definite proportion universally exists
between cause and effect, there must always, in the production of heat by mechani-
cal means, be an invariable proportion between the heat generated and the
mechanical powerconsumed for that purpose ; and, in fact, he thus early established,
with closely approximate exactness, the mechanical equivalent of heat. This
was, at a later period, still more accurately determined through the researches
of Joule and Hirn.

In 1843 the observation was made by Joule (Phil. Mag., vol. xxiii) that, in
the passage of water through a narrow tube, heat is generated, and that a
mechanical power of 770 foot-pounds* is consumed in raising the temperature
of one pound of water to 1° F., a result which, as we shall see, is not very differ-
rent from that obtained by compression of the air.

Joule sought, also, to ascertain by other methods the proportion of the
heat generated by friction to the mechanical power thereby expended. In a
copper vessel (A, Fig. 3,) a paddle wheel, whose construction is represented

Fig. 3.

(| |
wr
til!)

B
in Fig 4, was so disposed as to be capable of revolving around a vertical
axis. Eight paddles of thin plate, at un angle of 45° with one another, are
placed at the height h, eight others at the height g. They moye between metallic
plates, which are fixed to the wall of the vessel; four of Fig. 4.
these plates standing at right angles to one another, being |
at the height f, and four others at the height c.

The vessel A, which stands on a wooden pedestal, is
filled with water, and the revolution of the paddle-wheel
is effected, in the manner represented in the figure, by
means of the weights B and D, which by their descent
co-operate in communicating motion to the axis of the
wheel, and have a fall of about 63 inches. After these
weights had reached the floor, by withdrawing the peg s,
the connection of the cylinder V with the axis of rotation
of the paddle-wheel was severed, the weights B and D were again wound up,

* A foot-pound is the power@leveloped in the fall of a weight of one pound through a height
of one foot. An English unit of heat is the quantity required to raise a pound of water one
degree Fahrenheit. A kilogram-metre is the power developed in the fall of a kilogram
(2.204 pounds) through one metre. A French unit of heat is the quantity required to raise
one kilogram of water one degree centigrade.
250 PRINCIPLES OF THE MECHANICAL THEORY OF HEAT.

and the same operation was repeated. After this had been done 20 times the
elevation of the temperature produced by the above means in the water of the
reservoir A was measured, and was found to amount to nearly 0°.6 F. The
mechanical power expended in the production of this effect is obtained by
multiplying the weights by the total distance through which they have fallen,
with allowance, however, for the acceleration with which, each time, they have
descended to the floor.

In the mode here described Joule has conducted a long series of researches,
and calculates, as a mean after the application of the necessary corrections, that
an expenditure of power equivalent to 773.64 foot-pounds develops under the
above circumstances as much heat as is required to raise the temperature of one
pound of water 1° F., or, in other terms, that a wnit of heat (French) is the
thermal equivalent of a mechanical expenditure of power of 425 kilogram-metres.

The friction of an iron paddle-wheel in quicksilver gave 776.3 foot-pounds,
and the friction of cast-iron plates with one another 774.88 foot-pounds as the
expendture of power which is necessary to raise the temperature of one pound of
water 1° F.

A not very different result was obtained by Joule when he compared the
quantity of heat set free in the coils of an electro-magnet rotating between
strong magnetic poles, with the mechanical power necessary to produce this rota-
tion, (Phil. Mag. vol. xxiii.) For determining the heat developed in the coils of
the rotating electro- magnet, the latter was introduced into a glass tube in such
a manner that the interval between the magnet and the glass wall formed a ves-
sel closed on all sides, which was filled with water. Through the heat devel-
oped by the rotation of thie electro- -magnet, the temperature of this water was
raised, and the increase of temperature carefully ascertained. In order to deter-
mine the mechanical power required to produce the rotation, a string was wound
around the prolongation of the axis of rotation, and the revolution of the magnet
effected by a weight suspended to the string. From this experiments Joule com-
puted that, for the production of an amount of heat capable of raising one pound
of water 1° F’. a mechanical power of 838 foot-pounds is requisite, and thus the
unit of heat corresponds to an expenditure of power of 460 kilogram-metres.

To the same physicist we owe an experiment for determining the mechanical
equivalent of heat through that which is berated by compression of the air,
(KXrénig’s Journal, iii). ‘Into a copper reservoir A, 12 inches in length, 1364
enbic contents, Linch thickness of wall, by means of a compression pump screwed
to it, air was pressed, as into the bulb of an air-gun, until an elastic force of
nearly 22 atmospheres was attained. During this operation the copper reservoir,
together with the pump, was immersed in a vessel which held 45 pounds 3 ounces
of water. By 300 strokes of the piston the air in the vessel was condensed from
1 to 21.654 atmospheres, and so much heat was thereby developed that the tem-
perature of cool water rose 0°.645 F. This increase of temperature, how-
ever, did not arise alone from the compression of the air, but also from the
friction of the piston. 'l'o eliminate this last, the tube through which the air
had been introduced was closed, and it was found that, through 300 strokes of
the piston, which now were not attended by a compression of the air in the
reservoir, the temperature of the cool water was raised 0°.297 F. By this
first experiment, therefore, on computing the results of compression of the air,
an elevation of temperature of 0°.348 F. is given.

After making the necessary reductions and corrections, it now resulted that
through the compression of 2956 cubic inches of dry air, of atmospheric density,
into a space of 136.5 cubic inches, such a quantity of heat was developed as was
necessary to raise the temperature of one pound of water 13°.628 F. This is
equivalent to the quantity of heat required to raise the temperature of 3437
grams of water 1° U.
PRINCIPLES OF THE MECHANICAL THEORY OF HEAT. 251

Let us now seek to determine the mechanical power which is required in
order to compress 2956 cubic inches of air, of atmospheric density, to a
21.654-fold density. For this purpose we will conceive the quantity of air
just mentioned to be contained in a tube a 4, (Fig. 5,) which is supposed to
be 21.654 feet long, and to have such a transverse section (11.376 square
inches) that the contents of Fig. 5.

a portion of this tube one
foot long shall be equal to
the contents of the vessel A,
(136.5 cubic inches); thus
the above compression will
plainly ensue if we force a
piston from the upper end a
down to the point c, which
is situated one foot above
the bottom of the tube. If
now lines be drawn at differ-
ent points of the tube per-
pendicular to its axis, and
of a length always propor-
tional to the pressure under
which the included air stands,
and if the piston be driven
tothe point ¢, so that the line
cg shall be 21.654 times as
greatasaf,thecurve fhig, hi
which connects the terminal, *™ P
points of the above lines, will j
be a portion of an equilateral hyperbola, and the hyperbolic surface ac gh j
will represent the power which must have been employed in pressing the piston
down from atoc. Let us denote gc by y, 6c by x, and ba by 2’; thus the

80)

/
contents of the surface in question will be H=z- y- log nat and if z=1

H=y - log nat 2’, or

H=2.3026 - y: log x! SO ioe ‘ d Sf 'GD)
if log represent the common logarithm referable to 10 as a base. By the test of
experiment the barometer stood at 30.2 English inches, which makes on the
transverse section of our tube 168.5 pounds. ‘The line fa thus represents to us
the pressure 168.5, but gc the pressure 21.654 x 168.5=3648.7. Let us now put
in equation (1) 2/=21.654 and y=3648.7; we shall thus have

H=2.3026 x 3648.7 log 21.654=11220 foot-pounds,

as the expenditure of power which is required to compress 2956 cubic inches of air
of atmospheric density into a space 21.654 times smaller, whereby, as has beenseen
3.437 units of heat are developed.

Hence, according to these experiments, 3437 units of heat are the thermic
equivalent for an expenditure of power of 11220 foot-pounds, or 1552 kilo-
gram-metres. In order, therefore, to produce one unit of heat through compres-
sion of the air, an expenditure of power of 451 kilogram-metres is needed.

For the purpose of measuring the absorption of heat which results from the
discharge of compressed air, the vessel A, after the air had been compressed in
it to 22 atmospheres, was placed in a reservoir containing 21 pounds of water.
As the compressed air was now allowed to escape from the vessel A through a
leaden pipe, the temperature of the surrounding water was found to be lowered
4.°1 F. With due regard to all necessary corrections, it may be hence com-
puted that the quantity of heat which disappears by the discharge of the air from
952 PRINCIPLES OF THE MECHANICAL THEORY OF HEAT.

the vessel is perhaps just as great as that which is developed in the vessel through
the compression of the air. In this experiment the escaping air has to overcome
the resistance of the atmosphere, and thus to perform a mechanical work.

In another series of experiments, to the vessel A, in which air had been com-
pressed to 22 atmospheres, was screwed, by means of a short metallic pipe, an
equally large vessel B, exhausted of air, and after both vessels, A and B, had been
placed in the same reservoir, holding 164 pounds of water, a suitably adapted
cock was opened, so that half of the air compressed in A could flow over into B.
Through this process no observable change of temperature was produced in the
water surrounding the vessels A and B, whence Joule draws the conclusion that
no change of temperature occurs when air expands in such a way as to create no
mechanical power.

When the two receivers A and B were placed in separate vessels of water, a
lowering of temperature of 2°.36 F. was observed in the vessel which con-
tained the receiver A, out of which flowed the compressed air, while the water
which surrounded the receiver B, into which the air flowed, acquired a nearly
equal elevation of temperature.

Him, also, (Théorie méchanique de la chaleur, Paris, 1865,) has made a series
of experiments for the determination of the mechanical equivalent of heat, among
which we adduce that on the development of heat through the compression of
lead as being distinguished at once for its simplicity and conclusiveness.

A cylinder A, of wrought iron, 350 kilograms in weight, which we will call
the hammer, is suspended by two pairs of strings about three metres in length,
as is shown by Fig. 6. Opposite to this cylinder is suspended in like manner

Fig. 6.

a prismatic block of sandstone, of the weight of 941 kilograms, which we will
term the anvil, and which is furnished on the side opposed to the hammer with an
iron plate C. Between the hammer and anvil is placed a cylindrical piece of lead
P, having a weight of 2.948 kilograms, and supported by a light wooden holder,
(Holzgabel.) This piece of lead is in part hollowed outin the direction of its axis.
Its temperature before the experiment was ascertained by means of a thermometer
temporarily introduced into the cavity to be 7°.87.

The hammer was now drawn back by a pulley until it reached the position A’,
and then again released. In recovering its position of equilibrium, it delivered
a strong blow upon the lead, which compressed and heated. Yet was not the
entire living force of the falling hammer spent in the compression of the lead;
for, after impact, the stone block and iron cylinder were again driven somewhat
apart. According to an experiment of this kind, the height of fall of the
PRINCIPLES OF THE MECHANICAL THEORY OF HEAT. 253

hammer was 1.166 metre; the recoil of the same after impact 0.087 metre; the
recoil of the anvil after impact 0.103 metre. Hence the living force which the
iron hammer had attained in falling was,
L=350* 1.166=408.100 metre-kilograms ;
but the living force with which hammer and anvil after the blow recoiled from one
another was,
1=0.103 (941-+-2.95)4.0.087° 350=127°677 metre-kilograms ;
the living force, therefore, expended in the compression of the lead is,
L—l=408.100—127.677=280.423 metre-kilograms.

In order to determine the quantity of heat which was developed through the
compression of the lead, the latter, after receiving Fig. 8.
the blow, was quickly withdrawn from between the (a=s==e=e===ae=== sae
hammer and anvil, and by means of two threads,
which had been already attached to it, was sus-
pended in the manner shown at Fig. 8. Into the
cavity of the compressed piece of lead, 18.5
grams of water at 0° C. were poured, and the tem-
perature thereof, which very quickly became the
same with that of the lead, was ascertained by
means of animmersed thermometer. ‘Thistempera-
ture was:

4 minutesafter theimpact . . ... 12°.10

8 minutes aftertheimpact . . . . 11°.75
Thus in four minutes, from the end of the fourth

minute to the end of the eighth, the cooling amounted to 0°.35. If we assume,
now, what may at least be accepted as an approximation, that the rate of cooling,
during the first four minutes after the blow, was maintained during the following
four minutes, we have 11.75 : 0.35=12.1: 2; whence results z=0.36. Since,
therefore, the temperature of the lead had, at the moment of compression, been
12°.10-++-0°.36=12°.46, the calefaction from the blow would be 12°.46 —7°.87=
4°.59; consequently, the quantity of heat developed through the collision is,
4°.59 * 2.948 * 0.03145-+-12.46 * 0.0185=0.656 units of heat, since 0.03145 is
the specific heat of lead.

If we divide the work spent in the compression of the lead, 280.423 metre-
kilograms, by the corresponding quantity of heat, 0.656 thermic units, we obtain
the work necessary for producing one thermic unit,

280.423
0.656

Instead of this number, however, 425.2 is the result, if the cooling of the lead
is not calculated approximately, as above, but by exact formulas.

= 427 metre-kilograms.

IV.—EQUIVALENCE OF HEAT AND WORK.

As a mean, there results, from the best experiments which have been made
on this subject, 424 metre-kilograms as the mechanical equivalent of heat, or, to
use a more accurate expression, the work equivalent of the unit of heat; and the
quantity of heat A, which corresponds to the unit of work, is

A=, = 0.002358 units of heat;
that is to say, the calorie equivalent of the work unit is 0.002358 units of heat;

by the expenditure of one metre-kilogram, therefore, 0.002358 units of heat may
be generated.
954 PRINCIPLES OF THE MECHANICAL THEORY OF HEAT.

But if heat can be generated by mechanical power, so inversely must heat be
competent to produce mechanical effects, and, in fact, according to the mechanical
theory of heat, one heat unit must be regarded as capable of performing the work
of 424 metre-kilograms, or, in other words, for each metre-kilogram of work per-
formed 0.002358 units of heat must be expended.

This equivalent results, in the first place, theoretically, if we assume as known
the ratio of the specific heat of gases, under constant pressure and in constant
volume, as well as the coefficients of the expansion of the gases. One cubic
metre of air at 0°, under ordinary atmospheric pressure, weighing 1.293 kilogram
must be heated to 273° C., if, with unaltered volume, its elasticity be augmented to
two atmospheres. But for this are required, :

273 X 1.293 X 0.1686 59 units of heat,

since 0.1686 is the specific heat of air with constant volume. But if one cubic
metre of air at 0°, with atmospheric pressure, be raised to the temperature of
273° C., while, with constant pressure, it is free to expand, its volume will be
increased to two cubic metres, and the quantity of heat necessary, therefore, is

273 X 1.293 x 0.2377=83 units of heat,

since 0.2377 is the specific heat of air with constant pressure. The difference,
83—59— 24 units of heat, is thus necessary, over and above the increase of
temperature, to expand the gas, under constant pressure, to double the volume.

Let us now inquire into the quantity of mechanical work thereby performed.
Let us conceive the above-mentioned quantity of air enclosed in a hollow cylin-
der, having a transverse section of one square metre, and confined above by a
moving piston, which, atits starting point, is elevated one metre above the immov-
able floor. On this piston the atmosphere bears with a pressure of 10333 kilo-
grams. If the enclosed air, with unaltered pressure, be now expanded to a
double volume, it must necessarily push the piston one metre, which corresponds
to a mechanical work of 10,333 kilogram-metres. Thus to execute a mechanical
work of 10333 metre-kilograms, 24 units of heat are necessary ; hence one unit
10333

of heat corresponds to a mechanical work of =430 kilogram-metres, a

result which so nearly coincides with that obtained in the inverse way, namely,
by conversion of mechanical work into heat, that no doubt of the complete reci-
procity between mechanical work and heat can longer exist.

The experiments and observations above recited have served to establish the
proposition that “7 all cases in which work is produced by heat, a quantity of
heat proportional to the work produced disappears or is consumed, and that inversely
the same quantity of heat may be generated by the expenditure of an equal amount
of work ;” a proposition which is usually received as the first law of the mechan-
ical theory of heat, and which, with this degree of precision and generality, was
first enunciated by Clausius. It is the proposition which forms the starting point
of the mathematical development of the mechanical theory of heat, and in regard
to it the learned have furnished us with a series of articles in Poggendorff’s An-
nalen. hese articles, accompanied by annotations by Friedrich Vieweg and
son, have recently (1865) appeared at Brunswick in a single volume.

Besides Clausius; Holzmann, Clapeyron, W. Thomson, Rankine, and others
have occupied themselves with the mathematical development of the mechanical
theory of heat, while Zeuner may claim the merit of having collected in a clear

and comprehensive form the leading characteristics of the theory and of having
illustrated it by manifold applications, (Grundziige der mechanischen Warme-
theorie, 1st edition, 1860, 2d, 1866, Leipzig.) Another highly acceptable work
on this important subject is the Théorie mecanique de la chalewr, by Hin, (2d
edition, Paris, 1865,) in which, together with the analytic development, the

experimental part is very thoroughly treated.
PRINCIPLES OF THE MECHANICAL THEORY OF HEAT. 255

In all these writings the mechanical theory of heat is developed, as it needs
must be when a general and complete solution of the problem is contemplated,
through a certain amount of the higher mathematical analysis. In what follows,
however, I shall endeavor to set forth at least the most important principles
thereof in an elementary form, and, by the application of these principles to
saturated vapors, to show some material consequences of their action. I shall
hope, thereby, not only to communicate a right idea of the nature and significa-
tion of the theory in question to, those who are deficient in a knowledge of the
differential and integral calculus, but also to supply to those who may be provided
with that learning, a sort of introduction or preparation for the more thorough
study of those doctrinal difficulties which are apt to oppose themselves at the
entrance upon such an investigation. But before proceeding to a nearer consid-
eration of the grounds of the mechanical theory of heat, we will examine more
definitely the loss of heat, corresponding, in some particular cases, to the perform-
ance of work.

V.—DISAPPEARANCE OF HEAT THROUGH THE PERFORMANCE OF WORK.

By a large number of experiments directed to the subject under consideration,
Hirn has shown that in steam-engines a quantity of heat disappears directly
corresponding to the work executed, he having employed with that view engines
of trom 90 to 150 horse-power. ‘The machines with which he experimented were
of the expansion order, in which the steam, after it had operated, passed off into
a condenser. In order to avoid errors which might arise from water being
mechanically carried over by the engine from the boiler, or steam already con-
densed in the expansion, Hirn caused the machinery to work with overheated
steam, which he procured by means of an appropriate apparatus, whereby the
vapors proceeding from the boiler were heated, before their entrance into the
cylinder, to a definite temperature ascertained by a thermometer.

The quantity of water p which entered, in a second, the vessel for evapora-
tion, and arrived through the machine in the condenser, was ascertained by exact
measurement of the quantity of avater which, during the space of a whole day,
was conveyed by the feed-pump into the boiler, ander a uniform working of the
machine, and with an unchanged height of water in the boiler. In like manner
the quantity of water P immitted each second into the condenser was ascertained
by the determination of the quantity of water of condensation discharged during
a whole day under a uniform influx.

The quantity of heat given up by the steam condensed during each second,
was found in the following manner: If ¢ be the temperature at which the steam
is formed in the boiler, then according to Regnault’s experiments, the whole
quantity of heat which is contained in one kilogram of steam at this temperature
more than that contained in one kilogram of water at 0°, is q¢;=606.5+ 0.305¢
units of heat. But this steam, before its entrance into the cylinder of the steam
engine, is heated to the degree of 'T, whence there is further necessary for each
kilogram of steam q.=0.5 ('‘T—+#) units of heat, if we take, as may be done with
approximative correctness, 0.5 as the specific heat of the steam.

The quantity of heat which this kilogram of steam loses, until it is condensed
and cooled to the temperature of f degrees, with which the water of condensation
leaves the condenser, is thus q+¢q2—/, and hence the whole quantity of heat,
which the quantity of steam p traversing the engine every second gives up, is

Qi=p (1+%2—),
=p [606.5+0.305t-+0.5 (T—t)—Y ].

If, now, no heat were consumed by the performance of work in the eylinder
the whole quantity of heat Q, must be carried over to the condenser, and her
serve to raise the temperature of the condensation-water. If 7 be the temperature.
at which that water enters the condenser, but f the temperature at which it issues
therefrom, then /—# is the quantity of lieat which each kilogram of condensation-
256 PRINCIPLES OF THE MECHANICAL THEORY OF HEAT.

water takes up in the condenser, whence the quantity of heat Q». which is taken
up, in each second, by the condensation-water is Qo.—=P (/—i,) and thus must
Qi=Q, if no heat be expended for the work. But experiment shows in fact that
Q1—Q, is in nowise equivalent to nothing. Insuchan experiment, forexample, in
which the ratio of expansion was 1: 2, the tension of the steam in the boiler
gave a result equal to 4.5 atmospheres, and thus #=148°.3. Also, ° .

T—t=91°.7
p=0.34554 kilograms. P=5.84004 kilograms.
We 312.28 Jeeps
whence results,
Q= 228.16 Q2=187.82

Qi —Q.=40.34 units of heat.

There had, consequently, been 40.34 units of heat expended for the work
done, while the net effect of the machine was found, by Prony’s dynamometer
equal to 11250 metre-kilograms, and hence there results for one unit of heat
consumed

* 11250 :
1654 =278 metre-kilograms,
as the practical or net effect.

By another experiment with the same machine, in which the ratio of expan-
sion was 1:6, the following values were given:

t=152°.2 T—t=93°
p=0.23548 kilograms. P=5.8718 kilograms.
f= 2.605 {=3°.2

whence there results
Q1 — Ay 158.81 —123.3=30.51 units of heat,

while the net effect of the machine was found equal to 8700 metre-kilograms, and
thus, for one unit of heat consumed, there results
8700
30.51

Thus it will be seen from these premises that not only is there really a con-
sumption of heat for mechanical work, but also that the practical effect of steam-
engines is very nearly proportional to the loss of heat.

We might, from these investigations alone, calculate the mechanical equivalent
of heat, if the practical effect measured were equal to the whole work done
by the steam. Let us suppose now that the net effect of the machine amounted
to about 70 per cent. of the entire work done by the steam, and we shall
have, as the mean of the two above experiments, the mechanical equivalent of
heat equal to 400 metre-kilograms.

In like manner Clausius derived from a great number of experiments, which
were conducted with steam-engines by Hirn, the number 413 as the mean value
for the mechanical equivalent of heat. Now, if we assume the mechanical
equivalent of heat equal to 424, it would result from the two experiments, whose
details have been given above, that the practical effect of these machines amounts
to about 66 per cent. of the whole work done by the steam.

Every process which is of a nature to produce heat can also perform mechani-
cal work; but such work is always attended by a corresponding consump-
tion of heat, or, in other words, the quantity of heat produced by a definite
process suffers a corresponding diminution, if together with the generation of
heat mechanieal effect is produced. This proposition is well illustrated by the
electro-magnetic motor. When an electric current traverses the metallic coils of
a magnetizing spiral, the wire is heated, and the heat produced, in a given time,
in the whole circuit is expressed by the equation

=285 metre-kilograms.

wm=—=-°k sl.
PRINCIPLES OF THE MECHANICAL THEORY OF HEAT. 257

where s indicates the quantity of the current, J the total resistance of the
circuit, and / a constant factor. The quantity of heat produced, however, is,
under like conditions, always proportional to the consumption of zine in the
battery, (local action being of course disregarded.) Were the conducting wire,
for instance, so much lengthened that the whole resistance of the circuit would
be doubled, and-thus raised to 2/, the quantity of the current and consumption of
zinc would be thereby reduced to half, but the heat produced by the current
would be
Pe
Wak 7 2l=e kh sl=sw.

Thus with the quantity of current and consumption of zine, the production of heat
also would be reduced to half.

Quite otherwise is the result when the diminution of the quantity of the current
is produced, not by the augmentation of the resistance to conduction, but by the
expenditure of power.

In a previous section of this work it has been seen that the strength of the
current, which traverses any electro-magnetic motor in a state of repose, is instantly
reduced when the motor begins to rotate, and that the current becomes weaker
as the rotation is more rapid. Let us suppose that the burden of the machine be
so regulated that the strength of the current of the rotating machine be just
half as great as in that at rest, then, with the quantity of current reduced to half,
the consumption of zinc will also be reduced to half; but the production of heat
will have decreased in a quite different proportion. Since now the strength of
the current is $s, but the resistance the same as in the machine at rest, namely,
1, we shall have as the quantity of heat produced

wk: lA.

Thus the zinc consumption reduced to half produces only a quantity of heat
reduced to one-fourth ; @ part of the zinc-consumption, therefore, is not employed in
the production of heat, but in the performance of mechanical work, or, in other
words, for the quantity of heat 4 w, an equivalent mechanical work has been
performed.

We observe a similar state of things if we investigate the performance of labor
by human or animal forces. Animal heat, we know, is generated by a slow com-
bustion, kept up through the process of breathing. For the oxygen which we
inspire, carbonic acid and vapor are exhaled; with every breath, therefore, a
definite quantity of carbon and hydrogen leaves the body, and the corporeal
mass must necessarily undergo a corresponding diminution; a diminution which,
if not determinable by weight for every breath, is readily so for an interval of a
few hours. This loss of material in the process of breathing is replaced through
the reception of food.

But the proportion between the production of heat and the consumption of
corporeal matter is quite different, according as the person remains perfectly at
rest, or is engaged'in the performance of some more or less considerable labor.
The production of heat and consumption of oxygen, and, consequently, the bodily
diminution of weight, are at a minimum, if the individual continues for some
time sitting or lying in complete inactivity. If he perform, on the contrary, some
strenuous labor, both the consumption of oxygen and the reduction of weight
will be found in the same space of time to have been much more sensible.
Through the accelerated breathing and more rapid pulsation the production of
heat in the body is undoubtedly augmented, but it results from the principles of
the mechanical theory of heat that the development of warmth cannot be taken
as directly proportional to the consumption of oxygen, but that the increased
interchange of matter in the body serves only in part for the production of heat,
while the rest has been spent in the producing mechanical effect.

The correctness of this proposition has been verified by Hirn in a series of

17s
258 PRINCIPLES OF THE MECHANICAL THEORY OF HEAT.

carefully conducted experiments. With this view he occupied a small hermeti-
cally-closed chamber, constructed of deal-boards, and lighted by a glass window,
the contents of which chamber measured about four cubic metres. At one end
of this structure was a chair on which he sat when occupied with the develop-
ment of heat under conditions of repose. At the other end was a tread-wheel
the axis of which passed, but so as to be air-tight, through the wall, and was
connected on the outside with such an apparatus that by the turning of the
wheel a mechanical work was executed. ‘The quantity of this labor performed
at each revolution of the wheel is manifestly equal to the lifting of the bodily
weight of the experimenter to a height represented by the circumference of the
wheel. By means of a counter adapted to the axis of the tread-wheel, the
number of revolutions in a given time could be counted, while the quantity of
external mechanical work done in an hour could be determined with great
accuracy.

Before the mouth of the experimenter a valve apparatus was attached, from
which a caoutchouc tube was carried to a gasometer which furnished the air
required for breathing, while a second tube of like material passed to another

gasometer which received the exhaled gases; these, as well as the air inhaled,
were carefully analyzed. ‘The chamber was placed in the midst of a larger
apartment, the temperature of which varied but little and slowly. Sensitive
thermometers gave the temperature of the air both without and within the cham-
ber. If, during repose or labor, the interior thermometer had become stationary,
its indication was noted, and the valve apparatus placed before the mouth, so
that the consumption of oxygen during an unaltered condition of the experimenter
might be ascertained.

Tt is clear that if the interior thermometer ceased to rise, the loss of heat in
the chamber through its walls had become equal to the quantity of heat which
the experimenter developed. By a series of preliminary experiments, Hirn had
determined what quantity of heat must be developed within the chamber, in
order to maintain within and without definite differences of temperature. With
this view a flame of hydrogen gas, supplied by a constant stream, was suffered
to burn in the interior of the chamber. For a definite magnitude of the flame,
when the condition of equilibrium is attained, a determinate difference of tem-
perature within and without the chamber is established ; and when the quantity
of hydrogen consumed in a given time is ascertained, we can calculate what
quantity of heat has been developed in that time, since we know how many units
of heat are developed by the burning of one gram of hydrogen, (§ 277.) © From
the repetition of these experiments “for different ‘sizes of flame, Hirn obtained
the empirical law on which depends the excess of temperature in the interior from
the quantity of heat there developed, and he could thus deduce, in later experi-
ments, from the observed difference of temperature the quantity of heat developed
by the experimenter.

When, during such an experiment, Hirn occupied the chamber, he found that,
with absolute rest of his person, 29.65 grams of oxygen were consumed i in an
hour, while the development of heat during that time amounted to 155 units of

heat, (calories,) being i

ar

,or 5.22 units of heat to one gram of oxygen.

a

When, on the other hand, the experimenter labored on the tread-wheel, so
that the work done in an "hour amounted to 27448 metre- kilograms, the con-
sumption of oxygen in that space of time was 131.74 grams, while the quantity
of heat developed, as indicated by the thermometer, amounted to 251 units.

In the state of rest, however, the 131.74 erams of oxygen consumed would
be 131.74 x 5.22=687.68 units of heat, and thus 436.68 would be exbibited
more than had in facet been developed; but instead of the vanished 436.68 units
of heat, work had been done, partly without, on the tread-wheel, and partly
within, in the organism itself.

2
PRINCIPLES OF THE MECHANICAL THEORY OF HEAT. 259

In a second experiment the external work done amounted in an hour to
20750 metre-kilograms, while 112.2 grams of oxygen were consumed, and 255.6
units of heat produced. These 112.2 grams of oxygen would, in a state of
rest, have afforded 585.7 units of heat; thus 585.7 — 255.6=330.1, and, conse-
quently, 330.1 units of heat more than the experiment shows. ‘These 330.1 units
of heat have been hence expended in mechanical work; but the quantities of heat
consumed in both experiments for mechanical work, 436.68 and 330.1 stand, in
fact, in relation to the external work done; for, from the proportion

330.1 : 436.68=20750 : x
results e=27450, which coincides quite nearly with the observed number 27448.

A strong horse, when he remains standing at rest in a stable, is amply nourished
with 7.5 kilograms of hay, and 2.5 kilograms of oats, which, together, contain
4 kilograms of carbon. But as soon as the horse is put to work this amount of
nourishment does not suffice; it is necessary, if he is to be kept in good condition,
to add 5.5 kilograms of oats, which contain 2.2 kilograms of car bon. Ona day
of work, therefore, 6.2 kilograms of carbon are supplied to this animal’s body.

As the power of one horse executes, in a second, a work of 75 metre- kilograms,
the work done in 8 hours equals 75 * 60+ 60° 8, or 2,160,000 metre- kilograms,
According to the experiments @f Favre and Silbermann, by the oxidation of one
kilogram “of carbon 8080 units of heat are developed, which corresponds to a
mechanical work of 8080 ° 424, or 3,425,920 metre-kilograms. Hence the day’s
work performed bya horse, 2,1 60,000 metre-kilograms, corresponds to a consump-
tion of

2160000
3425920
Of the nutriment, therefore, supplied to the horse’s hes for a day’s work, namély,
6.2 kilograms of “carbon only 0.63, being about 54,, is expended for the perform-
ance of mechanical labor, the rest being partly used for the sustentation of animal
life, for the production of heat, and in part passing unoxidized through the body.

According to Boussingault only 65 per cent. of the carbon introduced into the
body is oxidized, while 35 per cent. is given off unconsumed. Of the four
pounds of carbon, therefore, which the horse at rest takes for his daily nourish-
ment, only 2.6 pounds, and of the additional 2.2 kilograms of carbon allotted for
days ‘of labor only 1.4 kilogram arrive at oxidation in the body of the animal.
Hence in a day of rest there are produced in the horse’s body 8080 + 2.6=21008
units of heat. Of the 1.4 kilogram of carbon, further oxidized on days of labor,
0.63 are consumed in mechanical work, while the remaining 0.77 kilogram
(1.4—0.63) go to supply the increased heat production of 8080: 0.77 =6221 units.
‘Thus on a day of work the heat developed in the horse’s body ascends to 27229
units, while only 8080 - 0.635090 units of heat are converted into work,

=0.63 kilogram of carbon.

VI.—ELEMENTS OF THE MECHANICAL THEORY OF HEAT.

If we conceive heat to be a molecular movement, the temperature of a body
is to be taken as proportional to the vis-viva inherent in the material atoms
which move in some way, perhaps vibrate around their position of equilibrium.
An increase of temperature consists therefore, in an augmentation of this vis-viya,
and hence in an enhanced velocity of the molecular movement.

Not all the heat, however, added to a body contributes to the raising of its
temperature ; and hence not all the heat added to it is employed in the auementa-
tion of the active vis-viva of its molecular vibrations, for a part of the he nat may,
under conditions, be consumed in order to overcome the molecular forces which
exert an action between the several atoms of the body and present an impedi-
ment to their free movement. This last heat, ao Olu denotes as that
consumed in internal work, is usually called latent hes
260 PRINCIPLES OF THE MECHANICAL THEORY OF HEAT.

If we designate the free heat of a body by 'T, the latent heat, which it may
contain, by L, the whole quantity of heat in the body will be U=T-+LL.

W. Thomson has proposed for this quantity, first introduced into the doctrine
of heat by Clausius, the name of energy of the body; but Clausius has recently
designated the two components of U as store of heat, T, (Wdarmeinhalt,) and
store of work, L, (Werkinhalt.)

If now so much heat be added to a body of the temperature ¢ and the volume
v, in which the collective quantity of heat, U, (energy,) is contained, that its
temperature be increased by ¢/°, its volume by v’ cubic metres, and the quantity of
heat contained within it by U’, it will not answer to ascribe to it this quantity of
heat U’, because through the simultaneous expansion of the body by v’ an external
work has been done which consumes a corresponding quantity of heat.

If p be the pressure under which the body stands, then the external work
which corresponds: to the enlargement of volume v’ will be p v’, supposing the
pressure p to remain unaltered during the whole expansion; but "the quantity of
heat corresponding to that work is w—aA pv’. Thus the quantity of heat which
must be supplied to the body in question in order to increase its temperature from
tto t+¥, its volume from v to v-+v’, and the heat contained in it from U to
U+U’ is, e

; q=U'+A pv’ : ; ; : I
an equation which corresponds to the differential equation

dQ=dU+Apdv j : ; la

in which d Q designates the very small quantity of heat which must be supplied
to the body, in order for the interior heat’ of the body to undergo the small aug-
mentation d U and its volume to be increased by the small magnitude dv.

The equation I or rather a differential equation corresponding to it, is the
mathematical expression of the first law of the mechanical theory of heat. By
the help of this equation we can calculate the quantity of heat which disappears
through a given change of volume of a body submitted to a given pressure, pro-
vided we know the whole worl done thereby; which is, “however , only the
case when we have to do exclusively with external work without the accession of
any internal work proceeding from molecular forces, and which evades a direct
measurement. The first law, therefore, of the mechanical theory of heat suffices
only for the solution of correspondent problems when in the magnitude U’ of the
equation I or ind U of the equation I @ an internal work is not comprehended,
a condition which is only satisfied by bodies of a completely gaseous form.

The following examples will illustrate the application of the first law of the
mechanical theory of heat to gaseous bodies. Ina hollow cylinder, (Fig. 9,) hav-

Fie. 9. ing a transverse section of one square metre, is situated
i at the distance of one metre from the bottom an easily
movable, but air-tight, piston K; the space of one
cubic metre, shut in by this piston, is filled with atmo-
spheric air at 0°, while the pressure of the atmosphere
weighs on the piston; and hence the total pressure which
tends to sink the piston is 10333 kilograms.

If this mass of air, the pressure unchanged, be heated
to 273° it will be expanded to double its original vol-
ume; the piston, during this expansion, will be thrust
one metre higher, and thus be brought into the position K’.
The work so done is 10333 metre-kilograms, and
the quantity of heat, A pv’, consumed in doing this
work is, in that case,

10333 _ 94.37 units of heat.
424

The total heat, g which must be supplied to a cubic

metre of air at 0° and under’atmospheric pressure

PRINCIPLES OF THE MECHANICAL THEORY OF HEAT. 261

(1.293 kilograms of air) i in order to raise it to a temperature of 273°, while, with
pressure unchanged, it is expanded to double its volume, is

273 * 1.293 - 0.2377=83 units of heat,

since the specific heat of the air under constant pressure is equal to 0.2377;
hence we have 883=U/+ 24.37, or U/=83—24.37=58.63.

Thus, of the 83 units of heat which we supply to the 1.293 kilogram of air, in
order to raise its temperature from 0° to 273°, while with unaltered pressure it
undergoes expansion to twice its original volume, 58.63 units of heat have gone
over into this air, while the remaining 24.37 units of heat were expended i in
doing the work invelved in its expansion. In order, then, to raise the tem-
perature of 1.293 kilograms of air from 0° to 273°, while the volume of the air
remains unaltered, and so no external work is done, only 58.63 units of heat
are necessary. The specific heat of the air under constant pressure stands, there-
fore, to the specific heat of the air under constant volume as 83 : 58.63, or as
1.415: 1; while this ratio has been found, in another manner, to be as 1.421 to 1.

We have here supposed the mechanical equivalent of heat to be known, and from
this derived the ratio of the specific heat of the air under constant pressure and
constant volume, while in § 4 the inverse process was followed, inasmuch as we
assumed this last ratio to be known, and from thence derived the mechanical equiv-
alent of heat.

The quantity of heat g which must be supplied to a body in order to raise its
temperature from ¢ to ¢+0, to increase the heat contained in it from U to U+U’,
and to enlarge its volume from v to v+-v’, is by no means the same under all
circumstances ; for, with a like condition at the beginning and the ending, the
work done during the transition from the first to the last may be ver y
different. ‘The equation I is properly constructed only for a special case ; for the
case, namely, in which the pressure p remains unaltered while the volume of the
body enlarges from v to v-+v’. When the pressure p is variable the equation I
can.only so long be recegnized as valid, as the augmentation 2’ of volume is
small enough to be regarded as the differential of space; as is the case with
the differential equation la corresponding to the equation I.

But when, with a variable value of p, the enlargement of volume v’ is some-
what considerable, the work done during the expansion from v to v-+-¢/ can
no longer be expressed simply by the product pv’. Here the case presentsitself
when a higher method of calculation must indispensably be put in practice, if
the object. be an exact expression for the work done. With elementary
expedients we can, in such cases, only attain, by special calculations, to approxi-
mative values.

Let us proceed, in order to make this more intelligible, to the consideration of
a special case, We have above calculated the quantity of heat g which is requisite
to raise a cubic metre of air of 0° and sustaining atmospheric pressure, to 273°,
while the air expands under an unvarying pressure to double its original volume.
Here is the final condition: two cubic metres of air of 273° temperature and an
elasticity of one atmosphere. ‘The same final condition can, however, be also
reached, beginning with the same incipient condition in another manner. Let
the piston (Bi ig. 9) be again in its original position K, and, under it in the eylin-
der, one cubic metre of air at 0° sustaining atmospheric pressure, the burden of
the piston being thus 10333 kilograms. If this weight be now slowly and regu-
larly diminished to one-half, the air will gradually expand and push the piston
upwards ; thus there should, in the first place, be so much heat supplied to the
air that, with an unchanged ‘temper: iture of 0°, the piston is heaved upwards one
metre, and the volume of air therefore doubled.

The quantity of heat necessary for this is only to be determined by higher
processes of calculation, but an approximate vi alue may be obtained in an
elementary way. Let us conceive the pressure p, which weighs upon the piston
262 pRINCIPLES OF THE MECHANICAL THEORY OF HEAT.

when it occupies the position K, to be not constantly diminished, but to be with-
drawn at suitable intervals, each time some = p, the pressure bearing upon the

piston will then conform to the succession of values exhibited in the first column
of the following table under D:

D H
19 20 |
20 19
18 ay
20 18
V7 20 |
20 17
Wl 20
20 ? ies
10 20
Does: 10

If we denote by J the height of the piston above the floor, when it occupies its
position at the commencement, it will ascend by the succession of diminished press-
ures to the respective heights indicated in the second column. The height,
therefore, through which the piston rises at each succeeding diminution of press-
ure has the value given in the third column under h.

Without sensible error, we can now assume that the pressure of the enclosed
mass of air acting upon the piston from beneath remains unaltered during its
ascent through one of the heights indicated in the third column underhk. For this
pressure we may assign, as a first approximation, the value of D, standing in the
first column in the same horizontal row, which we must multiply into the cor-
responding value of h, in order to obtain the value of the work which is done
in the ascent of the piston through one of the divisions in question. The
products thus obtained are grouped together in the last column under / D.

The total work which is done while the piston rises, under the indicated
circumstances, from K to K/, is therefore the sum of the values exhibited im the
last vertical row of the above table, namely,

PE ERAS eed is EPR? Lie ig? utc i Blass: by eee ake :
ata Ftatatatptistitistioteo)? ‘
The sum of the fractions standing between parentheses, which is most readily
obtained if they be changed into decimal fractions and then added, is 0.668, and
since p=10333, while lis 1 metre, there results for the total work L’/=0.668-
103336902 metre-kilograms.

This value of the total work is, however, manifestly too small; for we have
multiplied each of the heights consigned to the third column into the pressure
which acts against the under surface of the piston when it stands at the upper
end of the corresponding division. If we multiply each of the values of / into
the pressure which acts against the piston when it is at the lower end of the
division, the result will be

Gay Tie pade tapings ill, ld yc wilde egal
L’= — —— —— a= — = — — = _— nls
Gtitstatutatitiat is)? ;

PRINCIPLES OF THE MECHANICAL THEORY OF HEAT 263

hence L’=0.718 pl, or putting for p and / their numerical value, L’=0.718.
10333=7419 metre-kilograms. But this value is evidently too great ; the true

value of the total work Li is, at any rate, very nearly equal to the mean between
L/ and L”’; hence

U/+L” 690247419

wy ha a or L=7160 metre-kilograms;
and the quantity of heat necessary for the performance of this work is,
7160
w= __ = =16.8.
424 424

The exact value of w’ is found by equation (1) in § 3, if we take y=10333,
anda/=2; theresult is then L=2.3026 - 10333 - log 2= 7153 , a value from which
that obtained above in an approximative way differs but inconsiderably.

When, now, the piston has become fixed, so that no further expansion of the
air is possible, 58.63 units of heat are necessary to raise the temperature of the
included air from 0° to 273°, whereby its elasticity also is enhanced from one-
half to one @tmosphere. Thus the final condition of the air is exactly the same
as in the case above considered, in which the air expanded under a constant
pressure. ‘The quantity of heat, however, requisite tor the attainment of the final
condition in question is, in the last case, only 58.63+16.88=75.51, while in the
first case it was equal to 83.

Thus the quantity of heat which must be supplied to a body, in order that,
starting from a given condition, it shall pass over into a determinate final con-
dition, is by no means an invariable magnitude, but is. dependent on the magni-

o
tude oe the mechanical work which is done during that transition.

VII.—APPLICATION OF THE MECHANICAL THEORY OF HEAT TO AQUEOUS
VAPORS. .

Suppose that at the bottom of a hollow cylinder, of which the transverse section
is one square metre, there is a litre of water at 0°, and Fig. 10.
that directly up6én this is placed a piston on which a
pressure p is exerted, (Fig, 10.) This pressure p is that
wluch is equal to the elasticity of the saturated vapor of
eC. The table on a following page, contains, accord-
ing to Regnault’s experiments, the values of p for the
temperatures given in the first column, p being the pres-
sure which the saturated vapor of the corresponding
temperature exerts on one square metre.

Let the water under the piston be now heated from
0° to ¢@; it will thus expand to a magnitude which, for
our present purpose, may remain unknown. ‘There
needs for this elevation of temperature.a quantity of heat
expressed by W =f+0.00002/?+-0.000000304, if we take
into consideration the variableness of the specific heat
of water; while W=¢ would be the expression, were the specific heat of water
taken as constant and equal to one. Hence the quantity of heat to be taken as
a unit is that which is required to raise the temperature of one kilogram (one
litre) of water from 0° to 1° C. During this exaltation of temperature from 0°
to @ no steam can be formed.

But if we continue the supply of heat, the formation of steam commences,
and the steam has forthwith the elasticity of p; it pushes back the piston, and
the space made free is continually filled with fresh vapor, until finally all the
water is converted into vapor. At this moment the end is attained; the heat
which must be supplied to the water of ¢° during the formation of steam with

264 PRINCIPLES OF THE MECHANICAL THEORY OF+sHEAT.

constant pressure, may be denoted by r. This quantity of heat 7 is usually
called latent heat; for it disappears as regards the thermometer, and during the
whole process the temperature ¢ remains unaltered.

The whole quantity of heat which, under the suppositions premised, must be
supplied to the water at 0°, in order to convert it into steam at ¢° and of the
corresponding elasticity p, is therefore Q=W-+r. But according to Reg-
nault’s investigations the quantity of heat requisite for the object in question is
(=606.5+ 0.305¢ ; consequently, since r=Q—W,

r=606.5—0.695t—0.000027—0.0000003¢88.
Instead of this value of 7, Clausius makes use of the approximate value
760% 0.10BK. ico4 cay nee)

according to which the numerical values of the sixth vertical series of the sub-
joined table are calculated, while the fifth column contains the corresponding
values for Q.

If the whole quantity of heat were exclusively expended in external work, it
would be easy to determine, by the first law, the volume of the steam formed ;
for we should have r=Apu, and since r, A, and p are known, we might deter-
mine from this equation the volume w of the space K K’, (Fig. 10,) which is free
in the cylinder under the piston, while one kilogram of water at ¢° is converted
into steam at ¢°. But the matter here is not so simple.
e

265

PRINCIPLES OF THE MECHANICAL THEORY OF HEAT.

002
; OF ‘COP 0¢ *L99 0 “E2631 ely
: “07 ‘ 9T9B8L BLOT ‘0 GIGT “0 ‘29F "C99 0 'FS0E 0 ‘SOEET 89F S6L
35 “ah 10 319 00 tp QLGIL SOR ‘ Tre i a ab op "699 F608 0 “ERERI i “et
BS . : PLEO ISST A : %6 299 B‘BLS% 0 ‘O€6FIT
88 “SGP 6LLT9 89 '9F q OLLI 0 60 ‘9Lb ce eed oat
OFI8S OGL1-0 ; ‘6Lb OF 199 0 096% 0 ‘109201 £Sh
49 60h ¥o 919 4 eeeG TIGL “0 106L ‘0 9S “6L ; 9 "FS1z 3 ‘OGEI6 StF cLt
0S “fh PE ‘S19 10 ‘96 ps4 % 0G16 ‘0 OL ‘8h 18 “669 ‘ f oLr
: ; 6F69F O£TS 0 te ‘Oar 62 “8c9 L196L L "S008 tb
SE "Leh ae ae) cay ag 186% ‘0 TLEG ‘0 ¥9 "98 3 °9¢ T1s4t | Lotte eob col
16 ‘1h he a4 OpLe 69980 698 0 BF ee poe 4 ¢ BI9T F 'EFSED £&F 09t
LO SB IL ‘119 86 ‘bb LOPL ; G6RS ‘0 GL ‘E6h O€ "sco A “pace CCl
‘ : lee G00E ‘0 : z" LL “€9 € CCFL T"Bagce BoP
G6 ‘SFP £6 019 £9 ‘FP I . LLEE ‘0 98 ‘L6h i ; : Oct
: ‘ . C&S6S LBEE “0 ; : Cz z09 € 608L b 0698F £B ‘
#8 ‘Goh SE ‘609 86 ‘bh 209% peee ‘0 F8E “0 08 “00S i TPL 0 ‘C6RaE SIF CI
1L ‘9h 91 “x09 &6 EF eee . OFEh “0 BE “FOS GL ‘069 ; 6 OFE
: , j 9SEF 0 ; : 08 ‘6F9  6bOL 0 6F69E clr
@9 ‘O9F 00 °L09 9S ‘€F r : 9S6F ‘0 88 ‘LOS 3 : “TO0GE P cel
‘ . 10% 996F ‘0 ; ; L9 “LEO © £6 € “TOOSE 80
GS 'bOP $8 “S09 61 ‘EF L RC) 4 £196 0 GP TIS ; : “20 ¢ 0gl
i . % 6SLI €8cL ‘0 4 . CL ‘9F9 1 688 LG09L8 £0F
€h 'LOP 89 “609 8 ‘GP 9 : 619 0 96 ‘FES ‘ A ee 5: cal
5 : z 1€ST 6659 ‘0 4 . 29 bE 8 GEL 8 GOLES 86
FE OLE €S “€09 Ch GP 9 eT BECL “0 GGEL ‘0 OS “8TS 2 5 "CLE0G £6 O0&T
1, A Q ad I ‘Ck9 ¢*CLEOG dg
LB OLP GE "609 90% ie ze OLL8 0 #0 ‘Goo OL“€69 , sciceer : cit
: : PLL 0648 0 u crc LG*UP9 peg 0 ‘9S3LT 88e
0% ‘08% 93109 89 TP 89 . €FIO'T 8S “Sac : Soke : vai
: 3 186 eT 't ; GO ‘OB9 ¢"86F 0 "1Z9FI €Be
GL ‘P8P PL “009 66 IP 6h 7 BCR 'L GL ‘66S ‘ oe ‘e707 Q! COL
4 + PR 8981 ‘T 3 F ze "REO 8 ‘RGF 9 “ECEST “
OL ‘88h £0 ‘66S 06 ‘OF 9% aE EGE "T 99 ‘ES f ‘ : ele O0L
: : ; LIL GhGE T . : - 00°29 L ‘OLE 0 ‘€ee0T “
CO ‘S6P 16 "L6S 0S ‘OF BLT CFG * 6FF9'T 06 ‘9€S at ; : c6
an : 1 L09 6SF9 “T 5 q Lb 'ce9 6 ‘81 8 ‘9189 898
£0 ‘966 £3 "96S 60 ‘OF g oe 9696 ‘TL PL 6ES b's is : fs 06
: ‘cee : 6IIS 9€96 ‘T ‘ , G6 'EL9 6 SLB O'FRIL £9)
10 008 PL °S6S 89 '6& P CIEE G £0E8 8 "EFS $6 '€ pe 11886 gee cg
L6 "£05 ¥9 68 wees sd T86L ‘8 1L6L ‘8 GB ‘9S Gh “GE9 ps 12 08
RA . ‘ , £°96L L‘1G8h ece
96 ‘LOG 9S "£65 b8 ‘RE PLE ae BLLE“E 9 ‘OSG 06 ‘0&9 i shoe ro
: > ey ‘ 66 88LE “€ 5 . LE 69 & ‘SOL L GbE SFE
9611S OS “Gos IP ‘86 ne 6COL ‘FP 6FOL ‘ 06 “ES¢ bos SEL 691k CRE OL
16 "SIS bb 16S 86 ‘LE SB YG 220 * 6120 °S bP “LSS $8 "09 Be TPOz ©9
; . : 6T 6220 °S 3 GE 9ZD KCTIL LISS 8ee
86 ‘61S 6E ‘06S #5 "LE 16 aes 9981 9 86 ‘09S , as © EOOR ene . 09
00 "b&S FE "68S 60 “LE 9T9T 8819 °L SLLO'L BS "b9S 08 “G9 a Ay ore = eg
‘ : Ha ; ~ RL G‘L6SL 8ce S
30 ‘2G O& ‘88¢ 9 9 GOEL Se £09 °6 90 "89S LG "€c9 68 ate 0¢
bas . a z 9 © OSST £68
CO ZS YB "L8G BI “98 Wot riarcal COT ‘BT 09 “TLS SL "19 on oni cp
a : : : x C 9 ‘OL6 SI
10 ‘98S 8B "98S IL “CE 968 Gee ST 686 "CL PL 'CLS 86 “0G9 La a OF
nod a : OF G‘OFL fle
s ‘ De ‘ aa ets L°39¢ 808
60 ‘FES TL ‘#86 Lhe LOS BPG "Ch IFS GB &B ‘BBS LU LI9 so 6 “R0F 0g oe
TL ‘8S 90 “€8¢ 9% "BE 168 OT te 69e ‘ee OL 'S8C G9 ‘S19 3 ‘FG G86 cx
“ ‘0 ‘ ar: 1 & “UGE 866
OL egg 66 “18S 9L ES 008 poss 120 FF Of "GR¢ BL “FIO ok : S Fa
; 1 « BS, z PL ¢ ‘983 £06
g0 “9¢¢ 06 ‘08S CG EE L6G FOL ‘RC GOL ‘8S #8 ‘G6 09 “619 L’ sd aan Cr
: 7e ; Ul L ‘GLI 3
£6 "66S 69 “6L¢ bh OLT 2 OIL '6L 8E ‘96G 40 ‘119 oF Spe £2 OL
; ee I LIT “GL 26°66 ce 8 9 Fl sf
20 806 e916 a0 "Ig £6 LBL “LOT EL oti OF £09 50 209 49 8°88 Bus ¢
. . BIE ‘QT i : pec Ea ae ‘ ele
56 ILS 0¢ ‘OL AS aetinon 0 COE “LOG BYE "LOG 00 “09 $ °909 ae
PL ‘OLS LOLS 64 ‘OE : d 6 d eLe= 7
= ; =a n = ° 7+9=
pia Os ghd leh Pa ae go aoe 2 39 aie eae Ny Sorry Uy * | cx 9)
y (‘sure ‘ no | -nyUs OJUL pouLtoy . ‘y7nRU3e ‘DO of MOF | ‘surBAsOTI
“I0dva 9y} rt aida -ory ay sodva Sy Lala aorine -sUR.y Jayeq ur Peg a a I PR Ne eanssad Jo jaqjeut ormnbs | ‘arnywsodma} ‘o1n}
‘10dva jo yvaq ul paurmyuos STOLE ee JO OTT IO | aes Jo WRALTO[TY | popuvdxa st 107BAd |" jo ywoyy | yvaq [ejog, soUateBid | uo eimssotd | eN[OSAV | yrodmo in
a9ye[ [wusoquy| “WF Peat WONBULLOF Of} Syoas) “odva : o weasoy!
ya9yel | WOT TIOL | usnoayy yarqa | 24 di nia T Jo ouInjoA J . a ee
voqso Ayyuuny| 5°“ ie ae %5 3 ‘2 ‘e y 5
* + * oJ, :
‘SI sit OT 6 8

266 PRINCIPLES OF THE MECHANICAL THEORY OF HEAT.

The quantity of heat r, which must be supplied to the unit weight of water at
¢°, in order to convert itinto saturated vapor at @°, is known, indeed, by Regnault’s
experiments, but this quantity of heat divides into two parts; one part Apu
serves to execute the external work pw; itis the other part p which is expended
in overcoming the cohesion of the particles of water, and therefore in the per-
formance of aninternal work. Whencer=p+Apu. Neither p, nor Apu, nor
the proportion of these two magnitudes is directly given; in order to determine
them, we must first seek in some way to eliminate p, as it were, that is to say,
we must propose some operation with the vapor by which a definite external work
is performed, while the internal work performed shall, at the end of the operation,
be nothing. A process of this sort is denoted by the name of a circle-process,
(Kreisprocess.)

Let us suppose the volume w of the unit weight of water at 7°, to be repre-
sented by the abscissa O A, (Fig. 11,) the pres-
sure p, which is exerted thereon, by the ordinate
‘ Aa. Let heat now be conveyed to the water
] in such wise that the vapor which is formed may
maintain the constant temperature ¢. In virtue
of this the pressure p also remains constant.
The supply of heat is to be continued until all
the water is converted into vapor. The volume
w will now have been changed into O B=u,
4 and will thus be increased by A B=w; and

ieee TE BC _ since the pressure p has in the meantime re-
mained unchanged, the external work thus performed and represented by the
rectangle A ab B is equal to pw. The quantity of heat supplied during this
formation of vapor is 7. :

To this vapor we now allow, without supplying or withdrawing heat, a
further small expansion from O B to O C, till the temperature be sunk 1°
and the corresponding tension by ¢. The work d thereby performed is repre-
sented by the quadrangle BC cb; and we will denote by g the corresponding
heat which is disengaged from the vapor. In the fourth column of the table
here given will be found the amount of diminution of tension ¢, when the vapor,
which is saturated for any one of the temperatures given in the first column of
that table, is cooled 1°. The numbers of the table ranged under ¢ are found
in the following manner :

If we subtract any of the values of p contained in the third column from the
following one, we shall learn how much the tension of the saturated vapor is
increased by an elevation of temperature of 5°. How much it is diminished by
a lowering of temperature of 5°, we learn by subtracting from the same value of
p the preceding one. If we now take the mean of these two differences, and of
this mean the fifth part, we shall learn (without sensible error) how much the
tension of the vapor of water is changed by an elevation or lowering of temper-
ature by 1°. Thus, for example, for 150° C. the first difference is 6897.7; the
second difference, 6195.4; the mean of the two is 6546.5; and the fifth part
thereof, 1309.3, the number which stands under ¢ in the horizontal row of 150° C.

Let the vapor, which now has the temperature ¢—1 and the tension p’=p— 4,
be compressed by the volume wz, (C D, Fig. 11,) while the heat is continuously
withdrawn from it in such manner that the temperature shall always remain
¢—1 and the tension p—?.

The quantity of heat 7’ becoming free during this compression, and withdrawn
from the vapor, consists of two parts, namely: of the quantity of heat A p’v,
which corresponds to the labor p/ expended for the compression, and repre-
sented by the rectangle C D dc, and the quantity of heat e which becomes free
by the condensation of a corresponding quantity of vapor.

Let the compression now be finally continued from O D to O A, without the
addition or abstraction of heat; the temperature will thereby be raised to ¢°, the

Fig. 11.

.
PRINCIPLES OF THE MECHANICAL THEORY OF HEAT. 267

pressure to p, and the vapor will again be fully restored to its original state,
(water of ¢°.) In this last part of the operation the work d, represented by the
rectangle Dda A, is expended, and thereby the quantity of heat q is again sup-
plied to the body under experiment, a quantity which it had lost during the
expansion from O B to OC.

While the water has been thus fully restored to its original state, the work
pu+d will, during the operation cited, have been performed through the expend-
iture of the quantities of heat r and q, and thereupon the quantity of heat 7/+-q¢
have been gained by the expenditure of the work p’u+d. The sum of the work
gained is thus,

pu+d—p/u—d= ¢u,
a work which is represented by the shaded parallelogram a 6 c¢ d, (Fig. 11.)
The heat expended in producing this work is,

r-+q—1r —q=r—71’.
But the quantity of heat requisite for the performance of the work ¢ wis A ¢ w;
we have then the equation

A ¢u=r—1".

Now, in this equation the values A ¢and r are already known ; only 7’, there-
fore, is wanting to enable us to determine that of uw. And as the rigorous solu-
tion of this problem is not possible without the aid of the higher analysis, we
must here content ourselves with an elementary process of approximation.

The quantities of heat Apu and Ap’w stand evidently in proportion to the
tensions p and p’; and to these we may assign as proportional, since the ques-
tion regards only slight differences of temperature, the density of the vapor of
water at ¢° and at ({—1)°. But to these densities are also proportional the quan-
tities of water which, at the temperature ¢°, are evaporated during the expansion
through the volume w, and at the temperature (¢—1)° are condensed during the
compression through the volume «. Whence, therefore, we have p : p’=p : p’, and

ptApu: p’+A pup: p’, or r:7/ =p: pl.
But since, within such narrow limits of temperature, the saturated vapor may
be assumed as following the law of Mariotte Gay-Lussac; therefore

p:p=1+at: 14a (t—1)
y:r=1+tat: 14a(t—1)

consequently, also,

Pe wd A Cal 9)
l+at
r—r’=r 21 tet)
l+at
sei ra
l+aét

: he . 1
or, if we divide numerators and denominators by a, and take —=a,
a.

r

pay
a+

if T denote the absolute temperature* which corresponds to #?C. Thus we have

Y fe
rl’

6 Ee — ——

*Let p be the elastic force of a confined mass of air at 0°; then, according to Mariotte
Gay-Lussac’s law, this elasticity at t° C. is equal to p(1-+0.00365¢t); the elastic force
of the enclosed mass of air is thus null, if 14-0.00365 t—=0; that is to say, if t—=—2739 C. At
this temperature, which is 273° below the freezing point of water, the gases lose their power
of expansion; and it is this point which we indicate as the absolute zero-point. It is the
temperature counted from this point onward, according to the Celsius degrees, T=273-+4, (if ¢
be the temperature counted onward from the freezing point of water, ) which is denoted as
absolute temperature. In the second vertical series of our foregoing table are given the
absolute temperatures which correspond to the temperatures of the first column measured by
the thermometer of Celsius.
268 PRINCIPLES OF THE MECHANICAL THEORY OF HEAT.

r
Agua
and
pa
ATS 4 : 5 ri (II)
or
424°yr
u= Ts

if for <we place its numerical value 424. Fromthis equation, which is regarded

as the second general equation of the mechanical theorw of heat, the appropriate
value of « at every given temperature admits of being calculated, as r, 'T’, and
¢ are known magnitudes. ‘Thus, for example, for f=120° we have

ht * 522.04

Ti BOReiGie Oe?
and for t=150°,
424 - 500.8
ae, en oe ( fi
423 + 1309.3 pace

Our table contains in the seventh column the value of w for the temperatures
given in the first vertical series.

To these values of w we have only to add 0.001, (the volume of one kilogram
of water expressed in cubic metres,) in order to obtain the volume v, which one
kilogram of saturated vapor of the corresponding temperature occupies. The
numerical values of v are presented in the eighth column of our table. From
this we see, for example, that one kilogram of saturated vapor of 100°, of 130°,
of 160°, &c., occupies the volume of 1.6459, of 0.6529, of 0.3002, &c., cubic
metres.

If the saturated vapors of water followed Mariotte Gay-Lussac’s law, then the

product - = must be a constant magnitude. But this product is
a

46376 for t=100°

37832, for (==130°

32374 for t=160°;
thus for increasing temperatures it becomes continually smaller. From the appli-
cation of the mechanical theory of heat to saturated vapors it results, therefore,
as Clausius first showed, that these do not follow Lussac’s law; that rather the
elasticity of saturated vapor increases less rapidly with increasing temperature
than the density thereof.

Since the quotient . indicates the weight of one cubic metre of saturated

vapor, — 5 is the weight of one cubic decimetre, consequently, also, the spe-
cific weight or density of the same. The numerical values of the density of satu-
rated vapor are given under y in the 9th column of our table.

If we multiply the enlargement of volume uw, which ensues from the trans-
formation of one kilogram of water at ¢° into saturated vapor of ¢°, into the
corresponding pressure p, we obtain the external work performed through this
operation, while the quantity of heat spent in the performance of this work is
Apu. he numerical values of Apu, which stand in the 10th column of our
table, are, however, not calculated in the above-cited manner, but according to

r

the empirical equation proposed by Zeuner: Apuw== 30.456 ° log ° = » whose

results so nearly accord with those computed after the above theory that we may
PRINCIPLES OF THE MECHANICAL THEORY OF HEAT. 269

well adopt this equation as the true expression of the relations between p, w,
and ¢. Again, the values of w, as stated in the 7th column, are not those calcu-
lated in the way above given, but those very nearly the same, which are obtained
by a division.of the values of A pu, given in column 10, by the corresponding
values of A p.

Let us now briefly consider the signification of the magnitudes represented i
the table. :

Q, as already said, is the total quantity of heat which is expended in order
first to heat one kilogram of water at 0° to é°, and then to convert the water of
t°, under the corresponding pressure p, into saturated vapor of ¢°.

A part of this quantity Q, namely, Apu, is spent in external work; it is,
therefore, no longer contained in the saturated vapor at ¢°; the total quantity of
heat contained in the vapor (excepting that already in the water at 0°) is
only J=Q—Apw. The values of J are represented in the 11th column of our
table.

In order to transform water at ¢° into saturated vapor at ?@°, the quantity of
heat r is necessary, whose values are exhibited in the 6th vertical series of the
table. It is this magnitude r which is usually designated as latent heat; an
incorrect expression, however, if we mean thereby to indicate the quantity of heat
employed in abolishing the cohesion of the particles of water, and hence spent in
an external work, for a part of the quantity 7, namely, Apu, is consumed by
that external work. Only the remainder, p=r—A pu, can be regarded as the
internal latent heat of vapor, while the magnitude 7 might, according to Clausius,
be designated as evaporation-heat.

It is evident that for a correct calculation of the effects of steam-engines the
values of v must be taken into account as they are set forth in our table, and not
hose reckoned after M. Gay-Lussac’s law. It is to be observed, however,
th a comparison of the values of V and v, given in two preceding pages, that
In the last the volume of one gram of vapor is expressed in cubic centimetres,
while in the first it is stated in cubic metres.

From a consideration of the numbers grouped together in the table it will be
seen that of the quantity of heat conveyed to the water in the boiler only a very
small part is expended in mechanical work; for the quantity Apu employed in
such work is but an inconsiderable fraction even of the evaporation-heat 7, about
z}; for 100°, and {4} for 160°. The internal latent vayor-heat p abides with the
vapor at its exit from the machine, and hence can do no work. ‘This quantity
of heat p can only be in part regained.

This circumstance occasioned the constructing of power machines, in which the
elasticity of heated air might operate instead of steam. Such machines, con-
structed particularly after Ericsson’s designs, and known by the name of caloric
engines, have been repeatedly introduced into practice with high expectations,
but have been as often abandoned because their performance fell far short of
that of the steam-engine.

VIII.—ACTION OF SATURATED STEAM DURING EXPANSION.

The results thus far obtained enable us to form a correct idea of the action
of steam in our expansion steam-engines. As we cannot, however, here develop
the equations necessary for the general solution of this problem, we must content
ourselves with the consideration of special cases.

If, under the piston of a steam-cylinder, there be just one kilogram of saturated
steam of 160° C., we find for this steam by our table,

v=0.3002 cubic metre.
p=63243.4 kilograms.
J =610.53 units of heat.
270 PRINCIPLES OF THE MECHANICAL THEORY OF HEAT.

Let the steam be now supposed slowly to expand, and the pressure on the piston
to be, at each moment, equal to the corresponding tension of the steam. During
this expansion both the temperature and elasticity of the steam is lowered.

Suppose the steam to expand till its temperature has fallen 5°, and hence in
the case under consideration from 160° to 155°. We will inquire now how much
heat must be supplied to this expanding steam, if, during the expansion in ques-
tion, no condensation take place and the quantity of steam is to remain unaltered.
By our table we have for 155°,

v’ =0.3387 cubic metre.
p’=55588.1 kilograms.
J’=609.35 units of heat.

The volume of the steam has therefore increased by V=v/—v=0.0385 of a
cubic metre. ‘The work done during this. expansion we know at least approxi-

p+! . ;
mately, L=V° / an whence, in our special case, we put

L=0.0385 * 59415.7= 2287.5 metre-kilograms ;
the quantity of heat requisite for this work is,
AL=1 = 2°87'5 _ 5.39 units of heat.
424 424
At the beginning of the expansion the total heat contained in the steam,
J=610.53, at the termination of the expansion, J’=609.35; thus we see that
during the expansion, J —J’, equal in units of heat to 1.18, has disappeared from
the steam. But this quantity of heat is not sufficient to execute the work
amounting to 2287.5 metre-kilograms; so that 5.39—1.18=4.21 units of heat
must be added from without, if the steam is to expand in the manner above
stated, without diminution of the quantity of steam.
If we repeat the same process for the temperature standing in the beginning
at 120°, (instead of 160°, as in the preceding case,) we find,
V=0!—v=0.1433.
pp +p! =18767.2.
= 2689.3.
A L=6.34 units of heat.
* J —J’/=1.12 units of heat.

In this last case, therefore, an addition of 6.34—1.12—5.22 units of heat is
needed. Now, if the numerical values just calculated, make no pretension to
exactness, they’still serve to show that a considerable addition of heat is necessary
if the steam is to expand in the way specified, without the occurrence of partial
condensation.

But since, in our expansion steam-engines, no further addition of heat ensues
after the shutting off of the supply of steam, it is clear that in consequence of the
expansion a partial condensation of steam must follow. The last part, therefore,
of the proposition announced by Pambour, “ Steam, while expanding without
heat being supplied, remains saturated, and no vapor is thereby precipitated,”
is inadmissible; much rather would it be proper thus to modify the proposition,
“ While steam is expanding without a supply of heat, it remains, indeed, saturated,
but thereby ts a proportional quantity of vapor precipitated.” Hence, at the end
of the expansion the quantity of steam is less than at its commencement.

It is through the condensation of steam that the heat must be furnished,
which is in deficiency, for the performance of the work of expansion.

This important discovery, respecting the action of steam during its expansion,
was made almost simultaneously by Clausius and Rankine. It is clear that the
theory of steam-engines must, from this fact, undergo an essential modification.

That the expansion of steam is attended by partial condensation, admits of
being likewise experimentally demonstrated. Into a glass balloon, (Fig. 12,)
PRINCIPLES OF THE MECHANICAL THEORY OF HEAT. 271

which is wrapped around with wire and provided with a brass appendage which
contains a duct, closed at will by a cock, we introduce a little water, so that
the glass may be moistened within by afew drops. The balloon is then screwed to
a compressing pump, and so much air is pumped Fig. 12.

in that the tension in the interior of the balloon
shall amount to about three atmospheres. If the
cock be now closed, and the balloon be unscrewed
and laid in some warm place, whether in the
vicinity of a stove or in the sunshine, the vapors
in the interior will, after a while, have acquired
the elasticity corresponding to the temperature,
and appear perfectly transparent. If the cock be
now opened, air and vapor will rapidly escape
from the balloon, and the latter will be filled with
a thick mist.

In a somewhat altered form, the experiment ad-
mits of being executed as follows: Let the bell of
an air-pump be sprinkled on the inside with a
little water, and after being placed on the plate
of the pump, be left some time in a rather warm
chamber. As soon now as we begin to discharge
the air, a white mist will be formed within the
bell.

A corresponding experiment has been instituted
by Hirn on a large scale. A straight copper cylinder, two metres long and. 15
centimetres in diameter, was closed at both ends by flat plates, in the middle
of which were openings two centimetres wide and closed by plates of glass
cemented therein. This cylinder was on one side placed in connection with a
steam-boiler, while on the other it bore a discharge tube which was furnished
with a wide cock. Intothe cylinder was now introduced steam of a high tension,
while the escape-cock was only‘partially opened, so that all the air might find
anissue. The highly condensed vapor, (five atmospheres, for example,) which
in this way fills the cylinder, is now perfectly transparent, so that all objects
are plainly visible through the glass plates mentioned above. If the influx of
steam from the boiler be afterwards wholly shut off, and the escape-cock be
suddenly and fully opened, so that the steam promptly expands to a tension of
one atmosphere, a mist of such density is formed in the cylinder that its contents
appear completely opaque.

1X.—THE MELTING OF ICE.

After having applied the principles of the mechanical theory of heat to the form-
ation of steam, we will proceed to consider them in relation to the phenomena
of melting, and shall here treat exclusively of the melting of ice.

Let us suppose one kilogram of ice at 0° C. to be contained in a vessel, under
the pressure of one atmosphere. If heat be communicated to this ice, while the
pressure remains unaltered, the ice passes gradually into water, but the tempera-
ture continues at 0° until the liquefaction is wholly completed. From this
moment first begins the elevation of temperature, if the supply of heat is main-
tained. ;

The quantity of heat which is necessary thus, under the pressure of one atmos-
phere, to convert one kilogram of ice at 0° into water at 0°, taking the mean
of the best experiments, is, *=79.035 units of heat. This quantity 1s usually
called, as in the case of steam, the latent heat.

The phenomenon of melting is wholly analogous to that of evaporation, A
part of the heat supplied to the ice is expended in overcoming the cohesion, the
other part in external work, as, during the melting, a change of volume takes
place.
272 PRINCIPLES OF THE MECHANICAL THEORY OF HEAT.

As in the formation of steam, if it takes place under the conditions set forth
in §7 the temperature at which the transformation into vapor occurs is a function
of the pressure exerted on the piston, so that we might expect that the tempera-
ture of the melting ice depends also on the pressure under which it stands; that
the temperature of fusion also varies with the pressure.

From the analogy between vaporization and fusion, we are authorized to apply to
the phenomenon of melting the equations developed in section vu, i therefore

the second leading equation of the mechanical theory of heat w = = ay But
while, in the formation of steam, the magnitude % was given through the experi-
ment, it is here wholly unknown; on the other hand, we know the quantities
r, A, T, and z, and hence have

ie ee
ae T a : : : : : : :

As we have above seen, 7=79.035. The absolute temperature at which, under
the pressure of the atmosphere, the melting of ice takes place, is T=273°. We

(111)

know, moreover, that Lae For the computation of ¢ there is wanting,

~

therefore, only the value of #. In the melting of ice, we know a diminution of
volume takes place. ‘lhe volume of one kilogram of water at 0° is v=0.001
cubic metre. ‘The volume of one kilogram of ice at 0°, taking the mean of
different computations, is w=0.00109; hence

u—=v—w=—0.00009,

and therefore negative. If we place now for 7, A, T, and w, in equation, (111,)
the numerical values cited, the result is
79.035 * 424
273 + 0.00009"
Should the difference of pressure ¢, which corresponds to a lowering of tempera-
ture of 1°, be expressed, not in kilograms, but in atmospheres, we shall have to
divide by’ 10333, and we then obtain
f 79.035 * 424
10333 + 0.00009 * 273

o=—

=132 atmospheres ;

that is to say, an augmentation of pressure from 1 to 132 atmospheres would cor-
respond to a lowering of the melting point by 1° C.; an augmentation of the
pressure by one atmosphere will ati ncies be followed by a lowering of the
melting temperature of ice equal to yyy, or 0.0075° C.

That the temperature at which ice melts varies with the pressure, and that
thus an elevation of the pressure corresponds to a lowering of the freezing point,

was first theoretically demonstrated by James Thomson, (Proceedings of the
Royal Society, of Edinburgh,) and then by Clausius, (Poze. Annal., LXxxI,) and
was experimentally verified by William Thomson, (Pogg. Annal., LXXX1. ) The
latter availed himself, for this experiment, of a thermometer in which ether was
employed instead of ‘quicksilver as the thermometric fluid. The reservoir of
this thermometer was three and a half inches long and three-eighths inch wide.
On the tube, six and a half inches long, was a scale of five and a half inches
length, divided into 220 equal parts. The extent of this scale corresponded to
a difference of temperature of about 3° I’., so that a division represented on an
average = of a degree of F. The thermometer was so regulated that it showed
the temper rature between 31° and 34° F. In order that the reservoir might not
be compressed when submitted to a strong pressure, it was hermetically inclosed

ee
16.5

PRINCIPLES OF THE MECHANICAL THEORY OF HEAT. 273

in a wider glass tube; this outer tube contained enough quicksilver for the
reservoir of the ether thermometer to be wholly surrounded by it.

This thermometer was now plunged, together with a cylindrical tube filled
with air, into Oersted’s compressing apparatus, which was filled partly with
water, partly with pieces of pure ice. By means of a ring of lead, care was
taken to keep the water of the compressing vessel free from ice at that part
of the thermometer on which the readings were to be made. A pressure of
8.1, and again of 16.8 atmospheres, produced a sinking . Hae thermometer by

74 and 164 of the divisions of the scale, and thus byt =0.106° F., and

ai =0.232° F.; which very nearly coincides with the theoretically calculated
depression of 0.109° and 0.227° F.

From the above developments and observations it might be expected that water
under very high pressure must remain fluid at relatively low temperatures. That
this, indeed, is the case, is confirmed by the experiments long since conducted by
Williams in: ‘Quebec, in order to measure Fig. 13,
the force with which freezing water ex-
pands. He exposed to intense cold
thick iron bomb-shells, filled with water
and closed by means of aniron plug firmly
driven in. At a very low temperature
the stopper was either driven out and
then an icicle was projected from the
opening, (Fig. 13,) or the bomb was burst, and in that case a sheet of ice pro-
truded from the fissure, (Fig. 14.) ‘The form of these extruded pieces of ice
indicated conclusively that the water at a very low temperature still remained
fluid, and was first converted into ice at the moment when it gamed additional
space.

In fine, Mousson has shown (Poge. Annal., cv) that at a very low temperature
ice may be rendered fluid by great pressure. The appa-
ratus of which he availed himself for this is represented in
section in Fig. 15, and on a smaller scale in side elevation
in Fig. 16. Through the axis of a massive prism A of
the best steel, four- “cornered below and furnished above
with the worm of a screw, a cylindrical cavity, 7.12. milli-
metres wide, is drilled, which, in its upper part, widens from
b to a, ina slightly conical form, so that the mouth at @
has a diameter of 8.61 millimetres. From above is driven
into the cylindrical cavity a piece of pure copper g, some-
what conical at first, and fitting into the cavity a 6 so as_
to form above a perfect closure of the same. ‘To the copper
cylinder g is affixed a steel prolongation D, of like diameter
with the cavity b c, and which, by ‘applic ation of the female
screw E, can be pressed downwards so as to drive the copper
cy linder g further into the cavity bc. Underneath the eylin-
drical cavity beis also aconical but rapidly widening cavity,
into which fits the copper cone.f, which, by means of thie
steel screw C, can be firmly pressed into its cavity.

In order to perform the experiment, the screw © and the
copper cone f were first removed, the whole apparatus was
inverted, so that EX was below, A above, and the free part
of the cavity bc, above g, was filled with water that had
been boiled; the copper index d was now lowered into this
water. With the position unchanged, while d thus stood
upon g, the wholeapparatus was exposed to a low tempera-
18s

Fig. 14.

Fig. 15.

‘274 =PpRINCIPLES OF THE MECHANICAL THEORY OF HEAT.

ture, the water froze, and thereby the copper index was fixed at the place which
it occupied. ‘The nipple of ice formed by the freezing of the water
in the conic space at c was removed, the copper cone / introduced,
and by means of the screw C driven in as strongly aspossible. 'Uhe
whole apparatus was now again reversed, so that EK was above and
C below.

After the apparatus, in this last position, was firmly secured in a
strong cross-piece between two bars, (Fig. 17,) and surrounded with
the freezing mixture, the index d being thus plunged in the ice deep
under g, the female screw or nut E was, by means of a lever six
decimetres long, gradually driven around, and thereby g more and
more pressed downward. If the ice remained firm under the com-
pression, there must, on the opening of the screw GC, situated below,
appear at the copper cone / first a cylinder of ice and then the index
d; but if water has been produced by the pressure, the index d must
descend to ¢, at the lower end of the cavity, and hence, on the with-
drawal! of /, first the in-
dex and next in order
the massive ice eylin-
der respectively make
their appearance.

In order to prevent
the heating of the
apparatus by  me-
chanical work the
depression of g was
very slowly conduc-
ted, the female screw E being tuned only every five minutes to the extent of 45°,
and the operation being thus protracted through the space of some four hours.
When, after these processes, the lower terminal screw was opened, still under a
very low temperature, the copper cone f immediately protruded and ice instantly
formed on its sides. Directly behind the cone/ followed the index d, and after
this a thick cylinder of ice, which must have been formed at the moment of the
opening.

Thus was the proof afforded that, by a sufficiently strong pressure, ice is con-
verted into water at =18° C. The pressure to which the ice was subjected in this
experiment is estimated by Mousson at some 13,000 atmospheres. ‘This lowering
of the melting point of iee through pressure plays an important part in the expla-
nation of glacier-phenomena, and on that ‘account will be again the subject of con-
sideration im the section of cosmical physics.

The value of %, (in equation 111) is, for water, a negative one, because ice, in
melting, contracts. For such substances, however, as are attended in melting

Ss
with an augmentation of volume, ¢ is positive, and for these therefore the melting

PRINCIPLES OF THE MECHANICAL THEORY OF HEAT. 275

point must, through increased pressure, be heightened. The correct- Fig. 18.
ness of this consequence has been experimentally proved by Bunsen,
(Poge. Annal., LXXx1, 1850,) and by Hopkins, (Dingler’ s Polyt.
Journal, XXXIV.) Bunsen conducted the experiment in the fol-
lowing manner: A very thick-walled glass tube about a foot long,
and having a bore of the size of a straw, was drawn out at one end
into a fine capillary tube from 15 to 20 inches in length, which was
made of as accurate calibre as possible. The lower end of this
glass tube was also drawn out to a somewhat wider tube, one and
a half inch long and curved, as is shown in Fig. 18.

By atmospheric pressure the whole apparatus was now filled with
quicksilver, and the longer capillary tube was then soldered at a.
After cooling, a small quantity of quicksilver was driven out at b
by gentle heat, and in place of it, while the cooling was renewed,
a small quantity of the substance to be tested was imbibed in a state
of fusion. ‘The apparatus was now soldered also at b, the longer
capillary tube was then opened at a, and the whole apparatus heated
one or two degrees above the melting point of the substance con-
tained therein, through which process a part of the quicksilver is
expelled from the open point at a. Finally, after renewed cooling,
the range of the quicksilver in the capillary tube at ¢, together with
the range of the thermometer and barometer, was noted; the point
at @ was then once more soldered, and thus a ‘column of air of ascer-
tained length was included.

Two such instruments of precisely similar form and contents, one of which was
soldered at a, while the other remained open, were now, together with a sensi-
tive thermometer, fastened on a small board in such manner that the two little
tubes filled with the substance to be tested piel stand close to the bulb of the
thermometer. If this apparatus be immersed in water whose temperature is a
few degrees above the melting point of the substance, to such a depth that only
the tube 6 shall be submer ved, it will be seen that, by gradual cooling of the
water, molecular rigidity will ensue simultaneously in both tubes. But were the
apparatus sunk deeper in the warm water, there would follow, through the expan-
sion of the quicksilver in the closed instrument, a pressure which can be readily
measured by the compression of the air in the capillary tube ¢6, and which may
be augmented or diminished at will by depressing the instrument in the warm
fluid or partially withdrawing it therefrom. The pressure in the open instru-
ment, on the other hand, remains unchanged during the whole experiment. ‘The
difference of temper rature at which the substance grows rigid in the closed instru-
ment sooner than in the open one gives the elevation of the melting point for
the observed pressure.

An experiment made with spermaceti gave the following result :

=>

SS

Pressure. Point of rigidity.

TE cai ti oo Br adn yy ww den hae bois ra ian oh ound gree 477°. Gy
DG HOU Rees Ses ode Sn a oe ee ee Bo mS alee ss 49.7°
Rotts nM Ete ec Soi x oh aicina pated tener els wlan 6 ox 50.9°

The same experiment repeated with parafline gave :

Pressure. Point of rigidity.
CBE eli RL iy 2D) Salar gt, 2 7 4 a er oe 46.3° C
Soepa A KLOM PI caer CIR e- Sia IS SNe 2 a. So a o's ewe 48.9°

KOO, atmospheres... nicieme adeno s ee 2 ee Oe eT eT 49,9°
276 PRINCIPLES OF THE MECHANICAL THEORY OF HEAT.

By another method, Hopkins obtained the following results :

Melting temperature.

Pressure. Spermaceti. Wax. Sulphur. Stearine.

Ds Ree eto aiaege Bee Sith can 51° C. 64.5° C, 107.0° C. 72-5°.C:
te Gets Ae a ae alee a IER eee 60° 74.5° 135.292 VAMOS,
YAS cs eel Sian ae i ep SIR EE a SEN is 80.2° 80.29 140.59 79.29

X. SPECIFIC HEAT IN THE ACCEPTATION OF THE MECHANICAL THEORY
OF HEAT.

By the specific heat of a substance is understood, we know, the number which
specifies how many units of heat (calories) must be added to the unit of weight
of that substance in order to produce an elevation of temperature from 0° to 1° C.

According to a law propounded by Dulong and Petit, the product obtained
when the specific heat of a solid element is multiplied by its atomic weight should
be a censtant number; which is, indeed, nearly the case, as the following brief
table will show:

Atomic weight. | Specific heat. p*s.

Siler gs SaaS ae 108. 0 0. 0570 6.16
ASK OUI I Bet ae Phe sya ee ee ee oe rere 27.4 0.2143 5, 87
GO eens abies oeSagpesesaus Seeeesosb sec 63. 4 0. 0949 6. 02
OT eee rene Nets ate sia Sate CN Ua aera ae 56. 0 « 0.1138 6. 37
MAbs eee ieee ae eee Som as Nee eine 7.0 0.9408 . 6.59
Noatirimmy fis Sees. be OU Se ASE 23. 0 0. 2934 6.75
bead: jee heeteese seco sesame 207.0 0.0314 6.50
SUNN UIE e Saas Be oe Sacco. dusoce aoecre 32, 0 0.1776 5. 68
WEAN © ates siofalfevetnre celal ale ioieicNerre erste va MB ays ete) ara 65, 2 0, 0956 6. 23

—__.—_—_

The Dulong-Petit law admits of being expressed in this wise: Chemically
equivalent quantities of solid elements require for like elevation of temperature
quantities of heat of like amount. Still another expression of the same law is the
following: The atoms of all simple substances have a like capacity for heat; or, in
fine, the atomic heat of all simple substances is equal, if we denote by atomic heat
the product of the atomic weight into the specific heat.

In the mean, the atomic heat of solid elements has the product p * sa, or
the value 6.4. From this value, however, the atomic heat of carbon deviates
considerably, since we have for—

p s (DOS
CD ava GkO EE eS SL a A A A NDS ee 0. 241 2.29
Crd yenta Ok Qoe Sag ccOR ORES SOONeso: Japodous Socseodosepar 12 0.174 2.09
Digimon deereee ree hem sacle Sais aid ai ere caer elseeeieciciamion macs 0. 147 1.76

The atomic heat of the different forms of carbon is somewhat more approxi-
mate to the mean value of the atomic heat of the rest of the elements, if, accord-
ing to Regnault’s proposition, we take the atomic weight of carbon not as equal
to 12, but to 24.
. PRINCIPLES OF THE MECHANICAL THEORY OF HEAT. 277

If we indicate the atomic weight of a compound body by P, its specific heat by

S, and by N the number of single atoms which are associated with one atom of
2 We Ss

——H,

the compound body, then, according to Garnier, we have very nearly

if arepresent the mean atomic heat of the solid elements, and, therefore, the
value 6.4. In effect there results, for example, for

Chemical PS

formula. P S N Nw
OTT R= BAS Ss oe Eee cee ee gee Hes 232. 0 0, 0517 2 6.0
HockwsAlhow sass Sees sees ast jaeiee 2 Nad 58.5 0. 219 2 6.4
MG een ees on a) Sa - S52 eee €Caz,9 142.8 0.111 3 5.3
Waterss sees uh oe reecec yume H.@ 18.0 1.00 3 6.0
Specular iron, (Eisenglanz)....-.-.-- Fe. Os 160. 0 0. 154 5 5.0

Now the temperature of a body depends, according to the mechanical theory
of heat, entirely on the living force with which the atoms composing it move.
Two bodies have a like temperature when the living force with which each atom
in the one vibrates is equal to the living force of an atom in the other. For the
temperature of two bodies to be raised in an equal degree it is necessary that the
oscillatory work of the atoms in both should undergo an equal augmentation.

From this it might well be expected that like quantities of heat will be needed
to produce a like elevation of temperature in two masses of different substance
of which one contains just as many atoms as the other; or, in other words, it
would be expected that the magnitude, which we have above indicated as atomic
heat, should for all elements be alike; that, hence, the Dulong-Petit law should
not only be approximately, but rigorously, correct, that for chemically com-
pounded substances the quotient which we obtain when we divide the atomic
heat of the combination by the number of single atoms which are associated with

‘

eee > ) :
one atom of the composition, being the value , must under all circumstances

be perfectly equal to the atomic heat of the simple substance. This, however,

experiment does not verify. ‘The numbers of the last column of the above table,
: - ; : De 2a
in part, deviate considerably from 6.4, and thus the quotient ys not equal for

all combinations, as we have also seen above.

The contradiction in which experiment and the mechanical theory of heat
seem here involved entirely vanishes, however, when it is considered that the
quantity of heat which must be supplied to a body in order to raise its tempera-
ture is by no means wholly employed in exalting the living force of its molecular
vibrations, but that a considerable part of the hea ut, Which we designate as specific
heat, is consumed in the performance of internal and external work.

Let us indicate the specific heat of a simple substance by s; then ts,

s=k+i+e : 4 : : (1),

if by & we denote the augmentation of the vibratory work which the unit weight
(Gewichtseinheit) of the “substance in question undergoes from an elevation of
temperature of 1°, while 7 and e denote the heat equivalent of the internal
and external work simultaneously executed. If we designate the atomic weight
of the substance by p, then, according to the principles of the mechanical theory,
the product kp must, of course, be the same for all simple substances ; but it by
no means follows that sp also is a constant mag nitude, since e and ¢ are quanti-
ties which vary, not only from one substance to another, but for the same sub-
stance with the conditions of aggregation, We can realize the absolute validity
278 PRINCIPLES OF THE MECHANICAL THEORY OF HEAT.

of the law of Dulong and Petit only when both quantities ¢ and e are completely
null. Only in special cases can the quantities e and é be small enough to admit
of their being neglected. This circumstance, however, makes it possible to
ascertain the value of the quantity /.

For solid and flmd_ bodies the expansion which corresponds to an elevation of
temperature by 1° is so slight that we may overlook, without sensible error, the
external work thereby executed; for this case, therefore, we have

s=k+1 : : : : (2).

On the other hand, it may be assumed that, at least with the permanent gases,
the internal work is null; whence, for these we have

s=k+e . P : 4 (3),

if by s the specific heat of these gases under constant pressure be indicated. For
the case in which the gas is so confined as not to be capable of expanding from
subsequent heating, ¢ is also null; and we then have

Sah i : , : (4),

if by s’ be indicated the specific heat of gases under constant volume.

According to the experiments of Regnault, the specific heat is, with constant
volume, for oxygen gas, 0.1551; for hydrogen gas, 2.4153; for nitrogen gas,
0.1712; whence the atomic heat is for oxygen gas, 0.1551 * 162.4816; for
hydrogen gas, 2.4153 - 1==2.4153; for nitrogen gas, 0.1712 + 142.3968.
We will take, then, 2.4 for the approximate value of the atomic heat under con-
stant volume, for the gases named.

This value, 2.4, we will now designate as absolute atomic heat. It would be
the atomic heat for all elements, whether in a flnid, solid, or gaseous state, if all
the heat supplied to them inured exclusively to the augmentation of the vibra-
tory work, and none of it were employed for internal and external work.

The knowledge of the absolute atomic heat 2.4 enables us to ascertain what
part of the specific heat s of a body inures to the elevation of temperature, and
What part thereof becomes latent through the performance of internal or external
labor. For solid elements the atomic heat is, according to equation (2),

Sp=(k+2) p.

For the absolute atomic heat kp of all elements we have found the value 2.4;
whence,

(s—2) p= 2.4, and si,

The quotient = which we will call the absolute specific heat, or the absolute
p

heat-capacity, is the same quantity which we designated above by k; we find it
for each element if we employ its atomic weight p as a divisor for 2.4.

Thus, for example, we obtain for copper ae 0378. Of the quan-
vo.

tity of heat 0.0949, which must be supplied to one gram of copper in order to
raise its temperature 1°, only 0.0378 units of heat are expended for the elevation
of temperature, (increase of vibratory work ;) the rest, 0.0949— 0.0378 — 0.0571
units of heat, are consumed for internal work, and hence are latent. In the same
wxy we obtain for certain solid elements, which are exhibited together in the fol-
PRINCIPLES OF THE MECHANICAL THEORY OF HEAT. 279

lowing table, the values of the specific heat s, of the absolute specific heat k,
and of the heat expended for internal work ¢@.

s k a
Ro tee eee SL UL SS eee Aner ea 0. 0576 0. 0222 0. 0348
AGIOS ads ween p= an kia Spe ee Re SEEN Se A ee 0. 2143 0. 0875 0. 1268
OU To eiR See RE SEE SS SES BUSES OE SES ASSO AS AE aRoe 0. 0949 0. 0378 0. 0571
UNG) cenit BOS SSeS HSH SHES aes Gass SERRE SChbe Kase 0. 1138 0. 0430 0. 0708
D2 ES SS ee ee ey ee i 0. 9408 0. 3428 0.5940
MemriONe See eee Pecans 4 See sienaqels- ane neate tease ae 0. 2934 0. 1043 0.1891
ere er anes Ua te See eaey qos ice Sule 0, 0314 0. 0126 0. 0183
Sih 58 s3h hc ssoop Sartre soeceeu neds beasedeadsec 0.1776 0. 0756 0. 1020
PI eee aac a) eciean sh moe aaee Sane te ay oad =o 0. 0956 0, 0372 0. 0583

If we seek to ascertain in this way the value of & for carbon, we obtain, by
taking the atomic weight 12 as a basis, s=0.2, a value which is greater than
the value of s heretofore found for graphite and diamond. This circumstance
speaks decisively to the effect that, agreeably to Regnault’s proposition, we
should double the atomic weight of carbon and assume it to be equal to 24; we
then have, for the different forms of aggregation of carbon, the values of s, x,
and 7, exhibited in the following brief table:

s k 2
G@hancosl sahe ete rae ok 2 a iS: eee athe Sees Stk cee, Weisser 0. 241 0. 142
Gran bite gst Dien sigs soe ce ta pe todos base ee chic esas yaaa e---| 0.174 | 20.1 0. 074
DPramopiee sera eer ee ees en Meee ee aces oe. Ques 0. 147 0. 047

The inequality of the specific heat of different forms of aggregation of carbon
thus becomes intelligible, from the consideration that at a like elevation of tem-
perature the internal work performed is different, according as we are dealing
with diamond, graphite, or charcoal.

In strictness, therefore, the law of Dulong and Petit is, in general, only valid
for the absolute specific heat k, which, multiplied by the atomic weight of the
element, gives the constant product kp—=2.4. ‘The variations which the specific
heat of solid elements undergoes, when the temperature is raised, are likewise to
be ascribed to a difference in the amount of internal work.

In reference to chemically compounded substances, we have, for ascertaining
their absolute capacity of heat K, the equation

PK

. ——- == 2.4

x ARH IMC ARR G7)

which is found from equation a =a if we put K in the place of the experimen-
}

tally determined specific heat 8, aud the absolute specific heat of the element 2.4 in

t - N :
the place of a. From equation (5) results K == 2.4 Pp For water, for instance,

J
we have N=3, P=16+2—18; hence K=2.4 eel thus the absolute
€
specific heat of water in a solid, liquid, and gaseous form, is equal to 0.4. From
these premises we obtain, for the quantity of heat ¢, which, by an elevation of
temperature of 1° C., is expended in internal work,
for ice # a n os 4—0.5—0.4 == (0.1
for liquid water . i=1.0—0.4=0
280 PRINCIPLES OF THE MECHANICAL THEORY OF HEAT.

THE THERMIC MOLECULAR MOTION.

From the equivalency of heat and labor it undoubtedly results that every
development of heat by mechanical means must be regarded as the trans-
formation of a bodily motion into a molecular motion; and, conversely, that
every performance of work must be considered a transformation of the molecular
motion into a bodily motion. ‘This view constitutes the starting point of.the
mechanical theory of heat, of which the most essential principles, together with
some of the most important consequences springing from them, have been dis-
cussed in the preceding paragraphs, without reference, however, to the concep-
tion which we must form of this molecular movement, whose results are the
different phenomena of heat.

For the completion of the mechanical theory there is certainly aa an
hypothesis respecting the nature of this molecular action, although many import-
ant questions may be and have been solved without one. In the mean time the
construction of such an hypothesis has exercised the ingenuity of different physi-
cists, especially of Clausius, Krénig, and Redtenbacher.

Krénig and Clausius (Pogg. Annal., xcrx and c) suppose that the minute
molecules of gases and vapors, mere points in proportion to the intervals which
separate them, move on with a constant velocity, in right lines, until they
impinge against another molecule of the same nature, or against some object to
them impenetrable. | The pressure of gases against a sold surface is supposed
to result from the fact that the molecules in oreat number continually impinge
against the resisting surface and rebound from it. _By an increase of tempera-
ture the velocity with which the molecules move is augmented; and, in fine,
the temperature is assumed to be proportional to the square of that velocity.

In the case of solid bodies, the molecules oscillate about a permanent point of
equilibrium ; while in the case of fluids this point of equilibrium does not exist ;
but the molecules, notwithstanding their constant and manifold movements, are
restrained to determined distances, and cannot, like the gases, move freely apart
from one another.

While the savants just named seek the causes of the phenomena of heat in a
movement of the atoms themselves of bodies, Redtenbacher considers the oscilla-
tions of the atoms of the ether enveloping the atoms of a body to be the source
of those phenomena, as he has explained in his “ Dynamiden system,” (Man-
heim, 1857.)

A circumstance which speaks with much force in favor of the views of WGnig
aid Clausius is that through these views the difference between radiant and
sensible heat admits of easy explanation. ‘The former would thus appear to be
propagated in a precisely identical manner with the rays of light, by a undulatory
movement of the ether, while a vibratory movement of the ponderable atoms of
the body would be the source of sensible heat.

The development of the mechanical theory of heat has, within a few years,
made such progress that it thust soon’stand in the same grade with the undulatory
theory of light. In proportion, at the same time, as the mathematical theory is
advanced towards completion, will it become more and more practicable to reduce
the explanation of the particular phenomena of heat, in a generally intelligible
form, to the principles of the mechanical theory,
CONTINUOUS VIBRATORY MOVEMENT OF ALL MATTER, PONDERABLE
AND IMPONDERABLE.

«
By L. MAGRINI, OF THE MUSEUM OF FLORENCE,

Translated for the Smithsonian Institution.*

Tt would be at once curious and instructive, could we unite in one point of view
the different reflections of mankind on the phenomena of nature. What variety
in ideas! what differences among men! what contrasts between nationalities! If
the paths which the iuman mind pursues could be clearly traced, and it were
possible to examine them, we should perhaps discover the reasons which canse
men at one time to affirm, as if with intuitive certainty, a principle pregnant with
consequences, destined to be confirmed by facts, while at other times they hesitate,
go astray, and lose the truth even when earnestly seeking it.

Our senses, even with the help of the most perfect instruments, reveal to us but
very little about nature ; but the sensations derived from the impressions made
on our organs by exterior objects are transmitted to the understanding, which
co-ordinates them and draws from them the most rational and rigorous dedue-
tions; the small number of facts which our senses thus teach us, afford us the
best means of extending our knowledge regarding the external world. We might
repine, with some justice, at the imperfection of our senses: our ears might be
more impressible, our sense of smell more susceptible; our sight might be even
more piercing than it actually is with the aid of optical instruments. Yet it is
not difficult to convince ourselves that it is not the senses which deceive us, and
that the error proceeds from thé deductions formed by the understanding.

An oar, piercing obliquely a horizontal surface of water, appears to us to be
broken at the point where it issues from the water. The eye really receives the
impressions of the light as if the oar were broken. But if our mind were to
conclnde from this optical phenomenon that we beheld a broken oar, it would
not be the eye which was in fault, but the understanding, which deceives itself
by a conclusion without verifying the other characters of a broken oar. ‘The
philosophers who impute error to the eye ought, on the contrary, to regard
this indication as a signal service; since, without tonching on other properties—
the knowledge of which does not pertain to its province—the eye does in fact
faithfully represent to us the real course of the luminous rays which pass from
the water into the air.’

This example, and a multitude of others of the same kind which might be
cited, teach us that it is very difficult for us to. pronounce a correct judgment in
taking our first sensations as a basis. It is necessary to wait till new facts add
themselves to the old, and disclose the relations which lead to the common prin-
ciple of all the phenomena of the same order. Mathematical truths are pure
conceptions which obey the necessary laws of reasoning ; it is not the same case
vith the physical sciences, the study of which rests not on axioms furnished by
reason, nor on principles which can be directly drawn from the understanding.
Nature presents us complex phenomena which we must examine minutely, in
order to analyze them and discover their cause; if we would not deviate from
reality and truth, we must accept the descriptive langnage of the sensations.
The sensations furnish us the data, and the tendency which we have to attribute
them to external causes, conducts us from analogy to principles. In reality, the

*From Revue des Cours Scientifiques: Paris, No. 49, Nov. 2, 1867.
282 CONTINUOUS VIBRATORY MOVEMENT OF

world is composed of objects which we know only by the impressions they pro-
duze on our senses. Matter is the unknown principle of which they are formed,
the cause of the properties which they manifest, and of the sensations which
reveal them to us. But when we wish to study an ‘object, it is proper to com-
mence by defining it; we should therefore ask ourselves, first of all, what is the
true constitution of matter?

In considering the scale of magnitudes and the extreme divisibility of bodies,
we find that we can form two hypotheses on the constitution of matter. We may
admit that it is divisible to infinity, and consequently conceive of a body as a
continuous mass, as a veritable geometric solid; or again, we may suppose that
by continuing to divide more and more the fragments of a body, we shall arrive
at an ultimate particle—an atom. On this last hypothesis, matter would be but
an assemblage of atoms, grouped in distinct elementary molecules, placed one
beside another without touching, and endowed with the faculty of approaching
to or withdrawing from one another.

If we interrogate chemistry before making a choice between these two
hypotheses, it will reply that if matter is continuons, that is to say, not capable
of being resolved into indivisible elements, the idea of chemical combinations
becomes essentially obscure. On the contrary, all the known laws of combina-
tion become evident consequences, logical corollaries of the hypothesis which
considers matter as formed by the union of a great number of small indivisible
masses; it is easy, in effect, to comprehend that the atoms of two simple bodies
may, in uniting, form mixed molecules and give rise to new bodies.

The propagation of heat and of light in the Torricellian vacuum and in the
planetary spaces, compels us to admit the existence of another highly subtle
species of matter, infinitely more diffused and universal than ponderable matter,
and which we are led to consider as the principal agent of physical nature.

We shall endeavor to prove, on this occasion, that movement is a fundamental
property of matter in whatsoever state it exists, ponderable or imponderable ;
and if movement exists to-day in all the particles of matter, it has, of necessity,
always existed. Withont movement it is impossible for our mind to conceive
any modification whatever in the state of things. No action of bodies can be
manifested without our being able to affirm that this action consists in a particular
mode of movement. We shall proceed, as those who transport themselves to
some elevation in order to embrace the view of a vast region, to cast a compre-
hensive glance on the phenomena offering more particularly the proof of the
interior movement which constantly animates the molecules. Let us remark at
once, that this movement is for us an ultimate fact, of which as yet we know not
the reason.

Celestial mechanics has explained all the perturbations of the movement of
the planets, by admitting the necessary presence of unknown orbs at the limits
of the solar system; observation has verified the existence of those bodies.
Thanks to numerous and complete verifications of this kind, mechanics has sue-
ceeded in rendering extremely probable, not to say absolutely certain, the prin-
ciple of gravitation, and in establishing in a definitive manner the law of New-
ton. ‘The law of continuity in nature forces us to admit that the same principle
extends to all, that exists; it governs the constitution and movements of celestial
bodies; it binds the satellites to their planets andthe planets to the sun; it con-
trols all the bodies which revolve one around another within a determinate radius ;
it also acts on each molecule, on each atom, at minute distances which escape our
gross senses and all our means of direct observation.

[The name gravitation has been given to that foree or tendency of masses to
approach each other with an intensity which varies inversely as the square of the
distance and directly asthe quantity of matter. The force which acts between
the particles, though perhaps of the same character, is governed by a different
law, and hence has received a different name, that of cohesion.—J. H.|
ALL MATTER, PONDERABLE AND IMPONDERABLE. 283

But if the dimensions of molecules are extremely small, the distances which
separate them are relatively very great, insomuch that, according to the sugges-
tive idea of Laplace, a molecule may be compared to a star, and moleenlar eravi-
tation to universal gravitation. It results from this that the movements of mole-
cules may be compared to the movements of the stars, and it is thus that mod-
ern physics has raised itself to the height of mechanics. It is interesting to see
a solid body suddenly obey the laws of attraction at the moment when it enters
within the sphere of influence of a liquid; the effect is still produced when the
liquid does not moisten the solid.

Cohesion, which may be considered a modification of gravitation, acts with
different degrees of intensity on different bodies. All the degrees of intensity
which separate the least dense fluid from the most condensed solid, form only
some of the intermediate terms of an indefinite series, of which the ultimate parts,
eminently solid, the ponderable atoms represent one of the extremities; at the
other are found the matter of the nebulee and the molecules of the ether itself.
It is these ponderable atoms, subject as they all are to the attraction of the
neighboring atoms and to that of the ether which surrounds them with a species
of atmosphere, that produce thermal, electrical, and optical phenomena.

Under the relatively variable influence of these phenomena, bodies must con-
tinually undergo modifications in their internal structure. In effect, what varie-
ties of forms invest quartz and feldspar in their slow and gradual passage from
avitreous to a tophaceous state! And not only stones, originally resistant, which
become friable, but flexible substances which become more and more rigid ; cal-
careous concretions which froma fibrous texture acquire a lamellar texture ; siliceous
incrustations, primitively friable, which are transformed into a fibrous tissue, &c. ;
are there not here positive proofs that, even in the most compact bodies, the mole-
cular grouping undergoes incessant transformations? In these continual trans-
formations, we cannot neglect the action of gravitation. Pictet has evinced it
by showing the shortening which a metallic rod undergoes by resting vertically
on its lower extremity. Tt is known, also, that the sheets of lead with which
the roofs of certain buildings are covered grow thinner with time in their upper
part, and become denser in their lower part. * Hence it results that the particles of a
metal tend, like those of a liquid, to place themselves on a level, by yielding
slowly, but i in a continuous manner, to the force of terrestrial eravitation.

Oil placed in a mixture of water and alcohol, having the same density with
itself, is subject only to the molecular attraction of its own matter, and of the
medium in which it displaces its bulk without mingling therewith. It maintains
itself in equilibrium and keeps the position in w vhich it is placed; being thus
withdrawn from the terrestrial gravitation, it takes the spherical form which sat-
isfies all the conditions of a force acting equally in all directions.

Among the expedients which enabled M. Plateau to obtain a certain number
of geometrical figures under the influence of the molecular attraction, I will cite
one which led to “effects tr uly curious. If, through one of the small spheres of
oil placed in a mixture of water and alcohol, we pass a small metallic rod,
to which we communicate a rotary movement, this movement is suddenly Ree
mitted to the whole mass of oil. ‘The little sphere, by virtue of the. centrifugal
force, becomes flattened in proportion as it revolvés more rapidly. Such is also
the cause to which we usually attribute the flattening of the terrestrial sphere.
When we continue to increase the velocity of rotation, “the flattening is enhanced
to such a degree that the sphere grows hollow, and of a sudden separates into
two parts: the interior part, which is a sphere, remains at the centre of the sec-
ond part, which has the form of a ring. It is impossible to witness the forma-
tion of this ring without recalling that of Saturn, which doubtless must have
formed itself after the same manner. ‘Thus the same cause which gives rise to
the limpid drops of dew which sparkle on the leaves of plants, and which com-
rs
284 CONTINUOUS VIBRATORY MOVEMENT OF A

bines into small spheres the particles of water, has given to all the great celes- 4
tial bodies their spherical form. / |

[This statement is scarcely correct in a critical consideration of the phenomena;
the spherical form of the planets is due to the attraction of every particle of the  ~
whole body on every other, while the spherical form of the globule of oil is the
result of the interaction or cohesion of the particles at the surface.—J. H.|

But, besides universal attraction, matter in masses has received, at its origin, ©
movements of translation, and by analogy the molecules of a drop of water or of a
globule of platina—which are as thinly scattered and as rare in the little space
they occupy as the stars of our solar system—may be supposed to be in per-
petual oscillatory revolutions, without losing anything of their stability, thanks
to the nature of these movements, and to the influence of the neighboring bodies.

The astonishing phenomena of acoustics completely forestall the species of
repugnance we experience in admitting that the molecules of solids can execute
very rapid movements without becoming disaggregated. On seeing the violent
movements which pulverulent bodies undergo, and the regular figures they de-
scribe when cast on plates of glass, metal, or wood, which are made to render a
sound by scraping them with a bow; on hearing sound propagated through solid
bodies more quickly than through the air, and recognizing that it suttices to
impress a vibratory movement on a small portion of a rigid body in order to com-
municate to a considerable mass a lively agitation; on verifying that a metallic
rod which is made to vibrate longitudinally undergoes contractions and elonga-
tions, condensations and dilatations, just as does a column of air which resounds
ina tube; at seeing a thick beam in contact with a vibrating body of small
dimensions undergo , elongations which may amount to the tenth of a millimetre
for a metre of leng th: im presence of this species of mechanical paradox, accord-
ing to which simple external vibrations of so feeble a nature produce such con-
siderable effects, we can no longer refuse to admit that the immobility in which
we see the molecules of solid bodies is only apparent.

The recent experiments of Professor Graham, on the diffusion of gases
through graphite, confirm the hypothesis which considers gases as masses com-
posed. of innumerable particles, of atoms spherical, solid, endowed with a perfect
elasticity, and moving in all directions, but with ania velocities according
to the special nature of each gas. If the substance of the vessel be porous like
that of the diffusiometer, the atoms of the gas, under the influence of the active
force which animates them, are projected through the pores of the graphite, real
tunnels, as they are in comparison with the minute dimensions of the elementary
atoms of the gaseous body, which thus, in the end, escapes and disperses itself
in the exterior atmosphere. But, at the same time, the air or some exterior gas
enters in like manner into the interior and replaces the gas which issued from it.
We may well conceive that this same atomic movement, accelerated by heat and
retarded by cold, may be the cause of the elastic force of all gaseous substances
and of their reaction against all compressing actions. It is known that no alter-
ation in these movements is manifested when the same gas exists at the interior
and at the exterior of the vessel, and consequently in contact with both faces of
the porous wall. Itmay be assumed in this case that the gaseous molecules enter
and issue exactly in the same proportions, and thus undergo changes of place
which we can neither any eine by variations in volume nor by any other phe-
nomenon.

If the gases which are in communication are of different natures, but possess
nearly the same density, and are animated by molecular movements of the same
velocity, there is again a simple displacement of molecules without augmentation
of volume, as experiment has shown in the case of nitrogen and the oxide of
carbon, If, on the contrary, the gases separated by the porous wall are of different
density and molecular velocity, the reciprocal penetration ceases to be equal. in
L)
a?

ALL MATTER, PONDERABLE AND’ IMPONDERABLE. 285

the two directions. The time which equal volumes of different gases occupy in

_ passing through the graphite are approximately proportional to the square roots

of their respective densities. Moreover, as the observed phenomena prove that
the duration of the passage of the gases through the lamina of graphite bears no
relation to the time necessary for ‘capillary transpiration, it must be concluded
that the penetration of the gases through the pores of the graphite is owing to
their proper molecular movements. 'The diffusion of which we speak affords us
the most simple example of molecular movements, and renders them, so to speak,
visible by the variagions of volume.

From the foregoing it would appear that the pores of graphite are of so great
tenuity that there can be neither transpiration nor passage in mass of elastic fluids,
and the graphite may thus be considered a sort of sieve which allows only the
individual molecules to pass.

The most ordinary observation constantly teaches us that animal and vegetable
matter, exposed after death to the contact of the air or buried in the earth, ~under-
goes numerous transformations. Fermentation, putrefaction, and slow combus-
tion are the three natural phenomena which co-operate for the accomplishment
of the disaggregation of organized matter, a disaggregation necessary for the
perpetuation “of life on the surface of the elobe.

‘The most recent experiments of M. Pasteur lead us to recognize that the life
which is manifested in the very lowest organized productions, is indispensable to
the accomplishment of the three phenomena which complete the metamorphoses
of organized matter. ‘The life of those inferior organisms presents this peculiar
character, that it has no need of air or of free oxygen; a peculiarity which was
unknown before the investigations of M. Pasteur. It has not been long sinco
this eminent French chemist established experimentally that the slow combustion
of which dead organic substances become the seat, when exposed to the contact
of the air, stand, in the greatest number of cases, in close connection with the
presence of living beings pertaining to the inferior classesof the organic kingdom.
From this fact it flows, as a general consequence, that life presides at the work
of death in all its phases, and that the three terms of this perpetual restoration
to the atmospheric air and to the mineral kingdom of the principles which vege-
tables and animals have extracted from them are correlatives of the develop-
ment and multiplication of organized beings.

How is it possible, after this, to refuse to admit that all nitrogenated plastic
substances may acquire, under the influence of a direct oxydation, a force charac-
terized by an internal movement, suited for being communicated to organic sub-
stances? ‘The solid crust of our globe, the waters which cover it and the atmos-
phere which surrounds it, were they deprived of all proper molecular movement,
would still be agitated constantly and in all their parts, under the sole influence,
continually variable as it is , of the solar rays which produce light, heat, and
chemical action. We are thus led to consider the activities of subtile matter and
the admirable phenomena of which it is the seat. How manifold and energetic
are the modifications produced by this subtle matter, in the state of light, on all
the bodies of nature.

Jivery one knows that phosphorus becomes red in nitrogen, in hydrogen and
in the barometric vacuum, under the sole influence of light; that, under this same
influence, the sulphate of mercury contained in a close. vessel becomes black,
sealing wax grows white, bismuth acquires a violet tint, certain white crystals
become gradually purple; that the iodides, the bromides, the chlorides, unde Tgo
rapid alteration, &e It is to this property possessed by ‘lie ht of determining, in
both solids and liquids, different molecular groupings, that we owe the wonderful
art of reproducing and fixing the image of persons and objects that are dear to
us, with all the rigor of truth, and, so to speak, with the rapidity of thought.

These phenomena, and a ereat number of others which light prodnees on
inorganic bodies, as well as on animals and vegetables, are due to vibr: itory
286 CONTINUOUS VIBRATORY MOVEMENT OF

movements of the atoms of luminous bodies and the undulations of the ether
which are the consequence thereof. The hypothesis of undulations has received,
in recent times, the support of facts and of analysis to such an extent that it may
be regarded as ae true expression of a physical law, and be recognized in science
with the same certainty as the theory of gravitation. How curious an object of
meditation is light considered as an ag at producing continual modifications on
the earth and in the air, in organic tissues and in minerals! In this point of
view, light appears as the effect of an initial force, capable of producing, in a
mediate or immediate manner, other modes of action, suchas chemical and calorific
efiects.

It is generally considered that an incandescent combustible body is an assem-
blage of molecules under going separation of their constituent elements in order to
reunite with other molecules which they encounter in the air; that all the parts
of an ignited body are subjected to violent movements, and that the atoms of
every luminous body are in an analogous state of agitation. Atoms have the
faculty of transmitting their moy ements to the neighboring particles of the ether,
which, in turn, communicate them to the surrounding particles, and thus these
movements are propagated to the greatest distances with the rapidity of lightning,
Thus the ether only becomes luminons because the incandescent bodies and stars
have arrived above the horizon and impress undulatory movements on its parti-
cles. It is for a like reason that at night our apartments and halls become as
well illuminated as by day; when left in darkness it is only from the absence
of a body capable of impressing on the ether contained in the hall a movement
sufiiciently intense to excite our visual organ.

It is proper to remark that the movement of the either impinging upon bodies
is calculated to impress on their ponderable atoms regular vibrations, but vibra-
tions more and more feeble as the distance traversed by the undulation is greater
and the diffusion it has undergone more considerable. Vibrations of the second
order by which ponderable bodies are thus animated may, in their turn, impress
on the swrounding ether undulations less and less intense; by the same
mechanism vibrations of the third and fourth order may render objects which are
opaque for us visible to other more impressible beings, and, indeed, exert influ-
ences capable of modifying the molecular structure of solid bodies.

If hesitation be felt in admitting these principles, let it be remarked only that
the vibrations of a tuning-fork continue to be perceptible long after the concus-
sions of the bow orstick have ceased to be directly communicated ; let it be con-
sidered, also, that when the instrument has lost the property of directly mani-
festing its vibrations to the ear, they do not, the less exist, and may be rendered
perceptible by placing it on a suitable sounding-board. It cannot then be unrea-
sonable to admit that bodies struck by light during the day should receive in
their atoms a corresponding vibratory movement, a movement which persists in
darkness and is communicated to the surrounding ether. If gypsum, the diamond,
and other bodies exposed to the solar rays acquire the property of becoming
visible for some time in the dark, where is the explanation of this phenomenon to
be songht if not in the persistence of the atomic vibrations after the exciting
force has ceased to act? Can any other cause be attributed to the mysterious
images of Moser? Is it not probable, from these considerations, that vibrations
insensible to the retina of the human eye may produce an energetic action on the
visual organ of certain animals? It is highly probable that the antenne of some
insects receive impressions of which we have no precise idea, while these creatures
are insensible to the impressions which affect our organs ; ‘their sensations, per-
haps, commencing at the point where ours cease.

It is impossible to conceive at any point of our globe, which changes its posi-
tion at every instant in relation to the sun, the same temperature during two con-
secutive moments; hence there results a continual change in the “molecules
of all bodies. The astronomer Cesaris, by observing at several intervals the
ALL MATTER, PONDERABLE AND IMPONDERABLE. 287
walls of the observatory of Milan with very delicate instruments, found them to
be subject to certain periodical and variable oscillations due to the action of the
sun. Fabbroni made the observation on a church of Paris, and to the same
cause is attributed the periodical movement which Vicat observed in the arches
of the bridge of Souillac.

[Professor Horsford has found that the top of the high tower which constitutes

the Bunker Hill monument, near Boston, inclines towards the west in the morning,

towards the north at midday, and towards the east in the afternoon. ‘These
movements are evidently due to the expanding influence of the sun as it warms
in succession the different sides of the structure. A similar but more marked
effect is produced on the dome of the Capitol at Washington, as indicated by the
apparent motion of the bob of a long plumb-line fastened to the under side of
the roof of the rotunda and extending to the pavement beneath. ‘This bob de-
scribes daily an elipsoidal curve, of which the longer diameter is four or five
inches in length. By molecularactions of this kind, perpetually continued, time,
“the slow but sure destroyer,” levels with the ground the loftiest monuments of
human pride.—J. H.]

But in what consists the mode of action of heat? In order to advance one
step in the solution of the question, it is necessary to recall the fact that in every
instance where there is a consumption of mechanical labor there is a production
of heat. Attrition, compression, torsion, are each an expenditure of labor, and
give rise to heat. A band of caoutchoue suddenly stretched grows warm; a
_strip fixed in a vice by one of its extremities, while the free extremity is made to
oscillate, becomes hot at the point where it is fixed, that is to say, at the very
point at which the brisk force is annihilated. And, vice versa, when heat is
consumed labor is created ; a gas, in dilating, presses a piston and becomes colder ;
the same effect ensues when vapor expands. The band of caoutchoue, which
developed heat when suddenly stretched, creates labor and grows cool when we
abandon it to its previous contraction.

When we are producing a vacuum under a bell glass, the internal air, through
its elasticity, presses the strata near the channel of evacuation; thus labor is
generated, and the thermometer will be seen, in effect, to indicate a lowering of
temperature. If we now pewnit the external air to re-enter, it will compress the
air which has remained in the bell, and will lose the movement by which it was
animated. In this experiment, then, there is an expenditure of labor; hence, the
thermometer will be found to indicate an elevation of temperature. We have
been led by careful experiments to the following principle: “ When equal
quantities of mechanical labor are produced by causes purely thermic, there is a
disappearance of equal quantities of heat, whatever be the manner of operating ;
reciprocally there is a production of equal quantities of heat whenever equal
quantities of mechanical labor are transformed into effects purely molecular.” ‘The
constancy of the relation between the labor produced and the labor consumed,
whatever be the body which serves as a vehicle for this transformation, has been
proved by the experiments of Grove, of Joule, of Laboulaye, and other savants.
We are led to conclude from this that heat is nothing else than an active molecular
force.

How can we do otherwise than admit that this singular transmutation of action,
this surprising transformation of force, depends on vibrations of the molecules of
heated bodies, capable of producing in the ether corresponding undulations, which
are capable in their turn of causing vibrations in the molecules of the bodies on
which they fall? Light and heat are modifications of the same mechanical
principle; this, the capital experiments of Melloni have proved. ‘These experi-
ments have led to the following unforseen results: “That a luminous source
(the sun, the flame of a lamp) emits at the same time different species of calorific
rays, distinguishable from one, another by the greater or less facility with which
they traverse certain diathermic substances.” We now know that these calorific
288 CONTINUOUS VIBRATORY MOVEMENT OF

rays are characterized by differences of refrangibility or of velocity analogous to
those which distinguish from one another the colors which compose white light,
and these differences have been proved as rigorously in regard to heat as to licht.

These specific qualities of calorific rays correspond to the lengths of different
vibrations which are propagated in the homogeneous ether, or in the void spaces.
of ponderable matter, and which are capable of being transmitted more or less

asily in diathermic ‘mediums, according to the nature and density of the latter.
The calorific waves are analogous to the sonorous waves which are propagated
in the air, and which cause the elastic bodies with which they come in contact to
vibrate.

‘The invisibility of calorific rays im nowise diminishes the great probability of
the hypothesis which considers light and heat as modifications of the same
mechanical principle. In fact, visibility and invisibility depend solely on the
conformation of our eye, (capable of responding only to determinate molecular
movements,) and not onthe nature of the force which produces the luminous and
calorific sensations.

The limited impressibility of our retina prevents us from perceiving the chemical
rays situated beyond the violet extremity of the spectrum and the calorific rays
placed beyond the red extremity.. The “former are constituted by vibrations too

rapid and waves too short, the second by vibrations too slow and waves too long.

But it is not certain that these two kinds of vibrations may not be visible for
other living beings. What do we know of the perceptions which conduct the
carrier-pigeon to its distant home, or of those which affect the antenne of the
insect and apprise it of danger ? What ofthe telescopic view of the vulture, which
precipitates itself towards its prey before it even appears to our eyes as a ‘visible
point on the horizon? We are compelled to admit that, on the earth, in the air,
and in the water there are beings so organized as to perceive sounds inandible to
our ears, as well as luminous rays and colors of which we have no idea. Our
perceptions and faculties are limited to a very small portion of the immense
chain of existences which stretches between the Creator and nothing.

We believe it would be difficult to find a natural phenomenon which does not
give rise to a development of electricity. Both mechanical and chemical actions,
both light and heat, produce electricity. Thus, though it occasions numerous
phenomena completely different from the other manifestations of the activity of
matter, electricity is found to be so intimately connected with those other phe-
nomena that we are led to admit that it depends also on the same mechanical
principle as heat and light. The experiments of Nairne, confirmed by those of
M. Becquerel, have tanght us that metallic wires traversed by an electrical dis-
charge, incapable of melting but sufficient to redden them, become shorter at the

same time that their diameter is increased. Such wires, when traversed by a
certain number of electric dischar, ges, take an undulatory form which indicates a
movement of the molecules of the wire perpendicularly toits length. Van Marum,
towards the close of the last century, caused the discharge of his gigantic battery
to pass through a tin wire placed Horizontally on a sheet of paper. Under this
action the wire was dissipated, leaving on the paper yellow traces, transversely
disposed as regards the direction of the discharge; each of these traces had a
peculiar texture, and all were arranged symmetrically at distances equal or
multiple as among themselves. Some years earlier, Beccaria had made analo-
gous experiments, ‘and had interpreted the results by referring them to the prin-
ciple of vibrations.

My own investigations have also been directed to this interesting subject, and
I propose, on the present occasion, to repeat before my auditors the experiments
of this kind which I have instituted, and to reproduce the results which I had
the honor of submitting to the physicists of the ninth reunion of Italian savants
at Venice.

On causing the discharge to pass through a gilt thread of silk, certain parts of
ALL MATTER, PONDERABLE AND IMPONDERABLE. 285

this thread remain covered with gold after the passage of the electricity These
parts are at equal distances, or distances which are multiples of one another,
and these distances vary with the intensity of the discharge. ‘The gold which
is seen still adhering to the silk thread must have been less agitated than that
which has undergone volatilization ; here, therefore, were the points of minimum
agitation.

By substituting for the threads of gilt sills strips of tin, maintained in place
between two classes, analogous effects are obtained. Under the influence of the
discharge the particles undergo fusion, impressing their traces on the glasses.
We then discover an innumerable quantity of small and very fine filaments, which
group themselves around the strip like the filings of iron around the poles of a
magnet.

Sometimes, from the point of the explosion shoot in all directions rectilinear
trails of a copper color and semi-transparent, forming a sort of divergent rays
constituted by metallic particles reduced to a state of extreme tenuity by the
discharge. Examined with the microscope these trails are of a structure truly
exquisite, and are disposed with admirable symmetry on each side of the central
band, along the length of which are to be observed points of maximum and of
minimum intensity. A series of figures thus obtained are annexed: different
systems of linear filaments, of circular figures, of elliptical figures, continuous and
discontinuous, affording a beantifal exemplification of the coexistence in the same
body of several kinds of movement, preserving their individual character in all
its integrity.

It is “quite surprising to see that certain of the electric rays arriving on the
edge of the glasses, between which the strips of tin are confined, rebound on the
surface of separation of the two mediums, and are reflected in making an angle of
reflection equal to the angle of incidence.

Is it possible, at sight of these figures, not to admit that the metallic vapor thus
distributed has been subjected toa vibratory agitation, to a species of undulatory
movement? Nothing can be more beautiful than these fine and granulated
enrves which cross each other in a thousand ways on the interior faces of the
glass, and along which are disposed very minute metallic particles, visible, how-
ever, to the naked eye when looked at on being transferred to the diffused light
of heaven. We are forced by this to conclude that the vibrator y movement is
transmitted by waves which increase as they are propagated, w hich are reflected
to the surface of separation of the two mediums, and which reveal to the eye the
route traversed by the reflected wave.

The discoveries of Faraday on the relation of magnetism to light, on the illumina-
tion of magnetic lines, and on diamagnetism, the sounds which, according to the
obserations of Wertheim, of De la Rive, as well as my own, accompany temporary
magnetism and interrupted currents, are phenomena of the same order, tending to
prove that the forces of matter are in a reciprocal dependence so intimate that
they are capable of producing one another by equivalent quantities.

But the intervention of determinate conditions for the production of such or
such a kind of movement is necessarily subordinate to the pre-existence, in every
species of matter, of a molecular agitation which, under the influence of the
different pironmatatioes we have passed i in review, may take any character what-
ever, pass from one species of movement to another, or be added to other move-
ments which may exist at the same time in the same body, and thus give rise to
luminous, calorific, electro-magnetic or chemical phenomena, or to all tesa move-
ments at once.

Thus we are led to admit, in the atoms of ponderable bodies, and with still
stronger reason in the particles of imponderable matter, an interior movement,
primordial property—that is to say, a general property w hich has always existed.

The intensity of this interior agitation varies with the nature and dimensiots
of the body, with the volume and density of the atoms, with their individual

19s
290 CONTINUOUS VIBRATORY MOVEMENT OF

separation within the limits of their appropriate agitation. The nature of this
movement must vary with the nature of the bodies, each of them having a par-
ticular movement which constitutes its normal state and impresses on it a special
character. We can comprehend, therefore, that when two bodies are placed in
contact, there must be a communication, a transference of their oscillatory and
rotary movements, with loss on the one side and gain on the other. Let us take
an example: suppose the initial molecular movement of copper to be more intense
than that of zinc; if the copper comes into collision with the zinc it will lose,
according to the laws of mechanics, a part of its inherent force equal to that which
the zine acquires. We conclude hence that the copper, considered as the col-
liding body, is negative, while the assailed zinc is positive. és

Would it be rational to suppose that mechanical laws are true when percep-
tible masses are in question, and yet control neither atoms nor the particles of
subtile matter? If it be true that there is nothing absolutely large nor absolutely
little in creation, dimensions can never constitute a difference in relation to the
forces which produce and the laws which govern phenomena. We consider then
the action of light on the object which it renders visible, and that of heat which
elevates its temperature, as something of an analogue to the sympathetic vibra-
tion of a chord at the moment when the sound of another chord traverses the air.
After an analogous manner, all actions at a distance and electro-magnetic induc-
tions present themselves as natural consequences of one same mechanical principle,
conformably to the general economy of the system of the universe.

One of the most important consequences of this study is that sound, light, heat,
electricity,* are not real entities, but simply modes of action and movements of
matter communicated to our brain through the medium of the nerves. ‘The human
organism may therefore be considered as an elastic system, of which the different
parts receive the shocks of elastic mediums, and vibrate in unison with a certain
number of undulations each of which produces its complete effect independently
of others. Here science stops! The mysterious influence of matter on mind we
must be content to regard as a secret which will yet be long hidden from us.

Be it remarked that in the order of animated beings there are those which
might be clustered in myriads on the point of a needle, and which live but afew
seconds ; and yet to them their life seems long and complete, and during those
few seconds they may have a perception of millions of shocks such as those which
constitute heat. There may very probably exist other beings which can never
have a perception of a complete undulation of the ether, and which scarcely dis-
tinguish a feeble portion of one; in fine, even these elementary portions will
always appear too complex to certain other beings which perceive nothing but
the individual movements and displacements of atoms. ‘These considerations
enable us to appreciate how very limited are our senses, for, as has just been
seen, the human race occupies but a few degrees of the indefinite scale of sensi-
bility. Herein, perhaps, is one of the principal motives why man is often diverted
from truth, even while seeking it; the instinctive repugnance which he feels to
meditate upon simple and common phenomena, and to extend the laws which
govern the domain that he is able to explore beyond the limits of his own sensi-
bility, has led him to imagine complicated systems and to have recourse to the
hypothesis of mysterious principles.

‘These reflections lead us to another important consequence, namely, that if the
philosophers who have considered our world as an atom in creation are right,
under a certain point of view, we ought yet to recognize, with other philosophers,
that each atom isa world. Each atom possesses a proper activity, and is the
seat of all the natural forces; these never manifest themselves outside of matter,

[* The author is not warranted by the present state of science to include electricity in the
same class with sound, light, and heat. In statical electrical repulsion, which manifests
itself at a great distance, we have a phenomenon entirely unlike any effect exhibited by sound,
light, or heat.—J. H.]
ALL MATTER, PONDERABLE AND IMPONDERABLE. 291

and matter without these forces is a pure abstraction. If there were but a single
atom in the universe, it would always remain identical with itself; but the tend-
ency of each atom to maintain its original activity is continually countervailed
by the action of other atoms and the undulations of the ether. We are hence
forced to admit that inertia and activity are two facts inseparable from matter.
We all know that in bodies which revolve upon an axis, inertia is manifested by
a tendency of the particles to withdraw from that axis, a tendency which varies
in intensity with the velocity of the rotation. We may equally admit that in
the molecular groups which constitute bodies, the force antagonistic to molecular
gravitation is nothing else than the centrifugal force due tu a rotary movement
of each of the molecules around the centre of gravity of the group, and variable
with the velocity of the molecules themselves, a velocity which is proportional
to their temperature.

Singe heat generates electricity, either directly or indirectly, and electricity
heat; since all other forces are transformed among themselves and are resolved
into different forms of movement, we must thence necessarily conclude that any
phenomena whatsoever can only proceed JSrom tke varied evolutions of the primor-
dial force which the Creator has given to matter, of which it is the active and insepa-
rable principle ; as to the nature of that force it will, perbaps, always be hidden
to the humani ntellect.
RADIATION.

By Joun TYNDALL.*

I.—VISIBLE AND INVISIBLE RADIATION.

Between the mind of man and the outer world are interposed the nerves of
the human body, which translate, or enable the mind to translate, the impres-
sions of that world into facts of consciousness and thought,

Different nerves are suited to the perception of different i impressions. We do
not see with the ear, nor hear with the eye, nor are we rendered sensible of
sound by the nerves of the tongue. Out of the general assemblage of physi-
cal actions, each nerve, or group of nerves, selects and responds to those for the
perception of which it is specially organized.

The optic nerve passes from the brain to the back of the eye-ball and there
spreads out, to form the retina, a web of nerve filaments, on which the images
of external objects are projected by ¢he optical portion of the eve. ‘his nerve
is limited to the apprehension of. the phenomena of radiation, and, notwithstand-
ing its marvellous sensibility to certain impressions of this class, it is singularly
obtuse to other impressions.

Nor does the optic nerve embrace the entire range even of radiation. Some
rays, when they reach it, are incompetent to evoke its power, while others never
reach it at all, being absorbed by the humors of the eye. To all rays which,
whether they reach the retina or not, fail to excite vision, we give the name of
invisible or obscure rays. All non-luminous bodies emit such rays. ‘There is
no body in nature absolutely cold, and every body not absolutely cold emits
rays of heat. But to render radiant heat fit to affect the optic nerve a certain
temperature is necessary. A cool poker thrust into a fire remains dark for a
time, but when its temperature has become equal to that of the surrounding
coals it glows like them. In like manner, if a current of electricity of gradually
increasing strength be sent through a wire of the refractory metal platimum, the
wire first becomes sensibly warm to the touch; for a time its heat augments,
still, however, remaining obscure; at length we can no longer touch the imetal
with impunity; and at a certain definite temperature it emits a feeble red light.
As the current augments in power the light augments in brilliancy, until fin: ally
the wire appears of a dazzling white. The light which it now emits is similar
to that of the sun.

By means of a prism Sir Isaac Newton unravelled the texture of solar light,
and by the same simple instrument we can investigate the luminous changes of
our platinum wire. In passing through the prism all its rays (and they are infi-
nite in variety) are bent or refracted from their straight course ; and as different
rays are differently refracted by the prism, we are by it enabled to separate one
class of rays from another. By such prismatic analysis Dr. Draper has shown
that when the platinum wire first begins to glow the light emitted is a pure red.
As the glow augments the red becomes more brilliant, but at the same time
orange rays are added to the emission. Augmenting the temperature still fur-
ther, yellow rays appear beside the orange; after “the yellow, green rays are
emitted ; and after the green come, in succession, blue, indigo, and violet rays.

*The Rede Lecture, delivered in the senate house, before the university of Cambridge,
Englaud, May 16, 1805. f
RADIATION. 293

To display all these colors at the same time the platinum wire must be white-
hot ; the impression of whiteness being in fact produced by the simultaneous
action of all these colors on the optic nerve.

In the experiment just described we began with a platinum wire at an ordi-
nary temperature, and gradually raised it to a white heat. At the beginning,
and before the electric current had acted at all upon the wire, it emitted invisi-
ble rays. For some time after the action of the current had commenced, and
even for a time after the wire had become intolerable to the touch, its radiation
was still invisible. The question now arises, What becomes of these invisible
rays when the visible ones make their appearance? It will be proved in the
sequel that they maintain themselves in the radiation; that a ray once emitted
continues to be emitted when the temperature is increased, and hence the emis-
sion from our platinum wire, even when it has attained its maximum brilliancy,
consists of a mixture of visible and invisible rays. If, instead of the platinum
wire, the earth itself were raised to incandescence, the obscure radiation which
it now emits would continue to be emitted. ‘To reach incandescence the planet
would have to pass through all the stages of non-luminous radiation, and the
final emission would embrace the rays of all these stages. There can hardly
be a doubt that from the sun itself rays proceed similar in kind to those which
the dark earth pours nightly into space. In fact, the various kinds of obscure
rays emitted by all the planets of our system are included in the present racia-
tion of the sun.

The great pioneer in this domain of science was Sir William Herschel.
Causing a beam of solar light to pass through a prism, he resolved it into its
colored constituents ; he formed what is teclinically called the solar spectrum.
Exposing thermometers to the successive colors he determined their heating
power, and found it to augment from the violet or most refracted end to the red
or least refracted end of the spectrum. But he did not stop here. Pushing his
thermometers into the dark space beyond. the red, he found that, though the
light had disappeared, the radiant heat falling on the instruments was more
intense than that at any visible part of the spectrum. In fact, Sir William
Herschel showed, and his results have been verified by various philosophers
since his time, that besides its luminous rays, the sun pours forth a multitude
of other rays more powerfully calorific than the luminous ones, but entirely
unsuited to the purposes of vision.

At the less refrangible end of the solar spectrum, then, the range of the sun’s
radiation is not limited by that of the eye. The same statement applies to the
more refrangible end. Litter discovered the extension of the spectrum into the
invisible region beyond the violet; and, in recent times, this ultra-violet emis-
sion has had peculiar interest conferred upon it by the admirable researches of
Professor Stokes. The complete spectrum of the sun consists, therefore, of
three distinct parts: Ist, of ultra-red rays of high heating power, but unsuited
to the purposes of vision ; 2d, of luminous rays which display the following
snecession of colors: red, orange, yellow, green, blue, indigo, violet; 3d, of
ultra-violet rays which, like the ultra-red ones s, are incompetent to excite vision,
but, unlike them, possess a very feeble heating power. In consequence, how-
ever, of their chemical energy, these ultra-violet rays are of the utmost import-
ance to the organic world,

Il.— ORIGIN AND CHARACTER OF RADIATION. THE ETHER,

When we see a platinum wire raised gradually to a white heat and emitting
in succession all the colors of the spectrum, we are simply conscious of a series
of changes in the condition of our eyes. We do not see the actions in which
these successive colors originate, but the mind irresistibly infers that the appear-
ance of the colors corresponds to certain contemporaneous changes in the wire.
294 RADIATION.

What is the nature of these changes? In virtue of what condition does the
wire radiate at all? We must now look from the wire as a whole to its con-
stituent atoms. Could we see those atoms, even before the electric current has
begun to act upon them, we should find them in a state of vibration. In this
vibration indeed consists such warmth as the wire then possesses. Locke enun-
ciated this idea with great precision, and it seems placed beyond the pale of
doubt by the excellent quantitative researches of Mr. Joule. “ Heat,” says
Locke, “is a very brisk agitation of the insensible parts of the object, which
produce in us that sensation from which we denominate the object hot ; so what
in our sensation is heat in the object is nothing but motion.” When the electric
current, still feeble, begins to pass through the wire, its first act is to intensify
the vibrations already existing, by causing the atoms to swing through wider

. . . . . <)
ranges. Technically speaking, the amplitudes of the oscillations are increased.

The current does this, however, without altering the period of the old vibra-
tions, or the time in which they were accomplished. But, besides intensifying
the old vibrations, the current generates new and more rapid ones, and when a
certain definite rapidity has been attained the wire begins to glow. The color
first exhibited is red, which corresponds to the lowest rate of vibration of which
the eye is able to take cognizance. By augmenting the strength of the electric
current, more rapid vibrations are introduced, and orange rays appear. A
quicker rate of vibration produces yellow, a still quicker green, and by further
augmenting the rapidity we pass through blue, indigo, and violet, to the extreme
ultra-violet rays. '

Such are the changes which science recognizes in the wire itself, as concur-
rent with the visual changes taking place in the eye. But what connects the
wire with this organ? By what means does it send such intelligence of its
varying condition to the optic nerve? Heat being, as defined by Locke, “a
very brisk agitation of the insensible parts of an object,” it is readily conceiv-
able that on touching a heated body the agitation may communicate itself to the
adjacent nerves, and announce itself to them as light or heat. But the optic
nerve does not touch the hot platinum, and hence the pertinence of the question,
By what agency are the vibrations of the wire transmitted to the eye?

The answer to this question involves, perhaps, the most important physical
conception that the mind of man has yet achieved ; the conception of a medium
filling space and fitted mechanically for the transmission of the vibrations of
light and heat, as air is fitted for the transmission of sound. ‘This medium is
called the luminiferous ether. TXvery shock of every atom of our platinum wire
raises in this ether a wave, which speeds through it at the rate of 186,000 miles
a second. The ether suffers no rupture of continuity at the surface of the eye,
the inter-molecular spaces of the various humors are filled with it; hence the
waves generated by the glowing platinum can cross these humors and impinge
on the optic nerve at the back of the eye, ‘Thus the sensation of light reduces
itself to the communication of motion. Up to this point we deal with pure
mechanics ; but the subsequent translation of the shock of the ethereal waves
into consciousness eludes the analysis of science. As an oar dipping into the
Cam generates systems of waves, which, speeding from the centre of disturbance,
finally stir the sedges on the river’s bank, so do the vibrating atoms generate in
the surrounding ether undulations, which finally stir the filaments of the retina.
The motion thus imparted is transmitted with measurable and not very great
velocity to the brain, where, by a process which science does not even tend to
unravel, the tremor of the nervous matter is converted into the conscious impres-
sion of light.

Darkness might then be defined as ether at rest; light as ether in motion.
But in reality the ether is never at rest, for in the absence of light-waves we
have heat-waves always speeding through it. In the spaces of the universe
both classes of undulations incessantly commingle. Here the waves issuing
RADIATION. 295

from uncounted centres cross, coincide, oppose, and pass through each other,
without confusion or ultimate extinction. The waves from the zenith do not
jostle ont of existence those from the horizon, and every star is seen across the
entanglement of wave motions produced by all other stars. It is the ceaseless
thrill which those distant orbs collectively create in the ether which constitutes
what we call the temperature of space. As the air of a room accommodates itself
to the requirements of an orchestra, transmitting each vibration of every pipe and
string, so does the inter-stellar ether accommodate itself to the requirements of
light and heat. Its waves mingle in space without disorder, each being endowed
with an individuality as indestructible as if it alone had disturbed the universal
repose.

All vagueness with regard to the use of the terms radiation and absorption
will now disappear. Radiation is the communication of vibratory motion to the
ether, and when a body is said to be chilled by radiation, as, for example, the
grass of a meadow on a starlight night, the meaning is, that the molecules of
the grass have lost a portion of their motion by imparting it to the medium in
which they vibrate. On the other hand, the waves of ether once generated,
may so strike against the molecules of a body exposed to their action as to yield
up their motion ‘to the latter ;‘and in this transfer of the motion from the ether
to the molecules consists the absorption of radiant heat. All the phenomena of
heat are in this way reducible to interchanges of motion; and it is purely as the
recipients or the donors of this motion that we ourselves become conscious of
the action of heat and cold.

T1.—THE ATOMIC THEORY IN REFERENCE TO THE ETHER.

The word “atoms” has been more than once employed in this discourse.
Chemists have tanght us that all matter is reducible to certain elementary forms,
to which they give this name. These atoms are endowed with powers of mutual
attraction, and under suitable circumstances they coalesce to form compounds.
Thus oxygen and hydrogen are elements when separate, or merely miced, but
they may be made to combine so as to form molecules, each consisting of two
atoms of hydrogen and one of oxygen. In this condition they constitute water.
So also chlorine and sodium are clements, the former a pungent gas, the latter a
soft metal; and they unite together to form chloride of sodium or common salt.
In the same way the element nitrogen combines with hydrogen, in the propor-
tion of one atom of the former to three of the latter, to form ammonia, or spirit
of hartshorn. Picturing in imagination the atoms of elementary bodies as little
spheres, the molecules of compound bodies must be pictured as groups of such
spheres. This is the atomic theory as Dalton conceived it. Now, if this theory
have any foundation in fact, and if the theory of an ether pervading space, and
constituting the vehicle of atomic motion, be founded in fact, we may anennegly
expect the vibrations of elementary bodies to be profoundly modified by the a
of combination. It is on the face of it almost certain that, both as regards val
ation and absorption, that is to say, both as regards the ¢ seine ation, of motion
to the ether and the acceptance of motion from it, the deportment of the uncom-

bined will be different from that of the combined atoms.
IV.—ABSORPTION OF RADIANT HEAT BY GASES.

We have now to submit these considerations to the only test by which they
can be tried, namely, that of experiment. An experiment is well defined as a
question put to Nature ; but to avoid the risk of asking amiss, we ought to purify
the question from all adjuncts which do not necessarily belong to it. Matter
has been shown to be composed of elementary constituents, by the compounding
of which all its varieties are produced. But besides the chemical unions which
296 RADIATION.

they form, both elementary and compound bodies can unite in another and less
intimate way. By the attraction of cohesion gases and vapors aggregate to
liquids and solids without any change of their chemical nature. We do not yet
know how the transmission of radiant heat may be affected by the entanglement
due to cohesion, and as onr object now is to examine the influence of chemical
union alone, we shall render our experiments more pure by liberating the atoms
and molecules entirely from the bonds of cohesion, and employing them in the
gaseous or vaporous form.

Let us endeavor to obtain a perfectly clear mental image of the problem now
before us. Limiting, in the first place, our inquiries to the: phenomena of absorp-
tion, we have to picture a succession of waves issuing from a radiant source and
passing through a gas; some of them striking against the gaseous molecules
and yielding up their motion to the latter ; others “gliding round the molecules,
or passing through the inter-molecular spaces without apparent hinderance. The
problem before us is to determine whether such free molecules have any power
whatever to stop the waves of heat, and if so, whether different molecules pos-
sess this power in different degrees.

The source of waves which I shall choose for these experiments is a plate of
copper, against the back of which a steady sheet of flame is permitted to play.
On emerging from the copper, the waves, in the first instance, pass through a
space devoid of air, and then enter a hollow glass cylinder three feet long and
three inches wide. The two ends of this cy linder are stopped by two plates of
rock salt, this being the only solid substance which offers a scarcely sensible
obstacle to the passage of the calorific waves. After passing through the tube,
the radiant heat falls upon the anterior face of a thermo-electric pile, where it is
instantly applied to the generation of an electric current. ‘This current con-
ducted round a magnetie needle deflects it and the magnitude of the deflection
is a measure of the heat falling upon the pile. ‘This famous instrument, and
not an ordinary thermometer, is what we shall use in these inquiries, but we
shall use it in a somewhat novel way. As long as the two opposite faces of the
thermo-electric pile are kept at the same temperature, no matter how high that
may be, there is no current generated. The current is a consequence of a differ-
ence of temperature between the two opposite faces of the pile. Hence, if after
the anterior face has received the heat from our radiating source, a second
source, which we may call the compensating source, be permitted to radiate
against the posterior face, this latter radiation will tend to neutralize the former.
When the nentralization is perfect, the magnetic needle connected with the pile
is no longer deflected, but points to the zero of the graduated circle over which
it hangs.

And now let us suppose the glass tube, through which pass the waves from
the heated plate of copper, to be exhausted by an air-pump, the two sources of
heat acting at the same time on the two opposite faces of the pile. Perfectly
equal quantities of heat being imparted to the two faces, the needle points to
zero. Let the molecules of any gas be now permitted to enter the exhausted
tube; if these molecules possess any sensible power of intercepting the calorific
waves, the equilibrium previously existing will be destroyed, the compensating
source will triumph, and a deflection of the magnetic needle will be the imme-
diate consequence. From the deflections thus produced by ditferent gases we
can readily deduce the relative amounts of wave motion which their molecules
intercept.

In this way the substances mentioned in the following table were examined,
a small portion only of each being admitted into the glass tube. ‘The quantity
admitted was just sufficient to depress a column of mercury associated with the
tube one inch: in other words, the gases were examined at a pressure of one-
thirtieth of an atmosphere. "Phe numbers in the table express the relative

“
RADIATION. 297

amounts of wave motion absorbed by the respective gases, the quantity inter-
cepted by atmospheric air being taken as unity.

Ltadiation through gases.

Name of gas. Relative absorption. | Name of gas. Relative absorption.
Alm 3%. ee oe ee On ee Dy Nitwig emidevieiiwiwe secu. ot 1,590
Omg geny, spitasc=-\- ies sed 1) yNEUO URS ORME Sik Eee ds 1,860
Nitwoceng Sut aomi4 + v0 seaashey 1 || Sulphide of hydrogen........ 2,100
Hadroge ns tari’) =o n= 8 waite Tin], Atm Omid vate Seistirg sis nw 2% 5,460
Carbonic oxide. ..... pied raians 2 hO0; | Olefians eas 2. o2GkRs 22 oe 98 ‘=. 6,03
Carbonic acid..... hs so tecece aia (BAS), Sulphuvousacldwigt 133 2.6.0. 6,480
Hydrochloric acid......-- --- 1,005

Every gas in this table is perfectly transparent to light—that is to say, all
waves within the limits of the visible spectrum pass through it without obstruc-
tion ; but for the waves of slower period, emanating from our heated plate of
copper, enormous differences of absorptive power are manifested. These differ-
ences illustrate in the most unexpected manner the influence of chemical com-
bination. ‘Thus the elementary gases, oxygen, hydrogen, and nitrogen, and the
mixture atmospheric air, prove to be practical vacua to the rays of heat; for
every ray, or, more strictly speaking, for every unit of wave motion, which any
one of them i is competent to inter cept, perfectly transparent ammonia intercepts
5,460 units, olefiant gas 6,030 units, while sulphurous acid gas absorbs 6,480
units. What becomes of the wave motion thus inter cepted? It is applied to
the heating of the absorbing gas. ‘Through air, oxygen, hydrogen, and nitro-
gen, on the contrary, the waves ef ether pass without absorption, and these gases
are not sensibly changed in teinperature by the most powerful calorificrays. The
position of nitrous oxide in the foregoing table is worthy of particular notice
In this gas we have the same atoms in a state of chemical union that exist
uncombined in the atmosphere ; but the absorption of the compound is 1,80€
times that of the air.

V.—FORMATION OF INVISIBLE FOCI.

This extraordinary deportment of the elementary gases naturally dicectad
attention to elementary bodies in another state of aggregation. Some of Mel-
loni’s results now attained a new significance ; for this celebrated experimenter
had found crystals of the element sulphur to be highly pervious to radiant heat ;
he had also proved that lampblack and black elas ‘(which owes its blackness
to the element carbon) were to a considerable extent transparent to calorific 1ays
of low refrangibility. These facts, harmonizing so strikingly with the deport
ment of the simple gases, suggested ‘farther i inquiry. Sulphur dissolved in bisul-
phide of carbon was found almost perfectly transparent. ‘The dense and deeply
colored element bromine was examined, and found cumpetent to cut off the light
of our most brilliant flames, while it transmitted tie mvisible calorific rays s with
extreme freedom. Iodine, the companion element of bromine, was next thought
of, but it was found impracticable to examine che substance in its usual solid
condition. It, however, dissolves freely in bisulphide of carbon. There is no
chemical union between the liquid and tne iodine; it is simply a case of solution,
in which the uncombined atoms of tue element can act upon the radiant heat.
‘When permitted to do so, it was found that a layer of dissolved iodine, sufficiently
opaque to cut off the light of the mid-day sun, was almost absolutely transparent
to all invisible calorific rays.

By prismatic analysis Sir William Herschel separated the luminous from the
non-luminous rays of the sun, and he also sought to render the obscure rays visi-
ble by concentration. Intercepting the luminous portion of his spectrum he
298 RADIATION.

brought, by a converging lens, the ultra-red rays to a focus, but by this conden-
sation he obtained no light. ‘The solution of iodine offers a means of filtering
the solar beam, or, failing it, the beam of the electric lamp, which renders attain-
able more powerful foci of invisible rays than could possibly be obtained in the
above experiment by Sir William Herschel ; for to form his spectrum he was
obliged to operate upon solar light which had passed through a narrow slit or
through a small aperture, the amount of the obscure heat admitted being limited
by this cireumstance. But with our opaque solution we may employ the entire
surface of the largest lens, and, having thus converged the rays, luminous and
non-luminous, we can intercept the former by the iodine, and do what we please
with the latter. Experiments of this character, not only with the iodine solution,
but also with black glass and layers of lampblack, were publicly performed at
the Royal Institution in the early part of 1862, and the effects at the foci of
invisible rays then obtained were such as had never been witnessed previotsly.

In the experiments here referred to, glass lenses were employed to concentrate
the rays. But glass, though highly transparent to the luminous, is in a high
degree opaque to the invisible heat-rays of the electric lamp, and hence a large
portion of those rays was intercepted by the glass. ‘The obvious remedy here is
to employ rock-salt lenses instead of glass ones, or to abandon the use of lenses
wholly and to concentrate the rays by a metallic mirror. Both of these improve-
ments have been introduced, and, as anticipated, the invisible foci have been
thereby rendered more intense. The mode of operating remains, however, the
same in principle as that made known in 1862. It was then found that an
instant’s exposure of the face of the thermo-electric pile to the focus of invisible
rays dashed the needles of a coarse galvanometer violently aside. It is now
found that on substituting for the face of the thermo-electric pile a combustible
body, the invisible rays are competent to set that body on fire.

VI.—VISIBLE AND INVISIBLE RAYS OF THE ELECTRIC LIGHT.

We have next to examine what proportion the non-luminous rays of the elec-
tric light bear to the luminous ones. This the opaque solution of iodine enables
us to do with an extremely close approximation to the truth. The pure bisul-
phide of carbon, which is the solvent of the iodine, is perfectly transparent to
the luminous, and almost perfectly transparent to the dark rays of the electric
lamp. Through the transparent bisulphide the total radiation of the lamp may
be considered to pass, while through the solution of iodine only the dark rays
are transmitted. Determining, then, by means of a thermo-electric pile, the
total radiation, and deducting from it the purely obscure, we obtain the amount
of the purely luminous emission. Experiments, performed in this way, prove
that if all the visible rays of the electric light were converged to a focus of daz-
zling brilliancy, its heat would only be one-ninth of that produced at the unseen
focus of the invisible rays.

Exposing his thermometers to the successive colors of the solar spectrum, Sir
William Herschel determined the heating power of each, and also that of the
region beyond the extreme red. Then drawing a straight line to represent the
length of the spectrum, he erected, at various points, perpendiculars to represent
the calorific intensity existing at those points. Uniting the ends of all his per-
pendiculars, he obtained a curve which showed at a glance the manner in which
the heat was distributed in the solar spectrum. Professor Miller, of Freiburg,
with improved instruments, afterwards made similar experiments, and constructed
a more accurate diagram of the same kind. We have now to examine the dis-
tribution of heat in the spectrum of the electric light ; and for this purpose we
shall employ a particular form of the thermo-electric pile, devised bf Melloni.
Its face is a rectangle, which, by means of movable side pieces, can be rendered
as narrow as desired. We can, for example, have the face of the pile the tenth,
the hundredth, or even the thousandth of an inch in breadth. By means of an
RADIATION. 299

endless screw, this linear thermo-electric pile may be moved through the entire
spectrum, each of its rays being selected in succession, the amount of heat fall-
ing upon the pile at every point of its march being declared by an associated
magnetic needle.

When this instrument is brought up to the violet end of the spectrum of the
electric light, the heat is found to be insensible. As the pile gradually moves
from the violet end towards the red, heat soon manifests itself, augmenting as
we approach the red. Of all the colors of the visible spectrum the red possesses
the highest heating power. On pushing the pile into the dark region beyond
the red, the heat, instead of vanishing, rises suddenly and enormously in inten-
sity, until at some distance beyond the red it attains a maximum. Moving the
pile still forward, the thermal power falls, somewhat more suddenly than it rose.
It then gradually shades away, but for a distance beyond the red greater than
the length of the whole visible spectrum, signs of heat may be detected. Draw-
ing, as Sir William Herschel did, a datum line, and erecting along it perpendic-
ulars proportional in length to the thermal intensity at the respective points, we
obtain the extraordinary curve which exhibits the distribution of heat in the
spectrum of the electric light. In the region of dark rays beyond the red, the
curve shoots up in a steep and massive peak—a kind of Matterhorn of heat,
which dwarfs by its magnitude the portion of the diagram representing the
Inminous radiation. Indeed, the idea forced upon the mind by the inspection of
this diagram is that the light rays are a mere insignificant appendage to the
dark ones, thrown in as it were by nature for the purposes of vision. (See figure,
where the space ABCD represents the non-luminous, and CDZ the luminous
radiation.)

4 —— |
DRED ORANGE YELLOW GREEN ELUE

The diagram drawn by Professor Miller to represent the distribution of heat
in the solar spectrum is not by any means so striking as that just described, and
the reason, doubtless, is that prior to reaching the earth the solar rays have to
traverse our atmosphere. The aqueous vapor there diffused acts very energeti-
cally upon the ultra red rays, and by it the summit of the peak representing the
sun’s invisible radiation is cut off. A similar lowering of the mountain of invisi-
ble heat is observed when the rays from the electric light are permitted to pass
through a film of water, which acts upon them as the atmospheric vapor acts
upon the rays of the sun,

VII.—COMBUSTION BY INVISIBLE RAYS.

The sun’s invisible rays transcend the visible ones in heating power, so that
if the alleged performances of Archimedes during the siege of Syracuse had any
300 RADIATION.

foundation in fact, the dark solar rays would have been the philosopher’s chief
agents of combustion. On a small scale we can readily produce, with the purely
invisible rays of the electric light, all that Archimedes is said to have performed
with the sun’s total radiation. Placing behind the electric light a small concave
mirror, the rays are converged, the cone of reflected rays and their point of
convergence being rendered clearly visible by the dust always floating in the
air. Interposing between the luminous focus and the source of rays our solution
of iodine, the light of the cone is entirely cut away, but the intolerable heat
experienced when the hand is placed, even for a moment, at the dark focus, shows
that the calorific rays pass unimpeded through the opaque solution.

Almost anything that ordinary fire can effect may be accomplished at the focus
of invisible rays, the air at the focus remaining at the same time perfectly cold,
on account of its transparency to the heat-rays. An air thermometer with a hol-
low rock-salt bulb would be unaffected by the heat of the focus; there would be
no expansion, and in the open air there isno convection. The ether at the focus,
and not the air, is the substance in which the heat is embodied. A block of wood
placed at the focus absorbs the heat, and dense volumes of smoke rise swiftly
upwards, showing the manner in which the air itself would rise if the invisible
rays were competent to heat it. Atthe perfectly dark focus dry paper is instantly
inflamed; chips of wood are speedily burnt up; lead, tin, and zine are fused; and
dises of charred paper are raised to vivid incandescence. It might be supposed that
the obscure rays would show no preference for black over white, but they do show
a preference, and to obtain rapid combustion, the body, if not already black, ought
to be blackened. When metals are to be burned, it is necessary to blacken or
otherwise tarnish them, so as to diminish their reflective power. Blackened zine
foil, when brought into the focus of invisible rays, is instantly caused to blaze,
and burns with its peculiar purple flame. Magnesium wire flattened, or tarnished
magnesium ribbon, also bursts into splendid combustion. Pieces of charcoal sus-
pended in a receiver full of oxygen are also set on fire, the dark rays after having
passed through the receiver still possessing sufficient power to ignite the charcoal,
and thus initiate the attack of the oxygen. If, instead of being plunged in oxy-

en, the charcoal be suspended in vacuo, it immediately glows at the place where
the focus falls.

VIII.—TRANSMUTATION OF RAYS: CALORESCENCE.*

Eminent experimenters were long occupied in demonstrating the substantial
identity of light and radiant heat, and we have now the means of offering a new
and striking proof of this identity... A concave mirror produces beyond the
object which it reflects an inverted and magnified image of the object; with-
drawing, for example, our iodine solution, an intensely luminous inverted image of
the carbon points of the electric light is formed at the focus of the mirror employed
in the foregoing experiments. When the solution is interposed and the Jight is
cut away, what becomes of this image? It disappears from sight, but an invisi-
ble thermograph remains, and it is only the peculiar constitution of our eves that
disqualifies us from seeing the picture formed by the calorific rays. Falling on
white paper, the image chars itself out; falling on black paper, two holes are
pierced in it, corresponding to the images of the two coal points; but falling on
a thin plate of carbon in vacuo, or upon a thin sheet of platinized planiinum,
either in vacuo or in air, radiant heat is converted into light, and the image stamps
itself iu vivid incandescence upon both the carbon and the metal. Results similar
to those obtained with the electric light have also been obtained with the invisi-
ble rays of the lime light and of the sun.

Before a Cambridge audience, it is hardly necessary to refer to the excellent
researches of Professor Stokes at the opposite end of the spectrum. ‘The above

* ] borrow this term from Professor Challis, Philosophical Magazine, vol. xii., p. 521.
RADIATION. 301

results constitute a kind of complement to his discoveries. Professor Stokes
named the phenomena which he has discovered and investigated, Fluorescence ;
for the new phenomena here described, [ have proposed the term Calorescence.
He, by the interposition of a proper medium, so lowered the refrangibility of the
ultra-violet rays of the spectrum as to render them visible; and here, by the
interposition of the plantinum foil, the refrangibility of the ultra-red rays is so
exalted as to render them visible. Looking through a prism at the incandescent
image of the carbon points, the light of the image is decomposed and a com-
plete spectrum obtained. The invisible rays of the electric light, remolded by
the atoms of the platinum, shine thus visibly forth—ultra-red rays being con-
verted into red, orange, yellow, green, blue, indigo, and ultra-violet ones. Could
we, moreover, raise the original source of rays to a sufliciently high temperature,
we might not only obtain from the dark rays of such a source a single incandes-
cent image, but from the dark rays of this image we might obtain a second one,
from the dark rays of the second a third, and so on—a series of complete images
and spectra being thus extracted from the invisible emission of the primitive
source. *

IX.—DEADNESS OF THE OPTIC NERVE TO THE CALORIFIC RAYS.

The layer of iodine used in the foregoing experiments, when placed before
the eye, intercepted the light of the noonday sun. No trace of light from the
electric lamp was visible, even in the darkest room, when a white screen was
placed at the focus of the mirror. It was thought, however, that if the retina
itself were bronght into the focus the sensation of light might be experienced.
The danger of this experiment was twofold. If the dark rays were absorbed in
a high degree by the humors of the eye the albumen of the humors might coagu-
late along the line of the rays. If, on the contrary, no such high absorption
took place, the rays might reach the retina with a force sufficient to destroy it.
To test the likelihood of these results experiments were made on water and on
a solution of alum, and they showed it to be very improbable that in the brief
time requisite for an experiment any serious damage could be done. ‘The eye
was, therefore, caused to approach the dark focus, no defence in the first instance
being provided; but the heat acting upon the parts surrounding the pupil could
not be borne. An aperture was therefore pierced in a plate of metal, and the
eve placed behind the aperture was caused to approach the point of convergence
of invisible rays. ‘The focus was attained, first by the pupil and afterwards by
the retina. Removing the eye, but permitting the plate of metal to remain, a
sheet of platinum foil was placed in the position occupied by the retina a moment
before. ‘Che platinum became red-hot. No sensible damage was done to the
eye by this experiment; no impression of light was produced; the optic nerve
was not even conscious of heat.

But the humors of the eye are known to be highly impervious to the invisible
calorific rays, and the question therefore arises, “did the radiation in the fore-

* On investigating the calorescence produced by rays transmitted through glasses of vari-
ous colors, it was found that in the case of certain specimens of blue glass the pla-
tinum foil glowed with a pink or purplish light. The effect was not subjective, and consid-
erations of obvious interest are suggested by it. Different kinds of black glass differ notably
as to their power of transmitting radiant heat. In thin plates some descriptions tint the sum
with a greenish hue; others make it appear a glowing red without any trace of green. ‘The
latter are by far more diathermic than the former. In fact, carbon, when perfectly dissolved,
and incorporated with a good white glass, is highly transparent to the calorific rays, and by
employing it as an absorbent, the phenomena of ‘calorescence”’ may be obtaived, though ina
less strikiug form than with the iodine. The black glass chosen for thermometers, and intended
to absorb completely the solar heat, may entirely fail in this object if the glass in which the car-
ben is incorporated be colorless. To render the bulb of thermometer a perfect absorbent, the
glass with which the carbon is incorporated ought in the first instance to be green. Soon
after the discovery of fluorescence, br. W. A. Miller pointed to the lime light as an illustra-
tion of exalted refrangibility. Direct experiments have since entirely confirmed the view
expressed at page 21U of his work on Chemistry, published in 1595,
302 RADIATION.

going experiment reach the retina at all?” The answer is that the rays wero in
part transmitted to the retina, and in part absorbed by the humors. Experi-
ments on the eye of an ox showed that the proportion of obscure rays which
reached the retina amounted to 18 per cent. of the total radiation, while the
luminous emission from the electric light amounts to no more than 10 per cent.
of the same total. Were the purely luminous rays of the electric lamp converged
by our mirror to a focus, there can be no doubt as to the fate of a retina placed
there. Its ruin would be inevitable; and yet this would be accomplished by
an amount of wave motion but little more than half of that which the retina bears
without being conscious of it at the focus of invisible rays.

This subject will repay a moment’s further attention. At a common distance
of a foot the visible radiation of the electric light is 800 times the light of a
candle. At the same distance, that portion of the radiation of the electric light
which reaches the retina but fails to excite vision is about 1,500 times the lumin-
ous radiation of the candle.* But a candle on a clear night can readily be seen
at a distance of a mile, its light at this distance being less than one 20,000,000th
of its light at the distance of a foot. Hence, to make the former equal in power
to the non-luminous radiation received from the electric light at a foot dis-
tance, its intensity would have to be multiplied by 1,500 x 20,000,000, or by
30,000,000,000. Thus the thirty thousand millionth part of the radiation from
the electric light, received unconsciously by the retina at the distance of a foot,
would, if slightly changed in character, be amply suflicient to provoke vision.
Nothing could more forcibly illustrate that special relationship supposed wv
Melloni and others to subsist between the optic nerve and the oscillating periods
of luminous bodies. Like a musical string, the optic nerve responds to the waves
with which it is in consonance, while it refuses to be excited by others of almost
infinitely greater energy, whose periods of recurrence are not in unison with its
own.

X.—PERSISTENCE OF RAYS.

At an early part of this lecture it was affirmed that when a platinum wire was
gradually raised to a state of high incandescence, new rays were constantly
added, while the intensity of the old ones was increased. ‘Thus in Dr. Draper's
experiments the rise of temperature that generated the orange, yellow, green, and
blue rays augmented the intensity of the red ones. What is true of the red is
true of every other ray of the spectrum, visible and invisible. We cannot indeed
see the augmentation of intensity in the region beyond the red, but we can
measure it and express it numerically. With this view the following experiment
was periormed : A spiral of platinum wire was surrounded by a small glass globe
to protect it from currents of air; through an orifice in the globe the rays could
pass from the spiral and fall afterwards upon a thermo-electric pile. Placing in
front of the orifice an opaque solution of iodine, the platinum was gradually
raised from a low dark heat to the fullest incandescence, with the following results:

Energy of ob- Energy of ob-

Appearance of spiral. care eaaeattoN. Appearance of spiral. sceute tathtidn?
Ditgkeee 38 Foals Wate bas eld anne Dy Br Oe re wore ie oie earl aie Bk 62
Dark: bis teeters. Fe Fos a 6 S || Chrareemer ee tte a, a Dae 89
Dark, Dut Bull Otter. oa. = - = - Ol EYoaUe OPATICS . <1 goo cee 144
Dark, but still hotter. ......... x7 Na esi ante 202
Feeble ted satiation cum, ow BO* }i Walbagte: ack. ol. cot eh clef ee 276
Pui Ter oF alee re ieee) 25" Pnitense whites os es SE Bs 440
Re cn a 2 ee em ad,

* It will be borne in mind that the heat which any ray, luminous or non-luminous, is com-
petent to generate is the true measure of the energy of the ray.
RADIATION. 303

Thus the angmentation of the electric current, which raises the wire from its
primitive dark condition to an intense white heat, exalts at the same time the
energy of the obscure radiation, until at the end it is fully 440 times what it was
at the beginning.

What has been here proved true of the totality of the ultra-red rays is true for
each of them singly. Placing our linear thermo-electric pile in any part of the
ultra-red spectrum, it may be proved that a ray once emitted continues to be
emitted with increased energy as the temperature is augmented. ‘The platinum
spiral so often referred to being raised to whiteness by an electric current, a bril-
liant spectrum was formed from its light. A linear thermo-electric pile was
placed in the region of obscure rays beyond the red, and by diminishing the
current the spiral was reduced to a low temperature. It was then caused to pass
through various degrees of darkness and incandescence, with the following results:

Energy of ob- Energy of ob-

Appearance of spiral. Appearance of spiral.

scure rays. scure rays.
Viles ee 284 bo. sostoawe s wae belelolb veils saicracechuwsiis softest Q7
Wiemliagenietsie. Geka Seers seins te trata 2 6 i\) Orange eis i0ie! it ialatattide « 0.4 60
Poatatwedsas. ue eww 2. vd. bes Ish Mellow. ove pecesielodt mide 93
Tee oak ehh 3S otis ahaa es 13).\) Bull whitesuwias ae a ates eu 122
Eee ft eS okcb ia Gr cieiatae 2ere 18

Here, as in the former case, the dark and bright radiation reached their maxi-
mum together; as the one augmented the other augmented, until at last the
energy of the obscure rays of the particular refrangibility here chosen became
122 times what it was at first. ‘’o reach a white heat the wire has to pass
through all the stages of invisible radiation, and in its most brilliant condition it
still embraces, in an intensified form, the rays of all those stages.

And thus it is with all other kinds of matter, as far as they have hitherto been
examined. Coke, whether brought to a white heat by the electric current, or by
the oxyhydrogen jet, pours out invisible rays with angmented energy as its light
is increased. The same is true of lime, bricks, and other substances. — It is true
of all metals which are capable of being heated to incandescence. It also holds
good for phosphorus burning in oxygen. Every gush of dazzling light has
associated with it a gush of invisible radiant heat, which far transcends the light
in energy. This condition of things applies to all bodies capable of being raised
to a white heat, either in the solid or the molten condition. It would doubtless
also apply to the luminous fogs formed by the condensation of incandescent
vapors. In such cases, when the curve representing the radiant energy of the
body is constructed, the obscure radiation towers upwards like a mountain, the
luminous radiation resembling a mere spur at its base.

What, then, is the real origin of the luminous radiation? Wee find it appear-
ing when the radiating body has attained a certain temperature; or, in other
words, when the vibrating atoms of the body have attained a certain width of
swing. In solid and molten bodies a certain amplitude cannot be surpassed
without the introduction of periods of vibration, which provoke the sense of vision.
If permitted to speculate, one might ask, are not these more rapid vibrations the
product of the slower? Is it not really the mutual action of the atoms, when
they swing through very wide spaces, and thus encroach upon each other, that
causes them to tremble in quicker periods? If so, it matters not by what agency
the large swinging space is obtained; we shall have light-giving vibrations
associated with it. It matters not whether the large amplitudes are produced by
the strokes of a hammer, or by the blows of the molecules of a non-luminous gas,
such as the air at some height above a gas-flame ; or by the shock of the ether
particles when transmitting radiant heat. The result in all cases will be incan-
descence. ‘bus the invisible waves of our filtered electric beam, with which
304 RADIATION.

ixicandescence has been produced, may be regarded as generating synchronous
vibrations in the platinum on which they impinge; but once these vibrations
attain a certain amplitude, the mutual jostling of the atoms would produce quicker
tremors, and the light-giving waves would follow as the necessary progeny of
the heat-giving vibrations. From the very brightness of the light of some of
the fixed stars we may infer the intensity of the dark radiation, which is the
precursor and inseparable associate of their luminous rays.

XI.—ABSORPTION OF RADIANT HEAT BY VAPORS AND ODORS.

We commenced the demonstrations brought forward in this lecture by experi-
ments on permanent gases, and we have now to turn our attention to the vapors
of volatile liquids. Here, as in the case of the gases, vast differences have been
proved to exist between various kinds of molecules, as regards their power of
intercepting the calorific waves. While some vapors allow the waves a com-
paratively free passage, in other cases the minutest bubble of vapor, introduced
into the tube already employed for gases, causes a deflection of the magnetic
needle. Assuming the absorption effected by air at a pressure of one atmosphere
to be unity, the following are the absorptions effected by a series of vapors at a
pressure of {5th of an atmosphere:

Name of vapor. Absorption. Name of vapor. Absorption.
Bisulphide of carbon .....----- 47 {| Sal plunie Sten. cc ects eee 440
Todide of methyl.....- Be a2 aaa 115 || Formicether.... - PE APD ei hoy 548
Benzo ce ate 2p eee ce 136 || Acetic ether ..... eae ar ah Se 612
PURE Y IOC soc oe mine le nie aie 2 321

Bisulphide of carbon is the most transparent vapor in this list, and acetic
ether the most opaque; ,jth of an atmosphere of the former, however, pro-
duces 47 times the effect of a whole atmosphere of air, while Z5th of an atmo-
sphere of the latter produces 612 times the effect of a whole atmosphere of air.
Reducing dry air to the pressure of the acetic ether here employed, and comparing
them then together, the quantity of wave motion intercepted by the latter would
be many thousand times that intercepted by the air.

Any one of these vapors discharged in the free atmosphere, in front of a body
emitting obscure rays, intercepts more or less of the radiation. A similar effect
is produced by perfumes diffused in the air, though their attenuations is known
to be almost infinite. Carrying, for example, a current of dry air over bibulous
paper moistened by patchouli, the scent taken up by the current absorbs 30 times
the quantity of heat intercepted by the air which carries it; and yet patchouli
acts more feebly on radiant heat than any other perfume yet examined. Here
follow the results obtained with various essential oils, the odor, in each case,
being carried by a cwrent of dry air into the tube already employed for gases
and vapors:

Name of perfume. Absorption. Name of perfume. Absorption.
Patchonlivea. eed ie. fo. Pe APSE 30 '|| (Portugal ..25. .'.). 22003 i wh 67
Sandal woodiiet Suge. bows og. oO. 32) {} Rhyme e212 - a ae ae 68
Geraniwnnye 4) Se EP ee. ok 33 ‘| ‘Resemarye se) 200d se FRA 74
Olof clovepewite Hak Ges ook 34 | Onlteflaarel - 246 Ys Osbe4 Ree si0)
Otto of rosepoMe PAH Ogew. tee: - 37 || Camomile flowers. .....--....- 87
Bergamot 2! Bead Sorus Boh gt aad) ames io SRR ck a 109
WNevolis. ob, ARG PRE Eee St 47°) Spikenard), 22. 22 its fh PH UN 355
Lavender... +: 2223508 2 aee2 GO |} Aniseed.....-. LAN ot ood 372
Lemon...

RADIATION. 305

Thus the absorption by a tube full of dry air being one, that of the odor of
patchouli diffused in it is 30, that of lavender 60, that of rosemary 74, while that
of aniseed amounts to 372. It would be idle to speculate on the quantities of
matter concerned in these actions.

XII.—AQUEOUS VAPOR IN RELATION TO TERRESTRIAL TEMPERATURES.

We are now fully prepared for a result which, without such preparation, might
appear incredible. Water is, to some extent, a volatile body, and our atmo-
sphere, resting as it does upon the surface of the ocean, receives from it a con-
tinuous supply of aqueous vapor. It would be an error to confound clouds of
fog or any visible mist with the vapor of water; this vapor is a perfectly impal-
pable gas, diffused, even on the clearest days, throughout the atmosphere. Com-
pared with the great body of the air, the aqueous vapor it contains is of almost
infinitesimal amount, 994 out of every 100 parts of the atmosphere being com-
posed of oxygen and nitrogen. In the absence of experiment we should never
think of ascribing to this scant and varying constituent any important influence
on terrestrial radiation ; and yet its influence is far more potent than that of the
great body of the air. ‘To say that on a day of average humidity in England
the atmospheric vapor exerts 100 times the action of the air itself, would certainly
be an understatement of the fact. ‘The peculiar qualities of this vapor, and the
circumstance that at ordinary temperatures it is very near its point of condensa-
tion, render the results which it yields in the apparatus already described less
than the truth; and I am not prepared to say that the absorption by this sub-
‘stance is not 200 times that of the air in which it is diffused... Comparing a
single molecule of aqueous vapor with an atom of either of the main constitn-
ents of our atmosphere, I am not prepared to say how many thousand times the
action of the former exceeds that of the latter.

These large numbers depend in part upon the extreme feebleness of the air ;
the power of aqueous vapor seems yast, because that of the air with which it is
compared is infinitesimal. Absolutely considered, however, this substance exer-
cises a very potent action, Probably a column of ordinary air 10 feet long
would intercept from 10 to 15 per cent. of the heat radiated from an obscure
source, and I think it certain that the larger of these numbers fails to express the
absorption of the terrestrial rays effected within 10 feet of the earth’s surface.
This is of the utmost consequence to the life of the world. Imagine the super-
ficial molecules of the earth trembling with the motion of heat, and imparting it
to the surrounding ether; this motion wonld be carried rapidly away and lost
forever to our planct if the waves of ether bad nothing but the air to contend
with in their outward course. But the aqueons vapor takes up the motion of the
ethereal waves and becomes thereby heated, thus wrapping the earth like a warm
garment, and protecting its surface from the deadly chill which it would other-
wise sustain. Various philosophers have specnlated on the influence of an
atmospheric envelope. De Sanssure, Fourier, M. Pouillet, and Mr. Hopkins
have, one and all, enriched scientific literature with contributions on this sabject,
but the considerations which these eminent men have applied to atmospherie air
have now to be transferred to aqueous vapor.

The observations of meteorologists furnish important, though hitherto uncpn-
scious, evidence of the inflnence of this agent. Wherever the air is dry we are
liable to daily extremes of temperature. By day, in such places, the sun’s heat
reaches the earth unimpeded and renders the maximum high; by night, on the
other hand, the earth’s heat escapes unhindered into space and renders the mini-
mum low. Hence the difference between the maximmn and minimum is greatest
where the air is driest. In the plains of India, on the heightsof the Himalaya,
in central Asia, in Australia, wherever drought reigns we have the heat of day
forcibly contrasted with the chill of night. In the Sahara itself, when the sun’s

208
306 RADIATION.

rays cease to impinge on the burning soil, the temperature runs rapidly down to
freezing, because there is no vapor ov erhead to check the calorific. drain. And
here another instance might be added to the numbers already known, in which
nature tends, as it were, ‘to check her own excess. By nocturnal refrigeration
the aqueous vapor of the air is condensed to water on the surface of the e earth,
and, as only the superficial portions radiate, the act of condensation makes water
the radiating body. Now experiment proves that to the rays emitted by water,
aqueous vapor is especially opaque. Hence the very act of condensation, Gone
sequent on terrestrial cooling, becomes a safeguard to the earth, imparting to its
radiation that particular character which renders it most liable to be prevented
from escaping into space.

It might, however, be urged that, inasmuch as we derive all our heat from the
sun, the “self-same covering ‘which protects the earth from chill must also shut out
the solar radiation. This is partially true, but only partially; the suu’s rays are
different in quality from the earth’s rays, and it does not at all follow that the
substance which absorbs the one must necessarily absorb the other. ‘Through
a layer of water, for example, one-tenth of an inch in thickness, the sun’s rays
are transmitted with comparative freedom ; but through a layer half this thick-
ness, as Melloni has proved, no single ray from the warmed earth could pass. In
like manner, the sun’s rays pass with comparative freedom through the aqueous
vapor of the air, the absorbing power of this substance being mainly exerted
upon the heat that endeavors to escape from the earth. In consequence of this
differential action upon solar and terrestrial heat, the mean temperature of our
planet is higher than is due to its distance from the sun,”

XIII.—LIQUIDS AND THEIR VAPORS IN RELATION TO RADIANT HEAT.

The deportment here assigned to atmospheric vapor has been established by
direct experiments on air taken from the streets and parks of London, from the
downs of Epsom, from the hills and sea-beach of the Isle of Wieht, and also
by experiments on air in the first instance dried and afterwards rendered arti-
ficially humid by pure distilled water. It has also been established in the fol-
lowing way: Ten volatile liquids were taken at random, and the power of these
liquids, at a common thickness, to intercept the waves of heat was carefully deter-
mined. ‘The vapors of the liquids were next taken, in quantities proportional to
the quantities of liquid, and the power of the vapors to intercept the waves of
heat was also determined. Commencing with the substance which exerted the
least absorptive power, and proceeding upward to the most energetic, the follow-
ing order of absorption was observed :

Liquids. Vapors.
Bisulphide of carbon. Bisulphide of carbon.
Chloroform. Chloroform.
Jodide of methyl. Todide of methyl.

‘ Todide of ethyl. Jodide of ethyl.
Benzol. Benzol.
Amylene. Aimylene.
Sulphuric ether. Sulphuric ether.
Acetic ether. Acetic ether.
Formic ether. Formic ether.
Alcohol. Alcohol.
Water.

We here find the order of absorption in both cases to be the same. We have
liberated the molecules from the bonds which trammel them more or less in a
liquid condition ; but this change in their state of aggregation does not change
their relative powers of absorption. Nothing could more clearly prove that the
RADIATION. 367

act of absorption depends upon the individual molecule, which equally asserts
its power in the liquid and the gaseous state. We may assuredly conclude fromm
the above table that the position of a vapor is determined by that of its liquid.
Now, at the very foot of the list of liquids stands water, signalizing itself above
all others by its enormous power of absorption; and from. this fact, even if no
direct experiment on the vapor of water had ever been made, we should be enti-
tled to rank that vapor as the most powerful absorber of radiant heat hitherto
discovered. It has been proved by experiment that a shell of air two inches in
thickness surrounding our planet, and saturated with the vapor of sulphuric ether,
would intereept 35 per cent. of the earth’s radiation; and though the quantity of
aqueous vapor necessary to saturate air is much less than the amount of sulphuric
ether vapor which it can sustain, it is still extremely probable that the estimate
already made of the action of atmospheric vapor within 10 feet of the earth’s
surface is altogether under the mark, and that we are indebted to this wonderful
substance, to an extent not accurately determined, but certainly far beyond what
has hitherto been imagined, for the temperature now existing at the surface of the

globe.

XIV.—RECIPROCITY OF RADIATION AND ABSORPTION.

Throughout the reflections which have hitherto oceupied us the image before
the mind has been that of a radiant source generating calorific waves, which, on
passing among the scattered molecules of a gas or vapor, were intercepted by
those molecules in various degrees. In all cases it was the transference of
motion from the ether to the comparatively quiescent molecules of the gas or
vapor. We have now to change the form of our conception, and to figure these
molecules not as absorbers but as radiators—not as the recipients Dut as the
originators of wave motion; that is to say, we must figure them vibrating and
eenerating in the surrounding ether undulations which xpeed through it with the
velocity of light. Our object now is to inquire whether the act of chemical com-
bination, which proves so potent as regards the phenomena of absorption, does
not also manifest its power in the phenomena of radiation. Tor the examination
of this question it is necessary, in the first place, to heat our gases and vapors to
the same temperature, and then examine their power of dischar ging the motion
thus imparted to them upon the ether in which they swing.

A heated copper ball was placed above a ring gas- burner possessing a great
number of small apertures, the burner being connected by a tube with vessels
containing the various gases to be examined. By a gentle pressure the gases
were forced through the orifices of the burner ag: ainst the copper ball, where
each of them, being heated, rose in an ascending column. A thermo-electric
pile, entirely screened off from the hot ball, was exposed to the radiation of the
warm gas, and the deflection of a magnetic needle connected with jhe pile
declared the energy of the radiation.

By this mode of experiment it was proved that the self-same molecular arrange-
ment which renders a gas a powerful absorber renders it in the same degree a
powerful radiator—that the atom or molecule which is c ompetent to intercept the
calorific waves is, in the same degree, competent to generate them. Thus, while
the atoms of elementary gases proved themselves unable to emit any sensible
amount of radiant heat, the molecules of compound gases were shown to be capa-
ble of powerfully disturbing the surrounding ether. By special modes of experi-
ment the same was proved to hold good for the vapors of volatile liquids, the

radiative power of every vapor being found proportional to its absorptive power.
These experiments were based upon the fact that atoms, sue th, for example, as
those of air, which glide through the ether withont sensible neh ince, Cannot
thus glide among the molecules of another gas. When mixed with such. mole-
cules, the heated atoms communicate their motion to the molecules by direct col-
308 RADIATION.

lision, and if these be of a complex chemical character they instantly disturb the
ether which surrounds them and thus lose their heat. Hence the motion pos-
sessed in the first instance by the atoms, and which the atoms are incompetent to
discharge directly upon the ether, may, by the intervention of more complex
molecules, be thus discharged. Suppose, then, a small quantity of any vapor to
be introduced into an exhausted tube, and air to be subsequently allowed to rush
in and fill the tube. By its impact against the sides of the tube the air is heated ;
the motion of heat is instantly imparted, by collision, to the molecules of the
vapor, and they in their turn impart it to the ether, or, in other words, reduce it
to the radiant form. By this process, which has been called dynamic radiation,
the radiative power of both vapors and gases has been determined, and the reci-
procity of their radiation and absorption proved.* In the excellent researches
of Leslie, De la Provostaye, and Desains, and Mr. Balfour Stewart, the reci-
procity of radiation and absorption in the case of solid bodies has been variously
illustrated; while the labors, theoretical and experimental, of Kirchoff have given
this subject a wonderful expansion, and enriched it by applications of the highest
kind. 'To their results are now to be added the foregoing, whereby a vast class
of bodies hitherto thought inaccessible to experiment are proved to exhibit the
duality of radiation and absorption, the influence on both of chemical combina-
tion being exhibited in the most decisive and extraordinary way.

XV.—INFLUENCE OF VIBRATING PERIOD AND MOLECULAR FORM.—PHYSICAL
ANALYSIS OF THE HUMAN BREATH.

In the foregoing experiments with gases and vapors we have employed through-
out invisible rays. Some of these bodies are so impervious that in lengths of a
few feet only they intercept every ray as effectually as a layer of pitch would do.
The substances, however, which show themselves thus opaque to radiant heat
are perfectly transparent to light. Now the rays of light differ from those of
invisible heat only in point of period, the former failing to affect the retina
because their periods of recurrence are too slow. Hence, in some way or other,
the transparency of our gases and vapors depends upon the periods of the waves
which impinge upon them. What is the nature of this dependence? The
admirable researches of Kirchoff help us to an answer. The atoms and mole-
cules of every gas have certain definite rates of oscillation, and those waves of
ether are most copiously absorbed whose periods of recurrence synchronize with
the periods of the molecules among which they pass. Thus, when we find the
invisible rays absorbed and the visible ones transmitted by a layer of gas, we
conclude that the oscillating periods of the gaseous molecules coincide with those
of the invisible, and not with those of the visible spectrum.

It requires some discipline of the imagination to form a clear picture of this
process. Such a picture is, however, possible. When the waves of ether impinge
upon mdlecules whose periods of vibration coincide with the recurrence of the
undulations, the timed strokes of the waves cause the motion, of the molecules
to accumulate, as a heavy pendulum is set in motion by well-timed puffs of
breath. ‘Thousands of millions of shocks are received every second from the
calorific waves, and it is not difficult to see that every wave, arriving just in time
to repeat the action of its predecessor, the molecules must finally be caused to
swing through wider spaces than if the arrivals were not so timed. In fact, it
is not difficult to see that an assemblage of molecules, operated upon by contend-
ing waves, might remain practically quiescent, and this is actually the case when
the waves of the visible spectrum pass through a transparent gas or vapor.
"here is here no sensible transference of motion from the ether to the molecules ;
in other words, there is no sensible absorption.

* When heated air imparts its motion to another gas or vapor, the transference of heat is
accompanied by a change of vibrating period. The dynamic radiation of vapors is rendered
possible by the transmutation of vibrations. :
RADIATION. 309

One striking example of the influence of period may be here recorded. Car-
bonic acid gas is one of the feeblest of absorbers of the radiant heat emitted by
solid sources. It is, for example, extremely transparent to the rays emitted by
the heated copper plate already referred to. There are, however, certain rays,
comparatively few in number, emitted by the copper, to which the carbonic acid
is impervious ; and could we obtain a source of heat emitting such rays only, we
should find carbonic acid more opaque than any other gas to the radiation from
that source. Such a source is actually found in the flame of carbonic oxide,
where hot carbonic acid constitutes the main radiating body. Of the rays emitted
by our heated plate of copper, olefiant gas absorbs ten times the quantity absorbed
by carbonic acid; of the rays emitted by a carbonic oxide flame, carbonic acid
absorbs twice as much as olefiant gas. This wonderful change in the power of
the former as an absorber is simply due to the fact that the periods of the hot
and cold carbonic acid are identical, and the waves from the flame freely trans-
fer their motion to the molecules which synchronize with them. ‘Thus it is that
the tenth of an atmosphere of carbonic acid, enclosed in a tube four feet long,
absorbs 60 per cent. of the radiation from a carbonic oxide flame, while one-
thirtieth of an atmosphere absorbs 48 per cent. of the heat from the same origin,

In fact the presence of the minutest quantity of carbonic acid may be detected
by its action on the rays from the carbonic oxide flame. Carrying, for example,
the dried human breath into a tube four feet long, the absorption there effected
by the carbonie acid of the breath amounts to 50 per cent. of the entire radia-
tion. Radiant heat may indeed be employed as a means of determining practi-
cally the amount of carbonic acid expired from the lungs. My assistant, Mr.
Barrett, has, at my request, made this determination. The absorption produced
by the breath, freed fromm its moisture, but retaining its carbonic acid, was first
determined. Carbonic acid, artificially prepared, was then mixed with dry air
in such proportions that the action of the mixture upon the rays of heat was the
same as that of the dried breath. The percentage of the former being known,
immediately gave that of the latter. The same breath, analyzed chemically by
Dr. Frankland, and physically by Mr. Barrett, gave the following results :

Percentage of carbonic acid in the human breath.

Chemical analysis. Physical analysis.
1 a 2 a -=ghES SAREE Soda cM ah wtiedee stbieec ak oe ote er cees 4.56
DiS eee atom ina ace ineidael ae clemiatce saps ae aoc oa Wisleehe ae (dnl~iavotot 5.22

It is thus proved that in the quantity of ethereal motion which it is competent
to take up, we have a practical measure of the carbonic acid of the breath, and
hence of the combustion going on in the human lungs.

Still this question of period, though of the utmost importance, is not compe-
tent to account for the whole of the observed facts. The ether, as far as we
know, accepts vibrations of all periods with the same readiness. To it the oscil-
lations of an atom of oxygen are just as acceptable as those of a molecule of ole-
fiant gas; that the vibrating oxygen then stands so far below the olefiant gas
in radiant power must be referred not to period, but to some other peculiarity of
the respective molecules. The atomic group which constitutes the molecule of
olefiant gas produces many thousand times the disturbance caused by the oxy-
gen because the group is able to lay a vastly more powerful hold upon the ether
than the single atoms can. The cavities and indentations of a molecule com-
posed of spherical atoms may be one cause of this augmented hold. Another,
‘and possibly very potent one, may be, that the ether itself, condensed and entan-
gled among the constituent atoms of a compound, virtually increases the magni-
tude of the group, and hence augments the disturbance. Whatever may be the
fate of these attempts to visualize the physics of the process, it will still remain
true, that to account for the phenomena of radiation and absorption we must
310 RADIATION.

take into consideration the shape, size, and complexity of the molecules by which
the ether is disturbed.

XVI.—SUMMARY AND CONCLUSION.

Let us now cast a momentary glance over the ground that we have left behind.
The general nature of light and heat was first briefly described : the compounding
of matter from elementar y atoms and the influence of the act of combination on
radiation and absorption were considered and experimentally illustrated. ‘Vhrough
the transparent elementary gases radiant heat was found to pass as through a
vacuum, while many of the “compound gases presented almost impassable obsta-
cles to the calorific waves. This deportment of the simple gases directed our
attention to other elementary bodies, the examination of which led to the dis-
covery that the element iodine, dissolved in bisulphide of carbon, possesses the
power of detaching, with extraordinary sharpness, the light of the spectrum from its
heat, intercepting all luminous rays up to the extreme red, and permitting the
calorific rays beyond the red to pass freely through it. This substance was then
employed to filter the beams of the electric light, and to form foci of invisible
rays so intense as to produce almost all the effects obtainable in an ordinary fire.
Combustible bodies were burnt and refractory ones were raised to a white heat by
the concentrated invisible rays. ‘hus, by exalting their refrangibility, the
invisible rays of the electric light were rendered visible, and all the colors of
the solar spectrum were extracted from utter darkness. The extreme richness
of the electric light in invisible rays of low refrangibility was demonstrated, one-
tenth only of its radiation consisting of luminous rays. The deadness of the
optic nerve to those invisible rays was proved, and experiments were then added
to show that the bight and the dark rays of a body raised gradually to intense
incandescence are stren ethened together; that to reach intense white heat intense
dark heat must be generated. A sun could not be formed or a meteorite ren-
dered luminous on any other conditions. ‘The light-giving rays constitute only
a small fraction of the total radiation, their uns speakable importance to us being
due to the fact that their periods are attuned to the special requirements of the
eye.

Among the vapors of volatile liquids vast differences were also found to exist
as regards their power of absorption. We followed, moreover, various molecules
from a state of liquid to a state of gas, and found, in both states of aggregation,
the power of the individual molecules equally asserted. ‘The position of a vapor
as an absorber of radiant heat was proved to be determined by that of the liquid
from which it is derived. Reversing our conceptions, and regarding the mole-
cules of gases and vapors not as the recipients, but as the originators of wave
motion—not as absorbers, but as radiators—it was proved that the powers of
absorption and radiation went hand in hand, the self-same chemical act which
rendered a body competent to intercept the waves of ether rendering it compe-
tent in the same degree to generate them. Perfumes were next subjected to
examination, and, notwithstanding their extraordinary tenuity, were found vastly
superior, in point of absorptive power, to the body of the air in which they were
diffased. We were led thus slowly up to the examination of the most widely
diffused and most important of all vapors—the aqueous vapor of our atmos-
phere—and we find in it a potent absorber of the purely calorific rays. ‘The
power of this substance to influence climate, and its general influence on the
temperature of the earth, were then briefly dwelt upon. A cobweb spread above
2 blossom is sufficient to protect it from nightly chill; and thus the aqueous vapor
of our air, attenuated as it is, checks the drain of terrestrial heat and saves the
surface of our planet from the refrigeration which would assuredly accrue were
no such substance interposed between it and the voids of space. We considered
the influence of vibrating period and molecular form on absorption and radiation,
RADIATION. 311

and finally deduced from its action upon radiant heat the exact amount of car-
bonic acid expired by the human lungs.

Thus, in brief outline, have I placed before you some of the results of recent
inquiries in the domain "of radi ation, and my aim throughout has been to raise
in your minds distinct physical images of the various processes involved in our
researches. It is thonght by some that natural science has a deadening influence
on the imagination, and a doubt might fairly be raised as to the value of any
study which would necessarily have this effect. But the experience of the last
hour must, I think, have convinced you that the study of natural science goes
hand in hand with ‘the culture of the imagination. Throughout the greater part
of this discourse we have been sustained by this faculty; we have been picturing
atoms and molecules and vibrations and waves which eye has never seen nor ear
heard, and which can only be discerned by the exercise of imagination. 'This,
in fact, is the faculty which enables us to transcend the boundaries of sense, and
connect the phenomena ef our visible world with those of an invisible one.
Withont imagination we never could have risen to the conceptions w chich have
occupied us ‘here to-d: ay; and in proportion to your power. of exercising this
faculty aright, and of associating definite mental images with the terms employed,
will be the pleasnre and the profit which you will derive from this lecture. The
outward facts of nature are insufficient to satisfy the mind. We cannot be con-
tent with knowing that the light and heat of the sun illuminate and warm the
world. We are led irresistibly to enquire what is light and what is heat; and
this question leads us at once out of the region of sense into that of imagination.

Thus pondering, and asking, and striving to supplement that which is felt and
seen, but which is incomplete, by something unfelt and unseen which is necessary
to its completeness, men of genius have in part discerned, not only the nature of
light and heat, but also, through them, the general relationship of natural phe-
noinena. ‘The power of nature is the power of motion, of which all its phenomena
are but special forms. It manifests itself in tangibie and in intangible maiter,
being incessantly transferred from the one to the other, and incessantly trans-
formed by the change. It is as real in the waves of the ether as in the waves
of the sea, the latter being, in fact, nothing more than the heaped-up motion
of the former, for it is the calorific waves emitted by the sun which heat our
air, produce our winds, and hence agitate our ocean ; sath whether they break in
foam upon the shore, or rub silently against the ocean’s s bed, or subside by the
mutual friction of their own parts, the sea-waves finally resolve themselves into
waves of ether, and thus regenerate the motion from which their temporary exist-
ence was derived. ‘This connection is typical. Nature is not an aggregate of
independent parts, but an organic whole. If you open a piano and sing into it
a certain string will respond. Change the pitch of your voice; the first string
ceases to vibrate, but another replies. Change again the piteh ; the first. two
strings are silent, while another resounds. Now, in altering the pitch you sim-
ply change the form of the motion communicated by your vocal chords to the
air, one string responding to one form and another to another. And thus is sen-
tient man sung unto by nature, while the optic, the auditory, and other nerves of
the human body are so many strings differently tuned and responsive to different
forms of the universal power.
SYNTHETIC EXPERIMENTS RELATIVE TO METEORITES—APPROXIMATIONS TO
WHICH THESE EXPERIMENTS LEAD,*

BY M. DAUBREE, MEMBER OF THE INSTITUTE, INSPECTOR GENERAL OF MINES.

[ Translated for the Smithsonian Institution. ]

The study of meteorites touches on several fundamental questions of the
physical history of the universe. Aside from the importance which these bodies
present in a purely astronomical point of view, they are furtherniore of interest
to geology from their constitution itself, and this under a two-fold aspect. On
the one hand, they are the only specimens of extra-terrestrial or cosmical bodies
with which it is possible for us to have actual contact; or which can afford
us any ideas respecting the constitution of the bodies scattered through the
celestial spaces. On the other hand, the more thorongh our study of them the
better shall we recognize the bearing which they may “have on sundry branches
of knowledge, and particularly the history of our globe, as will be seeu further
on. Thus it is that meteorites constitute an essential as well as new chapter in
geology ; and notwithstanding the little attention hitherto accorded to their study
by geologists, it cannot but be considered, on the grounds just stated, as meriting
a place in the pages of the Annales des Mines. -

In a recently published report on the progress of a part of geology, which
may be called experimental geology,t we had occasion to explain how far experi-
ment had been made instrumental in solving the questions which relate to the
origin of meteorites and the mode of their formation ; this chapter it has been
thought proper to reproduce here, with some developments, a portion of which
had found a place in previous publications. The title sufficiently indicates the
propriety of reducing the historical and descriptive part to a very succinct
exposition.

CHAPTER I.

EXTRA-TERRESTRIAL ORIGIN OF MET&ORITES.—PHENOMENA WHICH ACCOM-
PANY THEIR FALL.

It is a long time since any doubt could be entertained that among the sub-
stances which fall from the atmosphere to the surface of the elobe, there are
somé whose origin is incontestably foreign to the planet which we inhabit.
Their descent makes itself known by a considerable production of light and
sound which accompanies it, by the almost horizontal trajectory which they
describe, and by the excessive velocity of the bolides which embody the sub-
stances in question.

Several recent falls, which have been studied with care, have enabled us
to determine with more precision the circumstances which ‘attend the arrival

* Annales des Mines, &c., Paris, 1868. ‘ i i
+ Rapport sur les progres de la gévlogie expérimentale. Imprimerie imp€riale, 1°67.
EXPERIMENTS RELATIVE TO METEORITES. 513

of these masses on the earth. That these circumstances are constantly and
identically reproduced, is extremely remarkable. The fall of meteorites is
always accompanied by an incandeseence sufliciently vivid to give to night an
appearance of day, and to be perfectly perceptible even at noon-day. In con-
sequence of this vivacity of their light, the arrival of meteorites in our atmo-
sphere may be seen at very great distances ; the fall at Orgueil (‘Tarn-et-Garonne,)
of the 14th May 1864, was observed as ‘far off as Gisors (cure,) a distance of
more than 500 kilometers,* (3104 miles.)

The light in question is, moreover, of very transient duration. It is thought to
be produced at the moment when the asteroid enters our atmosphere, and there-
fore at a great height, which, in the case of Orgueil, for example, has been
computed at 65 kilometers, (40 miles.) It is owing to this incandescence that the
trajectory of meteorites, which is in general but little inclined to the horizon, is
susceptible of being observed. A trajectory of this nature was particularly verified
for the bolide of Orgueil just cited: proceeding from the west towards the east,
this bolide was followed from Santander and other points of the coast of Spain
to the place of its fall. The incandescence allows, moreover, of an appreciation
of the velocity of the bolides, a velocity which has nothing analogous on the

earth, and which can only be compared to that of the planets revolving i in their
orbits. This single circumstance would suffice to prove the cosmic origin of
meteorites. The meteorite of Orgueil appeared to traverse about 20 kilometers
(124 miles) per second ; while in other cases velocities have been observed which
could not be estimated at less than 30 kilometers, (184 miles.)

The appearance of the bolide is constantly accompanied by a trail of vapors,
which are themselves not destitute of a certain effulgence. No instance of the
fall of a meteorite has occurred without being preceded by an explosion and
sometimes by several explosions. 'The noise of the explosion has been compared
either to that of thunder or to that of cannon, according to the distance of the
observers. It makes itself heard over a vast extent of country ; sometimes at a
distance of more than 100 kilometers in circuit, as in the fall at Orgeuil. If we
reflect that it is produced in regions where the air, highly rarefied, lends itself
very imperfectly to the propagation of sound, we shall readily be convinced that
its intensity must be such as to surpass all else that is known to us. Atter the
explosion a whizzing sound is heard, owing to the rapid passage of detached
pieces in the air, which the Chinese compare to the noise made by the wings of
wild geese, or to that of a cloth which is torn. It should be added that these
phenomen na have been observed not only in widely distant regions of the glube,
but at all seasons, at all hours, and often when the sky is serene and cloudless and
the air calm. 'Tempests, water-spouts, therefore, have no agency here.

‘To obviate an objection which naturally presents itself to the mind, in relation
to the velocity of these bodies, attention must be drawn to an essential distinction.
The enormous velocity proper to the luminous body or bolide which is seen
cleaving the atmosphere contrasts with that, incomparably more feeble, which
the fragments possess at the moment of their arrival on the earth. ‘The bolide
moves like a body launched with a great initial velocity; on the contrary the
fragments which reach us in the sequel of the explosion appear, in general, to
possess only a velocity comparable to that which would correspond to their
descent, moderated, besides, by the resistance of the air. It is to be added that,
as the bolides move in all directions, their relative velocity, all else being equal,
must necessarily vary according to the course of the trajectory with regard to
the direction of the earth’s rotation and motion in its orbit.

The stones of any one fall are more or less numerous, and are always burning
hot on the surface at the moment of their arrival, without, however, having pre-
served their incandescence. At Orgueil stones ‘ell upon 690 points, comprised

wi Lilometre i is 62 indredtha « of fal mile,

314 EXPERIMENTS RELATIVE TO METEORITES.

within an oval periphery, of which the greater axis was 20 kilometers in length.
The fall at Stannern, in Moravia, yielded several hundreds of specimens, ‘and
that of Aigle about 3.000; here, as at Orgueil, the space covered by the stones
was oval, and was 12 kilometersin length. A recent fall observed at Knyahinia,
in Hungary, was scarcely less numerous than that of Aigle. Frequently stones
of a certain volume penetrate deep into the soil ; for example, one of those col-
lected at Aumale had buried itself several decimeters in a block of compact and
resisiant limestone. Hence a great number of meteorites may remain buriec
and undiscoverable.

‘The phenomena of light and sound with which the fallof meteorites is attended
being of such imposing magnitude, it is not without surprise that we observe
the absence of any voluminous mass among the stones which have fallen. The
largest specimen collected at Orgueil weighed two kilograms; none of those of
Aiglle exceeded nine. ‘The weight of 50 kilograms* is not often surpassed ; it is
only exceptionally that some stones of from 200 to 300 kilograms can be cited.
We may add that the weight of the fragments amounts sometimes to but a few
grains. In the case of iron meteorites, the weight is often more considerable ;
there have been found of these some w eighing from 700 to 800 kilograms, ite
that of Charcas recently brought to the museum; anda specimen has heen found
in Brazil having a weight estimated at 7 000 kilograms ; but even this last
represents but a volume “equal to one cnbic meter. Meteorites, therefore, might
be regarded as, in some sort, minute planetary débris; as it were, cosmic dust.

It is not impossible, however, that the fragments which reach the surface of
our globe represent but a small part of the meteoric mass; the latter may be
supposed to pass from our atmosphere and continue its course, abandoning only
some small portions whose velocity has been weakened in consequence of the
explosion. ‘lhe fall at Orgueil would furnish an argument in favor of this
hypothesis.t

What is first remarked, on examining meteoric stones, is a black crust which
covers the whole surface.t This crust is, in general, of a dull appearance ;_ but
in some aluminous and particularly fusible meteorites it is of a glittering aspect,
so as to resemble a varnish. Its thickness is less than one millimetre, ‘and it is
plainly owing to a superficial fusion which the stone has undergone for a very
short time, being the result of the incandescence produced on its entering the
atmosphere. ‘I’ he crust may be artificially reproduced by submitting fragments
of the meteorite to the flame of the blow-pipe.

Lightning produces on the rocks of the earth a varnish which is not without
analog y to that of ineteorites ; it occasions in effect on certain rocks, particularly
towards the summit of mountains, the formation of little drops or of a glaze, to
which De Saussure first called attention. It was on account of this resemblance
that the savants, to whom were submitted the stones which fell at Lucé (Sarthe,)
in 1768, expressed the opinion that they were only terrestrial stones vitrified by
lightning. The crust of meteorites presents little wrinkles, the direction of which
indicates the course followed by each of the fragments. This course is still
more plainly indicated by the arrangement of certain small prominences which
the varnish has produced by trickling to the after part of each stone. The form
of the pieces detached from the meteorites is essentially fragmentary ; they are
irregular poly hedrons, whose angles and edges have been blunted by the simul-
taneous action of heat and friction.

Irom all the facts above enumerated, it evidently results that the meteorites
are representatives of extra-terrestrial or cosmic bodies. ‘The first idea which

* A kilogram is 2.2 pounds.
t Nouvelles Archives du Museum, t. iii, 1866.
} The meteorite which fell, 9th June, 1367, at Tadjera, in Algeria, presents a very remarkable
exception through the absence of a crust. This difference corresponds to a less degree of

fue than that of meteorites of the common type. (Comptes Rendus, t. Ixvi, p. 513,
368.) -
EXPERIMENTS RELATIVE TO METEORITES. O10

*
presented itself was to seek their origin in the planet nearest tous. It was thus, as
will be remembered, that Laplace and Berzelius regarded them as bodies ejected
from lunar volcanoes. But the hypothesis most generally adopted is that
which Chladni ventured to enunciate in 1794; according to this, the stones that
descend from the skies are asteroids, which, entering within the sphere of the
earth’s attraction, are precipitated to its surface. ‘These asteroids, moreover, need
not pertain to our own planetary system; there is nothing to prove that they
do not proceed from other regions of space.

The number of the known falls of meteorites is not so considerable as might
Le inferred from the great number of bolides which have been observed and
which daily come to light. Those which have been well authenticated, and the
stones of which have been collected, do not, to our knowledge, amount to 1,000.
In this sort of verification we necessarily do not take account of a number of
falls, otherwise quite considerable, which haye left us neither trace nor memento.

But however incomplete the statistics of these falls, it is well to note how they
are distributed in point of time. From monthly statements it would appear that
the two months which are remarkable for showers of shooting stars have no pre-
eminence as regards the number of the descents of bolides. In the horary
distribution the variations are more marked; the falls seem to be more frequent
by day than by night, as is shown by the facts observed by MM. Alex.
Herschel, De Haidinger , and Quetelet.

As regards the geooraphical apportionment of meteorites, they have been sig-
nalized in all parts of the globe. Nevertheless, this apportionment. is far from
being uniform ; certain points seem distinguished for them. ‘lhe abundance of
ferruginous meteors in certain parts of America, north and south, in Mexico, the
United States, and Chili, is well known. While some countries make no men-
tion of falls of stones, or mention them very rarely, as Switzerland, other
countries of the same surface, and which appear not better prepared for the veri-
fication of phenomena of tlas kind, have been often their theatre. Such are
some of the regions of southern Fr rance, (Barbotan, Agen, Toulouse, Orgueil,
Laissac, Alais, Juvinas,) the northern part of Italy and “British India, ‘the Tater
having ‘witnessed not less than 34 since the end of the last centur y. During
each of the two years 1863 and 1864, as well as in 1866, three falls of meteor-
ites have been cited in Europe. If we assume that this part of the world has
not been particularly favored, and remember that it represents sixteen-thou-
sandths of the total surface of the globe, we should realize for that whole surface
the number of 180 meteorites. If, by reason of the facility with which the phe-
nomenon may pass unperceived, this number be raised three-fold, which is doubt-
less far from being an exaggeration, we find a total of from 600 to 700 for the
annual number of falls.

It results from these falls of meteorites that, each year, the mass of the globe
is augmented by a certain quantity, and, according to a principle of mechanics,
this augmentation would necessarily have an influence on the velocity of the
rotation of our planet. It has been songht to ascribe to this cause the secular
acceleration of the mean movement of the moon; but that acceleration is very
far from being completely explained by the phenomenon in question.* Under
this point of view, the very slight increase of mass produced by the arrival of
these extra-terrestrial bodies may, it would seem, be wholly neglected.

When we reflect on the number of meteorites which the carth receives from
year to year, we are impelled to admit that numbers must have fallen likewise,
in the vast periods of time during which the strata of the earth were formed, on
land as well as in the basin of the ocean itself. Yet, often as the stratified for-
mations have been explored, nothing analogous to the meteoric stones has ever

. . 5 . .
been noticed, ‘This remarkable fact may be, perhaps, explained, in accordance

* As M. Delaunay has recently demonstrated, (Comptes Rendus, t. xi, p. 1023.)
316 EXPERIMENTS RELATIVE TO METEORITES.

*
with the resulé of experiments on which I entered some time ago, by the facility
with which these stones disappear in consequence of their oxidation under the
action of water and the disintegration which is its consequence.

CHAPTER II.
CONSTITUTION OF METEORITES.—§ 1. TYPES TO BE DISTINGUISHED.

If we examine meteorites as regards their constitution, it will be seen that
some are formed of iron, evidently pure, while others consist of masses exclu-
sively lapideous. Between these extreme types, specimens are found of a mixed
aature, forming, as it were, a bond of union. Hence, it is convenient to adopt a
single name; applicable to all the substances which reach us from the skies, to

_the iron as well as stone, and even to the pulverulent or gaseous substances
which may have the same origin. Such a name is that of meteorite; while the
name of aerolite should be rejected as designating exclusively stony substances.

We proceed to give a rapid review of the classification recently adopted for
the collection of the museum. (Comptes Iendus de V’ Acadeénvie des Sciences, t.
Ixv, p. 60, 1867.)

METEORITES OF THE FIRST GROUP, OR HOLOSIDEROUS.

Meteoric iron forms masses destitute of stony matter, and sometimes sufficiently
pure to be susceptible of being immediately forged; it has even been employed
in the fabrication of arms and utensils. No terrestrial mineral can, in this respect,
be compared to it; native iron, it is true, has been found on the surface of the
globe, but always under exceptional circumstances, when it appeared to proceed
from reductions accidentally effected, either by combustible gases generated in
volcanoes, or by the conflagration of coal-beds. This terrestrial iron, moreover,
never presents the characters of meteoric iron.

This latter is characterized at once by its chemical composition, and by its
structure. It is always associated with different metals, among which nickel is
tke most constant. It frequently contains a sulphate of iron (troilite,) isolated
under a kidney-shaped form, sometimes cylindroidal and engaged in graphite.
We find, besides, a phosphate of iron and of nickel, containing magnesium, the
existence of which has been demonstrated by Berzelius, and to which the name
of schreibersite has been applied. ‘Terrestrial iron has never this composition.

We will cite, as an example, the iron meteorite of Caille (Alpes Maritimes),
the first analysis of which we owe to the Duke de Luynes, (Annales des Mines,
4th series, t. v, p. 161,.1844). He found it to be exclusively formed of iron and
nickel, with imponderable traces of manganese and copper. The proportion of
nickel rises, according to this analysis, to 17.37 per 100. The results at which
M. Rivot has subsequently arrived in regard to other specimens of the same mass
are sensibly different, this chemist having detected neither manganese nor copper,
but having found cobalt and chrome. Such divergencies teach us how much the
composition of these masses may vary, even in pieces with an identical aspect.*

* Annales des Mines, 5th series, t. vi, p. 554, 1854. The following are the numbers he
obtained : :

Tron iecelse Akt Yo Ries ee aa ies Me SES SE Re Sh SS RO Sa 9257
hie) Seems A on ek kU kre aeE Ory ee Ne 5.6
Chrome, cobalt, traces of eilicim Ae ce oye ok whee Sa eee 9

otal? 2 2. URI, AW nearest a ere hee eete 2 we o deeieh Henin Sten neha oe 98.2

The author thinks that the silicium is contained in the mass in the state of a siliciuret.
EXPERIMENTS RELATIVE TO METEORITES. SZ

The structure of ferrnginous meteorites is among the most remarkable. In
order to observe it, after having polished a surface of the bolide, we submit it to
the action of an acid ; we thus’ bring to view the figures called Widmanstitten,
from the name of the savaut who first mentioned them. In this w ay we ascer-
tain that the body in question is at once crystalline and heterogeneous. An
unassailable matter, in effect, soon appears in “relief and transforms the suraice,
originally plane, into an actual stereotype plate, suitable for producing impres-
sions. The substance which thus appears in relief is simply the multiple phos-
phuret of Berzelius. This phosphuret presents itself ordinarily in thin lamina,
the intervals of which remind us, by their fineness and their parallelism, of a
series of strokes of the burin. ‘The different lamine, which thus traverse the
meteoric iron, are generally directed parallel to the faces of the regular octahe-
dron. This fact, easily to be verified in the iron meteorite discovered at Caille,
is the more interesting as the terrestrial iron, which is produced in eryst: line
masses, presents a cubic arrangement. If we follow the direction (or ientation )
of the octahedrons, it will be recognized that, in many masses of iron, they pre-
sent a parallelism, whence it results that they constitute in their ensemble a
single erystal. The dimension, thus considerable, of these crystals contrasts with
the structure observed in artificial i iron, even W hen its crystalline state is as com-
plete as possible ; for even then the lamine of cleavage occur in all directions,
as is seen in a multiplicity of minerals and terrestrial rocks, such as lamellar lime-
stone. Other procedures also have been employed for studying the structure of
meteorites. (Comptes Iendus de V Académie des Sciences, t. lxiv, p. 655, 1507;
t. Ixv, p. 148, 1867.)

The falls of iron meteorites are incomparably more rare, at least at the present
epoch, than the falls of those of stone. There have becn observed in Europe
but two which were quite certain in more than a ceutary: one in 1751, at Branau,
in Bohemia; the other at Agram, in Croatia, in i84/. Nevertheless, there have
been collected in different regions ‘of the globe, particularly in Europe, in Siberia.
the United States, Mexico, Brazil, and in Africa, metailic masses, to which their
composition justifies us in assigning an extra-terrestrial origin with as much cer-
tainty as if they had been seen to fall. ‘Three of tnese complete masses, which
are in the gallery of the museum, afford an idea of the interesting peculiarities
presented by the aspect and stiuciure of meteoric iron. They display the frag-
mentary forms affected by these masses+—forms which equally characterize, as will
be seen further on, the stony masses, properly so called.

II.—METEORJTES OF THE SECOND GROUP, OR SYSSIDEROUS.

Certain iron meteorites, ia place of being massive, include stony portions dis-
seminated in « meldlic puste wnicu possesses continuicy and forms*a sort of
metallic spore. “Chey thus constituce a first term of the transition of meteorites
of iron to those of stone.

Iu the vese known representative of the meteorites of this second group, the
sony tuatver, Wnose grains are imbec ided in the iron, consists of a silicate with
a base of magnesium rand of protoxide of iron, cous stituting precisely the terres-
tral snecies known by the name of peridot. This arrangement recalls in a strik-
ing manner certain products of iron accidentally formed in the workshops, in
which the silicated scoria performs the part fulfilled by the peridot in the mete-
orites with which we are occupied. ‘Lhe meteorites of this second group are
pauticularly represented by a celebrated mass of iron, discovered by Pallas, at
{srasnoj wsk, i in Siberia, and by another altogether similar, which was found in
the desert of Atacama, in Chili.

The stony matter of these meteorites, to which we give the name of syssider-
ous,* does not always consist exclusively of peridot. It sometimes comprises,

* From the Greek cuv, (with,) to express the continuity of the iron, and ofdypog, (iron.)
318 EXPERIMENTS RELATIVE TO METEORITES.

also, a silicate of a pyroxenic nature. This is the case in the meteorite of Toula,
government of Perm, in Russia, the lithoid part of which affects a very remark-
able breccia-form arrangement, as well as in that of Rittersgriin, in Saxony. In
the two types of syssiderous meteorite which have just been cited, the stone is in
grains disseminated and discontinuous. But it may happen that the stone therein
is continuous as well and at the same time as the iron; that is to say, that the
mass results from the mutual entanglement of the two continuous systems, the
one metallic, the other stony. Such, among others, is the meteorite of Ritters-
grun.

II.—METEORITES OF THE THIRD GROUP, OR SPORADOSIDERUUS.

The greater part of the meteorites are characterized by a stony paste, in which
the iron, instead of being continuous, as is the two former groups, is dissemi-
nated in granules. The relation between the iron and the stone is then precisely
the inverse of that which characterizes the type of Pallas and of Atacama.
Each of these grains presents, moreover, the characters of composition and struc-
ture of the iron meteorites. Like them, they include nickel, and the phosphuret
and sulphuret of iron, The grains of iron, otherwise very variable in propor-
tion, have also very different dimensions, from that of a hazel-nut, or larger,
down to grains scarcely visible, or even microscopic. ‘Their form is yery iregu-
lar and frequently tubercular.

In this series, the extreme terms of which are so remote, but which are con-
nected by a multitude of intermediate bodies, we may distinguish three sub-
groups.

FIRST SUB-GROUP, OR POLYSIDEROUS METEORITES.

Tn the first place, this sub-group, being the richest in iron, is represented by
masses which their mixed composition might lead us to consider either as stone
or as iron. We designate them by the name of polysiderous, (zoAvs, mach); the
metal and the silicates may exist therein in apparently equal volumes. Among
the meteorites pertaining to this sub-group we may particularize that which was
found in Sierra de Chaco, Chili. ‘The grains of iron in this meteorite, which are
very voluminous and of a tubercular form, yield with acids the remarkable fig-
ures which we have described. In this experiment it will be observed that each
grain is enveloped with a metallic pellicle more or less thin, the structure of which
is much more confused than that of the mass. It would seem that at the per-
iphery the crystallization had been embarrassed or troubled. ‘The stony gangue,
in which the metallic grains are imbedded, is essentially formed of silicates. If
studied more closely, it will be found to result, in general, from the mixture, in
variable proportions, of a basic silicate of magnesium, peridot, with a more acid
silicate, known by the name of pyroxene.

SECOND SUB-GROUP, OR OLIGOSIDEROUS METEORITES, (COMMON TYPE.)

The meteorites incomparably most frequent enter into the sub-group at which
we now arrive. In ten falls, nine at least pertain to it; hence it may be desig-
nated as the common type. We give to the meteorites which it comprises the
name of oligosiderous, (v2tyos, little.)

‘These meteorites are easily distinguished by their stony aspect from those of
the preceding sub-group, and of course more readily still from those of the two
first groups. The fracture, ordinarily of an ashy gray and rough to the touch,
recalls strikingly that of certain finely-grained trachytes. The mass is entirely
crystalline, as the microscopic examination of a lamina sufticiently thin immedi-
ately evinces. 'The paste appears, at first view, almost homogeneous; but a
more attentive examination enables us to recognize that it results from a mixtare
EXPERIMENTS RELATIVE TO METEORITES. 319

of different substances which pertain, in general, to five species readily distinguish-
able: three metallic, two stony and silicated.

First, we find nickeliferous native iron in malleable grains, often very small,
the composition and structure of which are identical with those of the iron meteor-
ites already deseribed; the proportion of these grains is widely variable, being
ordinarily comprised between 8 and 22 per 100 of the total weight. Next, sul-
phuret of iron (troilite,) of which the degree of sulphuration seems inferior to
that of magnetic pyrites or pyrrhotine. It approximates to the proto-sulphuret ;
often occurs in isolated grains, which their color, a bronze yellow, renders easily
discernible ; often, also, it exists in the globules of iron, where it is imperceptible
to the sight. It forms, in general, from 4 to 13 per 100 of the mass, and reaches
even 20 per 100 in the meteorite which fell 24th December, 1858, at Murcia, in
Spain. Chromate iron, which forms the third metallic element, appears in the
meteorites under consideration in small black grains, analogous to those observed
in the serpentines. This mineral represents only from 0.2 to 2 per 100 of the
total mass. It was Laugier who, in 1806, pointed out the frequent ocenrrence
of chromate iron in meteorites, (Annales du Museum, t. vi,) a fact whose import-
ance approaches that of the discovery of nickel, made by Howard four years
earlier. Numerous analyses have subsequently confirmed the habitual presence
of the chrome. But the prevailing constituent of meteorites of the common type
is a mixture of silicates, which are separated in effect by the action of acids.
One of these silicates, assailable even by weak acids, has most frequently the
composition of peridot; the other, unassailable, is richer in silicic acid. Apart
from the slight proportion of alumina, lime, and alkali which it includes, and
which seems due to a mixture of other silicates, it often approximates to pyr-
oxene.*

The meteorites of the common type very often present a globular texture—a
substance, of a gray color a little deeper than the mass of the stone, formed of
globules of different sizes. These globules are principally constituted by the
bisilicate which we just now mentioned, and on which the acids exert no action.
It thence results that if we dissolve the meteorites in question in an acid, there
may remain at the bottom of the phial small grains not unlike gun-shot. M.
Gustave Rose, struck with this remarkable structure, has proposed to give to the
meteorites of the common type, in the majority of which this structure is clearly
manifested, the name of chondrites, derived from the Greek word yovdpus, signi-
fying a ball or granular concretion.

Another remarkable character, frequently afforded by meteorites of this sub-
group, is to present surfaces of friction analogous to those mirror-like slides
(miroirs de glissement) which are observed in some parts of the veins of mines.
Their grains of metallic iron have been drawn out along those surfaces of fric-
tion, so as to suggest the influence of an energetic effort. These rubbed surfaces
are abruptly interrupted by the external glaze, which shows that they have been
produced previously, not only to the fall of the stones, but also to their division
into fragments.

In the meteorites with which we are occupied, the external black frit or crust
is always of a dull color. Most specimens of the stones of the common type
present, after remaining some time in damp air, numerous spots of rust, owing to
the easy alteration of several of the substances contained in them, and especially
of the sulphuret of iron. This circumstance, perbaps, enables us to comprehend
why it is that these meteorites are not met with on the surface of the earth, like

rejeau (Haute-Garonne). (Comptes Rendus, t. xlix, p. 31.) ‘Nickeliferous iron, 11,60; mag-
netic pyrites, 3.74; chrome iron, 1.83; peridot, 44.83; hornblende albite, 35.00; total, 100.
M. Dutrénoy had before made the analysis of the stone which fell 12th June, 1841, at Chateau-
Renard (Loiret,) which pertains to the same type. (Comptes Rendus, t. xii, p. 1230.)
320 EXPERIMENTS RELATIVE TO METEORITES.

those of iron; the disappearance of a part of their elements may have brought on
w total disintegration.

THIRD SUB-GROUP, OR CRYPTOSIDEROUS METEORITES.

In the meteorites of which we form the third sub-group, the iron is scanty, and
\ts grains are so fine as to have passed unperceived until M. Gustave Rose demon-
strated their presence. 'The name of eryptosiderous (zpuztos, hidden,) expresses
this character. This sub-group constitutes, in fact, a transition from meteorites
containing metallic iron to meteorites destitute of it ; ; it has thus been considered
until the present time as pertaining to the 'atter.

But it is chiefly by the composition of the stony part that these meteorites
differ from the preceding, that is to say, from the common or oligosiderous type.
The principal section to be distinguished in the cryptosiderous series is that of
the alwminous meteorites. It is character: ed, in a mineralogical point of view,
by a mixture of two distinct minerals, which often occur, however, in a state of
confused or vstallization, namely, augite pyroxene and anorthite feldspar. In
addition, magnetic pyrites or pyrrhotine is also found, often forming hexagonal
crystals perfectly distinct, as was long since observed by M. Gustave Rose.*
The aluminous meteorites referred to this section have recently received from
that eminent mineralogist the name of ‘ewtrites, from evxpetos, distinct. The
alumina and lime occur here in larger proportion than in meteorites of the com-
mon type, while on the contrary the magnesium is in less quantity.t It will be
seen that this composition presents a certain analogy with some well-known
lavas, such as those of Etna, formed of pyroxene associated with labradorite
feldspar ; while it approximates still more closely to the ¢ composition of other
lavas with anorthite, which have been met with at the Thjorsa, in Iceland.

In the aluminous meteorites, the external coating is lustrous ‘instead of being
dull, as in meteorites of the common type; it is at ‘the same time remarkable for
the distinctness of the strie and indurated globules which it presents. This two-
fold circumstance appears to correspond to 2 greater fusibility of the substance,
due to the simultaneous presence of the alumina and lime. Besides the meteor-
ite of Juvinas, may be cited, as pertaining to this type, those which fell 22d
May, 1808, at Stannern, in Moravia, and 13th June, 1819, at Jonzac (Charente-
inferieure). The presence in one of these meteorites, examined in 1825 by M.
G. Rose, of minerals having the same crystalline forms with those of terrestrial
mineral species, which have moreover the same composition, constitutes an im-
portant fact in the study of these cosmic bodies; for it serves to show the unity
of the laws which govern the inorganic world throughout the immensity of space.

A second section comprises meteorites principally formed of magnesian sili-
cates. Itis represented by the meteorite which fell 3d October, 1815, at Chas-

signy (Hante- -Marne). The magnesian silicate is peridot, which we have men-
tioned as existing in preceding groups, and which presents itself here, constitut-

* See, respecting the crystallized minerals which occur in meteoric stones, ‘* Annales de
Chimie et de Physique,” 1826.

+ As an example, we will cite the meteorite which fell 13th June, 1821, at Juvinas,
(Ardéche, ) the analysis of which, made heretofore by Vauguelin and by Laugier, has been
lately repeated by M. Rammelsberg. According to the latter, the composition is as follows:

BymOXGm Cari ele serie te ay a Nel an sh 62.65
Meldsparianonihite mers eee eeu sc eS | es UOT meta UM ce ie a ee 34.56
Apatite 22). seie ou ae vas Ba ah a sand lcs Jip ly Oe ME Us 6 0.60
RB ai ea a i RL URDU GA a at ye SRL et SACS 0.25
Chromite irons ee COED NF LEE a MP ing ae: 2F he oles Ra ae eee 1.35
Maenetic oxidnlatedmomess me cece coe Sle ee Ro FS | a Ae | A an ea leg
Magnetic PHT cel aa ae ake sik al he Ma SA UN age Ak Siena upunaiiere a n OE

EXPERIMENTS RELATIVE TO METEORITES. oe

ing nearly the whole of the mass. It is identical with that which occurs on
the earth, and contains disseminated grains of chrome iron.* On the stone of
Chassigny, as on other meteorites, there is a crust resulting from a superficial
fusion.

IV. METEORITES OF THE FOURTH GROUP’OR ASIDEROUS.

The meteorites in which no iron disseminated in a metallic state can be recog-
nized are rare, and the more attentively meteorites are studied with a view to
the presence of metallic iron, the more is the number of the specimens of this
last group reduced ; it is ne arly restricted at present tu che carbonaceous meteor-
ites. ‘hese present in their composition peculiarities of such a kind that it
would have been impossible to believe in their origin, had not their fall been
witnessed. A recent occasion has allowed these interesting bodies to be studied
with minute attention. It is the presence of carbon which characterizes them,
not free or in the state of graphite, as in certain ferruginous meteorites, but in
admitted combination with hydrogen and oxygen; it is also the presence of
combined water; finally, it is the presence of soluble, and even deliquescent
saline constituents. ‘lo complete these distinctive characters, it must be added
that a double carbonate of magnesium and iron, of the species breunerite, has
been met with in the meteorite of Orgueil.

In certain respects carbonaceous aSHBOEIESS ally themselves with those of
which we have already spoken. Like the latter, they contain magnesian sili-
cates, including sometimes oxides of nickel cobalt, and chrome. There is found
also oxide of magnetic iron, magnetic pyrites, innumerable microscopic crys-
tals, having scarcely a diameter of 1.30 of a millimetre jf and finally chrome iron.

The presence of carbon, in a state of hydro- oxygenated combination, and
analogous to the results of vegetable decomposition, has led to an investigation

o
whether the carbonaceous micedonites might not contain remains which had

belonged to living beings. But the most delicate researches have disclosed
nothing of*this kind. However this may be, the presence of substances easily
volatilized, or alterable under the action of heat, would prove that at the moment
when the carbonaceous meteorites penetrated into the atmosphere they were cold.
‘The ineandescence which they have undergone has produced, by the fusion of
their superficial portion, a thin crust, but “the weak conductibility of the con-
stituent matter has preserved the internal parts from sensible alteration.

The carbonaceous meteorites, of which we possess specimens, are referable to
four descents, all quite recent. The first took place at Alais, (Gard,) in 1803;
the second at the Cape of Good Hope, in 1838; the third at Kaba, in Hungary,
in 1857; and the fourth at Orgueil (T'arn-et-Garonne,) in 1864. We owe to
Berzelius, Faraday, and M. Weehler, the discovery of the principal facts relating
to the constitution of the meteorites of this sub-group. More recently M. Cloéz

* The following is the result of the analysis which M. Damour has made of this interesting
meteorite :

eee eee ne ee ciara os oo o.nta cn a Sepacainem ainsi tiane mate «abe cree kaalsimle 35.30
Mapnesinin=? . seo ore ies: RIC eich: AGERE Bc EE RS en ee nda S EERE Pa SE 31.76
Prot ere tare eee net Se ST Se Daas ee See aos oo ces cae cccase 26.70
Protoxide of manganese.......-.- ae at wae See oe eek cote pote aces 0.45
MTEL CLIN aN ed a gw brani on crop te ee RES RCIA Me ah oles <SIASTAL IEE 0.75
Baer] T yr ev ea ea oS jana RR NS ee ee er Or oe 0.66
@lrome iron and pyiexene sgaase..~ sad eciacuinceesicewec 2 ORS Oe Ser bana 3.7
WOU Swi at a cate Se oie ois ciweineiaiioithey aaicmawraisia woe weld alwisistesfebicinae 99.29

Lhis composition is that of the variety of peridot, rich in protoxide of iron, and known under
the name of hyalosiderite. (Comptes Rendus, t. lviii, 1864.)
t Especially in the meteorites of Orgueil. Comptes Rendus, t. lviii, May 30, 1864.

21s
322 EXPERIMENTS RELATIVE TO METEORITES.

has studied the carbonaceous meteorite of Orgueil, and chiefly the state of cotm-
bination of the carbon, (Comptes Rendus, t. Ivii, 1864). M. Pisani, on his part,
hag examined this last meteorite, principally with reference to the stony matter.

APPENDIX TO THE PRECEDING GROUPS.—PULVERULENT METEORITES.

The skies furnish not only coherent masses, stony or metallic, but also pul-
verulent matter. ‘The existence of this meteoric dust has not attracted, so much
as it should have done, the attention of savants. This circumstance may be
referred to the extreme difficulty of distinguishing the dust which is truly cosmi-
eal, from that whose origin is terrestrial, and which is, beyond comparison, most
abundant.

T’o the examples cited above, of the descent of terrestrial matter, we may add,
as well-known, the pretended showers of sulphur resulting from the fall of pol-
lenic dust, and certain silicious rains, which Ehrenberg has recognized as being
formed by the carapace or shells of infusoria. But, apart from these terrestrial
substances, we should distinguish those which are really cosmical. For example,
in some meteoric falls, the stones have been accompanied by dust. Thus, 14th
March, 1813, at the same time that there fell at Cutro, in the Calabrias, a quan-
tity of stones, an abundance of red powder was collected.* Again, 5th Novem-
ber, 1814, it was remarked that the 19 stones picked up at Doab, in India, were
enveloped, as it were, in a pulverulent matter.

In certain cases, the fall of dust has been observed without the accompani-
ment of stones, but always announced by those remarkable phenomena of heht
and sound which we have already described. 'The catalogue which Chladni
published in 1842 makes known a number of examples, and among them the
following. In 1819, at Montreal, (Canada,) a black rain was observed, accom-
panied by an extraordinary obscuration of the sky, by detonations comparable
to those of discharges of artillery, and by the most brilliant gleams of light.
At first the burning of some forest in the vicinity, in coincidence with a violent
storm, was supposed, but the collective phenomena, and an examination of the
matter which fell, analogous perhaps to the meteorite of Orgueil, proved that the
disturbance was due to the arrival in the atmosphere of substances foreign to
our globe. At Leeban, in Saxony, there fell, 13th January, 1835, a powder
formed of oxide of magnetic iron. This followed the explosion of a bolide,
which moved, it is said, with extraordinary velocity, while the detached frag-
ments appeared to blaze in traversing the atmosphere.

It is perhaps to meteoric dust that we should ascribe the trails which follow
the meteorites at the moment of their explosion ; perhaps, also, it is to the com-
bustion of this dust that the incandescence of bolides is in part due. ‘Phe car-
bonaceous meteorite of Orgueil, so interesting in many points of view, has been
highly instructive as regards the existence of meteoric dust. It is so friable that
some pieces are reduced to powder by simple pressure between the fingers; it
is matter of surprise that they should have reached the surface of the earth
entire. This fact may perhaps be explained by remarking the two following
circumstances: First, each fragment was enveloped, at the moment of its fail,
in a vitrified crust, more solid than the rest of the mass. Besides, the different
parts of the meteorite are cemented by alkaline salts; water, by dissolving this
cement, occasions the complete disintegration of the meteorite, which is reduced

2

“se dust of the utmost tenuity.t Had the sky, on the 14th May, 1864, instead

* Bibliothéque Britannique, 3813 and $814, Admiral Kriisenstern was witness of a fact
which should be cited on this occasion. He observed, in his voyage around the world. a
bolide which left behind it a luminous trail, remarkable for its persistence; it continued to
shine for an entire hour, without sensibly changing its place.

t The powder in qnestion traverses even the closest filters,
EXPERIMENTS RELATIVE TO METEORITES. 320

of being perfectly clear, been rainy, or simply covered with clouds, through which
those stones would have had to pass, such is their constitution that only a viscous
mud would have remained to be gathered, similar to that which, on some occa-
sions, has been observed to fall.*

The study of the meteorite of Orgueil shows , finally, that meteorite dust may
be combustible, and contribute to incandescence by its oxidation. In view of
these different facts, it cannot be questioned that great attention should be paid
to the fall of atmospheric dust. It might be w ell, after the explosion of bolides,
to seek in the air for this pulverulent matter, by all the means which science now
places at our disposal, and to examine it, especially, with a view to detecting the
presence of nickel.

Gaseous meteorites, (mentioned by way of suggestion). Does the celestial
space ever furnish gaseous matter? This we know not; but without speaking
of shooting stars, it is not impossible that certain meteorites, or the bodies from
which they are detached, are provided with an atmosphere. Whether this be so
or not, for the sake of completeness, and in order to call attention to the point,
we include gaseous meteorites in our list.

§ 2. CLASSIFICATION OF METEORITES.

After indicating the different types to which meteorites may be referred, it is
proper to express their relations by means of a classification. That which we
here present, though otherwise very simple, has required the invention of a cer-
tain number of names, which, as indicated in the following table, will be found
convenient. It comprises only groups and sub-groups; but each of the latter
embraces several different types which need not be specified in so compendious a
review:

Solid and Coherent Meteorites.

GROUP, SUB-GROUP. EXAMPLES. DENSITIES,
Not eontein-)}
ing stony fT FIOLOSIDEROUS.<cnsiswivnaiswe ane niniicaanemsesicnt cca Charcas.... 7.0 to 8.0
matter
ie oe ace ( Theiron pre-
containing ; ee TE SYSSIDEROUS!< <n cuee nhac ceecesc- ss Rittersgrtin. 7.1 to 7.8
iron in a uous mass J
metallic Containing
men's at the same .
time iron “Quinton t Sig ot! 6.5 to 7.0
and Bony iE Ar aes Chaco.
matter considerable. ..
Theiron pre- Bille
: ; Oligosiderous.—
sents itself | III. SPORADO-SID- hate ve
ee EROGR a pemny of iron ! Aumale.... 3.1 to 3.8
ated graingh ji 8 (et) fpr ia) | Ware ace ee
Cryptosiderous— “
The iron im- Chassigny.. 3.5
perceptible to( Juvinas.... 3.0 to 3.8
Bights..tos2 222
ASIDERITES.
Meteorites
pot con-
taining>..... Ceewaly a TV JASIDEROUS~.cowsen sos a ee Sae aeipememes OFCUOl a5 ott lls OG tO ais
iron in a _
metallic
state......

§ 3. COMPOSITION OF METEORITES COMPARED WITH TERRESTRIAL ROCKS.—
SIMPLE BODIES.

From some hundreds of analyses, which have been conducted by the most

* Thus, in Lusace, Sth March, 1796, there was seen to fall, ‘after the explosion of a bolide,
a mass which was viscous, bluish, and probably carbonaceous,
324 EXPERIMENTS RELATIVE TO METEORITES.

eminent chemists, it results that meteorites have presented no simple body for-
eign to our globe. The elements which have thus far been recognized in them
wits certainty are 22 in number, and in the following Pee ioe are arranged
very nearly in an order corresponding to the progressive diminution of their im-
portance: von is absolutely constant, as well in a metallic state as in that of
a sulphuret; in the stony masses it also occurs as an oxide, entering into differ-
ent combinations of the protoxide. JZagnesium is met with very generally in
the state of a silicate; it has been recognized also in the constitution of the phos-
phurets mentioned above. Silex gives rise to the silicates which constitute
the principal mass of most meteorites. Ory ygen is always present in the stony
part of these bodies. Nickel, as has been seen, is the principal accompaniment
of the iron. Cobalt, without being in as great proportion, is almost as constant.
The same is the case with chrome, which is found in the stones in the state of
chromated iron. JZanganese has been often mentioned. Zitaniwm is much
more rare. Zin and copper have been discovered by Berzelius. Alumina exists
in a certain number of meteorites, in the state of multiple silicates; so likewise
do potassium, sodium, and calcium. Arsenic occurs in the peridot of the iron
meteorite of Atacama. Phosphorus presets itself chiefly in the state of phos-
phurets, and sometimes of phosphates. Nitrogen, discovered by. Berzelius in
the carbonaceous meteorite of Alais, has been detected anew in the ferruginous
meteorite of Lenarto by M. Boussingault. Sulphur very frequently forms sul-
phurets. Traces of chlorine are distinguishable in certain iron meteorites by
the chloruret of iron which it produces after a time, and which falls into deliques-
cence. Carbon is found in iron meteorites, bislien as graphite or combined with
the metal as a carburet. It exists also in the carbonaceous meteorites, in com-
bination with oxygen and hydrogen, and in one such meteorite it has been met
with in the state of a carbonate. Zydrogen also forms a part of the carbon-
aceous meteorites; quite recently M. Graham has given notice of its existence
in the iron of Lenarto, in which nitrogen had been already detected.

COMBINATIONS COMMON TO METEORITES AND THE TERRESTRIAL GLOBE,

In the number of the combinations which these different simple bodies affect in
meteorites, there are several which are found in the mineralogical species of the
earth. Such are peridot, pyroxene and the anorthite feldspar, chromated iron,
magnetic pyrites, and oxydulated iron; the last is singularly rare. Graphite,
and probably water, may also be cited among minerals common to meteorites
and the terrestrial globe.

Moreover, certain meteorites present mineralogical species associated after the
same manner as in certain terrestrial rocks. It is thus that the stone of Juvinas
approximates extremely to certain lavas of Iceland; that the stone of Chassigny
offers all the characters of the peridot of the earth, with grains of chromated iron
disseminated, exactly as in the peridotic rock called dunite, recently discovered
in New Zealand; while the carbonaceous meteorites recall, in certain respects,
some of our carbonaceous combustibles.

MINERALS PECULIAR TO METEORITES.

On the other hand, several mineralogical species are peculiar to meteorites,
especially nickeliferous native iron, the phosphuret of iron and of nickel, (schretb-
ersite,) and the sulphuret of iron (trotite).
Cn

EXPERIMENTS RELATIVE TO METEORITES. a2

CHAPTER III.

SYNTHESIS OF METEORITES.—$ I. SYNTHETIC EXPERIMENTS RELATIVE TO
METEORITES.

While the species common to meteorites and to the terrestrial globe disclose
influences which have operated equally im these two orders of deposits, the
species proper to meteorites indicate other and peculiar influences, an attentive
examination of which leads to useful indications in regard to the mode of form-
ation of these last bodies. Be it remarked, however, that we lay aside abso-
lutely all consideration of the cause by which meteorites are brought into our
atmosphere, in order to confine ourselves solely to the peculiarities of their
structure and composition.

It has been sometimes thought that meteorites became erystallized in our
atmosphere by the process of cooling undergone therein. Now, nothing of the
kind exists. "These planetary bodies reach us, it is true, in an incandescent
state; but this incandescence never attains the interior of the pieces, even when
they are of very small dimensions. Hence it follows that the interior condition
of the mass is, to all appearance, identically what it was in cosmic space.

It has seemed to me that the moment was opportune for verifying by syn-
thetic experiments the numerous ideas which analysis has furnished on the con-
stitution of meteorites.* It might be hoped, in effect, that experimental syn-
thesis would not render less service in this field of study than in that of miner-
als and terrestrial rocks.

FERRUGINOUS METEORITES.

We have seen above what is remarkable in the structure of these bodies, and
what is due at once to the crystallization of the whole mass and to a segregation of
like material. In seeking to reproduce that structure, 1 first melted the meteoric
iron of Caille (Var) in a cement of alumina, avoiding the use of charcoal, which
would have combined with it. The mass, after fusion, presented at its surface
and in its fracture a distinct crystallization ; but it no longer offered the brilliant
lines which were so clearly delineated in the natural state. Perhaps the result
had been more satisfactory if the cooling could have been effected in a very slow
manner. It is proper to add, moreover, “that the iron meteorites themselves do
not always present the eeometric regularity just indicated. There are those in
which the phosphuret is s isolated under rounded forms, quite irregular and often
indistinct.

Another series of experiments had for its object to associate soft iron with each
of the principal substances which accompany it in the meteorites, particularly
with nickel, silicium, sulphur, and phosphorus. By associating soft iron with
nickel, with protosulphuret of iron, and with silicium, masses were obtained of
a dendritic or extremely crystalline structure, but offering no true segregation com-
parable to that of the ferruginous meteorites. It is otherwise if we melt soft iron
with the addition of phosphuret of iron in a proportion which has been carried
from 2 to 5 and 10 per 100. We then see isolated on the polished surface which
has undergone the action of the acid a more brilliant and resistant substance
which perlee cetly resembles that of the iron meteorites, excepting a less degree of
regularity in the figure. A still better result has been obtained by introducing
nickel at the same time with the phosphuret of iron, and especi: ally by operating
on considerable masses, the weight of which reaches from two to seven kilograms.
In the midst of dendritic figures of a remarkable regularity, and which, a record

a ——

* “Comptes rendus,”’ t. Ixii, pp- 200, 360, 669, “Bulletin de la société geologique de
France,”’ 2d series, t. xxiii, p. 291, 1866.
326 EXPERIMENTS RELATIVE TO METEORITES.

ing to an examination made by M. Des Cloizeaux, appear disposed in the forms
of the regular rhomboidal dodecahedron, we then perceive the brilliant matter,
isolated, and, as it were, driven into the interstices, under a reticulated form.

STONES.—FUSION.

As meteoric stones always reach us covered with a black and vitreous crust,
due to a superficial fusion effected in their transit through the atmosphere, it
might be thought that by melting them in crucibles we should obtain nothing
else but this same vitreous matter; but experiment has taught that it is quite
otherwise, and that these substances possess, on the contrary, a very decided
aptitude for crystallization. Thus, by liquefying the meteorites of more than
thirty different descents, I have always obtained masses eminently crystalline.

If meteorites of the common type be submitted to a temperature sufficiently
high, the mass, after fusion, is composed of a precipitate of small metallic grains dis-
seminated in a silicated gangue of lithoid appearance. This lithoid part itself
is generally divided into crystalline substances, very distinct in form. ‘The one
consists of rectangular octahedrons, much flattened, and having the form and
arrangement which ‘characterize peridot, especially that which is formed in scoriz.
This same substance is presented under two other forms in the products of fusion.*
The second substance habitually presents prisms with a rectangular section, often
aligned parallel with one another, and having a fibrolamellar fracture which
strongly resembles that of bronzite. ‘Their opacity does not ordinarily permit of its
being decided whether they pertain to the right system of the rhomboidal prism
or to the oblique system. Yet as they are, for the most part, devoid of iron, and
contain scareely more than magnesium, they must be considered as pertaining
not to pyroxene, but to the species enstatite. Moreover, on the product of the
fusion of the meteorite which recently fell at Tadjera, in Algiers, numerous
uncolored needles are to be observed which, examined with the microscope, show
very distinct angles approaching to 87°, like those which correspond to the cleav-
ages of enstatite, (Comptes rendus, t. lxvi, p. 517, 1868). ‘The chemical assay
of these two substances justifies the conclusion to which we are led by the crys-
tallographic examination.

We have seen that the analysis of most meteorites of the common type dis-
closes the existence therein of at least two silicates ; the one alterable, the other
unalterable by acids. In the experiments of which I have just given an account
a parting takes place between these silicates which were originally in such inti-
mate intermixture that they could not be distinguished. ‘They separate by a
sort of liquation, and much more distinctly than in the natural meteorite ; it is
thus that, under different forms, the magnesian silicates, peridot (Mg. Si.) and
enstatite, (Mg. Si?.,) make their appearance. The relative proportion of peridot
and of enstatite, in the products of the fusion, vary much with the meteorites ; it
is generally the enstatite which predominates, and in a certain number, (Chan-
tonnay, Ensisheim, Agen, Chateau-Renard, and Vorcillé,) the peridot does not
appear in distinct crystals. On the contrary, the peridot may show itself in pre-
dominance, as in the meteorite of New-Concord. ‘The reduction of the iron,
which was in the state of a silicate, does not appear to have had any other effect
than to augment the proportion of enstatite at the expense of that of peridot,
without other change in the nature of the compounds.

The situation of these two species respectively, within the mass‘ obtained,
deserves attention. In general, the. peridot, when it exists, forms at the surface

_ =

* According to the examination which M. Des Cloizeaux has made, one of these forms is
of crystals with six faces, composed of the base P of the prism ga, and of the truncation & ;
the other form is composed of the base P and of two basils, (biseauz,) of which one placed
on the obtuse angles of the primitive prism of 119° 30’, pertains, by the angles, to the form
a, while the other is placed on the acute angles.

EXPERIMENTS RELATIVE TO METEORITES. Sat

a thin and crystallized pellicle, while the interior is composed of long erystals
of enstatite which traverse it: these two substances are thus grouped conformably
to their order of fusibility. Very frequently the needles of enstatite extend
to the surface of the mass, with an arrangement which perfectly resembles
that of the mica called palmate, contained in “certain pegmatites of the Pyrences
and the Limousin. This dendritic grouping of the enstatite has a very decided
tendency to arrange itself under a constant angle. There is observable, also,
in the two species of magnesian silicate, a remarkable tendency to group them-
selves regularly one on the other, as is seen in the staurotide and the disthene ;
and certain crystals having the form of peridot serve, as it were, but for the
anion of the numerous needles of enstatite which traverse them, thus recalling
the structure of certain pseudomorphs.

These mixtures, easily discernible by the naked eye, pass into others which
are indiscernible, and in which the substance, having a homogeneous appearance,
like certaim natural meteorites, betrays its compound) nature only by a separation in
the presence of acids. It should be remarked, further, that meteorites include

certain substances, such as the silicate of alumina, which form no essential part

of the peridot nor of the enstatite, but which remain hid in the erystals of these
two mineral species, doubtless by virtue of the affinity which M. Chevereul has
termed capillary. * * * Thealuminous meteorites, of which those of Juyinas,
of Jonzac, and of Stannern afford the best-known examples, sive a product
entirely different from all the magnesian meteorites which we have been consider-
ing: it isavitreous mass, sometimes ribanded by Hook devitrification, but with-
out crystals of peridot or of enstatite.

In the gourse of these investigations the presence of a body has been recog-
nized pet does not appear to have been observed until now in the magnesian
meteorites; I speak of titanium, distinguishable by its characteristic color and
its unalterability on contact with acids, and which has been thus detected in the
melted meteorites of Montrejeau and Aumale.*

IMITATION OF METEORITES OF THE COMMON TYPE BY REDUCTION OF
SILICATES.

The fusion of meteorites of the common type produces, as has been seen, two
principal minerals, peridot and enstatite. Hence it was to the terrestrial rocks
characterized by the presence of these two minerals that resort was had, in the
first instance, for the experiments in contemplation. The first step was to fuse
them in crucibles of earth without the intervention of a reducing agent.

By simple fusion in such a crucible peridot was converted into a green trans-
lucent mass covered with crystals of peridot and entirely crystalline in the interior,
as appears by its action on polarized light. Its structure is often lamellar, like
that of the peridot of the scoriz.t The fused peridot contrasts, therefore, by its
consistence with the granular and but little coherent peridot usually contained
in basaltic rocks.t Lherzolite, formed of a mixture of peridot, enstatite, and
pyroxene, melts still more readily than peridot, and gives masses which repro-
duce the natural rock so as to be easily mistaken for it; with this difference,
that, on the surface and in the interior, needles of enstatite may be observed,
which were not distinguishable before the fusion. Thus the needles , perlectly

* This metal, announced in the pyroxenic meteorite of Juvinas, by M. Rammelsberg, has
appeared, also, very clearly on the globules of iron obtained by the fusion of that meteorite.

t The peridot on which tost of the experiments here cited were made comes from the basalt
near Langeac, (Haute-Loire,) where it abounds. A peridot of this locality, analyzed by
Bei thier, yielded 16 per 100 of protoxide of iron,

} Phe basalt appears not to have had, at least in general, a temperature sufficiently high to
me ‘It the large tragments of peridot which were inbedded init. Yet it may, perhaps, have
beeu capable of dissolving uw part, and have thus given rise to the crystals, well detiued but
of smal! dimension, which are sumctimes disseminated through it.
328 EXPERIMENTS RELATIVE TO METEORITES.

white, Pumniehed by the lherzolite of Piades (in the Byrenees) yield on analysis
in 100 parts :*

Oxygen. | Ratio.

= {
Silexes Lit abuse ROOT UR CE Le ARES PINE BPMN PLACA Nt erin ae eo hols Wi 57.0 28 |" Q
a Esra Xe Ca RE eeu aveecace area macccnce sea: 42.0 15 1
PropowmclerOrqinOM gen see. ono ome cas eisjako eis ate ae ial wee ere eee} 3.0
98,4

Certain basaltic peridots, mingled with pyroxene and enstatite, offer the strong-
est resemblance to lherzolite, and, under the action of fire, deport themselves in
the same manner. For instance, the needles obtained by the fusion of the peri-
dot of Beyssac (Haute-Loire) give in 100 parts:

|
Oxygen. | Ratio.
— oe ————*
SIG Renee Geen anes te eer eee re REO e Gee Be Bec One Coca ane 56, 4 28
Mapnesium..-......--- -+---< So area e eters SO aoe be enoe cede 39. 0) 15 1
Protoxideofdron 2 Jos soso Hisheaieaseeeeese SBOaSeaS useisae 3. 0
98. 4

By the addition of a certain quantity of silex, the proportion of bisilicate or
enstatite may be augmented at will, and produce those mixtures which form the
transition from peridot to lherzolite. ‘The same bisilicate is generated along the
walls of the crucible by borrowing silex from them. I will remark here that by
adding to peridot 15 per 100 of silex, the quantity necessary for its conversion
into enstatite, and then melting it in the midst of charcoal, we obtain a mass cov-
ered on its surface with. flattened rectangular oct tahedrons. of the form which
belongs to peridot, while the interior Ae of a fibrous mass unalterable by acids,
which has the characters of enstatite. An identical fact takes place in the fusion
of certain meteorites.

The minerals, which had been first submitted, as above, to simple fusion,
were next subjected to the same action in the presence of a reductive influence.
Tor this purpose charcoal disposed as brasque in a erncible was first adopted.
The same results as before were thus reached, with this difference only, that the
iron, which was combined in the silicate, is reduced to the metallic state. It
sep sarates into precipitate and granules orremains disseminated in the undecomposed
silicate In microscopic { erains separable by the magnetized bar; at the same time,
the portion of silicic acid corresponding to this iron contributes to augment the
proportion of the bisilicate. All the iron, however, is not reduced to the metal-
lic state; a part remains in combination in the silicate; and it is worthy of
remark, that the green coloration, so characteristic of peridot or olivine, gives
place to a eeneral gray tint analogous to that of meteorites of the common type.

This product of the reduction and fusion of peridotic rocks greatly resembles,
therefore, that of meteorites treated im the same manner. The analogy subsists,
in a striking manner, for the stony part; it equally subsists for the metallic part.
In effect, the metallic iron, proceeding from the reduction of the peridot of Lan-
geac, contains 0.6 per 100, or 0.006 of nickel. ‘That furnished by the lherzolite
of Lherz likewise contains nickel and phosphuret in addition. I have obtained

* These different chemical analyses were made by M. Stanis!as Meunier, assistant natwaliet
at the muscu of natural history.
EXPERIMENTS RELATIVE TO METEORITES. 329

results stil] more decided and characteristic by operating on masses of peridot
and lherzolite weighing as much as 12 kilograms. Precipitates of iron, relatively
voluminous and susceptible of being submitted to the experiment of Widman-
stitten, have thus been obtained ; also a very distinct parting and the appear-
ance of a regular figure produced by the unattacked matter.

Further, it has thus been possible to observe a fact which in operating with
small granules had passed unperceived, but the importance of which will not
escape those who have had occasion to examine the natural external surface of
masses of meteoric iron. I speak of the angular forms, such as are presented by
the iron meteorites of Chareas and of San Irancisco del Mesquital, and also of
those problematic capsules, such as are displayed particularly by the first of these
blocks, and still more distinctly by that ef Juncal, (Comptes Rendus, t. lxvi, p.
701, 1868.) Certain of these granulations present the angular forms, and their
artificial surfaces bear, moreover, depressions here and there, characters w holly
analogous to those w hich we have just recalled. They have manifestly origin-
ated during the cooling by a sort of moulding of the iron against the stony mat-
ter, which hhas become; tough, if not solid, w hen the iron was still possessed of
fluidity. In presence of this result, we would seem to be brought back to the
hypothesis enunciated on occasion of the iron meteorite of ‘Youla, and the angular
forms of the meteorites of Charecas and San Francisco del Mesquital, (Comptes
Rendus, t. [xvi, p. 573,) according to which hypothesis the meteoric irons were
produced in the midst of silice ted 1 masses, between which they were moulded and
from which they were ultimately det ached.

We have thus seen meteorites reproduced in the general features of their com-
position ; we will find that they have been imitated with equal success in certain
intimate details of their structure.

If we examine with the microscope a thin lamina of peridot or lherzolite after
fusion, we observe, as in the greater part of meteorites of the common type, those
series of parallel straight lines resembling strokes of the burin, remarkable for
their regularity, in the midst of clefts of irregular form. ‘These lines are owing
to the existence of planes of cleavage. Moreover, fine needles of enstatite, par-
allel and perceptibly equidistant, arranged also in clusters, recall the details of
texinre disclosed by the microscopic examination of a number of meteorites.*

The globular structure is so frequent in meteorites of the common type that it
has earned for this whole group the denomination of chondrite. Now, we see
similar grains, or spherules, make their appearance in many of the experiments
conducted by the fusion of magnesian silicates. Among these globules some
have a smooth surface, others a drused surface, or one rough with small micro-
scopic crystals. ‘The latter entirely resemble the elobules of the meteorite of
Sigena, {17th November, 1773,) of the friable variety. These globules are not
attacked by acids, like those of the meteorites. The analysis of a specimen has
shown that it contains more silex than the bisilicate. Lastly, the surfaces of fric-
tion, with a coating of graphitic appearance, which many meteorites present in
the interior, as, for example, that of Alexandria, (2d February, 1860,) ave well
imitated with the fused silicates which contain iron reduced to very small grains,
when two fragments are rubbed one age inst the other.

In another series of experiments, hy drogen, not charcoal, was employed as the
reducer, and the results were found to be ‘of the same order; thus, lherzolite and
pyroxene exposed to a current of hydrogen abandon, in the state of metal, the
iron which existed in the form of silicate of protoxide. ‘The reaction may be
effected at a temperature which does not exceed the red. Under these same con-
ditions the phosphates, whether alone or in the presence of the silicates, are

* Apart from the instance of the meteorite of Aumale, I will refer the reader to those which
are figured in the important work of my learned friend Gustave Rose, for the meteorites of
Krasnoi- Ugol, of Tee and for the peridot of the iron meteorite of Pallas, (Pl. i, Pig.
10, und Pl. iv, Figs. 7, 8, 9.)

a30 EXPERIMENTS RELATIVE TO METEORITES.

reduced to phosphurets, so that the final product of the action of the hydrogen
presents a great chemical analogy with the meteorites.

IMITATION OF METEORITES OF THE COMMON TYPE BY OXIDATION OF
SILICIURETS.

There is a second method by which we are enabled to effect the imitation of
meteorites. It is the inverse of the preceding, and consists in heating the domi-
nant bodies of meteorites of the common type, other than the oxygen, that is to
say, the iron, the silicium, and the magnesium, in an atmosphere incompletely
oxidizing, and by conducting the process not only to roasting, but fusion, or in
effect to scorification.

By exposing to the high temperature of the gas blow- -pipe siliciuret of iron
contained in a brasque of magnesium we obtain a perfect imitation, in all that is
essential, of meteorites of the common type. ‘The iron is separated, as well in
a metallic state as in that of a silicate, and peridot is produced, partly in a crys-
tallized form. ‘This peridot presents divers shades, among others the olive tint
which is habitual to it in nature. * vl if ; if - *.

§ 2. DEDUCTIONS AS RESPECTS THE ORIGIN OF THE PLANETARY BODIES
FROM WHICH METEORITES ARE DERIVED.—TEMPERATURE.

In the first place, is it possible to form an idea of the temperature at which
the cosmical bodies in question are formed ?

The experiments above stated seem to authorize us to assign to it certain limits.
The temperature was doubtless high, since the anhydrous silicates, such as peri-
dot and pyroxene, were produced. It appears, however, to have been lower than
that at which the preceding experiments were conducted. 'T'wo facts lead us to
this supposition. ‘The high temperature employed in the laboratory resulted in
the formation of silicates in well defined and voluminous crystals; such as are
never met with in meteorites. It is worthy of remark, in fact, that the silicated
substances, which compose the meteorites of the common type, are always in the
state of very small and confused crystals, notwithstanding the strong tendency
which they have to crystallize. Were we to seek some analogy in anne. we
should say that the er ystals obtained by the fusion of meteorites recall the long
needles of ice which liquid water forms in congealing, while the fine- orained
structure of natural meteorites resembles rather that of hoar-frost or snow, formed,
as we know, by the immediate transition of atmospheric vapor to a solid state,
or perhaps that of the floar of sulphur produced under analogous conditions,
Moreover, in meteorites the form of the grains of iron is wholly irrezular and,
as it were, tubercular, (Sierra de Chaco). But the temperature employed in
these experiments caused the metallic granules to take, in general, a spherical
form; which is never observed in meteorites.

I have sought to imitate the mode of dissemination of metallic iron in silicates,
as it occurs in common meteorites, by exposing to a high temperature an inti-
mate mixture of reduced iron and lherzolite. After fusion of the whole, the
particles of iron reunite in numerous and still very small grains, the globular
form of which, easily distinguishable, especially after the specimen has been
polished, contrasts with the grains of tubercular form disseminated in the mete-
orites.

Let it be distinctly observed that, in all cases, this original heat does not
exist when the masses penetrate into our atmosphere. In effect, the carbon-
aceous meteorite of Orgueil is composed of a stony matter, holding in combina-
tion, or in intimate mixture, even in its central parts, water and volatile sub-
stances ; it is, by reason of so sensitive a nature, a true thermometes @ maximum,
which indicates to us that these bodies could not be else than cold at the moment
EXPERIMENTS RELATIVE TO METEORITES. oD1

ef their arrival in our atmosphere, for it is not in the latter that these volatile
compounds can have been incorporated with them.

CHEMICAL CONSTITUTION AND MODE OF FORMATION.

After the experiments which we have detailed, the very characteristic nature
of the masses from which meteorites proceed may be readily explained, and that
in a two-fold manner, according as we have recourse to the experiments of redue-
tion or to those of oxidation.

It has been seen that the characters of meteorites are reproduced, even to the
intimate details of their structure, in the reduction of basic silicated rocks by
means of charcoal. Let us not conclude, however, that the meteorites have been
formed by this process ; for if this were so, the carbon would doubtless have car-
buretted the iron in a very considerable degree, as in steel or in casting, which
is not ordinarily the case. Moreover, there is room for asking, in the case in
which the formation of meteorites may have been accompanied by a reductive
action, whether it would not be necessary to attribute it rather to a hydrogenated
atmosphere. * The ingenious experiment by which M. Graham has verified the
presence of hydrogen in a state of occlusion in the meteoric iron of the specimen
of Lenarto, w ould serve as a confirmation of this idea, which had been announced
previously to the discovery of the eminent English chemist, (Comptes Iendus,
19th February, 1866, t. Lxii).

In place of considering the cosmical bodies with which we are occupied as the
result of a reduction of silicated rocks, perhaps it is more simple and conclusive
to have recourse to the idea of an oxidation analogous to those which we have
artificially realized. Let us suppose, as has been done for our globe, that the
silicium and metals of the meteorites have not always been combined with oxygen,
as they are at present for the most part, and this, perhaps, because the initial
temperature of these bodies was sufficiently high to prevent them from entering
into combination, or because, being at first at a distance, they did not approach
one another.

If, in consequence of refrigeration, or from any other cause, such as an approx-
imation of these bodies, the oxygen comes to act suddenly, it will unite itself
with the more oxidable elements. The silicium and magnesium will burn before
the iron and nickel; and if the burning gas is not sufliciently abundant to oxi-
dize the whole, or if it does not act during a suflicient time, it will leave a metal-
lic residue composed of the less oxidable bodies ; these metals, the iron and nickel,
must remain disseminated in a gangue of silicates while retaining their metallic
state, exactly as we observe it im the meteorites. Moreover, there will be thus
formed a silicate of magnesium more or less rich in protoxide of iron, having the
composition of peridot.

As is now seen, if we suppose the oxidation pushed successively to different
degrees, the preceding experiments explain not only the formation of meteorites
of the common type, but also that of the group of syssiderous and of the sub-
group of polysiderous meteorites. These bodies are, therefore, to be assimilated
to products by the dry way. ‘This mode of formation appears not to apply so
well to the meteorites pertaining to the group of eryptosiderous, and particularly
to those of the type of Juvinas, of Stannern and of Jonzac. It has been seen
how close an analogy allies them with certain aluminous lavas formed of pyrox-

* If these meteorites have been thus formed, there must have been water produced on the
surface of the bodies of which they made a part. But those bodies may not have been able
to preserve the water by reason of their small dimensions. Further, the reduction, if it has
taken place, could only have been partial; for, in general, the iron is but reduced in part,
whether in a metallic state or in the state of a sulphuret or phosphuret ; another part of this
same metal is ordinarily combined, as protoxide, in a silicate, and also in the state of chro-
mated iron, (chromite of protoxide of iron. )
on

332 EXPERIMENTS RELATIVE TO METEORITES.

-

ene and anorthite. Now water, in the presence of which these last were formed,
could have been no stranger to their crystallization. In no case do these rocks
crystallize under the conditions of dry fusion, as the magnesian silicates so read-
ily do; fusion transforms them into vitreous and amorphous masses. Hence, the
meteorites of this last type seem rather products by the mixed way, which we
might imitate, perhaps, by operating in water overcharged with heat.

As to the carbonaceous meteorites, they differ from all others, in that, doubt-
less, several of the substances which constitute them have been formed at a tem-
perature but little elevated. At first view, we might be tempted to consider
them as planetary vegetable earth ; but it is possible, and the supposition is even
probable, that these carburetted compounds have been formed without the con-
currence of life and represent the last terms of certain reactions.

§ 3. DEDUCTIONS AS RESPECTS THE FORMATION OF THE TERRESTRIAL
GLOBE.—ANALOGIES AND DIFFERENCES BETWEEN METEORITES AND
TERRESTRIAL ‘ROCKS.

We have seen above how much analogy of composition exists between mete-
orites and sundry terrestrial rocks. Not only do they include the same simple
bodies, but the three bodies which predominate in the series of meteorites, namely,
the iron, silicium, and oxygen, are also those which predominate in our globe;
besides, we discover therein mineral species common to both and associated in
the same manner.

It should here be remarked that the rocks which offer such traits of resemblance
with the meteorites all pertain to the deep regions of the globe. They are
eruptive masses of a basic nature, or lavas, or peridotic rocks, the reservoir of
which is situated below the granitic stratum. We will recall (1) the lava formed
of anorthite and of pyroxene, and such as has been found at the Thjorsa, in
Iceland, for its approximation to the aluminous type (or that of Juvinas), the
sixth of the seven principal types of meteorites which have been established
above ; (2) the peridot and the lherzolite, which present striking resemblances
with the silicated part of the magnesian meteorites, and particularly with those
of the common type. We know, from the examination made of it by M. Damour,*
that the lherzolite is composed of peridot, with which are united enstatite, pyrox-
ene, and sometimes spinelle, (picotite). ‘The magnesian meteorites may also be
compared to the hypersthene, pervaded by grains of peridot, which has been
brought from Labrador.

But by the side of these resemblances between meteorites and certain terrestrial
masses there exist differences which deserve no iess to fix our attention. ‘These
differences bear essentially on the state of oxidation of the iron. Meteorites,
like terrestrial rocks, contain protoxide of iron combined with silicium (silicate)
and with the oxide of chrome, (chromated iron). On the contrary, oxydulated
‘ron, so frequent in our basic silicated rocks, fails, in general, in the meteorites,
{tis there replaced, in some sort, by native iron, which, on the other hand, is
wanting in our rocks.t

There is a second difference of the same character with the preceding. ‘The

* Bulletin de la Société géolugique de France, 2d série, t. xix, p. 413. On this occasion, it
‘s mere justice to acknowledge the acuteness of observation of M. Leliévre, who as early as
1787, in announcing the discovery of this remarkable rock, already recognized it as a
variety of chrysolite, or peridot, (Journal de Physique, May, 1787, letter to de la Metherie. )
‘Twenty-five years later, M. de Charpentier supposed he had demonstrated this same rock to
be no other than a pyroxene in. mass, and this conclusion was hastily and very generally
udopted. The variations presented by lherzolite serve to explain the too absolute conclusion
ef a mineralogist so experienced.

+ It is true that oxydulated iron is found in the carbonaceous meteorites, such as that of
rgueil; but these last pertain to a rare and wholly special category.
EXPERIMENTS RELATIVE TO METEORITES. 333

phosphuret of iron and of nickel, first recognized by Berzelius, is found almost
always associated with the meteoric iron. ‘This, like native iron, is entirely
deficient in our rocks, where it is replaced by the phosphates particularly fre-
quent in the basic silicated rocks.*

Without insisting further on some other contrasts of the same nature, we recoe-
nize that the essential difference between these meteorites and the analogous ter-
restrial rocks consists in this: that the first contain, in a reduced state, certain
substances which the second contain in an oxydized state. Everything leads
to the belief that masses between which there exists such a similarity of compo-
sition would have been identical, notwithstanding their immense separation, if
they had not undergone different actions.

IMPORTANCE OF THE MAGNESIAN ROCKS OF THE PERIDOT TYPE, AS WELL
IN THE TERRESTRIAL GLOBE AS IN OUR PLANETARY SYSTEM.

Among the basic silicates there is one which presents itself with remarkable
constancy in almost all the varieties of meteorites, from those of iron to those of
stone, properly so called; thisis peridot. In the latter it is rarely solitary (Chas-
signy); commonly it is mixed with more acid silicates, often in undiscernible
parts.t On the other hand, peridot necessarily exists in the profound depths of
our globe.

In effect, the basalts of the most distant regions have brought up fragments
of it, which often remain angular, and which would be:pronounced to have been
torn from a deep and pre-existent mass. Detached peridotic masses abound, as
is well known, in different voleanic regions of France, (Langeac, Haute-Loire,
Monferrier, Herault,) on the banks of the Rhine (environs of Lake Laach,) and
in other countries. At the same time there are other pyroxenic rocks in which
peridot is abundant, as, for example, in the dolerites of the environs of Montar-
ville and of Montreal, in Canada, wherein, according to M. Sterry Hunt, (Geology
of Canada, pp. 464, 706,) it forms sometimes nearly half of the total weight.
Rocks rich in peridot have also been met with, traversing the chalk, in the neigh-
borhood of Teschen, in Bohemia, and have been described by M. Tschermak,
‘who has recently published a notice on the presence of olivine in rocks, (Bud-
letin de V Académie de Vienne, 11th July, 1867). Again, peridot constitutes the
base of the lherzolite which has made an eruption at many points of the Pyrenees,
among others, near the lake of Lherz, and which occurs in other countries.
Thus it is known in the Tyrol, and but a few years ago was discovered in New
Zealand, where it forms an entire chain, by M. de Hochstetter, who has given it
the name of dunite; more recently still it has been found in Nassan, at 'Trigen-
stein, by M. I’. Sandberger, who calls it by the name of olivinjels, (Leonhard’s
Jahrbuch, 1865 and 1867.) To this it may be added that M. Kjerulf has lately
ascertained that a rock which aboands in the environs of Bergen, Norway, and
which M. Keilhau had heretofore considered as a metamorphic grit, is composed
in part of nickeliferous peridot, with which are associated chromated iron, and
tale. It may be further noticed that, after having recognized peridot in the rock
of Elfdalen, in Sweden, M. G. Rose has found it also in the augite rocks of
Neurode, in Silesia.

We.are thus led to recognize that the part fulfilled by peridot, so restricted

* The stone of Juvinas, in which M. Rammelsberg has announced iron in the state of a
phosphate, only affords confirmation of this rule; for it contains metallic iron only in the
ae quantity. It was difficult, therefore, that any phosphuret of that metal should be
ormed. ‘

+Of more than 150 meteoric falls represented in the collections, we possess as yet only
four which pertain to the aluminous type, being those of Juvinas, Jonzac, Stannern, and
oe (United States.) The others are maguesian meteorites, which, almost all, contain
peridot.
334 EXPERIMENTS RELATIVE TO METEORITES

on the surface of the earth, is, beyond doubt? predominant at a certain depth.
Hence, its importance may be inferred as well in regard te our globe as to the
rest of our planetary system, as far, at least, as we cau judge of the latter by the
specimens which reach us. The rocks of peridot, therefore, excluded until now
from the general classifications of lithology, would seem destined to hold here-
after a special and considerable place in them, By annexing serpentine to the
rocks in question we might comprise them under, the name of the per idotic family,
or that of cosmical rocks.

There is, in the mean time, no room for surprise that peridot does not come in
greater abundance to the surface of the globe. It is, in effect, the most basic
silicate that is know n, and it has a strong. tendency to-take up silicium and to
become transformed into a more acid silic ate, such as enstatite or pyroxene, as is
shown by the experiments heretofore detailed. Now, to come from its primitive
seat to the surface, it must necessarily have traversed rocks more acid than itself,
and having kilometers of thickness. On these it would inevitably react, and

may thus have given rise to those pyroxenic or amphibolic rocks which are so
numerous, and which establish a sort of transition between pure peridot and
pyroxene. Perhaps it is to reactions of this kind that we must attribute those
gradual passages of lherzolite to pyroxenic or amphibolic rocks, of which the’
Py renees present examples at many points.*

TRANSFORMATION OF SERPENTINE INTO LHERZOLITE OR INTO PERIDOT.—
THEORETICAL DEDUCTIONS.

There is another magnesian rock which it is proper to place near the peridot
and the lherzolite, notwithstanding the differences which separate it from these
last. Serpentine presents itself among eruptive rocks, with exceptional charac-
ters, as being at once hydrated, infusible, and without distinct crystallization.
Geologists admit, ¢ generally, that serpentine results from the transformation of
another rock, and that it is derived from peridot, at least in certain cases where
it has preserved the characteristic form of the crystals of that substance.

Deferring the realization of serpentine from ‘peridot as being at the present
moment impracticable, I have been content to follow the inverse order, that is,
to transform serpentine into peridot. Here the relative composition of the two
minerals pointed out the course to be pursued; the serpentine differs from peridot
only in containing water and including more silicium or less magnesium. It was
requisite, therefore, to fuse the serpentine with the addition of magnesium in order
to realize the constitution of peridot.

By treating in this manner the serpentines of Snarum, in Norway; of Monte-
Ferrato, in Tuscany; of Sainte-Sabine, in the Vosges; and of Gaito, in
Isera, I obtained, after fusion, masses confusedly crystalline and offering in many
of their parts all the characters of peridot. Needles of enstatite are frequently
disseminated therein or cover the surface. The presence of this bisilicate is
explained by the fact that the specimens operated upon might include a little
more silicium than the type of the formula (Mg? Si*) with which I had started.

These results have led me to examine the product of the pure and simple fusion
of serpentines. ‘The experiment made, in crucibles of earth, on specimens of
different origin (Snarum, in Norway ; ‘Zoeblitz, in Saxony; Favero, in Pied-
mont) has also yielded mixtures of peridot and of enstatite, though, in these, the
former mineral appears in smaller proportion than in the fusions made in pres-
ence of magnesium. The serpentine of Baldissero, in Piedmont, known by the
veins of magnesium and resinite quartz which it has secreted, has presented the
result best characterized ; needles of enstatite grouped with remarkable regularity,
parallel with one another and in clusters, detach themselves m the midst of the

* De Charpentier, Essai sur la constitution géognostique des Pyrenées.
EXPERIMENTS RELATIVE TO METEORITES. 335

crystalline peridot ;* it is identically the same product yielded by Therzolite.
It should be remarked, however, that when serpentine is melted, without any
addition, in a crucible, it cannot fail to take up from the walls of the latter some
of tis elements, and particularly silex.

In these fusions, as in those of meteorites, the tendency which the peridot and
enstatite have to crystallize causes them to appear in very distinct crystals ; but
the product obtained includes, moreover, other silicates, aluminous or otherwise,
which remain intimately intermixed, and, as it were, dissolved in the interior of
the former.

These various results, the last especially, show that serpentine has often a
decided tendency to change into peridot, as if it then only entered into its normal
state. This is a reason the more for considering serpentine, at least in a certain
number of its repositories, as a peridot or a lherzolite which has lost a certain
quantity of its magnesium, and has become hydrated, by an operation which
recalls that of the conversion of feldspar into kaolin.

The direct observation of rocks confirms this conclusion. On the one hand,
there exist lherzolites which gradually degenerate into serpentine, as is observed
in certain localities of the Pyrenees ;+ at Brezouars, in the Vosges ;f at Neurode,
in Silesia; and in the rock known by the name of schillerfels or bastite in 'Tran-
sylvania,§ in Nassau, and elsewhere. || On the other hand, there are serpentines
which manifest as clearly their relation with the peridotic rocks. A more demon-
strative instance of this fact cannot be seen than in the serpentine of Baldissero,
of which I have already spoken. One of the varieties of this serpentine per-
taining to the collection of the Museum, where it was placed by M. Cordier, per-
fectly recalls, in its external characters, the lherzolite of the Pyrenecs. I have
recognized, moreover, that, like the latter, it is interspersed with crystals of ensta-
tite of the bronzite varicty, with pyroxene diopside of an emerald green and
chromiferous, as well as with black chromiferous spinelle, sometimes in regular
octahedrons, (variety called picotite.) These three mineral species present in
both rocks exactly the same facies. Yet, notwithstanding these analogies, the
serpentine of Baldissero is distinguished from lherzolite by its imperfect hardness
and its persistency in water; it constitutes, as it were, one of the states of tran-
sition of the first rock to the second. The minerals which have resisted hydra-
tation remain as witnesses of the primitive state, in such sort that the relation of
kaolin to feldspar is not better demonstrated than the transformation which we
are considering.

There is nothing to prove that the hydratation which has been produced in
the transformation of peridotic rock into serpentine was effected by agencies on
the surface of the globe, The eruptive serpentine of the Apennines, the Alps,
and of so many different countries, may have been ejected from below after hav-
ing already acquired the water which it contains to-day. ‘The manner in which
glass is decomposed in water super-saturated with heat and is changed into a
hydrated silicate, as I have verified in former experiments,{] would not seem to
be without analogy with the reaction which may have produced the serpentine
at the expense of jre-existent anhydrous silicates.

Not that I would pretend, however, that all serpentine masses result from the

*The pseudophite of Mount Zdiar, in Moravia, which contains enstatite and which differs
from serpentine by the presence of alumina, does not yield very distinct crystals.

t De Charpentier, Essais sur la constitution géognostrque des Pyrenées.

t kournet, Bulletin Soc. Géologique de France, 2d series, t. iv, p. 227.

§ Ischermak, Bulletin Acad. des Sciences de Vienne, loc. citato.

| In the new repository of lherzolite discovered by M. F'. Sandberger, in Nassau, that dis
tinguished geologist has observed all sorts of transitions of this peridotic rock into serpentine,
Leonhard’s Jahrbuch, 1865, p. 449,

{Synthetic experiments on metamorphism, (Annales des Mines, 5th series, t. xvi, p. 425.)
On the formation of zeolites, (Bulletin Soc. Geolugique de France, 2d series, t. Xvi, p. 055.)

336 EXPERIMENTS RELATIVE TO METEORITES.

transformation of peridotie rocks; there are those, in effect, which have been con-
sidered as being derived from pyroxenic and other rocks. It is proper to observe
on this occasion that the experiment by which I have shown above with what
facility peridot is transformed into silicates less basic well explains, in general,
the numerous transitions of serpentine to other rocks, as, in the first place, to
euphotide, which is so ordinarily associated with it, as well as to the diorites and
pyroxenic rocks, the prasophyres, &e., which accompany it in Tuscany,” in dif-
ferent regions of the Alps and in many other countries.

The analogies which subsist between serpentine and peridotic rocks have led
to an examination of the former in reference to the synthesis of meteorites. If
we melt serpentine in a brasqne of charcoal the grains of iron which are sepa-
rated from it often include nickel in considerable proportion, as when we operate
upon peridot. For example, the iron extracted from the serpentine of Sainte-
Sabine, in the Vosges, contains 0.67 per 100 of nickel. That of a serpentine
of Mount Genevre has yielded it also, but.in quantities too minute for accurate
apportionment.t

To these traits of similarity of composition between serpentines and meteorites
is to be added the presence of chrome. On the one hand, chrome is found in
most of the serpentines, not only in the state of a green combination, but also
in the state of chromated iron, as is observed in the most different countries. §
On the other hand, the important observation made by Laugier in 1806, || namely,
that chrome is rarely absent in meteorites, has but acquired confirmation. ‘There
are, in effect, very few stone-meteorites which are not mixed, at least in a small
proportion, with chromite or chromated iron. 'Thus, apart from its persistency
in water, serpentine may be assimilated to meteorites of the common type, almost
as rightfully as peridot and lherzolite. It is proper further to remark that the
carbonaceous meteorites (Cape of Good-Hope, Kaba, and Orgueil) appear to con-
tain a hydrated magnesium silicate, which M. Wéhler states to be analogous to
serpentine.

IT will add an observation on the formation of spinelle, which is sometimes dis-
seminated in peridot, as is seen in some localities of the Haute-Loire, in the lher-
zolite of the Pyrenees, and in the serpentine lherzolite of Baldissero.

Peridot being the most basic magnesian silicate which the rocks afford, the
presence of this spinelle seems susceptible of easy explanation. As the alumina
was disseminated in a very basic silicate, with which it could not dispute the
siliclum, nothing remained for it but to unite with the bases, magnesium and
protoxide of iron. I have confirmed this supposition by a synthetic experiment.
If we fuse the natural peridot, at a very high temperature, with alumina, (10 per
100,) we shall see, after the fusion, in the crystalline peridotic mass, small black
grains which are infusible, unaltered by acids, and which contain, at once, alu-
mina, magnesium, and protoxide of iron; some of them exhibit the form of the
regular octahedron. These crystals, all of which have the characters of pleo-
naste spinelle, furnish a perfectly satisfactory reason for the formation of this
mineral in the peridotic and the lherzolithie rocks.

CHARACTERS WHICH DISTINGUISH PERIDOTIC ROCKS.

Among the characters of peridotic rocks there are three which clearly distin-

* Paul Savi, Delle Rocce ofiolitiche della Toscana, 1838, p. 11.

tIt is proper to recall en this occasion that the nickel first indicated by Stromeyer, in cer-
tain serpentines, at the same time as in peridot, has since then been found in the serpentines
of regions far remote from one another—in Saxony, in Silesia, in Norway, in Texas, in Penn-
sylvania ; this metal is not wanting in the serpentines of Canada, according to the analyses
of M. Sterry Hunt, (Geology of Canada, p 471.)

t Indicated long since by Valentine. Rose and Klaproth.

§ Department ot the Var, Saxony, Baden, the Austrian Alps, Moravia, Scotland, Norway,
Greece, the Ural, numerous depositories in the United Sta‘es, Canada, &c.

| Annales du Museum, t. vii, p. 395, 1806, :

EXPERIMENTS RELATIVE TO METEORITES. 337

guish them from all other silicated rocks, and which deserve to fix the attention.
(1) Peridot represents the most basic silicated type that is known, whether in
the meteorites or in eruptive rocks. In that series of which it constitutes the
first term and which terminates at the granite, it forms the species at once the
most simple in composition and the best defined. (2) Under the point of view
of the mode of crystallization, peridot, as well as the bisilicate of magnesium, or
estatite, which is its frequent companion, is distinguished from the aluminous
silicates, particularly from those of the group of feldspar, by the facility with
which they are formed and become crystallized by the dry way, after simple
fusion. On the contrary, it has never been found practicable to erystallize arti-
ficially, under the same conditions, anything having a resemblance, even remotely,
to feldspar and to granite. (3) Rocks of peridot are very remarkable also by
their great density, which is superior, as the following table will show, to that
of all other eruptive rocks, and even to that of the basalts:

Geena ites scceal nie aie Steet nt Sho LY Soe cule) 4's oto aha keva cers 2.64 to 2.76
‘Draehytese bars aj.<)-.5 Sich RS rag haa at eae i Bhs 2.62 to 2.88
Tee ea a a. Sc 2h a eho at a nla yl sath wi peamic BE minis 2.76
Tae as eect staat ah OM ch ca a lahsca dt apt sh ard aiiattahn ped chee eat ON a
IE ee a at gl he yg ch SU at Se As ies at 29 fo:34
(Bis Eal the i ese ars Sen pan as Se eure aptioans Seiten coe reais 3.303
Tobias tg cetera puss t2 ey oatotsbssee>- ort buameld porand, cee Aoaseiw 2S ita333
Eeiiote: Aste ce Seritel i. Deutocycis ipdaroe wah chains Shee eostank « 3.33 to 3.35

These different rocks must at their origin have been superposed on one another
in an order conformable to their augmentation of density. The great density of
the peridotic rocks justifies the normal position which they appear to hold within
the crust of the earth, beneath the granite envelope, beneath even the aluminous
basic rocks,

COMPARATIVE DENSITIES OF METEORITES AND OF THE PRINCIPAL TER-
RESTRIAL ROCKS.

Setting aside the carbonaceous meteorites, which should be considered as out-
side of the series, we might conceive the meteorites to be disposed in concentric
spherical strata, forming an ideal globe, whose density would go on increasing
from the surface towards the center. At the exterior would be the aluminous
stones; then would come the peridotic stones, those of the common type, the
polysiderous, the syssiderons, and finally the holosiderous.

We may remark that this theoretical section is not without some analogy with
an ideal section of the terrestrial globe, distinction being made of the sedimen-
tary deposits and of the granito-gneissic stratum. In this section the lavas would
correspond to tne aluminous meteorites; below these the peridot would be the ,
analogue of the stone of Chassigny ; the lherzolite and other rocks of the same
kind would well represent the meteorites of the common type. Here, it is true,
stop the analogies which can be directly observed, but here also stops the knowl-
edge which we have of the more profound regions of our globe. There is
nothing repugnant to reason in supposing that these more profound parts of the
earth afford resemblances to the ideal globe which we have just constructed by
the superposition of the different kinds of meteorites ; there is nothing to prove,
in a word, that one of the globes does not complete the other.

‘his comparison, which may seem, perhaps, somewhat precarious, will be bet-
ter understood by means of the following table, the first column of which con-

ees
338 EXPERIMENTS RELATIVE TO METEORITES.

tains, with the densities, the principal types of meteorites, while the second col-
umn exhibits the principal terrestrial rocks:

I. Densities. II. Densities.

“6 Stratified formations....,.----- 2.6

“é Granite and gneiss. ...... -.-..- at

os Pyroxenous lavas ....---.-.--. 2.9
Aluminous meteorites......---- 3.0 to 3. | fs

se Leta (op SSE Es Rew eee ad
Peridotie meteorites .----. ---- 3.5 ty

He Lherzolite...... .. sobopolascoe 3.5
Meteorites of the common type.} 3.5 to 3.8 §§
Polysiderous meteorites, (Sierra, Mg
dei Chaco) s~ sees.sais aeeeisoes 6.5 to 7.0 | gs
Syssiderous meteorites,(Pallas.) 7.1 to 7.8 es
Holosiderous meteorites, (Char- | “i
CAB Ve ee seca saceiaieeset 7.0 to 8.0 sé

PERIDOT CONSIDERED AS A UNIVERSAL SCORTA.

The idea to which we have thus been conducted, in order to explain the origin
of the planetary bodies from which meteorites proceed, illustrates also the mode
of formation of that thick silicated mass which constitutes the external part of
the terrestrial globe.

As early as the commencement of the century, Davy, after having made known
the results of his admirable discovery of the composition of the alkalies and
earths, supposed that the metals engaged in these oxides might exist in a free
state in the interior of the globe; and he saw in their oxidation, by the access
of water and air, the cause of the heat and eruptions of volcanos,

Subsequently this hypothesis has been enlarged by extending it to the origin
of the terrestrial crust itself, which comprises, precisely in the state of silicates,
the oxides of the metals most avid of oxygen; namely, potassium, sodium, cal-
cium, magnesium, aluminum, and by considering even the water of the seas as
the result of the combustion of the hydrogen in this general oxidation or confla-
gration. Sir Henry de la Beche, whose genius embraced all the great questions
of geology, was among the first to propound this idea,* for which the way had
been prepared by the important observations of Haussmann, Mitscherlich, and
Berthier on the scorize of manufactures,t and which M. Elie de Beaumont has,
with much justice, designated by the expression of natural cupellation.t With-
out long explanations, it will be seen how this theoretic view is confirmed and
justified by the results which I have obtained in the synthesis of the meteorites.

After what has been stated, it is natural to admit that the rocks of peridot,
whose importance has been recognized in the constitution of the deeper regions
of our globe, have the same origin with the similar silicates which form a part
of the meteorites. These peridotic rocks would thus be, in our planet, the most
direct product of a scorification which has been effected at an extremely remote
epoch.

* Researches in Theoretical Geology, 1834. 'The French translation of this work was pub-
lished in 1838, by M. de Collegno.

tAmong the numerous observations of Haussmann, which extend back as far as 1816, I
would expressly mention his memoir entitled De usu Experientiarum Metallurgicarum ad
disquisitiones Geologicas adjuvandas, (Goettingen gelehrte Anzeigen, 1837.) It is proper
also to mention that as early as 1823, Mitscherlich recognized the forms of peridot and
pyroxene ia the crystals of metallurgic scoria ( Abhandlungen der K. Academie der Wissen-
schaften zu Berlin, 1823, p. 25.) =

¢ Bulletin Soc. Geologique, 2d series, t. iv, p. 1326, 1847.
EXPERIMENTS RELATIVE TO METEORITES, 339

It is essential to have a correct understanding respecting this term scorification.
We know that when a bath of impure castings is kept in fusion in contact with
the air, the iron is oxidized as well as certain bodies which are associated with
it, of which silicium is the most important. The oxidation gives rise to a fer-
ruginous silicate, which occupies the upper part of the metallic bath. This is a
true liquid scoria; in cooling it will at first become doughy, then solid; and in
the latter state will present a compact lithoidal crystalline structure; one wholly
different, in a word, from the spongy and tufaceous substances to whieh we give
the name of volcanic scoria. 'The former and metallur gic sense is that in which
we understand the scorification of the globe.

As to the feldspathic rocks, many geologists consider that they have not been
produced simply by the dry way, as we have just shown has been probably the
case with the deep peridotic beds, but that they have been formed by the inter-
vention of particular agents, among others of water. However this may be, we
may here find, especially in the trachytes, the other extreme term of the series
of masses silicated in the general scorification. The opposition between these
two types, the most distinct and the best characterized, bears not only on the
mineralogical composition and the circumstances of cry stallization, but also on
the density of these masses and their situation at depths necessarily very differ-
ent. Let it be remarked further that this primitive scorification, extending
through a thickness so ‘considerable, may, even at the existing epoch, present,
according to the depth, masses in the three states of which we have been speak-
ing—solid, viscid, or liquid. :

‘If metallic iron, quite habitual in meteorites, is wanting in terrestrial rocks,
this difference may simply result from the circumstance that in our globe, where
the oxygen of the atmosphere is in excess, the oxidation may have been complete
and have left no metallic residue. When, however, we say that the terrestrial
masses contain no native iron it is evident that the question only regards those
which eruptions render accessible to our investigations; masses which, i in view
of the great dimensions of our planet, form but a sort of coating. There is
nothing to prove that below those aluminous masses which have furnished, in
Iceland, for example, lavas so analogous to the type of the meteorites of Juvinas,
that below our peridotic rocks to which the meteorite of Chassigny so closely
approximates, there do not exist lherzolithie groups in which native iron begins
to appear; groups that is to say, similar to the meteorites of the common type:
then, going still lower, types more and more rich in iron, of which the meteorites
offer us a series of increasing density, from those in which the quantity of iron
represents nearly half the weight of the rock to the massive iron itself.

Seme facts might, perhaps, be brought to the support of these views. Thus,
platina, which its areat density had pr obably placed, at the beginning, in profound
regions, has, according to M. Engelhardt, been found associated with native iron.
At all events, this last metal is allied to iron in a proportion which exceeds 10
per 100, and which suflices to render it strongly magnetic. It may be added
that if, in the Ural, platina has never been found in “place, it is often incrusted
with chromate iron, and that it has even been met with still engaged in frag-
ments of serpentine.* By this association, therefore, this metal seems to convey
to us a new proof of the existence of magnesian rocks of the peridotic family, at
considerable depths.

- ABSENCE IN THE METEORITES OF STRATIFIED ROCKS AND OF GRANITE.

Meteorites, so analogous to certain of our rocks, differ considerably from most
of those which form the terrestrial crust.

———qK_____...

*G. Rose, Reise nach Ural, t. ii, p. 390. Be Play, Comptes Rendus de U Académie des
Sciences, 1846,

340 EXPERIMENTS RELATIVE TO METEORITES.

The most important difference consists in the fact that, in the meteorites, ”
nothing has been found which resembles the materials that constitute the strati-
fied formations—neither arenaceous rocks, nor fossiliferous rocks; that is to say,
nothing which testifies to the action of an ocean on these bodies any more than
to the presence of life.

A great difference is manifested, even when we compare the meteorites with the
terrestrial rocks not stratified. Never has there been met with in the meteorites
either granite, or gneiss, or any rocks of the same family which form, with these,
the general layer on which rest the stratified formations. We do not even
observe there any of the constituent minerals of granitic rocks—neither orthose,
nor mica, nor quartz—any more than tourmaline and other silicates which are
associates of those rocks.

Thus, the silicated rocks which form the envelope of our globe are wholly
wanting among the meteorites. It is, as has been seen above, in the deeper
regions only that we must seek the analogues of these latter; in those basie
silicated rocks which only reach us in consequence of eruptions by which they
have been expelled from their primitive repository. In every point of view, the
absence in meteorites of the whole series of rocks which constitute, to so great a
depth, the crust of the earth is a circumstance well calculated to arrest attention,
whatever may be the cause.

This absence may be explained in different ways; whether it be that the
meteoric fragments which reach us do but proceed from the internal parts of
planetary bodies constituted like our globe; or whether these planetary bodies
themselves are deficient in silicated quartziferous or acid rocks as well as in
stratified formations, In this latter case, which is the most probable, they must
have passed through evolutions less complete than the planet we inhabit ; and it
is to the co-operation of the ocean that the earth has owed, in its origin, its gran-
itic rocks, as it has owed to the same agency, at a later period, its stratified
deposits.

GENERAL OBSERVATION.

In fine, the privilege of ubiquity pertaining to peridot, as well in our deep
subjacent rocks as in the meteorites, is explained, as the preceding experiments
show, by the fact that it is in some sort the wniversal scoria.

It may be concluded from what precedes that oxygen, so essential to organic
nature, must also have played an important part in the formation of the planetary
bodies. Let us add that without oxygen we can conceive of no ocean, nor of
any of those great functions, whether superficial or profound, of which water is
the cause.

We thus touch on the foundations of the history of the globe, and draw closer
the bonds of relationship, already disclosed by the similarity of their composition,
between the parts of the universe whose nature it is given us to know.

APPENDIX.

DEVELOPMENT OF THE COLLECTION OF METEORITES OF THE MUSEUM.

For the thorough study of meteorites it was indispensable to possess a collec-
tion in which the descents which have occurred in different countries should be
represented in as complete a manner as possible, and in which they might be
examined and compared with one another. For this reason it is proper to say a
few words on the development of the principal collection of France.
EXPERIMENTS RELATIVE TO METEORITES. 341

Specimens of divers meteoric descents had already been annexed to the museum.
With a view of developing this rising collection, I made an appeal, which has
been heard in Europe and in different other regions of the globe, by numerous
persons desirous of promoting science. In 1861 the specimens, representing 53
falls, amounted in number to 86, weighing altogether 691 kilograms. On the
30th of March, 1868, at which time a new and detailed catalogue was published,
the number of falls represented, embracing the discoveries of meteorites of incon-
testable origin but unascertained date, was 203; the number of the specimens
exceeded 550, and formed a weight of 1,682 kilograms.

This collection, arranged at first in chronological order, has recently been
classified methodically, in conformity with the principles of classification given
above.
CATALOGUE OF METEORITES IN THE MINERALOGICAL COLLECTION OF

YALE COLLEGE.

Stony meteorites.

See eee eee eee eee nese ee aera ee aca ee a eee eee es
: : : Weight in
S Time of fall. Locality. prams
Ae NOVvea bao? cae ae oc E\ngisheith) Mrancets: Sducsiiese oso 2 Joes. iss *28
2") Men 131798 2 a2)5. <5. Benaress (bmi) escheat oes napa a whegl et ee hlia 1
3 | Apr: 26, 1803_.. 2. . L’Aigle, France... 22. oo oan wow ems eee meinen 902
TA Dee T41807L2 7. 33.8 Weston) Connecticut. 222 222+ => eaeees oweees ae *17, 300
SHA LOASOSessacess Borgo San Donino, (Parma, ) Italy.----.--.----. 10
6 | May 22,1808.......- Stannern: |) Morayvialie os. 22uecec eee cece. fia)
BO ENOVs 20,1610 saesecae Charsonville, France..---- -- OES ee a ese 9
Saeduly) Svloll sic. Berlanguillas, Spain .-.--..-22--.2---- 2 ---- -- 14
82) Apr. Lo, 1elge 2220222 Erxleben, Prussia..---..-.--- Hilo selene toe 13
9) Aue. b ABI Zee 52 S22 Chantonnay,Brancetseseseellee soc sceee Ress *42
104) Pebwil5s18l4e2 55 25-7. Bachmut:ARUssia ace acieeccceectc acess emacce= 2
| Mebs 1etsib=s: sses- Durala, lndigeusesecisascae scee eet s toma sieisnae bel 3
12) Ado 1OMSISec see e: Slobodka, Russia........22-- -----. ----2------> 2
Lune Ts 1819-2. 2=2 55 Jonzach sPrancess eee ee ecieet esietuewccecese 2
TAMINov..00;1822). 222% = Futtehpur, (Allahabad, ) India...-...-----.----- 36
15 1899-793 0222) Umballa: windiag se ere ee ie cine elaine 1
IG" Heb. 1018252225 0.52 Nanjemoy, Maryland..-.--.- ere eae widths tie cre 897
17 Sept. 1451825. 225 222 Honolulu, Sandwich islands...--. .-.--...----- *617
18h) May ) 981827. <2) -eae Nashville, (Drake Creek, ) Tennessee.-.----.---- 425
19 |, June 4, 1828.22.52... Richmond; Virginia ict 2) Solos coe oe cipcieeien ne *311
203) May 618208 once ce « Forsyth, Georgia. ...0- secccs socees enennsecccee 141
217) July Lehisol ss yon. Wouillé, \HramGene sce ess oo ose leteimlminle 5
Oh Apr. LeNlessecec Lose “Akburpur, Indias.--.. 0222.2 .c0--- es ---------- I
237 June (6, 28382eere-s Chandakapoor, India......---...-------------- 4i
SA Och osless see ss Cold-Bokkeweld» Africa ic secs. 2 2. cee occas 143
25) Heb. WS 1S802225 2-5. Pine Bluff, (Little Piney, ) Missouri...----..----- 24
26) June 12; 184d 25-25. Ohatesu-Renard: Prance ses 2 otsce coo coc ca eew= 91
7") June. 2, 18s3 sees sc2 Uirecht Holland ceeeeto eee eae ccs sean ee 4
28 | Mar. 25, 1843......-- Bishopville, South Carolina ..---.---.---------- 213
QON May, GN S46-2 es e=5 Maceratas italy iwe is steeate sais (<cisiw'e oialemcicinm ee 3
30 | Feb. 25, 1847......-. Linn county, lowa.----.---------------------- *651
SIP Oct. oLwlS4g ees wees Cabarras county, (Charlotte, ) North Carolina .-.- 231
32 | Nov. 30, 1850.....-.. Shalka, Bengal...--...----------- +--+ 22-2 1
33° | Apr. 17, 1edt.22.-22 Gutersloh, Westphalia...-...------------------ 4
345) Jans 22858 ee eee Yatoor, (Nellore,) India .---..----..----------- ®A7
35 | Sept. 4,1852..-...-. Mezo6 Madaras, Hungary---.----.-------------- 20
36 | Mar. 6, 1853_-..--.- Seegowlee, Bengal...--...---------- -+-------- 46
37. | May 13; 185522522255 Island of Oesel, Livonia----.-.---------------- 6
SBul Heb. QBeTeb7 22k Sec e iParvalleos Windia fee se osee soles omeck wis Memiaia mee 2,371
SO Mar26 1859 2c2eces Harrison county, Kentucky -------------------- 7
407) May 4; 18602.- 222. New Concord, (Guernsey county, ) Ohio---.----- 7, 000
Aj) May 12) 1869! sooo. Qutahar Bazaar, India...--..----.------------ 92
aon oune: 2.863 222-22 Buschof Russia soe eos oe Soo cee ieie cine a 22
ASMPATION (SuleGSae = cask Pillister, Russia (i ooo. . 22 See ecco ec cieece cscs *16
44 | Aug. 12, 1864....-..- Nerft; Russia.-J0s...s556 lo ece seeeen cine meee 48
AS ian, GO tTSOSs=s clas, Pultusk, Poland <2 s2- 2 ccs Isa ie lwene wen sini *360
46. | Dec. | 5; 1668>..-.-.. Frankfort, (Franklin county, ) Alabama ---..-..-

DAA S ww | No.

>
oO

CATALOGUE OF METEORITES.

Time of fall.

1751, May 26.......
1751

ee es

1801

1814
1814, (1815)
2 ee

er ee

Tron meteorites.

(With date of discovery or description.)

Locality.

Hraschina, (Agram,) Austria......-...---.-----
Steinbach, Saxony
| Krasnojarsk, (Pallas-iron, ) Siberia
Xiquipileo, (Toluca,) Mexico... <2. 6.6 .2cesjes--
Cape of Good Hope, South Africa
Red river, Texas
Elbogen, Bohemia
Ley gaye Ds Sree saee one. Oo Coe SOC OOsOS Ooce
Dugnanto wAun sary ne npc sdce oe. - o=- a= Sess
Lockport, (Cambria, ) New York.........--..-.-
Burlington, (Otsego county,) New York....-....-
Guilford county, North Carolina...-...----..---
Atacama
Bohumilitz, Bohemia
Claiborne county, Alabama..--..-.-------------
Putnam county, Georgia
Cocke county, (Sevier, ) Tennessee
Arva, (Szlanieza,) Hungary
Scriba, (Oswego county, ) New York..--.-...---.
Asheville, (Black Mount.,) North Carolina
De Kalb county, (Caryfort, ) Tennessee
St. Augustine’s bay, Madagascar-....----.------
Walker county, Alabama
Carthage, (Smith county, ) Tennessee....-.-..-.-
Heelaspen; Prussiayjossccesesine si saesi'= BCC Onts
Pittsburg, Pennsylvania
Chesterville, (Chester county, ) South Carolina.-..
SChyw6tz, MerussiGiye ss so see Se cemsiecs wos sees
SaltimiversWenimekaya-ee seas erencnccciosbeee
Ruff’s mountain, (Lexington co.,) North Carolina.
Seneca river, New York
Niokarmak,, West Greenland... - -. --.-<- s=-<--
Lion river, South Africa
Tazewell, (Claiborne county,) Tennessee
Madoc;\Canada, Westatien ase saeco oct 35 topeke
Octibbeha county, Mississippi...---.-.----------
Mucson AVIZONA® ane aes sae scien Seis cc's aisjwia Sie
Hainholz, Westphalia...... ...-.-2-----000-----
Orange river, South Africa
Nelson county, Kentucky
Madison county, North Carolina.....-..----.---
Denton county VOXAas pen asisistjs cea csonicm oie
Fort St. Pierre
Newstead scotland|s. set s case aweccsaccsucdneee
Robertson county, Tennessee....-....---- -2+---
Colorado river, near La Paz
Southesat Missoula macsencpemineacicises sominiwas

a

i

ee

i

Near Chihtahua, Mexicosssse cues ck enc wna coe’
Mexico, (Poinsett meteorite)
Columbia, South America
ATIZONG, (TON) ANG OLVING )pcacant-nsede sss ss
Colorado Lemitonyee ce c-cialssaiceccer ccc cmaini= a=
Franklin county, Kentucky
Russell’s Gulch, Colorado
SES HEUTE sl (CLUS) eerie tte 305 a,c aojan ei mpeince ect nletinm

ee

243

Weight in
grams.

*12
740, 000
8

The total number of stone falls represented is 47, of which the largest speci-
men in the collection is one which fell at Weston, Connecticut, December 14,
1807, weighing 364 pounds, (164 kilos.) The number of iron localities is 56; the
244 CATALOGUE OF METEORITES.

largest iron meteorite is that from the Red river, in Texas, found in 1808, weigh-
ing 1,635 pounds, (740 kilos.) The collection also contains several specimens
not enumerated in the catalogue of questionable meteoric origin, such as the
silicate from Concord, New Hampshire, the iron from Hommoney creek, and
others. The so-called native iron of Canaan, Connecticut, long since shown to
be a farnace product, is also preserved in the museum.

Tt is desired to increase the number of specimens and localities represented in
this collection, and for this purpose persons having knowledge of specimens or
facts connected therewith are solicited to communicate with Professor H. A.
Newton or Professor G. J. Brush, who are specially interested in the investiga-
tion of the astronomical, chemical, and mineralogical relations of these interest-
ing bodies. Specimens marked with an asterisk are in duplicate.

GEO. J. BRUSH,
Curator of the Mineralogical Collection of Yale College.

Yate CoLuece, New Haven, CONN.,
March 1, 1869.
OBSERVATIONS ON THE ELECTRIC RESONANCE (BOURDONNEMENT)
OF MOUNTAINS.*

By M. HENRI DE SAUSSURE.

[ Translated for the Smithsonian Institution. ]

Leaving Saint-Moritz (Grisons) June 22, 1865, I made an ascension of the
Piz Surley, a mountain composed of crystalline rocks, whose summit, more or
less conic, attains an altitude of 3,200 meters.

During the previous days the north wind had constantly prevailed; on the
22d the wind became variable, and the sky was charged with floating clouds.
Towards midday these vapors augmented and gathered in masses above the
highest summits, sustaining themselves, however, at such an elevation as not to
veil most of the spires and peaks of the Engadine, on which fell soon some local
showers. ‘Their aspect of powdery vapors, semi-transparent, caused us to take
them for mere squalls of snow or sleet.

In effect, towards one in the afternoon, we were ourselves assailed by a fine
and thin sleet, at the same time that similar squalls enveloped most of the spires of
rock, suck as the Piz Ot, Piz Julier, Piz Langard, &c., and the snowy summits
of the Bernina, while a voilent fall of rain descended on the valley of Saint-
Moritz.

The cold increased, and half an hour later, when we had arrived at the top of
the Piz Surley, the fall of sleet becoming more abundant, we disposed ourselves
to take a repast, and leaned our staves against a small pyramid of dry stones
which crowns the summit of the mountain. Almost at the same instant I expe-
rienced in the back, at the left shoulder, a piercing pain, like that which would
be produced by a pin slowly driven into the flesh, and when I applied the hand
to the place without finding anything there, similar pain was felt in the
right shoulder. Supposing that my linen overcoat contained pins, I threw it
off; but, far from finding relief, I perceived that the pains augmented, invading
the whole back from shoulder to shoulder; they were accompanied by tickling,
by distressing twinges, such as would be produced by a wasp which was creep-
ing over the skin and piercing me with stings. Hastily removing my second
coat, I discovered nothing of a nature to wound the flesh. ‘The pain, which
still continued, then assumed the character of a burn. Without reflecting, I
imagined that my woolen shirt, though I could not tell how, had taken fire, and
I was going to throw off the rest of my apparel, when our attention was attracted
by a noise which resembled the humming of large insects. ‘This proceeded from
vur three staves, which, inclined against the rock, were chanting loudly, giving
out a whistling sound analogous to that of a kettle, the water of which is on the
point of entering into ebullition. All this may have occupied four or five minutes.

I comprehended, on the instant, that my painful sensations proceeded from an
intense electrical efflux which was taking place from the summit of the mountain,
Some extemporized experiments on our staves yielded no appearance of any

Fournet, who has introduced them in his notices on Electric Regions, published in the
Comptes Rendus de l’ Académie des Sciences, tome xliv, 1867. We give them here with some
modifications and cousidered in a more special point of view.
346 ELECTRIC RESONANCE OF MOUNTAINS.

and gave a very distinct sound ; whether held in a vertical position, with the iron
point above or below, cr in a horizontal one, the vibrations remained the same,
but no sound escaped from the surface of the ground.

The sky had become gray over its whole extent, although unequally charged
with clouds. Some minutes afterwards I felt the hairs of my head and face
. stand on end, imparting a sensation analogous to that of a razor passed when dry
through a stiff beard. A young Frenchman, who accompanied me, exclaimed
that he felt a sensation in every particular hair of his incipient moustache, and that
strong currents were issuing from the tips of his ears. On lifting my hand I
felt currents quite as distinctly escaping from my fingers. In short, a strong
electricity was flowing from staves, clothes, ears, hair, and from all the salient
parts of our bodies.

A single explosion of thunder was now heard towards the west in the distance.
We quitted the peak of the mountain with some precipitation, and descended
about 100 meters. In proportion as we proceeded our staves vibrated less and
less strongly, and we stopped when their sound had become so feeble as to be
no longer perceptible except on bringing them close to the ear. The pain in the
back had ceased with the first steps of the descent, but I still retained a certain
vague impression of it.

‘en minutes after the first, a second reverberation of thunder was heard to the
west at a great distance, and these were all. No lightning was seen. Half an
hour after we had left the summit the sleet had ceased, the clouds broke away,
and at 30 minutes after two we again reached the topmost point of the Piz
Surley, there to find sunshine.

We judged that the same phenomenon must have been produced on all the
peaks formed by projecting rocks, for all, like that which we occupied, were
enveloped in whirls of sleet, while no condensation showed itself in the rest of
the sky; and the great snowy summits of the Bernina, to which clung groups of
clouds, seemed also exempt from it. But, the same day, a violent storm burst
upon the Bernese Alps, where an English lady was struck by lightning. On
the horizon, divers peaks, especially the sharpest, such as the Piz Ot and the
Piz Languard, continued to be enveloped by sleety whirls, even when the sky
had everywhere begun to grow blue.

Thad been the witness of another case of the efflux of electricity from the summit
of mountains when I visited, some years ago, the Nevado de 'Toluca, in Mexico;
but there the phenomenon had still more intensity, as might be expected, since
it occurred under the tropics, at an altitude of about 4,500 meters. I may be
allowed to cite here what I have elsewhere said of it.*

In the month.of August, 1856, I made, with M. Peyrot, the ascent of the
Nevado de Toluca; it was in the midst of the rainy season, and there was some
degree of imprudence in attempting the expedition at that time. We attained
the summit without any menacing appearance of the skies, though cumuli were
to be seen here and there, and from time to time fogs settled on the needles of
rocks which spring aloft from the crest of the mountain. We rested on tho
border of the crater to recover our strength and enjoy for a moment the grand
spectacle which unfolded itself at our feet. From the height of the edge the
eye plunged into that immense amphitheater, whose focus, long extinct, is now
occupied by two small lakes, towards which we were preparing to descend. A
cold and disagreeable wind arose from this gulf, and, while we were taking a
slight repast, we saw a thick cloud penetrate into the crater by its southeast
notch and ascend towards us, eddying around the walls of the amphitheater,
Presently we were enveloped in a glacial fog. Surprised by this threatening
symptom, we saw that we had not an instant to lose if we wished to visit the
erater, and I commenced clambering down over the rubbish which leads to the

* Coup d’eil sur Vhydrologic du Mexique, 1 part, (note. A)
ELECTRIC RESONANCE OF MOUNTAINS. 347

bottom of the abyss. But scarcely had I reached half way when the storm,
bursting forth with astonishing suddenness, obliged me to reascend as soon as
possible towards the point I had left.

There was at first a fine rain, then small hail, driven by a violent wind. In
a moment the mountain became white and the cold intense. The bursts of
thunder, at first interrupted, soon seemed to roll without cessation and with fearful
crashes, especially when they issued from the circuit of the crater, into which
darted, at frequent intervals, flashes of lightning. Without shelter in the midst
of these naked rocks, without even a block behind which to cower, nothing
remained for usbut to sit down on the earth with backs turned tothe hail. After
the lapse of some time the cold became insupportable, and the dread with which
the tempest had inspired us drove us from the summit, though our observations
were unfinished. While we descended rapidly the rocks of the Nevado, rain
for an instant succeeded the hail, and as we coasted a smail stony ravine,* formed
by ancient outcrops of trachyte, and where the vegetation of shrubs commences,
the storm seemed momentarily to subside. 'The thunder ceased or drew off to a
distance, but we presently saw a grayish cloud advance, which enveloped us
during its passage, and was accompanied with sleet. Immediately the hair of our
Indian attendants was observed to be in agitation as if about to stand erect, and
we experienced various electrical sensations in the beard and ears. Next a dull,
undefinable noise was heard, at first feeble though general, but presently stronger
and perfectly distinct. There was a universal crepitation, as though the small
stones of the whole mountain were clashing against one another. Our terrified
Indians gave free vent to their superstition in words, and it cannot be denied
that there was something disquieting in the sounds which then prevailed in the
mountain, ‘l'his phenomenon lasted five or six minutes, and then the rain and
thunder again commenced in full force. The storm became more supportable
when we had descended to the upper limit of the forests, although one of those
diluvial rains was falling which characterize the hot season under the tropics.

M. F, Craveri, an Italian physicist, settled at Mexico, who, before myself, had
made an ascent of the Nevado de ‘Toluca at the commencement of the rainy
season, recounted to me that he had been a witness of the same facts, which he
could not recall without an impression of terror. ‘The electric state was still
more violent. The traveler in question ascended the mountain May 19, 1845,
by the southeast side, starting fiom Tenango, and descended by the northwest
slope to Toluca. The southwest side was at that season destitute of snow. The
electric phenomenon was suddenly brought on by a cloud arriving from the west,
and which had perhaps taken its rise on the fields of snow of that side. Scarcely
were the travelers enveloped in it when they experienced the sensation which
electricity produces, and this was almost immediately followed by a dull noise.
They felt irregular currents of electricity at all their extremities, the fingers, the
ears, the nose. ‘Lhe fear which seized them in the midst of these lofty solitudes
impelled them at once to commence their descent at a precipitate pace. ‘The
thunder did not yet resound, but at the end of five minutes there fell a snow
resembling rice, and the cloud communicating its electricity to the ground, the same
noise arose therefrom which I have indicated above. ‘This noise was very intense
and seemed general in all the mountain. ‘lhe long hair of the Indians became
stiff and erect, giving to their heads an enormous magnitude. ‘The sight of this
phenomenon added to the panic terrors of the excursionists, who had counted upon
finding nothing but pleasure in the adventure.

The very singular noise which makes itself heard in the rocks of the mountains
at the moment of the electric phenomenon deserves to be studied by competent
physicists. It resembles the rattling sound which pebbles would produce if

* For greater precision I have moglified this passage, having written in my tormer notice:
‘“as we followed a stony valley.” There-was, in fact, but a slight depression of the soil,
whence the word ‘‘ valley” says too much and might be ‘misunderstood.
348 ELECTRIC RESONANCE OF MOUNTAINS.

struck against one another on being alternately attracted and repelled by elec-
tricity ; but it appears to me to proceed unquestionably from a sort of crepitation or
crackling of electricity escaping through the asperities of the stony surface.

A third observation of the same kind we owe to M. Craveri, who was sur-
prised by the same meteor near the summit of Popocatepetl, September 15, 1855,
with this difference, that the incident taking place on fields of snow, the noise
of the crepitation of the ground was not produced.

The following are the analogous facts which have come to my knowledge :

In 1767 H. B. de Saussure visited the top of the Brevent in company with
Pictet and Jalabert.* The travelers were there directly electrified to such an
extent that on stretching out their hands they experienced prickings at the end
of the fingers; the electricity escaped from them with a kind of thrilling sensation.
Sparks, it was found, might be drawn from the button of a gold band which
surrounded one of their hats, and also from the iron end of a mountain staff.
These effects were attributed to a great storm-cloud which occupied the middle
region of Mont Blanc, and which gradually extended itself above the Brevent.
At a dozen toises below the top of that mountain the electricity was no longer
perceived. ‘The storm raged around Mont Blanc, but on the Brevent there fell
only a light rain of short duration, and then the disturbance was dissipated.
From this recital it is easy to see that the storm did not prevail upon the Brevent
at the moment of the observation, since there was no rain falling; but that, at
this point, the electricity discharged itself in a continuous current by the summit
of the mountain.

In 1863, M. Spence Watson, visiting, with some guides the Col de la Jung-
frau, was overtaken by a hurricane, attended with hail and snow. ‘The staves
commenced their peculiar chant ; the expeditionists experienced sensations of
heat in different parts of their bodies,t especially the head, and the hair stood
erect ; a guide took off his hat, exclaiming that his head was burning; a veil
was kept stiff and straight in the air. Electric currents, at the same time,
escaped at the ends of the fingers. Claps of thunder (in the distance, for no
lightning was seen) for an instant interrupted the phenomenon. Finally, shocks
were felt, and M. Watson had the right arm paralyzed for some minutes. This
arm continued for several hours to be the seat of acute pains.t During this
time the snow fell whistling like hail.§ But what is most remarkable was the
emission of a noise by the snow, a crackling similar to that of a brisk shower
of hail, evidently the analogue of that which the ground of the Nevado de Toluca
emitted in the observation above described. The phenomenon lasted 25 minutes.
It had no unpleasant consequence, except a burning in the faces of the travelers
as if they had been exposed to the sun on the snow.

M. Forbes, while crossing by St. 'Theodule, heard the chant of the staves, and,
in July, 1856, M. Alizier, of Geneva, witnessed the same phenomenon near the
summit of the Oldenhorn, when the sky was overcast anda storm was imminent,
which burst forth an hour afterwards and was mingled with hail.|| We will not
speak of the storm during which Colonel Buchwalder and his aid were struck by
lightning on the Sentis. for there the phenomenon was of a different order and
falls rather within the category of the thunderbolt.

But the nocturnal illumination of rocks pertains probably to the phenomenon
of electric efflux from culminant peaks. M. Fournet cites, on this subject, the
striking luminosity of the rocks of the Grands-Mulets (Mont Blanc), observed
by M. Blackwall, on the night of August 11, 1854, and which was accompanied

* Voyage dans les Alpes, tome ii.

t This sensation of heat seems to me to be of the same kind with the pain which I expe-
rienced in the back.

{ Alpine Journal, September, 1863.

§ Probably snow resembling rice, a sleety shower.

| See the note of M. C. M. Briquet, (Echo des Alpes, 1865, No. 4.) Sur les phénomenes
électriques qui accompagnent les orages ad des grandes altitudes, where these observations are
collected and compared. Geneva, 18065.
ELECTRIC RESONANCE OF MOUNTAINS. 349

by sparks. On the other hand, the phenomenon of electricity displayed on the
lakes, and on the very dry plains of elevated plateanx, does not seem to me of
the same nature. Finally, the surprising fact of the so-called galloping elec-
tricity, coursing over prairies, observed by M. Quiquerez, near Courtamon, may
be reearded as a variety of lightning; a miniature lightning, resulting from
the fact that the electrified cloud was grazing the earth and dischar eed itself
over the whole surface by a thousand sparks, which were seen to run along the
ground. It is probable that these phenomena should be divided into several
categories, the causes of which are not identical. Some proceed from a static
tension, others from a series of discharges having a certain analogy to lightning.

The phenomenon of the chant of batons or staves, in other words, the reson-
ance or bourdonnement ot the soil, constitutes still another species. It has been
observed only en the summit of mountains or of culminant peaks; never, as far
as I know, on plains or at the bottom of valleys. It supposes a continuous
dynami¢ action, or an efflux of the fluid towards ‘the clouds by the most salient
terrestrial conductors, sensibly different from static tensions and abrupt discharges.

If we collate the observations which have been above indicated, we shall ‘dis-
tinguish therein several common features:

lst. The efflux of electricity by the culminant rocks of mountains is produced
under a clouded sky, charged with low clouds, enveloping the summits or passing
at a small distance above them, but without the occurrence of electric discharges
above the place whence the continuous efflux is proceeding. It would seem,
therefore, that when this efflux takes place, it sufficiently relieves the electric
tension to prevent lightning from being formed.

2d. In all the cases observed, the summit of the mountain was enveloped by a
shower of hail or sleet, which leads to the supposition that the continuous efflux
of electricity from the ground towards the clouds is not unconnected with the
formation of the vapor and probably also with that of the hail.

At the Piz Surley and at the Nevado de Toluca there fell a sleet or snow
resembling rice, and at the pass of the Jungfrau the snow fell whistling like hail,
which seems to indicate that it was rather sleet which was falling than snow.

Doubtless we should take into account the higher temperature of the valleys,
where the hail, proceeding to melt, turns into rain; but still we do not think that
in the particular cases which we have just indicated the phenomenon of rain
falling in the valley and that of the sleet of the isolated mountain peaks relate
to a condensation taking place in accordance with identical laws through the
whole extent of the sky. Thus, in particular, during the observation of June
22, 1865, I saw on the horizon all the spires of rocks, although isolated and far
remote from one another, enveloped by a powdery sleet which continued for a
long time, while in the rest of the sky all condensation had ceased, and in the
valley there fell a copious shower of rain, but of very short duration.

Moreover, the phenomenon which passed around the summits of the rocks was
quite different from that which deluged the valleys. Around these lofty pyra-
mids there were columns of a fine sleet of great rarity; in the valley a heavy
and drenching rain, such as the thin sleet of the summits would not have pro-
duced had it been converted into water. Around the elevated projections,
therefore, by which the electricity was flowing off, the condensation presented
the special character of being little abundant, powdery (fine sleet), and more
persistent than in the rest of ‘the sky.

The eleetric phenomenon which has been described, and which we term the
electric resonance of the mountains, seems not to be rare in high regions, without,
however, being very frequent. Among the guides and hunters whom I have
interrogated on the subject, some had never observed it; others had heard it but
once or twice in their lives. But it is proper to add that it is precisely on those
days when menacing skies repel adventurers from the highest altitudes that the
phenomenon manifests itself.
EXPERIMENTS ON ANEROID BAROMETERS MADE AT THE KEW
OBSERVATORY.

By B. STEwarT, LL. D., F. BR. S.

(From the Proceedings of the Royal Society, London.)

{The frequent use of the aneroid barometer in meteorological observations and in topo-
graphical surveys in this country will render the foltowing paper from the proceedings of the
Royal Society of London interesting to many of the readers of the Smithsonian Report.—J. H.}

In judging of the value of an instrument, says the report, such as an aneroid,
it is not the mere extent of difference between its indications and those of a
standard barometer that ought to guide us; but it is rather the constancy of its
indications under the various circumstances to which it may be subjected, that
determines its value. An aneroid may differ from a standard barometer at the
ordinary pressure, and to a greater extent at other pressures; but provided these
differences can be well ascertained and remain constant, such an instrument ought
te be regarded as valuable, just as much as a chronometer of known constancy,
but of which the rate is wrong.

The circumstances which may be supposed to affect the indications of an aneroid
may be classed under three heads, namely :

. Time.

Temperature.

Sudden variations of pressure.

. Time.—As to the influence of time, no definite experiments were made.

. Temperature—A good aneroid is generally compensated by its maker for
the effects of temperature, and the question to be investigated is, to what extent
such compensaticns are trustworthy. I record the results of subjecting six ane-
roids, each four and one-half inches in diameter, made by two different makers,
to a very considerable range of temperature.

Wr owe

Correction at

No. of instrument.
55° F. | 729 F. | 78° F. | 88° F. | 100° F.

2..--- o Been teen e cee w ee womens wnineee cane DOB ee SS lie Olle NAS, Ni MAS,
5 ee eee Sistine siete Sainte tetas ==. 055. O90 4) i095 he 09a. —— 00
4...--.----- once eee eee ene were weee —.095 | —.095 | —.095 | —.080°| —.060
D2 2 ee eee nnn eee ene eee eee eee ee eee eee —.106 | —.106' | —.111-} 111}
6.-- 2-2 oo 2-22 eee eee eee eee eee eee =, 101.) S272 fd) 106s). 06
T anna e wn enee one oeeee cece ee eee eee eee- —.061 | —.061 | —.061 | —.061 | —.031

These results are, on the whole, very satisfactory, and appear to show that a
well-made compensated instrument has its indications comparatively little affected
by a very considerable temperature change. It ought always to be borne in mind
that an aneroid is not capable of being read to the same accuracy as a standard
barometer, and that the 1-100th of an inch is a very small quantity. ‘These
temperature experiments were made at the ordinary atmospheric pressure. I am
unable to say what effect a change of temperature would have at a diminished
pressure.
EXPERIMENTS ON ANEROID BAROMETERS S51
3. Sudden changes of pressure.—F or the purpose of investigating the influence
of sudden changes of pressure upon the indications of aneroids, I applied to some
of the best-known makers of these instruments for the loan of several, and through
their courtesy in lending me a suflicient number, and for a sufficiently long time,
I have been enabled to investigate this influence at some length. In the fol-
lowing experiments the instruments were, to begin with, suspended vertically, at
the usual atmospheric pressure. ‘They were tapped before beg read. ‘The pres-
sure was then lowered an inch, and the instrument allowed to remain 10 minutes
at this pressure before being read, after having been again well tapped. ‘The
pressure was thus reduced an inch every time, being allowed to remain 10 minutes
at each stage; the instrument was always well tapped before being read, by
means of an arrangement contrived for this purpese by Mr. R. Beckley. The
exhaustion was carried downwards to 19 inches, and the instrument was allowed
to remain an hour anda half at its lowest pressure; the air was then admitted an
inch at a time, the previous arrangement as to time and tapping being followed.
Separating the results of the experiments into two sets, one comprising large
(four inch to four and a half inch) aneroids, and the other small instruments, we
find the mean down correction to be as follows, each aneroid being supposed
right at 29 inches:

29 in. | 28 in, ‘97 in. | 26 in. | 25 in. | 24 in, | 23 in, | 22 in. | 21 in. 20 in.| 19 in,

pda) (i |: SR eels Stl tel Sh ee ek ae ae .00 .00 | +.02

WONGM oso 'c ct piel s ate can etal sias .00 +.01 | +.02

+.03 | +.04 | +.04 | +.07| +.11 | +.14] -+.19] +.25

+.03.} +.07 | +.07 ‘page +) 323 +.25

We see from these results, says Dr. Stewart, that if aneroids, right to begin
with, be subjected to a decrease of pressure similar to that to which they were
subjected in these experiments—

1. That a well-constructed large aneroid will not go far wrong down to 24
inches, but after that pressure its reading will be considerably lower than that
of astandard barometer, so that a large positive correction will have to be applied.

2. That small aneroids are less trustworthy than large ones, and probably
cannot be trusted below 26 inches.

3. That if previous experiments are made upon an ancroid, we are enabled
by this means to obtain a table of corrections which, when applied to future
observations with the same instrument, will most probably present us with a much
better result than had we not verified our instrument at all, and that by this
means Wwe may use our instrument down to 19 inches with very good results.

Readings of these instruments under increasing pressure, after remaining an
hour and a half at the lowest reading, were recorded.

The mean corrections for up readings are exhibited in the following table,
each aneroid being supposed right at 19 inches:

|

For two large aneroids....}| .00] +.03] +.03| +.03] +.03] +.02 | +.01 .00 | —.03 | —.06 | —.08 | —.11
For four small aneroids....| .00 00 rae! | 02 —.01 |} —.01 | —.02 | —.04 | —.07 male —.16

~
19 in. | 20 in. | 21 in. [22 in. | 23 in. | 24 in. | 25 in. | 26 in. | 27 in. | 28 in. 29 in, | 30 in.

We may learn from these results, says Dr. Stewart, that if aneroids which have
been subjected for at least one hour anda half to the lowest pressures which they
register, have the pressure increased by means of the gradual introduction of air
into the receiver, after the manner already described—

1. That a well-constructed large aneroid will not go far wrong for about 8 inches
above the lowest pressure.
352 MADE AT THE KEW OBSERVATORY.

2. That in this respect small aneroids are somewhat less trustworthy than large
ones.

3. That if the instrument read be previously tested and its corrections ascer-
tained, we may consider it trustworthy (making use ef these corrections) for up
readings throughout a greater range than if it had not been so tested.

I come now to consider whether a rapid change of pressure affects an aneroid
after the experiment has been completed.

The following table will exhibit the results obtained in this direction :

Aneroid No.

Correction before.expeniments— oe joe ames mins wel lnjnloin ine n\n) = sie im wieinininie —.10 | —.12 | —.12| —.04 | —.05
Immediately after experiment......-....- 2.22222 222 .see-e- => Ratatat eta =e -00 | +-.03 | +.06| +.06| -+.04
Bighteen/hours/after/experiment’: oi): <\si/- 22 Fo seas eee ssc cl- oa mie ainimiafe s = —.07 | —.03 |....-- —.01| +.0L
Forty-eight hours after experiment ---| —.08 | —.04.| —.03 |.-.---].- ass
Three'days after experiment:. -22 5/25. 02.5 ose. oselew ces ---| —.08 | —.05 |..-.-. —.01) —.01
Three weeks after experiment.......----.-.-.---------- --| —.13 | —.10 | —.11 | —.07 | —.06

It thus appears that if an instrument reads correctly before it is put into the
receiver it will read too low immediately afterwards, and that it may be some
considerable time before it recovers its previous reading. ‘The instrument cannot,
therefore, be safely trusted for absolute determinations if it has been recently
exposed to rapid changes of pressure.

The experiments hitherto recorded, in which an inch of pressure has been taken
away or added every 10 minutes, are perhaps analogous to ascents in a balloon,
or descents from a mountain; they are not, however, precisely analogous to moun-
tain ascents, since a longer time than 10 minutes is usually taken to produce a
change of pressure equal to one inch.

At the suggestion of Mr. Charles Brooke, a couple of aneroids were tested in
April, 1868, ‘with the view of rendering the experiment more analogous to a
mountain ascent.

The pressure was reduced by half aw inch at a time, and at intervals of 30
minutes, the aneroids being w ell tapped.

The following corrections were obtained for down readings, (instruments sup-
posed right at 30 inches :)

At No. 8. No. 9. | At No. 8. No. 9.
Inches. Inches.

30 0U .00 24 +.05 —.01
29.5 00 —.03 Q'S -+-.08 —.02
29 .00 —.04 23 +.11 —.03
28.5 -00 —.03 22.5 +.12 —.01
28 .00 a +.14 .00
27.5 -00 —.02 PAlliS +.16 +.02
Q7 De Nis lke aie SE 21 +.17 -+-.04
26.5 -00 —.02 20.5 +.20 +.06
26 +.01 —.02 20 +.22 +.07
25.5 +.04 —.02 19.5 +.25 -++.09
25 +.05 —.04 19 +.27 +11
24.5 -+.06 —.02

These results, when compared with the previous determinations for these same
instruments, would seem to show that a somewhat better result is obtained when
the exhaustion is carried on more slowly, and hence that the corrections depend,
to a considerable extent, on the nature of the treatment received.
EXPERIMENTS ON ANEROID BAROMETERS, ETC. 3538

From all these experiments, Dr. Stewart concludes as follows :

A good aneroid of large size may be corrected for temperature by an optician,
sv that the residual correction shall be very small.

If an aneroid, correct to commence with, be used for a balloon or mountain
ascent, it will be tolerably correct for a decrease of about six inches of pressure.

A large aneroid is more likely to be correct than a small one.

The range of correctness of an instrument used for mountain ascents may be
increased by a previous verification, a table of corrections being thus obtained.

If an aneroid has remained some time at the top of a mountain, and be sup-
posed correct to start with, then it will give good results for about eight inches
of inerease of pressure.

A large aneroid is more likely to be correct than a small one

If the aneroid has been previously verified, it is likely to give a better result.

After being subjected to sudden changes of pressure, the zero of an aneroid
gradially changes, so that under such circumstances it ought only to be used as
a differential and not as an absolute instrument, that is to say, used to determine
the distance ascended, making it correct to begin with, or to ascertain the dis-
tance descended, making it correct to begin with, it being understood that the
instrument ought to be quiescent for some time before the change of pressure is
made.

[I have subjected many aneroids to the test of a sudden diminution of pressure
under the receivers of an air-pump, but have never found one of which the index
would return to the same point when the original pressure was restored. I have
not, however, had recourse to tapping, which Mr. Stewart has found essential.
The instrument in its present condition cannot be relied on to indicate absolute
pressure, though it may be used in many cases with good effect in determining
differences of pressure of limited extent.—J. H.]

238
ANNIVERSARY ADDRESS.

OF THE

PRESIDENT OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY OF VICTORIA.

By R. L. J. ELLERY.*

GENTLEMEN OF THE Roya Society or Victorta: For the third time it
devolves upon me as your President to deliver the annual address on this occasion,
inaugurating ovr 13th session.

The honor you have thus conferred upon me was, I confess, an unexpected
one; I beg, how ever, to assure you most earnestly thatI am fully sensible of the
distinction implied in your trust, and no less of the responsibility which it entails.

On similar occasions it has been our custom to review the society’s operations
during the previous session, touching, also, on the scientific progress of our public
scientific institutions during the past year. Adopting our usual plan, I now pro-
pose to briefly review, first, the contributions laid before you at your various
meetings during your last session, following this by a general survey of the year’s
history “of our scientific departments, and concluding with a brief notice of one or
twoof the moresalient points of scientific discovery belongi ing to the year 1867; for
the scientific imstitutions of the colony derive so much streneth and direction from
the work done at the older centres of learning that no review of our progress is,
I conceive, adequately represented without some reference to the general progress
of human knowledge.

If, in referring to the work of our past session, I appear to dwell unduly upon
some of the subjects which have occupied your attention, I ask you to follow me
in regarding them as of more than usual interest and importance, and on that
account claiming a more detailed consideration.

During our last session we held 11 ordinary meetings. The papers and the
discussions following the reading of them were generally of great interest and
importance, doubtless aiding us in our advance in the departments of knowledge
to which they belong. By the indefatigable zeal of neue honorary secretary,
Mr. Thomas H. Rawlings, the whole of the last year’s transactions have been
printed, and were placed i in your hands shortly after the close of the year, and
also distributed to the various learned societies with which we are in communi-
cation.

Of the contributions laid before you, two pertain to physical science, three to
the natural history of Australia, three to the dev elopment of our natural resources,
two to pathological science, four to the geology, miner ralogy, and paleontology
of Australiaand New Zealand, one to social science, and two to applied chemistry.

I will first refer to the Rev. J. E. Tenison Wood's s paper “On the Glacial
Period of Australia,” in which he gives his reasons for concluding that “ during
the glacial period of Enrope our continent and seas lave passed through a sub-
tropical climate,” or at least a much warmer one than we now experience. IIe
stated, as you w ell remember, that he did not base his opinion upon the absence
of those groovings and striations left by the mighty slip of glaciers and icebergs—

5
for in the northern hemisphere these are not found lower than the 40th parallel

i From the Transactions of the Royal Society of Victoria, part 1, vol. 9, July, 1863.
THE ROYAL SOCIETY OF VICTORIA. 355

of latitude—but rather upon the subtropical character of our tertiary fauna. He
concluded his paper by saying, “ A true glacial epoch in New Zealand would be
a puzzling fact, and very Paiaeull to cance with what we see in Australia,”
and stating his belief that the Australian continent is now passing through a
colder period than any of which we can find evidence in its previous eeological
history. On the same subject, and discussing these views, Dr. Haast, an hono-
rary member of this society and geologist to the province of Canterbury, New
Zealand, contributed a paper which was read at the October meeting. Referring
to Mr. Wood’s s paper, he stated that he had traced glacial action over the w hole
length and breadth of the south island of New Zealand; he does not accept
Mr. Wood’s conclusion with respect to the non-existence of évidence indicative
of our continent having passed through a glacial period, and points out that if
geologists want to find traces of this epoch they must look for it in the Australian
alps, where morainic accumulation may have been preserved around the lakes;
but from the small altitude of this chain he expects these will be of small extent
and dimensions.

Mr. Thompson read a paper “On the Formation of Mineral Veins and the
Deposit of Metallic Ores and Metals in them,” at our October meeting. In the
present stage of our knowledge of ceological changes, the mode of occurrence
of minerals in veins, and the formation of the latter, present almost insuperable
difficulties to the clear comprehension of them. This subject, although it has
taxed the energies of Hopkins, Bischoff, and other superior mimds, may be con-
sidered as still unsolved. In Mr. Thompson’s paper, his conclusions are based
upon observations of particular cases, and are thus preferable to geological con-
ceptions of a purely speculative character.

Professor McCoy, at the February meeting, announced the discovery in Aus-
tralia of Enaliosauria and other cretaceous fossils, thus establishing the fact—of
immense geological importance—of the existence of the cretaceous period on the
Australian continent.

A description of a fine specimen of rubellite or red tourmalin, found for the
first time in Victoria in a mine at Maldon, was read by the Rey. Dr. Bleasdale,
at our July meeting.

An account of some bone-caves at Glenorchy, in Tasmania, contributed by Mr.
Wintle, of Hobart Town, was also read on the same evening.

Turning to the papers having reference to natural history. At the first meeting
of the session Professor McCoy described three new species of Victorian birds,
and at the September meeting he contributed a paper “On the species of Wom-
bats,” in which he showed us that until very recently only ones species of wombat
was known to zoologists, the Phascolomys wombat, but that the existence of four
species, which he described, may now be consider ca as demonstrated.

At the meeting in May an elaborate paper “On the Australian Coleoptera”

was presented to “the society by that renowned naturalist, Count de Castlenau.
It contains descriptions of a large number of new Australian beetles, and forms
a most valuable contribution to entomological science.

Of the two papers which I have classed as pertaining to physical science, one
was read at the February meeting by Mx. G. W. Groves, and was entitled “Con-
tributions to Meteorology.” The other wasa description of a new self-registering
electrometer, which L had the lionor of reading at the last meeting of the session,
This description referred to an apparatus I had devised and erected at. the obser-

vatory for the purpose of obtaining a continuous record, by the help of photo-
grapliy, of the force and variations of atmospheric electric ity. Specimens of ni
photographic curves it produced were also exhibited. You will be glad to hee
that after experience of its performance we have every reason to consider ita a
most useful addition to the meteorological appliances of the observatory.

Some valuable contributions, bearing on the development of our natural
resources, were read at the April, May, and October meetings, the first of which
556 THE ROYAL SOCIETY OF _VICTORIA.

is “On the Mannfacture of Paper from Native Plants,” by Mr. Newbery, in
which he drew our attention to the importance to be attached to the discovery of
raw material suited to paper-making, and pointed out that we had several indi-
genous plants fitted for this purpose growing in considerable profusion on our
waste lands; he especially called attention to two grasses, the Xerotes longi-
folia and a variety of Lepidosperma, the fibre of both of w hich he believed wouid
be of great value for making common paper, and for mixing with rags for white
paper. Mr. Newbery’s valuable suggestion will, no doubt, be practically tested
so soon as the new paper mills on the Yara commence operations.

The second communication of this class was a paper “On Colonial Wines,”
by the Rev. Mr. Bleasdale. This placed before you a large amount of practical
information respecting our vineyards and the wines produced from them. He
gave the results of his chemical inquiries into several samples, and indicated the
conditions on which he considered the success of Australian wine-making to
depend.

Mr. Newbery’s paper ‘ On the Analysis of our Mineral Waters” forms another
contribution bearing on our natural resources. The writer gives the analysis he
has made of the waters from several of our quartz mines remarkable for con-
taining a large percentage of chloride of potassium, as well as of the Ballan
springs, the latter found to contain a large percentage of carbonate of soda,
with carbonate of lime and magnesia, with 416 cubic inches per gallon of free
carbonic acid. This water, as you are aware, has now come into extensive use
under the name of “Ballan Seltzer W: ater ;” it forms a very refreshing and
pleasant beverage, and may, no doubt, be medicinally useful in some cases.

At the June meeting Professor Halford brought before us:his paper “On the
Appearances of the Blood after Death by Snake Poisoning.” At the October
meeting, also; he contributed some further observations on ‘the same subject.

You will remember that in April last, a gentleman died in Melbourne from the
bite of a cobra-di-capella, which he had brought from India, and thought to be
fangless. At the post mortem examination Professor Halford, remarking the
great fluidity of the blood, examined some under the microscope, when it appeared
to him to contain a great number of colorless cells of a larger size than any
usually seen in blood. Further examination corroborated this fact; he observed
numerous cells much larger than blood corpuscles, with delicate translucent cell-
walls, each cell containing one, two, or more’ nuclei, and also noted a peculiar
macula or nipple on the cell wall after the application of magenta dye. He

bo}
killed a dog with poison taken from the glands of the same cobra, and other

animals with poison taken from Australian snakes, and after death in every case
the blood was found fluid and full of these cells. By later observations he was
led to believe that the growth of these cells commences immediately the poison
gets into the blood, and continues to grow even after death ; so that 12 hours
after death blood taken from an animal that died from the poison in 10 minutes
will be in the same stage as regards the cell growth as that taken one hour after
death from an animal that survived the poison 11 hours.

Considering the importance of this subject, I make no apology for troubling
you with a succinct account of my personal experience concerning Professor
Halford’s discovery. Some little time since I had, in company with a friend, a
good observer with the microscope, an opportunity of witnessing the progress of
ine cell growth. A dog bitten by an Australian tiger snake at 9 a.m. died in

an hour; “at 3 o’clock some blood taken from a vein was dark and quite fluid.
Wander the microscope the red and white corpuscles appeared normal in size and
shape, but were moving about free in the fluid liquor sanguinis, and not sticking
together in rouleaus, as is usual with healthy blood. Among these corpuscles
we observed spaces where some apparently structureless oranular matter had
pushed them aside. An hour after a fresh supply of blood from another vein
showed us, among what appeared to be the same kind of granular matter, large
THE ROYAL SOCIETY OF VICTORIA. 557

nucleated cells, which we estimated to be from three to four times the diameter of
the ordinary redcorpuscle ; these cells, whose walls were so delicate and translucent
that it required most careful management of the light for their definition, con-
tained nuclei, some one, many with two, three, or even more; delicate as they
were, however, they became as distinct as the ordinary red corpuscle by the
application of a little magenta dye, which did not seem to alter their dimensions
in the least by osmotic action. In many of these cells, also, the little macula
on the cell wall was observed, but not on all. In blood taken from the jugular
vein 24 hours after death we observed these cells, now appearing more tense, in
immense numbers, and many of the nuclei floating about free, as well as a great
quantity of transparent acicular crystals, which magenta dye rendered very di-
stinct.

The existence of cells in the blood of the individual who died from the cobra’s
poison different from those found in cases of pyemia, leucdtythemia, and other
diseases, was warmly contested in this society, and you will remember the ani-
mated discussions we had on the subject; but those who have carefully observed
the blood in snake-poisoned individuals cannot, I should imagine, be in the least
doubt as to fhe fact of the presence of these cells. My friend and I were very
sceptical on this point, and at first failed to see them, but afterwards we felt no
longer any question in our minds either as to their presence or to their size being
greater than that of any cells in the blood we had ever witnessed or seen de-
scribed.

Whether this particular cell growth is peculiar to snake-poisoned blood, or
whether it may be found in the blood after death from other causes, especial'y
in cases where the blood remains fluid, is a question not yet determined, but one
that still occupies Professor Halford’s attention, and one to which he invites the
general attention of microscopists as. well worthy of a searching inquiry. He
tells us that in most careful observations, repeated very many times, he traces
the growth of the cell eut of the germinal matter before alluded to; that first
the nucleus appears, then the cell wall) This, if established, is an important
point, and one upon which many of our greatest physiologists are not agreed.
K@6lliker and Virchow holding the yiew that all cell growth proceeds from pre-
existing cells, while Schleiden and Schwann believed they always grew out of
structureless granular matter; Beale, a later authority, working with higher
microscopic powers, leans also to this latter view.

Professor Halford considers that snake poison acts as a kind of ferment in the
blood, and that the oxygen which is required to keep it in a condition to support
vitality is used up by the cell growth, thereby causing the death of the bitten indi-
vidual. After death we find the dark fluid blood rapidly absorbs oxygen when
exposed to the air, and becomes bright in color; the fibrine has also disappeared,
or at all events has become so far degraded by some molecular change as to be
no longer coagulable.

Although we may regard these investigations as of the highest importance, not
only in their direct reference to the question of snake poisoning and animal poisons
generally, as well as to that cell growth and the study of the chemistry and
physiology of the blood, yet it must be confessed that the great question of saving
from death those bitten by snakes ig,still an unsolved problem ; the light thrown
upon the whole subject, however, appears to indicate a path by which the rational
treatment of these cases may be arrived at. Butilittle, after all, is known of the
functions of the blood or of its connection wit! nutrition of the tissues and vital
force, or of its intricate, chemical, and physical changes in disease ; and it is
from inquiries of this kind, philosophicalty conducted, that we must look for
progress in this most difficult, and at present obscure, branch of human knowl-
edge. Such inquiries, however, for their suecessful pursuit, appear to require not
only a knowledge of physiology and pathology, but of the highest chemistry
and physics generally, a rare combination to be met within one individual ; and
358 THE ROYAL SOCIETY OF VICTORIA.

it suggests at once that scientific progress in the treatment of disease will come
but slowly, until natural philosophy and chemistry, especially in its dynamical
aspect, form as large a part of a medical student’s training as even anatomy itself.

Mr. Rusden’s paper “ On the Ethics of Opinion,” was read at the September
meeting ; it treated of how far men are properly liable to blame or praise, reward
or punishment, for their thoughts or actions. ‘The novelty of character of this.
contribution may have given rise to an impression that it was not exactly of a
nature included within the objects of the society ; very little consideration must,
however, show that any attempt to contribute to social improvement, so long as
it is regarded in its scientific aspect, may be fairly considered to come within the
scope of this society.

“The Danger of Collision between Vessels crossing one anothers Tracks,”
was the title of a communication from Captain Perry, read to you at the Novem-
ber meeting. In thts paper a very simple method of procedure to be adopted by
approaching vessels was suggested by the writer, by which danger of collision
might, in nearly all cases, be avoided. The plan suggested consists in the
approaching ships ascertaining if the same relative bearings between them con-
tinues to be maintained, and if so, to alter their course ; for, as was demonstrated
by a simple diagram, collision becomes inevitable if the same bearing 1s main-
tained. So simple a mode of even lessening the probability of collisions, if not
already gencrally adopted by nautical men, should be well noted.

At the same meeting a paper “ On the Purification of Water,” was presented by
Mr. Dahlke. This related to a method of filtration devised by the wniter, by
which organic and most mineral impurities, including the salts of lead, were
removed from drinking water; brackishness, also, by a judicious arrangement
of this filtering medium, he stated might be removed to a considerable extent.
He exhibited a filter that he had constructed which was partly tested m your
presence ; the further testing of its properties you will remember was referred to
Mr. Newbery, who reported at the next meeting that the filter not only did all that
Mr. Dalhke had stated, but he found it to possess powers of filtration beyond
anything he had previously known; he had tried it very severely by filtering
solutions of salt, sulphate of magnesia, and,even sulphate of ammonitim with it,
and in every case the filtrate passed out as drinkable water, with barely traces
of the substance previously in solution. Passing hot water ma reverse way
through the filter removed the suspended salts and restored the activity of the
filtering medium, which, after continued use, was diminished.

Some experiments were since tried on the filtration of sea-water by Mr. Dahike,
and I believe he is now engaged in the construction of a large filter for rendering
brackish water fit for sheep and cattle at some station on the Darling river. There
is no doubt that the kind of filter exhibited is exceedingly succesful as an ordi-
nary domestic filter, but whether it will become practically suecessful in so remar-
kable a use as that of removing salt from sea or very brackish waters is not yet
demonstrated.

I congratulate you upon these results of your past session, and I regard them
as an evidence of increasing activity and an earnest of advancement in the objects
of this society.

You will be glad to learn that’ our intercourse with kindred societies has
increased ; there’are now 86 learned bodies with which we are in communication
and interchange of publications; 41 of these are British, 36 continental Euro-
pean, 5 American, 2 Asiatic, and 5 colonial. Our library has been considerably
increased by donations from these societies, and a complete catalogue, compiled
by your honorary librarian, Dr, Neild, is appended to the second part of the last
volume of our transactions.

I would now revert to the year’s history and present state of our public scien-
tific departments, and in doing so, if I speak at more length of matters concerning
our observatory than of the other institutions, it isonly because I am better acquain-
ted with the details of its progress.
THE ROYAL SOCIETY OF VICTORIA. 359

In my last address I told you that the Great Southern Telescope, which, by-
the-by, is now to be styled the Great Melbourne Telescope, was approaching com-
pletion, and its arrival might be expected in the course of a few months. — It has,
however, not yet reached us. Several unlooked for delays in its construction
occurred, principally owing to the determination on the part of the manufacturer,
Mr. Grubb, that nothing but the very highest excellence in all its parts should
go to its construction.

Many of you, no doubt, read the interesting letter of Dr. Robinson, of Armagh,
which appeared in the daily papers a week or'two since, respecting his inspection
and trial of this great instrument, and that he passes a high euloginm on the
excellence of its mechanical details, as well as of its optical powers, so far as he
was enabled to judge from the imperfect trial he had with it in this respect. We
are expecting every mail to hear of its shipment, and there appears to be every
probability of its being even now on its way. M. Le Sueur, a gentleman selected by
the committee as an observer for this telescope, comes out with it, and will occupy
the position of second assistant astronomer at the observatory. Of this gentle-
man’s high qualifications for the work before him we have the best testimony.
You are aware, no doubt, that apparatus for celestial photography and spectrum
analysis of the light of the heavenly bodies will form part of the appliances of
this giganticinstrument, and I trust that Dr. Robinson’s hope “ that an inestimable
harvest of discovery and triumph will crown this magnificent enterprise ” will be
fully realized. I have obtained a few photographs of a lithograph of the Great
Melbourne Telescope, which will be handed to you at the conclusion of this
address.

It appears that some kind of a building with movable roof will be necessary
to protect it from the great damage likely to arise if exposed to the dust-storms
we are liable to; it is therefore proposed to erect a circular building, with a
revolving roof, and Parliament will be asked for a vote for this purpose. A
stnall extension of the observatory ground has been granted, thus enabling the
telescope to be erected in a position where it will command a full view of the
heavens without creating any disturbance on our magnetic instruments by its
too close proximity.

You will remember that in my last address I mentioned that a complete set of
self-registering magnetic instruments or magnetographs (similar to those used at
Kew) were expected to-arrive shortly. These duly arrived; they have been
erected and at work since November last, producing an uninterrupted photographie
record of all changes of the forces of terrestrial magnetism.

A wet and dry bulb thermometer and barometer, continuously seléregistering,
on the same principle, are now being constructed for us, and will probably be at
work in the course of a few months. The results likely to be obtained from the
adoption of self-registering instruments of this kind can scarcely be too highly
estimated, for the periodic method of observing phenomena that are changing
continuously could never satisfactorily admit of those close deductions being made
requisite to derive any practical value from the observations. Variations of the
forces measured suflicient to establish or overthrow a supposed law may, and
doubtless do, often happen in the intervals between intermittent observation,
which, by the photographic or other self-registering method, is indelibly recorded
with true relations to preceding and following variations.

The Melbourne portion of the survey of the southern heavens has made con-
siderable progress; the portion of the heavens lying between the 150° 40/ and
152° 46’ parallels of declination have been thoroughly surveyed, and the posi-
tions of 19,600 stars established.

A series of observations for the determination of the difference of longitude
between Melbourne and Adelaide, by aid of the electric telegraph, was made at
the latter partof last year, and although the result is considered not quite conclusive,
as it is intended to make anotherseries of comparisons, itmay however be accepted
360 THE ROYAL SOCIETY OF VICTORIA.

\
as nearly the truth, and makes the difference of longitude 25m. 33.78s. Assuming
the longitude of Melbourne to be correct, that of Adelaide would be 9h. 14m.
21.02s.

Before leaving the subject of our astronomical labors I would add a word con-
cerning the total eclipse of the sun, which will take place onthe 17th of August,
this year.

The eclipse will be a most remarkable one, and unrivalled by any recorded in
the annals of mankind in its magnitude and duration. At its commencement
the moon will be unusually near the earth, and at the same time reaches the
ascending node of her orbit. ‘Thesunalso reaches nearly the zenith of those places
where the eclipse takes place at noon; the augmentation of the moon’s apparent
diameter, due to her altitude, is a maximum; a combination of circumstances
resulting in the apparent diameter of the moon exceeding that of the sun by an
unusual ! amount, and in the time during which the sun will remain eclipsed, being
almost unprecedented.

The greatest length of totality will occur in longitude 102° 38’ E. and 10° 28’
N. in the Gulf of Siam, where it lasts 6m. 50s. The path of totality, which
commences at sunrise in Abyssinia, passes over the Straits of Babel Mandeb,
Aden, Arabia, through India between Goa and Rajapoor, across the Gulf of
Siam, where the greatest phase occurs, then through Borneo, the whole of the
south of New Guinea, ending at sunset about the New Hebrides.

So unusual an eclipse as this is sufficient to put astronomers on the qui vive,
for such an one has probably never been seen by man, and none of such magni-
tude is likely ever to be witnessed by any now living. But there are, however,
higher objects than this in view, and great preparations are being made to carry
out inves tigations concerning the sun’s atmosphere, which can only be attempted
during total eclipses, and for which this one offers so long a period of totality.
It has long been supposed that an atmosphere surrounds the sun’s exterior to the
photosphere. ‘Those remarkable red clouds or prominences and the ¢orona or
glory with its projections, generally seen in total eclipses, and especially in that
of 1860, all point to this. These luminous clouds were found by Mr. De la Rue
to have great photographic power, and Mr. Brayley concludes therefrom that
they probably consist of incandescent globules of metal in a liquid state, or per-
haps of solid particles of the metals discovered in the sun by Kirchoff, ‘The
optical means of analyzing the light from various sources have been so much
improved since the last total eclipse witnessed by astronomers in 1860, and our
increased knowledge of the physical conditions of the sun, as well asof many other
of the heavenly bodies , induces the scientific world to confidently hope that the
telescope, spectroscope, and heliograph will reap rich harvests in the hands of
the many experienced observers who will be engaged in the path of totality.

The botanical department, so efficiently conducted by your fellow-member,
Dr. I’. Mueller, has not been idle. The “Fragmenta Phytographa Australis,” I
am informed, w vill have reached the completion of the sixth volume next month.
Dr. Bentham’s new work on the Australian flora (to which Dr. Mueller contributes
largely) is progressing rapidly; the fourth volume containing the Candollian
division—corolliflore—is nearly complete ; the fifth volume, which it is expected
will be issued next year, will contain the monochlamy dez ; and it is intended to
follow it up by a sixth volume, containing the monocotyledons and ferns. A
supplementary volume will afterwards be probably issued, to comprise the newer
discoveries among cotyledonous plants, for which the “ fragmenta” will afford
the principal records. This book will be the most complete ‘descriptive work on
the vegetation of Australia, and with which, in its completeness, no similar work
on Enropean v vegetation can compare. Youwill be glad to learn that the cinchona
(Peruvian bark) plants are prospering. Dr. Mueller informs me they have been
exposed to extremes of temperature varying from 30° Fahr. last winter, to 100°
Fahr. during this summer, in an artificial fern gulley in the gardens without injury ;
THE ROYAL SOCIETY OF VICTORIA. 361

this gives ample testimony of their hardihood, and their fitness for coping with
the much smaller vicissitudes they would be liable to in the sheltered gullies of
our mountain ranges. The establishment of this most valuable plant is of the
utmost importance, and in a commercial point of view can scarcely be overesti-
mated. ‘There are now in the garden nurseries a large number of plants of cork

oaks, western Australian mahogany, tea, tobacco, coffee, and other prominently
useful plants, ready for planting in the valleys of the Upper Yarra this autumn.

Dr. Mueller made a botanical visit to western Australia during last year, and
he informs me his principal object was to connect the observations of the flora of
that colony with geological formations in continuation of the many facts he had
traced out in other parts of Australia. An investigation of the mutual relations
existing between vegetation and geological for mations is of great importance as
bearing on the general question of the occupation of the soil for various purposes
of culture.

The phyto-chemical laboratory, under Dr. Mueller’s direction, is still engaged
in researches into the technological, medicinal, and other properties of the Austra-
lian vegetation, and especially as regards the amount of potash in our trees, which
he states has already afforded highly s satisfactory results. The ques stion of the
yield of iodine and bromine in our lar ee sea-weeds is also occupying the attention
of this branch of the botanical department.

Our national museum, under the management of Professor McCoy, continues
to increase in its usefulness. It was highly praised by the atures acl officers
of the Italian scientific expedition, who visited us in the Magenta and who were
fresh from the study of the best zoological collections in Europe. Our member,
Mr. Ulrich, too, who has just returned from an inspection of the principal mining
schools of Europe, finds them exceeded by the mining section of our museum,
prepared by Professor McCoy with the object. of facilitating the establishment of
a school of mines in the colony by taking advantage of “the proximity of the
national museum to the university, in which eight out of the ten courses of lectures
required are already given. The natural history specimens, mounted eight orten
years ago, still maintain their freshness and state of preservation, which is, no doubt,
in a great measure attributable to the fact that the museum is surrounded by the
well-planted university grounds, where it is free from the destructive influence of
dust and smoke. Various classes of the university students make daily use of
the different sections of the museum, while the number of the general public who
visited this institution during the vear amounted to 68,000.

Among the most interesting colonial specimens added during the year is the
great skeleton of a new species of whalebone whale (1 hysalus. Gray), McCoy,)
which is now beautifully articulated and placed outside the west wall of the
museum. ‘This specimen is 90 feet long. Next to this in interest are the further
donations of Mr. Carson, of Enaliosanrian fossil reptiles from the Flinders, to be
described in our proceedings as bearing out the views already laid before this
society concerning the occurrence of these fossils in Australia, A very large
iron meteorite, from C ranbourne, weighing 3,000 pounds, has been placed in the
museum, which Professor McCoy promises to describe to us at an early meeting.
Considerable additions, illustrative of foreign natural histor y, have been made,
and the conchological collection, which is of great extent, is now almost com-
pletely named.

The geological collection is also largely increased, as well as that of the different
Articulata; but it appears that there is no more room at present in the half of the
museum already built for their display.

Irom the report of the government geologist, Mr. Selwyn, just published, we
are put in possession of the progress made in ‘the <eclambal; survey of the colony.
It appears that 55 quarto sheets, each of which contains the geological features
of 54 square miles, have ¢ already been published, and that 11 ave ready for the
engraver. A collection of 1,248 geological specimens has been arranged and
362 THE ROYAL SOCIETY OF VICTORIA.

labelled for the national museum. Besides the strategraphical arrangement of
these specimens, each is labelled with numbers and letters, indicating its locality
and the map to which it belongs. Considerable additions to the geological
sketch-map of the colony have also been made by the director from ‘his recon-
noissance surveys in various districts. The department, however, has been singu-
larly crippled during the past year, owing to the absence of some of the officers
on leave, and the sickness of others. The survey has, nevertheless, made con-
siderable progress, especially in the districts of south Ballarat and north of Cres-
wick and Clunes. It appears that a party has been engaged in the first-named
locality on a research into the course and limits of “ deep leads” of the Ballarat
gold-field, which has already resulted in Mr. Murray, the gentleman engaged in
this portion of the survey, being enabled to indicate the existence of “payable
gold deposits im a locality where, though frequently traversed by miners, no
workings had been established.

In contempl: iting the more interesting facts that have marked the progress of
science in Europe, our attention is attracted by a recent discovery of paramount
significance.

In the spectra of many of the fixed stars the lines proper to hydrogen have
been observed, and in the outburst of the light of the star T-Coronz, some time
ago, thedevelopment of these lines was so conspicuous as to lead to the inference
that an outburst of hydrogen, of the nature of a general volcanic eruption, had
taken place in this star. Singularly in agreement with these observations are
certain results determined by Dr. Graham during his researches on the occlusion
of gases by metals.

‘This exact chemist has shown that the different metals have properties of their
own of condensing the various gases, and concealing or occluding them within
their substance. In the case of meteoric iron, he has found that it is not only
charged with occluded gases, but that the gases thus enclosed are different in
kind from those concealed in iron of telluric origin. Common iron bears the
impress of the mode by which it has been manufactured in the large proportion
of carbonic oxide and carbonic acid as constituents of the gases stored between
its particles, whereas, on the other hand, the iron of the Lenarto meteorite has
yielded abundance of hydrogen gas almost entirely free from gaseous carbon
compounds.

On these results Dr. Graham remarks, “The iron of Lenarto has, no doubt,
come from an atmosphere in which hydrogen greatly prevailed. ‘The meteorite
may be looked uponas holding imprisoned within it, and bearing to us, hydrogen
from the stars.” Speaking of “the amount of gas given up by this meteoric iron
being three times the amount found in iron of telluric origin, he further says,
“The inference is that this meteorite has been extruded from a dense atmosphere
of hydrogen gas, for which we must look beyo nd the light cometary matter
floating about within the limits of the solar system.”

A few years ago results of this kind would have been deemed almost beyond
the hopes of even the most sanguine philosophers. Dr. Graham presents to us
in a tangible form the hy drogen brought from remote regions of space to which
possibly our most powerful telescopes have yet failed to reach. He demonstrates
that it must have come from a dense atmosphere of the gas found; and, what is
of still higher interest, his experiments conduce towards the view that the so-

called chemical elements of our world are so framed as to adapt them to uses
throughout the entire scheme of nature.

In ‘conclusion, I will for a moment return to the affairs of the society. There
seems to be every prospect of steady progress. I am rejoiced to see the mem-
bers-earnestly following up the objects. for which this institution was intended.
Our efforts, whether they have for their aim the investigation of the laws of nature,
the dev elopment of our natural resources, or the alleviation of the sufferings of
our fellow-creatures, although, perhaps, crowned with only partial success, have
THE ROYAL SOCIETY OF VICTORIA. 363
each the effect of promoting our advancement as a people, and of raising the
estimate of the intellectual status of this colony in the winds of the intellizent
in other parts of the world. In these days no apology for scientific experiment is
required, for although the primary object of science is the discovery of truth, it
is now universally admitted that the contributions applied to the arts of life are
among the most valued means by which our civilization is advanced. In a new
country the problem of the utilization of its resources opens the widest opportu-
nities for the adaptations of science to practical requirements. An example will
illustrate this general assertion: Jet us for a moment consider our relation with
the older countries in reference to the supply and demand of the one important
item of animal food. “We have inexhaustible means of supply, while in Euro-
pean countries flesh food is becoming yearly scarcer. Any improved method of
animal food preservation, assisting its transport, would be a vast accession to our
means of wealth, and to this end the facts of chemistry in relation to physiology
appear as affording the proper key. The case of food supply is by no means a
solitary instance; the same reasoning applies generally to the natural resources
of a new and extensive country like Australia.

In these and like considerations let us hope that a sufficient stimulus for our
best efforts will be recognized, and that our endeavors will be so far fruitful as to
entitle the Royal Society of Victoria to rank in due time with similar older
institutions in Europe and America. :
REPORT ON THE TRANSACTIONS OF THE SOCIETY OF PHYSICS AND NATURAL
HISTORY OF GENEVA, FROM JUNE, 1867, TO JUNE, 1868,

BY PROFESSOR KLIE WARTMANN, PRESIDENT.

[{ Translated for the Smithsonian Institution. ]

The report which I have the honor of submitting to my colleagues of the
Society is the eleventh of those which have been presented under our existing
regulation. Like my predecessors, I propose to recall the different communica-
tions which have been made, by grouping them according to their subjects. Like
them, too, | would renew the recollection of the amicable discussions, the free
and unconstrained developments elicited by the reading of a memoir, or even
the simple statement of a question. It is the privilege of our association t have
no official connections, to observe only our own traditional customs, and to per-
mit its members to exchange ideas with a mutual kindliness, which certainly
does not exclude a sincere love of truth. This form has so many charms and
advantages that I trust it will long be preserved. When in 1890 the society
shall celebrate the centennial anniversary of its foundation, it will be able to
point with pride to the fact that it has served in no stinted measure to unite and
encourage those of our compatriots who devote themselves to the culture of the
natural sciences.

Thanks to the care taken by our secretary, M. Alex. Prevost, in recording
our proceedings, I may hope that my account of them will, at least, have the
merit of exactness. ‘he society has held during its current year twelve general
and eight special sessions. No modification has been introduced in its rules.
The old custom of assembling for tea previous to our winter sessions has, after
discussion, been retained.

Dr. Lombard has been called to exercise the functions of president during our
approaching term, 1868~69. M. Mare Micheli has been elected a member in
ordinary, as has also M. Godefroy Lunel, who already beloifged to us as a free
associate. It is with sincere pleasure that I record this increase in the number
of our members, which now amounts to 42. No death has occurred among them
within the year. Unfortunately, it is not®so with our honorary members, three
of whom have been taken from us.

Dr. Michael Faraday, one of the most distinguished savants of England, and
our associate for a qnarter of a century, departed this life 25th August last.
The labors of this eminent physicist are too well known to require enumeration
here. No time was lost by M. de la Rive in rendering a touching and worthy
homage to the successor of Humphry Davy.* I had myself, for several years,
cultivated the most pleasant relations with this kind-hearted man, in whom a
genius full of originality was allied with the most unaffected modesty. To
science, as to his personal friends, the loss is irreparable.

Six months later, Leon Foucault, an intellect of a high order, was withdrawn
from us, at the age of 49 years, a victim to immoderate application. He was

* Archives des sciences, physiques, ct naturelles, t. xxx, p. 131. This notice has been
reproduced in the journal L’¢nstitut, and inthe Philosophical Magazine. {also in the Smith-
sonian Report for 1867, p. 227.]
SOCIETY OF PHYSICS AND NATURAL HISTORY OF GENEVA. 365

endowed with no common faculties, and resembled Faraday in the incomplete-
ness of his earlier studies, which both had afterwards found the means of retriev-
ing through special methods, in conjunction with great decision of purpose.
Looking upon evidence as the only unimpeachable demonstration of truth, Fou-

cault had conceived and executed the most delicate researches. His mechanical
‘dexterity was incomparable, and, had he lived longer, would have been made
available for the solution of many vther problems. He was a warm friend, an
ingenious and penetrating spirit, a clear and accurate writer. He leaves in the
history of physics profound traces which will preserve his name from oblivion.
He was received into our society in 1859.

Dr. Charles Daubeney, recently deceased in England at the age of 73 years,
has been a colleague of ours since 183 He had pursued at “Geneva, under
Pyrame de Candolle, his studies in botany, a science of which he was subse-
quently a professor in the University of Oxford. We are indebted to him for a
great number of researches in different departments of the natural sciences. In
our city he had made many friends, to whom he has always remained greatly
attached.

After this tribute paid to the memory of savants who are no more, we may
congyatulate ourselves on having inscribed upon our list the name of M. Claude
Berard, the distinguished French physiologist. None among us but remem-
bers the interesting communication on the curare, and on poisons in general,
which he presented, in 1865, to the Helvetic Society of Natural Sciences, assem-
bled within our walls.

§ 1.—ASTRONOMY.

Has the moon, our nearest neighbor in the immensity of the heavens, arrived
at a definitive state, or can we still discover some changes on its surface? This
question, so important for cosmology, has been almost. universally answered in
the negative. Professor Gautier recounted to us (4th July) the researches made
at Athens, by Dr. Schmidt, on the transformations undergone by the crater Lin-
nus, in the Mare Serenitatis. Affirmed by different observers, for instance by
M. Respighi, at Bologna, these modifications have been called in doubt by other
savants. Thus M. William Huggins maintains that the appearance of the Lin-
nus is exactly that which Schroter has figured in plate LX of his Sclenotopo-
graphische Fragmente. 'This divergency of views gives interest to the observa-
tions reported to us by M. Thury, (ist August,) and which he made by means
of an excellent refractor, mounted at the atelier of Plainpalais, with an objective,
furnished by Mertz, of four and a half inches opening. Our colleague thinks
that the crater has become filled with a substance of a whiteness like that of
ceruse, so that its configuration differs from that represented by Madler in his
celebrated chart. (See Archives des Sciences, Physiques, et Naturelles, t. Xxx,
p. 292.) |

M. Gautier has continued, as in former years, to communicate to us the unin-
terrupted progress of the noble science to which he has devoted himself. He
announced the arrival at Labrador of two thermometers, which he had sent to
the Moravian missionaries through the medium of our countryman, M. J. L.
Micheli. These instruments will be used for a regular study of the temperature
of those glacial regions. He gave us an account of the researches of Dr. W.
Schur on the orbit of the double star p, in Ophiuchus, from which we are author-
ized to estimate at about 94 years the period of the revolution of the smaller
star around the larger. By adopting the value of the annual parallax of this
group obtained at ‘Bonn, by Dr. Kruger, the mutual distance of the two stars
would appear to be about 30 times the distance from the earth to the sun,
the mass of the group to be triple that of the sun, and its light to occupy 20
years in reaching us. He brought to our notice the observations of Dr. Auwers,
366 SOCIETY OF PHYSICS AND NATURAL HISTORY OF GENEVA

at Gotha, on the parallax of the star of eighth to ninth magnitude, No. 34 of
the catalogue of Groombridge, the distance of which from the earth is computed
to be but 672,000 radii of our orbit. M. Gautier also directed our attention to
the improvements effected in different instruments of astronomy and meteorology,
and adverted to several new asteroids situated between Mars and Jupiter. The
discovery of these planets commenced with the present century, and their num-.
ber reaches to-day nearly 100.

Professor Plantamour gave an account (21st November) of the mechanical
processes by help of which he takes observations, registered by a chronograph.
The scene of his labors this year was the Righi. These observations have
reference to the determination of gravitation, and to other questions submitted to
study by the International Conference for the measurement of the meridian
between two parallels comprising an are of 22° in middle Europe.

Since the admirable discoveries of Kirchoff and Bunsen relative to the spec-
tral analysis, the learned have investigated with much ardor the problems bear-
ing upon the physical constitution of ‘the sun. One of our colleagues, Colonel
He Gautier, has directed his attention specially to the theory of the spots, and
exhibited to us (4th July) an eye-glass manufactured at Munich, which is intended
to enfeeble, by polarization, the too vivid lustre of the luminary. It would seem
to result from observations conducted with this instrament that the solar spots
have a very different appearance from that attributed to them. ‘The importance
of enabling astronomers to examine these phenomena gave occasion, almost at
the same time, to the invention, by the ingenious Leon Foucault, of a silver-
plated reflecting telescope. We may hope, therefore, that with the aid of these
new instrumentalities science will soon arrive at certain conclusions on this dif-
ficult subject. M. E. Gautier has further given, in our meeting of this day,
(4th June,) the analysis of amemoir published by M. Speerer, pr ofessor at Anclam,
on the spots of the sun, in which the author treats of the law of their velocities
of rotation according to their heliographic latitudes, and of the irregularities
which disturb that law. In effect, neighboring spots seem sometimes to undergo
a sort of torsion, with other anomalous appearances. ‘hese anomalies result
from the modifications, often very rapid, which are observed in the aspect of the
spots, when a magnifying power sufhiciently strong is employed, and atmospheric
cireumstances are favorable. We may then recognize variations, resolutions,
and new formations comparable to those of our terrestrial clouds. M. Speerer
draws from this a confirmation of the idea, already announced by him, that the
spots are situated above the brilliant surfaces on which the facula are developed.
Notwithstanding the accidental changes of velocity whose phases have been
studied, the author refuses to believe that the general movement of. the solar
surface around its axis varies by zones, or by rings parallel to the equator. M.
Speerer examines, moreover, the proportional distribution of the spots and facule
on the different portions of the orb, as well as the relations of this distribution
to the phases of the period of 11 years which has been recognized in the fre-
quency of these phenomena. He atterwards attacks the Wilsonian theory regard-
ing the funnel-shaped spots. He exerts himself to weaken the bearing of the
calculations of English astronomers on the mean-proportionals which they have
deduced from photographic observations of the sun in relation to that theory.
He refutes the attempts of M. Faye tending to introduce a correction termed par-
allax of depth, in order to make the calculation of the places of the spots quad-
rate with the observations derived from the work of M. Carrington. He main-
tains the views of M. Kirchoff on the constitution of the sun, and concludes with
some ideas touching the manner in which the spots may be formed. They might
be generated by intense ascending currents of gaseous matter which burst forth
from the sphere in fusion and become condensed in the solar atmosphere at dif-
ferent heights. These formations would remain or fall back according to the
SOCIETY OF PHYSICS AND NATURAL HISTORY OF GENEVA. 367

velocity communicated to them by the strata into which they penctrate, and
wherein they diffuse themselves.

§ 2.—.METEOROLOGY.

Professor A. Gautier read (4th July) an extended notice of the results obtained
from December, 1865, to November, 1866, during the third year of observations
made at the 76 stations of Switzerland, under the two-fold view of temperatures
and quantities of rain. This production has been inserted in volume xxix of
the Archives des Sciences, Physiques, et Naturelles. I will content myself, there-
fore, with citing a conclusion but little known; namely, that the mean tempera-
ture of Geneva is higher than that of the other cities of our country, with the
exception of Bellinzona, Lugano, Mendrisio, Montreux, and Sion. At the close
of the last-mentioned communication, Professor A. de Candolle expressed a regret
that the methods by means of which meteorologists establish the mean of the
numbers they collect, render the results of their calculations nearly useless to
botanists. He remarked that the phenomena of vegetation continue for some
months, during which it would be important to know the sums of the tempera-
tures above a certain degree previously fixed upon.

§ 3.—MATHEMATICS AND PHYSICS.

The sun, that source of complex radiations which call forth the most diverse
and important phenomena, dispenses to us heat varying as to quantity with the
seasons, and as to composition with the state of the atmosphere. By means of
the actinometer which he presented last year to the society, M. L. Soret com-
pared (5th September) the intensity of the calorific radiation at Geneva with its
-alue on the glacier of the Bossons and at the summit of Mont Blanc; he found
that when the sun is 60° above the horizon, the radiation at a height of 4810
meters is to that on the plain in the ratio of six to five. 'The diminution of
intensity with the height of the sun is much less considerable at a great altitude
than in regions less elevated. Tip these observations, made in August, M. Soret
has added others during the winter, whence it results that, for the same height
of the sun, the intensity of the direct radiation is then greater than in summer,
which accords with the part which, according to M. Tyndall, is borne by the
atmospheric vapor in the phenomena of absorption. Our colleague has ascer-
tained that, at an equal elevation of the sun, the radiation diminishes more rap-
idly when the heat has traversed a watery stratum than when the rays are direct.
The recital of these results was the occasion of interesting discussions, calculated
to guide the author in new experiments.

The question whether the sea is free at the pole was raised in connection with
these estimates of the thermic intensity of the solar radiation. M. Soret also
took occasion to state (19th December) that ozone, prepared by the action of the
apparatus of Ruhmkorff on oxygen, possesses the saine density with that obtained
by electrolyzing water. (Archives des Sciences, dc., t. xxx, p. 306 )

Professor de la Rive presented (6th February) the analysis of researches by
M. Elias Loomis, leading to conclusions very favorable to the electric theory of
polar auroras, proposed by our colleague. (Archives des Sciences, &c., t. Xxxi,
p- 273.)

Among the phenomena whose study promises to enlarge the field of our
knowledge of the intimate constitution of bodies, none are more interesting than
those of rotary polarization. Detected in quartz by Arago, in 1811, this mys-
terious property has been found in solids of regular system, in homogeneous
colorless liquids, and in certain vapors, though no permanent gas, even when
compressed, has heretofore manifested it. It is therefore independent of the
crystalline state, and, according to the substance employed, takes place some-
368 SOCIETY OF PHYSICS AND NATURAL HISTORY OF GENEVA.

times to the right, sometimes to the left of the observer. Further, it may vary
in direction in the same body with the tint of the light which traverses it, for we
have notice of a liquid which is levogyral for the rays of one extremity of the
spectrum and dextrogyral for those of the other extremity. When Faraday
found, in 1845, that the plane of polarization of a ray traversing an inactive
substance may be made to turn by placing the substance within the magnetic
field, he enhanced in an unexpected manner both the interest and the difficulty
of this problem of molecular mechanics. Wiedemann showed that this artificial
rotation increases in proportion as the length of wave of the colored ray dimin- &
ishes. Verdet ascertained that there exist substances for which the rotation is
positive, others for which it is negative, (that of water being taken for unity,)
but that it is not necessarily connected with refrangibility. Wertheim deduced
from his experiments that in general it is absent in solids endued with double
refraction.

Is rotary polarization owing to an action exerted by the substance which
transmits the luminous (or calorific) ray, or should it be referred to an influence
experienced by the ether which surrounds and penetrates matter, properly so
called? The first of these suppositions was taken into favor when Faraday
found that the magnetic rotation is distinguished from the natural, by the very
important fact that it augments with the length of the course of the ray, whether
direct or reflected, in the transparent medium.

Professor de la Rive has resumed the study of this subject, and communicated
to us (7th May) a comprehensive review of his experiments. ‘These have been
made with divers solids, among others glass compressed by the fulminating dis-
charge of Ruhmkorff’s machine, as well as with different Hquids. Our distin-
guished colleague had already remarked, (Zraité d’Electricite, t. i, p. 555,) that
the phenomenon seems connected in an essential manner with the density more
or less cousiderable of the intermolecular ether, and consequently with the refrac-
tive power of bodies ; but in his new researches he has found that the density of
the body itself exercises a great influence, independently of that of the ether
which it includes. Thus, with the electro-magnetic intensity at his disposal, he
has ascertained that the rotation being 8° in sulphur of carbon having a density
of 1,263, it became 16°, that is precisely double in thallic alechol, a liquid of
which the refrangibility is slightly superior, and which possesses a density much
more considerable, (3.55.)

It is known that the rotation of the plane of polarization persists for some
instants after the electric current has been interrupted. M. de la Rive has
satisfied himself by a great number of experiments in which he has succeeded in
measuring the duration of that persistence, and in appreciating the circumstances
which influence it, that this effect cannot be explained by the inertia of the pon-
derable molecules. It is a consequence of the magnetism remaining in the iron
of the clectro-magnet, for it no longer takes place when inductive spirals simply,
without a metallic nucleus, areemployed. M. de la Rive conctudes that artificial
rotary polarization, although greatly influenced by the molecular constitution of
bodies, is not due to an alteration which magnetism might determine in that con-
stitution, but rather to an action exerted indirectly on the ether through the
medium of the ponderable particles. This explains why the phenomenon depends
at once on the state of the intermolecular ether, and on the arrangement of the
number and the nature of the particles in a given volume of a body.

M. Achard recapitulated (April 16) the conclusions of a popular lecture given
by M. Clausius on the second principle of the mechanical theory of heat. Accord-
ing to the last-named savant, the work which natural forces can execute, and
which is contained in the movements of the different bodies of the universe, is
successively tranformed into heat. This heat secks incessantly to pass from
warmer bodies into colder ones, so that there will be gradually established a

. . . 5 .
definitive equilibrium between the heat radiating into ether and that which
SOCIETY OF PHYSICS AND NATURAL HISTORY OF GENEVA. 369

exists in bodies. 'To express this progressive change M. Clausius imagines a
magnitude which, in relation to the transformations, would play the same part
as heat in relation to energy and work, and he calls this magnitude entropie.
The result of his philosophic views he expresses by saying that the entropy of
the universe tends towards a maximum. ‘Thus the modifications undergone by
the creation, instead of having a periodical and circular course, always take
place in a definite direction and tend towards a limitary state. If that state be
some day attained, no ulterior change will be possible, and the universe will
lapse into a condition of persistent death !

M. Charles Cellerier presented (May 7) two notes; one relating to the theory
of prime numbers, of which a mean law may be found more approximate than
that indicated by Legendre; the other devoted to the calculation of the attractions
and repulsions in electrified bodies. M. Cellerier demonstrates that, whatever be
the form and arrangement of several insulated conductors, the total potential
possesses for each of them, at every instant, a constant value in its whole interior.
Moreover, if we compute the sum of the products of the potential of each con-
ductor by the total mass of the electricity which covers it, the variable quantity
thus obtained has the property of representing double the labor of the forces
exerted on the material conductors themselves, when these are displaced in any
manner. The calculation for the special case of two spheres serves for confirma-
tion to this general theorem.

Some communications were also made by your president. He exhibited a
sample of the infusion of Cuba wood, or braziline, discovered by Professor Gap-
pelsréder, which is endowed with a very decided fluorescence. He subinitted
to your notice the new magnifying glasses of Adolphe Steinheil, formed hy the
conjunction of three lenses, and possessing the double advantage of being achro~
matic and of not destroying the images on the contour of the visual field. He
described the electro-magnetic pendulum of 'Tiede, which has served Professor
Forster, director of the Astronomical Observatory of Berlin, to determine the
correction which should be applied to the speed of a clock for the variations. of
the atmospheric pressure. He presented the new electric machine of Holtz, and
repeated the unpublished experiments of M. Kénig on the determination of the
upper limit of sounds perceptible from the concussion. of bars of steek caleulated
by length. He called attention to a singular case of permanence in a charge of
electricity induced in a long wire, a case observed in England by M. Wild. Le
pointed out an elementary solution of the problem of the trisection of the angle.
Finally, he described experiments which he had made with the improved reg-
lator of Léon Foucault for the electric light. These researehes confirm the
results which he communicated to the society in 1852, namely, that with a battery
which works well and a delicate apparatus, the current may be interrupted daring
one-thirtieth of a second withont inducing variation in the illumination of a screen
exposed tothe light of the arc. The armature of the electro-magnet isnot uncharget,
and no sound of any action is heard. If the interruptionis longer continued, both
the eye andthe ear are apprised of it. When the interruption attains one-tenth
of a second the arc vanishes. I conclude from this, and from considerations
which would detain us too long if detailed here, that when the interruption is
sufficiently short, the are continnes to exist, contrary to the opinion of M. k. P.
Leroux, who recognizes a cessation followed by the spontaneous re-establish-
ment of the arc. (Comptes Rendus de VAcudémie des Sciences de Paris, t. \xvi,
p. 155.)

§ 4.—CHEMISTRY.

M. Delafontaine has ascertained (21st November) that the molybdates dissolved
in fluorhydric acid give rise to a new class of salts, the fluoxymolybdates, which
present the most complete analogy with the fluoxytungstates and the fluoxynio-

248 ;
370 SOCIETY OF PHYSICS AND NATURAL HISTORY OF GENEVA.

biates discovered by Professor Marignac. An attentive study of the crystalline
forms has established their isomorphism both with these two categories of saline
products and with the bodies, such as the fluotitanates, in which the fluor is
completely substituted for the oxygen. The author has confirmed the fact
established by M. Marignac that the fluor replaces atom for atom the oxygen as
the isomorphous element. (Archives des Sciences, &c.,t.xxx, p. 232.) M. Paul
de Gasparin (invited to one of our reunions) recounted to us (7th May) the prin-
ciples of the physical analysis of arable lands in the view of determining the rela-
tive proportions of gravel, sand, and clay which exist in the cultivated soil. But
this analysis does not necessarily manifest the degree of fertility of a given soil,
for it cannot evince the very variable proportions of phosphoric acid, potassium,
magnesia, and other mineral substances which fulfil the functions of manures.

§ 5.—MINERALOGY AND GEOLOGY.

M. de Loriol (2d January) having, in company with M. Cotteau, studied the
Portlandian stratum of the department of the Yonne, has found it to be divided
into two zones: the lower one with but 13 fossil species and characterized by
the Ammonites gigas, the upper with 110 species and characterized by the Pinna
superjurensis. ‘he lower zone presents the remarkable fact of the intercalation,
in the midst of the limestone, of a thin marly bed filled with the Ostrea virgula.
The first strata of the middle neocomian rest immediately on the last Portlan-
dian strata. The zoological limit, however, is sharply defined ; no species is
common tothetwo faunas. Professor Favre (7th November) presented us his work
in three volumes, entitled: Recherches géologiques dans les parties de la Savoie,
du Piémont ct de la Suisse, voisines du Mont-Blanc, (Geological researches in
the parts of Savoy, Piedmont and Switzerland, adjacent to Mont-Blanc,) with
an atlas of 32 plates. Proceeding in the traces of Horace de Saussure, Deluc,
Necker and other explorers, our colleague has brought a large contingent of
personal observations towards deciphering the enigma of the formation of the
Central Alps. The medal awarded to his geological chart of these countries by
the jury of the Exposition of 1867, enables us to presage the reception which
the text that completes it will receive. The society may well congratulate
itself at seeing members like MM. de la Rive, Pictet, Boissier, de Candolle,
Favre, de Saussure and others, employed in collecting in special works and in
a systematic form, not only their own numerous researches, but those which
other savants have dispersed in memoirs and monographs. There cannot but
ensue from this a more precise statement of general results, a more exact view
of laws and their yelative importance, a more certain classification, and a
more profound examination of obscure or doubtful points. Science is
advanced by being embodied in a systematic form. (Archives des Sciences,
&c., t. xxxi, p. 123.) M. Favre has, at different intervals, placed under
our eyes wrought silex and’ fossil bones collected for some time past at dif-
ferent places on Mt. Saléve. ‘The first discoveries go back to at least 1835; I
possess some pieces which JI then met with in the caverns of Veyrier while
making botanical and geological excursions. The specimens collected by our
colleague are implements of flint mingled with the relics of the reindeer, and
ascend to the most ancient period of the age of stone. He has seen a bone orna-
mented with a design which represents an animal, (probably a wild goat,) and
another bone on which a plant was carved. M. Favre computes that the
station of Veyrier is posterior to the glacial period, and that the reindeer then
abounded in our neighborhood as it now abounds in Norway. It was probably
in the facilite of Mornex, on the lesser Saléve, that the material was sought, at
that remote age, for executing the carved implements of Veyrier and the envi-
rons. Nothing, however, authorizes us to infer the existence of the human race
anterior to the glacial epoch. (Archives des Sciences, &c., t. Xxxi, p. 246.) M.
SOCIETY OF PHYSICS AND NATURAL HISTORY OF GENEVA. 371

Favre announced (Sth March) that the Society of Natural History of Berne had
purchased, in order to insure its preservation, an erratic block measuring 320,000

cubic feet and situated near Interlaken. It is a beautiful red granite of “unknown
origin. )
5

§ 6.—BOTANY.

The natural sciences have assumed a new phase since the publication of Dar-
win’s work on species. What is designated by that word? And, since species
is variable, how is that variability to ‘be indicated ? By what artifice of nomen-
clature are we to reveal to the savants of dai times the metamorphoses and
filiations which are accomplished under our eyes?

These philosophical problems have rendered the naturalists of different coun-
tries sensible of the utility of reunions in which they may be discussed in a sci-
entific manner. Our society has not been insensible to the honor conferred on
one of its members, who was called in May, 1866, to preside over the first con-
gress of botanists assembled in the capital of England. The committee of the
botanical society of France, char ged with organizing a second session at Paris,
in August, 1867, invited M. Alphonse de Candolle anew to act as president of
that assembly. The learned professor had given us the programme of a plan
relative to the laws of nomenclature, in which, for the first time, he had co-ordi-
nated them as the articles of a code. This plan, submitted to a special commis-
sion, was adopted by the congress, which caused it to be inserted in its transac-
tions. After an enunciation of ceneral principles, the different subjects are
grouped according to their nature, “and each provision is marked with a number,
so that it can be always referred to with distinctness. It is known that Lin-
neeus has given laws under phrases thus numbered, but he has not indicated
the directing principles ; many of his laws were arbitrary and certain points of
view completely pretermitted. M. de Candolle has been more methodical and
more complete than his predecessors. He has been led to justify the usages
followed by his father, by Adrien de Jussieu, Robert Brown, Hooker, Lindley,
and still observed by. MM. de Martius, Bentham, the younger Hooker, and
others. By an immense majority of the members of the congress, the system of
our colleague was voted to be the best guide to follow for botanical nomenclature. *

At another session (7th May) M. de Candolle presented to us some additional
details on the subdivision of cultivated species into hybrids, mongrels, (métis,)
semis, and lusus. 'Vhe hybrids being designated by the sign X, the méctis by 2,
the author proposes the sign ¥ to distinguish the semis and a 2 for the lusus.
Such, it may be added, is the stage of advancement of descriptive botany that,
at the end of the present century, nearly the whole of the genera will probably
be known, while much will remain to be done in the investigation of species.
(Archives des Sciences, &c., t. Xxx, p. 278.)

M. de Candolle called our attention (2d January) to a note of M. Venance
Payod, of Chamonix, on vegetation in the region of ice ; it comprises a very com-
plete list of vegetable species which are grown at the carden on the slopes ‘of the
Mer de Glace and its affluents. The same member gave an account (5th March)
of his researches respecting the important family of ‘the Cycadez.

It is at present composed of nine genera and 64 species, half of which inhabit
America, while the rest are divided betw een the Old World and Australia. It is
scarecly probable that the whole actual number of species exceeds 100, while it
made a conspicuons figure in ancient geological times. A thorough examination of
facts leads M. de Candolle to adopt the opinion of Robert Brown on the nature

* Lois de la nomenclature botanique, adopted by the international congress of botany, held
in Paris in August, 1867; followed by a second edition of the Historical Introduction and
Commentary which accompanied the preparatory summary presented to the congress, Gen-
eva & Bale, Georg, editor: a volume of 64 pages.

372 SOCIETY OF PHYSICS AND NATURAL HISTORY OF GENEVA.

of the fruit of the eycadew and of the conifere. This fruit proceeds from a
naked ovuie, without evarium, inserted on an organ analogous to the leaves.
To all the arguments which have been advanced with this view, he adds that in
certain of the coniferee, such as the podocarpus, the ovules are anatropous, a
mode of ae absolutely unknown among ovarinms. He does not hesi-
tate to affirm that the gymnosperms are dicotyledons, and have only external
resemblances of vegetation or aspect to vascular eryptogams. M. de Candolle
has further shown us (4th July) the acorns of an oak, a native of California,
which present a groove near the edge of the cup, as ifthey had been compressed
by a cord,

On occasion of the analysis made by M. Alois Humbert of a new work which
Mr. Wallace is about to publish on the classification of varieties in the animal
kingdom, (especially in the genus Papilio,) M. de Candolle remarked (16th April)
that varieties have not been more stndied in botany than in zoology. ‘There
are not as many which are local among vegetables asamong animals; nevertheless
there exists a certain description of forms according tothe nativity. A facies, dif-
ficult to be defined, will sometimes indicate to a practiced eye the origin of differ-
ent plants. We will cite, in the last place, the examination into which M. de
Candolle entered (16th April) of the work of MM. Perrier and Saugeon on the
distribution of species in the Alps of Savoy. It has been long remarked that
certain alpine regions are distinguished by a very poor flora, while at other points
it is very abundant, as at Mount Cenis, at the Saint Bernard, at Zermatt, and
in the neighboring localities, up to the confines of the Valais and of Ital ¥en: NEM.
Perrier and Saugeon attribute this fact to an anthraciferous geological forma-
tion which bisects the Alps from Mount Cenis, and borders to the south the chain
of Mont Blane, comprising Cramont, Saint Bernard, &c. M. de Candolle con-
tests the influence which the geological formation is capable of exerting on vege-
tation. Deposits indeed exercise an influence through their physical and min-
eralogical qualities, and that on every species of . stratum. The anthraciferous
formation is very ancient, and vegetation did not commence until after the glacial
period. The great chain must then have been the center of an immense accu-
mulation of snow, in the vicinity of which only arctic plants could subsist. In
proportion as the glaciers diminished, the species of the plain ascended, espe-

cially on the southern flank. Hence the origin of the vegetable wealth of cer- .

tain localities, which, therefore, is not to be imputed to the geological formation.
Thus it is remarked that the plants to the south pertain to families relatively
more recent in a paleontological point of view; such are the composites, the

campanniacece, the primulacece, &c., which do not occur among arctic vegetables.
Rev. Dr. Duby communicated to us (4th July) the first part of a memoir entitled
“Choix de Cryptogames: exotiques ou mal connues,” (selection of exotic or little-
known eryptogams.) He treats therein more particularly of 12 species of mosses,
10 of which are new, while two had been imperfectly described by Schwagrichen,
Five of these species belong to Mexico, one to Uruguay, one to Colombia, one
to Patagonia, one to Chili, one to the Cape, one is met “with at the Cape and at
the Antilles, and a last one at the Antilles and the Mauritius. They are dis-
tributed among the genera Campylopus, Orthotricum, Macromitrium, Schlotheinia,
Fubronia, Hookeri 1a 1, Hypn m, and a new genusallied to the Macromitrium, which
M. Duby names Monoschisma. (See the present volume of the Mémoires de la
Société.) 'Vhe same member described (19th March) the new champignons of
the family of the lycoperdaceze, which Dr. Westwick has found in the king-
doms of Angola and Benguela. They are remarkable for their dimensions, some

attaining a demi-meter in height. In these species the seed escape circularly by
a series of small holes, while in the species of Hurope they issue only by a sin; gle
opening at the top. Dr. Gosse pointed out (Sth December) the appearance of
female flowers on some male plants of Dioscorea batatas cultivated in our canton.
Dr. Miller recounted analogous cases of dicecious plants having become mon-
SOCIETY OF PHYSICS AND NATURAL HISTORY OF GENEVA. 373

cecious. The same botanist reported, on the authority of MM. A. Famintrin
and Baranetzky, interesting details on the culture of tlie isolated gonidia of the
Parmelia parietina. 'These facts are a proof of the existence of zoospores among
the lichens.

§ 7.— ZOOLOGY.

At the last meeting of the previous academic year, (6th Jume,) Prof. E. Cla-
paréde presented to the society the result of his comprehensive researches on the
Annelides. This work will occupy two of the annual volumes of our memoirs,
and will not be the least ornament of the series. Our learned colleague ex-
plained (4th July) the origin of certain valves observed at the extremity of the
bristles which cover the feet in some of these species. At the time of their
egress these bristles pierce the integuments by means of hooks covered with a
hood, and this hood, which is caducous, remains sometimes in the shape of two

valves at the extremity of the bristle. Our colleague has recognized in the case
of a man who had died of a disease of the liver, that the reputed cyst formed in
that organ, and which had attained the size of a man’s head, resulted from an
ageregation of Echinococci. It is only a phase of the development of the tenia
of the dog, the egg of which is transformed into the Hchinococcus in the interior
of the body of ruminants and of man. ‘This explains the great abundance of
this parasite among the people of Iceland, where the number of dogs equals one-
third of that of the inhabitants.

M. Godefroy Lunel, keeper of the museum, exhibited to us (3d October) the
admirably colored plates of a memoir on the fishes of the lake of Geneva, which
will be published by the Zoological Association of the Leman. M. Lunel finds the
number of species “equal to that which Prof. Jurine has described in a memoir
inserted in vol. ii of our repertory; but it is by separating the trout of the lake
from that of the rivers, and by suppressing one of the species admitted by the
last named naturalist. M. V. Fatio discovered (21st November) in the museum
of Neuchatel a specimen of an old female tétra bearing the external appearance
of the male. In this connection he discussed some cases of cross-breeding
between neighboring species, and affirmed that these crosses are less rare than is
supposed.

M. H. de Saussure was designated to describe the hymenoptera collected
during the voyage of the Austrian frigate Novara around the world, (1857~59.)
He has taken this occasion to publish the new species brought from the east by
M. Alois Humbert. The same member rendered a just homage to the virtues
and talents of the Vaudese naturalist, Alexander Yersin, removed by death in
the flower of his age, after having made himself known by remarkable researches
ou the stridulation of insects. M. de Saussure has offered us the biographical
notice consecrated to the memory of his friend,

In presenting to us the cast of a skeleton of the gorilla, of natural size, Prof.
Pictet pointed out (1st August) the differences observable on a comparison with
the human skeleton. There has been recently found a new species of chimpan-
zee, the stature of which nearly approaches that of the gorilla.

§ 8.—ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY.

Dr. Claparéde explained (21st November) the latest researches instituted by
M. Dubois-Reymoyd on muscular electricity. The results at which the Berlin
pliysiologist las arrived, by the. employment of new instruments, are quite differ-
ent from his older determinations. (Archives des Sciences, €c., t. xxx, pp. 359,
364.) ‘The same member presented (5th Deceinber) a series of designs relative
to the anatomy and embryogeny of some species of acari. In the hydrachni,
and especially the Atax, the formation of the embryo in the egg involves tho
374 SOCIETY OF PHYSICS AND NATURAL HISTORY OF GENEVA

rupture of the shell; but the embryo, instead of being free, is enveloped in a
membrane or deutovum, whence it afterwards issues, first as a larva with a cara-
pace, to be transformed secondly into a larva without carapace, and finally to
become a perfect animal. In the embryo, as in the adult, the cireulation is
supplied by the existence of alternating or amceabean corpuscles, which insinuate
themselves among the organs, and are the equivalent of the corpuscles of the
blood in other animals. M. Claparéde has extended his researches to the para-
sitic acari of the skins of divers of the Modentia. He has observed that these
minute creatures have organs of attachment analogoys but not homologous, a
fact which is favorable to the theory of the gradual “transformation of species in
the sense of Darwin. A parasite of the Jus musculus presents an egg, a
deutovum and tritovum, a circumstance hitherto unobserved. According to M.
Alois Humbert, the analogue of the deutovam occurs in the myriapod Chilog-
mathus. Tt has been seen ‘also in the Julus, and been named the pupoid body.
It exists likewise among the Glomeris, in which, like the egg, it is spherical.

M. Claparéde has occupied himself also with: another acarus, the Zetranychus
of the Linden. It is known that in a great number of articulata, the blastoderm
appears around the vitellus without previous segmentation. Now, in the Yetra-
nychus the formation of the blastoderm takes “place by the division, repeated
many times, of a primitive cellule placed at the surface of the vitellus, The
nucleus of the cellule is of doubtful origin; it is probable that it constitutes the
germinative vesicle. This cellule should be considered as a vitellus of forma-
tion which constitutes a segment at the surface of a vitellus of nutrition. Hence
the ovules of the Tetran ychus enter into the class of those of which the seement-
ation is partial. (Archives des Sciences, &c., t. xxxi, p. 104.)

Besides these original researches, M. Claparéde submitted to-us statements of
the most striking advances which have been made in zoology and its kindred
branches. ‘Thus, he drew our attention to the investigations of M. Stein relative
to infusoria, and to this unexpected conclusion, that the bourgeons of the verti-
celli are but an appearance resulting from the fact that a small individual has
become conjoined with another of greater size. He analyzed the publications
of M. Semper on the inferior animals which inhabit the coasts of the Philippine
islands, and the new work of Dr. Darwin on the modifications experienced by
animals in a state of domestication. He acquainted us with the recent observa-
tions of M. Parkes on muscular labor, according to which this labor would coin-
cide, not with an oxidation of the tissue of the muscle, but with an anementa-
tion of its volume produced by a more energetic assimilation of the nitrogenized
substances with which the blood is supplied. M. Claparéde explained (7th
November) the ingenious researches of Prof. Max Schultze on the structure of
the retina, According to this skillful micrographist, the two sorts of elements
which are found unequally distributed in the exterior layer fulfill different func-
tions. The rod-like organizations (bdtonnets) serve for the perception of the
luminous intensity, w hile the cones are destined to distinguished colors.

Dr. Henry Dor ‘made known to us that calabarine, the effect of which on the
pupil is the reverse of that of belladonna, acts as an antidote to strychnine, by
paralyzing the muscles which depend on the will without abolishing the latter.
It may, therefore, be useful in tetanic affections. ‘The professor last named
gave his contirmation (2d April) to the fact, based on the investigations of Cra-
mer and Reynolds, that the part heretofore attributed to the iris in the function
of adjustment is completely null. It is the ciliary muscle alone which is in play.

Dr. Julliard the younger has had occasion to study a teratological case very

rare in the human species, namely, scironomelia, or a soldering together of the
two lower members. He pr esented to the society two photographs of the mon-
strosity, the subject of which lived some instants after birth, and gave a descrip-
tion of the anatomical peculiarities of the case.

Our vice-president, Dr. Lombard, read to us (2d April) the results of his sta-
SOCIETY OF PHYSICS AND NATURAL HISTORY OF GENEVA. 375

istical researches on the distribution of mortality in certain Swiss cantons,
according to the months and seasons. At Geneva, where documents are extant
which go back to the 16th century, it is ascertained that the difference from
season to season has been but slightly sensible. ‘The winter is the most unfavor-
able epoch, summer the most salubrious; spring approximates to the rate of
Winter, autumn to that of summer. Aubonne and Vevay furnish analogous
results. In the canton of Neuchatel winter is the most fatal season for the low
country, while spring is most fatal in the mountain region. ‘The same is re-
imurked as regards 43 communes of the canton of Berne. Zurich, the city of
Bale, Thurgovia, Appenzell, show a slight predominance of mortality in spring.
In Aargau winter has the highest range of mortality. Everywhere the cases
of death are more numerous during the summer in cities, and during the winter
in the country. The cold of winter is more homicidal as the altitude i is higher ;
the ratio is reversed for the months of summer and autumn.

Such has been the scientific movement of our society during the year which
finishes to-day. ‘he variety of the subjects to which attention has been devoted
equals their importance. I may congratulate my colleagues on the part which
they have borne with so much zeal, a part which it is not for me to estimate, in
the study, always novel and always attractive, of the phenomena of nature. Our

cantonal and municipal authorities have recently added their efforts by
creating at Geneva a museum, laboratories, and a library on a level with the
progress of the age. Let us welcome cordially these new means of study placed
at our disposal, and continue with ceaseless ardor to propagate the taste for intel-
lectual pursuits. At the moment of resigning the functions which you have
done me the honor to confide to me, I offer you, my highly esteemed and dear
colleagues, the expression of my gratitude for the assiduous co-operation by which
you have rendered the exercise of those functions as easy as agrevable.
HISTORY OF THE TRANSACTIONS OF THE ANTHROPOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF
PARIS FROM 1865 TO 1867,

By M. Pau Broca, GENERAL SECRETARY OF THE SocitéT& D’ANTHROPOLOGIE, PRo-
FESSOR AT THE FACULTE DE MEDICINE DE PaRIs,

[ Translated by C. A. ALEXANDER for the Smithsonian Institution.* ]
-

When, four years ago, T had the honor of presenting to the society for the first
time the analysis of its ‘Tabors, I deemed it propér to preface my report by a
brief historical exposition, in order to recall the principal phases through which
anthropology had passed from its origin up to the epoch at which our society
communicated to it a new impulse and direction. It was not at that time, per-
haps, superfluous to show how the field of our science, restricted in the begin-
ning to a purely descriptive study of the races of mankind, had become rapidly
agerandized when, renouncing the pretension of depending only on itself, it had
contracted a close alliance with all the sciences which throw light on the past
as well as present condition of humanity.

It is now nearly a half century since linguistics was called to lend its invalu-
able aid to ethnology. ‘That indispensable means of investigation, whose reach
extends much beyond the narrow outline of history, has revealed to us unex-
pected filiations and opened horizons almost without limit. In according it a
large share in your labors you have but followed the example of your predeces-
sors. But that which peculiarly pertains to you—that which you have for the
first time realized—is the association of our’ science with geology and palonto-
logy, with prehistoric archeology, with general natural history and zootechny,
with medical geography, statistics, public hygiene—in fine, with physiology and
medicine itself. ‘To fulfill this gigantic programme, the society has invoked and
obtained the co-operation of a great number of savants, differing in the nature of
their studies, but all alike emulous of participating in the progress of the science
of man. By the side of these, historians, men of letters, artists, philosophers
have taken their place, and by their communications not unfrequently enlightened
our discussions. ‘Thus human knowledge, in its most varied forms, finds its rep-
resentatives among us, and our society is as a living encyclopedia, in which all
questions, under every different aspect, may receive “immediate consideration by
competent minds.

This propitious state of things has, however, given rise to sume criticism.
Those who regard the objects of anthropology in a different light from ourselves,
and who would restrict it to the description of human races, have conceived a
fear lest among so many sciences which it has laid under contribution it should
lose its unity of action, its independence, and, so to speak, its individuality. But
it is enough to be present at any of our sessions to see that the ideas which are
disengaged from the great variety in our labors always converge in the end
towards the same object, and to realize that anthropology, far from being
absorbed by the sciences which surround it, is, on the contrary, the common
ground on which they meet—the focus which attracts and the bond which con-
nects them. It is like those edifices in course of construction for which work-

*ftecue des Cours Scientifiques de la France et de VEtranger. Paris, 1866-67.

.
ANTHROPOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF PARIS. 3TE

men of every order, from the artisan to the artist, bring together and arrange
materials of all kinds—stones hewed or sculptured, exoticmarbles, granite, Ww ood,
metals. To the apparent confusion of the first stage succeed, after a while,
order and harmony; nor is it necessary to wait till the structure is finished to
discover the plan” and purpose of the architect. It is in like manner that the

collective work of our society is developed; the architect here is an impersonal
being, it is the society itself; and all we who respectively represent the numerous
sciences summoned to its aid are the workmen, whose zeal it stimulates and
whose labors it turns to account.

But the vast variety of subjects which enter into our programme has given
birth to prepossessions which manifest themselves at recarring intervals. The
necessity of drawing anthropological indications from all s@urces has been con-

tested by no one; but it has been asked to what point and within what limits
the sciences which group themselves around anthropology should be placed
under contribution? Our distinguished colleague, M. Charles Rochet, who first
suggested this question, has long studied human types under the artistic point of
view. His attention has been “particalarly directed to the characters of Greek
and Roman heads—characters which he has chiefly determined from antique
sculptures, without neglecting, however, the testimony of numismatic or ceramic
art. But at the moment of communicating to us the results of his curious obser-
vations, he has hesitated ; he has felt a doubt whether researches of this kind,
based on facts which pertain principally to the domain of art, ought to figure in
the compass of anthropological investigations, and he has invited the society to
state in a general manner the nature of the relations which it regards as estab-
lished between anthropology properly so called and the conceptions which the
latter borrows from different branches of human knowledge. The scruples of
our colleague were exaggerated, and the interest with which you have listened
since then to his memoir on the type of the Roman head must have satisfied him
that they were so. But the general question which he had propounded retains
all its importance, and merits your attention the more inasmuch as it was recently
reproduced when M. Camus communicated to us the learmed researches of M.
Fétis on musical systems considered as an ethnological character,

The history of the arts, no more than that of languages, of religions, of letters,
or political societies, no more than the sciences called biological, no more than
zoology, palzontology, and geology, forms any part of the programme of anthro-
pology. A memoir ex professo on painting or on music would be as little in
place here as a communication on the structure of the bones, or a dissertation on
the use of the subjunctive. Anatomy, however, furnishes us the best distinctive
characters of the human races, and we are obliged incessantly to invoke its aid
when we would establish a parallel between the human group and that of the
anthropomorphous apes. Nor is linguistics less indispensable when we design
to study the filiation of nations and races. Little does it import to us that such
a race of sheep furnishes an abundant fleece, that such another affords less wool
and produces more flesh; but when the history of these races, of their origin, of
their crossings, of their degree of stability, supplies us with ideas more or less
precise on the general question of the race or species, anthropology avails itself
with eagerness of these facts, which are capable of contributing to the solution
of some of its gravest problems. It is thus that we have often seen our learned
colleague, M, Sanson, bring his vast knowledge in zootechny to bear, and never
without effect, upon our discussions. We could not advance a single step in the
study of the prehistoric races if archzeology had not first furnished the elements
for the distinction of epochs—if it did not indicate to us the relative dates of the
inhumations from which we derive the bones submitted to our observation; yet
it is evident that the labors proper to pure archeology would divert us from our
object. ‘This has been perfectly comprehended by those of our colleagues who,
without ceasing to be numbered among our most zealous and active ‘Tuembers,
378 ANTHROPOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF PARIS.

have founded within two years past, under the presidency of M. Leguay, the
Parisian Society of Archeology and History. In this younger association, which
so many ties connect with our own, archeological facts are set forth in all their
details and are discussed for their own sake, while among ourselves the archeo-
logical demonstration is, so to speak, but the preliminary of the anthropological
facts which result therefrom; and hence it frequently happens that the same
researches, without involving useless repetition, present themselves at the same
time in both societies under different points of view. This example serves, bet-
ter than any other, tc evince the nature of the relations of interdependence (soli-
darité) which exist between anthropology and the sciences grouped around it.
It asks from those sciences indications rather than didactic developments, and
therefore can afford to exclude none of the branches of human knowledge which
are capable of furnishing any ideas on the history or the families of mankind.

Under this head I may point to the importance of the researches of M: Fétis,
of Brussels, on the origin of musical systems, and their distribution among the
different populations, ancient or modern, civilized or barbarian. This venerable
savant has devoted a long life to a study which, previously, had barely attracted
the attention of a few virtuosi, but which has become in his hands a real science.
Accustomed from our infancy to certain musical impressions, we have been led
to believe that our classical gamut is the sole form of harmony, that the division
of the octave into five tones and two demi-tones is an institution of nature, and
that every modulation whose elements do not enter exactly into this division is
false, discordant, contrary to the pre-established order of things. This, how-
ever, is but an illusion developed by habit. It suffices to hear or to analyze the
strains of the nightingale or linnet to perceive that they cannot be expressed on
the keys of our pianos, and to be convinced that the purest harmony may exist
outside of our musical system. As for this system, we find it everywhere among
the nations which have adopted onr own form of civilization. The multitude of
strangers drawn to the Universal Exhibition at Paris, after having presented
during the day the phenomenon of a complete confusion of tongues, constitute
but a single people wher they congregate at night in the saloon of the opera.
Amid the diversity of their idioms, the music establishes between them common
sensations, and, so to say, a common language; but if the same auditory found
itself transported of a sudden into the presence of one of the Chinese orchestras
with which our colleague, M. Armand, has lately entertained us, it would sup-
pose that it was ‘listening to a charivari and would stop its ears, much to the
scandal of the indigenous spectators, who, for that matter, no more comprehend
our musical system than we theirs.

Just as linguistics enables us to establish among the groups of mankind dis-
tinctions and approximations, the significance of which may admit of discussion,
but whose reality is rigorously demonstrable, so the study of musical systems
and of their actual distribution may furnish valuable indications, if not on the
filiation of races, at least on the communications which must have existed between
them at epochs more or less remote. For this reason alone, the comprehensive
researches of M. Fétis would be worthy of your favorable attestation. The docu-
ments which he has collected on the music of nearly all modern nations have
led him to establish a certain number of great and well-determined groups. But
this conception, however interesting it may be, did not satisfy him. He per-
ceived that it was necessary to seek in the study of the past the explanation of
the present state of things, and has undertaken a labor which may be compared
to that of the linguists who, resuscitating dead languages and even reconstruct-
ing primitive ones of which no recollection is retained, have succeeded in casting
no obscure light upon prehistoric eras. Not content with recombining all writ-
ten indications on the music of the ancients, M. Fétis has brought into play the
imstruments discovered by the archeologists. The flutes, the fragments of the
lyre found in the monuments of Egypt or sculptured on Assyrian bas-reliefs,
ANTHROPOLOGICAL ‘SOCIETY OF PARIS. 379

have served him as models, and, by copying these instruments with his own
hand and with strict exactness, he has drawn from them sounds which have
restored to life musical systems buried in oblivion for thirty centuries. These
remarkable researches require, no doubt, the control of criticism and the sanction
of time, bnt it may confidently be said that even now they open to science ¢
resonrce not only suggestive but wholly new. Not that we are to hope that the
study of musival systems ean ever acquire an historical and ethnological value
equal to that of linguistics. Music is a mode of expression less rich and far less
precise than artienlate language, and can only furnish terms of comparison much
more restricted. It is certain, moreover, that it is less closely connected with
the life of the people, with their nationality, and the facts cited by M. Fétis
himself prove that nations whose languages pertain to stocks entirely distinct
have adopted the same musical system. But the means of investigation with
which anthropology has been thus endowed are not the less valuable, since they
reveal to us at once the artistic aptitudes of certain races and the communica-
tions which have been established between them in times previous to history.

I have thought proper to dwell somewhat on these researches, so new and so
interesting, of which our society has enjoyed the first fruits, and which make, for
the first time, their appearance in science. Arriving now at subjects if not more
classic, at least more commonly known, I may restrict myself to more summary
statements.

General anthropology has occupied, as usual, a large space in your labors.
The question of the influence of climatic mediums which gave rise, three years
ago, to so extended and complete a discussion, presented itself anew on occasion
ot the important memoir of M. Carlier on acclimation in America. No one could
treat this subject more competently than the author of the Histoire du peuple
Américain. Although his long researches have borne principally on the popu-
lations of North America, M. Carlier has also studied the acclimation of the negro
race in the Antilles and in Brazil. That the races of the old world are acclimated
in the States of the Union is demonstrated by the rapidity with which the
population has there increased; but to appreciate the signification of this move-
ment, it is necessary to distinguish the intrinsic increase from that which is due
to immigration. This is what M. Carlier has done, and we cannot too highly
praise the sagacity with which he has availed himself of all the statistical docu-
ments, unfortunately incomplete, which have been collected in the United States
since the beginning of the century. From these laborious researches it results
that the intrinsic increase of the population has sensibly slackened for 20 years
past. The inquiries of our learned colleague have moreover established, contrary
to the generally received opinion, that three-fourths of the immigrants are foreign
to the Anglo-Saxon race. The ethnical importance of this fact is considerable.
M. Rameau, struck, like many other observers, with the differences which exist
between the English of Enrope and the Anglo-Americans, has attributed these
modifications to the influence of climatic mediums, while, according to M. Carlier,
they are due principally to the influence of cross-breeding. ‘The interesting dis-
cussion which arose on this subject between our two colleagues seems to have
left the subject undecided as regards the 13 primitive colonies which, at the close
of the last century, founded the American Union. But for the 23 States which
have been formed since then, and several of which date but from yesterday, it is
difficult to invoke a climatic influence which can only have been exerted on two
or at most three generations. M. Carlier has insisted that the modifications pro-
duced by climate cannot be manifested in so short a lapse of time.

‘To complete his investigation, our colleague has studied the acclimation of the
negro, not only in the United States but also in the Antilles and Brazil. This
part of his memoir procured us some interesting communications from M. Martin
de Moussy on the state of the negroes in South America, and from M. Simonot
on the questions of hybridity suggested by the study of the mulattoes. If the
380 ANTHROPOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF PARIS.

population of persons of color increases considerably in certain countries, it is not,
according to M. Simonot, from its own fecundity but through the reinforcements
it incessantly receives from continual crossings of the whites and blacks. To
the numerous and weighty facts which M. Périer has brought together in his
learned memoir on the cross- -breeding of human races, and which authorize a
doubt of the validity and fecundity of many hybrid populations, M. Simonot
adds another which, according to his own observation, would oppose a still more
decisive obstacle to the ‘aneien of mixed races: the tendency, namely, which,
after the lapse of some generations, restores gradually the descendants of hybrids
to the type of one or other of the mother races. These phenomema of atavism
have become difficult to be distinguished from the effects of crossings in a recur-
rent direction, because hybrids of different bloods pair and mix on all sides,
whether with one another or with individuals of pure race. But this complica-
ny can be easily avoided in experiments made upon the domestic animals: hence
M. Sanson has been enabled to take his stand upon many precise facts in order
to demonstrate the instability of the characters of hybrids. M. Pruner-bey
pointed out, however, that conclusions drawn from the study of certain crossings
might not be applicable to other crossings different from the former in the nature
of the races or species, or in the conditions of the medium in which they are
effected.

It is very probable, in effect, that these different circumstances have an influ-
ence on the results of cross-breeding. It is necessary, above all, to take account
of the degree of proximity of the races; and what results most clearly from the
researches of M. Périer is, that the disadvantages of cross-breeding are the more
decided as the two mother races are more unlike. If the similarity of the parents
constitutes a favorable condition, it is natural to think that, all things else being
equal and abstraction being made of hereditary pathological influences, consan-
guineous unions cannot become detrimental from the sole fact of consanguinity.
it is thus that M. Périer has been logically led to connect the opposite, but yet
reciprocally dependent, questions of hybridity and consanguinity.

‘These two questions have, from the origin of the society, given rise to a great
number of memoirs and discussions in which contradictory opinions have been
brought to light. But I should speak here only of the facts which have been
adduced within two years past. I shall not recur, therefore, to the debates which
were maintained some years ago, between MM. Boudin and de Rance, adver-

f=)
saries of consanguineous unions, and MM. Bourgeois, Périer, Dally, who denied

the harmfulness of those unions. No one contested the reality of certain facts
alleged against consanguinity; all acknowledged that in families infected with
constitutional vices or hereditary diatheses, marriage between cousins leads to
unfortunate results; but these results were attributed by the one party to the
consanguinity itself, while the other considered them but as a particular case of
the accidents of inheritance. These last gave expression to their opinion by say-
ing that healthy consanguinity is exempt from bad effects. The question
being stated in this form, it was no longer competent to seek here and there for
sporadic examples w ‘hich might appear more or less favorable to one or the other

thesis. ‘To avoid the chances of error resulting from individual accidents, it was
necessary to study the effects of consanguinity in some restricted and well- -cieun-
scribed populations, in which unions between relations are habitual. This has
been done with the createst precision by our colleague, M. Voisin. The commune
of Batz, situated on a small peninsula north of the mouth of the Loire, com-
prises a population of 3,300 souls, devoted exclusively to the cultivation of the
salt marshes. The special nature of this industry offers little attraction to
strangers; hence it is very rare for an inhabitant to marry beyond his commune,
while consanguineous unions, even within the degree prohibited by the church,
are extremely frequent. ‘Thus, in the year 1865, there took place between cou-
ains-german or their issue 15 marriages, for which it was necessary to ask ecclesi-
ANTHROPOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF PARIS. 381

astical dispensation. It was in the midst of this consanguineous population that
M. Voisin collected his observations. He did not content himself with verifying
in a general manner the physical prosperity of the inhabitants. He has recorded
the history of each household, examined the parents and children, studied the
births and deaths, and in a word prepared very complete genealogical tables, in
which is summed up all the information relating to 46 consanguineous mar-
viages. In studying these tables, published at the end of the memoir, we cannot
help recognizing with M. Voisin, that in a healthy population, consanguinity,
even when superposed, involves none of the deterioration which has been attrib-
uted to it. Atter having sojourned at Batz an entire month, and passed in review
all the families, our colleagne has ascertained that “ neither vices of conformation,
mental maladies, idiocy, cretinism, surdo-mutism, epilepsy, albinism, nor blind-
ness from pigmentary retinitis, exists in any individual, whether the issue or not
of consanguineous parents.”

Analogous observations have been collected by M. Dally in the little isle of
Bréhat, (Cotes-du-Nord,) and by M. Duchenne of Boulogne among the popula-
tion of Portel. They are less rigorous, indeed, than those of M. Voisin, since
they are not accompanied by genealogical tables, but they are still very import-
ant; they are moreover confirmed by the zootechnical observations of which
M. Sanson has presented us a summary, and which are due to M. Renard of
Issoire, and M. Legrain of Brussels. M. Legrain has especially turned his atten-
tion to the production of albinism in rabbits: it results from his experiments,
divided into several series and conducted with great sagacity, that consanguinity
never produces albinism among those animals when they are reared under good
hygienic conditions; but that albinism manifests itself at the end of some gene-
rations when the rabbits are ill-fed and lodged in dark and unclean warrens.
Nothing could better justify the distinction “advanced by M. Péner between
healthy and morbid consanguinity than this example.

The questions of consanguinity and hybridity, and the discussions to which
they have given rise, naturally lead me to consider the numerous communications
of M. Sanson on the characteristics of race and of species. It is, in effect, the
study of the phenomena of generation, direct or crossed, which serves as a basis
to the doctrine sustained with so much conviction by our colleague.

The authors who have occupied themselves with the determination of species
may be divided into two classes: one, and by far the more numerous class, makes

, specific distinctions rest on the ensemble of the morphological and anatomical
characters; the other, after the example of Ray, Buffon, and M. Flourens, admits
as a criterion of species only one sole and unique character purely physiological,
namely, the perfect fecundity of sexual unions. M. Sanson accepts at once both
these zoological methods, which heretofore have disputed the sufirages of savants ;
he holds them both as valid, but applies them to different cases. -He employs
the physiological method for constituting the group called species, and avails
himself exclusively of the anatomical method for the determination of the races
of each species. ‘These races are not, in his view, varieties resulting from the
subdivision more or less tardy of a species previously uniform and homogeneous.
They are primordial, or, in other words, as ancient as the species itself; they are
moreover permanent and immutable; that isto say, neither the influence of climatic
mediums, nor crossings, nor selection can cause them to deviate in a durable
manner from their primitive type. In other terms, as M. Lagneau has expressed
it, M. Sanson attributes to each of the races which compose a species the pro-
perties and characters hitherto attributed by classic naturalists to the species itself ;
a sense which M. Sanson himself elsewhere conveys in saying that it was his
object “to introduce a substitution of race for species as the last term of natural
classification.”

The doctrine of our colleague is in the end, therefore, but an emphatic and
absolute form of polygenism. But the discussion to which it has given rise in
382 ANTHROPOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF PARIS.

this society has turned only upon general principles, and the special question of
the permanance of human races has not been broached. While M. Gaussin

contested the value of the exclusive physiological character on which M. Sanson
relies for the determination of species, MM. Lartet and Lagneau suggested
doubts respecting the absolute permanence of races, and cited facts tending to
demonstrate the formation of new races in domestic species, and even in wild
species; and M. de Mortillet, relying chiefly on paleontology, went so far as to
deny not only the permanence of races, but also that of species. The convictions
of M. Sanson have not, however, been shaken by these objections, and his oppo-
nents themselves have acknowledged the talent which he has displayed in this
difficult line of inquiry. Questions of this class are among those which will be
long, doubtless, the subject of controversy; but the discussion elicted by M.
Sanson has not been without its fruits: it has shown, in the first place, that the
standard idea of species, considered as a natural, primordial, and permanent group,
is far from sufficing to the actual needs of science; it has shown also that races
to which it has been the custom to attribute a variability much too great, tend,
on the contrary, for the most part, to maintain and perpetuate themselves ‘without
durable change; that the innumerable varieties obtained by crossings, selection,
or culture have in general only a factitious existence, and that, left to themselves,
they disappear if not always, at least almost always, whether from the want of
fecundity or from the effect of the law of atavism, which, after a while, causes
types momentarily eflaced to reappear.

1 must pass in silence, but not without regret, a considerable number of ethnolo-
gical facts, simply descriptive, which would lead to analytic details of too special
anature. As a subject of more commanding interest, and one which has always
asserted a paramount claim to the attention of the society, I proceed to notice its
discussions respecting craniology.

As the skulls presented to the society and destined to enrich its museum become
more numerous, the more need is manifested of a recurrence to rigorous processes
of measurement in order to institute truly scientific comparisons between the dif-
ferent series. For geometric diagrams, for angular measures and triangulations,
special instruments are indispensable; they enable the observer to detect shades
of difference which would otherwise escape the most practiced eye, and furnish
moreover numerical data for the calculation of mean terms. Hence the commis-
sioners to whom the society has intrusted the charge of preparing instructions for
craniometry have applied themselves particularly to the improvement of instru-
ments for study. They have already presented us a new goniometer, light and not
costly; a new craniograph qualified to delineate completely, by way of geometric
projection, all the details of the surface of the cranium; and a small and very
simple instrument, the sphenoidal crotchet (crochet), by means of which the
sphenoid angle of Welcker may be measured without sawing the skull. Our col-
league, M. Grenet, (de Barbezieux,) has also communicated a new process of
trianeulation of the skull and face, an ingenious expedient, the utility of which
has been shown by M. Bertillon in his dissertation on cephalic angles. In this
memoir, in which are collected all known facts relating to the facial angle of
Camper and its derivatives, as well as the auricular angles and the angle of
Welcker, M. Bertillon has recorded moreover the numerous observations “made
by himself on the different series of our museum, and has pointed out all the
advantages to be derived from the judicious employment of statistical calculations,
for correcting the errors or rather the divergencies which result from the diversity
of the processes of mensuration.

It was not the first time that the results of craniometry had been submitted
before the society to the correction of mathematical methods. M. Gaussin had
already applied algebraic formulas to the determination of the relations which
exist between the three diameters of the skull, and had expressed these relations
by the help of graphic constructions based on the system of rectilinear co-ordinates.
ANTHROPOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF PARIS. 383

Taking as a point of departure the measurements which he had executed on the
great series of crania known by the name of skulls of the city, he deduced a
formula which he has since tested by its application to the craniometrical tables
prepared, from series the most diverse, by M. Pruner-bey, by MM. His and
Rutimeyer, and by myself. Now, such is the precision of his calculations, that in
every case where the formula applied to series of skulls of the same type appeazec
to indicate divergencies, it has been ascertained that these depended on the
difference of the processes employed by the different observers for the measure-
ment of the vertical diameter. The way opened by M. Gaussin in this remarkable
memoir may be easily enlarged, for all the craniometrical elements may be made
auxiliary to the same researches ; nor can it be necessary to point out the import-
ance of a method which permits of reducing to the same standard observations
collected according to different processes, and even of correcting what astrono-
mers call the personal error.

Our distinguished colleague, M. de Khanikof, also, bringing to the study of
anthropology the aid of the exact sciences, has successfully applied the formula
of M. Gaussin to the cephalometric measurements reported from Persia by M.
Duhousset, who, operating on the living man, had only been able to obtain by
approximation the length of the vertical diameter. In conformity with the
general instructions published by the society, M. Duhousset has taken, to replace
that diameter, the height of the plane of the vertex above the auditory orifice.
But the situation of this orifice in relation to the plane of the base of the craniam
sensibly varies according to races. We might expect, therefore, to recognize a
certain divergence between the results of the cephalometric observations of M.
Duhousset and the craniometric formula of M. Gaussin. This divergence has,
however, proved very small; in four out of six series of observations the result
has been less than one millimeter and a half. The two series of Kurds and
Hindoos alone have presented divergencies of three and four millimeters, which
depend, doubtless, on variations in the position of the auditory canal. On this
occasion M. Khanikof communicated to us the notes which he had collected in
the museum of St. Petersburg on the height of the orifice above the plane of
the occipital orifice. He has consigned them toa valuable table, in which figure
most of the populations of Asia.

But it is impossible to speak of craniometric tables without immediately recall-
ing those with which our former president, M. Pruner-bey, has enriched our
memoirs and bulletins. ‘Thanks to him, we can now pursue, in the closet, the
most precise study of the constitution of the skull and face of the greater number
of the human races. ‘The three great tables which accompany his memoir,
entitled Résultats de crdniométrie, comprise more than 15,000 measurements
taken on skulls derived from all quarters. Among them we find 117 African
skulls, 165 from Oceanica, 82 American, 58 Asiatic, and 105 European skulls,
ancient or modern. It would be in vain to seek elsewhere an equal amount of
documents collected after uniform processes by the same observer. ‘These three
tables present us, in a condensed form, the results of many years of circumstantial
researches, and when we think of the immense labor they have cost we cannot
but wonder how our colleague has found time to execute his great works in
linguistics, and to treat, moreover, with so much competence the highest ques-
tions of general and philosophic anthropology. The secret consists in his
having enjoyed the happy privilege of preserving, in the maturity of age, the
indefatigable ardor and the saered fire of youth. Let us add that he is one of
those rare men of science who have tiie good fortune to be able to devote them-
selves entirely to the study, or rather the religious culture, of anthropology.
May the example he gives us find frequent imitators !

lt is not here that 1 can hope to recapitulate all the craniological facts which
have been communicated to the society. Rare it is for a single sitting to pass
without an offering of new skulls. Among those which have come from foreign
384 ANTHROPOLOGICAL SOCIELY OF PARIS.

couniries I shall content myself with mentioning the skulls of two Chellouks,
inhabitants of the banks of the Nile, presented Dy M. Lagarde; the two skulls
of Red-skins, brought to us by M. Berchon; the cranium of a ’ Bechuana, sent
by M. Lautré, missionary in southern Africa; the Egyptian head, and the skull
of an Arab, which we owe to M. Périer; the curious deformed skull from the
valley of Ghovel, (Central America,) which the Abbé Brasseur de Bourbourg
has contributed to our stores ; ; finally, and above all, the magnificent head of an
Australian, conveyed to us by, Professor Ch. Martius. This last piece, so remarka-
ble in an osteological point of view, reveals to us a singular and heretofore
unknown trait of Australian manners. It is mummified ; all the flesh of the
head, desiccated and hardened to an extreme degree, is applied exactly to the
bones ; the half-opened mouth is filled with bird’s feathers ; a string strongly
knotted is passed through the cartilages of the nose. From what is : known of
the customs of the Australian tribes it is impossible to suppose that this head
gels from a body embalmed or mummified by a methodical process. Every-
thing leads to the conclusion that it is a trophy of war, dried and preserved as a
memorial by the victor in some bloody affray.

A particular notice is due to two fine series of skulls collected in Syria by
M. Girard de Rialle, and at Alexandria by our regretted colleague, Schneyw.
The skulls from Alexandria date from the Greco-Roman epoch. The population
of that great city then presented a confused mixture of nearly all the races of the
ancient world. Hence the practiced eye of M. Pruner-bey has been able to
detect in the collection of M. Schnepf, besides the skulls of Egyptian race, a
still greater number of those of Greeks, Romans, Ligurians, Negroes, and Syrians.
The skulls of the collection of M. Girard de Rialle are derived, some from
Damascus, the others from Rasheya. These last, to the number of 12 2, present
a surprising uniformity, and appear to have been artificially distorted by an
occipital compression.

‘he European skulls presented have been too numerous to admit even of men-
tion. Most of them are referable to the man of the prehistoric era, or to certain
existing populations which appear to be the issue of the primitive race of the age
of stone. ‘The conquering races which introduced into Kurope the Aryan lan-
guages and the use of metals did not destroy, as may have been supposed, the
vanquished nations, but, by mingling with them, caused them to undergo, almost
everywhere, modifications more or less profound. Since that period new cross-
ings, many times superposed, have changed more and more the character of the
first races; new conquests, new migrations have, in some sort, transformed the
greater part of the populations of Wurope, and, in the midst of this almost inex-

tricable intermixture, the exploration of ethnic origins has become one of the
most complicated problems of our science. ‘To dissipate this uncertainty two
principal means lie open before ns. ‘These are, on the one hand, the study of
those populations which, according to the testimony of linguistics, have more or
less resisted the foreign influence, ‘and W vhich, in preserving their pre-Aryan lan-
guages, have doubtless also preserved, in a degree of relative purity, the type of
the primitive races; and, on the other land, the examination of the reinains
which the populations of the age of stone have left in the soil, at prehistoric
epochs whose succession has been determined by archeology and paleontology.

The surviving witnesses of the primitive human fauna of Kurope form now
only two groups, confined to the two extremities of that part of the world, and
resembling those summits still existing under the shape of islets in submerged
regions—they are the Basques and the Fins. Our distinguished colleague, ~M.
de Baer, thought that he had discovered among the Romans of the Rhetian Alps
a third group ) of primitive populations; but this opinion, already refuted by MM.
His and Rutimeyer in their Crania Helvetica, cannot sustain itself in presence of
the facts embodied in the two important memoirs which M. His has addressed to
this Society. The brachycephaious population of the environs of Coire, far trom

ANTHROPOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF PARIS 385

being representatives of the autochthonous race, are, on the contrary, descendunts
of the Alemani, the last invaders of the country. The attention of the Society
has been therefore principally fixed on the Fins, with whom we may associate
the Esthonians, and on the Basques.

M. Beddoes, (of Clifton,) well known for his researches respecting the popula-
tions of Scotland and Ireland, has communicated to the Society the table of meas-
urements which he has taken of the heads of the Swedes and Finns. The last
are distinguished by a decided brachycephalism, and differ from the Scandinavians
not less by the conformation of the face than by that of the head. The absence
of the Finnish skull constitutes in the museums of Paris a void much to be
regretted. Last year, however, three skulls of Esthonians were given by M.
Baer to the museum of natural history, and have been the subject of an import-
ant communication of M. de Quatrefages. Although separated from the Finns
by the Gulf of Finland, the Esthonians speak a dialect of the same language,
and, notwithstanding the mixtures they may have undergone, the greater part of
them still preserve the characters of the Finnish race. Of the three skulls which
M. de Quatrefages has presented to the Society, one is purely Mongolic; the sec-
ond is so too, though in a less degree ; both are brachycephalous. The third is
almost dolichocephalous, but is very similar to the second in the form of the face;
like that, it is remarkable for a prognathism limited to the upper jaw. The lower
maxillaries, on the contrary, have a vertical direction, and M. de Quatrefages has
discovered in those bones all the characters of the famous j jaw of Moulin-Quignon.
Our eminent colleague is hence disposed to believe that the Esthonians are the
remains of a race heretofore disseminated in western Europe, where it has long
since disappeared through multiplied and predominative crossings, but where,
nevertheless, it has left an influence which is still manifested here and there by
the phenomena of atavism. The cases of alveolar prognathism which sometimes
present themselves among our own people, especially in females, would thus find
an explanation. These views, resting thus far upon but two pieces, (for the first
Esthonian skull, being toothless and deprived of the lower jaw, cannot serve for
the study of prognathism, ) have need of further confirmation; but they are not
unworthy, even now, of being regarded with high interest.

As to the Basque ‘skulls , the discussions to which they have given rise in the
society are still pending. ’ Nineteen new skulls, similar in all respects to the
former 60, and, like them, nearly all-dolichocephalous, have been sent to us by
our Zeé algus colleague, M. V elasco. But these, again, come from the cemetery of
Zaraus, and do not escape, consequently, the exclusion invoked by M. Pruner-bey.
Kvery effort should be used, therefore, to procure Basque skulls from some other
scene of production. The consignment made by M. Velasco had the advantage,
however, of elicitmg a new discussion, which procured us the pleasure of hearing
an instructive lecture of M. Pruner-be ‘y on the Basque language. Without dis-
avowing the analogies which have been pointed out between that language and
the Tartar idioms, « our colleague shows that these analogies are supertici ial and
of little significance. In his view the Basque language constitutes a unique fact
in the old continent, and has true aflinities only with the languages of America;
but he does not think himself authorized, from the aflinity of the languages, to
infer the filiation of the populations. However this may be, the ideas set forth
in this memoir are but little favorable to the hypothesis of those who strive to

reduce to one single race all the primitive, or rather pre-Aryan, races of
Europe.

This question of prehistoric races, thanks to the zeal of the arched sroetbal
anthropologists, lias made, within a short time, remarkable progress, France,
Switzerland, Belgium, the British Isles, Scandinavia, are no longer the onliy coun-
tries subjecte -d to the investigations of our science. ‘There is now scarcely any
country of Europe which is a stranger to researches of this nature. Move than
one important prehistoric station has been discovered in Germany and ‘Austria.

25 8
086 ANTHROPOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF PARIS.

The publications of the anthropological section of Moscow have made us
acquainted with excavations effected in the old tombs of Greater Russia, In
fine, recent and numerous explorations made in Italy, in Spain, in Portugal, have
shown, beyond dispute, that the two occidental peninsulas have also had their age
of stone. The results of the first researches of Casiano de Prado were stated to
the Society by M. Pruner-bey in an interesting report on Anthropology in Spain.
The discoveries of that savant, too soon lost to science, have been confirmed by
M. Edouard Lartet, the worthy son of our eminent colleague. M. Pereira da
Costa, moreover, has communicated the facts which relate to the antiqnity of man
in Portugal, chiefly in the basin of the 'Tagus. ‘This is doubtless but a first
harvest. ‘The ideas which we possess respecting the primitive populations of
Iberia are as yet too vague to furnish grounds for a synthesis; but facts more
numerous and more precise, collected in the other peninsula, have shed quite a
new light on the primitive conditions of the country. A Nicolucci, an Italia-
Nicastro, a De Rossi, a Gastaldi, a Cocchi, a Canestrini, emulous in zeal and
perseverance, have shown what science may hereafter expect from regenerated
Italy. The Pheenician sepulchers of Sicily and Sardinia, explored by M. Italia-
Nicastro, have furnished a large number of highly inter esting archzeological facts.
M. Nicolucci has sent us the description and fieure of several of the skulls which
have been obtained; and when these skulls are compared with those which are
procured from the ancient tombs of Etruria we feel authorized to predict
a day when the Semitic origin of the Etruscans will be definitively demonstrated.
It is to M. Nicolucci, moreover, that we owe the first craniological ideas on the
ancient Japyges, a population of southern Italy, of whom “the historians of
antiquity have made but vague mention, and whom it was the custom, not very
long ago, to regard as autochthonous.. M. Mommsen had already surmised, from
inscriptions on their tombs , that certain characters distinguishable in the remains
of their language tended to ally them with the Indo- European group of nations.
This view has been now fully confirmed by our learned colleague, M. Nicolucci,
who, having had an opportunity of studying three skulls fount in lapygian
tombs, has ‘authenticated their resemblance to the Greek type. Collating this
idea with the historical vestiges which he has been able to collect, he is Ted to
think that the Iapyges were a horde of Pelasgic origin, chased from Greece into
Italy by the invasion of the Hellenes. This is still but an hypothesis; but what
appears almost certain is, that the lapyges were of foreign origin and that they
were not the first occupants of the peninsula. If the lapvges and the Etruseans
are to be considered as exotic branches, where shall we find the primitive races
of Italy? The question, in as far as southern Italy and Sicily are concerned, is
still very doubtful. The facts which M. Rossi has recently detailed to us ith
so much clearness establish the existence of a dolichocephalous population which
occupied central Italy during that age of stone, which the poets, with perverse
inspiration, have called the age of gold. But in northern Italy, in the ancient
Liguria, there was a brachyeephalous race, which appears to have preceded all
the others. ‘This Ligurian race, which has beén made known to us by the labors
of M. Nicolucci, extended on the Mediterranean coast as far as southern France.
Our illustrious colleague, the Duke de Luynes, has made many explorations in
the soil of these regions ; he has exhumed a oreat number of skulls, which M.
Pruner-bey has exhibited to us, and in the ereater part of which he has pomted
out the characters of the Ligurian race.

It is here that I might ‘introduce the facts relating to the anthropology of
France, but these are to be the subject of a special report, which you have con-
fided to the learned pen of M. Lagneau. I cannot dispense, however, with a
grateful recognition of our obligations to the activity and generosity of our archee-
ologice al colleagues who, not content with enriching our Ballons with their inter-
esting communications, have endowed our museum with a great number of articles
the mo're valuable for having their authenticity and date guaranteed hy com-
ANTHROPOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF PARIS. 387

petent anthorities. Thus, MM. Bertrand and Leguay have procured for us a
whole series of skulls and ‘bones taken by themselves from the dolmen of Argen-
teuil, and M. de Sauley has given us several skulls derived from the tumuli
of Meloisey , (cote Wor ) and which date from the first age of iron. ‘The Society
has also received, thanks to the intervention of several of its members who formed
part of the commission of the museum of St. Germain—thanks especially to M.
Bertrand, director of that museum—a fine series of skulls exhumed from the
Gaulish cemetery of Saint Etienne-au-Temple, near Chalons-sur-Marne. Sun-
dry communications of M. Ronjou and M. Leguay have brought to our knowledge
the results of the excavations aa at. Villaneuve-Saint- Georges, i in a station of
the age of polished stone. M. Ronjou has superadded the description of a num-
ber of specimens of cut silex found in the diluvium of the environs of Paris, and
of several hearths engaged in the loess near Choisy-le-Roi. M. Mauricet has
presented to us bones extracted from the dolmen of Moustoir-Carnac, (Mor-
biban,) and the fac-simile of two human feet delineated on one of the lateral
stones of the dolmen of Mont-en-Arzon. If we add to these the fine head from
Qniberon, sent by M. de Closmadeuc, (of Vannes,) and the eut silex which MM.
Hamy and Sauvage have brought from Chatillon, near Bonlogne-sur-Mer, we shall
still be far from havi ing enumerated all the archeological facts which relate to the
anthropology of our country. But I should hardly be pardoned for quitting this
subject without mentioning in a particular manner the numerous communications
of M. de Mortillet on the prehistoric epochs. The learned editor of the AZaté-
riaux pour 0 Histoire Positive et Philosophique de V Homme ieaves us not in igno-

rance of any of the important facts which throng from all quarters to his journal,
and if we are ever at a loss for information we are sure of finding it with him,

The greater part of the archeological documents of which I have just spoken
relate to the epoch of polished stone, which preceded the age of bronze; that is
to say, the inauguration of the Indo- -European era. The ages which afterwards
clapsed till the advent of written history, and which are desion: ited by the name
of the Celtic epoch, are accessible by several means of inv estigation. Anthro-
pology relies not here solely on archeology ; it derives light from the torch of
linguistics, and even from the first glimmerings of history. A note of M. Henri
Martin on the Cimmerian migrations, a learned memoir of M. Georges on the
origin of the Celts, have added new facts to those which found a place, three
years ago, in the discussions of, the society on the original sources of the Euro-
pean populations. On the other hand, our venerable fox eign associate, M. d’Oma-
lius @Halloy, whose green old age sets at naught the ravages of time, has main-
tained, in a remarkable and hiehly applauded work, the objections which he had
previously raised against the prey vailing doctrine; and it is impossible not to
recognize that, if linguistics be in a position to demonstrate the Asiatic origin of
the Aryan languages s, anthropologics il observation does not permit us to consider
all the populations which to-day speak those languages as descendants in a direct
line of one and the same people. The diversity of types of the modern Indo-
Europeans can only be explained by the survivorship of autochthonous populations,
which, already differing at the epoch of the Asiatic invasion, have been crossed
with their conquerors, and have maintained the dissimilarity of races even where
the relationship of idioms seemed to indicate a common origin.

The multitude of the races of prehistoric Enrope, which forces itself on the
mind as the necessary explanation of the actual state of things, results directly
and incontestably from the study of the skulls of the age of stone. In the dis-
sussion which has been raised on the craniological type of the men of that epoch,
jucts apparently contradictory and yet perfeetly reconcilable have been laid before
the Society. On the one hand, it has been established that a very great majority
of the skulls of the dolmens are dolichocephalous, contrary to the opinion of
Retzius. This is true, not only for France but also for Great Britain, and very
probably even for Sweden, the country of that eelebrated naturalist ; for it will
388 ANTHROPOLOGICAL. SOCIETY OF PARIS.

be recollected that the 20 skulls taken by MM. Van Duben and Retzius, jr.,
from the megalithic sepulchre of Luttra, in West Gothland, were all dolicho-
cephalous, with the exception of a single one. On the other hand, however, the
researches already mentioned of MM. Nicolucci and Pruner-bey establish with
entire clearness the brachycephalous character of the race which, before the era
of metals, occupied Liguria and the coast of Provence. At the era, then, of pol-
ished stone Hurope already bore on its soil at least two distinct races. But those
times which preceded all our histories, and which seem now so remote from us,
appear, on the contrary, almost recent when opposed to the incalculable periods
which paleontology has revealed to us, and which, terminating with the epoch
of the reindeer, reascend even to the epoch of the elephant, the rhinoceros, the
great bear of the caves, and probably still higher, without our being able to fix
the limit to which ulterior discoveries shall carry back the origin of buman kind.

During the first years of its existence, the Society of anthropology had occa-
sion more than once to submit to study the question of the antiquity of man.
At present, all discussion on this subject would be idle. The existence of the
fossil-man, of the man of the quarternary period, cotemporary of the great
pachydermata, is a fact definitively verified by science. If some protestations
are still raised here and there against the evidence, it is not among us that they
originate. I have made a small collection of works which have been published
in France, in the 19th century, against the heresy of the rotation of the earth.
Can we hope that the discovery of M. Boucher de Perthes should find more favor,
in certain quarters, than the discovery of Copernicus? Leave we then, as the
Scripture says, the dead to bury their dead, and let us pursue our work without
occupying ourselves with the attacks directed against us by men of the past.

We, too, love the past; but above all we love to study it, and it is not our fault
if the records of the past extend far beyond the limits which it has been customary
to assion tothem. Our curiosity is no longer content with knowing whether there
were men on the earth in paleontological times. It asks what was the social
state of those men; what their physical characters; whether they already con-
stituted several distinct races; whether they differed from those who still later
learned to polish stone; and, finally, whether the immense period which elapsed
between the epoch of the mammoth and that of the reindeer, between that of the
reindeer and that of the dolmens, did not see, like the infinitely shorter periods
which have succeeded them, the human fauna of quaternary Europe ofttimes
renewed and revolutionized by great movements, migrations, and conquests
of the populations then existing? ‘These questions of so high an interest are still
far from a solution. Nevertheless, many important data have been already
obtained, and justify us in presaging for a future, not far distant, satisfactory
responses.

As regards industry, represented chiefly by instruments of silex, M. de Mor-
tillet has shown us that it made gradual advances during the-ages in question.
In the lower deposits of the diluvium of Abbeville the axes are lance-shaped,
and have been cut with rude and heavy blows, forming large fragments. _ In the
argillaceous-sandy stratum which covers the diluvium, which is consequently more
modern, and in which no bones of the mammoth have been discovered, the axes
are elliptical, much elongated,and were cut with light blows, leaving small frag-
ments. Finally, in the superficial stratum called the movable or loose forma-
tion of the slopes, the axes are polished, wedge-like, and similar to those found
in the dolmens. Were these successive modifications of the same branch of
industry attributable to gradual improvements or to the arrival of new popula-
tions? The memorable discoveries of M. Lartet, those especially which he has
made in the caverns of Perigord, with the co-operation of our regretted col-
leagne, Christy, authorize us to consider the latter supposition as highly probable.
The inhabitants of Perigord’ possessed only cut silex; but they had reached a
state of civilization and of artistic development altogether surprising. It is hard
ANTHROPOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF PARIS 389

to conceive how men destitute of the use of metals were able to fabricate of
bone, ivory, the antlers of the reindeer, an infinite variety of very delicate uten-
sils; to carve, I had almost said to chisel, elegant forms, and to represent by
designs engraved in line on the handles of their instruments the figures of differ-
ent animals. These figures are distinguished by an exactness and artistic skill
truly remarkable, and to find in an equal degree the sentiment of art it would
be necessary to revert, through many centuries, to the better times of Greece.
They form a contrast so absolute with the rude delineations traced on some Cel-
tic monuments, that it might be asked whether they have not been designed
since the herane era, by fugitives who may have sought refuge in the caves of
our ancient troglodytes. But what other than the man of the quaternary period
could have designed in Europe, on the bones or horns of the reindeer, the figure
of a species of clephant Which differs from all living species? ‘This race of men,
so interesting through its civilization, led a peaceable existence. A skull found
in the erotto of Bruniquel, of which M. Brun has sent us the photograph, is dis-
tinguished by the purity of its form, the softness of its outlines, the little
_prominence of the apophyses, the slight depth of the muscular insertions;

characters incompatible with the violent habits of a savage or barbarous race.

What, then, became of this indigenous civilization, so original, so different from
all those which are known to us? Was it modified by slow dearees and trans-
formed to the extent of becoming at last wholly unrecognizable? No; it has
disappeared in the mass without ‘Jeavine any trace, and everything tends to the
belief that it perished by force. “After it, without transition, we find only the
impress of a powerful race, religious add warlike, fauichell with improved
arms and familiar with the polishing of silex, but otherwise little addicted to
industry and altogether alien to the notion of art. There are here all the indi-
cations of a brutal and successful invasion. ‘The troglodytes of the age of stone,
who had learned to conquer the soil and to destroy the last remains of the great
mammals of the quaternary fauna, knew not how to defend themselves against
the irruption of the barbarians, and an intermediate prehistoric age was ‘inter-
polated as successor to the bright epoch of a premature civilization, whose origin
is thus far wholly unknown.

These men of the age of the reindeer, so much advanced in certain respects
were probably the descendants, but the softened and cultivated descendants,
of the rude savages of the epoch of the diluvium. Oftener than once, in the soil
of the same caverns, the lower strata are found to have enclosed the remains of the
rhinoceros and the mammoth, while the superficial layers contained only the relics
of thereindeer. The industry of which silex constituted the material had, from the
first to the second epoch, been a little modified, but not transformed; and if a more
regular cutting, with small fragments, had replaced the morer adimentary execution
of earlier days, it was still by. pure and simple percussion, without any process %
abrasion, that the silex was elaborated. These changes moreover scarcely appea
except in the fabrication of the axes; the knives continued to present a acai
able uniformity. It is probable, in fhets that the art of design was already known
to the cotemporaries of the Ursus spelaus. 'This would appear at least to result
from the curious figure which that indefatigable explorer of the caverns of the
Pyrenees, M. Garricon, has discovered on a silicious stone, taken by him from a
grotto containing fossil bones. This figure represents a bear which, in the length
of the spinal apophyses of its neck, resembles more the bear of the caves than
any other species of the same animal. If the interpretation of M. Garrigou be
confirmed, it will be interesting to have thus found the origin of the art of desi sien
among a race, susceptible, no doubt, of improvement, but which, at the epoch i in
question, was ‘halt. “savage, and w hich perhaps was still committed to the prac-
tice of anthropophagism. M. Garrigou, in effect, and M. Roujou after him,
have exhibited to the society several human bones on which are seen the traces
390 ANTHROPOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF PARIS.

of methodical percussions designed to open the medullary canal and permit the
extraction of the marrow.

Thus we have arrived at the most ancient known epoch in the life of mankind.
What were at that time the physical characters of man? 'The bones of the mem-
bers which have been found prove that the stature was of little height; and
though the skulls or remains of skulls are still quite rare, it may be considered
as very nearly demonstrated that our predecessors of the quaternary had the
head small, with retreating forehead, and oblique jaws. But a graver and more
critical qnestion here presents itself. Our young, but already distinguished col-
league, M. Dupont, in the excavations which he has conducted during several years
for the Belgic government on the banks of the Meuse, between Liege and Namur,
discovered, several months ago, among the bones of the rhinoceros and mam-
moth which oecupy the lower stratum of the cavern of Nanlette, a strange jaw, the
zoological characters of which might at first seem to be equivocal. From its general
form this skull appeared human, and was so in effect; but in the details of its con-
formation, its excessive thickness, the total absence of the prominence of the chin,
finally and chiefly, in the character of the dentition, which is a character of the first
order, it deviated considerably from the human type, while approximating to that’
of the anthropomorphous apes. Analogous traits, though less decided, had been
already recognized in the jaw extracted by the Marquis de Vibraye from the
cavern of Arcy-sur-Aube, the authenticity of which is not now to be questioned.
Tn order to find in our actual humanity some of these characters, and even then
much mitigated, it is necessary to descend to the lowest types of Australia and New
Caledonia. The latter, it would follow, form not, as had till now been supposed,
the last, or if you like, the first term of the human series. The quaternary man
takes his place below them, and thus diminishes the interval which separates
man from his zoological neighbors. But what is the signification, the import, of
this fact? Must we recognize in this a proof of the transformation of species, or
only a proof of the serial distribution of organic forms, of which the Darwinian
theory is but a hypothetie explanation?

This doubt still subsists, notwithstanding the discussions to which so grave a
subject could not fail to give rise. If it were demonstrated that the type of the
man of Naulette, by successive and secular modifications, had been gradually
improved so as to be elevated to our own, it cannot be dissembled that this would
afford for the Darwinists a very potent argument. But do we know in what
manner the quaternary races have made place for those of following ages? What
is there to prove that the succession of types has not been the consequence
of a substitution of races? Do we not now see, at many points of America and
Oceanica, this substitution going on; the races of Europe taking the place of the
indigenous races? Let us avow, then, that as. yet the facts we possess are too
few to solve this vast problem of the crigin of the human kind, and let us wait
till new discoveries bring us more numerous and decisive indications. The trath,
whatever it may be, need not disquiet or humiliate us. Whether man has
received his royalty as a congenital appanage, or valiantly conquered it atter a
long series of evolutions and struggles, does he not always remain master of the
earth? He who knows how to manage as a docile instrument the blind forces
of nature, who makes of electricity his messenger, who weighs the planets, and
analyzes by photochemistry even the substance of the san—will it be for him to
blush at any revelation respecting an origin buried in the immeasurable depths
of the past? No; the discussion in this Society, so complete, so conscientious,
so learned on the doctrine of the human kingdom, sustained with so much ability
by MM. Pruner-bey and de Quarterfages, sufficed to show that man, to maintain
his rank in nature, has no need of undervaluing or degrading the beings which
surround him. All the speakers, without exception, recognized the intelligence
of animals, and discerned in them the germ of intellectual faculties, of senti-
ments and passidns, which have acquired their full development, their full expan-
ANTHROPOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF PARIS. 391

sion, only within the circle of human society. If MM. Alix, Kochet, Voisin,
signalized, under different points of view, the superiority, uncontested as
it is, of man, MM. Sanson, Letourneau, Simonot, Roujou, Gaussin, and others
pleaded, with not less conviction, the cause of animals. ‘The disputation, it is
true, turned only on a single character, on that which henceforth will serve exclu-
sively as a basis for the conception of the human kingdom, on the religious sen-
timent. It imported first of all to know whether ‘this sentiment nec sessarily
exists among all the tribes of men; whether it is svfliciently universal to serve
as the characteristic of humanity. While MM. Quatrefages, Proner-bey, Mar-
tin de Moussy, have no doubt of this, the opposite thesis was sustained by MM.
Prat, Letourneau, Dally, Coudereau, and Lagnean. Let us not be surprised at
these divergencies of opinion, inseparable from a subject which connects itself
with all the most arduous questions of psychology. But let us recall with satis-
faction that in this interesting debate, in which everything was in play that might
rouse the feelings, and opinions the most contradictor 'y found the utmost freedom
of expression, no germ of discord was allowed to take root... Every one proved
himself capable of respecting the convictions of his neighbor, and urbanity of
language, the consequence of reciprocal esteem, constantly sustained the discus-
sion at the level of the serene heights of science.

I am very far from having finished, and yet it is necessary that I should
stop. ‘Time would fail me to complete the analysis of the labors which
have so fully oceupied our sessions. I have been obliged to pass in silence
many interesting facts, many important discussions. But if I have not been
able to accomplish all my task, let the blame fall where it is due; by the
agerandizement of the field of research, by the multiplicity of their produe-
tions, my colleagues of the society have themselves rendered it impossible to
condense in a few pages the results which have been accomplished. ‘Thanks
to their persevering efforts, the impulsion given to anthropological studies
increases from day to day; the movement of our science becomes generalized,
and is propagated in al! parts of the world. It suffices to cast a glance on the
first steps of the society to recognize with just paige on the extent of the
route which has been traversed in less than eight years. What has been done in
so short a space of time is a sure guarantee of nue will be effected in the
future. :
DRILLING IN STONE WITHOUT METAL.

P BY CHARLES RAU.

Some archeologists, among them Sir John Lubbock, incline to the opinion
that the perforated stone axes and hammers which have been found in Europe
are to be referred to,the beginning of the bronze period. Many of those imple-

ments doubtless belong to the age of bronze; they have frequently been discov-
“ered in connection with bronze articles in ancient graves, and it is, moreover,
well known that the manufacture and use of stone weapons and implements were
everywhere continued for a long time after the introduction of bronze. ‘These
facts, however, furnish no evidence for ascribing pierced stone implements gene-
rally to the period in which the use of bronze was already known; in many cases,
on the contrary, it may be inferred from the nature of their finding-places, as well
as from the character of their perforations, that they belong to the stone age
proper. In the illustrated catalogue of the collection in the Copenhagen museum,
edited by Mr. J. J. A. Worsaae,* there are eleven representations of pierced
stone implements attributed to the age of stone, and the foremost objects,
figured to illustrate the bronze period, consist of seven perforated stone axes,
distinguished by elegant shape and superior workmanship. Though I am not
acquainted with the particular circumstances of the discovery of these implements,
I have not the least doubt that the learned editor of the catalogue, in referring
them respectively to the ages of stone and bronze, based his classification on
tenable grounds.

A number of those lacustrian pile-works, which pertain exclusively to the stone
age, have yielded stone axes and hammers, as, for instance, the station of Nuss-
dorf, on the Lake of Ueberlingen, (an arm of the Lake of Constance) where no less
than fifty have been found. Mr. Desor, on whom I rely forthese facts, also mentions
that in another Jacustrian station of the stone age the articles in question are con-
fined to the upper part of the “ archzological stratum,” that is, the stratum which
contains relics of art. Pierced implements, therefore, would seem to belong, in
those localities at least, to a later epoch of the stone age, and thus to mark a
phase of progress in the gradual development of human skill during that period.t

After a careful examination and u-mparison of the shaft-holes of Kuropean
stone implements, I have arrived at the conclusion that two different methods,
or, at least, two differently shaped drills were employed in making them. ‘The
more perfect perforations are of equal width, smooth and shining, and exhibit at
certain distances circular strize or furrows, which have the appearance of a suc-
cession of parallel rings. ‘These perforations, I think, have been drilled with a
hollow cylinder, perhaps a bronze tube, and I believe that the implements pierced
in the manner described were mostly manufactured during the age of bronze.

f=)

They are, moreover, very aften remarkable for elegance of outline and high
‘finish, indicating a state of art superior to that which is generally supposed to

have existed in Europe during the period of stone. In other specimens the

* Worsaae, Nordiske Oldsager i det Kongelige Museum i Kjobenhavn, 1859.
t Desor, Palafittes, or Lacustrian Constructions of the Lake of Neuchatel; Smithsonian
Report for 1865, p. 359, (note.)
DRILLING IN STONE WITHOUT METAL, —— «898

shaft-holes are likewise more or less smooth, but destitute of the annular striz,
and sometimes narrower in the middle, in which cases, of course, a circular pro-
: tuberance of corresponding size is formed. (Tig. 1.)
Li lq. 1 These holes evidently were drilled from two sides,
and the drilling implement was not a hollow eylin-
der, but a solid body, probably a wooden stick.
Most of the axes and hammers provided with shaft-
holes of this character are perhaps relics of the age
of stone. It is hardly necessary to state that with-
out the application of water and hard sand, drilling
with either implement, hollow or solid, would have
been impossible, and that the sand is to be considered as the chief agent in the
process.

I had occasion to examine a number of European stone hatchets and hammers,
which were in an unfinished state, the shaft-holes being only commenced or
drilled half through, and the appearance of the latter perfectly corroborated my
view concerning the different shapes of the drills used in making them; for some
of these unfinished holes, and just such as belong to the striated class, have at
the bottom a conical projection or a core, (Fig. 2,) which obviously resulted a
sega ee es the application of a hollow

4! ug. at Lig. J. drilling implement; while

others (Fig. 3) terminate
‘in a rounded concave bot-
tom, resembling exactly the
cavity made by a wooden
stick used as a drill* I
WW 77/4, would not express this lat-

ter opinion so positively, if I could not rely on the results of experiments, having,

YY

yy,

of a stick, in connection with sand and water. An account of the method
employed by me, and of the results, I hope will be of interest to those arelie-
ologists who pay some attention to the minor details of their study.

In the first place, I will give a description of my drilling implement, (Fig. 4,)
which is, in fact, a pump-drilJ, the same apparatus that was used in former times by
the Iroquois for the purpose of producing fire by friction. It consists of a round
wooden shaft, about four feet long and an inch in diameter at the upper end,
but tapering a little towards the lower extremity, where it is provided with a
heavy wooden disk, which acts as a fly-wheel. A bow or bent stick, three feet
in length, with a long string attached to it, forms the second part of the apparatus.
When used the string of the bow is passed through a notch cut in the top end of

*Tt afforded me some satisfaction to find my views confirmed, to a certain extent, in a
work of Dr. Gustav Klemm. his author first alludes to Gutsmuths, who published an article
in the ‘* Morgenblatt,’’ (1832, No. 253,) in which he tried to prove that a hollow cylinder of
metal, used with emery in the manner of toothless stone saws, was the drilling implement of
the ancients, basing his opinion upon the same facts which ] already have stated, namely,
the regularity of the holes, the core at their bottom, and the circular furrows. Klemm hiin-
self possessed in his collection a hollow bronze tube, five inches long, three-quarters of an inch
in diameter, and covered all over with green rust, theserugo nobilis of antiquaries. With
such implements, he thought, the shaft-holes had generally been drilled, ‘* but continued obser-
vation,’ he says, ‘‘convinced me that other methods also must have been employed. A
stone axe of my collection, bored from two sides, exhibits conical cavities, the shupe of which
“at once excludes the idea that a hollow cylinder was used in drilling them; the implement
with which they were made, probabiy in a slow and painful way, evidently was a solid
body.” (Klemm, Allgemeine Culturwissenschaft, Werkzeuge und Waffen, Leipzig, 1854, p. 79.)

t Morgan, League of the Iroquois, Rochester, 1651, description and figure on page 38l.
Mr. Tylor gives likewise, on page 245 of his valuable ‘* Researches into the Early History
of Mankind,” (London, 1865,) a drawing of the apparatus, but represents it as being moved
with one haud only. In order to maintain the equilibrium of the shaft, it is necessary to
apply both hands to the bow.
394 DRILLING IN STONE WITHOUT METAL.

the stick and coiled around the stick, as indicated in the drawing. The bow is
then seized with both hands and pressed downwards with a violent jerk. This
motion uncoils the string and revolves

the shaft towards the left, but by the

action of the fly-wheel the string is

coiled again around the shaft in a re-

verse manner, and the bow drawn up

again. Asecond jerk at the bow causes

the shaft to revolve towards the right,

and by continuing this manipulation it

is alternately swung around in opposite

directions. The operator has it alto-

gether in his power to work the appa-

ratus slowly or rapidly, and, of course,

with corresponding effect; but it re-
quires some practice to use it in the

proper manner.

The stone selected by me for the ex-
periment isa flat, oval piece of diorite,
of great hardness, not quite seven inches
long, about five inches wide, and in the
middle part one inch and three-eighths
(a little over 3.5 centimeters) thick. I
chose purposely that kind of stone, be-
cause it is the same of which the ancient
inhabitants of Europe very often made
their pierced implements. It is both
hardand tough. These qualities were
likewise appreciated by the North American aborigines, who used diorite exten-
sively as the material for their tomahawks, large chisels, and pestles. The stone on
which I operated is so hard that the point of a well-tempered penknife produces no
scratch on its surface, but merely a metallic streak. The material used in drilling
was a sharp quartz sand of middle grain, such as is employed in marble-yards; fora
short time I also tried emery, but finding that it was not more effectual than sand, I
continued toapply the latter. In order to render a beginning of the perforation pos-
sible, I tied asmall square piece of board in which f had eut around hole, correspond-
ing to the lower diameter of the drilling-stick, with a string tothe stone, just above
the place where the bore was to be commenced. Without this contrivance, which
I had to retain during the whole drilling process, the stick would constantly have
slipped out of the hole. After these preparations I could begin the work, which
was not very fatiguing, but tedious beyond description, taxing, in fact, my patience
to the utmost degree. I never could endure the work for more than twa hours
in succession, and sometimes I laid the stone aside for weeks and months, until
{ had mustered neftitlent energy to resume the labor. Thus it took two years
before I succeeded in piercing the stone. I cannot exactly state how many
hours I devoted to the work, but by measurement I obtained the result that two
hours of constant drilling added, on an average, not more than the thickness of
an ordinary lead-pencil line to the depth of the hole. The work would have
advanced with incomparably greater speed, if I had selected a softer stone, ser-
pentine, for instance, instead of the hard diorite; it was, however, my object to
try the experiment on a hard mineral substance. Every five or six minutes the
bore had to be cleaned by immersing the stone in water, the sand being by that
time perfectly ground, and forming, in connection with the water and the parti-
cles of wood rubbed from the stick, a sort of paste, which was no longer ser-
viceable for drillmg. 'The quantity of sand introduced after every cleaning was
about equal to the contents of a teaspoon. The shortening of the drilling-stick,

-

DRILLING IN STONE WITHOUT METAL. 395

in consequence of wear, was considerable, and I had to replace it several times.
The first was of tough ash wood ; the others, which consisted of pine wood,
proved to be just as efficient.

In the beginning of the work there appeared at the place of perforation a
smooth, round spot. Becoming gradually larger, it formed a shallow basin, which
finally, when the stone was drilled half through, assumed the appearance of a
- conical or funnel-shaped cavity. ‘The deeper the drill penetrated into the stone
‘the more difficult the work became, which induced me, after having drilled
through half the thickness of the stone, to begin another bore at the opposite
side. In due time it met the first exactly in the middle. It was originally my
intention to drill a hole of about three-quarters of an inch in diameter, but I had
not made sufficient allowance for the lateral friction of the sand, and hence it
happened that the two conical cavities forming the perforation acquired, much
against my w ish, egreaier proportions than I expected, measuring, in fact, an inch
and a quarter in their widest diameters. They would have become narrower
as well as more cylindrical, if 1 had used a drill half as thick as that which served
in the operation; but when I made this discovery the work was already too far

Lig. 5. advanced to be commenced again. Fig. 5
shows the present shape of tle perforation.
Tt is round and smooth, without exhibiting
those circular furrows, which I have already
ascribed to the action of a hollow drill. In
order to complete the task in its fullest
extent by producing a perfectly cylindri-
4A” eal hole, it would be necessary to remove,
by continued drilling, the projecting rim between the dotted lines: a labor prob: ably
requiring as much time as that hitherto consumed. I cannot say whether I shall
have sufficient leisure and patience to perform it; for the present I am satisfied
with the fact of having, perhaps, practicatly illustrated one of the methods of
drilling employed during the age of stone. Of course, it would be rashness on my
part to assert that the apparatus used by me had also ’served as a drilling imple-
ment in ancient Europe; yet the possibility cannot be denied, for just as the
Iroqnois invented it for producing fire, the ancient nations of Europe may have
constructed it for another parpose. Mr. Desor thinks it probable that the drill-
ing was effected by means of very thin flakes of flint fixed around a stick, which
was made to turn in such a way as to separate a portion of the stone, ‘which,
when the perforation was accomplished, would fall to the ground.* A drilling-
nak stick of this description really may have served for per-
see forating soft stones, bat could not be successfully applied
to hard materials. I operated myself with such a drill
on diorite, and found the flint flakes invariably break off
after the first revolutions. Yet, whatever may have been
the means employed in drilling stone in the pre-historic
ages of Europe, it is certain that the carefully fashioned
and pierced implements must have possessed a very high
value in the eyes of their manufacturers. Some indication
of this fact is offered by the occurrence of the edged halves
of axes broken across the shaft-hole, which had been ren-
dered serviceable again by a second perforation. A speci-
men of this kind, of which the annexed reduced sketch
(Fig. 6) presents the upper view, is preserved in the Pea-
body Museum at Cambridge, M assachusetts. It was found
in northern Germany. ‘The shaft-hole, which has been left in an unfinished
state, evidently was formed by a solid drill. ‘Che material of this relic is
variety of greenstone. ° i

*Palafittes, &c., p. 359.
396 DRILLING IN STONE WITHOUT METAL

In North America the grooved tomahawk was, anterior to the occupation by
Europeans, the prevailing implement of the axe-shape;* but pierced articles of
this class also have been found, though not very frequently. Several are
figured on page 218 of the ‘“ Ancient Monuments of the Mississippi Valley,” by
Squierand Davis. The material of most of those which I have seen is a rather
soft stone of a greenish color, with darker vems or spots, capable of a fine polish.
These perforated axes are mostly small, but very symmetrically shaped and highly
finished. They were most probably worn on handlesas badges of distinction by the
superiors,t a supposition which gains strength from the fact that their material ren-
ders them unfit forreal use. I know by experience that they occur from the Missis-
sippi to the Atlantic coast. The peculiar stone of which they consist was also used
for other objects, (the so-called gorgets, amulets, &c.,)'and may have been an article
of trade. The shaft-holes of these hatchet-like implements are exceedingly regular,
and the annular strize can often plainly be distinguished. They were doubtless
produced by means of hollow drills, as will be seen hereafter. In addition to
the perforated Indian axes just mentioned, there occur others, which are remarkable
for being only pierced to a certain depth. It is true, I have not seen these latter
very frequently, but in sufficient number to become convinced that the shaft-
holes were purposely left in an unfinished condition. Their material is not the
soft stone already referred to, but a harder substance, usually some kind of green-
stone. They always present pretty much the same shape. ‘The annexed half-
size sketch (Fig. 7, upper and side view) shows the outline of one of these imple-

Bg. he

Sa

ments, which was found in western Massachusetts, and is now in the possession
of Dr. Davis, of New York. The core at the bottom of the shaft-hole, which
is indicated by dots, affords an indubitable proof that a hollow drill was employed.
To render this implement serviceable for use, or even for show, a handle was
driven as far as possible into the shaft-hole, and probably more firmly bound to

*Some ethnological writers, McCulloh and Schoolcraft, for instance, consider these
stone axes as tools, and not as weapons; whereas it is most probable that they served both
purposes, as occasion required. Men who were confined to the use of stone impiements
cannot be expected to have been very choice in their applications. A stone tomahawk,
firmly attached to a withe, presented a very efficient battle-axe, Mr. Catlin gives, on plate 114
(vol.2 ) of his well-known work, the portrait of Mens6nseah (the Left Hand, ) a Piankeshaw
warrior, whom he represents with a helved stone tomahawk in his hand. Would this brave
have allowed the artist to paint him thus accoutred, if he had not regarded his stone axe as
a weapon? An Indian warrior, in his contempt for labor, certainly spurns the idea of being
portrayed with a tog] in his hand. ,

t Many of the perforated implements of Europe are supposed to have been destined for the
same purpose. ‘
DRILLING IN STONE WITHOUT METAL. 397

the blade by ligatures. The depressions of the axe above and below the shaft-
hole (observable in the side view) seem to have been destined for the reception
of the fastening.

Yet, the manufactures of stone which evince the greatest skill of the former
inhabitants of North America are by no means their pierced axes, but those
remarkable pipes, often made of the hardest stones, that have been found in the
so-called sacrificial mounds of the western States, ‘but more especially in Ohio.
These “mound pipes” usually represent bow! and tube in one piece, thus differing
from the modern Indian pipe, which consists of a bowl and a long wooden stem,
and bears a distant resemblance to the chibouc of the Turks. A great number
of pipes of the above-mentioned antique shape were disentombed by Messrs.
Squier and Davis during their survey of the ancient earth-works in the Missis-
sippi valley, and are described and figured in their work already quoted by me,
which forms the first volume of “ Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge.”*
The accompanying cut (Fig. 8) presents the outline of the mound-pipe in its

simple or primitive form.
Fig. S. The drawing is about half

the size of the original,

which was exhumed with
many similar articles from
a mound near Chillicothe,
Ohio, and belonged form-
erly to the collection of Dr.
Davis. It will be seen that
the bow] rises from the mid-
dle of a flat and somewhat
curved base, one side of
which communicates by
ineans of a narrow perforation, one-sixth of an inch (about four millimeters) in
lameter, with the hollow of the bowl, and represents the tube, or rather the
mouth-piece of the pipe, while the other unperforated end forms the handle by which
the smoker held the implement and approached it to his mouth. Bowl and base are
ornamented with small cup-shaped holes. ‘This pipe consists of hard porphyry, and
is wrought from a single piece, like all others of similar character. I have
already stated that it may be considered as the simple or typical form of this
class of implements. In the more elaborate specimens the bowl is formed in
some instances in imitation of the human head, but generally of the body of an
animal; and in the latter cases the peculiar characteristics of the species which
have served as models, comprising mammals, birds, and amphibia, are frequently
expressed with surprising fidelity; a modern artist, indeed, notwithstanding his
far superior instruments, would find no little difficulty in reproducing the more
finished of these objects, especially when carving them from porphyry, which
was the kind of stone chiefly employed by the manufacturers. It must be borne
in mind that the real use of metal was unknown to the ancient populations of
North America. Implements and ornaments of copper, it is true, have been dis-
covered, to a limited extent, in the mounds of the western States, and elsewhere,
but the copper thus employed has not been obtained by the reduction from its
ores; on the contrary, it is evident that the aborigines fashioned those articles
from pieces of native copper, which they brought into the required shape by the
simple process of hammering. 'They obtained ‘the copper from the southern shore
of Lake Superior, where extensive traces of their rade mining operations are still

"* The originals are now inthe Blackmore Museum, at Salisbury, ‘England, an institution
of recent origin, to which Dr. Davis sold his excellent collection of Indian relies, mostly
obtained during the survey to which I have alluded. Before the sale took place, I had con-
stantly occasion to see the collection, and thus became familiar with the character of the speci-
mcnus.
398 DRILLING IN: STONE WITHOUT METAL.

to be seen.* This hammered native copper is so soft that it can easily be cut
with a knife, and therefore cannot have furnished the implements for working
those hard mineral substances, which, indeed, successfully resist well-tempered
steel. As a consequence, it must be presumed that the manufacturers of the pipes
performed their work in the most tedious and painful manner, by rnbbing the
stone and grinding it with sharp sand and water, althongh this method leaves
many details in the execution of their productions unexplained. In viewing, for
example, their figures of birds, it is difficult to comprehend how they succeeded
in representing the feathers, which are indicated by steady and boldly cut lines,

straight and curved, in close imitation of nature.t The perforations and hollows
of the mound-pipes are drilled with perfect accuracy, showing at once that the
implement which produced them was not merely turned between the hands, but
moved by an apparatus which coincided, in all probability, with the bow-drill
still used by watchmakers and other artisans. Thelatter, it is well known, con-
sists of a straight drill, which passes through the centre of a disk grooved at the
periphery and revolves around two fixed points, one of them bemg formed by
the bore. Motion.is imparted by means of a bow, the string of which encircles
the disk. It certainly would appear hasty to attribute to the aborigines of North
America a knowledge of this implement, if it were not for the circumstance that
there occur among the relics of the former population rings of stone and bone
which are almost identical with the disks just mentioned, and most probably
have served the same purpose. In fact, it is almost impossible to assign them
any other destination. ‘These rings are of various sizes, but similar in shape,
being deeply grooved upon the outer edge, and pierced by eight equidistant
small holes radiating from the centre.t Fig. 9 is a full-sized drawing of one
which was discovered in a mound on ;

the north fork of Paint creek, about ot UY. a)

six miles distant from Chillicothe,
Ohio. The sketch, however, repre-
sents the object as perfect, whereas
the original, formerly belonging to
Dr. Davis, constitutes only one-belf
_ of the ring, which consists of a dark
stone of medium hardness. The
character of the rings encourages me
to attempt the restoration of the an-

* Only the inhabitants of Mexico, and some countries in the southern portion of the Ameri-
can continent, understood the manufacture of bronze. It will hardly be necessary to add
that iron was altogether unknown to the natives of America until Europeans taught them
its use. :

+The amount of labor bestowed upon the manufacture of these specimens must have been
enormous, considering the time it is said to have required for fashioning articles of a much
simpler character. According to Lafitau a North American Indian sometimes spent his life-
time in making a stone tomahawk, yet without entirely finishing it. Lafitau, Meurs des
Sauvages Amériquains, Paris, 1724, vol. 2, p. 110. ,

‘Mr. Wallace has found that plain cylinders of imperfect rock erystal, four to eight inches
long, and one inch in diameter, are made and perforated by very low tribes on the Rio Negro.
They are not, as Humboldt seems to have supposed, the result of high mechanical skill, but
merely of the most simple and savage processes, carried on with that utter disregard of time
that lets the Indian spend a month in making an arrow. They are merely ground down into
shape by rubbing, and the perforating of the cylinders, crosswise, or even lengthwise, is said
to be done thus: A pointed flexible leaf-shoot of wild plantain is twirled with the hands against
the hard stone, till, with the aid of fine sand and water, it bores into and through it, and this
is said to take years to do. Such cylinders as the chiefs wear are said sometimes to take two
men’s lives to perforate. The stone is brought from a great distance up the river, and is very
highly valued.”— Tylor, Researches, &c., p. 187.

¢ Ancient Monuments of the Mississippi Valley, p. 224.
DRILLING IN STONE WITHOUT METAL. 399

cient Indian bow-drill, which may have presented the shape indicated by Fig. 10.
’ The ring, it seems, encircled a massive
Fig. 70. drill-holder, to which it was fastened by
pegs driven through the holes on its
periphery. ‘Their purpose is thus fully
explained.
May not an apparatus of similar con-
struction also have been known in
Europe during the bronze age, and even
at an earlier period? In using ‘the pump-
drill, described and figured by me, con-
stant oscillations of the shaft, tending
to enlarge the bore, cannot be. av oided;
but they are altogether obviated w hen,
as in Fig. 10, the upper end of the shaft or drill-hoider revolves around a fixed
point. And further, may notin Europe as well as in America the latter more
perfect apparatus have superseded, in the course of time, the simpler contrivance
with which I have experimented? This view will not appear strange, considering
that man in all parts of the globe progressed slowly, and that every new dev elop-
ment of ingenuity was based upon the results of former experience.

The greater number of drilled Indian implements which I had occasion to
examine bore the unmistakable marks of having been perforated with hollow
drills; yet I have also seen Indian performances 4 in drilling indicating the appl-
cation of solid implements. As an illustration I annex (Fig. 11, full size) the

eae drawing of apipe consisting of almost transparent rock
mi ig. crystal, which was taken from a mound near Bain-
bridge, Ross county, Ohio, and is now the property of
ee Dr. Davis. Its shape, it will be observed, is that of a
barrel somewhat narrowing at the bottom; it is regu-
larly formed and highly polished. I left the drawing
purposely without shading in order to indicate the two
hollows, of which the upper one served as the recepta-
cle for the smoking material, while, that which meets
it from the side was destined for the insertion of astem.
The terminations of the hollows are rounded, and con-
sequently have been drilled with a solid implement.
_ It is very likely that the hollow drills of the abori-
gines of North America were pieces of that hard and
tough cane (Arundinaria macrosperma, Michaux, )
which grows abundantly in the southern part of the
United States, mostly along the banks of large rivers,
and forms at present an article of trade, being used for pipe-stems and fishing-
rods. This cane varies considerably in ‘thickness; sometimes as thin as a straw,
it assumes, when fully grown, the diametral proportions of a strong rifle- barrel,
and even of larger cylindrical objects, in which cases it reaches the enormous
height of 25 or 30 feet. A piece of this cane, from whieh the knotty joints have
been cnt, forms a regular hollow cylinder sufliciently strong to serve as a drill.
I learned from Dr. Davis that many years ago a stone pipe with an unfinished
hollow, partly filled with vegetable matter, was sent from Mississippi to the late
Dr. Samuel G. Morton, of Philadelphia. When subjected to a microscopical
examination the vegetable substance exhibited the fibrous structure of cane, and
thus appeared to be the remnant of a drill broken off in the bore. It is, how-
ever, my intention to try the applicability of this cane by drilling experiments.

In conclusion, I will observe that the more finished stone articles of the former

inhabitants of North America, and especially the pipes from the mounds, are

eoreewens.
A400 DRILLING IN STONE WITHOUT METAL.

perhaps the best specimens of art left by any people to whom the use of metal
was unknown, and that in examining the archeological collections of Europe,
I have seen no objects produced under similar cireumstances which display an

equal degree of skill in the art of fashioning stone.

Ancient Stone Axes from North Germany,
A DEPOSIT OF AGRICULTURAL FLINT: IMPLEMENTS IN SOUTHERN ILLINOIS.
4

BY CHARLES RAU.

Tn an article published in the Smithsonian report for 1863 I gave, for the first
time, an account and drawings of certain North American flint implements of

large size and superior workmanship, which were evi-
dently used by the aborigines for cultivating the soil
and other digging purposes, and hence, according to
their shape, classified by me as shovels and hoes. The
annexed figures represent both kinds of implements.
I described the shovels (Fig. 1) as oval plates of flint,
flat on one side and slightly convex on the other, the
outline being chipped into a sharp edge. ‘The speci-
men here figured measures above a foot in length, a
little more than five inches in its greatest breadth, and
is about three-quarters of an inch thick in the middle.
Others are narrower and not quite as heavy. The
shape of the hoes is illustrated by Fig. 2. This speci-
men is seven and a half
inches long, nearly six
inches wide, and about
half an inch thick in
the middle. The roun-
ded part forms a sharp
edge. The material
of which these imple-
ments are made is a
peculiar kind of bluish,
gray or brownish flint,
of slightly conchoidal
fracture, and capable
of splitting into large flat fragments. I never
succeeded in discovering this stone 7m situ. ‘The
agricultural implements of my collection were all
found in St. Clair county in southern Illinois,
with the exception of one shovel, which was dug up in 1861 in St. Louis, during
the construction of ear thworks for the protection of the city. Both shovels and
hoes were, doubtless, attached to handles, those of the latter probably forming
aright, or even an acute angle with the stone blade, which is always provided
with two notches in the upper part to facilitate the fastening.*

i
iH
Hy

i

* I quoted a passage from Du Pratz, which is, perhaps, referable to the hoes. According
to this author, the natives of Louisiana had invented a hoe, (pioche) with the aid of which
they prepared the soil for the culture of maize. ‘* These hoes,”’ he says, ‘‘ are shaped like a
capital L; they cut with the edge of the lower part, which is entirely flat.’”’— Histoire de la
Louisiane, Paris, 1758. Vol. I, p. 176.

Plate XXI, in vol. II of De Bry, (Frankfort, 1591,) represents Florida Indians of botk
sexes engaged in field labor, the men using the hoe and the women sowing. The Latin text
(by Le Moyne) accompanying the engraving states that tho hoes are made of fish-bone,
(ligones e piscium ossibus) and sgh don with wooden handles. The women sow beans and
maize—"‘ femine fabas § milium sive Mayzum serunt.”

26s
402 DEPOSIT OF AGRICULTURAL FLINT IMPLEMENTS.

Some of the shovels, like the specimen of which a drawing is given, measure
a foot and more in length, and consequently are among the largest flint tools
thus far discovered in any part of the world. Neither the rude hatchet-like and
lanceolate implements found in the “ drift” of France and England, associated
with the osseous remains of the mammoth, the rhinoceros, and other animals of a
bygone fauna, equal them in size; nor have, tomy knowledge, the caves of the
reindeer period in southern France and Belgium, once the resorts of savage hunt-
ing tribes, yielded any chipped flint articles of the same dimensions. Indeed,
they are rivaled, as I think, only by the large flint celts of Scandinavia and
northern Germany, which belong to a more advanced stage of the European
stone age.

That the North American flint tools described by me were really used for dig-
ging can hardly be doubted. “ If the shape of these implements,” I stated in
my account, “did not indicate their original use, the peculiar traces of wear
which they exhibit would furnish almost conclusive evidence of the manner in
which they have been employed; for that part with which the digging was done
appears, notwithstanding the hardness of the material, perfectly smooth, as if
glazed, and slightly striated in the direction in which the implement penetrated
the ground.” I further mentioned that this peculiar feature is common to all
specimens of my collection as well as to the few which I have seen in the hands
of others; and that they seem to be rather scarce, and merely confined to certain
States bordering on the Mississippi river.

I was, therefore, much interested in the recent discovery of a large deposit of
such implements at East St. Louis, (formerly [linoistuwn,) in St. Clair county,
Illinois, a place situated directly opposite the city of St. Louis, in the so-called
“ American Bottom,” which forms a fertile plain extending for a considerable
distance along the Mississippi shore in Illinois. 'This region, I must state, is
very rich in Indian remains of various descriptions,* but particularly interesting
on account of numerous artificial mounds, among which the celebrated truncated
pyramid called Cahokia Mound, or Monk’s Mound, is by far the most conspicuous,
reminding the beholder of those gigantic structures in the valley of the Nile,
which the rulers of Egypt have left to posterity as tokens of their power and their
pride. 2

The particulars of the discovery to which I alluded were communicated to me by
Dr. John J. R. Patrick, of Belleville, Ilinois, a gentleman to whom I am greatly
indebted for long-continued co-operation in my pursuits relative to the subject of
American antiquities. As soon as Dr. Patrick heard of the discovery he hastened
to Kast St. Louis, for the purpose of ascertaining on the spot all details concern-
ing the occurrence of those flint tools; and in order to obtain still more minute
information, he afterwards repeated|y revisited the place of discovery which is about
14 miles distant from Belleville, and can be reached after a short ride, the latter
place being connected by railroad with East St. Louis. The removal of ground
in extending a street disclosed the existence of the deposit, and Dr. Patrick
derived all facts concerning its character from Mr. Sullivan, the contractor of the
street work, who was present when the tools were exhumed, and therefore can
be considered as a rchable authority. The results of my informant’s i inquiries,
communicated in various letters addressed to me, are contained in the following
account :

In the early part of December 1868, some laborers, while engaged in grading
an extension of Sixth street in East St. Louis, came upon a deposit of Indian
relics, consisting of flint tools, all of the hoe and shovel type, and of small fossil
marine shells, partly pierced, and in quantity about equal to the contents of a
bushel. Close by were found several boulders of flint and greenstone, weighing

*Some years ago I discovered near East St. Leuis the traces of an Indian pottery, de-
scribed in the Smithsonian report for 1866.
DEPOSIT OF AGRICULTURAL FLINT IMPI.EMENTS. 403

from 15 to 30 pounds each, and many fragments of flint. The soil in the imme-
diate neighborhood is composed of black loam, overlying a stratum of a sandy
character, and the deposit which occurred in the latter, was covered with from 18
to 24 inches of the black earth, bearing a luxuriant turf on its surface. Accord-
ing to the contractor’s statement, the flint tools, the shells, and the boulders were
deposited in three separate holes dug out in the sand, but not more than a foot
apart from each other, and placed like the corners of a triangle. ‘To use his Jan-
guage, the implements formed a “nest” by themselves, and so did the shells,
and likewise the boulders. he flint tools, however, instead of being packed
close together, like the shells and the boulders, were arranged with some regu-
larity, overlapping each other or standing edgewise, and covering a circular space.
The whole deposit did not extend more than seven or eight feet on either side.
The contractor neglected to count the implements, but he thinks there were from
70 to 75 in all; some 50 hoes and about 20 shovels. No other stone articles,
such as arrow and spear-heads, tomahawks, &c., had been deposited with the
agricultural implements. ‘The latter
were soon taken away by persons from
the place, attracted by the novelty ol
the occurrence, and it is to be regret-
ted that many, if not most of them,
have fallen into the hands of individu-
als who areunable to appreciate their
value. But this is usually the case
- _ Aw, when discoveries of similar character
== 35@2| are made. Dr. Patrick examined

SSS upwards of 20 of the flint implements,

SSSSs === and found that none of them had been
== used, as they had not received the
slightest polish on the cutting edge.

The place of discovery lies about a
SU HACEWMERETHE mile anda half, or still further, fromthe

UNO} Mississippi, on elevated ground, and
above ordinary high-water mark ; but
formerly, before the bed of the river
was narrowed by the dike connect-
ing the Illinois shore with Bloody
Island, the distance cannot have been
more than half a mile. The spot is
situated nearly midway between two
moynds, half a mile apart from each
other. One of them was formerly
used as a graveyard by the French of
the neighborhood, and the other serves
as the substructure for a dwelling-house. The accompanying plan (furnished by
my correspondent) gives a view of the locality.

Several of the agricultural implements found at East St. Louis are now in my
possession. Their material is a yellowish-brown variety of the flint to which I
already referred. In shape they correspond with the tools of the same class
previously described by me; most of the shovels, however, instead of having the
end opposite the cutting part worked into a rounded edge, (like Fig. 1,) termi-
nate ina more or less acute angle. 'The edges of all are chipped with the
utmost regularity, and exhibit not the slightest wear, which proves that the
implements were in a perfectly new condition when buried in the ground,

The fossil shells of marine origin are all small univalves, and belong almost
entirely to the genus melampus. Of nearly 300 specimens sent to me by Dr.
Patrick, 19 only represent other genera, namely, cohunbella, marginella, conus,

N

zy [Acn} =
Abin =

ate MOUND
tit GRAVEYARD) —

404 DEPOSIT OF AGRICULTURAL FLINT IMPLEMENTS.

and bulla. All have a decayed and chalky appearance. 'They were probably
obtained in the neighborhood, and obviously destined for ornamental
purposes. This may be inferred from the fact that a number of the
melampus shells are pierced with one hole in the lower part, (Fig. 3,

natural size,) which was sufficient for stringing them, as the connecting
thread could easily be passed through the natural aperture of the shell.
On close examination I found that these shells had been reduced, by
grinding, to greater thinness at the place of perforation, m order to
facilitate the process of piercing.

The boulders, which formed a part of the deposit, were probably designated
for the manufacture of implements. A piece of one of the boulders was sent to
ne for examination. It is a compact diorite, the material of which many ground
articles of the North American Indians, such as tomahawks, chisels, pestles, &c.,
are made.

It would be useless to speculate on the antiquity of the objects thus acciden-

tally discovered, for there are no indications for determining, even approximately,
the period when they were buried. It is far easier to account for the motives
which induced the owners of the tools and the other objects to dispose of them
in the manner described. Their object was, in all probability, to hide them.
Perhaps they left the place with a view to return and to take possession again
of their concealed property, but were prevented from carrying out their intention.
Or, they may have buried them in time of. war, when they were killed, driven
aw ay, or led into captivity ; and their “hidden treasure” lay undisturbed in the
ground, perhaps for centuries, until the spade of the Irish laborer brought it to
light again. There is no room whatever for the supposition that this deposit
constituted one of those religious offerings by which the ancient inhabitants of
the Mississippi valley believed they could gratify or propitiate the powers that
ruled their destinies.

Similar deposits of flint articles have repeatedly been discovered in the United
States,* and Messrs. Squier and Davis mention several instances of this kind in
their work entitled “ Ancient Monuments of the Mississippi Valley.” The most
extensive accumulation described by them occurred in one of the so-called sacri-
ficial mounds of “ Clark’s Work,” on North York of Paint creek, Ross county,
Ohio. This mound contained, instead of the altar usually found in this class of
earth-structures, an enormous number of flint disks standing on their edges, and
arranged in two layers one above the other, at the bottom of the mound. The
whole extent of these layers has not been ascertained; but an excavation six
feet long and four broad disclosed upwards of six hundred of those disks , rudely
blocked out of a superior kind of grayish striped flint. I had occasion to exam-
ine the specimens formerly in the,collection of Dr. Davis, and have now a num-
ber of them in my own collection, which were sent to me from Ohio. They are
either roundish, oval, or heart-shaped, and of various sizes, but on an average
six inches long, four inches wide, and from three-quarters of an inch to an inch
in thickness. They weigh not far from two pounds each. These flint disks are
believed to have been buried as a religious offering, and the peculiar structure
of the mound which inclosed themt rather favors this view. ‘The disks, how-
ever, represent no finished implements, but merely flat pieces, rudely chipped
around their edges, and destined, in all probability, to be wrought inta more
symmetrical forms. ‘Thus it would rather seem that the contents of this mound
constituted a kind of depot or magazine, from which supplies of flint could be
drawn whenever there was a want of that material. Many of the disks under
notice bear a striking resemblance to the flint ‘ hatchets” discovered by Boucher
de Perthes and Dr. Rigollot i in the diluvial gravels of the valley of the Somme,

* Also in Europe. Deposits of flint arrow-heads, for instance, were found in Scotland.—
Logan, “The Scottish Gaél.” Lond., 1831., Vol. I, p. 339.
t Ancient Monuments, &c, p. 158; drawings of the disks on p. 214.
DEPOSIT OF AGRICULTURAL FLINT IMPLEMENTS. 405

in northern France.* The similarity in form, however, is the only analogy that
ean be claimed for the rude flint articles of both continents, considering that
they occurred under totally different circumstances. The drift implements of
Europe represent the most. primitive attempts of man in the art of working stone,
while the Ohio disks are the unfinished specimens of a race that constructed
earthworks of amazing size, and was already highly skilled in the manufacture
of weapons and tools of flint. :

Yet I little doubt but that implements analogous in shape as well as in asso-
ciations to those of the drift of Europe, will be found also in America; for indi-
cations of the high antiquity of man on the latter continent are not wanting, and
the similarity in the early condition ofthe human race in various parts of the
globe becomes more and more manifest by the results of archeological investi-
gation.

Another occurrence of flint disks is recorded in a notice by Dr. Hoy, published
in Lapham’s “ Antiquities of Wis-
consin,” one of the Smithsonian vol-
umes: “Some workmen, in digging
a ditch through a peat swamp near
Racine, found a deposit of disks of
hornstone, about 30 in number. They
were immediately on the clay, at the
bottom of the peat, about two and
a half feet below the surface. Some
of the disks were quite regular ; they
vary from half a pound to a pound
in weight.” A few of these are pre-
served in the collection of the Smith-
sonian Institution.

About 1860, while I lived in St.
Louis, a quantity of rudely-shaped
flint articles of similar character were
discovered close together on the bank
of the Mississippi, between St. Louis
and Carondelet. It is probable that
the falling down of a part of the bank |
had exposed them to sight. I could |i!
not ascertain their number, but saw
about eight of them, of which I ob-
tained three. They are nearly all
of the same size, oval in shape, and
consist of whitish flint. Tig. 4
represents one of my specimens in
natural size. ‘The original is seven-
eighths of an inch thick in the mid-
dle part. It is evident that they are
not implements in a state of comple-
don, but roughly-edged fragments,
which: were destined to be made into
arrow and spear-heads at some future time. Their present convenient shape was
doubtless given them for the sake of easier transportation and for saving space. It
is believed that flint can be chipped more readily after having been exposed
for some time to the humid influence of the earth, and this may partly account
for the practice of the aborigines of burying their supplies of flint in suitable places.

4H,
f ZY
i g
|
1) Uf
i z
ff
‘ vp
Hf}
Loft
ayy
7 tay}
Zh
Mh:
hin
i
1A
~—
fy iy,
pli 7
1
My uf
J 7),
]
oft
iif /
Wii |
TATE ite
/ I
WIL LE
» / / | /
Mh
|
[i |

* Implements very similar in shape to the Ohio disks were also found in the caves of
Dordogne, especially that of Le Moustier. They are described and figured in the splendid
work by Lartet and Christy, entitled “ Reliquia Aquitanice.”
406 DEPOSIT OF AGRICULTURAL FLINT IMPLEMENTS.

Returning to my former subject, I will observe that the occurrence of Indian
flint tools which served for agricultural purposes is not more surprising than
that of other stone implements indicating less peaceable pursuits; for it is known
that many of the aboriginal tribes of North America raised maize and other nutri-
{ious plants before this continent was settled by Huropeans.* The production
of maize, indeed, must have been considerable. Mr. Gallatin has taken some pains
to ascertain the area, east of the Rocky Mountains, and north of Mexico, over’
which cultivation extended. Jt was bounded on the east by the Atlantic;
on the south by the Gulf of Mexico; on the west by the Mississippi, or,
more properly, by the prairies. Towards the north the limits varied accord-
ing to the climate; but near the Atlantig the northern boundary of agriculture
lay in the region of the rivers Kennebec and Penobscot. North of the Great
Lakes agriculture was only found among the Hurons and some kindred tribes.
The Ojibways, on the south of Lake Superior, and their neighbors, the Meno-
monies, it appears, depended for vegetable fcod principally on the wild rice or
wild oats, called folle avoine by the French.t The Troquois tribes raised large
quantities of Indian corn. In the year 1687, a corps under the command of the
Marquis de Nonyille made an invasion into the country of the Senecas, during
which all their supplies of maize were either burned or otherwise spoiled, and
the quantity thus destroyed is said to have amounted to 400,000 minots, or
1,200,000 bushels. Though this estimate may be somewhat exaggerated, it
nevertheless shows that these tribes paid much attention to the cultivation of
maize.

‘The nations who inhabited the large territories formerly called Florida and
Louisiana, probably obtained their food mostly from the vegetable kingdom.
They cultivated chiefly maize, beans, peas, pumpkins, melons, and sweet pota-
toes. Maize, however, was their principal produce. In the accounts of De
Soto’s expedition, not only frequent allusion is made to the extensive maize fields
of the natives, but it may also be gathered from these relations that the army of
De Soto would have starved without the supplies of Indian corn obtained from
the inhabitants. These people laid up stores of that useful cereal, and among
other facts it is mentioned that one of De Soto’s officers found in one house
alone, five hundred measures of maize ground to meal, besides a large quantity
in grain.§ But those southern tribes met by De Soto and his followers in the
sixteenth century were the most advanced among the North American aborig-
ines. No longer in the pure hunter state, but attached to the soil, they lived in
large villages, consisting of dwellings more commodious than those of the ruder
tribes, and paid generally more attention to the comforts of life than the latter.

Adair, who spent during the last century many years as a trader in the dis-
trict under notice, mentions that the French of West Florida and the English
colonists obtained from the Indians different sorts of beans and peas, with which
they were before entirely unacquainted. ‘They raised also a small kind of tobacco,
differing from that in use among the French and English settlers. 'The women,
he says, planted pumpkins and different species of melons in separate fields, at
a considerable distance from the towns.|| It is even probable that the former
inhabitants cultivated fruit trees. Bartram, at least, found in Georgia and Ala-

Ss
bama, on the sites of ancient Indian settlements, various kinds of trees, such as

* Some of the facts mentioned in the following remarks were alrea¢y given in my previous
article, published in the Smithsonian report for 1863; I repeat them here, for the sake of
greater completeness, in connection with some additional details bearing upon the same
subject. For descriptions of the remarkable ‘‘ garden-beds ” of Michigan, Wisconsin, and
eee which indicate an ancient cultivation, I must refer to Schoolcraft, Lapham, and
others.

t Gallatin, Archeeologia Americana, Vol. IT, p. 149.

} Documentary History of New York, Vol. I, p. 233.

§ Garcilasso de la Vega, Conquéte de la Floride. Leyden, 1731, Vol. I, p. 250.

| Adair, History of the American Indians. London, 1775, p. 408.
DEPOSIT OF AGRICULTURAL FLINT IMPLEMENTS. 407

the persimmon, honey-locust, Chickasaw plum, mulberry, black walnut, and
shell-barked hickory, which, he thinks, “were cultivated by the ancients on
aceount of their fruit, as being wholesome and nourishing food.”*

The Floridians, it is stated, employed at De Soto’s time prisoners of war for
working the fields, and in order to prevent their escape they partly maimed them
by cutting the tendons of the leg above the heel or the instep.t It appears,
however, that among most semi-agricultural tribes of North America field labor
was imposed upon the women ; while the men, when not engaged in hunting or
war expeditions, abandoned themselves to that listless repose in which barba-
rians generally love to indulge.

*Bartram’s Travels. Dublin, 1793, p. 38.
tGarcilasso de la Vega, Conquéte de la Floride, Vol. I, p. 286, and Vol. I, p. 389.
NOTICE OF THE BLACKMORE MUSEUM, SALISBURY, ENGLAND.

OPENED SEPTEMBER THE OTH, 1867.

‘* Time, which antiquates antiquities, and hath an art to make dust of all things, hath yet spared
these minor monuments.’’—Sir THOMAS BROWNE.

The Blackmore Museum was founded at Salisbury, by Mr. William Black-
more, of Liverpool and London, in 1864. The public are admitted free upon
days appointed by the committee of the Salisbury and South Wilts Museum,
who have been constituted the governing body by Mr. Blackmore, subject,
however, to the annual consent of the trustees, who are the founder, his brother,
Dr. Blackmore, and his brother-in-law, Mr. E. T. Stevens.

GENERAL REMARKS.

The collection mainly consists of specimens belonging to the stone age of
different countries.

It has been well remarked that ‘these implements of stone are to be regarded
as indicating a grade of civilization, rather than any definite antiquity.” One
object of the founder of the Blackmore Museum accordingly has been, an attempt
to illustrate the use and application of the rude weapons, implements, and orna-
ments of antiquity, by exhibiting, side by side with them, similar specimens in
use among existing races of mankind.

The general result of this arrangement is, that a striking resemblance can be
observed in the modes by which the simple wants of a common nature have been
supplied among people widely severed from each other in point of time, no less
than by geographical distribution.

Although this may be the first impression conveyed by a glance at the Black-
more and similar collections, more careful examination will show that special
types (and in some instances special objects) occur in particular districts, and
that frequently typical points of difference exist between groups of objects
assigned to the same period and people, and obtained from spots almost close to
each other. Thus in the case of two localities near Salisbury, there is a differ-
ence in type between the group of flint implements found in the drift-gravel at
Bemerton and the group found in the drift-gravel at Milford Hill.

'Naken as a whole, however, the flint implements of the drift have well-marked
characteristics; nevertheless, in the Blackmore collection certain specimens from
an American tumulus agree very closely with the usual drift types. Very drift-
like implements have also been found in certain bone-caves, yet in each case the
attention is chiefly arrested by the aberrant character of the specimens.

There is a class of flint implements known as “scrapers,” one variety of
which, usually large, thick-backed, and with a broad scraping edge, is found in
the drift; it occurs again in cave deposits, as for instance in Le Moustier,
Dordogne, and also with slight modification among ordinary surface specimens,
although it ceases then to be a typical form. On the other hand, the type of
“geraper” so abundant on the surface occurs, although rarely, in the drift.
THE BLACKMORE MUSEUM. 409

Perhaps, therefore, we are scarcely in a position to state that any sharp line
of demarcation absolutely severs the drift implements from those of the caves,
or the implements of the caves from those of the surface. In paleontology the
rare types of one period become the prevalent forms of another, in this respect
presenting an analogy to the objects of the stone age. If we assume that the
drift-folk “thought out” the form of their weapons and the mode of their manu-
facture in a manner entirely differing from what has been done by any other race
of men, we are driven to the conclusion that there must have been also some-
thing wholly different in the drift-people themselves, or in the conditions under
which they existed, for all later evidence tends to show that the workings of
humar minds and human hands in the stone age have produced very similar
results in every quarter of the globe.

Be this as it may, the collection in the Blackmore Museum will remain what
it is now, an assemblage of facts, however incorrectly we or other men may
interpret them, and as such, the collection must ever retain its ethnological value,
even should our present theories prove to be erroneous. The collection resem-
bles so much sound material ready-quarried and fit for use, with which men can
build—any errors in style, construction, or taste, must necessarily rest with the
architect.

ARRANGEMENT.
The arrangement of the collection is far from being completed; as soon as

possible, labels will be attached to the specimens and a list will be published, to
be followed hereafter by an illustrated and descriptive catalogue.

CLASSIFICATION.

The classification adopted is as follows:

' ( Fauna of ‘the Drift ’’-—England.
Flint implements from ‘‘ the Drift’’—France.
ae

=
nS

5A De Zs England.

A ad Fauna of the Dordogne caves—France.

= ss caves in the Pyrenees—France.

ee) ‘*Genista” caves—Gibraltar.

S 5 | Flint implements and objects of human workmanship in bone, antler of reindeer, &c.
& ~- —Dordogne caves, France.

Y eS i ee ‘* . caves of the Pyrenees, France.
< os Ls is fe ‘ “* Genista caves,” Gibraltar.

Surface series, (rubbed stone group.)

{ Flint and stone implements, &c., from England, Ireland, France, Denmark, Italy,
Arabia, East Indies, South Africa, America, &c.
Pfahlbauten series—Switzerland.

{ Surface series, (drilled stone group. )
Stone hatchets and other objects from America, Ireland, and Denmark.

Surface series, (carved and drilled stone group.)
Pipes and other objects from the mounds of Ohio—-America.

Neolithic Period,
(Lubbock. )

; Bronze series.

Bronze hatchets, spear heads, and personal ornaments, from England, Ireland,
France, and America.

Tron series.
Tron swords and spear-heads—England, France.

Illustrative series.

Modern stone implements, chiefly in the original bandles—New Zealand, Australia
Islands of the Pacific, Esquimaux, &c.
410 THE BLACKMORE MUSEUM.

Modern bone-armed weapons—British Guiana, New Guinea, Islands of the Pacific,
Esquimaux, &c.

Modern iron-armed weapons—Africa, &c.

Personal ornaments, fishing-tackle, &c., made from seeds, shell, bone, horn, ivory—
New Zealand, Islands of the Pacific, Esquimaux, &c.

Clubs, spears, paddles, &c.—New Zealand, Australia, New Guinea, Islands of the
Pacific, British Guinea, Esquimaux, &c.

Fauna of the Drift.

The collection commences with remains of those (chiefly) extinct animals found
in beds of sand, clay, or gravel, which cap hills, occur in patches on their sides,
or constitute the sub-stratum of valleys in certain districts. For the purpose of
this notice it may be sufficient to state that these beds are popularly known as
“the Drift,” and that the materials forming them have been derived from the
wearing-down by water of the neighboring up-stream district. ‘This wearing-
down does not appear to have been entirely or even chiefly due to ordinary river
action, but it was probably effected, in great degree, by torrents arising from the
thawing of ice and snow, which accumulated under more rigorous conditions as
to climate than is experienced in the same localities within the historie period.

In the series from our local drift (brick-earth) at Fisherton, attention is par-
ticularly called to some unique remains of one species of pouched marmot (Sper-
mophilus superciliosus.) Fyrom a careful examination of several skeletons of
these little rodents, it appears that the animals all perished during their winter’s
sleep—each being in the usual position assumed during hybernation, Possibly
in this we see the effect of some unusually high flood. There are also exhibited
remains of two species of lemming, (Lemmus torquatus and L. Norvegicus,)
likewise unique in beds of this age. In the collection are portions of egg-shells
from the brick-earth at Fisherton: these are unique.

ARCHXOLITHIC PERIOD.
Flint implements from the Drift.

The interest felt in “the Drift” arises chiefly from the fact that in it are
found implements made by the simple processes of flaking and chipping, which
afford the first evidence we possess of man’s existence upon the earth. 'The
series of these implements in the Blackmore Museum is extensive and good,
particularly so as regards those obtained from the drift of England, at Thetford,
Icklingham, Bury St. Edmunds, and nearer Salisbury, at Hill Head, (near
Fareham,) Bournemouth, Fordingbridge, and Lake, as well as those found close
to this city, at Bemerton, and Milford Hill. Mr. Evans, F.R.S., of Hemel
Hempsted; Mr. Flower, F'.G.S., of Croydon; Mr. Wheaton, of Salisbury ; and
Mr. ‘l'oomer, also of this city, have contributed specimens. Many of the local
flint implements collected by Mr. James Brown, and the important collection
formed by Mr. Henry Prigg, jr., of Bury St. Edmunds, are also included in
this series.

Cave ‘series.

These objects consist of flint scrapers and implements—of harpoons carved
from antlers of the reindeer—of bone needles—and of pieces of bone and
horn upon which animals and other objects have been delineated. The speci-
mens exhibited from the Dordogne caves (France) were chiefly presented by the
trustees of the Christy Museum, London, and by M. Lartet, of Paris; many of
the rarer specimens are represented by casts, the originals being in the museum
at St. Germain. The specimens from the caves of the Pyrenees were obtained
during excavations conducted by Dr. Garrigou, of ‘Tarascon, at the expense of
Mr. Blackmore; whilst the series from the caves at Gibraltar was presented by
Colonel Henry Hope Crealock (Vienna) and Captain Brome, (Gibraltar.)
THE BLACKMORE MUSEUM. 411

The resemblance between the objects from the French caves and those still
made and used by the Esquimaux is very striking. Attention is directed to the
cast of a portion of the tusk of a mammoth found inthe rock-shelter of La Mad-
elaine, Dordogne, upon which is traced in outline the animal (mammoth) itself.
The specimen from which this cast has been taken was discovered in May, 186.1,

by M. Lartet, M. de Verneuil, and the late Dr. Falconer.

NEOLITHIC PERIOD.
Surface series, (rubbed stone group.)

Setting aside peculiarities in type between the earlier (archzolithic) flint
implements already noticed, and the later, (neolithic,) now about to be considered,
the difference in the mode of manufacture is remarkable. The former, without
exception, owe their shape wholly to the simple processes of flaking and chipping;
no instance of artificial rubbing occurs upon the drift implements; whilst among
those belonging to the neolithic period a very large percentage, after having
been chipped into form, have been rubbed and polished with more or less care.
In the rudbbedstone series are included those arrow-heads, scrapers, drills, wedges,
hammers, and other objects, formed themselves for the most part by flaking and
chipping only, but contemporary withthe rubbed hatchets. In thissection examples
are shown from the neighborhood of Salisbury, from Weymouth, Icklingham,
Yorkshire, and elsewhere in England, and from various parts of Ireland. Some
nice specimens from Tan Hill, near Devizes, have been presented by Mr. Coombs,
of Stapleford. Many of the Yorkshire specimens were presented by Mr. Monk-
man, of Malton. Mr. Evans, '.R.S., of Hemel Hempsted, has contributed a
series from the shell-mounds (Kjékkenméddings) of Denmark, and Mr. Flower,
I.G.8., of Croydon, has given some from the shell-mounds of Herm, near
Guernsey. There is also an interesting series of specimens from some (as is sup-
posed) British pit-dwellings, near Salisbury, consisting of stone querns, flint and
bone scrapers, bone-piercing tools, bone javelin-heads, clay pellets for slinging,
clay spindle-whorls, pottery, and animal remains. or this collection the tras-
tees are indebted to Mr. Adlam, of Salisbury, without whose valuable assistance
the series could not have been formed.

Some interesting examples of human-worked flint and jasper, from the East
Indies and South Africa, presented by SirCharles Lyell, Bart., are exhibited, as
are also some remarkable flint-cores from Scinde, presented by the Bedfordshire
Architectural and Archeological Society, through Mr. Wyatt, ¥.G.S. In this
section are some rude flint tools, obtained from the neighborhood of Rome, by the
late Rey. Prebendary Chermside, in whom the Blackmore Museum has recently
lost a most valuable friend. Flint knives from Arabia, presented by Mr. Franks,
F.S.A., of the British Museum, and similar objects from various parts of France,
Belgium, and Denmark, are exhibited.

Pfahlbauten series, (rubbed stone group.)

This portion of the collection is very illustrative; it has been formed through
the extreme kindness of Admiral the Hon. E. A. J. Harris, C.B., her Majesty’s
minister at’ Berne, who has obtained the valuable assistance of such eminent
Swiss archeologists as Dr. Keller, Professor Ritimeyer, Dr. Uhlmann, and the
late M. Troyon. It is now well known that a pre-historic people drove
wooden piles into the beds of the lakes of Switzerland and other covntries,
upon which a platform was placed, and upon this platform huts were erected.

In these huts these people dwelt, not for a month or two, but continuously, as
appears to be proved by the presence of seeds of plants which ripen at various
seasons of the year.

These lake-dwellers cultivated wheat and barley, spun and wove flax, made
nets for fishing, while their tools (at the special stations represented in this col-
412 THE BLACKMORE MUSEUM.

lection) were formed only from the bones and horns of animals, from stone, and
from tlint, which latter material they probably obtained from the south of France.
Attention is called to a flake of flint in its original wooden handle, from the
lake settlement,at Robenhausen. Unfortunately, but a very small portion of the
animal remains from the Swiss Pfahlbauten can be exhibited to the public from
want of space, but the collection is peculiarly rich in this direction, through the
friendly co-operation of Professor Riitimeyer, and every facility for access to it
will be afforded to those interested in such a series.

American series, (rubbed stone group.)

This portion of the collection commences with a series of obsidian knives,
arrow-heads, and drills, chiefly presented by the trustees of the Christy Museum,
London. These, with some beads and ornaments of stone and shell, and a few
stone hatchets, are relics of the ancient Mexicans, (Aztecs.)

The larger portion of the American series in the Blackmore Museum has
been already fully illustrated and described by the Smithsonian Institution of
Washington, United States, and is well known to scientific men as the “ Squier
and Davis” collection; it is now for the first time exhibited in Europe, having
been purchased of Dr. Davis in 1864, when Mr. Blackmore was in New York.

From this collection aro derived the very fine examples of stone arrow-heads
and axes exhibited, as well as the specimens of worked bone, horn, and shell.
Mr. Witt, F.G.S., of London, has contributed to this series.

Danish series, (rubbed stone group.)
This series consists of hatchets, tools, and weapons made from stone and flint,
displaying great skill m the manufacture.
Belgian series, (rubbed stone group.)

The specimens forming this series have been presented by Mr. Evans, F.R.S.,
of Hemel Hempsted.

French series, (rubbed stone group.)
Some exquisite specimens are exhibited in this series.
American series, (carved stone group.)

These objects consist of heavy stone mauls, of pestles, and other food imple-
ments, among which are two specimens from Chiriqui, particularly worthy of
attention, as are also some carved stone hatchets, and a carved stone dagger, all
of Carib workmanship, and an ancient Egyptian stone ax-head.

Trish series, (drilled stone group.)

Spindle whorls, hatchets, &c.
Danish series, (drilled stone group.)
Spindle whorls, hatchets, &c.
American series, (drilled and carved stone group.)

This group contains some of the most interesting specimens in the collection ;
the greater part are extremely rare and some are unique. ‘The celebrated carved
stone smoking pipes, which have been figured in the first volume of the Smith-
sonian publications, (Washington,) are in ‘this group, as arealso the stune gorgets,
THE BLACKMORE MUSEUM. 413

tubes, and drilled hatchets exhumed from the burial mounds of Ohio by Dr.
Davis.

Iilustrative series.

This series consists of hatchets, tools, arrows, spears, and other weapons; of
fishing tackle, personal ornaments, &e., in use by modern savages, and caleu-
lated to throw Tight upon the mode of halting and using the corresponding objects
of antiquity.

Some clubs from New Zealand and some paddles from the Society Islands
have been contributed by Mrs. Montgomery, of Nunton House, through the
Salisbury and South Wilts Museum. This series has also been enriched by
donations from Mr. Hamilton, M.P., and Mr. Marsh, M.P.

Bronze series.

The portion of this series now exhibited will probably be still further reduced,
in order that the stone series may be extended. Among the bronze objects dis-
played is a good collection of the so-called “ celts” from Americ ‘a, Ireland, France,
and England, including the neighborhood of Salisbury. The specimens pre-
sented by the Viscount Folkestone, Mr. Benson, and Mr. Clench, to the Salisbury
and South Wilts Museum, have been kindly lent by the committee of that museum,
and are exhibited, as are "also some interesting bronze daggers and other objects
obtained by Mr. E. Dyke Poor, from a tumulus at Ablington, Wilts, and some
bronze armille and a bronze torque, found in atumulus at Lake by the late Rey.
Ii. Duke, and presented'to the Salisbury and South Wilts Museum by his son,
the Rey. E. Duke, of Lake House.

Iron series.

The use of iron for arming weapons will, from want of space, be merely rep-
resented in the collection.

A few local specimens of the Anglo-Saxon period are exhibited. Some of
these were presented by the late Mr. Swayne, of Bishopstone, and by Mr. F.
Sidford, of the same place. The Salisbury and South Wilts Museum kindly
contribute an Anglo-Saxon knife, presented by Mr. E. I’. Mills, of Orcheston
St. Mary.

Pottery.

Some Romano-British pottery, from the site of an old kilnnear Fordingbridge,
has been presented by Mr. Evans, F’.R.8., of Hemel Hempsted, and some fine
examples of Peruvian pottery have been contributed by Admiral Sir William
Bowles, K.C.B., of London, through the Salisbury and South Wilts Museum.
PROGRAMME OF THE HOLLAND SOCIETY OF SCIENCES OF HARLEM, 1869,

The Holland Society of Sciences, held at Harlem, 15 May, 1869, its hundred
and seventeenth annual session. ‘The President-Director, Baron F. W. van
Styrum, opened the sitting with an address in which he recalled the losses sus-
tained by the society since its last general mecting; those, namely, of the
director Baron G. F. Thoe Schwartzenberg at Hohenlansberg, of the native
members G. Simons, H. C. Millies and J. van Lennep, and of the foreign mem-
bers K. F. P. von Martius, at Munich, J. Plicker, at Bonn, H. von Meyer, at
Frankfort-on-the-Maine, and C. 8. M. Pouillet, at Paris. Finally, the nomina-
tion of M. G. Willink de Bennebroek, as a director of the society, was announced.
Since the last annual meeting the society has published: Archives Neéerland-
aises des Sciences exactes et naturelles, parts 3, 4 and 5 of vol. ii, 1 and 2
of vol. iv.

In reference to a proposition submitted by MM. J. P. van Wickevoort Crom-
melin, D. de Haan, J. van der Hoeven, J. P. Delprat, R. van Rees, A, H:
van der Boon Mesch, D. Lubach, and V.S. M. van der Willigen, and for the
consideration of which a committee was appointed at the last general meeting,
composed of the directors G. F. van Tets and J. P. van Wickevoort Cromme-
lin, and of the members V. S. M. van der Willigen, G. de Vries, C. A. J. A.
Oudemans, P. Harting and E. H. von Baumhauer, the society adopted the fol-
lowing as its decision :

1st. Besides the medals decreed for questions proposed for competition, the
society ordains two new medals, each of the intrinsic value of 500 florins, one of
them to bear the name and efligy of “ WuyGuens,” the other those of “ Bozr-
HAAVE.” 2d. These medals shall be alternately awarded, every two years, to
the savant, whether Netherlander or foreigner, who by his researches shall, in
the judgment of the society, have most contributed, during the last twenty years,
to the progress of some definite branch of the physico-mathematical sciences or
of the natural sciences. 3d. The Huyghens medal shall be assigned in 1870 to
physics, in 1874 to chemistry, in 1878 to astronomy, in 1882 to meteorology, in
1886 to mathematics, (pure and applied.) The Boerhaave medal shall be
assigned in 1872 to mineralogy and geology, in 1876 to botany, in 1880 to
zoology, in 1884 to physiology, in 1888 to anthropology; and thereafter in the
same recurrent succession. 4th. The preliminary judgment on the respective
titles shall be referred to a committee named by the directors; of which commit-
tee the secretary of the society shall always be a member. Sth. The medal
shall always be awarded by the general assembly, on the detailed and analytic
report of the committee of judgment.

The following question having been offered for competition in 1865 and con-
tinued in 1867: “ The society requests an exact description, with figures, of the
skeleton and muscles of the Sciurus vulgaris, compared with what is known on
this subject of the Lemurides and the Chiromys, in order that the place to be
assigned to this last species in the natural classification may be determined with
more certainty than has been heretofore possible ;” a reply has been received
through a memoir in the Dutch language, bearing the motto: Deter is het te
pogen zonder te slagen dan stil te zitten wit vrees voor nutteloose moeite. (Better is
it to endeavor without succeeding than to sit still from fear of profitless labor).
HOLLAND SOCIETY OF SCIENCES OF HARLEM, 1869. 415

On the advice of the referees, the assembly awarded the gold medal to the
author of the above memoir; which, upon the opening of the sealed note, was
found to be the joint production of Dr. C. K. Hoffmann, adjunct physician at
Meerenberg, and of M. H. Weijenbergh, jr., surgeon and accoucheur at Utrecht.

Of our own countrymen, the members elected at the session in question were
MM. E. H. Beima, keeper of the museum of natural history at Leyden; R. P.
A. Dozy, professor in the faculty of philosophy and letters at Leyden; J. F. W.
Conrad, engineer-in-chief of the Waterstaat, at Middlebourg. Of foreigners, the
following were at the same time elected members of the society: MM. L. A.J.
Quetelet, from Brussels ; W. Sartorius von Waltershausen, from Gottingen; A.
W. Hofmann, from Berlin; J. D. Dana, from New Haven.

The president notified the assembly that the library, put in order and pro-
vided with a catalogue by the care of the secretary, is now at the disposal of the
directors and members of the society.

The Society offers for competition the following questions, the answers to which
must be addressed to it before the 1st of January, 1871:

I. The knowledge of the peat-bogs of the Netherlands, as well the higher as
the lower, is yet far from being complete. ‘There remain many researches to be
made before we can determine with precision what are the plants of which they
are composed ; in particular, what are the ligneous substances found therein, and
what the succession of the different vegetable species in the series of the beds of
these peats, from the most ancient to those which still continue to be formed.
The society desires to see this subject elucidated, and suggests consequently a
thorough microscopic examination of the plants composing the Netherland peats.

II. The society requests an exact description of all the chemical or physical
operations in which have been obtained, whether accidentally or by virtue of
direct experiments, those chemical combinations which, by their chemical and
physical characters, accord with the inorganic compounds existing in nature,
under the form of minerals. The production of new artificial minerals is not
asked for, but simply the critical appreciation of results already realized, with
the exact indication of the works and memoirs in which the known artificial
minerals have been described ; in the classification of these products, conformity
should be observed with some one of the mineralogical systems most extensively
accepted.

ILlf. The society considers it desirable that a description of the fossil flora of
some of the coal deposits of Borneo should be given, and a comparison of that
flora with those of other coal formations.

IV. 'The society desires a monograph of the substances called albuminous ;
this monograph should comprise an historical review of the numerous researches
to which these substances have given rise and a critical appreciation of the
opinions which at present maintain a footing in science with regard to this subject.

V. The society asks that the co-efficients of dilatation of different kinds of
glass, especially of those which serve for the construction of thermometers,
should be exactly determined, according to the method of M. Fizeau, between
— 30 and + 500 degrees of the centigrade thermometer.

VI. Recent researches seem to confirm the opinion that the bodies called
hydrates of carbon are polyatomic alcohols; the society invites new researches
calculated to elucidate this important point.

VII. The determination of temperatures higher than 350 degrees of the cen-
tigrade thermometer still leaves, in all cases, much to be desired; the society
will confer its gold medal for the construction of some very simple apparatus
which shall give the temperatures up to at least 500 degrees of the centigrade
scale,
416 HOLLAND SOCIETY OF SCIENCES OF HARLEM, 1869.

VIII. The society solicits exact determinations regarding the variation of the
indices of the refraction of water, for at least 12 points of the spectrum, on an
extent of 50 degrees of the centigrade thermometer.

IX. It is known that the aurora borealis gives rise to telluric electrical cur-
rents which sometimes introduce considerable perturbations in the service of tel-
egraphic lines. The society regards it as an object of interest that on tele-
graphic lines of great length determinations of the force of those currents should
be made, to the effect, among others, of ascertaining to what point they extend

towards the equator. “

Questions to which an answer must be returned before 1st of January, 1873.

I. The society desires a complete critical review of the different phanerogamic
floras of Europe, as well of those which have been published separately as of
those which are to be found in the transactions of learned societies and in scien-
tific journals. This review should be so arranged that the details concerning each
country or province shall be mentioned in succession one after the other, accord- ©
ing to the date of their publication. The work must be accompanied with crit-
ical observations relative to the greater or less value properly to be attributed
to each flora, and to the opportunity afforded of deciding on the indications
observed, or of proceeding to new researches in countries little known.

Il. The society calls for a complete critical review of the different faunas of
Europe, as well of those which have been published separately as of those
which are extant in the collections of learned societies and in scientific journals.
This review should be drawn up in the same form as regards arrangement and
with the same conditions as those prescribed in the preceding question with
reference to the different floras of Europe.

The following questions were last year submitted to competition by the society
with a view to their being answered before the 1st of January, 1870:

I. Since the progressive decline and final suppression of the governmental
culture of spices in the Molucca islands, it has become highly desirable that
new lines of culture should be established in that fertile archipelago. The
society consequently asks: (1.) A description of the present social condition of
those islands, especially as regards the population and its aptitude for agricul-
tural industry. (2.) Indications of the varieties of the soil, considered in relation
to the culture proposed for eventual adoption. (3.) Statistical data on the results
of the free cultivation of spices, as it is now practiced. (4.) A statement of the
result of the experiment of cultivating cacao, undertaken by order of Governor-
general Pahud and with the effective support of the government. (5.) A detailed
specification of the vegetables, the culture of which would deserve to be tried
among those whose products are suited for exportation.

II. It cannot be denied that spectral analysis, as at present conducted, tends
to fall into excess and that its value is frequently exaggerated. Consequently,
and in order to arrive at views at once more sound and of a more scientific char-
acter, it is required to make an equitable separation of the true from the false,
to aCe the limits within which the method may be legitimately employed and
beyond which it ceases to be applicable, to submit to a sober critical appreci-
ation the facts which it has brought to light, the discoveries which it promises,
and those which we have a right to expect from it.

JUL. The galvanic current heats the metallic conductor which it traverses ; by
this, the resistance of the latter is augmented, and in this way the current reacts
HOLLAND SOCIETY OF SCIENCES OF HARLEM, 1869. 417

on itself. On the other hand, it may be supposed that the intensity of the cur-
rent further modifies the value of the resistance by virtue of an action which
does not directly depend on the heating. It is desirable that, in one and teh
other point of view, the influence exerted by the intensity of the current or the
degree of the resistance, should be studied. Among the metals susceptible of
being employed in this inquiry, mercury would seem to be one of those which
offer the most advantages.

IV. The society solicits a criticism, as well as a repetition and extension of
the experiments on the electrolysis of the melted haloid salts, (Faraday, Hxperi-
mental Researches, vol. i, art. 538 et seq. and 978 et seq.,) together with an
exposition of the considerations which are deducible therefrom on the nature of
electrolysis.

The law of Faraday on electrolysis is extremely simple; but the question is
far from being exhausted, and the ensemble of the phenomenon is as yet covered
with a thick veil. Hence it is especially desirable to determine to what point
the before-cited experiments are in opposition to that higher view, supported by
a great number of facts, agreeably to which no true electrolysis can take place
unless the action of the current is exerted on double salts or on combinations
which are equivalent and analogous to them.

V. According to M. G. Ville, (see Revue des Cours seientifiques, 1868, No. 7,
p- 103,) nitrogen in a free or elementary state is assimilated by certain plants,
particularly by leguminous plants. The society wishes that this opinion should
be submitted to a critical examination, and that its exactness or its falsity be estab-
lished theoretically or experimentally, and preferably by both methods.

VI. In regard to the experiments of M. Graham, the society calls for new
researches on the solutive power of melted metals for hydrogen, particularly
with a view to deciding whether there exist definite combinations of metals with
hydrogen.

VII. The society asks for an exact description, accompanied with figures, of
the changes undergone by the organization of the Batrachians during their meta-
morphosis.

VILL. The assertion that metals become transparent at a temperature sufli-
ciently elevated, requires to be confirmed or invalidated by experiments made
on several different metals.

IX. The society wishes to have it experimentally determined whether the
luminous power of the Lampyris noctiluca et splendidula (Linn.) should be
attributed to the secretion of a particular matter, and if it be so, that the nature
and composition of that matter be investigated.

X. There still exists much obseurity respecting the cause of the phosphorescence
of the substances which bear the name of artificial phosphorus. ‘The society
invites a thorough investigation, to the end of deciding the question whether
that phosphorescence should be attributed solely to a slow oxidation.

XI. Whilst, in meteorological observations, the pressure and temperature of
the air, the direction and force of the wind are observed in a continuous manner,
by means of registering instruments, we are always reduced, as far as the humid-
ity of the air is concerned, to isolated observations made at certain hours of the
day. The society desires the construction, whether upon new principles or such
as have been already indicated, (see Poggendorff’s Annalen, vol. 93, p. 343,)
of a registering instrument for the determination of the humidity of the air, and
solicits a communication of the results of observations made with such an instru-
ment and continued during at least half a year.

XII. A memoir on the life of Koopman (Mercator) and of Ortels, ( Ortelius, )
and on the services which these two savants have rendered to geography, eth-
nology, and cartography, is regarded as a desideratum,

278
418 HOLLAND SOCIETY OF SCIENCES OF HARLEM, 1869.

XIII. The society would wish that the biography of the Baron van Imhoff,
and the history of his administration as governor-general of the Dutch Indies,
should be written from documents not heretofore made use of.

XIV. The society invites an analysis of the life and a narrative of the voy-
ages of Dutchmen who, in the 17th and 18th centuries, distinguished themselves
as navigators or as authors of geographical discoveries.

XV. What has been done up to the present time, for the study of the
languages of the populations subject to the domination of the Netherlands in
countries beyond the sea, and what are the vacuities which it would be chiefly
important to supply in this respect?

The Society recommend to competitors to omit in their replies all that has not
an immediate relation to the question proposed. It hopes to find in everything
submitted to it perspicuity united with brevity, and demonstrated propositions
clearly distinguished from vague considerations and facts imperfectly established.
It is further to be remembered that no memoir written by the hand of the author
will be admitted to competition, and that, even were a medal awarded, its delivery
would not take place if, in the meantime, the hand of the author should be recog-
nized in the work accepted.

The notes attached to memoirs which fail to receive the prize shall be destroyed
without being opened, unless it shall have been discovered that the memoir pre-
sented is but a copy extracted from printed works; in that case the name com-
municated will be divulged. very member of the society shall have a right to
take part in the competition, on condition that his memoir, as well as note, shall
be signed with the letter L. The memoirs, written legibly, in Dutch, French,
Latin, English, Italian, or German, (but not in German characters,) must be
accompanied by a sealed note containing the name of the author, and be sent
free to the secretary of the society, Professor E. H. von Baumhauer, at Harlem.

The prize offered for a satisfactory reply to each of the questions proposed,
consists, at the choice of the author, either of a gold medal, bearing the usual
stamp of the society, the name of the author and the date, or a sum of 150
florins; a supplementary premium of 150 florins may be added if the memoir be
deemed worthy of it. The competitor who shall receive the prize will not be
allowed to print his memoir, either separately or in another work, without the
express authorization of the society.
PROGRAMME OF THE IMPERIAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES, BELLES-LETIERS,
AND ARTS OF BORDEAUX,

Questions submitted to competition for 1869 or following years:

I. Literatwre—“ Has a theatrical censorship been promotive of the morality
of the art? What legislative measures would be suitable for protecting at once
the liberty of authors and the respect for good morals?” Prize, a gold medal of
400 franes.

Il. History.—First, “A history of the parliament of Bordeaux, from its origin
to the end of the 16th century, with especial consideration of its influence as a
political body and as a judicial body.” Prize, a medal of gold of 500 francs.
Second, “Origin of villanage and forced aids in Guienne, and the progress: of
their establishment.” Prize, a gold medal of 200 francs. Third, “It would be
interesting to have a particular history of several cities of our country, such as
Saint Macaire, Cadillac, Sanveterre, Rions, Bazas, Lesparre, and some others.”
The Academy will award, in 1869 and 1870, a prize, which may amount to 500
franes, for a monograph of this kind in which personal matters and, as far as
possible, the use of documents not hitherto explored shall be allied with compe-
tent qualifications of exactness and judgment. Fourth, ‘ Among the institu-
tions which have contributed to the honor and prosperity of the province of
Guienne and the city of Bordeaux, the establishments of public instruction hold
the first place; it is impossible to forget the services rendered by the college
of Guienne, and, more recently, by the central school of the department.” The
Academy will award a gold medal of 300 franes to the best memoir which shail
retrace the history of one of these establishments, or any analogous one ; this
thesis is proposed for 1869.

Ill. Linguistics—It is desirable to have a general glossary of the Gascon
tongue spoken in our department. In order to be complete it must comprise not
only the synonyms and equivalents, but further and more especially the varia-
tions of words in the different dialects of tlie country. The compilation of such
a work, however, cari only be possible on the condition of having been preceded
by the publication of special glossaries, embracing localities of more or less
extent, but so restricted, nevertheless, that one single author may possess the
dialect completely and exactly. The Academy solicits studious persons to direct
their inquiries to this point before the use of the French language, becoming
more and more general, shall have caused the last vestiges of these old idioms
to disappear. Hence, the Academy proposes the following subject: “To com-
pile, for the Gascon language, spoken in the department of the Gironde, a lexicon
which, to an exact and sufficiently complete nomenclature of the words of a given
locality, shall add the precise explanation of those words alike in their acceptation
in common usage and in the idioms, adages, proverbs, agricultural by-words,
Christmas carols and old songs in which they have been employed.” Prize, a gold
medal of 300 francs.

IV. Physical sciences —“ A recapitulation of the consequences to which the
ideas acquired, within a quarter,of a century, on the equivalence of heat and
mechanical work have led, whether in physics or in chemistry.” Prize, a gold
medal of 300 francs, which may be raised to 500 francs in case the production
shall contain new facts. “A recapitulation and discussion of the facts acquired
by seience regarding the production and the consumption of forces in living
beings.” Prize, a gold medal of 500 francs.
420 IMPERIAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES, ETC., OF BORDEAUX.

V. Natural sciences—“'The construction of aquariums has enabled us to
study the habits of a great number of animals. The basin of Arcachon having
already been the scene of interesting investigations, the Academy desires that
researches of this nature should be continued.” ‘To that end it proffers a prize
of 500 frances.

Fauna of the Gironde—The department of the Gironde possesses catalogues
more or less complete of its vertebrate animals, its testaceous mollusks,’ coleop-
tera, lepidoptera, &c.; but this fauna, far advanced as it is, is wholly wanting in
any collective review of the marine animals belonging to the inferior orders.
Considering that in defect of rocky coasts our department includes at least a vast
estuary (the basin of Arcachon) highly favorable to the study of a great number
of these different organisms, the Academy would indicate the following as a desid-
eratum: “The preparation of catalogues of the crustacea, annelide, radiata, &c.,
which are still deficient in the fauna of the department . of the Gironde ; to be
accompanied by figures of new or little known species.” Prize, a gold medal of
500 frances.

VI. Physiology.—The Academy having had the pleasure of crowning a meri-
torious memoir on a subject which it had proposed under this head, hopes to
obtain a like gratifying result by presenting the followmg questions ‘at once of
scientific and practical interest and wor thy of exciting the emulation of our savants:
First. “A study of the anatomical and physiological relations which exist
between the nervous cellules of the primitive fibers, sensitive and motive. The
application of these researches to the study of reflex and sympathetic actions.”
Prize, a gold medal of 300 francs. Second, “ Physiological and therapeutic
effects of the imgesta which excite to labor and vigilance, which supply in part
the place of aliments, and some of which are recognized as moderators of the
vital combustion, such as alcohol, coffee, tea, maté, cocoa, &e.” The prize will
be a gold medal of 300 francs.

VII. Fine arts—* State and tendency of religious architecture at the present
epoch.” Prize, a gold medal of 300 francs. “ History of painting at Bor-
deaux.” Prize, a medal, the value of which may extend to 500 francs.

VIII. Poetry.—The competition in poetry is subject to the conditions hereto-
fore prescribed, and the choice of the subject remains optional with the author..

IX. Biographical notices.—As in previous years, the Academy invites bio-
graphical notices of the celebrated or useful men who have belonged either to the
province of Guienne or to the department. ‘Life and works of Brascassat.”
Prize, a gold medal of 300 francs.

X. Archeology, gy— Monograph of the church of Saint Michel of Bordeaux,
with historic documents, plans and designs.” Prize, a medal of 500 francs.
“For the best memoir on the history of the church of Soulac, corroborated by
plans, designs, and an indication of the original or printed documents consulted
by the author.” Prize, a gold medal of 300 francs. The Academy desiring
to encourage archeological researches in the department of the Gironde, awards
also medals of encouragement to the authors of the most important researches.

XI. Hydrology.—The question of artesian excavations has been theoretically
treated for some isolated points of the vast basin of Aquitaine in the various
publications and academic communications of MM. de Collegno, de Lamothe,
Jacquot, and Raulin; it has been also experimentally solved by several success-
ful trials made in the department. Many municipal administrations are, at this
moment, asking for instructions on the chances of success which their localities
offer for such oq. The Academy allying itself with this movement,
proposes the following: “ A discussion of the ‘question of artesian borings in a
general mamner for Aquitaine, upon the data which geology furnishes with respect
to the ground-slope of the aquitanic basin, its orographic characters and the levels
of absorption of water presented by the different embanking rocks of its bor-
ders.” Prize, a gold medal of 500 francs.
IMPERIAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES, ETC., OF BORDEAUX. 421

Conditions of competition —The articles proposed for competition must fulfil
the following conditions: Be written in French or Latin; be received at the sec-
retariat of the Academy, rue Jean-Jacques Bel, before the 31st October, 1869 or
1870, as indicated in the programme ; be free of postage ; neither be signed by
the author nor contain any indication by which he can be known ; they shall
bear an epigraph, which shall be repeated in a sealed note annexed to the article
to which it belongs. 'This note, besides the epigraph, shall contain the name
and address of the author, with the declaration that it has never been printed,
offered for competition, or communicated to any academic society. An article
proceeding from any author whose name shall be previously disclosed, will, from
that circumstance alone, be excluded from competition. ‘This conditfin is rigor-
ous. ‘The sealed notes will not be opened except in the case when an academic
recompense shall have been obtained. From the observation of the above
formalities are exempt, the productions of aspirants to medals of encourage-
ment, and to prizes for obtaining which, local researches or the statement of
experiments performed by the authors themselves shall be essential. Compe-
tition is open to both foreigners and natives, even to such of the latter as per-
tain to the Academy by the title of corresponding members.

Extract from the regulations of the Academy.—As soon as the Academy has
rendered its decision, if there be prizes or honorable mention to be conferred, the
president proceeds, in general assembly, to the opening of the sealed notes
annexed to the prize essays. The notes pertaining to others are detached from
the memoir, sealed by the president, and preserved by the archivist. The
authors of the prize essays are immediately informed of the decision of the Acad-
emy, and those decisions are made public. ‘The manuscripts and all the docu-
mentary papers of whatever nature, addressed to the Academy, remain in the
archives after being marked with the initials and paraph of the president and
secretary-general, and can in no case be removed. As the Academy, however,
asserts no right of property over the papers, their authors may cause copies to be
taken from the archives, after first proving that these productions belong to
them. Independently of the prizes of which the subjects are named in the
annual programme, the Academy bestows medals of encouragement on the
authors who address to it works of real merit, and on persons who send to it doc-
uments on the different branches of science, letters and art. It may likewise
award a prize to the corresponding member who shall have best merited it by
the utility of his communications and the importance of the labors which he
shall have submitted to it.
ROUX, President.
VALAT, Secretary-General.
A BRIEF ACCOUNT OF THE PROCESSES EMPLOYED IN THE ASSAY OF GOLD
AND SILVER COINS AT THE MINT OF THE UNITED STATES,

FROM THE ANNUAL REPORT OF JAMES POLLOCK, DIRECTOR.

PRINCIPLES OF THE OPERATION.

According to law, the standard gold of the United States is so constituted
that in 1,000 parts by weight 900 shall be of pure gold, and 100 of an alloy
composed of copper and silver.

The process of assay requires that the copper and silver be both entirely
removed from the gold; and to effect this, two separate operations are necessary.

The first is for the removal of the copper; and this is done by a method called
cupellation, which is conducted in an assay furnace in a cupel composed of cal-
cined bones. ‘To the other metals, lead is added; this metal possesses the prop-
erties of oxidizing and vitrifying under the action of heat, of promoting at the
same time the oxidation of the copper and other base metals, and of drawing
with it into the pores of the cupel the whole of these metals, so as to separate
entirely this part of the alloy, and to leave behind the gold and silver only.

The separation of the silver from the gold is effected by a process founded on
the property possessed by nitric acid of dissolving silver without acting upon
gold. But that the gold may not protect the silver from this action, sufficient
silver must first be added to make it at least two-thirds of the mass. ‘The pro-
cess to be described is based upon the rule of quartation, in which the propor-
tion of silver is three-fourths.

PROCESS OF ASSAY.

The reserved gold coins are placed in a black-lead crucible, and covered with
borax to assist the fluxing and to prevent oxidation of the copper alloy. They
are thus melted down and stirred; by which a complete mixture is effected, so
that an assay piece may be taken from any part of the bar cast out. The piece
taken for this purpose is rolled out for convenience of cutting. It is then taken
to an assay balance (sensible to the ten-thousandth of a half gram or less,)
and from it is weighed a half gram,, which is the normal assay weight for gold
being about 7.7 grains troy. This weight is stamped 1000; and all the lesser -
weights, (afterwards brought into requisition,) are decimal divisions of this
weight, down to one ten-thousandth part.

Silver is next weighed out for the quartation ; and as the assay-piece, if stand-
ard, should contain 900 thousandths of gold, there must be three times this
weight, or 2700 thousandths of silver; and this is accordingly the quantity used.
It is true that there is already some silver in the alloy, but a little excess over
the quantity required for the quartation does no injury to the process.

The lead used for the cupellation is kept prepared in thin sheets, cut into
square pieces, which should each weigh about ten times as much as the gold
under assay.

The lead is now rolled into the form of a hollow cone; and into this are in-
troduced the assay gold and the quartation silver, when the lead is closed round
them and pressed into a ball.

The furnace having been properly heated, and the cupels placed in it and
ASSAY OF GOLD AND SILVER COINS. 423

brought to the same temperature, the leaden ball, with its contents, is put into
one of the cupels, the furnace closed, and the operation allowed to proceed until
all agitation is ceased to be observed in the melted metal and its surface has
become bright.

This is an indication that the whole of the base metals have been converted
into oxides and absorbed by the cupel.

The cupellation being thus finished, the metal is allowed to cool slowly, and
the disk or button which tt forms is detached from the cupel.

The button is then flattened by a hammer; is annealed by bringing it to a
red heat; is laminated by passing it between rollers; is again annealed; and is
rolled loosely into a spiral or coil called a cornet. It is now ready for the pro-
cess of quartation.

For this purpose, it is introduced into a matrass containing about 14 ounces
of nitric acid at 22° of Baumé’s hydrometer, and in this acid it is boiled for 10
minutes, as indicated by a sand-glass.

The acid is then poured off, and three-fourths of an ounce of stronger acid, at
32°, is substituted for it, in which the gold is boiled for 10 minutes.

This second acid is then also poured off, and another equal charge of acid of
the same strength is introduced, in which the gold is kept for 10 minutes longer.

It is then presumed that the whole of the silver has been removed, and ‘the
gold is taken out, washed in pure water, and exposed, in a crucible, to a red
heat, for the purpose of drying, strengthening, and annealing it.

Lastly, the cornet of fine gold thus formed is placed in the assay balance, and
the number of thousandths which a weighs expresses the fineness of the gold
assayed, in thousandths.

TEST ASSAY.

To test the accuracy of this process, the following method is employed:

A roll of gold, of absolute purity, which has been kept under the seal of the
chairman of the assay commissioners, is opened in their presence, and from it is
taken the weight of 900 parts. T'o this are added 75 of copper and 25 of silver,
so as to form, with the gold, a weight of 1000 parts of the exact legal standard.

This is passed through the same process of assay as the other gold, and at
the same time. After the assay is finished, it is evident that the pure gold re-
maining ought to weigh exactly 900. If, however, from any cause, it be found
to differ from this weight, and therefore to require a correction, it is assumed
that the same correction must be made in the other assays, and this is done ac-
cordingly.

ASSAY OF SILVER COINS.
PRINCIPLES OF THE OPERATION.

The standard silver of the United States is so constituted that of 1000 parta
by weight 900 shall be of pure silver, and 100 of copper.

The process of assay requires that the exact proportion of silver in a given
weight of the compound be ascertained, and this is done by a method called the
humid assay, Which may be explained as follows:

The silver and copper may both be entirely dissolved in nitric acid; and if to
a solution thus made another of common salt in water be added, the silver wil)
be precipitated in the form of a white powder, which is an insoluble chloride,
while the copper will remain unaffected.

Now it has been ascertained that 100 parts by weight of pure salt will con-
424 ASSAY OF GOLD AND SILVER COINS.

vert into chloride of silver just 184.25 parts of pure silver; consequently the
quantity of salt necessary to convert into chloride 1000 parts of silver is 542.74,
as found by the proportion—

184.25 9) 100.3 000s Hos eeT 2s

A standard solution of salt is accordingly so prepared as that a given measure
(the French decilitre) shall contain 542.74 thousandths of a gram of salt.
The normal weight employed for silver assays is the gram, (equal to about
15.4 troy grains,) which is marked 1000, and has its subdivisions, in practical
weighings, to the half or quarter thousandth.

Besides this standard solution, which effects the main precipitation of chloride
of silver, there is a decimal solution, of one-tenth the proportion of salt, which
it is expedient to use for the lesser and final precipitations.

In the mode of assay under consideration, it is necessary that the portion of
alloyed silver used shall contain as nearly as may be 1000 parts of pure silver.
The rigid standard requires that of 1000 parts by weight 900 shall be of pure
silver; but the law allows a variation from this ratio, provided that it do not
exceed tltree thousandths. The fineness may, therefore, be as low as 897, and
as high as 903. In the practice of the assay, it is found most convenient to
assume the lower extreme. Now, the weight of metal of the fineness 897, which
would contain 1000 parts of silver, is 1114.83, as found by the proportion—

897 : 1000 : : 1000 : 1114.83.

The nearest integer to this number is employed, and the weight of metal
taken for the assay is 1115.

PROCESS OF ASSAY.

The reserved silver coins are melted together in a black-lead crucible, with
the addition of fine charcoal within the pot, to prevent oxidation, and to allow
of dipping out. After stirring, a small portion of the fluid metal is poured
quickly into water, producing a granulation, from which the portion for assay is
taken. As this differs from the mode pursued with gold, it must be specially
noted that in the case of silver alloyed with copper there is a separation, to a
greater or less degree, between the two metals in the act of gradual solidifica-
tion, Thus an ingot cooled in a mould, or any single coin cut out of such ingot,
though really 900 thousandths fine on the average, will show such variations,
according to the place of cutting, as might even exceed the limits allowed by
law. ‘This fact has been established by many experiments, both in this mint
and the mint of Paris, since the enactment of our mint law; and it possesses the
stubbornness of a law of chemistry. But the sudden chill produced by throwing
the liquid metal into water yields a granulation of entirely homogeneous mix-
ture, and it can be proved that the same fineness results, whether by assaying a
single granule, or part of one, or a number together.

From this sample the weight of 1115 thousandths is taken, which is dissolved
in a glass bottle with nitric acid.

Into this solution the large pipette-full of standard solution of salt is intro-
duced, and it producesimmediately a white precipitate, which is chloride of silver,
and which contains, of the metallic silver, 1000 parts.

To make this chloride subside to the bottom of the vessel and leave the liquid
clear, it is necessary that it be violently shaken in the bottle; and this is accord-
ingly done by a mechanical arrangement, for the necessary time.

Unless the coins have chanced to be below the allowable limit of standard,
the liquid will still contain silver in solution, and accordingly a portion of the
decimal solution is introduced from the small pipette, capable of precipitating a
ASSAY OF GOLD AND SILVER COINS. 425

thonsandth of silver, and a white cloud of chloride will show itself. More doses
are added if the indications require it.

The liquid is again shaken and, cleared; and the process is thus repeated
until the addition of the salt water shows only a faint trace of chloride below
the upper surface of the quid.

Let us suppose, for the sake of an example, that three measures of the decimal
solution have been used with effect. This will show that the’1115 parts of the
coin contained 1003 of pure silver; and thus the proportion of pure silver in the
whole alloyed metal is ascertained.

TEST ASSAY.

For the foregoing process to be exact, it is necessary that the saline solution
be of the true standard strength, or be such that the quantity of it, measured in
the large pipette, shall be just sufficient to precipitate 1000 parts of silver. ‘This
cannot be assumed without proof, and a test assay is accordingly made as fol-
lows:

A roll of silver, known to be of absolute purity, is kept from year to year, in
an envelope, under the seal of the chairman of the assay commissioners. ‘This
being opened in their presence, a portion of the silver is taken, and 1004 parts
carefully weighed off and submitted to the process of assay described above. If
the salt water used be of the exact standard, it is evident that as the solution in
the larger pipette will precipitate 1000 parts of silver, four measures of the deci-
mal solution will be required to precipitate the remaining four parts.

But as the normal or standard solution is affected, from day to day, by changes
of temperature or other influences, the finishing decimal doses may be more or
fewer; and the other assays are to be corrected by the proof-piece accordingly.

CALCULATION OF FINENESS.

By the assay thus corrected, the number of parts of silver contained in 1115
of the metal under trial is ascertained; and the fineness, in thousandths, is then
found by the proportion: As 1115 is to the number of parts of fine silver, so is
1000 to the fineness of the alloyed silver, in thousandths.

Thus, if the assay show the presence 10053 parts of fine silver, the fineness
of the alloyed silver will be 901.8 thousandths, as found by the proportion—

1115 : 1005.5 : : 1000 : 901.79.

It is on this principle that the following table is constructed. 'The numbers
at the top and the fractions at the side correspond to the measures of the decimal
solution used, corrected by the test assay. The numbers in the body of the table
show the corresponding fineness of the assay-piece, of which the weight was 1115
parts:

426 ASSAY OF GOLD AND SILVER COINS.

In the testing of single pieces it is to be expected that any gold coin, or a cut
from any part thereof, will conform faithfully to the bounds prescribed by law.
- But the silver coins, in addition to the source of error already pointed out, (the
manner of taking assay samples,) are somewhat liable to show too high a result,
from several causes. At certain grades of alloy, and especially the standard of
900, the gradual cooling of ingots will draw the better metal to the interior, and
the worst towards the exterior and the edges. Hence the fineness of pieces cut
off the central part of the ingot is higher than the average fineness of the ingot.
Again, in casting ingots from a melting-pot the exposure of the metal to the air
during all the time of dipping out, and at the same time the increase of heat
towards the bottom of the pot, unavoidably produces a progressive refining, so
that the lower ingot is of a higher quality than the average of the whole melt;
and, of course, a coin cut from it will be higher still. Yet with the precautions
observed, our silver coins should very rarely exceed the superior limit assigned
by law; and there is no good reason why they should fall below the legal limit,
unless it be the taking of an unfair sample for assay.

A STATEMENT OF FOREIGN GOLD AND SILVER COINS, PRE-
PARED BY THE DIRECTOR OF THE MINT, TO ACCOMPANY
HIS ANNUAL REPORT, IN PURSUANCE OF THE ACT OF
FEBRUARY 21, 1857. |

EXPLANATORY REMARKS.

The first column embraces the names of the countries where the coins are
issued; the second contains the names of the coin, only the principal denomina-
tions being given. ‘The other sizes are proportional; and when this is not the
case, the deviation is stated.

The third column expresses the weight of a single piece in fractions of the
troy ounce carried to the thousandth, and in a few cases to the ten thousandth,
of an ounce. The method is preferable to expressing the weight in grains for
commercial purposes, and corresponds better with the terms of the mint. It may
be readily transferred to weight in grains by the followmg rules: Remove the
decimal point; from one-half deduct four per cent. of that half; and the remain-
der will be grains.

The fourth column expresses the fineness in thousandths, ¢. e. the number of
parts of pure gold or silver in 1000 parts of the coin.

The fifth and sixth columns of the first table express the valuation of gold.
In the fifth is shown the value as compared with the legal contents, or amount
of fine gold in our coin. In the sixth is shown the value as paid in the mint,
after the uniform deduction of one-half of one per cent. The former is the value
for any other purposes than re-coinage, and especially for the purpose of com-
parison; the latter is the value in exchange for our coins at the mint.

For the silver there is no fixed legal valuation, the law providing for shifting
the price according to the condition of demand and supply. The present price
of standard silver is 1224-cents per ounce, at which rate the values in the fifth
column of the second table are calculated. In a few cases, where the coins could
not be procured, the data are assumed from the legal rates, and so stated.
Gold Coins.

ASSAY OF GOLD AND SILVER COINS.

427

Country.

Central America...
Central America...

Germany, north....
Germany, north....
Germany, north....
Germany, south.-..
rieeee de ois a ataee

Netherlands .... .-..
New Granada:..-...
New Granada...-...
New Granada...--.
Pent ss .2tc seces 3

Tunis
WUROY, hein sprit = -
TUSCANY ears =

Denominations.

Pound of 1852. = sons so
Sovereign of 1855-’60-...-..
DuGspus see cre see! aes
Soveteiope ye See. ee
New Union Coin—assumed.
25 WEANGS! = = - sesack ci eats
Daumloonsee a eeestes sees.
QOSMAlWeise sc ee eae ces eee
Qisctidossse seaececes ees
A Reale et Ge actenekrcaos soe

LOResas eo eos 5 BAER E

Weight. | Fineness.

A Wscudose 22 --55-5-<-,0--| On4d0
Pound or Sovereign, new--| 0. 256.7

Pound or Sovereign, ave’ge-| 0.

256,

on

2

20 Francs, new...-.-.----- 0. 207.5
20 Francs, average..-... -- 0. 207
HOMER alent ie foo) 2 sets chee ee 0. 427
10 Thaler, Prussian...-.--- 0. 427
Krone (Crown)-.-...-.---.- 0. 357
West helcicsetsses eae 0.112
20 Drachms sae. isne sce cons 0. 185
f) Monur cn cscs accu ccc ees atts 0. 374
QO MuIve. Plone os sts oie 0. 207
Old Cobang ........ pia'desae 0. 362
OGM Obanr a n2,<c.ccsn case 0, 289
Doubloon, average...----- 0, 867.5
Doubloon, new......---.. 0. 867.5
20. Besos (Max. )/-2---s--.- 1. 086
6 Dacat, | NeWsa«css!-= === 0. 245
VOlGuildors\ es -oci o << ests 0. 215
Old Doubloon, Bogata-.-.- 0, 868
Old Doubloon, Popayan- ..| 0. 867
WOMRESGS) hee 'cicse oletemicss 0. 525
Old: Donbloon!<..2t...-s=- 0. 867
DOINGS A chia = aitare, aes 2 Se 1, 055
GolauGrown':.- ..-2-- see 0, 308
New Crown—assumed....- 0, 357
24 -Seudi, new.-.......... 0.140
5 oubles.=-- 0 ac~ <2 ame 0. 210
WOURINCHIS 2 = 5 oe ew inimren's, =a 0. 268
80 Heals-t-s2s secs e cco se 0.215
AD rhc Ae See Ss A ae 0.111
QB EMBSLLOD = o1cic'e os wed sie oc 0.161
LOOQREARBITOS «ae cnnsc0ic<s% 0,231
Peete 1 GR pe pad 0.112

Thous.
916.5
916
986
900
900
899
870
917.5
853.5
875
870
900
895
844
916,5
916
899
899
895
903
900
986
900
916
898
568
572
866
870.5
875
996
899
870
858
891.5
868
898
912
900
900
916
896
869.5
875
900
915
999

Value.

NEVO H POW an
09 69 C229 DEO

AaAaDwe

5 >
FECES EC Gh eT ise eatin
COCO OUI ROW EIEN

3

—

—_
£0 dO SECON Cr SUE C02 ee SUNOS OS OU St

ALAR DOU DODD WH

Se AS he Neem ea a Oa

DW PWN HPWH
G29 OWI MOON

wor
lo on )
be Oe)
ws?

.o4,

IS OO eS eens

Val. after
Deduct’n.

428 ASSAY OF GOLD AND.SILVER COINS.

Silver Coins. °

Country. Denominations. Weight.
Oz. Dec.
Austria se eee Eos Old Rix Moller fay see eters: 0. 902
ASUSHETAN Se AN ae eo Old: |Scudos ts S6eteer eae sce he S00
AT Strte: See rn go Fioxin before 18582-52225 22 0. 451
AUISDTTGe see oes mec c . Wew) Elon steric ee ce cere 0. 397
AUStHIBeiosee ee eck cee New Union Dollar--...-....-. 0. 596
ANUBIS sec ESR ree oe Maria Theresa Dollar, 1780.-..| 0.895
Belpiumy. Jie e- FG Deb PAN CSee oe - Heeroceeet ne a coe 0. 803
Bolivaats 2232 3 eee sick. Se Wewp Dollane s Betis cree nse 0. 643
olivate =< eve ee Becicte out Halt Dolarisocce sen eclece ane 0. 432
Brazilian. eee Se ee os Double Milreis: tee te ce 0. 820
Canadat 35S 02 nos. D0vCentsarcaste wees one eee ease 0. 150
Central America........ Wola ese sas ber mecns ste cele e 0. 866
Ge es ee ae he Old Molise kee ae ee 0. 864
Glanlitte® 2 Se ae ee a New, ollsrss soi on eee ete 9, 801
Ching =.) S222. 328. Dollar, (English)—assumed....| 0.866
Ching sce tee ee 5 eee. TO Centers oS ose cee cane 0. 087
Denmark Go5-2=-5) - i. 5- id IEG OBA eee a SoaBSe 0. 927
Bnplandsot) Sis 53. cb. Shilhne-inew- oct - tte see. 0. 182.5
BHuglandyosc8s 53... Shilling, tiverage ©. -- s2-— a2) 0. 178
France) = tess tens oot o> Franc, average...-...----. -- 0. 800
PYrance' soe eee oston oe Pee TANG see Coke cc oe eee e eee es 0. 320
Germany, north -....... Thaler’ before 1857s. =< 25. 222 5e2 0. 712
Germany, north ---....- New Phtler eee eS 0. 595
Germany, south --.-.... Hlorn, pefora 8572. eo ee ee 0. 340
Germany, south ---.--... New Florin—assumed.---..--- 0. 340
Greece. oi eee eS 5 Drachms) 22 2tee MGR LESUSE 0.719
Hindostane45sea2 <<. -1 HU pee). ss seen eee ee 0. 374
Japanese see see coe, s ize bups sess es ee eee 0.279
Japan nes see eerste ie New, ltzebu ‘sn: see e eee oe 0. 279
Miexicomcsseene seece ace Dollar: newts -eAR Sees eee 0. 867.5
Wicki¢o-sessmseeem-tices Dollar, average. 22-22. 22. << 0. 866
Mexi¢0)s astat tes oe cee Peso of Maximilian....--...-.- 0. 861
Naplestt (S222 cn scnctece. ScudO- so-so tes ceeeme acer 0. 844
Netherlands 4228242525; 27 Guilders #2 ot. Sets coe teeek 0. 804
Norway.s22-2325 2251-22 Specie Walers- seus toes Lice tees 0. 927
New Granada...--.....- Wollar ofM857-sestthetseeesse 0. 803
Perusescek Site see 2 SOLE DOME shee tenet tee ee 0. 866
Peraessa- 2see se sek ne Wollarionl(she sates necee tees 0. 766
Peru! $522\ 5 Se a ee Half Dollar 1835 and 1838 .... - 0. 433
Pert ee cot ee ee cs DOL bese ecet SECS Men See oe 0. 802
ertresia oS Base sae Thaler before 1857 ...-- 5 eee 0. 712
Britgsiay cj d-% foes cece New d Halen: so. btseet cee eee 0.595
ROMOs. 235.8 Soe ee ook Me Scudo een ce SA Ekeae eto 0. 864
Rirssian sca sn sees se se Rouble seat seeeee ns Soe ae 0. 667
Sandimya sees se2 2.5 ONWITe eet eS BRR Ree eee ee 0. 800
Spaiiniee coders sem sects <= New; Pistareen:<22% -c etc oc aee 0. 166
Swedent-seetees i -<. Rix IDoligrss.cchc este stee ees 0. 092
Switzerland) -........i-... Pl i oY or ae ee en RES ee 0. 323
Yunis’ s2acceetee seca - DPDISSLeSs soe ae ee eae eee 0.511
Durkeyjeeeceeastosoeto acy. 20 Piastres; soe tes GS ee 0.770

Value.

bet pe bt ek et
(im) ce ae

ouweocoorowntoonskooe
AFHASHDOSCHOWH= ON
WNW Dwounwe BRK DeHOQw

10.6

LIST OF PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION TO JULY, 1869.

A. Journal of proceedings of the regents of the Smithsonian Institution, at
the city of Washington, beginning on the first Monday of September, 1846.
1846. 8vo., pp. 32.

b. Report of the organization committee of the Smithsonian Institution, with
the resolutions accompanying the same and adopted by the Board of Regents;
also, the will of the testator, the act accepting the bequest, and the act organiz-
ing the Institution. Published by authority of the Board of Regents. 1847.
Svo., pp. 32. ‘

C. Digest of the act of Congress establishing the Smithsonian Institution.
Passed August 10, 1846. 8vo., pp. 8.

D. Address delivered on occasion of laying the corner stone of the Smithson-
ian Institution, May 1, 1847. By George M. Dallas, chancellor of the Institu-
tion. 1847. 8vo., pp. 8.

E. Smithson’s bequest. Professor Henry’s exposition, before the New Jer-
sey Historical Society, at its meeting in Princeton, on Wednesday, September
27, by invitation from the executive committee. 1847. 8vo, pp. 8.

I. First report of the secretary of the Smithsonian Institution to the Board of
Regents; giving a programme of organization, and an account of the operations
during the year. Presented December 8, 1847. 1848. 8vo., pp. 48.

G. Report from the Board of Regents, submitted to Congress, of the opera-
tions, expenditures, and condition of the Smithsonian Institution. Read and
ordered to be printed, March 3, 1847. Senate Doc. 211; 29th Congress, 2d
Session. 1847. 8vo., pp. 38.

~H. Second report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, to
the Senate and House of Representatives, showing the operations, expenditures,
and condition of the Institution during the year 1847. January 6, 1848, ordered
to be printed. 30th Congress, 1st Session, Senate Miscellaneous No. 23,
1848. 8vo., pp. 208.

I. Third annual report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion to the Senate and House of Representatives, showing the operations, expen-
ditures, and condition of the Institution, during the year 1848. February 19,
1849, ordered to be printed. 30th Congress, 2d Session. H. R. Miscellaneous
No. 48. 1849. 8vo., pp. 64.

J. Programme of organization of the Smithsonian Institution, [Presented in
the first annual report of the secretary, and adopted by the Board of Regents,
December 13, 1847.] 1847. 4to., pp. 4.

K. Correspondence relative to the acceptance for publication of the ethno-
logical memoir of Messrs. Squier and Davis. 8vo., pp. 8.
430 PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

L. [First] Report of the organization committee of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion. Reprinted from the National Intelligencer, December 8, 1846. 8vo., pp. 8.

M. Reports, Ete., of the Smithsonian Institution, exhibiting its plans, opera-
tions, and financial condition up to January 1, 1849. From the third annual
report of the Board of Regents. Presented to Congress February 19, 1849.
1849. 8vo., pp. 72.

N. Officers and Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, with the act of Con-
gress accepting the bequest, and the act incorporating said Institution. 1846,
8vo., pp. 14.

O. An act to establish the Smithsonian Institution. pp. 8.

P. Hints on public architecture, containing, among other illustrations, views
and plans of the Smithsonian Institution: together with an appendix relative to
building materials. Prepared, on behalf of the building committee of the Smith-
sonian Institution, by Robert Dale Owen, chairman of the committee. 1849.
Ato., pp. 140, 15 plates and 99 woodcuts.

Q. Check list of periodical publications received in the reading-room of the
Smithsonian Institution, for the year 1853. 1853. 4to., pp. 28.

REGULAR SERIES.

1. Ancient monuments of the Mississippi valley: comprising the results of
extensive original surveys and explorations. By E.G. Squier, A. M., and E. H.
Davis, M.D. Accepted for publication by the Smithsonian Institution, June,
1847. 4to., pp. 346, 48 plates and 207 woodcuts. (S.C. 1.) a

2. Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge. Vol. I. 1848. 4to., pp. 346,
48 plates and 207 woodcuts.

CONTENTS.
(1.) Squier and Davis, Ancient monuments, Mississippi valley.

3. Researches relative to the planet Neptune. By Sears C. Walker, esq.
[1850.] 4to., pp. 60. (S. C. 1."

4. Ephemeris of Neptune for the opposition of 1848. By Sears C. Walker,
esq. 1849. 4to., pp. 8.

5. Appendix I. to vol. II. of the Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge.
[Ephemeris of the planet Neptune for the date of the Lalande observations of
May 8 and 10, 1795, and for the opposition of 1846, 747, 748, and 749. By
Sears C. Walker, esq. April, 1849.] 4to., pp. 32. (S. C. 1.)

6. Appendix II. to vol. IL. of the Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge:
containing an ephemeris of the planet Neptune for the year 1850. By Sears C.
Walker, esq. [April, 1850.] 4to., pp. 10. (S. C. 1.)

7. Appendix ITI. to vol. II. of'the Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge :
Ephemeris of the planet Neptune for the year 1851. By Sears C. Walker, esq.
[December, 1850.] 4to., pp. 10. (8. C. 11.)

8. Occultations visible in the United States during the year 1848. [By John
Downes.] 1848. 4to., pp. 12.

9. Occultations visible inthe United States during the year 1849. Computed
PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 431

under the direction and at the expense of the Smithsonian Institution. By John
Downes. 1848. 4to., pp. 24.

10. Occultations visible in the United States during the year 1850. Com-
puted by John Downes, at the expense of the fund appropriated by Congress for
the establishment of a Nautical Almanac, and published by the Smithsonian
Institution. 1849. 4to., pp. 26.

These three papers by Mr. Downes, Nos. 8, 9, 10, were not published in the series of
Contributions.

11. Occultations visible in the United States during the year 1851. Com-
puted by John Downes, at the expense of the fund appropriated by Congress for
the establishment of a Nautical Almanac, and published by the Smithsonian
Institution. [October,] 1850. 4to., pp. 26. (5. C. 1.)

12. On the vocal sounds of Laura Bridgeman, the blind deaf mute at Boston ;
compared with the elements of phonetic language. By Francis Lieber. [1859.]
A4to., pp. 32, and one plate. (S. C. 11.)

13. Contributions to the physical geography of the United States. Part I.
On the physical geography of the Mississippi valley, with suggestions for the
improvement of the navigation of the Ohio and other rivers: By Charles Ellet,
jr., civil engineer. Received September 17, 1849. [1850.] 4to., pp. 64,
and 1 plate. (8S. C. 1.)

14. A Memoir on Mosasaurus, and the three allied new genera, Holcodus,
Conosaurus, and Amphorosteus. By Robert W. Gibbes, M. D. Received
November 15, 1849. [November, 1850.] 4to., pp. 14, and 3 plates. (8. C. 11.)

15. Aboriginal monuments of the State of New York. Comprising the results
of original surveys and explorations; with an illustrative appendix. By E. G.
Squier, A. M. Accepted for publication, October 20, 1849. [1850.] 4to., pp-
188, 14 plates and 72 woodcuts. (S. C. 11.)

16. The classification of insects from embryological data. By Professor
Louis Agassiz. [Presented to the American Association for the advancement of
science, at Cambridge, August, 1849.] Received March 6, 1850. [1850.]
Ato., pp. 28, and one plate. (S. C. 11.)

17. Memoir on the explosiveness of nitre, with a view to elucidate its agency
in the tremendous explosion of July, 1845, in New York. By Robert Hare, M.D.
Accepted for publication, October, 1849. [1850.] 4to., pp. 20. (S. C. 11.)

18. Report on the history of the discovery of Neptune. By Benjamin
Apthorp Gould, jr. 1850. 8vo., pp. 56.

19. Directions for meteorological observations, intended. for the first class
of observers. [By Arnold Guyot.] 1850. 8vo., pp. 40, and 9 woodcuts.

20. Microscopical examination of soundings, made by the United States Coast
Survey off the Atlantic coast of the United States. By Professor J. W. Bailey.
(January, 1851.] 4to., pp. 16, and 1 plate. (S. C. 11.)

21. Fourth annual report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Insti-
tution, to the Senate and House of Representatives, showing the operations,
expenditures, and condition of the Institution during the year 1849. 31st Con-
432 PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

gress, Ist Session. Senate Miscellaneous No. 120. Read July 29, 1850.
Ordered to be printed July 30, 1850. 8vo., pp. 272.

22. Plante Wrightiane Texano-Neo-Mexicane. By Professor Asa Gray,
M.D. Part I. Accepted for publication March, 1850. [March, 1852.]  4to.,
pp- 146, and 10 plates. (S. ©. 11.)

An account of a collection of plants made by Charles Wright in western Texas, New Mex-
ico, and Sonora, in the years 1851 and 1852.

23. Microscopical observations made in South Carolina, Georgia, and Florida.
By Professor J. W. Bailey. Accepted for publication December 1, 1850. [1851.]
Ato., pp. 48, and 3 plates. (S. C. 11.)

24, Appendix I. to vol. IIT. of the Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge ;
containing an ephemeris of the planet Neptune for the year 1852. By Sears C.
Walker, esy. [1853.] 4to., pp. 10. (S. C. m1.)

25. Notices of public libraries in the United States of America. By Charles
C. Jewett, librarian of the Smithsonian Institution. Printed by order of Con-
gress as an appendix to the fourth annual report of the Board of Regents of
the Smithsonian Institution. 1851. 8vo., pp. 210.

26. Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge. Vol. II. 1851. 4to., pp.
464, and 24 plates.

CONTENTS.

(3.) Walker. Researches relative to Neptune.
(12.) Lieber. Vocal sounds of Laura Bridzeman.
(20.) Bailey. Microscopical soundings off Atlantic coast.
(13.) Ellet. Physical geography Mississippi valley and improvement of rivers.
(14.) Gibbes. Mosasaurus and three allied genera.
(16.) Agassiz. Classification of insects from embryological data.
(17.) Hare. Explosiveness of nitre.
(23.) Bailey. Microscopical observations in South Carolina, Georgia, and Florida,
(15.) Squier. Aboriginal monuments of state of New York.
(4.) Walker. Ephemeris of Neptune for 1848.
(6.) Walker. Ephemeris of Neptune for 1850,
(7.) Walker. Ephemeris of Neptune for 1851.
(11.) Downes. Occultations visible in the United States in 1851.
27. On recent improvements in the chemical arts. By Professor James C.
Booth and Campbell Morfit. 1852. 8vo., pp. 216. (M. C. 11.)

28. Fifth annual report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Insti-
tution, to the Senate and House of Representatives, showing the operations,
expenditures, and condition of the Institution, during the year 1850. Special
session, March, 1851. Senate Miscellaneous No. 1. Read March 1, 1851.
Ordered to be printed March 7. 1851. 8vo., pp. 326.

29. Occultations visible in the United States during the year 1852. Com-
puted by John Downes, at the expense of the fund appropriated by Congress for
the establishment of a Nautical Almanac, and published by the, Smithsonian
Institution. 1851. 4to., pp. 34. (S.C. m1.)

30. Contributions to the natural history of the fresh water fishes of North
America. By Charles Girard. I—A monograph of the cottoids. Accepted
PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 433

for publication December, 1850. [December, 1851.] 4to., pp. 80, and 3 plates.
(S. C. 111.)

31. A Collection of meteorological tables, with other tables useful in prac-
tical meteorology. Prepared by order of the Smithsonian Institution. By
Arnold Guyot. 1852. 8vo., pp. 212.

32. Nereis Boreali-Americana: or, contributions to a history of the marine
alge of North America. Part I—Melanospermee. By Professor William
Henry Harvey. Accepted for publication July, 1851. [January, 1852.] 4to.,
pp. 152, and 12 colored plates. (S.C. 11.)

33. The Law of deposit of the flood tide: its dynamical action and office.
By Charles Henry Davis, Lieutenant U.S. Navy. Accepted for publication
December, 1851. [1852.] 4to., pp. 14. (S.C. 11.)

34. Directions for collecting, preserving, and transporting specimens of natural
history. Prepared for the use of the Smithsonian Institution, Third edition.
March 1859. 8vo., pp. 40., 6 woodcuts. (M. C. 11.)

35. Observations on terrestrial magnetism. By Professor John Locke,
Accepted for publication July, 1851. [April, 1852.] 4to., pp. 30. (S. C. m1.)

36. Researches on electrical rheometry. By Professor A. Secchi. Accepted
for publication September, 1850. [May, 1852.] 4to., pp. 60, and 3 plates, (8.
C. 11.)

37. Descriptions of ancient works in Ohio. By Charles Whittlesey. Ac-
cepted for publication May, 1850. [1851.]  4to., pp. 20, and 7 plates.
(S. C. 112.)

38. Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge. Vol. III. 1852. 4to., pp,
564, and 35 plates.

CONTENTS,

(35.) Locke. Terrestrial magnetism.

(36.) Secchi. Electrical rheometry.

(30.) Girard. Monograph of the cottoids.

(32.) Harvey. Marine algee of North America. Part I.—Melanospermez,
(22.) Gray. Plantee Wrightianze Texano-Neo-Mexicanez. Part I.

(33.) Davis. Law of deposit of the flood tide.

(37.) Whittlesey. Descriptions of ancient works in Ohio.

(24.) Walker. Ephemeris of the planet Neptune for 1852.

(29.) Downes. Oceultations visible in United States during 1852.

39. Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge. Vol. IV. 1852. 4to, pp. 426.
CONTENTS.
(40.) Riggs. Dakota Grammar and Dictionary.

40. Grammar and dictionary of the Dakota language. Collected by the
members of the Dakota mission. Edited by Rev. 8S. R. Riggs, A. M., Mission-
ary of the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions, under the
patronage of the Historical Society of Minnesota. Accepted for publication
December, 1851. [1852.] 4to., pp. 414. (5S. C. Iv.)

A small edition of the grammar only was printed separately.

28s
434 PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

41. Memoir on the extinct species of Americanox. By Joseph Leidy, M.
D. Accepted for publication September, 1852. [December, 1852.] 4to., pp.
20, and 5 plates. (S. C.v.)

42. Plantes Wrightiane 'Texano-Neo-Mexicane. Part Il. By Professor
Asa Gray. Accepted for publication October, 1852. [February, 1853.]  4to.,
pp- 120, and 4 plates. (S.C. v.)

43. Nereis Boreali-Americana: or, contributions to a history of the marine
algz of North America. Part I1.—Rhodospermee. By Professor W. H. Har-
vey. [March, 1853.] 4to., pp. 262, and 24 plates, colored. (S.C. v.)

44, A flora and fauna within living animals. By Joseph Leidy, M. D.
Accepted for publication December, 1851. [April, 1853.] 4to., pp. 68, and
10 plates. (S.C. v.)

45. Anatomy of the nervous system of Rana pipiens. By Jeflries Wyman,
M.D. Accepted for publication May, 1852. [March, 1853.] 4to., pp. 52, 4
woodcuts and 2 plates. (S.C. v.)

46. Plante Frémontiane ; or, descriptions of plants collected by Colonel J.
C. Frémont in California. By John Torrey, F.L.S. Accepted for publication
September, 1850. [1853.] 4to., pp. 24, and 10 plates. (5S. C. v1.)

47. On the construction of catalogues of libraries, and their publication by
means of separate, stereotyped titles. With rules and examples. By Charles C.
Jewett, Librarian of the Smithsonian Institution. 1852. 8vo., pp. 78. Second
edition, 1853. 8vo., pp. 108.

48. Bibliographia Americana Historico-Naturalis. A. D. 1851. Auctore
Carolo Girard. December, 1852. 8vo., pp. 68.

49. Catalogue of north American reptiles in the museum of the Smithsonian
Institution. Part I—Serpents. By 8. F. Baird and C. Girard. January,
1853. 8vo., pp. 188. (M. C. 11.)

50. Synopsis of the marine invertebrata of Grand Manan: or the region about
the mouth of the Bay of Fundy, New Brunswick. By William Stimpson.
Accepted for publication January, 1853. [March, 1853.] 4to., pp. 68, and 3
plates. (5S. C. v1.)

51. Sixth annual report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Insti-
tution, to the Senate and House of Representatives, showing the operations,
expenditures, and condition of the Institution during the-year 1851, and the pro-
ceedings of the Board of Regents up to date. [32d Congress, 1st session, Senate
Mis. No. 108. 1852. 8vo., pp. 104.

52. Winds of the northern hemisphere. By Professor James H. Coffin, A. M.
Accepted for publication November, 1850. Revised, November, 1852. [Novem.
ber, 1853.] 4to., pp. 200, 13 plates, and 6 woodcuts. (S. C. vi.)

53. Portraits of north American Indians, with sketches of scenery, Etc.,
Painted by J. M. Stanley. Deposited with the Smithsonian Institution.
[December, 1852.] 8vo., pp. 76. (M. C. 11.)

54. Occulations of planets and stars by the moon, during the year 1853.
Computed by John Downes, at the expense of the fund appropriated by Con-
PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 435

gress for the establishment of a Nautical Almanac, and published by the Smith-
sonian Institution. 1853. 4to., pp. 36. (S.C. vr.)

55. Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge. Vol. V. 1853.  4to., pp.
538, and 45 plates.

if CONTENTS.

(44.) Leidy. Flora and fauna within living animals.

(A41.) Leidy. Extinct species of American ox.

(45.) Wyman. Anatomy of the nervous system of Rana pipiens.

(43.) Harvey. Marine algee of North America. Part I1.—Rhodosperme.
(42.) Gray. Plantse Wrightianz. Part II.

56. Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge. Vol. VI. 1854. 4to., pp.
476, and 53 plates.

CONTENTS. -

(46.) Torrey. Planteze Frémontiane.

(60.) Torrey. Batis maritima.

(61.) Torrey. Darlingtonia californica.

(50.) Stimpson. Marine invertebrata of Grand Manan.
(52.) Coffin. Winds of the northern hemisphere.

(58.) Leidy. Ancient fauna of Nebraska.

(54.) Downes. Occultations during the year 1853.

57. Seventh annual report of the Board of Regeuts of the Smithsonian
Institution, to the Senate and House of Representatives, showing the operations,
expenditures, and condition of the Institution during the year 1852, and the pro-
ceedings of the Board of Regents up to date. [32d Congress, 2d session, Senate
Mis. No. 53.] 1853. 8vo., pp. 96.

58. The ancient fauna of Nebraska: or, a description of remains of extinct
mammalia and chelonia, from the Mauvaises Terres of Nebraska. By Professor
Joseph Leidy, M.D. Accepted for publication December, 1852. [June, 1853.]
4to., pp. 126, 3 woodcuts, and 25 plates. (S.C. vr.)

59. Account of a tornado near New Harmony, Indiana, April 30, 1852, with
a map of the track, &c. By John Chappelsmith. Accepted for publication
December, 1853. [April, 1855.] 4to., pp. 12, one map, one plate, and two wood-
cuts. (5. C. vi.)

60. Observations on the Batis maritima of Linneus. By John Torrey, F.
L. S. Accepted for publication September, 1850. [April, 1853.] 4to., pp. 8,
and 1 plate. (S.C. vr.)

61. On the Darlingtonia kage ; a new pitcher-plant from northern Cali-
ifornia. By John Torrey, F. L.S. Accepted for publication September, 1850,
[April, 1853.]  4to., pp. 8, and 1 plate. (S.C. v1.)

62. Catalogue of the described coleoptera of the United States. By

‘Friedrich Emst Melsheimer, M. D. Revised by 8. S. Haldeman and J. L. Le
Conte. July, 1853. 8vo., pp. 190.

63. Notes on new species and localities of microscopical organisms. By
Professor J. W. Bailey, M. D. Accepted for publication November, 1853
[February 1854.] 4to., pp. 16, 4 woodcuts, and 1 plate. (S.C. vir.)
436 PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

64. List of foreign institutions in correspondence with the Smithsonian Insti-
tution. 1856. 8vo., pp. 16.

65. Registry of periodical phenomena. Folio, pp. 4. ;

66. The annular eclipse of May 26, 1854. Published under the authority
of Hon. James C. Dobbin, Secretary of the Navy, by the Smithsonian Institu-
tion and Nautical Almanac. 1854. S8vo., pp. 14, and 1 map.

67. Eighth annual report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Insti-
tution, showing the operations, expenditures, and condition of the Institution up
to January 1, 1854, and the proceedings of the Board up to July 8, 1854
[33d Congress, 1st session, House of Representatives, Mis. Doc. No. 97.] 1854.
8vo., pp. 310.

This is the first of the series of annual reports published by Congress as a bound volume,
and it contains among otherarticles the first, second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth, and seventh
reports of Professor Henry, the secretary ; reports of committee on distribution of Smith-
sonian income; will of Smithson; notices of life of Smithson, and list of his scientific
papers; Acts of Congress accepting the bequest, and establishing the Institution.

68. Vocabulary of the jargon or trade language of Oregon. [By Dr. By
Rush Mitchell, United States Navy, with additions by Professor W. W. Turner.
April, 1853.] 8vo., pp. 22.

69. Listof domestic institutions in correspondence with the Smithsonian Insti-
tution. 1853. 8vo., pp. 16.

70. The antiquities of Wisconsin, as surveyed and described. By I. A. Lap-
ham, civil engineer, Ete., on behalf of the American Antiquarian Society.
Accepted for publication, December, 1853. [May, 1855.] 4to., pp. 1US, 61
woodcuts and 55 plates. (8S. C. vir.)

71. Archeology of the United States, or sketches, historical and _biblio-
graphical, of the progress of information and opinion respecting vestiges of
antiquity in the United States. By Samuel F. Haven. Accepted for publica-
tion, January, 1855. [July, 1856.] 4to., pp.172. (8. C. vm.)

‘72. A memoir on the extinct sloth tribe of North America. By Professor
Joseph Leidy, M.D. Accepted for publication, December, 1853. [June, 1855.]
Ato., pp. 70, and 16 plates. (S.C. viz.)

73. Appendix. Publications of learned societies and periodicals in the
library of the Smithsonian Institution. PartI. [December 31, 1854.] [1855.]
4to., pp. 40. (S.C. vir.)

74. Catalogue of publications of the Smithsonian Institution. Corrected to
June, 1862. 8vo., pp. 52. (M. C. v.)

75. Ninth annual report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution,
showing the operations, expenditures, and condition of the Institution up to Janu-
ary 1, 1855, and the proceedings of the Board up to February 24, 1855. [33d
Congress, 2d session, House of Representatives, Mis. Doc. No. 37.] 1855. 8vo.,
pp. 464, 4 woodcuts.

76. Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge. Vol. VIL. 1855. 4to. pp.
252, 70 woodcuts and 74 plates.
PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 437

r CONTENTS.

(59.) Chappelsmith. Tornado near New Harmony, Indiana.

(63.) Bailey. New species and localities of microscopic organisms.

(70.) Lapham. Antiquities of Wisconsin.

(72.) Leidy. Extinct sloth tribe of North America.

(73.) Publications of societies and periodicals in Smithsonian Library. Part J.

77. Tenth annual report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Insti-
tution, showing the operations, expenditures, and condition of the Institution up
to January 1, 1856, and the proceedings of the Board up to March 22, 1856.
[34th Congress, 1st session, Senate Mis. Doc. No. 73.] 1856. 8vo., pp. 440,
79 woodcuts.

78. Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge. Vol. VIII. 1856. 4to., pp.
556, 9 plates and 27 woodcuts.

CONTENTS.

(71.) Haven. Archeology of the United States.

(81.) Olmsted. Recent secular period of aurora borealis.

(80.) Alvord. Tangencies of circles and of spheres,

(82.) Jones. Chemical and physiological investigations relative to vertebrata.
(84.) Force. Auroral Phenomena in Higher Northern Latitudes.

(85.) Publications of societies and periodicals in Smithsonian Library. Part II.

79. New tables for determining the values of the coefficients, in the pertur-
bative function of planetary motion, which depend upon the ratio of the mean
distances. By John D. Runkle. Accepted for publication, November, 1855.
[November, 1856.]  4to., pp. 64. (S. C. 1x.)

80. The tangencies of circles and of spheres. By Benjamin Alvord, major
United StatesArmy. Accepted for publication, January, 1855. [January, 1856.]
4to., pp. 16, 25 woodcuts and 9 plates. (S.C. vit.)

81. On the recent secular period of theaurora borealis. By Professor Denison
Olmsted, LL.D. Accepted for publication, January, 1855. [May, 1886.]
Ato., pp. 52. (S. C. vit.)

82. Investigations, chemical and physiological, relative to certain American
vertebrata. By Professor Joseph Jones, M. D. Accepted for publication,
March, 1856. [July, 1856.| 4to., pp. 150, and 27 woodcuts. (S. C. vit.)

83. On the relative intensity of the heat and light of the sun upon different
latitudes ‘of the earth. By L. W. Meech, A. M. Accepted for publication,
September, 1855. [November, 1856.| 4to., pp. 58, 5 woodcuts and 6 plates.
(S:'O7Txa)

84. Appendix. Record of auroral phenomena observed in the higher northern
latitudes. Compiled by Peter Force. [July,1856.] 4to., pp. 122. (S.C. vit.)

85. Appendix. Publications of learned societies and periodicals in the library
of the Smithsonian Institution. Part II; [May, 1856.] 4to., pp. 38. (8. C.
VIII.)

86. Observations on Mexican history and archeology, with a special notice
of Zapotec remains, as delineated in Mr. J. G. Sawkins’s drawings of Mitla, Ete.
By Brantz Mayer. Accepted for publication, June, 1856. [November, 1856.]
A4to., pp. 36, 17 woodcuts and 4 plates. (5S. C. 1x.)
438 PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

87. Psychrometrical table: for determining the elastic force of aqueous
vapor, and the relative humidity of the atmosphere from indications of the
wet and the dry bulb thermometer, Fahrenheit. By James H. Coffin, A. M.
1856. Svo.,pp.20. 2 Me.Ce a)

88. Researches on the ammonia-cobalt bases. By Wolcott Gibbs and
Frederick Aug. Genth. Accepted for publication, July, 1856. [December,
1856.] Ato, pp. 72, 21 woodcuts, (S. C. rx.)

89. North American Odlogy. By Thomas M. Brewer, M. D. Part IL—
Raptores and Fissirostres. Accepted for publication, February, 1856. [1857.]
pp- 140, and 5 plates. (S. C. xt.)

90. Illustrations of surface geology. By Professor Edward Hitchcock,
LL.D. Accepted for publication, January, 1856. [April, 1857.]  4to., pp. 164,
2 woodcuts and 12 plates. (S. C. rx.)

91. Annual report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution,
showing the operations, expenditures, and condition of the Institution for the year
1856, and the proceedings of the Board up to January 28, 1857. 34th Con-
gress, 3d Session, House of Representatives, Mis. Doc. No. 55. 1857.  8vo.,
pp- 468; 69 woodcuts.

92. Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge. Vol. IX. 1857. 4to., pp.
482, and 22 plates.

CONTENTS.

(83.) Meech. Intensity of heat and light of sun upon different latitudes.

- (90.) Hitchcock. Illustrations of surface geology.
(86.) Mayer. Mexican history and archzeology, and Zapotec remains.
(88.) Gibbs and Genth. Researches on ammonia-cobalt bases.
(79.) Runkle. New tables, planetary motion.
(94.) Runkle. Asteroid supplement to new tables.

93. Smithsonian meteorological observations for the year 1855. (Printed
for examination by the observers.) 1857. 8vo., pp. 118.

Printed merely to enable observers to verify their records, and distributed only to them.
The same-material is embodied in No. 157: ‘* Results of Meteorological Observations,” &c.

94. Asteroid supplement to new tables for determining the values of
bY and its derivatives. By JohnD. Runkle. Accepted for publication Novem-
ber, 1855. [May, £857.] 4to., pp. 72. (8. C. rx.)

95. Nereis Boreali-Americana: or, contributions to the history of the marine
alge of North America. Part I1I.—Chlorospermes. By Professor William
Henry Harvey, M.D. Accepted for publication, September, 1857. [March,
1858.] 4to., pp. 142, and 14 plates, colored. (S. C. X.)

The colored plates are to be found in the extra copies, most of the edition inserted in the
series of contributions having plain plates.

96. Nereis Boreali-Americana: or, contributions to a history of the marine
alge of North America. By Professor William Henry Harvey, M.D. In three
parts, with 50 colored plates. May, 1858. - 4to., pp. 568.

97. Magnetical observations in the Arctic Seas. By Elisha Kent Kane,
M. D., U. S Navy. Made during the second Grinnell expedition in search
PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 439

of Sir John Franklin, in 1853~’54-’55, at Van Rensselaer Harbor, and other
points on the west coast of Greenland. Reduced and discussed by Charles
A. Schott, assistant United StatesCoast Survey. Accepted for publication May,
1858. [1859.] 4to., pp. 72; one woodcut and two plates. (S. C. x.)

98. Grammar and dictionary of the Yoruba language. With an introductory
description of the country and people of Yoruba. By the Rev. 'T. J. Bowen,
Missionary of the Southern Baptist Convention. Accepted for publication May,
1858. [June, 1858.] 4to., pp. 232, and one map. (S. C. x.)

99. Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge. Vol. X.* 1858.  4to., pp.
462, and 17 plates.

CONTENTS.
(95.) Harvey. Marine alge. Part III. Chlorospermez.
(97.) Kane. Magnetical observations in the Arctic seas.
(98.) Bowen. Grammar and dictionary of the Yoruba language.

100. An Account of the total eclipse of the sun on September 7, 1858, as
observed near Olmos, Peru. By Lieutenant J. M. Gilliss. Accepted for pub-
lication, January, 1859. [April, 1859.] 4to., pp. 22; 1 woodcut and 1 plate.
(S.C. x1.)

101. Map of the solar eclipse of March 15, 1858. By Rev. Thomas Hill,
of Waltham, Massachusetts. Published by the Smithsonian Institution for dis-
tribution among its observers. January, 1858. 8vo., pp. 8, and one plate.

102. Catalogue of the described diptera of North America. Prepared for the
Smithsonian Institution by R. Osten Sacken. January, 1858. 8vo., pp. 112.
| With supplement of fouc pages. October, 1859.] (MM. C. 11.)

103. Meteorological observations made at Providence, Rhode Island, extend-
ing over aperiod of twenty-eight years and a half, from December, 1831, to May,
1860. By Professor Alexis Caswell. Accepted for publication, August, 1859.
[October, 1860.] 4to., pp. 188. (8. C. xu.) :

104. Meteorological observations in the Arctic Seas. By Elisha Kent Kane,
M. D., U. S. Navy. Made during the second Grinnell expedition in search
of Sir John Franklin, in 1853, 1854, and-1855, at Van Rensselaer Harbor, and
other points on the west coast of Greenland. Reduced and discussed by
Charles, A. Schott, assistant United States Coast Survey. Accepted for publi-
cation May, 1858. [November, 1859.] 4to., pp. 120,10 woodeuts. (S.C. x1.)

105. Catalogue of North American mammals, chiefly in the museum of the
Smithsonian Institution. By Spencer F. Baird. July, 1857. 4to., pp. 22.

Reprinted from Vol. VIII of Pacific Railroad Report.

106, Catalogue of North American birds, chiefly in the museum of the
Smithsonian Institution, By Spencer I’, Baird, October, 1858. 4to., pp. 42.

Reprinted from Vol. 1X of Pacific Railroad Report.

107. Annual report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution,
showing the operations, expenditures, and condition of the Institution for the
year 1857. 35th Congress, Ist Session, Senate Mis. Doc. No. 272. 1858.
8vo., pp. 438; 100 woodcuts.
A40 PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

108. Catalogue of North American birds, chiefly in the museum of the Smith
sonian Institution. By Spencer F. Baird. First octavo edition. 1859. S8vo.,
pp. 24. (M. C. 11.)

Of this work an edition has been printed for labelling, with one side of each leaf blank.

109, Annual report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution,
showing the operations, expenditnres, and condition of the Institution for the
year 1858. 35th Congress, 2d Session, Senate Mis. Doc. No. 49. 1859. 8vo.,
pp. 448, 48 woodcuts.

110. Annual report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution,
showing the operations, expenditures, and condition of the Institution for the
year 1859. 36th Congress, 1st Session, House of Representatives, Mis. Doc.
No. 90. 1860. 8vo., pp. 450; 55 woodcuts.

111. Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge. Vol. XI. 1859. 4to.,
pp- 506, and 23 plates.

CONTENTS.

(89.) Brewer. North American Odlogy. Part I, Raptores and Fissirostres.
(100.) Gilliss. Total eclipse of the sun, September 7, 1858, in Peru.
(113.) Bache. Magnetic and meteorological observations. Part I.
(114.) Kane. Meteorological observations in the Arctic seas.
(126.) Le Conte. Coleoptera of Kansas and Eastern New Mexico.
(114.) Sonntag. Observations on terrestrial magnetism in Mexico.
(127.) Loomis. On certain storms in Europe and America, December, 1836.

112. Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge. Vol. XII. 1860. Pages
540, 3 plates, and 12 woodcuts.

CONTENTS.

(129.) Kane. Astronomical observations in the Arctic seas.

(119.) Whittlesey. Fluctuations of level in North American lakes.

(103.) Caswell. Meteorological observations at Providence, Rhode Island, 284 years.
(131.) Smith. Meteorological observations near Washington, Arkansas, 20 years.
(135.) Mitchell. Researches upon venom of the rattlesnake.

113. Discussion of the magnetic and meteorological observations made at the
Girard College observatory, Philadelphia, in 1840, 1841, 1842, 1843, 1844, and
1845. Part I. Investigation of the eleven year period in the amplitude of
the solar-diurnal variation and of the disturbances of the magnetic declination.
By A. D. Bache, LL.D. Accepted for publication, June, 1859. [November,
1859.| 4to., pp. 22, 5 woodcuts. (S. C. x11.)

This paper forms Part I of Section 1 of the Discussion relating to the Declination.

114. Observations on terrestrial magnetism in Mexico. Conducted under the
direction of Baron Von Miller, with notes and illustrations of an examination
of the.voleano Popocatapetl and its vicinity. By August Sonntag. Accepted
for publication, May, 1859. [IFebruary, 1860.] 4to., pp. 92, 4 woodcuts, and
one plate. (S.C. xr.)

115. Extracts from the proceedings of the Board of Regents of the Smith-
sonian Institution, in relation to the electro-magnetic telegraph. [1861.] 8vo.,
pp- 40, 7 woodcuts. |M. C. 31.]

Reprinted from Proceedings of the Board of Regents for 1857.
PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 44}

116. List of public libraries, institutions, and societies in the United States
and British provinces of North America. (Irom ‘“ Manual of Libraries,” etc., by
William J. Rhees.) 1859. 8vo., pp. 84.

117. Catalogue of publications of Societies andof other periodical works in
the library of the Smithsonian Institution, July 1, 1858. Foreign works.
,1859. 8vo., pp. 264. (M. ©. m1.)

118. Catalogue of the described lepidoptera of North America. Prepared
for the Smithsonian Institution. By John G. Morris. May, 1860. 8vo., pp.
76. (M. C. m1.)

119. On fluctuations of level in the North American lakes. By Charles
Whittlesey. Accepted for publication, April, 1859. [July, 1860.] 4to., pp.
28, and 2 plates. (S. C. x1.)

120. Results of meteorological observations made at Marietta, Ohio, between
1826 and 1859, inclusive. By S. P. Hildreth, M. D.; to which are added results
of observations taken at Marietta, by Mr. Joseph Wood, between 1817 and
1823. Reduced and discussed at the expense of the Smithsonian Institution.
By Charles A. Schott. Accepted for publication, June, 1867. [September,
1867.] 4to., pp. 52, 14 woodcuts.

121. Discussion of the magnetic and meteorological observations made at
the Girard College Observatory, Philadelphia, in 1840, 1841, 1842, 1843, 1844,
and 1845. Part I1.—Investigation of the solar-diurnal variation in the mag-
netic declination and its annual inequality. By A. D. Bache, LL.D.
Accepted for publication, September, 1860. [June, 1862.] 4 to., pp. 28, 8
woodcuts. (S.C. xu.)

122. Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections. 1862. Vol.I. 8vo., pp. 738.
CONTENTS,

(19.) (148.) Directions for meteorological observations.
(87.) Coffin. Psychrometrical tables.
(31 ) (153.) Guyot. Meteorological and physical tables.

123. Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections. 1862. Vol. II. 8vo., pp. 715.
CONTENTS.

(27.) Booth and Morfit. Recent improvements in chemical arts.
(115.) Proceedings Board Regents in relation to the electro-magnetic telegraph.
(53.) Stanley. Catalogue portraits North American Indians.
(108.) Baird. Catalogue of North American birds.
(49.) Baird and Girard. Catalogue North American reptiles; Serpents.
(128.) Check-list shells North America.
(34.) Directions for collecting.
(137.) Cireular to officers Hudson Bay Company.
(139.) Instructions for collecting nests and eggs.
(163.) North American grasshoppers.
(176.) North American shells.
(138.) Morgan, Circular respecting relationship.
442 PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

124. Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections. Vol. III. 8vo., pp. 772.
CONTENTS,

(102.) Osten Sacken. Catalogue diptera North America.

(118.) Morris. Catalogue described lepidoptera North America.
(136.) Le Conte. Classification coleoptera, I.

(117.) Catalogue publications of Societies in Smithsonian library.

125. Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections. Vol. LV. 8vo., pp. 760.
CONTENTS.
(134.) Hagen. Synopsis of North American neuroptera.
(133.) Morris. Synopsis of North American lepidoptera.
126. The coleoptera of Kansas and Eastern New Mexico. By John L.

Le Conte, M. D. Accepted for publication, October 1859. [December, 1859. |
pp- 64 and 3 plates. (S.C. x1.)

127. On certain storms in Europe and America, December, 1836. By Pro-
fessor Klias Loomis, LL. D. Accepted for publication, August, 1859. [Feb-
ruary, 1860.] 4to., pp. 28, and 13 plates. (8. C. x1.)

128. Check-lists of the shells of North America. Prepared for the Smith-
sonian Institution, by Isaac Lea, P. P. Carpenter, Wm. Stimpson, W. G. Es
ney, and Temple Prime. June, 1860. 8vo., pp. 52. (M. C. 11.)

An edition for labelling has been printed with one side of each leaf blank.

129. Astronomical observations in the Arctic seas. By Elisha Kent Kane,
M. D., U. 8. N. Made during the second Grinmell expedition in search of
Sir John Franklin, in 1853, 1854, and 1855, at Van Rensselaer Harbor, and
other points in the vicinity of the northwest coast of Greenland. Reduced
and discussed by Charles A. Schott, assistant United States Coast Survey.
Accepted for publication, March, 1860. [May, 1860.] 4to., pp. 56, 3 wood-
cuts, and 1 plate. (S. C. xm.)

130. Tidal observations in the Arctic seas. By Elisha Kent Kane, M. D.,
U.S. N. Made during the second Grinnell expedition in search of Sir John
Franklin, in 1853, 1854, and 1855, at Van Rensselaer harbor: Reduced and
discussed, by Charles A. Schott, assistant United States Coast Survey. Accepted
for publication, July, 1860. [October, 1860.] 4to., pp. 90, 3 woodcuts and 4
plates. (S.C. xan)

131. Meteorological observations made near Washington, Arkansas, extend-
ing over a period of twenty years, from 1840 to 1859, inclusive. By Nathan D.
Smith, M.D. Accepted for publication, January, 1860. [October, 1860.] 4t6.,
pp. 96... (0S. 0, sat.)

132. Discussion of the magnetic and meteorological observations made at the
Girard College Observatory, Philadelphia, in 1840, 1841, 1842, 1843, 1844, and
1845. Part I1]—Investigation of the influence of the moon on the magnetic
declination. By A. D. Bache, LL.D. Accepted for publication, September,
1860. [June, 1862.] 4to., pp. 16, 3 woodeuts. (S. C. xu.)

133. Synopsis of the described lepidoptera of North America. Part L—
Diurnal and crepuscular lepidoptera. Compiled for the Smithsonian Institu-
PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 443

tion by John G. Morris. February, 1862. S8vo., pp. 386, and 30 woodcuts.
(M. C. Iv.)

134. Synopsis of the neuroptera of North America. With a list of the South
American species. Prepared for the Smithsonian Institution by Hermann Hagen.
July, 1861. 8vo., pp. 368. (M. C. Iv.)

% 135. Researches upon the venom of the rattlesnake: with an investigation
of the anatomy and physiology of the organs concerned. By 8. Weir Mitchell,
M. D. Accepted for publication, July, 1860. [December, 1860.] 4to., pp.
156, and 12 woodcuts.

136. Classification of the coleoptera of North America. Prepared for the
Smithsonian Institution. By John L. Le Conte, M. D. 8vo., pp. 312, and
49 woodcuts. (M. C. ut.)

Pages 1 to 208, published May, 1861; 209 to 278, March, 1862.

137. Circular to officers of the Hudson’s Bay Company. 1860. 8vo., pp. 6.

138. Cireular in reference to the degrees of relationship among different
nations. [By Lewis H. Morgan. January, 1860.] S8vo., pp. 34. (M. C. I.)

139. Instructions in reference to collecting nests and eggs of North Ameri-
ean birds. [January, 1860.] Svo. Pages 22, and 20 woodcuts. Circular in
reference to collecting nests and eggs of North American birds. Svo. 12 pp.
[February, 1861.] (M. C. 11.)

140. List of the coleoptera of North America. Prepared for the Smithsonian
Institution. By John L. Le Conte, M.D. Part I. March, 1863. April,
1866. 8vo., pp. 82. (M.C. v1.)

141. Monographs of the diptera of North America. Prepared for the Smith-
sonian Institution by H. Loew. Part I. Edited, with additions, by R. Osten
Sacken. April, 1862. 8vo., pp. 246, with 15 woodcuts and 2 plates. (M. C. v1.)

142. Bibliography of North American conchology, previous to the year 1860.
Prepared for the Smithsonian Institution. By W. G. Binney: Part I—
American Authors. March, 1863. 8vo., pp. 658. (M. C. v.)

143. Land and fresh-water shells of North America. Part I1.—Pulmonata
Limnophila and Thalassophila. By W.G. Binney. September, 1865. 8vo.,
pp- 172, 261 woodcuts. (M. C. vir.)

144. Land and fresh-water shells of North America. Part I1I.—Ampul-
lariidee, Valvatide, Viviparide, fresh-water Rissoide, Cyclophoride, 'Trunca-
tellide, fresh-water Neritidw, Helicinide. By W. G. Binney. September,
1865. 8vo., pp. 128, 232 woodcuts. (M. C. vil.)

145. Monograph of American corbiculade, (recent and fossil.) Prepared
for the Smithsenian Institution. By Temple Prime. December, 1865. 8vo.,
pp. 92, 86 woodcuts. (M. C. vil.)

146. Meteorological observations in the Arctic seas. By Sir Francis Leopold
M’Clintock, R. N. Made on board the Aretic searching yacht “Fox,” in Baffin
Bay and Prince Regent’s Inlet, in 1857, 1858, and 1859. Reduced and dis-
cussed, at the expense of the Smithsonian Institution, by Charles A. Schott,
444 PpUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

assistant United States Coast Survey. Accepted for publication, April, 1861.
[May, 1862.] 4to., pp. 164, with 1 map and 14 woodeuts. (S. C. xu.)

147. Annual report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution,
showing the operations, expenditures, and condition of the Institution for the
year 1860. 386th Congress, 2d Session. House of Representatives Mis. Doc.
1861. 8vo., pp. 448, 73 woodcuts. ; :

148. Directions for meteorological observations, and the registry of period-
ical phenomena. 1860. 8vo., pp. 72, 23 woodeuts. (M. C. 1.)

149. Annual report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution,
showing the operations, expenditures, and condition of the Institution for the
year 1861. 37th Congress, 2d Session, Mis. Doc. 1862. S8vo., pp. 464, 25
woodcuts.

150. Annual report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution,
showing the operations, expenditures, and condition of the Institution for the
year 1862. 37th Congress, 3d Session, Mis. Doc. 1863. 8vo., pp. 446, 94
woodcuts.

151. Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge. Vol. XIII. 1863. 4to.,
pp. 558, 7 plates, 70, woodcuts.
CONTENTS.
(130.) Kane. Tidal observations, Arctic seas..
(146.) McClintock. Meteorological observations, Arctic seas.
(155.) Whittlesey. Ancient mining shores of Lake Superior.
(121.) Bache. Discussion, Girard College observations. Part IT.
(132.) Bache. Discussion, Girard College observations. Part III.
(162.) Bache. Discussion, Girard College ébservations. Parts IV, V, VI.
(166.) Bache. Magnetic survey of Pennsylvania, &c.
(169.) Mitchell and Morehouse, researches upon anatomy and physiology of
Chelonia.

152. Lectures on mollusca or “ Shell-fish,” and their allies. Prepared for
the Smithsonian Institution. By Philip P. Carpenter, of Warrington, England.
1861. 8vo., pp. 140.

153. ‘Tables, meteorological and physical, prepared for the Smithsonian
Institution. By Arnold Guyot, P.D., LL.D. Third edition, revised and enlarged.
1859. 8vo., pp. 638. (M.C. 1.)

154. List of foreign correspondents of the Smithsonian Institution. Cor-
rected to January, 1862. May, 1862. 8vo., pp. 56. (M. C. v.)

155. Ancient mining on the shores of Lake Superior. By Charles Whit-
ilesey. Accepted for publication April, 1862. [April, 1863.] 4to., pp. 34, 1
map, 21 woodcuts. (5S. C. xt.)

156. Catalogue of minerals, with their formulas, etc. Prepared for the
Smithsonian Institution by T. Egleston. June, 1863. Svo.,pp. 56. (M.C. Vi.)

157. Results of meteorological observations, made under the direction of the
United States Patent Office and the Smithsonian Institution, from the year 1854
to 1859, inclusive, being a report of the Commissioner of Patents made at the
first session of the 36th Congress. Vol. I. 1861. 4to., pp. 1270.

36th Congress, Ist Session, Senate Ex. Doc. X
PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 445

158. Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections. 1864. Vol. V. 8vo., pp. 774.
CONTENTS.

(142.) Binney. Bibliography of North American conchology.
(74.) Catalogue of publications of the Smithsonian Institution to June, 1862.
(154.) List of foreign correspondents of the Smithsonian Institution to January,
1862.

159. Researches upon the anatomy and physiology of respiration in the
Chelonia. By S. Weir Mitchell, M. D., and George R. Morehouse, M. D.
Accepted for publication, March, 1863. April, 1863. 4to., pp. 50,10 woodcuts.
(S. C. xu.)

160. Instructions for research relative to the ethnology and philology of

America. Prepared ior the Smithsonian Institution. By George Gibbs. March,
1863. 8vo., pp. 56. (M. C. vir.)

161. A Dictionary of the chinook jargon, or trade language of Oregon.
Prepared for the Smithsonian Institution. By George Gibbs. March, 1863.
Svo, pp. 60. (M. C. vir.)

162. Discussion of the magnetic and meteorological observations made at
the Girard College Observatory, Philadelphia, in 1840, 1841, 1842, 1843, 1844,
and 1845. Second section, comprising Parts IV, V, and VI. Horizontal
force. Investigation of the eleven (or ten) year period and of the disturbances
of the Horizontal component of the magnetic force, with an investigation of
the solur-diurnal variation, and of the annual imequality of the horizontal
force, and of the lunar effect on the same. By A. D. Bache, LL.D., F. R. 8.
Accepted for publication, June, 1862. [November, 1862.] 4to., pp. 78, 11
woodcuts. (8. C. xii.) *

163. Circular in reference to the history of North American grasshoppers.
[Jannary, 1860.] Pp. 4. (M. C. 1.)

164. Smithsonian museum miscellanea. 1862. Pp. 88.

CONTENTS,

(1.) Abbreviations of names of States and Territories of North America, for
labelling insects, shells, &c.

(2.) A series of small figures, from 1-1643.

(3.) A series of medium figures, from 1-2747.

(4.) A series of large figures, from 1-2599.

(5.) Blank check-list of specimens.

No. 5 consists of columns of figures from 1 to 1,000, and of two series, 25 and 50,
to the 8vo. column. All these are stereotyped and printed with from one to
eight columns on each page, with blank spaces of greater or less extent, as may
be required.

165. Monograph of the bats of North America. By H. Allen, M. D., assist-
ant surgeon United States Army. June, 1864. 8vo., pp. 110, and 73 woodcuts.
(M. C. vir.)

166. Records and results of a magnetic survey of Pennsylvania and parts

of adjacent States, in 1840 and 1841, with some additional records and results
of 1834, 1835, 1843 and 1862, anda map. By A. D. Bache, LL.D., I. RS.
446 PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Accepted for publication, February, 1863. [October, 1863.] 4to., pp. 88, 1 map.
(S. C. xi.)

167. New species of North American coleoptera. Prepared for the Smith-
sonian Institution. By John L. Le Conte,M.D. PartI. March, 1863. April,
1866. 8vo., pp. 180. (M. C. vz.) :

168. Circular relative to collections of birds from middle and South America.
[December, 1863.] 8vo., pp. 2.

169. Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections. Vol. VI. 8vo., pp. 888, 3
woodcuts, 2 plates.

CONTENTS.
(141.) Loew. Monograph of diptera. Part I.
(171.) Loew. Monograph of diptera. Part II.
(140.) Le Conte. List of coleoptera of North America.
(167.) Le Conte. New species of North American coleoptera.

170. Comparative vocabulary. (Reprinted from Smithsonian instructions in
ethnology and philology.) May, 1863. 4to., pp. 20.

171. Monographs of the diptera of North America. Prepared for the Smith-
sonian Institution. By H. Loew. Part Il. Edited by R. Osten Sacken.
January, 1864. 8vo., pp. 372, 5 plates. (M. C. vt.)

172. Paleontology of the upper Missouri; a report upon collections made
principally by the expeditions under command of Lieutenant G. K. Warren,
United States topographical engineers, in 1855 and 1856. Invertebrates. By
¥. B. Meek and F. V. Hayden, M.D. Part I. Accepted for publication May
1864. [April, 1865.] 4to., pp. 158, 5 plates, 31 woodeuts. (S.C. x1v.)  «

173. The gray substance of the medulla oblongata and trapezium. By
John Dean, M.D. Accepted for publication August, 1863. [February, 1864.]
Ato., pp. 80, 16 plates, 5 woodcuts.

174. Bibliography of North American conchology previous to the year 1860.
Prepared for the Smithsonian Institution. By W. G. Binney. Part IL.
Foreign authors. June, 1864. 8vo., pp. 302.

175. Discussion of the magnetic and meteorological observations made at
the Girard College observatory, Philadelphia, in 1840, 1841, 1842, 1843, 1844,
and 1845. Third Section, comprising Parts VII, VIII,andIX. Vertical force.
Investigation of the eleven (or ten) year period and of the disturbances of the
vertical component of the magnetic force, and appendix on the magnetic effect
of the aurora borealis; with an investigation of the solar-diurnal variation, and
of the annual inequality of the vertical force; and of the lunar effect on the
vertical force, the inclination, and total force. By A. D. Bache, LL.D., F. R.S.
Accepted for publication August, 1863. [April, 1864.] 4to., pp. 72, 14 wood-
cuts. (S.C. xiv.) ,

176. Cireular in reference to collecting North American shells. January,
1860. pp. 4. (M. C. 11.)

177. Check-list of the invertebrate fossils of North America. Cretaceous
and jurassic. By F. B. Meek. April, 1864. 8vo., pp. 42. (M. C. vir)
PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 447

178. Circular to entomologists. 1860. S8vo., pp. 2.

179. Catalogue of publications of societies and of periodical works, belong-
ing to the Smithsonian Institution, January 1, 1866. Deposited in the library
of Congress. 1866. Svo., pp. 596.

180. On the construction of a silvered glass telescope, fifteen and a half inches
in aperture, and its use in celestial photography. By Henry Draper, M. D,
Accepted for publication, January, 1864. [July, 1864.] 4to., pp., 60, 47 wood-
cuts. (S.C. xiv.)

_ 181. Review of American birds, in the museum of the Smithsonian Institution.
By 8S. F. Baird. Part I—North and middle America. [June, 1864—June,
1866.] 8vo., pp. 454, 86 woodcuts.

182. Results of meteorological observations made under the direction of the
United States Patent Office and the Smithsonian Institution, from the year
1854 to 1859, inclusive, being a report of the Commissioner of Patents made at
the Ist Session of the 36th Congress. Vol. II. Part I. 36th Congress, 1st
Session. Senate Ex. Doc. 1864. 4to., pp. 546.

183. Check-list of the invertebrate fossils of North America. Miocene.
By I. B. Meek. November, 1864. 8vo., pp. 34. (M. C. vu.)

184. Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge. Vol. XIV. 1865. Pages 490,
25 plates, 131 woodcuts.

CONTENTS.

(175.) Bache. Discussion Girard College observations. Parts VII, VIII, IX.

(186.) Bache. Discussion Girard College observations. Parts X, XI, XII.

(180.) Draper. Construction of silvered glass telescope and its use in celestial pho-
tography.

(172.) Meek and Hayden. Paleontology of the Upper Missouri.

(192.) Leidy. Cretaceous reptiles of the United States.

185. List of the described birds of Mexico, Central America, and the West
Indies not in the collection of the Smithsonian Institution. January 1. 1863.
Svo., pp. 8.

186. Discussion of the magnetic and meteorological observations made at
the Girard College observatory, Philadelphia, in 1840, 1841, 1842, 1843, 1844,
and 1845. Fourth section, comprising Parts X, XI, and XII. Dip and total
force; analysis of the disturbances of the dip and total force ; discussion of the
solar diurnal variation and annual inequality of the dip and total force ; and dis-
cussion of the absolute dip, with the final values for declination, dip and force
between 1841 and 1845. By A. D. Bache, LL. D., F.R.S. Accepted for
publication, May, 1864. [April,1865.] 4to., pp. 42, 8 woodcuts. (5S. C. xtv.)

187. Annual report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution,
showing the operations, expenditures, and condition of the Institution for the
year 1863. 38th Congress, 1st Session. House of Representatives. Misc. Doe.
No. 83. 1864. 8vo., pp. 420, 56 woodcuts.

188. Annual report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution,
showing the operations, expenditures, and condition of the Institution for the
year 1864. 1865. 8vo., pp. 450, 50 woodcuts,
448 PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

189. Catalogue of the orthoptera of North America described previous to
1867. Prepared for the Smithsonian Institution. By Samuel H. Scudder.
October, 1868. 8vo., pp. 110.

190. Queries relative to tornadoes. 8vo., pp. 4, 1 woodcut.

191. Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections. Vol. VII. 8vo., pp. 878. 676
woodcuts.

CONTENTS.

(165.) Allen. Monograph of bats of North America.

(143.) Binney. Land and fresh-water shells of North America. Part IT.

(144.) Binney. Land and fresh-water shells of North America. Part ILI.

(201.) Stimpson. Hydrobiinze.

(145.) Prime. Monograph of American corbiculadee.

(200.) Conrad. Check-list of fossils: eocene and oligocene.

(183.) Meek. Check-list of fossils: miocene.

(177.) Meek. Check-list of fossils, cretaceous and jurassic.

(156.) Egleston. Catalogue of minerals.

(161.) Gibbs. Dictionary of Chinook jargon.

(160.) Gibbs. Instructions for etanological and philological research,

(203.) List of works published by the Smithsonian Institution to January, 1866.

192. Cretaceous reptiles of the United States. By Professor Joseph Leidy,

M.D. Accepted for publication, December, 1864. [May, 1865.] 4to., pp.
142, 20 plates, 35 woodcuts. (S. C. xrv.)

193. Duplicate shells collected by the United States exploring expedition
under Captain C. Wilkes, United States Navy. 8vo., pp. 4.

194. Land and fresh-water shells of North America. Part I.—Pulmonata
geophila. By W. G. Binney and T. Bland. February, 1869. 8vo., pp. 328;
woodcuts.

195. Discussion of the magnetic and meteorological observations made at the
Girard College observatory, Philadelphia, in 1840, 1841, 1842, 1843, 1844, and
1845. Parts I to XII inclusive. 4to., pp. 262, 49 woodcuts.

196. Physical observations in the Arctic seas. By Isaac J. Hayes, M. D.,
commanding expedition. Made on the west coast of north Greenland, the
vicinity of Smith strait and the west side of Kennedy channel, during 1860 and
1861. Reduced and discussed at the expense of the Smithsonian Institution,
By Charles A. Schott. Accepted for publication, February, 1865. [June, 1867. |
Ato., pp. 286, 15 woodcuts, and 6 plates. (S.C. xv.) [Contains astronomical,
magnetic, tidal, and meteorological observations. |

197. On the fresh-water glacial drift of the northwestern states. By
Charles Whittlesey. Accepted for publication, June, 1864. [May, 1866.] 4to.,
pp- 38, 2 maps, and 11 woodeuts. (S. C. xv.)

198. Physical observations in the Arctic seas. By Elisha Kent Kane, M.
D., United States Navy. Made during the second Grinnell expedition in search
of Sir Jobn Franklin, in 1853, 1854, and 1855, at Van Rensselaer harbor and
other points on the west coast of Greenland. Reduced and discussed for the
Smithsonian Institution. By Charles A. Schott. Part I—Magnetism. U.—
PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION 449

Meteorology. III.—Astronomy. IV.—Tides. "1859~60. to., pp. 340, 7
plates, 17 woodcuts.

This consists of Nos. 97, 104, 129, 130, united into one volume with new title page.

199. An investigation of the orbit of Neptune, with general tables of its
motion. By Simon Newcomb, Professor of mathematics, United States navy.
Accepted for publication, May, 1865. [January, 1866.] 4to., pp. 116. (S.C.
Xv.)

200. Check-list of the invertebrate fossils of North America, eocene and
oligocene. By T. A. Conrad. May, 1866. Svo., pp. 46. (M. C. vir.)

201. Researches upon the Hydrobiine and allied forms ; chiefly made upon
materials in the museum of the Smithsonian Institution. By Dr. William Stimp-
son. August, 1865. S8vo., pp. 64, 29 woodcuts. (M. C. vit.)

202. Geological researches in China, Mongolia, and Japan, during the years
1862 to 1865. By Raphael Pumpelly. Accepted for publication, January,
1866. [August, 1866.]  4to., pp. 173, 9 plates, and 18 woodcuts. (8. C. xv.)

203. List of works published by the Smithsonian Institution. January, 1866.
Svo., pp. 12. (M. C. vil.)

204. Results of meteorological observations made at Brunswick, Maine,
between 1807 and 1859. By Parker Cleaveland, L.L.D. Reduced and dis-
cussed at the expense of the Smithsonian Institution, by Charles A. Schott.
Accepted for publication, December, 1866. [May, 1867.] 4to., pp. 60,8 wood-
cuts,

205. Cireular relating to collections in archeology and ethnology. [January,
1867.| 8vo., pp. 2.

206. Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge. Vol. XV: 1867. pp. 620,
17 plates, and 43 woodcuts.

CONTENTS,

(199.) Newcomb. Orbit of Neptune.
(197.) Whittlesey. Fresh-water glacial drift of Northwestern States.
(202.) Pumpelly. Geological researches in China, Mongolia, and Japan. -
(196.) Hayes. Physical observations in the Arctic seas.
207. Suggestions relative to objects of scientific investigation in Russian
America. [May, 1867.] 8vo., pp. 10.
208. On the Gliddon mummy case in the museum of the Smithsonian Insti-
tution. By Charles Pickering. 4to., pp. 6, 1 plate. [June, 1869.|
209. Annual report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution,
showing the operations, expenditures, and condition of the Institution for the
year 1865. 1866. S8vo., pp. 496, 137 woodcuts.
210. Arrangement of families of birds. Adopted provisionally by the Smith-
sonian Institution. June, 1866. 8vo., pp. 8.
211. Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge. Vol. XVI. (Not printed.)
212. Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections. Vol. VIII. (Not printed.)

213. Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections. Vol. IX. (Not printed.)
298
450 PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

214. Annual report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution,
showing the operations, expenditures, and condition of the Institution for the
year 1866. 39th Congress, 2d Session, House of Representatives, Mis. Doc.
No. 83. 1867. S8vo., pp. 470, 70 woodcuts.

215. Annual report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution,
showing the operations, expenditures, and condition of the Institution for the
year 1867. 40th Congress, 2d Session. Senate, Mis. Doc. No. 86. 1868.
8vo., pp. 506, 10 woodcuts.

216. Photographic portraits of North American Indians in the gallery of the
Smithsonian Institution. (Not printed.)

217. Letter in reference to the meteoric shower of November 13, 1867. aay
M. Hoek, Utrecht, September 26, 1867.] pp. 4, 2 woodcuts.

218. Systems of consanguinity and affinity of the human family. By
Lewis H. Morgan. Accepted for publication, 1868. 4to. (In press.)

219. Monographs of the diptera of North America. Part IV. Prepared for
the Smithsonian Institution by R. Osten Sacken. January, 1869. 8vo., pp.
358, 4 plates, and 7 woodcuts.

220. The Indians of Cape Flattery, at the entrance to the Straits of Fuca,
Washington Territory. By James G. Swan. (In press.)

221. The orbit and phenomena of a meteoric fire-ball, seen July 20, 1860.
By Professor James H. Coffin, L.L. D. Accepted for publication, July, 1868.
[May, 1869.] 4to., pp. 56; 2 plates, 2 woodcuts.

222. Tables and results of the precipitation in rain and snow in the United
States, and at some stations in adjacent parts of North America, and in Central
and South America. Collected by the Smithsonian Institution and discussed
under direction of Professor Joseph Henry, Secretary. By Charles A. Schott.
(In press.)

223. On the transatlantic longitude. By Benjamin Apthorp Gould. (In
press. )

224. Annual report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution,
showing the operations, expenditures, and condition of the Institution for the
year 1868. 8vo. 1869.

225. List of foreign correspondents of the Smithsonian Institution. July,
1869. (In press.)

226. List of publications of the Smithsonian Institution. July, 1869. (In
press.)
SYSTEMATIC LIST OF TITLES OF SMITHSONIAN PUBLICATIONS.

The figures and letters refer to the number of the publication in the preceding list,

Smithsonian Contributions to Know NGG ae Org VON ie a aeeeiaaisie nn aaeieeaeat soa sae 2
Atoz,}WolMhhJ2352q) 6.555215. eee ‘ 26
‘s ES ALOne VOle Wane n= scenic capes cepeeenieeeets 38
ss a Ato., VOLPE Wis s8% Sst ass cer sseceses 39
. a cy Ato WOlS Vizcsse 3 ese oes vee cues! os ceae 55
<s ae ALON VOlieV Ea teem cccccetscte canoes sles sae 56
Ke ad Atob, vol Valls tte tension as ‘76
eG as ALOE Olen Wille tmsyers tis es visi ose 2 cntcrs mere 78
“cc “ce

AtOeP Ole lot aae cee tees «sete Cores cease 92

se oe Atos Gl.> Kes.) Pe StS ie teen es cena 99
ee oF ALO VO eon cn cs cosas coves coteee ane LOL
st is Atom Viol) Ox Vie aero esc o Sanaa eeteees yee
G as 4to., vol. 5 Cs EN alka GAA Gar Aca oe 151
“ sé 4to., Vole MU Vieree aces aes ctscacese tease 184
ae és ALG A EVGOl- PAN hc cciek cise stein elesteceeies ce 206
ee 5 ALONE VO lett Vil nara aicj</o antenna) ce cayenne eae 211
Miscellaneous Collections, BVOTI Vols Lessee Ss Latest he RS See 122
SVOsTVOloeles sot ne cos Sees e ee nom nolan a cima ato names 123
ce ss SOME OL eee ert ee ee aac ce nslocerceraces 124
cs wt SV 05 VOls DV ise Sonsish e030 4552 coat 32a eee ete eee 125
se Ob BV.0:, VOlo WV ccccmctentee ci caclva swwcjwlo cus cee madevectauens 158
oe ue BVO: 5 VOL er ee ae ee 2 169
se se SV055. VOlup Ville cc cwpecwindcratecttealiot aba amaa nee eee 191
ae Ol BVO Ol eave ecstc bine troaersinte cictts cum cns cons tscicasnre 212
“e ce SvO4s VOl.d Le saon cass el Gat Bs. See: 213
Annual Report Smithsonian Inatitution.<¢ ist) for J646. <<<. esc cgocmondanemde=ides P G
ss (ZO) pOnGdT Malte ceeds coe cceee eae nese sere H
“ «“ LEE WEEE TT, ee ene et oe eae I
ef ie (tl) for S49ee 2 s wos ose Mee seen een ae 21
£ aC (5th) for 850 cece a Sa ae 28
“ (Gis fon ABS i: 22.2.2 5a e ee Se i eae See 51
fe *S (C7110) Wh Gey ol Kes ES ES bt se ee 57
at ss (8th) for 1853. First of bound series....---. 67
of sf (Oth) MomlShtee ec Scacs eacttesccicwelisnc cece 75
gf es (LOR ior Tear ss eee ee eone 77
is “ Q@lith) for, 1856 See. cise) are eee 91
ti a (i2th) torn [Sb 7 sana. recceeteet.aoaeeacemere + 107
“ “ (13th); for 18583. co atel Lae Slee 109
ae eS (14th) for d859so=. |. 2.codtavebatoumoese= * 110
es AE (ass ya Gay eal Me of) nae ae ee ee ae fe bn ee 147
< a (16th) for, 186i nc) 2closa eee 149
Be oe (@Uiith) for I862 . 5.5eess fae eaters dete cle o's oo wrare~ 150
4 Yy. CI8th) formIS63!4 see Soa ees, Se eee 187
ie as (19th) gov l864 55555 nese ise we ue 188
t «“ (20th) fom ASR ce cee GE BO hye los aces OO
a Me (2) sf) ford BGhaameseeeayactaeddeotaeaees 214
fe Se (C220 ie Ot LAO seecienetna cc ancicninete del ema 215
“cc “ee

(Dae fae en Ss accumescuecn aS

ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY,

DEAN, medulla. oblonpatesc os Gesqe sou essed ads eids sccd oll. weated eb acca nara 173
JONES, chemical and physiological investigations.... ....---..----- -2-+----+-+--- 82
LEIDY, flora and fauna living animals.............---.---- pot Oe re 44
MITCHELL, VGNGUHI Ola rALLlOSUGmGeno MeN wees 2G dace ccc Shweec Geen cease Urisacie nace 135
Mircue.t and MOREHOUSE (CUCINA we tie es wees he E CL. EP a 159
WORM TAH OINICUNS. cia uladdd adynedaduwessacncoateradudaaedaruntoueuieaseel 45
452 TITLES OF SMITHSONIAN PUBLICATIONS.

ARCHITECTURE.
OWEN, hints public: architechtte.. 22.7255.) seeclone = eerie eeienel we oes se\seneeas 2
ASTRONOMY.
Anmnnlarjechipsenleas ete )scc cesses cee ne raelonteelels mle alee (ape aaa es win le talents 66
DAVIS. tooditideseit Se 85 os seems es RIE an Silene Srcurthcl lc athape cae 33
DOWNES occuliations 1848 oo noose craleteleneae ate ale Nee deel eine al wets!
Ss x: TSAO acs ccc: sa ect ones ec nee eee Seen see eet amass eee 9
4 ee 1 E13) UJ eae SESE meme re bic ele a yc hs te oe 10
te es fet ee a BE ee SRE ASH a se sbhe SSSKaS Seb odasacd 5bSa4 11
ke se 162s sc cae ete Se aa ete a A Oe ee 29
£¢ i Iss eS esse Le AES Bae dods cheesu Seeésd sce oss a868 54
CULTISS. solarieclipse. Perle ss oa saa aas saeraaaseloniclel a= alors a7 eieiemieteoteiateie elation 100
GOULD, history ‘ot Neptune -<-- -. o--is jae ooo ceiaieinin ows swim oe \nleieinini mine l= = nine sili 18
Bids enalstaid chntn (on) OLayahhtG (SBS EE SEBO ESa boacecdood osates doses. oooEde abSaao 223
IRVAVES arctic ObSeNVatlOnsee om elesmsint) cinicie is ohceiale tenis al seaelelet to eialalola tested patel lateral ate 196
HULL, map solar eclipse 2-22. oie aiaicisi> a sini= mininynin m= avin iniwee ofeleinini=m = cle inlwinl= elem stein 101
KANE, astronomical observations arctic seas...--. .--.-- -2---- ---- ee eee eee eee 129
SC idalobsehyatlous ALChiCISCAS ce aoaeise me acealoe eels = eee elem ae emery aeleseitem ar 130
NEWCOMB) orbit of Neptune cco. ome ce emisainine eine siclele leone oles enislo eletaia sialelpeinnin == 199
BUNGLE! planetary, tables. 55.22 sec se anya eentiet eines eo alae eee oe Teh 79
of planetary tables, supplement... -.-..----. ---. ---- ---------- ------------ 94
WALKER, researches Neptune......---- .2-- 2-2 ---- 2-2 - + een 2 oo --- =o =e 3
‘ ephemeris Neptune, 1848. .......----- .----- e202 ---- eee eee eee nee eee 4
es os 1 ot ee ee AS Ba Oetioc da mmcodo dooooddnoogse 5
“¢ ns TSSOP RSE EUS Oe A NU eG 2 seme eee comeeitis 6
fe ee 15) (ERE Sa Nee Semone Gas Sar aa ocasooonoosoS 7
ss ie Tike Sos euler alsa vali esia ace Mace ol deenba soos 24
WHITTLESEY, level of lakes... 22. 2 -. eee e come e anne wom n concen cee nnc ene ne 119
BOTANY.

GRAY, Plantes Wrightiane, I... --- 2-2. eee nee e ne one ne nee enn cone cone cee ene 22
be oc Il erie 5 8 aes Ore Cae oe eS See oe ae 42
Harvey, North American marine alge, I.--.-..--------------- ---------<2---- a

“ce “ec 6c I Eke a Se oweh es dy Ee lS k. Sans wlcweely SANE ne) ORD
oe cc “ Ill Page fas Ses I Ge Ra en) oo Ae aR 95
‘ ss ss complete...-.. -.--------0+ ------------ 96
TORREY, batis maritima .--------- ------ +2. ee 2 nee ne eee ree eee eens noes 60
ie Darlingtonia Californica..---. -..----- 22-22 - eee ee eens eee ee eee e ee eee 61
gs Plantes (bremontignse. +. -2)-- sacelenccinaieneie oe sae nioe asices=)seeme=ttemimnie 46
Register periodical phenomena...--- -----------+ 2+--0+ -- 22 eee enone = See wei e = 65

BIBLIOGRAPHY.
BINNEY, bibliography conchology, part I..---...--------------- Saeco sae s5- 144
‘* bibliography conchology, part II...---.....-----------------2--++----- 172
GIRARD, bibliography natural history, 1851......----- -.-.-- +--+ ---- seen ee eee ee ee 48
JEWETT, catalogue system... ---- ---- ---2 --0 2 ne eee ee cone eee nee oe eee eens -- 47
es mublic libraries \2) 22 ae ae ee icine anes uncle = eietcieteer arena el a= 25
List of publications Smithsonian Institution..........----.---------+ +--+ +--+: 74, 203, 226
‘¢ of Smithsonian exchanges, part L...--.-.-. ------ --- 2-22 ene enn ene eee cone 73
“ of Smithsonian exchanges, part IL..---..----------- ---- 02-222 ee ee eee eee 85
‘© of Smithsonian exchanges to 1858...-.. .-..------ -----+ -- one eee eens eee Hey
Publications learned societies in library Smithsonian Institution, 1866....-...------ 179
RHEES, public libraries....--.. 2-2. 22-2 --- === enon eens cee cee eee scene cere eens 116
CHEMISTRY AND TECHNOLOGY.
BoorTH and MoREm, chemical ‘arts... 2<<--<0,-n0+seene=\soo sls os vee! ee eeoeece 27
GIBBS and GENTH, ammonia-cobalt bases...-..-..-- ------ -------- ens cence enone 83
Ha4rRE, explosiveness of nitre..---...---- FAS SOME Sey ICRA On Dice : 17
ETHNOLOGY AND PHILOLOGY.

Bowen, Yoruba grammar and dictionary..----.----- .--- ---- eee nee cone eee eee eee 98

Circular, archeology ..--.. 2... ee-eee coc nnn cere ne cee eee coeene idan SCS eS th 0D
By?
TITLES OF SMITHSONIAN PUBLICATIONS. 453

Gipss, Chinook jargon.-.--...--..- SE) Oe Cra ECO BEES ae ose sce eee O16.
‘© “comparative vocabulary.........-....--- Jaton od SRR ONCE OEE sie BAe 170

So) SOLUNO GOI ANINSENCLIOUS 22a anata tae ei ee ee eae Seer ee P60
AVEN Amen CHbaaieuscOlOP Yam ate a cenlesieneels nea =eeeeeeeimee eon soelda sm eck sas 71
PAPHAM,sBDuGpInoee VV ISCONSIN. og ot none nc te est een pecm en salons cas ben ecm wee 70
LIEBER, vocal sounds Laura Bridgeman.-.....--...-- $5 Coosa O SSE pe Scs Ae : 12
MAVER, Mexicunvarchxcolopy:.252."o- Joc eeee ee teeceae toe sateen see 86
MITCHELL, Woeapilaty Ul JARPON soo ooo. aon Te ete Ue ce es Lee eee 68
MORGANS TElanONS Hip CICUIATZ hoo ote ta. son too cecae sacs cadsicesceecscuce. - 38
a systems of consanguinity..--..-----.'-2-2.---<. SE HE OUES CoCiceraeEanae 218
Photographic portraits of Indians....-. ..-. J2---- s-2<--s-<--- 250 535 Sea pee 216
PICKERING, Gliddon mummy case ..-....---- See eee eae annette agains 208
RieGs, Dakota grammar and dictionary..---..----.------------- wieie(s[eininimi minis lai= = 40
SQUIER and Davis, ancient monuments, Mississippi valley.-... .---------- Je5s6ee 1
POUIER, aboriginal nfonuments; New Yorkeatecescseet speedclasesia- lise csemsaeiehe a 15
STANLEY, Indian portraits...-...- Sbpeterboseaprabboce a Ses aes gaeos doe 53
MMPAN Sinoiins: OL Cape mlatterye soc c ose weno ae cs ceimae sass sees ceclem see se 220
WHITTLESEY, ancient mining, Lake Superior... --. 2... .s220. ec cece coos ease 155
ae AUCICNL WOLKES OHiOve cose seeee occ ee cee ee oe ene cece sone 37

GEOLOGY AND PHYSICAL GEOGRAPHY.

ELLET, physical geography, Mississippi valley.-.--...-------.------ RSS SEES ae 13
HITCHCOCK, surface geology .----.------ Solas se erasers goes owicnata eee een eta 90
PUMPELLY, geology, China, Mongolia and Japan... ...--. 2.2.22 c220 eee eee eee ne 202
WHIT7LESEY, glacial drift -.....--...---- Be SS Ser SEE SJ eeee et eu tae ene

Circular for collecting birds........-.----. eS eS mega Ce cracencct see weleet dezesy | 168
ve OT COMBCHIN OVER ORS oon eae tetoa seein laa iateeeeie biclee ew oe eie aaa alone ears osietee 139
ie fOT COLIECTINE "PIASSHOPPCIS sassosesccis kee ceee wecew ssisUeleaicuemonee tees 163
Me forcollectinm shellsieseh == =~ =e ence ake eo =e eee EEeE cesmeemaaats 176
LOTEMLOMOLOT ISIS so sas eae ae ccc eee Sees os taajocioa ee Reece eee atoencee eae ls
Directions for collecting and preserving specimens ..--..- Saeawiee vena eeeeaoe 34
Hudsons pay. CUCUlAD = =ssae cs = soslses ons sscoSsese sistcecewtseaeseees coeeee as 137
Le ipy, flora and fauna within animals..---. SHOE EAE Sascote ce scaseevasieea'esiccee Ad
Museum miscellanea, numbers, labels, &c...--..------- ------ ea Sees a ooo (9464
sepisver. porhiicnl phenuMiCne Jo-cs sss sls 8@asesenns Stee ecestetecess Leas canes 65
IRTIGNIAIT ATOLICH. CIYCUIGT a2 oe oo ee as EE Re te st er ee EER. 2 207
STIMPSON, marine invertebrata, Grand Manan ...-.. ....-...---..-.- ROR PO RAS 50

GENERAL PHYSICS OF THE GLOBE.

HAYES, physical observations, arctic seas......---.------------ sees Shinde seg 9S
KANE, physical observations, arctic seas..-...-..----.---- SOLE Pes ee eeEEe. 198
MATHEMATICS,

ALVORD, tangencies of circles. .-....-------- Pee ee SEES SS ARE See ea Mele ele are m 80
METEOROLOGY.

CASWELL, observations, Providence, Rhode Island ..........-....-..-. Vessatee3)) 113
CHAPERTAMEBE™ tormadOsac-- 6 ar arse en ween lsocuies cuee aeeeeniecenecis cc's waictaae 59
Circular tomndoes'*: ++ 2s =. 22 = see WERE SI eeeesieccsaceecccy §=6190
CLEAVEUAND, ubservations, Brunswick, Maine 2.04 0.5. so soso eee sce e encase. © 204
COFFIN, meteoric fire-ball...-.......-.. he eee ee er eee 221

fe psychrometrical: tables... s0v sseewewwwwerrrewiwe bbisbec ens cocesecsee sees 87

ef MANS, MOLINOLN NEMS PNOLG cece een deed seb on wes ween monn euein ac 52
Directions for meteorological observations.-.-.. 24506 s-452..----- ----- --------- 19, 148
PORGE, TeCord Of GULOTab eee das sccses sos scs cme eet scd-dtued o--6 Be cao ete see eae 84
Guyot, meteorological directions.....----- Aceee ke ea Pewet <2 4. aemttjcot Cae ede 19

‘* meteorological tables......-.--.. evans OF es eee fie ee ee 31, 153
LASES JArctic OServatlonawerea ss. sh econ sees myades sa5s eieck at Jos usw ebucrrres . 196
HILDRETH: observations: Manetisy Ohid..s-cccccee, coco. eeeenbeek Uedee see seuss 120
IGAN'E, ‘At CtiC ODBOLVAtlONS 2 = sorter ewan s2'se Weds wana aenwnece eéHosijecih. BME Ro 104
IOMIN, BLOT coc coos se eees sada se ceacru eseccn ces wan sed wedbuLsiccweus suave 127
MECUMNTOCK, ATChC ODSELVANONE: ss cue ewes suusleB cles acdb cob mews Get wed. 146

MEECH, intensity sun's heat... 2.2225 20s coeene oneness eoaues abeus oben sobatoaes 83
454 TITLES OF SMITHSONIAN PUBLICATIONS.

Meteordlogical results, 1954-59 "voll, 1 SSR Mao eee ee 157
. a He VOl oe es coe arenas ele Seine ten ae cect Servers 182
Meterological observations; 1855... .0.. sea oeee ous 2 oa eee pe cbyot ane etreenioe 93
November meteors.2 sacs. oe aaa eS RG cle ee ce oe eg
OEMSTED, AULOTS s soe eee mcs ee ale erste eee eee ae ee ee 81
SCHOTT, precipitation in rain and snow in the United States -........-.----------- 222
SMITH, Observatians, Washington, Arkaneastoosse. anee eee eee oe ene 131
NiHITTLESEYaleveltot lakes cnc csccc cece coe en ee ee ee raente 119
MICROSCOPY.
BAILEY, microscopic observations, southern States.......-.-.--------eeeee- ee ee ee 23
ul new Microscopic; organisms 52-2 js 4aehsssocc case LLoee ce temeeeee sess 63
ie soundinys: ‘coastisurvey s2so2320 5522 sess cece oe aoe oe noe eee: 20
DEAN, medullacoblongatan: sce yle 2 Pau Ee ee a eee NS 173
JONES, chemical and physiological investigations .....--.-- 2-2. ----ee-e ence noone 82
Lem y, fora 'and fauna, living animals ssj.c2 oso oo scte coon noon eee eee eee 5 44
MINERALOGY.
HGUESTON, catalopne mincrals-- 25 c6s cts soee se tse eh ese eee won e cece ceeeee- 156
MISCELLANEOUS.
AC ATERS; (COMET STONE s oe. OS Sk a ee em ee ae eg DR Rc D
Correspondence Sqiier and Davis! 2. soe 8 Jose ase eee eee eee eee een K
Digest of act of Congress relative to Smithsonian Institution...-.. .....-..----.--- C
Exposition, Smithson's bequest's-o52. 2222 2 tee ae oe ee ae oe eee E
iudsonis bay circulars ss 2250 saat ee hehe ee eke eke GARE Ld. a eee cee eae 137
Mistidomestic institutions soos. 2 ns os foe ne eae Salen ere aa ee 69
rrr LOLEIOM INStIEMLONS se eles cele a eee See eS ee ca te SU BRTINE Meat 28 Gee ee 64, 154, 225
Procesdings, resents, 1846 sor sane Nh ee ns a le ars Ma 2 ee ae A
Programmie)0f organization 223.2 oh. rose cease ee eee eee J
Reristry,,, periodical phenomena. ....52-cos os aeiseeseueeccts- costa ee onenaeaceeee 65
Keport committee, organization. |<... jee eee gone cee oe ee eee eeeeee meeeeee B,L
Russian America; cirewlar =. cis cecis cic os COE eS Ee EEE nee ee eee eee ee 207
PALZ ONTOLOGY.

KCONRAD; (COCENe JOSBIIS: ce -.esem see ccs ee Nee ha one ea meee ee cote eee 200 -
GUIBBES HAM OsASAITUS sae See sae Sel ake ee ee eee eee Ln Oc eiee sae eae 14
IPIDYwanciontitauna, sNebraslca soccer See ae nee ea eee ct eee omnes 58
owe eretaceous eptiles in. wos eyceciemeiet ccmicsann Hise cose cess esuechetee beee meee 192
ee vextinet Slothsicuee seme e memiee cnn eeicm esis nem cicte ecisioissiaem Sain seteeeeer 72
HEH “OSSIINO NA = Seeieys cand stem ce yas wie late MOR eee aeons a ele rer nee ere ee eet 41
MEEK; Cretaceous and jurassic fossils 5 scn.t2 cin S)oion sete seine yen ces ee eee ee 179
Mt eminlocene Toasts oo. aa ce oe Noe tase ana Nes ee eee 183
MEEK and HAYDEN, paleontology, Nebraska -.....---..----- ------eeccee en eeee 172

PHYSICS.

DRAPER; telescope in photography. .<.--')<--i- sacs 5 -<sispe ues elaseienieee ee eee 180
GOULD, ‘transatlantic-longitude .. <2. op -weceaneeceicn ao ces'e ooecse ss seeeeeteeter« 223
HENRY, electro-magnetic telegraph ...-...--------= cece s-2- chennai eeefeen (nis eee 11S
PECCHIv electrical rheometry. «21.5.2 <b elo sbie denesis patieeceee eee apnea . 36

TERRESTRIAL MAGNETISM.

BACHE; maoneticidisenssion,, part lis. sa: 5. -5 seeks eee See See een = oceania 113
ne a re e0R ll Preaorscesoceo Seokas becabo Cosa dseEuE SobSeD SboC 121
a e os Heide HO Pe eae GonGocne seo odnGos 6 GEDEeS so SensSaSaae 132
o * $3 parts IV to VI....-.---- +--+ ------ -e-- eee ener sees 162
a ue os SAA Bin ye Deena ea de eeomeeoobcsocossr ences ae
s ‘ ay parts IX to XII......------------------------------ 186
ie ‘if is Complete) .2 i. a--.-dajseeiene cas = <= eee eemeete ania 195
DACRE, magnetic suryeyiofbennsylvania..-.--2sacee eee ~oeeeeee aie eee 166
GOULD, transatlantic lonpitude. 2oo22o. 2 oon... aaa ese = = = ore eet elaine oii ee 228
AVES, sarchic iobsenvatiomgy onsen arena eae ep ciclo cle eee eke are eet 106
ISANE arctic observations cas ocicie setae eencioc nice cniec ase cee ee See eee 94
LOCKE, terrestrial magnetism, United States.-..-.-- .--- -0-<-+---<0-=+---------- 3D

SONNTAG, terrestrial magnetism, Mexico..-.-...---.---+ s-sosbiecs en eke Sseeeee 114
TITLES OF SMITHSONIAN PUBLICATIONS.

ZOOLOGY,
Birds.
Bair, arrangemoentjior birds" .-\/-. sete se se ace sachet SoS Sareeeacoscdcreasse
catalogue, [Oa eM aee Ses es AS A a ee eee eee also
on catalogue, DIXGS OVO soc ace eater as ea eae sra {talents aaain Sjalaia,soeia time Gee ee
ss FOMEMMOMDITGS: Parh Ls ccicac cose sees eenee ce cian eee secescecsa ns asco ene
Circular, birds of Rrrathy AWlarice cel ate ee ne a UN Se OPE
BREWER, North American zoolopy, ‘partiT.n55 <5. 22-2 sess se wee anes wocln eaenle nh’
Desiderata of birds of Mexico, Central AMETICH; CLG) ie oe = aieiaa sweet wawalacdauts
Fishes.
GIRARD; monopraph; Cowoidsiaccce «ose \stawcce eee ani0 Scab eneroune Uecaicewaiecees :
Insects.
IGASSEZe CLASSICALLOM OL NSOCtS pana scltee eas sence e ocjcietes ca\eclnuceine so selene
Coleoptera, IEA CONDE listens oer eecee ake dale oioue nolo tote eileen ater ee oases
s ClassicahOn se scceltocit ose sac scicsseseonmcceros Seles
a 4 (Reainsas serrate sents steleemis oleae ale alatatey emia ee eiolaiateraiateeio'ate
Se tia ny HEN (2) SOCEM Sac Ga eS obonbe OD OUUDEOUSOLUUECUDOGH IEEE
vc MEL SHEMIERs CatalooUowaes ot = cele s cece s cone os cee aeiiiae teinata
Diptera, Law, monograph, Dall satisae mats Weiss = lee enlniniiet cd aeeine -inemaninsetae
EeeeTAONOOTap Ny pathy bl gem mete ae ane eee ete on h taie alee (tale le emer
na OSTEN SACKEN, moHopraph, part LY <2 cs - oceloenajeaae ee em eee=s ase
oh Catalop Ui salen sasigetacte es ahele loin iele ato ele oleloie ee areas eterna
Lepidoptera, Mera, catalogue . 2 CBE Oa OHEO POS OE U.SHOS GU Spo ScUOEeCrS ce roo oenae
- SYNOPSIS ------ ++ +--+ e222 eee eee eee eee eee ee eee eee eee eee
Werrontera AGEN: |S¥NOPSiScacee «ais bates oo blak s/o lsaanloo uc eeuiecie = sina nine om see
Orthoptera; SCUDDER, Catalogue jeans clcscs <n acc clews olson cl serinicaniaanlonieesalanie
Mammals.
ALLEN, monograph, North American bats.... ..----..----+ s-see-- neat Sanetenes
BAIRD a CALALOP IC MAMAS) AiO nel ant os minis aia siscioipi-nlo= ee eel seie = wlnlerein viniait -/miniare
Reptiles.
BAIRDIAND, GIRARD; catalopueof serpents. .<-2< 5 - .ccc<sccccse soe siesiocssecestscus
Mir CHEE and MOREHOUSE) CHOlONIG samictei<: oc cloivio,nanninjenciidelen asians welacleacias <
Shells.
BINNEY, Jand and fresh water/shells) partie o-oo es oseasae ee bas ee
SS Paria weet Seem se welsiesetias ae rec caciae Semtee
“s es a p27 pl 0 ee OA Sesion soc On oe OCCOOO Sai eoc
BINNEY, _ bibliography North American conchology, pare Te cies conc coe s cee eee
PALME Soave oes teem ate
WARPENTER: lectures én«molliseaysscee i... 3t io cho a eeelt edie Ses eee le Ute
CIMEGianisit On SHelise seers eeeoed hate emcee n sce mak ile oan a eein/o nai ometnideisiecielanie =| = =
Circalanion collecting shella.elc) ssP oso e nce ca ss socdiacasdbbmosemabel esos sae
Dupbeatemnells, oxplorinpvexpeditions ccs (ocsus 5. 2 ccs cos = sf eeeleem ale sentence wm
PRM ECOUDICUIAUED 22 -srice be tae ences dae coates sadniae dca sad ape ween oa cd wee es

BrUePeon imdropiinses' 7 es Steeda hott wanna aera coweee: wclek bc oeealne wanes

AD55

30
ALPHABETICAL INDEX

TO LIST OF THE

PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

The reference figures and letters refer to the numbers of the publications in the preceding list.

Aboriginal monuments, N. Y-..-.--.--. 15
Acts of Congress, digest..---........- C
Address, G. M. Dallas, corner-stone.... D
Affinity, systems: of 22222-22222. ts<225 218
Agassiz, classification insects -..-..-.-- 16
Aloe. Plarvey.< 2-2 5%-s2e2 4224 32, 43, 95, 96
Allen, monograph bats .....-.-.-..... 165
‘Alvord, tangencies=jss22s-sss2e2525% 80
American Antiquarian Society .-.-..-. 70
American Board of Commissioners for
Moreign Missionsit2s2s-' 422225 ee ee: 40
Ammonia, cobalt bases, Gibbs & Genth &8
Amphorostews 2 -te le ee ee ke 14
Amnpullaridse)< sae ste wae Soke eed aie 144
Anatomy of Rana pipiens..........--- 45
Ancient fauna, Nebraska, Leidy~..--.. 58
Ancient mining, Lake Superior....---. 155

Ancient monuments, Mississippi valley. 2
3

Ancient*works: Ohyo': 222250 ees ae 7
Antiquities Wisconsin, Lapham ...--.- 70
Antiquity, svestives'ofos222 suse eee es cl
Appendix, wHorce, auroras -.-- oe sete ae 84

Appendix, publications of societies... ..73, 85

Archeology, circulars. 22 5scs524. 226. 205
Archeology, Mexican, Mayer-.--..-... 86
Archzeology of United States, Haven -. 71
Architecture; Owen on ....-25 5.02.2: P

Arcticimeteorolosyeesa-. noes sees 104, 198
Arctic observations. .=.. 97, 104, 130, 196, 198
ANCHICHIGES S-\-)see ee ae eciseacee al oO LIS

Arkansas, meteorology -.-...-.--.-.-- 131
Arrangementiof*birds 2-222. ss 6 fuee 210
Asteroid supplement, Runkle’s tables... 94

Astronomical observations, Arctic seas. 129

196, 198
Astronomical tables, Runkle. ........79, 94
Aurora borealis, magnetic effect of. ._.. 175
Aurora borealis, Olmsted -....-...2-2- 81
Auroras, Force, record of .....-...-.-. 84
Bache, magnetic discussion. -.......-. 113

121, 132, 162, 175, 186, 195
Bache, magnetic survey, Pennsylvania. 166
Baftin bay, meteorological observations. 146
Bailey, microscopic observations, south-

ern}Statesvcs coe ecee ene eepere ce ae 23
Bailey, new microscopic organisms -... 63
Bailey, soundings Coast Survey-...---. 20
Baird, catalogue birds.........--.- 106, 108
Baird, catalogue mammals. .....-..-...- 105
Baird, review of birds, part 1......----. 181

Baird and Girard, catalogue of serpents 49
Baprist iconventiony as Lee gee ae lee 5
Bases, ammonia-cobalt

} Batis maritima, Torrey2/---=-- 5-2. e2ee 60
Bats, Allen, monograph -.-------..--. 165
Bibliography, conchology, Binney -.142, 174
Bibliography natural history.-....---- 48
Bibliography public libraries....-.-.. 25, 116
Binney, bibliography, conchology -. 142, 174

‘Binney; ‘checkilist; shelis #2 3a. 0-2 Ss-<) 128
Binney, land and fresh-water shells,

Part al eae ea ene ceeatomcrs 194
Binney, land and fresh-water shells,
DATE ee oie cL cee eee eee eA
Binney, land and fresh-water shells,
| OB as pe Sars sa eat aac eaten eee aca al 144
Birds, arrangement \of! 22225 eae 210
Birds, Baird, catalogue ......-.-.-- 106, 108
Birds, Baird veview)2 seo acee eee eee 181
Birds, circular for collecting ..---...-. 168
Birds’ nests and eggs, collecting-..---. 139
Birds of Mexico, Central America, and
Wrest dndies* eee ie sueeercnes 185
Booth and Morfit, chemical arts... ..-- 27
Bowen, Yoruba grammar and dictionary 98
Brewer, Ne AY, Oolory; part law =-neee= 89
Bridgeman, Laura, Lieber.----------- 12
Brunswick, meteorological observations 204
Building materialsie4sesssaeee seen ee
Building, views and plans of..---.-... Pp
Carpenter, check list, shells ..---.---. 128
Carpenter} jmmolluscamj25 ce pene eee 152
Caswell, meteorological observations,
Brovidencetsccce sea eo eece a sea 103
Catalogue, birds 22.25 52ers tees 106, 108
Catalogue, coleoptera-..---..-----.-.- 62
Cataloguie.idiptera)-jss-eseee ee eee 102
Catalogue, Indians. ..-.....2---.--: 53, 216
Catalogue, lepidoptera....-........-.- 118
Catalogue, mammals......-..-------- 105
Catalogue, minerals .. - 222 222-22 .---<- 156
Catalogue, orthoptera ..---..----.-.-. 189
Catalogue, publications of Smithsonian
Institution eee secs a 74, 2038, 226
Catalogue, publications in library ..117, 179
Catalogue, serpents. -.-..--- 2.25.2... 49
Catalogue, system for libraries. ..-.--.- 47
Celestial photography 2522: 2-2 225—2- 180
Central America, list of birdsof....---. 185
Chappelsmith, tornado........----..-- 5
Checklist, fossils 22526 55.0426 177, 183, 200
Cheekilistishellsa sso ose eee eae 128
Chelonia, Mitchell and Morehouse -... 159.
Cheloniaremains’0f 222242. enone 58
| Chemical arts, Booth and Morfit ...---- 27
3 || Chemical investigations, Jones.-...--- 82

INDEX TO SMITHSONIAN PUBLICATIONS. 457
China, geology, Aeteah ee ro 202 || Duplicate shells of United States explor-
Chinook jargon, Gibbs -.........--... 161 inmlexpeditione os). se. ese eon 19%
Chlorospermez, Harvey....-.-..----- Ob) MUCH PSO ysee erence Ree reek eee 100, 101, 66
Circles, tangencies of. .-<.-. <s2scs--4- SOs egos wemGUlAr soe lcs\cee —elaeseriom amie 139
Circular, archeology Se nea eee tee 205 || Eggs, instructions for collecting-.----. 139
OTE, Nt ASRS BR 168 || Egleston, catalogue minerals..-....--- 156
Gircular Meroe ce aaeria seis cee sbi eetee 139 || Electrical rheometry, Secchi ..--------. 36
Circular, entomology «<a... 22sec. 17 Electro-magnetic telegraph ..-------- 115
Circularsethnolopy @-- << \caceaicicin oe 205 | Eleven-year period, Bache ....113, 162, 175
Circular, grasshoppers..-------------- 163 || Ellet, Physical Geogr. Miss. valley 35s) Mod
Circular, Hudson’s bay....-......-.-- 137 || Embryology teasce ea seosouense Se Ae 16
irenlat meleors bie eineleierls ee pone 217 || Entomologists, circular to....--..-.--- 178
Cienlan mesis =<. «sete eee sceeee a 139 || Eocene fossils, Conrad -.....----..--- 200
Rurculan, Sheus.o oe ooeleneeetea epimers 176 || Ethnology, circular ...--...---2------- 205
Circular, systems, relationship .----.-- 138 || Ethnology, instructions relative to-..-. 160
Surcular, tomadoes ese. o So2 oe See 190 || Exchanges, list of, Part 1......-..---- 73
Cleaveland, meteorological observations, Exchanges, list of, Part 2 ---..------- 85
BMS WICK si BING 4 se ice cere = = 204 || Exchanges, list of, toslesee-j. See 117
Coffin, meteoric fire-ball .........-.... 221 || Exploring expedition, duplicate shells -- -
Coftin, psychrometrical tables ...-.-.-- 87 || sEixplosionof mitre... - waisesasmo an eas
Coffin, winds, northern hemisphere eee || sans and. floya, Weld ya see cee = emis ee re
Coleoptera, Le Conte, classification.... 136 || Fire-ball, Coffin ...---...---.-------- 221
Coleoptera, Le Conte, Kansas......... 126 || Fishes, Girard on cottoid ......-..---- 30
Coleoptera, Le Conte, list .----. ..---- 140 || Fissirostres, Brewer...--...-2-.-000-+-- 89
Coleoptera, Le Conte, new species ....- 167 || Flood-tide, Davis..-------.----.----- 33
Coleoptera, Melsheimer, catalogue -.... 62 || Flora and fauna, Leidy....-.--..----- 44
Coilecting, see Circulars and Natural Force, record of auroras ....---------- 84
History. Foreign correspondents, list of ..64, 154, 225
Comparative vocabulary....-......--- 170 || Fossil ox, Leidy. -...-.- -----0<..0-- =. 41
Conchology, Binney, bibliography -. 142,174 || Fossils, check list Conrad . 2.1.2... =< 200
Congress, acts of......----. BaAcan. ai; 67 || Fossils, check list, Meelotess) saeeice 177, 183
Congress library, catalogue of publica- Franklin, Sir John.-....-- 97, 104, 129, 198
tions deposited in --.-. =... ccc --e 179) || Mrémont,, plants). —.--—-,~-c\- eee 46
ONOSAATUSIserpepatle slalsieiaioe eas ofalniainaie 14 || Fox, meteorological observations ..---- 146
Conrad, check list, fossils, eocene--.-.- 200 || Genth and Gibbs, ammonia-cobalt bases 88
Consanguinity, systemsiol,..s.see S252 218 || Geology, China and Japan, Pumpelly.. 202
Contributions to knowledge...-..-..- 2,26, || Geology, Hitchcock... -c2c52-noce = 90
38, 39, 55, “56, 76, 78, 92, 99°"! Gib bes; MOSASAUTUS -c.n.</s<peciicin- = cloths 14
1, 112, 151, 184, 206, 211 Gibbs and Genth, ammonia-cobalt bases. 88
Corbiculade, Prime....-...2--.---+-- 145 || Gibbs, Chinook jargon ...-......--.-. 161
Corner-stone, address .........-.----- D |; Gibbs, ethnological instructions ...--.. 160
Correspondence, Squier and Davis, Gilliss, solar eclipse, Peru...-.-------- 100
MEMO Be seneiees ae aac mei: ae ete K || Girard, Bibliography Nat. Hist....-.-. 48
Correspondents, domestic ...---.----- Gon |eGirard:, Cotloldsssea- ances s-—emiata 30
Correspondents, foreign..-... ,- 64, 154, 225 Girard and Baird, catalogue, serpents.. 49
Gottaids pGinandsse2 3 Sc ls tos sess 30 || Girard College, observations. ...-.-.--- 113,
Cretaceous fossils, Meek.-.--...---.-- 177 121, 132, 162, 175, 186, 195
Cretaceous reptiles, Leidy .----..----. 192 || Glacial drift, Whittlesey SES Nb sis iat 197
clophonds, 2. in tm a2 cmctoen > ieee 144 || Gliddon mummy-case, Pickering...... 208
Dakota dictionary .........-----.---. 40 || Gould, Neptune s245- «oieepmyeus atemttan 18
Dakota grammar +... ).. s20s06jc<cen0 = 40 || Gould, transatlantic longitude. .....-.. 223
Dallas, address, corner-stone..-.....-.. D Grammar, Dakota language ...-..--.- 40
Darlingtonia Californica, Torrey: oi. <1. 61 || Grammar, Yoruba language ...----..- 98
Davis and Squier, correspondence rela- Grasshopper, CIRCUS Ees cnn ainsi no's 163
PIR PREO MNEMONT' = =5 jc - stasis cers See nic K || Gray, Plantae Wrightianee.......---.22, 42
IRVIN THOMACLIOG, «o-oo 50.000 eee sts 33 || Gray substance of medulla oblongata -. 173
Dean, medulla oblongata. ..-----.----- 173 || Greenland. See Kane and Hayes.
Dictionary Chinook jargon .....-.-.-- 161 || Grinnell expedition... . 97, 104, 129, 130, 198
* Dictionary Dakota language cele a eee 40 || Guyot, meteorological directions .... 19, 148
Dictionary Yoruba language .....----- 98 || Gugot, meteorological and physical
DIP GsGUGles Ne MOTOS, iecnp vse. |] \ tADIOp. . nnn mien ee) anosamenwedme's 31, 153
Diptera, Loew, monograph eee eet 141, 171 || Hagen, synopsis neuroptera ..---..--. 134
Diptera, Osten Sacken, catalogue,.-... 102 || Haldeman, coleoptera .--.-...---.---- 62
Diptera, Osten Sacken, ppoereph .. 141, || Hare, explosiveness of nitre........--. 17
171,219 || Harvey, Algse, part I...-.......... 32
Directions, collecting specimens ...---. 34 || Harvey, Alpin, PAT bape arientelepien se 43
Directions, meteorological observations. 148 | Harvey, Algse, part III ...........--. 95
Domestic institutions, list bie be eae 69 || Harvey, Algee, complete...-.-- aan <nlk 96
Downes, occiiltations. . 8,'9, 10; 11, 29, 54 || Haven, archeology ..---....-.. ... 26 71
Draper, telescope in photography. ba Se 180 || Hayden and Meek, palzeontology upper
BMIEG, WW DIMWEROY cucaccne aeons exnaae ae 197 WMissOnINceatn ss scedesesrunctaracne
458

Hayes, Arctic observations....---..--. 196
Heat and light of the sun, Meech..-.-. 83
ICH CMGI Ben emis m ee ee neereer ees 144

Henry, Professor, exposition of Smith-
son’s bequest

Henry, Professor, magnetic telegraph.. 115

Henry, Professor. See reports.

Hildreth, meteorological observations,

Mariettat.- tou -eetes bocce bee cece eee 120 || List of publications Smithsonian Tee
Hill; solar eclipseh=--- /---- 22-.-22--- 101 Vita) Mae eee SIRES a ae 74, 208, 226
Historical Society of Minnesota.....--.. AQ’ auist of shells -. eee meee cs! cobs 193
History; Mexican <6 <2 52 =ss, Abe terns 86 || Locke, terrestrial magnetism-....----. 35
History, North American grasshoppers.. 163 || Loew, monograph diptera....-..... 141,171
Hitchcock, surface geology....-.-..--- 90 || Longitude, transatlantic, Gould......- 223
Hoek, meteoric shower -.--...-..----- 217 Loomis, StOTMS Ade tei: See ens 127
lolcodue -' 7. 2 tee ee a 14 || Magnetic effect of aurora borealis...-.. 175
ifudson’s. bay, citculare -2--/3- 45 <= 137 || Magnetic discussion, Bache-- 113, 121, 132,
Humidity of atmosphere, table. ....---. 87 162, 175, 186, 195
Hydrobiinz, Stimpson -..-..--..----. 201 || Magnetic observations, Arctic seas-. 97, 196
Indian photographs ....-.-.--...s=--- 216 || Magnetic observations, ‘Mexico, Sonntag. 114
Indian portrait gallery, Stanley......-- 53 || Magnetic survey, Pennsylvania, Bache. 166
Indians, Makah, of Cape Flattery.-.---- 220 || Magnetism, Locke co sso bs ce seam 30
Insects, Agassiz classification ...--.--- 16 || Maine, meteorological observations,
Hnstitmtions, Jist of domestic:-+\.---)222-..409) ||) | p Or NMS Wick.) oa eee oe coe eee 204
Institutions, list of foreign..-.-- 64, 154, 225 || Makah Indians, Swan .......-.--.-... 220
Instructions collecting nests and eges.. 139 || Mammalia, remains of.----.-.-......- 58
Japan, geology, Pumpelly .....-..---- 202 || Mammals, Baird, catalogue ......----. 105
Jargon Chinooke 2. ctcs-eceetsnecl eas 161 | Marietta, Hildreth, meteorological obser-
Jareon, Witchell =o. Bsc ese) 06 WAtlOns) 2 cere ce ae ye ne ee 120
Jewett, catalopue system ...-----..---- 47 || Marine alge, Harvey oh Heal atem sp yee 95, 96
Jewett, public libraries.......2.....-. 25 || Marine invertebrata, Grand Manan,
Jones, chemical and physical investiga- Stimpsong:%2 j-pestce ass ehaae es ice 50

HONS eee ne eerie niee ese see 82 || Mauvaises Terres, Nebraska..--.--.--- 58
Jurassic fossils; Meek esis eceselae ee 177 || Mayer, Mexican history and archeology. 86
Kane, astronomical observations. ...--- 129 || McClintock, meteorological observations,
Kane, magnetic observations, Arctic seas 97 AT CHIGISCaSy (espe Seabee ae see aaa 146
Kane, meteorological observations, Arc- Meech, intensity sun’s heat...--..-.--- 83

LICISERS,< Sek eco toto Re teem e sche see 104 || Medulla oblongata, Dean...-....----. 173
Kane, physical observations (complete) - 2 | Meek, check-list fossils, cretaceous --.. 177
Kane, tidal observations =5.)-2s-c22 << Meek, check-list fossils, miocene ------ 183
Kansas, Le Conte, coleoptera..-.-.-.--- 196 Meek and Hayden, paleontology, upper
Kennedy channel, Hayes’s observations. 196 Missouri. - S26). (Acne ee eeeaaers 172
Labels for collections. ........-..----- 164 || Melsheimer, catalogue, coleoptera..---. 62
Lake Superior, ancient mining -..-.--- 155 || Meteorie fire-ball, COA SS 2-ap oasis 221
Language. See Dakota, Yoruba, Chinook. | Meteorological directions ......---- 19, 148
Lapham, antiquities, Wisconsin. ...-.--. 70 Meteorological observations, 1854-59,
Mea checkalistsshellsee 1 Wt. vo. oe cee 128 VOL. Boe nec ceimeteetio eee Sates 157
Le Conte, catalogue coleoptera-.--.--.- 62 || Meteorological observations, 1854-59,

Le Conte, classification coleoptera, I... 136 NO) 2 210 male Cateiatate alo iat inie aint een - 182
Le Conte, coleoptera, Kansas......---- 26 || Meteorological observations, 1855--. .--- 93
Le Conte, list coleoptera..--..--..---- 140 | Meteorological observations, Arctic seas,

Le Conte, new, species;coleoptera, TP 222,71674||) ( Elayes)---= ose eee eee eee aa 196
Leidy, ancient fauna, Nebraska ........ 58 | Meteorological observations, Arctic seas,
Leidy, cretaceous reptiles.....-...--.. TOD: || Keane See ieee a aoe ers .
Meidysextincf sloths)i2522 .onelsecce. 72 || Meteorological observations, Arctic seas,
Heidy, faunsand) flora... 3-5 2s5.2-5- 44 | McClintock po sjeceeieer a= tesa ae eee 46
eidy, fossilvoxpeceeeeecet se =<) aaee 4! || Meteorological observations, Brunswick,
Lepidoptera, Morris’s catalogue--...---- 118 || Maine, Cleaveland....--...---.....- 204
Lepidoptera, Morris, synopsis...--..--- 133 || Meteorological observations, Marietta, ;
Letter in reference to meteoric shower of ies SR Uva hires ae gamete) va AIR AE yf cee arson 8 120

INOVeMmDehas aac eteee meee eee cece 217 || Meteorological observations, Providence,
Level of lakes, Whittlesey .......---.- 119 Caswelleree ies... eae eee 103
Libraries, Jewett, account of -.....-.-.. 25 || Meteorological observations, Washing-
Kibraries,.Rhees; listiof 225 32e2-. =. - 1G (|). whton; Arkansas: ‘Smithese ee yeeros 131
Library of Congress, catalogue of publi- | Meteorological tables. 2: -so scmice 31, 153

cations deposited in ...-...----. -.-- 179) || Meteors, November oo: 2-c\aceemeaeeece 217
Library of Smithsonian Institution, cata- Mexican history and archeology, Mayer. 86

HO MMEL OFS shee. c mince eee eek cee 7\| Mexico, list of birdsiof.cesss seceaetase 185
Library, publications of learned societies Microscopy, Bailey ...---..----: 20, 23, 63

in Middle America, birds from.......--.. 163

INDEX TO SMITHSONIAN PUBLICATIONS.

Lieber, vocal sounds, Laura Bridgeman. 12
Light and heat of the sun, Meech -..... -. 83
List of birds, Mexico, &c......---.---- 185
List, coleoptera SESa cee sHolocd a Sade eos 140
E || List of domestic institutions....-....-- 69
List of exchanges.-..........-:: 73, 85, 117
List of foreign institutions -.....64, 154, 225
List of public libraries ...........-- 25, 116
INDEX TO SMITHSONIAN PUBLICATIONS.

Minerals, Egleston, catalogue. -.---..- 156 || Peru, eclipse of sun, Gilliss -----.-....-. 100
Mining, ancient, Whittlesey -.---.--.-. 155 | Philology, instructions relative to...---. 160
Minnesota, Historical Society of....--. 40 || Phonetic language ...---..----.------ 12
Miocene fossils, Meek .----.-----.---- 183 || Photographs of Indians. ........------ 216
Miscellanen, museum ..-......---...-- 164 || Photography, use of telescope, Draper.. 180
Mississippi valley, ancient monuments || Physical geography, Ellet...-.-..----- 13
Olt eer ee - sao ceniesismattaats 1 || Physical observations, Hayes.....----- 196
Missions, American Board of.-...----- 40 || Physical observations, Kane. .-..------ 198
Mitchell and Morehouse, chelonia..---. 159 aby sical tables) acco .cooaiae'tenaeisiaia 31, 153
Mitchel], venom, rattlesnake...---.--. 135 || Physiological investigations, Jones. ..-. 82
Mitchell, vocabulary of jargon......--. 68 | Pickering, mummy case --:....--.---- 208
Mollusca, Carpenter’s lectures-....---- 152 || Plante Frémontiane, Torrey.-....---- 46
Mongolia, geology, Pumpelly..-.----. 202 || Plantes Wrightian, Gray.....-..-.-- 22, 42
Ronopranhs batsias oo. aoe eersaciaca= 165 | Plants. See Torrey. Gray.
Monograph, diptera ......---- 141,171,219 || Popocatapetl, observations of..---.-.--- 114
Monograph, corbiculadee........-.----- 145 | Precipitation of rain and snow in U.S-.. 222
Moon, magnetic effect of..---. 132, 162, 175 || Prime, check list shells.....--.....--- 128
Morehouse and Mitchell, chelonia...--- 159 || Prime, monograph corbiculade -... ---- 145
Morfit and Booth, chemical arts .....-. 27 | Prince Regent’s inlet, meteorological
Morgan, systems of relationship -.- 138,218 ODSCLVAtONS) = cere ctaaee aelaletsintetels = 46
Morris, catalogue lepidoptera.--.-.---.- 118 | Proceedings of regents. See reports... A
Morris, synopsis lepidoptera..-.-.----- 133 | Programme of organization........---- J
Mosasaurus, Gibbes........-----..--. 14 | Providence, meteorological observations 103
Muller, magnetism in Mexico..---..--- 114 || Psychrometrical tables, Coffin -...-.---
Mummy case, Pickering: ~---< s<5<<-1<- 208 || Publications in Smithsonian library -.73, 85,
Museum, catalogue of birds in- ---- 106, 108 117,179
Museum, catalogue of mammals in. .--- 105 || Publications of Smithsonian Institution,
Museum, list of birds not in. ..--. Beeson bets) CALAlOGUIG! Olasicos one's ae aot 74, 203, 226
Museum, miscellanea ..---..----.---- 164 || Pulmonata geophila, Binney....-.--.. 194
Museum, review of birds in..----..-- « 181 || Pumpelly, geology of China and Japan 202
Natural history, bibliography -...--... 48 || Queries relative to tornadoes -...------ 190
Natural history, directions .----..---.- 34 || Rainfall in United States.....-...---- 222
Nautical Almanac..........-- 10, 11, 29,54 || Rana pipiens, Mitchell ......---..-... 45
Wavy pecretany Ofnj- 20.) <Uesiccco pines 66 || Inaptores,, Bre Wel, 6. c.5 5 anit aca 89
Nebraska, ancient fauna, Leidy. ..---. 58 || Rattlesnake, Mitchell’s researches. .--. 135
Nebraska, paleontology, Meek and Records and results of magnetic survey,
Hey denteecaseresm on en osetia 172 Penns YVAN) =< cra = nee 166
Neptune, ephemeris ...:..----- 4,5, 6,7, 24 || Regents, journal of proceedings -..---- A
Neptune, history of discovery, Gould... 18 || Regents. See reports.
Neptune, orbit of, Newcomb ...--..--- 199 || Relationship, systems of, Morgan. .... 218
Neptune, researches, Walker.-...----- 3 || Relationship, circular, Morgan -.-.-...-- 138
Nereis-Boreali-Americana, Harvey... 95,96 || Registry, periodical phenomena. .---- 65, 148
erties So. serosa on ee nea nen 144 || Report of committee on organization ....B L
Nests, instructions for collecting-.-.--- 139 || Report of regents, Ist ....(1846)...--. G
PAS. CINCHIAT S27 ge his Sento athe 2 tees 139 || Report of regents, 2d .-..(1847)...-.. H
Neuroptera, Hagen, synopsis..---.---- 134 || Report of regents, 3d ....(1848)..---- I
Newcomb, Neptune -....------------- 199 || Report of regents, 4th....(1849)..---. Q1
New Mexico, Le Conte, coleoptera-.... 126 || Report of regents, 5th ...(1850)..---. 28
Nitre, explosiveness of, Hare ..-.----- 17 || Report of regents, 6th ...(185])...---. 51
November Meteorg...----- cennuew wes —=- 217 || Report of regents, 7th -..(1852)..--.. 57
Occultations, Downes- -.-- 8,9, 10, 11, 29,54 || Report of regents, 8th -..(1853)-.-.----. 67
Oinears and ‘repente: 5. 222.ee duces ees N || Report of regents, 9th .-.(1854)...-.. 75
Oligocene, fossils, Conrad .........-.- 200 || Report of regents, 10th ...(1855)...--- 77
Olmsted, aurora borealis...-..---.---- #1 || Report of regents, 11th -..(1856).-.---. 91
Oology, Brewer...-...----- baat be okie 89 || Report of regents, 12th ...(1857)..---- 107
Orbit of Neptune, Newcomb ..-..-.---. 199 || Report of regents, 13th ...(1858).----- 109
Oregon, trade language of ..---..--- 68, 161 || Report of regents, 14th ..-(1859)..---. 110
Orthoptera; Scudder-......--.---..--.- 129 || Report of regents, 15th ...(1860).----- 147
Osten Sacken, catalogue diptera-...--- 102 || Report of regents, 16th ...(1861).----- 149
Osten Sacken, monog. diptera.. 141,171,219 | Report of regents, 17th - wei (LOO) tere 150
Owen, hints on public architecture. .... 2 | Report of regents, 18th ...(1863)..---- 187
Ox, SxtinChaieid vise ta (- = oon a5 41 || Report of regents, 19th ...(1864)-.-.-- 188
Paleontology of the upper Missouri, Report of regents, 20th -..(1865).----- 209
Meeks and HAV GGr saat a ictens oom. n'nw 172 || Report of regents, 21st -.-(1866).-.--. 214
Patent Office, meteorological observa- Report of regents, 22d....(1867)..---. Q15
tions, 1854 to 1859..........--..157, 182 || Report of regents, 23d....(1868).-..--- 224
Periodical phenomena, directions for reg- Report of regents on telegraph ..-.-.-- 115
Tb Y re sn ee ee ee teers s Se 65, 148 || Report of the secretary ...---.---.---- F
Periodicals in library of Smithsonian In- Report of the secretary. See report of regents.
Be IT co aen wer eee cimns 73, 85,117,179 || Reports up to January, 1849....-.---- M

460

Reptiles, catalogue of ..20.. scscce se. « 49
Reptiles, eretaceous, Leidy ...-------- 192
Researches, respiration in chelonia-.--. 159
Researches upon hydrobiine....--.---. 201
Respiration in chelonia. -..--..+------ 159
Results of magnetic observations, Penn-
SVMVARIS ocjcetrcemteiiceie a's ccnistane == 166
Results of meteorological observations,
1054 to. 1859vnj22 5 eo. bbe Te
Review of birds. Baird......---...-. 118
Rhees, list of American libraries. -..-.. 116
Rheometry, electricai, Secchi.....----- 36
Rhode Island, meteorology..-.--.----- 103
Whodospermesz 22 2=2= w2Le ete se aces 43
Riggs, Dakota grammar and dictionary 40
Rivers, improvement of.....---.------ 13
HRIBSOld ce ssa Saieej= = slelomelsaiceeince = 144
Runkle, asteroid tables.......---.----- 94
Runkle, planetary tables .........---- 79,94
Russian American circular...--..----- 207
Sawkin’s drawings of Mitla-.----..-.- 86
Schott, rainfall in United States...----. 222
Schott, reductions, meteorology, &c..-. 97
104, 129, 130, 103, 120, 131, 104, 146, 196,
198, 204, 222
Scudder, catalogue of orthoptera..-.--- 189
Secchi, rheometry 322 .co- os Stee 3
Shellcinewlarzs2s'2=.5-.5-252. cee se 176
Shell fish, Carpenter’s lectures......-.. 152
Shells, Binney, bibliography .-..-.-... 142
Shells, checklist uses es sacle ciel 128
Shells, exploring expedition-.... ..---. 193

Shells, land and fresh-water, Binney-. -194,

143, 144

Shells, pulmonata, limnophila, thalas
sophila (2: otto. ae ice bee 143
Sloth, extinet, ueidy.-=s..5<2 2c deci 72

Smith, meteorological observations,
Washington, Ark. ccc. 05 foe ee 131
Smithson’s bequest, exposition.-.. -.-- E
Smith strait, Hayes’s observations. -... 196

Societies, publications of, in Smithsonian
Wibrany See eee setae Selects 73, 85, 179

Sountag, magnetic observations, Mexico-

Soundings, miscroscopical examinations. 20

South America, birds from.........--- 168
Southern Baptist convention .....----. 98
Spheres, tangencies of.... ....-....--. 80
Squier, aboriginal monuments, New
Work .so-ot < silshepitoee wares reeteee ae 15
Squier and Davis, ancient monuments -. 2
Squier and Davis, correspondence rela-
tive 40, MEMOIL:=.- 25254 cece ee TEE K
Stanley, Indian portrait gallery....-..-. 53
Stimpson, check list shells .........--. 128
Stimpson, hydrobiine ......-..-.. ---- 201
Stimpson, marine invertebrata, Grand
Manansisi cemsceeeoeee ote ceo eee 50.
Storms, Loomisis jaws owene cotmeeice wees 127

INDEX TO SMITHSONIAN PUBLICATIONS.

Suggestions relative to investigations in

Atussiany Americas: 2. 6. Hse. sae 207
Sun; eclipse; Gilliss! a. :o2 S22 oe see eee 100
Sunveclipse, Bullen. ae Os see ee 101
Sun, heat and light, Meech...--...---. 83
Swan, Makaeh ‘Indians !2.- (222.5 ./stslee 220
Synopsis, neuroptera .---...... <2. -. 134
Synopsis; lepidepterass.s2. == 522. 2222" 133
Tables, asteroid, Runkle..--.........-- 94
Tables, meteorological, Guyot. ...--. 31, 153
‘Tables ;physicalyj seco wets etees ate 31, 153
Tables, planetary, Runkle.-.--....-.. 79, 94
Table, psychrometrical...........----. 87
Tan gencies, Alvordyssssaroceee asec eet 80
Telegraph, report of regents on......--. 115
Telescope, Draper-----.---- ---.-----. 180
Terrestrial magnetism, Locke -.....-.- 35
Thermometer, wet and dry bulb ...--.. 87
Tidal observations, Hayes....-...----- 196
Tidal observations, Kane-.----...-.--- 130
Tidal observations, Whittlesey. -.--.---.. 119
Tide, law of deposit of flood, Davis. --.- 33
Tornado, Chappelsmith..... 2.2.22... 59
Tornadoes, queries relative to -.......- 190
Torrey, batis maritima..---..---...... 60
Torrey, Darlingtonia Californica....-.. 61
Torrey, Plante Frémontinz....--..... 46
Trade language of Oregon........-..- 161
Transatlantic longitude, Gould -.-----. 223
Prapezium, | Deans costae. Sue clea 173
‘Rruncatellidse.ssieet) emaster cece eel 144
Turner, W. W., vocabulary’of jargon... 68
Malvatides te Satis sae earner 144

Van Rensselaer harbor, observations . 97,104,
129, 130, 146, 198

Venom of rattlesnake. .-..-----.------ 135
Vertebrata, Jones, investigations....-.. 82
WAV MOH ING Se. aaa) eter te miata weer ee ni 144
Vocabulary, comparative.....--.------ 170
Volcano, Popocatapetl...--...-.------ 114
Walker, Neptune.... .... ... 3, 4,5, 6,7, 24
Warren, collections palaontology .----- 172
Washington, Ark., meteorology .--..--- 131
West Indies, list of birds of .....------ 185
Whittlesey, ancient mining -.-..-----. 155
Whittlesey, ancient works, Ohio..---.- 37
Whittlesey, fluctuations level of lakes.. 119
Whittlesey, glacial drift. .........----- 197
Wilkes, exploring expedition, shells-... 193
Will of Smithsonec.n.<. <cetee eee eee = B, 67
Winds, | Cofhiny. soe = 2G. eeeiteeaaele 52
Wood meteorological observations, Mari-
Clidscerscrsccuee seule eee eee =
Works, list of, published by Smithsonian
Institutiony ss: ssssassceneeee ee een 203
Wright, Charles, plants ..---.--.----- 22, 42
Wywan, Rana pipiens.-.--.....------ 45

Yoruba grammar and dictionary, Bowen 98
Zapotec remains. ......+-s0-- eee eee 86
CONTENTS.

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Page.
Resolutions of Congress ordering report to be printed ..... 2.2.20 cece cence ee eeeeee 2
Teer on ine Secretary tO; COneTesa. econo coo! be cone gee me ne naneinnas <<dee ns as 3
Letter of the Chancellor and Secretary, submitting report for 1868...........--.--- 4
Officers and Regents of the Institution ~~~. = 8. oe one cee eee me conan nee 5
Members, cx officio, and honorary members of the Institution.........-..---..----. 6
Prop TanimesOf OlvaDIwanlONea ast \seleawlals aial~ olan = Ss) sano onic aloe ciatsenlaclem seeeaale 7
Report of the Secretary, Professor Henry, for 1868......... .2.. 2-22 -eeee. nee eee 12
Report of the Assistant Secretary, Professor Baird, for 1868.......-...-.--..------ 54
Entries in record books of museum, 1866, 1867 and 1868.-...............-.-..----- 54
Distribution of duplicate specimens, to end of 1868 ......---...-----.---.-------- 54
AOURIOHS cOttie CONGCHONSOUnNOM GhSmes soci oo aenilecs ese et onsaoma scsicces sescse 55
Statistics of Smithsonian literary and scientific exchanges......----.- .--.----+--- 60
Packages received:for foreign distribution<. 0. . 552 sbi esiseetescdinecesocces cee. 61
Packages vecalved: for Home @istiONtOl se. san sear So ttaeee paw Gece sateicces sams 63
List of Sinithsonian meteorological stations and observers in North America and adja-
cent islands, from 1849 up to the end of the year 1868............-...-...-----. 68
Alphabetical list of meteorological observers of the Smithsonian Institution up to the
end of the«year 1868- s2s22 Skt SIS eek LS Sb ccs cee Te a SS 86
Meteorological material contributed in addition to the regular observations, during
TNOLY CAML OOO mesic cian calcio eae renee os He Gee ose tne lanes otanicjaino tae temo nein 102
Heportvot the executivercommittegesscs soe s2ss2 ssc otacs cess sciccce caciajcceesiecee 108
Journal of proceedings of the Board of Regents.... .... 2.2 cece seceees cocecccces 111
GENERAL APPENDIX.
ep GE aVIeE Ment PIG DT ODS asec 55) Sa om Soe nl oe oo denn cans eanaieenadcewce 121
History of the works of Cuvier, by M. Flourens........2. .2cceesccce cece cece ccee 14]
MMonigivar Comtad. by Elid de BesntiOnt... 22 0<0 onan nee-coes acne cee densseeen 166
Notice of Christian Frederic Schcenbein, the discoverer of Ozone.....----- -------- 185
Appendix to notice of Schcenbein, by Professor Henry...--..-.----- ---2--------ee 189
Mowower Muekebyign Hapons 2222 os 35 2. oie. cSeaeossee Sade seat eweetee 193
Memoir of Eaton Hodgkinson, by Robert Rawson.... ....-.--. ss2-s-ecee wees eone 203
Recent progress in relation to the theory of heat, by A. Cazin........-...-.. anicon Looe
Principles of the mechanical theory of heat, by Dr. John Muller....-......--.---- 245
Continuous vibratory movement of all matter, ponderable and imponderable, by L.
OS BAe Eh sao eg eb IEE Sa iia EAE mS eee ae ase 281
Mmesnins Py JOU LYDON ga aks 2-5, acseias nade sas) 550 scadlenssisens saaesatacem « 292
Synthetic experiments relative to meteorites, approximations to which these experiments
Lee ave eA DIOO Se tae tte eee ecee nee ts een eee ee eee eee ne ea ae 312
Catalogue of meteorites in the mineralogical collection of Yale College. .-..---.---- 342
Observations on the electric resonance of mountains, by Henry de Saussure....-.--- 345

Experiments on aneroid barometers made at the Kew Observatory, by B. Stewart-... 350
Anniversary Address of the President of the Royal Society of Victoria, by R.L. J

Grae eet See acl 2a io sais cata AMMAR ca oon ns eww ace end esiasewsjonnine 354
Report on the transactions of the Society of Physics and Natural History of Geneva,

from June, 1867, to June, 1868, by Professor Elis Wartmann......-.--..-..---. 364
History of the transactions of the Anthropological Society of Paris, from 1865 to 1867,

by; Mab an Broce wen auerieee ares ees cots esac chee cose ucaesececciemeacsds 376
Drilling in stone without metal. By Chas. Rat. .... 2.222. ccscce scenes cece nccces 392
462 CONTENTS.

Page
A deposit of agricultural flint implements in southern Illinois. By Chas. Rau..--. a e401
Notice of the Blackmore Museum, Salisbury, England........-....----..-----.-.. 408
Programme of the Holland Society of Sciences of Harlem, 1869 --......--.---.--. 414

Programme of the Imperial Academy of Sciences, Belles Lettres, and Arts,of Bordeaux. 419
A brief account of the processes employed in the assay of gold and silver coins at the

mint of the United States. From the annual report of James Pollock, director.... 422
A statement of foreign gold and silver coins, prepared by the director of the mint, to

accompany his annual report -. 2. woo. een e oon none cee ene pone e enon = nana onee 426
List of publications of the Smithsonian Institution up to end of 1868, with systematic

and alphabetical index... 2.0 s..s.s ss ecen cc eeee ceeeees BEARS OEE EABEESS SS aa eS)
LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS,

' MEMOIR OF HODGKINSON.

Page
Trans. strain and strength of metals, Fig. 1 ..---..-------20 e000 e-cee Siaainin as inaies 209
Trans. strain and strength of metals, Fig. 2 ....----.-20--20 2+ eee cee ee nce enone 209
Trans. strain and strength of metals, Fig. 3 -..----.-----------5 1-2-2 ------- ee 214
Trans. strain and strength of metals, Fig. 4 ...----..--. -.---.-----2------------ 214
Trans. strain and strength of metals, Fig. 5 ..-....------- 200 2-00 een e eee eee nee 226

PRINCIPLES OF THE MECHANICAL THEORY OF HEAT.

Development of heat by mechanical means, Fig. 1 -..-.--. -----.-------+---+---- 245
Development of heat by mechanical means, Fig. 2 .----- -----------+--+---------- 246
Mechanical equivalent of heat, Fig. 3 ..---..----- +--+ 220+ ene coon een one eee 249
Mechanical equivalent of heat, Fig. 4 ..---..----. ------ --- 222 ee eens eee eee eee eee 249
Mechanical equivalent of heat, Fig. 5 ..---.----20 -- 22-2 -- eo oe penne enone en eee ee 251
Mechanical equivalent of heat, Fig. 6 ......-2------------2- eee eee enone eee ene 252
Mechanical equivalent of heat, Fig. 8 ......---.------ Seondpecctau ncod odsae6 S08 203
Elements of the mechanical theory of heat, Fig. 9...-..--.--.------ ------------- 260
Application of the mechanical theory of heat to aqueous vapors, Fig. 10 .....------ 263
Application of the mechanical theory of heat to aqueous vapors, Fig. 11 ....------- 266
Action of saturated steam under expansion, Fig. 12......-.---- .----------- ------ 271
ligation Tey Ire BBSES Sees e Ce SeSOneoCousaS sab cba So5ons caosendacoposse sesce 273
MGI ONOT CO, BNO A ea oe. coceeniesioiecic sleisisiaie'<'s/s)peivicie isla eaiersedee enlaces 273
Li elie: @iP repairs (USES ASSES BASS pe nOenoe eee ce ot Edudodacoaloasoo Bode 73
Muigihite gs OP Tea iad | Heese eeea ease bab eoo sea cocoss sHbess nosobo ooo conS coboEEe - 274
WIG EO OH Tes, Jite ISA sess Shipp sepcieacboo povEad ceecon coneoS ESCO UCSB00,500C 274
Meliangrate icon Bier Oecerste cise set soc olen cloptaicrno relate ae tsicia slereteatalaetietoeeteeete 274
ACIAMOM, | (ONG CUD pare aate cays seracisine aienninin olclaicla wiavaiais\o ua eaeioe eiseein eis eaten 299
ynlling in’ stone without metal, Bion Uys o2:ecee) csi aele acisiee oe sin aicise cis aialelcleoiacle 393
Drllinesin Bone without metal Wigs 2 asses n< cicacccclsecialenicaeelsccieslelcinisceel tial 393
Polinem stone without metal, Wig. 3... 8. 85.0.2 fost coe teccccwesl cece canawins's 393
Pilling stone wiihounimetals ON. 4 cence nel s\ social os snhalowie aeciefeisolelsteiia=iaame 394
Dedhae ai sous withonk Menl WIC Os. oem. an cons «moe op emiens al waidalraaniaceeimaciet (pe
Drilling in stone without metal, Fig. 6... . 2. 2... .2s20- cocc cnn nee cones cnwnes nee 395
Drllnesin: stone withoub metalic aeeos cc ceec sas oaciecieas cae se clecemeetiocet.< 396
Drilling in stone without metal, Fig. 8... 22... 2c0e enn nne coccee cncene cenenscneeee 397
LOTT BLONE WiLhOUt Cua ENO Ore nana mnwslcicinjaleloloimeliaiots (eniainatelaintelelaiere'eie 398
Pres sione without metal, Big, 10.2.6. 2 2. ecw cou Gace dactleredscce sanm 399
aie teerond without. metal, Pig. UE... oc cede nn sane lesen cscs Jace ws e'ee 399
ACTON INA ICTR OS oro: ons ar rent eaten de) acinus a tonice atte ainyer slo's = sie\ainteieiateie imine 400
Agricultural flint implements in southern Illinois, Fig. 1 .-..-.--..---------+----- 401
Agricultural flint implements in southern Illinois, Fig. 2 .-.---.---.-------------- 401 |
Agricultural flint implements in southern Illinois, (plan of locality)..---.---------- 403
Agricultural flint implements in southern Illinois, Fig. 3....---.------------------ 404

Agricultura] flint implements in southern Illinois, Fig. 4....---------+ ++ -+++---- 405
Biya

La sr a “ re cee ca erage 4 Ph.
Ae Sting 9 i A .

” ad ie tae i oe eS
5 OR a ;

relies oe wield reed

™
Maite ig
" rin a
View ney it aie ee HVE Hn "=
7 ee a

ele eras ve sted Awe

. % FAR. Y See S RS
= a te Sete |

Mute Oils wes a 7) ign bein tr re,
Ne Rain

didbriadisths we daa bes
a" > ~a4
FM! Sy Sheahan da fn eis :

eee Ree

inte Ei i

INDEX.

Page.

Abbot, General. Barometrical curves from ..-... ...-----.-s0-+ ences -cocceeceneee 49
Accounts eeerxamin aon Ob sasaea sie see cmsseae sss sce see weteataiciciais aise sinless 110
Acknowledgments for books on education for Belgian government ....-.-.-..-..----- 39
for books on war for Norwegian government ...-..-...-.-...----.----- 39

Acknowledgments. See explorations, museum, exchanges, and investigations.

Address of Hilery, Royal society of Victoria) -< =o... ac cncls cose cmin = <impa~ cine mae Sac oa ~ 354
Agassiz, Professor L. Explorations under direction of....-....---..----+---------- 22
Agassiz, Professor L. Je-election as Regent by Senate..........---..--.------.--- pal
Agriculture, Commissioner of. Istimate of yield of wheat..-..--------------------- 46
Department ols (New buildings: s2s-csn oat scars cine see ae se 52

Branston OM ero aniUIMn! LOsrre cis sine 4e\o'2 aeteisinie sniewin ese ames = 14

Agricultural ‘flint implements in Southern Illinois ..-....... 2... 22-2 20-2 cee eee =e 401
Alsske, account of Dalls explorations iMn- se ewne cals cess o\elsina ae'slalewisiniele claw ieini= 23
PANDUGHEr GUC aL Lsf) EI OSE OM aioe ayaa es elas = erecta iat aiaria a cisie als oie ainialeh ale nioi stn 26
Alphabetical list of Smithsonian publications .-.... 2022. cece 0 cons cans cones cone 456
American Oriental Society. Examination of Morgan’s work.....-..-...------------ 20:

Ames, James T.” Ethnological collection from 252205 oc-.250-doee,-n-~ yece coon eneses 28:

Amherst College: Hthnolocieal coilections from =.= =-.c-169 om-ncc. conan a clea sae 28
Andris Mar, “Hthnolosiealicolléctions m10Ms a=.. oase ccs c.ccom o.ciecc.cls o -roniceres snc eyoceie 28
Aneroid barometers: Eixperiments'on at Kew =. 25.22. -.25 002 cccc cone o cececcecenc= 300
Anthropological Society of Paris. Transactions from 1865-1867 ...-.....----------- 76.
Aiady7 ANGMMVESH Pp ANOM cm melee siete elelea nin cial misinm einialalniaysiwinivinin/ale/actatera 33

Alphabetical list of meteorological observers....-. 2.20. .2-2-222e- eneeee sce eene oon 86
BERPUMPEMNCONGIAL tO YOMOLbs soos ccs soe ues a qelccemlem coos ance aes! asedandsiceas 119
BPOIOMTIAMUBN MGR ISOS S640 co coe ese lce Delta ees ceskewss bed nes) HE Peeiiereencio: 110
Bacieedlopye Mine il BiOHeT co coe cos... cise acecce eofotccwns cecccsvatess encsae 392.
Aipeeale pie emia enee sacs soe hoo teaccncuscstes recmaeds seca ntioeet 26
Mectic Ambricd. EE plOritiGue Mi ecto e scene coc ~ ate cases csen casscseeon name sane 22.
Wateritis fon work Ofiar eso cee ce wes: cow accecteceeccnesoess eaen sated 20°
BICUGMMVSICALODRELVALOUS el. LLAVOB ccccnccc secs sec iuo acces cea/a-igs)s ase visiecee 17
Aimy, Medical Museum.) Pransier Of Craniait0:. ccc cccecc cece sosbiccicciecisicccecus sets 15
Art gallery founded by W."W . Corcoran, E6Q. 202.0... Stee ce ncen caascne date resene 45
Assay of gold and silver coins at United States mint ........-... 0-2. cee. -eeeseeeeee 426
Baird, Professor. Arrangement of ethnological collections ..............-.2-----.+- 35
RTSPLOLAMOMB Vier meme de amore va thw alan ow ate cle cmtante wen a mea ais 28

Wik plOrahiOnie yma nes Coe e es Ue canes a aetna a eee ee eek 3e
BRVEStIPGMOUR Dy) Toe Lhe wae cl coe sae aes cote e ema tues cane 38
Dement, LI TONUOFCO! NG ears a coc occ cole elec tee ae aes ass cmnyhai 36
Barometer. Account of Hough’s self-registering .... 2.2.2... .2 cccces cocn cece cccae . 48
Harowicvers;ameretl.” Experiments On. >. 2522220 Sol yeeens canes oe us vosae ce oce 350
Belden swianreannps Collections 1rOlitscace se ccos cree eee oe ccc ee 30
Belgian government. Books on education procured for ...-.....-..--------e2------ 39
Binney, W. G. Land and fresh-water shells, America........----. 2-200 sees eeeees 20
DChog, ). ee eer ALARA ots SRR eRe cs ole 8 SNe ied 24
{Bishop of London on duty of man of science .... 22... ..--2.022e-s neces ee cnns eens 33
Ietuchetinnos Megane NOME S50. aod dace coms ores accuse nad ecsaw ace nmamaica 408
Blackmore, William. Account of ethnological museum of.....----..----.---------- 26
RE CUOWiCd SEIU GaSe Ls OSS: Lanelsanmieinian suiajemaraceeaees 27

nae, Cit leuy  CGUACHO NE MUR eta hoc cos aaa ncscasewenn saree avn naastaece ake 29

30 8
AG6 "INDEX.

Page

Blake, Charles.» Ethnological collections from). -22 22)... 3. 2)2-'- a)-- soja emniemen oa =n 23
Bland, Thomas. Land and fresh-water shells, America....-........--------------- 20
Boaraman,) Mr." (Collections from: <2 cere eereise cio eke aiueeiai abate aaah eee eaten acs 29
Books. Account of more valuable, received an 1868) s--- 22 jos meionss co eon lee ono 43

Addedvtodibrary durin eo W868 eons cro )e elena rateeae ee eee nee as iniam see ae 42
Bordeaux. Programme of Imperial Academy of Science ..-.---.---.--------------- 419
Boston Society of Natural History. Aid rendered Mr. Dall...........---.---.------ 23

Explorations aided by 2... 5 oj. wi 0=jes < ori eninie) = aim nana aie neinin'n 32 <== = 22

Tnsecis assigned 0) (n eco oon a « esnioim online nine mise eer ced =e 16
Bowen, S.J. Acts of, as Regent... ooo 2 occa ee oe eminence ans Simla = inininia ia mie = nie’ Wi
Brevoort..0.0C.. salamander fromescsasa-h ee = eceee coe aoe seri aeian cereale sc 35
Brewer, Doctor Ll. Mi, Aidirendered by 22-2 ccs emai stale us setae el SVS ayia 35
Broca, Paul. Transactions of Anthropological Society of Paris.-..-...-----------.- 376
Brush, George J. Catalogue of meteorites -....-..----------+--------------------- 342
Bryan, O: N.. (Collections from)... 3-152 cs. < + aa oepenetenein siete) «icles ec tnininla nis 29
Bryant, Mrs. Henry. Ethnological collections from ..---...------+----------+---+: 28
Building. Arrangement of rooms in...-...----.-----+-----2+ e+ +--+ e222 -- 2 eee eee 34

Wefectsaim eae acca messi se ee = ese si eee sates hal ee aa oie 34
Bulwer, Sir Henry. Aid rendered exchanges by.-.--4----------------------------+- 40
Burr, Fearing. Ethnological collections from....----------.--------------------+- 23
@alifornia., ‘Collections! from Soest. joc aos sania. 2 sine elo osesepinre \wiskesi a ateimin ln hela ie mina 24
Calleja, Mr. Explorations......---. -.-- -0-- +--+ p--2 cine s seen eres nee seis eens 25
Canal. Report of General R. Delafield and executive committee on..--..-.--------- 111

A: Stygian pool <<... 6 s12<icise a2. dp mnie, ojeje eee alieinafoye mci binie micjmin nlalinlni=\=i(sinic laine 52
Canfield, Dr. Nests and eggs from ......-.---------- e+ 22 eee ee ce eens eee tee eee 24
Capron, Hon. Horace. Co-operation of...-.. .-----------+----+2-2--+ ee eeee cree 40
Catalogue of meteorites in Yale College .----..------------+----+ ---- +--+ ---------+ 342

Orthoptera. S. H. Scudder. ..-...---------- 0+ +++ -2200 - 20-2 0re- n= 18
Caverns. Explorations of-...------.-----+---- e222 nee eee cee ne cee eee eee eee 32
Cazin, A. Recent progress in relation to heat..-..----------------+-++---+-----+---- 231
Cesnola, Mr. Discovery of antiquities in Cyprus .-...------------------+-++------- 31
Chase, S. P. ° Report submitted to Congress ..-------.---- +--+ +--+ -- +222 tree ee eee 4
Chicago Academy of Sciences. Co-operation with..-.-.---.-------+-++-++---+-+-- 21
Chicago Academy. Dall’s exploration aided by-..--.----------+-+---+++--+++-+--- 23
Chicago Academy of Science. Explorations aided by .--.-------------+++----+----- 22
Chief Justice.. Valuable services of...--.--..---------+ +--+ 22-2225 eee eee eee 53
Climate. Importance of knowledge of ...--.-.-.------ +--+ +--+ 222+ +> bebatoacess 46
Coast Survey. Co-operation with...-...----. 222+ -- 222 Cece ee eee eee cence eee 16
Coffin, Prof. J. H. Account of meteoric fire ball....-...---- CEO oa DOS OES =; 720

Discussion of winds : 128-0. 1 so<c.0sosue cece sere ans heedampeEE Ee er teeta
Coffin, Prof. J. H. C. Co-operation of...-....-. ----------22-2-+eeenes esters cece? 40
Coins. Assay of, at United States Mint..--......-----------+ ---+---- e202 eee cee 422

Viale 1Of 2 /cicc = <psuicie Sel ise eat ees steiete cysleie at os eee a toe hee Bilateral 426

Weight, fineness and value of ...--. .--. ---- -+-- e222 222 cre cer trees 426
Collaborators. References made to .----...---- - 2-22. cee eee wees ene eee cere teense 5)
Cole, Levi. Ethnological collections from.--..-....-----.--+-+ trees eeerr terete 28
Collections. Additions to in 1868......-..----..----- 22-2 eee ee eee terre cee: a5

in natural history. Account of .......----------+ +--+ --- eee eee eee eee 22
Congress. Memorial to ..---.---------------++--++222es errr 2 8 ae wees cece 13

Library of—exchanges....-....--- ...---2222 eee eee ences erect tenes 40

Library of, present condition of .....------.---------++-+--+- Se ete Al
Consanguinity. Systems of. L. H. Morgan ......---.-----+ +--+ +++ --22reeerere- 19
Contributions to knowledge, Account of...-....----------+ +--+ eee ere terete eee 17
Cooper, Dr. J. G. On birds of California. .-...-.---+-+--++-20+ 2-22-25 cr teet ce 33
INDEX, . 467

Page

Co-operation—not monopoly. Policy of the Institution -........2222. 2.222.222.2422. 14
with Institution, by departments and individuals ...........-....-..--- 40

WIE UN ORM US TUtIONS War eee nae So cee Bane oie None eee eee 16

Corcoran;* Ware poundation of Galleryiof Athy = soc ---- cen s oc eco cncccelscss 45
Correspondence.* «Nature and ‘extent’ of=2=-222 222.2. 22 Des cose eww noe Seco e tw cons 51
Crania.** Dransierred to~ Army’ Medical Museum 2. ' 22's eon cone anne coee ceca te 15
Cuvions) Mastery of workser by © lourens-- - "5-2". 2. Soe w cee te wwneec cers cece 141
Memomof, + bye Migurensee ese. mares Ss aces -am ee carers. once es snes 121

Cypuiss Perscovery Or ‘AMiMguUisiesiin == s8 Sees tesel ents cess dee feta es aoe 31
Daipyay. is Account'of explorations bys. 52. Sos oes se es coe wane oe oss OO
Aid rendered by..--. 9.00/00 0 SoH EH igs — SURE AE Ere ais le Te ea ate 30
ATGAGNOMMCANG Wanecen seine ates Aas sta ees cc Steen ees aeiseae Stas 36

Daubrie. Synthetic experiments relative to meteorites..........-.-.....---------e- 312
Payidsons Georve. Explorations, Allaskamassssesscarctccss soe cee vase eaes ccece. 24
avis Dr Boo. - “Arecheologreal collection of :- 22: 225 222.06 5. eS) eae cc kace cence. 27
AVIS, seLone Garret. eActstot asherentivess sascce ofoc ccdececsccee sace nazeesocone lil
Dayton, E.A. Explorations and collections by..--.....---.-----.- Bievetsh amd eines 29
Dean, John. Microscopical investigations, medulla oblongata......-...........---- 19
Way Beatmont,-Piie.+> Memioirroh @Oerstedme: 2c eae ce ccc os ee oboe ce cdeeden- 166
Delafield, Gen. Richard. Acts of, as Regent...-......- Jacwana cea sanaap eae oaes ae 111
Heporiiof comnntion ont “the canal ol 2 osc ce. cmjein:-cienremmciaaecqacinee Vil

Reportief executive eoninittege a. [2s o on oat os we nantes sates 108, 118

Le pOrinel (CXCCUIVO: COMINGS 2 nnd cc ccaclnn cons qoenas neenpa joee'scnwns 108

Department of Apricultares” Now bailding Of oe eens. ane nne <aclacanemnanceays * 52
De Saussure. Electric resonance’of mountains... |. oo os wee cee wenn cnsnsaccss 345
Beniva cag aie SPCCMUCNS 1LOINs ooo) coins dare: stances Se ae tia mriera= aah ciecadeae said 26
Devereux, J.H. Valuable ethnological collection from -...-.....-2-.-.2cc0 eee nee 29
Guipteta. *y Monopraple-of ha Osten Sackon ies... oo ae cas coee awsecdinn cc waselicee aces 18
PI MMO Or AUP CAO SPCCHMNENS sooo cc: at Oo ninewccelcae a wale a on Uo micecredaeae trace 36
Gt @uplicate specimens to end of 1868 = enone co ce neic tee mun eam sjccicmas 54

Priatyputiow of pacnares Ofrexchanpesr tits socccs ac cces ame sso Sed ace ces taeces chee 61
Py ciicienxgeana ee Hip mene CaIee NG Aa nnn ann mien e. anaes ac eca acemenn geias a aoe 42
Donations to'collections and museunt in $668. /Sl 0 SS Laos cece ne acca secceneccese 55
Pow; Captain’: Ms-*Ancientpottery, Ge. fronts Ss. ane = coco de nna temece ox meee 31
PpeeBPROMLO Miter er et aa een ne acacia eis eeasce ee mianicaaa ome sone ae 25

* Drift, fresh-water glacial. C. Whittlesey ....-...- “SHDOSI DSL CESS ACES HE REE Bebe seit 17
Drillinpyintstonesnthontmetaleseasseeees she sees cee acoe escapee ce cotee sete 392
Eaton, Prof, Hixamination’of botanical collections +... 22.1. cee oo cee eon on 24
Education. Books on, procured for Belgian government...........-....-..-------- 39
PEL Canag-+ VV.) Lie © Ollachiorietiroms=="2 2552 soa Toth oe eee ne ee ete et oe 29
Electric resonance of mountains. De Saussure:-:-.--...--.. 2-22. --0. --- Piseciaeeon 345
Ellery, R. L. J. Address of, President Royal Society of Victoria ...............--- 354
UME ment, Of, Di tit apeiteca eee 2 So Sc 242 act seep en ae an quje macnn 193
Engineer Department, United States army. Co-operation with ............-.....-- = ee
Entomological Society of Philadelphia. Insects assigned to..........-.-.--------+- 16
Ppeee Lopmeaperamers plorations® Dymo oe Lea eo ease cae cane one akececemoctteencn 32
Ethnolopical coltesnons, Atrangentent Of 222.022 e coo on. oe enc cemccmeewcavies 35
Prnnology. sapiens and collections itt (2226, 25.. ~ 2... cs wncceesemeecwcccices 26
Specimens of, received from Army Medical Museum .......----....---. 15
Transactions of Anthropological Society of Paris...-..-.-..-.-..-----. 76
ixchanpesreacsouiioUmey erent = 2202", 20a ees oo... non wore Cate pecememrioncceece 33
Acknowledgments for aid rendered to... 2-2... .2. eee ee enw cee eee wens 39

Aid rendered to, by steam and railroad companies..---...---..-..-..--- 39

BYEdoOmMol mrOMNGUUONy Goes sceee a ve des cocisteme cans cae csetcctccaded 40
468 INDEX

Page.
Exchange of duplicate specimens |<. -si\2 ec aciee eamre ae eee eto eer 36
Exchange of public documents with foreign nations.........-....--.--- For OOOSOD Ee 40
Exchanges. Statistices/of,) 1608)... 3.12). 2 sen9c <= 5s que ce eee eee see 60
Executive committee. Report for JG68)-)- 20:5 952 CREE Biehl ehh eis = A ES creierare 108
Sistement of finances. eo. cco cece Emer IAL Ice eM eae 13
Viacaneyfilled jim. tie eke ee ay aie ene ees ae eae A a LAN eh 118
Expenditures and receipts during 1868...-. 8) 52 tele iciomien ste cine alate Rane tee aa Seis citare 108
Explorations and collections in natural history. Account of .......--.-..----.------ 22
iesults of, invArcticyAmentea) some jase ese eeeee alee Soe ee 21
Ressenden, Hon: W..P.. Acts of, as. Regent, coe-asdeeeseea cee cee ae aaue- jii
Binances..” ReporbsOns 225 <6 fe hecttinmte acioemet anemia cma sae cece eee ae Ses) 108
Bine-ball. Acconntrot s 205.5 oiece ole oo toa cree cin asi tae aaah naa RAG 49
JeHs Coftinigs 522. A PE a a MM Lt 20
Hlourens,: History‘of works of Cuvier $2. shui cegukind Accsee teeta te ieee ie 141
Memoir of Cuvier .. 2... cee oe eae Seca ilopserhe as es Gs amet a 12]
Poreigon ‘coins: Wialto Of joie ooo. 2 ala 2 ee ce ae a ia eh Ne 426
Foreign distribution of packages for parties in America..........---.------ se Sei seiee 63
Foreman, Dr. di. Aid:rendered by, (1. -cindanc acre eee cee ey EE ee he 35
Arrangement of ethnological collections .......---02 s2-e-0 de s00-osese 35
Horm an;yo-n Collections drome cok cc eee credo eee ae see ee ee eee 29
iBondstor, the Institution. “Meresent condition, jase saci eee ee eee eee 13,14
Gallery ot art... “hounded by Mr. Corcoran sq ..6..c-2- onc aseeemenie Sacmeinseee ee 45
Garfield) Eton.) J.-A. Acts of, as Repent 1. - iso oe es eae Ss eee a lil
Garfield, General J. A. Presentation of memorial to Congress...--..----.------«--- 13
Gaudet CaP. Collections roma eee a aime sie pce et ea eg pea cag 30
Geneva. Society of Physics and Natural History, transactions ......---..--e2--.--/ 364
Geological researches in China, Mongolia, and Japan. R. Pumpelly -.....-...-..... 17
Gill, ‘Theodore: “Services and investigations. . <c<¢qe-eneseee sei eee es wel 44
Goldi¢oins.) “Assay. of; afi United States mint)... 52.2: nee eae ae: Sy aeierthe 422
Wieleht ineness: rand aval tie vo testes eee ance lei ee ee pe ge 426
Grant, Captain H..M:.- Remarkable stone idol -< 22)... none creintmcie (ain ee niaiereic chee ee Se)
ray, Wr. Asa.) (botanical Services 2ic 2S Se <. aceite aici) a.n or lop oie WSIENs potest betel as 14
Gray, Dre. ©. 7 COMCCHONS {TOM ws eis Sao ogee ein cetera epi een meena on 30
Grayson, Colonel. Exploration of Northwestern Mexico ....-....---.-.-e-ec+ eee &5
Green, Prof. William Henry. Examination of Morgan’s work..---...---.---.------ 20
Gregory;:J.. J. H.: Ethnological collections from..--.0.jo3% «2b <n siacenfocceebeeeenees 28 -
Grounds. Description of, and needed improvements .--.......---- ------ e----- eee 51
Gunn; Donald. 1 Contnbutions trom cooee sieeccocoee aes cee eee eee 23
Hadley, Prof. “Report on: Morgan's workbes.5 aaemiiebt astedee Steams a6 sae 20
Hagen, G. Memoirof Bnekecc. 0 bse on s.-tc- cae sescmede- peta eee See ee 193
Hague, iienry. | Specimens trom) cvs! .. = << snes e hese eee ee ea tee "26
Haley, i700 ollections romans eihe Wee ere te a ye SS a ee ee ee ereee oes 29
Eamiltons Jeena ollections tromlsiccs one sbe nce cima at cise eee aa eee eee 29
Hardisty, oMrnmCollections fromilse sepa ac seic esc beniaccih eee tee ee ace eee 30
Elarlem:, -HlollandiSociety of Sciencese cc ich eis, oom cielo Seg EE ieee eee 414
Hayden, Dr. FM.) explorations by. 25... -cice eee eee we. aeons 25
Hayes, Isaac I. Physical observations in Arctic seas .....-.<-¢--- s20.-2cewese----e- 17
Heat, mechanical theory of. Dr. Joh. Muller...--...... BeGare los ect. mike eter Meee 245
Heat, tecentiprogress in 'theoxyiot, . A; Cazin.. cue seeeeecerdh co toate ee eee 231
Henry, Prof. -Actsyol,’as) Secretanyge «<= 5424-05 eee ee ECL: < Sie ee eee 111
Henry, Prof. J. Daily movements of Bunker Hill Monument, ete .-.-...----..----- 287
Hi xperimentsion\ aneroids re ees. pte leche chen el eaten ee 353
Investigationsyby, in 1868)... ...... 2522. .=- tS) os apatite el As thee ee 38
Letter submitting report t9 Congress is. <item bisecjt a gate = 3,4
INDEX. 469

Page.

Heury, Prof} J. On discoveries'of Schoenbein..a- .- «<2. .----+ 2+. 22cm ans -enmeae oe 189
On gravitation -.....-.- (Soece oad Seti GH be SHOES Jace Bod SaoO- Jee Haaue 282

On sun’s parallax -...------ ------ ------ -- 222+ n-ne ne beeen en one 197

Spherical form of planets and globule of oil-.........-..-.-..-----..-- 284
Siawcealyelectrcalinepulsio nici ee a= lar eer tata ae a win =n pom nln a ele lo ricie 0 im 290

@brec kinds of telepraphy saa ao eo awn nin ge wm ois ere a ee ea in on 178

Transfer of energy ~----------- ---- +--+ 2020 ween center ens cone ceeene- 243

Herbarium. ‘Transfer of, to Department of Agriculture........-----.----------.---- 14
Hildreth, 8. P. Meteorological observations at Marietta, Ohio...-......---..-----.- 18
Epa yor tho works Of Cuvier, Dy, BOUTens<... 5c 2.5.26 - scm loe wl vinsimaawelec ads. 55 141
History of transactions of Anthropological Society of Paris......-...---.-------.--- 376
Picheock; Prof.» Bthnolericalrcollectiona irom 22.1 =< 25s oe ie cist oo one cine enn 28
Pitz, ore Exploration) of Upper Miassounl 4-11. -tan= cfaiaaie = own winnie « na vlaie oan fol = 25
Hodgkinson, Eaton. Memoir of, by R. Rawson.-.--.-.------------+0-----+------ ecdes
Hollded Society of Sciences." Prize, questions. ~~ ---. 2... - ss on dese eeans -- sce 414
Bollis) Mis ‘Collectionsittromiassac cone soos et sects s Sob hoe cln Saint) wows sk Seb eige cweolte 29
Hough, G. W. Self-registering barometer. Account of ......--.....-----.-------- 48
Haward, Captain * Explorations, “Alaska 322% oosce case se cee s saan Games cosas 24
Howell Robin -Collectionsmiromerssee am ae cain face cleee wale oso cialae nrc patches Samer teiaversiaie 29
Hudson’s Bay Company officers. Observations by .---....---.----.----- peeing ae 21
JETTA RODS AWW sete IT BtENOLE ser Seen ce ete ree Nee yn Oo Ne a pat ek 26
Inman, Thos. Ancient faith, embodiéd in ancient names .-....---.-..--.---------- 27
ENGIBHE GMOHDS. bE AtLeby Sura re ONAN aoe soma wcae canis, wo se sn <<a sin aeabiene e sieenme 20
Pamigue, systenis Ul-TelamOuship AUION Pose ei oo oo aw ae no cin wna wining pe hyein wining’ 19
Insane, government asylum for. Living animals sent to...---.......--------.----- 36
Hripeche-wassl SNEduLONCO UA DOLALOUS mes sce 3 cela oa ciie ae se Sei oe one a emlo cine akan 16
Enyestiphtions during’ fe year 1666 eee ee eee ee eset enee 38
Denke ms Woke uubnolomical collections tTOM)..o0.- <= os<26 «omni aie to meciqaaenacie omen 28
sermneto Oe CLONOLPE sm @ OLLECMONSHTOM core ac c= ooo) 34 co ceyein cima ee owmnis ede eicee ois 29
5) CHO U Lae HATO DUECLL ONS HERON ES = oc) 0s Se ececs jas m «cjelcinnimcpancPreer meee ae 30
Joumalor proceedings of Board-of Rerentss.. on. ou). sun wae nomic ameieicaaadomaitaenen 11)
1) Ober Berea tite uanerals and rocks 4rOM = oo ce Lon meio oemmejnate <ccegann aoe = 35
ivenm | GeomNiey Collectlonsrronms seers teres orey-'a oe aisid an oa een noe oe esis 29
Kentucky University. Aid to Sumichrast’s exploration .-...-.----..---..--------0- 25
VES Sao gti) ie ll oh gaat ly el a ee SAP pes ee EARS SS 22

Kew Observatory. Experiments on aneroid barometers .......-----.---2-----eenees 350
King, Clarence. Exploration of 40th parallel_.----...----..----- o-00-- ssceenadccen 24
Markby; Her pyar ae OleCiROne CR ObO. isto rs SE hac 15 om an hnt tinge Maatth x aes 30
MA CUSRTIAT VOTES esis atone ae a iat a trad aa conn ee RU oleae 27
Ema Onnce.. “Fix ploratiQus td en, Se. a2. =< nya b Soyer ie ioe diam oie icine la meen cel 25
EgomerGieo.-A 2 Mone implements: from 5-252) oc see oo nto sim ahs epochs cape, anions 31
Lgtmer Geo. Specimens frome. fs 20S. See eee cen cow ome eachas oa bee 26
ar rye eesti) £0) CUT WOR at te ole oe a atnip emir chor peta kee pain nosn sem ame 42
UCT it Gee See rs Ce eee Aa ee le ht ae 4]

aren eam Account Ob Soi ooo. ate Satie ao ae nian, them mayan 41
Taghi-house Beard.» Co-operation With) .. 22-6 .--0<enuene anne -aenn-os enone anemen 16
Investigations of ..........-.- Sct Bie 2 56 Soe Eee arene 38

List of publications of the Institution to July, 1869..............-------------- > 429
Living animals received in 1868 and transferred to Insane Asylum. .......---.------- 36
Mockhartydass. aContitbuirond dram: se ee ae ees eae ice eee cece once edhe ke cope 23
Loew. « Mlongpeaghi nth Gimerametis 8 of yon sees a wo. ce mea ke wipekeyaldee momen 18
Peron, Ss. SRO RAU at MERION 5 icra Wa 55am. <'s'0 pein a ace nied nics. neeiad made nnce 26
Macfarlane, B.. Valuable eontnibutionsifroms<i<- +--+ ccenencace oobcre «emcee cece 22

Bee6St,.DY. 100s: ACs Off OM OPO 5 inom inn » a0we lane wasencec- duns anwnssedes 1i1
470 INDEX.

Page.
Maclean, Rev. D. John. Appointed on Executive Committee..............-.-..-.-. 118
McCulloch, Hon. Hugh.” Co-operation orsses- 4s ears eee eae ee on ee 40
McDougal; Mrs, (Contnbutions trom sassese see cence ser ae eee ne ee one 22
McIlvaine, Rev. J.H. TExamination of Morgan’s work .-----..-.......-..----.---- 20
Maerinis 1:2 Vibratory, movement ofall matters ae sce ae tee eens: coe een eee 231
Manuscnpts'ol bmgiand.~; Accountiol .. sco6 ele hepoo-ce eee ee epee es ee ae eS
Maps addeditotdibrary durine WG3,— ac eciece oe cee sere es emer ees 42
Marietta, Ohio. Meteorological observations. Hildreth -.......2222.2....---..2..- 18
Matter. “Vibratory movement ot.” Macrints: <2 s-coa-2 <nac cee ee nee See ee el 231
MatthewsiaDr: Collectionstrom: tesserae cee ce Bese coe eee ee eee 3
Medical department of United States army. Transfer of crania to .........-...-.--- 15
Medullaoblongatas. Dr. John Dean... - 202 nose ce haces cence os cee ee 19
Meek, is Bi Aid Ten GOred Ye oo. vo sisersectere Seis e a nee ae ee eee ee Ee 36
Meigs, General M::C.;) "Co-operation Of ot ocets cae cee ce tec se ee ee ae meme 40
Hlembers, tee operon Or the Uistitutlonyncses cen eco e oe een a ee ae 6
Memoinot (Ouviler sc. seem ce ea ae ts). soe e ne ase nonin a cunt eae ease UR 121
1 aS rs pe IE MR Sn CePA Le ic. YAN 8 Er RTL SPST 193
POM SINS ON. cia, Sue cca Pe nem meals set ee SEE eee CEE Aree ean ae 203
Wershedstana eran coe ese teenie aes cae eae ERI ee eee ee 166
SLL (07=) 1 8°30 0 We Sean pate Ny Ry SN ee yh NS ly be ae ae 185
NFemiorial stoi One ress eee ee ee tres eae ie eee at ene ere iene eee I 13
Meteonefire=pall-" Accanntof, paper Ol... =o 222 socee nabs comes cose coe ee tees 49
"fed 5 (9h 0/05 5 Tecate allem pamela sp getertter ah <i apart eed eel ty Hae Yn, 2
Meteorites. Catalogue of, in Yale‘College |... 22.22. f eck DTS Os Mens ee 342
Synthetic experiments relative to, by Daubrée..-.-.......--.-...------ 312
Metecrolosicalimatenial contnbutedan W868 50-202. <2 ereeayese ace ae Cee ee 102
observations.) “Marictta, \Ohio.  Ehildrethys-. 5. oo se eee eee 18
stations andiobservers tovend) or 1008 -22--cescesce eocetecare ccmecees 68
Meteorology. Account of operations in ........--.......-- sea at ye ker Slee AS es 45
Michler, General. Plans for improvement of grounds -.----..--..--..--.--------- 52
Mireroscopicel investigations. Dr: John Dean... 20... cs. -.¢ ---s.qcecenc sas cceee eas 19
Mills yCaptam: yi olections trom 25 cee cece cesses ome eee Gees cee oes e see ieee 30
Minor Deh. Exploritions:Y Alaska 20: "oc eeose. sc te coe nae eee 24
Mint. Processes employed ‘in’assay of gold aiid’ silver..2---- .--.ss-cceeesnee sec ee 422
Miscellanecusicollections> "Accontt eh o-cas. se cose tec ce es cece eee ena tose tems la,
Moore Oa Collections mromemee ser cee ee neers ne ea eee ee eee eee eee 29
Morgan, Tews Ei. Systems of relationship <2: ----)..---7 2 csc someone ncee eres 19
Mounds;:.\<xploration of ites cea ae ee en ee Ree ee eee SD abe tM ih en 26
Mountains. \Mleetnemesonance!’ Dp Saussurets 2252022 82s Soo sce cone cee oe eee ee 345
Muller, ir: Joh. Mechanical theory of heat: 225. eesti. lec. cee ee ee eee ete ee 245
Mummycase.c Driv. Pickering, wor "eee Ae cee ee ee eae ee 20
Museums Additions :toriniliGGgrk See eee eee eee a ee eee occ 55
Appropriation (by. Coneress for’ ett sooo eee eeeeemere =e oleae o4
Army Medicale) Dranster ot CraiiatO ..0- 9. =< ae eee ete = === aac 15
Blacknrores sNoticevOfsne hast ets serene he eee Ee eee neee an enee cemcecers 408
Museumand"care Gf specimens,’ Account ofi22522 “Serie eeee -+- 20 cee ans cane 3
Hntriesansrecord-books, 1866—'67— GS css on Seer cs eee c noe eee ae 54
Museums, foreign. Applications made to, for specimens.-.. - Bee oe Meee ee emacs 36
Museum of comparative zoology ‘of ‘Cambridge. --> S022. 20 222. 22... ooo ew ene eee a= 22
Memorraltto Conovess relative tome ssc sect aac 6 wees ieee tatetsinere ere 13
Number ofdonations*toy in 18682 222s fe ee. ee eee aeee nae soe noe
National Academy of Sciences, investigations of....-....-...2. 0255.25 22 2-22 + -- = 33
National manuscripts of Ef@land.- Account of..2: 52.5050. 222 ioe i. ees comes oe 43
Natural History. Transactions of Geneva Society of.... .-...--- See) ea 364
INDEX. A771

Page
Nautical Almanac. Co-operation with -...........- FOr SC Ce OTR Cee sade) one SE ore 16
Navy Department. Orders from, to procure antiquities ........-...-----.---------- 3
Neptune; orbindl. srisy 5. WCWEORD eee a0 222s oe ns ane n neo nea actos act ee ane 17
Newcomb; Sew Oxpis ot Nepiiiessseee an 1.255 one eaoes te os veins sane h wece sateass 7
Norway, government of. Books on military affairs procured for......----.-------..- 39
Qbservatory, Hew. Experiments on aneroids..-.- -- <- -isonenieena wee cee a2 4 nanna-ae,' SOU
Observatory, National. Co-operation with ..--..-.-- me eos soe Fone Sane enn Heaaee 16
Geers fe emer ON) OL ta ors pent tet Slate aaron walk olathe fore tte ef laare w Sitchcrops 166
Omicerotehe Enstitwtione sees sepa ce alma eh Sale ay Sie enon ons cial aiata ne aicia sisrole paisa 5
Orthoptera. Catalogue of, 8S. H. Scudder. ......-.....-.....- BS a RR a 18
Giigmbacken. Monograph ob diptera a. o.oo. wacom Ronan cinemas we aieenenmeae- 18
Ozone. Schoenbein’s discovery of.......-.------.- Beas Goode sagas) Case oo ba oo sere 185
@zonen see; SCHOeN bein. va sees eee eee ni nlsie iat winisiaterein aS eleleye nisin eels sine siaeins 185, 189
Pacific Mail Steamship Company. Aid rendered by -.-.---.--- -=-..-..------------- 23
Palmer? Dr; > “Audi rendered) by 2225s se ate =< 0)-0- = Se eacisiore minis meee i siojas rit OU
Arrangement of ethnological collections ...---.-.--.------.2---s.----- 30
Ethnolopicalicollections trom ms ceec cece a's aac eee inane sneeo eee 3 anin aa 28
JOR FV OPAINVES | Phfcio SA coe aod, CoO Dane boeaoE GoEae TED bed Soa aoe anon aCe ne 20
Indian collections from era. atcvenceseis ai.) seein Wea Gone en Gace oO ebenoe 30
Rauker-Hons beter, Acisiof) as Rerenticcaa- vance cele ene wines scene epee isis 2 lil
‘heport of executive: ecommittecs 2: S20 (5-022 ee sthsssuasandaninauhee aan 108
Report-on cariall22 5:2 sees. -e cr Beate Sete Ro abla o ares icine are 1li
atentenica.” Co-operation “With. oo ests steno oss cen secls/ wenn seen te cbte de cic ator 16
Peabody Academy of Science. Explorations by~-..-,<00:- -ng-<e-ues coecicsee eonsa- 32
Peabody, George. Foundation of museum and professorship of ethnology by -..-.-.-- 26
Beabady-yieonard. ~ Collectionatfrony - 2.20 ere cee eens scot cicasise es Salas 29
Peabody Museum, Cambridge. Explorations aided by ............ So clath ate inde pe ms 22
Physical observations. Arctic seas, Hayes...........---.----.----0- eee ee ore 17
Taayoien, | HinunAclions Of.Gonevi SOCiOby Of. <2... 22 cset ee aoe Sooayo apaeionte 9 oe nie Se 364
ekenne liet@hanies:, (Mummy Cases. = Senate = 5 aetyemntcm ase er acaba nee 20
Plants. ‘Transferred to Department of Agriculture .......0~--- +--+ o--0seecess-ce 14
Eodilock,. James.) Beportiof director of mint. <=. < - 200 << nae eae neenpecs-nde@-<.<2he 422
Powel, Samuel. Aid rendered, monograph of diptera....-.......------.----s 2+ 19
Punting of xeport.. Extra copiesiordeted. 22.2225 5. << nen) da- designe nds cm amerasta< 2
Barvetquestions. “Bordeaux <n saspiren= oyoncl-e ser soshere spielen s seuss Aas 419
ERTIEM; <2 nce ote oicine poke cc CON: Moh ate hemes tare A aumeeloe = ated 405, 419
Programme of -HollandSociety.of Sciences... \2 Se s.-se- bias2eneeaieo-eesseee = -ae aa
of Imperial Academy of Sciences. . Bordeaux. ..-.-- ..-..--- 0+. s--s-- 419
of organization of the Institution) «~-..2-.s2-—- =,<-0=6/seemee eae ss oat 7
eetsrion. J... V.b.., At Ol, BB ROPE «<5 eget thwanic paltoemie Oo aan epa meet |S aa 11)
Publications in natural history from Smithsonian material ............---....------- 102
Of the, Instingonnn LO Oly sl GOO a. 2 onc cn seein ae aye ees soe trs 429
Gl tip InsipouvOne, ACCOUNT Of cn on 6 an eee hea NE orotaue ar Sele 17
Pumpelly, R. Geological researches in China, Mongolia, and Japan .....-----.----- 7
BG VE Cite Bee 5” ol Yo] yaad Bd cd | ee SPER es ene earn eS eye, NS Gl ee 292
Rain-fall. Discussion and publication of...-...-.--..-----. ESBS PSE ON OS ee Se a 45
ef North America. Discussion and reduction of........---------- Seno 29
Di oo ecyae epee Pele OF. Spe hol (cha) 0) ener ee ee cacao, a) ee nee ne se Pere ee 47
Randolph, William B. Notice of death of......-..----- EE RES Rad 53
Rau, Charles. Agricultural flint implements in Southern Illinois ...-........-.------ 401
Derllinganistonemmithontimetaly scm aaa as apn Opti or pees 392
Rep lOvADIONNe BN see t= ai. dae oo tors) 3 2 Sea pe ale aoe dt oes 32
Haweson, Robert.. Memoir of Hodgkinson. «5. <4). 020+ - tan aocncemeise-slacteeeensie 203

Igaoelpia and expenditutas daring) ISG8....) ..-.<2. oan 0. doen ca cpvnlealwainle a veeab = bane 108
472 INDEX.

Page.

References ‘madeto collaborators): 2/8. [soo co. decree cow ecee pote fe cee sateen eee 51
Regents, Board of. Journal of proceedings of ..---..----.---- Re ctssssnerees omee ee 111
Reéventstof the MnstivutionMss- 4. seo see soe ee ee eee ee ee ee oe eee ees 5
Relationship. “Systems ‘ot, Lewis" Ht. Morpun 2-22-30 3-- voeececccs coe cee ees eces 19
Reports. (Accountiotie ego gece trae tore Ne hee a etna ce em re mer a i Peer eye a 17
Report; ‘annual, toiConeress for 1867." “Accountot sc se se see eee ates <) ee eneee 21
Report,(extra copies ordered: else ck coe see eee ce es a eee ee er oeer 2
Report, larger edition désirable- 22252052222 2252222222 2. eae s Aaa tes eaters 21
Reportiof ‘Secretary, Protessombenty. for l608'-=- 2-7 estas ce ee cee eee eee 12
Reportioithe Assistant: Secretany.+-222 oases cee eoe cesar e enna eee ae eeeee 54
Report of Executive Committee for 1868.......---.. - SE Soe ae eB tp 108
Report of Professor Henry presented and ‘accepted 242-2 S50 2 ec. tos coneee sere 118
Report, ordered £0. be printeda-s----sccrps-5 soso se cae eacn leo oe cee eee eee 3
Resolution instructing Executive Committee relative to canal ..-.--.. .----.-------- 118
Resolution to ask Congress to increase appropriation for care of museum.-.-.--..----.- 118
Ridoway, hobert:., Aud rendered by. soon cece me seen a eee cre ener eae ee 35, 36
Oss. B. he Contributions trom so soot eas sees see ae a cs ose eee en | eae are 23
Russian telegraphexploraviOne sass: asc. ssGncsas sane Soa aetiocee acetates ccine sect cone 21
Salisbury. INoticeroé Blackmore’ Musetm atti a2 oes aces e see ete oe eats ENE 408
Salvin’ O;BirdsdrOMe. ss occ ne cesses oa eee eee eae metas eee ee cree cee eee cee eee 26
Sampson, W.) dthnolopical collections front «5-2. s-- nena noe emeiees oe Sete e Sa ceiee 28
SandemC@ommoadore. |Coroperatiomiol mec conte cise nice es ee eie ate na lee eee a tala eer 40
SALLOnius. | DO rsatee xp lOTAMONSm scene item sarc se a meee aera a ene I HN pe aati 25
Schoenbein, ‘Christian rederte.| Noticelofs. 2 so ase aaees ose ose ae ee see aaee 185
Schooleraft; Mrs: His ks “Collections trom ss2. +> ose ee ccs ee coe eee eee eee 30
Schoti,,C."A" Discussion of Tain-fall:- 22. so soeaw se cce See cout eae eee 45
Sclater; Dr: Pili.’ Birds ifrome.oo.. $222 0 a ae ee ee 26
Scudder; S: He Catalopweiof onthoptera voc oeleec ve saetecnnic esr ae eee serene 18
ScuddeniS:1kl. ylnsectsitassioned toss ur cteateee ese ena eee ae mee eee naareeers 16
Secretanyi, winvestivations "by When Cemeteries sare loins he ate aint ateteate mete faetat= 38
Seward, ‘Hon. Wm. H. Co-operation of .5 222222222 oY See See Se eS eiteiele care 40
Shaw, E. ° Ethnological’collections from \. 220222. 20.02 Isat 222 Sees seen 28
Shell-heaps: \Explorationvof.2. oF 2222582 bse Po US TOU ONE eres citar oa leletara = nintnteie eo 32
Shells of America, land and fresh-water. Binney and Bland..-.--.-.---.------------ 20
Shimer; Profs -Hi.; “Golden eacle from’. <—- s<- cack q 2 ore tee eres eon eielem =) mains oem a= 39
Silver coins. Assay of, at United States Mint......-. 22... - 200 e202 saeeemewee ---- 422
Silver coins. Weight, fineness and value of... 22 2/22/22 Jo) Scie Sis Seo eee wees 426
Slacte, J. We Collections from..Aeeoees 2. ee. Se EOS. te eek ain terete 29
Smith! Dr.* “Birds fromesaee deat. Lee eee a ae EN. Se a re eee cate ae ceeere 26
Smithson. Bequest and financial condition.......------..-------+ -----+ ------+---- 108
Smithsons Ghibrary Of spt ele nic cles wale wim: Sere ate ia haa ela al efoto el= apetee etal tateletele/=f=to 44
Smithson’ *SWallof. sets Saws ous ees at tree aoe etn ae elena et i ees as
South America. Explorations in.-.... 2.20+-2-22+ 220. coe. coon eee es eres eee ee = 28 25
Specimens. Account of receipts in 1868-..---.-.-.---.------------ +--+ +--+ +--+ ---- 34
Specimens, sent to collaborators.........------- ------ e222 ee ee eee ene eee eee eee 37
Spofford, A. R. Co-operation of.........----. ----- 2-222 eee ee eee eee eee eee eee 40
Statistics of exchanges in 1868...... ..-. 2-2-2. -- 0 se eeee oe eee eee eee ee eee ee eee 60
Stearns, Ri E:'C. - Birdsiand shells:from 2. 22<)- 2. -1s2e races ois Se ent sineinie === 24
Stewart, B. Experiments on aneroid barometers ....-.-.-.------ +--+ -----+--+-+---- 390
Stimpson, Dr. Wm. Aid rendered by..--....-.--2------ 2-22-22 eee eee eee eee 35
Stone. Implements and method of drilling.......--. ------ +--+. ++ -+-- +--+ 2-20 ----- 392
Stratton’ Jacob.” ~ Collections#from| passer ee aoe = oo oe Salen moe 5 Ste cnet See eiseletalen mean = 29
Sumichrast, Prof. Exploration of Tehuantepec..---.---.-.---- +--+ --+- 2222 eeeeee- 25
26

Sundevalli Prof. “Birds: fromec. Ac one ic noc ae eee eee tele cre tatelatectataretetar
INDEX. AG3

Page
Sylvester, S. H., ethnological collections from.....-.. .-.-.- -2-00+ cece anes eeee neon 28
Systematic list of Smithsonian publications ..........-.-. 2. 2.2. 22-22- e-e--- wenn 429
mee. JciGal) SHGIGUS GU CANE ROBEY. 4 amos inc cen coe neljmcou oameen saad ages caee 20
Swedish Academy of Sciences. Birds from-........---.-..---...--..-000- --2--=-- 26
Telegraph, Russian-American. Explorations LESE OC SRC COD Cans EOCU COE IOS ESCMGEE Bee 23
Temperature. Discussion of ..--..-.---- -------- -- ------ won. eee ee ee en ee eee --4- 45
Theory of heat. A. Cazin.. 4 <-- .<-5.. 22-0). enne ~~ oon e Seen en ce nse scee ens cces cnne 231
Gore cm Npa te | PIF. JON MUNOn nan ae ae nici aaicinesicine lcci ea ae ndacs danas as ones 245
Acer ese VATION a reales ote eae apnoea elie ee ain Seas ae 18
TGC Wits. MOM Greini ag agin So cehcoopro DOB oO oSe DH DOP Ore ecra coed Babe Geos eBEe 29
meow. LT. JORTaly BOCABICAL REGVICES: 25 ac.tne aocinwe(asicwica\n noincis oc escimqsaoeas sacs 14
ranster On DOOKS £0) Pabrany) Of" © ONPYCES n= a0, c,noceleisiciio = <i2)=- a 1sia.0 cit ain/aisainicisiselosis = 14
ransferoferaina; ccc., tovarmy, Medical) Museum. .- <.)< 5/2222 csi sceteccceece cae 15
Transfer of herbarium to Department of Agriculture ........--....----.------------ 14
Trees. Reclaiming arid wastes by planting.-.~-. 2-2. ..0.- 200.2 cocscceces ------ 48
EeBIb H/o.) Ty A CIMOL aR REP ON cane Welatre <eicsciainindieacoeeinsnais anisa sacs 111
Trambull, Professor, report on Morgan's work...---. .----. 2222. cosncnsesens cocee- 20
Pumer Granville. aM linthoOurOmeraws cia deeis's a aise cosine cole ssc sins wisis efcteiesciciemese o 29
Puener, Missi dane, SOLVICOs Hl DIAL cae aisan cle n\nm Jeeta nn a ae a) ceases) soa aenn si saicn oa 44
Tyler, Mr. Collections from ...--. SSodod CoSDBEEenn BES SoOHSAOR OBOOOs0e Csao eOOBEe 29
RNC all ROHN v ON TadiawWon ese onctersiss soso oem e ese clas male isiajne eden apse se seers . 292
Wibratery movement Of mation, Maprint. 5.00222 ccc nicicas ccs ons cas ecimecisise aaissoe 281
Victoria. Address of President of Royal Society of ...... ...-..---. .----- eee eens 354
Rae ranimIES. wD. US nCCIMODN EOL a cic sais ate cle mos ap oS coin cic ace <= omeiae 25
Dy aee. ctor. bsvB. o ACG OL, as TODGNie cece: oa! ciaiate Seca a5.0\a's 5 djnSin nue pisinje rae secaen 111
Walkera bra Collectionsrromzncccen coae cate cn ate ea ss oman chesionicc eeisiaatyee scree ae 29
Pyalker. Dire bE, | Menopomas Alen antec are sor <nisices. c/s oan eincinin se sia clas sae eioeete 35
Wallach hichard, renontony Canal oss sono lowicio we) sats Sion oe nao sce eisiainieslseete soars 111
Wartmann, Elie, transactions of Society of Physics and Natural History of Geneva... 364
Mapbin sion, centor of scientific activity -. 0.020526 1 sn esas cece no cses scenes senses 16
Washington. Importance of institution fo city of -.-..... .2-icc2< once sen ence cases 16
MV enbert Uinited mtateda PecplOratiOns) 2.2 o.< coc\e cence ected -maniccscetieawecc maces 24
WV bite; Captain,  Dxuplorations; Alaska. <2. < coco aecmes Henn sccnios Saseee senna dede 24
Whitney, Professor J. D., geological survey of California ........---..----..-....-. 38
Whitney, Professor W. D., report on Morgan’s work ...... 2.26, c-er-- esedles cannes 20
Whittlesey, Charles, fresh water glacial drift... .... 20-22. 200000 eoc-e- none eoen anes 17
PM OSs PHRNEO ce 3 omc care een ania, winle. 6 oui atap RE SAR LETS RED i a aie As sk 7
ie SO Hs Pee OO DROL CUE MON RON rao tale ow ais aaininons vassen eins escodu(sosencas tettaae 35
VION SORA Ms. NOX DIOTAMONS WHEE occa a doen aca deie suismes acquaecade sweden aces 25
menos. . Discussion Of, Dyce tOiesser, COMM... o 5-65 coe noes sce cen -eeataas teen oe 45
Wood, Dr. W. Ethnological collections from .......--..-.--6 ------ one foese se soe ea 28
HIG ETOLSSSOY <4 | EK PIORALIONA DY" <nccan's actwe scan senwcn sodameweas susie sauce 32
Wyman, Professor Jeffries. Organization of Peabody Museum ..-.......-......----- 26
Male Coleus Collection Of MeteOntes <..4 ..00.'a- acess camamman Gee ecc~ce cone on anee 342
ep ee MISE LLOUIS LEO yore aiuiid Sia wtotel ns aia ou ens Maeda mw Soe eee 30
Oty eae ePRETICOLOG, UY = os am ewe so wine tin cc cr a eee meee wa cao on ones chune 35, 36
SCM OH,) «) Cera MOODS (OM) oem eet ae fees et aaatieivews no aun = srs socanwesoece 25
Zoological Museum, Copenhagen. Moose from ......-....--202 ee 22 eon cence eneeee 35

ols
“ita 7 Lala atta

ahsg vie ie ct: yw

aie i ™

es Piprenaesine =
PUA Fear es Vay ae Levnadedl
: Seay) i ae. AY ’ ate eh
anh ay ‘Ay, jndey a, it
Ai ssa es ve uf td

i
) hae ae i. Sere

ef Seat fay ain em en Be edt:

0 ae eae are ie mie 25 =

cb aie ae ey a

A 1e ww e

ey ion mine Ns five
grey hibhernicn -

‘ie
io ee eee

nos

i ane £
Ve fy Wr ashy, 10% ip liAe

ips
f ie '9 Wt

apa ren " whi wi tof N
i ri me Dea ay c ay bed 5 an ¥

bial i
io ee
rr eee te 7 . rahe ‘ayaa a hair! “ ‘ bid

aon As Ami
i

x Si ot Passe «os od
»

4 ne Bats. <fee tete, en a a vatt i ig . aay <s EW | ha i
Poe mp so ten can ‘hy watts alli,
gee ncaa ES Anan RE MT
: Hy. Pmigeeerey Be went thah bi ST ‘ ‘A

, Pes !
os oe, es Aeoreee | eae
: A A
4 ene | ee ALO e
ee Ce ee

, he i ay }
inf eho alae
i) ORE toy ha
i vat ay Ap eG “ie

He
is " ma reve | io
v " ‘

7

ik

‘

| Py
i

= ¥ 3

®
ty

|

| |

wml

|

4 .
in * >
614 «. . .
se, ,
te
‘ ‘ A
Moy ye
m3 on ‘ . F ‘
. es ' 2 .
- . io
oe 4 », ~
I . _ < .
he ® Y
a * -
7: * *
=, 8 ~ é
~ - % . * " a
> hats m
, . ~. * .
» . rs e x
eine ‘ ‘
5 ?
“ d ree .
, m r -
_— ¥ “ae . ss:
ao — <> % ”
ae <> ’ -
. . ‘
~ .
on - 4
x a ~
. : : 4
‘
—~ ae 7
YS . — .
> roo - . m
Rete!
: ~y :
— * os - .
a Ceol}
ram on —_ 7 '
— \ :
- "
re ae e ; - ~s = =
& ; > . = a oe,
: - ~~ \ : . 4
ae x - . »
oat” 4 > - “~d cs Ww
¢ “ at oe —~ ” “en
7 ~~ be
5 4 * ™
ie ~ > :
Pa, ae ,
z , - . :
? .
4 +4 *
take
. ree
. ,
» ¥ y -
bi!
4 . }
nf .
oo = P
: ——, 7 ~
.
: '
= _
ote
2 ~ ° . ; - . - : asia -
~ ee.
~ ; .

