we ae pee ; tas on
: 299,88 oe he watt
ee we eewe tS vee

seen
‘e oe ® “ ae
.” ee Bate

a,

fe

Nese APE LTA " ik
; Pe Pent
mi Re re

vt Y o>. f

; » 3,
dicen Af

y Li

S > ere 3
bet eae ES

aN % gare

2 >
re
fon P =
coed aie
weee
=
—-

| fame}
‘“<

v } ie

420 CONGRESS, ! HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES. Ex. Doc.
lst Session. No. 20.

ANNUAL REPORT

OF

THE BOARD OF REGENTS

OF THE

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,

SHOWING

THE OPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES, AND CONDITION OF THE INSTITUTION
FOR THE YEAR 1870.

WASHINGTON: ;
GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE.
1871.
CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES, IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
FORTY-SECOND CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION, April 19, 1871.

The following resolution, originating in the House of Representatives this day, has
been concurred in by the Senate, viz:

‘* Resolved, (the Senate concurring,) That twelve thousand five hundred additional
copies of the report of the Smithsonian Institution for the year 1870 be printed,
twenty-five hundred of which shall be for the use of the Senate, five thousand for the
use of the House, and five thousand for the use of the Institution: Provided, That the
aggregate number of pages of said report shall not exceed four hundred and fifty, and
that there shall be no illustrations except those furnished by the Institution.”

Attest: EWD. McPHERSON,

Clerk,
LETTER

FROM THE

SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,

TRANSMITTING

The annual report of the Smithsonian Institution for the year 1870.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,
Washington, March 1, 1871.
Sir: In behalf of the Board of Regents, I have the honor to submit
to the Congress of the United States the annual report of the operations,
expenditures, and condition of the Smithsonian Institution for the year
1870.
I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
JOSEPH HENRY,
Secretary Smithsonian Institution.
Hon. 8. COLFAX,
President of the Senate.
Hon. J. G. BLAINE,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
ANNUAL REPORT OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION FOR 1870.

This document contains: 1. The programme of organization of the
Smithsonian Institution. 2. The annual report of the Secretary, giving
an account of the operations and condition of the establishment for the
year 1870, with the statistics of collections, exchanges, meteorology, &ce.
3. The report of the executive committee, exhibiting the financial affairs
of the Institution, including a statement of the Smithson fund, the re-
ceipts and expenditures for the year 1870, and the estimates for 1871.
4, The proceedings of the Board of Regents. 5. A general appendix,
consisting principally of reports of lectures, translations from foreign
journals of articles not generally accessible, but of interest to meteorol-
ogists, correspondents of the Institution, teachers, and others interested
in the promotion of knowledge. |
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

ULYSSES S. GRANT....- President of the United States, ex-officio Presiding Officer ot
the Institution.

SALMON P. CHASE ....- Chief Justice of the United States, Chancellor of the Insti-
tution, President of the Board of Regents.

JOSEPH HENRY -.----.- Secretary (or Director) of the Institution.

REGENTS OF THE INSTITUTION.

Sila CEUAS Bes aeee er ..---Chief Justice of the United States, President of the Board.
Sei COMMA Teo 25 5s5.4ss%<5 Vice-President of the United States.
HENRY D. COOKE ....--. Governor of the District of Columbia.

Ibs UMP OINUS ONLI bes cease Gone Member of the Senate of the United States.
GARR AVIS 4421.22. Member of the Senate of the United States.
Tey PACD TIN 2 SS ec epeierss Member of the Senate of the United States.
Jey Ate GoAUE EU LIET IG WF ne a mtetarare Member of the House of Representatives.
Ib, 2 TROND Se beomoosor Member of the House of Representatives.
Sis OLD: ae tense oo Sno rte Member of the House of Representatives.
Wirt bivAS ORG Ssh oe uese Citizen of New York.

MPs IDS VVOOILSIBY CS 6 Sa saaee Citizen of Connecticut.

Ib BEINSIS) WApaeoecesuousece Citizen of Massachusetts.

TPB ETRY PAU RGGI eee seleral= Citizen of Washington.

JOHN MACLEAN ..-.----.- Citizen of New Jersey

d

}
° EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.
WILLIAM T. SHERMAN ..Citizen of Washington. J

MEMBERS EX OFFICIO OF THE INSTITUTION.

WSS GRAN ses eee eee President of the United States.

ish (ChOIDID. Cran aeepeeseror Vice-President of the United States.
ish 124 O13 UNSIU aaesae cope ecard Chief Justice of the United States.
181, IMIS Seas eee eee eee Secretary of State.

GaSe BOUD WHE os -re= Secretary of the Treasury.

Mie Wis IBIBIDINP ES ores. Secretary of War.

Go ME ROBESON -22244---6 Secretary of the Navy.

J. A. J. CRESWELL....--. Postmaster General.

Ca DEAN ORasse= = sa cars Secretary of the Interior.

Ike AiG PAO TI RINUAIN soca eeosee Attorney General.

MED os G Giese ee Commissioner of Patents.

ERSDs COOKE eer 2 Governor of the District of Columbia.
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE INSTITUTION.

JOSEPH HENRY, SECRETARY,

Director of the Institution.

SPENCER F. BAIRD, ASSISTANT SECRETARY,
In charge of Museum, Exchanges, &e.
WILLIAM J. RHEES, CHIEF CLERK,

In charge of Accounts, Printing, and General Business.
DANIEL LEECH, CLERK,

In charge of Correspondence.
CLARENCE B. YOUNG, CLERK,

And Book-keeper.

HENRY M. BANNISTER, CLERK,

In charge of Meteorological Records.
‘

s

JANE A. TURNER, CLERK,

In charge of Records of International Exchanges.

SOLOMON G. BROWN, CLERK,
In charge of Transportation.

JOSEPH HERRON,

Janitor of the Museum.
PROGRAMME OF ORGANIZATION

OF THE

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

[PRESENTED IN THE FIRST ANNUAL REPORT OF THE SECRETARY, AND
ADOPTED BY THE BOARD OF REGENTS, DECEMBER 18, 1847.]

LN ELROD UC LLON.

General considerations which should serve as a guide in adopting a eon
of Organization.

1. WILL oF SmiITHSON. The property is bequeathed to the United
States of America, “to found at Washington, under the name of the
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, an establishment for the increase and diffu-
sion of knowledge among men.”

2. The bequest is for the benefit of mankind. The Government of
the United States is merely a trustee to carry out the design of the
testator. :

3. The institution is not a national establishment, as is frequently
supposed, but the establishinent of an individual, and is to bear and
perpetuate his name.

4, The objects of the Institution are, 1st, to increase, and 2d, to dif-
fuse knowledge among men.

5. These two objects should not be confounded with one another.
The first is to enlarge the existing stock of knowledge by the addition
of new truths; and the second, to disseminate knowledge, thus increased,
among men.

6. The will makes no restriction in favor of any particular kind of
knowledge ; hence all branches are entitled to a share of attention.

de ian aniedee can be increased by different methods of facilitating
and promoting the discovery of new truths; and can be most exten-
sively diffused among men by means of the press.

8. To effect the greatest amount of good, the organization should be
such as to enable the Institution to produce results, in the way of in-
creasing and diffusing knowledge, which cannot be produced either at
all or so efficiently by the existing institutions in our country.

9. The organization should also be such as can be adopted provis-
ionally ; can be easily reduced to practice; receive modifications, or be
abandoned, in whole or in part, without a sacrifice of the funds.

10. In order to compensate in some measure for the loss of time occa-
sioned by the delay of eight years in establishing the Institution, a
considerable portion of the interest which has accrued should be added
to the principal.
8 PROGRAMME OF ORGANIZATION.

11. In proportion to the wide field of knowledge to be cultivated, the
funds are small. Economy should, therefore, be consulted in the con-
struction of the building ; and not only the first cost of the edifice should
be considered, but also the continual expense of keeping it in repair,
and of the support of the establishment necessarily connected with it..
There should also be but few individuals permanently supported by the
Institution.

12. The plan and dimensions of the building should be determined
by the plan of the organization, and not the converse.

13. It should be recollected that mankind in general are to be bene-
fited by the bequest, and that, therefore, all unnecessary expenditure
on local objects would be a perversion of the trust.

14. Besides the foregoing considerations, deduced immediately from
the will of Smithson, regard must be had to certain requirements of the
act of Congress establishing the Institution. These are, a library, a
museum, and a gallery of art, with a building on a liberal scale to con-
tain them.

SECTION I.

Plan of organization of the Institution in accordance with the foregoing
deductions from the will of Smithson.

TO INCREASE KNOWLEDGE. It is proposed—

1. To stimulate men of talent to make original researches, by offering
suitable rewards for memoirs containing new truths; and,

2. To appropriate annually a portion of the income for particular re-
searches, under the direction of suitable persons.

TO DIFFUSE KNOWLEDGE. It is proposed—

1. To publish a series of periodical reports on the progress of the
different branches of knowledge; and,

2. To publish occasionally separate treatises on subjects of general
interest.

DETAILS OF THE PLAN TO INCREASE’ KNOWLEDGE.
I. By stimulating researches.

1. Facilities afforded for the production of original memoirs on all
branches of knowledge.

2. The memoirs thus obtained to be published in a series of volumes,
in a quarto form, and entitled Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge.

3. No memoir on subjects of physical science to be accepted for pub-
lication which does not furnish a positive addition to human knowledge,
resting on original research; and all unverified speculations to be re-
jected.

4. Each memoir presented to the Institution to be submitted for ex-
amination to a commission of persons of reputation for learning in the
PROGRAMME OF ORGANIZATION. 9

braneh to which the memoir pertains; and to be accepted for publica-
tion only in case the report of this commission is favorable.

5. The commission to be chosen by the officers of the Institution, and
the name of the author, as far as practicable, concealed, unless a favor-
able decision is made.

6. The volumes of the memoirs to be exchanged for the transactions
of literary and scientific societies, and copies to be given to all the col-
leges and principal libraries in this country. One part of the remain-
ing copies may be offered for sale, and the other carefully preserved, to
form complete sets of the work, to supply the demand from néw insti-
tutions.

7. An abstract, or popular account, of the contents of these memoirs
to be given to the public through the annual report of the Regents to
Congress.

Il. By appropriating a part of the income, annually, to special objects of
research, under the direction of suitable persons.

1. The objects and the amount appropriated, to be recommended by
counsellors of the Institution.

2. Appropriations in different years to different objects; so that in
course of time each branch of knowledge may receive a share.

3. The results obtained from these appropriations to be published,
with the memoirs before mentioned, in the volumes of the Smithsonian
Contributions to Knowledge. :

4. Examples of objects for which appropriations may be made.

(1.) System of extended meteorological observations for solving the
problem of ‘American storms.

(2.) Explorations in descriptive natural history, and geological, mag-
netical, and topographical surveys, to collect materials for the formation
of a physical atlas of the United States.

(3.) Solution of experimental problems, such as a new determination
of the weight of the earth, of the velocity of electricity, and of light;
chemical analyses of soils and plants; collection and publication of
scientific facts accumulated in the offices of government.

(4.) Institution of statistical inquiries with reference to physical,
moral, and political subjects.

(5.) Historical researches, and accurate surveys of places celebrated in
American history.

(6.) Ethnological researches, particularly with reference to the differ-
ent races of men in North America; also, explorations and. accurate
surveys of the mounds and other remains of the ancient people of our
country.
10 PROGRAMME OF ORGANIZATION.

DETAILS OF THE PLAN FOR DIFFUSING KNOWLEDGE. '

I. By the publication of a series of reports, giving an account of the new
discoveries in science, and of the changes made from year to year in all
branches of knowledge not strictly professional.

1. These reports will diffuse a kind of knowledge generally interest-
ing, but which, at present, is inaccessible to the public. Some of the
reports may be published annually, others at longer intervals, as the
income of the Institution or the changes.in the branches of knowledge
may indicate.

2. The reports are to be prepared by collaborators eminent in the dif-
ferent branches of knowledge.

3. Each collaborator to be furnished with the journals and publica-
tions, domestic and foreign, necessary to the compilation of his report;
to be paid a certain sum for his labors, and to be named on the title-
page of the report.

4, The reports to be published in separate parts, so that persons inter-
ested in a particular branch can procure the parts relating to it without
purchasing the whole.

do. These reports may be presented to Congress, for partial distribu-
tion, the remaining copies to be given to literary and scientific institu-
tions, and sold to individuals for a moderate price.

The following are some of the subjects which may be embraced in the
reports :*

3 I. PHYSICAL CLASS.

1. Physies, including astronomy, natural philosophy, chemistry, and
meteorology.

2. Natural history, including botany, zodlogy geology, &e.

3. Agriculture.

4, Application of science to arts.

Il. MORAL AND POLITICAL CLASS.

9. Ethnology, including particular history, comparative philology,
antiquities, &e.

6. Statistics and political economy.
(. Mental and moral philosophy.
5. A survey of the political events of the world; penal reform, &c.

Il. LITERATURE AND THE FINE ARTS.

9. Modern literature.
10. The fine arts, and their application to the useful arts.
11. Bibliography.
12. Obituary notices of distinguished individuals.

*This part of the plan has been but partially carried out.
PROGRAMME OF ORGANIZATION. et
Il. By the publication of separate treatises on subjects of general interest.

1. These treatises may occasionally consist of valuable memoirs
translated from foreign languages, or of articles prepared under the
direction of the Institution, or procured by offering premiums for the
best exposition of a given subject.

2. The treatises should, in all cases, be submitted to a commission of
competent judges, previous to their publication.

3. As examples of these treatises, expositions may be obtained of the
present state of the several branches of knowledge mentioned in the
table of reports.

SECTION II.

Plan of organization, in accordance with the terms of the resolutions of the
Board of Regents providing for the two modes of increasing and diffusing
knowledge.

1. The acteof Congress establishing the Institution contemplated the
formation of a library and a museum; and the Board of Regents,
including these objects in the plan of organization, resolved to divide
the income* into two equal parts.

2. One part to be appropriated to increase and diffuse knowledge by
means of publications and researches, agreeably to the scheme before
given. The other part to be appropriated to the formation of a library
and a collection of objects of nature and of art.

3. These two plans are not incompatible with one another.

4. To carry out the plan before described, a library will be required,
consisting, 1st, of a complete collection of the transactions and proceed-
ings of all the learned societies in the world ; 2d, of the more important
current periodical publications, and other works necessary in preparing
the periodical reports.

5. The Institution should make special collections, particularly of ob-
jects to illustrate and verify its own publications.

6. Also, a collection of instruments of research in all branches of ex-
perimental science.

7. With reference to the collection of books, other than those men-
tioned above, catalogues of all the different libraries in the United
States should be procured, in order that the valuable books first pur-
chased may be such as are not to be found in the United States.

8. Also, catalogues of memoirs, and of books and other materials,
should be collected for rendering the Institution a center of bibliograph-
ical knowledge, whence the student may be directed to any work which
he may require.

*The amount of the Smithsonian bequest received into the Treasury of

theaUnited Stabespamees aa ee ae ee eS eS es $515, 169 00
Tnterest on the same to July 1, 1846, (devoted to the erection of the building) 242, 129 00
Annualineome: trope. themequest-wiec ce ssSe ema. < 2'carscere eee eae pack ee 30,910 14
#2 PROGRAMME OF ORGANIZATION.

9. It is believed that the collections in natural history will increase
by donation as rapidly as the income of the Institution can make pro-
vision for their reception, and, therefore, it will seldom be necessary to
purchase articles of this kind.

10. Attempts should be made to procure for the gallery of art casts
of the most celebrated articles of ancient and modern sculpture.

11. The arts may be encouraged by providing a room, free of expense,
for the exhibition of the objects of the Art-Union and other similar
societies.

12. A small appropriation should annually be made for models of an-
tiquities, such as those of the remains of ancient temples, Xe.

13. For the present, or until the building is fully completed, besides
the Secretary no permanent assistant will be required, except one, to
act as librarian.

14. The Secretary, by the law of Congress, is alone responsible to the
Regents. He shall take charge of the building and property, keep a
record of proceedings, discharge the duties of librarian and keeper of
the museum, and may, with the consent of the Regents, employ assist-
ants.

15. The Secretary and his assistants, during the session of Congress,
will be required to illustrate new discoveries in science, and to exhibit
new objects of art. Distinguished individuals should also be invited to
give lectures on subjects of general interest.

This programme, which was at first adopted provisionally, has become
the settled policy of the Institution. The only material change is that
expressed by the following resolutions, adopted January 15, 1855, viz:

Resolved, That the 7th resolution passed by the Board of Regents, on
the 26th of January, 1847, requiring an equal division of the income
between the active operations and the museum and library, when the
buildings are completed, be, and it is hereby, repealed.

Resolved, That hereafter the annual appropriations shall be appor-
tioned specifically among the different objects and operations of the
Institution, in such manner as may, in the judgment of the Regents, be
necessary and proper for each, according to its intrinsic importance and
a compliance in good faith with the law.
REPORT

Or

PROFESSOR JOSEPH HENRY,

SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,

Berg, IS 7/ Oe

To the Board of Regents :

GENTLEMEN: The year 1870 may be considered almost an epoch in
the history of the Smithsonian Institution, since in this year Congress
commenced to recognize the propriety of making something like an ade-
quate appropriation to relieve the Smithson fund from at least a portion
of the burden to which it has from the first been subjected in the main-
tenance and care of the National Museum. During the last session of
Congress an appropriation of $10,000 was granted for the preservation
and exhibition of the national collection, and also $10,000 toward the
preparation of the second story of the building for the better care and
display of the specimens, and an equal sum for each of these objects has
been asked at the present session for the year 1871, and we are assured
by influential members of Congress that the request will be granted. It
cannot be otherwise than gratifying to the friends of science that Gov-
ernment has at length awakened to the importance of making provision
for the independent support of a National Museum, which we trust will
be worthy of the capital of the United States. The connection which
has heretofore existed between the National Museum and the Smithson-
ian Institution has been alike prejudicial to both, although more than
one-half of the income of the Smithson fund has been expended in main-
tenance of the museum; and notwithstanding that the Institution, in
the prosecution of its legitimate objects, has collected many thousands
of specimens illustrating the productions of the North American conti-
nent, the public museum hasnot yet, owing to the inadequacy of means,
been such as might be expected from the reputation of the Insti-
tution or the character of our Government.

The National Museum was established previous to the acceptance by
the Government of the care of the Smithson bequest, and consisted at
first of the specimens of natural history and ethnology collected by the
United States exploring expedition under Admiral Wilkes. Unfortu-
nately, from a misconception of the terms of the will of Smithson, as now
generally recognized, Congress directed the appropriation of the income
of the fund principally to a museum, a library, a gallery of art, and
other local objects, which, though important in themselves, did not
comport with the liberal spirit of the bequest, nor with the income of
14 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

the endowment, which was scarcely more than sufficient to properly
support any one of these objects. Had it not been for this misconcep-
tion, it is not improbable that before this time Congress would have
made a more liberal provision for the suppert of the National Museum,
and the scientific operations of the Institution which have made it favor-
ably known throughout the world would have been much more extended.
From the first the organic law of Congress has, therefore, stood in the
way of the full development of the plan of active operations of the Insti-—
tution; and it has only been by the gradual enlightenment of the publie
mind as to the true character of the will of Smithson and the importance
of the plan of active operations, that, step by step, and after upward of
twenty years of continued effort, the latter has now a fair prospect of
producing all the results which have been claimed for it.

As stated in previous reports, the library of the Institution has been
incorporated, under certain conditions, with that of Congress. The land
around the building presented to the Institution by the Government,
and upon which at first about $10,000 of the income of the fund was
expended, has been incorporated with the public reservation set aside
for a park, and the cost of its keeping defrayed from the general appro-
priation for the maintenance of the public grounds. The establishment
of a gallery of art by the liberal endowment of Mr. Corcoran obviates
the necessity of anything further being done in this direction by the
Institution.

Still the emancipation of the fund from local objects is not as thorough
as could be wished. It would be better, in my opinion, that the public
museum should be entirely separated from the Institution. The
appropriations of Congress are frequently fitful, and the distinction
between appropriations for the museum and for the Institution is not
as manifest as is desirable. It is the wiser policy of the Institution to
ask no appropriations from Congress for its own legitimate objects, in
order that it may be kept entirely free from political influence. We
must, however, be content, in the attainment of an object depending
upon legislative enactment, with securing a part of what we wish, if we
cannot obtain the whole.

Finances.—The following isa general statement of the condition of
the Smithson fund at the end of the year 1870, or rather at the begin;
ning of the year 1871:

The amount originally received as the bequest of James

Smithson, of England, deposited in the Treasury of the

United States, in accordance with the act of Congress of

Amoust: 10, 1846. rae ee a nc’ « 42 nee eee ee $515, 169 00
The residuary legacy of Smithson received in 1865, also

deposited in the Treasury of the United States, in accord-

ance with the act of Congress of February 8, 1867... .- 26, 210 63

Making the bequest of Smithson’). S272 a eee 541, 379 63
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 15

Additions from savings, &c.,also in the United States

Treasury, as a part of the original fund........-....... $108, 620 37
In Virginia State stock, $72,760, valued at. ...... .....-. 48, 000 00
Casmeanhh adios e+ Gee sae fees «See eine Pane aye oe 21,477 81

719, 477 81

The income from the fund during the year 1870, including the pre-
miuin on gold, was $43,363 12. This amount is $6,152 08 less than
that for 1869, due to the difference in the premium on coin.

No interest has been received from the State of Virginia for 1869 and
1870. Up to 1870 the usual appropriation from Government for the
care of the National Museum was $4,000, but for the fiscal year com-
mencing July 1, 1870, this amount was increased, as we have before
stated to $10,000. Of this sum $5,024 have been placed to the credit
of the museum; the whole expense, however, of keeping the museum,
irrespective of the interest on the building, amounted to at least $15,000.

The remainder of the income (excepting $508 16) was expended in
publications, exchanges, researches, salaries, &c., and nearly $5,000 for
repairs on the building.

Congress also granted, as previously stated, an appropriation of
$10,000 toward fitting up the large hall for the better preservation and
display of the collections; but of this nothing has been drawn during
the year, the plans and other preparations for the improvement of the
building not having been completed. From the foregoing statement it
will be evident that the Smithson funds are in a prosperous condition,
and that should Congress continue annually to make an adequate sup-
port for the museum, they would be sufficient on the part of the insti-
tution to extend its usefulness far beyond what it has yet accom-
plished.

As a part of the history of the Institution, and in justice to the gen-
erosity of one of its earliest friends, I may mention under the head of
finance, that for many years during the controversy which existed
between the regents and the contractors in regard to the building,
James M. Carlisle, esq., of this city, acted as counsel for the Institu-
tion, and has subsequently given advice on points of law which have
arisen in conducting the various operations of the establishment.
These services, the usual charges for which would amount to compara-
tively a large sum, have been gratuitously rendered to the Institution;
for which liberality I would recommend a special resolution of thanks
by the Board.

Publications.—The publications of the Institution are of three classes—
the Contributions to Knowledge, the Miscellaneous Collections, and the
Annual Reports. The first consist of memoirs containing positive
additions to science resting on original research, and which are gener-
16 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

ally the result of investigations to which the Institution has in some
way rendered assistance. The Miscellaneous Collections are chiefly
composed of works intended to facilitate the study of certain branches of
natural history or of meteorology, and are designed especially to induce
individuals to engage in studies as specialties, to which in leisure
moments their thoughts may recur, and by observations and collections
in relation to which they may not only contribute to their own pleasure
but, also, advance the cause of science. The Annual Reports are pub-
lished at the expense of the Government, with the exception of the
illustrations, which are furnished by the Institution.

During the past year the sixteenth volume of the Smithsonian Con-
tributions to Knowledge has been published and distributed. It
contains 494 pages, and is illustrated with 73 wood-cuts and 19
plates. The several articles contained in this volume, which were also
published and distributed separately, are as follows:

The Gray Substance of the Medulla Oblongata and Trapezium, by
John Dean, M. D. 4to, pp. 80. Sixteen plates, five wood-cuts.

Results of Meteorological Observations made at Brunswick, Maine,
between 1801 and 1859, by Parker Cleaveland, LL.D. Reduced and
discussed at the expense of the Smithsonian Institution, by Charles A.
Schott. 4to, pp. 60. Eight wood-cuts.

Results of Meteorological Observations made at Marietta, Ohio, be-
tween 1826 and 1859, inclusive, by S. P. Hildreth, M. D.; to which are
added Results of Observations taken at Marietta, by Mr. Joseph Wood,
between 1817 and 1823. Reduced and discussed by the Smithsonian
Institution, by Charles A. Schott. 4to, pp. 52. Fourteen wood-cuts.

On the Gliddon Mummy Case in the Museum of the Smithsonian
Institution, by Charles Pickering. 4to, p. 6. One plate.

The Orbit and Phenomena of a Meteoric Vire-Ball, seen July 20,
1860, by Professor James H. Coffin, LL. D. 4to, p. 56. Two plates,
two wood-cuts.

On the Transatlantic Longitude, by Benjamin Apthorp Gould. 4to,
pp. 110.

The Indians of Cape Flattery, at the entrance to the Strait of Fuca,
Washington Territory, by James G. Swan. 4to, pp. 118. Forty-four
wood-cuts.

The Seventeenth volume of Smithsonian Contributions, that for the
year 1871, has also been printed, is in the hands of the binder, and will
soon be ready for distribution. It consists of a single memoir of 602
quarto pages, presenting the result of an elaborate original investigation
by Lewis H. Morgan, esq., of Rochester, New York, on the “Systems of
Consanguinity and Affinity of the Human Family.”

This memoir, of which an account has been given in a previous report,
was first referred to a commission consisting of Professor J. H. Mellvaine
and Professor William Henry Green, of Princeton, New Jersey, who re-
commended its publication, but advised certain changes in the method of
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. By

presenting the subject. After these modifications had been made, it
was submitted to the American Oriental Society, and was by it referred
to a special committee, consisting of Messrs. Hadley, Trumbull, and
Whitney, who, having critically examined the memoir, reported that it
contained a series of highly interesting facts, which, they believed, the
students of philology and ethnology, though they might not accept all
the conclusions of the author, would welcome as valuable contributions
to science.

The investigations of Professor Newcomb, relative to a new orbit of
the planet Uranus, in continuation of those relative to the planet Nep-
tune, an account of which was given in previous reports, have been tem-
porarily interrupted by the visit of the author to Kurope to observe the
total eclipse of last December. and to collect ancient observations for
correcting the mean motion of the moon. These investigations were
commenced as far back as 1860, but Professor Newcomb had so little
time to spare from official duties, and had to depend so much upon him-
self on account of the methods to be employed, that four years elapsed
before even the first formule for the perturbations were computed. The
best accepted elements of the planets were first used, viz, those of
Bouvard for Jupiter and Saturn, and those of Pierce and Kowalski for
Neptune. The caleulated places of Uranus and Neptune were found
from these data to differ so widely from the true ones given by observa-
tion as to show that the elements of these planets which had been
adopted were not to be relied on. A re-investigation of their orbits:
therefore became necessary. That of Neptune was made exhaustive.
The magnitude of the corrections required in the old elements is shown by
the fact that the longitude of the perihelion-of Neptune was changed:
by about four degrees. This investigation was published by the Insti-
tution in 1865, and the tables for predicting the position of the planet
were immediately adopted by the nautical almanacs of England, Ger-
many, and this country, and afterward by that of France, so that the:
computations of Neptune’s motion are now generally made from them.

The elements of Uranus were next so far corrected by a preliminary
investigation, that, with the perturbations already computed, the motion
of the planet from the time of its discovery in 1781 until 1862 was repre-
sented within a very few seconds of are. On collecting the perturba-
tions of Saturn there appeared to be considerable discrepancy between
the old ones employed in Bouvard’s tables and those since computed’
by Hansen. As there could be little doubt of the correctness of the
latter, Professor Newcomb accepted them as the basis of a preliminary
investigation of the orbit of Saturn, and obtained elements which repre-
sented its motion near enough for the purpose desired. The elements
of Jupiter were found to be sufficiently near the truth. The old com-
putations of the “first-order” of perturbations were then corrected, and to
guard against the possibility of an error the perturbations were then

recomputed by an entirely different method. After long study and laber
28
18 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

the author was enabled to devise amethod more simple than any before
employed, of which the quantities previously calculated furnished the
basis, and which has the great advantage of being easily applicable to
the perturbations of the second order. The results of the two computa-
tions have been found to agree very closely. The more important terms
of the second order have been once computed, but will be gone over
again to insure correctness. The most difficult part of the work is now
completed. An appropriation has been made by the Institution for defray-
ing the expense of the clerical labor which is required in preparing the
tables and performing the other laborious arithmetical calculations
necessary in reducing the abstract mathematical results to practical use.

Among the papers accepted for publication are three by Major
General J. G. Barnard, United States Army. ‘The first of these relates
to the “Precession of the Equinoxes and Nutation as identified with the
phenomena of the Gyroscope.” All writers who explain the “Preces-
sion” in amanner intended to be more or less adapted to popular com-
prehension, assume or demonstrate certain elementary facts which are
common to the general phenomena of the ‘Precession,” and the move-
ments of the philosophic toy, the “Gyroscope.” The intention of this
paper is to identify the phenomena, and to show that a common analysis
leads, when properly adapted to the different circumstances, to their
solution. As a matter of course, the introduction of the proper expres-
sions for the external forces into the general equations of rotating bodies
will give the particular equations for the special cases. In the
Mécanique Céleste, are thus derived the expressions for precession and
nutation ; but the analytical process is difficult, and the point of identi-
fication of the phenomena with those of the gyroscope is, in this point
of view, too remote to be interesting, In this paper, solutions primarily
obtained for the gyroscope are subsequently made use of to develop all
the facts of precession and nutation. By the methods employed it is in-
cidentally shown that the phenomena of ‘“‘deviation” in rifled projectiles
may be explained. .

The second paper by General Barnard is on the motions of a “freely
suspended penduluin,” and differs from other well known discussions of
this problem in giving, as a preliminary, a simple explanation of the
origin of the forces which, on the surface of the rotating earth, cause a
progressive azimuthal motion of the plane of vibration ; and furnishing
the analytical expressions for these identical with those of Poisson
obtained by other processes. These same expressions exhibit forces
which more or less sensibly affect all motions of material bodies on
or near the earth’s surface, as e. g. the tidal currents, the winds,
the trajectories of projectiles, &c. The expressions obtained for the
pendulum are developed with much greater detail than has been done
in previous works. The differential expressions for the vibrations
of the so-called “spherical pendulum” are integrated by development
into series, and expressions approximately accurate, obtained for the
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 19

azimuthal motion of the apsides of the quasi-elliptical orbit. Inasmuch
as in all actual experiments with the freely suspended pendulum the vi-
brations soon assume the “spherical” character, these latter expressions
are really important as corrections to the azimuthal motion properly due
to the earth’s rotation, and may explain the small variations from the
latter which the experiments generally exhibit. It is believed that these
corrections have never before been applied, or indeed actually put into
simple analytical shape. It is further shown that if a freely suspended
pendulum is made to swing through a great cirele with very high velocity,
the plane of its orbit remains invariable in direction, in space, and that
in this phase the phenomenon is identical with that shown by a gyro-
scopic disk, as it was arranged by Foucault to exhibit the rotation of
the earth.

A third paper by the same author is “on the Phenomena of Preces-
sion and Nutation as affected by the internal structure of the earth,”
and isan attempt to corroborate the dictum of Sir William Thompson,
that the phenomena of the precession and nutation do authorize some con-
elusions—very limited, indeed—concerning the internal structure of the
earth, inasmuch as it is proved that the very commonly received geo-
logic hypothesis of a thin crust enveloping a molten fluid is inconsist-
ent with the actual phenomena as observed.

As the basis of the argument, the theorem is analytically demonstrated
that an entirely fluid earth (7. e., entirely destitute of solid crust and
without internal viscidity) would exhibit neither precession nor nuta-
tion. In other words, that the tilting effects of the solar and lunar
attractions would be exactly neutralized by the centrifugal forces due
‘to the tidal protuberances they develop. Pari ratione, if the figure of
the earth yields at all to the attractions, the precession and nutation
will be neutralized in exact proportion to the extent (as compared with
a perfect fluid globe) to which that yielding obtains.

Sir W. Thompson has proved that even an earth entirely solid must
yield, unless its rigidity to the depth of two or three thousand miles
greatly exceeds that of steel; a thin crust, say thirty or forty miles
thick, such as geological hypothesis attributes to the earth, if envelop-
ing a fluid nucleus, would yield nearly as much as if the earth were
entirely fluid. But the observed rates of precession and nutation con-
form almost exactly to the hypothesis of perfect rigidity. Hence, the
hypothesis of a thin crust is untenable. Incidentally the fallacy of the
experiment (with rotating spherical glass shells, containing water) and
argument of M. Delaunay to invalidate the conclusions of Professor
Hopkins and Professor Thompson is exhibited, and the opinions of
Poisson concerning the internal structure of the earth are, according to
the author, shown to coincide better with observed facts than those of
any other physicist.

Another paper has been examined and accepted for publication
entitled “The Secular Variations of the Orbits of the Planets,” by John
20 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

N. Stockwell. If but one planet revolved around the sun its path in space
would be a true ellipse, which would always be the same in form and
position ; but if several planets revolve at the same time around the
central body, their mutual attraction will disturb the regularity of the
elliptical motion. The mutual action of the planets on each other pro-
duces two classes of disturbance, one of which consists in a change of the
motion of each planet in its elliptical orbit, in some parts of its path
moving faster and in others slower than it would if undisturbed; the
other consists of a change in the form and relative position of the
elliptical orbit. The first is called the periodic inequalities, and the
second the secular variations. They are, however, both periodical,
though the first runs through its changes in a short time, while the lat-
ter requires centuries to complete its cycle. The object of the investi-
gations of Mr. Stockwell is to determine the numerical value of the
secular changes of the elements of the orbits of the planets of our sys-
tem. Several partial solutions of this problem have been obtained by
previous authors, but they have been approximations based upon data
less perfect than that which is at present afforded in the discovery of
the new planet Neptune, and the better determination of the masses of
the other bodies composing our system.

The expense of the publication of this paper is defrayed by the lib-
eral donation of $1,200 from a friend of science, who declines to allow
his name to be mentioned. We cannot, however, permit the fact to pass
unnoticed of this example of the high appreciation of the value of |
abstract science since it does honor to the intelligence and liberality of one
of our citizens engaged in active business hfe, and may serve as an
example to stimulate other donations of a similar character.

In several of the previous reports mention has been made of a gram-
mar and dictionary of the Choctaw language, in process of preparation
for the Institution by Dr. Byington, for many years a missionary among
the Choctaw Indians. This work was finally submitted to the Institu-
tion for publication, but having been found on examination to require
corrections it was returned to the author in order that these might be
made. Before, however, this work was completed, Dr. Byington died,
and his MS. was given for revision to Dr. Brinton, of Philadelphia.
It was again submitted to the Institution and referred to a commission
for critical examination. Dr. Brinton, however, not satisfied with the
report of this commission, withdrew the memoir, and presented it to the
American Philosophical Society, in whose transactions it has since been
printed. No objection was made on the part of the Institution to this
transfer, since it has been from the first a part of its policy never to
expend any portion of its funds in doing that which can be done by
other means.

It will be remembered that in 1867, at the suggestion and expense of
the Institution, a geological exploration of a portion of the Louisiana
coast was made by Professor E. W. Hilgard, of the University of Mis-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 21

sissippi, mainly with a view to ascertain the geological age and modeof
occurrence of the rock-salt deposit of Petite Anse. In the absence of
definite data concerning the general geology of Louisiana, his observa-
tions on the formations of the coast (an abstract of which was published
in the American Journal of Science, January, 1869) demonstrated, so
far as the salt deposit was concerned, only the fact that in point of age
it was anterior to the drift. The impulse thus given to geological re-
search in Louisiana, however, soon led to further explorations. By sub-
scription, and a special appropriation obtained from the commissioners
of immigration of the State, the New Orleans Academy of Sciences
raised a fund for the purpose of enabling Professor Hilgard to make a
general geological reconnaissance of Louisiana, which was executed in
May and June, 1869. This enabled himto communicate tothe American
Association for the Advancement of Science, at its Salem meeting, a
general sketch of the geology of Louisiana. Almost simultaneously
with the organization of Professor Hilgard’s second exploration, steps
were taken.by the faculty of the University of Louisiana to secure legisla-
tive aid for a geological and physical survey of the State. The latteris
now in progress, and the second annual report on the work will soon be
published.

As regards the rock-salt deposit, Professor Hilgard’s observations in
Northern Louisiana point to the conelusion that it is but one of a series
of cretaceous outliers, traversing the State in a northwest and south-
‘east direction, and indicating the existence of an ancient ridge which
must have exerted an important influence upon the physical conforma-
tion of the Lower Mississippi Valley. The remarkable gypsum and
sulphur deposits of Caleasieu are likewise, in his opinion, referable to
the same age. Professor Hilgard has nearly completed a final memoir
on the geology of the Petite Anse region for publication by the Insti-
tution; the results of his simultaneous exploration of the Lower Mis-
sissippi and delta having been communicated to the American Associ-
tion at the Troy meeting, and subsequently presented to the American
Journal of Science.

Dr. Horatio C. Wood, of Philadelphia, having completed an elaborate
work on the fresh-water alge, principally of microscopic forms, pre-
sented it to the American Philosophical Society and also to the Academy
of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, but the expense of publication pre-
vented either of these societies from undertaking it. It was therefore
offered to this Institution, and after a critical examination has been
accepted for publication. As a systematic description of the fresh-
water alge of North America it will form a complement to the great
works on the marine alg, by Dr. Harvey, published some years ago
by the Smithsonian Institution. It will be copiously illustrated by
drawings, made principally under the microscope and will serve to illus-
trate an obscure department of botany, as well as to furnish the means
by which investigators of minute microscopic organisms may make the

&
22 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

comparison of fossil and recent forms, a subject which is now attract-
ing much attention in Europe and America.

The eighth volume of Miscellaneous Collections contains the following
papers:

1. Monographs of the Diptera of North America. PartIV. Prepared
for the Smithsonian Institution by R. Osten Sacken. Svo, pp. 358.
Four plates and seven wood-cuts.

2. Catalogue of the Orthoptera of North America described previous
to 1867. Prepared for the Smithsonian Institution by Samuel H.
Seudder. Svo, pp. 110.

3. Land and Fresh-water Shells of North America. Part I. Pulmo-
nata Geophila. By W.G. Binney and T. Bland. 8vo, pp. 328, and 544
wood-cuts.

4, Arrangement of Families of Birds. Adopted provisionally by the
Smithsonian Institution. 8vo, pp. 8.

5. Circular to Oflicers of the Hudson’s Bay Company. 8vo, pp. 6.

6. Suggestions relative to Objects of Scientific Investigations in
Russian America. 8vo, pp. 10.

7. Circular relating to Collections in Archeology and Ethnology.
8vo, pp. 2.

8. Circular to Entomologists. 8vo, pp. 2.

9. Circular relative to Collections of Birds from Middle and South
America. 8vo, pp. 2.

10. Smithsonian Museum Miscellanea. Pp. 88.

The ninth volume of Miscellaneous Collections contains—

1. Bibliography of North American Conchology previous to the year
1860. Prepared for the Smithsonian Institution by W. G. Binney.
Part Il. Foreign Authors. 8vo, pp. 302.

2. Catalogue of Publications of Societies and of Periodical Works
belonging to the Smithsonian Institution. Deposited in the Library of
Congress, 1866. 8vo, pp. 596.

In accordance with the plan adopted by the Institution of furnishing
facilities and means of identifying specimens of natural history in its
different departments, an arrangement was made with Professor De
Saussure, of Geneva, Switzerland, the highest authority on the class of
insects known as hymenoptera, (of which the principal forms are wasps,
bees, &c.,) to prepare a monograph of this part of entomology. Large
collections have been sent to him for the work, to which he has devoted
several years of gratuitous labor. The first part of the manuscript was
completed in the French language in 1863, and for translation was placed
in the hands of a competent entomologist, Mr. Edward Norton, of
Farmington, Connecticut, who volunteered his services from a desire of
advancing science. This part of the memoir was prepared for the press
in 1564, but as Mr. Norton was obliged to be absent from the country
several years, the printing was delayed until his return, in order that
the proof-sheets might be properly corrected. By this time, however,
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 23

so much new material had been collected it was thought advisable to
refer the work anew to Professor De Saussure, from whom it has again
been received, and after having been a second time revised by Mr.
Norton will soon be sent to the press.

The Institution in carrying out its original plan of the preparation of
manuals of natural history, has thus made provision for publications
on the coleoptera, lepidoptera, neuroptera, diptera, orthoptera, and
hymenoptera. Of the few remaining orders, a similar monograph of
the hemiptera, by P. R. Uhler, esq., has been prepared, and will be pub-
lished when the funds will permit.

For many years the Institution has intended, in consequence of the
scattered nature of the accounts of the botany of the region west of the
Mississippi, and the absence of any text-book in which correct descrip-
tions could be found, to publish a complete list of the plants, with all the
synonyms and species. For a working botanist, engaged in the study of
our western plants, the search for what has been written takes more time
and labor than all the rest of his work, besides which there is always
the probability of overlooking some writings of importance. The design
has not heretofore been carried out, on account of the pressure of other
operations, but recently the great need of this aid to botanical research
having been urged on the Institution by some of the principal botanists
of the country, arrangements have been made with Mr. Sereno Watson,
of New Haven, to prepare the work in question. The expense of prepar-
ation will be borne by private subscription, the Smithsonian Institution
paying for the clerical labor and for the publication. Mr. Watson is
esteemed highly competent for the duty intrusted to him, and is favor-
ably known from his labors as botanist of the exploration of the fortieth
parallelaunder Clarence King, esq. Good progress has been made in
the work, and during the year we expect the manuscript to be com-
pleted.

In still further pursuance of the plan initiated by the Institution of
furnishing aids for the arrangement of collections, as illustrated by its
series of check-lists of specimens, an article by Professor Theodore Gill
is in process of publication, entitled “ An Arrangement of the Families
of Mollusks.” His system has been adopted provisionally as that by
which the extensive collections of the Smithsonian shells are to bearranged
and has been approved by some of the principal zodlogists of the country.
To extend its benefits, and furnish a similar guide to other museums,
the list embraces families, recent and fossil, accepted by the best natu-
ralists of the day, although embodying results of special investigations
made by Professor Gill and Mr. Dall at the Institution.

The Annual Report for the year 1869 was printed as heretofore, by
order of Congress, but there was a reduction of one thousand in the
number of extra copies usually furnished to the Institution. This re-
duction must have been the result of inadvertence, as we have long
urged upon Congress the great demand fer the document as a reason
24 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

for the increase of the edition, and have been assured by many Senators
and Representatives that this would be made. The applications for the
report have become so numerous that it is impossible to supply all who
are entitled to receive it. In this connection the propriety should be
urged upon Congress of ordering new editions of such of the reports as
have been stereotyped. The printing of these could be done at very
little expense, and would enable the Institution to furnish volumes, for
which there is daily application from members of Congress in behalf of
libraries and public institutions, to complete sets of the series.

In addition to the report of the Secretary, giving an account of the
operations, expenditures, and condition of the Institution for the year
1869, and the proceedings of the Board of Regents, it contains the fol-
lowing articles: Memoirs of Kepler, Thomas Young, Auguste Bravais,
©. T. P. Von Martius, and Stefano Marianini; an original paper on the
chemistry of the earth, by T. Sterry Hunt; articles on the electrical
currents of the earth; phenomena of flight in the animal kingdom; the
northern seas ; report on the transactions of the Society of Physics and
Natural History of Geneva; an original article relative to Coronado’s
march in search of the seven cities of Cibola, and a discussion of their
probable location ; social and religious condition of the lower races of
man; principles and methods of paleontology; remarks on the Cara
Gigantesca of Yucatan; forests and their climatic influence; meteor-
ites; remarkable forms of hail-stones in Georgia; eruption of the
voleano of Colima. It is proper to remark that the article on the flight
of birds was translated from the French by Mr. W. H. Dall, whose
name was accidentally omitted at the head of the article.

For the purpose of forming a general map of the North American
Continent, exhibiting the plains, mountains, valleys, &c., the Smith-
sonian Institution has collected a large amount of material relative to
altitudes, which has been placed in the hands of W. L. Nicholson, esq.,
topographer of the United States Post Office Department, to be dis-
cussed and elaborated.

There must, however, still remain in the hands of individuals and
corporations records of an important character, which would be of
great value in properly carrying out the enterprise. The correspondents
of the Institution are requested to send to it printed copies or original
manuscripts of records, especially of plotted profiles or maps, pertaining
to this subject.

In stating the heights, as furnished by surveys for railroads, whether
actually constructed or only projected, it is desirable that the levelings
be referred to some known point on connecting or intersecting roads,
or to the water-surface (high water, low water, or mean tide) of the ocean
or of one of the great lakes, or to the level of a noted stage of water
(high or low) of some river. The crossings of the water-courses, ridges,
and summits are particularly desired, as well as all considerable and
characteristic changes of level, giving, where much difference exists,
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 25

both grade-line and original surface; the levels of all intersections with
other roads are important as means of comparison, and for checking
results. Due credit will be given to all contributors to this work.

Exchanges.—The system of international exchanges, established by
the Institution, has been continued with unabated zeal during the past
year. The number of foreign establishments to which the Smithsonian
and other publications are distributed, and from. which returns are
received now amounts to over seventeen hundred. Itincludes not only
all the first-class libraries and societies which have established a repu-
tation, but also a large proportion of the minor institutions of the Old
World. The following table exhibits the number of foreign institutions
in each country with which the Smithsonian Institution is at present in
correspondence:

Swedes 2. Sve Ge raphe EO) Markey ee ..isee Se Bee 10
Norway Saher i eee nels lilly, eASrigais seis SNRs ooh ok oeP 14
Tieelamdipo store ys weyers iene ba Neila ebb Saat ret he aie, § 30
MOnMaLls (ji VIola le Hels 20s Australiana es Sea 25
RSSieti ss 42 pero SiS 154, | New Zealand. - 2222.22. +4 10
Eve bleach P se at eo Sah ok WHOSE AP OlyNESia ue Saee es BLS Te 1
Germanys. ssen eee eee Se 529 | South America.....:--..-- ol
Switzerland. ace - uk 5A Weestulndiess A2oa2 ss 280% 6
Belo rumins nce he Ss SS as TUSSI Mexi@O 22 922 eases 5
Ge yD We eee io 18 6 at : 80 | Central America-....-.-.- 1
Gr iy & 2h Oe) Aer te ey 141. | British’ Americas: i222 52. 27
Orth see wee ke tra General eeeas ya, ete ae 5
Spa siaiee Ee Sk 9

Great Britain and Ireland.. 286 1, 744
Greece tis Sal a etd 6

During the year 1870, 1,805 packages, containing many thousand dif-
ferent articles, were transmitted to foreign countries. These packages
were contained in 121 boxes, having a cubical content of 1,189 feet, and
weighing 31,383 pounds. The parcels received at the Institution for
parties in this country numbered 3,705. The separate volumes con-
tained in these parcels would largely increase the number, the Institu-
tion having received 5,182 articles for itsown library. The war between
France and Germany, which commenced in July, affected, in some
degree, the number ef packages received from these countries, and it is
probable that the result of this unfortunate conflict will be still more
marked in the diminution of the number of scientific publications which
mey be received from Europe in the year 1871. The Smithsonian pack-
ages are passed through all the custom-houses of the world free of duty.
The only exception which existed at the date of the last report was
that of Italy, and through the intervention of the American minister,
Hon. Mr. Marsh, the Italian government has since granted the same
privilege.
26 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

As in previous years, the Institution has received great benefit from
the privileges of free freight for its packages, accorded by a large number
of steamboat and railroad lines of transportation. In this report, as in
former ones, reference should be made to the liberality of the Pacific Mail
Steamship Company; of the Panama Railroad Company ; of the Pacific
Steam Navigation Company; of the New York and Mexican Steamship
Line; of the New York and Brazilian Line; of the North German Lloyds ;
of the Hamburg American Packet Company ; of the French Transatlan-
tic Company ; of the Inman Line; and of the Cunard Line. I am happy
to announce that to the foregoing list is to be added the Anchor Line of
steamers between New York and Glasgow, of which Messrs. Henderson
& Brother are the New York agents; and I would recommend that an
official acknowledgment be made, on the part of the board, to these gen-
tlemen for their courtesy in offering to the Institution the same privileges
accorded by the other New York lines. The Union Pacific Railroad
Company has granted free transportation, although thus far we have not
been able to avail ourselves of the privilege. The Adams Express Com-
pany also continues its liberal policy in regard to our freight. It would
be quite impossible for the Institution, without the aid thus liberally
afforded, to carry out, in its full efficiency, its system of international
exchanges, which, by facilitating the intercourse of scientific institutions
and of students throughout the world, constitutes one of sts most impor-
tant features.

It is also my duty, as well as a great personal gratification, to inform
you of the liberality of several of these companies, extended to myself
on the oceasion of the visit to Europe which I made during the past
summer, in obedience to your authority ; the agents of the North Ger-
man Lloyds, Messrs. Schumaker & Co., of Baltimore, and Messrs. Oel-
richs & Co., of New York, as well as Mr. C. G. Francklyn, the agent of
the Cunard steamers, having offered me a free passage across the ocean.

Iibrary.—As in previous years, large accessions have been made to
the library of the Institution, principally through the system of interna-
tional exchanges. The following is a statement of the number of books,
maps, and charts received during 1870, most of which have been depos-
ited in the National Library in accordance with the arrangement en-
tered into several years ago, and fully explained in preceding reports:

Volumes:

OCtAVO ODAC Bic tys cies Mie Ae Beare Ae che es, 842
Quarto or TARP er pe. tiaiceyens aah k ie ayeintee eke aba yet 270
1,113
Parts of volumes:
Octavo-ordless .:celsivamedecaecke ajeletiehs shigidte's aseaye 1, 263
Quarto.er larger .:¢ 9ese eee ke ERE I ie oR 561

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. pit

Pamphlets:
Octave erilesst.cs Ay awelimwal esd MM itis 1, 764
Quarbovier larger whe ka bob. She te Sa 302
2, 066
Mia ps sama Charts aay 28a geeismiee ai /ciths) Mhaistebelerewieidion 179
US eI UE Re SEN Cis heg ih eI Ca aa Mes Se ae 5, 182

The following are some of the larger donations received in 1870:

From the ministry of the interior, Christiania, Norway, ‘“‘ Den Nerske
Lods;” 2 volumes, octavo, and 71 charts.

From the Imperial Botanical Garden, St. Petersburg, ‘ Sertum
Petropolitarum seu icones et descriptiones plantarum que in Horto
Botanico Imperiali Petropolitano floruerent.”. Parts I and II, 1846;
Il and IV, 1869. Folio.

From His Majesty the King of Prussia, “ Danzig und seine Bauwerke
in malerischen Original-Radirungen mit geometrischen details und
text, Von Johann Carl Schultz;” volumes I-I1, oblong folio.

From Dr. Koch, Berlin, 127 pamphlets, University Theses.

From the Royal Public Library, Dresden, “ Riedel’s Codex Diplo-
maticus Brandenburgensis ;” 41 volumes, quarto.

From the Agricultural Association, Potsdam, “ Zeitschrift ;” volumes
THI-XVIII, octavo. ‘ Monatschrift,” volumes XIX-XXIII, octavo;
and “ Amtliches Vereinsblatt,” 1869, quarto.

From the Austrian government, ‘“‘ Reichs-Gesetz-Blatt fiir das Kaiser
thure Oesterreich ;” 1849-1869, quarto, 21 volumes.

From the Musée de Douai, “ Dictionnaire des Sciences Médicales;”
volumes I-LX, quarto.

Irom the minister of public instruction, Florence, 11 volumes “ On
Education, Public and Private.”

From the minister of public works, Florence, 25 volumes and 16
pamphlets. Hydraulics, Navigation, and Engineering, &c.

From the meteorological office, London, “Daily Weather Reports,”
July 1, 1868, to June 30, 1870, (4 volumes and 6 parts,) folio; and
“ Quarterly Weather Report,” part I.

From William Blackmore, esq., Liverpool, “ Hoare’s Ancient History
of Wiitshire,” volumes I and II, folio, beautifully illustrated with
maps and plates. “The People of India: A series of photographic
illustrations, with descriptive letter-press;” volumes I-IV, 1868, quarto.
“Tree and Serpent Worship, or Illustrations of Mythology and Art in
India in the First and Fourth Centuries after Christ;” quarto; and
various other works.

From the State of Illinois, State documents, 14 volumes.

The incorporation of the library of the Institution with that of Con-
gress continues to be productive of the results which were anticipated
from this union. The extensive series of transactions of learned
28 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

societies, the number of sets and volumes of which are constantly
increasing through the Smithsonian exchanges, is an important feature
of the National Library, while the use of the books on special subjects
belonging to the Government greatly enlarges the facilities for investi-
gation of the collaborators of the Institution. From the first a har-
monious co-operation has existed between the two establishments, and
on all oceasions we have found Mr. Spofford, the accomplished librarian
of Congress, ready to consult the interests of the Institution, and insert
on his list of purchases any work which we might indicate as desirable
for scientific research. Professor Gill, formerly in charge of the Smith-
sonian library, and now one of the principal assistants in the Library of
Congress, still continues his connection with the Institution, and in
spending, as he does, most of the hours unemployed in official duty in
scientific research at the Smithsonian building, affords the means of
constant communication.

The National Library is rapidly increasing in value, both in regard
to the number and the character of the books which are annually added to
its collections. The sources of increase are, first, the books purchased
by the liberal appropriation of Congress; second, the Smithsonian ex-
changes; and, third, the deposit of books in accordance with the copy-
right law. From this last source it has lately received a very large
addition of all the American works secured by copy-right since the first
enactment of the copy-right law, and previously in charge of the Secre-
tary of the Interior. These books exhibit the phases of thought and
the progress of the mental activity of this country for nearly half a
century, and have, therefore, a special value independent of their literary
or scientific character.

At the time of the organization of the Smithsonian Institution, Con-
gress directed that in order to secure the right of authorship of a book
three copies of it should be deposited as evidence of title, one in the
library of the Institution, another in that of Congress, and a third in
the office of the United States district court. In the case of a costly
work, perhaps in several volumes, this was a tax on the author or pub-
lisher for the protection of his property which was not improperly con-
sidered oppressive. From considerations of justice, therefore, as well as
of a prudent regard to the cost of the care of these books, the Smithso-
nian Institution was the first to petition Congress that the law might be
so modified that only two copies should be required to be deposited as
evidence of title, and these in the Library of Congress. The proposi-
tion suggested in this petition was adopted, and I believe the law en-
acted in accordance with it now meets with general approbation. It
is of Some importance that this fact should be mentioned, because copies
of books are still occasionally sent to the Institution from a want of a
knowledge of the existing law.

Besides the general library of the Government in the Capitol each of
the separate Departments, as well as several of the bureaus, has a spe-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 29

cial library. When we add to these the Washington Library and that
of the Young Men’s Christian Association, the aggregate of the books
in the city of Washington must be greater than that in any other city
in the country in proportion to the population. Unfortunately, how-
ever, these collections are not at present as readily accessible to the
public as could be desired. The rapid increase, however, of the Na-
tional Library will soon render the erection of a separate building abso-
lutely necessary, and in the new arrangement which will result from
this, the different libraries can, perhaps, be brought into harmonious
relation, and while provision is afforded for the accommodation of a
nuch larger number of readers, the number of hours during which the
books are accessible may be increased.

Explorations and collections—The Institution has continued, during
the past year, as heretofore, to prosecute researches and explorations
in ethnology and natural history, both by detailing special agents for
particular work, and by co-operating with private individuals and
Government expeditions, in securing the desired result.

Among the more important of the first-mentioned class was an inves-
tigatior among the mounds of Tennessee, under Mr. J. P. Stelle. This
gentleman spent a number of months in examining carefully several
groups of ancient mounds, and has furnished an interesting account of
his researches, accompanied by topographical drawings of the localities,
and large numbers of specimens, obtained in the course of his explora-
tions. The report of Mr. Stelle will be printed in the appendix to the
annual report of the Institution.

Professor Baird, during his visit to Wood’s Hole, in Vineyard Sound,
continued his investigations of previous years among the shell-heaps
of the coast, and added largely to the collection in archeology. He
also devoted much attention to the study of the habits of the marine
fishes of that part of the coast. Under the special direction of Profes-
sor H. E. Webster, a system of dredging was carried on in the same
locality, from which an interesting series of mollusca and other marine
animals was procured.

Captain Dow, of the Panama Railroad service, has furnished
important collections from Central America, among them the skulls
of what will probably prove to be a new species of tapir. Mr. Durkee,
of Wyoming Territory, has supplied a large number of specimens of
nests and eggs, with fossils and other objects from his locality,
embracing several species not before in the collection.

The largest collections, however, received during the year, are those
made by Professor Hayden, as United States geologist for the Territo-
ries. ‘These, in accordance with the law of Congress making the Insti-
tution the depository of all objects of nature and art, natural history,
etc., belonging to the United States, have been sent from time to time
to the Institution, forming an aggregate of about sixty boxes, and em-
30 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

bracing large numbers of new species of fossil mammals, reptiles, and
fishes, with other interesting objects. —

Mr. R. McFarlane, Mr. James Lockhart, and Mr. Strachan Jones, who
have been extremely liberal to the Institution iu previous years, have
again made important additions to its store of specimens, illustrative
of the natural history of the region of the far northwest.

In accordanee with the understanding between the Institution and
the Medical Department of the Government, the specimens of human
crania obtained by us have been transferred to the Army Medical Mu-
seum, which has, in turn, sent to the Institution all other articles it
had received in ethnology -and archeology. By this means a very
extensive and valuable series of specimens has been obtained by the
Institution during the past year. A full list of the additions thus made,
will be found in the appendix to the present report.

Another collection worthy of special mention was presented to the Insti-
tution by the Colonial Museum, at Wellington, New Zealand. This
consisted of bones of the Dinornis, the skins and skeleton of the
Apteryx, skins of other birds, shells, and ethnological specimens of
the country, and was partly in return for a valuable series of books
presented by the Institution to the colonial government.

The labors of Dr. Edw. Palmer, already well known in connection with
the ethnological museum of the Institution, have been continued during
the present year, and large numbers of articles of Indian manufacture,
both ancient and modern, attest his zeal and success as a collector. A
more detailed report will be made upon these when the entire collection
is received. Lieutenant Ring, of the Army, has continued his valuable
donations from Alaska, embracing specimens of animals as well as
Indian relics of great antiquity. From Captain C. M. Scammon, of
the United States revenue marine, we have received a number of speci-
mens and several important communications in reference to the seals and
whales of the Pacific coast. A memoir submitted by this gentleman
to the Institution has been published by the Philadelphia Academy of
Natural Sciences, and is considered an important contribution to the
knowledge of the subject already existing. Dr. G. M. Sternberg and
his brother, Mr. C. H. Sternberg, have transmitted extensive and val-
uabie collections of the tertiary fossil plants of Kansas, and other objects
of interest. The former have been found, on examination by Mr. Meek,
to contain a number of new species, which will shortly be described.

It will be remembered that an exploration of the Isthmus of Te-
huantepec, by Professor Sumichrast, has been in progress for some
years past, under the direction of the Institution, the expense of which
was defrayed in part by the Kentucky University at Lexington, by the
Boston Society of Natural History, and by the Academy of Natural
Sciences of Philadelphia. The labors of Professor Sumichrast were
brought to a close during the past summer, and several of the collabo-
rators of the Institution are now at work in investigating particular
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 31

branches of the collection with a view to prepare reports on them.
The birds of the collection are in charge of George N. Lawrence; the
insects, of Mr. Scudder; the shells, of Mr. Bland; and the reptiles and
fish, of Mr. Cope. The series is very complete, and is believed to express
essentially the zodlogical character of an interesting portion of Mexico,
As specially noteworthy in this connection, is the donation by the
Imperial Zodlogical Museum of Vienna, of the skin and skeleton of the
European aurocks. This animal, according to Professor Baird, is a
species of bison, and very closely related to the American buffalo, if,
indeed, it be not, as some naturalists assert, the same. It was
formerly found in abundance in Europe, and is mentioned by Cesar,
Tacitus, and other classical writers. It has been almost entirely exter-
minated, existing at the present time only to the number of a few head
in Lithuania and in the Caucasus. The Kuropean specimens are pre-
served with jealous care by the Russian authorities, and severe penal-
ties are imposed for killing or even injuring them.

The number of donations to the collection of the Institution received
during the past year is so large that we find it impossible at this time to
give to each that special mention which it deserves. <A list of them, how-
ever, with the names of the donors, will be found in the appendix to the
present report; and I embrace this opportunity to express the thanks
of the Institution to all who have thus aided in furthering its objects,
and to invite their kind co-operation for the future.

The usual statistics in regard to the number of specimens catalogued
during the year, and the extent to which the distribution of duplicates
has been made, will be found in the accompanying tables. It will be
seen that the average of the past years has been fully maintained, and that
as far as the material and force at the command of the Institution would
permit, the work has been faithfully carried on.

The museum—Congress having made an appropriation for the better
display of the specimens belonging to the Government, it becomes a
matter of importance to carefully consider the character which is to be
given to the national museum. There is scarcely any subject connected
with science and education to which more attention is given at the pres-
ent day than that of collections of objects of nature and art, known under
the general denomination of museums. This arises from their growing
importance as aids to scientific investigation and instruction. As they
are intended to subserve different ends they are of different characters.
There are, on the one hand, large central museums supported by Gov-
ernment appropriations, and on the other, local museums which are
established and sustained by societies and voluntary individual aid.
The latter are established in almost all parts of'the Old World, and
are becoming somewhat numerous in this country. The special aim
of the directors of these should be to make full collections of all the
objects of natural history in their vicinity, not only for the instruction of
32 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY,

the members of the society, and to diffuse a taste for the refined, intellect-
ual pleasure, which is derived from the minute observation of the natural
world, but also to furnish lists of local floras and faunas, and of mineral-
ogical and geological localities which may serve to establish the area
of distribution of special objects of nature, and thus contribute to the
extension as well as the diffusion of knowledge. The directors of muse-
uns of this character ought to be careful not to attempt to form general
collections, other, perhaps, than a limited number of specimens for com-
parison, since it will soon be found that the cost and labor of the proper
care and exhibition of the local collections will equal the means which
can be commanded for this purpose.

Large museums or collections supported by Government appropria-
tions are of different characters, in accordance with the objects they are
designed to subserve. They may be intended exclusively for scientific
research, and for this purpose consist of large numbers of specimens and
duplicates, as it were, of the raw materials of science, which have never
been investigated, but which may serve for the study, of the produc-
tions of entirely unexplored regions. If has been the policy of this
Institution to make collections of this kind, to submit them to experts
for critical examination, and to publish such descriptions as would
render them subservient to the progress of scientific generalization. If
these descriptions were exhaustive, the original specimens would no
longer be required for further scientific investigation; but, unfortunately,
the characteristics and peculiarities of the specimens are only partially
recognized and represented at any one period, and hence it becomes
necessary from time to time to go over the same ground in order to
verify or disprove new and ingenious suggestions as to peculiarities and
relations not hitherto recognized ; the specimens must therefore be pre-
served, especially if they are of such a character as cannot readily be
replaced. In making such collections the Smithsonian Institution has
done, perhaps, more than any other establishment during the twenty-four
years of its existence. It might, however, have effected much more good
and extended its influence more widely if all the duplicate specimens
had been made up into sets and distributed soon after they were col-
lected. But this was impossible with the limited means at the command
of the Institution and the assistance it could obtain from voluntary
unpaid collaborators. Besides this, some advantages have resulted to
science from the retention in the Institution of a large number of every
variety of a elass of specimens. This has enabled the naturalist to make
comparisons which would have been otherwise impossible, to mark pecu-
liarities connected with age, sex, food, climate, etc., and to observe the
diversities of form and structure due to the varying conditions of life.
As an illustration of this remark we may refer to the results which Pro-
fessor Baird has been enabled to arrive at from the unrivalled opportu-
nity which he has had in the extensive collection of the Institution, of
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 33

studying the relations of nearly sixty thousand specimens of the birds
of North America.

The object of the collection we have just described is exclusively the
advanee of science. The specimens require comparatively but little
space for use and preservation. Not being intended for public exhibition
they need not be mounted, but may be kept in drawers, or packed away
in labeled boxes or casks until wanted for a special investigation.

Another class of large museums are of a mixed character, combin-
ing in their object scientific investigation with special systematic and
collegiate instruction. Of this class is the great museum at Cambridge,
supported principally by the State of Massachusetts, and ‘under the
direction of Professor Agassiz. This museum, which may be consid-
ered a model of its class, embraces—first, an immense number of origi-
nal specimens, in the study and description of which a number of
accomplished naturalists are continuously employed ; second, a series
of specimens which have been scientifically described, and so arranged
in accordance with their affinities as to enable the student in any
branch of natural history to obtain, with the least expenditure of labor,
a definite knowledge of what is known of the objects to which he is
devoting his attention; third, a series of specimens of genera so
arranged as to serve as illustrations of the courses of lectures to
the students of the university on such general principles of naturat
history as form an essential part of a liberal education. This museum,
therefore, affords ample means for the advancement of science by origi-
nal investigation; for the special training of students who desire to
devote themselves to natural history, and for collegiate instruction,
while the facilities which itis calculated to afford in these lines are only
limited by the funds which it can command.

Another class of museums supported at the public expense are those
intended almost exclusively for popular instruction and amusement.
Museums of this class have been established in several of the principal
cities of Great Britain, and I doubt not that the beneficial effects they
are producing will induce other cities to follow their example. The
most important of these is the one at Liverpool, in which series of
generic specimens are admirably mounted and so arranged as to clearly
exhibit their relations and affinities. They are, moreover, all distinctly
labeled, so that the visitor, almost without an effort, receives definite
impressions, valuable in themselves, and which, by association of ideas,
become more important as centers around which other ideas, derived
from future reading and observation, may be clustered. The impres-
sions made through the eye are not only the most definite, but also the
most indelible. Museums of this kind ought to be established at the
public expense in every city or community which can afford the means
for their support. So popular are collections of objects of natural his-
tory and ethnology, that large establishments of mere heterogeneous
materials are frequently sources of profit te those to whom they belong.

38
34 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

In some eases, in a better class of museums, a small admission fee is
demanded, and the whole proceeds of this expended in sustaining and
enlarging the collections. As an example of this I may mention the
public museum established by Mr. Woodward in San Francisco, which
is not only a source of continued amusement to the inhabitants of that
‘ity, but also a means of adult education, since the specimens are gener-
ally well classified and properly labeled. Advantage should be taken
through museums, of a feature of the human mind essential to pro-
eress, the desire for novelty, to lead the public to the employment of
the intellectual pleasure derived from the study and contemplation of
nature. It is truly surprising how tastes may be formed, how objects
before disregarded may, when viewed as a part of a natural family, be
invested with attractions which shall ever after render them sources of
refined pleasure and unalloyed enjoyment.

While the Smithsonian Institution should continue to devote a por-
tion of its own funds to assist in explorations which have for their
object the advance of science, the public musenm, with the care of
which it is intrusted by Congress, should, in my opinion, without detract-
ing from its scientific character, largely partake of the popular element.
It is to be supported by the Treasury of the United States, and should,
therefore, be an object of interest to the large number of visitors who
are annually drawn to Washington by curiosity or otherwise, and who
cherish a patriotic pride in whatever redounds to the reputation of the
national capital. °

Besides specimens properly labeled for study, especially of the con-
tinent of North America, it should contain those to fully illustrate in
part, at least, the more prominent divisions of the animal, vegetable,
and mineral kingdoms. These should be so arranged, regard being had
to artistic effect, as to exhibit the principles of classification, the relation
of organs to one another and to those of their allies, the phases of their
organization, and other peculiarities relating to their habits and places
in the economy of nature. To assist in this, models and pictorial illus-
trations of magnified smaller parts and of minute structures should be
supplied. In every instance the objects should be accompanied with
copious legible descriptions, and in no case should a group contain a
single specimen more than is absolutely necessary for the general purpose.
Economy of space in a public museum should never be consulted at the
expense of clearness of illustration. The national museum should
contain skeletons in the original, or casts in plaster, of all the larger
fossil animals—sections and scenic representations on a large scale of
geological periods, and modeled figures of the different races of men
and species of animals.

The space which is at present available in the Smithsonian building
for a general public museum consists of the following apartments:

1. On the first floor a room 200 feet long and 50 feet wide. 2. Another
large room, in the west wing, 654 feet long by 35 feet wide, witha
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 35

semi-circular projection atoneend. 3. A connecting range of 60 feet long
by 37 wide. 4. In the second story a single large room of 200 feet long
and 50 feet wide. The large room on the first floor is not well adapted to
the display of specimens, since it is occupied through its whole length
with two rows of colossal columns. ‘The upper room, however, as well
as that in the west wing of the building, is entirely free from all hin-
drance to an arrangement with a view to the best exhibition of the
collections. I have said that the rooms above mentioned constitute the
present available space for the accommodation of the museum. When,
however, more space is required, the eastern wing, now in part occupied
as a.residence by the Secretary, can be employed for the purpose. The
floor and partitions which separate the several apartments of this por-
tion of the building are of a temporary character and can be readily
removed. The lower part of this wing and its basement are now used
for containing the exchanges and as store-rooms for duplicate specimens
of geology and mineralogy. In accordance with the views which have
been presented, it is intended to devote the whole of the large room in
the second story of the main building to archeological objects with
skeletons, life-size drawings, and restorations of the larger mammals
contemporary with primitive man, especially on the continent of America.
Second, to appropriate the wall-surface and a part of the floor-space of
the western wing of the building to mineralogy and geology. The por-
tions of the extensive walls of this room can be covered on the east
side, which presents an unbroken surface above the top of the cases of
65 feet by 10 feet, with a geological section across the continent, and the
opposite wall with drawings of the characteristic fossils of the strata
which are exhibited on the eastern wall. The side and mineral cases for
containing the specimens, besides exhibiting a characteristic series of
specimens, to represent general geology, mineralogy, and paleontology,
will be occupied with full sets of specimens to illustrate the geological
formation of North America, and especially the mineralogical resources
of this country.

The collection of objects to illustrate anthropology now in possession
of the Institution is almost unsurpassed, especially in those which
relate to the present Indians and the more ancient inhabitants of the
American continent. An artistic and scientific exhibition of these in
the large room we have mentioned, could not fail to be highly inter-
esting to the general public, the student of ethnology, and especially to
the many intelligent foreigners who visit the capital of the United
States. There are also in the collection of specimens in charge of the
Institution full sets of all the rocks and minerals collected by the
several exploring expeditions which have been sent out by the General
Government, besides those which have been presented as free gifts or
in exchange to the Institution from all parts of our continent. We can,
therefore, with scarcely any additional material, or only with such as
can be readily obtained, render the national museum much more
36 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

creditable to the Government and the Institution than it has ever yet
been. Such a collection will tend to draw to itself numerous isolated
collections, especially of anthropology, which, though they may be of
much interest to the individuals possessing them, are of comparatively
little value in the way of advancing a knowledge of the subject to
which they pertain, and, in ease of the death of the owners, are gener-
erally dissipated and frequently lost to the world. The only way in
which they can become of real importance is by making them part of a
general collection, carefully preserved in some public institution, where
they can be studied and compared with other specimens, and where, in
the course of the increasing light of science, they may be «made to
reveal truths beyond present anticipation.

Herbarium.—Aun account of the transfer of the extensive collection
of plants of the Institution to the care of the Department of Agriculture
has been given in previous reports, but it is thought important to place
on record a more detailed history of this collection than has yet been
published, and I therefore present the following account of it from notes
furnished by Dr. Torrey.

The Institution having accumulated a large number of botanical
specimens collected in various parts of the world, most of them brought
home by the Government exploring expeditions, others presented by
authors of botanical works, travelers or special collectors, the offer
was made by Professor John Torrey to arrange, without compensation,
all these separate collections into one general herbarium. This offer was
gladly accepted on the part of the Institution, and all the specimens
on hand, and all that were subsequently received up to 1869, were
transferred to him. When he commenced the task, the specimens,
especially those collected by the Institution, were still in bundles as
they were received, and all required to be poisoned to prevent their
destruction by insects, which had already commenced their ravages.
The plan adopted by Dr. Torrey for the arrangement of the plants was
of the most approved character. Each species, often represented by sev-
eral specimens, and all the marked varieties, are fastened to a half sheet
of strong white paper and labeled. All the species of a genus are laid
on one or more whole sheets of thicker tinted paper, on the lower left-
hand corner of which the generic name is written. The genera are
arranged according to the natural system, following for the most part
the order of De Candolle. <A very large proportion of the specimens
are authentically named by the authors who have described them; and
as they are the type-specimens or originals of several important works
are invaluable for reference. Some of the more valuable portions
of the Smithsonian herbarium are the following :

1. The plants collected by the exploring expedition under the command
of Admiral Wilkes, during the years 1838 to 1842. Many countries were
visited in this voyage round the world, and an extensive herbarium
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. ou

brought home. The botanists of the expedition were Mr. William Rich,
Dr. Charles Pickering, and Mr. W. I. D. Brackenridge. To the last-
named gentleman was assigned the description of the ferns, his report
on which was printed by order of Congress in a handsome quarto volume,
with a folio atlas, containing beautifully engraved figures of the new or
little-known species. After a very few copies of this work were dis-
tributed, the remainder of the edition was destroyed by fire while in the
hands of the binder. The copper-plates, however, are still in the custody
of the Library Committee of Congress, and it would cost but little to
print a new edition of a work so much desired by a large number of
botanists. The flowering plants, with the exception of those collected
in California and Oregon, were referred to Dr. Torrey; others were
partially studied by Mr. Rich, and then committed to Professor Asa
Gray for a more thorough investigation. Of this portion of the collee-
tion only one quarto volume of text, and a large folio volume of illustra-
tions, have thus far been published by Congress. For a number of years
the publication of the works relating to the exploring expedition was in
charge of the Joint Library Committee of Congress and Admiral Wilkes,
but it was impossible to procure appropriations to defray the large
expense of the undertaking. At length all the materials were trans-
ferred to the Smithsonian Institution, provided it would publish for
distribution an edition of the whole. The limited income of the Smith-
sonian fund did not permit the Institution to embark in so formidable
an undertaking, and plates, manuscripts, and printed matter are still in
possession of the Committee on the Library of Congress.

Professor Gray is ready to go on with his work as soon as provision
is made for its publication. Dr. Torrey’s report has been long since
completed, and the illustrations drawn, engraved, and even printed.
At this late day, however, the report would require revision; indeed, so
many hew and rare species described in it have since been found and
described by other botanists, that it may be sufficient to publish a very
brief report, accompanied by the plates alluded to above. The Jfosses
were described and beautifully illustrated by W.S. Sullivant, esq., of
Columbus, Ohio. The text in quarto of his valuable report is also
printed, but not published. He has, however, at his own expense,
printed for private distribution a beautiful edition of it in folio. The Alge
were committed to Professor J. W. Bailey, of West Point, and Professor
W. H. Harvey, of Trinity College, Dublin, whose report on these plants,
with elaborate illustrations, is printed, and has been, for years, stored
away in sheets awaiting to be bound up and published with Dr. Torrey’s
report. The same may be said of Professor Tuckerman’s account of the
Tichens, and of the reports by Rev. M. A. Curtis, of North Carolina, and
Rey. Dr. Berkely, of England, on the Fungi.

2. The next most extensive and valuable portion of the herbarium is
the collection of plants made during the North Pacific exploring expedi-
tion, under command of Commanders Ringgold and Rodgers, from 1853
38 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

to 1856, by Mr. Charles Wright, an accomplished botanist, who accom-
panied the Mexican boundary commissioners in their surveys, and who
has also made extensive botanical explorations in Cuba. There has
been no full report of the collections made on the North Pacific expedi-
tion, though many of the new species have been published by Dr. Gray.

3. The naturalists who accompanied most of the surveying parties
which made explorations for the route of a Pacific Railroad collected
large numbers of plants, many of which were new to the botanist, and
have been described in the published reports of these éxplorations.

4, Collections made in the Mexican boundary survey by Dr. C. C.
Parry, Dr. J. M. Bigelow, Mr. C. Wright, Professor George Thurber,
and Mr. Arthur Schott, are among the most extensive and valuable
portions of the herbarium. <A full account of them, by Drs. Gray, Engel-
mann, and Torrey, is contained in General Emory’s report. The Cac-
tacez, and one or two smaller orders, were described by Dr. Engelmann;
the Compositz, Scrophulariaceze, and one or two other orders, by Dr.
Gray; and the ferns, with their allies, by Professor D. C. Eaton. The
remaining Cryptogamia are not included in the report, but most of the
new or rare ones have been published elsewhere. The grasses were to be
described in a separate memoir by Professor Thurber.

5. Large additions have been made to the North American portion of
the herbarium, chiefly from within the limits of the United States and
Territories, by contributions from the following places: New England,
by Mr. Oakes, Dr. Gray, Professor Tuckerman, 8. T. Olney, esq., Pro-
fessor D. C. Haton, and others; New Jersey, by Mr. C. I’. Austin, Pro-
fessor Eaton, Dr. Torrey, and Dr. Knieskern ; New York, Messrs. Austin,
LeRoy, Clinton, Torrey, and many others; Pennsylvania, by Dr. Dar-
lington, and Professor Thos. C. Porter; North Carolina, by Rey. Dr.
Curtis; Florida, by Dr. Chapman, (type-specimens of his flora of the
Southern States;) Alabama, by Professor Winchell; Kentucky, Dr. Short,
and Mr. Sullivant; Texas and New Mexico, Messrs. Fendler, Ervend-
berg, and others, besides what the botanists collected in the Mexican
boundary survey; Rocky Mountains, Dr. Parry, Captain Macomb,
and Dr. Newberry; Oregon, Mr. Geo. Gibbs, and others; Nebraska,
Dr. Hayden; Nevada, Mr. Stretch; California, Dr. H. M. Bolander,
General I'rémont, Miss Davies, Th. Bridges, Mr. BE. Samuels, Dr. Torrey,
and many others; Colorado, Dr. Anderson, Frémont, and others. Besides
these principal sources of United States plants, very many specimens
have been received from other places and persons, which we have not
space to enumerate. From British America, especially the sub-aretic
portions, Dr. Kennicott, and officers of the Hudson’s Bay Company have
furnished specimens. Of foreign plants, besides those collected in the two
United States exploring expeditions already noticed, the herbarium con-
tains valuable and large contributions from Japan, Mantchuria, China,
eic., from Professors Reigel and Maximovitch, of the Imperial Academy
of Science of St. Petersburg, and the Imperial Botanic Garden: <A
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 39

large collection of Sandwich Island plants, (all type-specimens,) made by
Mr. Horace Mann, lately deceased: A collection of plants from Mirador,
Mexico, by Dr. Sartorius: Many specimens, with fleshy fruits in alco-
hol, collected on the Panama Railroad, by the late Dr. Sutton Hayes;
others from the same regicn by, Fendler, in 1850: Plants from Jamaica,
especially ferns from Mr. Wilson; from Cuba, collected by Mr. Chas.
Wright; Venezuela, many beautifully dried ferns by Fendler; from
Texas and Northern Mexico, by Berlandier; Lower California, by Mr.
Xantus; Brazil and Paraguay, by unknown collector. From Europe,
there is an extensive collection of Hungarian plants from Mr. Arthur
Schott, and of Illyrian plants from Professor Thomasini, besides many
smaller collections from various parts of the continent. Dr. Torrey has
contributed a large number of specimens from his own herbarium.

As to the disposition made of the duplicates of the collections, they
have been sent in the name of the Smithsonian Institution to learned
societies, botanic gardens, and individuals, whenever they could be dis-
posed of for the advance of science. Full sets of duplicates were pre-
sented to the Royal Garden at Kew, near London, the botanic gardens
of Paris and St. Petersburg, besides smaller portions to individuals,
lyceums of natural history, and colleges.

This collection of plants has been transferred to the Agricultural De-
partment, on the conditions set forth in the following documents, of
which the originals are in the archives of the Institution and of the
Agricultural Department:

WASHINGTON, D. C., January 1, 1868.

In order to the harmonious co-operation of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion and the Department of Agriculture in their respective provinces of
advancing science, they enter into the following agreement relative to
the disposition of specimens:

First. All the botanical specimens in possession of the Smithsonian
Institution, about twenty thousand, and all that may hereafter be col-
lected by it, shall be transferred to the Agricultural Department on the
following terms:

1. That a competent botanist, approved by the Institution, shall be
appointed to have charge of the collection.

2. That the collection shall, at all times, be accessible to the public
for educational purposes, and to the Institution for scientific investiga-
tion, or for supplying any information in regard to plants that its cor-
respondents may ask for.

3. That due credit be given to the Institution in the report of the
Agricultural Department for the original deposit, and for such addi-
tions as may be made to it, from time to time, by the Institution.

Second. That the Agricultural Department shall transfer to the Smith-
sonian Institution any specimens it may now have, or may hereafter ob-
tain, that are not necessary to illustrate agricultural economy; such as
40 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

those of ethnology and of various branches of natural history. Similar
credit to be given in this case as is required in the former.
HORACE CAPRON,
Commissioner of Agriculture.
: JOSEPH HENRY,
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.

Yhe following is an account of the more important additions which
have been made to the collection in the Agricultural Department by the
Institution since the transfer of the general herbarium in 1868:

1. A set of European plants, numbering about four hundred species,
presented by Professor Paul Reintz, of Germany, in exchange, at his
request, for specimens of American plants.

2. A second very extensive collection of plants from the Imperial
Academy of St. Petersburg, in return for donations from the Institution.
This present, like all of those we have received from the Imperial Academy,
is of a most valuable character. It consists of eleven hundred species
from Russia, Siberia, Western Europe, and Japan.

3. Another large collection is from the widow of the late Mr. James
MeMinn, Williamsport, Pennsylvania, principally of plants from the
mountainous regions of Pennsylvania, but also comprising specimens
from other parts of this country and different localities in Kurope. Mr.
McMinn was a civil engineer, and in the practice of his profession in
surveying lines for railways and canals became interested in the variety
of plants which were presented to his notice, and as a means of recre-
ation, as well as of intellectual improvement, commenced the study of
botany. It would appear from the examination of his herbarium, that he
had entered into extensive correspondence with some of the principal
botanists of this country and Europe, and had enriched his coilection
by exchanges. His herbarium contained about five thousand species,
among which is aninteresting series of plants from the Alps. The special
thanks of the Institution are due to Mrs. McMinn for the judicious dis-
position she hes made of the results of the labors of her lamented hus-
band, which we trust will be preserved among the collections of the
Government, as a permanent memorial of his devotion to science and
of her enlightened liberality.

Besides the foregoing there have been added several hundred bottles
of samples of agricultural materials and products, humerous specimens
of seeds, roots, fibers, fungi, sections of wood, &e.

Work done in connection with the collections.—Professor Baird, during
the past year, in addition to his services in regard to the exchanges,
natural history, and assistance in correspondence, has completed the
systematic description of the land birds of the Pacific States, forming
the first volume of ornithology published, in connection with its geo-
logical survey, by the State of California. The materials for this work
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. Al

were from the manuscript notes of Dr. J. G. Cooper, of San Francisco,
while the descriptions are principally from specimens in the Smithsonian
collections. This yolume, in regard to its typography, illustrations, and
the character of its contents, does honor to the liberality of the State at
whose expense it was published, as well as to the science of the country.
Professor Baird has also continued his labors with Dr. Brewer, of Bos-
ton, on a work relative to the general ornithology of North America; in
this he has been assisted by Mr. Robert Ridgeway, the zodélogist
of the exploration of the fortieth parallel under Clarence King. To the
latter, free access has also been given, in the preparation of his report
on the birds of Mr. King’s survey, to all the ornithological specimens in
the Smithsonian collections.

Mr. Meek, the paleontologist, has made a preliminary report on the
fossils collected by Dr. Hayden in his survey of Wyoming and contig-
uous Territories, and prepared lists of the same, with descriptions of
the new species. He has described and prepared drawings of a collec-
tion of cretaceous fossils, sent by Professor Mudge to the Institution,
from Kansas. He has made, besides several preliminary examinations,
a final report on the fossils collected by Mr. King in the survey of the
fortieth parallel, with full descriptions and illustrations of all the new
species. He has also investigated the invertebrate fossils collected by
the geological survey of Ohio, and prepared descriptions of the new

species for publication; made a preliminary report, with descrip-

tions of Some new species, on a collection of carboniferous fossils sent
by Professor Stevenson from West Virginia; continued his work.on the
illustrations of the monograph of the paleontology of the Upper
Missouri. He has also identified collections of fossils, received from
time to time at the Smithsonian Institution from collectors in various
parts of the country.

Mr. Dall has been engaged in collating the extensive collection of
manuscript notes of the Hudson’s Bay and other Arctic American col-
laborators with whom the institution has been in correspondence for
more than fifteen years. The part of these notes which he has finished
relates to ornithology, and comprises many thousand items descriptive
of the habits, distribution, and numbers of the birds of the regions
above referred to. These will be used by Professor Baird and Dr. Brewer
in their work on the birds of North America. The manuscripts also con-
tain notes relative to the mammals and other animals, as well as to the
ethnology of the same regions. When all. these are collated and pub-
lished they will form an interesting contribution to existing knowledge of
the natural productions and ethnology of the North American continent.

Mr. Dall has also devoted considerable time to original investigations
relative to the minute anatomy of the mollusca from specimens in the
collections of the Institution. His principal labor, however, has been in
the rearrangement of the very large series of shells from the west coast
of America and of the North Pacific, including many types of the new
42 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

species of Gould, Carpenter, Cooper, Stearns, Pease, H. and A. Adams,
&e. These have mostly passed through the hands of Dr. P. P. Car-
penter, of Montreal, but still required to be placed, in suitable trays,
and ‘provided with new labels and specially arranged for cabinet pur-
poses. He has also had charge throughout most of the year of the
record of additions to the museum, and the labeling of collections, espe-
cially those of ethnology and osteology.

Meteorology.—The system of meteorology of the Institution has been
kept up as usual during the past year. The number of observers report-
ing to the Institution during this period is 515, and to the Medical
Department of the United States Army, to the records of which we have
free access, 140. The value of these observations increases with the
number of observers and the time for which the several series are con-
tinued. But observations, however long-continued and extensive, are
comparatively of little value unless they are reduced and discussed ; and
these operations can only be performed at the expense of great labor,
since thousands of figures have to be tabulated and subjected to various
arithmetical processes in order to deduce the general results which con-
stitute approximate scientific principles. As we have stated in previous
reports, the discussion of the rain and temperature has been for some
years in charge of Mr. Charles A. Schott. The results in regard to the
rain have been printed, and will form a part of the Smithsonian Con-
tributions for the year 1871. A general account of these results was:
given in the last report, but in this it may be further stated that the
principal deductions are made from an original series of tables giving the
monthly rain-fall from the earliest periods from all sources in the United
States and adjacent countries down to 1867, From these general tables
a series of consolidated tables of means for seasons and years, for the
whole time, is deduced. It was thought advisable, on account of the
great expense, to publish for the present the consolidated tables, and
to retain the others for reference or to answer special inquiries in
regard to the rain-fall of particular stations. The former have been kept
up to date, all the new materials having been incorporated; and to extend
the system a large number of rain-gauges have been distributed to dif-
ferent parts of the country, and especially to the western States.

The temperature records are still under investigation by Mr. Schott.
The work was in part temporarily, suspended during his absence in
Europe as a member of the expedition for observing the total eclipse of
last December. The following is a statement of the present condition
of the discussion.

The collection of material has for the most part been completed down
to the present time, and tables of hourly, bi-hourly, and semi-hourly
observations of temperature have been prepared. From these have
heen deduced tables to be used for the correction of daily variations of
temperature. The daily fluctuation of the atmospheric temperature
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 3)

has been discussed, and tables giving the times of sunrise and sunset
for stations between latitudes 23° and 60°, to be used for corrections of
daily variation, have been computed. The annual fluctuations of tem-
perature have been in part discussed, and the tables of maxima and
minima are in an advanced state toward completion.

All the observations relative to the winds, made under the direction
of the Institution, and under the Medical Department of the Army, and
all those which have been collected from other sources, have been
placed in charge of Professor J. H. Coffin, of Lafayette College, for
reduction and discussion. It was first intended to limit the investiga-
tion to the winds of North America, but it has since been considered
advisable to incorporate the whole in a memoir on the general direction
of the winds of the globe. To defray the cost of the extra labor, other
than that of Professor Coffin, in this investigation, an appropriation has
been made from the income of the Institution. During the year, Pro-
fessor Coffin has been pressing on this work, with a number of assistants,
as rapidly as the means at his command and his time would allow.

The Smithsonian meteorological system was commenced in 1849, and
has continued in operation until the present time. Its efforts have been
directed in the line of supplementing and harmonizing other systems,
of a more limited character, with that of the more general one of the
Army of the United States, and in some measure with the system estab-
lished in Canada. It has done good service to the cause of meteorology,
1, in inaugurating the system which has been in operation upward of
twenty years; 2, in the introduction of improved instruments after
discussion and experiments; 3, in preparing and .publishing at its ex-
pense an extensive series of meteorological tables; 4, in reducing and
discussing the meteorologicai material which could be obtained from
all the records from the first settlement of the country till within a few
years; 5, in being the first to show the practicability of telegraphic
weather signals; 6, in publishing records and discussions made at its
own expense, of the Arctic expeditions of Kane, Hayes, and McClin-
tock; 7, in discussing and publishing a number of series of special
records embracing periods of from twenty to fifty years in different see-
tions of the United States, of great interest in determining secular
changes of the climate; 8, in the publication of a series of memoirs on
various meteorological phenomena, embracing observations and discus-
Sions of storms, tornadoes, meteors, auroras, &e.; 9, in a diffusion of a
knowledge of meteorology through its extensive unpublished corre-
spondence and its printed circulars. It has done all in this line which
its limited means would permit, and has urged upon Congress the estab-
lishment, with adequate appropriation of funds, of a meteorological
department under one comprehensive plan, in which the records should
be sent to a central depot for reduction, discussion, and final publica-
tion.

An important step has been made toward this desirable object in the
44 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

————__ a

establishment, during the last year, by Congress, of a system of practical
weather reports under the direction of the War Department, with ample
means for the purchase standard instruments, the pay of assistants, and
telegraphic dispatches. The results of this system in the way of pre-
diction have been eminently successful, and have everywhere met with
popular favor. The organization and administration of the system by
General Myer, the director, has evinced great executive ability, and
his wisdom has been shown in selecting Professor Abbe as his scientifie
assistant. It should be recollected, however, that the principles em-
ployed in foretelling the weather are practical results previously arrived
at by the investigations of men of abstract science founded on simulta-
neous records without the aid of telegraphic communication. For the
discovery of the general laws of meteorological phenomena, simultaneous
observations should be made over large portions of the earth, and the
records of these collected at stated periods, say at the end of every
month, at some central office, and submitted first to preliminary reduc-
tion, and finally to the critical study of men like Espy, Redfield, and
others, fitted by education, experience, and mental peculiarities to
deduce from them the required generalizations. I would therefore sug-
gest that a still larger appropriation be made by Congress to the War
Department for establishing, besides the reports for weather signals, a
series of intermediate stations, also furnished with compared instru-
ments, to record daily observations to be transmitted to Washington
weekly or monthly, and also that provision be made for the support of
a number of competent persons'‘to carry on the reductions and prepare
the results for publication.

It has been the policy of this Institution from the first to do nothing
which can be done as well or better by other means, and in accordance
with this policy the Institution would willingly relinquish the field of
meteorology, which it has so long endeavored, though imperfectly, to
cultivate, turning over to the Signal Office all the material which it has
accumulated up to a given epoch. We would advise also a similar
course to be pursued on the part of the Medical Department of the
Army. All the deductions from the combined materials which have
been collected up to the present time should be obtained and published,
although since, they may be in many respects defective, they contain
the essential element of long periods of meteorological changes and
a new era commence with more precise instruments and improved
methods of observation. From such a system, however perfect it may
be, immediate results are not to be expected. New and important de-
ductions can scarcely be obtained until after a continuance of the sys-
tem for several years, as, for example, the accurate determination of
the periodicity which probably exists in regard to the droughts of the
western coast.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 45

Before closing this report it is proper that I should refer to a resolu-
tion adopted by your honorable board at its last session, granting me
leave of absence to visit Europé to confer with savans and societies
relative to the Institution, and making provision for the payment of my
expenses. The presentation of this proposition was entirely without
my knowledge, but I need scarcely say that its unanimous adoption was
highly gratifying to my feelings, and that I availed myself of the privi-
lege it offered with a grateful appreciation of the kindness intended.

I sailed from New York on the 1st of June, returning, after an absence
of four and a half months, much improved in health and with impres-
sious, as to science and education in the Old World, which may be of
value in directing the affairs of the Institution. Although limited as to
time, and my plans interfered with somewhat by the war, I visited
England, Ireland, Scotland, Belgium, parts of Germany and France.
But deferring, for the present, an account of my travels and the observa-
tions connected with them, I will merely state that, as your representa-
tive, I was everywhere kindly received, and highly gratified with the
commendations bestowed on the character and operations of the
Institution intrusted to your care.

Respectfully submitted.

JOSEPH HENRY.

JANUARY, 1871.
APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Table showing the entries in the record-books of the Smithsonian Museum

in 1869 and 1870.

Class. 1869. 1870.

Skeletons and-Skculls!-<22 22 .(2 sai-2~ 222 -Go-saee seme ees saan 9,708 11,512
Mammalaes  2* 52 decade 2b Ae cca gettvoes Ree se eee Sete es 9, 516 9, wag
[SviGIS|! eS BER Se ESS SSSR ao etsaSn dssmsaSss2 Scedisace Seeen < 5886 58, 976 61, 150
Raptilesys. 225.0202). 225 3255 FSIS Senta tails whale nie te mie 7,517 7,535
1g GIN) Be BBE Bee Coe Cette er atioc. OF Sean babe 0SSE EE aa oc ache eee 7, 885 7, 897
DANO RI, Gad SASBSS Goes aSseiases sodas nSS555 vabisse s4e5o5 15, 500 15, 671
@rustaeeanss) 225 cess seo sone toe hee tee ee ee eee eerie eter 1, 287 1, 287
Malis lest Foo okies < oes <a ae ere 21,770 22, 345
IN@GIENEE S Book des 8 SSS aReee ees Seto coas S555 SsoSosse scSceseesee 2,725 2, 730
Atri OSS - = yer os Stee seta a slap ak & wel sate tate te oral rat al ate et comet 100 100
IfORiilcy goeameLe Cason oee need nee noe (oases S65 cagadec se. cera Ss oSe 7, 283 7, 380
Iie ee ee te eee eA REA SS ee oS abe coos seed Ssae 6, 977 7,154
Bihnolopicalispecimens=- 2-225 sce e See tee etapa erate 9, 233 10, 000
JBI RS aoa Seen Ob BAAR OOO MIS RRIem nro mcs oson ase saouct cats ne 175 175
BRO talgee essa eicetee a et ao ne eee ele ter 158, 652 164, 709

» Lotalventries: during thevyearl, eee. ee eee ee eee ee eee eee 6, 057

Of the above enumeration, 4,154 specimens of the birds and 500 of the

mammails are mounted and on exhibition in the hall.

Approximate table of distribution of duplicate specimens

to the end of 1870.

Distribution to the Distribution in
end of 1869. 1870. pe
Class.

Species. | Specimens.| Species. | Specimens.) Species. | Specimens.
Skeletons and skulls. 154 593 60 78 214 671
Mammials!:22 28%... 22 2: 885 1,706 ol 76 916 1,782
Bit ecacansconasses| LehChl 18, 996 2, 200 3,564 | 34,951 22, 530
Reptilesess .- 2 22 1,701 2, 830 40 40 1,741 2, 870
Bishesteeecee.. 2222 2, 434 5, 210 1 1 2, 435 Sy oud
Heosiobirds ess. 4, 381 11,711 2,074 4, 683 6, 455 16, 394
Shellge seems 78, 391 177, 927 3, 087 5,230 | 81,178 183, 157
Radiates ../..R 2 551 727 32 51 583 778
Crustaceans .......- 1, 623 2, 526 5d 124 1, 078 2, 650
Marine invertebrates} 1,838 5, AG 2a scone eels ESE eA Pom Bick 5, 152
Plants and packages

Onencedss ie. 6 2 13, 658 19, 218 1, 845 1,845 | 15,503 21, 063
JESS ULS) Ae epee eae ei 3, 958 9! GRO res tracers ne reaeees ese 3, 958 9, 984
Minerals and rocks... 2, 880 7,774 750 800 3, 630 8, 574
Ethnological speci-

EONS ce cise ee 1, 107 1,154 36 36 1, 148 1, 190
IMS@CUS Psa ec ce eet iD 2, 846 100 100 1, 682 2, 946
Diatomaceous earths| 26 566 2 2 28 568

Totals. 2: 127, 470 268,920] 10,313 16,630 | 127,783 285, 520

ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS. 47

ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN
INSTITUTION IN 1870.

Adams, F. C.—Limestone rock, Virginia.

Agricultural Department United States, Hon. Horace Capron, Commis-
sioner.—Skin of monkey and parrot, South America; reptiles in alcohol,
from Colorado, California, and the East Indies; dry fish and crustacea
from China and New York Harbor. (See elsewhere under other entries.)

Aiken, H. C.—Skins of Leucosticte tephrocotis, Rocky Mountains.

Albuquerque, Don Frederico.—Barrel of fish in aleohol, from Brazilian
rivers.

_ Alden, Dr. C. H., United States Army, through the Army Medical Mu-
seum.—Petrified wood, fossils and minerals, from Colorado Territory.

Anderson, General, through J. M. Thompson.—Fresh heads, nome and
skins of the American bison, Kansas.

Army Medical Museum, United States; Dr. George A. Otis, United
States Army, in charge——Stone implements from Colorado Territory ;
fossil teeth of mastodon, &e., Alabama. (See also under the names of
the medical officers United States Army.)

Baird, Professor S. F’.—Carvings of northeastern Eskimo; arrow-
heads, relics from ancient shell-heaps on the coast of Massachusetts ;
fish and turtles in alcohol, fin of thresher shark, jaws and skeletons
of fish, from Wood’s Hole, Massachusetts.

Bannister, H. M.—Arrow-heads, &c., Illinois.

Baurmeister, Rev. W.—Minerals, Indiana.

Balbach, A.—F cetal mice in alcohol, New Jersey.

Baldwin, Charles Si—Archeological specimens, Tennessee.

Barker, T. Si—Shell adze and arrow-heads, Florida,

Bentley, Dr. E., Assistant Surgeon United States Army, through Army
Medical Musewn.—Stone implements, San Francisco Bay, California.

Berendt, Dr.—Turtles, fossil fish and plants, from Mexico.

Berthoud, Captain HL, £.—Fiint-flakes and serapers, Colorado Territory.

Bishop, N. H.—Cuban mocking-birds in alcohol.

Blackmore, William.—Model of Stonehenge and flint implements,
Great Britain.

Boardman, George A.—Bird skins, nests, and eggs, from Maine and
Florida; models of great auk egg, skulls of buffalo and gnu, South
Africa.

Bolander, Dr. H.—Californian seeds.

Boucard, A.—Bird skins from Mexico.

Bowman, J. B.—Collection of birds, and one mammal, from Aus-
tralia.

Brevoort, J. Carson.—Bones of the dodo, from Mauritius.

Brown, Solomon G.—Arrow-heads, District of Columbia.

Bryan, O. N.—Pottery, stone implements, arrow-heads, &c., Virginia.

Bryant, Captain Charles.—Skins of the walrus and seal, from Alaska.
48 ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS.

Burn, J. P.—Specimens of rock from the Bosphorus.

Burr, Fearing —Specimens from Massachusetts shell-heaps.

Burrough, J.—Nest and skin of mourning warbler, New York.

Cameron, John.—Mask from an Egyptian sarcophagus.

Central Park Commissioners, New York.—Cast of antique statue, Costa
Rica.

Chase, Thomas.—Stone mortar and pestle, Virginia.

Coleman, N.—Insects from Ohio.

Collins, H.—Specimens from shell-heaps, Louisiana.

Condon, Rev. Thomas.—Fossils from Columbia River.

Cooper, Theodore.—Shells from the Galapagos Islands.

Coues, Dr. Hlliott, United States Army.—-Bird-skins from North
Carolina. ;

Curtis, Dr. Josiah.—Indian implements, pottery, We., from Tennessee
and Georgia.

Dall, Rev. C. H. A.—Skull and horns of the buffalo of southern India.

Dall, W. H.—Specimens of mollusea and shells from various localities.

Damon, R.—Specimens of brachiopods from the European seas.

Dant, Thomas E.—Abnormal eggs of domestic fowl.

Davis, Henry.—Fossils from Lowa.

Day, Robert, jr.—Stone implements from Ireland.

Domeyko, Professor, University of Chili.—Chilian minerals.

Dow, Captain J. M.—Skulls and bones of tapirs from Central America;
young tapir in alcohol, and other alcoholic specimens, from Panama.

Durkee, H. R.—Human remains and fossils from Wyoming Territory ;
birds, eggs, and nests, with some osteological specimens, from the same
locality.

Hvans, Abner G., by the Hon. W. Townsend.—Stone implements from
Pennsylvania.

Finck, Hugo.—Stone antiquities from Mexico.

Fitzgerald, Dr. J. A., United States Army, (by Dr. J. 8S. Billings,
United States Army.)—Fossil teeth from Indian Territory.

Fliigel, Dr. Felix.—Alcoholic specimens, Europe.

Poreman, Dr. H.—F¥resh-water shells, District of Columbia.

Gardner, G. T.—Specimens from Maine shell heaps.

Gibbs, Mr.—Box seeds, nuts, &e., Kansas.

Girard, Dr. Basil, United States Army, (through Army Medical
Museum.)—Fossils from Wyoming Territory.

Gleason, W. T.—Glaciated rock, Connecticut.

Glover, Lieutenant Russell, United States Revenue Marine.—Specimens
of Acme a testudinalis and Boltenia clavata from the coast of Maine.

Graves, E. D.—ULignite, Pennsylvania.

Graves, W. W.—Infusorial earth from Maine.

Guest, Follis, (through Hon. W. Townsend.)—Stone implements, Penn-
sylvania.

Hachenburg, Dr.—Scale of sturgeon.

ee
ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS. 49

Hall, George H.—Specimens of grinding and building stone, Ohio.

Hall, John.—Indian erania and bones, San Francisco.

Haney, Jesse H.—Indian silver ornament, Arkansas.

Hansen, Walter.—Stone awl, Missouri. Apache basket from New
Mexico.

Hartman, Dr.—Collection of insects, Pennsylvania.

Haskins, Mr.—Horned toad, California.

Hayden, Dr. F. V—Beaver cuttings from the Roeky Mountains. (See
also United States Geological Survey of Territory.

Heaton, L. D., (through Agricultural Department.)—Reptile from
Texas.

Henriques, Captain United States Revenue Marine.—Ethnological and
botanical collections from Alaska.

Himes, Professor C. F’.—Bones from the Carlisle bone-cave, Penn-
sylvania.

Hinckley, J. R.—Fish and fishbones, Massachusetts coast.

Hoover, H.—ossils and arrow-heads, Pennsylvania.

Hoxie, Walter.—Egegs of Cathartes atratus, South Carolina.

Hoy, Dr. P. R.—F¥ish, &c., from deep dredgings off Racine, Wisconsin.

Hutchinson, Kohl & Co.—Seal-skins, walrus skull and volcanic sand,
Alaska.

Jackson, Haliday, (through Hon. W. Townsend.)—Stone implements,
Pennsylvania.

Jackson, Rk. S.—Osteological and odlogical specimens from Louisiana.

Johnson, Hugene.—Indian redstone pipe.

Johnson, Lieutenant.—Specimen of an owl, District of Columbia.

Jones, Rev. C. M.—Nests of Ammodromus maritimus and candacutus,
Connecticut.

Jones, Jno. P.—Cranium of mound builder, Missouri.

Jones, Strachan, Hudson Bay Company.—Collection of birds and eggs,
Little Slave Lake, Hudson Bay territory.

Keenan, T. J. k.—Unionide, specimens of ethnology and natural history

from Mississippi. Two specimens of continental currency.

Kellogg, Dr. A.—Plants from California.

King, Clarence—Stone pestle, California. Minerals and rocks from
Nevada.

Knapp, Dr. James.—Collection of fossils, Kentucky.

Knight, Jeremiah.—Plate of crystallized quartz from Orange County,
New York.

Kohler, Mr.—Seventy pound mass of silicate of zine, Union Lead
Works, Virginia.

Lancaster, Dr.—Mineral residue from water of Alum Springs, Virginia.

Lartet, Professor E.—Bone breccia from the bone-caves of Dordogne,
France.

Latham, General G. R.—Skin of kangaroo, Australia.

Latimer, George.—Collection of birds, Porto Rico.

4s
50 ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS.

Leaning, Dr. F.—Stone implements, Indiana.

Lewis, Dr. James—Fresh-water shells, Mohawk River, New York.

Limpert, W. &.—Nests and eggs, Ohio.

Lincecum, Dr. G.—Alcoholic mammals and reptiles, Mexico.

Linden, Charles.—Three bird-skins, New York.

Lockhart, James, Hudson Bay Company.—Birds and eggs, Fort Yukon,
Alaska.

Long, Owen, M., United States Consul.—Fish from Panama.

Luddington, Colonel United States Army.—Carvings from the Old Pecos
Church, New Mexico. )

Tupton, Professor N. T.—Indian stone relics, Warrior River, Alabama.

McElderry, Dr. H., United States Army, (through the Army Medical
Museum.)—Fossils from Texas.

Macfarlane, R., Hudson Bay Company.—Birds and eggs from the
Anderson River, Hudson Bay territory, being the collections for 1866.

McIlvaine, J. A.—Indian pottery from Pennsylvania.

MclLlivaine, J. H.—Birds from Central America.

McLain, Rk. T., United States Agricultural Depariment.—indian stone
implements from Maryland.

Madras, Government Museum.—Skeleton of hyena, and collection of
East Indian birds.

March, William, (by Agricultural Department.)—Stone knives, Ohio.

Martin H.—Eges of Ectopistes migratoria, from Michigan.

Mathews, Dr. W., United States Army.—Bull-boat used by Indians of
the Indian Territory, wooden mortar, matting, head of antelope with
deformed horns; ethnological specimens; same locality.

Mechling, Mrs. F, EB. D., (through Agricultural Department.)—Reptiles
from Belize.

Merritt, £. S.—Indian arrow-heads, Long Island.

Merriti, J. C_——Arrow-heads from Long Island.

Meulen, Lieutenant EH. de, United States Army.—Plants from Cook’s
Inlet, Alaska.

Miller, Dr. George, United States Army.—Bird’s eggs, Colorado Territory.

Milne, Hdwards, Professor Alphonse.—Casts of Afpyornis bones and
fossil birds of France.

Minor, Dr. T. T., United States Army.—Indian crania from Vancouver’s
Island.

Moore, Carlton R.—Fish and corals from the coast of Virginia.

Moore, James H.—Sulphate of strontia, Virginia.

Moore, N. B.—Mounted tree-duck, Louisiana.

Nantucket Atheneum.—Skuil of killer whale.

New Albany Society of Natural History.—Cast of a copper spear-head
from the mounds, Indiana.

Newman, Jos., (by Agricultural Department.)—Stone implements from
South Carolina.

New Zeaiand Colonial Museum —Bones of Dinornis, and Apteryz, shells,
bird-skins, and ethnological specimens from New Zealand.
ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS. 5!

Nickerson, George Y.—Antique soapstone inkstand, Cape Cod.
Northwestern University.—Fossils and skins of gar-pike from Illinois.
Orton, Professor James.—Tertiary fossils from the Amazon.

Palmer, Dr. E., (partly through the Agricultural Department.)—Large
and varied collections of specimens in various departments of zodlogy,
botany, ethnology, and archeology from Arizona, Utah, and New Mex-
ico.

Passmore Lewis, (by the Hon. W. Townsend.)—Stone implements,
Pennsylvania.

Pease, Horatio N.—Tooth of fossil cetacean, Gay Head, Massachu-
setts.

Pim, Geo. E., (by Hon. W. Townsend.)—Stone implements, Pennsyl-
vania.

Plati, L. W.—Indian clothing and ornaments, Nebraska.

Pourtales, L. #. de—Marine invertebrates from Florida.

Price, J. D.—Crystallized calcite, Virginia.

Quatrefages, Professor.—Casts of osteological and other specimens
from the caves of Cromagnon, France.

Rankin, Mr.—Indian crania, Massachusetts coast.

Ransom, Governor, (through Mr. Thos. Bland.) — Land shells from
Barbadoes.

Reed, Byron.—Ortyx Virginianus, Nebraska.

Ricksecker, L. H.—Birds’ eggs, Pennsylvania.

Ridgeway, Robert.—Birds from flinois.

Ring, Lieut. F. M., United States Army.—Collections of birds, osteo-
logical specimens, ethnology, archeology, &c., from Alaska.

Sacho, H.—Saturnia rubescens from Chili.

St. Peiersburg Imperial Botanic Garden.—Russian, Siberian, Japanese,
and other plants.

Salvin, O.—Birds from the Falkland Islands.

Scammon, Capt. C. M., U. 8. Revenue Marine.—Baleen of Pacifie sul-
phurbottom whale.

Schott, Dr. A.—Crystals of rock-salt, Texas.

Sclater, Dr. P. L.—Birds from Peruvian Andes and Buenos Ayres.

Sessions, Luther.—Birds’ eggs, Connecticut.

Sharpless, P. P., (through Hon. W. Townsend.)—Stone implements
from Pennsylvania.

Sherwood, Andrew.—Devonian fish remains from Pennsylvania.

Sibbeston, J.. Hudson Bay Company.—Birds and eggs, Fort Yukon,
Alaska.

Spinner, General F. H.—Fresh specimen of the copperhead snake, Dis-
trict of Columbia.

Stearns, k. EH. O—Pottery vase and beads from Chiriqui, Central
America.

Stelle, J. P—Archeological and ethnological specimens from Tennes-
see mounds.

Sternberg, C. H. and Dr. G. M.—Fossil plants from Kansas.
52 ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS.

Stevenson, J.—Mounted Neotoma, Wyoming Territory.

Stevenson, J. J—Stone implements, West Virginia.

Stiles, Hon. Jno. D., M. C.—Specimen of iridescent hematite.

Streng, L. H.—Miscellaneous shells.

Stuart, Mrs. R. L.—Stone pipe, Virginia.

Sumichrast, Dr. Francis—Miscellaneous zoological collections, Isthmus
of Tehuantepec.

Thomas, Hzra, (through Hon. W. Townsend.)—Stone implements,
Pennsylvania.

Thompson, R. O.—Fossils and birds’ skins from Missouri.

Thomson, J. H.—HKges of African ostrich, and of Casuarius Bennettit
or “ mooruk” from New Britain, and rocks containing garnets from
New Bedtord.

Tolman, J. W.—Birds’ eggs, Illinois.

Townsend, Hon. W.—Stonei mplements from Pennsylvania. (See also
under other entries.)

Turner, G.—F lint implements, Ilinois.

United States Geological Survey of the Territories.—Dr. F. V. Hayden
in charge. Large miscellaneous zoological and paleontological collec-
tions from the Rocky Mountains.

Unknown.—Stone ax, Missouri? Stone implements and fossil corals,
Canada? Box fossils, Missouri? Skeleton Pottawattomie Indian ?

Vickary, Dr. R. S., Assistant Surgeon, United States Army.—Arrow-
heads and pottery, New Mexico.

Vienna, Imperial Zoblogical Museum of.—Birds and skin and skeleton
of the aurochs, from Austria.

Verrill, Professor A. E.—Miscellaneous radiates.

Wachsmuth, Chas.—Fossil crinoids, lowa.

Walker, Dr. Robert L., (through Agricultural Department.)—Arrow-
heads from Virginia.

Weile, Chas., United States Consul.—Reptiles from Guayaquil.

Weinland, Dr. D. #.—Uand-shells from the Bahama and West India
Islands.

Wiggins, Wiiliam.—Crystallized cinnabar in quartz, California.

Williams, General A. D., (through Captain J. M. Dow.)—Pottery from
San Salvador, Central America.

Williams, Dr. H. C.—Arrow-heads, Virginia, and stone implements
from the same locality.

Willmuth, J. A. H.—Mounted agouti, (Dasyprocta,) South America,
through Agricultural Department.

Wilson, Jas.—Stone implements (through the Hon. W. Townsend)
from Pennsylvania.

Wilson, Dr. S. W.—Five amphiumas from Georgia.

Witter, David K.—Fossils and seeds, Iowa.

Yager, W. L.—Nest of Tyrannus Carolinensis, New York.

Yates, Dr. L. S—Indian crania from mounds and stone mortar with
pestle from California.
LITERARY AND SCIENTIFIC: EXCHANGES,

Table showing the statistics of the Smithsonian exchanges in 1870.

+ “4 € | 8
S 2 O 45 So a
wo ey 2 wo ec
og a 4 Se gy a
Agent and country. 2 Sane - > 5
Die oS a Se =
ac 2 i Ee ee
: E 2 ier rl com
A A 7 a eS
Dr. FELIX FLUGEL, Leipsic ;
UDISS Taiyou: 2 ead yee ee Sy cae are oan S 84 QO Ree SEA Fae eth eae a
Genmanyjr ae nrseiae ae acetone ens 436 ule Oe espacllocene esa luce a eaas
Swibzerlan cis sss yee eek Soe ae ee ol GOP i eeeeee|eeaietee Neeson oe
GREECE ne etcetera ky AS ete fons Fe 6 (Ye | ede feed sce peat eras
isis! il ns
MO balers seme cele a oe ae ee eee 577 644 ot 539 13, 291
RoyaL SweEpIsH ACADEMY OF SCIENCES, |
Stockholm : ;
Gemenalhy as tye Sore) bagvenss ces ae lees 4 Ee EE Alt SP ee | eco ee
Sweden sweets o2 jslk Sei os 2S ce 17 AL acts eo herseroe- rs | Sears
ARO bale pr tye he At Se Sa 21 45 Sue 30 729
ROYAL UNIVERSITY OF NorwAY, Christiania: | :
IN OT Way eat: rere aarti hw ele Anema RI Ose vial 17 2 20 | 486
Roya Danisu SOCIETY OF SCIENCES, Copen- |
hagen: |
Denmark tr cr. hank eset ta cite a © 23 Pdoln iss oeee eee efeer ta
Gelan Cea ee ae aeons Ne ee sas 1 1 a eS [istered ctor yore cree
ARO tall ae craters eee eae 24 29 3 | 30 729
FREDERICK MULLER, Amsterdam :
EToll an drake eras Seeder cette coe sees 57 ODL IN ERE (ese Bae Reese eee
Bel gummy oe ee as ae ae eee es 33 Gre | see sages leet
Figrieule rte < se eannes FERRE Leong 90 98 6 60 1, 458
— =
GUSTAVE BOSSANGE, Paris:
IEPATIGOr eee a syk Siar eines eee ETE ee ee 165 TGs Sc. eoel lie arena ser | eee
SP amiseent a Ss pe Speae sen ee eal 9 Dive. SAS sie gee Repay ste. 2
POVGU Gal 2a Saha Pe Meo SENS oi ola 2 Op ss ere aise al eta ae
PAU De HDI aa erate te Ren ud Okt ep es Mr Ve 2 Dey Wet ae [Sean aN ete
Metall 22/6 No a Rea 178 195 13 123 | AO
k. Istrrruro Loms. pr Science E LETTERE,
Milan:
Mealyaeeeiee in Etta, cada ho) 136 144 8 80 1,944
WILLIAM WESLEY, London :
Great Britain and Ireland.........--. 268 AQA) || GaSe ee eas OE a
Cape; Down, wAtirica a. se NsIs 58. 3 StS eR ra ener a
|
efi: = etek cel a
Totalleeamaar. skeen titers ges 271 314 20 195 | 5,879
Rest of thecworldiees so9 Seis hh. 119 136 15 112 2, 835
Grand: to ball 22 siete as te ue, 1,425) 1, 805 0 121 Hy LT SOy ie Sie 383

5A LITERARY AND SCIENTIFIC EXCHANGES.

Packages received by the Smithsonian Institution from parties in America,
for foreign distribution, in 18790.

ie | Py:
° ob {| © &
Address. eis Address. gal
Ag Ax
By oy)
ALBANY, NEW YORK. EASTON, PENNSYLVANIA.
AV Dame IMSbVONbOL-=s— 64s cee cee 12))}| Professor A1C > Porter —s--es-seee 2
Dudley, Observatory.---5-. 3-2. =-.-) 30
New York State Library..-..--.-.-- 53 GEORGETOWN, D. C.
New York State Agricultural Society.| 12
ew York State Homeopathic Soci- ; DrvASchothpesnsaceeee reese ayeeiers 1
BUY. eee ee se nd cee wicisteeee 7
New Yore State Medical Society --.- 30 HAVANA, CUBA.
IDrs (PAIN Os. s.cwiceis ae eee oiecer Soe 2
Professor FPoey -a--,.4s-52- seer 2
ANN ARBOR, MICHIGAN.
INDIANAPOLIS, INDIANA.
University of Michigan...--......- 2
Institution for Deaf and Dumb... 20
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS. Institution for Edueation of Blind.} 100
State Geological Survey ..---..---- 400
American Academy of Arts and Sci-
(GINCGS SEbGoaes eae Bas cee | 263 IOWA CITY, IOWA.
Board of State Charities. .....2.... 74
+ Boston Society of Natural History.| 341 || Grand Lodge of Iowa ...--.-----. 2
Bureau of Statistics of Labor ..---- 12 || Iowa Institution for Deaf and
Publichliibraryess sos ¢ee acess ceeeee 16 Dumb esses eee ees 23
Dr ME Bre welye cscs ce ceeiceeook 1) Professonibanrnehs!- ose oeeeseeee 104
Dr s Ary Gouldesss awe aoe s eee 10
Dr. Howe, (Perkins Institute for JEFFERSONVILLE, INDIANA.
Blam) - kre eee es Seem ee wy)
CAMBRIDGE, MASSACHUSETTS. S. 8. Lyon --..----------- +--+ ++. 1
Cambridge Observatory...---..----. 3 MEXICO.
American Association for Advance-
MENtOh SClENCOsseea eee eee 8 || Mex. Soc. Mex. de Hist. Natural. -- 25
Harvard ollegenacssemetmce cone 68
Museum of Comparative Zodlogy..| 258 | MONTREAL, CANADA.
Professor Asa Grays. he oe see 1 |
Professon 2. PCarpentier.-=-4+--- 3
CHARLESTON, SOUTH CAROLINA. 2
NEW BEDFORD, MASSACHUSETTS.
Dn yh vee oLchereeeseeseee eee eee 2
Je Bhomson 2 s-.2sc- eee 1
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS.
NEW HAVEN, CONNECTICUT.
Academy of Sciences......--....--. 50
Chicago Medical Times ..---.--.... 11 || American Journal of Science-...--- 76
Connecticut Academy of Sciences. 188
CINCINNATI, OHIO. Professor al E. Vierrille 2: s2425---— 10
Obseryacory oh eee ce eee ee 36 NEW YORK.
COALBURG, WEST VIRGINIA. American Institute... --:.--sse. 10
New York Lyceum of Natural His-
W. H. Edwards ...... Se wespe yes 4 LOGye Wee kaSsiect ine 3 ee 132
American Christian Commission. -- 1
COLUMBUS, OHIO. H. Maunsell Schieffelin ..... ..... 500
Ohio State Agricultural Society ....| 89 PHILADELPHIA, PENNSYLVANIA.
DORCHESTER, MASSACHUSETTS. Academy of Natural Sciences - ---- 258
American Philosophical Society--.| 718
Dr: Rd wardJarvis .2c2..'..022_ 2.088 30 || Franklin Institute ...5.: 422. .----- | 1

LITERARY AND SCIENTIFIC EXCHANGES.

Packages received from parties in America, &c.—Continued.

Address.

55

Address.

PHILADELPHIA, PA.—Continued.

Gunard Colleges eee secs - 1
Historical Society of Pennsylvania-| 19
Pennsylvania House of Refuge. ---.- 20
Pennsylvania Institute for Deaf and
DWN cooSce coe ned cosescuons cede 25
Society for Alleviation of Miseries
InpRUbMIEGHPRiSONsS 2-55-15 > ea 25
Waener Free Institute of Science..| 113
Dr lisnaciea) <6 so 2. asso aaeniees 36
Dry Gul e Horn) oc os oeines fen <'s1e's see 3
BWP eal eve se ove aac ee tame e cists 1
PHGNIXVILLE, PENNSYLVANIA.
CaM. Wiheatley; cases jis since 2
PORTLAND, MAINE.

Natural History Society ..--..--..- 65
PRINCETON, NEW JERSEY. |
EZraistoe kboulsesse-ieresee eee a 3

PROVIDENCE, RHODE ISLAND.
DEMME AVE SON ease seetaso scoters. 26
SALEM, MASSACHUSETTS.
ESsexolnshlbUlten ace otecemieeieleel =e 165
Peabody Academy of Science. -..--.-- 71
Dr A Subackard 5.5 sce eeaee 16
WiC Ms te ote tere atte ar rerio ttoeit 1
ST. PAUL, MINNESOTA.
Minnesota Historical Society..----.| 22
SOUTH HANOVER, INDIANA.
Habib radleys: se Wace elrwoctsrerspeerse ss 2

|| United States Naval Observatory --

SPRINGFIELD, ILLINOIS.
Professor A. H. Worthen......--.-
WASHINGTON, D. C.

Bureau of Navigation
Bureau of Statisties...-.....---..
Columbia Institute for Deaf and
Dam bre 2 eee eee ears ee
Medical Department United States
Ary. OUR ee eT fh Sie eat Sa rctae nate
Nautical Almanac Office ......----
Treasury Department. ...-..--.--- |
United States Coast Survey. .----.
United States Agricultural Depart-
THNOVL HS eee eleys ae elev ee eens

United States Patent Office. ....-.
\Wiwsllbiorndsh ID oeeee ee See e eee |
Dimi ig Wer sy tle sooceaece occas
Generale An Garheldm@ssesssasess.
TP OSSChe ao eiece ae
Be POOLE renee ee eee
WILMINGTON, DELAWARE.
WAIMEIC amb yerseenaaemna seer eos
WINNEBAGO, ILLINOIS.
a ett! XS) 0) Ove a Ne wir geige epee Guueia gl A
ADDRESSES UNKNOWN.

IF. N. Hasselquint
IN, JANOS TWIGS) Bots Gaba eGo CODE AS

C~)

56

LITERARY AND SCIENTIFIC EXCHANGES.

Packages received by the Smithsonian Institution from Europe, in 1870,
for distribution in America.

=
Gy VL
o &
Address. ay Address.
a
a
ALBANY, NEW YORK. BETHLEHEM, PENNSYLVANIA.
Aiganygalnsbiiwbe ese ee siecle == se 6)|| Gehi¢hiWniversity---2s-)--e eee eee
Dudley Observatory ..-.------------ 20
New York State Agricultural Society ol BINGHAMTON, NEW YORK.
New York State Library..-.-.-..--- oF Tait :
are : nstitutionfor Blind 32---.----2---
New York State Medical Society ---- 1 stituvion:for Blind
New York State University -------- 5 ic nee a
State Cabinet of Natural History -. - 6 BLOOMS TON ENO:
Governor of the State of New York. 1 || Ulinois Natural History Society -- -
ions Hrancis|€. Barlow es-ss----->- 1
Professor James) Hallis2- 5. - 5-4-)---- 24 BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS.
Be colonia eae = American Academy of Arts and Sci-
xe ita : @NCESiw ie eee eee eetseee eee
ASTER ET) ARPA CHOSEETS: American Christian Examiner. ----
American Statistical Association --
rs ee ee Ee een : ae aBCiy
Pe es Sheard American Unitarian Association. -.
Paap aie ia oe Aghengoum:- ce cen ot eee
ae. ¢ ie AL Board of State'Charities-.-=-_--.--
ea ao Boston Christian Register........-
St Tolima Collese 1 || Boston Society of Natural History-
Sine ace ne ae foe eee 1 Massachusetts Historical Society -.
Grtodl Atates Nawal Academe... 1 | New England Historico-Genealogi-
oe ; Asa CaliSoclebyesecce seers eee
North American Review .-.---.----.
NN ARBOR : : eR :
le ERs reps Prison Discipline Society..---.----
Obseivatorye sass s cee Saw eee 12 P ee pea eR rine es Vs ed pak ate
University of Michigan -.....-...-- epee ence ce gre ec
Major iP) brooks ssso5 sence nomen 2) N Memoirs SST CTA RAST ee
rot = a 7 Jin =| | ES eee, ge ieee € : EES A Calon Sine LEE
Professor A. Winehell . 9 Rev. CalebyDs Bradlee. 2-222
i Dr PEM PBrewereer ce. ote ere
, ZTON, WISCONSIN. ; - 5
a EO ES CONSN Mellen Chamberlain -----.:.---.-.-
. : Professor aC heeyer eee ss see ee
Uw? e J TOTS chy Annee ode x we NL RS SEER SE SIRI SS SDS
Lawrence University 1 SamuelUG Drake. eee eee eae
Reve DriiGarneths-- 2s ene eee
AUSTIN, TEXAS. eae oe
AUSTEN, TESS IWevllovGiGarison) 22. ese ee
=I 1 -
State Libracy sete .. eee ee oT Air eran ener ae ae 9
Texas Institution for Deaf and Dumb Th See rae TL Tai: oa
ANMUICUE Pah CNet e see sats Sass
dle NOVO, Feooboces
BALTIMORE YLAND. ‘ Ni eae es ee ig tae na yas
LTI TORE, MARYLAND at raneis Parkman Pape I CD 5 Rule ol ee as
; 1, as > T aya ie =
Maryland Historical Society ...---- 7 Heres ae Penhallow.........
Peabodwalnstibuternece + peer ee 9 oe MOND soso acs esas ssn =
Qaiigh ACE avo Chew Olli Sine See eae hess
S. C. Chew ..--.-.--.-- 22-222 ++---- ep ofacsaraviebeloscrs
nev. Hidwin Dalrymple -2------222- 1 ; a BS GULS aan AE IE
Dr. E. Foremans, 1 = a SLARKEUG 12) es a es aie eerie
2a tol a Te mt a PARTS Wel Hees eee NO eee ca
Martin hew1s o-oo eee eae a - = ss 7355
acerca } || Walker, Fuller & Co 2212220222224
Dr. P R Wihiler = eee on 1 Drain: Hi. Wiebe ee. oe ee
‘ IMR 5) a ee, iHenryaC: Wiehtes-o=. cc... eee
BANGOR, MAINE. e
OR ee BROOKLINE, MASSACHUSETTS.
Dra yelamilin.). 3:55 -6s eee 2 .
ia tay Colonelet Aspinwall 222 ose
Pm yaya he 7
BATON ROUGE, LOUISIANA. Professor T, Lyman...--.---.-----
Louisiana Institution for Deaf and BROOKLYN NEW ee
GRY yee eo) 1 || Long Island Historical Society...

No. of
packages.

oo

131

a
ice)

tw

el et a ke ON eel OC ROCE o Moe oO te lon

rset
LITERARY AND SCIENTIFIC EXCHANGES.

Packages received from Europe, &e.—Continued.

Address.

BROOKLYN, NEW YORK—Continued.

IDreAsebarthelmeseyseneeeessestesee
eva Ela We Beecher eae eeinaceect== =<
J. Carson Brevoort .----.-.- Ease
Henry. CN iunphygeese soar eee
1D yes AN, Jab (satan ooo sacs oom eek.

BRUNSWICK, MAINE.

iBewdoinl College -ase5-b2 sss sa ean
Historical Society of Maine ---.---.

BUFFALO, NEW YORK,

Buffalo Historical Society.-.---..---.
BURLINGTON, IOWA.

Mir Ene strome-s22-- a2. Neches
CawWachmiubth i225 = cose soe ee
BURLINGTON, NEW JERSEY.

Wi Ga bmney soca secte seciseees ces.
BURLINGTON, VERMONT.

Wifi) Clerks eee 2 ere Neen eee
University of Vermont ..-..--.-.-..-

CAMBRIDGE, MASSACHUSETTS.

American Association for Advance-

MEntiOMSCIEN CES As. sass sees e
AStLOMOMICAl OURO ds] so) see
Harvard (Colles res. sc) eer ee
Herbarium of Harvard College..---

Museum of Comparative Zodlogy.. -
Observatory of Harvard College..--
Alexander A@assiz= 225222225 2-1
Proressor PNG ASS1 7) seme == a) e a
Professom AsanGrayiesassc-- ess c=.
Professor J: G. Anthony;-.----------
DWryB SAN Goulds: sect eesece oe asee
lDits lel lAecihaesecsnaaooead posseee
lalo. diy IBBie KO Bee EBeSeoN Mee eeciosonne
iprofessoni Bb. Peirce) soace--- sees =
Oo CLL pera 8 eee pt mee a
IRCvaM IS WE Cry coe = neces sec
Dreoep Vicia che i527 22S a ciara Seats

Professor J. D. Whitney ---..------

Professor Jrnvinlock 25-5424 =)2-2\

ProfessoLT ei iy unas soe ose al se
CANTON, NEW YORK.

St. Lawrence University.-...-...-- :

CARLISLE, PENNSYLVANIA.

Dickinson College. 22 ease ance once
Society of Literature ..222... 222...

.)

No. of
packages.

ae

eet

—
WW DERE Re wWee Dw:

ww

Address.

CAVE SPRING, GEORGIA.

Georgia Institution for Deaf and
Dumbeee seo e so ees eee eee

CHAPEL HILL, TEXAS.
SoulésUiniviersiby see sssee eee ease
CHARLESTON, SOUTH CAROLINA.

Charleston Museum 222-2 52---2--
Elliott Society of Natural History -
SOCiGiny IMO. So Soe eo sese Secase
South Carolina Historical Society - -
Dra John b Hollbrooks 2 2= 4-ee-

CHARLESTOWN, NEW HAMPSHIRE.
Dre S: Webbers 2522.3 2oet jn enianee
CHARLOTTESVILLE, VIRGINIA.
University of Virginia.....-..-..-
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS.

Chicago Academy of Sciences ...- -
Chicago College of Pharmacy. -.--
ORG RCI AME sega cone cnesduoase Ke
Dearborn Observatory.-----..-----
Historical Society of Chicago... ---
imsameyAsy lumps ne. eee see
IMedicall@Dimes te ssee see e eae eer
Andre welOltermemeteceseeice cae
S: As) Boos aS: cetys.eeeseaseeeees
Mi Dedlaybountrere. saseeee ener

CINCINNATI, OHIO.

American Breemason =.-2---2-----
American Medical College ..-...--
Astronomical Observatory -.-- ----
Historical and Philosophical Society
Mercantile Library Association. - --
@ityi Clerks 223. \s25 22 = <-.\.;. ees
Dri ClevelandvAbbe 22-5 5sssemeee
Je Ge Amthomyes =e s= See ee
Damire WaViar oan ee terete eee

CLINTON, NEW YORK.

Observatory of Hamilton College. .
Dr oH. EY. Peters eae ae se (li)

COALBURGH, WEST VIRGINIA,

VitiEls Hidiwiamd Siem ete oe cies

on
=~]

No. of
packages.

on

QEWRP ERE VWH HOWE S

wo
Rt ee RID Se
58

LITERARY AND SCIENTIFIC EXCHANGES.

Packages received from Europe, &e.—Continued.

Address.

COLUMBIA, MISSOURI.
Geological Survey of Missouri...-.-..
University of Missouri...--..---.--
DraG AC qowallowe s-eieeee see

COLUMBIA, SOUTH CAROLINA.

South Carolina College .-.--.------
State Library

COLUMBUS, OHIO.
Institution for Deaf and Dumb. -.--
Ohio State Board of Agriculture ---.
eo lesquercuxs. 22222 222 sso

CONCORD, NEW HAMPSHIRE.

New Hampshire Historical Society - -
State Lunatic Asylum

COUNCIL BLUFFS, IOWA.
Iowa Institution for Deaf and Dumb
DANVILLE, KENTUCKY.

Kentucky Institution for Deaf and
Dumb

DECORAH, IOWA.
Norwegian Luther College. .---..--
DELAWARE, OHIO.

Ohio Wesleyan University ....-----

DELAVAN, WISCONSIN.

Wisconsin Institution for Deaf and
Dumb

DES MOINES, IOWA.
Geological survey of Iowa...-...---

Governor of the State of lowa.-----
State Library

DETROIT, MICHIGAN.
Michigan State Agricultural Society
DORCHESTER, MASSACHUSETTS.
DroEdward Jarvis... 22 sane

DURHAM CENTRE, CONNECTICUT.

ROVs: Wie Owl? reco s oc. fe eee

No. of
packages.

km OO

On

12

Address.

EAST GREENWICH, NEW YORK.
Asa Mitehss. 224752225 .be ee eee
EASTON, PENNSYLVANIA.

Lafayette College .........--.----
Brotessor (ha C. hortens--eeeeemecoe

EVANSTON, ILLINOIS.
Northwestern University --.-------
FAIRIBAULT, MINNESOTA.

Minnesota Institution for Deaf and
Dumb

FALL RIVER, MASSACHUSETTS.

Niel Arntzen

FLINT, MICHIGAN,

Michigan Asylum for Deaf and
Dumb

FORT MACON, NORTH CAROLINA.
Dri, COUC8 seme sese nese e sec cleee
FRANKFORT, KENTUCKY.
Geological Survey of Kentucky ---.

FREDERICK, MARYLAND.

Maryland Institution for Deaf and
Dumb

FREDERICKTON, NEW BRUNSWICK.

King's (College:-<-2-ece-seneeeeeee
Legislative Wibrany -2---</-22----

FULTON, MISSOURI.

and

Missouri Asylum for Deaf
Dumb

GALESBURG, ILLINOIS.
Lombard University... -.2.css5
GALESVILLE, WISCONSIN.
Galesyalle: University: --2.222ss-—-
GAMBIER, OHIO.

Kenyon College-.... 25222 52--=2--2

No. of
packages.

bk
|

LITERARY AND SCIENTIFIC EXCHANGES.

; Packages received from Europe, &c.—Continued.
8 a 8
Address. a Address. ce

. GENEVA, NEW YORK.
Professor El. li Smib heap. == ser
GEORGETOWN, D. C.
Georgetown College. ..---.--.--.--
GRAND RAPIDS, MICHIGAN.
IDE) Cilla eeeamenna paoneoesce aber
GREENCASTLE, INDIANA.
Indiana Asbury University -.-.---.
HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA.

Nova Scotian Institute of Natural

DCIONCESters Seco cioc nso a see cee secs
Professor George Lawson ...--.----
HAMILTON, NEW YORK.

Madison), University: 2 cose e-e< S=.-
RevaeAny CaWendricha se sece ces sacne

HAMPDEN SYDNEY, VIRGINIA.
>: Y Nv
Hampden Sydney College.-.---.-.--
HANOVER, NEW HAMPSHIRE.

Dartmouth College

HAVANA, CUBA.
‘Professor BiRoeyitiscce. 2 Sas6) be 2
HARRISBURG, PENNSYLVANIA.

Medical Society of the Bue of Penn-
SyaMaN ce coeceeie = crn alesis erens es
State Library

HARTFORD, CONNECTICUT.

American Asylum for Deaf and

IDEN)... Sa era a eres me
Historical Society of Connecticut-. -
nsaneeNcyanmaaes ee ee se cee
Young Men’s Institute
Trinity College

HUDSON, OHIO.
Western Reserve College ........--
INDIANAPOLIS, INDIANA.

Indiana Historical Society

Pew

INDIANAPOLIS, IND.—Continued.

59

Indiana Institute for Blind. .--.-.- 2
Indiana Institution for Deaf and
TD ural g ete aepysyeeet eee ee eee eee 1
Dries Utberticl duses = —co=eee 1
INMANSVILLE, WISCONSIN.
Wisconsin Scandinavian Society -. i
IOWA CITY, IOWA.
Grandilodvess essen asses af
Towa State University ...:-.-.--=- 21
Professor! Gp Eumrichsses-5 seeeeee 1
DT CsA aWihbey 4. eetiee eee eee 1
ITHACA, NEW YORK.
CornelliColleretssasercemieceieniee 3
DrsWiesley Newcomb. ------=s-+-—= 1
Professor Goldwin Smith ........- 1
JACKSON, MISSISSIPPI.
State Library -.-..-..--->-------- 1
JS) Be hackers seco as oe eee eee 1
JACKSONVILLE, ILLINOIS.
Illinois Institute for Blind...--..-. 1
Illinois Institution for Deaf and
Dumibi..-5-sseoscen.sceee teeta 1
JEFFERSON CITY, MISSOURI.
Historical and Philosophical Society 2
KEYTESVILLE, MISSOURI.
@harlesiVeatch= see eee eee eee 2
KINGSTON, CANADA.
Botanical Society of Canada .-.--. 2
Queen si€ ollec cies s sere cee 1
KNOXVILLE, TENNESSEE.
Tennessee School for Deaf and
ID mm Die ee et 2 3e a ee ee 1
LEBANON, TENNESSEE.
Cumberland University..-.--.---.-- 1
LEWISBURG, PENNSYLVANIA.
University - . J Sa eesease-c os == 1

LEXINGTON, KENTUCKY.
Revs Wiel oltme nemae.oac= =e ele
60

LITERARY AND SCIENTIFIC EXCHANGES.

Packages received from Burope, &ce.—Continued.

Address.

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA.

M. F. Maury

LITTLE ROCK, ARKANSAS.

Arkansas Institution for Deaf and

Dumb
State Library
State University

ee cw wn eee eee weet meen

LOUISVILLE, KENTUCKY.

LYNN, MASSACHUSETTS.

Massachusetts Society of Natural
IBISIOIR Fosse socosbeceodesss sanon5

MADISON, WISCONSIN.
Emigranten

Historical Society of Wisconsin -.--
State Library

Wisconsin State Agricultural Society|

Dre AaChadhbournesseeoacsse soe
Mr. Hill

MIDDLETOWN, CONNECTICUT.
Wesleyan University ...-----------

MILLEDGEVILLE, GEORGIA.

State Library
University

MILWAUKEE, WISCONSIN.

Increase A. Lapham

MONTGOMERY, ALABAMA,

State Library

MONTPELIER, VERMONT.

Historical and Antiquarian Society

of Vermont
State Library
DrAlibertvllager 2. - eee eres

ee

MONTREAL, CANADA.

Geological Survey of Canada..---.-
McGill (Colllesiecsee.. = eee eee

Montreal Historical Society. ..--.--

No. of
packages.

BORE

RROROH

me & 02

Rw

Address.

MONTREAL, CANADA—Continued. »

Natural History Society
Observatory
1D LOUlbnaEIS. DAS Gece esos eesoesss =
Professor P. P. Carpenter
Professor J. W. Dawson..---------
IProvessor Ja oberty Elum bese eee
Sir William Logan

NASHVILLE, TENNESSEE.

State Enbrakygsesee= eee ee eee
University of Nashville.----.-.---
Reve Bhilipaindsleyea:= esse =e

NATCHEZ, MISSISSIPPI.

William P. Miller

NEENAH, WISCONSIN.
Scandinavian Library Association -
NEWARK, NEW JERSEY.
Historical Society of New Jersey --
NEW BEDFORD, MASSACHUSETTS.
William Hathaway, jr-------.----
NEW BRUNSWICK, NEW JERSEY.

Geological Survey of New Jersey--
Professor George H. Cooke.--.-.--

NEW HAVEN, CONNECTICUT.

American Journal of Science and

American Oriental Society .---.-.---
Connecticut Academy of Arts and

SCLENCES -ao ee ee eee eee
Newretaven Museums ssesnemene
Yale College --
Professor W, P. Blake
Hon. C. W. Bradley
Professor W. H. Brewer.-.-: .-.-.=-
iProfessol. G. J. brushes eee eee eee
Professor J. D: Danae 2-2-5 2
Professor DC. Datones--- - -ss-eee
Professor. uoomis) 2+ - ees
Protessor C. 8. Lyman
Professor ©. O:; Marsh = 22 sees
Professor H. A. Newton...-...----
Dr. Shermamni- 22. =. See
Professor B. Silliman
Professor A. C. Twining
Professor AG Eb. Verrilaeeeeee eee =
Professor W. D. Whitney
Professor T. D. Woolsey

No. of
packages.

Ww

De Or wm

ree

ww
a} ied

com §

| iS)
WOOF to

—_
HOO OR
LITERARY AND SCIENTIFIC EXCHANGES.

Packages received from Europe, &e.—Continued.

61

a
So &
Address. Sad Address.
Az
a
NEW ORLEANS, LOUISIANA. NEW YORK, N. Y.—Continued.
Citiny (CHE es ate Soe cocede dese Aase Delt Jam esnienoxsseeseeesese ee eee
New Orleans Academy of Natural C.Loosey, Consul General of Austria
SIOTEINGES CHL ede ootedé bobs Bopees ae ASH Drs Ba wWeelic Oradea = ctee sane
University of Louisiana...---.--.-- 1 Drs Je SeNew berry esses sees ae
Dra BenneuWowlerenee-is-- ss — =" ON Did GK OLINOUE Soo dose canasd emcee
Dre OWNOVESaa ete teense saa neene 2 || Baron R. Osten-Sacken ..---..----
Messrs. Parker & Douglas..---.-.--
NEW YORK, NEW YORK. Brother Paulian, M anhattan College
Professor’ Charles; Rau -2----------
American Bureau of Mines..------ - TL |i) Teton {Sp 18) UWE ES) = s- ssaccascooce
Americam Christian! Commission! =2-|/ 16) | fh. G. Squier-22-2- .-- 2-22 2-2 <2:
American Ethnological Society ---- - Hab | Teo 1s isueillene elites —oae neseoeesooc
American Geographical and Sta- Professor John Dorrey------2--4-
THEUKGR SOE asesou cocoes soence 30 || Prosper M. Wetmore...--.-.-..-.-
American Journal of Mining..---- - AG RC Wines ae seae see one eee
American Journal of Obstetrics .. - - il
AMeriCcanelOSuiGMbe Hees eee as NORTHAMPTON, MASS.
American Microscopical Society - - -- reali
American Musoum of Natural His- Clarke Institution for Deaf and
OTE ee ah PID) WU HDD 9 IDO D. Sask ocoséeuccossse cosas
ASO ILM NEMA 325 Socosabsos caecos= 9 i s
Central Park Observatory ..-.-.----- 2 NOTRE) DANE: TNDIANS
Columbia College ..-.-.-.--..------ 2 || Sister Angela Gillespie..-...-..-.-
Cooper Wastivute:s<ssccre .es5 0 a0: 2
Editor Homeopathic Sun..-...---- 1 OLATHE, KANSAS.
Editor Medical Gazette ......---..- i |
Herbarium of Columbia College-.-.-- 2 | Kansas Institution for Deaf and
IStOniCalipSOClebys-s+ ne ses eee 7 Dumb .cs2csee22 Se oeee tees se
Jnstitution for Improved Instruction
TOTO Gat ance mma eee sees 2 || OLYMPIA, WASHINGTON TERRITORY.
Lyceum of Natural History-..-.-..--. 82
9

Mercantile Library Association -.-.

Metropolitan Board of Health...--.

Mexican consul
New York Academy of Medicine...-.
New York Christian Enquirer
SchoolvotiManesessss--senese aes cle

United States Sanitary Commission -|"

University
IDye, ISN, IES Daa bee le aoee ceases booed
Rey. Dr.
PIAS VAC ese see Teta lk SAT WR A SA
Dr. W. Baeck
ie eee W. Bradktordese sss oe.

2 €. Ey Chandler.
De 8. Cite
Dr: Bee Wawasioo-
Captain J. M. Dow
Dr. El Dram erases. es sees cee é
Rey. John P. Durbin

Henry Grinnelipaaaaseeeeee a eee ae

Dye BaHarris =. epee eae
Professor Waterhouse Hawkins-.-- -

fee A ELOp Kins 02 = eres ener sed ate

ProfessoniG@s iA JO ys Asee sae ne
Dri J eKam balk. 3st 2a eee ere
George N. uawrence.-..2..---- raps

BellOwSkassacnse eon oe Sees

BeOS UOREEEEWOW WUE 2

State Mnbranyccsosssce sss cee case
omafra, NEBRASKA.

Nebraska Institution for Deaf and
Dumb

OTTAWA, CANADA.
Legislative Library of Canada..--
OXFORD, OHIO.

Miami University

OXFORD, MISSISSIPPI.

University of Mississippi
i. W. Hilgard

PEORIA, ILLINOIS.
Dr ohevbrendelt:-<c cc ameeinee ects

PHILADELPHIA, PENNSYLVANIA.

American Journal of Conchology- -
Academy of Natural Sciences.... -

No. of
packages.

Ree eR ROR Oo SER

177
62

LITERARY AND SCIENTIFIC EXCHANGES.

Packages received from Europe, &e.—Continued.

Address.

No. of

PHILADELPHIA, PA.—Continued.

American Entomological Society- --
American Journal of Medical Sci-
ence Vey eeots OA Sasa he Sie eee Piers a eee

tion
American Philosophical Society ----
Board of Controllers of Public Schools
CentralsbiohiSchoole- se. s scene
Brankiimniinstitute..s+seeesne -aaee-
Girard College
Historical Society of Pennsylvania-
House of Refuge
Library Company
Magnetic and Meteorological Ob-
servatory
North American Medico-Chirurgical
RGWIOIW: = hee. soerecee we eincions, «estes
Numismatic and Antiquarian So-
clety
Observ atory of Girard College
Pennsylvania Institute for Blind. .
Pennsylvania Institute for Deaf and
Dumb
Wagner Free Institute of Science...
James Barclay
Rev. E. R. Beadle
Professor H. Bigelow
orimeblodseteeessa= eee eee eee
Dr. D. D. Brinton
HisC i Caney iecesecciacc ss coeis oceie
J. Cassin
Ge Wee@ bildsheseerre eae ocae eee
Dr; Baie oabes se ssoonee seceeeisse
TT. A AConnadees- sees aanteeses , helene
Professor E. D. Cope
Professor E. T. Cresson
Dr. Isaac Hays
DriiGpehl orn eee eae eee eae
S. P. James
IDr-lsaacihedeceteans oor eess a eee
Dr Jee Contes ease eee eae
Professors )).pWwerdyines see eee eee ae
IPROTESSOL) kes eS Oye eee eee
Dri JAS Meigsne seen eee ee eens
SAG Mo misesssooe cee ete eee
J. Redfield
IDrids Ho Moabackardyernees seas
Wi SHATS W000 eee eee eee tere
Georve) We ncy ons) reese eee eee
Profes ssor W. Wagner Ee es oe
Dr. E. Ward

PHG:NIXVILLE, PENNSYLVANIA.
Charles M. Wheatley
PORTLAND,

ene ec tee eee eee eee we ee

Se ee es

ee

MAINE.

City Repistrar 2. .22.,. 22. See
Portland Society of Natural His-
tory

wee eee cee e teem mes ce cons caaeae

packages.

9

.)

1

RR ORMBRBH CLUDWOR RP RP RH OQNWNWNWNWWRHWRRE Row FwnMm +t ww CO

30

Address.

POUGHKEEPSIE, NEW YORK.

Vassar College
PRINCETON, NEW JERSEY.

College of New Jersey..----------
Alberti eBrowil ene eeeeee
ProtessomAwGuyotiees sees s-e caer

PROVIDENCE, RHODE ISLAND.

Brown University-case acesacte ees
Registrar General of Rhode Island-
Rhode Island Historical Society---
Johns. bartlebtincoses asesceeeece
Professor Alexis Cagwell------ ----
IROMeOTE CONee seen eee eee eee ene

QUEBEC, CANADA.

aval Wniversityjess-5.7-ssos eee
Literary and Historical Society - --
Observatory <2 o-eseeceeeeeice as

RALEIGH, NORTH CAROLINA.

North Carolina Institution for Deaf

RICHMOND, VIRGINIA

Historical Society of Virginia. -..-
Stave lbibrany es: .- hes ssee see eee
EE Wy 6 sej225420ecaclee eee

ROCHESTER, NEW YORK.
UMiVersiby +2 .20sceee cee seecioeee =
SACRAMENTO, CALIFORNIA.

Geological Survey of California- --.
State Library

ST. ANTHONY, MINNESOTA.

University of Minnesota.-.----.----
ST. LOUIS, MISSOURI.

Deutsches Institut zur Beférderung

der Wissenchaften......----=-2-
Catholic Institution for Deaf and

ID eoeeoe See seeeecss sc pcoace
GCityi@lerk cS. -<.. 352 eee ee
Medical and Surgical Journal
St. Louis Academy of Sciences ....

No. of
packages.

Ww

PEW EOE >

aa So SS)

Bane i)
LITERARY AND SCIENTIFIC

EXCHANGES. 63

Packages received from Europe, &e.—Continued.

Address.

ST. LOUIS, MO.—Continued.

Universitivesesese ese seco eer
Ernst von Angelrodt..-----..-.----
Drs Ga baum rarbeniess sss ee -1scce
Professor William Chauvenet -.---.
Dr Gaeenee haan nee a ertyas cine eel
Ga Ee Galleys sss .5525< eaesoe ince
Maurice Schusters:ose-e--e-s= 1-1-1

ST. JOHN, NEW BRUNSWICK.

Library of Mechanics’ Institute .-...
Natural History Society ..--..---..-

ST. PAUL, MINNESOTA.

Minnesota Historical Society. ..----
Do daly MGS) Se aes Rees epeoed Sopee

ST. THOMAS, WEST INDIES.
IProressoniNne nsiene ee eee eee
SALEM, MASSACHUSETTS.

Essex Institute............-2-.----
Peabody Academy of Science .--.---
Dia Aeise RACKAL ences cnaes ese

SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA.

California Academy of Natural Sci-

CII CES ae eee ene ene cis
California Institution for Deaf and

{Din Oye SA Rene Ae See rs on oe
JAMES POChRENSs 2 oss 4- ose eee
ES Gar bloomer: sass sscccie ee eee
iHennyobolanderssesek seme sea
Ree Oa SO beALMS apse else SMe eee

SAVANNAH, GEORGIA.
Historical Society of Georgia -- -.--

SHARON, CONNECTICUT.
JOMMIGA Smiths. le see eee cee

SING SING, NEW YORK.
Dr. G. J. Fisher

SPRINGFIELD, ILLINOIS.

Editor of Masonic Trowel
Professor H. A. Worthen

ee ee eee

STAUNTON, VIRGINIA.

Virginia Institution for Deaf and
Dump eee ss. S22 ee erase

No. of
packages.

fot ek ek ek pe tO

68

S200 et ee

OQ

| Department of Agriculture -.-----
_ Department of Education

Address.

No. of
packages.

SWANTON, CANADA.

TALLADEGA, ALABAMA.

Alabama Institution for Deaf and
Dumb 45508 ecco ee esas

TORONTO, CANADA.
Canadian Institute.-.. ..--..--=--
Literary and Historical Society - --
Magnetic Observatory .--..-.-.-.-.-
Trinity College Library ......---..
University of Canada ...--...----
TUSCALOOSA, ALABAMA.
Wniversity so--ssee se eee
URBANA, OHIO.
University of Urbana..---.-------

UTICA, NEW YORK.

American Journal of Insanity----.
Colonel Es Jewett.--~ 22-222. 5 eee

VANDALIA, ILLINOIS.

Llinois Historical and Archeologi-
call Sociebysasa5 os osase eee

WASHINGTON, D. C.

American Annals of the Deaf and
DUMMY 452-6 oa oo eee

Bureau of Navigation .----...----
Bureaw Of Suabishics: 4-54 eee eee
Census Burned eee ee eee

eS
S
AOWwrwrwonwe

Engineer Department....-..---..-
General! Land! Office <--- 2.2222 -2--
Hospital forimsanes=- ess. eee
Eloward Wmiversity 2-2-5 see
Enydrooraphic) Oficen=- ss. see eee
Interior Department] = 72-22 s.-)aa-=
Library of Congress--..---..-----
Light-House Board ....-...-------
Mexicanlminister ss -s2eeee ese
National Academy of Science - -...
National Deaf-mute College... -.-.-
NenAy IDE eran a5 cone Seeouede
President of the United States .-.-
Quartermaster General’s Office.---
OrdnancesBuregueees eee ease
Secretary of the Navy..---..-----

>=

or
See ORE ORE Oe eee
64 LITERARY AND SCIENTIFIC EXCHANGES.

a

Packages received from Europe, &e.—Continued.

Address.

No. of
packages.

WASHINGTON, D. C.—Continued.

Pecrotarys Oh Wako <crea- renee) lee
State Depariment 5-2. ----- «c----
Surgeon General’s Office .-----.----
Survey of North American Lakes. --
Treasury Department..--.-.-.------
United States Boundary Commis-

BIOMP Ree acter e eesisiow cio eee eee
United States Coast Survey..-.----
United States Naval Observatory - -.

United States Patent Office....-.... 1

Washington Publie Schools.....--.
IBLOLESSORDS eb aInGue eee nee eee
Surgeon General Barnes --....-----
ee Barnard’ tecees sees ee oe ceee
iso IM (Clb y die es 4 GaSe eee ee eo ae
Proressonm He © n©oinisnes see ace
Vive IEE MID illest eee eee eee
Admiral sD awig 245 esses actos
Drawer -pOnrimikand: sone esssoseeee
WWireRerreleece. a2 seen 12 ee
NVQ SH OTCO sehr oleae Sats eee as sae

barOnevOnlGeroltes--cep aero eee
IBTOTESSOL Gulla see ee eee eee
Drea Wiitthayden..<cscsso)ceecer
DrAHayes sacle os ee somes ceeioee
IBroressoOniJ ElONLYaosone 2 cee eee
HOB SHOuUG ee jaosefeen stele scoee.
General A. A. Humphreys..--------
INCH CODER NES gd Bl HEY ee eee
ace ehinreterce tee male epee
Je od Bhd eVel igi s oe epee eee ee MTN oe RT
Professor .S. Newcomb ....-.....---
WSR MR Ouse case ee ee ee eee eee:
ON GPA O biG ace m eee ee ciceicie eae
Hon whetenbarkers-epees_ ooo. e
ABS EEN) ays Ses en eee eee A
CountidesRourtalessee.2= ee eee
Commodore Sands=- 22-555 -2---- 25 =
Joseph Saxtoninas = seeeec eee ee eee

Totaliad dresses Ob NShuGM MONS ee acy sie ee ein se isles ie eerie ee eee
Total isa@aresses Orin divldnals:<-e se acces sees He On eet ee ee eee ae

Total number of paicels to institutions

Total number of parcels to individuals...-..-..-.. aiajeein scale cree = ateee Sete ee

ie)

eo.

~
WRU ER RUWTR EPR ROH WOE BWR RHE OW HHH OOWT DH BRO

aay

i ee a is

Address.

WASHINGTON, D. Cc.—Continued.
Professor G. Schaeffer .......-.---
Mrs Hi sehooleratte..--ses eee
CharlestASchott s-2e-se-eeeeee ee
Hon, ek OPIMNe eres see eee
Henry -Ulke ne Joneteccmesse tees
DAs OWellsiecnicnccnienpeenee bees
Lieutenant Colonel Williamson .. -
1D As En WiOwth eles Se 665555 Gece

WATERVILLE, MAINE.
Waterville College -.-2...-..-..--.-
WESTERVILLE, OHIO.
Otterbein University ...---..-----
WEST POINT, NEW YORK.
United States Military Academy -.-
WILLIAMSBURG, VIRGINIA.
Eastern State Lunatic Asylum....

WILMINGTON, DELAWARE.

WINDSOR, NOVA SCOTIA.
Library of King’s College.-.-. aicctee
WINNEBAGO, ILLINOIS.

RES: BeDD 2-62 conocer eres
WORCESTER, MASSACHUSETTS.

American Antiquarian Society-...

No. of
packages.

De KOH Wwe

LIST OF METEOROLOGICAL STATIONS AND OBSERVERS OF THE
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION FOR THE YEAR 1870.

[B signifies Barometer ; P, Psychrometer; T, Thermometer; R, Rain-gauge; N, no instrument.]

ve

Station.

BRITISH AMERICA.
Stanbridge, Quebec -....-.---.--
Acadia College, Wolfville, N.S
Clifton, Ontario
St. Jobn, New Brunswick
Winnipeg, Manitoba.-........---

BERMUDA.

Center Signal Station, St.Geerge’s

MEXICO.

Mirador, Vera Cruz

ALABAMA,

Carlowville, Dallas Co
Selma, Dallas Co
Havana, Hale Co
Coatopa, Sumter Co.........--..
Wear Elyton, Jefferson Co
Mobile, Mobile Co
Greene Springs School, Hale Co. -
Fish River, Baldwin Co

ARKANSAS.

pact) Springs, Hempstead Co.
ayetteville, Washington Co. ...
elena, Phillips (i) ee ane onaenes

CALIFORNIA.

pVisalian Mitare: CO-. sete sct -
Monterey, Monterey Co
Chico, Butte Co
Watsonville, Santa Cruz Co
Clayton, Contra Costa Co
Benicia, Solano Co .......-......
Indian Valley, Plumas Co
Vacaville, Solano Co
Cahto, Mendocino Co

COLORADO.

Denver, Arapahoe Co

CONNECTICUT.

Ncerth Greenwich, Fairfield Co --
Southington, Hartford Co.......
Middletown, Middlesex Co
Colebrook, Litchfield Co
Brookfield, Fairfield Co
Columbia, Tolland Co

DELAWARE,

Dover kent Co. sess seme ee
Maltord) Kent Co. 3 -25).sccscseeu

FLORIDA.

White Spring, Hamilton Co
St. Augustine, St. John’s Co

58

seeee

Name of observer.

Gilmour, A. H. J
Higgins, Prof. D. F
Jones, W. Martin
Murdock, G
Stewart, James

Royal Engineers, (in the
Royal Gazette. y

Alison, H. L., M.D

Fahs, C. F., M.D
Jennings, s. AK
Jennings, S. K., M.D.
Shields, Miss EH. B
Taylor, L. B
Tutwiler, H
Vankirk, W. J

Bishop, H
McClung, C. L

Blake, J. W
Canfield, CaAS
Cheney, W.F. fe
Compton, A. J..
McClung, C. L
Naval Hospital
Pulsifer, Mary E
Simmons, Prof. J. C-
Thornton, Dr. W. W .---

Alcott, William P
Andrews, L
Johnston, John
Rockwell, Charlotte ...
Roe, Rey. 8. W
Yeomans, W. G@

Bateman, J. H
Phillipps, Mrs. W. R-.--

Adams: Wis: sates ce si
Atwood, G. W

Byers, W.W.&S.T.Sopris

D Soo -

S ers |

sé ree 2)

5) 2 o

4 E cs
fo} / ” (o) ut Feet.
45 08 73 222
45 06 64 25 80
“45 16 42 |66 345 | 135,
49 52 97 650
sleek Ree rae, Ml Us phe NEEM, EB
19 15 96 25 3, 600
32 10 87 15 300
32 30 87 10 236
32 30 87 41 500
nee 1681200 balun 14
32 50 87 46 500
34 OS GLY pew olen
36 2 94 10 1, 350
34 3252 | 90.08 46. |..-...
36 35 119 17 Lae
36 121 52 34
39 44 45 121 44 37 150
YSTLGT Ty Marti (Ace st 45
37 56 121 40 16
380619 [1221519 2,954
Bee AST. Mp aE RT RB 3, 280
38 2121 121 58 23 175
40 125 1, 500
39 47 105 05 5, 350
41 530 | 73 41 40 300
diane | | 72:39) aalie 205°
42 73) 1, 210
42 Q7 73 33 100
41 40 12; doe = iene
39 10 "75 GON meee
38 55 TORSO Ry Atel sence:
RR 1 al i 10.

Instruments.

BPTR

IB PR

No. months
received.

12

12
66

METEOROLOGICAL STATIONS AND OBSERVERS.

List of meteorological stations and observers, §'c., for the year 1870—Continued.

Station.

FiLorma—Cont’d.
Jacksonville, Duval Co ..--..---
Ocala, Marion Cort. 22. <2. -—-
Newport, Wakulla Co...--..-.--.-
Twelve miles north of Mosquito

Inlet, Volusia Co.
Orange Grove, Manatee Co..-..-
Manatee, Manatee Co
Port Orange, Volusia Co
Biscayne, Dade Co
Chattahoochee Arsenal,Gadsden
Co.
Pilatka, Putnam Co:-----e--2e- -

GEORGIA.

St. Mary’s, Camden Co
Near Quitman, Brooks Co
Atlanta, Fulton Co
Columbus, Muscogee Co...-.---.
St. Mary’s, Camden Co .....-..--.
Berne, Camden'Co........---.-.-
Penfield, Greene Co

ILLINOIS.

Elmore, Peoria Co..-........-.-.
Pleasant Ridge, Bureau Co..-.-..-
Sandwich, De Kalb Co....-.--..-
mimiras Starki@os 52-5. -cee- see.
Andalusia, Rock Island Co......
IRCOTIAwE Ora CO asa e soccer e
Springfield, Sangamon Co -.-.---.
@hicaroWooki@o0=-).- 2-0. sesiee o-
PANGON CONC OS ees oe eco:
Louisville; Clay Co:.-.2.-2-:----
iHavana,Mason! Cons. ccseee esse
Decatur, Macon Co-----.--..+---
Mount Sterling, Brown Co
Golconda, Pope Co
Pana, Christian Co--.22. 526 25h.
Near South Pass, Union Co..--.-
Charleston, Coles Co.....-...-..-
Manchester, Scott Co..........-.-
Wapella, De Witt Co....--.-...-
Quincy, Adams Co. ...-..2--.-.
Mattoon.'Coles Co. =. - 22 322-22.
Marengo, McHenry Co.......--.
Waterloo, Monroe Co....-.--...-
Chicago;'Cook'@o-2 =. 220225 35.5
Galesburg, Knox Co
Evanston, Cook Co
Augusta, Hancock Co......-..--
Ottawa, a Salle Co:.:...2-2.--6
Belvidere, Boone Co..-.--------:
Hennepin, Putnam Co
Oquawka, Henderson Co .-..-.---
Near Wyanet, Bureau Co

‘Aurora, Kane! Coesecneeseeeciee

Dubois, Washington Co.-.-.-----
Effingham, Effingham Co.-......
Winnebago, Winnebago Ce..-.---
Warsaw, Hancock Co

INDIANA.

Near Laporte, Laporte Co...-..-
Mount Carmel, Franklin Co..--.

Vevay, Switzerland Co........-.
New Harmony, Posey Co.--......
Laconia, Harrison Co
Spiceland, Henry Co

: %
an ae
Name of observer. at Qe
5 2p
te) >
A 2
oO UA el H fo) f
Baldwin, A. S., M. D.-.--.| 30 15 82
Barker; Wiseseeeceeee ool eeeaes cece |] secrcsiste ceil aamietre
Beecher, Rev. C..------- S050 Spr oes esse A
Chamberlain tS Ny senses | teee oo weiacel| see es ae cic ot
e
Clarke, W. discs. sesecnn 27 28 82 35
Coachman BAS -e ee 27 30 82 45
awiks, Mrs Sabre ae says acts e oom r= | ceerseyatasieeicll eaeisins
tant, We He See 25 45 80 16
Var tiny Vi Sess ememeere 30 48 84 43
Robinson, Gen’l G. D....| 29 36 81 37
Barker ies-ssccee eee 30 40 23 81 26 20
Cattery Johniiessess eee 30 45 83 30 30
Deckner, F., and son .--.| 33 45 84
Ho carty, INiei eee cetera eects sane eee cielee corer |eeereree
Hill yersHe eseeee sere: 30 50 81 40
AG GUNG Ys) oe) o lope Bye ema cor tas 1 cea etree fe Pele ie ret fol (Eats Se
Santord, S-Beeseceeteesloenecae ses 2 | Ssaeeeeaceeelesee ee
Aas. Wie ETP ey sees aT ae eee Bet cnet re eee eee he
Aldrich; Viernysseseee ee 41 15 89 15
‘Ballon ANGk ees ce wee ae 41 31 88 30
Blanchard, 0. A -.2..-.2- 41 12 90 15
Bowman, H. H., M.D.--..| 41 25 90 46
Brondelak = sec es 40 43 89 30
Brinkerhoff, G. W-.------ 39 48 89 33
Brookes; Sitte=- + eeere eee 42 87
Carey, Daniel 2-2-2: 41 45 89
Chase, D. H., M: D..----- 38. 40 88 3
Cochrane disease eee 40 20 89 50
DudleyAWe asec 39 40 89 10
Duncan, Rev. A.......-.] 40 91 15
Hildredge, W. Vi.-2----=-- 37 41 88 46
Binley. MD ieee 39 24 21 89 6
MreemantHaC = osrec ued eeocees aeecee oem ete ee eae
Gramesly;/Cise-ee-5sce | 39 31 88 14
Grant, J. and C. W..---- 39 33 90 14
Grote i Louise iss. o22 40 11 89 07
Hearne sh += sssecce Ss. 39 54 91 26
Ienry a WinHsscsee sas = se 39 29 10.5 | 45 20
James. Wiest sence se 42 13 88 31
JOZeLetC.. MED) eee 38 30 90 30
Ganpewth db Geese aoe 42 87 30
Livingston, Prof. W..--- 40 55 90 25
Marcy, Prof. Oliver ....- 42 1 87 38
MeadiS' Bi 2:2. sue s8 eee 40 10 91
Merwin, Mrs. E. H ..-..-. 41 20 88 47
IMOSSGeIB ss 2ueee occas oe 42 15 88 47
OsbornV ING wae eisse-cee 41 30 89 20
Patterson sen sos tee 41 8 *| 90 30
Phelps, E. 8. and Miss | 41 30 89 45
L. E.
Spaulding, A. and Mrs, | 41 45 88 22
Spencer, W.iC..2222 2.55 38 14 89 16
Thompson, W., M.D -...| 39 3 88 5
Tolman, J. W. and Miss.} 42 17 89 12
Whitaker, -B---2+-..---- 40 20 91 31
SAN GTO Wie Ge. ss-s6 4 ce cclllawneaemesaec|siscwc cs cemice
Applegate, J. A., and | 39 22 84 51
daughter.
BoerneriG@:G {22 o-55 35 38 46 84 59
Chappelsmith, J .....--. 38 08 87 50
Crosier yA | S28 ieee 37 47 85 50
Dawson, W ..-22.2--...- 39 48 85 18

a] mn
a eg
— \eF
ey ee
77) a2
a iA
BPTR| 12
T "
PTR] 8
TR 5
TAR | eso)
TR 9
LT 1)
TR 1
TR 6
PTR| 11
TR 8
TR 1
TR 8
TR 1
TR 3
TR 9
TR | 12
R ce
T %
BPTR 4
TR 3
Boe | i
BPTR| 12
T 8
T 12
ay 9
TR | 12
TR 4
ieee 12
TR | 12
TR 9
TR | 12
T 2
TR 9
BPTR 12
N 1
TR 8
TR | 12
TR 12
T 3
BPETR 12
BPTR| 12
BTR} 12
PTR| 12
TR ii?
TR | 12
T 12
TR 6
T oan
BTR| 12
TR | 12
TR 1
BTR| 12
TR | 11
TR | 12
TR | 12
BPTR] 12
BPTR 12
TR | 12
BTR! 12
METEOROLOGICAL

”

STATIONS AND OBSERVERS.

List of meteorological stations and observers, §-c., for the year 1870—Continued.

fo)
=]

Station.

Name of observer:

Typrana—Continued.

Knightstown, Rush Co..--------
Merom, Sullivan Co
Muncie, Delaware Co
Rensselaer, viasper COs--e5 sce:
Columbia City, Whitley Co---.---
Merom, Sullivan Co
La Fayette, Tippecanoe Co
Fort Wayne, Allen Co
Kentland, Newton Co
Aurora, Dearborn Co.-.---------
Harveysburg, Fountain Co
Annapolis, Park Co
Indianapolis, Marion Co..-.-----

IOWA.

Boonesborough, Boone Co
Vawter’s Grove, Adair Co
Mount Vernon, Linn Co
Webster City, Hamilton Co
Guttenberg, Clayton Co
Near Algona, Kossuth Co
Near Newton, Jasper Co
Clinton, Clinton Co
Waukon, Iowa Co
Dubuque, Dubuque Co----.-.-----
West Union, Fayette Co
Near Fort Madison, Lee Co..----
Grant City, Sac Co
Monticello, Jones Co
mac Cibysac. Colsess5-44--552--
Towa City, Johnson Co
Waterloo, Black Hawk Co
Harris Grove, Harrison Co
Near Rolfe, Pocahontas Co
‘Mineral Ridge, Boone Co.....---
Spring Grove, Hardin Co
The Woodlands, Floyd Co. .-..--
Muscatine, Muscatine Co
Independence, Buchanan Co

fees Independence, Buchanan

10.

Whitesboro, Harrison Co
Algona, Kossuth Co..-.--:------
Bowen's Prairie, Jones Co..-...-

KANSAS.

Olathe, Johnson Co-..-.-...-...---
Near Ames; Story Co.....-------
Williamstown, Jefferson Co..---

Burlington, Coffey Co
Crawfordsville, Coamfotd Co.

Neosho Falls, Woodson Co.....-
Atchison, Atchison Co

Baxter Springs, Cherokee Co. -
Douglass, Butler Co
Manhattan, miley, Costs seteiee4
Near Leroy, Wofleyi Conese ase:
Lawrence, Douglass Co
Leavy enworth, Leavenworth Co..-
Paola, Miami C
Holton, Jackson Co............-.

KENTUCKY.

Danville, Boyle Co
Louisville, Jefferson Co..--...-.

Kemper, G. W. H., M. D
Loughridge, J. H., M. D
McCoy, Dr. F. and Miss.
McHenry, B. F
Newton, J. W
Robertson, R.S
Spitier, D
Sutton, G@

Woolen, Dr. G. V., and
others.

Babcock, E
Bryant, Mrs. J. A
Collimperon As else
Croft, Clayton E_+22.22
Dickenson, J. P
Donwellerwiksessocseeees

inancoek Bevis ase
Horr, Asa, M. D
McClintoek, F
McCready, D
Miller, E.and R...-.-..---
Moulton, M. M
Nelsons DBs sseeenee.
Parvin, Prof. T.S
Steed, T

Strong, Oscar E---- 2225-2
Sullivan, Z. T
Townsend, N

and M.E.

Witter, D. K.
Warren, J. H
Woodworth, $

Beckwith, W
Cotton, J. M
Cotton, J. M., and E.
Adams.
@roeker VAs a aenesesacee
SY Dewrinie) si 2 oe eee ose ered
Groesbeck, Mrs. E. W-.-.-
Horn, Dr. H. B. and
Miss C.
-| Ingraham and Hyland ..
Lamb, Dr. W. M
Mudge, Prof. B. F...----
Shoemaker, J. G
Snoweeerott Hess eee es
Stayman; Dr. Ji.------- <<
Walrad, L. D
Walters, Dr. J
Woodworth, Ao eee

Beatty, O
Blackburn, Dr. C. B
Martin, Dr. $8. D
Shriver,
Young, Mrs. L

50

et a |

Bg :

el pele |

2s at =

oO R |
El) 48
toh Feet.

85 24 800 |IBPTR
S40 Pinikeee es AW ke,
85, 16. 4 yee eee TR
87 13 725 AT
BosOe 2. Pee ASE “Ua
BIC 40) ah lee TR:
See See eee iBeIGR
85 800 TR
87 12 725 “eR:
-84 54 509 |BP TR
See4 ON. alee ace SU Tee
aece aes eee ease SRE
87 6 698 |BP TRI
93 14 1, 160 EVR,
94 30 1,500| TR
91305 Wo leeeaee T
G4 nae eee ay
90 50 690 Av
94 26 1,500; 7
Qa ne eee oR
90 10 630 TR
espe Serie ou Gee Rg
90 39 51 666 |BP TR
91 50 1,300 | BTR
OT 28y i Ieee CAR
(ty RISC teal lecamete RR
91 15 800+ TR
95 900 TR
913010 pesca BiPeER
92°30) 9 5 BIE Sse Ae
95 928 TR
94 34 1, 000 TRaR
93 40 1, 200 TR
93h 205. Ti lesenss MES
OS Be Pye Seas Tv
91 02 582 | BTR
$2 06 940 | BTR
9150: 08) 255522 TOR
95°40...  uiSseees 4 ae
EY I Us YR aN fel atts T
be ae We ee 800 | BIR
94°30) 1 acl RY
93 30 790 TR
95; 30F ) eee TR
95 27 825 R
94°85) 1 fase eR
Sails os secs Gaaees TR,
95 1,000! TR
CL UCT is men ‘isecoes TR
O03... » 45a Bwaee
96 40 1,300; BTR
OF QT39) flees BTR
95 15 850 |BP TR
94 33 787 dae,
95»30).) | ineeeaae OES
95 10 1, 172 Av
96.30% » eohSssa5 TER:
84 30 900| BTR
Spee wees Uli ess BEER:
= ates rate ads 978 |BP TR
84 30 900 |BPTR
85 24 13 570 (BP TR

months

No.

received,

3)

ee

SCwWNwWwRd

—
Coal §

bt aa

bet

ry

WNWWMWOWNWW OW UW KW

et

eS
2

web

we

12
12
68

METEOROLOGICAL STATIONS AND OBSERVERS.

List of meteorological stations and observers, §¢., for the year 1870—Continued.

Station.

LOUISIANA.

Anchorage Plantat’n, Bossier Par
Ponchatoula, Tangipahoa Par .

New Orleans, Orleans, Pars... -
Cheneyville, Rapides Par ..-.---

MAINE.

Houlton, Aroostook Co...-.--.--
Orono, Penobscot Co
Gardiner, Kennebec Co
Cornish, York Co
Lisbon, Androscoggin Co
Standish, Cumberland Co. -------
Steuben, Washington Co...-..--- |
Mount Desert, Hancock Co
Williamsburg, Piscataquis Co. --
OxtordiOxtord! Col. 222-4. 2-- =
Surry, tlancocksi Cor: --¢ 3-252. 3- |
Cornish, York Co
West Waterville, Kennebec Co. .

MARYLAND.

Fallston, Harford Co
Annapolis, Anne Arundel Co ...
Frederick, Frederick Co
Emmittsburg, Frederick Co
Woodlawn, Cecil Co
St. Mary’s City, St. Mary’s Co

Woodstock College, Baltimore Co

MASSACHUSETTS.

Boston, Suffolk Co .--..--.------
Richmond, Berkshire Co
West Newton, Middlesex Co....
Newbury, Essex Co
Lunenbur gz, Worcester Co
Hinsdale, Berkshire Co
Worcester, Worcester Co
Lawrence, Essex Co
Williamstown, Berkshire Co.--.
Topsfield, Essex Co
Mendon, Worcester Co

N. Billerica, Middlesex Co..-..-.--
Georgetown, Hssex (Cow - 2 ecee =)
Cambridge, Middlesex Co....-..
Kingstown, Plymouth Co.......
New Bedford, Bristol Gooey
Amherst, Hampshire Comzeaae-*
Milton, Norfolk Co.....-.-------
MICHIGAN,
Litchfield, Litchfield Co......--
Otsego, Allegan Co...-.-----.---
Ontonagon, Ontonagon Co.....--
Adrian, Lenawee ‘Co Wse oe gee
Detroit, WiarymlelC OF eee at sint ©
Grand Rapids, Kent Co......---
Macon, Lenawee Co.....--------
Lansing, Ingham Co..-.---..----
Q@livet, Maton Cor. eae. seeeaere
Kalamazoo, Kalamazoo Co..-.--.-

Pleasanton, Manistee Co
Muskegon, Muskegon Co
Alpena, Alpena Co
Northport, Leelenaw Co
Coldwater, Branch Co
Homestead, Benzie Co
Grand Rapids, Kent Co
Monroe, Monroe Co
Central Mine, Keweenaw Co..-.-
Benzonia, Benzie Co
Ann Arbor, Washtenaw Co

No. months
received,

|

it

& = g
2 cy ae 5
Name of observer. ay as = |

~ = 0 ~

are ot 3 @

A = mo] 4

lo} / a io) / “ Feet.

Cartento ble eee 32 30 9345 0° RaBreeri ky
OCollins WHS Cree eee as 30 30 90:20... \aiReaeee iBaL
Hoste sp task vy tae eal see ee cctaraa lala oie tralia eer BTR
Sackson, Ws) 2252 -—- <6 3l 92120), (eae ae
Hernald) Curb tecccas ae 46 07 67 49 24 470| TR
Hernald: MiGs 2. -- on 44 53 10 68 38 57 134 |BPTR
Gardiner Robes 44 0 55 6945.50) |p eoee- BPTR
GaptilinG-sWeeseee ase 43 40 70 44 800} TR
IMOQre vASAGe Ss cus. seen 44 70 4 130 TR
Moulton, Ji) <2. -20.22- 43 45 70 30 280) TR
Parker dee ec sose secs 44 3h Qh 67 37 34 BU) ee Oi a
gry a A510 Bape aero Nats saere lssosmdao ocala =fes— AIR
Pitman, Edwin...------- 45 Qh 69 ees Soe AMAR
Smibh Vee) 222. as esa see 44 08 20) SS ya eee TR
Tripp, Oscar H:.-2..---. 44 30 68 30 50} TR
Wiest Silas 22-2 Se eee 43 33 70 50 i384] BYR
Wilbur, Benjamin fF . 44 30 69) 46-79 iisess TR
CurtisiG.(Gaeosesescscee SODSORY Tiniereeccceces 300} TR
Goodman, W.R.......-- 38 58 76 29 20 |IBPTR
Mianishe wba Kee eee 39 24 Te 26130) aloes Bam
Jourdan, Prof. C.H ...-- 39 40 0, A ere cee BE TR
McCor mick, HBO eeeoees 39 38 2G. OHS yi. Cee BTR
Stephenson, Rev. J...... 38 10 76 30 45); TR
Valentine, (A. XS... ssa: 39 55 76 52 400} TR
Appleton, F. H..... -... 42 20 tb she Pa seees Tr
BACON Wie seemseeie nee 42 23 73 20 1,000 | TR
1sip-|oy ad ade hese cecemsocor 42 21 71 17 504] TR
Caldwell, JeHEe 222 a. a= 42 45 70 55 25 Je
Cunningham, Geo. A....| 42 35 71 43 450 | BTR
Dewhurst, Rev. E..--.-- 43 27 i i ae ie (ret BTR
Draper, J., M.D-......--- 421617 | 71 48 13 528 |BPT RI
Hallowe So3 os acenesaee 42 42 13 anos. 143 |BPTR
Hopkins: Prot AS. =. =5- 42 42 37 70 42 42 686 | BTR
MerrionmyS)cAct S.-i). s. <2: 42 38 TOMS ee) eee BPTR
Metealf, af. Gis S|) 42) 6223 Was Bete, Wee See BTR
Nason, Mews... ses 4235 9 LOV1G WSO ee 154 ly
Nelson, SiveWitor see Shoace 42 42 (A eseese TR
Perry, Rev. Jno. B...... 42 20 7 11 | vr |
Newcomb, G.S....-...-. 42 70. 45, 60); TR
Rodman sie csn-seecue ee 41 39 70 56 90 |BPTR
Snell Brot Ss se s-ece- 42 22.17 72 34 30 267 |BP TR
Teele, Rev. Ai. IK .3.-.-.- 42 14 37 Gh: (62 HS} BR
Bollard seh =s sscisscesce- 42 84 46 1,040; BTR
Chase, Vi.) Ma 3252 2 Se ees ee, ce re ee eee di
Ellis, Edwin, M. D...-.. 46 52 89 30 620 dh
Helme, Miss L. May. .--- 41 57 83 57 1,240; TR
Higgins, MB Westone 42 20 EREUBY yo Vines TR
Holmes, Dr. E. S..-.----- 43 85 40 780 uu
LOM GLEAD fe oa nae | Seen eee en elyes ee aeaa seks aoeee DR
Kedzie we roroR. ©: 2h23..4) ess sees se ao eee eos BPTR
iRenip. BrotyAc hy pe. 46 26 84 94 968 | BTR
Manes! ein bo) <2 5 eo <telecewie cs so spaemmoeoeomna| ss eee N
Mil ard, AGES BS 2 44 25 86 10 750| TR
Pattison, 15 By ae |e ec | Oe ee eel mre ..| BIR
Paxton, ANE gee seen 45 02 83 05 574 | BTR
Smith, Rev. G. N...----- 45 08 85 4 SOT PUR
Sombbworth. aN. iss nome eect a onto open pee eas
Steele, Rev. G. N..----.- 44 35 86/30 > 2 eee ee |
Streng, Jip 18 CPs esese| thos cre sel eee eee eee TR
Whelpley, Miss F. E....} 41 58 83 23 590} TR
Whittlesey, S. H..--...- 47 87 54 aes AER
WalSengiis-2 22-222 ses 44 31 86 620 TS
Winchell, Mrs. N. H....| 42 16 83 44 8401 FR
METEOROLOGICAL

STATIONS AND OBSERVERS.

List of meteorological stations and observers, §c., for the year 1870—Continned.

Station.

MINNESOTA.

Afton, Washington Co
Minneapolis, Hennepin Co
Madelia, Watonwan Co
St. Paul, Ramsey Co
White Earth Reservation, Beck-
er Co.
New Ulm, Brown Co
Litchfield, Meeker Co
Beaver Bay, Lake Co
Sibley, Sibley Co
Koniska, McLeod Co

MISSISSIPPI,

Early Grove, Marshall Co
Philadelphia, Neshoba Co
Near Holly Springs, Marshall Co.
Marion, Lauderdale Co
Clinton, Hinds Co
Near Brookhaven, Lawrence Co.
Columbus, Lowndes Co
Natchez, Adams Co
Brookhaven, Lawrence Co
Grenada, Yalabusha Co
Grenada, Yalabusha Co
Fellowship, Jasper Co

MISSOURI.

St. Joseph, Buchanan Co
Harrisonville, Cass Co
Jefferson City, Cole Co
Allentown, St. Louis Co
Warrensburg, Johnson Co
Oregon, Holt Co
Cave Spring Academy, Greene Co
Corning, Holt Co
Bolivar, Polk Co
Rolla, Phelps Co
Kansas City, Jackson Co
Hematite, Jefferson Co
St. Louis, St. Louis Co

MONTANA.
Missoula, Missoula Co
Deer Lodge City, Deer Lodge Co.

NEBRASKA.

Richland, Washington Co
Near Bellevue, Sarpy Co.-.-..---
Lincoln, Lancaster Co
Blackbird Hills, Burt Co
Nebraska City, Otoe Co

De Soto, Washington Co
Newcastle, Dixon Co

NEW HAMPSHIRE.

Tamworth, Carroll Co
StratfordsCoos Comes. s- ==). 8
Dunbarton, Merrimack Co
Salisbury, Merrimack Co._._...-
South Antrim, Hillsboro Co
Whitefield, Coos Co
Shelburne, Coos Co .----.-.-:-..
Concord, Merrimack Co....+....

NEW JERSEY.

Chester Township, Burlington Co
Haddonfield, Camden Co

o>
ites)

Name of observer.

Babcock, Dr.& Mrs. B.F.
Cheney, Wm
Murphy, W. W
Paterson, Rev. A. B
Pyle, Dr. D

Roosi@haseerces- sie
Wadsworth, H. L
Wieland, C
Woodbury, C.W. & C. E.
Young, T. M

Abernethy, W. M
Bowden, L. A
Coleman, T. B
Florer, T. W., M. D
Jackson, R.S
Keenan, Miss W. E. A --
Lull, Jas.5

Payne, J. alone ees
Ringgold, R.S., M.D---.
Robinson, Rev. E.S

Bullard, Rev. H
Christian, John
De Wyl, N
Fendler, Aug
Hall, S. K
Kaucher, Wm
McCord, R. H
Martin, Horace
Race, Jas. A
Lateral (Cg ee Beseec
Salisbury, S. W
Smith, John M

Stuntebeck, Rev. F. H --| ¢

Reinhard, J. P., and J.
M. Menesinger.
Stuart, Granville

Bowen, John §
Caldwell, Mrs. E. E . -.--
Goodrich iG. Aves =<c.
Hamilton, Rev. W
Pettenger, J. M., and P.
Zahner.
Seltz: Chase cue es-= vem
Smith, L. 7

Brewster, Alfred..-...---
Brown, Branch
Colby, Alfred
Couch, E. D
Hurkin, Rev. W
Kidder, L. D

Beans, Thomas J
Boadle, J., and J. L. Lip-
pincott.

(8 a 2
ae) 3 =
2. a. é
< = 4 cI
Ss me Sp &
i) ° 5) D
A = ss |
(eo) f ut fe} / “ Feet.
44 50 93 950 AMAR
44 48 93 10 856 |IBP TR
44 94.3000 ee eete TR
44 54 46 94 4 54 800 PRR:
47 50 ann ae | pes ere ‘AY
44 46 94 26 821 AIR
45 12 OA Mitosis TR
47 12 96 19 657 Whats
44 31 OA ORT) eink ee Awe
45 10 G45 20h i! Miners TR
35 90 434 Ey
32 45 89 15 550 TR
AAO et |S asses eels eee BEL Ss
32 25 88 05 83 TR
EY BEE Al Es Ge Beer ie se ae BTR
31 34 90146) ) ess eR;
35 30 88 29 OO ees thy
31 34 91,2442) | sees Baer
31 37 90 15 430 Mb ee
33 45 GG eve), | Missaeee TR
33 45 SOL LF) ye ieessee MLS Fey
Be 85 285 |BP TR
39 45 QA SSt oP alleesee aes
ARAM BoE Allae ee eee Or toSS eR
38 20 92 650 BT
38 29 90 45 482 IBP TR
38 45 93 40 600 B
39 58 40 95 10 1,100 |BPTR
37 30 93430) 7 jesse [LGR
40 20 95:30), > eakeze aR
37 30 93 20 1, 000 TER:
37. 38 Siac) eee ERR
39 5 94 40 710 By b
38 11 90 37 475 MibY Es,
38 37 28 90 15 470 |BP TR
4G 45 113 45 3,900| T
46 40 112 40 4, 240 TER
41 22 96 12 1, 350 ke
Al 68 95) 460 oP Eee tod
40 55 96 52 1, 647 1 a 54
2 10 QGP et ewer PR
40 42 95 45 1 O25 T
41 59 96 975 EAR
43 (07/0. | ne be ee aR
48 48 M0 1850 hee TR
44 40 71 07 1, 000 ‘eR
43 06 1) 35 730 DR
43 23 71 20 500 T
2 ee BREE ice cnet coe WN
44 20 Tilo esse TR
44 23 Ths 700 BY
43 12 71 29 530 TS
39 59 sy: hn es TR
ee Se eee ee \eeeweee coces|kisetics PLE

No. months
received,

|

bo

et be
Re OOO RAR

—

—

hte
om WW WWSW

fed pe fed

ae

mB 0D WR Ww WO
70 METEOROLOGICAL STATIONS AND OBSERVERS.

List of meteorological stations and observers, §:¢., for the year 1870—Continued.

iB Ey eis
; = a g (Sg
: Ts 29 . S| BS
Station. Name of observer. as eS = 5 a3
rs 42 Bi) is} aS)
A © i) 2 oe}
A Ee eS ees
Nrw Jersey—Cont’d.
| ° / uM ie} / ur Feet
Paterson, Passaic Co ....-..-... Brooks, William ~-..!-:: 40 55 74 10 60 |-TR 12
South Orange, Essex Co..--....-- Chandler, W.J., M.D-. A AQSAASO \ {1's 2 oa aed Je eee PER 4
Prenton, Mercer'Co _.-..-5..--- Cooks Rit eee ease 40 14 74 46 30 60) BE}
Newfield, Gloucester Co ....-..-- Gouch ih. Deee-eeeere-os 39 30 74 50 180 Ab 7
iesser Cross Roads. somerset Co| Mlemine id) 2st ee otee a= ee -mieelioae secon ee eefeeeeee Ay 8
Newuprunswick wuddlesex: Cos:| Hasbrouck isha sess lbs cece essen oomece ese leseooe IRE Ra es
Vineland, Cumberland Co ...--- TD OTA eli Were ee ners SEE See ee ee BPTR| 12
Camden, Camden Co.-..---...--- Martindale thx @ eck we ae nes Cre ey 2 ie ail eee N 2
New Germantown, HunterdonCo) Noll, A. B..--.-...-..-.- 42 4) AAS poo WADE BD Rea }
Rio Grande, Cape May Co ....-. Palmer, Mrs: Je -- =. 39 16 £4242) > 9 etl) oes TR 12 .
Greenwich, Cumberland Co..--. Sheppard, Miss R. C ....} 39 20 75 25 30) Bee eee ‘
Newark, Essex Co.....-.--..... Whitehead, W. A.....-.- 40 45 74 10 30|/ BIR) 12 |
NEW YORK.
Ardenia, Philipstown,Putnam Co] Arden, T. B.......-..---. 49 20 22 713 53 22 180:| LR 12
IVT Aaa RV OSs SS aces ooumeasooe iBakersG nD eeceet cee 49°30)". lesb esc tuece 868) TR 12
South Trenton, Oneida Co ..---- Barrows, Captain S ..... 43 10 74 56 o | Sab) |e 12
Palermo, Oswego Co....--.-.---- Bartlett, E. B..--.--..-.- 43 26 77 26 Sot) Ra 1t |
Minaville, Montgomery Co..--... Bussing, J. Wrsaa=-ige oe 42 54 ASL) ee pleas TR 12 .
Lockport, "Niagara Coe career cee Clarky BOW se-teeessace 43 9 TOES =F sa Si eerieyae TR Zl |
Fort Edward, Washington Gores |(CooleyProtids ee-eeee 43 13 TBvAD = Aen eee Bet 5
Little Genesee, Allegany Porssas Edwards, Deere ener 42 015 78 20 1,500| BTR| 12
Rochester, Monroe Co........--- Fiske, W. M.L., M.D-_..] 43 8 77 51 529 | BTR 2
Bannerville, Schoharie Co....-.. MTrAnees Gas. e eee se cae AD 3S") ees eheeece se Ay || Ses 4
Newburgh, Orange Con Srace sete Gardiner, Ji 22s eee 4¥ 30 53 ae: 96) SBR eae
Depanville, Jefferson Co .-.----- Tole Is bee oe Seoeea ee 44 10 a S 350 | TR 12
Hudson, Columbia Comores Hachenberg, G.P., M.D) 42 14 R346 coi tieaee es PTR 1
Near Kingston, on the Hudson, | Hendricks, D. B....-...- 41 50 74.2 150. | TER 12
Ulster Co.
INaCHOIS | iO G8 COc a. ateyteleeaicels HrOWwell Rocce cee eeeeseee 42 6) 924) We nee iu 12
North Ar oyle, Washington Co -.| Hunt, G.W ..--.-------- 43 18 72 29 290 | BTR I
South Har riford, Washington Co.| Ingalsbe, G. M ...-.----- 43 18 4 783, BIE 33 400 | TR 12
Bufialo, Erie Goma k eat weed IVES Wines oe Kee eer eee 42 50 78 56 600 | BTR] 12
Newark V alley, Tioga Co-_.....- UohnsonwRevas Wiese lee eee een oes | aera esas oe eee LEO ie
New York, New Work Cosses Joy, broti@: Acecce-ses- 4) 43 MAD 100 | BER ERI Ts
Cooperstown, Otsego Co -2-- =... Keese, G. Pomeroy --.--- 42 50 74 54 t,200 | TR 12
Platbash) Kanes C6 22) 55.0---5-- Macie,Deeceenee eres 40 37 17 Te Ul BB} 547 Bevan melee:
Brooklyn, Kings Cote eas AV EEN NCS ds Shas sas ee 40 40 73:56 1950 Baer az
Oswego, Oswego Co ...---.------ Malcolm sWisicceaeseeee 43 28 76 30 250 | BR |) az
New York, New York Co . een Marsh, Mrs. M. M .-....- 4) 42 74 1 8 2). |B TR 6
Rochester, Monroe Co...-.-.-..--- Mathews, H. W .-----:-- 43 8 77 SL O20) |B PAR 8s
Brooklyn, "Kings (OM S55 dsasecoue IMG eer SS esoccaase-eom he eee cee. 5|-meee See eee eae e R 1
Leyden, Lewis oad Rone eee Merniam CO 22-2. =< 43 32 30 Dae eles BTR 6
Far mingdale, Queens Coy eee -- Merritt, John C.......-.- 40 40 40 73 30 102 N 1h
Throg’s Nec k, Westchester Co..| Morris, Miss E...--...-- 40 49 15 73 48 45 434 oT 12
New York, New York Co....--. Morris eromOnWieeseee 40 50 25 73 56 3 165 |BP TR) 12
New Yor k, New York Co....... Naval Hospital -...-.--- 40 41 3) 74 2 56 Bur RA ae
Central Park, New York Co...-. Observatoryees 2s ee- 40 45 58 73 57 58 S70 Ries eas
North Volney, Oswego Co ....-- Partrick Skule stocks oe seme eee all Quen ee ee eee ap 12
Sloansville, Schoharie Co.....-.. iRottersG. Wiese oe eeeee 42 41 4S) ae aes iipigs 1
Gouverneur, St. Lawrence Co ...| Russell, C. H..-..------- 44 19 15:20) San (ae ceor: BEER | at
Brookhaven, Sufiolk Co -....---- Smith, E. <A., and | 40 49 72 36 Pe bak 12
daughters.
Cazenovia, Madison Co.....-.---- Soule, Prof. W -...-..-.. 42 55 75 46 260) ae 12
Oneida, Madison Co......--.---. Spooner UTriSsson- see eee 43. 4 75 50 500 | TR 12
Caldwell, Warren Co....-..,---- SLOWS FACPME © See eee cee 43 24 72 46 300 |BPTR 2
Luzerne, “Warren Co ....-------- ororre, AGL. o See be ec Se [seeeen sce eee seee eee neem BPA Az
Vassar College, Poughkeepsie, | Swallow, Miss.-.-.-.-..- 41 40 50 ADM GV SBY Woe BTR 2
Dutchess Co.
Waterburgh, Tompkins Co ..-.. Mrowbridge;, D>: 5. =... 42 30 77 15 800 | TR 11
ies Oneida Coston eee eee Williams, “J. Gilbert... -. 43 10 74 57 5185 ir 12
White Plains, Westchester Co.-| Willis, O. R., and | 41 5 73 40 273 f ty 12
daughters. ;
North Hammond,St.Lawrence Co Wooste AG WAGER Rete wae 44 30 (sak: Wd om ee Bea Le
Houseville, Lewis Co...........- Yale, Walter D ......... 43 40 Rowe. © ihe tae ER 10
NORTH CAROLINA.
Statesville, Iredell Co.--.....:.. PAWSON Gt i> shemce a seee 35 36 80°30; | }ageaee TR 12
Asheville, Buncombe Co....-.-..- PASTOR OW intdice erick ow ian|lescicine cee. aacms occ coRe Cees rR 12
Goldsboro, Wayne Co........-.. Adams, Prof. E. W ..--- 35 20 77 51 102, TR 12
Warrenton, Warren Co........-. HOOtE: SEGA es ee seein a 36 15 1815. ieeeee TR 12
Asheville, Buncombe Co.....-.. Hardy, J. F. E., M.D-..| 35 30 82 31 2,250| BT 12
Oxford, Granville Co.-......-... hicks) Wak., MDs 2 36 23 7814, 90" Bier PR 1k
METEOROLOGICAL STATIONS AND OBSERVERS.

List of meteorological stations and observers, §c., for the year 1870—Continued.

Station.

Name of observer.

Nortu CAroLina—Cont’d.

Attaway Hill, Stanly Co
Near Raleigh, Wake Co
Chapel Hill, Orange Co
Kenansyille, Duplin Co

OHIO.

Bellefontaine, Logan Co..
New Lisbon, Columbiana Co...-

Quaker Ridge, Morgan Co
North Fairtield, Huron Co
Bowling Green, Wood Co
Gambier, Knox Co
Bethel, Clermont Co
Steubenville, Jefferson Co
Little Mountain, Geauga Co
College Hill, Hamilton “Co
Cincinnati, Hamilton Co
Westerville, Franklin Co

Springfield, Clark Co
Oberlin, Loraine Co
Wooster, Wayne Co
Kelley’s Tsland, Erie Co
Cleveland, Cuyahoga Co
Edgerton, Williams Co
Oxiord, Butler Co

Ripley, Huron Co
Hillsboro, Highland Co
Carthagena, Mercer Co
North Bass Island, Ottawa Co-
Gilmore, Tuscar: awas Co
Mar earetta Township, Erie Co-.
Jacksonburg, Butler Co
Cincinnati, Hamilton Co
Salem, Columbiana Co
Gallipolis, Gallia Cd
Kenton, Hardin Co
Adams Mills, Muskingum Co...
Milnersville, Guernsey Co
New Birmingham, Guernsey Co.
Toledo, Lucas Co
Mount Auburn, Hamilton Co--.-
Williamsport, Pickaway Co.-.-.-
Urbana, Champaign Co
Wooster, Wayne Co

OREGON.
Portland, Multnomah Co

Eola, Polk Co
Astoria, Clatsop Co

PENNSYLVANIA.

Pittsburg, Alleghany Co
Diocam tor Coe ses) 44-2 525.
Carlisle, Cumberland Co ........
Plymouth Meeting, Montgomery

‘Astuavtal Schuylkill Co
Pocopson, Chester Co
Dyberryy Wayne) Co). 25. .4-- 2
Harrisburg, Dauphin Co .:...-.-
Near Pennsville, Clearfield Co .

Blooming Grove, Pike Co
Fallsington, Bucks Co ....--.---
Tamaqua, Schuylkill Co
Hazleton, Luzerne Co...
Mount Joy, Lancaster Co
Ashland, Schuylkill Co -........
Brownsville, Fayette Co
Lewisburg, Union Co

Kron, F. J
Murdock, WW.
Patrick, Prof. D.S
Sprunt, Rev. J. M

Barringer, W
Benner, J. F., and W. R.
Smiley.
Bingman, T. J
Burras, O
Clarke. J
Comptva, F., and others
Crane, G. W
Doyle, Joseph B
Ferriss, E. J
Hammitt, John W
Harper, G. W
Haywood, Prof. J...----
Hachenberg, G. P., M. D.
Herrick, L-
Hoover, W
Huntingdon, G.Cc
Knight, A. B
McFarland, Prof. R. W--
Marsh, Mrs. M. M
Mathews, J. McD
Muller, Dr. R
Morton, George R.,
Moore, 8S. M
iNew Thomas soessece
Owsley, J. B., M.D
Phillips, R. C
Pollock, Rev. J. E
Rodgers, Alexander P -.
Smith, C. H., M. D
Stillwell, C. A
Thompson, Rev. D
Thompson, Rev. D
Trembley, J. B., M.D-..
White, J. H
Wilkinson, ie
Williams, Prof. M.G....
Winger, M

Gilliland, S. W., & J. S.
Ried.

Pierce, Thomas ...-:----

iWalson, Wuouis:=--5-5----

Bentley, EH. ‘T..--- yosere
Cook, Dr. W. EL
Corson, M. H

Curtis, A
Darlington, F
Day, Theodore
Egle, Dr. W. 1
MEentON Hosceccemee ace
-| Grathwohl, John
Hance, E
Haworth, J
Haworth, J
Hoffer, J. R.,
Honeyman, Rev. W. E-.-
Hubbs, J. Allen

James, Prof. C.5

West longi-
tude.

a] —) -) 3 + 3 eT

Instruments.

Wins

lela bene
leleleaie/etei
neh ©

loo}

ean,
ae)
x

4
ee)

HR
bd ed ed

ins]
aiid
ala")

=~]
—

No. months
received.

|

Ort to

—
WAMWADPIW DW

et
Sw
A

72

METEOROLOGICAL STATIONS AND OBSERVERS.

List of meteorological stations and observers, §¢., for the year 1870—Continued.

Station.

PENNSYLYANIA—Cont’d.

Whitehall, Lehigh Co
Philadelphia, Philadelphia Co. --
Newcastle, Lawrence Co
Westchester, Chester Co.....-.-.
Germantown, Philadelphia Co .-
Williamsport, Lycoming Co
Philadelphia, Philadelphia Co-..
Johnstown, Cambria Co
Reading, Berks Co
Greencastle, Franklin Co.---.---
Abington, Luzerne Co
Cannonsburg, Washington Co. --
Mooreland, Montgomery Co
Ephrata, Lancaster Co
Salem Wayne! Corss-2- 5. sae:
Connellsville, Fayette Co
Beaver, Beaver Co
Franklin, Venango Co
Germantown, Philadelphia Co...
Fountain Dale, Adams Co

RHODE ISLAND.

Newport, Newport Co........-.-
Newport, Newport Co

SOUTH CAROLINA.

Aiken, Barnwell Co..-....--.-.---
Evergreen, Anderson Co
Bluffton, Beaufort Co
Gowdeysville, Union Co
Fort Hill, York Co

TENNESSEE.

Lookout Mountain Educational
Institute, Hamilton Co.
Austin, Wilson Co
Greeneville, Greene Co.-.-.--.-...
Lagrange, Fayette Co
Memphis, Shelby Co
Trenton, Gibson Co
Elizabethtown, Carter Co
Knoxville, Knox Co
Clarksville, Montgomery Co .--.
MeMinnvyille, Warren Co

TEXAS.

Houston, Harris Co
Palestine, Anderson Co
Bremond, Robertson Co
Bluff P. O., Fayette Co
Near Gilmer, Upshur Co
Blue Branch, Burleson Co.......
Lavaca, Calhoun Co
San Antonio, Bexar Co
Oakland, Texas Co
Amstin: rawis Oo 2. ok seeeee eee
Blue Branch, Burleson Co..-...--
Sand Fly, Burleson Co
Clinton, De Witt Co.......-.----
Lockhart, Caldwell Co .,....-...

UTAH.

Coalville, Summit Co -.........-
St. George, Washington Co.....
Harrisburg, Washington Co .._..
Salt Lake City, Salt Lake Co....

ag +4 s |2
| | | a ey

oO s e
Name of observer. | aS | a a | 2 a3
pe) 2p ae | 3 2
S <2 o Oy Se
A a | ala”

Oo / “uy ie) / uw Feet. |
Kohler, Hoof 586 cie. <i 40 44 75 28 450 |i WER i 10
Kirkpatrick, J. A...-..- 39 57 7 11 60 |BPTR 12
McConnell, KE. M........ “40 SOM 2 Cew ihaeeeee OR 12
Martin, Dr. George ..... 39 57 31 HorsGmes 460 |BPTR) 11
Meehan ureter eee dalle ece ciate tate a ae Ae seems aleve “iy 12
NOV CLE, Ol peerrn scece 41 19 81 30 533 aes 2
Naval Hospital .......-. 39 56 75 10 | 36/BrR| 12
‘PecloniD eee eerie ce ae eln a et ateasialn ce oetstaettals 1,200 BPTR 12
Raserd. ey] -- 4... AO Oe Ot ee alee ae TR 12
Rhode; SsWiese-22e se - = | 39 45 1 77% 30 650 | TR 3
Sisson Riese ssoees sees 41 30 10452 9 see TR 12
Smith) DriwWim-ee---- 40 16 41 80 10 850 | BTR | 12
Spencer, Miss Anna ....| 40 75 11 250 |BP TRI 12
Spera Werks se. ieee ine 40 12 MOcdO! > eee fe) Bes We ee
SHOCKeryd sO tease estes 41 30 WOOO  Abeeees IAS 12
Taylor, Johns sesa— 2 40 Testy Sees TR 12
Taylor Rev. Re Tes ees! 40 43 Ue We lase sas TR 12
Tolman, Rev. M. Ai ..-.- 41 24 79 5t 980; TR 12
Tarn ership ee ees saci sleepin ete | cee Oe eos cee eens Bet Ry | a2
Walker Gi @e see caensae 39 44 fi fae = an pee | Sees Pa | 12
BarberewerAwe ssc. soe sc 41 28 22 71 21 14 25) TR 7
Crandell, Wm. H.....-.. 41 28 22 T1 21 14 23.) LR 5
Cornish, Rev. J. H...--- 33 32 81 34 369 | BYR |, 12
Mamie ARS ee eae 34 30 FPS Oli fi ualaale IOGR 4
Guerard, S. St. J.,. M. D.| 32 10 oH ME Te Ta i PEE a TR 12
Petty,|Chas += 2.2/2 5.25.0. 34 50 81 36 600 | TR 12
Springs, BR. A.jjr-----.-. 35 Sti dlesacne ay 4
Bancroft, Rev. C.F. P...| 35 81 5 2,200; BT | 12
'
Calhoun, (PMB iercc si cns |eneeercrcmre eemeeree ee eestor TR 10
Doak, S.S. & W.S------ 36m *82 51 eee Av IN, 6
rankliny Wie JH. 32225. 30. 6.30 89 15 25 462! TR 6
Goldsmith We ane ce cee Shy 90 2520) Beery tas
Gmesbiys Wane aes 36 Orn) Tru eecorses jr SARS 10
Wewas bless see cece cae 36 25 82 15 1500) | Sean ae
Paynes Prot. di ekereee ee 36 84 990 |BP TR 9
Stewart, Prof. W ..--.-.- 36 29 &7 13 481 |IBPTR 12
Wright, SP =n: --62-2e! 35 42 85 57 1, 000 g
|
Anderson, Rev. J.....-. Sao | [iis see eee ee Reser ee ah 7
Baxter) Miss Bo. 22.22... 29 50 95 30 5) of 6
BLOOMS NES === =e 31 40 95 35 480 ‘BAR 8
CombsRBeeex. =. 26. 21k ce ereeiees oe ee Sec ene see nent R 5
MieisamM, isons eee tee 30 97 180.) “ER ae
Glascondin Meo. oe) whey ot 32 46 94 SL 9500 AER 12
Goodey Wi. Hy fe sa kees 30 27 97 26 600 TR 6
Heaton wy a kee- eee: 28 30 96 40 ie ey 8
Petbersems Es ceeemiaciese 29 28 | 98 24 064) eae 5
NIM PSU) Phe seen ree 29 65 Cie ae, liaanene TR ik
Van Nostrand, J........ 30 29 97 46 1-650 | eekere 12
Wade ues este uaae 30 25 97 26 ; 600| TR 9
Wiad SMa Se sau coosel ae oaascas etic een ameen Ie eee Avast i
Wihites Ot. A: (Ce Sosa. 2 29 OF 37 Pear TR 12
Ta vevah Grit el Dp pen eserenrs neared (ey et ee Se | ee eee cles POR: 7
| | |

Isles Waaeaeeeesaaeos 40 M14 5,600} T 9
Tohnspny Ce. cs-:ecele 37 11 FE Mae [Sc i 3
ewiS;MamMes. ec ase ons |enewee scene | Stok oceem ae eee u 7
PhelpSMWrw ice anon ace 40 45 TE 260) eee Aw 10

METEOROLOGICAL STATIONS AND OBSERVERS.

=]
oo

List of meteorological stations and observers, §c., for the year 1870—Continued.

Station.

Name of observer.

VERMONT.

Panton; Addison Co-..222-------
Newport, Orleans Co-...-.-.-.------
Lunenburg, Essex Co
Woodstock, Windsor Co
South Troy, Orleans Co.....-..-
Randolph, Orange Co
Middlebury, Addison Co.....-.--
Craftsbury, Orleans Co. .-...-..---
Castleton, Rutland Co
Charlotte, Chittenden Co

VIRGINIA.

Mulberry Hill, Isle of Wight Co.
Vienna, Fairfax Co
Wytheville, Wythe Co.....-----
Lexington, Rockbridge Co..--.--
Staunton, Augusta Co
Mt. Vernon Township, Fairfax Co
Cottage Home, Surry Co......-.
Mechanicsville, Fauquier Co. --.
Near Lynchburg, Bedford Co - --
Near Johnsontown, Northamp-
ton Co.
Norfolk, Norfolk Co
Near Markham Station, Fau-
quier Co.

Near Lexington, Rockbridge Co.
Hampton, Elizabeth City Co.-.-
Snowville, Pulaski Co.-.-...-.---
Powhatan Hill, King George Co.
Near Fairfax C. H., Fairtax Co.
Near Piedmont, Fauquier Co. --.
Vienna, Fairfax Co

WASHINGTON TERRITORY.

Cathlamet, Waukiakum Co..--.

Tatoosh Island Light-House,
Clallam Co.

Walla-Walla, Walla-Walla Co...

Lake Washington, King Co..-.-.

WEST VIRGINIA.
Romney, Hampshire Co..-..--.--

Weston, Lewis Co
Ashland, Cabell Co

WISCONSIN.

Embarrass, Waupaca Co
Rocky Run, Columbia Co
Madison, Dane Co
Holland, Sheboygan Co
New Lisbon, Juneau Co......:.-
Appleton, Outagamie Co...-.---
Milwaukee, Milwaukee Co...-..
Manitowoc, Manitowoe Co..-...
Waupaca, Waupaca Co..-..----
Plymouth, Sheboygan Co
Mosinee, Marathon Co..---..---
Tunnel City, Monroe Co
Edgerton, Rock Co
Wautoma, Waushara Co..-....--
Bayfield, Bayfield Co
Baraboo, Sauk Co-2222222 82.22:
Bloomfield, Wabash Co..........
Sturgeon Bay, Door Co

H. A. Sheldon, Middlebury, Vermont.

Barto, D. C. and M. E ..
Currier, J. M
Cutting, H. A

Doten, H., & L. A. Miller.

Kennedy, J.C
Painer@iSees ss ss -sescee
Sheldon, H. A
Wild; Rev. E. P...-.- see
Williams, Rev. R.G.-..
Wing, Minerva E......-

Binford GRisscocces secs
Bowman, J. B.and G. A-
Brown, Rev. James A .-
Campbell, Prof. J. L
Covell, J.C
Gillingham, C
Jones, B. W
Martin’ iWiacA see seneael
Meriwether, ©. 1.2 2-----
Moore; Cy Risk assecesee

Payne, L. E
Ruffner, W. 1

Sherman de Mise ee

Stalnaker, J. W., M.D ..
Tayloe, EK. T
Thrift, Miss L. R
Williams, F
Williams, H. C

MieCalli Coa asesee ss =:
Sampson, Alex. M

Simmons, A. H

Whitworth, Mr. and Mrs.

J. E.

McDowell, W.
Owen, Benjamin
Roffe, C. L

Breed, E. E
CurtiseWiiWil cece ee
Daniells, Prof. W. W. --
De Lyser, John
Dungan, J. L
Hove erote dis Gaseee ae)
Lapham, I. A., LL. D-.--
Liips, Jacob
Mead, H. C
MoellerwiGisn! ster Aenean
O’Donoghoe, J ...----- :
Peoler, Rev. G......----
Shintz, H. J
Spaulding, J
Tate, Andrew
iVWiattey MAC eas Ss ciensee
Whiting, W. H
Wiriehtyis Mie tee essence.

urs ag
Se as
io}
Ai E
fo} Tt ut fo} i ut
44 74
44 55 72 20
44 28 71 41
43 36 72 35
‘AR BHO hs 73.56 le
43 59 73 10
44 40 72 30
36 50 76 50
38 53 39 ite
36 55 81 4
TaBICain al | 7346
38 40 We Do
37 10 76 46
38 50 78
37 18 79 19
37 22 75 46
36 25 76 25
39 78
ae 719 22
ayt ot) 76 20
37 80
i Tense van Wiper anne
38 5f 78
38 53 17% 12
46 15 123 30
46 5 118 52
fo i Bros | MAG teins 5 0 fe pe
[SOP wen k ses neonate
38 30 82 16
44 51 88 37 30
43 26 89 19
43 5 89 24
43 36 87 54
43 45 90
44 10 88 35
ASS 87 56 10
44 7 87 45
44 20 89 11
43 44 88° %
45 89 30
43 45 9L 40
42 30 89
44 89 20
‘4nay 1 (89 45) dn
Reet wis ca | 87 SONNana

DEATHS OF OBSERVERS.

= G. Moeller, Plymouth, Wisconsin, March 14, 1870.

Instruments.

No. months

received.

|

_ ol
wWwww cnet

Corde.)

ee
wWRIWDWWe
TA

cy

METEOROLOGICAL STATIONS AND OBSERVERS.

COLLEGES AND OTHER INSTITUTIONS FROM WHICH METEOROLOGICAL
' REGISTERS WERE RECEIVED DURING THE YEAR 1870, INCLUDED IN
THE PRECEDING LIST.

State.

NOVO SCObase cee eee ieee
Alabama
@ahiforniat-e--o02.-.-282 5255
Connecticut
(CURR Seo chon sqnonenend ser
Tilinois

Witt binGlo. So asesosoeenceses

Massachusetts:-<co-c..cenese

Michigan

Mississippi
MV SSOUPIMB ANE tet siemes lee oe

; Institution. Location.
Acadia College se atesa--cerer i encesseteer aes eeeeee Wolfville.
Greene mprine si sChow lees eeeee eee. c eee eee Here Havana.
Pacific Methodist College. ~~ - 2. -...-- =e Vacaville.
vWesleyaniiUmiversity = Nor jan cme tana .iisisnc= sleet Middletown.
MercerfUmiversityi sno: seceemerese=s- ore ececeees Penfield.
Lombard University. ---------.---.-----...--...-- Galesburg.
Northwestern (Umiversitivia:s-ssese iat eee soccer Evanston.
City eHospitalle career ere eer eee eee nee eases Indianapolis.
CormnelltCollece ct sere ected jocectiec ns nels ee ee ae Mount Vernon.
VowanstatevU ni Verelbys cm ee meee ements ar awe Towa City.
Aoricultural|\ College 28 sess -tteeeee pe none ee eee Manhattan.
StatedUmiversityass- seater teste eee cece ea eeee Lawrence.
Mount St: Mary's College:----- <2. 25... 2-2. eenne Emumittsburg.
NWioodstocla@ollece ee eetercst seine eer =a eeoeeae 3altimore County.
WAMMOrsbiC Ole rec se vec os scence oc se see eehesee sees Amherst.
State Lunatic Hospital 22-825 - ae cose aeeescossesee Worcester.
Woalhams Colleveme es" - thas cetera cee hene anne Williamstown.
Weoricnitaral: College S2- snes cece eerie aeeie sme Lansing,
Olivet College 5 Ae acne ee ceca wclseeenes «ee ave cee Olivet.
Mississippl College: 222s eesjaccec tens seins ones Clinton.
eit SMEG) Whin cad sHin an Goon eseto Oo oSenodeaouesar St. Louis.
Sti PaulisiSchoolljoa:22| -feesene eee tench eees Concord.
GolumbiaiColleve:s-cs 22 =. Sea sate eens eee New York.
rasmus talleAcadeniyiee secs cs eseces eee Flatbush.
Oneida Conference Seminary.........--.-------.-- Cazenovia.
iRuteeErs)!Hemale Colerer ees) cesmae eee eee New York.
Viassari@ollere 5555-5 ea ae are eon cee eRe eee Poughkeepsie.
Wiebster Institue .- eee eee sae ee ne sense Kenansville.
SUA) Ob AEN eeee sas Goons acoanesooCenemasadacc Chapel Hill.
Kenyon Collegessssnc-—-ee-ee ese ereaete ae near Gambier.
Miami wUniversity <0 -tss es se2 sete aailee eens Oxford,
Mount Auburn Young Ladies’ Institute ---..----- Mount Auburn.
OtterbeinyWWmiversity sess: ce ae eee eee eee Westerville.
Mheologicall Seminary coos eee eee eee aera Carthagena.
Urbanavliniversity so acse en eee eee cae eee Urbana.
Wioodwardslioh Schoole ee ten ceca tesensea eae Cincinnati.
Beaver weminaryieces- ene Peer Ree eaee see eer eee Beaver.
Jefferson Collece eie- scare eee ase e eos tee Canonsburg.
hewishuroyWUmiversivyesees o-seee ek ee eee Lewisburg.
Hast) Mennessee Wmiversity—- 2-5-2 sees aie == ° Knoxville.
Lookout Mountain Educational Institute ..--...... Hamilton County.
Stewarb, Colleser5-G225-s4. scree eee tneree eee Clarksville.
MusculumiC ollese Ae eose eee one eee eee eee Greeneville.
Institution for Deaf and Dumb) 2----5----2=-.-2--- Austin.
Normal (Schooles: 1.-ob a2 sese eb ce eee ae See Castleton.
Washington College te - 2 cco. scen tie Saceee ewisee Lexington.
Institution for Deaf, Dumb and Blind..........-- Staunton.
awrence: UNIVELsiby: 2.422 ose cece eee eee Appleton.
StatosUmuyersitiys..-20-. secre een ae sees oeeeeee Madison.
METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL. 15

METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL RECEIVED IN ADDITION TO THE REGU-
LAR OBSERVATIONS.

Anderson, Benj—Meteorological observations taken during a journey .
of exploration to the interior, from Monrovia, Liberia, during the year
1868.

Barnes, Dr. G. W.—Summary of meteorological observations at Grass
Valley, California, during the months of June, July, August, Septem-
‘ber, and October, 1870.

Barreta, San Louis Potosi, Mexico.—Thermometrical curves (centi-
grade) during the first half of April, 1870.

Benton, Rev. A. A.—Meteorological register kept at Kanea, Crete, by -
Rev. Mr. Benton, missionary of the Protestant Episcopal Board, during
the years 1843 and 1844, (part.)

Berendt, Dr. H.—Newspaper cuttings on the climate of Belize, British
Honduras.

Board of Commissioners, Centr al Park, New York.—Thirteenth annual
report, contains general meteorological observations for 1869, and de-
scription of observatory.

Boardman, G. A.—Notes on the storm of October 4th and Sth, 1869,
at Milltown, Maine.

Boerner, C. G.—Paths of meteors observed during the auroral dis-
play of October 24, 1870.

Bruhns, Dr. O.—Meteorologische Beobachtungen, angestellt auf der
Leipziger Uniyer sitits-SternwarteimJahre1868, 18vo,30 pages, 1 Table.

Bullock, T. * Summary of temperature observations at Coaly ille, Utah,
for the year 1869.

Carpenter, P. P., Montreal, Canada.—Account of aurora obser sel
during Sarena. 1870, at Tiieaanely by Thomas McGinn, (newspaper
slip.)

Cazalis, Dr. F.—‘‘ Le messager agricole,” Montpellier, France, Decem-
ber, 1867, containing meteorological observations made at Montpellier,
Departement de Herault.

Cockburn, H.—Notes on British Honduras, (containing meteorological
records for Belize, rain-fall from 1862 to 1868 inclusive.)

Crocker, Allen, Burlington, Kansas—Diagram and description of re-
markable halo seen Iebruary 5, 1870.

Curtis, AA—Meteorological summary for 1869 at Ashland, Schuylkill
County, Pennsylvania.

Daguin, M.—Résumé des observations meteorologiques faites & Vob-
servatoire de Toulouse pendant V’année 1867-68, par M. Daguin. §8vo,
11 pages; 1868~69, 8vo, 4 pages.

Daniels, Wm.—Record of weather during the month of July, 1870, at
Peru, Miami County, Indiana.

Deem, D.—Diagram of thermometrical and barometrical eurves, and
snow and rain-fall, for February, 1869, at Knightstown, Indiana. The
same for November, 1869, at Mount Hope, Indiana.
76 METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL.

Dodd, Professor 0. M.—Record of anemometer (Robinson's) at the
Indiana State University, during November, 1869.

Dudley, T.—Account of halo seen at Decatur, Hlinois, February 5,
1870.

Ewing, C. G.—Meteorological observations at San Francisco, Cali-
fornia, during part of the year 1870. (Newspaper slips from Daily Alta
California.)

Foster, Captain Rk. W.—Notes made on a passage through the Straits
of Magellan, in the steamship City of Pittsburgh, in the year 1852.

Foster, Capt. R. W., New Orleans.—Journal of the voyage of the steam-
ship Alabama from New Orleans to Vera Cruz in December, 1850.

French, J. B., Agent—Rain and snow fall record kept by the W. L.
C. & W. Manufacturing Company at Laconia, Bristol, and other places
in New Hampshire, during 1870. .

Gesellschaft Isis, Meissen. Zusammenstellung der Monats- und Jahres-
mittel aus den zu Meissen im Jahre 1869.

Government of Victoria, Australia.—Discussion of the meteorological
and magnetical observations made at the Flagstaff Observatory, Mel-
bourne, during the years 1858-63, by Geo. Neumayer, Ph. D. Mann-
heim, 1867. 4to, 202 pages.

Green, H. A.—Record of weather at Atco, New Jersey, during 1870.

Record of thermometer at Atco, New Jersey, during November and
December, 1869.

Haidinger, W. Ritter von.—Ueber das (aE Ge am 28,
Juli, 1861. 8vo, 6 pages.

On the phenomena of light, heat, and sound Berne the fall
of meteorites. By W. Ritter von Haidinger. (From Proc. RB. 8.,
No. 107, 1868.) 8vo, 6 pages.

Howland, L., United States Consul_—Meteorological observations for
the month of May, 1870, at the University of Valencia. (Printed slip.)

James, I. W.—Summary of observations at Marengo, Hlinois, during
1870.

Jelinek, Dr. C.—Ueber den jiihrlichen Gang der Temperatur zu Klagen- -
furt, Triest, und Arvavalalja. Von Dr. C. Jelinek. 8vo, 39 pages.

Ueber die tiigliche und jiihrliche Periode der relativen Feuchtigkeit
in Wien. Von Hans Wittek. 8vo, 13 pages, 2 Tables.

Ueber die jiihrliche Vertheilung der Gewittertage, nach den Beobach-
tungen an den meteorologischen Stationen in Oesterreich und Ungarn.
Von Dr. C. Jelinek. 8vo, 9 pages.

Jewell, J. Grey, M. D., United States Consul Singapore—Meteorological
observations at Singapore, British East Indies, during the months of
May, June, July, August, September, October, November, and Decem-
ber, 1869. By H. Q. Randell, colonial surgeon.

K. K. Centralanstalt fiir Meteorologie und Erdmagnetismus.—Beobach-
tungen an der K. K. Centralanstalt fiir Meteorologie und Erdmagnetis-
mus.
METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL. . Vé

K. K. Sternwarte in Krakau.—Mittlere Temperatur zu Krakau, nach
AQ-jahrigen Beobachtungen, 1826-1865. Von Dr. F. Karlinski. 4to, 14
pages, 1 diagram.

K. K. Stermvarte, Prag.—Magnetische und meteorologische Beobach-
tungen auf der K. K. Sternwarte zu Prag, im Jahre 1869. 4to, 170
pages.

Knapp, Geo. C.—Meteorological register from January to April, 1869,
at Billis, Asia.

Koninklijk Nederlandsch Meteorologisch Instituut.—Nederlandsch mete-
orologisch Jaarboek voor 1869. Oblong 4to, 262 pages.

Lander, Sam’l, President Davenport Female College—Meteorological
observations taken at the Davenport Female College, Lenoir, North
Carolina.

Latham, Dr. H. £.—Notes on the climate of Laramie Plains,,.Wyo-
ming Territory.

Le Messager Agricole. Revue des associations et des intéréts agricoles du
midi. Publié sous la direction de M. le Dr. F. Cazalis—Contains monthly
meteorological tables made at L’Kcole Normale de Montpellier, departe-
ment de Herault, France.

Loomis, Professor H.—Comparison of the mean daily range of the
magnetic declinations with the number of auroras observed each year,
and the extent of the black spots on the surface of the sun. By Elias
Loomis, Yale College. S8vo, 19 pages.

Maegregor, C. J., M. A.—On the climatology of Stratford, Ontario.
8vo, 4 pages.

ilagnetic Observatory, Toronto—Monthly meteorological registers,
(printed.)

Mapes, H. H.—Monthly manuscript notes on the weather at Oshtemo,
Kalamazoo, and other points in Michigan.

Merriam, C. I.—Meteorological comparisons from records kept at
Locust Grove, Leyden, Lewis County, New York.

Meteorologische Centralanstalt, Zurich.—Schweizerische meteorologi-
sche Beobachtungen.

Meteorological Institute of Norway.—Norske meteorologisk Aarbog,
1868, 2den Aargang. Christiania, 1869. Oblong 4to, 213 pages.

Meteorological Office, London.—Report of the meteorological commit-
tee of the Royal Society for the year ending 31st December, 1869. 8vo,
58 pages.

Weather reports from July 1, 1868, to June 30, 1870. 3 volumes,
folio; 6 parts unbound.

Quarterly weather report of the Meteorological Office, with pressure
and temperature tables, for the year 1869. Part I, January to March,
1869. 4to, 73 pages, 36 plates.

Meteorological Office, Caleutta.—Report of the meteorological reporter
to the government of Bengal. Meteorological abstract for the year
1869. By H. F. Blandford, meteorological reporter. Large 8vo, 108

pages.
78 _. METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL.

Meteorological Society, London.—Proceedings.

Miller, Rev. Jas. N.—The true direction and velocity of the wind ob-
served from ships while sailing. By Rev. J. N. Miller. 8vo, 18 pages.

Morris, Professor O. W.—Diagram of temperature, humidity, and
barometer, at Cooper Union, New York, during the month of June,
1870. Also summary of meteorological observations for 1868.

Moss, G. B—Monthly manuscript summaries of meteorological obser-
vations at Belvidere, Illinois.

Newspaper slips relating to the meteorology of Northern Hlinois.

Muller, Dr. R.—Detailed descriptions of various meteorological phe-
nomena observed at the Theological Seminary, Carthagena, Ohio.
(Appendices to regular monthly reports.)

Naturforschende Gesellschaft in E’mden.—Das Gesetz der Winde, ab-
geleitet aus dem Auftreten derselben tiver Nordwest-Europa. Von Dr.
M. A*F. Prestel. Mit einer Karte. Ato, 26 pages.

Nelson, S. AA—Newspaper cuttings in reference to certain storms in
Massachusetts in the year 1870.

Newton, H. H.—Range of thermometer at Mount Carmel, Covington
County, Mississippi, latitude 31° 34’, longitude 90° 20/ 15”, during the
months of January and February, 1870.

Norske Meteorologiske Institutet—Température de la mer entre
VIrlande, l’Ecosse et la Norvege, par H. Mohn, directeur de l'Institut
Météorologique de Norvege. Christiania, 1870. 8vo, 16 pages, 5 charts.

Observatoire Impériale, Paris —Atlas météorologique de YObserva-
toire Impériale, année 1867. Large 4to.

Observatorio Marina de San Fernando.—Anales, seccion e observa-
ciones meteorolojicas, 1870. 4to, 32 pages.

Observatoire Meteorologique Central de Montsouris.—Bulletins.

Observatoire Royale de Bruxelles—Annales météorologiques, 1869.
Ato, 96 pages.

Paine, Dr. H. M., Albany, New York.—Newspaper slips giving accounts
of meteorological phenomena.

Parvin, Professor T. S—Meteorological observations for the year
1869. (Printed slips.)

Peelor, D.—Records kept by self-registering barometer at Johnstown,.
Cambria County, Pennsylvania. Also various notes on meteorological
phenomena, newspaper slips, &e. .

Pettersen, F.—Record of weather during the years 1868, 1869, and 1870,
at San Antonio, Texas.

Plantamour, Professor H.—Résumé météorologique de Vannée 1868,
pour Généve et le Grand St. Bernard. Géneéve, 1868. 8vo, 359 pages.

Prestel, Dr.—Der Sturmwarner und Wetteranzeiger, ein nach wissen-
schaftlichen Grundsitzen ausgefiihrtes und durch Beobachtungen und
Erfahrung bewahrtes Instrument zu Vorherbestimmung von Sturm und
Wetter. Von Dr. M. A. F. Prestel. 8vo, 55 pages, 2 Tables.

R. Accademia delle Scienze di Torino.—Bolletino meteorologico ed
|
|
|

METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL. 79

astronomico del Regio Osservatorio dell’ Universita di Torino. Anno
IV. 1869. Oblong 4to, 43 pages.

Radcliffe Observatory.—Results of astronomical and meteorological
observations, 1867. Oxford, 1870. 8vo, 340 pages. 5

Rikatcheff, M.—Marche diurne de la température a Barnaul et a
Nertchinsk; par M. Rikatcheff. 4to, 23 pages.

Rivett-Carnac, H.—The state of the weather and prospects of the cot-
ton crop in the Central Provinces and the Beracs. Reported to the
secretary of the Chamber of Commerce, Bombay, by Harry Rivett-Car-
nae, esq., cotton commissioner. Large 8vo, 15 pages. August, 1570.

Sawkins, J. G.—Monthly tables of meteorological elements, deduced
from observations taken at the observatory, Georgetown, Demerara,
British Guiana, during eleven years, commencing January, 1846. By
Patrick Sandeman, observer. Small 4to, 275 pages.

Sawyer, H., United States Consul.—Meteorological observations at
Paramaribo during the year 1869. (Newspaper slip.)

Scottish Meteorological Society——Journal of the Scottish Meteorological
Society.

Sheppard, Giese Monthly manuscript reports of the weather at
Hennepin, Illinois.

Simmons, A. H.—Photograph showing effect of southwest wind in
January, at Walla-Walla, Washington Territory, in the valley of the
Upper Columbia.

Simonin, J. B.—Meteorologie et climat du department de la Muerthe,
par J. B. Simonin, pére. Naney, 1862. S8vo, 38 pages.

Stanley, J. H. S—Monthly manuscript reports of weather at Houston,
Texas. .

Stewart, Professor W. M.—Account of storm at Nashville, Tennessee,
1870

Strong, A. M.—Register of meteorological observations at Magnolia,
Florida, for April, 1870.

Weather record kept at St. Augustine and Jacksonville, Florida,
during the months of December, 1869, and January, February, and March,
1870, by A. M. Strong and Judge Ellwood, of Iowa. Barometer record at
Magnolia by Mr. Trott.

Taylor, Horace-—W eather-table observations taken at Canandaigua,
New York, during the year 1869.

Gente, Dr. J. B.—Annual meteorological synopsis for 1869, at
Toledo, Ohio. S8vo, 18 pages.

Universita di Torino.—Bolletino meteorologico ed astronomico del
Regio Osservatorio del?’ Universita di Torino. Anno IV. 1869, Ob-
long 4to, 85 pages. Anno III. 1868. Oblong 4to, 20 pages.

Universitdts-Sternwarte, Leipsic—Uebersicht der Resultate aus den
meteorologischen Beobachtungen, angestellt auf den kéniglich-siichsi-
schen Stationen. 4to, 42 pages.
80 METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL.

University of Chile—Observaciones meteorolojicas, hechas en el ob-
servatorio meteorolojica de Santiago, i en el Faro de Valparaiso, en
el ao de 1866. Por José Vergara. 8vo, 63 pages. 1867. 8vo, 62
pages. 1868. 8vo, 60 pages.

Datos recajidos sobre el terremoto i las ajitaciones del mar, del
13 de Agosto de 1868. Comunicacion de D. Ignacio Domeyko a la
faculdad de ciencias fisicas i matematicas en su sesion del 15 de Novi-
embre del mismo aflo. Santiago, 1869. Large 8vo, 43 pages.

Useful Knowledge Society, Macclesfield.—Meteorological observations
taken at the Useful Knowledge Society rooms, Macclesfield, England.
(Printed slips from 1860-69, inclusive.)

Videnskabsselskabet, Christiania.—Storm-Atlas, udgivet med Bestand
af Videnskabsselskabet, Christiania, af H. Mohn. Large folio.

Webster, W. Prentiss, United States Consul General, Frankfurt am
Main.—Notes on earthquake felt in Germany during the months of
October and November, 1869. (Through the Department of State.)

Whitcomb, G.—Meteorological report for 1869, by Adam Miller, at
East Prairie, Mississippi County, Missouri.

Williams, Rev. Rk. G.—Hourly observations of barometer, psychrome-
ter, and thermometer, together with observations on magnetic variation.
(In addition to regular monthly observations on Smithsonian blanks.)

Wilson, IZ.—Summary of meteorological observations at Astoria,
Oregon, for the years 1866~70. Rain-fall from 1856~70, inclusive.
Monthly means.

Wing, Miss M. E.—Manuscript notes on the weather and meteorolog-
ical phenomena at West Charlotte, Vermont.

Wislizenus, Dr. A.—Meteorological observations at St. Louis, Mis-
souri, during November and December, 1869; together with the records
of atmospheric electricity, &e., from 186169, inclusive.

Zantedeschi, Professor F.—La meteorologia del globo studiata a diversi
altitudini da terra. 8vo, 11 pages.

Zentralnaia Fisicheskaia Observatoria, St. Petersburg—Repertorium fiir
Meteorologie, herausgegeben von der K, Akademie der Wissenschaften ;
redigirt von Dr. H. Wild. Band I, Heft I. 4to, 242 pages, 5 plates.

Vorschliige betreffend die Reorganisation des meteorologischen Beo-
bachtungs-Systemes in Russland. Bericht einer Commission der Aka-
demie. 8vo, 24 pages.

eS ee ee
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.

The Executive Committee of the Board of Regents respectfully sub-
mit the following statement as their report in relation to the funds of
the Institution, the receipts and expenditures for the year 1870, and the
estimates for the year 1871.

Statement of the fund at the beginning of the year 1871.

The amount originally received as the bequest of James

‘Smithson, of England, deposited in the Treasury of the

United States, in accordance with act of Congress of

eM ASG MO NSEG coer. eee lsassi2 Se aga Aseria -sjs0y sans POLO LOGE OO
The residuary legacy of Smithson received in 1865, depos-

ited in the Treasury of the United States, in accordance

with the act of Congress of February 8, 1867 ......... 26, 210 63
Koval bequess,Of SMILNSONl 2 2.25 sce nase ae 541, 379 63

Amount deposited in the Treasury of the United States,
as authorized by act of Congress of February 8, 1867,
derived from savings of income and increase in value
Chips Ne SOMITE ENN eh se are hae pa. ayy Skee Sa ey oS oN 108, 620 37

Total permanent Smithson fund in the Treasury of the
United States, bearing interest at 6 per cent., payable
SOM - AMM ANLVE DO, 2 stn ee eth a Ve Hh a 650, 000 00
In addition to the above there remains of the extra fund
derived from savings, &c., in Virginia State registered

6 per cent. bonds, at par value, $72,760, now valued at. 48, 000 00
JIC ANN CSE Tees Gee cu aoe nomen omer ees eee 698, 000 60
Balance on hand January, 1871, of uninvested funds..... 21,477 81
Total of the Smithson fund, January, 1871........ 719,477 81

Receipts for 1870.

Interest for 1870 on $650, 000, at 6 per cent. in gold...--- $39, 000 00
Premium on $39, 000 gold, at 112 and 103 per cent....... 4,363 12
Cash from a friend of science, in aid of publications. ..-. 1, 200 00
Dale Of sow be ONS cee Mee SA i Os 2 Soe 360 52
Sale of uselesapmiascrialss Sol. cetre 5 3) Pte = e's -\-'- - =) sieges 64 87
Repayment of expenses of explorations.....-.-......... 68 40
Repayment of freight and postage....-....-..-.-..----- 432 47

Metal receipts somubenveans ayy e\ 30 2k 45, 489 38

6s
82 REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE,

Hapenditures for 1870.

Binldingand: turmmare 222.2 4 aioe ee = $4, 843 13
Creneral Expenses cia alate oyjaie a nice tele oie, aie 14,840 65
Publications and researches....-.-....-.-.-- 15, 873 22
Museum and exchanges 2. - 222-2 9,424 22
Total expenditures tor the year.........--..-:-.--- 44,981 22
BBs AN LING ete coe ces ete eee net ote ner ete 598 16

Besides this balance of $508 16, there was a balance of
$20, 969 65 in bank, at the beginning of 1870, which
makes the total uninvested and available balance men-
tioned in the general statement of...........-...----. $21,477 81

In addition to the receipts mentioned above, the Institution received
from and accounted to the Interior Department for $5,024, being part
of the $10, 000 appropriated by Congress for the preservation and care
during the year ending June 30, 1871, of the specimens collected by
various exploring expeditions. This sum is not included in the account
of expenditures.

Statement in detail of expenditures—1870.

BUILDING.
For reconstruction of parts of building.-....... $860 12
Mor general répairs of DuUddi ne 2) e0) 2 3) 5 4c-h 3, 852 SL
For furniture and fixtures, cases, carpets,
SION RS IC a Oe aera a Sane ese 130 20

$4, 843 13

GENERAL EXPENSES.

For meetings of the Board of Regents .....-.-- $178 25
Borhehtine the building: 20). -yescte es be. 355 42
Hor warming theJsbuilding: 22 o02..2 252 ee oi pl GD 22
ROM POS ta MOW ee ee cis wise arin i= Mewes wove Seed 770 98
MlorsmuatiOnery ee tery ie Mae 2. one hae ee * 29 19
Yor printing blanks, circulars, receipts, &c.... 389 13
For tools, materials for cleaning and _ inci-

denGals... .. . |. Sein oink eb Seer oie aks 478 16
For salaries of Secretary, clerks, and assist-

LN Soe es aera 0 A ee ee 10, 273 30

14, 840 65
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 83
PUBLICATIONS AND RESEARCHES.

For publishing Smithsonian contributions, 4to. $6,986 5
For publishing miscellaneous collections, Svo.. 3, 065 37
For publishing Smithsonian reports, Svo..-.... 283 45
For meteorology, salaries of clerk and compu-

ters, and for thermometers and rain-gauges.. 3, 119 00

For apparatus for researches.......-.-...-.-- 249 70
For explorations, natural history, and arch-

PEO LOM ech ele sta tate stare ath aide eas « KG Stee 1,414 13
TCC UBIE Ciera et hiatal erates eect ste eter ery tanta meagre eee 755 00

$15, 873 22
MUSEUM AND EXCHANGES.

For literary and scientific exchanges, through

agencies at Leipsic, London, Paris, Amster-

CUTTS AC Ci alee Ne Prete ratelara\ $4,165 62
For museum, salary of assistant secretary and

assistants in museum, and for incidentals in

addition to the appropriation from Congress. 5, 008 84

For purchase of books, periodicals, &c.....--- 243, 76
tbe EEO Aa OD.
Beependicures: during: S700) ) oe ko soe ee ree) eis soe 44,981 22

Estimated receipts for 1871.

From interest on Smithson fund, in Treasury of the United

UCL Orbe ep eneeariste saat a caus hae 2k aera NTT Es es nang. Ota on Meera $39, 000 00
Probable premium on gold, 10 per cent. on the above
SI COU) rece ne be les a ugly each San eee Real UNAS US MR a 3, 900 00
Se MENT] OXY ON ETSI Cy Ci OUP MA Read Se pee od AE ety 1, 000 60
Otel eto tors waa acta ale ae ake aie ANE Shae .. 43

, 900 00

Estimated appropriations for 1871.

OE ENEEAW eX PONS sett Vn iene en is es ek $10, 000 00
Por publications, researches, Go). 2.622 -s./.. 222 eo 5. ee 20, 000 00
Her exciiameres 50/025 Saat ae ono See cepnaetimern fens wing tne) 5, 000 00
For purchase of books and apparatus ...........--.--.--- 2,400 00
For museum, (additional to congressional appropriation) -. 1, 500 60
For steam heating-apparatus fund..........:.--.-..-.-.: 5, 000 60

FDO fell eee a ert ke Ace DS Soa, oy nl ee 45, 960 00

Besides the above estimated receipts, there is in bank, as before
stated in the general account, the sum of $21,477 81.
84 REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.

The committee have examined six hundred and twenty-one receipted
vouchers for payments made during the four quarters of the year 1870.
In every case the approval of the Secretary of the Institution is given
on each voucher, and the certificate of an authorized agent of the Insti-
tution is appended, setting forth that the materials and property and
services rendered were for the Institution, and to be applied to the pur-
poses stated in the account.

The quarterly acconnts-current, bank-book, check-book and ledger
were also examined and found to be correct, showing a cash balance in
bank on January 1, 1871, of $21,477 81.

All of which is respectfully submitted.

PETER PARKER,
JOHN MACLEAN,
Executive Committee.
JANUARY 26, 1871.

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

or

i Ee Oven RED) Ov Re RoBi GENTS

OF THE

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

WASHINGTON, May 25, 1870.

A meeting of the Board of Regents was held this evening, at the call
of the Secretary. Present: Hon. L. P. Poland, Hon. L. Trumbull, Hon.
J. A. Garfield, Hon. 8..S. Cox, General Delafield, Hon. Peter Parker,
Rev. Dr. J. Maclean, and Professor Henry, the Secretary.

In the absence of the Chancellor, Judge Poland was called to the
chair.

The Secretary presented the report of the expenditures on account of
the Government collections for the year 1869; and, on motion of General
Garfield, it was resolved that the Board of Regents apply to Congress
for an appropriation of $10,000 for the care of the Government collec-
tions during the year 1870.

Professor Henry stated that the resolution of the board adopted at
the meeting of February 3, 1870, authorizing him to visit Europe, had
been entirely unexpected to him, as he had received no intimation pre-
vious to its being offered that it was in contemplation ; that he had con-
cluded to avail himself of the resolution, and that he was making prepa-
rations for his departure on the Ist of June; that he intended to make
arrangements for the operations of the Institution which were to be
carried on during his absence; that he intended to settle ali the accounts
which would be due at the time of his departure; to deposit checks for
the salaries accruing during his absence, to be paid on the indorsement
of Professor Baird; and also to deposit to the credit of that officer $2,000,
to pay transportation and incidental expenses; that he had been much
gratified with the expressions of kind feeling which had been called
forth by the announcement of his intended visit to Europe, and the
offers which he had received from the Cunard and Bremen lines of
steamers of a free passage across the ocean.

The board then adjourned.

WASHINGTON, January 18, 1871.
In accordance with a resolution of the Board of Regents of the Smith
sonian Institution, fixing the time of the beginning of their annual meet-
86 PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS.

ing on the third Wednesday in January of each year, the Board met this
day in the Regents’ room.

No quorum being present, the Board adjourned to meet on Thursday,
January 26,

WASHINGTON, January 26, 1871.

A meeting of the Board of Regents was held at 7p. m. in the Regents’
room. Present: Hon. H. Hamlin, Hon. L. P. Poland, Hon. J. A. Gar-
field, Hon. M. G. Emery, Hon. P. Parker, Rev. Dr. J. Maclean, and the
Secretary, Professor Henry.

In the absence of the Chancellor, Mr. Hamlin was called to the chair.

The minutes of the last meeting were read and approved.

The Secretary mentioned his visit to Europe, and stated the fact that
it had been highly satisfactory in regard to the foreign correspondents
of the institution and the estimation in which the establishment is held
in the Old World.

Whereupon, on motion of General Garfield, he was requested at some
future meeting to give a detailed account of his tour, particularly in its
relation to the operations of the Institution.

The Secretary gave an account of the operations of the Institution
since the last meeting of the Board. He stated that in accordance with
the resolution of the Board adopted at the meeting of February 3, 1579,
he had effected an insurance of $10,000 on the east wing and range of
the building, at 662 per cent.; that Congress has appropriated $10,000
for the care of the Government collections for the year ending June 30,
1871, of which $5,024 has already been drawn; that Congress has also
appropriated $10,000 toward the completion of the upper hall, which
sum is to be expended under the direction of the Secretary of the Inte-
rior, who has directed the Architect of the Capitol (Mr. E. Clark) to
oversee the work.

The Secretary read a letter from the agents of the Anchor Line of
steamers, offering to carry the Italian exchanges of the Smithsonian
Institution by their vessels free of charge.

On motion of General Garfield, the Secretary was directed to présent
the thanks of the Board to the agents of that line, and also to the agents
of the lines that had offered him a free passage to Europe.

Dr. Maclean stated that the majority of the executive committee had
decided to alter their report for 1869 to conform to the mode previously
adopted.

The Secretary stated that the business of the Institution had of late
years so much increased that it was no longer possible to conduct it
without further assistance. That this was the case would be evident
from the following statement:
PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS. 87

The Institution has now upwards of 1,800 foreign correspondents con-
nected with the exchanges. It has 400 regular meteorological observery.
It is in communication with almost all the colleges, libraries, literars,
and scientific societies in America, besides being continually called
upon by individuals in every part of the country for information on
scientific subjects. It publishes annually upward of a_ thousand
printed pages, requiring much labor in correcting copy, reading proof.
and attending to the details of printing, binding, &c. Its system of
international exchanges, exclusive of the correspondence, involves a large
amount of time and labor in doing up and directing the separate pack-
ages sent away, and in receiving and distributing those from abroad.
Several thousand volumes are annually received from foreign and
domestic exchanges, which are all recorded at the Institution previous
to being deposited in the Library of Congress. The arrangement of the
material constantly received from the meteorological observers, supply-
ing them with blanks and instructions, occasions another draught on
the labors of the working corps of the Institution.

The continual repairs and care of the building are another item requir-
ing supervision, besides the reconstruction of the parts of the edifice
destroyed by the fire. But above all, the entering and care of the thou-
sands of specimens which are constantly received, their assortment, and
distribution of duplicates, is sufficient to occupy the entire time of a sep-
arate corps of assistants. It may be said with truth that in no institu-
tion has more work been done with a smaller number of persons than
at the Smithsonian.

The difficulty in carrying on the operations of the Institution had been
increased since the last meeting of the Board by the resignation of Mr.
Rhees, who had held the position of chief clerk for seventeen years.
He had, however, lately learned that Mr. Rhees might be induced to re-
turn to his former position, to which the Secretary desired to recall him.

On motion of General Garfield, it was

Resolved, That the Secretary be allowed to appoint a permanent as-
sistant as chief clerk, at a salary not to exceed $175 per month.

General Garfield presented a letter from General Delafield, tendering
his resignation as a Regent of the Smithsonian Institution.

Mr. Poland offered the following resolution, which was adopted unan-
imously :

Resolved by the Board of Regents, That they entertain the highest
appreciation of the services of General Richard Delafield as a member
of the Board, and especially as a member of the executive committee,
and greatly regret the loss caused by his resignation, and desire to ex-
press to him, upon his retirement, their strong personal regard.

Dr. Parker presented the report of the executive committee for 1870,
which was read and aecepted.

The board then adjourned to meet at the call of the Secretary.
88 PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS.

WASHINGTON, March 9, 1871.

A meeting of the Board of Regents was held this evening at 7 o’clock.
Present: Hon. H. Hamlin, Hon. L. P. Poland, Hon. 8.8. Cox, Hon. P.
Parker, General W. T. Sherman, and the Secretary, Professor Henry.

Judge Poland was called to the chair.

The minutes of the last meeting were read and approved.

The Secretary stated that by joint resolution of Congress, Genera
William T. Sherman had been elected a Regent for the term of six
years, vice Richard Delafield, resigned.

On motion of Mr. Hamlin, the vacancy existing in the executive com-
mittee was filled by the election of General Sherman.

The Secretary called attention to the fact that the mayor of the city
of Washington was ev officio a Regent, but that under the new territo-
rial government the office of mayor ceased, and suggested the propriety
of action by Congress to substitute the governor of the Territory as
the ex officio member of the board.

Messrs. Hamlin and Poland expressed their intention to bring the sub-
ject before Congress immediately, and anticipated no objection to the
passage of an act providing for the change contemplated.

The Seeretary gave an account of the improvements now being made
in the building under the appropriation by Congress. The new hall
would soon be finished, and it was proposed to devote it mainly to eth-
nology. Mr. B. Waterhouse Hawkins had been employed to prepare
illustrations of extinct animals, &c., to decorate the walls.

The Secretary called attention to the books belonging to James Smith-
son, the founder of the Institution, and requested some action in rela-
tion to the best manner of their preservation. It was thought proper
to preserve them in a metallic case with plate-glass front, open to the
view of the public, but not to be taken out by any one.

The Secretary presented his annual report for 1870, which was read
and accepted.

The board then adjourned sine die.
GENERAL APPENDIX

TO THE

SMITHSONIAN REPORT FOR 1870.

‘

The object of this Appendix is to illustrate the operations of the In-
stitution by reports of lectures and extracts from correspondence, as
well as to furnish information of a character suited especially to the
meteorological observers and other persons interested in the promotion
of knowledge.

EULOGY ON PROF. ALEXANDER DALLAS BACHE,
LATE SUPERINTENDENT OF THE UNITED STATES COAST SURVEY.

By Pror. Jospepm HENRY.

Prepared at the request of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, and also of
the National Academy of Sciences.

ALEXANDER DALLAS BACHE, whose life and character form the sub-
ject of the following eulogy, was the son of Richard Bache, one of eight
children of Sarah, the only daughter of Dr. Benjamin Franklin. His
mother was Sophia Burret Dallas, daughter of Alexander J. Dallas, and
sister of George M. Dallas, whose names are well known in the history
of this country, the former as Secretary of the Treasury, and the latter
as Vice-President of the United States, and subsequently as minister to
the Court of St. James.

The subject of our sketch was born in Philadelphia, on the 19th of
July, 1806. At an early age he became a pupil of a classical school,
and was distinguished by an unusual aptitude in the acquisition of
learning. Shortly before arriving at the age of fifteen he was ap-
pointed a cadet at the National Military Academy at West Point.
Here, though the youngest pupil, he soon attained a high grade of
scholarship, which he maintained during the whole of his course, and
was finally graduated in 1825, at the head of his class. His merit
was in this case the more conspicuous, inasmuch as the class is
shown to have been one of unusual ability, by having numbered no
less than four successful candidates for the honor of adoption into
the Corps of Engineers. It has been mentioned as a solitary in-
stance in the history of the Academy, noted for its rigid discipline, -
that young Bache passed through the entire course of four years with-
out having received a mark of actual demerit, and, what is perhaps not
less uncommon, without having called forth the least manifestation of
envy on the part of his fellow-pupils. On the contrary, his superiority
in scholarship was freely acknowledged by every member of his class,
while his unassuming manner, friendly demeanor, and fidelity to duty
secured him the affection as well as the respect of not only his fellow-
pupils, but also of the officers of the institution. It is also remembered
that his classmates, with instinctive deference to his scrupulous sense
of propriety, forbore to solicit his participation in any amusement which
in the slightest degree conflicted with the rules of the Academy. So
far from this, they commended his course, and took pride to themselves,
92 EULOGY ON PROFESSOR ALEXANDER DALLAS BACHE.

as members of his class, in his reputation for high standing and exem-
plary conduct. His room-mate, older by several years than he was, and
byno means noted for regularity or studious habits, constituted himself,
as it were, his guardian, and sedulously excluded ali visitors or other
interruptions to study during the prescribed hours. For this self-
imposed service, gravely rendered as essential to the honor.of the class,
he was accustomed jocularly to claim immunity for his own delin-
quencies or shortcomings. But whatever protection others might
require on account of youth and inexperience, young Bache needed no
guardian to keep him in the line of duty. Impressed beyond his years
with a sense of the responsibility which would devolve upon him as the
eldest of his mother’s family, entertaining a grave appreciation of the
obligations involved in his education at the National Academy, he
resolved from the first to exert his energies to the utmost in qualifying
himself for the duties which he might be called upon to discharge,
whether in professional or private life. Nor was he uninfluenced in this
determination by a consciousness that as a descendant of Franklin he
was, in a certain degree, an object of popular interest, and that on this
account something more than an ordinary responsibility rested upon
him. Ona mind constituted like his an influence of this kind could
not but exert a happy effect.

The character which he established for gentleness of manner and
evenness of temper was not entirely the result of native amiability, for
when a child he is said to have been quick-tempered, and at later
perzods of his life, when suddenly provoked beyond his habitual power
of endurance, he sometimes gave way to manifestations of temper which
might have surprised those who only knew him in his usual state of
calin deportment. These ebullitions were, however, of rare occurrence,
and always of short duration. His marked characteristic was the con-
trol which he had acquired over his passions and feelings, and it was
this which enabled him to suppress all tendency to self-indulgence, to
pursue with unremitting perseverance the course he had marked out, to
observe an undeviating regard for truth and justice, and to cherish
habitually all that would tend to exemplify the kindlier affections of the
heart.

Although young Bache was perhaps predisposed, from hereditary
influence, to form correct habits and adopt high moral principles, yet
these dispositions might have remained dormant had it not been for the
early training and the watchful care of his noble mother. From his
earliest days she checked with gentle reproof every indication of child-
ish revolt against wholesome restraint, and steadily carried out her sys-
tem of discipline so gently and yet so effectually that it met with
scarcely any opposition, and left the conviction that she was always in
the right. Her maternal solicitude did not end with his being placed
under military rule, but was continued through his whole course by
means of aready pen. In the language of one who was permitted to

|

|
|

EULOGY ON PROFESSOR ALEXANDER DALLAS BACHE. Je

read her letters to her son while at West Point, ‘“ nothing could be more
admirable than the way in which, amid pleasant gossip and family
news, she would inspire her son with high sentiments and encourage him
to persevering industry.”

As an illustration of his persistency of purpose, it is related that, when
a recitation of more than common length or difficulty was to be prepared
for the morrow, it was no unusual practice of his to place himself on a
seat of unstable equilibrium, which by giving way when volition was
about to lose its power recalled his flagging attention to the allotted
task.

After graduating he was selected, on account of his scholarship, to
remain at the Academy as an assistant professor. In this position,
which gave him an opportunity to review his studies and extend his
reading, he continued one year; when, at his own request, he was
assigned to engineering duty under the late General, then Colonel, Tot-
ten, at Newport, Rhode Island. Here he remained two years, engaged
in constructing fortifications, devoting his extra hours to te study of
physics and chemistry, and, as a recreation, collecting and labeling the
shells of that region. But the most important event of this period of
his life, and that which, doubtless, contributed in a large degree to his
future success, was his becoming acquainted with and subsequent
betrothal to Miss Nancy Clarke Fowler, the daughter of an old and
highly-respected citizen of Newport. With the stinted pay of a lien-
tenant of engineers, out of which his mother and her younger offspring
were to be iow ided for, marriage was not to be thought of, excepting as
an event in the remote distance. Fortunately as anepee aie how-
ever, a change now took place in bis circumstances which enabled him
to gratify the earnest wish of his heart and to secure to himself a com-
panion and helpmate who lavished upon him all her affections, and
through his life ardently devoted all her thoughts and energies to sus-
tain, assist, and encourage him. The change alluded to, and which
opened to him an uninterrupted career of usefulness during the whole
of his active life, was the result of an invitation to the chair of natural
philosophy and chemistry in the University of Pennsylvania, at Phila-
delphia. He accepted the position with that unaffected diffidence which
is the usual concomitant of true but untried merit, though, as might
have been anticipated, his eventual success was commensurate with the
industry and ability which had marked his previous progress. Hav-

ng already had some experience as a teacher, he the more readily gained
the entire confidence of the authorities of the university and the affee-
tion of his pupils. He did not, however, rest satisfied with the oceu-
pation of teacher, or with merely imparting knowledge obtained by
the labors of others, but sought to enlarge the bounds of science by
discoveries of his own. As auxiliary to this, he became a member of
the Franklin Institute, a society then newly established for the promo-
tion of the mechanical arts. This society, which still maintains a vig-
94 EULOGY ON PROFESSOR ALEXANDER DALLAS BACHE,

crous existence, was well caleulated to exhibit his talents and develop
his character. It brought him into intimate association with the prin-
cipal manufacturers, engineers, and artisans of the city, and into
relations of friendship with a large number of young men destined, in
more advanced life, to exert an extended influence on public affairs.
He was appointed chairman of one of the most important of its com-
mittees, and was chosen as the expounder of the principles of the insti-
tute at its public exhibitions. Facilities were thus afforded him for the
prosecution of science, which he could not have well commanded in any
other position. Workshops were thrown open to him, and skillful hands
yielded him ready assistance in realizing the conceptions of his suggest-
ive mind. His descent from the illustrious statesman and philosopher
whose name the institute bears, and who is almost regarded as the tute-
lar saint of Philadelphia, no doubt contributed to a prepossession in his
favor, but the influence which he acquired and maintained was due to
his own learning, industry, ability, and courtesy. To these he owed the
favor and distinction of having conferred upon him the principal direct-
orship of the scientific investigations of the institute, and the opportu-
nity which it afforded him of so greatly contributing to the usetulness
of the society and to the advancement of his own reputation.

For a full account of the labors in which he was engaged in his con-
nection with the Franklin Institute we must here be content with refer-
ring to the volumes of its journal from 1828 to 1835 inclusive. We may
pause a moment, however, to notice the investigations relating to the
bursting of steam-boilers, of which he was the principal director. The
public mind had, at that epoch, been so frequently and painfully called
to this subject that the institute was induced to organize a series of
systematic researches in regard to it, the importance of which was soon
recognized by the General Government in the form of an appropriation
for defraying the attendant expenses. In the prosecution of these
inquiries a large amount of information relative to explosions, and sug-
gestions as to their causes, was first collected by correspondence, and on
this was based a series of well-devised experiments, which were exe-
cuted with signal address, and the results interpreted with logical dis-
crimination. The conclusions arrived at were embodied in a series of
propositions, which, after a lapse of more than thirty years, have not
been superseded by any others of more practical value. The most fre-
quent cause of explosion was found to be the gradual heating of the
boiler beyond its power of resistance; and next to this, the sudden gen-
eration of steam by allowing the water to become too low, and its sub-
Sequent contact with the overheated metal of the sides and other
portions of the boiler. The generation of gas from the decomposition
of water as a cause of explosion was disproved, as was also the disper-
sion of water in the form of spray through superheated steam. These
experiments were not unattended with danger, and required, in their
execution, no small amount of personal courage. Accidents were immi-

Se ee
EULOGY ON PROFESSOR ALEXANDER DALLAS BACHE. 95

nent at almost every stage of the investigation; and in some instances
explosions were produced which alarmed the neighborhood. So true
is it that in the pursuit of science dangers are oftentimes voluntarily
encountered, exacting no less courage or firmness of nerve than that which
animates the warrior in the more conspicuous but scarcely more import-
ant conflicts of the battle-field.

The attention of Mr. Bache at this period was not exclusively devoted
to his labors in connection with the Franklin Institute. He was also a
member of the American Philosophical Society, and, as such, in associ-
ation with Hare, Espy, and others interested in the pursuit of various
branches of physics and chemistry. He erected an observatory in the
yard of his dwelling, in which, with the aid of his wife and of his for-
mer pupil, John F. Fraser, he determined with accuracy, for the first
time in this country, the periods of the daily variations of the magnetic
needle, and by another series of observations the connection of the fit-
ful variations of the direction of the magnetie force with the appear-
ance of the aurora borealis.

Again, in connection with his friend, Mr. Espy, he made a minute
survey of a portion of the track of a tornado, which visited New Bruns-
wick, in New Jersey, on the 19th of June, 1835, and from the change of
place and relative position of the trees and other objects, as left by the
wind, he succeeded in establishing the fact,in accordance with the
hypotheses of Mr. Espy, that the effects of the storm were due to an
ascending and progressive column of air, by which all objects within
the influence of the disturbance, on either side the track, were drawn
inward, and not due, as had been supposed, to a horizontal rotation at
the surface, which would tend to throw them outward by centrifugal
projection. In coéperation with Professor Courtenay, he also made a
series of determinations of the magnetic dip at various places in the
United States. Indeed, terrestrial magnetism was with him a favorite
subject, to which he continued to make valuable contributions at inter-
vals during his whole life. The phenomena of heat likewise engaged
much of his attention, and he was the first to show, contrary to gener-
ally-received opinion, that the radiation and consequent absorption of
dark heat is not affected by color. His investigations in this line were
suddenly brought to a close by an accident, which we may be allowed
to mention as furnishing an illustration of his self-control and consid-
erate regard for the feelings of others. After an expenditure of money
which he could ill afford, and of time withdrawn from the hours due to
repose, he had procured and arranged on a stand a series of delicate
instruments intended for a long-meditated experiment on radiant heat.
During his temporary absence his mother, in hurriedly passing through
the apartment, accidentally caught in her dress the support of the
apparatus and brought the whole to the floor, a mass of mingled frag-
ments. The author of this disaster was so painfully affected by the
destruction, of which she had been the unintentional cause, as to be
96 EULOGY ON PROFESSOR ALEXANDER DALLAS BACHE.

obliged to leave to his wife the task of breaking the unwelcome tidings
toher son. On receiving the information, he stood for a moment, per-
fectly silent, then hurried out inte the open air to conceal his emotion
and tranquilize his feelings. After a short interval he returned, calm,
affectionate, and apparently cheerful, and neither by word nor look gave
any indication of the pain and disappointment he had so severely expe-
rienced.

Tt should not be forgotten that the labors to which we have alluded
were performed in hours not devoted to his regular duties as a professor
in the university. To these he was obliged to give three hours a day,
besides other time to the preparation of illustrations for his lectures,
while several evenings of the week were claimed by committees of the
Franklin Institute and the Philosophical Society. He was enabled to
execute these inultifarious labors by a division of his time into separate
periods, to each of which was allotted its special occupation. By a
rigid adherence to this system he was always prompt in his engage-
ments, was never hurried, and found time, moreover, to attend to the
claims of friendship and society. He was a zealous and successful
teacher, to whom the imparting of knowledge was a source of unalloyed
and inexhaustible pleasure. His pupils could not fail to be favorably
impressed by his enthusiasm and influenced by his kindness. He
always manifested an interest not only in their proficiency in study, but
also in their general welfare. They regarded him with affection as
well as respect, and while in other class-rooms of the university disor-
der and insubordination occasionally annoyed the teachers, nothing was
to be witnessed in his, but earnest attention and gentlemanly deport-
ment.

His success as an instructor affords a striking confutation of the fal-
lacy which has not unfrequently been advocated in certain quarters, that
men devoted to original research and imbued with habits of mind
which it generates are not well qualified for the office of instructors.
So far is the proposition from having any foundation in fact, that it is
precisely among the most celebrated explorers of science of the present
century that the most successful and noted teachers have been found.
In proof of this the illustrious names of Priestley, De Candolle, Dalton,
Davy, Oersted, Faraday, and a host of others, immediately occur. At
the same time it cannot be denied that itis questionable economy to
devote to the drudgery of drilling youth in the elements of knowledge,
a mind well qualified by nature and training to enlarge tbe boundaries
of thought and increase the stores of knowledge. But it is equally
clear that the practice of teaching is, to a certain extent, not incompati-
ble with the leisure and concentration of mind requisite for original
research; that the latter must, in fact, act beneficially alike on the
instructor and instructed; the former gaining in clearness of concep-
tion in the appreciation of the new truths he is unfolding by imparting
a knowledge of their character to others, while the latter catch, by sym-
EULOGY ON PROFESSOR ALEXANDER DALLAS BACHE. 9%

x

pathy, a portion of the enthusiasm of the master, and are stimulated to
exertions of which they would otherwise be incapable.

In 1836, when Professor Bache had just attained the thirtieth year of
his age, his attention and energies received a new direction, constitut-
ing, as it were, a new epoch in his life. This change was caused by a
movement on the part of the trustees of the Girard College for Orphans,
an institution munificently endowed by a benevolent citizen of Phila-
delphia. Preparatory to organizing this institution it was thought
desirable to select a suitable person as president, and to send him abroad
to study the systems of education and methods of instruction and disci-
plineadopted in Europe. The eyes of the entire community were with one
accord directed to our professor as the proper man for this office. He
had, however, become enamored with the pursuit of science, and it was
with difficulty that he could bring himself to regard with favor a prop-
osition which might tend to separate him from this favorite object.
The consideration of a more extended field of usefulness at length pre-
vailed, and he accepted, though not without some lingering regret, the
proffered position. No American ever visited Europe under more favora-
ble circumstances for becoming intimately acquainted with its scientific
and literary institutions. His published researches had given him a
European reputation, and afforded him that ready access to the intelli-
gent and influential classes of society which is denied the traveler
whose only recommendation is the possession of wealth. It cannot be
doubted that he was also favored in this respect by the admiration
which in Hurope still attaches to the name of his renowned ancestor.*
He was everywhere received with marked attention, and from his moral
‘and intellectual qualities did not fail to sustain the prepossessions in his
favor and to secure the friendship and esteem of the most distin-
guished savants of the Old World.

He remained in Europe two years, and on his return embodied the
results of his researches on education in his report to the trustees of
Girard College. This report forms a large octavo volume, and is an
almost exhaustive exposition of the scholastic systems and methods of
instruction in use at the time in England, France, Prussia, Austria,
Switzerland, and Italy. It has done more, perhaps, to improve the
theory and art of education in this country than any other work ever
published; and it has effected this not alone by the statement of facts
derived frors observation, but also by the inferences and suggestions

“The force of this sentiment was quaintly but strongly marked by a slight incident
which occurred when he was in Germany. An elderly savant, on being introduced,
clasped him in his arms, saluted him with a kiss on either cheek, and greeted him with
the exclamation, “Mein Gott, now let me die, since I have lived tosee with mine own
eyes an emanation of the great Franklin!” This compliment was perhaps more flat-
tering than agreeable, since the old professor in question was wont, after the fashion
of his day, to stimulate his lagging faculties by frequent and profuse extractions

. from the snufi-box. -

lord

(Ss
98 EULOGY ON PROFESSOR ALEXANDER DALLAS BACHE.

with which it abounds. The accounts which are given of the different
schools of Europe are founded on personal inspection ; the results being
noted down at the time with the writer’s habitual regard to accuracy.

After completing his report he was prepared to commence the organ-
ization of the Girard College, but the trustees, partly on account of the
unfinished condition of the building, and partly from a delay in the ad-
justment of the funds of the endowment, were not disposed to put the
institution into immediate operation. In the mean time Professer
Bache, desirous of rendering the information he had acquired of
immediate practical use, offered his services gratuitously to the muni-
cipal authorities of Philadelphia, to organize, on an improved basis, a
system of public education for that city. This offer was gladly accepted,
and he commenced the work with his usual energy and with the cordial
support of the directors and teachers of the common schools. At the
end of the year, finding that the trustees of the college were still unpre-
pared to open the institution, he relinquished the salary, but retained
the office of president, and devoted his time mainly to the organization
of the schools. He was now, however, induced to accept from the city,
as the sole and necessary means of his support, a salary much less than
the one he had relinquished. The result of his labors in regard to the
schools was the establishment of the best system of combined free educa-
tion which had, at that time, been adopted in this country. It has since
generally been regarded as a model, and has been introduced as such
in different cities of the Union.

In 1842, having completed the organization of the schools, and Girard
College still remaining in a stationary condition, he resigned all con-
nection with it, and, yielding to the solicitations of the trustees of the
university, returned to his former chair of natural philosophy and chem-
istry, in order that he might resume the cultivation of science. Not that
it is to be inferred that in his devotion to the advancement of education
he had relinquished or deferred the scientific pursuits to which the habit
of his mind and the bent of his genius continually impelled him, for
during his travelsin Europe he had been careful to provide himself with
a set of portable instruments of physical research, and, as a relief from
the labors imposed by the special object of his mission, he instituted a
connected series of observations at prominent points on the Continent
and in Great Britain, relative to the dip and intensity of terrestrial mag-
netism. These observations were made with the view of ascertaining
the relative direction and strength of the magnetic force in Europe and
America, by the comparison of parallel series of observations in the two
countries with the same instruments. They also served, in most in-
stances, to settle with greater precision than had previously been
attained the relative magnetic condition of the points at which they
were made.

Though the organization of the schools of such a city as Philadelphia
might seem sufficient to absorb all his energy and self devotion, yet

a

ee
EULOGY ON PROFESSOR ALEXANDER DALLAS BACHE. 99

even in the midst of this labor we find our late colleague actively coép-
erating in the great enterprise of the British Association to determine
by contemporaneous observations, at widely separated points, the fluctu-
ations of the magnetic and meteorological elements of the globe. This
coéperation, in which no doubta feeling of national pride mingled itself
with his ardor for the advancement of science, consisted primarily in the
establishment of an observatory, to which the trustees of Girard Col-
lege contributed a full series of instruments, combining all the latest
improvements, and which was supported by the American Philosoph-
ical Society, and a number of liberal and intelligent individuals. The
observations which were here continued at short intervals, both by day
and night, for five years, form a rich mine of statistics, from which,
until within the last few years of his life, the professor drew a highly
interesting series of results, without exhausting the material. In addi-
tion to these observations, he made during his summer vacations a
magnetic survey of Pennylvania.

He was not destined to remain long in his old position in the uni-
versity. Before he had become fairly settled in it and had renewed
his familiarity with its duties, he was called in November, 1843, on
the occasion of the death of Mr. Hassler, Superintendent of the United
States Coast Survey, to fill the important sphere of public duty thus
rendered vacant. His appointment to this position was first suggested
by the members of the American Philosophical Society, and the nomi-
nation fully concurred in by the principal scientific and literary institu-
tions of the country. In this movement he himself took no part, and
indeed regarded the position as one not to be coveted; for while it
opened a wide field for the exercise of talent and the acquisition of an
enviable reputation, it involved responsibilities and presented diffi-
culties of the gravest character. Professor Bache was not one of those
who, abounding in self-confidence, imagine themselves equal to every
exigency, or who seek the distinctions and emoluments of office without
any regard to the services to be rendered or the duties to be discharged.
On the contrary, though early and continued success must have tended
to increase his self-esteem, each new position to which he was called
was entered upon with feelings of solicitude rather than of exultation.
He rightly judged that the proper moment for self-congratulation is not
at the beginning of an arduous and precarious enterprise, but at the
time of its full and successful accomplishment. Nor can it be necessary
to add that this characteristic contributed largely to his success. In
civil service as in the camp, the leader to whom all look with confidence
is not he who, with blind and arrogant self-reliance, disdains caution as
unworthy of courage, but he who, sensitively alive to the dangers to
be encountered, exerts every faculty in calling to his aid every resource
which may tend to secure victory or facilitate retreat.

With whatever misgivings Professor Bache may have undertaken
the task to which he was assigned, it may be truly said that no living
100 BULOGY ON PROFESSOR ALEXANDER DALLAS BACHE,

man was so well qualified as himself to secure the results which the
nation and its commercial interests demanded. .His education and
training at West Point, his skill in original investigations, his thorough
familiarity with the principles of applied science, his knowledge of the
world, and his gentlemanly deportment, were all in a greater or less de-
eree essential elements in the successful prosecution of the survey. It
would appear as if the training and acquisition of every period of his
life, and the development of every trait of his character, had been
especially ordained to fit him in every respect to overcome the diffienl-
ties of this position. Besides the qualifications we have enumerated,
he possessed rare executive ability, which enabled him to govern and
euide the diverse elements of the vast undertaking with consummate
tact and skill. Quick to perceive and acknowledge merit in others,
he rapidly gathered around him a corps of men eminently well quali-
fied for the execution of the tasks to which he severally assigned them.

The Coast Survey had been recommended to Congress by President
Jefferson as early-as 1807, but it was not until ten vears afterward that
the work was actually commenced, under the superintendence of Pro-
fessor Hassler, an eminent Swiss engineer, whose planus had been pre-
viously sanctioned by the American Philosophical Society. Though the
fundamental features of the survey had been established on the most
approved scientific principles yet so frequent were the changes in the
policy of the Government, and so limited were the appropriations, that, —
even up tothetime of Professor Bache’s appointment, in 1843, little more
than a beginning had been made. The survey, so far as accomplished,
extended only from New York Harbor to Point Judith, on the east coast,
and southward to Cape Henlopen. The new Superintendent saw the
necessity of greatly enlarging the plan,so as to embrace a much broader
field of simultaneous labor than it had previously included. He divided
the whole coast line into sections, and organized, under separate parties,
the essential operations of the survey simultaneously in each. Hecom-
menced the exploration of the Gulf Stream, and at the same time pro-
jected a series of observations on the tides, on the magnetism of the earth,
and the direction of the winds at different seasons of the year. He
also instituted a succession of researches in regard to the bottom of the
ocean within soundings, and the forms of animal life which are found
there, thus offering new and unexpected indications to the navigator.
He pressed into service, for the determination of the longitude, the elec-
tric telegraph; for the ready reproduction of charts, photography; and
for multiplying copper-plate engravings, the new art of electrotyping.
In planning and directing the execution of these varied improvements,
which exacted so much comprehensiveness in design and minuteness in
detail, Protessor Bache was entirely successful. He was equally for-
tunate, principally through the moral influence of bis character, in
impressing upon the Government, and especially upon Congress, a more
just estimate of what such a survey required for its maintenance and

EULOGY ON PROFESSOR ALEXANDER DALLAS BACHE. 101

ereditable prosecution. Not only was a largely-increased appropriation
needed to carry out this more comprehensive plan, but also to meet the
expenses consequent upon the extension of the shore-line itself. Our
sea-coast, when the survey commenced, already exceeded in length that
of any other civilized nation, but, in 1845, it was still more extended by
the annexation of Texas, and again, in 1848, by our acquisitions on the
Pacific. Professor Bache was in the habit of answering the question
often propounded to him by members of Congress, “* When will this
survey be completed ?” by asking, ‘* When will you cease annexing new
territory ?” a reply not less significant at the present day than when it
was first given, and which may continue long to be applicable under
the expansive tendencies of our national policy.

When Professor Bache took charge of the survey, it was still almost
in its incipient stage, subjected to misapprehension, assailed by unjust
prejudice, and liable, during any session of Congress, to be suspended
or abolished. When he died, it had conquered prejudice, silenced oppo-
sition, and become established on a firm foundation as one of the perma-
nent bureaus of the executive Government. The importance of the
work, which was always highly appreciated by the mariner, became
strikingly obvious to the general public through the service which it
rendered during the late war, in furnishing accurate charts and sailing
directions for the guidance of our squadrons along the southern coast.
Nor was this alone ; an active participation was also borne by the officers
of the survey in the attack of the United States Navy on Sumter, Port
Royal, Fort Fisher, Mobile, New Urleans, and other strongholds, while
constant aid was rendered by them in the navigation of the inlets and
channels. and in the avoidance of hidden rocks or shoals with which
none could be more minutely acquainted. Though the value of the sur-
vey was signally conspicuous on these occasions, it needs but little
reflection to be convinced of its essential connection with the general
prosperity of the country. Whatever diminishes the danger of depart-
ure from or an approach to our shores facilitates commerce, and thus
renders more valuable the products of our industry, even in portions
of our land most remote from the sea-board. But the survey should not
be viewed alone in its economical relations, since, as an enlightened and
liberal people, we owe it to the great community of nations and the
cause of humanity to supply the world with accurate charts of our pre-
carious coast, as well as to furnish it with all the other aids to safer
navigation which the science and experience of the age may devise.

Professor Bache, with his enlightened appreciation of the value of
abstract science, kept constantly in view the various problems relative
to the physics of the globe, which are directly or even incidentally con-
nected with the survey of the coast, and ever cherished the hope of
being permitted to complete his labors by their solution. Among these
was anew determination of the magnitude and form of the earth, and
the variations in the intensity of terrestrial gravity at various points on
102 EULOGY ON PROFESSOR ALEXANDER DALLAS BACHE.

the continent of North America; the discussion of the general theory
of the tides; the magnetic condition of the continent; and the improve-
ment of the general map of the United States, by determining its rela-
tion to the coast line, and the precise geographical positions of the most
important points in the interior. Though his hopes in regard to these
problems were not destined to be realized by himself, fortunately for
the cause of science they havé been left in charge of a successor in the
person of his ardent friend and collaborator. Professor Peirce, to whose
genius and industry we may confidently look for that full exposition of
the work which, while it entitles him to the highest approbation of
the scientific world, will render ample justice to the labors and sagacity
of his lamented predecessor.

Besides having- charge of the Coast Survey, Professor Bache was
Superintendent of Weights and Measures, and in the exercise of this
function directed a series of investigations relative to the collection
of excise duties on distilled spirits, and likewise superintended the
construction of a large number of sets of standard weights and meas-
ures for distribution among the several States of the Union. He
was also appointed one of a commission to examine into the condi-

tion of the light-house system of this country, and to report upon any |

improvements calculated to render it more efiicient. In the investiga-
tions pertaining to this subject, involving, as they do, a knowledge of a
wide range of applied science, he took a lively interest, and rendered
important service in the organization of the admirable system which was
adopted and still remains in operation. This commission of investiga-
tion was afterward merged in the present Light-House Board, of which
he continued a member until the time of his death.

In 1846 he had been named in the act of incorporation as one of the
Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, and by successive reélection
was continued by Congress in this office until his death, a period of
nearly twenty years. To say that he assisted in shaping the policy of
the establishment would not be enough. It was almost exclusively
through his predominating influence that the policy which has given
the institution its present celebrity was, after much opposition, finally
adopted. ‘The object of the donation, it will be remembered, had been
expressed in terms so concise that its import could scarcely be at once
appreciated by the general public, though to the cultivators of science,
to which class Smithson himself belonged, the language employed failed
not to convey clear and precise ideas. Out of this state of things it is
not surprising that difference of opinion should arise respecting the
proper means to be adopted to realize the intentions of the founder of
the institution. Professor Bache with persistent firmness, tempered by
his usual moderation, advocated the appropriation of the proceeds of
the funds principally to the plan set forth in the first report of the See-
retary, namely, of encouraging and supporting original research in the

different branches of science. Unfortunately this policy could only be -
7

EULOGY ON PROFESSOR ALEXANDER DALLAS BACHE. 103

partially adopted, on account of the restrictions of the enactment of Con-
gress, by which provision was to be made for certain specified objects.
He strenuously opposed the contemplated expenditure of a most dispro-
portionate sum in the erection and maintenance of a costly edifice; but
failing to prevent this; he imtroduced the resolution adopted by the
board as a compromise, whereby the mischief which he could not wholly
avert might at least be lessened. This resolution provided that the
time of the erection of the building should be extended over several years,
while the fund appropriated for the purpose, being in the mean time
invested in a safe and productive manner, would serve in some degree
to counterbalance the effect of the great and unnecessary outlay which
had been resolved on. It would be difficult for the secretary, however
unwilling to intrude anything personal on this occasion, to forbear men-.
tioning that it was entirely due to the persuasive influence of the pro-
fessor that he was induced, almost against his own better judgment, to
leave the quiet pursuit of science and the congenial employment of
college instruction to assume the laborious and responsible duties of the
ofiice to which, through the partiality of friendship, he had been called.
Nor would it be possible for him to abstain from acknowledging with
heart-felt emotion that he was from first to last supported and sus-
tained in his difficult position by the fraternal sympathy, the pru-
dent counsel, and the unwavering friendship of the lamented deceased.

His demeanor in the board was quiet and unobtrusive, and his opinions
sought no support in elaborated or premeditated argument; but when a
topic likely to lead to difficulty in discussion was introduced, he seldom
failed, with that admirable tact for which he was always noted, to dis-
pose of it by some suggestion so judicious and appropriate as to secure
ready acquiescence and harmonious action. The loss of such a man in
the councils of the Institution, when we consider the characteristics
which it has been our aim to portray, must, indeed, be regarded as little
less than irreparable.

As a vice-president of the United States Sanitary Commission his
influence was felt in selecting proper agents, and suggesting efficient
means for collecting and distributing the liberal contributions offered
for ameliorating the condition of our soldiers during the war. But the
services which he rendered the Government during the recent struggle
were not confined to this agency, or to the immediate operations of the
Coast Survey. He was called into consultations to discuss plans of
attack on the part of the Navy, and for its codperation with the Army.
He acted also as a member of a commission to which various projects,
professing to improve the art of war, were referred, and in this capacity
it is not too much to say that his judicious counsel contributed to save
the Government millions of dollars by preventing the adoption of plausi-
ble though impracticable propositions from which nothing but failure
and loss could have resulted.

One of the last acts of his life was an exemplification of the devoted
sal

104 EULOGY ON PROFESSOR ALEXANDER DALLAS BACHE.

affection which he had always borne to his native city, whither it was his
cherished intention to return when he should be at last released from offi-
cial duty. At the request of the governor of Pennsylvania, although over-
whelmed with other public labors, he pianned lines of defenses for Philadel-
phia, and to a certain extent personally superintended their construction.
Unaccustomed for many years to direct exposure to the sun, this work
proved too much for his physical strength and brought on the first indica-
tions of that malady which terminated his life. Though apparently of
a vigorous constitution, and capable, under the exciterhent of official
life, of bearing an unusual amount of bodily fatigue, yet he was subject
at intervals to “sick headaches,” a disease which seems to have been
hereditary, and which perhaps conspired with other causes in termi-
nating his useful and distinguished career. Previous to the war he had
spent the warmer part of each summer in a tent, at some point of the
primary triangulation of the survey, whence he directed the various
parties in the field by correspondence; and as the point was usually at
the top of a mountain, or at some elevated position, from which other
stations of the survey could be seen, he did not want for invigorating

2

air. With this, and the exercise of measuring angles he laid in a store of

health sufficient to enable him to carry on without interruption the
arduous duties of the remaining portion of the year. But after the com-
mencement of the war his presence was continually required in Wash-
ington to give advice and information as to military and naval opera-
tions, and to attend the meetings of the scientific commission to which
we have previously referred. He was, therefore, no longer able to avail
himself of the recuperating influence of mountain air, and in view of this
his valuable life may be said to have been one of the sacrifices offered
for the preservation of the Union. The first indications of the insidious
Gisease which gradually sapped the citadel of life were numbness in the
fingers of his right hand, and, on one occasion, for a short time only,
loss of memory. Though these symptoms gave him some uneasiness,
they did not diminish his exertions in the line of his duty. Other symp-
toms, however, exhibited themselves, which, though awaking anxiety,
did not much alarm his friends, until he was suddenly deprived, in a con-
siderable degree, of the power of locomotion and of the expression of
ideas ; the result, it was supposed, of a softening of the brain. But though
the power of expression was paralyzed, his memory appeared to retain all
the impressions of the past, and he evidently took much pleasure in hay-
ing recalled to him scenes and events of years gone by. For several months
he was very anxious as to the business of the Coast Survey, and it was
with difficulty he could be restrained from resuming in full the duties of
his office; but as the malady increased his perception of external objects
diminished. He took less and less interest in passing events, and finally
seemed to withdraw his attention from the exterior world, with which
he almost ceased thenceforth to hold any active communieation. It was
hoped that a voyage to Europe, through the excitements of shipboard

4
q
EULOGY ON PROFESSOR ALEXANDER DALLAS BACHE. 105

and the revival of old associations, would be of service to him; but, not-
withstanding an occasional manifestation of his wonted spirit of social
and intellectual enjoyment at the encounter of a friend of former times
or distinguished associate in the walks of science, he returned from a
sojourn abroad of eighteen months without having experienced any per-
manent abatement in the progress of his malady. He lingered for a short
time longer, and finally resigned his breath at Newport, Rhode Island,
on the 17th of February, 1867, in the sixty-first year of his age.

It would be impossible to name an American distinguished on purely
scientific grounds to whom the enlightened sentiment of his own country-
men and of foreign nations has awarded more emphatic marks of ad-
miration and esteem. The degree of Doctor of Laws was conferred on
him by the principal universities of this country, and few of our leading
societies were willing to forego the honor of numbering him among their

associates. He was elected in succession president of the American
Philosophical Society, of the American Association for the Advancement
of Science, and, of the National Academy of Sciences established
by Congress. Nor were foreigners less forward in acknowledging
his merit. He was a member of the Royal Society of London,
of the Imperial Academy of Sciences at St. Petersburg, of the Insti-
tute of France, the Royal Society of Edinburgh, the Roy al and Impe-
rial Gsoorphical Society of Vienna, the Royal Academy of Turin, the
Mathematical Society of Hamburg, the Academy of Sciences in the
Institute of Bologna, the Royal Astronomical Society of London, and
of the Royal Irish Academy of Dublin. In addition to these testimonies
of appreciation, several medals were awarded to him by foreign govern-
ments for his distinguished services in the Coast Survey and in the
cause of science generally.

The life we have here sketched is eminently suggestive, both from a
philosophical and a practical point of view. It presents an unbroken
series of successful efforts, with no interruptioms in its sustained and
constantly ascending course; all parts follow each other in harmonious
continuity; and not only is each stage of its progress in advance of the
one which preceded it, but it furnishes the means of education for that
which succeeded. It is not merely curiosity, landable as that might be,
but a sense of the importance of the inquiry, which prompts us to ask,
What were the mental and moral characteristics of the mind which pro-
dueed such results? And we say intentionally, the mind which produced
these results, for although it be true that accident has in many cases a
determining influence on the fortunes of an individual, it will be clear
from what precedes, or we shall have greatly failed in the task which
we proposed to ourselves, that the element of casualty had but little to do
with the success which crowned the life to which the question at present
relates. ;

From long acquaintance with him and critical study of the events of
106 EULOGY ON PROFESSOR ALEXANDER DALLAS BACHE.

his life, and the distinctive manifestations of his moral and intellectual
nature, we venture, though not without hesitation, to present the fol-
lowing analysis of the character of one who has performed so conspicu-
ous a part, and in whose memory so many are deeply interested.

Alexander Dallas Bache possessed, or we may perhaps say originally
inherited, a mind of strong general powers, with no faculty in excess or
in deficiency, but, as a whole, capable of unusual expansion or develop-
ment in any direction which early training or the education of life might
determine. He also possessed strong passions, which, instead of exert-
ing an unfavorable effect on his character by their indulgence, became,
under the restraining influence to which they were in due season sub-
jected, areserved energy, asit were, ready to manifest itself spontaneously
and at any time in the vindication of truth and justice. He was like-
wise endowed with a power of will which, controlling all his faculties
and propensities, rendered them subservient to those fixed purposes
which had once received the sanction of his deliberate judgment. Em-
inent also among his characteristics, and perhaps most conspicuous of
all, was the social element of refined humanity, a regard for his fellow-
man, which craved as an essential want of his nature fraternal sympa-
thy, not only with those within the wide circle of his daily associations,
but with those from whom he could expect no reciprocation of the sen-
timent, the entire brotherhood of mankind. These characteristics, with
a nice perception of right and a conscience always ready to enforce its
mandates, are, we think, sufficient to explain the remarkable career we
have described.

They were perhaps indicated by himself, though with an admission
not to be accepted without some reserve, ina conversation with the writer
of this sketch in reference to his entrance at West Point. “I knew,” he
said, “that | had nothing like genius, but I thought I was capable by
hard study of accomplishing something, and I resolved to do my best,
and if possible to gain the approbation of the teachers, and, above all,
to make myself loved and respected by my classmates.”

To illustrate the progressive development of the individual traits of
his character, we may be allowed to dwell for a moment on a few analyt-
jeal details. The early period of his life, including that which pre-
ceded his first call to Philadelphia, was almost wholly devoted to the
improvement of the mechanical, or the “doing” faculties of his mind,
and but httle attention was given to invention, or the exercise of ori-
ginal thought. His final examination at the Academy, perfect as it was
in its kind, only exhibited his capacity for the acquisition of knowledge
not the power to originate or apply it. When his efforts were first
turned in the latter direction, he evinced, as I well remember, no espe-
cial aptitude for it that would indicate future success; but in a short
time, and under the stimulus of the associations into which he was
thrown in Philadelphia, the faculties of investigation and of generaliza-
tion were rapidly developed, and had he not been partially turned aside

;
EULOGY ON PROFESSOR ALEXANDER DALLAS BACHE. 107

from such pursuits, I doubt not but that he would have still more highly
distinguished himself in the line of experimental research. Again, the
change in the circumstances and relations of his life produced by his
election to the presidency of Girard College introduced him to a famil-
iarity with an entirely new class of ideas, which served to exercise and
expand another faculty of his mind, that, namely, which observes and
appreciates moral truths, though without impairing his aptitude for
physical research. In like manner, his foreign mission with reference
to popular education, by bringing him into intimate and friendly associa-
tion with minds of the first order in the principal cities of Europe, afforded
him an opportunity for enlarging the sphere of his sympathies, as well
as of studying men under a great variety of social and mental peculiar-
ities.

Again, his long residence and high social position at the seat of Goy-
ernment, his intimate acquaintance and friendly intercourse with states-
men and politicians, imbued him with a thorough knowledge of the work-
ing of the Government, such as few have ever possessed, while his ex-
ertions to sustain the Coast Survey and improve its condition served to
call into active operation his power to appreciate character, to discern
motives, and, therefore, to convince, persuade, and control men. His
ability in this latter respect was remarkable; a personal interview with
an opponent of the survey scarcely ever failed to convert perhaps an
active enemy into an influential friend. His success in this respect
often astonished those who frequently harassed Congress with propositions
covertly designed to promote their own interest at the expense of public
utility; hence the exclamation was not unfrequently heard, “‘ Bache is
certainly a wonderful manager.” If that which is unusual constitutes,
an element of wonder, then the exclamation was not without truth,
though not in the sense of those by whom it was uttered, for he never
advocated any measure that was not just, expedient, and proper, either
as concerned the interests of the country or the welfare of his species.

On the whole, if we would seek the real secret of his influence over
his fellow-men, it would be found, no doubt, to have consisted in the
singular abnegation of self which pervaded his whole conduct; his
great practical wisdom, his honesty of purpose, and his genial though quiet
and unobtrusive manner. In the exercise of these characteristics, he
was so far from the least appearance of dissimulation, that no one ever
approached him without feeling that it was equally impossible to doubt
the purity of his intentions as it was to elude the penetration of his
quiet but thorough scrutiny. His ealmness served as a shield from
within and without; and as a guard against himself as well as a pro-
tection against others. It enabled him to weigh the motives and observe
the character of those who consulted him with the view of securing his
influence or gaining his patronage. His genial nature enabled him to
descend gracefully from the heights of science and to enter fully and
frankly into the feelings of any company with which he might be
108 EULOGY ON PROFESSOR ALEXANDER DALLAS BACHE.

thrown. In this he was aided by a playfulness of fancy and a quiet
humor which banished any reserve that might have been produced by
a knowledge of his superior talents and attainments. He was, though
by no means gifted with those attractions of person which influence at
first sight, a favorite with all ages, and particularly with the sex
whose discrimination of character is said to be least fallible. It seems
almost superfluous to say of such a man that his friendship was open
and unwavering, that his confidence once bestowed could be shaken by
no mere difference of opinion or conflict of personal interests. Severe
to himself under the responsibility of duty, and in the punctual observ-
ance of his engagements, his indulgence was reserved for the weak and
the erring. Though his outer life was free from disappointments or
reverses, and though he walked as it were in perpetual sunshine, all was
not so within. Besides the anxiety and solicitude incident to the respon-
sible duties of his position, occasions of trial and profound sorrow were
not spared him. He was called to mourn the untimely loss of a beloved
brother, who fell a victim to his zeal for the professor’s service in the
survey of the Gulf Stream; of another brother, the youngest and last,
also an officer of the Navy, and a general favorite, who was drowned
on the coast of California; and lastly of a sister, whom he had adopted
and cherished asa child. In these seasons of affliction he found conso-
lation in the steadfast convictions of religious faith. Nurtured in the
forms and principles of the Episcopal church, he was a devout wor-
shiper in the sanctuary, though not bigoted in his attachment to the
peculiar ordinances of that communion. He fully recognized the union
of science and religion, and held with unwavering constancy the belief
that revelation, properly interpreted, and science, rightly understood,
inust ultimately join in perfect accord in reference to the great truths
essential to the well-being of man.

As an evidence of his high appreciation of abstract science derived
from original investigation, he left his property in trust to the National
Academy of Sciences, the income to be devoted to the prosecution of
researches in physical and natural science by assisting experimentalists
and observers, and the publication of the results of their investigations.

I here close this imperfect sketch, in which I am conscious of having
passed in silence many admirable traits of character and conduct, and of
having very inadequately portrayed others, with the remark that, though
our companion and brother has departed, his works and his influence
still remain to us; that, sorrow as we must for his loss, we ean still
recall with pride and satisfaction the example he has left us of all that,
in heart, in spirit, and in life, the true man of science ought to be.

The following is a list of the published scientific papers of Alexander
Dallas Bache, copied from the appendix to an address by Dr. Benjamin

EULOGY ON PROFESSOR ALEXANDER DALLAS BACHE.

109

A. Gould, before the American Association for the Advancement of
Science, August 6, 1868.

1829—Feb.
1830—-May.

1831—Mar.

1831—April.

1831—Oct.
1832—July.
1832—July.
1832—Oct.
1832—Nov.

1833—Mar.

1833—July.

1835—July.

1833—Nov.
1833—Deec.

1834—Jan.

1834—Jan.

1834—June.

1834—Oct.
1834—Nov.

1834—Nov.

1835—Jan.

On the specific heat of the atoms of bodies. Journ. Phila. Acad. Nat. Sci.,

vi, 141.

On the inflammation of phosphorus in a partial vacuum.
Sci., Xvili, 372.

Report of the committee of the Franklin Institute, of Pennsylvania, ap-
pointed May, 1829, to ascertain by experiment the value of water as a
moving power. Journ. Frank. Inst., vii, 145; viii, ix, x, &e.

Safety apparatus for steamboats, being a combination of the fusible
metal disk with the common safety-valve. Journ. Franklin Inst., vii,
217; Amer. Journ. Sci., xx, 317.

Meteorological observations during the solar eclipse of February 12,

Amer. Journ.

1831. Trans. Amer. Phil. Soc., iv, 132.

Translation of Berzelius’s Essay on Chemical Nomenclature. Amer.
Journ. Sci., xii, 248; Philadelphia, 1832.

Notice of experiments on electricity developed by magnetism. Jowrn.

Franklin Inst., x, 66; Amer. Jowrn. Sci., xxii, 409.

Alarm to be applied to the interior flues of steam-boilers.
lin Inst., x, 217.

On the diurnal variation of the magnetic needle.
Vale ;

Elementary view of the application of analysis to reflection and refrac-
tion. An appendix to Sir David Brewster’s treatise on optics. Phila-
delphia, 1833. pp. 95.

Translation of Avogadro’s memoir on the elastic force of the vapor of
mercury. Amer. Jowrn. Sci., XXiv, 286.

Note of the effect upon the magnetic needle of the aurora borealis, visi-
ble at Philadelphia on the 17th of May, 1833. Journ. Franklin Inst., xii,
5; Amer. Journ. Sci., xxvii, 113.

Attempt to fix the date of Dr. Franklin’s observation, in relation to the
northeast storms of the Atlantic States. Journ. Franklin Inst., xii, 300.

Report of experiments on the navigation of the Chesapeake and Dela-
ware Canal by steam. Journ. Franklin Inst., xii, 361.

Observations on the disturbance in the direction of the horizontal needle,
during the occurrence of the aurora of July 10, 1833. Journ. Franklin
Inst., xiii, 1; Amer. Journ. Sci., xxvii, 118.

Report of the managers of the Franklin Institute, in relation to weights

Presented in compliance with a resolution of the house

Journ. Franklin Inst.,

Journ. Prank-

Trans. Amer. Phil. Soc.,

and measures.
of representatives of the State of Pennsylvania.
xiv, 6; Philadelphia, 1834.

Analysis of some of the coals of Pennsylvania, (made jointly with Profes-
sor H. D. Rogers.) Journ. Phila. Acad. Nat. Sci., vii, 158.

On the variation of the magnetic needle. Amer. Journ. Sci., xxvii, 385.

Observations to determine the magnetic dip at Baltimore, Philadelphia,
New York, West Point, Providence, Springfield, and Albany, (made
jointly with Professor E. H. Courtenay.) Trans. Amer. Phil. Soc.,
v, 209.

Meteoric observations on and about Noy. 13, 1854.
XXVii, 335; Journ. Franklin Inst., xvi, 369.

Note relating to the hardening of lime under water, by the action of car-
bonate of potassa, &c., and to the hardening of carbonate of lime in
the air, by potassa and soda. Journ. Frank. Inst., xv, 6.

Amer. Journ. Sci.,
110
1835— Mar.

1835—May.

1835—May.

1835— June.
1835—July.

1835—Nov.
1855—Dec.
1836—Jan.
1836—Jan.
1836—Jan.

1836—Feb.

~ 1836—April.

1836—May.

1836—July.

1837— May.

1838—Aug.
1839—May.

1839—Nov.

EULOGY ON PROFESSOR ALEXANDER DALLAS BACHE.

Meteorological observations made during the solar eclipse of Noveraber
30, 1834. Trans. Amer. Phil. Soc., v, 237. é

Experimental illustrations of the radiating and absorbing powers of sur-
faces for heat, of the effects of transparent screens, of the conducting
power of solids, &c. Journ. Franklin Inst., xv, 303; Amer. Journ. Sci.,
XXvill, 320. ‘

Replies to a circular in relation to the occurrence of an unusual meteoric
display on the 13th of November, addressed by the Secretary of War
to the military posts of the United States, with other facts relating to
the same question. Amer. Journ. Sci., xxviii, 305; Journ. Franklin Inst,
xvi, 149.

Experiments on the efficacy of Perkins’s steam-boilers or circulators.
Journ. Franklin Inst., xv, 379.

On the comparative corrosion of iron, copper, zinc, &c., by a saturated
solution of common salt. Journ. Franklin Inst., xvi, 2.

Inquiry in relation to the alleged influence of color on the radiation of
non-luminous heat. Jowrn. Franklin Inst., xvi, 289; Amer. Journ. Sci.,
30.0:¢5 Illy

Historical notice of a hypothesis to explain the greater quantity of rain
which falls on the surface of the ground than above it. Journ. Frank-
lin Inst., xvii, 106.

Observations upon the facts recently presented by Professor Olmsted in
relation to meteors seen on the 13th of November, 1834. Journ. Frank-
lin Inst., xvii, 33; Amer. Journ. Sci., xxix, 383.

Historical note on the discovery of the non-conducting power of ice.
Journ. Franklin Inst., xvii, 182.

Report of experiments made by the committee of the Franklin Institute
of Pennsylvania, on the explosions of steam-boilers, at the request of
the Treasury Department of the United States. Journ. Franklin Inst.,
Xvi, 1,73, 145, 217, 289.

Remarks on amethod, proposed by Dr. Thomson, for determining the pro-
portions of potassa and soda in a mixture of the two alkalies; with the
application of a similar investigation to a different method of analysis.
Journ. Franklin Inst., xvii, 305.

Notes and diagrams illustrative of the directions of the forces acting at
and near the surface of the earth, in different parts of the Brunswick
tornado of June 19, 1855. Trans. Amer. Phil. Soc., v. 407.

Or the relative horizontal intensities of terrestrial magnetism at several
places in the United States, with the investigations of corrections for
temperature, and comparisons of the methods of oscillation in full and
in rarefied air, (jointly with Professor E.H. Courtenay.) Trans. Amer.
Phil. Soc., v, 427.

Proposed forms of diagrams for exhibiting to the eye the results of a
register of the direction of the wind. Journ. Franklin Inst., xviii, 22.
Corresponding magnetic observations, in connection with Professor
Lloyd of Dublin, to determine the relative magnetic intensity in Phil-

adelphia, Dublin, and Edinburgh. Prec. R. Irish Acad., i, 71.

Note on the effect of deflected currents of air on the quantity of rain col-
lected by arain-gauge. ep. Brit. Assoc. Adv. Sci., 1838, 11, 25.

Report on education in Europe, to the trustees of the Girard College for
Orphans. 8vo. pp. 666. Philadelphia, 1839.

Comparison of Professor Loomis’s observations on magnetic dip with
those obtained by Professor Courtenay and himself. Proc. Amer. Phil.
Soc., 1, 146.

h
EULOGY ON PROFESSOR ALEXANDER DALLAS BACHE.

1839—Nov.

1840—Mar.
1840—Nov.
1840—Dec.

1841—May.

1841—July.
1841—Nov.

12842—Mar.

1842—April.

1842—July.

1842—Oct.
1842—Dec.
1843—Jan.

1843—May.

1843—May.

1843— May.

1845—Feb.
12847—Dec.
1848—Dec.

1849—Aug.

1849—Aug.
1850—Mar.
1850—Mar.

111

Simultaneous magnetic observations, made in correspondence with Pro-
fessor Lloyd of Dublin. Proc. R. Irish Acad., i, 462; Amer. Journ. Sci.,
xli, 212.

Observations of the magnetic intensity at twenty-one stations in Europe.
Lrans. Amer. Phil. Soc., vii, 75; Proc. Amer. Phil. Soc., i, 185.

Determination of the magnetic dip at Philadelphia and Baltimovre.
Proc. Amer. Phil. Soce., i, 294.

On an instrument for measuring the changes in the vertical compo-
nent of the force of terrestrial magnetism Proc. Amer. Phil. Soc.,i, 341

Diagram of the direction and force of the wind, and amount and rate of
rain-fall during the severe gust of April 2, 1841. Proc. Amer. Phil. Soc.,
li, 56.

On observations of the magnetic dip, made at Baltimore by Mr. Nicollet
and Major Graham. Proc. Amer. Phil. Soc., ii, 83.

Account of the formation of cumulus cloud from the action of a fire.
Proc. Amer. Phil. Soc., 11, 116.

Semi-annual report of the principal of the High School, and report to the
controllers of the publie schools. Twenty-fourth Annual Report of Con-
trollers of Public Schools of Philadelphia, pp. 23, 50.

On the application of the self-registering rain-gauge to registering the
fall of snow. Proc. Amer. Phil. Soe., 11, 164.

Report of the principal of the Central High School for the year ending
July, 1842. 8yvo. pp. 120. Philadelphia.

Address delivered at the close of the twelfth exhibition of American
manufactures, held by the Franklin Institute.

On a modification of Lloyd’s induction inclinometer.
Soc., ii, 237.

On a new dew-point hygrometer. Proc. Amer. Phil. Soc., li, 249.

Results of two years’ observations of the magnetic elements, and of the
temperature, pressure, and moisture of the atmosphere at the magnetic
observatory of Girard College. Proc. Amer. Phil. Soc., iii, 90.

Account of an instrument for determining the conducting power of
bodies for heat. Proc. Amer. Phil. Soc., iti, 132.

Account of observations at Philadelphia and Toronto, during the mag-
netic disturbance of May 6, 1843, and their bearing upon the question
of the kind of instruments and observations appropriate to determine
such phenomena. Proc. Amer. Phil. Soc., iii, 175.

Report to the Treasury Department on the progress of construction of
standard weights and measures. Senate Doc. 149, 28th Congress, 2d
Session.

Description of a new base apparatus used in the United States Coast

Proc. Amer. Phil.

Survey. Proc. Amer. Phil. Soc., iv, 368.

On a new method of observing transits. Monthly Not. R. Astr. Soc., ix,
123; Bull. Acad. Sci., Brussels, xvi, 313; Astr. Nachr., xxviii, 273.

Comparison of the results obtained in geodesy by the application of the
theory of least squares. Proc. Amer. Assoc. Adv. Sci., Cambridge, 1849,
p. 102.

On the progress of the survey of the coast of the United States.
Amer. Assoc., Cambridge, 1849, p. 162.

Notes on the results of observations of the direction and force of the
wind at the Coast Survey stations at Mobile Point and at Cat Island,
Gulf of Mexico. Proc. Amer. Assoc., Charleston, 1850, p. 50.

Abstract of a communication on the recent progress of the telegraphic
operations of the United States Coast Survey. Proc. Amer. Assoc,
Charleston, 1850, p. 122.

Proe.
112

185U—Aug.
1850—Aug.

1850—Aug.

1851—May.

1851—May.

13851—May.

1851—May.

18d1—Aug.

1851—Aug.

1651—Aug.

1852— Mar.

1853—July.

1853—July.

1854—May.

1854—May.

1854—May.

1854—-June.
1855—Feb.

EULOGY

ON PROFESSOR ALEXANDER DALLAS BACHE.

Method used in the Coast Survey for showing the results of current
observations. Proc. Amer. Assoc., New Haven, 1850, p. 70; C. S. Rep.,
1850, p. 136.

Remarks upon the meeting of the Amezican Association at Charleston,
in March, 1850. Proc. Amer. Assoc., New Haven, 1850, p. 159.

Notes of a discussion of tidal observations, in connection with the Coast
Survey, made at Cat Island, in the Gulf of Mexico. Proc. Amer. Assoe,
New Haven, 1850, p. 281; Amer. Journ. -Sei., xii, 341; C. S. Rep., 1851
p. 127.

Current chart of New York Bay, from observations in the Coast Survey.
Proc. Amer. Assoc., Cincinnati, 1851, p. 43.

Comparison of curves showing the hourly changes of magnetic declina-
tion at Philadelphia, Toronto, and Hobarton from April to August, and
from October to February, and for March and September.
Assoc., Cincinnati, 1851, p. 62.

On the determination of the velocity of sound by the method of coin-
eidences. Proc. Amer. Assoc., Cincinnati, 1851, p. 75.

Notes on the use of the zenith telescope in determining latitudes in the
Coast Survey by Talcott’s method, and on the reduction of the obser-
vations. Proc. Amer. Assoc., Cincinnati, 1851, p. 151; Amer. Jowrn. Sci.,
Xiv, 191.

Additional notes of a discussion of tidal observations made in connection
with the Coast Survey at Cat Island, Louisiana. Proc. Amer. Assoc.,
Albany, 1851, p. 94; Amer. Journ. Sci., xiv, 346; C. S. Rep., 1852, p. 111.

Notes on the tides at Sand Key, near Key West, Florida. Proc. Amer.
Assoc., Albany, 1851, p. 138.

Address on retiring from the duties of president of the American Asso-
ciation for the Advancement of Science. Proc. Amer. Assoc., Albany,
1851, p. 41.

Report on the harbor of Charleston, South Carolina, (as chairman of a
committee. ) :

Proc. Amer.

On the tides at Key West, Florida, from observations made in connection
with the United States Coast Survey. Proc. Amer. Assoc., Cleveland,
1853, p. 32; Amer. Journ, Sci., xvili, 305; C. S. Rep., 1853, p. 71.

On the tides of the western coast of the United States, from observations
at San Francisco, California, in connection with the United States
Coast Survey. Proc. Amer. Assoc., Cleveland, 1853, p. 42; Amer. Journ.
SGin, Xx; CUS. Rep secon pitt.

Preliminary determination of co-tidal lines on the Atlantic coast of the
Jnited States, from the Coast Survey tidal observations. Proc. Amer,
Assoc., Washington, 1854, p. 107; Amer. Journ. Sci., xxi, 14; C. S. Rep.,
1854, p. 147.

Comparison of the diurnal inequality of the tides at San Diego, San
Francisco, and Astoria, on the Pacific coast of the United States, from
observations in connection with the Coast Survey. Proc. Amer. Assoc.,
Washington, 1854, p. 161; Amer. Journ. Sci., xxi, 10; C. S. Rep., 1854,
p- 152.

On the distribution of temperature in and near the Gulf Stream, off the
coast of the United States, from observations made in the Coast
Survey. Proc. Amer. Assoc., Washington, 1854, p. 134; Amer. Journ.
Sci., xxi, 29; C. S. Rep., 1854, p. 156.

Second report on the harbor of Charleston, South Carolina.

Discussion of observations for the isodynamic, isogonic, and isoclinal
curves of terrestrial magnetism, on and near the line of the boundary
survey between the United States and Mexico, made in 1849-J352,

EULOGY ON PROFESSOR ALEXANDER DALLAS BACHE.

1855—Aug.

1855—Aug.

1855—Aug.

1855—Dec.

1856—Jan.

1856—Aug.

1856—Aug.

1856—Aug.

1856—Aug.

1856—Aug.

1856—Oct.
1856—Dec.
1856—Dec.

1856—Dec.

1857— Aug.

1857—Aug.

1857—Aug.

1T3

under the order of W. H. Emory, and combined with observations at
San Francisco, California, and Dollar Point, (. Base,) and Jupiter,
Texas. Mem. Amer. Acad. Arts and Sci., v, 372.

Approximate co-tidal lines of the Pacific coast of the United States,
from observations in the United States Coast Survey. Proc. Amer.
Assoc., Providence, 1855, p. 144; C. S. Rep., 1855, p. 338.

Notice of the tidal observations made on the coast of the United States,
on the Gulf of Mexico, with type-curves at the several stations, and
their decomposition into the curves of diurnal and semi-diurnal tides.
Proc. Amer. Assoc., Providence, 1855, p. 152 ; Amer. Journ. Sct., xxi, 128;
C. S. Rep., 1855, p. 346.

Notice of earthquake waves on the western coast of the United States
on the 23d and 25th of December, 1854. Proc. Amer. Assoc., Providence,
1855, p. 153; Amer. Journ. Sci., xxi, 37; C. S. Rep., 1855, p. 342.

Report to New York harbor commissioners, on surveys of New York
Harbor.

Annual address before the American Geographical Society, being a paper
upon the Gulf Stream. bulletin Amer. Geogr. Soc., ii, 94.

Approximate co-tidal lines of diurnal and semi-diurnal tides of the coast
of the United States on the Gulf of Mexico. Proc. Amer. Assoc., Albany,
1856, p. 168; Amer. Journ. Sci., xxiii, 12; C. S. Rep., 1856, p. 282.

On the general distribution of terrestrial magnetism in the United States,
from observations made in the United States Coast Survey and others,
(in connection with Mr. J. EK. Hilgard.) Proc. Amer. Assoc., Albany,
1856, p. 187; Amer. Journ. Sct., xxvi,.1; C. S. Rep., 1856, p. 209.

Observations to determine the cause of the increase of Sandy Hook,
made by the Coast Survey for the commissioners on harbor encroach-
ments. Proc. Amer. Assoc., Albany, 1856, p. 171; Amer. Journ. Sei:,
xxiii, 16; C. S. Rep., 1856, p. 263.

Notice of observations to determine the progress of the tidal wave of the
Hudson River, made by the Coast Survey for the commissioners on
harbor encroachments. Proc. Amer. Assoc., Albany, 173; Amer. Journ.
Cie, SexAy id .

Notes on the progress made in the Coast Survey in prediction-tables for
the tides of the United States coast. Proc. Amer. Assoc., Albany, 1856,
p. 166; C. S. Rep., 1856, p. 249.

Anniversary address before the American Institute of the city of New
York, during the twenty-eighth annual fair. New York, 1857, pp. 60.
Report to New York harbor commissioners on the progress of the survey

of New York harbor.

Notes on the winds of the coast of the United States on the Gulf of
Mexico. . C. S: Rep., p. 272.

Report of Superintendent of Weights and Measures.

Notice of the determination of the longitude of Fernandina, Amelia
Island, Florida, by means of chronometer exchanges from Savannah,
Georgia, (in connection with Mr. C. A. Schott.) Proc. Amer. Assoc.,
Montreal, 1857, p. 166;.C. S. Rep. 1857, p. 314.

On the heights of the tides of the Atlantic coast of the United States,
from observations in the Coast Survey. Proc. Amer. Assoc., Montreal,
1857, p. 175; Amer. Journ. Sci., xxv, 47; C. S. Rep., p. 342.

On the winds of the western coast of the United States, from observa-
tions in connection with the United States Coast Survey. Proc. Amer.
Assoc., Montreal, 1857, p.183; Amer. Journ. Sei., xxv,52; C. S. Rep.,
1857, p. 354.

89g
i14

1857—Aug.

1857— Dee.

1858—May.

1858—May.

1858—July.

1859—Feb.

1859—June.

1859—Aug.

1859—Aug.

1259—Nov.

\860—Aug.

1860—Aug.

1860—Aug.

1860—Sept.

1862—June.

1862—June.

1862—Sept.

EULOGY ON PROFESSOR ALEXANDER DALLAS BACHE.

Notes on the measurement of the base of the primary triangulation of
the eastern section of the coast of the United States, on Epping Plains,
Maine. Proc. Amer. Assoc., Montreal, 1857, p. 160; Amer. Journ. Sci.,
Xxv, p. 58; C. S. Rep., 1857, p. 302. ;

Report relative to the New York harbor survey. U.S. Senate Doc., 1858,
No. 16.

On a supposed personal equation in the use of the zenith telescope, for
determining latitudes by Talcott’s method. Proc. Amer. Assoc., Balti-
more, 1858, p. 14; C. S. Rep., 1858, p. 184.

On the tidal currents of New York Bay, near Sandy Hook. Proc. Amer-
Assoc., Baltimore, 1858, p. 80; Amer. Journ. Sci., xxvi, 334; C. S. Rep.,
1858, p. 197.

Defense of Dr. Gould, by the scientific council of the Dudley Observa-
tory, (in connection with Professors Joseph Henry and Benj. Peirce.)
Albany, 1858, pp. 91.

Address before the Alumni Association of the Central High School.
delphia, 1859. fi
Address in tribute to the memory of Humboldt. The Pulpit and Ros.

trum, No. 6.

General account of the results of the discussion of the declinometer
observations, made at Girard College, Philadelphia, between the years
1840 to 1845, with special reference to the eleven-year period. Proc.
Amer. Assoc., Springfield, 1859, p. 248.

Gulf-Stream explorations. Third memoir. Distribution of temperature
in the water of the Florida Channel and Straits. Proc. Amer. Assoc.,
Springfield, 1859, p. 257; Amer. Journ. Sci., xxix, 199; C. S. Rep., 1859,
p. 306.

Discussion of the magnetic and meteorological observations made at the
Girard Coliege observatory, Philadelphia, in 1840 to 1845, Part I.
Investigation of the eleven-year period in amplitude of the solar
diurnal variation, and of the disturbances of the magnetic declination.
pp. 22. Smiths. Contrib. to Knowledge, vol. xi, art. iv; C. S. Rep., 1859,
p. 278.

Lecture on the Gulf Stream. Proc. Amer. Assoc., Newport, 1860, p. xlix;
Amer. Journ. Sci., Xxx, 313; C. S. Rep., 1860, p. 165.

General account of the results of Part Il of the discussion of the decli-
nometer observations made at the Girard College, Philadeiphia, be-
tween 1840 and 1845, with special reference to the solar diurnal varia-
tion and its annual inequality. Proc. Amer. Assoc., Newport, 1860, p.74 ;
Amer. Journ, Sci., Xxxi, 197. ;

Abstract of a discussion of the influence of the moon on the declination
of the magnetic needle, from the observations at the Girard College.
Proc. Amer. Assoc., Newport, 1860, p. 83; Amer. Journ. Sci., xxxi, 98.

Observations of the solar eclipse of 1860, July 18, at the Coast Survey
station, Gunstock Mountain. Astron. Journ., vi, 157.

Discussion of the magnetic and meteorological, observations made at
the Girard College observatory, Philadelphia, in 1840 to 1845, Part TH.
Investigation of the solar diurnal variation of the magnetic declina-
tion and its annual inequality, pp. 28. Smiths. Contrib. to Knowl., vol.
xiii, art. v; C. S. Rep., 1860, p. 293.

Discussion of the magnetic and meteorological observations made at the
Girard College observatory, Philadelphia, in 1840 to 1845, Part III.
Investigation of the influence of the moon on the magnetic declination,
pp. 16. Smiths. Contrib. to Knowl., vol. xiii, art. vi; C. S. Rep., 1860, p. 312.

Abstract of a discussion of the horizontal component of the magnetic

Phila-
EULOGY ON PROFESSOR ALEXANDER DALLAS BACHE.

1862—Nov.

1862—Nov.

1862—Nov.

1862—Dec.

1863—Jan.

1863—May.

1863—Oct.

1864—May.

1865—Jan.

1844 to 1863.
1844 to 1848.
1855 to 1863.

115

force, from observations made at the Girard College observatory, Phil-
adelphia, in the years 1840 to 1845. Amer. Journ. Sci., xxxiv, 261.

Discussion of the magnetic and meteorological observations made at the
Girard College observatory, Philadelphia, in 1840 to 1845, second sec-
tion, comprising Parts IV, V, VI. Horizontal force, investigation of
the ten or eleven year period, and of the disturbances of the horizontal
component of the magnetic force; investigations of the solar diurnal
variation and of the annual inequality of the horizontal force, and
the lunar effect on the same, pp.78. Smiths. Contrib.to Knowl., vol. xiii,
art. viii; C. S. Rep., 1862, p. 161.

Abstract of an investigation of the solar diurnal variation of the annual
inequality of the horizontal component of the magnetic force, from
observations made at the Girard College observatory, between 1840
and 1845. Amer. Journ. Sci., xxxiv, 373.

Abstract of a discussion of the influence of the moon on the horizontal
magnetic force, from observations made at the Girard College observa-
tory, in the years 1840 to 1845. Amer. Journ. Sci., xxxiv, 381.

Additional researches on the co-tidal lines of the Gulf of Mexico.
Rep., 1862, p. 126.

Eulogy on Hon. James Alfred Pearce.
sonian Institution for 1862, p. 100.

Abstract of results of a magnetic survey of Pennsylvania and parts of
adjacent States in 1840 and 1841, with some additional results of 1843
and 1862, and a map. Amer. Journ. Sci., xxxv, 359; C. S. Rep., 1862,
p- 212.

Records and results of a magnetic survey of Pennsylvania and parts of
adjacent States in 1840 and 1841, with some additional records and
results of 1834, 1835, 1843, and 1862, and a map, pp. 88. Smiths. Contrib.
to Knowl., vol. xiii, art. viii.

Discussion of the magnetic and meteorological observations made at the
Girard College observatory, Philadelphia, in 1840 to 1845, third sec-
tion, comprising Parts VII, VIII, IX. Vertical force. Investigation
of the eleven (or ten) year period, and of the disturbances of the ver-
tical component of the magnetic force, and appendix on the magnetie
effect of the aurora borealis; with an investigation of the solar diurnal
variation, and of the annual inequality of the vertical force, and of
the lunar effect on the vertical force, the inclination and total force, pp.
72. Smiths. Contrib. to Knowl., vol. xiv, art. ii; C. S. Rep., 1863, p. 156.

Discussion of the magnetic and meteorological observations made at the
Girard College observatory, Philadelphia, in 1840 to 1845; fourth sec-
tion, comprising Parts X, XI, XII. Dip and total force. Analysis of
the disturbances of the dip and total force; discussion of the solar
diurnal variation and annual inequality of the dip and total force;
and discussion of the absolute dip, with the final values for declination,
dip, and force, between 1841 and 1845, pp. 44. Smiths. Contrib. to Knowl.,
vol. xiv, art. iii; C. S. Rep., 1864, p. 183.

Annual reports of the progress of the United States Coast Survey.

Annual reports of Superintendent of Weights and Measures.

Tide tables for the use of navigators, prepared from the Coast Survey
observations, annually.

C.S.

Annual Report of Regents Smith-

Also, the following reports concerning harbors, jointly with Messrs.
Totten and Davis:

1853—Mar.
1854—Oct.

Report upon Cape Fear River and harbor.
Report of Portland harbor commission.
116

1855—Mar.
1855—Dee.

1856—July.
1856—July.
1856—Sept.

£856—Oct.

1856— Dec.

1856—Dee.

1857—Feb.

1857—Mar.

1860—Mar.

1860—Dec.

1860—Dec.

1860—Dece.

1861—Sept.

1861—Sept.

1863—April.

1864—Mar.

1864—Mar.

EULOGY ON PROFESSOR ALEXANDER DALLAS BACHE.

Second report of the commissioners on Portland harbor.

Report of advisory council of the New York harbor commission. New
York Assembly Doc., 1856, No. 8.

Report of the advisory council of the New York harbor commission,
recommending certain lines in the East and North Rivers, and in
Brooklyn. New York Senate Doc., 1857, No. 40, p. 107.

Report of the advisory council of the New York harbor commission on
Gowanus Bay and its improvements. New York Senate Doc., 1857, No.
40, p. 118.

Report of the advisory council of the New York harbor commission on
the Hell Gate Passage, regarded as a channel of approach to New York
harbor. New York Senate Doc., 1857, No. 40, p. 137.

Second general report of the advisory council to the harbor commis-
sioners, on lines in New York harbor. New York Senate Doc., 1857, No.
40, p. 81.

Report of the advisory council to the commissioners on harbor encroach-
ments of New York, in regard to safe and commodious anchorages
in New York harbor, for the purposes of the quarantine of vessels.
New York Senate Doc., 1857, No. 40, p. 182.

Report of the advisory council to the New York harbor commissioners
upon Harlem River and Spuyten Duyvil Creek. New York Senate Doc.,
1857, No. 40, p. 151.

Report of the advisory council of lines for the East River, for the shore
of Long Island, and the east shore of Staten Island. New York Senate
Doc., 1857, No. 126, p. 9.

Report of the advisory council to the New York harbor commissioners
upon the comparative map of New York Bay and harbor, and its ap-
proaches, prepared by the Coast Survey in March, 1857. New York
Senate Doc., 1857, No. 126, p. 12.

Preliminary reports of commissioners on Boston harbor. Boston City Doc.,
1860, No. 37.

Second report of United States commissioners on the condition of Boston
harbor. Boston City Doc., 1860, No. 97.

Special report of the United States commissioners on Boston harbor, on

the relation of Mystic Pond and River to Boston harbor. Losion City
Doc., 1861, No. 12.

Report of the advisory council of the joint committee of the Massachu-
setts legislature on the subject of a ship-canal to connect Barnstable
Bay and Buzzard’s Bay. Mass. Pub. Doc., 1864, No. 41.

Fourth report of the United States commissioners on Boston harbor.
Boston City Doc., 1861, No. 62.

Fifth report of the United States commissioners on Boston harbor. Bos-
ton City Doc., 1861, No. 63.

Sixth report of the United States commissioners on Boston harbor. Bos-
ton City Doc., 1863, No. 53.

Seventh report of the United States commissioners on Boston harbor.
Boston City Doc., 1864, No. 33.

Eighth report of the United States commissioners on Boston harbor.
Boston City Doc., 1864, No. 34.

LECTURE ON SWITZERLAND.
By ALEXANDER DaLuas BACHE.

[The following lecture on Switzerland, from the manuscript of Professor Bache, is
here published for the first time to illustrate in connection with the foregoing eulogy
his habit of observation and his facility of description. It presents, however, a lively
sketch of one of the most interesting portions of the earth, whether considered from a
historical or physical point of view, and we doubt not will be read with pleasure,
especially by all who have been favored with a visit to the delightful region which it
describes. The original notes from which the lecture was prepared were taken during
the Professor’s visit to Switzerland in 1837~38. The foot-notes, exhibiting the present
condition of the country, have been kindly furnished to us by the Hon. Mr. Hitz, Swiss
consul general in this city.—J. H.]

Travelers relate that in certain conditions of the atmosphere a spec-
tator standing upon the shore at Reggio, and looking upon the smooth
waters of the Straits of Messina, sees suddenly rise before him, as if by
magic, the walls, towers, palaces, domes, and streets of a city, in which
mimic life goes on, men and animals moving noiselessly to and fro. The
illusion is as complete as if the waters of the bay were a foundation
upon which the genii of the lamp or of the ring had suddenly erected
their magic structures. This is an extreme case of the ordinary illusion
presented to those who, in a calm clear day, look at distant objects
across a wide expanse of bay or river. Familiar forms are strangely
distorted; level shores appear precipitous; the puny sloop swells into
the size of a frigate; the fisherman’s boat becomes a dismasted sloop,
and its occupant a giant. Just soit is when in mental vision we attempt
to look through an atmosphere disturbed by the habits and prejudices
to which we are accustomed. Unreal towers and walls appear, and
objects so lose their shapes that the most familiar forms escape recog-
nition. Every country has its prejudices resulting from education, from
all the influences, political, moral, social, and physical which surround
and act upon its citizens. By these, in general, the observer of men
and things is biased, and he who through the mists of his national or
personal prejudices seeks to realize their just forms and proportions,
may mistake the pigmy for a giant, the shallop for a frigate.

In estimating the institutions of the Old World we are prone to forget
that the materials for our judgment are generally furnished by the opin-
ions of those who are brought up under a totally different state of things
from that which exists around us. The conclusions which we thus form
may be the very opposite of those to which we would have come our-
selves, had our own prepossessions furnished the inferences from the
facts. In neither case, perhaps, would truth be arrived at, but in the
118 LECTURE ON SWITZERLAND.

former the result may be deeply injurious, because leading to modes
and habits of thought and action not in harmony with the peculiarities
of our country.

Impressed with the importance to Americans of judging independ-
ently of the institutions of Europe, I formerly took occasion in another
place to present a cursory view of the capital of Austria, as illustrating
the effects of institutions the very opposite of our own. I design on
this occasion to occupy your attention, without further exceeding the
limits of a lecture than is absolutely necessary, by a notice of men and
things in the only federated republic of Europe, Switzerland. I cannot
pretend to set before you a panoramic view, but merely a few detached
pictures in outline, so selected as to convey a tolerably fair idea of
republican Switzerland as it appeared to an American. By contem-
plating it we shall have an example of the practical working of repub-
licanism in the Old World, under various modifications, and with the
disadvantages of being hemmed in on all sides by monarchies. We shall
thus see the power of this system to civilize and to enlighten.

In the course of these sketches we shall find much bearing both
directly and indirectly upon the objects which this Institute was estab-
lished to promote. Upon the map of Europe Switzerland is so well
defined by its boundaries that there is no danger of its escaping the
sight on account of its small size. The Rhine constitutes nearly two
sides of this boundary, from the point where the various streams from
the glaciers of the Grisons have met to form a river into the lake of
Constance, and from its exit thence to where the Jura Mountains turn
its course to the Northern Ocean. The Jura separates Switzerland from
France, and with merely an outlet for the Rhone, the Alps take up the
line, dividing rugged Switzerland from the plains of Northern Italy.

The picturesque features of this country have furnished themes for the
poet, the painter, and tourist. Under the influence of its snow-capped
mountains, its shady and sequestered valleys, its rough glaciers, and its
placid lakes, common-place men have warmed into something approach-
ing to poetic fervor, and men of genius have poured forth their inspira-
tions in verse or lofty prose. It is impossible to call up even in memory
those scenes with all their attendant circumstances of romance—both
nature and life so different from that to which we are accustomed—
without feeling the heart and the imagination moved beyond their
wont. .

“Who first beholds those everlasting clouds—
Those mighty hills, so shadowy, so sublime,
As rather to belong to heaven than earth,
But instantly receives into his soul
A sense, a feeling, that he loses not;
A something, that informs him ’tis an hour
Whence he may date henceforward and forever.”

But who shall dare to speak in plain prose of scenes of which the muse
of Byron hassung? The rugged nature of the country within this bound-

LECTURE ON SWITZERLAND. 119

ary has had its effect in determining the character of institutions as
well as of individuals. Small tracts of country are as completely sepa-
rated by mountains of difficult passage, as by distance, differ in the
modes and facilities of life, have different interests, and consequently
separate organizations. The character of the topography has divided
the country into many small states, and has produced striking differ-
ences in language and manners, in religions, social and political organ-
ization, in a country of not more than one-third the extent of Pennsyl-
vania, and with about the same population of that entire State.

The present Swiss confederation consists of twenty-two sovereign
states called cantons, the division of which, according to geographical
position, includes also that of language.* Thus the north and middle of
Switzerland contains the sixteen cantons where a dialect of the German
is spoken, Zurich being the principal canton on the north, and Berne
in the middle. To the west and south’ of the middle are the mixed
German and French cantons of Neuchatel, Friberg, and Valais; to the
southeast the mixed German Romanic and Italian canton of the Grisons,
or gray league, subdivided into its little sovereign states. On the south-
west are the French cantons of Vaud and Geneva, and on the south of
the middle the Italian canton of Tessin. While the language spoken
by these people is determined by their proximity to those who speak it
in its purity, their social, religious, and political institutions may almost
be said to be uninfluenced by this circumstance. These are the results
of other causes, many of which may be found in their history.

A Florentine scholar relating to me unpublished anecdotes of the
horrors enacted by members of the far-famed family of the Medici, with
Italian fervor broke out into this apostrophe: ‘‘ Happy your great coun-
try, which has not the chains of a dark history to bind it to the institu-
tions and manners of a by-gone age. Beware how you men of the pre-
sent day sully the pure page which records the actions of your forefathers,
of vour Adams, your Franklin, your Washington.”

The condition of a country at a past day must assuredly influence its
present state as the summer’s sun upon the snow-covered mountains of
the Alps increases the autumnal flow of the river whose sources lie
among them, or as the accumulation of the winter’s snow upon the
mountain’s peak produces the summer’s avalanche.

The history of the Swiss republics shows the circumstances which
prepared and the impulses which gave existence to each, and a glorious
history it is upon which to found progress in virtue and liberty.

Nearly in the center of Switzerland is a mountainous district which
the Romans never reached, into which the bands of Attila never pene-
trated, and where no ruins of feudal castles exist to show that in the

*To wit: Zurich, Berne, Lucerne, Uri Schwyz, Unterwalden, (upper and lower,)
Glarus, Zug, Friburg, Solerne, Basil, (city and country,) Schaffhausen, Appenzel, (both
Rhodes,) St. Gallen, Grisons, Aargan, Thurgan, Tessin, Vaud, Valais, Neuchatel, and
Geneva.
120 LECTURE ON SWITZERLAND.

Middle Ages the inhabitants had amaster. Divided, generally, by rocky
barriers into separate communities, the people are in a degree united by
the beautiful lake of the Forest cantons. These people, from the ear-
liest records, have been, and are now, poor and pastoral. They form the
democratic cantons of Schwyz, Uri, and Unterwalden, the nucleus of
Swiss confederation. As early as the twelfth century they had a repre-
sentative at the court of the Emperor of Germany, then the titular sov-
ereign of Switzerland. Rudolph of Habsburg, whose castle was near
the confluence of the Reuss and the Aar, the father of the founder of
the house of Austria, was elected the representative of these peasants,
and subsequently the family claimed the dignitary to be hereditary.
This claim was never admitted, and to its impolitic enforcement by
Albert of Habsburg, accompanied by circumstances of peculiar indignity
on his own part, and of great cruelty and oppression on the part of his
bailiff Gessler, was owing the revolution headed by Tell and his com-
panions.

In pursuit of these same hereditary rights, Frederick of Austria, with
his armies, entered the Forest cantons by their mountain passes, deter-
mined to overrun and crush them. He was successfully resisted at the
pass of Morgarten by one thousand three hundred men, and nine thou-
sand of his troops perished in this defeat. Thus was developed that
fierce military spirit which has led the Swiss of every age to acts of the
most devoted heroism.

From their wars with the dukes of Austria, the Swiss came out in
1412 with eight cantons recognized as independent. The appetite for
war had been whetted by this successful resistance to oppression, and
was carried to its height by the defeat of Charles the Bold of Burgundy,
and of his magnificent troops, at Grandson and at Morat. The spoils
of these great armies suddenly enriched the people. Labor was neg-
lected and fell into contempt, and the profession of arms alone consid-
ered worthy occupation for a Swiss. The nation was for atime debased
by a mercenary military spirit, and it required two centuries of blood-
shed to impress the lessons necessary to their regeneration. The wars
of the Reformation gave the last of this series of unhappy lessons, and
at their close left the several cantons confirmed in their attachment to
the same churches in behalf of which they had expended to no purpose
their blood and treasure. In i712 the confederation had attained nearly
its present limits, but some of the present cantons were held as trib-
utary provinces by the others. The Swiss spirit of former days burst
forth when republican France began to proselyte by force of arms, and
the constitution of the new Helvetic republic was presented at the point
of the sword, and enforced by its edge. While the cantons of the plain
were held by the French armies, pleasantly occupied in appropriating
the savings of the aristocrats, and in giving liberty to the people by
depriving them of their independence, the Forest cantons dared to
declare that they had been free since the days of Tell, and Melchthal,

LECTURE ON SWITZERLAND. 12t

and Winkelried; that they required no lessons in self-government, and
would resist invasion of their civil and religious rights to the death.
Aloys Reding, a descendant of Rudolph, who had defeated Frederick of
Austria at the pass of Morgarten five hundred years before, occupied
again that Thermopyle of his country. The mode of warfare had
changed; personal strength has little advantage in contests with fire-
arms; rocks and stones, though launched from mountain heights, are
imperfect substitutes for cannon balls; numbers can no longer be coun-
terbalanced by valor. Four thousand men, aided by their women and
children, held this pass two days against forty thousand, but at last
were forced to yield, and the Forest cantons received the constitution
which they could no longer resist.

The days of the Jacobins passed ; those of the First Consul and Empe-
ror dawned, waxed, and waned, and Switzerland was the battle-ground
on which the French, Austrians, and Russians contended, everywhere
desolating the country with fire and sword. The pacification of Europe
put an end to the horrible scenes then enacted, and the republics of
Switzerland were left to reorganize themselves, affording in their rapid
recovery from their desolate condition a strong evidence of the energy
of the people. The organization then adopted, with some changes, exists
at present. Forty years of exemption from war have obliterated the
external marks of the misery of the country, but in the institutions of
the different States the influence of their past history is still entirely
visible.

The rough sketches which I must pass rapidly before you, to give
some idea of the present condition of the country, will be taken from
the French and German cantons—those which exercise the most influ-
ence upon Switzerland as it is, and as it will be.

Geneva, the oldest city of the confederation, is the frontier town upon
the southwest. Its foundation dates before that of Rome itself. The
inhabitants were among those Helvetians whom the fortune of war at
last put at the mercy of the Romans who occupied the city with their
legions. The Middle Ages found it a place of importance under the sov-
ereignty of the Duke of Savoy; the see of a bishop, nominated by the
duke, who was the temporal as well as the ecclesiastical ruler. History
represents its moral and intellectual condition to have been low, its
commerce moderate. Under the preaching of Farel in 1535 the citizens
declared for the Reformation, and drove the bishop from their walls.
In 1536, Calvin, a native of Picardy, came among them, and by his pow-
erful preaching brought about a second reformation which changed
entirely not only the face of society, but the habits and modes of thought
and action of the people.

At a little distance from the water the shores of Lake Leman, or the
Lake of Geneva, rise abruptly, and on this irregular ground, just where
the Rhone issues from the lake, the city is built. The nature of the site
thus divides Geneva into an upper and lower town. Below, and on the
132 LECTURE ON SWITZERLAND.

steep streets occupying the slope, are the houses and shops of the trades-
men, and on the hill are those of the more wealthy citizens, once the
Genevese aristocracy. The suburb on the opposite bank of the Rhone is
joined by bridges to the old town, and rivals the hill-top, by its fine
houses. The town is surrounded by ramparts, once of use to resist ene-
mies and now affording pleasant promenades. These ramparts often
protected the town in times gone by, but did not prevent its occupation by
the French in 1798, and must necessarily yield to any enemy which has
the means of bombarding the city. The conviction of their inutility has
led the liberal governments of Berne and Zurich to raze these ramparts
to the ground.*

The anniversary of an unsuccessful attempt, by the Savoyards, in 1602,
to surprise the city, is stillcelebrated. Under cover of a dark night, and
by the use of scaling ladders painted black the better to conceal them,
a party of the enemy’s pioneers had mounted the walls and penetrated
into the town, when they were discovered by the careless watch. The
citizens were surprised but not daunted, and issuing from their houses
with such arms as they could seize, fellupon the invaders. The first gun
fired from the ramparts carried away several of the scaling ladders, and
prevented succor. Inthe morning the people assembled in the venerable
church ef St. Peter, when the pastor opened public worship by giving
out the 124th Psalm; and since, on every 12th of December, the same
sounds arise trom the voices of many worshipers:

“ Tf it had not been the Lord who was on our side, now may Israel say :

“ Tf it had not been the Lord who was on our side when men rose up against us.”

The University of Geneva was founded by Calvin, in 1564, and has
always enjoyed a high reputation. In order to connect it advantage-
ously with the grammar schools which prepare its pupils, the auditories
have been provided, in which the character of the studies, the modes of
teaching, and the discipline are intermediate between those of the school
and of the university. Public instruction is under the control of the
council of state, but while the impress of the best minds in this intel-
lectual city is upon its higher institutions, the common schools are not,
nor can they soon be made, what they ought to be. Like most of their
fellow-republicans of the United States, the Genevese began their educa-
tional edifice at the top. They have yet to learn that parsimony in
education under a popular government is waste; that unless instruction
be really public it is better left entirely in the hands of individuals;
that it is in vain to move the waters and then to pretend to say to the
raised wave, thus far shalt thou go and no farther. The Genevese youth
of families in easy circumstances find means of the best education: do
they on this account effectively control those to whom the so-called re-
public gives less light? Witness the frequent revolutions in this city,
and these not always without bloodshed. The government is founded

* The ramparts here referred to have all been removed, and Geneva at the present
dute (1871) presents no evidences of ever having been a fortified city.

LECTURE ON SWITZERLAND. 123

on a popular revolution, and all attempts to impede the progress of pop-
ular institutions must in the end prove futile. If the light of education
be denied to the people by their rulers, the revolutions will be bloody;
and in no case can there be happiness or safety without the full exercise
of popular rights, by a thoroughly educated people.*

Calvin, as head of the consistory, whose members then formed one-
third of the council of state, governed Geneva, and impressed his own
austere character upon the laws and manners. Public amusements
were prohibited and private regulated. The number of guests to be
invited to weddings of the first, second, and third class, was made the
subject of municipal regulation. All dancing was interdicted, and
when it was found that if the violin were played people would dance,
the use of the instrument was prohibited. The absence of light amuse-
ments, together with religious feeling, naturally led to a greater use of
those relaxations deemed lawful, and to the more active pursuit of science
and literature by the better educated. Though times have changed in
Geneva, in regard to religious creed as well as to amusements, the im-
press of former days is still strong upon it, and those who term it “a
little Paris” do not look beneath the surface.

There is a curious mixture of the traits, manners, and modes of life
of both France and England in this city, with a basis which is entirely
Genevese. No less than ten thousand strangers, including, however,
Swiss of other cantons, reside permanently in a town of thirty thousand
inhabitants, and the number passing through it in a year is reckoned to
be as great as the population itself. The influence of their manners is,
of course, considerable, notwithstanding the exclusiveness of Genevese
society. This exclusiveness is fostered among the ladies in the usual
way, and among the men by clubs, literary, scientific, for conversation
and mere amusement. It even begins among the children, who associ-
ate in little knots called Sunday: societies, the members of which keep
up with each other the intercourse of cousins. Many Genevese enter
into commercial life abroad, and after accumulating wealth return to
their home, few (except those who have migrated to the United States)
becoming identified with foreign countries.

The most prominent business in Geneva is the manufacture of jewelry,
and of watches. Hach part of the watch is the special occupation of
one class of workmen. Different portions of the works are made by
peasants, but the finishing and putting together of the whole, as
well as the manufacture of the cases, employ the artisans of Geneva.
Nearly three thousand persons within the town, about one-fifth of
the men, are occupied in the jewelers’ and watch-makers’ business,
and twenty thousand watches are made annually.+ The restrictive

* The school system of Geneva has undergone a material change, and public schools
of all grades are liberally provided for.

tThe census of 1870 show seven thousand persons engaged in watch-making, and
upward of 200,000 watches made per annum.
124 LECTURE ON SWITZERLAND.

duties laid upon these manufactures by neighboring countries, and
especially by France, have led to a regularly organized system of smug-
gling, from which the government agents appear to derive a private
revenue, and which is, therefore, very difficult to break up. It is said
that a prefect of police of Paris, having bought at Geneva jewelry
and watches to a considerable amount, the tradesman offered to deliver
them in Paris for an additional sum much below the cost of carriage
and the duties. The prefect made the agreement, and gave notice at the
frontier custom-houses, describing the articles, and requiring even more
than usual vigilance. The articles were, nevertheless, delivered to him
according to contract, and on investigation he found that they had
passed the frontier in his own baggage. This is one of the devious
ways of trade which is, I fear, not peculiar to any nation, and which
the better moral tone to be cultivated by associations like that which I
now address may and should correct. To elevate the watchmakers’
art, a society has been formed for the preliminary education of appren-
tices, and prizes for attainments in mathematics, drawing, and kindred
subjects, are awarded to successful competitors.

The political changes in Geneva have been of an instructive kind.
The people declared for the Reformation, and threw off the authority of
the Duke of Savoy. Thus the popular will was the basis of the exist-
ence of the present government. The necessity for constant resistance
to enemies without produced an easy concentration of power in the
hands of a few, and by limiting the number of families from among the
members of which the rulers were chosen, the government was rendered
practically an aristocracy, not of rank, for the patricians of Geneva
have always refused even this title, but of wealth and iutelligence. The
warfare of practice against principle has caused many revolutions, all
leading to an extension of popular privileges, and though likened by
the Emperor Paul, of Russia, to storms in a tumbler, their influences,
direct and indirect, have spread widely. Between the year 1535, when
the Bishop of Geneva was violently expelled from the city, and the year
1837, there had been five revolutions, and including two unsuccessful
but violent popular commotions, and seven attempts to alter the gov-
ernment. And thus it must be until the end of the chapter, until privi-
leges and rights are in harmony—until, in other words, Geneva is a true
republic.

The chief points of dispute still are (unless recent events have settled
some of them) that the sovereignty of the people is not formally
acknowledged ; that the representative council has no right to originate
laws, but only to discuss those offered to them by the Council of State ;
that the right of petition is not recognized, and that the privilege of
voting is possessed only by those who pay a certain amount of taxes;
the amount being fixed so high as to exclude about two-thirds of the
citizens who are over age from the polls.*

* All this has been changed by the constitution adopted May 24, 1847, the provisions
whereof are essentially democratic.

LECTURE ON SWITZERLAND 125

Take the agitation of this canton in connection with the fact that in
the eight cantons having a popular form of government, there were no
revolutions in 1830, the last marked period in the progress of these
governments, and the lesson becomes even more instructive.

How much do we not owe to our forefathers, who in establishing our
republican system threw off thetrammels of the Old World, and removed
all such obstacles to our progress! How clear their view of republican.
institutions when compared with those of the men of Europe, even in
the present day!

One of the most important engines in the improvement of Switzer-
land is the ‘+ Helvetic Society for public utility.”* Its branches are scat-
tered over the whole country, meeting frequently and maintaining a
correspondence with the parent society through the medium of com-
mnittees. Delegates from the local associations meet in different parts
of the country in turn, and discuss questions connected with education,
political economy, and the general welfare of thecountry. The reports
made at these meetings and the information laid before them are
printed and disseminated through the confederation by the branch soci-
eties. Independently of the influence thus exerted upon and through
the reading community, the intercourse of enlightened men of different
cantons is beneficial to the country, and the congregation of great and
patriotic spirits has a good effect inthe place of meeting. In the sum-
._mer of 1837 this society met at Geneva, and then for the first time some
of the statesmen of the German cantons met their fellow-citizens of the
French frontier. The first meeting in the illuminated botanic garden,
the mornings in the representative hall devoted to discussions, the gen-
eral meetings for meals, the soirées and suppers, each served in their
place, (for the Swiss, like the English, Germans, and Americans, love
good cheer,) to promote the objects of the meeting. The subjects dis-
cussed in the council hall, show exactly the point to which the country
has advanced. They were the importance of agricultural schools, and
of schools for teachers, of saving-banks or funds, and the question
whether those who in time of plenty (like the Pharaohs of old) hoard
up grain to sell it at an advance in seasons of scarcity should not rather
be considered benefactors of the public than objects of mob violence.
The influence of high character was beautifully illustrated in one of
these morning meetings. A warm debate had arisen upon the report
of a committee proposing to establish schools under the direction of the
society. The more the subject was discussed the further men’s opin-
ions appeared asunder. The keen politician of Geneva, with French
vivacity, had made his declamation and ended with a phrase; the enthu-
siastic clergyman of Vaud, with somewhat of the old Calvin fire, had
replied; the veteran philanthropist of St. Gall had laid down the doc-
trine by which he intended sturdily to abide. Union seemed impossible
and discord probable, when there rose, near the president’s chair, aman

*Gemémniitzige Gesellschaft.
126 ‘LECTURE ON SWITZERLAND.

heavy in countenance and in person, with an embarrassed air and awk-
ward address, the words of his first few sentences of miserably pro-
nounced French coming forth slowly, and almost by stammering. The
natural reflection of a stranger would have been, why does that stupid
man rise; what light can he expect to throw upon the question? Not
so, thought his countrymen. They knew the mind that occupied this
unpromising exterior, and all listened with entire attention to Hess, the
burgomaster of Zurich, while by hisown moderation he stifled the flame
which had been burning so fiercely, and by his good sense united all the
friends of education on a common ground of conciliation and compro-
mise. The denial of self shown by thus using a language which was
not familiar to him produced, also, doubtless a favorable impression.
Those who afterward heard the same speaker in his vernacular rousing
an assemblage by his eloquence, or moving them to laughter by his wit,
must have found it difficult to recognize in the accomplished orator the
embarassed speaker of the representative chamber.

The canton of Geneva contains fifty-six thousand inhabitants, thirty
thousand of whom live in the town. The adjoining canton of Vaud
presents a striking contrast in this as in other respects, out of one hun-
dred and eighty thousand people, only fourteen thousand being inhab-
itants of Lausanne, the capital, and only considerable town in the
canton.* The people of Vaud pride themselves upon their ultra-repub-
licanism, their orthodoxy in religion, their present moral and social
condition, and the broad basis laid in their institutions for further
improvement; the carrying out of the cantonal motto of “ liberty and
country.” Their constitution declares the sovereignty of the people and
the equality of all citizens in the eye of the law, guarantees individual
liberty, the right of property, the inviolability of domicile, the freedom
of the press, and the right of petition. It provides for the separation
of the legislative, executive, and judicial authorities, a feature so
universal in our constitutions that we are surprised to find it gen-
erally overlooked by the framers of the Swiss. All citizens have a
right to vote at twenty-three years of age. The church is, as in
all these countries, connected with the state, and is styled in the
constitution the National Evangelical Reformed Church. Worship
according to the forms of the Roman Catholic Church is guaranteed
to some of the communes, and there this church is also connected
with the state. The voluntary charch system as it exists with us is
almost unknown, and it would be difiicult to imagine the first effects of
severing church and state among a people where the connection has
always existed; yet some of the clergy of Vaud look to the separation
as conferring a desirable freedom upon their church. As evidences of
the moral condition of Vaud may be mentioned that in 1836 there was

* The census of 1870 gives to the canton of Geneva a population of 89,416, whereof
about one-half live in the city proper. According to the same authority, the canton of
Vaud has a population of 229,596, and Lausanne 25,000.

LECTURE ON SWITZERLAND. E20

but one criminal for every one thousand seven hundred and eighty
inhabitants; while in Massachusetts, also an agricultural community,
there was last year one criminal in one hundred and fifty; and counting
only natives of the State, one in seven hundred and fifty. These people
have laid broad and deep the foundations of improvement in an
admirable system of public instruction, combining, as all are of one mode
of faith, religious and intellectual culture. The law declares that the
happiness of a people is to be found in good morals and good instruction,
and that in a free country every citizen should have put within his reach
an education fitting him for his rights and duties. It has not stopped
at any point in public education, saying you of a certain class shall have
such schools, and you such others, but has divided the schools accord-
ing to the age and attainments of the children, and, for those on the
threshold of active life, according to the probable future pursuit of the
individual. Thus they have elementary schools, middle or industrial
schools, a college, a university, and schools for male and female teachers.
In a canton where suffrage is universal, the legislature has had the
boldness to require that all children from the age of seven to sixteen
shall be under instruction, unless capable of passing a certain examina-
tion. Parents who neglect or refuse to send their children to school
are cited before the authorities and fined; in case of a repetition of the
offense may be imprisoned, and thus deprived for a time of the rights
of citizenship. Whether this provision can be fully executed or not yet
remains to be seen; at present it is a salutary stimulus to the negli-
gent. The ground of its adoption is, that universal suffrage requires
universal education, and that as the law guarantees to citizens the one,
it has a right to demand of them the other. The middle or industrial
schools are colleges for business men preparing for the pursuits of com-
merce and the mechanic arts, and bearing the same relation to these
pursuits that the colleges do to the professions of medicine, law, and
theology. The canton has a school for the deaf and dumb, and one for
the blind at Yverdon.

The prison discipline, like our own, puts in action the benevolent idea
of reforming the delinquents; but the horror of solitary confinement
which appears to exist in the mind of every one allied, even remotely,
to the French has marred the system both in Lausanne and at Geneva.
Happily the care which is taken in collecting the statistics of the prisons
must gradually lead toachange. Finding that there are as many cases of
recommitment now as under the old arrangement, they will see that
with the gregarious system, even with work, there can be no reform.

This canton was the last scene of the labors of the great reformer in
education, Pestalozzi. At Yverdon, on the shores of Lake Neufchatel,
in a castle erected for war, but turned to purposes of peace, he termi-
nated his active, beneficent, but stormy life. He was the Bacon of
education. Adhering rigidly to the laws of induction, he changed the
very basis of the sciences. He combined those extraordinary qualities
128 LECTURE ON SWITZERLAND.

of the German character, simplicity, enthusiasm, rationalism, and its
opposite, mysticism. As a practical teacher he has been surpassed by
many of his followers, but he was undoubtedly the founder of a new
school in education. Restless, and always dissatisfied with the results
of his efforts, he began many times afresh, and to the last, with
renewed hope of entire success. Unqualified to manage pecuniary
matters, his mind was always oppressed with the details of the economy
of his schools as soon as they became large. Prussia owes the present
improved condition of her burgher or citizen schools—for her “ schools
for the poor”—are poor indeed to the precepts and examples of those
who drew both from Pestalozzi. A school nominally conducted upon
his principles is still kept up in the old castle, but resembles much
the deformed copies from the same model which we have seen in this
country.

Before leaving the southern part of Switzerland, let us pass for a few
minutes into the canton of the Valais and among the Alps, not to ad-
mire scenery but to observe Swiss enterprise. Railroads are out of the
question in such a country, and places for canals are rarely to be found,
but improvements peculiar to the country take their places, and require
both skill and originality.

In one of the narrow valleys of the Valais, a tributary to the Dranse
(itself a branch of the Rhone) takes its rise in the melting snows of
the glacier of Getroz. This mass of snow and ice is formed by the
accumulation of snow upon two mountain flanks, which, descending and
uniting in the gorge, are slowly pushed forward into the valley, melting
as they advance, and feeding with innumerable rills the turbid Dranse.
In the spring of 1818 the waters of the stream were very low, and as
this circumstance had preceded a dreadful inundation of the valley of
Bagnes in 1595, the peasants taking alarm moved up the valley to
ascertain the present cause. They found that the fall of large blocks of
ice from the glacier of Getroz, and of avalanches from the mountain
sides, had completely dammed up the waters of the Dranse. The icy
barrier is described to have been four hundred feet high, six hundred
feet wide at the top, and three thousand feet at its base; the lake
behind it was a mile and a quarter long, and at the barrier some fifty
fathoms deep. The waters in this basin rose at the rate of two feet per
day, and it was almost certain that finally, rising to a height capable of
bursting the wall of ice which held them in, they would in their mighty
rush sweep the valley to the very banks of the Rhone. The engineer
of the canton, M. Venetz, made a bold attempt to prevent this disaster,
which, if it did not entirely succeed, greatly diminished the dreaded
devastation. A tunnel through the ice was commenced at a sufficient
height above the swelling waters to prevent their reaching the laborers
before its completion. Two sets of workmen labored day and night for
nearly a month in its formation. When first finished it was not of suf-
ficient size to preveut the rise of the lake, but widening and deepening

LECTURE ON SWITZERLAND. 129

from the flow of water through it, in thirty-two hours it had drained
off ten feet in depth of the lake, and in twenty-four hours more, twenty
feet. More than one-third of the water had thus escaped when the
action of the issuing cataract upon the base of the mound had so far
weakened it by detaching large masses of ice, that the barrier was sud-
denly burst asunder. With a dreadful noise the liberated waters took
their way down the valley in one mountain wave, carrying before them
enormous rocks, the forest and hill-side, fields, fruit-trees and fences,
bridges and ciate and furrowing or covering the low grounds with
the débris of the mountains. The destruction is represented to have
been terrible, in all but that of life approaching that of the previous
catastrophe. The energies of this simple people were but for a time
paralyzed by this dire misfortune, and means were almost immediately
taken to repair its effects and prevent its recurrence.

Captain Hall, who visited the scene just after the disaster, and again
after an aval of fifteen years, thus speaks of the first appearance
and of the change which industry had wrought during the interval:
** We said to ourselves, that no time could ever restore their town (Mar-
tigny) to prosperity, or reclothe their fields with verdure. Yet, only
fifteen years afterward, when I again visited this scene of utter, and,
as it seemed, hopeless desolation, I could scarcely by any effort of the
imagination recall the spot to my mind, or be persuaded that it really
was the same ground I had seen laid waste. = i *
The fields were all again thickly matted with verdure; the hedges and
dividing walls appeared never to have been disturbed; flower-gardens
and kitchen-gardens and grass-plots smiled on every side of this happy
valley; apple-trees, laden with fruit, and rows of tall poplars marked
out many lines of new and better roads than before, leading from new
bridges which formerly had no existence.” The date of the first disas-
ter was found inscribed upon a beam in one of the chalets, accompanied
by a set of letters; the whole may be thus paraphrased: M. O. E. |
1595. | W. B. W. D. B. | T. G.O.G. The puzzle has been thus deci-
phered by a Swiss Monkbarns: Maurice Olliet erected, 1595, when
Bagnes was destroyed by the glacier of Getroz.

Friburg lies between Vaud on the south and Berne on the north.
It was the ninth canton admitted intd the confederation. From having
been the most aristocratic of all—some sixteen families governing
seventy thousand people—it is now almost as liberal as Vaud. Suffrage
is universal and the press is free. The religion of the state is Roman
Catholic, the bishop still retaining the title of Bishop of Lausanne and
Geneva. Party spirit, probably, run higher in this canton than in any
other. The old aristocracy has its friends, though in the minority. The
republicans, who triumphed in the revolution of 1830, excluded the clergy
from the councils, but their influence still maintains a party there, and
the church itself is divided between the rival influences of the Cordeliers
and of the Jesuits. There are nine convents in the canton, a lycevm

98
130 LECTURE ON SWITZERLAND.

or college and a boarding-school, in the capital. The clergy have not
abandoned the claim, though deprived of the power to direct the secular
instruction of the people, to license and displace their teachers. The
struggles of these parties and influences keep up a constant political
excitement. .

It is difficult for a stranger who approaches the town of Friburg
from the French cantons, on a day when the weekly fair is heid, to be-
lieve that a scene of real life mY before him. The old battlemented walls,
with their towers, earry us back to the days of arquebusses and culverins,
or even to those of cross: bows an catapults. The collection of peasants
in the square, clad in the varied and picturesque costumes of the adjoin-
ing districts, keeps up the illusion. It is easy to realize that such look-
ing people should sing and dance, but that they should buy and sell in
earnest is not so easily credited. There is some poetry left yet in the
exterior of life, at least in these countries. This thought was again
awakened on finding myself in the cell of a monk in the convent of the
Cordeliers. The vaulted ceiling, grated door, bare walls, the pallet bed
and rade table, with missal and ecruei ifix, the occupant clothed in coarse
black serge, the cord of his order passing around his waist, produced a
most singular effect. There was nothing in the manners and conversa-
tion of the venerable Father Girard ne dispel any illusion created by
the circumstances around hin, unless the faintest possible tinge of the
world, such as he may have got while superintending the schools of his
eanton just after the revolution of 1814. Hoping to dull the edge of:
party spirit which he supposed attacked the schools because a Cordelier

was at the head of them, he retired into voluntary exile for ten years,
and returned, at the age of seventy-two, to die, as he said, at home,
when his years would be an apology for not mingling in publie affairs.
He had returned to find his eae in incompetent hands, almost in
decay, and his normal school, from a similar cause, on the point of |
being abolished. Imbued with the spirit of Pestalozzi, Father Girard ~
gives to the languages as instruments for intellectual ern g the part
which the great master assigned to the se 1eNCES ; for economy’s sake he
adopted the monitorial system, but hoped to see the time when it might
give place toa better. In his retirement his influence with the intelligent
men of Switzerland wasvery great, and was exercised to forward the intel-
lectual progress of his country. ‘I love all men with Christian hearts,
though they may not be orthodox in formulary ; such is my profession of
faith,” was the catholic sentiment of this truly good man, reminding
me of the beautiful lines of Wordsworth, written at Friburg:

“Doom’d as we are our native dust
To wet with many a bitter shower,
It ill befits us to disdain
The altar, to deride the fane
Where patient sufferers bend, in trust,
To win a happier hour.

w * * * * *

LECTURE ON SWITZERLAND. 131
“ Where’er we roam, along the brink
Cf Rhine, or by the sweeping Po,
Through Alpine vale, or champaign wide—
Whate’er we lock upon—at our side
Be charity—to bid as think,
And fecl—if we would know.”

The situation of Friburg has afforded opportunity for two pieces of
characteristic enterprise. The channel of the river Sarine forms al-
most a loop at the town, inclosing it on three sides, and flowing in a
deep sandstone valley. The town occupies the top and sides of the
promontory thus formed, and on the steep slope the tops of the houses
below are on a level with the pavement of the streets above. Into this
valley the road to Berne formerly descended, and mounted a precipitous
hill on the other side of the stream, occupying, with its windings and
the slow pace by which it was necessarily traversed, an hour, and to pass
from one side of the valley to the other, a distance in a straight line ef
some three hundred yards. A beautiful suspension bridge now connects
the upper plateau of the town with a point equally high on the oppo-
site bank, the suspending cables of wire being firmly fastened in thé
massive rock on either side, and passing over two neat piers of Jura
limestone. This bridge was planned by an engineer of Lyons, but exe-
cuted by Swiss workmen, and entirely with Swiss materials. The road-
way is eight hundred and ninety-six feet in length between the piers,
or two and a half times as long as the elegant structure of the same
kind now erected over the Schuylkill at Philadelphia, and once and a
half as long as the celebrated chain bridge over the Menai Strait in
Wales. The road-way is suspended at the height of one hundred and
seventy-four feet above the Saarine, and looking up from the valley the
eurved wire ropes which support the whole resemble mere cords pro-
jected against the sky, while the upright wires by which the platform
hangs appear like cobwebs. The trials to which this structure was sub-
jected by the authorities before receiving it were many and severe, the
hardest that of marching across it two thousand people keeping step to
music, the measured cadence producing a continually increasing vibra-
tion, and trying the strength to the utmost. The successful completion
of this work and its durability have led to the erection of a second of
the same kind at another point of the valley; so that this little town of
nine thousand inhabitants may now boast of two of the most beautiful
bridges in the world.

Berne, the capital of the largest and most populous canton of the
Swiss confederacy, is, in appearance, thoroughly a Swiss town of the
old school. Its site is a bold promontory, like that of Friburg, nearly
surrounded by the Aar, a tributary of the Rhine. The appearance of
Berne is very quaint. Entering it from the south, three gateways are
passed in succession, at intervals from each other, beneath towers which
mark so many epochs in the extension of the walled town. Before the
132 LECTURE ON SWITZERLAND.

use of artillery Berne was a place of great strength, thesite having been
selected in the twelfth century for its military properties, by Berthold,
of Ziihringen, the founder of the city. The fronts of the houses in the
principal streets, as in the Italian towns of the Middle Ages, rest upon
arcades, which form covered walks for passengers. The heavy piers of
the areades render the shops dark, but this inconvenience is more than
counterbalanced by the protection from the winter’s snow in a town
almost among the Alps, and at an elevation of sixteen hundred feet
above the sea. The streets are provided at intervals with fountains of
curious devices and rude execution, in Which, besides the figure of the
bear in various *“‘ armor and attitude,” are warriors and goddesses, and
remarkable above all, the terror of children, the great Kinder-fresser, or
ogre, who, with the head and shoulders of one poor innocent in his gap-
ing mouth, in the very act of swallowing, has a bag fullof similar choice
mouthfuls about his neck, apparently struggling to escape the fate of
their comrade. In one of the towers is the famous clock of kindred
taste with the ogre. Before each houra cock flaps his wings and crows
a warning. A figure representing Father Time reverses his hour glass,
’and opens his mouth as if to ery aloud to the careless. At noon is the
grand procession of the bears, who, marshaled by knights and soldiers,
issue to the sound of musie and pass before the figure of Time first on
all fours, then half erect, and finally rampant, figuring thus the differ-
ent conditions of the town of which they are the patrons. The figure
now raises a wand and strikes the hour upon a mimic bell, keeping time
with the striking of the clock ; the cock again flaps his wings, and for
twenty-four hours the bears have rest. The regard for bruin in Berne
has been the growth of ages. Theaccidental killing of a bear by the Duke
of Ziihringen on the day of founding the city placed the effigy upon the
coat of arms, and perbaps gave name to the infant city, for Berne sig-
nifies bear in the Swabian dialect. ‘The effigy of the bear was connected
with the conquests of the warlike burghers, and the living animal kept
to amuse the people by his antics. A whimsical old lady left a hand-
some estate to the town to maintain a family of bears, forever, and in
1798 the animal becaine associated with the misfortunes of the canton
as it had been with its rise and prosperity. Thesavings from the estate
of the bears shared the fate of those of the canton, when the French
armies appropriated the thirty millions of specie in the vaults of the
treasury. The bears themselves were removed from their diteh and
transported to Paris, the huge cage containing the father of the family
having upon it the insulting inscription, not yet forgotten by the people,
of Avoyer (President) of Berne. One only lived to return to his home
at the general restoration of the spoils of Europe, but the bears of the
present generation appear to have forgiven or forgotten the sorrows of
their parents, and, all unconscious of their own present dependent state,
are as diligent in climbing poles, and as active in begging and quarrel-
ing for nuts and gingerbread as if the present bear-ditch had always

LECTURE ON SWITZERLAND. 133

been the abode of both parents and cubs. How difficult it must ve for
the men of Berne among the scenes of the Middle Ages, and with his-
tory and tradition both fettering them, to keep up with the progress of
the times; and yet they have done so in a very great degree, as a glance
at the institutions of the republic will show.

In 1785 there were but two hundred and thirty-six families, the
members of which were eligible to the grand council, the governing
body of a canton of three hundred thousand inhabitants, and of its
tributaries, Vaud inclusive. These were the descendants of the original
burghers of Berne, and of those whom they had admitted from time to
time into their fraternity. Many of them were members of one of the
five guilds, the bakers, butchers, tanners, smiths, and carriers, originally
an aristocracy of working men. Of the two hundred and thirty-six
families only seventy-six were eligible to the executive or lesser council,
and twenty of these, by the preponderance of numbers, governed the
State. In 1796 there were twenty-two persons of the name and family
of Steiger in the grand council, fifteen of Watwyl, and so on. It was
certainly no easy task to undo the Gordian knot of such institutions,
but the French invasion sundered it, and the complete separation of
social and political ties which followed prevented a firm reunion of the
parts. A feeble aristocratic government was réstablished under the
protection of Austria, after. the French occupation ceased, and was
continued until 1530. At this time the revolution of the three days in
Paris gave a new impulse to popular institutions by the support which
it promised to hold out to their friends. The people of the country
parts of Berne met in their arrondissements and petitioned the govern-
ment tor an extension of popular rights. They were answered by pro-
hibittug their assembling. They continued to meet, and the govern-
ment ordered out the militia to suppress these meetings, and collecting
their most trustworthy troops in the town, closed the gates and pre-
pared the cannon upon the ramparts for action against the peasantry.
The militia refused to turn out; the troops in the town declared their
unwillingness to act against their countrymen. No attack was made,
but the government wisely determined on abdication, declaring that on
a certain day they would cease their functions if such was the will of
the people. This was all that was desired. An assembly was called to
frame a constitution, and without any violent shock, in October, 1831, the
old aristocratic government gave place to the new republican, in which
although there is some leaven of the former aristocracy, it is not suffi-
cient to leaven the lump. This is a true history of a Swiss republican
revolution. The new constitution declares the sovereignty of the people,
the liberty of the press, the right of the representative council to origin-
ate measures, toleration of religion with an established national church.
Livery citizen is an elector of the first grade; and every hundred of
them chooses an elector of the second grade, who votes for the repre-
sentative council. As in the other cantons, with few exceptions, the
134 LECTURE ON SWITZERLAND.

powers of government are mingled, and what strikes an American as
even more strange, while the representative council is elected for six
years, the judges chosen by them are elected but for five.

One of the first steps of the new government was to reorganize and
renovate public instruction. A visit to the normal school established
by them must inspire bright anticipations of future improvement for
the country. Patriotism, religious and moral feeling, and intelligence,
are developed by precept and example in those who are hereafter to
have the training of the Bernese youth. The industrious life of these
future teachers, eleven hours being spent in the school-room, in receiv-
ing or imparting instruction, their frugal fare, meat of any kind: being
placed before them but twice in each week, and their coarse clothing, are all
shared with them by the director of the institution. Severe exercise in
the open air, through the gymnastics so popular in Germany and Switzer-
land, counteracts, in a degree, the effect of this sedentary life upon their
health. In addition to the branches usually cultivated in our schools,
music is made a part of the teacher’s education, that he may, in turn,
give instruction in it to all his pupils. The effect produced by the deep
toned and well tuned voices of the young teachers in this normal school,
engaged in singing, con amore, some of the patriotic songs of their
country, was one of the most moving that I ever experienced. Whata
fine material for republicans ! was the remark of the counselior of state
who accompanied me, the echo of the very feeling which was thrilling
through me. Close by this school is Hofwy!], the celebrated institution
of Emmanuel Fellenberg. But to venture within its precincts would
occupy you far longer than I am privileged to do. The system of this
establishment, for itis not one school, but is composed of several schools
of different grades, has served, in a degree, as a model for that of the
canton, and has exerted a greater influence in and out of Switzerland
than any other single institution in the world.

The new government has reorganized and improved many of the pub-
lic establishments of the canton, and created new ones. Thus the two
orphan houses of the city have already felt its favorable influence; a
school for the deaf and dumb, and one for the blind, has been estab-
lished under its patronage, and a new penitentiary has been erected for
the introduction of the modern improvements in prison-discipline. In
1819 women condemned for crimes swept the streets of Berne, and now
the government is nearly prepared to adopt the Pennsylvania system of —
prison discipline. .Surely the progress of this people has been worthy |
of, if not above, ali praise.

On the eastern side of the town the bank of the Aar is quite precip-
itous, and from the parapet which crowns it a glimpse is had into that
fairy-land, the Oberland of Berne. The peaks of its snow-clad hills, with
their bold outline, cut sharply against the sky, presenting, in the course
of a clear day, a beautiful variety of aspect, from the dark shadows cast
by the rising sun, and the brilliancy of mid-day, to the delicate hues at

LECTURE ON SWITZERLAND. 135

sunset, and the ashy and almost ghastly paleness of the evening. One
of the few things which cannot disappoint isa visit to the Bernese Alps.
Nature presents itself not only upon a grand scale, but in unusual and
varied forms. Lofty and precipitous mountains, rugged with rocks,
and ice, and snow; glaciers pushing their way from the steep mountaix
sides into the valleys; avalanches tumbling headlong from the heights,
and with a roar like distant thunder burying their ice and snow in the
deep gorges; cascades pouring from precipices so lofty that the water
is dispersed in dust-like spray, in mid-air, or tumbling from rock to
rock in foaming sheets; pine-clad hills, aud valleys green with grass;
all these, in turn, rejoice the sight, while the unaccustomed modes
of Alpine traveling invigorate the frame, and the spirits rise until
hey ereate a world of enjoyment of their own. The works of man
lend themselves to nature, to add to the picturesque character of these
regions; for the Swiss cottage, with its roof weighted with stones, its
projecting eaves and out-door galleries, is unlike a farm-house elsewhere,
and the chalet, with its stable, dwelling, and dairy, all under one roof,
yet separated with scrupulous regard to neatness, is as unlike a peas-
ant’s hut. The costume of the people, too, puts them to the eye of a
stranger in constant masquerade, and the vocal music, with its curious
falsetto tones, and the instrumental upon the wooden tube, or Alpine
horn, are unlike what is to be heard in other countries.
The valley of Grindelwald is itself more than three thousand feet
above the level of the sea, and from it the Fauihorn rises three thou-
sand more. The ascent of this mountain is by winding paths, along
the base or on the brink of high rocks, by the side of ponds formed by
the melting snow, through the snows themselves, to the very apex.
Then the whole district of thelakes of Brientz and Thun is stretched out
before and far below you, the lake of Lucerne and its mountains, the
valleys of Lauterbrunnen and Grindelwald, the Alpine heights of the
Higer, the Monk, the Jungfrau, and others of this chain, far across to the
mountains where the Rhine and the Rhone both have their sources.
Above the region where the white hill-clouds of summer are formed and
rest, when they occur spreading a deep shade over the valleys below, the
top of the Faulhorn is in the full blaze of the sun, and the eye ranges from
it upon the expanse of the tops of the white clouds, as over a vast plain
of snow thrown into ridges by the wind, a mimic ocean of snow with the
forms of waves without their motion. Lifeinachalet upon such a moun-
tain is very little like that in an inn down inthe valley. The whole moun-
tain-top will hardly give elbow-room to the twenty or thirty people who
come up on a fine summer’s day, much less will the chalet give room for
exclusiveness in eating, drinking, or sleeping. Then, further, to break
down reserve, the sunset is to be seen by all, and then the moon, at rising
“or setting, puts the whole sleeping household in motion, and again all are
out to see the sun rise over the distant Alps. §
There are some traits by which one may infallibly recognize our coun-
136 LECTURE ON SWITZERLAND.

trymen, and in this chalet with us was an undoubted American. He
talked to every one who could speak his vernacular, and spoke to every
one who would give his broken French an answer. His meals were
bolted down in haste. He fidgeted lest he should lose anything of the
moon or sun rise, and actually turned out to witness the former in regu-
lar Kickapoo style, wrapped in a blanket. He was restless to an excess,
and talked all the time that others were absorbed in sentiment; for-
getting his unpresentable condition, he even addressed some young
Iinglish ladies, who had certainly offered no special encouragement to the
approach of any fellow-traveller, even in full costume. He was off
among the first in the morning, and after the day’s journey we met him
in the evening at Meyringen, still talkative as ever, and his tones certi-
fying that he came from the east of the Hudson; so far, the very beau-
ideal of the American figured by tourists. Here, however, he piqued my
curiosity by the very un-American act of abusing the supper, as well as
by some peculiarity of expression; and, entering into further conversa-
tion with him, I found that this wedoubted American was last from Thread
and Needle street, had been born and bred in the old country, and had
not even trodden our republican soil. So much for national character-
istics, which, like family peculiarities, may sometimes lead us to mis-
take the father for the son.

On the way from the Oberland to Lucerne we pass a work of improve-
ment well worthy of notice. At the foot of the Brunig Mountain, on
the north side, is the small lake of Lungern, draining the slopes of a
basin of moderate extent, and having originally no outlet. It is sepa-
rated by a mountain ridge from the lake of Sarnen, which commu-
nicates with the lake of Lucerne. Lake Lungern is sume four hun-
dred feet higher than Lake Sarnen, so that by establishing a com-
munication between them tke former might be drained to any re-
quired amount, and arable land be thus gained upon the lake shore.
A tunnel to establish this connection was begun in 1788, and after many
delays was completed in 1836, at the cost of $25,000, and nineteen thou-
sand days’ work by the peasants. The winter season, when the lake is
lowest, was chosen for completing the tunnel by breaking through a
rocky barrier into Lake Lungern. The undertaking succeeded, and in
ten days the water fell to the level of the mouth of the tunnel. A new
and unforeseen danger now threatened the people of the village on the
lake shore. The bank, no longer supported by the water, and exposed
to the action of the frost, began to crack, and the earth separating from
the underlying rock, threatened to precipitate the church and part of
the village into the lake. In fact a slide did take place, but only to a
limited extent, and by cutting the shores in terraces the progress of the
evil has been stopped, and the gain of about five hundred acres of ara-
ble land may be considered as permanent.

The town of Lucerne, the capital of the canton of the same name, and
formerly in rotation with Berne and Zurich, the seat of the sessions of the

LECTURE ON SWITZERLAND. LT

Swiss Diet, is beautifully situated on the lake of the Forest cantons,
on a level piece of ground, at the point where the Reuss issues from the
lake to join the Limmat in its course to the Rhine. Lucerne, ona gala
day, presents an interesting sight to the stranger. When I saw it, the
people in holiday dress were collecting from all quarters to the lake
side; the long wooden bridges which join the different parts of the town,
and the stone-lined quays along the Reuss, were thronged with people
pressing toward the same point. The women from the country wearing
the hair plaited on the crown of the head, or black caps with mohair
lace wings, and long plaits of hair and black ribbons falling down the
back, accompanied by men in plain attire, all speaking the harsh patois
derived from the Southern German. Even the bridge from the Abbey
had its passengers, though now few indeed in numbers, and a few Cor-
deliers were seen mingling with the throng. The windows of the tall
houses near the wharf presented an array of the notables of Lucerne,
and even some members of the diet might be pointed out to the stranger.
The bells were ringing at intervals, and cannon pointed toward the
lake were prepared for a salute. The American smiles complacently
when told the cause of all this circumstance. The first steamboat navi-
gating the lake is expected on its first return trip from Altdorf, and
even now may be seen rounding a neighboring point. The excitement
inereases as the wonderful boat approaches, and we are carried in im-
agination back to the days of 1807, when New York poured out its popu-
lation to greet the return of the first adventure of the great Fulton.
No doubt now mingles, as then it did, with expectation, and amid the
hoarse noise of loud German exclamations and hurrahs, and the discharge
of artillery, the boat approaches. It is wonderful to see how at once
the art of managing the vessel has been acquired! How imitative a
creature manis! The captain is mounted upon the wheel-guard directing
the pilot and engineer with his hand. The headway is checked judi-
ciously, and now the boat nears the wharf. With what precision and
skill this maneuvre is executed for the first time! The thought is hardly
complete, when rising loud and clear above the hoarse gutturals of the
mob, comes to do away all mystery, to explain the whole, in good home-
spun English, the well-known ery of ‘Stop her!” The engine was
built in England, put up by Englishmen, and is now managed in its first
trial by them; and thus the mechanics and manufacturers of that great
nation lay not only Switzerland, but all the continent of Hurope, under
contribution, as a return for the money spent abroad by her travelers.
The Swiss Confederacy is, politically considered, even a weaker gov-
ernment than ours was under the old Articles of Confederation; at all
events weaker for every purpose not merely military. The act of con-
federation now in force dates from 1815, and all the attempts made
since its adoption to modify it so as to produce a stronger government,
by cementing the union more closely, have failed. The cantonal spirit
resists the least encroachments upon its independence. The act of con-
158 LECTURE ON SWITZERLAND.

federation guarantees to each canton its liberty, its independence, its
safety from foreign aggression, and peace and tranquillity within. To
maintain this guarantee and to preserve the armed neutrality of Switzer-
land, a contingent of 35,000 men and $140,000 is required from the can-
tons in proportion to their population and other circumstances,
The modified constitution declared every Swiss to be a soldier, express-
ing only what is the fact, the military spirit being kept constantly
alive from the belief that it is essential to the independence of the coun-
try. In case of the invasion of a canton, or of violence against the
actual government, the confederation is bound, upon a summons, to
an armed intervention; and, in case of necessity, a neighboring canton
may lend its aid. This provision has been a fertile source of difficulty,
for on the one hand the cantons claim the right of revolution, and, on
the other, the diet that of intervention. The cantons have no right to
form leagues with each other. No privileged classes may be established
in any of them. The transit of articles of merchandise and manu-
factures, and of the necessaries of life, through the different cantons is
guaranteed. Such are the leading articles of the constitution.

The diet is the highest authority of the confederacy, and consists of
deputies from the twenty-two cantons, who vote, unless specially in-
vested with discretionary power, according to instructions derived from
the cantonal governments. Wach canton has one vote in the diet. The
regular meetings of this body are held yearly, and the senior deputy of
the canton where the meeting is held presides. Executive power during
the recess of the diet may be vested in the authorities of the canton
where the meeting of the year is to be held, or in a special executive
council. The diet declares war and makes treaties of peace and alliance;
such measures requiring a majority of three-fourths of the votes.*

In the summer of 1837 the diet met at Lucerne. The stormy session
of the year before at Berne, in which they had borne themselves so gal-
lantly in opposition to the demands of France, was still fresh in the
recollection; but with the adjustment of the difficulties the excitement
produced by them had subsided. On that occasion it was said that
Switzerland had spoken even in a boasting tone, or, in the language of
the French jonrnalists, as if she were a first-rate power instead of a
fourth. The national feeling which dictated this tone may be explained
and felt by the remark of Professor Monnard, of Vaud, by whom the

* The foregoing remarks apply to the political condition of the Swiss Confederation
previous to the 12th of September, 1848, when the revised federal constitution now in
force was adopted. This instrument is very similar to that of the United States, onlz
paying somewhat more deference to states rights, and vesting the executive power in
a cabinet (federal council) elected by congress in joint session, the chairman whereof
being denominated President of Switzerland. Tho legislative authority is vested in a
federal assembly, (congress,) composed of a national council (house of representatives)
and a staenderath or States council, (senate ;) the supreme court and executive au-
thority being both elected by the federal assembly or congress, in joint session, in which
is vested the supreme power of the land. Berne is the permanent capital.

LECTURE ON SWITZERLAND. 139

threatening language was spoken, “we cannot recognize a first-rate and
a second-rate national honor.”

There is still something of the “ feudalism of democracy,” as a dis-
tinguished author has called it, in the ceremonies of the diet, walking
in procession to their hall where their deliberations take place, wearing
cloaks embroided with the arms of their cantons, and even of more than
one coler, received by double rows of guards, and deliberating with
swords by their sides. The antiquated costumes are destined to disap-
pear with many feudal forms, but the delegates from those cantons, the
democratic, where the least change has taken place in their institutions,
are wedded to their old garments as well as to the old constitution. In
the hall of meeting twenty-one seats are arranged about an oval table
for the senior representatives, the president having his seat at the one
extremity of the table, and the consulting deputies occupying small
tables in the rear. The members do not rise when addressing the chair,
which has an awkward effect, and must be embarrassing to the lively
delegates of the Italian and French cantons; but all minor embarrass-
ments yield to that of the use of three different languages, the French, Ger-
man, and Italian, by members from the different cantons, while a major-
ity of the deputies understand but one. <A glance at these representa-
tives will illustrate the difficulties of forming a Swiss union. What has
the man of Tessin really in common with him of Geneva? Theoneisa
Roman Catholic, the other a Calvinist; the one a republican of the most
democratic school, the other an aristocrat by principle, and perhaps by
birth; the one is from a rough pastoral or agricultural district, the other
from a city where the more refined mechanic arts flourish; the one from
a sinall community, all the members of which are nearly equal in the
means of life and in education, the other from a town where wealth and
education are very unequally distributed ; the one in speech an Italian,
the other a Frenchman. Again, what has the educated and polished
professcr of Lausanne, or the merchant and banker of Basle, in common
with the peasant of Appenzele or the shepherd of Uri? With all these
diversities they are brought together in part by a sentiment—the love
of liberty ; in part by a necessity—that of mutual defense. The progress
of the cantons in education and the arts of life will doubtless draw their
bonds gradually closer, and to have attempted a union in 1832 is to
have laid the basis for it at some other time. Meanwhile the confeder-
ation, if it does not directly aid the cantons in their career of improve-
ment, at least goes far to guarantee the continuation of that peace which
is essential to progress.

Let us turn our backs upon the mountains, to glance merely, for that
is all that can be attempted, at Zurich, one of the cantons of the plain,
if any part of Switzerland can be called a plain; one of the farthest
advanced of all in the mechanic arts, manufactures, education, and good
government. Here the republican change was brought about in 1830,
by a simple change of administration, the council not being required to
140 LECTURE ON SWITZERLAND.

abdicate as at Berne, and up to this time a struggle for power goes on
between the partisans of a former order of things and the clergy against
the new order, ‘and, from time to time, one or the other influence pre-
yails. The canton, meanwhile, steadily advances. Suffrage is univer-
sal; the right to vote beginning at twenty years of age.

The progress of the canton since the new order of things may be best
illustrated by a few facts. The press is free, the legislative, executive,
and judicial departments have been separated, public instruction has
been set forth as one of the first duties of the state, and invasion of
domicile has been declared unlawful. To these intellectual improve-
ments may be added physical or material ones; good roads have been
made throughout the canton and stage coaches put upon them, so that
instead of ten or twelve people leaving Zurich, or entering it, per day,
there are now one hundred and ten. The poor tax is at the rate of but
5 cents per annum for each citizen inhabiting the canton; the church
rate 18 cents; and the expense of the civil list 20 cents. Finally the
revenue in 1832 exceeded the expenditure by $100,000, ana this surplus
has been devoted to the cause of material and intellectual improvement.

From the hasty and imperfect glance which we have now taken to-
gether of republican Switzerland, what conclusion may we draw as to
the capacity of the principle which connects these people, to produce
their happiness, their moral, intellectual, and physical improvement?

In the distance which separates us from them the minuter shades of
character are lost. We do not discern the men of Geneva, of Vaud, of
Berne, and of Zurich, but the men of Switzerland. Standing out from the
picture, like the lofty summits of their own mountain chains, are the
prominent characteristics of the people. Frugality, perseverance, hardy
enterprise, high moral and religious feeling, lofty patriotism; these are
the characteristics of the Swiss nation.

Hiow far these noble qualities are the result of their political institu-
tions, or whether the institutions owe their origin to these very qualities
of the people, it is needless to inquire, since what greater praise can be
awarded than the truth, that the institutions of Switzerland are in har-
mony with the free spirit of the people, and the spirit of the people with
their noble republican institutions.

ON A PHYSICAL OBSERVATORY.

By Pror. JosrrH HENRY.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,
Washington, December 29, 1870. -

My DEAR Sir: Yours of the 28th of November was duly received, but
I delayed answering it until the pressure of business which accumulated
during my absence should have somewhat subsided, and, also, that I
might receive the plans which you mention. I am now gratified in
being able to inform you that my visit to Europe was both pleasant
and profitable, and that I have returned much improved in health and
with enlarged views as to the present state of science in the Old World.

While abroad I gave special attention to physical observatories, of
which there are several in England and on the continent, although
there is no one which fully realizes my idea of what such an establish-
ment ought to be.

A physical observatory is one the primary object of which is to in-
vestigate the physical phenomena of the earth and the heavenly bodies
in contradistinction to an ordinary astronomical observatory, which is
principally devoted to the cbservation and discussion of the motions of
the planets, and the determination of the relative positions of the fixed
stars. Of the latter kind but one or two are needed in any country,
and as these require a numerous corps of observers and computers they
can only be supported by appropriations annually from a national gov-
ernment. The United States Observatory at Washington is of this
character, and, including all expenses, requires an annual appropriation
of at least $59,000. The labors of such an observatory are indispens-
able to the advancement of the science of theoretical astronomy, and its
application to geodesy and geography.

The establishment I would advise you to found is of the character of
the one first mentioned, namely, a physical observatory, the principal
object of which would be, as I have indicated, to investigate the nature
and changes of the constitution of the heavenly bodies; to study the

rarious emanations from these in comparison with the results of experi-
ments, and to record and investigate the different phenomena which are
included under the general term of terrestrial physics.

A wide field has been opened for the study ef the nature of the sun
and other heavenly bodies by the application of the spectroscope, dif-
ferent modifications of the telescope, and other lately invented appliances.
We now know that thesunis undergoing remarkable changes, the charac-
ter of which can only be ascertained by the results of accurate observa-
tions compared with those of experimental investigation. The observer
P42 ON A PHYSICAL OBSERVATORY.

should divide his attention between the phenomena revealed by a criti-
eal and continued examination of the sun and the production of similar
phenomena in the laboratory. In this way European investigators have
arrived at most interesting results.

Again, we know that the emanations from the sun, and probably
from the stars, differ essentially in character. There is, first, the ema
nation known as light, which of itself consists of various rays, which
generally indicate the incandescence of substances, which give the
sensation of different colors, and those which, in their ordinary condition,
are imperceptible to the eye, but which may be perceived by that organ
after they have passed through certain liquids; next, the heat emana-
tion, which is also of different kinds; then the chemical emanation, by
which photographic impressions are produced; and, lastly, the phospho-
rogenic emanation, which abounds also in the electric discharge, and
which produces the glow of the diamond and the luminosity of the com-
pounds of lime, barium, and other substances with sulphur. To study
these or other emanations as they may appear in the fixed stars, or are
reflected from the moon and planets, or as they may be found in the
aurora borealis, the zodiacal light, and in shcoting-stars or larger mete
ors, requires peculiar instruments, and such as are not found, at present,
in ordinary astronomical observatories. Tor example, the celestial phe
nomena which address themselves to the sense of sight are studied by
means of refracting telescopes, as are, also, those of the photographie
ray, although this requires a peculiar form of lens, while the heat-ray
of lower intensity and the phosphorogenic ray are not transmitted by
glass; the former is readily converged to a focus by a lens of rock-salt,
and the latter by one of quartz. They may all, however, as in the case
of light, be concentrated into foci by metallic reflectors.

In regard to terrestrial physics, the phenomena are also various, and
the forces by which they are produced are constantly changing both in
intensity and, in some cases, in direction. We now know that the
magnetism of the earth scarcely remains the same from one moment to
another, and that these changes are connected with the appearance of
the aurora borealis and electrical discharges in the atmosphere. They,
also, in all probability, may ultimately be referred to disturbances pro-
duced by external influences, such as those from the sun, moon, and
planets. JI*urthermore, we may now consider the whole earth as an
immense conductor charged with negative electricity, of which the
intensity is in a continued state of change, and of which a knowledge of
the laws, as well as those of the changes of magnetism, is highly desira-
ble. For the proper study of these, continuous self-recording instru-
ments are necessary.

There is also an important field of observation in regard to ordinary
meteorology, such as the changes of the pressure of the atmosphere,
and its connection with other phenomena; of the normal and abnormal
winds; isolated currents of the atmosphere, and especiaily those of a

ON A PHYSICAL OBSERVATORY. 143

vertical direction; the radiation of heat from clouds and different ter-
restrial surfaces; the variation of its intensity In ascending above and
penetrating below the surface of the earth, &c. In short, the field is
almost boundless, and every year reveals new facts in terrestrial and
celestial physics, which never fail to furnish new points for investigation
to those who are qualified by education and endowed by nature for
their proper appreciation.,

The conductor of an observatory, such as I have mentioned, to be
successful, must have peculiar characteristics. He must possess a
minute knowledge of all the latest discoveries in physics, a keen eye to
detect new appearances, imagination to suggest hypothetical causes,
logical power to deduce consequences from these to be tested by obser-
vation or experiment, and ingenuity to devise apparatus for verifying
or disproving his deductions. When such a man is found he should be
consecrated to science and fully furnished with all the implements
necessary for the prosecution of his researches, those of physics as well
as of astronomy, and himself and family placed beyond all anxiety as to
the supply of their necessary wants. It may not be amiss to combine
with his studies and duties, in the way of research, a small amount of
lecturing—just enough by sympathetic communieation with admiring
pupils to fan, as it were, his enthusiasm, and to impart a portion of it to
others. He should also have at his command a skillful workman, who,
under his direction, could construct the temporary apparatus which are
constantly required in original research. It is also important that he
be associated with the faculty of a well-endowed college or university,
to which he will become an important acquisition both in regard to the
reputation which he will give to the institution, and the effect he will
have on the other members of the faculty in the way of stimulating
them to higher efforts. In such an association he can call for the codp-
eration of the professors, and especially that of the physicist, the
chemist, and the mathematician.

One of the most important points, perhaps, to which I should call
your attention is that of the building to be erected, since, from the ten-
dency to error in this line, more injury has resulted to publie institn-
tions in this country than from any other cause. It should be recollected
that “money is power;” that every dollar possesses a definite amount of
potential energy, as it were, which can always command intellectual or
physical labor. But money asa power is unlike all other kinds of power,
in that it is, by judicious investment, capable of yielding a constant
supply of energy, in the way of interest, without diminishing the origi-
nal amount. lt is, therefore, in the highest degree injudicious in the
founding of an establishment to exhaust the source of its power by
architectural displays not absolutely required, and which may forever
involve a continual expense from the remaining funds to keep them in
repair. As a general rule, the buildings of educational or scientific in-
stitutions should be gradually evolved from the experience and wants
144 / ON A PHYSICAL OBSERVATORY.
!

of the establishment, and not, as is too frequently the case, from a@ priori
misconceptions of those who have no adequate idea of the uses to which
the structure is to be applied. It should be impressed upon the public
that buildings do not constitute an institution, and that reputation and
usefulness in science do not flow from visible and tangible manifesta-
tions, but are the immaterial fruit produced by the spirit of an organiza-
tion. I trust’that millions of human beings yet unborn will be familiar
with the intellectual results of your observatory, although a single in-
quiry may never be made as to the style of the building in which these
results have been produced.

My advice, then, would be: first, if possible, that the right man be
procured for director; secondly, that the principal instruments be con-
structed under his supervision ; and, thirdly, that the operations be com-
menced in an inexpensive wooden building, which will be found better
in many respects for physical and astronomical observations than one
of stone and brick. The instruments could be insured, I should think,
at a small premium, and in that case, if destroyed by fire, might be re-
placed by others embracing the improvements which may have been
suggested in the mean time.

As an illustration of what I have just said in regard to the building,
I may mention that in a visit to Mr. Lockyer I found him carrying on a
series of observations which have challenged the admiration of the world
in a temporary structure made of rough boards, unplastered, and
searcely including a space of fifteen feet square.

As to the location of your observatory, you will infer from what I
have said that I think it important to connect it with some well-endowed
and well-established college or university.

; JOSEPH HENRY,

Secretary Smithsonian Institution.
To aaa Se

THE HISTORY OF MY YOUTH: AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF FRANCIS ARAGO.

[To keep up the series of publications of eulogies of distinguished men, which has
been a special feature of the Appendix to the Smithsonian Reports, the following auto-
biography and the eulogies of Herschel and Vourier are copied from the volume, now
out of print, of the translations by the late Admiral Smyth, the late Rev. Baden
Powell, and Prof. Grant, from the works of Arago.—J. H]

Ihave not the foolish vanity to imagine that any one, even a short
time hence, will have the curiosity to find out how my first education
was given, and how my mind was developed; but some biographers,
writing off-hand and without authority, having given details on this
subject utterly incorrect, and of a nature to imply negligence on the part
of my parents, I consider myself bound to put them right.

I was born on the 26th of February, 1786, in the commune of Estagel,
an ancient province of Roussillon, (department of the Eastern Pyrenees.)
My father, a licentiate in law, had some little property in arable land, in
vineyards, and in plantations of olive trees, the income from which sup-,
ported his numerous family,

I was thus three years old in 1789, four years old in 1790, five years
in 1791, six years in 1792, and seven years old in 1793, &e.

The reader has now himself the means of judging whether, as has
been said, and even stated in print, I had a hand in the excesses of our
first revolution.

My parents sent me to the primary school in Estagel, where I learned
the rudiments of reading and writing. I received, besides, in my
father’s house, some private lessons in vocal music. I was not otherwise
either more or less advanced than other children of my age. I enter
into these details merely to show how much mistaken are those who
have printed that at the age of fourteen or fifteen years I had not yet
learned to read. |

Kstagel was a halting place for a portion of the troops who, coming
from the interior, either went on to Rerpignan, or repaired direct to the
army of the Pyrenees. My parents’ house was therefore constantly full
of officers and soldiers. This, joined to the lively excitement which the
Spanish invasion had preduced within me, inspired me with such de-
cided military tastes that my family was obliged to have me narrowly
watched to prevent my joining by stealth the soldiers who left Estagel.
It often happened that they caught me at a league’s distance from the
village, already on my way with the troops.

On one occasion these warlike tastes had nearly cost me dear. It was
the night of the battle of Peires-Tortes. The Spanish troops in their
retreat had partly mistaken their road. I was in the square of the vyil-

10s
146 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF FRANCIS ARAGO,

lage before daybreak. I saw a brigadier and five troopers come up,
who, at the sight of the tree of liberty, called out, ‘‘ Somos perdidos !’'
J ran immediately to the house to arm myself with a lance which had
been left there by a soldier of the levée en masse, and placing myself in
ambush atthe corner of a street, I struck with a blow of this weapon
the brigadier placed at the head of the party. The wound was not dan-
gerous. A cut of the saber, however, was descending to punish my
hardihood, when some countrymen came to my aid, and, armed with
forks, overturned the five cavaliers from their saddles, and made them
prisoners. I was then seven years oid.*

My father having gone to reside at Perpignan, as treasurer of the
mint, all the family quitted Estagel to follow him there. I was then
placed as an outdoor pupil at the municipal college of the town, where
I occupied myself almost exclusively with my literary studies. Our
classic authors had become the objects of my favorite reading. But the
direction of my ideas became changed all at once by a singular circum-
stance which I will relate.

Walking one day on the ramparts of the town, I saw an officer of en-
gineers who was directing the execution of the repairs. This officer,
M. Cressac, was very young. I had the hardihood to approach him and
to ask him how he had succeeded in so soon wearing an epaulette. “I
come from the Polytechnic School,” he answered. ‘ What school is
that?” “It isa school which one enters by an examination.” ‘Is much
expected of the candidates?” ‘ You will see it in the programme which
the government sends every year to the departmental administration ;
you will find it moreover in the numbers of the journal of the school,
which are in the library of the central school.”

Iran at once to the library, and there, for the first time, I read the
programme of the knowledge required in the candidates.

From this moment I abandoned the classes of the central school, where
I was taught to admire Corneille, Racine, La Fontaine, Moliére, and
attended only the mathematical course. This course was intrusted to
a retired ecclesiastic, the Abbé Verdier, a very respectable man, but
whose knowledge went no farther than the elementary course of La
Caille. I saw at a glance that M. Verdier’s lessons would not be suffi-
cient to secure my admission to the Polytechnic School; I therefore
decided on studying by myself the newest works, which I sent for from
Paris. These were those of Legendre, Lacroix, and Garnier. In going
through these works I often met with difficulties which exceeded my
powers; happily, strange though it be, and perhaps without example in
all the rest of France, there was a proprietor at Estagel, M. Raynal, who
made the study of the higher mathematics his recreation. It was in his
kitchen, while giving orders to numerous domestics for the labors of

* With such precocious heroism it is by no means so clear that the author might not
have had a hand in the revolution, from which he endeavors above to exculpate him-
self.

AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF FRANCIS ARAGO. 147

the next day, that M. Raynal read with advantage the “ Hydraulic Archi.
tecture” of Prony, the “ Mécanique Analytique,” and the “ Mécanique
Céleste.”. This excellent man often gave me useful advice; but I must
say that I found my real master in the cover of M. Garnier’s “ Treatise
on Algebra.” This cover consisted of a printed leaf, on the outside of
which blue paper was pasted. The reading of the page not covered
made me desirous to know what the blue paper hid from me. I took off
this paper carefully, having first damped it, and was able to read under-
neath it the advice given by d’Alembert to a young man who communi-
cated to him the difficulties which he met with in his studies: “ Go on,
sir, go on, and conviction will come to you.”

This gave me a gleam of light; instead of persisting in attempts to
comprehend at first sight the propositions before me, I admitted their
truth provisionally. I went on farther, and was quite surprised, on the
morrow, that I comprehended perfectly what over-night appeared to m
to be encompassed with thick clouds.

I thus made myself master, in a year and a half, of all the subjects
contained in the programme for admission, and I went to Montpellier
to undergo the examination. Iwas then sixteen years of age. M.Monge,
jr., the examiner, was detained at Toulouse by indisposition, and wrote
to the candidates assembled at Montpellier that he would examine them
in Paris. I was myself too unwell to undertake so long a journey, and
I returned to Perpignan.

There I listened for a moment to the solicitations of my family, who
pressed me to renounce the prospects which the Polytechnic School
opened. But my taste for mathematical studies soon carried the day.
Tincreased my library with Euler’s “Introduction a Analyse Infinitési-
male,” with the “‘ Résolution des Equations Numériques,” with Lagrange’s
“Théorie des Fonctions Analytiques,” and “ Mécanique Analytique,” and
finally with Laplace’s ‘“ Mécanique Céleste.” I gave myself up with great
ardor to the study of these books. From the journal of the Polytechnic
School, containing such investigations as those of M. Poisson on Elimi-
nation, I imagined that all the pupils were as much advanced as this
geometer, and that it would be necessary to rise to this height to sue-
ceed.

From this moment I prepared myself for the artillery service, the
aim of my ambition; and as I had heard that an officer ought to under-
stand music, fencing, and dancing, I devoted the first hours of each day
to the cultivation of these accomplishments.

The rest of the time I was seen walking in the moats of the citadel of
Perpignan, seeking by more or less forced transitions to pass from one
question to another, so as to be sure of being able to show the examiner
how far my studies had been carried.*

*Méchain, member of the Academy of Sciences and of the Institute, was charged
in 1792 with the prolongation of the measure of the arc of the meridian in Spain, as far
as Barcelona.

During his operations in the Pyrenees, in 1794, he had known my father, who was

e
148 AUTOBICGRAPHY OF FRANCIS ARAGO.

At last the moment of examination arrived, and I went to Toulouse
in company with a candidate who had studied at the public college. It
was the first time that pupils from Perpignan had appeared at the com-
petition. My intimidated comrade was completely discomfited. When
i repaired after him to the board, a very singular conversation took
place between M. Monge, the examiner, and me.

“Tf you are going to answer like your comrade, it is useless for me
to question you.”

‘Sir, my comrade knows much more than he has shown; I hope I
shall be more fortunate than he; but what you have just said to me
might well intimidate me and deprive me of all my powers.”

““Timidity is always the excuse of the ignorant; it is to save you
from the shame of a defeat that I make you the proposal of not exam-
ining you.”

‘“T| know of no greater shame than that which you now inflict upon
me. Will you be so good as to question me? Itis your duty.”

‘‘ You carry yourself very high, sir; we shall see presently whether
this be a legitimate pride.”

‘‘ Proceed, sir; I wait for you.”

M. Monge then put to me a geometrical question, which I answered
in such a way as to diminish his prejudices. Irom this he passed on to
a question in algebra, to the resolution of a numerical equation. I had
the work of Lagrange at my fingers’ ends; I analyzed all the known
methods, pointing out their advantages and defects; Newton’s method,
the method of recurring series, the method of depression, the method
of continued fractions; all were passed in review; the answer had
lasted an entire hour. Monge, brought over now to feelings of great
kindness, said to me, “I could, from this moment, consider the exam-
ination at an end. I will, however, for my own pleasure, ask you two
more questions. What are the relations of a curved line to the straight
line which isa tangent toit?” Ilooked upon this question as a particular

one of the administrators of thedepartment of the Eastern Pyrenees. Later, in 1&03,
when the question was agitated as to the continuation of the measure of the meridian
line as far as the Balearic Islands, M. Méchain went again to Perpignan, and came to
pay my father a visit. As I was about setting off to undergo the examination for ad-
mission at the Polytechnic School, my father ventured to ask him whether he could
not recommend me to M. Monge. ‘“ Willingly,” answered he; “but, with the frank-
ness which is my characteristic, I ought not to leave you unaware that it appears to
me improbable that your son, left to himself, can have rendered himself completely
master of the subjects of which the programme consists. If, however, he be admitted
let him be destined for the artillery or for the engineers. The career of the sciences of
which you have talked to me is really too difficult to go through, and, unless he had
a special calling for it, your son would only find it deceptive.” Anticipating a little
the order of dates, let us compare this advice with what occurred. I went to Tou-
louse, underwent the examination, and was admitted. One year and a half afterward
I filled the situation of secretary at the Observatory, which had become vacant by the
resignation of M. Méchain’s son. One year and a half later, that is to say, four years
after the Perpignan “ horoscope,” associated with M. Biot, I filled the place, in Spain,
ot the celebrated academician who had died there, a victim to his labors.

AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF FRANCIS ARAGO. 149

ease of the theory of osculations which I had studied in Lagrange’s
“Fonctions Analytiques.” “Finally,” said the examiner to me, “how
do you determine the tension of the various cords of which a funicular
machine is composed?” I treated this problem according to the method
expounded in the “ Mécanique Analytique.” It was clear that Lagrange
had supplied all the resources of my examination.

I had been two hours and a quarter at the board. M. Monge, going
from one extreme to the other, got up, came and embraced me, and sol-
emnly declared that I should occupy the first place on his list. Shall [
confess it?. During the examination of my comrade I had heard the
Toulousian candidates uttering not very favorable sarcasms on the
pupils from Perpignan; and it was principally for the sake of reparation
to my native town that M. Monge’s behavior and declaration trans-
ported me with joy.

Having entered the Polytechnic School, at the end of 1803 I was
placed in the excessively boisterous brigade of the Gascons and Britons.
I should have much liked to study thoroughly physics and chemistry,
of which I did not even know the first rudiments; but the behavior of
my companions rarely left me any time for it. As for analysis, I had,
already, before entering the Polytechni¢ School, learned much more than
was required for leaving it.

I have just related the strange words which M. Monge, jr., addressed
to me at Toulouse in commencing my examination for admission.’
Something analogous occurred at the opening of my examination
in mathematics for passing from one division of the school to another.
The examiner, this time, was the illustrious geometer Legendre, of
whom, a few years after, I had the honor of becoming the colleague and
the friend.

T entered his study at the moment when M. T , who was to undergo
his examination before me, having fainted away, was being carried out
in the arms of two servants. I thought that this circumstance would
have moved and softened M. Legendre; but it had no such effect.
“What is your name,” he said to me sharply. “Arago,” I answered.
‘You are not French, then?” ‘If Iwas not French I should not be
before you; for I have never heard of any one being admitted into the
school unless his nationality had been proved.” “TI maintain that he is
not French whose name is Arago.” ‘I maintain, on my side, that Iam
French, and a very good Frenchman, too, however strange my name
may appear to you.” ‘ Very well; we will not discuss the point farther;
go to the board.”

I had seareely taken up the chalk, when M. Legendre, returning to
the first subject of his preoccupations, said to me: ‘ You were born in
one of the departments recently united to France?” ‘No, sir; I was
born in the department of the Eastern Pyrenees, at the foot of the
Pyrenees.” “Oh! why did you not tell ne that at once? Allis now
explained. You are of Spanish origin are you not?” ‘ Possibly; but

150 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF FRANCIS ARAGO.

in my humble family there are no authentic documents preserved which
could enable me to trace back the civil position of my ancestors. Hach
one there is the child of his own deeds. I declare to you again that I
am French, and that ought to be sufficient for you.”

The vivacity of this last answer had not disposed M. Legendre in my
favor. I saw this very soon; for, having put a question to me which
required the use of double integrals, he stopped me, saying: ‘The
method which you are following was not given to you by the professor.
Whence did you get it?” ‘From one of your papers.” “ Why did
you choose it?) Was it to bribe me?” ‘No; nothing was farther from
my thoughts. I only adopted it because it appeared te me preferable.”
‘Tf you are unable to explain to me the reasons for your preference,
I declare to you that you shall receive a bad mark, at least as to
character.”

I then entered upon the details which established, as I thought, that
the method of double integrals was in all points more clear and more
rational than that which Lacroix bad expounded to us in the amphi-
theater. From this moment Legendre appeared to me to be satisfied,
and to relent.

Afterward, he asked me to determine the center of gravity of a spher-
ical sector. “The question is easy,” I said to him. ‘Very well; since
you find it easy, I will complicate it; instead of supposing the density
constant, I will suppose that it varies from the center to the surface
according to a determined function.” I got through this caleulation
very happily; and from this moment I had entirely gained the favor of
the examiner. Indeed, on my retiring, he addressed to me these words,
which, coming from him, appeared to my comrades as a very favorable
augury for my chance of promotion: 1 see that you have employed your
time well; go on in the same way the second year, and we shall part
very good friends.”

In the mode of examination adopted at the Polytechnic School in 1804,
which is always cited as being better than the present organization, room
was allowed for the exercise of some unjustifiable caprices. Would it
be believed, for example, that the old M. Barruel examined two pupils
at a time in physics, and gave them, it is said, the same mark, which
was the mean between the actual merits of the two? For my part, I
was associated with a comrade full of intelligence, but who had not
studied this branch of the course. We agreed that he should leave the
answering to me, and we found the arrangement advantageous to both.

As I have been led to speak of the school as it was in 1804, I will say
that its faults were less those of organization than those of personal
management; for many of the professors were much below their office,
a fact which gave rise to somewhat ridiculous scenes. The pupils, for
instance, having observed the insufficiency of M. Hassenfratz, made a
demonstration of the dimensions of the rainbow, full of errors of caleu-
lation, but in which the one compensated the other so that the final

AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF FRANCIS ARAGO. T64

result was true. The professor, who had only this result whereby to
judge of the goodness of the answer, when he saw it appear on the board,
did not hesitate to call out, ‘* Good, goad, perfectly good!” which excited
shouts of laughter on all the benches of the amphitheater.

When a professor has lost consideration, without which it is impossible
for him to do well, they allow themselves to insult him to an incredible
extent. Of this I will cite a single specimen.

A pupil, M. Leboullenger, met one evening in company this same M
Hassenfratz, and had a discussion with him. When he reéntered the
school in the morning, he mentioned this circumstance to us. “Be on
your guard,” said one of our comrades to him; “you will be interrogated
this evening. Play with caution, for the professor has certainly pre-
pared some great difficulties so as to cause laughter at your expense.”

Our anticipations were not mistaken. Scarcely had the pupils arrived
in the amphitheater, when M. Hassenfratz called to M. Leboullenger,
who came to the board.

““M. Leboullenger,” said the professor to him, “you have seen the
moon?” “No, sir.” ‘How, sir! you say that you have never seen the
moon?” “Tecan only repeat my answer—no, sir.” Beside himself, and
seeing his prey escape him, by means of this unexpected answer, M.
Hassentratz addressed himself to the inspector charged with the obsery-
ance of order that day, and said to him, “ Sir, there is M. Leboullenger,
who pretends never to have seen the moon.” ‘What would you wish
me to do?” stoically replied M. Le Brun. Repulsed on this side, the pro-
fessor turned once more toward M. Leboullenger, who remained calm
and earnest in the midst of the unspeakable amusement of the whole
amphitheater, and eried out with undisguised anger, “You persist in
maintaining that you have never seen the moon?” ‘ Sir,” returned the
pupil, “I should deceive you if I told you that I had not heard it spoken
of, but I have never seen it.” “Sir, return to your place.”

After this scene, M. Hassenfratz was but a professor in name; his
teaching could not longer be of any use.

At the commencement of the second year I was appointed “chef de
brigade.” Hatchette had been professor of hydrography at Collioure ;
his friends from Roussillon recommended me to him. He received me
with great kindness, and even gave me a room in his lodgings. It was
there that I had the pleasure of making Poisson’s acquaintance, who
lived next tous. Every evening the great geometer entered my room,
and we passed entire hours in conversing on politics and mathematics,
which is certainly not quite the same thing.

In the course of 1804 the school was a prey to political passions, and
that through the fault of the government.

They wished forthwith to oblige the pupils to sign an address of con-
gratulation on the discovery of the conspiracy in which Moreau was
implicated. They refused to do so on the ground that it was not for
them to pronounce on a cause which had been in the hands «f justice.
152 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF FRANCIS ARAGO.

It must, however, be remarked, that Moreau had not yet dishonored
himself by taking service in the Russian army, which had come to attack
the French under the walls of Dresden.

The pupils were invited to make a manifestation in favor of the insti-
tution of the Legion of Honor. This again they refused. They knew
well that the cross, given without inquiry and without control, would
be, in most cases, the recompense of charlatanism, and not of true
merit.

The transformation of the consular into the imperial government gave
rise to very animated discussions in the interior of the school.

Many pupils refused to add their felicitations to the mean adulations
of the constituted bodies.

General Lacuée, who was appointed governor of the school, reported
this opposition to the Emperor.

‘““M. Lacuée,” cried Napoleon, in the midst of a group of courtiers,
who applauded with speech and gesture, “you cannot retain at the
school those pupils who have shown such ardent republicanism; you
will send them away.” Then, collecting himself, he added, ‘I will first
know their names and their stages of promotion.” Seeing the list the
next day, he did not proceed further than the first name, which was the
first in the artillery. ‘I will not drive away the first men in advance-
ment,” said he. “Ah! if they had been at the bottom of the list! M.
Lacuée, leave them alone.”

Nothing was more curious than the séance to which General Lacuée
came to receive the oath of obedience from the pupils. In the vast
amphitheater which contained them, one could not discern a trace of
the gravity which such a ceremony should inspire.. The greater part,
instead of answering, at the call of their names, “I swear it,” cried out,
‘“¢ Present.”

All at once, the monotony of this scene was interrupted by a pupil,
son of the Conventionalist Brissot, who called out in a stentorian voice,
‘‘T will not take the oath of obedience to the Emperor.” Lacuée, pale,
and with little presence of mind, ordered a detachment of armed pupils
placed behind him to go and arrest the recusant. The detachment, of
which I was at the head, refused to obey. Brissot, addressing himself
to the General, with the greatest calmness said to him, “ Point out
the place to which you wish me to go; do not force the pupils to dis-
honor themselves by laying hands on a comrade who has no desire to
resist.”

The next morning Brissot was expelled.

About this time, M. Méchain, who had been sent to Spain to prolong
the meridional line as far as Formentera, died at Castellon de la Plana.
His son, secretary at the observatory, immediately gave in his resigna-
tion. Poisson offered me the situation. I declined his first proposal.
I did not wish to renounce the military career, the object of all my pre-
dilections, and in which, morever, I was assured of the protection of

AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF FRANCIS ARAGO. 153

Marshal Lannes, a friend of my father’s. Nevertheless I accepted, on
trial, the position offered me in the observatory, after a visit which I
made to M. de Laplace in company with M. Poisson, under the express
condition that I could reénter the artillery if that should suit me. It
was from this cause that my name remained inscribed on the list of the
pupils of the school. I was only detached to the observatory on a
special service.

I entered this establishment, then, on the nomination of Poisson, iny
friend, and through the intervention of Laplace. The latter’ loaded me
with civilities. I was happy and proud when I dined in the Rue de
Tournon with the great geometer. My mind and my heart were much
disposed to admire all, to respect all, that was connected with him who
had discovered the cause of the secular equation of the moon, had found
in the movement of this planet the means of calculating the ellipticity
of the earth, had traced to the laws of attraction the long inequalities
of Jupiter and of Saturn, &c., &c. But what was my disenchantment
when one day I heard Madame de Laplace, approaching her husband,
say to him, ‘¢ Will you intrust to me the key of the sugar.”

Some days afterward, a second incident affected me still more vividly.
M. de Laplace’s son was preparing for the examinations of the Poly-
technic School. He came sometimes to see me at the observatory. In
one of his visits I explained to him the method of continued fractions,
by help of which Lagrange obtains the roots of numerical equations.
The young man spoke of it to his father with admiration. I shail never
forget the rage which followed the words of Emile de Laplace, and the
severity of the reproaches which were addressed to me, for having pat-
ronized a mode of proceeding which may be very long in theory, but
which evidently can in no way be found fault with on the score of its
elegance and precision. Never had a jealous prejudice shown itself
more openly, or under a more bitter form. “Ah!” said [ to myself,
‘‘how true was the inspiration of the ancients when they atiributed
weaknesses to him who nevertheless made Olympus tremble by a frown.”

Here I should mention, in order of time, a circumstance which might
have produced the most fatal consequences for me. The fact was this:

I have described above, the scene which caused the expulsion of
| Brissot’s son from the Polytechnic School. I had entirely lost sight of
him for several months, when he came to pay me a visit at the obser
| vatory, and placed me in the mos delicate, the most terrible position-
that an honest man ever found himself in.

“T have not seen you,” he said to me, “because since leaving the
school I have practiced daily firing with a pistol; I have now acquired
a skill beyond the common, and I am about to employ it in ridding
France of the tyrant who has confiscated all her liberties. My measures
are taken; I have hired a small room on the Carrousel, close to the
place by which Napoleon, on coming out from the court, will pass to

154 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF FRANCIS ARAGO.

review the cavalry; from the humble window of my apartment will the
ball be fired which will go through his head.”

I leave it to be imagined with what despair I received this confidence.
I made every imaginable effort to deter Brissot from his sinister project:
Lremarked how all those who had rushed on enterprises of this nature had
been branded in history by the odious title of assassin. Nothing sue-
ceeded in shaking his fatal resolution; I only obtained from him a
promise on his honor that the execution of it should be postponed for a
time, and I put myself in quest of means for rendering it abortive.

The idea of announcing Brissot’s project to the authorities did not
even enter my thoughts. It seemed a fatality which came to smite me,
and of which I must undergo the consequences, however serious they
might be.

I counted much on the solicitations of Brissot’s mother, already so
cruelly tried during the revolution. I went to her home, in the Rue de
Condé, and implored her earnestly to codperate with me in preventing
her son from carrying out his sanguinary resolution. ‘Ah, sir,” replied
this lady, who was naturally a model of gentleness, “if Silvain” (this
was the name of her son) ‘‘ believes that he is accomplishing a patriotic
duty, I have neither the intention nor the desire to turn him from his
project.”

It was from myself that I must henceforth draw all my resources. I
had remarked that Brissot was addicted to the composition of romances
and pieces of poetry. I encouraged this passion, and every Sunday,
above all, when I knew that there would be a review, I went to fetch
him, and drew him into the country, in the environs of Paris. I listened
then complacently to the reading of those chapters of his romance
which he had composed during the week.

The first excursions frightened me a little, for,armed with his pistols,
Brissot seized every occasion of showing his great skill; and I reflected
that this circumstance would lead to my being considered as his accom-
plice, if he ever carried out his project. At last, his pretensions to
literary fame, which I flattered to the utmost, the hopes (though I had
none myself) which I led him to conceive of the success of an attach-
ment of which he had confided the secret to me, made him receive with
attention the reflections which I constantly made to him on his enter-
prise. He determined on making a journey beyond the seas, and thus
relieved me from the most serious anxiety which I have experienced in
all my life.

Brissot died after having covered the walls of Paris with printed
handbills in favor of the Bourbon restoration.

I had scarcely entered the observatory, when I became the fellow-
laborer of Biot in researches on the refraction of gases, already com-
menced by Borda.

While engaged in this work the celebrated academician and I often
conversed on the interest there would be in resuming in Spain the
AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF FRANCIS ARAGO. 155

measurement interrupted by the death of Méchain. We submitted our
project to Laplace, who received it with ardor, procured the necessary
tunds, and the government confided to us two this important mission.

M. Biot, I, and the Spanish commissary Rodriguez departed from
Paris in the commencement of 1806. We visited, on our way, the
stations indicated by Méchain, we made some important modifications
in the projected triangulation, and at once commenced operations.

An inaccurate direction given to the reflectors established at Iviza,
on the mountain Campvey, rendered the observations made on the con-
tinent extremely difficult. The light of the signal of Campvey was
very rarely seen, and I was, during six months, in the Desierto de las
Palmas, without being able to see it, while at a later period the light
established at the Desierto, but well directed, was seen every evening from
Campvey. It will easily be imagined what must be the ennwi experienced
by a young and active astronomer, confined to an elevated peak, having
for his walk only a space of twenty square meters, and for diversion
only the conversation of two Carthusians, whose convent was situated
at the foot of the mountain, and who came in secret, infringing the rule
of their order.

At the time when I write these lines, old and infirm, my legs scarcely
able to sustain me, my thoughts revert involuntarily to that epoch of
my life when, young and vigorous, I bore the greatest fatigues, and
walked day and night, in the mountainous countries which separate the
kingdoms of Valencia and Catalonia from the kingdom of Aragon, in
order to reéstablish our geodesic signals which the storms had overset.

Iwas at Valencia toward the middle of October, 1806. One morning
early the French consul entered my room quite alarmed: “ Here is sad
news,” said M. Lanusse to me; ‘‘make preparations for your departure;
the whole town is in agitation; a declaration of war against France
has just been published; it appears that we have experienced a great
disaster in Prussia. The Queen, we are assured, has put herself at the
head of the cavalry and of the royal guard; a part of the French army
has been cut to pieces; the rest is completely routed. Our lives would
not be in safety if we remained here; the I'rench ambassador at Mad-
rid will inform me as soon as an American vessel now at anchor in the
‘Grao’ of Valencia can take us on board, and I will let you know as
soon as the moment is come.” This moment never came; for a few
days afterward the false news, which one must suppose had dictated
the proclamation of the Prince of the Peace, was replaced by the bul-
letin of the battle of Jéna. People who at first played the braggart
and threatened to root us out suddenly became disgracefully cast down;
we could walk in the town, holding up our heads, without fear hence-
forth of being insulted.

This proclamation, in which they spoke of the critical cireumstances
in which the Spanish nation was placed; of the difficulties which encom-
passed this people; of the safety of their native country; of laurels,
156 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF FRANCIS ARAGO.

and of the god of victory; of enemies with whom they ought to fight—
did not contain the name of France. They availed themselves of this
omission (will it be believed?) to maintain that it was directed against
Portugal.

Napoleon pretended to believe in this absurd interpretation; but from
this moment it became evident that Spain would sooner or later be
obliged to render a strict account of the warlike intentions which she
had suddenly evinced in 1806; this, without justifying the events of
Bayonne, explains them in a very natural way.

I was expecting M. Biot at Valencia, he having undertaken to bring
some new instruments with which we were to measure the latitude of
Formentera. I shall take advantage of these short intervals of repose
to insert here some details of manners, which may, perhaps, be read
with interest.

I will recount, in the first instance, an adventure which nearly cost me
my life under somewhat singular circumstances :

One day, as a recreation, I thought I could go, with a fellow-country-
man, to the fair at Murviedro, the ancient Saguntum, which they told
me was very curious. I met in the town the daughter of a Frenchman
resident at Valencia, Mdlle. B . <All the hotels were crowded;
Mdlle. B invited us to take some refreshments at her grand-
mother’s; we accepted; but on leaving the house she informed us that
our visit had not been to the taste of her betrothed, and that we must
be prepared for some sort of attack on his part; we went directly to an
armorer’s, bought some pistols, and commenced our return to Valencia.

On our way I said to the calezero, (driver,) a man whom I had em-
ployed for a long time, and who was much devoted to me:

‘Isidro, I have some reason to believe that we shall be stopped; I
warn you of it, so that you may not be surprised at the shots which
will be fired from the caleza,” (vehicle.)

Isidro, seated on the shaft, according to the custom of the country,
answered:

‘Your pistols are completely useless, gentlemen; leave me to act;
one ery will be enough; my mule will rid us of two, three, or even four
men.”

Scarecely one minute had elapsed after the calezero had uttered these
words, when two men presented themselves before the mule and seized
her by the nostrils. At the same instant a formidable ery, which will
never be effaced from my remembrance—the ery of Capittana!—was
uttered by Isidro. The mule reared up almost vertically, raising up
one of the men, came down again, and set off at a rapid gallop. The
jolt which the carriage made led us to understand too well what had
just occurred. A long silence succeeded this incident; it was only
interrupted by these words of the calezero, ‘Do you not think, gentle-
men, that my mule is worth more than any pistols?”

The next day the Captain General, Don Domingo Izquierdo, related

AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF FRANCIS ARAGO. 157

to me that a man had been found crushed on the road to Murviedro.
I gave him an account of the prowess of Isidro’s mule, and no more
was said.

One anecdote, taken from among a thousand, will show what an
adventurous life was led by the delegate of the Bureau of Longitude.

During my stay on a mountain near Cullera, to the north of the
mouth of the river Xucar, and to the south of the Albuféra, I once con-
ceived the project of establishing a station on the high mountains
which are in front of it. I went to see them. Thealcaid of one of the
neighboring villages warned me of the danger to which I was about to
expose myself. ‘These mountains,” said he to me, “form the resort of
a band of highway robbers.” I asked for the national guard, as I had
the power to do so. My escort was supposed by the robbers to be an
expedition directed against them, and they dispersed themselves at
once over the rich plain which is watered by the Xucar. On my return
I found them engaged in combat with the authorities of Cullera.
Wounds had been given on both sides, and, if I recollect right, one
alguazil was left dead on the plain.

The next morning I regained my station. The following night was a
horrible one; the rain fell ina deluge. Toward night there was knock-
ing at my cabin door. To the question “‘ Who is there?” the answer

yas, “A custom-house guard, who asks of you a shelter for some hours.”
My servant having opened the door to him, I saw a magnificent man
enter, armed to the teeth. He laid himself down on the earth, and went
to sleep. In the morning, as I was chatting with him at the door of my
cabin, his eyes flashed on seeing two persons on the slope of the mountain,
the alcaid of Cullera and his principal alguazil, who were coming to pay
mea visit. Sir,” cried he, ‘‘nothing less than the gratitude which I
owe to you, on account of the service which you have rendered to me
this night, could prevent my seizing this occasion for ridding myself,
by one shot of this carabine, of my most cruel enemy. Adieu, sir!”
And he departed, springing from rock to rock as light as a gazelle.

On reaching the cabin, the aleaid and his alguazil recognized in the
fugitive the chief of all the brigands in the country.

Some days afterward, the weather having again become very bad,
I received a second visit from the pretended custom-house guard, who
went soundly to sleep in wy cabin. I saw that my servant, an old sol-
dier, who had heard the recital of the deeds and behavior of this man,
was preparing to kill him. I jumped down from my camp bed, and,
Seizing my servant by the throat, ‘“Are you mad?” said I to him; “are
we to discharge the duties of police in this country? Do you not see,
moreover, that this would expose us to the resentment of all those who
obey the orders of this redoubted chief? and we should thus render. it
impossible for us to terminate our operations.”

Next morning, when the sun rose, I had a conversation with my guest,
which I will try to reproduce faithfully.
158 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF FRANCIS ARAGO.

“Your situation is perfectly known to me; I know that you are not
a custom-house guard; I have learned from certain information that you
are the chief of the robbers of the country. Tell me whether I have any-
thing to fear from your confederates.” ;

“The idea of robbing you did occur to us, but we concluded that all
your funds would be in the neighboring towns; that you would carry
no money to the summit of mountains, where you would not know what
to do with it, and that our expedition against you could have no fruitful
result. Moreover, we cannot pretend to be as strong as the King of
Spain. The King’s troops leave us quietly enough to exercise our in-
dustry, but on the day that we molested an envoy from the Emperor of
the Freneh, they would direct against us several regiments, and we
should soon have to succumb. Allow me to add, that the gratitude
which I owe to you is your surest guarantee.”

‘Very well, I will trust in your words; I shall regulate my conduct
by your answer. Tell me if I can travel at night; it is fatiguing to me
to move from one station to another in the day under the burning
influence of the sun.”

“You can do so, sir; I have already given my orders to this purpose;
they will not be infringed.”

Some days afterward I left for Denia; it was midnight, when some
horsemen rode up to me, and addressed these words to me:

“‘Stop there, senor; times are hard; those who have something must
aid those who have nothing. Give us the keys of your trunks; we will
only take your superfluities.”

I had already obeyed their orders, when it came into my head to call
out, But [I have been told that I could travel without risk.”

“What is your name, sir?”

“Don Francisco Arago.”

“« Hombre! vaya usted con Dios,” (God be with you.)

And our cavaliers, spurring away from us, rapidly lost themselves in a
field of “ algarrobas.”

When my friend the robber of Cullera assured me that I had nothing to
fear from his subordinates, he informed me at the same time that his
authority did not extend north of Valencia. The banditti of the north-
ern part of the kingdom obeyed other chiefs, one of whom, after having
been taken, was condemned and hung, and his body divided into four
quarters, which were fastened to posts on four royal roads, but not with-
out their having previously been boiled in oil, to make sure of their
longer preservation.

This barbarous custom produced no effect, for scarcely was one chief
destroyed before another presented himself to replace him.

Of all these brigands those had the worst reputation who carried on
their depredations in the environs of Oropeza. The proprietors of the
three mules on which M. Rodriguez, I, and my servant were riding one
evening in this neighborhood were recounting to us the “ grand deeds”
AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF FRANCIS ARAGO. 159

of these robbers, which, even in full daylight, would have made the hair
of one’s head stand on end, when, by the faint light of the moon, we
perceived a man hiding himself behind a tree. We were six, and yet
this sentry on horseback had the audacity to demand our purses or our
lives. My servant at once answered him, *‘ You must then believe us to
be very cowardly; take yourself off, or I will bring you down by one
shot of my carabine.” “TI will be off,” returned the worthless fellow,
‘but you will soon hear news of me.” Still full of fright at the remem-
brance of the stories which they had just been relating, the three “ arie-
ros” besought us to quit the high road and cast ourselves into a wood
which was on our left. We yielded to their proposal, but we lost our
way. ‘Dismount,” said they, “the mules have been obeying the bridle,
and you have directed them wrongly. Let us retrace our way as far as
the high road and leave the mules to themselves; they will well know
how to find their right way again.” Scarcely had we effected this ma-
neuver, which succeeded marvellously well, when we heard a lively dis-
cussion taking place at a short distance from us. Some were saying,
“We must follow the high road, and we shall meet with them.” Others
maintained that they must get into the wood on the left. The barking
of the dogs, by which these individuals were accompanied, added to the
tumult. During this time we pursued our way silently, more dead than
alive. It was two o’clock in the morning. All at once we saw a faint
light in a solitary house; it was like a light-house for the mariner in the
midst of the tempest, and the only means of safety which remained to
us. Arrived at the door of the farm, we knocked and asked for hospi-
tality. The inmates, very little reassured, feared that we were thieves,
and did not hurry themselves to open to us.

Impatient at the delay, I cried out, as I had received authority to do
so, ‘“‘In the name of the King, open to us.” They obeyed an order thus
given; we entered pell-mell, and in the greatest haste, men and mules
into the kitchen, which was on the ground floor; and we hurried to ex-
tinguish the lights, in order not to awaken the suspicions of the bandits
who were seeking for us. Indeed, we heard them, passing and repassing
near the house, vociferating with the whole force of their lungs against
their unlucky fate. We did not quit this solitary house until broad
day, and we continued our route for Tortosa, not without having given
a suitable recompense to our hosts. I wished to know by what provi-
dential circumstance they happened to have a lamp burning at that
unseasonable hour. ‘ We had killed a pig,” they told me, “in the course
of the day, and we were.busy preparing the black puddings.” Had the
pig lived one day more, or had there been no black puddings, I should
certainly have been no longer in this world, and I should not have the
opportunity to relate the story of the robbers of Oropeza.

Never could I better appreciate the intelligent measure by which the
constituent assembly abolished the ancient division of France into prov-
inces, and substituted its division into departments, than in traversing
160 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF FRANCIS ARAGO.

for my triangulation the Spanish border kingdoms ef Catalonia, Valen-
cia, and Aragon. The inhabitants of these three provinces detested
each other cordially, and nothing less than the bond of a common hatred
was necessary to make them act simultaneously against France. Such
was their animosity in 1807 that I could scarcely make use at the same
time of Catalonians, Aragons, and Valencians, when I moved with my
instruments from one station to another. ‘The Valencians in particular
were treated by the Catalonians as a light, trifling, inconsistent people.
They were in the habit of saying to me, “ Ln el reino de Valencia la carne
es verdura, la verdura agua, los hombres mugeres, las mugeres nada,” which
may be translated thus: “In the kingdom of Valencia meat is a vege-
table, vegetables are water, men are women, and women nothing.”

On the other hand, the Valencians, speaking of the Aragons, used to
call them “ schuros.”

Having asked of a herdsman of this province who had brought some
goats near to one of my stations what was the origin of this denomina-
tion, at which his compatriots showed themselves so offended:

“TY do not know,” said he, smiling cunningly at me, “‘ whether I dare
answer you.” ‘Go on, go on,” I said to him, “I can hear anything
without being angry.” ‘ Well, the word schuros means that, to our great
shame, we have sometimes been governed by French kings. The sov-
ereign, before assuming power, was bound to promise under oath to
respect our freedom, and to articulate in a loud voice the solemn words
lo Jurvof! As he did not know how to pronounce the J, he said schuro.
Are you satisfied, sefior?” LTanswered him, “ Yes, yes; I see that vanity
and pride are not dead in this country.”

Since I have just spoken of a shepherd, I will say that in Spain the
class of individuals of both sexes destined to look after herds appeared
to me always less further removed than in France from the pictures
which the ancient poets have left us of the shepherds and shepherdesses
in their pastoral poetry. The songs by which they endeavor to while
away the tedium of their monotonous life are more remarkable in their
form and substance than in the other European nations to which I have
had access. J never recollect without surprise that, being on a mountain
situated at the junction-point of the kingdoms of Valencia, Aragon, and
Catalonia, I was all at once overtaken by a violent storm, which forced
ine to take refuge in my tent, and to remain there squatting on the
ground. When the storm was over and I came out from my retreat, I
heard, to my great astonishment, on an isolated peak which looked down
upon my station, a shepherdess, who was singing a song, of which I only
recollect these eight lines, which will give an idea of the rest:

* * * * *%
A los que amor no saben
Ofreces las dulzuras

Y a milas amarguras
Que s’e lo que es amar.
AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF FRANCIS ARAGO. 161

Las gracias al me certe
Eran cuadro de flores

Te cantaban amorese
Por hacerte callar.

Oh! how much sap there is in this Spanish nation! What a pity
that they will not make it yield fruit ?

In 1807, the tribunal of the Inquisition existed still at Valencia, and
at times performed its functions. The reverend fathers, it is true, did
not burn people, but they pronounced sentences in which the ridiculous
contended with the odious. During my residence in this town, the
holy office had to busy itself about a pretended sorceress; it doomed
her to go through all quarters of the town astride on an ass, her face
turned toward the tail, and naked down to the waist. Merely to ob-
serve the commonest rules of decency, the poor woman had been plas-
tered with a sticky substance, partly honey, they told me, to which
adhered an enormous quantity of little feathers, so that, to say the
truth, the victim resembled a fowl with a human head. The proces-
sion, whether attended by a crowd I leave it to be imagined, sta-
tioned itself for some timein the cathedral square, where I lived. I was
told that the sorceress was struck on the back a certain number of blows
with a shovel; but I do not venture to affirm this, for I was absent at
the moment when this hideous procession passed before my windows.

We thus see, however, what sort of spectacles were given to the
people in the commencement of the nineteenth century, in one of the
principal towns of Spain, the seat of a celebrated university, and the
native country of numerous citizens distinguished by their knowledge,
their courage, and their virtues. Let not the friends of humanity and
of civilization disunite; let them form, on the contrary, an indissoluble
union, for superstition is always on the watch, and waits for the
moment again to seize its prey.

I have mentioned in the course of my narrative that two Carthusians
often left their convent in the Desierto dé las Palmas, and came though
prohibited, to see me at my station, situated about two hundred meters
higher. A few particulars will give an idea of what certain monks
were, in the Peninsula, in 1897.

One of them, Father Trivulce, was old; the other was very young.
The former, of French origin, had played a part at Marseilles, in the
counter-revolutionary events of which this town was the theater, at the
commencement of our first revolution. His part had been a very active
one; one might see the proof of this in the scars of saber cuts which
furrowed his breast. It was he who was the first to come. When he
saw his young comrade march up, he hid himself; but as soon as the
latter had fully entered into conversation with me, Father Trivulce
showed himself all at once. His appearance had the effect of Medusa’s
head. ‘Reassure yourself,” said he to his young compeer; “only les
us not denounce each other, for our prior is not a man to pardon us for

lis '
162 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF FRANCIS ARAGO.

having come here and infringed our vow of silence, and we should both
receive @ punishment, the recollection of which would long remain.”
The treaty was at once concluded, and from that day forward the two
Jarthusians came very often to converse with me.

The youngest of our two visitors was an Aragonian; his family had
made him a monk against his will. He related to me one day, before M.
Biot, (then returned from Tarragon, where he had taken refuge to get
cured of his fever,) some particulars which, according to him, proved
that in Spain there was no longer more than the ghost of religion.
These details were mostly borrowed from the secrets of confession. M.
Biot manifested sharply the displeasure which this conversation caused
him; there were even in his language some words which led the monk
to suppose that M. Biot took him for a kind of spy. As soon as this
suspicion had entered his mind, he quitted us without saying a word,
and the next morning I saw him come up early, armed with a light gun.
The French monk had preceded him, and had whispered in my ear the
danger that threatened my companion. “Join with me,” he said, “ to
turn the young Aragonian monk from his murderous project.” I need
scarcely say that 1 employed myself with ardor in this negotiation, in
which I had the happiness to succeed. There were here, as must be
seen, the materials for a chief of guerilleros. I should be much aston-
ished if my young monk did not play his part in the war of indepen-
dence.

The anecdote which I am about to relate will amply prove that reli-
gion was, with the Carthusian monks of.the Desierto de las Palmas, not
the consequence of elevated sentiments, but a mere compound of super-
stitious practices.

The scene with the gun, always present to my mind, seemed to make it
clear to me that the Aragon monk, if actuated by his passions, would
be capable of the most criminal actions. Hence, I had a very disagree-
able impression when one Sunday, having come down to hear mass, I
met this monk, who, without saying a word, conducted me by a series
of dark corridors into a chapel where the daylight penetrated only by a
very small window. There I found Father Trivulce, who prepared him-
self to say mass for me alone. The young monk assisted. All at once,
an instant before the consecration, Father Trivulce, turning toward me,
said these exact words: ‘ We have permission to say mass with white
wine; we therefore make use of that which we gather from our own
vines; this wine is very good. Ask the prior to let you taste it, when
on leaving this you go to breakfast with him. For the rest, you can as-
sure yourself this instant of the truth of what I say to you.” And he
presented me the goblet to drink from. I resisted strongly, not only
because I considered it indecent to give this invitation in the middle
of the mass, but because, besides, I must own I conceived the thought
for a moment that the monks wished, by poisoning me, to reveng
themselves on me for M. Biot having insulted them. I found that I was
AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF FRANCIS ARAGO. 163

mistaken, that my suspicions had no foundation; for Father Trivulce
went on with the interrupted mass, drank, and drank largely, of the
white wine contained in one of the goblets. But when I had got out of
the hands of the two monks, and was able to breathe the pure air of the
country, I experienced a lively satisfaction.

The right of asylum accorded to some churches was one of the most

obnoxious privileges among those of which the revolution of 1798 rid
France. In 1807, this right still existed in Spain, and belonged, L be-
lieve, to allthe cathedrals. I learned, during my stay at Barcelona, that
there was, in a little cloister contiguous to the largest church of the
town, a brigand—a man guilty of several assassinations, who lived
quietly there, guaranteed against all pursuit by the sanctity of the place.
I wished to assure myself with my own eyes of the reality of the fact,
and I went with my friend Rodriguez into the little cloister in question.
The assassin was then eating a meal which a woman had just brought
him. He easily guessed the object of our visit, and made immediately
such demonstrations as convinced us that, if the asylum was safe for
the robber, it would not ke so long for us. We retired at once, deplor-
ing that in a country calling itself civilized there should still exist such
crying, such monstrous abuses.
In order to succeed in our geodesic operations, to obtain the codpera-
tion of the inhabitants of the villages near our stations, it was desirable
for us to be recommended to the priests. We went, therefore—M.
Lanusse, the French vice-consul, M. Biot, and I—to pay a visit to the
Archbishop of Valencia, to solicit his protection. This archbishop, a
man of very tall figure, was then chief of the Franciscans; his costume,
more than negligent, his grey robe, covered with tobacco, contrasted
with the magnificence of the archiepiscopal palace. He received us
with kindness, and promised us all the recommendations we desired ;
but, at the moment of taking leave of him, the whole affair seemed to
be spoiled. M. Lanusse and M. Biot went out of the reception-room
without kissing the hand of his grace, although he had presented it to
each of them very graciously. The archbishop indemnified himself on
my poor person. A movement, which was very near breaking my teeth,
a gesture which I might justly call a blow of the fist, proved to me that
the chief of the Iranciscans, notwithstanding his vow of humility, had
taken offense at the want of ceremony in my fellow-visitors. I was go-
ing to complain of the abrupt way in which he had treated me, but I
had the necessities of our trigonometrical operations before my eyes,
and I was silent.

Besides this, at the instant when the closed fist of the archbishop was
applied to my lips, I was still thinking of the beautiful optical experi-
ments which it would have been possible to make with the magnificent
stone which ornamented his pastoral ring. This idea, I must frankly
declare, had preoccupied me during the whole of the visit.

M. Biot having at last come to seek me again at Valencia, where I ex-
164 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF FRANCIS ARAGO.

pected, as I have before said, some new instruments, we went on to
Formentera, the southern extremity of our are, of which place we deter-
mined the latitude. M. Biot quitted me afterward to return to Paris,
while I made the geodesical junction of the island of Majorca to Iviza,
and to Formentera, obtaining thus, by means of one single triangle, the
measure of an are of parallel of one degree and a half.

I then went to Majorca, to measure there the latitude and the azimuth,
At this epoch, the political fermentation, engendered by the entrance of
the French into Spain, began to invade the whole Peninsula and the
islands dependent on it. This ferment had as yet in Majorca only
reached to the ministers, the partisans, and the relations of the Prince
of Peace. Each evening I saw, drawn in triumph in the square of
Palma, the capital of the island of Majorca, on carriages, the effigies in
flames, sometimes of the minister Soller, another time those of the
bishop, and even those of private individuals supposed to be attached to
the fortunes of the favorite Godoi. I was far from suspecting then that
my turn would soon arrive.

My station at Majorca, the Clop de Galazo, a very high mountain,
was situated exactly over the port where Don Jayme el Conquisiator dis-
embarked when he went to deliver the Balearic Islands from the Moors.
The report spread itself through the population that I had established
myself there in order to favor the arrival of the French army, and that
every evening I made signals to it. But these reports had nothing
menacing until the moment of the arrival at Palma, the 27th of May,
1808, of an ordnance ofiicer from Napoleon. This officer was M. Ber-
thémie; he carried to the Spanish squadron, at Mahon, the order to go
in all haste to Toulon. A general rising, which placed the life of this
ofiicer in danger, followed the news of his mission. The Captain Gen-
eral Vivés only saved his lite by shutting him up in the strong castle
of Belver. They then bethought themselves of the Frenchman estab-
lished on the Clop de Galazo, and formed a popular expedition to go and
seize him.

M. Damian, the owner of a small kind of vessel called a mistic, which
the Spanish government had ‘placed at my disposal, was beforehand
with them, and brought me a costume by means of which I disguised
myself. In directing myself toward Palma, in company with this
brave seaman, we met with the rioters, who were going in search of me.
They did not recognize me, for I spoke Majorean perfectly. I strongly
encouraged the men of this detachment to continue their route, and I
pursued my way toward Palma. At night | went on board the mistie,
commanded by Don Manuel de Vacaro, whom the Spanish government
had placed under my orders. I asked this officer if he would conduct
me to Barcelona, occupied by the French, promising him that, if they
made any attempt to keep him there, I would at once return and sur-
render myself a prisoner.

Don Manuel, who up to this time had shown extreme obsequiousness
AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF FRANCIS ARAGO. 165

toward me, had now no words but those of rudeness and distrust.
There occurred on the pier where the mistic was moored a riotous
movement, which Vacaro assured me was directed against me. ‘Do
not be uneasy,” said he to me; ‘if they should penetrate into the ves-
sel, you can hide yourself in this trunk.” I made the attempt, but the
chest which he showed me was so small that my legs were entirely out-
side, and the cover could not be shut down. I understood perfectly
what that meant, and I asked M. Vacaro to let me also be shut up in
the castle of Belver. The order for incarceration having arrived from
the captain general, I got into the boat, where the sailors of the mistic
received me with emotion.

At the moment of their crossing the harbor, the populace perceived
me, commenced a pursuit, and it was not without much difficulty that
I reached Belver safe and sound. I had only, indeed, received on my
way one slight wound from a dagger in the thigh. Prisoners have
often been seen to run with all speed from their dungeon; I am the
first, perhaps, to whom it has happened to do the reverse. This took
place on the Ist or 2d of June, 1808,

The governor of Belver was a very extraordinary personage; if he is
still alive, he may demand of me a certificate as to his priority to the
modern hydropathists. The grenadier captain maintained that pure
water, suitably administered, was a means of treatment for all illnesses,
even for amputations; by listening very patiently to his theories, and
never interrupting him, I won his good opinion. It was at his request,
and from*interest in our safety, that a Swiss garrison replaced the
Spanish troop which, until then, had been employed as the guard of
Belver. It was also through him that I one day learned that a monk
had proposed to the soldiers who went to bring my food from the town,
to put some poison into one of the dishes.

All my old Majorean friends had abandoned me at the moment of my
detention. I had had a very sharp correspondence with Don Manuel
de Vacaro, in order to obtain the restitution of the passport of safety
which the English admiralty had granted tous. M. Rodriguez alone
ventured to visit me in full daylight, and bring me every consolation
in his power.

The excellent M. Rodriguez, to while away the monotony of my
incarceration, remitted to me, from time to time, the journals which
were then published at different parts of the Peninsula. He often sent
them to me without reading them. Once I saw in these journals the
recital of the horrible massacres of which the town of Valencia—I make
a mistake, the square of the bull-fights—had been the theater, and in
which nearly the whole of the French established in this town (more
than three hundred and fifty) had disappeared under the pike of the
bull-fighter. Another journal contained an article bearing this title,
“Relacion de la ahorcadura del Sefior Arago e del Sefior Berthémie”—
literally, “Account of the Execution of M. Arago and M. Berthémie.”
166 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF FRANCIS ARAGO.

This account spoke of the two executed men in very different terms.
M. Berthémie was a Huguenot; he had been deaf to all exhortations;
he had spit in the face of the ecclesiastic who was present, and even on
the image of Christ. As for me, I had conducted myself with much
decency, and had allowed myself to be hung without giving rise to any
scandal. The writer also expressed his regret that a young astronomer
had been so weak as to associate himself with treason, coming under
the disguise of science to assist the entrance of the French army into
a friendly kingdom.

After reading this article, | immediately made my decision. ‘Since
they talk of my death,” said I to my friend Rodriguez, “the event will
not be loug in coming; I should prefer being drowned to being hung.
I will make my escape from this fortress; it is for you to furnish me
with the means.”

todriguez, knowing better than any one how well founded my appre-
hensions were, set himself at once to the work. He went to the captain
general, and made him feel what would be the danger of his position if
I should disappear in a popular riot, or even if he were forced to give
me up. His observations were so much the better comprehended, as
no one could then predict what might be the issue of the Spanish revo-
lution. “TI will undertake,” said the captain general Vivés to my col-
league Rodriguez, “to give an order to the commander of the fortress,
that when the right moment arrives, he shall allow M. Arago, and even
the two or three other Frenchmen who are with him in the castle of
Belver, to pass out; they will then have no need of the means of escape
which they have procured. But I will take no part in the preparations
which will become necessary to enable the fugitives to leave the island;
I leave all that to your responsibility.”

Rodriguez immediately conferred secretly with the brave commander
Damian. It was agreed between them that Damian should take the
command of a half-decked boat which the wind had driven ashore; that
he should equip it as if for a fishing expedition; that he should carry
us to Algiers, after which his reéntrance at Palmas, with or without
fish, would inspire no suspicion. All was executed according to agree-
ment, notwithstanding the inquisitorial surveillance which Don Manuel
de Vacaro exercised over the commander of his ‘ mistic.”

On the 28th July, 1808, we silently descended the hill on which Bel-
ver is built, at the same moment that the family of the minister Soller
entered the fortress to escape the fury of the populace. Arrived at the
shore, we found there Damian, his boat, and three sailors; we embarked
at once, and set sail. Damian had taken the precaution of bringing
with us in this frail vessel the instruments of value which he had car-
ried off from my station at the Clop de Galazo. The sea was unfavor-
able; Damian thought it prudent to stop at the little island of Cabrera,
destined to become, a short time afterward, so sadly celebrated by the
sufferings which the soldiers of the army of Dupont experienced after
AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF FRANCIS ARAGO. 167

the shameful capitulation of Baylen. There a singular incident was very
near compromising all: Cabrera, tolerably near to the southern extrem-
ity of Majorca, is often visited by fishermen coming from that part of
the island. M. Berthémie feared, justly enough, that, the rumor of our
escape having spread about, they might dispatch some boats to seize
us. He looked upon our going into harbor as inopportune; I main-
tained that we must yield to the prudence of the commander. During
this discussion, the three seamen whom Damian had engaged saw that
M. Berthémie, whom I had endeavored to pass off as my servant, main-
tained his opinion against me on a footing of equality. They then
addressed themselves in these terms to the commander:

“We only consented to take part in this expedition upon condition
that the Emperor’s aid-de-camp, shut up at Belver, should not be of the
number of those persons whom we should help off; we only wished to
aid the flight of the astronomer. Since it seems to be otherwise, you
must leave this officer here, unless you would prefer to throw him into
the sea.”

Damian at once informed me of the imperative wishes of his boat’s
crew. M. Berthémie agreed with me to suffer some abuse, such as
could only be tolerated by a servant threatened by his master: all the
suspicions disappeared.

Damian, who feared also for himself the arrival of Majorcan fisher-
men, hastened to set sail on the 29th of July, 1808, the first moment
that was favorable, and we arrived at Algiers on the 3d of August.

Our looks were anxiously directed toward the port, to guess what
reception might await us. We were reassured by the sight of the tri-
colored flag which was flying on two or three buildings; but we were
mistaken, these buildings were Dutch. Immediately upon our entrance,
a Spaniard, whom, from his tone of authority, we took for a high func-
tionary of the regency, came up to Damian, and asked him, ‘‘ What do
you bring?” ‘I bring,” answered the commander, “ four Frenchmen.”
“You will at once take them back again; I prohibit you from disem-
barking.” As we did not seem inclined to obey his order, our Span-
iard, who was the constructing engineer of the ships of the Dey, armed
himself with a pole, and commenced battering us with blows; but
immediately a Genoese seaman, mounted on a neighboring vessel,
armed himself with an oar, and struck our assailant both with edge
and point. During this animated combat, we managed to land without
any opposition. We had conceived a singular idea of the manner in
which the police act on the coast of Africa.

We pursued our way to the French consul’s, M. Dubois Thainville;
he was at his country house. Escorted by the janissary of the consul-
ate, we went off toward this country house, one of the ancient residences
of the Dey, situated not far from the gate of Bab-azoum. The consul
and his family received us with great amity, and offered us hospitality.

Suddenly transported to a new continent, I looked forward anxiously
168 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF FRANCIS ARAGO.

to the rising of the sun to enjoy all that Africa might offer of interest
to a European, when all at once I believed myself to be engaged in a
serious adventure. By the faint light of the dawn, I saw an animal
moving at the foot of my bed. I gave a kick with my foot; all move-
ment ceased. After some time, I felt the same movement under my
legs. A sharp jerk made this cease quickly. I then heard the fits of
laughter of the janissary, who lay on a couch in the same room as I did;
and I soon saw that he had simply placed on my bed a large hedgehog
to amuse himself by my uneasiness.

The consul occupied himself the next day in procuring a passage for
us on board a vessel of the Regency which was going to Marseilles. M.
Ferrier, the chancellor of the French consulate, was at the same time
consul for Austria. He procured for us two false passports, which
transformed us—M. Berthémie and me—into two strolling merchants,
the one from Schwekat, in Hun gary, the other from Leoben.

The moment of departure had arrived; the 13th of August, 1808, we
were on board, but our ship’s company was not complete. The captain,
whose title was Rai Braham Ouled Mustapha Goja, having perceived that
the Dey was on his terrace, and fearing punishment if he should delay
to set sail, completed his crew at the expense of the idlers who were
looking on from the pier, and of whom the greater part were not sailors.
These poor people begged as a favor for permission to go and inform
their families of this precipitate departure, and to .get some clothes.
The captain remained deaf to their remonstrances. We weighed anchor.

The vessel belonged to the Emir of Seca, director of the mint. The
real commander was a Greek captain, named Spiro Calligero. The cargo
consisted of a great number of groups. Among the passengers there
were five members of the family which the Bakri had succeeded as
kings of the Jews; two ostrich-feather merchants, Moroccans; Captain
Krog, from Berghen in Norway, who had sold his ship at Alicant; two
lions sent by the Dey to the Emperor Napoleon, and a great number of
monkeys. Our voyage was prosperous. Off Sardinia we met with an
American ship coming out from Cagliari. A cannon-shot (we were
armed with forty pieces of small power) warned the captain to come to
be recognized. He brought on board a certain number of counterparts
of passports, one of which agreed perfectly with that which we carried.
The captain being thus all right, was not-a little astonished when I
ordered him, in the name of Captain Braham, to furnish us with tea,
coffee, and sugar. The American captain protested; he called us brig-
ands, pirates, robbers. Captain Braham admitted without difficulty all
these qualifications, and persisted none the less in the exaction of sugar,
coffee, and tea.

The American, then driven to the last stage of exasperation, addres-
sed himself to me, who acted as interpreter, and cried out, “ Oh! rogue
of a renegade! if ever I meet you on holy ground I will break your head.”
“Can you then suppose,” I answered him, “that I am here for my
AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF FRANCIS ARAGO. 169

pleasure, and that, nothwithstanding your menace, I would not rather
go with you, if I could?” These words calmed him; he brought the
sugar, the coffee, and the tea claimed by the Moorish chief and we again
set sail, though without having excharged the usual farewell.

We had already entered the Gulf cf Lyons, and were approaching
Marseilles, when on the 16th August, 1808, we met with a Spanish cor-
sair from Palamos, armed at the prow with two 24-pounders. We made
full sail; we hoped to escape it: but a cannon shot, a ball from which
went through our sails, taaght us that she was a much better sailer than
we were.

We obeyed an injunction thus expressed, and awaited the great boat
from the corsair. The captain declared that he made us prisoners,
although Spain was at peace with Barbary, under the pretext that we
were violating the blockade which had been lately raised on all the coasts
of France; he added that he intended to take us to Rosas, and that
there the authorities would decide on our fate.

I was in the cabin of the vessel; I had the curiosity to look furtively
atythe crew of the boat, and there I perceived, with a dissatisfaction
which may easily be imagined, one of the sailors of the ‘“‘mistic,” com-
manded by Don Manuel de Vacaro, of the name of Pablo Blanco, of Pala-
mos, who had often acted as my servant during my geodesec operations.
My false passport would beeccme from this moment useless, if Pablo
should recognize me. -I went to bed at once, covered my head witha
counterpane,and lay as still as a statue.

During the two days which elapsed between cur capture and our
entrance into the rcads of Rosas, Pablo, whose curiosity often brought
him into the room, used to exclaim, “There is one passenger whom I
have not yet managed to get a sight of.”

When we arrived at Rosas it was decided that we should be placed
in quarantine in a dismantled windmill, situated on the road leading to
Figueras. I was careful to disembark in a boat to which Pablo did not
belong. The corsair departed for a new cruise, and I was for a moment
freed from the harassing thoughts which my old servant had caused me.

Our ship was richly laden; the Spanish authorities were immediately
desirous to declare it a lawful prize. They pretended to believe that I
was the proprietor of it, and wished, in order to hasten things, to inter-
regate me, even without awaiting the completion of the quarantine.
They stretched two cords between the mill and the shore; and a judge
placed himself in front of me. As the interrogatories were made from -
a good distance, the numerous audience which encircled us took a direct
part in the questions and answers. I will endeavor to reproduce this
dialogue with all possible fidelity :

“ Who are you?”

‘¢ A poor roving merchant.”

‘6 Whence do you come?” __

“From a country where you certainly never were.”
170 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF FRANCIS ARAGO.

“In a word, what country is it ?”

I was afraid to answer, for the passports, steeped in vinegar, were in
the hands of the judge-instructor, and I had forgotten whether I was
from Schwekat or from Leoben. Finally I answered at all hazards:

“T come from Schwekat.”

And this information happily was found to agree with that of the
passport.

“You are as much from Schwekat as I am,” answered the judge.
“You are Spanish, and, moreover, a Spaniard from the kingdom of
Valencia, as I perceive by your accent.”

‘“ Would you punish me, sir, because nature has endowed me with
the gift of languages? I learn with facility the dialects of those coun-
tries through which I pass in the exercise of my trade; | have learned,
for example, the dialect of Iviza.”

‘¢ Very well, you shall be taken at your word. I see here a soldier
from Iviza; you shall hold a conversation with him.”

“T consent; I will even sing the goat song.”

Each of the verses of this song (if verses they be) terminates by, an
imitation of the bleating of the eee

I commenced at once, with an audacity at which I really feel aston-
ished, to chant this air, which is sung by all the shepherds of the island:

Ah graciada sefora
Una canzo bouil canta
Bb, be, be, be.

No sera gaira pulida
Nosé si vos agradara
BE, be, be, ba.

At once my Ivizacan, upon whom this air had the effect of the ranz
des vaches on the Swiss, declared, all in tears, that I was a native of
Iviza.

I then said to the judge that if he would put me in communication
with a person knowing the French language, he would arrive at just as
embarrassing a result. An émigré officer of the Bourbon regiment offered
at dnce to make the experiment, and, after some phrases interchanged
between us, affirmed without hesitation that I was French.

The judge, rendered impatient, exclaimed, “Let us put an end to
these trials which decide nothing. I summon you, sir, to tell me who
you are. I promise that your life will be safe if you answer me with
sincerity.”

‘‘My greatest wish would be to give an answer to your satisfaction.
I will, then, try to do so; but I warn you that Iam not going to tell
you ie truth. I am fe son of the innkeeper at Mataré.” ‘I know
that innkeeper; you are not his son.” ‘You are right. I announced
to you that I should vary my answers until one of them should suit you.
J retract then, and tell you that Lam a titiretero (player of marionettes)
and that I practiced at Lerida.”
AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF FRANCIS ARAGO. 171

A loud shout of laughter from the multitude encircling us greeted
this answer, and put an end to the questions.

“T swear by the d——l,” exclaimed the judge, “ that I will discover
sooner or later who you are!”

And he retired.
The Arabs, the Moroccans, the Jews, who witnessed this interrogatory,

understood nothing of it; they had only seen that I had not allowed
myself to be intimidated. At the close of the interview they came to
kiss my hand, and gave me, from this moment, their entire confidence.

I became their secretary for all the individual or collective remon-
strances which they thought they had a right to address to the Spanish
government; and this right was incontestable. Every day I was occu-
pied in drawing up petitions, especially in the name of the two ostrich-
feather merchants, one of whom called himself a tolerably near relation
of the Emperor of Moroesco. Astonished at the rapidity with which I
filled a page of my writing, they imagined, doubtless, that I should write
as fastin Arabic characters, when it should be requisite to transcribe
passages from the Koran; and that this would form both for me and
for them the source of a brilliant fortune, and they besought me, in the
most earnest way, to become a Mahomedan.

Very little reassured by the last words of the judge, I sought means
of safety from another quarter. |

I was the possessor of a safe-conduct from the English admiralty; I
therefore wrote a confidential letter to the captain of an English vessel, the
“ Hagle,” I think, which had cast anchor some days before in the roads
at Rosas. I explained to him my position. ‘ You can,” I said, * claim
me, because [ have an English passport. Ifthis proceeding should cost
you too much, have the goodness at least to take my manuscripts and
to send them to the Royal Society in London.”

One of the soldiers who guarded us, and in whom I had fortunately
inspired some interest, undertook to deliver my letter. The English
captain came to see me; his name was, if my memory is right, George
Eyre. We had a private conversation on the shore. George Hyre
thought perhaps that the manuscripts of my observations were con-
tained in a register bound in morocco, and with gilt edges to the leaves.
When he saw that these manuscripts were composed of single leaves
covered with figures, which I had hidden under. my shirt, disdain suc-
ceeded to interest, and he quitted me hastily. Having returned on
board he wrote me a letter which I could find if needful, in which he
said to me, “TI cannot mix myself up in your affairs; address yourself
to the Spanish government; I am persuaded that it will do justice to
your remonstrance and will not molest you.” As I had not the same
persuasion as Captain George Eyre, I chose to take no notice of his
advice.

I ought to mention that some time after having related these partie-
wars in England at Sir Joseph Banks’s, the conduct of George Eyre was
172 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF FRANCIS ARAGO.

severely blamed; but when a man breakfasts and dines to the sound of
harmonious musie, can he accord his interest to a poor devil sleeping
on straw and nibbled by vermin, even though he have manuscripts under
his shirt? Imay add that I (unfortunately for me) had to do witha
captain of ar unusual character. For, some days later, a new vessel, the
Colossus, having arrived in the roads, the Norwegian, Captain Krog,
although he had not, like me, an admiralty passport, made an applica-
tion to the commander of this new ship; he was immediately claimed
and relieved from captivity.

The report that Iwas a Spanish deserter and proprietor of the vessel,
acquiring more and more credit, and this position being the most dan-
gerous of all, I resolved to get out of it. I begged the commandant of
the place, M. Alloy, to come to receive my declaration, and I announced
to him that I was French. To prove to him the truth of my words I
invited him to send for Pablo Blanco, the sailor in the service of the
corsair who took us, and who had returned from his cruise a short time
before. This was done as I wished. In disembarking, Pablo Blanco,
who had not been warned, exclaimed with surprise, ‘‘ What! you Don
Francisco, mixed up with all these miscreants!” The sailor gave the
governor circumstantial evidence as to the mission which I fulfilled with
two Spanish commissaries. My nationality thus became proved. ;

That same day Alloy was replaced in the command of the fortress by
the Irish colonel of the Ultonian regiment; the corsair left for a fresh
cruise, taking away Pablo Blanco; and I became once more the roving
merchant from Schwekat.

From the windmill where we underwent our quarantine, I could see
the tricolored flag flying on the fortress of Figueras. The reconnoitering
parties of the cavalry came sometimes within five or six hundred meters;
it would not then have been difficult for me to escape. However, as the
regulations against those who violate the sanitary laws are very rigor-
ous in Spain, as they pronounce the penalty of death against him who
infringes them, I only determined to make my escape on the eve of our
admission to pratique.

The night being come I crept on all-fours along the briars, and I should
soon have got beyond the line of sentinels who guarded us. A noisy
uproar which I heard among the Moors made me determine to reénter,
and I found these poor people in an unspeakable state of uneasiness,
thinking themselves lost if I left; I therefore remained.

The next day a strong picket of troops presented itself before the
mill. The maneuvers made by it inspired all of us with anxiety, but
especially Captain Krog.* “ What will they do with us?” he exclaimed.
“Alas! you will see only too soon,” replied the Spanish ofiicer. This
answer made every one believe that they were going to shoot us. What
- might have strengthened me in this idea was the obstinacy with which

*This appears to be an oversight, as in a preceding page M. Arago described the for-
tunate release of Captain Krog from this captivity.
AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF FRANCIS ARAGO. 173

Captain Krog and two other individuals of small size hid themseives
behind me. A handling of arms made us think that we had but a few
seconds to live.

In analyzing the feelings which T experienced on this solemn occasion,
I have come to the conclusion that the man who is led to death is not as
unhappy as the public imagines him to be. Fifty ideas presented them-
selves nearly simultaneously to my mind, and I did not rack my brain
for any of them; I only recollect the two following which have remained
engraved on my memory. On turning my head to the right, I saw the
national flag flying on the bastions of Figueras, and I said to myself,

‘Ir I were to move a few hundred meters I should be surrounded by
comrades, by friends, by fellow-citizens, who would receive me affection-
ately. Here, without their being able to impute any crime to me, I am
going to suffer death at twenty-two years of age.” But what agitated
me more deeply was this: looking toward the Pyrenees I could distinetly
see their peaks, and I reflected that my mother, on the other side of the
chain, might at this awful moment be looking peaceably at them.

The Spanish authorities, finding that to redeem my life I weuld not
declare myself the owner of the vessel, had us conducted without further
molestation to the fortress of Rosas. Having to file through nearly all
the inhabitants of the town, I had wished at first, through a false feeling
of shame, to leave in the mill the remains of our week’s meals. But M.
Berthémie, more prudent than I, carried over his shoulder a great quan-
tity of pieces of black bread tied up with packthread. I imitated him.
I furnished myself famously from our old stock, set it on my shoulder,
and it was with this accoutrement that I made my entrance into the
famous fortress.

They placed us in a casemate, where we had barely the space neces-
sary for lying down. In the windmill they used to bring us, from time
to time, some provisions which came from our boat. Here, the Spanish
government purveyed our food. We received every day some bread and
a ration of rice; but as we had no means of dressing food, we were in
reality reduced to dry bread.

Dry bread was very unsubstantial food for one who could see from
his casemate, at the door of his prison, a sutler selling grapes at two
farthings a pound, and cooking, under the shelter of half a cask, bacon
and herrings; but we had no money to bring us into connection with this
merchant. I then decided, though with very great’ regret, to sell a
watch which my father had given me. Iwas only offered about a quarter
of its value; but I might well accept it since there were no competitors
for it.

AS possessors of sixty francs, M. Berthémie and I could now appease
the hunger from which we had long suffered; but we did not like this
return of fortune to be profitable to ourselves alone, and we made some
presents, which were very well received by our companions in captivity.
174 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF FRANCIS ARAGO.

Though this sale of my watch brought some comfort to us, it was doomed
ata later period to plunge a family into sorrow.

The town of Rosas fell into the power of the French after a courage-
ous resistance. The prisoners of the garrison were sent to France, and
naturally passed through Perpignan. My father went in quest of news
wherever Spaniards were to befound. He entered a café at the moment
when a prisoner ofiicer drew from his fob the watch which I had sold
at Rosas. My good father saw in this act the proof of my death, and
fell into a swoon. The officer had got the watch from a third party,
and could give no account of the fate of the person to whom it had ori-
ginally belonged.

The casemate having become necessary to the defenders of the fortress,
we were taken to alittle chapel where they deposited for twenty-four
hours those who had died in the hospital. There we were guarded by
peasants who had come across the mountain from various villages, and
particularly from Cadaqués. These peasants, eager to recount all that
they had seen of interest during their one day’s campaign, questioned
me as to the deeds and behavior of all my companions in misfortune.
I satisfied their curiosity amply, being the only one of the set who could
speak Spanish.

To enlist their good will, I also questioned them at length upon the
subject of their village, on the work that they did there, on smuggling,
their principal sources of employment, &c., &e. They answered my
questions with the loquacity common to country rustics. The next day
our guards were replaced by some others who were inhabitants of the

same village. ‘(In my business of a roving merchant,” I said to these
last, ‘I have been at Cadaqués;” and then I began to talk to them of
what I had learnt the night before of such an individual, who gave him-
self up to smuggling with more success than others, of his beautiful
residence, of the property which he possessed near the village; in short,
of a number of particulars which it seemed impossible for any but an
inhabitant of Cadaqués to know. My jest produced an unexpected
effect. Such circumstantial details, our guards said to themselves, can-
not be known by a roving merchant; this personage whom we have
found here in such singular society, is certainly a native of Cadaqueés ;
and the son of the apothecary must be about his age. He had gone to
try his fortune in America; it is evidently he, who fears to make himself
known, having been found with all his riches in a vessel on its way to
France. The report spread, became more consistent, and reached the
ears of a sister of the apothecary established at Rosas. She runs to
me, believes she recognizes me, and falls on my neck. I protest against
the identity. ‘Well played!” said she to me; “ the case is serious, as
you have been found in a vessel coming to France; persist in your
denial; circumstances may perhaps take a more favorable turn, and I
shall nrotit by them to insure your deliverance. In the mean aa my
AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF FRANCIS ARAGO. 175

dear nephew, I will let you want for nothing.” And truly every morn-
ing M. Berthémie and I received a comfortable repast.

The church having become necessary to the garrison to serve as a
magazine, we were moved on the 25th of September, 1808, to a Trinity
fort, called the Bouton de Rosas, a citadel situated on a little mountain
at the entrance of the roads, and we were deposited deep under ground,
where the light of day did not penetrate on any side. We did not long
remain in this infected place; not because they had pity upon us, but
because it offered shelter for a part of the garrison attacked by the
French. They made us descend by night to the edge of the sea, and
then transported us on the 17th of October to the port of Palamos.
We were shut up in a hulk; we enjoyed, however, a certain degree of
liberty; they allowed us to go on land and to parade our miseries and
our rags in the town. It was there that I made the acquaintance of the
dowager Duchess of Orleans, mother of Louis Phillippe. She had left
the town of Figueras where she resided, because, she told me, thirty-
two bombs sent from the fortress had fallen in her house. She was then
intending to take refuge in Algiers, and she asked me to bring the eap-
tain of the vessel to her, of whom, perhaps, she would have to implore
protection. I related to my “rats” the misfortunes of the princess; he
was moved by them, and I conducted him to her. On entering he took
otf his slippers from respect, as if he had entered within a mosque, and
holding them in his hand, he went to kiss the front of the dress of '
Madame d’Orleans. The princess was alarmed at the sight of this manly
figure, wearing the longest beard I ever saw; sbe quickly recovered her-
self, and the interview proceeded with a mixture of French politeness
and oriental courtesy.

The sixty francs from Rosas were expended. Madame d’Orleans
would have liked much to assist us, but she was herself without money.
All that she could gratify us with was a piece of sugar-bread. The
evening of our visit I was richer than the princess. To avoid the fury
of the people the Spanish government sent those French who had
escaped the first massacres back to France in slight boats. One of the
cartels came and cast anchor by the side of our hulk. One of the un-
happy emigrants offered me a pinch of snuff. On opening the snuff-box
I found there “wna onza de oro,” (an ounce of gold,) the sole remains of
his fortune. I returned the snuff-box to him, with warm thanks, after
having shut up in it a paper containing these words: ‘My fellow-coun-
tryman who carries this note has rendered me a great service; treat
him as one of your children.” My petition was naturally favorably
received; it was by this bit of paper, the size.of the enza de oro, that
my family learnt that I was still in existence, and it enabled my mother,
a model of piety, to cease saying masses for the repose of my soul.

Five days afterward, one of my hardy compatriots arrived at Pal-
amos, after having traversed the line of posts, both French and Spanish,
carrying to a merchant who had friends at Perpignan the proposal to
176 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF FRANCIS ARAGO.

furnish me with all I was in need of. The Spaniard showed a great
inclination to agree to the proposal; but I did not profit by lis good
will, because of the occurrence of events which I shall relate presently.

The observatory at Paris is very near the barrier. In my youth,
curious to study the manners of the people, I used to walk in sight of
the public houses, which the desire of escaping payment of the duty has
multiplied outside the walls of the capital. On these excursions I was
often humiliated to see men disputing for a piece of bread, just as ani-
mals might have done. My feelings on this subject have very much
altered since I have been personally exposed to the tortures of hunger.
I have discovered, in fact, that a man, whatever may have been his
origin, his education, and his habits, is governed, under certain circum-
stances, much more by his stomach than by his intelligence and his
heart. Here is the fact which suggested these reflections to me:

To celebrate the unhoped-for arrival of una onza de oro, M. Berthémie
and I had produced an immense dish of potatoes. The ordnance officer
of the Emperor was already devouring it with his eyes, when a Moroccan,
who was making his ablutions near us with one of his companions, acci-
dentally filled it with dirt. M. Berthémie could not control his anger,
he darted upon the clumsy Mussulman, and inflicted upon him a rough
punishment.

I remained a passive spectator of the combat, until the second Moroc-
van came to the aid of his compatriot. The party no longer being equal,
I also took part in the conflict, by seizing the new assailant by the
beard. The combat ceased at once, because the Moroccan would not
raise his hand against a man who could write a petition so rapidly.
This conflict, like the struggles of which I had often been a witness out-
side the barriers of Paris, had originated in a dish of potatoes.

The Spaniards always cherished the idea that the ship and_her cargo
might be confiscated; a commission came from Girone to question us.
It was composed of two civil judges and one inguisitor. I acted as
interpreter. When M. Berthémie’s turn came, I went to fetch him, and
said to him, “‘ Pretend that you can only talk Styrian, and be at ease;
1 will not compromise you in translating your answers.”

It was done as we had agreed; unfortunately the language spoken by M.
Berthémie had but little variety, and the sacrement der Teufel, which he
had learned in Germany, when he was aide-de-camp to Hautpoul, pre-
dominated too much in his discourse. Be that as it may, the judges ob-
served that there was too great a conformity between his answers and
those which I had made myself to render it necessary to continue an in-
terrogatory, which I may say, by the way, disturbed me much. The wish
to terminate it was still more decided on the part of the judges, when
it came to the turn of a sailor named Mehemet. Instead of making him
swear on the Koran to tell the truth, the judge was determined to make
him ,place his thumb on the fore-finger so as to represent the cross. I
warned him that great offense would thus be given; and, accordingly,
AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF FRANCIS ARAGO. 17

when Mehemet became aware of the meaning of this sign, he began to
spit upon it with inconceivable violence. The meeting ended at once.

The next day things had wholly changed their appearance; one of
the judges from Girone came to declare to us that we were free to depart.
and to go with our ship wherever we chose. What was the cause of
this sudden change? It was this:

During our quarantine in the windmill at Rosas, I had written, in the
name of Captain Braham, a letter to the Dey of Algiers. I gave him
an account of the illegal arrest of his vessel, and of the death of one of
the lions which the Dey had sent to the Emperor. This last circum-
stance transported the African monarch with rage. He sent immedi-
ately for the Spanish consul, M. Onis, claimed pecuniary damages for
his dear lion, and threatened war if his ship was not released directly.
Spain had then to do with too many difficulties to undertake wantonly
any new ones, and the order to release the vessel so anxiously coveted
arrived at Girone, and from thence at Palamos.

This solution, to which our consul at Algiers, M. Dubois Thainville,
had not remained inattentive, reached us at the moment when we least
expected it. We at once made preparations for our departure, and on
the 28th of November, 1808, we set sail, steering for Marseilles; but, as
the Mussulmen on board the vessel declared, it was written above that
we should not enter that town. We could already perceive the white
buildings which crown the neighboring hills of Marseilles, when a gust
of the “ mistral,” of great violence, sent us from the north towards the
south.

I do not know what route we followed, for I was lying in my cabin,
overcome with sea-sickness; I may, therefore, though an astronomer,
avow without shame, that at the moment when our unqualified pilots
supposed themselves to be off the Baléares, we landed, on the 5th of
December, at Bougie.

There, they pretended that during the three months of winter all
communication with Algiers, by means of the little boats named sandalis,
would be impossible, and I resigned myself to the painful prospect of so
long a stay in a place at that time almost a desert. One evening I was
making these sad reflections while pacing the deck of the vessel, when
a shot from a gun on the coast came and struck the side planks close to
which I was passing. This suggested to me the thought of going to
Algiers by land.

I went next day, accompanied by M. Berthémie and Captain Spiro
Calligero, to the Caid of the town: “TI wish,” said I to him, “to go to
Algiers by land.” The man, quite frightened, exclaimed, “I cannot
allow you to do so; you would certainly be killed on the road; your
consul would make a complaint to the Dey, and I should have my head
cut off.”

‘“‘Fear not on that ground. I will give you an acquittance.”

128
178 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF FRANCIS ARAGO.

Tt was immediately drawn up in these terms :

“ We, the undersigned, certify that the Caid of Bougie wished to dis-
suade us from going to Algiers by land; that he has assured us that

e shall Le massacred on the road; that notwithstanding his represent-
ations, reiterated twenty times, we have persisted in our project. We
beg the Algerine authorities, particularly our consul, not to make hin
responsible for this event if it should occur. We once more repeat that
the voyage has been undertaken against his will.

“ARAGO AND BERTHEMIE. ?

Having given this declaration to the Caid, we considered ourselves
quit of this functionary ; but he came up to me, undid, without saying
a word, the knot of my cravat, took it off, and put it into his pocket.
All this was done so quickly that [ had not time, I will add that I had
not even the wish, to reclaim it.

At the conclusion of this audience, which had terminated in so singu-
lar a manner, we made @ bargain with a Mahomedan priest, who prom-
ised to conduct us to Algiers for the sum of twenty ‘‘ piastres fortes”
and a red mantle. The day was occupied in disguising ourselves, well
or ill, and we set out the next morning, accompanied by several Moorish
sailors belonging to the erew of the ship, after having shown the Ma-
homedan priest that we had nothing with us worth a sou, so that if we
were killed on the road he would inevitably lose all reward.

I went, at the last moment, to make my bow to the only lion that
“was still alive, and with whom I had lived in very good harmony; I
wished also to say good-bye to the monkeys, who during nearly tive
mouths had been equally my companions in misfortune.* These mon-
keys during our frightful misery had rendered us a service which I
scarcely dare mention, and which will scarcely be guessed by the
inhabitants of our cities, who look upon these animals as objects of
diversion: they freed us from the vermin which infested us, and showed
particularly a remarkable cleverness in seeking out the hideous insects
which lodged themselves in our hair.

Poor animals! they seem to me very unfortunate in being shut up in
the narrow inclosure of the vessel, when, on the neighboring coast, other
monkeys, as if to bully them, came on to the branches of the trees,
giving innumerable proofs of Hick agility.

At the commencement of the day, we saw on the road two Kabyls,
similar to the soldiers of Jugurtha, whose harsh appearance powerfally
allayed our fancy for wandering. In the evening we witnessed a fearful
tuinult, which appeared to be directed against us. We learnt afterward

*On my return to Paris I hastened to the Jardin des Plantes to pay a visit to the
lion, but he received me with a very unamiable gnashing of the teeth. Think, then, of
the marvelous history of the Florentine lion, the subject of so many engravings,
which is offered on the stall of every print-seller to the eyes of the moved and aston-
ished passers by.
AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF FRANCIS ARAGO. 179

that the Mahomedan priest had been the object of it; that it originated
with some Kabyls whom he had disarmed on one of their journeys to
Bougie. This incident, which appeared likely to be repeated, inspired
us for a moment with the thought of returning; but the sailors were
resolute, and we continued our hazardous enterprise.

In proportion as we advanced, our troops became increased by a cer-
tain number of Kabyls, who wished to go to Algiers to work there in the
quality of seamen, and who dared not undertake alone this dangerous
journey

The third day we encamped in the open air, at the entrance of a forest.
The Arabs lighted a very large fire in the form of @ circle, and placed
themselves in the middle. Toward eleven o’clock I was awakened by
the noise which the mules made, all trying to break their fastenings. I
asked what was the cause of this disturbance. They answered me that
a “sebad” had come roaming in the neighborhood. I was not aware
then that a “sebad” was a lion, and I went to sleep again. The next
day, in traversing the forest, the arrangement of the caravan was
changed. It was grouped in the smallest space possible; one Kabyl
was at the head, his gan ready for service; another was in the rear, in
the same position. I inquired of the owner of the mule the cause of
these unusual precautions. JIe answered me that they were dreading
an attack from a ‘“ sebdd,” and that if this should occur, one of us would
be carried off without having time to put himself on the defensive. “TI
would rather be a spectator,” I said to him, “than an actor in the scene
you describe; consequently, [ will give you two piastres more if you
will keep your mule always in the center of the moving group.” My
proposal was accepted. It was then for the first time that I saw that
my Arab carried a yatagan under his tunic, which he used for pricking
on the mule the w hole time that we were in the thicket. Superfluous
cautions! The “ sebda” did not show himself.

Each village being a little republic, whose territory we could not
cross Without obtaining permission and a passport from the Mahomedan
priest président, the priest who conducted our caravan used to leave us
in the fields, and went sometimes a good way off to a village to solicit
the permission, without which it would have been dangerous to continue
our route. He remained entire hours without returning to us, and we
then had oecasion to reflect sadly on the imprudence of our enterprise.
We generally slept among habitations. Once we found the streets
of a village barricaded, because they were fearing an attack from a
neighboring village. The foremost man of our caravan removed the
obstacles; but a woman came out of her house like a fury, and belabored
us with blows from a pole. We remarked that she was fair, of brilliant
whiteness, and very pretty.

Another tine we lay down in a lurking-place dignified by the beauti-
tiful name of Caravanseray. In the morning, when the sun rose, cries of
“ Roumi! Roumi!” warned us that we had been discovered. The sailor,
180 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF FRANCIS ARAGO.

Mehemet, he who figured in the scene of the oath at Palamos, entered
in a melancholy mood the inclosure where we were together, and made
us understand that the cries of ‘“ Roumi!” vociferated under these cir-
cumstances, were equivalent to a sentence of death. ‘ Wait,” said he;
‘*a means of saving you has occurred to me.” Mehemet entered some
moments afterward, told us that his means had succeeded, and invited
me to join the Kabyls, who were going to say prayers.

J accordingly went out and prostrated myself toward the east. I imi-
tated minutely the gestures which I saw made around me, pronouncing
the sacred words, La elah il Allah! oua Mahommed ragoul Allah! It was
the scene of Mamamouchi of the “ Bourgeois Gentilhomme,” which I
had so often seen acted by Dugazon, with this one difference, that this
time it did not make me laugh. I was, however, ignorant of the conse-
quences it might have brought upon me on my arrival at Algiers. After
having made the profession of faith before Mahomedans, There is but one
God, and Mahomet is his prophet, if I had been informed against to the
muiti, [ must inevitably have become Mussulman, and they would not
hav. allowed me to go out of the regency.

I >nust not forget to relate by what means Mehemet had saved us
from inevitable death. ‘“ You have guessed rightly,” said he to the
Kabyls, “there are two Christians in the caravansary, but they are
Mahomedans at heart, and are going to Algiers to be adopted by the
mufti into our holy religion. You will not doubt this when I tell you
that I was myself a slave to some Christians, and that they redeemed
me with their money.” ‘In cha Allah!” they exclaimed with one voice.
And it was then that the scene took place which I have just described.

We arrived in sight of Algiers the 25th December, 1808. We took
leave of the Arab owners of our mules, who walked on foot by the side
of us, and we spurred them on in order to reach the town before the
closing of the gates. On our arrival we learnt that the Dey, to whom
we owed our first deliverance, had been beheaded. The guard of the
palace before which we passed stopped us and questioned us as to
whence we came. We replied that we came from Bougie by land. ‘It
is not possible,” exclaimed all the janissaries at once, ‘the Dey him-
self would not venture to undertake such a journey.” ‘“ We acknowl-
edge that we have committed a great imprudence, that we would not
undertake to recommence the journey for millions; but the fact that we
have just declared is the strict truth.”

Arrived at the consular house we were, as on the first occasion, very
cordially weleomed. We received a visit from a dragoman sent by the
Dey, who asked whether we persisted in maintaining that Bougie had

been our point of departure, and not Cape Matifou, or some neighboring
part. We again affirmed the truth of our recital; it was confirmed the

next day on the arrival of the proprietors of our mules.

At Palamos, during the various interviews which I had with the dow- —
ager Duchess of Orleans, one circumstance had particularly affected me. _

AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF FRANCIS ARAGO. 181

The princess spoke to me unceasingly of the wish she had to go and re-
join one of her sons, whom she believed to*be alive, but of whose death
J had been informed by a person belonging to her household. Hence I
was anxious to do all that lay in my power to mitigate a sorrow which
she must experience before long.

At the moment when I quitted Spain for Marseilles, the duchess con-
fided to me two letters which I was to forward in safety to their ad-
dresses. One was destined for the Empress-mother of Russia, the other
for the Empress of Austria.

Searcely had I arrived at Algiers when I mentioned these two letters
to M. Dubois Thainville, and begged him to send them to France by the
first opportunity. “I shall do nothing of the sort,” he at once answered.
‘Do you know that you have behaved in this affair like a young inex-
perienced man, or to speak out, like a blunderer? I am surprised that
you did not comprehend that the Emperor, with his pettish spirit, might
take this much amiss, and consider you, according to the contents of
the two letters, as the promoter of an intrigue in favor of the exiled
family of the Bourbons.” Thus the paternal advice of the French con-
sul taught me that in all that regards politics, however nearly or re-
motely, one cannot give himself up, without danger, to the dictates of
the heart and the reason.

LT inclosed my two letters in an envelope bearing the address of a
trustworthy person, and gave them into the hands of a corsair, who,
after touching at Algiers, would proceed to France. Ihave never known
whether they reached their destination.

The reigning Dey, successor to the beheaded Dey, had formerly filled
the humble office of “‘épileur”* of dead bodies in the mosques. He gov-
erned the regency with much gentleness, occupying himself with little
but his harem. This disgusted those who had raised him to this emi-
nent post, and they resolved upon getting rid of him. We became
aware of the danger which menaced him, by seeing the courts and ves-
tibules of the consular house full, according to the custom under such
circumstances, of Jews, carrying with them whatever they had of most
value. It was arule at Algiers that all that happened in the interval
comprised between the death of a Dey and the installation of his sue-
cessor could not be followed up by justice, and must remain unpunished.
One can imagine, then, why the children of Moses should seek safety in
the consular houses, the European inhabitants of which had the courage
to arm themselves for self-defense as soon as the danger was apparent,
and who, moreover, had a janissary to guard them.

While the unfortunate Dey “épileur” was being conducted toward
the place where he was to be strangled, he heard the cannon which an-
nounced his death and the installation of his successor. ‘' They are in
great haste,” said he, “ what will you gain by carrying matters to ex-

*An “épileur” is a person who removes superfluous hairs. We have been unable to
ascertain what office of this kind is performed in Mohamedan funerals.
182 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF FRANCIS ARAGO.

tremities? Send me to the Levant; I promise you never toreturn. What
have you to reproach me with?” ‘With nothing,” answered his escort,
“but your insignificance. However, aman cannot liveasa mere private
man, after having been Dey of Algiers.” And the unfortunate man
perished by the rope.

The communication by sea between Bougie and Algiers was not so
difficult, even with the “ sandalas,” as the Caid of the former town wished
to assure me. Captain Spiro had the cases landed which belonged to
me. The Caid sought to discover what they contained; and having
perceived through a chink something yellowish, he hastened to send the
news to the Dey, that the I'renchmen who had come to Algiers by land
had among their baggage cases filled with zechins, destined to revolu-
tionize the Kabylie. They immediately had these cases forwarded to
Algiers, and at their opening before the minister of naval affairs, all the
phantasmagoria of zechins, of treasure, of revolution, disappeared at
the sight of the stands and the limbs of several repeating circles in
copper.

We are now going to sojourn several months in Algiers. I will take
advantage of this to put together some details of manners, which may

be interesting as the picture of a state of things anterior to that of the -

occupation of the regency by the French. This occupation, it must be
remarked, has already fundamentally altered the manners and the
habits of the Algerine population.

I am about to report a curious fact, and one which shows that polities,
which insinuate themselves and bring discord into the bosom of the
most united families, had succeeded, strange to say, in penetrating as
far as the galley-slaves’ prison at Algiers. The slaves belonged to three
nations; there were in 1809 in this prison, Portuguese, Neapolitans, and
Sicilians; among these two latter classes were counted partisans of
Murat and those of Ferdinand of Naples. One day, at the beginning of
the year, a dragoman came in the name of the Dey to beg M. Dubois
Thainville to go without delay to the prison, where the friends of the
Freneh and their adversaries had involved themselves in a furious
combat; and already several had fallen. The weapon with which they
struck each other was the heavy long chain attached to their legs.

Bach consul, as I said above, had a janissary placed with him as his
guard; the one belonging to the French consul was a Candiote ; he had
been surnamed The Terror. Whenever some news unfavorable to Prance
Was announced in the eafés, he came to the consulate to inform himself
as to the reality of the fact; and when we told him that the other janis.
saries had propagated false news, he returned to them, and there, yata
gan in hand, he declared himself ready to enter the lists in combat
against those who should still maintain the truth of the news. As these
continual threats might endanger him (for they had no support beyond
bis mere animal courage) we had wished to render him expert in the
handling of arms by giving him some lessons in fencing; but he could

ee et ee ee ee ee

abe

SoS to ae Es ae NE
AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF FRANCIS ARAGO. 183

not endure the idea that Christians should touch him at every turn with
foils; he therefore proposed to substitute for the simulated duel a real
combat with the yatagan.

One may gain an exact idea of this savage nature when I mention
that, having one day heard a pistol-shot, the sound of which proceeded
from his room, people ran and found him bathed in his blood; he had
just shot off a ball into his arm to cure himself of a rheumatic pain.

Seeing with what facility the Deys disappeared, I said one day to our
- janissary, “¢‘ With this prospect before your eyes, would you consent to
become Dey?” “ Yes, doubtless,” answered -he. ‘ You seem to count
as nothing the pleasure of doing all that one likes, if only even for a
single day !”

When we wished to take a turn in the town of Algiers, we generally
took care to be escorted by the janissary attached to the con-
sular house; it was the only means of escaping insults, affronts, and
even acts of violence. J have just said it was the only means. I made
a mistake; there was one other; that was, to goin the company of a
French “lazarist” of seventy years of age, and whose name, if my
memory serves me, was Father Joshua; he had lived in this country
tor a halfa century. This man, of exemplary virtue, had devoted him-
self with admirable self-denial to the service of the slaves of the regency,
and bad divested himself of all considerations of nationality; the Portu-
guese, Neapolitans, Sicilians, all were equally his brethren.

In the times of plague he was seen day and night carrying eager help
to the Mussulmans; thus his virtue had conquered even religious
hatreds; and vherever he passed he and the persons who might accom-
pany him recewed from multitudes of the people, from the janissaries,
and even from she officials of the mosques, the most respectful saluta-
tions.

During our torg hours of sailing on board the Algerine vessel, and
our compulsory stiy in the prisons at Rosas, and on the hulk at Palamos,

gathered some idasas tothe interior life of the Moors or the Coulougous,
which, even now wlen Algiers has fallen under the dominion of Irance,
would, perhaps, be yet worth preserving. I shall, however, confine
myself to recounting nearly word for word, a conversation which I had
with Rais Braham, woose father was a “ Ture fin,” that is to say, a Turk
born in the Levant.

“¢ How is it that youconsent,” said I to him, ‘to marry a young girl
whom you have never seen, and find im her, perhaps, an excessively
ugly woman, instead of the beauty whom you had fancied to yourself ?”

“We never marry Wthout having obtained information from the
women who serve in thecapacity of servants at tie public baths. The
Jewesses are, moreover, n these cases very useful go-betweeus.”

‘* How many legitimatewives have you ?”

“T have four—that is b say, the number authorized by the Koran.”

‘Do they live together m a good understanding ?”

184 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF FRANCIS ARAGO.

“Ah, sir, my house is a hell. I never enter it without finding them
at the step of the door, or at the bottom of the stairs; then each wants
to be the first to make me listen to the complaints which she has to
bring against her companions. I am about to utter blasphemy, but J
think that our holy religion ought to prohibit a plurality of wives te
those who are not rich enough to give to each a separate habitation.”

‘¢ But since the Koran allows you to repudiate even legitimate wives,
why do you not send back three of them to their parents ?”

‘““ Why ? Because that would ruin me. On the day of the marriage
the father of the young woman to be married stipulates for a dowry, and
the half of itis paid. The other half may be exacted the day that the
woman is repudiated. It would then be three half-dowries that I should
have to pay if I sent back three of my wives. I ought, however, to
rectify one inaccuracy in what I said just now, that my four wives had
never agreed together. Once they were agreed among themselves in
the feeling of a common hatred. In going through the market { had
bought a young negress. In the evening, when I retired to rest, I per-
ceived that my wives had prepared no bed for her, and that the unfor-
tunate girl was extended on the ground. I rolled up my trowsers and
laid them under her head as a kind of pillow. In the morning the
distracting cries of the poor slave made me run to her, and J found her
nearly sinking under the blows of my four wives; for once they under-
stood each other marvelously well.”

In February, 1809, the new Dey, the successor of the * épileur,” a
short time after having entered on his functions, claimed from two to three
hundred thousand franes—I do not remember exactly the sam—which he
pretended was due to him from the French governmext. M. Dubois
Thainville answered that he had received the Empero”s orders not to
pay one centime.

The Dey was furious, and decided upon declaring war against us. A
declaration of war at Algiers used to be immediately fyllowed by putting
all the persons of other nations into prison. This time matters were not
pushed to this extreme limit. Our names might be/figuring on the list
of the slaves of the regency; but, in fact, so far as I was concerned, I
remained free in the consular house. By means o/a pecuniary guaran-
tee, contracted with the Swedish consul, M. Nyrderling, I was even
permitted to live at his country-house, situated near the Emperor’s
fort.

The most insignificant event was sufficient to modify the ideas of
these barbarians. I had come into the town me day, and was seated
at table at M. Dubois Thainville’s, when the Eyglish consul, Mr. Blank-
ley, arrived in great haste, announcing to ounconsul the entrance into
the port of a French prize. “I never will us/lessly add,” said he, gen-
erously, ‘to the severities of war; I came tqannounce to you, my col-
league, that I will give up your prisoners onA receipt which will insure
me the deliverance of an equal number a Englishmen detained in

|
|

|

FF eet ey a ee eee
AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF FRANCIS. ARAGO. 185

France.” ‘TI thank you,” answered M. Dubois Thainville; “but I do
not the less deplore this event that it wil) retard, indefinitely perhaps,
the settlement of the account in which I am engaged with the Dey.”

During this conversation, armed with a telescope, I was looking
through the window of the dining-room, trying to persuade myself at
least that the captured vessel was not one of much importance. But
one must yield to evidence. It was pierced for a great number of guns.
All at once, the wind having displayed the flags, I perceived with sur-
prise the French flag over the English flag. I communicated what I
observed to Mr. Blankley. He answered immediately, “ You do not
surely pretend to observe better with your bad telescope than I did with
my Doiland ?”

‘And you cannot pretend,” said I to him in my turn, ‘to see better
than an astronomer by profession? I am sure of my fact. I beg M.
Thainville’s permission, and will go this instant to visit this mysterious
prize.”

In short, I went thére; and this is what I learnt:

General Duhesme, Governor of Barcelona, wishing to rid himself of
the most ill-disciplined portion of his garrison, formed the principal part
into the crew of a vessel, the command of which he gave to a lieutenant
of Babastro, a celebrated corsair of the Mediterranean.

There were among these improvised seamen a hussar, a dragoon, two
veterans, a miner with his long beard, &c. The vessel, leaving Bar-
celona by night, escaped the English cruiser, and got to the entrance
of Port Mahon. An English “lettre de marque” was coming out of the
port. The crew of the French vessel boarded her; and a furious com-
bat on the deck ensued, in which the French got the upper-hand. It
was this “lettre de marque” which had now arrived at Algiers.

Invested with full power by M. Dubois Thainville, | announced to the
prisoners that they were about to be immediately given up to their
consul. I respected even the trick of the captain, who, wounded by
several saber cuts, had contrived to cover up his head with his principal
flag. I reassured his wife; but my chief care was especially devoted to
a passenger whom [ saw, with one arm amputated.

‘““ Where is the surgeon,” [ said to him, ‘“‘ who operated on you ?”

“Tt was not our surgeon,” he answered. ‘ He basely fled with a part
of the crew, and saved himself on land.”

‘“¢ Who, then, cut off your arm? ”

‘It was the hussar whom you see here.”

“ Unhappy man! I exclaimed, ‘ what could lead you, when it was not
your profession, to perform this operation ?”

‘The pressing request of the wounded man. His arm had already
swollen to an enormous size. He wanted some one to cut it off for him
with a blow of a hatchet. I told him that in Egypt, when I was in hos-
pital, [ had seen several amputations made; that I would imitate what
1 had seen, and might perhaps sueceed That at any rate it would be
186 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF FRANCIS ARAGO.

better than the blow of a hatchet. All wasagreed; I armed myseif with
the carpenter’s saw, and the operation was done.”

I went off immediately to the American consul to claim the assistance
of the only surgeon worthy of confidence who was then in Algiers. Mr.
Triplet—I think L recollect that that was the name of the man of the
distinguished art whose aid I invoked—came at once on board the ves-
sel, examined the dressing of the wound, and declared, to my very lively
satisfaction, that all was going on well, and that the Englishman would
survive his horrible injury.

The same day we had the wounded men earried on litters to Mr.
Blankley’s house; this operation, executed with somewhat of ceremony,
modified, though slightly, the feelings of the Dey in our favor, and his
sentiments became yet more favorable toward us in consequence of
another maritime occurrence, although a very insignificant one.

One day a corvette was seen in the horizon armed with a very great
number of guns, and shaping her way toward the port of Algiers; there
appeared immediately after an English brig of war in full sail; a combat
was, therefore, expected, and all the terraces of the town were covered with
spectators. The brig appeared to be the best sailer, and seemed to us
likely to reach the corvette, but the latter tacked about, and seemed
desirous to engage in battle; the English vessel fled before her; the
corvette tacked about the second time, and again directed her course
toward Algiers, where, one would have supposed, she had some special
mission to execute. The brig in her turn now changed her course, but
held herself constantly beyond the reach of shot from the corvette; at
last the two vessels arrived in succession in the port, and cast anchor, to
the lively disappointment of the Algerine population, who had hoped to
be present without danger at a maritime combat between the “ Christian
dogs,” belonging to two nations equally detested in a religious point of
view; but shouts of laughter could not be repressed when it was seen
that the corvette was a merchant vessel, and that she was only armed
with wooden imitations of cannon. It was said in the town that the
English sailors were furious, and had been on the point of mutiny against
their too prudent captain.

I have very little to tell in favor of the Algerines; hence I must do an
act of justice by mentioning that the corvette departed the next day for
the Autilles, her destination, and that the brig was not permitted to set
sail until the next day but one.

Bakri often came to the French consulate to talk of our affairs with
M. Dubois Thainville. ‘What can you want?” said the latter; ‘you are
an Algerine; you will be the first victim of the Dey’s obstinacy. I have
already written to Livorno that your families and your goods are to be
seized. When the vessels laden with cotton, which you have in this
port, arrive at Marseilles, they will be immediately confiscated ; it is for
you to judge whether it would not better suit you to pay the sum which
the Dey claims than to expose yourself to tenfold and certain loss.”

AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF FRANCIS ARAGO. 187

Such reasoning was unanswerable; and whatever it might cost him,
Bakri decided on paying the sum that was demanded of France.

Permission to depart was immediately granted to us; 1 embarked the
21st of June, 1809, on board a vessel in which M. Dubois Thainville and
his family were passengers.

The evening before our departure from Algiers, a corsair deposited at
the consul’s the Majorcan mail, which he had taken from a vessel which
he had captured. It was a complete collection of the letters which the
inhabitants of the Baléares had been writing to their friends on the
Continent.

* Look here,” said M. Dubois Thainville to me, “here is something to
amuse you during the voyage, you who generally keep your room from
sea-sickness; break the seals and read all these letters, and see whether
they contain any accounts by which we might profit how to aid the un-
happy soldiers who are dying of misery and despair in the little island
of Cabrera.”

Scarcely had we arrived on board the vessel, when I set myself to
the work, and acted without seruple or remorse the part of an official
of the black chamber, with this sole difference, that the letters were
unsealed without taking any precautions. I found among them several
dispatches in which Adiniral Collingwood signified to the Spanish gov-
ernment the ease with which the prisoners might be delivered. Imme-
diately on our arrival at Marseilles these letters were sent to the minis-
ter of naval affairs, who, L believe, did not pay much attention to them.

I knew almost every one at Palma, the capital of Majorca. I leave it
to be imagined with what curiosity I read the missives in which the
beautiful ladies of the town expressed their hatred against los malditos
cavachios, (freneh,) whose presence in Spain had rendered necessary
the departure for the Continent of a magnificent regiment of hussars;
how many persons might I not have embroiled, if under a mask I had
found myself with them at the opera ball!

Many of the letters made mention of me, and were particularly inter-
esting to me; I was sure in this instance there was nothing to constrain
the frankness of those who had written them. It is an advantage which
few people can boast having enjoyed to the same degree.

The vessel in which I was, although laden with bales of cotton, had
some corsair papers of the regency, and was the reputed escort of three
richly laden merchant vessels which were going to France.

We were off Marseilles on the Ist of July, when an English frigate
came to stop our passage: “T will not take you,” said the English cap-
tain, ‘‘ but you will go towards the Uyeéres Islands, and Admiral Colling-
wood will decide on your fate.”

“JT have received,” answered the Barbary captain, “an express com-
mission to conduct these vessels to Marseilles, and I will execute it.”

“ You, individually, can do what may seem to you best,” answered the
Englishman; “as to the merchant vessels under your escort, they will
188 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF FRANCIS ARAGO.

be, I repeat to you, taken to Admiral Collingwood.” And he immedi-
ately gave orders to those vessels to set sail to the east.

The frigate had already gone a little distance when she perceived
that we were steering toward Marseilles. Having then learnt from the
crews of the merchant vessels that we were ourselves laden with cotton,
she tacked about to seize us.

She was very near reaching us, when we were enabled to enter the
port of the little island of Pomégue. In the night she put her boats to
sea to try to carry us off; but the enterprise was too perilous, and she
did not dare attempt it.

The next morning, 2d of July, 1809, I disembarked at the lazaretto.

At the present day they go from Algiers to Marseilles in four days;
it had taken me eleven months to make the same voyage. It is true
that here and there I had made involuntary sojourns.

My letters sent from the lazaretto at Marseilles were considered by
my relatives and friends as certificates of resurrection, they having for
a long time past supposed me dead. A great geometer had even pro-
posed to the Bureau of Longitude no longer to pay my allowance to my
authorized representative; which appears the more cruel inasmuch as
this representative was my father.

The first letter which I received from Paris was full of sympathy and
congratulations on the termination of my laborious and perilous adven-
tures; it was from a man already in possession of an Kuropean reputa-
tion, but whom I had never seen: M. de Humboldt, after what he had
heard of my misfortunes, offered me his friendship. Such was the first
origin of a connection which dates from nearly forty-two years back,
without a single cloud ever having troubled it.

M. Dubois Thainville had numerous acquaintances in Marseilles; his
wife was a native of that town, and her family resided there. They
received, therefore, both of them, numerous visits in the parlor of the
lazaretto. The bell which summoned them, for me alone was dumb;
and I remained as solitary and forsaken, at the gates of a town
peopled with a hundred thousand of my countrymen, as if I had been
in the heart of Africa. One day, however, the parlor bell rang three
times, (the number of times corresponding to the number of my room ;)
I thought it must be a mistake ; I did not, however, allow this to appear.
I traversed proudly under the escort of my guard of health the long
space which separates the lazaretto, properly so called, from the parlor,
and there I found, with very lively satisfaction, M. Pons, the director
of the observatory at Marseilles, and the most celebrated discoverer of
comets of whom the annals of astronomy have ever had to register the
SUCCESS.

At any time a visit from the excellent M. Pons, whom I have since
seen director of the observatory at Florence, would have been very
agreeable to me; but during my quarantine I felt it unappreciably
valuable. It proved to me that I had returned to my native soil.

i
y

a ee a ee) ee

a ee
AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF FRANCIS ARAGO. 189

Two or three days before our admission to freedom, we experienced a
loss which was deeply felt by each of us. To pass away the heavy time
of a severe quarantine, the little Algerine colony was in the habit of
going to an inclosure near the lazaretto, where a very beautiful gazelle,
belonging to M. Dubois Thainville, was confined; she bounded about
there in full liberty with a grace which excited our admiration. One of
us endeavored to stop this elegant animal in her course; he seized her
unluckily by the leg, and broke it. We all ran, but only, alas! to wit-
ness a scene which excited the deepest emotion in us.

The gazelle, lying on her side, raised her head sadly; her beantiful
eyes (the eyes of a gazelle!) shed torrents of tears; no ery of complaint
escaped her mouth; she produced that effect apes us which is always
felt when a person who is suddenly struck by an irreparable misfortune,
resigns himself to it, and shows his profound anguish only by silent
tears.

Having ended my quarantine, I went at once to Perpignan, to the
bosom of my family, where my mother, the most excellent and pious of
women, caused numerous masses to be said to celebrate my return, as
she had done before to pray for the repose of my soul, when she thought
that I had fallen under the daggers of the Spaniards. But I soon quit-
ted my native town to return to Paris; and I deposited at the Bureau
of Longitude and the Academy of Sciences my observations, which I had
succeeded in preserving amidst the perils and tribulations of my long
campaign.

A few days after my arrival, on the 18th of September, 1809, I was
nominated an academician in the place of Lalande. There were fifty-
two voters; I obtained forty-seven voices, M. Poisson four, and M. Nouet
one. I was then twenty-three years of age.

A nomination made with such a majority would appear, at first sight,
as if it would give rise to no serious difficulties ; but it proved otherwise.
The intervention of M. de Laplace, before the day of ballot, was active
and incessant to have my admission postponed until the time when a
vacancy, occurring in the geometry section, might enable the learned
assembly to nominate M. Poisson at the same time as me. The author
of the Mécanique Céleste had vowed to the young geometer an unbounded
attachment, completely justified, certainly, by the beautiful researches
which science already owed to him. M. de Laplace could not support
the idea that a young astronomer, younger by five years than M. Poisson,
a pupil, in the presence of his professor at the Polytechnic School, shouid
become an academician before him. He proposed to me, therefore, to
write to the Academy that I would not stand for election until there should
be a second place to give to Poisson. I answered by a formal refusal,
and giving my reasons in these terms: ‘I care little to be nominated at
this moment. I have decided upon leaving shortly with M. de Humboldt
for Thibet. In those savage regions the title of member of the Institute
will not smooth the difficulties which we shall have to encounter. But
190 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF FRANCIS ARAGO.

I would not be guilty of any rudeness toward the Academy. If they
were to receive the declaration for which I am asked, would not the
savans who composed this illustrious body have a right to say to me:
“How are you certain that we have thought of you? You refuse what
has not yet been offered to you.”

On seeing my firm resolution not to lead myself to the inconsiderate
course which he had advised me to follow, M. de Laplace went to work
in another way: he maintained that I had not sufficient distinction for
admission into the Academy. I do not pretend that, at the age of
three-and-twenty, my scientific attainments were very considerable, if
estimated in an absolute manner; but when I judged by comparison, I
regained courage, especially on considering that the three last years of
my life had been consecrated to the measurement of an are of the meri-
dian in a foreign country ; that they were passed amid the storms of the
war with Spain; often enough in dungeons, or, what was yet worse, in
the mountains of Kabyha, and at Algiers, at that time avery dangerous
residence.

Here is, therefore, my statement of accounts for that epoch. I make
it over to the impartial appreciation of the reader:

On leaving the Polytechnic School, [ had made, in conjunction with
M. Biot, an extensive and very minute research on the determination of
the coefficient of the tables of atmospheric refraction.

We had also measured the refraction of different gases, which, up to
that time, had not been attempted.

A determination, more exact than had been previously obtained, of
the relation of the weight of air to the weight of mercury, had furnished
a direct value of the coefficient of the barometrical formula which served
for the calculation of the heights.

I had contributed, in a regular and very assiduous manner, during
nearly two years, to the observations which were made day and night
with the trausit telescope and with the mural quadrant at the Paris
Observatory.

T had undertaken, in conjunction with M. Bouvard, the observations
relating to the verification of the laws of the moon’s libration. All the
ealculations were prepared ; it only remained for me to put the numbers
into the formule, when I was, by order of the Bureau of Longitude,
obliged to leave Paris for Spain. I had observed various comets, and
calculated their orbits. I had, in concert with M. Bouvard, calcwlated,
according to Laplace’s formula, the table of refraction which has been
published in the Recueil des Tables of the Bureau ot Longitude, and in
the Connaissance des Temps. A research on the velocity of light, made
with a prism placed betcre the object end of the telescope of the mural
circle, had proved that the same tables of refraction might serve for the
sun and all the stars.

Finally, L had just terminated, ‘under very difficult circumstances, the

AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF FRANCIS ARAGO. hoe

grandest triangulation which had ever been achieved, to prolong the
meridian line from France as far as the Island of Formentera.

M. de Laplace, without denying the importance and utility of these
labors and these researches, saw in them nothing more than indications
of promise; M. Lagrange then said to him expiicit!y:

“1 en you, M. de Laplace, when you entered tne Academy, bad done
nothing’ brilliant; you only gave promise. Your grand discoveries did
not come till afterward.”

Lagrange was the only man in Europe who could with authority
address such an observation to him.

M. de Laplace did not reply upon the ground of the personal question,
but he added, “I maintain that it is useful to young savans to hold
out the position of member of the Institute as a future recompense, to
excite their zeal.”

“*You resemble,” replied M. Hallé, ‘the driver of the hackney coach,
who, to excite his horses to a gallop, tied a bundle of hay at the end of
his carriage pole; the poor horses redoubled their efforts, and the bundle
of hay always flew on before them. After all, his plan made them fall
off, and soon after brought on their death.”

Delambre, Legendre, Biot, insisted on the devotion, and what they
termed the courage, with which I had combated arduous difficulties,
whether in carrying on the observations, or in saving the instruments
and the results already obtained. They drew an animated picture of
the dangers I had undergone. M. de Laplace ended by yielding when
he saw that all the most eminent men of the Academy had taken me
under their patronage, and on the day of the election he gave me his
vote. It would be, 1 must own, a subject of regret with me even to
this day, after a lapse of forty-two years, if I had become member of the
Institute without having obtained the vote of the author of the Mécanique
Céleste.

The members of the Institute were always presented to the Emperor
after he had confirmed their nominations. On the appointed day, in
coinpany with the presidents, with the secretaries of the four classes,
and with the academicians who had special publications to offer to the
Chief of the State, they assembled in one of the saloons of the Tuileries,
When the Emperor returned from mass, he held a kind of review of
these savans, these artists, these literary men, in green uniform.

I must own that the spectacle which I witnessed on the day of my
presentation did nct edify me. I even experienced real displeasure in
seeing the anxiety evinced by members of the Institute to be noticed.

‘You are very young,” said Napoleon to me on coming near me; and
without waiting for a flattering reply, which it would not have been
difficult to find, he added, ‘What is your name?” And my ueighbor
on the right, not leaving me time to answer the simple enough question
just addressed to me, hastened to say :

‘* His name is Arago.”
192 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF FRANCIS ARAGO.

“What science do you cultivate?”

My neighbor on the left immediately replied—

‘« He cultivates astronomy.”

‘““ What have you done?”

My neighbour on the right, jealous of my left hand neighbor for
having encroached on his rights at the second question, now hastened to
reply, and said :

‘‘ He has just been measuring the line of the meridian in Spain.”

The Emperor, imagining doubtless that he had before him either a
dumb man or an imbecile, passed on to another member of the Institute.
This one was not a novice, but a naturalist well known through his
beautiful and important discoveries, it was M. Lamarck. The old man
presented a book to Napoleon.

‘““ What is that?” said the latter, “it is your absurd meteorology, in
which you rival Matthieu Laensberg. It is this ‘annuaire’ which dis-
honors your old age. Do something in natural history, and I should
receive your productions with pleasure. As to this volume, I only take
it in consideration of your white hair. Here!” And he passed the
book to an aide-de-camp.

Poor M. Lamarck, who, at the end of each sharp and insulting sentence
of the Emperor, tried in vain to say, “It is a work on natural history
which I present to you,” was weak enough to fall into tears.

The Emperor immediately afterward met with a more energetic antag-
onist in the person of M. Lanjuinais. The latter had advanced, book in
hand. Napoleon said to him, sneeringly :

“The entire Senate, then, is to merge in the Institute?” “Sire,”
replied Lanjuinais, ‘‘it is the body of the state to which most time is left
for occupying itself with literature.”

The Emperor, displeased at this answer, at once quitted the civil
uniforms, and busied himself among the great epaulettes which filled the
room.

Immediately after my nomination I was exposed to strange annoyances
on the part of the military authorities. Ihad left for Spain, still holding
the title of pupil of the Polytechnic School. My name could not remain
on the books more than four years; consequently I had been enjoined
to return to France to go through the examinations necessary on quit-
ting the school. But in the meantime Lalande died, and thus a place
in the Bureau of Longitude became vacant. I was named assistant
astronomer. These places were submitted to the nomination of the
Emperor. M. Lacuée, director of the conscription, thought that, through
this latter circumstance, the law would be satisfied, and I was author-
ized to continue my operations.

M. Matthieu Dumas, who succeeded him, looked at the question from
an entirely different point of view; he enjoined me either to furnish
a substitute, or else set off myself with the contingent of the twelfth
arrondissement of Paris.
AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF FRANCIS ARAGO. 193

All my remonstrances and those of my friends having been fruitless,
I announced to the honorable general that I should present myself in
the Place de ’Estrapade, whence the conscripts had to depart, in the
costume of a member of the Institute; and that thus I should march on
foot through the city of Paris. General Matthieu Dumas was alarmed
at the effect which this scene would produce on the Emperor, himself a
member of the Institute, and hastened, under fear of my threat, to con-
firm the decision of General Lacuée.

In the year 1809, I was chosen by the “ conseil du perfectionnement”
of the Polytechnic School to succeed M. Monge, in his chair of analysis
applied to geometry. The circumstances attending that nomination
have remained a secret; I seize the first opportunity which offers itself
to me to make them known.

M. Monge took the trouble to come to me one day, at the observatory,
to ask me to succeed him. I declined this honor, because of a proposed
journey which I was going to make into Central Asia with M. de Hum-
boldt. “You will certainly not set off forsome months to come,” said the
jlustrious geometer; “ you could, therefore, take my place temporarily.”
“Your proposal,” I replied, ‘ flatters me infinitely; but I do not know
whether I ought to accept it. I have never read your great work on
partial differential equations; I do not, therefore, feel certain that I
should be competent to give lessons to the pupils of the Polytechnic
School on sucha difficult theory.” “Try,” said he, “and you will find
that that theory is clearer than it is generally supposed to be.” <Accor-
dingly, I did try; and M. Monge’s opinion appeared to me to be well
founded.

The public could not comprehend, at that time, how it was that the
benevolent M. Monge obstinately refused to confide the delivery of his
course to M. Binet, (a private teacher under him,) whose zeal was well
known. It is this motive which I am going to reveal.

There was then in the “ Bois de Boulogne” a residence named the
Grey House, where there assembled around M. Coessin, the high-priest
of a new religion, a number of adepts, such as Lesueur, the musician,
Colin, private teacher of chemistry at the school, M. Binet, &c. A report
from the prefect of police had signified to the Emperor that the frequent-
ers of the Grey House were connected with the Society of Jesuits. The
Emperor was uneasy andirritated at this. ‘ Well,” said he to M. Monge,
“there are your dear pupils become disciples of Loyola!” And on
Monge’s denial, “You deny it,” answered the Emperor; “well, then,

_ know that the private teacher of your course is in that clique.” Every

one can understand that after such a remark, Monge could not consent
to being succeeded by M. Binet.

Having entered the Academy, young, ardent, and impassioned, f took
much greater part in the nominations than may have been suitable for
mny position and my time of life. Arrived at an epoch of life whence I
examine retrospectively all my actions with calmness and impartiality, .

13.8
194 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF FRANCIS ARAGO.

T ean render this amount of justice to myself, that, excepting in three
or four instances, my vote and interest were always in favor of the most
deserving candidate, and more than once I succeeded in preventing the
Academy from making a deplorable choice. Who could blame me for
having maintained with energy the election of Malus, considering that
his competitor, M. Girard, unknown asa physicist, obtained twenty-two
votes out of fifty-three, and that an addition of five votes would have
given him the victory over the savant who had just discovered the
phenomenon of polarization by reflection, over the savant whom Europe
would have named by acclamation? The same remarks are applicable
to the nomination of Poisson, who would.have failed against this same
M. Girard if four votes had been otherwise given. Does not this suffice
to justify the unusual ardor of my conduct? Although in a third trial
the majority of the Academy was decided in favor of the same engineer,
T cannot regret that I supported up to the last moment with conviction
and warmth the election of his competitor, M. Dulong.

I do not suppose that, in the scientific world, any one will be disposed
to blame me for having preferred M. Liouville to M. de Pontécoulant.

Sometimes it happened that the government wished to influence the
choice of the Academy; with a strong sense of my rights I invariably
resisted all dictation. Once this resistance acted unfortunately on one
of my friends—the venerable Legendre; as to myself, I had prepared
myself beforehand for all the persecutions of which I could be made the
object. Having received from the minister of the interior an invitation
to vote for M. Binet against M. Navier on the occurrence of a vacant
place in the section of mechanics, Legendre nobly answered that he
would vote according to his soul and his conscience. He was immediately
deprived of a pension which his great age and his long services rendered
due to him. The protégé of the authorities failed; and, at the time, this
result was attributed to the activity with which I enlightened the mem-
bers of the Academy as to the impropriety of the minister’s proceedings.

On another occasion the King wished the Academy to name Dupuytren,
the eminent surgeon, but whose character at the time lay under grave
imputations. Dupuytren was nominated, but several blanks protested
against the interference of the authorities in academic elections.

Tsaid above that [had saved the Academy from some deplorable choices ; _ |
I will only cite a single instance, on which occasion I had the sorrow of
finding myself in opposition to M. de Laplace. The illustrious geometer
wished a vacant place in the astronomical section to be granted to M.
Nicolle-—a man without talent. At the close of a coutest, which I
maintained undisguisedly, notwithstanding the danger which might
follow from thus braving the powerful protectors of M. Nicollet, the
Academy proceeded to the ballot; the respected M. Damoiseau, whose
election I had supported, obtained forty-five votes out of forty-eight.
Thus M. Nicollet had collected but three,

“T see,” said M. de Laplace to me, ‘that it is useless to struggle
AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF FRANCIS ARAGO. 195

against young people; [ acknowledge that the man who is called the
great elector of the Academy is more powerful than I am.”

‘6 No,” replied I; ‘“M. Arago can only succeed in counterbalancing
the opinion justly preponderating for M. de Laplace, when the right is
found to be without possible contradiction on his side.”

I would warn those savants, who having early entered the Academy,
might be tempted to imitate my example, to expect nothing beyond the
satisfaction of their conscience. [ warn them, with a knowledge of the
case, that gratitude will almost always be found wanting.

The elected Academician, whose merits you have sometimes ex-
alted beyond measure, pretends that you have done no more than jus-
tice to him; that you have only fulfilled a duty, and that he therefore
owes you no thanks.

Delambre died the 19th August, 1822. After the necessary delay,
they proceeded to fill his place. The situation of perpetual secretary is
not one which can long be left vacant. The Academy named acommis-
sion to present it with candidates; it was composed of Messrs. de La-
place, Arago, Legendre, Rossel, Prony, and Lacroix. The list presented
was composed of the names of Messrs. Biot, Fourier, and Arago. It is
not necessary for me to say with what obstinacy I opposed the inscrip-
tion of my name on this list; I was compelled to give way to the will of
my colleagues, but I seized the first opportunity of declaring publicly
that I had neither the expectation nor the wish to obtain a single vote ;
that, moreover, I had on my hands already as much work as I could get
through; that in this respect M. Biot was in the same position; and
that, in short, I should vote for the nomination of M. Fourier.

It was supposed, but I dare not flatter myself that it was the fact,
that my declaration exercised a certain influence on the result of the
ballot. The result was as follows: M. Fourier received thirty-eight
votes, and M. Biot ten. In a case of this nature each man carefully con-
ceals his vote, in order not to run the risk of future disagreement with
him who may be invested with the authority which the Academy gives
to the perpetual secretary. I do not know whether I shall be pardoned
if I recount an incident which amused the Academy at the time.

M. de Laplace, at the moment of voting, took two plain pieces of pa-
_per; his neighbor was guilty of the indiscretion of looking, and saw
distinctly that the illustrious geometer wrote the name of Fourier on
both of them. After quietiy folding them up, M. de Laplace put the
papers into his hat, shook it, and said to this same curious neighbor:
“You see, I have written two papers; [am going to tear up one; I shall
put the other into the urn; I shall thus be myself ignorant for which
of the two candidates I have voted.”

All went on as the celebrated Academician had said ; only that every
one knew with certainty that his vote had been for Fourier; and “ the
calculation of probabilities” was in no way necessary for arriving at
this result.
196 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF FRANCIS ARAGO.

After having fulfilled the duties of secretary with much distinction,
but not without some feebleness and negligence in consequence of his
bad health, Fourier died the 16th of May, 1830. I declined several times
the honor which the Academy appeared willing to do me, in naming me
to succeed him. I believed, without false modesty, that I had not the
qualities necessary to fill this important place suitably. When thirty-
nine out of forty-four voters had appointed me, it was quite time that I
should give in to an opinion so flattering and so plainly expressed. On
the 7th of June, 1830, I, therefore, became perpetual secretary of the -
Academy for the Mathematical Sciences; but, conformably to the plea
of an accumulation of offices, which I had used as an argument to sup-
port, in November, 1822, the election of M. Fourier, I declared that I
should give in my resignation of the professorship in the Polytechnic
School. Neither the solicitations of Marshal Soult, the minister of war,
nor those of the most eminent members of the Academy, could avail in
persuading me to renounce this resolution.
HERSCHEL.
By M. ARAGO.

WILLIAM HERSCHEL, one of the greatest astronomers that ever lived
in any age or country, was born at Hanover, on the 15th of November,
1738. The name of Herschel has become too illustrious for the world to
neglect searching back, along the stream of time, to learn the social
position of the families that have borne it. Yet pardonable curiosity
on this subject has not been entirely satisfied. We only know that
Abraham Herschel, great-grandfather of the astronomer, resided at
Méihren, whence he was expelled on account of his strong attachment
to the Protestant faith; that Abraham’s son Isaac was a farmer in the
vicinity of Leipzig ; that Isaac’s eldest son, Jacob Herschel, disappointed
his father’s earnest desire to see him devote himself to agriculture, that
he determined on being a musician, and settled at Hanover.

Jacob Herschel, father of William, the astronomer, was an eminent
musician, not less remarkable for the good qualities of his heart than for
those of his mind. His very limited means did not enable him to bestow
a complete education on his family, consisting of six boys and four girls,
although, by his care, his ten children all became excellent musicians.
The eldest, Jacob, even acquired a rare degree of skill, which pro-
cured for him the appointment of master of the band in a Hanoverian
regiment, which he accompanied to England. The third son, William,
remained under his father’s roof, and, without neglecting the fine arts,
took lessons in the French language, and devoted himself to the study
of metaphysics, for which he retained a taste to his latest day.

In 1759 William Herschel, then about twenty-one years of age, went
over to England, not with his father, as has been erroneously stated,
but with his brother Jacob, whose connections in that country seemed
likely to favor the young man’s opening prospects in life. But neither
London nor the country towns afforded him any resource in the begin-
ning, and the first two or three years after his expatriation were marked
with cruel privations, which were, however, manfully endured. <A fortun-
ate chance finally raised the young Hanoverian to a better position ;
Lord Durham engaged him as master of the band in an English regiment
which was quartered on the borders of Scotland. From this moment
he began to acquire a reputation as a musician that was gradually
extended, until in 1766 he was appointed organist at Halifax, (York-
shire.) The emoluments of this situation, together with those of giving
private lessons both in the town and the country around, afforded him
the means to remedy, or rather to complete, his early education. It was
198 HERSCHEL.

then that he learned Latin and Italian, though without any other help
than a grammar and a dictionary, and that he also acquired some
knowledge of Greek. So great was the desire for knowledge with which
he was inspired that while residing at Halifax he found means to continue
his philological exercises, and at the same time to study deeply the learned
but very obscure mathematical work of Smith on the theory of music.
This treatise, either explicitly or implicitly, supposed the reader to
have a knowledge of algebra and geometry, which Herschel did not
possess, but of which he made himself master in a very short time.

In 1766 Herschel obtained the appointment of organist to the Octagon
Chapel at Bath. This was a more lucrative post than that at Halifax,
but it also devolved on him new obligations. He had to play inces-
santly either at the oratorios, or in the rooms at the baths, at the
theater, and in the public concerts. Besides this, from among his patrons
in the most fashionable circle of England, he could not refuse to take
numerous pupils who wished to be instructed in his art. It is difficult to
imagine how, among so many duties, so many distractions of various
kinds, Herschel could continue the studies, which even at Halifax had
required so much resolution and perseverance, with a very uncommon
degree of talent. We have seen that it was by music that Herschel
was led to mathematics; mathematics in their turn led him to opties,
the principal and fertile source of his illustrious career. The time
finally arrived when his theoretic knowledge was to guide the young
musician into a laborious application of principles quite foreign to his
habits; and of which the brilliant success, as well as the excessive
temerity, must excite reasonable astonishment.

A telescope—a simple reflector, only two English feet in length falls
into the hands of Herschel during his residence at Bath. This in-
strument, however imperfect, shows him a multitude of stars in the
sky that the naked eye cannot discern; shows him also enlarged known
objects, under their true dimensions; reveals forms to him that the
richest imaginations of antiquity had never suspected. He is trans-
ported with enthusiasm, and resolves, without delay, to have a similar in-
strument but of larger size. The answer from London is delayed for
some days. These few days appear to him as years. When the answer
arrives, the price that the optician demands proves to be much beyond
the pecuniary resources of a mere organist. To any other man this
would have been an unsurmountable obstacle. This unexpected diffi-
culty, on the contrary, inspired Herschel with fresh energy. He can-
not buy a telescope; then he will construct one with his own hands.
The musician of the Octagon Chapel rushes immediately into a mul-
titude of experiments, on metallic alloys that reflect light with the
greatest intensity, on the means of giving the parabolic figure to the
mirrors, on the causes that in the operation of polishing affect the
regularity of the reflection, &c. So rarea degree of perseverance at last
receives its reward. In i774 Herschel has the happiness of being
HERSCHEL. 199

able to examine the heavens with a Newtonian telescope of five English
feet focus, entirely made by himself. This success tempts him to under-
take still more difficult enterprises. Other telescopes of seven, of eight,
of ten, and even of twenty feet focal distance, crown his efforts. As if
to answer in advance those critics who would have accused him of a
superfluity of apparatus, of unnecessary luxury, in the large size of the
new instruments, and his extreme minutie in their execution, Nature
granted to the astronomical musician, on the 13th of March, 1781, the
unprecedented honor of commencing his career of observation with the
discovery of a new planet, situated on the confines of our solar system.
Dating from that moment, Herschel’s reputation, no longer in his
character of musician, but as a constructor of telescopes and as an
astronomer, spread throughout the world. George III, a lover of
science, and much inclined besides to protect and patronize both men
and things of Hanoverian origin, had Herschel presented to him. He
was charmed with the simple yet lucid and modest account that the
astronomer gave of his repeated endeavors; he caught a glimpse of
the glory that such an observer might reflect on his reign; granted him
a pension of three hundred guineas a year, and furnished him with a resi-
dence near Windsor Castle, first at Clay Hall and then at Slough. The
anticipations of George III were completely realized. We may confidently
assert, relative to the little house at Slough, that it is the place of all
the world where the greatest number of astronomical discoveries have
been made. The name of that village will never perish. Science will
transmit it religiously to our latest posterity.

I shall avail myself of this opportunity to rectify a mistake, of which
ignorance and idleness wish to make a triumphant handle, or, at all
events, to wield in their cause as an irresistible justification. It has
been repeated to satiety that at, the time when Herschel entered on his
astronomical career he knew nothing of mathematics. But Ihave already
said that, during his residence at Bath, the organist of the Octagon
Chapel had familiarized himself with the principles of geometry and
algebra; and a still more positive proof of this is, that a difficult
question on the vibration of strinfs loaded with small weights having
been proposed for discussion in 1779, Herschel gave it a solution which
was thought worthy to be inserted in several scientific periodicals.of the
year 1780. es

The adventurous life of Herschel is here closed. The great astrono-
mer will not quit his observatory any more, except to submit the sublime
results of his laborious vigils to the Royal Society of London. These
results are contained in his memoirs; they constitute one of the principal
riches of the celebrated collection known under the title of Philosophical
Transactions.

Herschel was even elected as a member of the principal academies of
Europe, and about 1816 he was named a Knight of the Guelphic Order
of Hanover. According to the English custom, from the time of that
200 HERSCHEL.

nomination the title of Sir William took the place, on all his memoirs,
already honored with so much celebrity, of the former appellation
of Doctor William. He had been named a doctor of laws in the
University of Oxford in 1786. This dignity, by special favor, was con-
ferred on him without any of the obligatory formalities of examination,
disputation, or pecuniary contribution, usual in that learned corporation.

I should wound the elevated sentiments that Herschel professed ail
his life, if I were not here to mention two indefatigable assistants that
this fortunate astronomer found in his own family. The one was Alex-
ander Herschel, endowed with a remarkable talent for mechanism,
always at his brother’s service, and who enabied him to realize without
delay any ideas that he had conceived;* the other was Miss Caroline
Herschel, who deserves a still more particular and detailed mention.

Miss Caroline Lucretia Herschel went to England as soon as her
brother became special astronomer to the King. She received the
appellation there of Assistant Astronomer, with a moderate salary.
From that moment she unreservedly devoted herself to the service of
her brother, happy in contributing night and day to his rapidly increasing
scientific reputation. Miss Caroline shared in all the night-watches of
her brother, with her eye constantly on the clock, and the pencil in her
hand; she, without exception, recorded all the observations; she after-
ward made three or four copies in separate registers; codrdinated,
classed, and analyzed them. If the scientific world saw with astonish-
ment how Herschel’s works succeeded each other with unexampled
rapidity during so many years, they were specially indebted for it to the
ardor of Miss Caroline. Astronomy, moreover, has been directly
enriched with several comets by this excellent and respectable lady.
After the death of her illustrious brother, she retired to Hanover, to the
house of Jahn Dietrich Herschel, a musician of high reputation, and
the only surviving brother of the astronomer.

William Herschel died without pain on the 23d of August, 1822, aged
eighty-three. Neither fame nor fortune ever changed in him the fund of
infantine candor, inexhaustible benevolence, and sweetness of character
with which nature had endowed him. He preserved to the last both
his brightness of mind and vigor of intellect. For some years before
his deat!"1e enjoyed with delight the distinguished success of his only
© u,t Sir John Herschel. At his last hour he sunk to rest with the
pleasing conviction that his beloved son, heir of a great name, would
not allow it to fall into oblivion, but would adorn it with fresh luster,

* When age and infirmities obliged Alexander Herschel to give up his profession as a
musician, he quitted Bath and returned to Hanover, very generously provided by Sir
William with a comfortable independence for life.

+ Sir W. Herschel had married Mary, the widow of John Pitt, esq., possessed of a con-
siderable jointure, and the union proved a remarkable accession of domestic happiness.
This lady survived Sir William by several years. They had but this son.—TRANSLA-
TOR’S NOTE.
HERSCHEL. 201

and that great discoveries would also honor his career. No prediction
of the illustrious astronomer has been more completely verified.

In the English journals an account is given of the interesting means
adopted by the family of Sir William Herschel for preserving the remains
of the great telescope of thirty-nine feet focus, constructed by that cele-
brated astronomer.

The metal tube of the instrument, carrying at one end the recently
cleaned mirror of four feet ten inches in diameter, has been placed hori-
zontally in the meridian on solid piers of masonry, in the midst of the
circle where formerly stood the mechanism requisite for maneuvering
the telescope. The 1st of January, 1840, Sir John Herschel, his wife,
their children, seven in number, and some old family-servants assembled
at Slough. Exactly at noon the party walked several times in proces-
sion around the instrument; they then entered the tube of the telescope,
seated themselves on benches that had been prepared for the purpose,
and sung a requiem, with English words, composed by Sir John Herschel
himself. After their exit, the illustrious family ranged themselves around
the great tube, the opening of which was then hermetically sealed. The
day concluded with a party of intimate friends.

I know not whether those persons who can only appreciate things
from the peculiar point of view from which they have been accustomed
to look, may think there was something strange in several of the details
of the ceremony that I have just described. I affirm, however, that the
whole world will applaud the pious feeling which actuated Sir John
Herschel, and that all the friends of science will thank him for having
consecrated the humble garden where his father achieved such immortal
labors by a monument more expressive in its simplicity than pyramids
or statues.

CHRONOLOGICAL TABLE OF THE MEMOIRS OF WILLIAM HERSCHEL.*

1780. Philosophical Transactions, vol. lxx.—Astronomical observations on the periodical
star in the neck of the Whale.—Astronomical observations relative to the lunar
mountains.

1781. Phil. Trans., vol. 1xxi.—Astronomical observations on the rotation of the planets
on their axes, made with a view to decide whether the daily rotation of the earth be
always the same.—On the comet of 1781, afterward called the Georgium Sits.

1782. Phil. Trans., vol. xxii—On the parallax of the fixed stars.—Catalogue of double
stars.—Description of a lamp micrometer, and the method of using it.—Answers to the
doubts that might be raised to the high magnifying powers used by Herschel.

1783. Phil. Trans., vol. lxxiiii—Letter to Sir Joseph Banks on the name to be given
_ to the new planet.—On the diameter of the Georgium Sidus, followed by the description
of a micrometer with luminous or dark disks.—On the proper motion of the solar system,
and the various changes that have occurred among the fixed stars since the time of
Flamsteed.

1784. Phi. Trans., vol. Ixxiv.—On some remarkable appearances in the polar regions
of Mars, the inclination of its axis, the position of its poles, and its spheroidal form.—

* These titles are copied direct from the Philosophical Transactions, instead of being re-translated.—
TRANSLATOR’s NOTE.
202 HERSCHEL.

Some details on the real diameter of Mars, and on its atmosphere.—Analysis of some
observations on the constitution of the heavens.

1785. Phil. Trans., vol. Ixxv.—Catalogue of double stars.—On the constitution of the
heavens. ‘

1786. Phil. Trans., vol. lxxvi.—Catalogue of a thousand nebule and clusters of
stars.—Researches on the cause of a defect of definition in vision, which has been at-
tributed to the smallness of the optic pencils.

1787. Phil. Trans., vol. Ixxvii.—Remarks on the new comet.—Discovery of two
satellites revolving round George’s Planet.—On th ree volcanoes in the moon.

1788. Phil. Trans., vol. lxxviii.—On George’s Planet (Uranus) and its satellites.

1789. Phil. Trans., vol. xxix.— Observations on a comet.—Catalogue of a second thou-
sand new nebulz and clusters of stars.—Some preliminary remarks on the constitution
of the heavens.

1790. Phil. Trans., vol. 1xxx.—Discovery of Saturn’s sixth and seventh satellites ;
with remarks on the constitution of the ring, on the planet’s rotation round an axis,
on its spheroidal form, and on its atmosphere.—On Saturn’s satellites, and the rotation
of the ring round an axis. J

1791. Phil. Trans., vol. Ixxxi.—On the nebulous stars and the suitableness of this
epithet.

1792. Phil. Trans., vol. lxxxiii—On Saturn’s ring, and the rotation of the planet’s
fifth satellite round an axis.—Mixed observations.

1793. Phil. Trans., vol. [xxxiii.—Observations on the planet Venus.

1794. Phil. Trans., vol. Ixxxiv.—Observations on a quintuple band in Saturn.—On
some peculiarities observed during the last solar eclipse.—On Saturn’s rotation round
@D axis.

1795.—Phil. Trans., vol. Ixxxv.—On the nature and physical constitution of the
sun and stars.—Description of a reflecting telescope forty feet in length.

1796. Phil. Trans., vol. 1xxxvi.—Method of observing the changes that happen to the
fixed stars; remarks on the stability of our sun’s light.—Catalogue of comparative
brightness, to determine the permanency of the luster of stars.—On the periodical star
e Hereculis, with remarks tending to establish the rotatory motion of the stars on their
axes; to which is added a second catalogue of the brightness of the stars.

1797. Phil. Trans., vol. lxxxvii.—A third catalogue of the comparative brightness of
the stars; with an introductory account of an index to Mr. Flamsteed’s observations of
the fixed stars, contained in the second volume of the Historia Coeelestis, to which are
added several useful results derived from that index.—Observations of the changeable
brightness of the satellites of Jupiter, and of the variation in their apparent magni-
tudes; with a determination of the time of their rotary motions on their axes, to which is
added a measure of the diameter of the second satellite, and an estimate of the com-
parative size of the fourth.

1798. Phil. Trans., vol. lxxxviii.—On the discovery of four additional satellites of the
Georgium Sidus. The retrograde motion of its satellites announced ; and the cause of
their disappearance at certain distances from the planet explained.

1799. Phil. Trans., vol. 1xxxix.—A fourth catalogue of the comparative brightness of
the stars.

1800. Phil. Trans., vol. xc.—On the power of penetrating into space by telescopes,
with a comparative determination of the extent of that power in natural vision, and
in telescopes of various sizes and construction ; illustrated by select observations.—In-
vestigation of the powers of the prismatic colors to heat and illuminate objects; with
remarks that prove the different refrangibility of radiant heat; to which is added an
inquiry into the method of viewing the sun advantageously with telescopes of large
apertures and high magnifying powers.—Experiments on the refrangibility of the in-
visible rays of the sun.—Experiments on the solar and on the terrestrial rays that occa-
sion heat ; with a comparative view of the laws to which light and heat, or rather the
rays which occasion them, are subject, in order to determine whether they are the same
or different.
HERSCHEL. 203

1801. Phil. Trans., vol. xcii—Observations tending to investigate the nature of the
sun, in order to find the causes or symptoms of its variable emission of light and heat;
with remarks on the use that may possibly be drawn from solar observations.—Addi-
tional observations tending to investigate the symptoms of the variable emission of the
light and heat of the sun; with trials to set aside darkening glasses, by transmitting
the solar rays through liquids, and a few remarks to remove objections that might be
made against some of the arguments contained in the former paper.

1802. Phil. Trans., vol. xciii—Observations on the two lately discovered celestial
bodies, (Ceres and Pallas.)—Catalogue of 500 new nebulz and clusters of stars, with re-
marks on the construction of the heavens.

1803. Phil. Trans., vol. xciii—Observations of the transit of Mercury over the disk of
the sun; to which is added an investigation of the causes which often prevent the
proper action of mirrors.—Account of the changes that have happened during the last
wenty-five years in the relative situation of double stars; with an investigation of
the cause to which they are owing.

1804. Phil. Trans., vol. xciv.—Continuation of an account of the changes that have
happened in the relative situation of double stars.

1805. Phil. Trans., vol. xev.—Experiments for ascertaining how far telescopes will
enable us to determine very small angles, and to distinguish the real from the spurious
diameters of celestial and terrestrial objects; with an application of the result of these
experiments to a series of observations on the nature and magnitude of Mr. Harding’s
lately discovered star.—On the direction and velocity of the motion of the sun and solar
system.—Observation on the singular figure of the planet Saturn.

1806. Phil. Trans., vol. xevi.—On the quantity and velocity of the solar motion.—
Observations on the figure, the climate, and the atmosphere of Saturn and its ring.

1807. Phil. Trans., vol. xevii,;.*Experiments for investigating the cause of the colored
concentric rings discovered by Sir Isaac Newton between two object-glasses laid one
upon another.—Observations on the nature of the new celestial body discovered by
Dr, Olbers, and of the comet which was expected to appear last January, in its return
from the sun.

1808. Phil. Trans., vol. xeviii—Observations of a comet, made with a view to investi-
gate its magnitude and the nature of its illumination. To which is added an account
of a new irregularity lately perceived in the apparent figure of the planet Saturn.

1809. Phil. Trans., vol. xcix.—Continuation of experiments for investigating the
cause of colored concentric rings and other appearances of a similar nature.

1810. Phil. Trans., vol. ¢.—Supplement to the first and second part of the paper of
experiments for investigating the cause of colored concentric rings between object-
glasses, and other appearances of a similar nature.

1811. Phil. Trans., vol. ci.—Astronomical observations relating to the construction
of the heavens, arranged for the purpose of a critical examination, the result of which
appears to throw some new Light upon the organization of the celestial bodies.

1812. Phil. Trans., vol. cii.—Observations of a comet, with remarks on the construe-
tion of its different parts.—Observations of a second comet, with remarks on its con-
struction.

1814. Phil. Trans., vol. civ.i—Astronomical observations relating to the sidereal part
of the heavens, and its connection witb the nebulous part; arranged for the purpose of
a critical examination.

1815. Phil. Trans., vol. cv.—A series of observations of the satellites of the Georgian
Planet, including a passage through the node of their orbits; with an introductory ac-
count of the telescopic apparatus that has been used on this occasion, and a final expo-
sition of some calculated particulars deduced from the observations.

1817. Phil. Trans., vol. cvii.—Astronomical observations and experiments tending to
investigate the local arrangement of the celestial bodies in space, and to determine the
extent and condition of the Milky Way.

1818. Phil. Trans., vol. eviiii—Astronomical observations and experiments selected
204 HERSCHEL.

for the purpose of ascertaining the relative distances of clusters of stars, and of inves-
tigating how far the power of telescopes may be expected to reach into space, when
directed to ambiguous celestial objects.

1822. Memoirs of the Astronomical Society of London—On the positions of 145 new
double stars.

The chronological and detailed analysis of so many labors would
involve numerous repetitions. A systematic order will be preferable,
since it more distinetly fixes the eminent place that Herschel will never
cease to occupy in the small group of contemporary men of genius, while
his name will reécho to the most distant posterity. The variety and
splendor of Herschel’s labors vie with their extent. The more we study
them the more we must admire them. It is with great men as it is with
great movements in the arts: we cannot understand them without study-
ing them from various points of view.

Let us here again make a general reflection. The memoirs of Herschel
are, for the greater part, pure and simple extracts from his inexhaustible
journals of observations at Slough, accompanied by brief remarks. Such
a table would not suit historical details. In these respects the author
has left almost everything to his biographers to do for him. And they
must impose on themselves the task of assigning to the great astron-
omer’s predecessors the portion that legitimately belongs to them out
of the mass of discoveries which the public, we must say, are in the
habit of erroneously referring too exclusively..o Herschel.

At one time I thought of adding a note to the analysis of each of the
illustrious observer’s memoirs, containing a detailed account of the
improvements or corrections to which the progressive march of science
has led. But in order to avoid an exorbitant length in this biog-
raphy, I have been obliged to give up my project. In general, I shall
content myself with pointing out what belongs to Herschel, referring to
Arago’s Treatise on Popular Astronomy for the historical details. The life
of Herschel had the rare advantage of forming an epoch in an extensive
branch of astronomy; it would require us almost to write a special
treatise on astronomy to show thoroughly the importance of all the re-
searches that are due to him.

IMPROVEMENTS IN THE MEANS OF OBSERVATION.

The improvements that Herschel made in the construction and manage-
ment of telescopes have contributed so directly to the discoveries with
which that observer enriched astronomy that we cannot hesitate to
bring them forward at once.

I find the following passage in a memoir by Lalande, printed in 1783,
and forming part of the preface to Volume VILI of the Ephemerides of the
Celestial Motions:

‘¢ Hach time that Herschel undertakes to polish a mirror (of a tele-
scope) he condemns himself to ten, or twelve, or even fourteen hours of
constant work. He does not quit his workshop for a minute, not even to
HERSCHEL. 205

eat, but receives from the hands of his sister that nourishment without
which one could not undergo such prolonged fatigue. Nothing could
induce Herschel to leave his work; for, according to him, if he did so
it would be to spoil it.”

The advantages that Herschel found in 1783, 1784, and 1785, in em-
ploying telescopes of twenty feet and with large apertures, made him
desire to construct one much larger still. The expense would be consid-
erable; the King provided for it. The work, begun about the close of
1785, was finished in August, 1789. This instrument had an iron eylin-
drical tube, thirty-nine feet four inches in length, and four teet ten
inches in diameter. Such dimensions are enormous as compared with
those of telescopes previously made. They will appear but small, how-
ever, to persons who have heard the report of a pretended ball given in
the Slough telescope. The propagators of this popular rumor must
have confounded the astronomer Herschel with the brewer Meux, and a
cylinder in which a man of the smallest stature could searcely stand
upright, with divers wooden vats, as large as a house, in which beer
is made in London.

Herschel’s telescope, forty English feet* in length, allowed the reali-
zation of an idea, the advantages of which would not be sufficiently
appreciated if I did not here recall to mind some facts.

In any telescope, whether refracting or reflecting, there are two prin-
cipal parts: the part that forms the aerial images of the distant objects,
and the small lens by the aid of which these images are magnified just
as if they consisted of radiating matter. When the image is produced
by means of a lenticular glass, the place it occupies will be found in the
prolongation of the line that extends from the object to the center of
the lens. The astronomer, furnished with an eye-piece and wishing to
examine that image, must necessarily place himself beyond the point
where therays that form it have crossed each other ; beyond, let us carefully
remark,means farther off from the object-glass. The observer’s head,
cannot then interfere with the formation or the brightness of the image,
however small may be the distance from which he may have to study it.
But it is no longer thus with the image formed by means of reflection.
For the image is now placed between the object and the reflecting mir-
ror, and when the astronomer approaches in order to examine it, he
inevitably intercepts, if not the totality, at least a very considerable
portion, of the luminous rays, which would otherwise have contributed
to give it great distinctness. It will now be understood why, in optical
instruments where the images of distant objects are formed by the re-
flection of light, it has been necessary to carry the images, by the aid
of a second reflection, out of the tube that contains and sustains the

* Conforming to general usage, and to Sir W. Herschel himself, we shall allude to
this instrument as the forty-foot telescope, though M. Arago adheres to thirty-nine feet
and drops the inches, probably because the Parisian foot is rather longer than the
English.— TRANSLATOR’s NOTE.
206 HERSCHEL.

principal mirror. When the small mirror on the surface of which the
second reflection is effected is plane and inclined at an angle of 45° to
the axis of the telescope; when the image is reflected laterally through
an opening made near the edge of the tube and furnished with an eye-
piece; when, in a word, the astronomer looks definitively in a direction
perpendicular to the line described by the luminous rays coming from
the object and falling on the center of the great mirror, then the tele-
scope is called Newtonian. But in the Gregorian telescope the image
formed by the principal mirror falls on a second mirror, which is very
smnall, slightly curved, and parallel to the first. The small mirror re-
flects the first image and throws it beyond the large mirror, through an
opening made in the middle of that mirror.

Both in the one and in the other of these two telescopes, the small
mirror interposed between the object and the great mirror forms relative
to the latter a sort of screen which prevents its entire surface from con-
tributing toward forming the image. The small mirror also, in regard
to intensity, gives some trouble.

Let us suppose, in order to clear up our ideas, that the material of
which the two mirrors are made reflects only half of the incident light.
In the course of the first reflection, the immense number of rays that the
aperture of the telescope had received may be considered as reduced to
half. Nor is the diminution less on the small mirror. Now, half of a half
is a quarter. Therefore the instrument will send to the eye of the ob-
server only a quarter of the incident light that its aperture had received
If these two causes of diminished light did not exist ina refracting tele-
scope, it would give, under parity of dimensions, four times more * light
than a Newtonian or Gregorian telescope gives.

Herschel did away with the small mirror in his large telescope by
placing the large mirror obliquely in the tube which causes the images
to be formed, not in the axis of the tube, but very near the circumfer-
ence or edge of the outer mouth, as we may callit. The observer might
therefore look at them directly merely by means of an eye-glass. A
small portion of the astronomer’s head, it is true, encroaches on the tube,
forms a screen, and interrupts some incident rays. Still, in a large tel-
escope, this loss does not amount to half as much as it would inevitably
do if the small mirror were there.

Those telescopes in which the observer, standing at the anterior ex-
tremity of the tube, looks directly into it, turning his back to the objects,
were called by Herschel front-view telescopes. In Volume LX XVI of the
Philosophical Transactions, he says that the idea of this construction
occurred to him in 1776, and that he then applied it unsuccessfully to a
ten-foot telescope; that during the year 1784 he again made a fruitless
trial of it in a twenty-foot telescope. Yet I find that on the 7th of Sep-
tember, 1784, he recurred to a front view in observing some nebule and
groups of stars. However discordant these dates may be, we cannot

*It would be more correct to say four times as much light.—TRANSLATOR.
HERSCHEL. 207

without injustice neglect to remark that a front-view telescope was
already described in 1732, in Volume VI of the collection entitled ‘‘Ma-
chines and Inventions approved by the Academy of Sciences.” The author
of this innovation is Jacques Lemaire, who has been unduly confounded
with the English Jesuit, Christopher Maire, assistant to Boscovitch, in
measuring the meridian comprised between Rome and Rimini. Jacques
Lemaire, having only telescopes of moderate dimensions in view, was
obliged, in order not to sacrifice any of the light, to place the great mir-
ror so obliquely that the image formed by its surface should fall entirely
outside the tube of the instrument. So great a degree of inclination
would certainly distort theimage. The front-view construction is admis-
sible only in very large telescopes.

I find in the Transactions for 1805 that, in solar observations, Herschel
sometimes employed telescopes, the great mirror of which was made of
glass. It was with a telescope of this kind, seven feet long, and six inches
and ghree-tenths in diameter, that he observed the transit of Mercury
on the 9th of November, 1802.

Practical astronomers know how much the mounting of a telescope
contributes to produce correct observations. The difficulty of a solid
yet very movable mounting increases rapidly with the dimensions and
weight of an instrument. We may then conceive that Herschel had to
surmount many obstacles in mounting a telescope suitably of which the
mirror alone weighed upward of 1,000 kilograms, (a ton.) But he
solved this problem to his entire satisfaction by the aid of a combination
of spars, pulleys, and ropes, of which a correct idea may be formed
by referring to the wood-cut given in Arago’s Treatise on Popular

. Astronomy, (Vol. I.) This apparatus, and the different stands that

Herschel devised for telescopes of smaller dimensions, assign to that
llustrious observer a distinguished place among the most ingenious
mechanics of our age.

The public in general—I may even say the greater part of astronomers
—know not what was the effect that the great forty-foot telescope had in
the labors and discoveries of Herschel. Still, we are not less mistaken
when we suppose that the observer of Slough always used this telescope
than in imagining, with Baron von Zach, (see Monatliche Correspondenz,
January, 1802) that the colossal instrument was of no use atall; thatit
did not contribute to any new discovery; that it must be considered as a
mere object of curiosity. These assertions are distinctly contradicted
by Herschel’s own words. In the volume of Philosophical Transactions
for the year 1795 (p. 350) I read, for example: “On the 28th of August,
1789, having directed my telescope (of forty feet) to the heavens, I dis-
covered the sixth satellite of Saturn, and I perceived the spots on that
planet better than I had been able to do before.” (See also relative to
this sixth satellite the Philosophical Transactions for 1790, p. 10.) In
that same volume of 1790 (p. 11) I find: “The great light of my forty-
foot telescope was so useful that on the 17th of September, 1789, I re-
208 HERSCHEL.

marked the seventh satellite, then situated at its greatest western
elongation.”

The 10th of October, 1791, Herschel saw the ring of Saturn and the
fourth satellite, looking in at the mirror of his forty-foot telescope, with
his naked eye, without any kind of eye-piece.

Let us acknowledge the true motives that prevented Herschel from
oftener using his forty-foot telescope. Notwithstanding the excellence
of the mechanism, the maneuvering of that instrument required the
constant aid of two laborers, and that of another person charged
with noting the time at the clock. Besides this, during nights when the
variation of temperature was considerable, this telescope, on account of
its great mass, was always behind the atmosphere in thermometric
changes, giving rise to a difference of density in the air within and
without the tube very injurious to the distinctness of the images.

Herschel found thatin England there are not above a hundred hours
im a year during which the heavens can be advantageously observed
with a telescope of forty feet, furnished with a magnifying power of a
thousand. Thisremark led the celebrated astronomer to the conclusion
that to take acomplete survey of the heavens with his large instrument,
though each successive field should remain only for an instant under
inspection, would not require less than eight hundred years.

He explains very clearly the rare occurrence of the circumstances in
which it is possible to make good use of a telescope of forty feet, and
of very large aperture.

A telescope does not magnify real objects only, but magnifies also
the apparent irregularities arising from atmospheric refractions; now,
all other things being equal, these irregularities of refraction must be
so much the greater, so much the more frequent, as the stratum of
air is thicker through which the rays have passed in going to form the
image.

Astronomers expressed extreme surprise when, in 1782, they learned
that Herschel had applied linear magnifying powers of a thousand, of
twelve hundred, of two thousand two hundred, of two thousand six
hundred, and even of six thousand times, to a reflecting telescope of
seven feet in length. The Royal Society of London participated in this
surprise, and officially requested Herschel to give publicity to the
means he had adopted for using such amounts of magnifying power
in his telescopes. Such was the object of a memoir that he inserted
in Volume LX XII of the Philosophical Transactions; and it dissipated
all doubts. No one will be surprised that magnifying powers, which it
would seem ought to have shown the lunar mountains as the chain of
Mont Blane is seen from Macon, from Lyons, and even from Geneva,
were not easily believed in. They did not know that Herschel had
never used magnifying powers of three thousand and six thousand.
times, except in observing brilliant stars; they had not remembered
that light reflected by planetary bodies is too feeble to continue distinct
HERSCHEL. 209

under the same degree of magnifying power as the direct light of the
fixed stars does.

Opticians had given up, more from theory than from careful experi-
ments, attempting high magnifying powers, even for reflecting telescopes.
They thought that the image of a small circle cannot be distinct, cannot
be sharp at the edges, unless the pencil of rays coming from the object
in nearly parallel lines, and which enters the eye after having passed
through the eye-picce, be sufiiciently broad. This being once granted,
the inference followed that an image ceases to be well defined when it
does not strike at least two of the nervous filaments of the retina with
which tbat organ is supposed to be overspread. These gratuitous
conditions, grafted on each other, vanished in presence of Herschel’s
observations. After having put himself on his guard against the effects
of diffraction—that is to say, against the scattering that light undergoes
when it passes the terminal angles of bodies—the illustrious astronomer
proved, in 1786, that objects can be seen well defined by means of pen-
cils of light whose diameter does not equal five-tenths of a millimeter.

Herschel considered the almost unanimous opinion of the double-lens
eye-piece being preferable to the single-lens eye-piece as a very injurious
prejudice to science, since experience proved to him, notwithstanding all
theoretic deductions, that, with equal magnifying powers, in reflecting
telescopes, at least (and this restriction is of some consequence), the
images were brighter and better defined with single than with double
eye-pieces. On one oceasion this latter eye-piece could not show him
the bands of Saturn, while by the aid of a single lens they were pertectly
visible. Herschel said: “The double eye-piece must be left to amateurs,
and to those who, for some particular object, require a large field of vis-
ion.” (Philosophical Transactions, 1782, pp. 94 and 99.)

It is not only relative to the comparative merit of single or double
eye-pieces that Herschel differs in opinion from opticians generally.
He thinks, moreover, that he has proved, by decisive experiments, that
concave eye-pieces (like that used by Galileo) surpass the convex eye-
piece, both as regards clearness and definition.

Herschel assigns the date of 1776 to the experiments which he made
to decide this question. (Philosophical Transactions, year 1815, p. 297.)
Plano-concave and double-concave lenses produced similar effects. In
what did these lenses differ from the double-convex lenses? In one
particular only: the latter received the rays reflected by the large mir-
ror of the telescope after their union at the focus, whereas the concave
lenses received the same rays before that union. When the observer
made use of a convex lens, the rays that went to the back of the eye to
form an image on the retina had previously crossed each other in the air,
but no crossing of this kind took place when the observer used a con-
cave lens. Holding the double advantage of this latter sort of lens
over the other as quite proved, one would be inclined, like Herschel,

14s
210 HERSCHEL.

to admit “that a certain mechanical effect, injurious to clearness and
definition, would accompany the focal crossing of the rays of light.”*

This idea of the crossing of the rays suggested an experiment,
the result of which deserves to be recorded. <A telescope of ten
English feet was directed toward an advertisement covered with very
small printing, and placed at a sufficient distance. The convex lens
of the eye-piece was carried, not by a tube, properly so called, but by
four fine rigid wires, placed at right angles; this arrangement left
the focus open in almost every direction. A concave mirror was then
placed so that it threw a very condensed image of the sun laterally
on the very spot where the image of the advertisement was formed.
The solar rays, after having crossed each other, finding nothing
on their route, went on and lost themselves in space. A_ screen,
however, allowed the rays to be intercepted at will before they united.
This done, having applied the eye to the eye-piece, and directed all his
attention to the telescopic image of the advertisement, Herschel did
not perceive that the taking away and then replacing the screen made
the least change in the brightness or definition of the letters. It was,
therefore, of no consequence, in this instance as well as in the other,
whether the immense quantity of solar rays crossed each other at the
very place where, in another direction, the rays united that formed the
image of the letters. I have marked in Italics the words that especially
show in what this curious experiment differs from the previous experi-
ments, and yet does not entirely contradict them. In this instance, the
rays were of different origin, those coming from the advertisement and
those from the sun crossed each other, respectively, in an almost rectan-
gular direction; while in the comparative examination of the stars with
convex and with coneave eye-pieces, the rays that seemed to have amutual
influence had a common origin, and crossed each other at very acute
angles. There seems to be nothing, then, in the results at which we
need to be much surprised. -

Herschel increased the catalogue, already so extensive, of the myste-
ries of vision, when he explained in what manner we must endeavor to
distinguish separately the two members of certain double stars very
close to each other. He said, “If you wish to assure yourself that 7
Coron is a double star, first direct your telescope to ¢ Geminorum, to
¢ Aquarii, to » Draconis, to p Herculis, to 2 Piscium, to « Lyre. Look
at those stars for a long time, so as to acquire the habit of observing
such objects; then pass on to & Urs majoris, where the closeness of
the two members is still greater. In a third essay select ¢ Bootis,

*On comparing the Cassegrain telescopes, with a small convex mirror, to the Gre-
gorian telescopes, with a small concave mirror, Captain Kater found that the former,
in which the luminous rays do not cross each other before falling on the small mirror,
possess, as to intensity, a marked advantage over the latter, in which this crossing
takes place.
HERSCHEL. 211

(marked 44 by Flamsteed and 7 in Harris’s maps,)* the star that pre-
cedes a Orionis x of the same constellation, and you will then be pre-
pared for the more difficult observation of 7 Coron. Indeed, 7 Coroneze
is a sort of miniature of 7 Bootis, which may itself be considered as a
miniature of «a Geminorum.” (Philosophical Transactions, 1782, p. 100.)

As soon as Piazzi, Olbers, and Harding had discovered three of the
numerous telescopic planets now known, Herschel proposed to himself
to determine their real magnitudes; but telescopes not having then been
applied to the measurement of excessively small angles, it became requi-
site, in order to avoid any illusion, to try some experiments adapted to
giving a scale of the powers of those instruments. Of the labor of our
indefatigable astronomer in this line, I am going to give a condensed
account.

The author relates first, that in 1774 he endeavored to ascertain ex-
perimentally, with the naked eye, and at the distance of distinct vision,
what angle a circle must subtend to be distinguished by its form from a
square of similar dimensions. The angle was never smaller than 2/ 17”;
therefore, at its maximum it was about one-fourteenth of the angle sub-
tended by the diameter of the moon.

Herschel did not say of what nature the circles and squares of
paper were that he used, nor on what background they were projected.
It is anomission to be regretted, since in those phenomena the intensity
of light must be animportantfeature. Howeverit may have been, the
scrupulous observer, not daring to extend to telescopic vision what
he had discovered relative to vision with the naked eye, he undertook to
do away with all doubt by direct observations.

On examining some heads of pins, placed at a distance in the open
air, with a three-foot telescope, Herschel could easily discern that those
bodies were round when the subtended angles became, after being
magnified, 2’ 19’. This is almost exactly the result obtained with the
naked eye.

When the globules were darker—when, instead of pins’ heads, small
globules of sealing-wax were used—their spherical form did not begin to
be distinctly visible till the moment when the subtended magnified
angles—that is, the moment when the natural angle multiplied by the
magnifying power—amounted to five minutes.

In a subsequent series of experiments, some globules of silver, placed
very far from the observer, allowed their globular form to be perceived,
even when the magnified angle remained below two minutes.

“In the selection of ¢ Bootis as a test, Arago has taken the precaution of giving its
corresponding denomination in other catalogues, and Bailey appends the following note,
No. 2052, to 44 Bootis: “In the British Catalogue this star is not denoted by any letter,
but Bayer calls it i, and on referring to the earliest MS. catalogue in MSS. Vol. XXV,
I find it is there so designated; I have therefore restored the letter.’ (See Bailey’s
edition of Flamsteed’s British Catalogue of Stars, 1835.) The distance between the
two members of this double star is 3.7, and position 239.5. (See Bedford Cycle.)—
TRANSLATOR.
212 HERSCHEL.

Under equality of subtended angle, then, the telescopic vision with
strong magnifying powers showed itself superior to the naked-eye vision.
This result is not unimportant.

It we take notice of the magnifying powers used by Herschel in these
laborious researches—powers that often exceeded five hundred times—it
vill appear to be established that the telescopes possessed by modern
astronomers may serve to verify the round form of distant objects, the
form of celestial bodies, even when the diameters of those bodies do not
subtend naturally, to the naked eye, angles of above three-tenths of a
second; and 500 multiplied by three-tenths of a second give 2/ 30”.

Much still remained to be learned in regard to refracting telescopes ;
even when they already served to reveal brilliant astronomical phenom-
ena; the result was due rather to chance than to definite theory. Their
theory, as far as it depended on geometry and optics, had made rapid
progress. These two early phases of the problem leave but little more
to be wished for; it is not so with a third phase, hitherto a good deal ne-
elected, connected with physiology, and with the action of light on the
nervous system. Therefore, we should search in vain in old treatises on
optics and on astronomy for a strict and complete discussion on the
comparative effect that the size and intensity of the images that the
magnifying power and the aperture of a telescope may have, by night
and by day, on the visibility of the faintest stars. This lacuna Herschel
tried to fill up in 1799; such was the aim of the memoir entitled “On
the Space-penetrating Power of Telescopes.”

This memoir contains excellent things; still it is far from exhausting
the subject. The author, for instance, entirely overlooks the observa-
tions made by day. I also find that the hypothetical part of the dis-
cussion is not perhaps as distinctly separated from the rigorous part as
it might be; that doubtful numbers, though given with a degree of
precision down to the smallest decimals, do not contrast well as terms
of comparison with those which, on the contrary, rest on observations
bearing mathematical evidence of correctness.

Whatever may be thought of these remarks, the astronomer or the
physicist who would like again to undertake the question of visibility
with telescopes will find some important facts in Herschel’s memoir,
and some ingenious observations, well adapted to serve them as guides.

LABORS IN SIDEREAL ASTRONOMY.

The curious phenomenon of a periodical change of intensity in certain
stars very early excited the earnest attention of Herschel. The first me-
moir by that illustrious observer, presented to the Royal Society of Lon-
don, and inserted in the Philosophical Transactions, treats especially
of the changes of intensity of the star o in the neck of the Whale.

This memoir was dated from Bath, May, 17890. Eleven years afterward,
in the month of December, 1791, Herschel communicated a second time
to that celebrated English society the observations that he had made by

HERSCHEL. 213

occasionally directing his telescopes to this mysterious star. At both
those epochs the observer's attention was chiefly directed to the absolute
values of the maxima and minima of intensity.

The changeable star in the Whale was not the only periodical star
with which Herschel occupied himself. His observations of 1795 and of
1796 proved that a Herculis also belongs to the category of variable
stars, and that the time requisite for the accomplishment of all the
changes of intensity, and for the star’s return to any given state, was
sixty days and a quarter. When Herschel obtained this result, about
ten changeable stars were already known; but they were all either of
very long or very short periods. The illustrious astronomer considered
that by introducing between two groups that exhibited very short and
very long periods a star of somewhat intermediate conditions—for in-
stance, one requiring sixty days to accomplish all its variations of inten-
sity—he had advanced the theory of these phenomena by an essential
step; the theory at least that attributes all to a movement of rotation
which the stars may undergo round their centers.

Sir William Herschel’s catalogues of double stars offer a considerable
number to which he ascribes a decided green or blue tint. In binary
combinations, when the small star appears very blue or very green, the
large one is usually yellow or red. It does not appear that the great
astronomer took sufficient interest in this circumstance. I do not find,
indeed, that the almost constant association of two complementary colors
(of yellow and blue, or of red and green) ever led him to suspect that
one of those colors might not have anything real in it, that it often might
be a mere illusion, a mere result of contrast. It was only in 1825 that
I showed that there are stars whose contrast really explains their appar-
ent color; but I have proved besides that blue is incontestably the color
of certain insulated stars, or stars that have only white ones, or other
blue ones, in their vicinity. Red isthe only color that the ancients ever
distinguished from white in their catalogues.

Herschel also endeavored to introduce numbers in the classification ef
stars as to magnitude; he has endeavored, by means of these, to
show the comparative intensity of a star of the first magnitude with one
uf second, or one of third magnitude, &e.

In one of the earliest of Herschel’s memoirs, we find that the apparent
sidereal diameters are proved to be for the greater part factitious, even
when the best telescopes are used. Diameters estimated by seconds—
that is to say, reduced according to the magnifying power—diminish in
certainty as the magnifying power is increased. These results are of the
greatest importance.

In the course of his investigation of sidereal parallax, though without
finding it, Herschel made an important discovery—that of the proper
motion of our system. To show distinctly the direction of the motion of
the solar system, not only was a displacement of the sidereal perspective
required, but profound mathematical knowledge, and a peculiar tact.
214 HERSCHEL.

This peculiar tact Herschel possessed in an eminent degree. Moreover,
the result deduced from the very small number of proper motions known
at the beginning of 1783, has been found almost to agree with that found
recently by our best astronomers, with the application of subtile
analytical formule, to a considerable number of exact observations.

The proper motions of the stars have been known for: more than a
century, and even Fontenelle used to say, in 1738, that the sun has pro-
bably a similar motion. The idea of partly attributing the displace-
ment of the stars to a motion of the sun had suggested itself to Bradley
and to Mayer. Lambert especially had been very explicit on the subject.
Until then, however, there were only conjectures and mere probabilities.
Herschel passed these limits. He proved that the sun himself posi-
tively moves, and that in this respect that immense and dazzling body
must also be classed among the stars; that the apparently inextricable
irregularities of numerous sidereal proper motions arise in great
measure from the displacement of the solar system; that, in short, the
point of space toward which we are annually advancing is situated in
the constellation of Hercules.

These are magnificent results. The discovery of the proper motion of
our system will always be accounted among Herschel’s highest claims to
glory, even after the mention that my duty as historian has obliged me
to make of the anterior conjectures of Fontenelle, of Bradley, of Mayer,
and of Lambert.

By the side of this great discovery we should place another, that seems
likely to be expanded in future. The results which it allows us to hope
for will be of extreme importance. The discovery here alluded to was
announced to the learned world in 1803; it is that of the reciprocal de-
pendence of several stars, connected the one with the other, as the
several planets and their satellites of our system are with the sun.

Let us to these immortal labors add the ingenious ideas that we owe
to Herschel on the nebulz, on the constitution of the Milky Way, on the
universe as a whole—ideas which almost by themselves constitute the
actual history of the formation of the worlds—and we cannot have too
deep a reverence for that powerful genius that notwithstanding the
play of an ardent imagination scarcely ever erred.

LABORS RELATIVE TO THE SOLAR SYSTEM.

Herschel devoted much time to the sun, but only relative to its physical
constitution. The observations that he made on this subject, and the
consequences that he deduced from them, equal in interest the most
ingenious discoveries for which the sciences are indebted to him.

In his important memoir in 1795, the great astronomer declares him-
self convinced that the substance by the intermediation of which the
sun shines cannot be either aliquid or an elastic fluid. It must be
analogous to our clouds, and float in the transparent atmosphere of that
body. The sun has, according to him, two atmospheres, endowed with

HERSCHEL. 215

motions quite independent of each other. An elastic fluid of an unknown
nature is being constantly formed on the dark surface of the sun, and
rising up, on account of its specific lightness, it forms the pores in the
stratum of reflecting clouds; then, combining with other gases, it pro-
duces the strize in the region of luminous clonds. When the ascend-
ing currents are powerful, they give rise to the nuclei, to penumbra, and
the facule. If this explanation of the formation of solar spots is well
founded, we must expect to find that the sun does not constantly emit
equal quantities of light and heat. Recent observations have verified
this conclusion. But large nuclei, large penumbra, striew, facule, do
they indicate an abundant, luminous, and ealorifie emission, as Herschel
supposed? That would be the result of his hypothesis on the exist-
ence of very active ascending currents, but direct experience seems to
contradict it.

The following is the way in which a learned physicist, Sir David
Brewster, appreciates this view of Herschel’s: “It is not conceivable
that luminous clouds, ceding to the lightest impuises and in a state of
constant change, can be the source of the sun’s devouring flame and of
the dazzling light which it emits; nor can we admit, besides, that the
feeble barrier formed by planetary clouds would shelter the objects
that it might cover from the destructive effects of the superior elements.”

Sir David Brewster imagines that the non-luminous rays of calorie,
which form a constituent part of the solar light, are emitted by the dark
nucleus of the sun; while the visible colored rays proceed from the
luminous matter by which the nucleus is surrounded. “From thence,”
he says, “‘ proceeds the reason of light and heat always appearing in a
state of combination; the one emanation cannot be obtained without
the other. With this hypothesis we could readily explain why it is
hottest when there are most spots, because the heat ef the nucleus would
then reach us without having been weakened by the atmosphere that it
usually has to traverse.” But it is far from being an ascertained fact
that we experience increased heat during the apparition of solar spots;
the inverse phenomenon is more probably true.

Herschel also studied the physical constitution of the moon. In 1780,
he sought to measure the height of the mountains of our satellite. The
conclusion that he drew from his observations was, that few of the lunar
mountains exceed 800 meters, (or 2,600 feet.) _More recent seleno-
graphic observations give conclusions different from this. There is
reason to remark, on this occasion, how much the result presented by
Herschel differs from any tendency to the extraordinary or the gigantic,
that has been so unjustly assigned as the characteristic of the illustrious
astronomer.

At the close of 1787, Herschel presented a memoir to the Royal So-
ciety, the title of which must have made a strong impression on the popu-
lar mind. The author therein relates that, on the 19th of April, 1787,
he had observed in the non-illuminated part of the mcon—that is, in
216 HERSCHEL.

the then dark portion—three volcanoes in a state of ignition. Two of
these volcanoes appeared to be on the decline, the other appeared to be ac-
tive. Such was his conviction of the reality of the phenomenon, that the
next morning he made the following record: ‘The voleano burns with
more violence than last night.” The real diameter of the voleanic light
was 5,000 meters, (16,400 English feet.) Its intensity appeared very
superior to that of the nucleus of a comet then in apparition. He
further added: “ The objects situated near the crater are feebly illumin-
ated by the light that emanates from it ;” and concludes thus: ‘ In short,
this eruption very much resembles the one I witnessed on the 4th of
May, 1783.”

How happens it, after such exact observations, that few astronomers
now admit the existence of active voleanoesin the moon? I will explain
this singularity in a few words.

The various parts of our satellite do not all equally reflect light. Here,
it may depend on the form, elsewhere, on the nature of the materials.
Those who have examined the moon with telescopes know how very
considerable the difference arising from these two causes may be, how
much brighter one point of the moon sometimes is than those around
it. Now, it is quite evident that the relations of intensity between the
faint parts and the brilliant ones must continue to exist, whatever be
the origin of the illuminating light. In the portion of the lunar globe
that is illuminated by the sun there are, everyone knows, some points,
the brightness of which is extraordinary compared to those around them ;
those same points, when they are seen inthat portion of the moon that is
only lighted by the earth, or in the ash-colored part, will still predominate
over the neighboring regions by their comparative intensity. Thus we
may explain the observations of the Slough astronomer, without recur-
ring to volcanoes. While the observer was studying in the non-illumin-
ated portion of the moon the supposed volcano of the 20th of April,
1787, his nine-foot telescope showed him in truth, by the aid of the
secondary rays proceeding from the earth, even the darkest spots.

Herschel did not recur to the discussion of the supposed actually
burning lunar voleanoes until 1791. In the volume of the Philosophical
Transactions for 1792, he relates that in directing a twenty-foot telescope,
magnifying three hundred and sixty times, to the entirely eclipsed moon,
on the 22d of October, 1790, there were visible, over the whole face of
the satellite, about a hundred and fifty very luminous red points. The
author declares that he will observe the greatest reserve relative to the
nature of all these points, their great brightness, and their remarkable
color.

Yet is not red the usual color of the moon when eclipsed, and when
it has not entirely disappeared? Could the solar rays reaching our
satellite by the effect of refraction, and after an absorption experienced
in the lowest strata of the terrestrial atmosphere, receive any other tint?
Are there not in the moon, when freely illuminated, and opposite to the

Sr
. HERSCHEL. yal Wi

sun, from one to two hundred little points, remarkable by the brightness
of their light? Would it be possible for these little points not to be
also distinguishable in the moon when it receives only the portion of
solar light which is refracted and colored by our atmosphere ?

Herschel was more successful in his remarks on the absence of a lunar
atmosphere. During the solar eclipse of the 5th September, 1793, the
illustrious astronomer particularly directed his attention to the shape
of the acute horn resulting from the intersection of the limbs of the moon
and of the sun. He deduced from his observation that if toward the
point of the horn there had been a deviation of only one second, occa-
sioned by the refraction of the solar light in the lunar atmosphere, it
would not have escaped him.

‘He also made the planets the object of numerous researches. Mer-
cury was the one to which he gave least attention; he found its disk
perfectly round on observing it during its projection—that is to say, in
astronomical language, during its transit over the sun, on the 9th of
November, 1802. He sought to determine the time of the rotation of
Venus as early as 1777. He published two memoirs relative to Mars,
the one in 1781, the other in 1784, and we owe to him the discovery of its
being flattened at the poles. Aiter the discovery of the small planets,
Ceres, Pallas, Juno, and Vesta, by Piazzi, Olbers, and Harding, Her
schel applied himselfto measuring their angular diameters. He coneluded
from his researches that those four new bodies did not deserve the name
of planets, and he proposed to call them asteroids. This epithet was
subsequently adopted, though bitterly criticised by a historian of the
Royal Society of London, Dr. Thomson, who went so far as to suggest
that the learned astronomer *‘ had wished to deprive the first observers
of those bodies of all idea of rating themselves as high as himself in the
scale of astronomical discoverers.” I should require nothing further
to annihilate such an imputation than to put it by the side of the fol-
lowing passage, extracted from a memoir by this celebrated astronomer,
published in the Philosophical Transactions for the year 1805: “The
specific difference existing between planets and asteroids appears now,
by the addition of a third individual of the latter species, to be more
completely established, and that circumstance, in my opinion, has added
more to the ornament of our system than the discovery of a new planet
could have done.”

Although much has not resulted from Herschel’s investigations in
regard to the physical constitution of Jupiter, astronomy is indebted to
him for several important results relative to the time of that planet’s
rotation. He also made numerous observations on the distances and
comparative magnitude of its satellites.

The compression of Saturn, the duration of its rotation, the physical
constitution of this planet and that of its ring, were, on the part of
Herschel, the object of numerous researches which have much contributed
218 HERSCHEL.

to the progress of planetary astronomy. But on this subject two im-
portant discoveries especially added new glory to his name.

Of the five known satellites of Saturn at the close of the seventeenth
century, Huygens had discovered the fourth; Cassini the others

The field seemed to be exhausted, when news from Slough.announced
that this was a mistake.

On the 28th of August, 1789, the great forty-foot telescope revealed
to Herschel a satellite still nearer to the ring than the other five already
observed. According to the principles of the nomenclature previously
adopted, the small body of the 28th August ought to have been called
the first satellite of Saturn; the numbers indicating the places of the other
five would then have been each increased by a unity. But the fear of
introducing confusion into science by these continual changes of denom-
ination induced a preference for calling the new satellite the sixth.

Thanks to the prodigious powers of the forty-foot telescope, a last
satellite, the seventh, showed itself on the 17th of September, 1789,
between the sixth and the ring.

This seventh satellite is extremely faint. Herschel, however, suc-
ceeded in seeing it whenever circumstances were very favorable, even
by the aid of the twenty-foot telescope.

The discovery of the planet Uranus, and the detection of its satellites,
will always occupy one of the highest places among those by which
modern astronomy is honored.

On the 13th of March, 1781, between ten and eleven o’clock at night,
while Herschel was examining the small stars near H Geminorum witha
seven-foot telescope, bearing a magnifying power of two hundred and
twenty-seven times, one of these stars seemed to have an unusual
diameter, and it was, therefore, thought to be a comet. It was under
this denomination that it was discussed at the Royal Society of London.
But the researches of Herschel and of Laplace showed later that the
orbit of the new body was nearly circular, and Uranus was conse-
quently elevated to the rank of a planet.

The immense distance of Uranus, its small angular diameter, and the
feebleness of its light, scarcely ae ed the hope that, if that body had
satellites, they could be perceived from the earth. Eeenel was not
aman to be deterred by such discouraging conjectures. ‘Therefore, since
powerful telescopes of the ordinary construction—that is to say, with
two mirrors conjugated—had not enabled him to discover anything, he
substituted, in the beginning of January, 1787, front-view telescopes—
that is, telescopes throwing much more light on the objects, the small-
mirror being then suppressed, and with it one of the causes of loss of
light is got rid of.

By this means, with patient labor and observations requiring a rare
perseverance, Here schel made (from the 11th of January, 1787, to the
28th of February, 1794) the discovery of the six satellites of his planet,
and thus completed the system of worlds that belongs entirely to him-
self.

HERSCHEL. 219

There are several of Herschel’s memoirs on comets. In analyzing
them we shall see that this acute observer could not touch anything’
without making further discoveries in regard to it.

He applied some of his fine instruments to the study of the physical
constitution of a comet discovered by Mr. Pigott, on the 25th September,
1807. The nucleus wasround and well-determined. Some measures taken
on the day when the nucleus subtended only anangle of a single second
gave as its real diameter ,%, of the diameter of the earth.

Herschel saw no phase at an epoch when only 5 of the nucleus could
be illuminated by the sun. The nucleus then must shine by its own
light.

This is a legitimate inference in the opinion of every one who will
allow, on the one hand, that the nucleus is a solid body, and on the other,
that it would have been possible to observe a phase of ;5, on a disk whose
apparent total diameter did not exceed one or two seconds of a degree.

Very small stars seemed to grow much paler when they were seen
through the coma or through the tail of the comet.

This faintness may have only been apparent, and might arise from
the circumstance of the stars being then projected on a luminous back-
ground. Such is, indeed, the explanation adopted by Herschel. A
gaseous medium, capable of reflecting sufficient solar light to efface that
of some stars, would appear to him to possess in each stratum a sensi-
ble quantity of matter, and to be, for that reason, a cause of real dimi-
nution of the light transmitted, though nothing reveals the existence of
such a cause.

This argument, offered by Herschel in favor ef the system which
transforms comets into seli-luminous bodies, has not, as we nay percesve,
much force. I might venture to say as much of several other remarks
by this great observer. He tells us that thecomet was distinetly visible
in the telescope on the 21st of February, 1808 ; now, on that day, its dis-
tance from the sun amounted to 2.7 times the mean radius of the terres-
trial orbit; its distance from the observer was 2.9: ‘‘ What probability
would there be that rays going to such distances, from the sun to the
comet, could, after their reflection, be seen by an eye nearly three times
more distant from the comet than from the sun ?”

lt is only numerical determinations that could give value to such an
argument. By satisfying himself with vague reasoning, Herschel did
not even perceive that he was committing a great mistake by making
the comet’s distance from the observer appear to be an element of visi-
bility. If the comet be self-luminous, its intrinsic splendor (its bright-
ness for unity of surface) will remain constant at any distance, as long
as the subtended angle remains sensible. If the body shines by bor-
rowed light, its brightness will vary only according to its change of dis-
tance from the sun; nor will the distance of the observer occasion any
change in the visibility ; always, let it be understood, with the restriction
that the apparent diameter shall not be diminished below certain limits.
220 HERSCHEL.

Herschel finished his observations of a comet that was visible in Janu-
ary, 1807, with the following remark :

“‘ Of the sixteen telescopic comets that I have examined, fourteen had
no solid body visible at their center; the other two exhibited a central
light, very ill-defined, that might be termed a nucleus, but a light that
certainly could not deserve the name of a disk.”

The beautiful comet of 1811 became the object of liis conscientious
labor. With large telescopes he saw, in the midst of the gaseous
head, a reddish body of planetary appearance, which bore strong
magnifying powers, and showed no sign of phase. Hence Herschel
concluded that it was self-luminous. Yet if we reflect that the planetary
body under consideration was not a second in diameter, the absence of
a phase does not appear a conclusive argument.

The light of the head had a bluish-green tint. Was this a real tint,
or did the central reddish body, only through contrast, cause the sur-
rounding vapor to appear colored? Herschel did not examine the
question from this point of view.

The head of the comet appeared to be enveloped at a certain distance,
on the side toward the sun, by a brilliant narrow zone, embracing
about a semicircle, and of a yellowish color. From the two extremities
of the semicircle there arose, toward the region away from the sun, two
long luminous streaks which limited the tail. Between the brilliant
circular semi-ring and the head, the cometary substance seemed dark,
very rare, and very diaphanous.

The luminous semi-ring always presented similar appearances in all the
positions of the comet; it was not then possible to attribute to it really the
anuular form—the shape of Saturn’s ring, forexample. Herschel sought
whether a spherical semi-envelope of luminous matter, and yet diapha-
nous, would not lead to a natural explanation of the phenomenon. In
this hypothesis, the visual rays, which on the 6th of October, 1811, trav-
ersed a thickness of matter of about 399,090 kilometers, (248,000 English
miles,) while the visual rays near the head of the comet did not meet above
80,000 kilometers (50,000 miles) of matter. As the brightness must be
proportional to the quantity of matter traversed, there could not fail to
be an appearance around the comet of a semi-ring five times more lu-
minous than the central regions. This semi-ring, then, was an effect of
projection, and it has revealed a circumstance to us truly remarkable in
the physical constitution of comets.

The two luminous streaks that outlined the tail at its two limits may
be explained in a similar manner; the tail was not flat, as it appeared
to be; it had the form of a conoid, with its sides of a certain thickness.
The visual lines which traversed those sides almost tangentially evi- .
dently met much more matter than the visual lines passing across.
This maximum of matter could not fail of being represented by a max-
imum of light. *

The luminous semi-ring appeared one day to be suspended in the

HERSCHEL. Dot

diaphanous atmosphere by which the head of the comet was surrounded,
at a distance of 518,000 kilometers (322,000 English miles) from the
nucleus.

This distance was not constant. The matter of the semi-annular en-
velope seemed even to be precipitated by slow degrees through the
diaphanous atmosphere; finally it reached the nucleus; the earlier ap-
pearances vanished ; the comet was reduced to a globular nebula.

During its period of dissolution, the ring appeared sometimes to have
several branches.

The luminous shreds of the tail seemed to undergo rapid, frequent,
and considerable variations of length. Herschel discerned syinptoms of
a movement of rotation both in the comet and in its tail. This rota-
tory motion carried unequal shreds from the center toward the border,
and reciprocally. On looking from time to time at the same region of
the tail—at the border, for example—sensible changes of length must
have been perceptible, which, however, had no real existence. Herschel
thought, as I have already said, that the beautiful comet of 1811 and
that of 1807 were self-luminous. The second comet of 1811 appeared to
him to shine only by borrowed light. It must be acknowledged tzat
these conjectures did not rest on anything demonstrative.

In attentively comparing the comet of 1807 with the beautiful comet
of 1811, relative to the changes of distance from the sun, and the modi-
fications resulting thence, Herschel put it beyond doubt that these modi-
fications have something individual in them, something relative to a
special state of the nebulous matter. On one celestial body the changes
of distance produce an enormous effect; on another the modifications
are insignificant.

OPTICAL LABORS.

I shall say very little as to the discoveries that Herschel made in phys-
ics, Since every one is familiar with them. They are to be found in all
elementary works, and are given in verbal instruction ; they must be con-
sidered as the starting-point of a multitude of important labors with
which the sciences have been enriched during later years.

The chief of these is that of the dark radiating heat which is found
mixed with light.

In studying the phenomena, not with the eye, as Newton did, but
with a thermometer, Herschel discovered that the solar spectrum is pro-
longed on the red side far beyond the visible limits. The thermometer
sometimes rose higher in the dark region than in the midst of brilliant
zones. Thelight of the sun, then, contains, besides the colored rays so
well characterized by Newton, invisible rays, still less refrangible
than the red, and whose warming power is very considerable. A world
of discoveries has arisen from this fundamental fact.

The dark ray emanating from terrestrial objects more or less heated
also became the subject of Herschel’s investigations. His work contained
222 HERSCHEL.

the germs of a large number of beautiful experiments more fully devel-
oped in our own day.

By successively placing the thermometer in all parts of the solar
spectrum, he determined the illuminating powers of the various prismatic
rays. The general result of these experiments may be thus enunciated :
The illuminating power of the red rays is not very great; that of the
orange rays surpasses it, and is in its turn surpassed by the power of
the yellow rays. The maximum power of illumination is found between
the brighest yellow and the palest green. The yellow and the green
possess this power equally. A like assimilation may be laid down be-
tween the blue and the red. Finally, the power of illumination in the
indigo rays, and above all in the violet, is very weak.

The memoirs of Herschel on Newton’s colored rings, though con-
taining a multitude of exact experiments, have not contributed much
to advance the theory of those curious phenomena. I have learned,
from good authority, that he himself held the same opinion. He
said that it was the only occasion on which he had reason to regret
having, according to his constant custom, published his labors immedi-
ately as fast as they were performed.
LIFE AND LABORS OF HENRY GUSTAVUS MAGNUS.

[PROM THE ARCHIVES DES SCIENCES PITYSIQUES ET NATURELLES, GENEVA. |

Translated for the Smithsonian Report. /

The processes of scientific investigation have never been reduced to
definite rules, and frequently methods are adopted of the most opposite
character. Sometimes, impelled by the impulse of his genius to achieve
immediate distinction the scientist discards beaten tracks and attempts
to explore new regions by assays almost without a definite plan in a
predetermined direction, and although the results of histrialsin most cases
are of a negative character, yet he occasionally lights upon facts rich in
the indications of scientific principles. Sometimes, less a lover of nov-
elty than of precision of knowledge, he prefers the eritical examina-
tion of some region previously traversed by others in order to give it
that minute investigation required in every part of the domain of
modern science, and thus unostentatiously contributes essentially to
the advance of science. These two methods are both fruitful and
should not be entirely separated. The first, perhaps the more brilliant,
requires an undaunted spirit, a creative genius. The second, more
modest, but also more sure, requires extensive erudition, a critical mind,
and great talent for experimentation.

The scientific career we are about to portray belonged essentially to
the latter class. The part of Magnus was less to discover new phe-
nomena than to reinvestigate and render more definite those already
known. Such was the precision of his researches that he was fre-
quently enabled to draw new truths from subjects apparently exhausted,
and, in some cases, even to transform entirely, propositions generally
admitted as truths. He valued little bold conceptions and even inge-
nious hypotheses when not supported by rigorous demonstration, while
a fact apparently the most insignificant he would frequently regard as
of the highest importance, provided it was fully established. Exact and
conscientious in the extreme, he concentrated his efforts upon the
minutie of his investigations, removing with the greatest care every
cause of uncertainty. Of cautious and candid judgment he was not
ready to find his scientific colleagues in error; and when a disagreement
occurred between his results and those of another, his first impulse was
to look for a mistake in his own experiments. Essentially modest,
poving science for its own sake, and forgetful of self, he did not shrink
‘from the most arduous labors, from investigations apparently the most
unremunerative, and in this way, without ostentation, almost uncon-
Siously he gained a solid and lasting reputation.
224 LIFE AND LABORS OF HENRY GUSTAVUS MAGNUS.

Henri Gustave Magnus was born in Berlin, May 2,1802. He belonged
to one of the most honorable families of that city. From his earliest
infancy he manifested peculiar aptitude for the exact sciences and pre-
ferred study to the ordinary amusements of childhood. He passed
through all the grades at the academy of Berlin, and received the degree
of Doctor in 1827. His first researches were made in the laboratory of
Mitscherlich; he next pursued his studies under Berzélius at Stockholm,
where he passed the year 1828. Thence he went to Paris where, in the
laboratory of Gay Lussac he prepared himself for the interesting
experiments which he undertook a few years later. Returning to his
native city he soon obtained a reputation as an instructor, which he
ever after sustained with great distinction and unflagging zeal. He
entered upon this career as private tutor; was nominated in 1834 extra
professor, and in 1845 ordinary professor of physics and technology in
the university of which he became one of the brightest ornaments. He
exercised an important influence in developing a taste for the study of
physics, as well as in imparting a knowledge of its principles in their
most varied applications. For the illustration of the subjects of his
lectures he formed the physical cabinet of the university, which was
enriched after his death by the valuable collection of apparatus belong-
ing to himself.

His first labors were devoted to physical chemistry. In 1825 he con-
tributed to this branch of science, through the Annales de Poggendorff, an
interesting memoir, on the property which iron, cobalt, and nickel, finely
divided by a reduction of their oxides in a current of hydrogen, possess
of taking fire spontaneously in the air at the ordinary temperature. He
did not confine himself to the mere discovery of the fact, and to show-
ing that it was an especial attribute of these three metals, but explained
it on the principle of De Saussure, of the absorption of gas by porous
substances, such as charcoal, and by showing that substances of this
character, in consequence of their porosity, condense oxygen and enter
into combination with it so energetically as to produce incandescence.

In 1828 he discovered the compound which has been called, in com-
pliment to him, the green salt of Magnus. This is formed of the ele-
ments of chloride of platinum and of ammonia, and was the first of a
series of combinations of the same substances. In an investigation in
common with Ammermiiller, he discovered the periodic acid, also the
ethionic and istheonic acids, analyzed a large number, of minerals, and
observed the remarkable property which certain crystallized silicates
possess, of losing by fusion a considerable portion of their weight.

We cannot stop to enumerate all the investigations of Magnus in this
branch of science ; we must hasten on to his numerous and beautiful
researches in physics, which constitute his true claimstorenown. These
were especially devoted to molecular and calorific phenomena. His first
work on physics, entitled “Researches on Capillarity,” is rather a study
of the flow of different gases, through minute cracks in glass vessels.
LIFE AND LABORS OF HENRY GUSTAVUS MAGNUS. 225

He throws new light on this subject, and shows the remarkable fact that
there is an immense difference in the rapidity of the escape of hydrogen
in comparison with other gases.

He published later some interesting observations upon evaporation in
capillary tubes, which he found most rapid in the narrowest tubes, and
upon the boiling of mixed liquids. In regard to the latter, he showed,
as theory indicated, that this boiling takes place at the temperature when
the sum of the tension of the mixed vapors is just sufficient to over-
come the pressure of the atmosphere, consequently at a temperature a
little lower than the boiling-point of the more volatile liquid. He ob-
served that this condition is never realized when the more volatile liquid
is placed below the other; the mixture in that case becomes overheated
and commences to boil srddenly with a violent explosion.

It was also at this period of his life, in the commencement of his
career as professor, that Magnus made his interesting experiments upon
the gases contained in the blood. This subject has since been further
developed, but the honor will always be his, of having materially en-
larged the views entertained in regard to one of the most important
functions of animal life. The theory of respiration most generally re-
ceived before his day, wasthat of Lavoisier, according to which, the com-
bustion of the blood takes place at the moment when it comes in con-
tact with the air in the lungs. This theory was, in fact, the only one
then possible, since the presence of gas in the blood, emitted by expira-
tion, hadnotbeenshown. Magnus foundin arterial as wellas venous blood
considerable quantities of oxygen, nitrogen, and carbonic acid. The sum
of these three gases was, in his experiments, equal to the eighth part of
the entire volume of gas. He found that in arterial blood the oxygen
was from one-third to one-half; of the carbonic acid in the venous blood
only one-fourth to one-fifth. From this he concluded that the oxygen
does not combine immediately in the lungs with the carbon of the blood,
but absorbed by the arterial blood it is carried into the capillary vessels,
where it is employed in the combustion of the debris of the organ-
isms. Carbonic acid is in this way produced, which is also absorbed
and transported by the venous blood, and is breathed out at once on
reaching the lungs. This theory is now generally adopted.

The researches of Magnus, which perhaps more than any other tested
his talents for experimentation, are those upon the coefficient of the
dilatation of gases. It had been generally admitted that this coefficient
was the same for all gases, and that between 0° and 100° C. their
volume increased for each degree 0.375 of their volume at 0. This
law of Gay Lussae, confirmed by Dulong and Petit, had passed into
the domain of undisputed facts, when, four years after the publica-
tion of the works of the French savant, a Swede, Rudberg, revived the
investigation of this question, and found as value of the coefficient of
the dilatation of air 0.3646. It was important that a quantity so con-

tinually applied in physical science should be positively determined,
158
226 LIFE AND LABORS OF HENRY GUSTAVUS MAGNUS.

and simultaneously two of the most skillful experimenters of the time
took up this important subject. Magnus communicated the results of
his experiments to the Academy of Berlin November 25, 1841, and a
few days after, December 13, 1841, M. Regnault gave to the scientific
Academy of Paris his researches upon the same subject. These me-
moirs are master-pieces. Magnus says, in the opening of his: “IL
decided to take up the study of this important question, knowing well
that I should gain very little, if any, distinction by the work, however
long or laborious it might be, since its object was only to confirm one
of two figures already known.” This, the dictate of his excessive mod-
esty, is the only error of his memoir. Contrary to his opinion, the work
was one of his strongest claims to renown.

Repeating first the experiments of Gay Lussac, which consist in ob-
serving the dilatation under constant pressure of a certain quantity of
air contained in a glass globe, by means of a small globule of mercury,
which rises and falls according to the dilatation in the slender neck of
this globe, Magnus soon discovered that there were several causes for
uncertainty, but found as mean result of his experiments the figure
0.369 instead of 0.375, probably on account of the greater dryness of the
air. He then tested Rudberg’s method. His apparatus consisted of a
tubular reservoir of glass, communicating with a manometrical appa-
ratus, and inclosed in a triple envelope of sheet iron, in the interior of
which any constant temperature desired could be maintained. By in-
crease of pressure the volume at 100° was reduced to what it had been
at 0°. A very simple equation resulting from the law of Mariotte gave
the coefiicient of dilatation with the difference of pressure observed.
The value of the coefficient thus obtained for the atmosphere was a very
little greater than that found by Rudberg. Not content with this im-
portant numeral, Magnus experimented with different gases, and found
for hydrogen a coefiicient of dilatation less than that of the atmosphere,
viz, 0.365659 ; for carbonic and sulphurous acids, on the contrary, coefii-
cients of dilatation greater than that of the atmosphere ; for the former,
0.369087 ; for the latter, 0.585618. The law of Gay Lussac was but an
approximation to the truth. Magnus proved that gases did not dilate
equally, as had been until then generally admitted.

M. Regnault had made four series of experiments. The first two, in
which he changed at the same time both the volume and the pressure,
gave him two coefficients for the atmosphere, both equally sure, 0.36623
and 0.36633. The third and fourth gave, with the volume constant and
the pressure varied, 0.36679 and 0.36650 as coefficients of dilatation for
the atmosphere. While operating on different gases, he had arrived at
results very nearly identical with those of Magnus. The two experi-
menters concluded .to replace the old coefficient 0.375 by the figure
0.366 for the atmosphere, and decided that the different gases dilated
unequally.

The cause of the difference between the figure found by Gay Lussac,
LIFE AND LABORS OF HENRY GUSTAVUS MAGNUS. 227

on one hand, and by Rudberg, Magnus, and M. Regnault, on the other,
was that upon the interior surface of the vessel in which the dilatation
of the air was observed, there was a stratum of humidity which passed
into the gaseous condition when the reservoir was heated to 100°, and
thus increased the dilatation. It was evident that an effect of the same
kind might be produced by the condensation of the gas itself, on the
surface of the vessel. To prove the fact Magnus ascertained two
measures of the coefficient of dilatation of a single and the same gas,
sulphurous acid, increasing greatly in one case the extent of glass sur-
facein proportion to the volume of gas coming in contact with it. This was
effected, by introducing a number of globules of glass into the reservoir
containing the sulphurous acid. Heobtained as coefticient of dilatation
a value greater than by the ordinary process without the globules of
glass, and while confirming the fact that gases condense at low tem-
peratures upon solid bodies, gave at the same time the measure of this
condensation.

After his researches upon the dilatation of the air at high temperatures
‘and upon the tension of steam, finding himself again in competition
with M. Regnault, Magnus left the field to be explored by the illustrious
French savant, with far greater resources than he could command, re-
suming, however, at intervals, his favorite study of gases and vapors.
In 1860 and 1861 he published a very important article upon the trans-
mission of heat through gases in the double aspect of conductibility
and radiation. Placing a thermometer in a glass vase heated moder-
ately and filled successively with different gases or vapors, he found
that the thermometer was heated differently in different gases, and
indicated a lower temperature in any one of them than in a vacuum.
He concluded from this that gases transmit very little if any heat by
conductibility, and absorb a considerable portion of radiant heat. Only
one gas, hydrogen, he declared an exception to thisrule, atleastasregards
the first point; the thermometer rises higher in this gas than in a
vacuum, notwithstanding, as he also observed, that it absorbs radiant
heat in the same proportion as the atmosphere, azote, and oxygen.
The thermometer rose higher when the gas was more dense, which
seemed to indicate that gases conduct heat like the metals. This was
one proof more in confirmation of the theory, making a metal of hydro-
gen, which has since been fully established by the beautiful experiments
of Graham. This conductibility of hydrogen is well exhibited when it
is surrounded by a non-conducting substance such as eider down or
cotten, so that the currents produced in it may not be disturbed.

As we have said, all gases, without exception, absorb radiant heat, and
in greater proportion as the pressure is greater. Those which absorb the
least are the atmosphere, nitrogen, and oxygen, and, almost to the same
degree, hydrogen. Among colorless gases, ammonia first, then olefiant
gas, arrests most readily the radiations of heat. The difference in the
transmission of radiant heat through different gases varies with the
228 LIFE AND LABORS OF HENRY GUSTAVUS MAGNUS.

sources of heat employed. The most marked differences are obtained
from a source of black heat at 100° C. As to the vapor of water con-
tained in the air Magnus observed that it was appreciably absorbent
only when in the condition of a transparent gas. This subject gave rise
to a long controversy between Magnus and Mr. Tyndall.

The English savant had undertaken the study of this interesting sub-
ject and gave the results of his investigations in a discourse before the
Royal Society only a few days before Magnus communicated his to the ~
Academy of Berlin. The two savants agreed upon all points, except
upon the transmission of radiant heat through damp air. Contrary to
Magnus, Mr. Tyndal found that the vapor of water contained in the air
absorbed radiant heat forty, fifty, and even sixty times more than the
air itself; and yet this result was obtained, not with air absolutely
saturated with moisture, but with ordinary open air or with that of his
laboratory. The want of accord between the two experimenters in this
particular remains, in spite of repeated efforts to discover the cause in their
different modes of operating. Magnus accounted for the enormous ab-
sorption obtained by Mr. Tyndall by the condensation of the vapor upon
the interior surface of the tube used, or upon the plates of rock-salt
which closed the extremity of this tube. The English savant repeated
his experiments with the greatest care, but always with the same result.
The error, on whichever side it exists, remains undiscovered, and some
idea may be formed of the difficulty of this question when two such
skillful experimenters fail to solve it.

Magnus made other interesting experiments upon radiant heat, espe-
cially upon the variation in the emissive power of a body with the
degree of polish of its surface, and he showed that the increase of this
emissive power in an unpolished body is greater, not because the super-
ficial stratum is less dense, but on account of its discontinuity. He
also observed that the increase in the emissive power of platina was
confined to the radiations of red or nearly red heat. He discovered, also,
the property which sylvine or chloride of potassium possesses, in com-
mon with rock-salt, of being almost entirely diathermal and of trans-
mitting equally heat proceeding from very different sources. It was
interesting to find a new analogy between these two substances, which
in many of their properties, as well as in their chemical composition,
are completely identical. In respect to the remarkable diathermality of
rock-salt, we shall see how entirely he modified the theory of Melloni,
which had been generally adopted.

Shortly before his death Magnus published a memoir upon the emis-
sion, absorption, and reflection of heat by bodies at low temperatures.
This article, given entire in the Archives, shows that different bodies
emit, absorb, and reflect, at temperatures in the neighborhood of 100°
C., very different. calorific radiations; so that were our eyes capable of
pereeiving the radiations of black heat, the bodies exposed to them
would appear to us of very different colors, as is the case when they are

LIFE AND uABORS OF HENRY GUSTAVUS MAGNUS. 229

submitted to luminous radiations. According to Magnus, rock-salt is
not in the least athermochroic, that is to say, diathermal, under any
kind of heat; itis, on the contrary, monothermal, emitting and absorbing
only a very limited number of simple radiations ; just as incandescent
sodium emits only a few of the yellow radiations and excludes all other
kinds of light. This result, certainly very curious and unexpected,
should be investigated in regard to other bodies.

Magnus, as we have said, especially applied himself to the study of
heat, but he enriched other branches of science with numerous observa-
tions, all of which bear the imprint of his acute and accurate under-
standing. We will say a few words only upon his researches in thermo-
electricity. Taking up the experiments of M. Becquerel, who attempted
to show that in an homogeneous circuit heated at one point, electricity is
produced because the heat emitted on both sides of this point differs in
quantity, Magnus demonstrated that the production of electricity in
the connected wire should not be attributed to the unequal transmission
of heat in the two portions of this wire, but to an alteration in its molec-
ularcondition. After having confirmed the fact announced by Matteucci,
that there is no production of electricity when two masses of mercury
are brought in contact at different temperatures, he showed that an
abrupt change of diameter, either in a column of mercury, or in a per-
fectly homogeneous wire, does not necessarily give rise to a current of
electricity, but on the other hand, electricity may always be excited by
heating the point of contact of two heterogeneous portions of a single
wire, for instance, when one part is hammer hardened, and the other
annealed.

This sketch would be incomplete without some notice of the numerous
articles published by Magnus in the memoirs and monthly issues of the
Academy of Berlin, and also in the Annales de Poggendorff, many of
which have reappeared in the “Archives,” either translated or reviewed.
We must, however, confine ourselves to a mere mention of his researches
upon the movement of liquids; upon the deviation in the rotary motion
of projectiles; upon the temperature of the earth at great depths; upon
the tension of mixed vapors; upon the electrolysis ; upon the action of
the brace of magnets, and upon the diffraction of lightin a vacuum. Such
were some of the various subjects which engaged his attention and which
he pursued with unceasing accuracy and care.

But it was not only by his numerous and laborious investigations that
Magnus advanced the cause of science ; he filled the oifice of Professor ;
was, in fact, the leader of the university. He loved youth, and knew
how to make himself beloved while imparting a taste for that science to
which he had consecrated hislife; and we may, without exaggeration, say
that he exercised an important influence upon the scientific generation
which has succeeded him. He received many testimonials of the confi-
dence he inspired in the young men of the university; among others, we
Inay mention, that in the troubles of 1848, to him, a man preéminently
230 LIFE AND LABORS OF HENRY GUSTAVUS MAGNUS.

devoted to order and duty, was confided the command of the university
regiment.

His lectures, continued without interruption until near the close of
the long and painful illness which ended his life, always attracted a large
and attentive audience, which he captivated by the eloquence of his dic-
tion and the solidity of his instruction. A large number of young
physicists frequented his laboratory, and learned of him judgment and
method in the application of scientific principles. He also delighted to
assemble them weekly at his house, and in familiar intercourse call upon
each for some scientific contribution, however small, to be submitted to
the criticism of his colleagues; thus training them in exposition and dis-
cussion. Severalof his pupils have since become distinguished savants,
and all remember, with lively gratitude, his kind, welcome, and generous
hospitality in the laboratory of the HKupfergraben.

Magnus preserved to the end his activity and indefatigable zeal for
science. At the close of the summer of 1869 he was first attacked by
the malady of which he died a few months later. He endured with for-
titude great suffering, continued his work and his lectures, and aban-
doned his post only when strength absolutely failed him. His death
occurred on the 4th of April, 1870. His decease excited universal regret,
and his name will ever retain a high and honorable place in the history
of science.

SKETCH OF THH LIFE OF PROF. CHESTER DEWEY, D. D., LL. D.,

Late Professor of chemistry and natural history in the University of Rochester, and for many
years a correspondent of the Smithsonian Institution.

By Martin B. ANpERSON, LL. D., President of the University of Rochester.

Chester Dewey, D. D., LL.D., at the time of his death emeritus
professor in the University of Rochester, was in two respects a repre-
sentative man. He was not only a typical teacher, but he also held a
distinguished position among the few who at an early day cultivated and
organized the study of natural science in America. In these two rela-
tions we propose to speak of his life and labors.

Dr. Dewey was born in Sheffield, Berkshire County, Massachusetts,
October 25, 1784. His father was a man of strong character and clear
head, who seems to have had the will and the capacity to give bis son
a most symmetrical training, both moral and intellectual. In this work
the father was aided by a wife of singular piety, cheerfulness, and moral
excellence. It was doubtless to these carly formative influences that Dr.
Dewey owed much of that moral completeness which adorned the whole
of his subsequent life. After a youth spent in alternate labor on the
farm, and study in the common school, he fitted himself to enter the
college at Williamstown, Massachusetts, in his eighteenth year. He
graduated in 1806, taking rank as a scholar among the first in his class.
During his residence in college he became the subject of those deep
religious convictions, by which he ever after ordered his entire life. In
1807, he was licensed to preach by the Berkshire Congregationalist Asso-
ciation. After teaching and preaching for a few months at Stockbridge
and Tyringham, Massachusetts, he was appointed a tutor in Williams
College. After two years’ service in this capacity, he was elected (at
the age of twenty-six) professor of mathematics and natural philosophy.
He held this position till 1827, a period of seventeen years. During
this time the college was poor, and struggling for life. Of necessity, a
heavy burden of labor and responsibility rested upon the officers of
instruction. Among these, Dr. Dewey bore a distinguished part. In
times of confusion and internal disorder, his influence over the students
is said to have been most salutary and powerful. According to the
custom of the time, his department of instruction included not only
mathematics and physics, but the whole range of chemistry and the
natural sciences.

He entered upon the work of accumulating and organizing the
apparatus and collections requisite for the study of chemistry and natu-
232 LIFE OF PROFESSOR CHESTER DEWEY.

ral history with great zeal and enthusiasm; while he was equally
earnest in giving instruction in the severer portions of the broad depart-
ment for whose cultivation in the college he was made responsible. He
fitted up a laboratory, and commenced making collections for the illus-
tration of botany, mineralogy, and geology. This was accomplished
mainly by personal labor and exchanges with those engaged in similar
pursuits in our own and other countries. These labors gave the initial
impulse to the cultivation of the natural sciences in Williams College,
and laid the foundations of its now large and valuable illustrative collec-
tions.

In 1827, Dr. Dewey resigned the chair which he had s0 long held.
The friends of education in Western Massachusetts had been impressed
with the necessity of providing more systematic and vigorous instruction
for young men preparing for coliege and immediate business pursuits.
An opportunity for public service of this sort of more immediate useful-
ness, as it seemed to him, than was afforded by his college chair, was
found in the establishment of a gymnasium at Pittsfield. He removed
to Pittsfield, where he had previously been engaged as professor of
chemistry in the Medical College, and became principal of this institution.
He remained in Pittsfield nine years, at the same time occupying the
chair of chemistry in the medical colleges in Pittsfield and in Woodstock,
Vermont. At the end of this period he removed to Rochester, New
York, and took charge of the collegiate institute in that city. This
institution, in connection with Professor N. W. Benedict, he conducted
with high suecess for fourteen years. In 1850, at the establishment of
the University of Rochester, he was elected professor of chemistry and
natural history in that institution, and continued to discharge the
duties of that chair for a little more than ten years. He retired from
active duty at the ripe age of seventy-six. It was during the period of
his connection with the university that I first became acquainted with
Dr. Dewey personally and in the work of instruction.

In attempting an estimate of the services and worth of our venerated
friend, we are naturally led first to speak of him asa teacher. In his
chosen profession he was an enthusiast. His whole life was absorbed in
obtaining knowledge and imparting it to others. In the street, in the
social circle, in the professor’s chair, he was always the teacher. No
person could come within the sphere of his influence without carrying
away some new fact or thought, or being inoculated with new love for
moral or natural truth. In accumulating knowledge he seemed always
to have in mind the idea of imparting it to others. In his mind new
truths seemed to fall spontaneously into the form best adapted for
presentation to the learner. He always conceived of nature and man as
belonging to a common system, related to each other in every part, and
designed to illustrate a common moral purpose. This naturally led him
to estimate new investigations and discoveries to be important mainly
as they served to set forth the moral dignity of man, to promote his

LIFE OF PROFESSOR CHESTER DEWEY. 233

happiness, and elevate his character. His intellectual life was a beau-
tiful commentary on the remark of Gibbon, that “it is a greater glory
to science to develop and perfect mankind, than it is to enlarge the boun-
daries of the known universe.” He appeared to study nature, not so
much for the reputation which knowledge or discovery would secure to
him, as from a tender affection for her various forms and aspects con-
sidered as exhibiting a grand connection of benevolent uses, means, and
ends, revealing the goodness and wisdom of the Almighty. Hence, he
was utterly free from those petty jealousies which so often manifest
themselves among scientific men. He rejoiced in scientific progress, to
whomsoever it was due, and was always most generous in his estimate
of the achievements of others. Every discovery which developed new
elements in the Divine plan was to him a matter for personal rejoicing.
Whittier’s verses, describing St. Pierre’s sympathizing relation to nature,
are more strictly applicable to Dr. Dewey than to the brilliant French-
man:
“She laid her great heart bare to him,
Its loves and sweet accords—he saw

The beauty of her perfect law.
* * * * * #

And thus he seemed to hear the song
That swept of old the stars along,
And to his eyes the earth once more
Its fresh and primal beauty bore.”

To his mind there was no broad separation between the moral and
the material order. But he was intensely averse to that false philosophy
which seeks unity at the expense of reducing all thought and volition
to dynamics, making no distinction between man and a crystal. To his
mind, the whole scheme of material things was ever throbbing and
quivering with divine life, benevolence, and power. This profound
recognition of Godin the modes in which He has revealed himself, rounded
and completed his moral and intellectual life, and made him, by way of
eminence, the Good Teacher.

His scientific attainments were supplemented by various and thorough
knowledge in the department of critical scholarship. This gavea breadth
and many-sidedness to his mind, which is so conspicuously wanting
in many of the scientific men of our time. In the lecture-room, Dr.
Dewey was exact and brief in his statements of principles; clear and
full in his illustrations of difficulties ; sympathetic with the dull in in-
tellect, and patient with the wayward and inattentive. As a colleague,
he was uniformly unselfish and courteous, bearing his share of all com-
mon burdens, ready to receive suggestions, never taking offense at trifles,
exhibiting always thatrare combination of natural qualities and acquired
habits which distinguishes the Christiam gentleman. He loved his
work, continued in it during his whole active life, and neither sought
nor wished for any other employment. It was his lot to have been
connected with schools and colleges which have been recently founded
234 LIFE OF PROFESSOR CHESTER DEWEY.

or were in the process of formation. For this reason his labors were
the more self-denying.

He also represents two departments of the teacher’s profession. He
went from a college chair, in which he had been eminently successful,
into an academy, and from an academy back again to a college
chair, simply at the call of duty, apparently without a thought that dig-
nity or position was in the slightest degree affected by either transfer.
His only desire was to ascertain the position in which he could be most
useful to his fellow-men. In view of these facts in our friend’s career, I
cannot forbear to note the lesson which they convey to our profession.
As teachers, we should always bear in mind that we belong to a brother-
hood laboring in a common work for a common end; that rank and dig-
nity among us do not depend upon the accidents of position, but upon
high attainments and faithful services, no matter where those attain-
ments are made or those services rendered. In this respect the legal
profession gives us a worthy example. From the Chief Justice of the
United States to the village attorney, all lawyers, as members of the
profession, are brethren, and equal. Let us frown upon any attempt to
separate our profession into sects and orders, on the false assumption
that there are, or can be, rival dignities or clashing interests among
those engaged in the high and benevolent work of training the minds
and characters of the young.

As aman of science, Dr. Dewey belongs to a class whose abilities and
public services are liable, in our time, to be overlooked or underrated.
I refer to those men who were pioneers in the work of cultivating and
popularizing natural science in our country. When Amos Eaton, Parker
Cleaveland, Robert Hare, Benjamin Silliman, Hdward Hitchcock, and
Chester Dewey began their labors, the natural sciences, as they are now
understood, had in this country hardly an existence. Since that time the
discoveries and investigations upon which they rest have, in great part,
been made or matured.

Dr. Dewey left college in 1806. Just about this period that remark-
able impulse was given to scientific inquiry, resulting in an almost
simultaneous development of chemistry, zodlogy, erystalography, botany,
and geology, which rendered the first half of the nineteenth century so
supremely illustrious. What are now elementary truths, finding a place
in every text-book, were then either undiscovered or new and strange,
waiting the time of their acceptance or verification. The very year of
Dr. Dewey’s graduation, Davy made his discovery of the metallic bases
of the alkalies, and promulgated the electro-chemical theory by extend-
ing and applying the discoveries of Galvani and Volta. A few years
previous, Lavoisier and his associates had published their new system of
chemical nomenclature. In 4807, Dalton’s law of chemical equivalents
and definite proportions was first given to the world. Hiiuy, Weiss, and
Mohs published their new views on crystalography from 1800 to 1809,
while Berzelius and others were at the same time developing the chem-

LIFE OF PROFESSOR CHESTER DEWEY. 235

ical system of mineralogical classification. The natural system of botany,
founded by the younger Jussieu, was, during this period, slowly making
its way to public favor. Cuvier’s “Fossil Bones,” which first raised
geology to the rank of a science, was not published till 1812. The “Ani-
mal Kingdom,” which rendered a similar service to systematic zodlogy,
appeared in 1817. William Smith, who, in England, was learning to
describe strata in different parts of the island, and to identify them by
their fossil remains, gave his results to the public about the same period,
his most important work having been published in 1815. Many other
facts in the history of science, which wiil occur to those who now hear
me, illustrate the fact that our scientific pioneers labored under the dis-
advantage of having begun their career with the infancy of the sciences
which they cultivated. They grew intellectually with the growth of
natural knowledge, and their active lives stretched over the whole period
during which these sciences were born and reached maturity.

The scientific attainments of these men were not made like those of
young naturalists in our time, by the study of a body of coherent and
established truths, or by the accumulation of new facts which take their
places naturally under laws already verified, or fall into classifications
already fixed and named. Their attainments were made amidst sudden
and almost violent revolutions in method and changes in fundamental
ideas, which were startling to the timid and bewildering to the weak.
It required no ordinary courage and manliness, no ordinary faith in the
universality and coherence of the Almighty’s plan in the universe, to
aecept and promulgate ideas which seemed subversive of all established
opinions—utterly superseding and setting at naught the “ wisdom of the
ancients.”

The facilities for the acquisition of new facts, and the testing and
verification of the new hypotheses, were inadequate in the extreme.

Laboratories and apparatus were to be created or invented. Cabinets
of minerals were meager, and collections of fossils were almost unknown.
A single illustration in point we give from an article in Silliman’s Jour-
nal for 1865. It will be borne in mind that Professor Silliman, senior,
was appointed professor of chemistry and natural history in Yale Col-
lege in 1805. The college was then over a century old, and under the
presidency of Dr. Dwight. We are told that ‘not only the chemical
laboratory, but also the cabinet of minerals, owed its existence to his
[Professor Silliman’s] energy. * * * About the time when Mr. Sil-
liman was appointed a professor, the entire mineralogical and geological
collection of Yale College was transported to Philadelphia in one small
box, that the specimens might be named by Dr. Adam Seybert, then
fresh from Werner’s school at Freiberg, the only man in this country
who could be regarded as a mineralogist sufficiently trained for that
work.” This illustrates the facilities for the study and illustration of
natural science at Yale College, and we can readily infer the discourag-
ing circumstances under which Dr. Dewey began his work and collec-
236 LIFE OF PROFESSOR CHESTER DEWEY.

tions in Williamstown. Such facts ought to impress the present gene-
ration with an idea of the zeal, energy, and ability of men who, in such
a state of things, could devote themselves to scientific pursuits.

It should be recollected, also, that these pioneers in science were not
left free to devote any considerable portion of strength and time to inves-
tigation and the accumulation of specimens. They were generally over-
burdened with the work of giving instructions in subjects now distributed
into three or four departments. Transactions of learned societies were
procured with difficulty. Scientific journals were few, and in our country
unknown. Communication with Europe was slow and expensive. The
languages of modern Europe had not then been introduced into the courses
of public education, and few, comparatively, could command the time or
means to acquire them, or to travel abroad for the purpose of observation
and study. These sciences, themselves, being in a formative state, were
not differentiated, nor their limits marked out. ‘These men, of necessity,
studied naturein the mass, meeting often the unclassified subject-matter of
several sciences in a single investigation. They constantly encountered
the difficulties resulting from faulty and incoherent terminology. Their
memories were burdened in keeping abreast with the changes of names
which rapid scientific progress made necessary. Classes as well as names
were in a state of constant flux, for we all know that an adequate ter-
minology always follows and never precedes the knowledge of systems
andlaws. Their experience confirmed the maxim of the French savan,
that “science est un langue bien fait.” The tax upon time and memory,
requisite to keep abreast of the rapid movement of thought and discovery,
was enormous. Their mental experience became a register of the mass
of the false hypotheses, blunders, changes, revolutions, discoveries, and
generalizations which make up the brilliant and varied history of modern

cience. They were obliged to acquire an equal facility in learning and
unlearning. The task of laying aside what had been painfully acquired,
and which some brilliant discovery had suddenly proved to be useless or
erroneous, was severer than the acquisition of what was new.

In addition to all this, they were obliged to make a place in an already
occupied curriculum of college study, for their favorite studies, and to
vindicate to the public mind their dignity and value. Like the early set-
tlers of our unbroken forests, they were obliged to remove obstacles,
and furnish a career for those who were to come efter them. It is not
strange, then, that the attainments of such men were affected and modi-
fied by the conditions of their scientific life—that their knowledge was
less specific in its form, less methodical in its arrangement, than that of
their successors at the present day. It is not strange that in the pre-
sentation of subjects they did not take note always of these metes and
bounds which the accumulated thought of half a century has set up—
that their mental furniture was encyclopedic and compendious, rather
than minute, classified, and exhaustive. The immense range of the
natural sciences, now that the work of evolution has been so far com-
” LIFE OF PROFESSOR CHESTER DEWEY. 2350
pleted, makes specialization in study a necessity. But it may be carried
too far, both in the neglect of general culture in the scientific investiga-
tor himself, and in the failure to attend to branches of science cognate to
that specially chosen for cultivation. We believe that in the end noth-
ing is gained to science by the neglect of those elements of scholarship
which belong, by common consent, to liberal education, in order to con-
centrate the activity of an entire life, from boyhood to age, upon a par-
ticular branch of science. Against such a course the whole example and
precept of our scientific fathers was directed. There is, in our own time,
a tendency to confound the spheres of professional and general education,
and to sacrifice liberal culture to special attainment. This seems to me
an evil which should be resisted. A distinguished chemist remarked,
not long since, that it was a cause for constant regret that his students
in analytical chemistry came to him so often without liberal culture and
discipline in letters, and general scientific knowledge and method.

We may also question whether the disposition to specialize, among
investigators and professional scientific men, may not be carried to ex-
cess. May not what is gained to science in the more rapid accumulation
of facts, through exclusive devotion to some narrow range of inquiry, be
more than lost through the resulting deficiency in breadth of view? A
man who carries specialization to extremes, will become intellectually
purblind, and fail utterly in an adequate comprehension of the material
and moral cosmos, considered each as parts of one vast whole, finding
its unity in the mind of God. Said a great naturalist, the other day:
““T am more and more convinced of the solidarity of the sciences. I am
more and more inclined to distrust the observations of a man who is
familiar with but one narrow branch of inquiry.” Does not knowledge,
by such specialization, grow faster than wisdom, breadth, and power?
The effect of extreme division of labor, in manufactures and trade, in
diminishing general capacity, intellectual and physical, has been often
noted by economists. The guardians of public education, as well as of
scientific progress, may well be warned of an analogous danger. “The
more deeply the sciences are investigated,” says a great historian, ‘the
more clearly is if seen that they are all connected. They resemble a
vast forest, every tree of which appears, at first sight, to be isolated and
separate, but, on digging beneath the surface, their roots are all found
interlaced with each other.” Whatever advantage comes from a broad
survey of the field of scientific inquiry, accrued to our scientific pioneers
from the very necessities of their position. The broad, catholic sympa-
thy of these men with all branches of science, stands in sharp contrast
to that narrow scientific sectarianism which has too often disgraced
scientific associations on both sides of the Atlante.

At a time when scientific men of certain sympathies and opinions
speak of religious men as obstacles to scientific progress, it is well to
bear in mind the fact that the fathers of American science were, almost
to a man, earnest believers in the divine authority of Christianity. The
238 LIFE OF PROFESSOR CHESTER DEWEY.

institutions of learning in which, and through which, they labored, were
all of them founded, endowed, and sustained through the efforts and
sacrifices of religious men, and especially of the clergy. The pursuits
of physical science are superficially thought unfavorable to moral and
religious growth. But so long as we can recall the elevated spiritual
life of such men as Silliman, Hitchcock, and Dewey, we need no other
refutation of such an idea. 2

In connection with his labors in giving instruction in colleges, med-
ical schools, and academies, Dr. Dewey was not unmindful of his obliga-
tions to make some additions to the sum of scientific knowledge. He
was for forty years a constant contributor to Silliman’s Journal. He
always studied with pen in hand, and was a constant writer on scientific
subjects for the newspaper press. He became early in life an enthusi-
astic student of botany, and contributed very largely to the scientific
knowledge of the carices. Dr. Asa Gray, our great botanist, classes
Dr. Dewey with Schweinitz and Torrey, and speaks of his writings on
caricography as an “elaborate monograph, patiently prosecuted through
more than forty years.” He further says that, in connection with the
two botanists above mentioned, “ he laid the foundation and insured
the popularity of the study of the sedges in this country.” Unfortunately,
Dr. Dewey did not write any systematic treatise on this subject, but his
numerous short articles represent the progress of his own observations
and studies, and give a history of the progress of that department of
botanical science. Dr. Dewey wrote a History of the Herbaceous Plants
of Massachusetts, which was published by the State. He contributed,
also, the article ‘“‘ Carices,” to Wood’s Botany. Up to the last year
of his life, our friend’s mind showed the vigor and enthusiasm of his
early years, and he was constantly writing on scientific topics. His last
publications of any length were two review articles, one entitled ‘‘The
true place of man in zoélogy ;” the other, ‘‘An examination of some rea-
sonings against the unity of mankind.” These articles were read first
before a literary association in Rochester, of which the Doctor was a
member. They displayed a full and intelligent familiarity with all the
most recent discoveries and speculations bearing upon these difficult
and complicated questions. His discussions were conducted with an
ability, clearness, and learning which, at his age, were surprising. His
industry in study was unremitting, and up to the very last year of his
life his mind was open to examine, with utter freedom from preju-
dice, any new discovery or speculation which was worthy of attention.
His last labors were the orderly arrangement of his large collection of
sedges, which had been for so many years accumulating on his hands, and
copying out his meteorological journal. Just before his death, while
engaged upon his journal, his hand became unable to hold his pen, and,
calling for the aid of his daughter, he placidly remarked that this would
be his last report to the Smithsonian Institution. He died calmly, of
oid age, on the 15th of December, 1867, in his eighty-third year. He

LIFE OF PROFESSOR CHESTER DEWEY. 239

had the control of his faculties to the last, sustained by an unfaltering
trust in the blessed life hereafter.

A few remarks further, and we close. All who knew Dr. Dewey were
impressed with the freshness and vigor of his mind even up to the latest
period of his life. I have often asked myself this question: How did
Dr. Dewey retain so fully his mental activity, and grow old so grace-
fully? This result seemed to me due, in the first place, to his constant
effort to keep abreast with the movement of modern discovery and
thought. He never was satisfied with falling back on past experience
or old attainments. He believed that morally, intellectually, and phy-
sically, man is making progress. He held it to be his duty as long as’
he lived to contribute to that progress, and to be himself a vital part of the
movement. He was always at work; always acquiring new ideas. Mor-
ally and scientifically, his mind and sympathies were with the future,
and not with the past alone. Hence, his brain never became inactive;
the currents of bis intellectual life never grew stagnant and dull. His
topics of conversation were always of the present and the actual, or of
some new application, modification, or adjustment of the oid and the
tried.

Again, he kept up, in a wonderful degree, communion and sympathy
with the young. With them he established friendships and intimacies.
In these intimacies, his stores of knowledge and ripened wisdom were
poured out freely, while the young gave back to him the cheerfulness,
contidence, and hope natural to their time of life. He was always a
guide and helper to young and struggling men of talent. The number
of such who, by his impulse, advice, and encouragement, were led to
honor and success, was very great. No young scientific laborer ever
failed to find a wise and sympathetic friend in Dr. Dewey. Nothing
gave him greater joy than the rising distinction of some protegé whom
he had started on the road to fame. His beautiful old age most emphat-
ically belied Horace’s oft-quoted description of the aged man:

“ Difficilis querulus laudator temporis acti
Se puero, castigator censorque minorum.”
No one was more warmly welcomed in society, by old and young,
than he.

He kept his youth, too, through the simplicity, purity, and elevation
of his moral and religious life. His trust in the moral order was as
habitual and as firm as it was in the law of universal gravitation.
This gave steadiness to his moral action, and so abated the ordinary
friction and annoyances of life, that he seemed, to a casual observer,
almost insensible to their action. For fifteen years I was favored with
the friendship of Dr. Dewey. A large part of that time I met him daily
as a colleague. I was associated with him durmg the period (always
trying to an old man) when, at the age of+seventy-six, he ceased to dis-
charge the active duties of his chair; and I can say, with perfect sin-
cerity, that to me and his colleagues he seemed incapable of injustice
240 LIFE OF PROFESSOR CHESTER DEWEY.

or bigotry, of meanness or malice, of envy or suspicion. We all honored
him as a sage; we loved him as a father. I have never yet met a man
who so completely, as he, illustrated the moral elevation and spiritual
beauty of the Great Teacher’s Sermon on the Mount. What he was to
his family and friends, he was to the multitude who knew him but par-
tially and indirectly. To the whole population of Rochester his pre-
sence in the streets was a benediction
THOUGHTS ON THE NATURE AND ORIGIN OF FORCE.
By Wii11aM B. Taytor, or WASHINGTON.

The great generalization of our age—the continuity or indestructi-
bility of force—confirmed as it is by a constantly accumulating series
of inductions, contradicted as it is by no adverse fact, comes gradually
to impress itself upon our convictions almost with the positiveness of an
axiom. And yet a slight consideration will show us that it is really but
a corollary from the particular constitution of matter presented con-
stantly to our observation. Had we any example of an incompressible
substance wholly devoid of elasticity—that is, possessing no molecular or
atomic repulsion, (to adopt the conception entertained by Newton and his
followers,) but endowed with only cohesive and gravitative attractions—
then for such matter the theory of the conservation of force would not
be true. Were two equal balls of such a material to meet in space with
equal and opposite velocities, at the moment of impact there would be,
with the arrest of motion, the actual destruction of the entire living
force they jointly possessed. Not only would there be no rebound, but
there would be no internal molecular work effected, and no heat gene-
rated to represent a surviving or transformed energy.

The doctrine of the correlation and conservation of forces depends
therefore upon the coexistence in all matter of two opposing tendencies,
namely, those of attraction and repulsion ; and from the ceaseless play
and struggle of these opposing tendencies are derived ultimately all
the varied phenomena of the visible universe.

The most ordinary and obvious manifestations of force are those exhib-
_iting motion; asinthe whirlwind and the cataract, the voleano and the
earthquake, the steamship and the locomotive train. There has accord-
ingly been a very general tendency to confound force and motion ; and
this fallacious confusion has not unfrequently vitiated the reasonings
of even intelligent writers.

To distinguish, however, motion from force on the one hand, it may
beremarked that they never have a common measure; and to distinguish
force from motion on the other hand, itis only necessary to consider the
fact that we are surrounded by a vast array of statical forces, continu-
ally resisting the most energetic solicitations to motion.

First, as to the absence of a common measure: It is found that the
rate of motion follows only the law of the square rcot of the force orig-
inating it. A double consumption of fuel will not double the speed of
a locomotive-engine. On the contrary, (as is well known to the engineer,)
four times the quantity of fuel is necessary to attain this duplication of

168
242 THOUGHTS ON THE NATURE AND ORIGIN OF FORCE.

effect. So if a pound of gunpowder will impel a cannon-ball with a
given velocity, it will require four pounds of powder to double that
velocity. The conservation of force, however, is maintained in the fact
that the penetrating power of the cannon-ball is directly proportional
to the energy expended in its propulsion ; or, in other words, to the square
of its velocity. Or, to express the distinction in the established formula,
while m x v represents the quantity of motion in a moving body, m x v?
represents its quantity of force.

Secondly, in regard to static force: Every one who has ever attempted
to hold aloft a heavy weight as motionless as possible will have had a
realizing sense of the expenditure of energy required, not to produce,
but to prevent motion. The Suspension Bridge at Niagara, safely uphold-
ing its thousands of tons of loaded cars and human freight over the
frightful chasm beneath, may be cited as one among an infinite number
of examples of statical force, or of power in repose.

The avalanche, hurtling down the mountain side with destructive vio-
lence, overwhelming a village and its inhabitants, is but expending a
force stored up a year or years before, by the sun, when it lifted the
mass, molecule by molecule, to its position of latent or potential energy.

Every pound of coal possesses a static or potential force of ten million
“foot-pounds.” That is to say, the power expended by the sun in rais-
ing the pound of coal from its low estate of chemical combination, or a
satisfied affinity, to the higher plane of isolation and capacity for chem-
ical reunion, was a power capable of lifting one thousand pounds of
water to the height of ten thousand feet. And, conversely, the pound
of coal thus chemically raised has itself received the power of mechan-
ically lifting that immense weight to that enormous height.

It must be borne in mind, however, that when the sun actually does
lift a thousand pounds of water to the height mentioned, it does not
raise it bodily as water; it performs the vast additional labor of tearing
asunder the entire mass, molecule by molecule, in opposition to the
statical force of an intense cohesive attraction: a work of more than
ten thousand “ foot-pounds ;” an expenditure of energy greater than
that required to grind the same weight of ice (one thousand pounds) to
the most impalpable powder. Deducting, therefore, this expenditure
(a little over ten thousand ‘ foot-pounds”) we should find that the pound
of coal represents, in a static form, an invested power equivalent to
the lifting of one thousand pounds of water a little more than one foot,
in addition to the task of evaporating the whole amount.*

Matter in motion being thus merely a vehicle of force, it tollows that
wherever dynamic or kinetic energy is transformed into potential energy,
(as in pumping up water into an elevated reservoir,) there motion is to
this extent destroyed; wherever potential or static energy is trans-
formed into dynamic, (asin the discharge of aloaded pistol,) there motion is

*This of course does not include any actual heating of the water. One pound of
coal will raise thirteen thousand pounds of water 1°; which is equivalent to only sey-
enty-two pounds of ice-cold water (32°) raised to the boiling point, (212°.)

THOUGHTS ON THE NATURE AND ORIGIN OF FORCE. 243

created. A very striking example of the continual transformation back
and forth of these two conditions of force is presented in planetary
movements, especially in those of considerable eccentricity. Taking
the case of a cometary orbit, for example, whose greatest elongation
should extend beyond the distance of Neptune, while its perihelion
should lie far within the orbit of Mercury, we should find that the body,
rushing or falling toward the sun with accelerated rapidity, would
finally acquire a velocity of a hundred or two hundred miles per second;
when its accumulated momentum would suffice to hurl it off as a pro-
jectile to its remote aphelion, where its velocity would be reduced to
two or three miles per second, and the body be again in a condition to
repeat its mighty oscillation. And this majestic pendulum, occupying
some three-quarters of a century in its excursion, while exhibiting sue-
cessively so enormous an absorption and alternate generation of motion,
would at the same time illustrate the constancy and indestructibility of
its force, in its transformation from the latent to the actual, and vice
versa ; the vis-viva of its lowest speed, plus its co-existing potential of
gravitation at highest elevation, being exactly equal to those of its
highest speed and lowest fall.

And yet, obvious as these truths appear, an acute and compre-
hensive thinker in an admirable exposition of the doctrine of evo-
lution, has devoted a chapter to the unfortunate fallacy of the
‘¢ Continuity {or indestructibility] of Motion.” If it be once admitted
that motion can be transmuted into any other form of force, then of
necessity it cannot exist also as motion. The loose brick balanced on
the chimney top, ready at a sudden gust of wind to topple and to strike
a passer-by to earth, has a potential force, imparted to it perhaps fifty
years ago by the hod-carrier and the brick-layer who raised it and
placed it in its seat of power. During all these fifty years it has lain
there quiet. True, it has partaken of the earth’s rotations and revolu-
tions; true, it has responded faithfully to all the varying, never-ceasing
vibrations of summer-heats and winter-colds; and in all this passive
acquiescence it has but illustrated its inertia. But this is manifestly
altogether foreign to what we are considering. Whence, then, the motion
that, commencing with the fall from the chimney, hurled back the brick
to the earth from which it had so long before been lifted? The blast
that tilted it was but the trigger which set free its latent power. Shall
we say that the original motion imparted to it was also latent during
all these years? Such an expression as “latent motion ” is but a sense-
less contradiction of terms. The cap-stone of the great pyramid, ele-
vated to its dizzy height with much effort and labor, might possibly
remain there unmoved forever.

The simple truth is, that so far from our having any warrant for the
assumption that the Sum of all the motions in the universe is a constant,
the repeated creation and destruction of motion is on the contrary neces-
sarily involved in the indestructible transmutability of force.
244 THOUGHTS ON THE NATURE AND ORIGIN OF FORCE.

These considerations, of course, apply equally to all the various kinds
of molecular movement, such as those of light, of heat, and of electrical
currents. It is familiar to all that we can create heat, as when we kin-
dle a fire in the stove, or pass an electrical current through an imper-
fect conductor, or simply rub two sticks together. It is equally familiar
that we can destroy heat, as when we employ steam-power for welding,

forging, rolling, or swaging iron, and measure the effective work per-}

formed in these operations by the amount of heat abstracted from the
steam, and forever destroyed as heat. In brief, whenever heat or other
movement has produced a changed effect in matter, either internally or
externally, there and to that precise extent has the motion (whether
molar or molecular) entirely disappeared.

It is true that we still hear the convenient term “latent heat” fre-
quently employed; but while holding in all honor the researches of Black,
who first unfolded to us the curious phenomena grouped under this title,
we now know by the clear light of the dynamic theory that there is no
such thing as latent heat; that if heat be not sensible, or actual, it is not
heat at all. We now know that the 142° necessary to liquefy melting
ice without any increase of temperature, and the 965° absorbed in effect-
ing the evaporation of boiling water, have had to overcome great mole-
cular resistanees; and that the internal work thus performed in raising
the water to a higher potential is exactly measured by the amounts of
heat respectively thus expended and consumed. When, true to the
eternal law of conservation, precisely similar amounts of heat are ob-
tained by a reversal of the several processes, these temperatures are as
much a new creation or transformation as when we ignite the carbu-
reted hydrogen at our gas-burners, or the anthracite in our grates.

No one would think of saying (excepting metaphorically) that we
were releasing the light and heat stored up—in the one ease at the
retorts of the gas-factory, and in the other in the carboniferous labora-
tory of the solar actinism—a million years ago. Heat latent in coal,
fields which may perchance have lain immediately beneath colossal
glaciers for thousands of years! As well might we speak of the blaze
emitted by the petroleum lamp as original sun-light which has been
latent all these millenniums.

Undoubtedly the more accurate designation of the fact is, that when
motion has resulted in static condition, the motion is absolutely de-
stroyed ; when from that condition a succeeding motion is evolved, a
new motion has been as absolutely created; that when one kind of
motion has been transformed into another kind of motion, the equivalence
of the two by no means involves the identity of the two.

Among the multitudinous metamorphoses of foree presented to our
observation, we find not unfrequent examples of motion rising higher
than its source. These cases may, however, all be likened to the famil-

iar illustration of a large weight on the short end of a lever lifting a—

lighter weight on the other end as many times as high; or to the par-

THOUGHTS ON THE NATURE AND ORIGIN OF FORCE. 245

allel instance of a considerable body of water by its momentum raising
a smaller quantity to a higher level in the hydraulic ram. Similar in-
stances of water-power occur in nature, as at the mouths of rivers, and
at estuaries, where the contracting channel transforms a large mass
movement into the potential of elevation. A magnificent example of this
is furnished in the Bay of Fundy, where a huge tide of seventy feet is
derived frem an ocean-wave probably not exceeding two feet in height.

As in visible or mass motion, the matter may be either falling to a
lower state of power, (as in the descending weight of a clock or the
falling water of Niagara,) or rising under a superior external propulsion
to a higher state of power, (as in a clock being wound wp or ocean-water
being evaporated by the sun,) so in molecular movements, the matter
may be either running down, (as in combustion, or in the decomposition
of quaternary or ternary compounds into more stable binary compounds,)
er the matter may be raised to higher power, (as in the vegetable de-
oxidation of carbon by the sun’s rays, or in the building up of animal
substance to more complex and unstable conditions, by the power derived
from other matter running down.)

Now, in all these wondrously varied and complex transmutations of
force, while it is certain that the sum of ali the static and kinetic forms
of energy in the universe is a constant, which the human race with ail
its endless appliances of machinery can no more inerease or diminish
than it can add to or subtract from the quantity of matter, yet it is
equally true that the store of the former, or the potential in Nature, is
being in the aggregate diminished by transfer to the condition of the
latter or the dynamic; and that in this transfer the general tendency is
to a form of temperature of greater diffusion, and less capability of far-
ther transformation. So that solar and planetary systems are con-
stantly running down to a lower plane of power—the former by the
radiation of high heat, the latter by the radiation of low heat—into
empty celestial spaces.* _ There is on the whole, therefore, as Professor
‘Sir William Thomson has well designated it, a “ Dissipation of En-
ergy.”

In a paper “On a Universal Tendency in Nature to the Dissipation of
Mechanical Energy,” presented to the Royal Society of Edinburgh, April
19, 1852, Professor Thomson arrives at the conclusions, that “there is
at present in the material world a universal tendency to the dissipation
of mechanical energy ;” and that “ within a finite period of time past
the earth must have been, and within a finite period of time to come
the earth must again be, unfit for the habitation of man as at present

“The whole amount of solar energy incessantly expended on our earth may be esti-
mated at the amount of 208 billion 498,027 million “horse-power’—a_horse-power
being equal to 550 foot-pounds per second. But as was shown by the illustrious Dr.
J. R. Mayer in his Beitrdége zur Dynamik des Himmels, (Heilbronn, 1848, ) the amount
of solar heat intercepted by the earth is to the whole amount radiated into space “as 1
is to 2,300 millions.” (On Celestial Dynamics. Translated by Dr. H. Debus, L. E. D
Phil. Mag., April, 1863, Vol. XXV, p. 245.)
246 THOUGHTS ON THE NATURE AND ORIGIN OF FORCE.

constituted ; unless operations have been or are to be performed which
are impossible under the Jaws to which the known operations going on
at present in the material world are subject.”* And ina communication
to the British Association in September, 1861, on “ Physical Considera-
tions regarding the Possible Age of the Sun’s Heat,” Professor Thom-
son repeats, that “‘ although mechanical energy is indestructible, there
is a universal tendency to its dissipation, which produces gradual aug-
mentation and diffusion of heat, cessation of motion, and exhaustion of
potentiat energy, through the material universe.”}

In glancing thus cursorily at the nature of force, and its mere strik-
ing manifestations, it is hardly necessary to allude to the now recognized
correlation of the organic and so-called “ vital” forms of power with
the purely physical and kinetic. It has been reserved to our own day
to see established in all its fullness the grand dynamic equation—
“ Causa equat effectum.” It has been shown by the most varied series
of experiments and observations that physiological, like mechanicat
processes, are possible only on the sufiicient consumption of fuel; that
growth, and development, and inuscular movement are derived from the
oxidation of carbon and of tissue, whose products may be accurately
measured; and are all but phases of the ever-changing, never-dying
energy of Nature.

Perhaps each one who should consult his ‘‘ consciousness” alone (that
witness so important to the metaphysician) would feel a conviction that
when he strikes a blow he is exerting an original and self-derived
power. And yet it is certain that the will of an Alexander, a Bonaparte,
or a Bismarck, would be as impotent to move a grain of sand without
an adequate supply of pre-existing external force placed at its disposal,
as to launch the Great Eastern from its ways without a similar supply.t

*L. E. D. Phil. Mag., October, 1852, Vol. IV, p. 304.

+tReport of Thirty-first Meeting, &c., Notices and Abstracts, page 27. (Republished
in the L. E. D. Phil. Mag., February, 1862, Yol. XXIII, p. 158.)

t It is proper to notice here a caution which has been suggested, that the will, though

admitted to be merely a starter or director of the animal store of material force, must
still exert and therefore originate the power, however small, necessary for such initia-
tion. Sir John Herschel, in an essay “On the Origin of Force,” remarks: “The actual
force necessary to be originated to give rise to the utmost imaginable exertion of ani-
mal power in any case may be no greater than is required to remove a single material
molecule from its place through a space inconceivably minute; no more in comparison
with the dynamical force disengaged directly or indirectly by the act than the pull of
a hair-trigger in comparison with the force of the mine which it explodes. But with-
out the power to make some material disposition, to originate some movement, or to
change, at least temporarily, the amount of dynamical force appropriate to some one or
more material molecules, the mechanical results of human or animal volition are incon-
ceivable. It matters not that we are ignorant of the mode in which this is performed.
It suffices to bring the origination of dynamical power, to however small an extent,
within the domain of acknowledged personality.” (The Fortnightly Review for July 1,
1865, Vol. I, p. 439.)

This directing capacity of the animal will, like that directing impulse which presides
over the entire domain of organic evolution, eludes all analysis, and hence has no
recognized dynamic equivalent. Without attempting to discuss here this very abstruse

ae
THOUGHTS ON THE NATURE AND ORIGIN OF FORCE. 247

A demonstration of this is seen in the case of motor-paralysis, (which
_ may be likened to the state of a steam-engine with the cylinder-valves
locked in position, or detached from the eecentric,) or in the case of
that extreme prostration which follows a low fever or prolonged illness,
_ (which may be likened to the condition of an engine whose head of
_ steam is insufficient to overcome the inertia of the piston.)

But not only the animal processes of nutrition, growth, and movement
are maintained ab extra, but those more subtle and mysterious processes
of thought, emotion, reason, are alike the product of material metamor-
phosis; and their activities may be determined by the urea and the
phosphates, and even phosphoric acid, eliminated by the kidneys. A
large-brained man sitting idly in his easy-chair, with eyes closed to ex-
ternal impressions, and indulging in pleasant revery, might seem to be
the very impersonation of self-contained and self-originating action.
But apart from the chemical tests alluded to, which ‘would demon-
strate the fact of matter potential, undergoing a descent, we may
employ the more direct and delicate indicator, a thermo-galvano-
meter, in connection with the back part of the dreamer’s head, and we
shall observe the needle to quiver and to fluctuate with the current of
the varying thought. Let a knock be heard at the door, and though no
movement of the face, no tremor of the closed eyelid betrays to the ob-
server a consciousness of the sound, yet this tell-tale needle (sensitive
to the two-thousandth part of a degree Fahrenheit) will attest by a
deflection of many degrees of arc the aroused attention involuntarily
excited through the action of the auditory nerves.* Here, then, we

point, it may be remarked that our faith in the doctrine of the constancy of force need
not be shaken by this sole outstanding difficulty, or apparent limitation of its univer-
sality; and that however unable we may now be to explain or suggest the how—this
last residuum, ‘“ will-power,” (admittedly very small relatively to the product of volun-
tary force,) as well as that organic-power which determines that from the equal stores
of force laid up in the two eggs of aduck and of an alligator, or of a dove and of a ser-
pent, the one shall be directed to evolve a bird and the other a reptile—may yet be here-
after referred to the magazines each serves to unlock, or else to a principle entirely
outside of mechanical force.

*In an interesting account of “ Experiments on the Relation of Heat to Mental
Work,” by Professor J. 8. Lombard, M. D., of Harvard University, employing a galvan-
ometer capable of in dicating about the five-hundredth part of one degree Fahrenheit
it is stated that the ordinary variations observed resulting from mental action did not
amount to more than about the fiftieth of a degree, though quite marked. “ Pursuing
these experiments further, it was found that anything that aroused the attention was
capable of causing a greater or less rise of temperature on the part of the head, over
and above that of the body.” With the exercise of the higher reasoning powers, “ the
highest rise noticed did not exceed the twentieth of a degree,” (about one-eleventh of a
degree Fahrenheit,) while “the temperature of the extremities fell.” “The most striking
effects of all were produced by the reading aloud or the recitation of poetry.” ‘ Read-
ing or reciting to one’s self gave similar results, and often even in a more marked de-
gree.” “Yn the last-mentioned series of observations, it was not unfrequently found
that the temperature of the forehead fell, while that of the back of the head rose ; but
for what reason, I have not yet been able todetermine.” (The New York Medical Journal
for June, 1867, Vol. V. pp. 198-205.)
248 THOUGHTS ON THE NATURE AND ORIGIN OF FORCE.

would seem to have almost the germ of a phrenometer, as if in defiance
of the protestation that “ thought cannot be measured.” It is but just,
however, to admit that this (although in some sense a phrenoscope) is
not properly a phreno meter, since the effect determined is really only
a resultant of the mental activity, and not its measure. The thermal
indication represents (if the expression may be allowed) merely the fric-
tion of the mechanism.

On comparing the modes of derivation of force in machines (especially
in those known as heat-engines) and in animals, we find that the trans-
fer is made in substantially the same way. Matter previously raised to
a chemical state of power is oxidized, and, in running down by this
process of combustion, (whether slow or rapid,) evolves a molecular ac-
tivity, which is absorbed and utilized in various ways, according to the
exact seat of the transfer. Where deoxidized metals are the source of the
power, (as in the galvanic battery,) the process is very similar. In this
case, and in mechanisms operated by springs or weights, the potential
force is first imparted by human labor.

The source of power, therefore, in machinery, as in the animal econ-
omy, is derived almost entirely from the vegetable kingdom; in which,
matter which has been largely exhausted of its store of force by the en-
gine and the animal, and discarded as carbonic acid, water, and other
burned products, is raised again by the action of the solar energy to its
static plane of chemical potentiality. And it is an interesting and sig-
nificant fact that the two great vegetable staples consumed by the dead
and by the living mechanisms respectively are identical in composi-
tion; that the cellulose, which is the principal food of the engine, is chem-
ically isomeric with the starch which is the principal fuel of the animal.
And the cellulose of the one, equally with the starch of the other, may,
as is well known, be converted into sugar. It is hardly necessary to
explain in thisconnection that the mineral coal so largely utilized, is itself
but a metamorphosed cellulose ; whose hydrogen and oxygen, (the ele-
ments of water,) expelled by geologic heat, have left remaining the ear-
bon almost in a state of isolated purity.

Nor does it detract from the value of this parallelism between the diet
of the inorganic and organic worker, that the latter (the animal) has not
been so organized as to be capable of availing itself directly of the stored
force in woody fiber; equal though it be to that which it has been
adapted to assimilate. |

It is important that we should endeavor to form some conception
(however inadequate) of the physical mode of action and of deriva-
tion of the various forms of force presented to us. When a bell is struck
with a hammer, the metal beneath is carried by the momentum or the
vis-viva of the blow, beyond its condition of equilibrum due to the
rigidity or molecular adhesion of the material ; and then instantly recoil-
ing, thus sets up a vibration counting tens, hundreds, or thousands
to the second, according to the inertia, or the mass set in motion ; which

THOUGHTS ON THE NATURE AND ORIGIN OF FORCE. 249

oscillatory motion is finally destroyed only by external and internal re-
sistances. In a manner somewhat analogous to this, the molecules of
all matter balanced between opposing attractive and repulsive ten-
dencies are forever ringing (so to speak) in response to continual dis-
turbances, though with a rapidity inconceivably greater than any
known as sound. Thus, when a gas-jet has its surface of contact with
the atmosphere smitten with a spark or blaze, the molecules of oxygen
and those of hydrogen and carbon rushing or falling together under the
impulse of an attraction known as chemical affinity, with a violence so
great as to impinge severely on their several spheres of molecular repul-
sion, set up a vibration whose velocity or pitch is measured by hundreds
of millions, in the millionth part of a second.

When we examine other occasions of heat or molecular movement,
we find the actions not dissimilar. Thus, in the case of friction, it is
evident that the more prominent particles, pressed by either side be-
tween the rubbing surfaces, (not indeed by actual contact, but by
what is equivalent, their repulsive spheres,) momentarily forced back
within their repulsions and thereby compressing others, rebound with
& vigor proportioned to the pressure ; and thus, like a spring, continue
an oscillation, strengthened and accelerated by the duration of the
raspings. So, when a body is subjected to pereussion, we see how a
vibration must be started, intense in proportion to the violence of the
blow, as well as to the reinforcement of repeated action. In the fire-
syringe, the volume of air already possessing a quantity of molecular
motion due to the ordinary temperature, suddenly compressed into a
very small space, must of necessity have the velocity of its particles
greatly increased, and consequently the frequency and violence of the
repulsive collisions correspondingly aggravated and intensified.

A similar conception may be extended to the thermal, chemical, and
magnetic effects of electric currents, whether excited by frictional or by
chemical disturbance, although the precise nature of the molecular move-
ments is undoubtedly wrapped in great obscurity.

As has already been indicated, all applications of animal power may
obviously be regarded as derived (either directly or indirectly) from the
static chemical power.of the vegetable substance by which the various
organisms and their capabilities are sustained; and this power, in turn,
from the kinetic action of the sun’s rays.

Winds and ocean currents, hail-storms and rain, sliding glaciers, flow-
ing rivers, and falling cascades, are the direct offspring of solar heat.
All our machinery, therefore, whether driven by the wind-mill or the
water-wheel, by horse-power or by steam—all the results of electrical
and electro-magnetic changes—our telegraphs, our clocks, and our
watches, all are wound up primarily by the sun.*

The tides, with all their lifting power, (to which the largest ocean-

* The elder Stephenson, some fifty years ago, appears to have been the first to form
the conception that his locomotive engines were really driven by solar power.
250 THOUGHTS ON THE NATURE AND ORIGIN OF FORCE.

Ships are as feathers,) and all their wearing action upon coast and river
shores, are due partly to the sun’s attraction, but in a much larger
degree to that of the moon, an outlying portion of the earth’s former
equator.*

Not pausing to notice the various theories—more or less plausible—of
chemical or of aqueous agency in earthquake waves and in volcanie
ejections, we may, for the present purpose, regard these occasional out-
breaks as the readjustments and vents of wide-spread pressure, from
insensible settlings by the shrinkage of the earth’s crust, resulting from
the extremely slow cooling of the interior mass: the hardened envel-
ope of stone or rock, a poorly conducting material, acting as a blanket
which almost arrests the escape of the internal heat. And this heat,
again, may be regarded but asa feeble residuum of that cosmical ac-
tivity still notable in the sun and other stars.

Finding thus from observation that the sun is the great source of
energy—static and kinetic—in almost all terrestrial phenomena, from the
meteorological to the geographical, from the geological to the biological,
we can only conelude that in the expenditure and conversion of molecu-
lar movements, derived from the sun’s rays, must be sought the motive
power of all this infinitely varied phantasmagoria. Thus, especially in
the great store of organic force existing in the vegetable world, we
must suppose that these subtle actinic vibrations, several times finer
and higher even than those recognized as heat, have such relation to
the molecular masses and inertia as by “forced” vibrations to overcome
the powerful attraction of chemical affinities, and fairly to shake the
particles into isolation, at the same time that other motions, photic and
thermal, are expended in occluding in the plant structure the carbon
thus deoxidized and divorced.

Tracing back these potent quiverings through the ninety-one and a
half millions of miles of ethereal highway, along whose inconceivable

* Mayer, in his remarkable Dynamik des Himmels, discussing the retarding effect of
the tidal wave on the earth’s rotation by reason of friction, calculates that this is suf-
ficient to have lengthened the day, within the last two thousand five hundred years,
by one-sixteenth of a second. On the other hand, since the globe must have cooled
somewhat within this period, (estimated at one-fourteenth of a degree Centigrade, or
about one-eighth of a degree Fahrenheit, for the whole mass,) this would involve a con-
traction of the earth’s radius (or adepression of its surface) amounting to about fourteen
feet nine inches. Such a diminution of the equatorial leverage of rotation necessarily
implies an acceleration of the motion, or a shortening of the day, very nearly equal to
the opposite tendency, and counterbalancing it. ‘ When our earth was in its youth its
velocity of rotation must have increased to a very sensible degree, on account of the
rapid cooling of its very hot mass. This accelerating cause gradually diminished, and
as the retarding pressure of the tidal wave remains nearly constant, the latter must
finally preponderate, and the velocity of rotation, therefore, continually decrease.”
(L. E. D. Phil. Mag., 1863, Vol. XXV, pp. 409 and 427.) During the historical period,
accordingly, it appears that the length of the day has reached its minimum, and has
been sensibly constant or uniform, the rotation having greatly increased in the distan
past, as it must as greatly decrease in the distant future.

4

THOUGHTS ON THE NATURE AND ORIGIN OF FORCE. 251

essence they have so swiftly sped without the slightest loss,* we are
brought at once to the great problem which has lately been so actively
pursued—the origin of the sun’s rays.

Assuming matter originally endowed with molecular attractions and
repulsions, (regarding gravitation as resident in the primitive atom,
though infinite in range,) and assuming such matter created in a state
of power—that is, of extreme diffusion, or with its attractions wholly
unsatisfied—we have all that is necessary to explain dynamicaily the
existing order of nature. The great difficulty we have in forming satis-
factory theories of the constitution of matter lies in the apparent com-
plexity of the forces displayed. Thus we have at least five distinctly
marked kinds of molecular attraction, each so characteristic that it can-
not be converted into or mistaken for either of the others; and there
are probably as many forms of repulsion. But starting with the idea
of matter converging or falling together, we see how the encroachment
of such a condensation on the repulsive spheres must give rise to a vio-
lent agitation; in short, toa heat vibration far more energetic or intense
than any purely chemical action, by as much as the space-potential
of gravity exceeds that of afiinity; far more intense, indeed, than any
temperature now probably existing in the sun.t

Here, then, in molecular gravitative attraction—as the ultimate resort,
are we forced to accept the primum mobile—the origin of the power
which has not only evolved and molded our solar family of worlds, but
which has sustained our terrestrial economy in all the wondrous changes
of its eventful career throughout the geologic ages. Beyond this funda-
mental conception of mysterious “attractions” forever resident in
material elements, it does not appear probable that scientifie research
will be able to carry back the parentage or genesis of force. And yet
there have not been wanting numerous hardy attempts to frame explana-
tions and hypothetical antecedents of these postulated affections of atoms,
or to replace them by dynamical agents or actions; while really leaving
the problem of derivation as unsolved, or more insoluble than ever.

A laborious and ingenious French-Swiss physicist, Georges Louis
Le Sage, about a century ago, devised the hypothesis that all space was
occupied with extremely minute bodies, denominated by him “ ulira-
mundane corpuscles,” moving in continuous right lines in all possible
directions, with inconceivable but uniform velocity, and without collision

*'The question is sometimes raised whether the light and heat of the sun and other
stars may not be somewhat enfeebled or absorbed in passing through the celestial
spaces. The doctrine of conservation of force teaches us that any absorption of either
light or heat implies a proportionate amount of work being done, the consequenceof
which would be a heating of space itself!

t‘A pound of coal falling to the sun from the distance of Neptune (which planet must
be regarded as an ancient landmark of equatorial drift) would reacb it with a velocity
not very far short of four hundred miles per second; and the arrest of this motion
would generate a heat vibration many thousand times greater than could be obtained
from the combustion of the same pound of coal.
252 THOUGHTS ON THE NATURE AND ORIGIN OF FORCE.

or interference; the total resultant of whose impacts on gross matter
constituted gravitation. A single particle or mass of matter equally
impressed on all sides by these universal projectiles would, of course, re-
main in perfect equilibrium. But two or more such bodies in space,
screening each other on their facing sides, would be subjected to un-
balanced impacts from these infinitely minute but powerful “ corpuscles,”
and would thus be always urged toward each other in the directions
joining their centers. No explanation of the origin of the enormous
living force assumed in these winged motes was attempted. Although
the law of the inverse square of the distance could be mathematically
deduced from the assumption, the law of mass ratio was unfortunately
not so well represented by it.

Sir John Herschel remarks upon this abstract speculation: ‘The
hypothesis of Le Sage, which assumes that every point of space is pene-
trated at every instant of time by material particles, swi generis, moving
in right lines in every possible direction, and impinging upon the material
atoms of bodies, as a mode of accounting for gravitation, is too grotesque
to need serious consideration; and besides will render no account of the
phenomenon of elasticity ”*

More recent speculators have supposed that motion explains every-
thing; and they accordingly suggest the probability that all foree—in-
cluding gravitation—is a form of vibration. Observing the remarkable
extension of the undulatory theory, first to light, and subsequently to
heat, and perhaps mindful of the radiant law of diminution with the
square of distance, they seem to have been led from this analogy) to
overlook the consideration that no vibration is possible without two
opposing forces; and so in substitution or in explanation of that which
is itself simple they proffer a duplex causation. All such hypotheses
have been projected under the impulse of the ancient @ prior? dogma,
that “matter cannot act where it is not,” or of the equivalent proposi-
tion, that action upon a distant body is “inconceivable ! ”t

Professor Faraday entertained a somewhat indefinite idea (borrowed
from Boscovich’s abstract centers of force) that matter must be eontin-
uous, or everywhere present, in order that forces may be transmitted
by virtual contact. He says: ‘ Doubtless the centers of force vary in
their distance one from another, but that which is truly the matter of

*¢On the Origin of Force.” Iortnightly Review, Vol. I, p. 438.

tIt may be asserted in reply to this, that no scientific theory is final until its ultimate
postulate is “inconceivable.” ‘“Worif the successively deeper interpretations of nature
which constitute advancing knowledge are merely successive inclusions of special
truths in general truths, and of general truths in truths still more general, it obviously
follows that the most general truth, not admitting of inclusion in any other, does not
admit of interpretation. Manifestly as the most.general cognition at which we arrive
cannot be reduced to a more general one, it cannot be understood. Of necessity, there-
fore, explanation must eventually bring us down to the inexplicable. The deepest truth
which we can get at must be unaccountable.” HERBERT SPENCER, First Principles,
(second edition,) Part I, Chap. IV, p. 73.

THOUGHTS ON THE NATURE AND ORIGIN OF FORCE. 253

one atom touches the matter of its neighbors. Hence matter will be
continuous throughout; and in considering a mass of it, we have not to
suppose a distinetion between its atoms and any intervening space.
The powers around the centers give these centers the properties of atoms
of matter; and these powers again, when many centers by their con-
joint forces are grouped into a mass, give to every part of that mass
the properties of matter.”’* And yet, in his earlier speculations, he
says in regard to electrical action in a vacuum, “ Suppose it possible
for a positively electrified particle to be in the center of a vacuum an
inch in diameter, nothing in my present views forbids that the particle
should act at the distance of half an inch on all the particles forming
the inner superficies of the bounding sphere.”t This, as Dr. Miiller has
remarked, is certainly an admission of the dreaded actio in distans ; but
whether this view was subsequently modified 1s not very clear. Nor is
it clear that Faraday, in affirming the presence of matter wherever it
acts, had any other conception than that usually entertained by those
who accept the atomic theory. To assert that our moon ‘ touches” the
earth, nay, that it embraces Neptune, notwithstanding its perfectly
determinate boundary of material surface, is only to employ words in a
wholly unintelligible sense. To affirm an infinitude of material interpen-
etrations is simply to ask the adoption of a new term instead of ‘‘ mat-
ter,” to represent that bounded something, or congeries of somethings,
which all experimental research attests to be impenetrable.

Professor J. Challis, of the University of Cambridge, England, has
proposed ‘A Theory cof Molecular Forces,” which he has presented
in a refined mathematical exposition, in a series of essays published
in the Philosophical Magazine, from 1859 to 1871;% and which, assuming
the molecules of matter to be surrounded by a continuous ethereal
medium of uniform elasticity pervading all space, resolves all forms
of force into the pressure of this ether; each atom being the center
of vibrations propagated from it equally in all directions.

Dr. Balfour Stewart, in an essay on ‘ The Dynamical Theory of Heat,”
appears inclined to favor a somewhat similar view. Heremarks: “Till
we know what the ultimate nature of matter is, it will be premature to
speculate as to the ultimate nature of force; though we have reason to
believe that it depends upon the diffusion of highly attenuated matter
throughout space.”§

Professor Frederick Guthrie, in a paper read before the Royal Society
of London, in 1870, “* On Approach caused by Vibration,” detailing some
very interesting experiments showing small converging aerial currents
resulting from tuning-fork vibrations, (in perfect accordance with the
* 7, E. D. Phil. Mag., February, 1844, third series, Vol. XXIV, p. 142.

t Experimental Researches in Electricity. Reprinted from the Phil. Trans., 1831-1838,
Series xiii, sec. 1616, Vol. I, p. 514.

{L. E. D. Phil. Mag., fourth series, Vols. XVIII, pp. 321 and 442; XIX, 88; XX, 280,
431; XXI, 65, 92; XXIU, 313; XXVI,280; XXXI, 459; and XLI, 280.

§ North British Review, February, 1864; (Vol. XL, page 22, American edition.)

254 THOUGHTS ON THE NATURE AND ORIGIN OF FORCE.

mathematical theory of hydrodynamics,) thinks he finds in these phe-
nomena an explanation of force in general, including that of gravitation.
He observes: “In mechanics—in nature, there is no such thing as a
pulling force. * * * The line of conclusions here indicated tends to
argue that there is no such thing as attraction in the sense of a pull-
ing force, and that two utterly isolated bodies cannot influence one
another. If the ethereal vibrations which are supposed to constitute
radiant heat, resemble the aerial vibrations which constitute radiant
sound, the heat which all bodies possess, and which they are all supposed to
radiate in exchange, will cause all bodies to be urged toward one another.”*
Supposing that such resulting ethereal currents could have any sen-
sible influence on planetary masses, it seems to be entirely overlooked
that such currents would be of the most variable and fitful character.
Every sun-spot would derange the planetary orbits; planets when cloud-
clad would affect each other very differently from those having trans-
parent or diathermanous atmospheres; and no resource of mathematics
could ever predict an occultation or eclipse.

Were it necessary to discuss the question whether gravitation is
either a form or a result of motion, the fact that its action is instanta-
neous, that it requires no sensible lapse of time to be felt by the most
distant planet, is perhaps the most direct evidence bearing on the point.
Were any interval of time occupied in the transmission of this influence
from the sun to a planet, there would result a phenomenon of “ aberra-
tion” (similar to- that of light) by the amount of orbital motion oeccur-
ring during the time of its transit, the consequence of which would be
an acceleration and extension of the radius-vector, or a spiral unwinding
and final dispersion of all the planets and their satellites. In general
terms, the stability of a planetary system, or the conservation of mean
distances, depends upon the absolutely radial and immediate action
of the central attraction. Supposing, in the case of our earth, that
gravity occupied even so short a time as the hundredth part of one second
in passing over the ninety-one and a half million miles from the sun—dur-
ing this interval (of the one-hundredth of a second) the planet would
have traveled about one thousand feet in its orbit; and the resulting dis-
placement or “aberration” of directive force would be about the twenty-
five-hundredth part of one second of orbital are. It has been shown
that even this small deviation would have been noticeable in the
two thousand years separating us from the time of Hipparchus. Arago
has estimated that any possible velocity of gravitation must be, at least,
fifty million times that of light!t

Gravitation, therefore, is not a motion; nor is it the product of any
motion. Weare forced to the conclusion, however “unable to conceive”
the fact, that it is really an actio in distans, and that ad infinitum ; that
itis a force, a faint reflex of its Author, instantaneously omnipresent.

*L. EB. D. Phil. Mag. for November, 1870, Vol. XL, p. 354; and June, 1871, Vol. XLI,
p- 406.

t Popular Astronomy, English edition, Vol. I, p. 469.

THOUGHTS ON THE NATURE AND ORIGIN OF FORCE. 255

In the peculiar phenomena of magnetism, we have reason to believe
that the attraction (as in the cases of gravitation, cohesion, and affinity)
is resident in the ultimate molecules, if not in the constituent atoms.
However minutely we may subdivide a magnetic bar of steel or nickel,
(cobalt or manganese,) we cannot separate the poles—the attractive from
the repellant. However small these fissiparous segments, each is itself -
a perfect magnet, with equal opposite polarity.

Itis evident that the arrangement of the molecules in a magnetic bar,
all axially accordant in direction, must be one of constraint, since
although a single line of such particles would find a stable equilibrium
in that uniform direction of polarity which should satisfy the attractions
of all their contacts, yet a second adjacent line, similarly directed, would
constantly present to the first line the antagonism of connatural or
homogeneous poles. Hence, to secure a general stability of equilibrium,
the supposed lines of molecular magnets should be alternately reversed.
But such an arrangement would result in a complete neutralization of
the attractive and repulsive forces, and the mass or bar of metal thus
constituted, possessing no internal differential resultant, would exhibit
no traces of integral polarity or magnetism.

Assuming (a8 we have reason from various considerations to believe)
that in all solids the constituent particles, however firmly locked by
their cohesive forces in their fixed relations of distance and position,
are yet capable of rotation within their magie spheres, without affecting
their solidarity, we can easily perceive how, under the attractive induc-
tion of a powerful external magnet, a bar of iron constituted as just
suggested would have at once its constituent molecules polarized in
direction, and thus become a sensible magnet, while it would as quickly
relapse from this condition of restraint on the removal of the controlling
agency. The actual behavior of iron is exactly conformable with such
an organization. The entire efficiency of the electro-magnet for the
purpose of telegraphy depends upon this property of facile molecular
rotation in the iron magnet, whereby it instantly becomes spontaneously
depolarized on the suspension of the electric current.

Under the quaquaversal disposition of the molecular axes, thus shown
to be the normal condition of equilibrium, it follows that the magnetism
of matter, however powerful, should remain forever latent, and all its
manifestations in abeyance, did not some potent interference disturb
this neutrality.

If, however, we further assume that in very rare cases, as in that of
nickel or of hardened steel, a considerable amount of adhesion (the
nature of which we are unable to comprehend) exists between the con-
Stituent particles, preventing their easy rotation, then we can perceive
that the presentation of a powerful external magnet to such a bar
would not easily or at once induce a sensible magnetization. If, however,
the solicitation of the attracting magnet were sufficiently powerful, and
sufiiciently continued, to overcome the resistance of this molecular
256 THOUGHTS ON THE NATURE AND ORIGIN OF FORCE.

adhesion, we can also perceive that the particles, when once brought
into acommon polarization, would be likely to maintain their constrained
axial position permanently, provided that the adhesive resistances of
the molecules should exceed their magnetic resistances. Such a behav-
ior we find presented by hardened steel, to which habit the name
‘specific coercitive power” has been given.

There is obviously no transfer of virtue from the magnetizing to the
magnetized body. On the contrary, the former is actually strengthened
by its evolution of the manifestation in the latter—a result in perfect
accord with the supposition of a reaction of mutwal preéxisting attrac-
tions.

It is familiar that by holding a bar of steel in the direction of the
earth’s magnetic pole, or rather of its magnetic dip, and giving the end
of the bar a few taps with a hammer, we can at once induce the mag-
netic condition. Here obviously the molecular vibrations from the blow
have facilitated the rotations necessary to bring the particles into axial
accord.

The work expended therefore in developing the magnetism of a steel
bar, whether by the mechanical passes of an artificial magnet, the long-
continued induction of the terrestrial polarity, or the molecular disturb-
ance of an eletrical coil, is simply that required to overcome the original
resistances to the changed condition. The magnetic force, or dual forces,
must be regarded as primitive, constant, unchangeable attributes of the
ultimate particles of matter; as incapable of increase, of diminution, or
of transfer, as gravitation itself. And the notable discovery of diamag-
netism, by Faraday, leads us to believe that all matter has this polar
quality indelibly stamped upon it in varying degrees; the molecules of
nitrogen possessing it in the smallest degree of any known element.

Analogical reasoning would appear to justify the conclusion that
electrical attraction and repulsion (capricious, ephemeral, and mysterious
as they appear) belong to the same category of original and unalterable
molecular properties, although it is by no means easy to give so rational
an account of the phenomena observed as in the case of magnetism.
The fact that both are polar forces, exhibiting a duplex action; that in
both cases similar states or poles repel each other, and opposite states
or poles attract each other; that these conditions of attraction and
repulsion apply equally or indifferently to either pole; and that an
opposing polarity may be induced by approach in other matter, would
certainly indicate a very similar nature and seat of influence.

In the apparent transfer, however, of electricity by contact or discharge,
and in the neutral equilibrium immediately resulting, there is an action
sui generis ; as also in its manifestation as a differential of chemical, or
of thermal activities. In the mutual reactions of the magnet and the
electrical current, still more puzzling phenomena are presented; and
without attempting to discuss Ampere’s ingenious theory of the “ sole-
noid,” the observed fact that each does exhibit a torsional or tangential

THOUGHTS ON THE NATURE AND ORIGIN OF FORCE. 257

action upon the other is one which has no parallel or analogue in any
other of the known natural forces. In the quasi-magnetice behavior of
electrical currents, whatever the vehicle or electrode, occurs a further
_ extension of the same peculiarity.

Notwithstanding all these difficulties, and the intimate relations of
“dynamic” with so-called ‘static electricity,” a more comprehensive
and rational theory of this most abstruse subject may hereafter establish
as radical a distinction between the molecular movements constituting
electrical currents, and the molecular capacities of polarity, or of electrical
| attraction and repulsion, as has been found to exist between light or
| heat and chemical affinities or molecular repulsions.

Nor is the inference here suggested affected by the fact that Joule, in
1845, derived his first approximation to the mechanical equivalent of
| heat from experiments ‘on the calorific effects of magneto-electricity,”*
| any more than it is by the fact that we accept terrestrial gravity, at the
| earth’s surface, as the standard of comparison for all forms of energy.
It was seen at the outset that the conditions of antagonistic molecular
attraction and repulsion, such as we find in the actual constitution of
_inatter, were essential postulates to the theory of the conservation or

persistence of force. We have been led to the conclusion that these
| same antagonistic principles constitute equally the real, efficient origin
of force. And though we are provided with no general term to embrace
| these primordial, indestructible, immutable, statical centers of force, and
| to distinguish them from those other derivative, evanescent, and con-
'vertible forms of energy, exhibited either in the potential of constrained
position, or in the actual of changing position, yet the two classes appear
to be so essentially dissimilar that it may well be doubted whether the

language very frequently employed by writers to express the correlations
and transformations of material forces is really an accurate statement of
| the fact.
_ If it be true that all phenomena of energy may be traced back ulti-
mately to molecular attractions and repulsions as their primeval parents,
and if these same attractions and repulsions are found to be persistent,
ever-present, and unexchangeable, however frequently matter in its pro-
_tean character may be shifted (so to speak) from the active dominion of
the one to that of another, it would seem to be exceedingly improbable
that, conversely, any form of molecular attraction or repulsion can be

produced or derived from motion, or from the ordinary manifestations
of dynamic energy.

If this be so, we are not warranted in speaking of the correlations of
gravity, of cohesion, of chemical affinity, and of magnetism, in the same
sense in which we apply the term correlation to the secondary or con-,
-vertible forms of force, as among themselves, and as connected with
their primaries.

* Mr. Joule’s paper, read before the British Association, August, 1843, was published in
the I, E. D. Phil. Mag. of that year, Vol. XXIII, pages 268, 347, and 435.
ES
INDUCTION AND DEDUCTION.

A DISCOURSE BY JUSTUS BARON VON LIEBIG.
DELIVERED IN THE ROYAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES, MUNICH.

(Translated for the Smithsonian Institution.)

The ideas of the generality of men respecting the nature of scientific
research are so imperfect and erroneous that it will not, perhaps, be
without interest to many if I attempt to elucidate and complete the
views which I advanced on this subject in a former discourse on Francis
Bacon, of Verulam.

Philosophers pursue in general two methods of inquiry in regard to
the phenomena or laws of nature, induction and deduction; they are in
effect but different processes, while their object is the same; the dis-
tinction between them depends upon the point of outset; the deductive
method sets out from generals, the inductive from particulars; in the
combination of the two induction precedes deduction.

The nature of induction, according to Aristotle’s view of it, may per-
haps be best illustrated by the example which he himself gives of an
inductive conclusion:

Man, the horse, the mule, &c., live long.
Man, tke horse, the mule, &c., have little gall.
Therefore, all animals that have little gall live long.

This mode of conclusion, if so we must call it, is a very easy one to
the inquirer; but what is here styled a conclusion is only the observa-
tion of the juxtaposition of two phenomena; scarcity of gall is a fact
which accompanies long life; it is part of a whole, and the conclusion
no syllogism, including in itself the reason of the dependence of longey-
ity on the paucity of the secretion in question. We need only substi-
tute in the middle term, instead of gall, any other simultaneous fact
peculiar to certain animals, for instance:

Horses, mules, &c., live long.

{have little gall.
have glycose in their muscular tissues.
have no uric acid, (Harnsdura.)

| have (Hippursiiura)

Horses, mules,

in order at once to perceive that the connection of these with longevity
is purely arbitrary and rests on no operation of the understanding.
The philosopher, for the explanation of a phenomenon of nature or of a
process, seeks to assign a connection between the parts thereof which
have come under his observation, and first of all sets out with the sup-
position, as regards two facts which constantly accompany the phenowe-

INDUCTION AND DEDUCTION. 259

non or process, that they postulate ove another, or that one is depend-
ent on the other; but this is merely an idea having no real basis for its
support, but simply a perception which may or may not arise in the
mind of any one.

Aristotle denoted induction as being the passage from particulars to
generals, since, in physical inquiry, our first concern is with the knowl.
edge of the phenomenon and afterward with its explanation; but in this
sense it is clear that he regarded induction not as a method, but as a rule
of investigation.

It is plain that if all the forces of nature and their laws were known
to us, if we knew all things in their nature, action, and properties, the
investigation of a particular process and its explanation would be a sim-
ple deductive problem; each single case would then be soluble through
a conclusion of the understanding. Suppose, for instance, that the rust-
ing of iron in the air were the point to be explained; the previous exam-
ination of rust has determined that it contains iron, oxygen, and water;
the composition of air is also known; the elements, therefore, for ex-
plaining the process of rusting are before us, but further inquiry shows
us that iron in oxygen in the presence of the vapor of water does not

rust; there must, then, be some constituent principle of the air, besides

oxygen and vapor, in order that iron should undergo the process of
rusting; now we know that the air actually contains a very small portion

of carbonic acid, and examination shows that a mere trace of carbonic
acid suffices, with sufficient access of oxygen, to convert a large mass of

iron into oxide; but the rust itself contains no carbonic acid. The
question then is: What part does this acid play in the process? Another
known fact now suffices to complete the explanation; this is the action
of the oxidulated carbonate of iron; in damp air it attracts oxygen and
is converted into the higher oxide which enters not into combination with
carbonic acid; itis by the rusting of the metal that the lower oxide first
originates, and this combines with carbonic acid, which through the
passage of the oxidulate into free oxide becomes capable of exerting in
a hundredfold degree its original action on the metal, so that gradually

the whole piece is throughout converted into iron-rust. Inquiry further

establishes that there is a special case where iron in damp air, even

‘without the presence of carbonic acid, is thus rusted, when the ai,
‘namely, contains ammonia; but that in that case the rust does not

extend, and that, lastly, an electrical process is codperative with the
rusting.

To this class of investigations belongs also that of the production of
dew by Dr. Wells. That dew is a watery precipitate produced by

refrigeration admitted of no doubt, nor that the modes of refrigeration

were only two. The problem only turned upon the question, whether

the conditions of the cooling were dependent on conduction or on radi-

ation, which point was susceptible of determination by experiments
guided by known laws.
260 INDUCTION AND DEDUCTION.

To inquiries of this sort no exterior difficulties oppose themselves, and,
for conducting them, knowledge and the correct appreciation of relations
abundantly suffice; they rarely occur, because the physical inquirer, for
most of his problems, does not find ready prepared the thought-material
requisite for his mental process; it should also be remarked that by these
our insight into the nature of phenomena is indeed rendered clearer and
more thorough, but that the boundaries of science are not thereby
enlarged.

In the great number of other inquiries, the inquirer is confronted by
obstacles which, with the whole stock of knowledge furnished by science
and with the most perfect powers of discrimination, he cannot remove,
and these are new facts or phenomena which pertain to unknown laws,
which are not accessible to the understanding from a deficiency of the
intervening facts necessary to hisideas. For this class of inquiries there
must codperate, in the case of the philosophical inquirer, something
which essentially characterizes his mind, and that is the force of imagin-
ation.

The sum of what we know respecting nature and its forces is, in fact,
so small when compared with what we do not know respecting them,
that the physicists of our times find themselves, in a majority of cases,
precisely in the condition of those of the sixteenth century as regards
those things which to them were unintelligible but to us are easy ; there
is for us, as there was for them, a defect of clearly comprehensible facts

essential to the deductive process; in the failure of asingle one of these |

the intellect stands before a chasm which it cannot fill up; in that ear-
lier time the force of imagination was called in aid to an extent which

we regard now as wholly inadmissible. The advantage we have over ©

the early inguirers rests therefore not on increased intellectual powers

or on the superior delicacy and penetration of our senses, but on a —
greater affluence of facts or experiences, that is, on an accumulation of —
materials for the operations of the understanding. Hence there is no ~
doubt to be raised respecting our relative position; and yet there are ©
but few who have a clear idea of the sources from which the constantly ©

increasing store of these materials for thought is derived.

If we cast a glance backward on the history of the so-called inductive —
sciences, we at once recognize that for centuries they had the character —
of an art. Until Newton, astronomy and mechanics were arts; the same ©
were physics until the time of Galileo; and chemistry up to that of Berg-—

mann. Boerhaave defines chemistry as the ars docens exercere certas
physicas operationes.

Art and science are essentially distinguished from one another by

their different aims.* That of art is the search for or the finding
of facts; that of science is the explanation of them. By art, of
course, we do not here mean any of the fine arts. The artificer seeks to
attain an object; the experimental artificer seeks a thing. From particu-

* The aim of art is the discovery of facts; that of science the discovery of principles
and laws.—J. H.

INDUCTION AND DEDUCTION, 261

lars he would construct a whole. The man of science, on the other hand,
seeks a reason or principle. From the whole he proceeds by its parts, even
to the roots. As the artificer knows nothing of a principle, and a prin-
ciple would be of no help to him, it will be understood that the process
going on in his mind is no intellectual operation. The intrinsic char-
acter of his thought resides in this, that he thinks of sensible phe-
nomena. As the understanding examines ideas, measures, as it were,
determines and fixes their import, so that they become serviceable for
deductive operations, just so does the inductive artificer proceed. He
probes the phenomena with all his senses, and while he applies his
faculty of perception, with all the tension of his will, to one property
of a substance or one pecularity of a phenomenon after another, to
the present exclusion of all others, his imaginative power acquires a
sharp and definite image of the whole thing, which, like an abstract
idea, includes in itself the entire essence of the substance or phenomenon.
A blue, black, or yellow color, or the existence of a white precipitate
| which is soluble or insoluble in a certain acid or alkali, calls up in the
mind of the chemist the idea of iron, iodine, kali, magnesia, sulphuric
or muriatic acid, &c., an ideal iron, iodine, &ec., altogether different from
| the conception which men in ordinary life connect with those sub-
| stances.

The understanding arrives, through the combination of exact ideas,
| at conclusions whose truth is only intellectually discernible; the mental
| combinations of the artificer, on the other hand, are material or capa-
| ble of being represented to the senses.
| In this peculiar mental process, in which the imaginative power
| plays the principal part, consists essentially the idea which I should be
| disposed to connect with the word induction, and I do not think that it

is in conflict with that of Aristotle.
| It is not easy to convey a clear idea of the nature of the mental ope-
rations of the experimental artificer, which, as already said, depend on
| a combination of facts or phenomena standing in a similar relation to
| one another, with the logical ideas which guide the understanding in
its conclusions ; from the facts or reactions known to him he determines
respecting the existence of a new one before unknown; his conclusion
is again a fact or a reaction; perhaps it is to the peculiar faculty of the
musical composer, who thinks in sounds, that the process of chemical or
| physical thinking may be most closely compared.
_ Inexact research, the logic of the explanation of a phenomenon or
_ demonstration of a problem, rests on facts, which hang together as by
_ the links of a chain, or as by hinges, and whoever will take the trouble
_ to revise a chemical or physical investigation, will at once perceive that
a majority of the facts which serve the philosophic inquirer for an
explanation or demonstration, do not offer themselves in nature, but
| that they are first excogitated or devised by the inquirer himself; he is
_ hecessitated to seek out the facts which are wanting to his mental oper-

262 INDUCTION AND DEDUCTION.

ation or deduction by means of induction, that is, through the combin-
ation of his conceptive or imaginative faculty ; and his labor consists
in this, that, in conformity with the rules of experimental art, he shall
call into action the mediums or the substances which seem adapted to his
purpose, and from the reactions or phenomena which come to light,
draw a conclusion as to the existence or non-existence of the fact sought
for; he contrives, it may be said, a series of trials, which, in their final
result, give the direction to his deduction.

The difficulty lies for him herein, that the route to the fact he is seek-
ing is to him completely unknown; for were it known, the conclusions
of the understanding would lend themselves to his aid. He is, there-
tore, necessitated to abide entirely by the phenomena which his tenta-
tives furnish him, since these are the characters which guide his imagin-
ative power in its combinations.

The remarkable discovery of ozonized oxygen in a chemical way by
Schénbein, affords one of the simplest examples of inductive processes.
Schébnbein had found that, by the transmission of electrical sparks, the
atmospheric air acquires new properties, of which the most remarkable

consists in a powerful combination faculty of its oxygen, till then |

unknown; in such air a number of bodies (silver, for instance) are
oxydized, on which the oxygen in air not electrified is without any
influence. Now, how came Schénbein to conclude thereupon, that phos-
phorus, by being slowly burned in air, would bring about the same
condition in the air as did the electric spark ? This conclusion was

based upon the fact that the air after electrification and after con-—
tact with phosphorus smelled precisely alike; the scenting principle |

in the air, at the same time, had been found by Schdnbein to pro-
duce the same effects. The similarity of a sensible property, of a scent,
led therefore to the inference of the origin and existence of a like sub-

stance, ozone, in two processes in their nature entirely different. In”
this combination of ideas, had the guidance been left to the understand- ~

ing, it is highly probable that the discovery would have been impeded

by it; for to the understanding the fact of the origin of a substance —

endued with the highest oxydizing powers, through or near a body
which, like phosphorus, is in the highest degree oxydizable, would have
appeared wholly improbable.

One of the most important of Faraday’s discoveries furnishes an
example of a more complex induction.

Gersted had, through an electrical current, induced magnetism in
metallic conductors; the problem which Faraday proposed to himself was,
the reverse, to generate by means of a magnet an electrical current;
it was directed to the production of a phenomenon, and since its law
and the way to its discovery were unknown, could only be solved in the
experimental, that is, in the inductive manner. The phenomenon once

known in all its relations, could then first become the subject of a

deductive scrutiny, and the contrast of the inductive labor of Faraday

SE an a

= ss

Se ee
INDUCTION AND DEDUCTION. 263

and the deductive labor of Weber is here quite apparent. Faraday
sought, if we may use the expression, the thing; Weber the principle or
thelaw. Ihaveheard mathematical physicists regret that Faraday’s trea-
tises on such subjects were, in point of style, nearly unintelligible and
scarcely readable, and that their tenor much resembled an extract from
a day-book; but the fault was in themselves. Upon physicists who
have advanced by the way of chemistry to physics, Faraday’s treatises
make much the impression of wonderfully fine music.

The discovery of the electrical machine, the electrophore, the Leyden
jar, the voltaic pile, as well as of the three laws of Kepler, has been
achieved through the combinations of the imaginative power; and so it
is also with the procedures for the extraction of metals, which, as that
of iron from iron-stone, of silver from the lead ores, and of copper from
the copper ores, are among the most complicated of processes. The con-
version of iron into steel, of copper into brass, the transformation of
hide into leather, of fat into soap, of common salt into soda, and a thou-
sand similar important inventions, have been made by men who had no
idea, or a wholly false one, of the proper nature of the things or pro-
cesses to which they directed their powers of ideal combination.

The understanding has not the least to do with the combinations of
ideas which have carried the manufacturer of glove leather to the tow-
ers of the city in order to collect for his purposes the white excrement
of daws and rooks, or which have led the dyer to employ that of the
cow for fixing on stuffs his mordants and colors, or which, on the lofty
plains of America, so poor in combustible material, prompted the miner
to the singular expedient of obtaining silver in the wet way. All this
will undoubtedly appear remarkable enough when it is remembered that
until a few years past, the proper nature of glass, soap, and leather was
unknown, and that researches are still daily made to determine precisely
the reactions which take place in the melting-oven during the soda
process.

As a last example of the inductive procedure in technical processes
I will select the lately discovered art of producing light-images—pro-
cesses, however, which have not yet found an explanation. The facts
whieh lie at the foundation of photography are two: The one that the
salts of silver (the chlorine, bromine, iodine of silver) are rendered black
by the light; the other that the unblackened combinations of silver are
soluble in sub-sulphurated natron, so that the blackened and the un-
blackened may be separated from one another by means of this salt.

These two facts formed the starting point of the experiments of Da-
guerre in Paris and of Talbot in London; the first sought to produce
images on silvered copper-plates, the other on paper. When, in the
camera obscura, an image of a tower or of a house, for instance, is
thrown on paper overspread or saturated with chlorine or iodine of sil-
ver, there arises in Talbot’s experiments, after some hours’ exposure to
the operation of the light, a corresponding image; the more lustrous
264 INDUCTION AND DEDUCTION.

places become, in proportion to the strength of the light, blackened into
corresponding shadows; the obscure places remain white or luminous,
The sashes of a window, for instance, throw less light on the paper than
the glass panes; a dark stone less than the bright stones. ‘ Whatever
is dark in the object appears bright; the bright, dark. There is im-
pressed on the paper a so-called negative image. If the paper be now
washed with a solution of sub-sulphurated natron, so much of the chlo-
ride of silver as is unchanged by the light is removed; had this remained
on the paper the image would by degrees become black, under the ope-
ration of the light, and again disappear. The salt mentioned is there-
fore the medium through which it becomes fixed.

The first images presented by Talbot were very imperfect; as their
production required a long exposure to the operation of the light, only
the images of perfectly immovable objects could be obtained. The ex-
periments of Daguerre gave occasion to the perfecting of Talbot’s pro-
cedure, but in asingular manner. Daguerre exposed his silvered plates
to the influence of the vapor of iodine, and in this way gave them an
extremely thin coating of silver of iodine; but from this resulted no —
image in the camera obscura. Months of trials, varied in all manner of |
ways, afforded no results. At length hazard, in the most proper sense,
caine to his aid; Daguerre had put aside a number of the plates which ,
had served for his experiments in an old press, where they remained for
weeks without further attention. Happening on some occasion to take
one of them out, he saw, to his utmost surprise, an image traced upon
it, of the greatest distinctness to the minutest particulars. Noidea had
he how it was produced, but, of course, there must be something in the
press which had brought to light the image on the plate. Now, there
were all sorts of things therein: Utensils, apparatus, chemical reagents,
and, among the rest, a vessel containing quicksilver. Daguerre pro-
ceeded to remove one article after another, overlooking, however, the
quicksilver; and he still procured images whenever he allowed one of
the plates, on which he had thrown an image in the camera obscura, to
remain some two hours in the press. Of the quicksilver he did not
think ; the old press had begun to appear to him an enchanted press.
At last it oeeurred to him that the image must proceed from the quick-
silver, and it turned out to be what may be called a breath picture. If
a drawing be made with a wooden pencil on a clean glass plate, the
sharpest sight will fail to discover the lines, which nevertheless become
distinguishable when the places marked by the pencil are breathed upon.
There exists, in effect, in these places and other parts of the glass an
unequal condensation of the watery vapor which is deposited thereon in
fine drops.

In this manner Daguerre’s images originated. Quicksilver is volatile,
and its vapor had been diffused through the press and settled in minute
drops on the plates, taking effect more strongly on the more illuminated
parts, so that the outlines and shadings of all objects were rendered

INDUCTION. AND DEDUCTION. 265

clearly visible. I do not propose to enter here into the improvement of
the optical apparatus, nor to explain how the fugitive images of Da-
guerre were, by gilding in a chemical way, rendered stable and unalter-
able, but I return to the images on paper and will first speak of the in-
fluence which the Daguerrean discoveries had upon Talbot’s undertaking.

Daguerre had found that the effect of the light exerted for a second
on his prepared plates sufficed, through evaporization with quicksilver,
to bring out an image. As Talbot had on his paper the same prepara-
tion as Daguerre on his plates, he inferred that on the paper also, by a
second’s illumination in the camera obscura, the sun must have pro-
duced an impression ; he was convinced that an image was present on
the paper, though not a trace of it was to be seen. This conviction im-
pelled him to seek for some medium through which the figure might be
brought out; there must be something, he thought, by which this could
be effected. Now, how came Talbot to émploy a solution of gallic acid
for this purpose ?

Most persons, perhaps, would be disposed to allege here, as in Da-
guerre’s case, the intervention of hazard, but the choice of gallic acid
was no accident. Daguerre had placed the vessel containing quick-
silver in the press with no view to experiments; his images were pro-
duced through no agency of his. Talbot, on the other hand, applied
himself to the research for means of accomplishing a definite object, and
among so many thousand substances his imaginative faculty naturally
rejected all those which stood in no relation to that object, and dwelt
only on those which produce an effect similar to that of light. Now,
light and warm gallic acid blacken the salts of silver ; the effect of both
is identical, but that of gallic acid much the stronger. The sun’s light
had, in the camera obscura, produced an effect on the prepared paper,
but one too weak to be perceptible ; perhaps it might, as he argued, be
brought out and strengthened by gallic acid. The trial succeeded, and
the correctness of the induction was thereby vindicated.

From these examples the nature of induction ought to be intelligible
to every one. It will be remarked that an acquaintance with the prin-
ciple of the processes, how light and gallic acid properly act upon the
salts of silver, whereon the solution of these salts in sub-sulphurated
natron depends, was for Talbot’s as well as for Daguerre’s purpose per-
fectly indifferent.

For those persons who have no acquaintance with the ideal combina-
tions of the imaginative power, they naturally do not exist, and such
are for the most part prone to ascribe to chance discoveries which pro-
ceed from the most sagacious inferences of the faculty. Chance has in-
deed its own part therein, since the elements for the determinations of
the understanding are so frequently offered to it by so-called accidental
circumstances. But the fact that experimentation must be learned;
that it has its rules and is an art, and that their results presuppose a
very widely ranging acquaintanceship with facts or sensible phenomena,
266 INDUCTION AND DEDUCTION.

teaches us that it rests on a properly intellectual labor, in which the un-
derstanding participates as a useful counsellor and assistant, but with-
out guiding it and without its being dependent thereupon.

Tn science, as well as in common life, the operations of the mind are
executed not according to the rules of logic, but the conception of a
truth, the idea of a process or the cause of a phenomenon, generally
precedes the demonstration ; the conclusion is not reached through the
premises, but the conclusion goes before, and the premises are then first
sought out as proof. In a conversation with a celebrated French math-
ematician, on the part which the imaginative faculty bears in scientific
labors, he expressed himself to the effect that by far the greater number
of mathematical truths are obtained, not by deduction, but through
the inventive or imaginative power, and in this he had a view even to
the properties of the triangle, the ellipsis, &c., which is saying little
else than that the mathematician, as well as the physicist, can do noth-
ing for his science without artistic endowment.

It is scarcely necessary to say that for deductive as well as inductive
research, if any results are to follow, a certain extent of information is
prerequisite ; for the deductive research, a well-grounded knowledge of
laws already discovered, to which previous reading and books are con-
tributary ; for inductive, a comprehensive acquaintance with mate-
rial phenomena which is to be acquired in chemical, physical, and physi-
ological laboratories. As schools, these last are a modern creation, and
their influence in the development of all departments of physical sci-
ence is, to the reflecting observer, a thing not to be questioned.

To an acquaintance with sensible phenomena or the knowledge of the
nature and action of things, must be united in the case of the inductive
inquirer, if he would duly resolve the problems presented to him, amem-
ory for sensible phenomena, a memory, it might be said, of sight, taste,
and smell, together with a certain degree of artistic expertness and dex-
terity. The broader and more comprehensive his knowledge of facts
and phenomena, or, as it is usual to say, the greater his experience, so
much the more will his labor be lightened ; an experienced man makes
much fewer experiments than the inexperienced, who must make him-
self acquainted with many phenomena which to the other are already
familiar; to the former, indeed, for the attainment of many ends, numer-
ous experiments would be superfluous, since the combination of pro-
cesses and facts already within his knowledge, abundantly suffices.

In the solution of their respective problems, the deductive and indue-
tive inquirer begin in the same manner; the one, like the other, starts
from a complex idea of the understanding or the imaginative power, of
which in general only a part is true, while the other parts rest on erro-
neous inferences or combinations. The deductive inquirer tests and ex-
periments with intellectual conceptions in order to find the truth, just
as the inductive inquirer does with sensible ideas in order to find the
thing sought for; both, in the prosecution of their inquiries, strip away,

INDUCTION AND DEDUCTION. 267

by testing and improving, what is false, and detect the parts which are
wanting to complete the idea submitted to examination. The idea from
which they set out is not unfrequently wholly false, and the true is first
sprung in the course of the investigation. Hence, the doctrine of many
of the greatest inquirers that the labor is everything, and that any
theory may lead to truth, provided it gives the impulse to toil.

In deductive inquiry, it is the conviction of the correctness of a con-
cluding idea (schluss-idee) which stimulates the understanding of the in-
quirer to its appropriate activity ; and so with the experimental arti-
ficer, the conviction of the existence of a thing is the first and most
efficacious incitement to the movements of the imaginative power; the
discovery of a new fact or reaction, to which the idea of something
before unknown, something useful or important for industry or life, at-
taches, is sufficient to awaken the conviction of its existence in many
individuals, and it not unfrequently happens that it is in reality simul-
taneously discovered by several.

Understanding and imagination are alike necessary to our knowledge,
and in science are alike authorized; they both have an allotted part in
all problems of physics and chemistry, of medicine, of public economy,
history and philology, and comprise each a certain space in its appro-
priate province. The part in which the imaginative faculty bears sway
is proportionately wider and more comprehensive, as the positive knowl-
edge with which the understanding cireumscribes it is more indetermi-
nate and indistinct. Progress consists in this, that with the increase
of knowledge, the conceptions which have sprung from the imagination
vanish, and while in the first periods of science this faculty had undis-
puted ascendancy, at a later stage it subordinates itself to the under-
standing and becomes to the latter a helpful and willing servant.

Induction under the guidance of the imagination is intuitive and cre-
ative, but vague and extravagant; deduction under the guidance of the
understanding analyzes and limits, and is definite and measurable.

One of the most essential characters of deductive inquiry in science
is measure, and the ultimate aim of all its labors is directed to an unal-
terable numerical expression for the properties of things, for processes

nd phenomena. Imagination compares and discriminates, but meas-
ures not, for measurement implies a scale, and that is a product of the
understanding.

By the introduction of science into an art accrues an advantage,
scarcely enough appreciated; that science abolishes art as such, and
what is individual in it, while resolving it into rules which may be
taught and learned; through a knowledge of which rules even the un-
proficient in business, industry, husbandry, and technics, is invested
with the power of the most proficient, most skillful, and most experi-
enced practitioner, who attains his aims by the shortest, surest, and
most economical means. What before was proper to the individual be-
becomes thenceforth the joint property of all.
ADDRESS ON THE RELATION OF FCOD TO WORK, AND ITS BEARING ON
MEDICAL PRACTICE.

By REy. SAMUEL HAUGHTON, OF DUBLIN.

Mr. PRESIDENT AND GENTLEMEN: Man, like other animals, is born,
grows, comes to maturity, reproduces his like, and dies, passing in his
lifetime through a cycle of changes that may be compared to a secular
variation, by a metaphor borrowed from the science of astronomy; while
in his daily life he passes through a smaller cycle of changes that may
be called periodic.

From the time of the publication of Bichat’s celebrated Essay on Life
and Death, it has been admitted that man and other animals possess a
double life, animal and organic, presided over, respectively, by two dis-
tinct though correlated centers of nervous force; of these, one thinks,
moves, and feels; the other merely cooks, receiving the food supplied,
changing and elaborating it into elements suitable for the use of the
animal life. In the lower forms of animals the organic life becomes
almost coextensive with the whole being of the creature, which simply
digests, assimilates, and excretes, but barely feels or moves; in the
higher forms of animals, and more especially in man, the animal life
dominates over the organic life, which becomes its slave, and exhibits
the remarkable phenomena of mechanical force, of geometrical instinet,
of animal cunning, and, finally, in man himself, produces intellectual
work, rising to its highest form in the religious feeling that recognizes
its great Creator, and bows in humility before Him. It is a simple
matter of fact, and of every-day observation, that all these forms of
animal work are the result of the reception and assimilation of a few
cubic feet of oxygen, a few ounces of waiter, of starch, of fat, and of
flesh.

The general question of the relation of food to work would involve a
consideration of the possibility of throwing a bridge across the gulf that
separates the organic from the animal life, so as to connect the products
of nutrition (taken in its widest sense) with the work of every kind
accomplished by the animal life, whether mechanical or intellectual.
We resemble the spiders of the heather on a summer morning, that float
their gossamer threads into the air from the summit of a branch, in the
hope that some stray breath of wind may fasten them to a neighboring
tuft, and enable the hungry speculator to extend the range of his ram-
bles and his chance of food. Already a few feeble threads connect the
chemistry of our food with the mechanical work done by our muscles;
when these shall have been securely fastened, from the higher vantage

RELATION OF FOOD TO WORK, AND 269

ground thus acquired, our little bridge of knowledge may possibly be
extended to embrace the phenomena of the geometrical instinet of the
bee, or the cunning of the beaver, and our successors may even dare to
speculate on the changes that converted a crust of bread or a bottle of
wine, in the brain of Swift, Moliere, or Shakespeare, into the conception
of the gentle Giumdalclitch, the rascally Sganarelle, or the immortal
Falstaff. At present such thoughts would be justly regarded as the
dreams of a lunatic, and I must crave your indulgence for having men-
tioned them. The history of science is, however, filled with such
dreams—some never realized, others converted by time into realities so
commonplace that the genius of their originators is habitually forgotten
or underrated.

During childhood and youth the food that we eat is used for the
double purpose of building up the tissues of the bones, muscles, brain,
and other organs of the body, and of supplying the force necessary for
work done, whether mechanical or intellectual. In adult life the first
use of food almost disappears, for the bones, muscles, brain, and other
organs have already reached their full development, and act simply as
the media of communication between the food received and the work
developed by it.

Let us take, as illustrations, the muscles and brain, regarded as the
organs by means of which mechanical and intellectual work is done.
These organs resemble the piston, beam, and fly-wheel of the steam-
engine, and, like them, only transmit or store up the force communicated
by the steam in one case, and by the products cf the food conveyed by
the blood in the other case. The mechanical work done by the steam-
engine must be measured by the loss of heat experienced by the steam
in passing from the boiler, through the cylinder, to the condenser, and
not by the loss of substance undergone by the several parts of the
machinery on which it acts. In like manner, the mechanical or intel-
lectual work done by the food we eat is to be measured, not by the
change of substance of the muscles or brain employed as the agents of
that work, but simply by the changes in the blood that supplies these
organs, that is to say, undergone by the food used in its passage
through the various tissues of the body, before it is finally discharged
in the form of water, carbonic acid, or urea.

The Divine architect has so famed the animal machine, that moves
and thinks, that the same blood which, by its chemical changes, pro-
duces movement and thought, also repairs the necessary waste of the
muscles and brain, by means of which movement and thought are pos-
sible; just as if fe steam that works an engine were able, without the
aid of the engineer, to repair the wear and tear of its friction and waste
spontaneously; but no greater mistake is possible in physiology than te
suppose that the products of the changes in the blood by which
mechanical or intellectual work is done are themselves merely the
270 ITS BEARING ON MEDICAL PRACTICE.

result of the waste of the organs, whether muscles or brain, on the
exercise of which that work depends.*

The ancients, who derived all their knowledge from observation, and
not from experiment, were well aware of the double duty imposed upon
food in early life—of producing both the secular and the periodic varia-
tions of the bedy, or, in other words, of promoting growth, and of
developing work. Their practical knowledge is summed up by Hippo-
erates in the aphorism, ‘Old men bear want of food best; next those
that are adults. Youths bear it least, more especially children, and of
these the most lively are the least capable of enduring it.”

The food consumed in twenty-four hours, including air and water,
undergoes a series of changes of a chemical character before leaving the
body, in the form of one or other of its excretions. Some of these changes
develop force, and others expend force, but the algebraic sum of all the
gains and losses of force represents the quantity available for work.
This work must be expended as follows:

1. The work of growth, (secular.)

2. The work of maintaining heat, (pertodic.)

3. Mechanical work, (periodic.)

4, Vital work, ( periodic.)

During childhood and youth the work of growth is positive, for a cer-
tain proportion of the food used is employed in building up the tissues
of the body instead of being expended in actual work; it is, in fact,
‘stored up” in the body, as vis viva is stored up by the fly-wheel of
machinery, and constitutes a reservoir of force that may be called upon
at an emergency requiring sudden expenditure of force, as in case of
illness, or to supply the gradual wasting of old age. In adult life and
in old age, the work of growth ceases completely, except so far as is
necessary to repair, from day to day, the small wastes of the organs
employed in work; so that nearly the whole of the food employed is
expended on the periodic work of the body. Hence we can readily see
the reason for the aphorism which asserts that food is more necessary
for the young than for the old, and more required by those of a lively
disposition, either of mind or body, than by others.

*The very skill with which provision is made for the repair of the waste of the organ
used as the instrument of work may mislead the observer into supposing that the work
itself may be measured by the waste of its instrument. Thus, it has been shown by
Mr. A. Macalister, of Dublin, that the heart, which has imposed upon it the necessity
of working day and night without ceasing, during life, is furnished with double the
usual supply of blood through the coronary arteries, which are injected twice for every
single beat of the heart. If, indeed, it were possible to assume that all muscles wasted
equally for equal quantities of work, and also to measure separately the products of
that waste, we might then assume the waste of the organ as the measure of its work.
Neither of these assumptions, however, can be admitted, for it can be shown that dif-
ferent muscles act under different conditions more or less advantageously, so that equal
wastes would represent unequal works; and, also, it is impossible to separate in prac-
tice the products of waste of muscles from those of the general changes of the blood.

RELATION OF FOOD TO WORK, AND 2701
wt HIPPOCRATIC DOCTRINE OF INNATE HEAT.

Hippocrates was well aware of the connection between food and
animal heat, although he erroneously regarded the animal heat as an
innate property of the body that caused an appetite for food, instead of
being itself produced by food; if we transpose his cause and effect,
mutatis mutandis, all his maxims as to animal heat are true. Thus, he
says:

‘‘Growing animals possess most innate heat, hence they require most
food; . . . . . but the old have least heat, and therefore require
the least fuel.”

“The cavities of the body are naturally warmest in winter and spring;
- . . . . in these seasons therefore most food must be given; and
since there is more innate heat, more nourishment is required; as may
be seen in youths and athletes.”

These maxims, when translated into modern language, express the
well-known fact that the chemical changes of food that take place in
the body produce animal heat, and that the necessity for food to supply
mechanical work is greatest with the young and active, while the neces-
sity for the production of animal heat is greatest in the cold seasons of
the year. The direct connection of food with mechanical work is
expressed in the following maxims:

“There should be no labor when there is hunger ;” and its converse,
‘¢ Let labor precede meals.”

On principles such as those just given, the training of the athletes
was conducted; and they were compelled to undergo a regular course,
commencing with blood-letting and active purgation, and consisting
of systematic muscular exercise suited to the nature of the contest in-
tended, accompanied by a dietary, of which the chief ingredients consisted
of biscuits and pigs’ kidneys, washed down by a minimum of water. It
is truly not much, to be wondered at that those who survived the train-
ing were formidable in the boxing-ring or race-course.

The relation of animal heat to respiration is referred to by Hippocrates
in a remarkable maxim:

“Those persons have the loudest voices who have most [innate] .
heat, for they inspire the largest quantities of the cold air; and the pro-
duct of two great quantities must be itself great.”

Galen believed the heart to be the center of ‘innate heat,” but he was
well aware that increase or diminution of respiration caused increase or
diminution of heat, and was intimately connected with it. Thus he says:

‘Since, therefore, the heart is, as it were, the hearth and fountain of
the innate heat with which the animal is pervaded,” &e.

“The necessity for. respiration is the greatest and most imperious
guard of the innate heat.”

“Those persons in whom the innate heat has been much cooled breathe
but little and slowly.”
Qe ITS BEARING ON MEDICAL PRACTICE.

LAVOISIER’S THEORY OF ANIMAL HBAT.

The doctrine of “innate” heat, taught by Hippocrates and Galen, ruled
in medicine for fifteen hundred years after Galen’s death, until it received
its death-blow from the genius of Lavoisier, who demonstrated in his
celebrated memoir read before the French Academy of Sciences in 1783,
that the source of animal heat is to be found in the combustion of the
carbon of the body by the oxygen of the air received into the lungs by
respiration. Lavoisier’s experiments were repeated and confirmed in
1822 by Dulong and Despretz, and have formed the starting-point for
all modern investigations on the relation of food to work. As already
stated, the work done by food in the body may be divided into—

1. The work of growth.

2. The work of animal heat.

3. Mechanical work.

4. Vital work.

Lavoisier arranged his experiments so as to exciude almost all the
foregoing kinds of work except that of animal heat. A Guinea’ pig
was placed under a beil-glass inverted over a surface of mercury, and a
current of fresh air was allowed to circulate through the apparatus,
being passed at its final exit through tubes containing caustic potash,
which arrested the carbonic acid produced by the animal. In this
manner it was easy to ascertain the carbonic acid excreted by the
increase in weight of the tubes of caustic potash during the experiment.

Lavoisier found that his Guinea pig, in ten hours, burned, on the
average, 3.333 grams of carbon; and this quantity of carbon he esti-
mated, from other experiments, as capable of melting 326.75 grams
of ice at the freezing temperature. The same Guinea pig was then
placed in an ice-calorimeter, and left in it for ten hours, during which
time the heat of its body was found to have melted 402.27 grams of ice
at the freezing temperature.

If we use, instead of the coefficient of combustion of carbon employed
by Lavoisier, that now generally adopted from the experiments of Favre
and Silbermann,.the quantity of melted ice represented by 34 grams of
carbon would become 364.78 grams instead of 326.75 grams. We are,
therefore, entitled to say that the heat of combustion of expired carbon
determined by Lavoisier is equal to

36478
402.27
of the animal heat developed, which is regarded as 100 parts.

Two years later, in 1785, Lavoisier laid before the Royal Society of
Medicine of Paris, an account of further experiments, also conducted on
the breathing of Guinea pigs, by which he showed that of 100 parts of
oxygen absorbed by those animals, 81 only reappeared in the form of
carbonic acid, and 19 parts disappeared altogether. Lavoisier consid-
ered that these 19 parts of oxygen were employed in the body in the
combustion of hydrogen, the product of such combustion being water.

= 90.68 per cent.

RELATION OF FOOD TO WORK, AND 21d

If we use Lavoisier’s data just given, and the known atomic weights
of carbon, oxygen, and hydrogen, we shali have, for 81 parts of oxygen
in the form of carbonic acid, and 19 parts of oxygen in the form of,
water, the following quantities of carbon and hydrogen consumed by
the respiration of his Guinea pig in the same time:
£ sey hydrogen = =

Multiplying these numbers by the heat-coefficients of Favre and Sil-
bermann, we find—

Carbon =

6x 81
16

Heat produced by hydrogen — = x 34462

Heat produced by carbon = x 8080

It has been already shown that the heat developed by the combustion
of carbon in Lavoisier’s experiment amounted to 90.68 per cent. of the
heat emitted by theanimal; hence the heat produced by the combustion
of the hydrogen will amount to—

f 19 x 34462 16
Ea ns 8 “6x Si x 8080
By adding together the heats due to the carbon and hydrogen, we find
that Lavoisier’s experiments, when fairly interpreted by the data of
modern science, give the following results:
_ Heat produced by the combustion of carbon and hydrogen.... 120.92
JS UTINIGOR TIN AUS A) SN Se Le Aah IEE Be eg LC 2 Ss Sed DS haemo lee 100. 00

Finally, in 1789, Lavoisier published further experiments, by which
_ he showed conclusively that the consumption of oxygen by the body is
notably increased by three causes—

1. By a lowering of the external temperature.

2. By the act of digestion.

3. By muscular exercise.

The experiments of Lavoisier were repeated in 1822 by Dulong and
_ Despretz, and their results, when corrected, like those of Lavoisier, by
using the modern heat-coefficients of carbon and hydrogen, are as fol-
lows:

_ The mean of Dulong’s experiments on sixteen animals and birds is
| 90.6 per cent. of the animal heat given out; the lowest number, 85.5,
belonging to a kitten sixty days old; and the highest number, 99.4,
belonging to a puppy fifty days old.
_ M. Despretz obtained an average of 92.3 from sixteen mammals and
birds; his highest number being 101.8, derived from an old female rab-
bit; and his lowest number being 84.2, derived from four owls.
The foregoing experiments left no doubt remaining in the minds of
men of science as to the substantial truth of Lavoisier’s doctrine of ani-
Mal heat; and led immediately to a number of supplementary experi-
-mnents, among the most remarkable of which were those of Regnault
and Reiset.

18.8

‘

= 30.24
274 ITS BEARING ON MEDICAL PRACTICE.

Regnault directed his attention especially to the distribution of the
oxygen absorbed by animals, between the carbon and hydrogen of their
blood or tissues, which had been laid down by Lavoisier in the propor-
tion of 81 to 19. He found that the proportion was not a fixed one, but
varied with the food in a very instructive manner.

The average of his experiments on fourteen animals, including worms,
lizards, and insects, as well as birds and mammals, was—

Oxyoen,.combined awith carbon ce .45.)0 022 sneer Sileak
Oxygen combined with hydrogen. ..........-....- 19.3

a result nearly identical with that found by Lavoisier. The highest
proportion of oxygen combined with hydrogen occurred in the case of
chickens fed on meat, and amounted to 32 per cent.; and the lowest
proportion occurred in the case of rabbits fed on bread and oats, and
amounted to 1 per cent. only.

Still more recent experiments, made with improved apparatus and
methods by Pettenkofer and Voit, in Munich, show, like those of Reg-
nault, that the proportion of the oxygen employed in forming carbonic
acid to the whole oxygen absorbed varies with the food, ranging in the
case of a large dog from 52.4 to 148.2, according as the animal was kept
altogether without food, or fed upon a mixed diet of meat and sugar.
These investigations have also shown that, under ordinary conditions,
it is probable that a dog consumes nearly all the oxygen absorbed in
the formation of carbonic acid.

Before leaving the subject of animal heat, it is worth while to estimate
its amount in a manner that will bring it into comparison with ordinary
mechanical work.

In Lavoisier’s experiment with the Guinea pig, 402.27 grams of ice
were melted in ten hours; from this fact we find, assuming the latent
heat of ice at 142° F., and 772 as Joule’s coefficient for converting Brit-
ish heat-units into foot-pounds,

Mechanical work-equivalent to the daily animal heat of Lavoisier’s Guinea
pig

402.27 x 24 x 142 x 15.432 x 772
7000 x 10 i

As the average weight of a Guinea pig is four pounds, the preceding
amount of work, representing animal heat, would be sufficient to raise
the weight of the animal through a vertical height of—

233310
4 x 5280

Ranke has shown, by experiments made upon himself, under various
conditions of food and fasting, by means of Pettenkofer and Voit’s appa-
ratus, that his daily excretion of carbonic acid varied from 660 grams to
860 grams, showing a mean of 760 grams. His weight was 67 kilograms,
from which fact, and the assumption that an English wile is 1,600 meters,
we obtain, employing the constants already given, the height through

= 233310 foot-pounds.

== 11.05 miles.

RELATION OF FOOD TO WORK, AND 2715

which the combustion of 760 grams of carbonic acid would raise the
weight of 67 kilograms in 24 hours—
760 x 6 x 8.080 x 423 :
== 35 x BT x 1600 = 6.609 miles.

The extreme values of the carbonic acid excreted, viz, 660 grams and
860 grams, would correspond to the heights of 5.74 miles and 7.48 miles,
respectively.

Dr. Edward Smith has estimated the daily excretion of carbon from
the lungs, in the case of four persons, as follows:

Body weight. Carbon.
VERO Maras atin scsi she, Nee 173 pounds. 6. 735 ounces.
Drab Smibhes.2ss2e2 322 3 196 pounds. 7. 85 ounces.
iProrebrankland= 2 285255252 136 pounds. 5. 60 ounces.
DreMOIG Ges. fo sic o's e es ass 1335 pounds. 6. 54 ounces.

In order to convert the preceding data into vertical miles through
which the body weight is lifted, we must multiply the ounces of carbon
by the following coefficient, and divide the product by the body weight:

: 8080 x 9 x 772
Uf Ge Se
mee 16x 5x 5280
log (coeff.) = 2.1235473
We thus obtain, for the heights through which the carbon consumed
would lift the observers—

= aT

JM ES TAA TIT ies eo Rag Se pede ie de ied eRe PE Site ee digee Se 5.17 miles.
10 ie] Oy RS TUTTI Gee ae a A ati epee Ty reese Alara 5. 32 miles.
IEOime bE raticlal (en ce ae eee tate, alts ee eau ae 5. 47 miles.
JOGA IY OVE CS OA ee ee eR ee 6. 53 miles.

Pettenkofer and Voit succeeded in producing a range of carbonic acid
excreted by a large dog, weighing 33.3 kilograms, from 289.4 grams to
840.4 grams; the minimum corresponding to the 10th day of fasting
_ from solid food, and the maximum corresponding to a diet of 1,800 grams
of meat, 350 grams of fat, and 1,410 grams of water.

It may be easily shown, by a calculation similar to the foregoing, that
_ these excretions of carbonic acid correspond to the mechanical works of
lifting the weight of the dog through vertical heights of 5.03 miles and
14.62 miles, respectively.

Combining together the preceding results, and expressing them all in
_ the natural units of the weights of the animals lifted through a height,
we find—

Work due to animal heat.
TOE Ranke (tasuine ese er yes 2 oe See 5. 74 miles.

2s PT. Beane (well, £20 purpemere ee oes 2. 7.48 miles.
rata Urged F071) PRR 2 Le Oe cs 5. 17 miles.
276 ITS BEARING ON MEDICAL PRACTICE.

4. Diy 30. Sinkbhieey- ee - tiee ec Geico Caen bree 5. 32 miles.

5. Prot: Bram ae oes 2, cele a regs See wen ae 5. 47 miles.

Gs Dre MG re ie es aed Ne ay 6. 53 miles.
di") UEC bere Oa mA hae iat De gait tidy 5. 952 miles.

This result agrees very closely with the calculation already made from
760 grams of carbonic acid, in the case of Dr. Ranke, viz, 6.609 miles.

Work due to animal heat.

ANIMALS.
I BALG se ih aVor Wh oy cae eeg meet A PPP GME ] 8 rs een ren ot ene 11. 05 miles.
Pe sO DS astm e) FS traee oO ot ee eee 5. 03 miles.
BDO Se (OVErlE) sSae gee oe 91=.57~ Sees 14, 62 miles.
NDC ATE tegen ene Aer Tee cee rete 10. 233 miles.

SOURCE OF MUSCULAR WORK.

As soon as it was sat':factorily established by Lavoisier and his sue- |
cessors that the natura! combustion of carbon and hydrogen in the blood
was sufficient, or somey iat more than sufficient, to account for the ani-
mal heat, it became a t:atter of great interest to physiologists to ascer-
tain, if possible, how much of the work developed in the blood by chem-
ical changes is employed in producing animal heat, how much in
mechanical work, external and internal, and how much in vital or mental
operations.

At the outset of this inquiry, it received a misdirection from the con-
jecture thrown out by Liebig, that the excretion of nitrogen (in the form
of urea) gave necessarily the measure of the wear and tear of the mus-
cular tissues themselves, which are composed of proteinic or nitrogenous
compounds. This conjecture led to Liebig’s celebrated classification of
food into heat-producing and flesh-forming foods, which has been unhes-
itatingly received until lately, in this country, by physiologists and
physicians: Before investigating the truth or falsehood of Liebig’s
theory, it is worth while to state the most recent results obtained as to
the muscular work per day of which man is capable.

From numerous observations, of which some were made by myself, on
the daily labor of hodmen, paviors, navvies, and pedlars, I have obtained
the following mean:

Daily labor of man = 353.75 foot-tons = 109549 kilometers.

This quantity of work is the exact equivalent of the work done by a
man of 150 pounds weight in climbing through one mile of vertical
height, and is, as I have already shown, about one-sixth part of the
work expended in producing and maintaining animal heat.

I was led to believe, from investigations made to determine the quan-

RELATION OF FOOD TO WORK, AND Bape TI

tity of urea excreted in various diseases, that a certain minimum quan-
tity, equivalent to 2 grains per pound of body weight, was excreted
quite independently of muscular exertion, and I proved that death was
preceded in many chronic diseases by a fall in the urea excreted to 2
grains per pound. These investigations were made chiefly on patients
dying of advanced kidney disease, in which the excretion of albumen
had nearly or altogether ceased, and of patients dying of phthisis.
Pettenkofer and Voit found that tie excretion of urea in a dog reduced
from 33.3 kilograms to 29 kilograms by 10 days’ fast, became 8.6 grams.
And, since—
29 kilograms = 63.8 pounds.
8.6 grams == 132.7 grains.
Excretion of urea = 2.08 grains per pound of body weight.

Ranke obtained a precisely similar result from observations made upon
himself, after long fasting, continued for several days.

If these views be well founded, it is plain that part only of the urea
excreted can be regarded as due to muscular exertion, for 2 grains per
pound (or 300 grains for a man weighins 150 pounds) must be set aside
as a constant due to vital work, independent of muscular work altogether.
Hence it would follow, supposing the muscular exertion to be measured
by the increased excretion of urea produced by it, that the urea will not
increase as fast as the muscular exertion, but it ought to increase regu-
larly, although at a slower rate. With a view to settle this important
question, I devised the following observations upon myself in the month
ot July, 1866, which prove conclusively that an increase of muscular
exertion, amounting to fourfold, is not accompanied by any correspond-
ing increase in the excretion of nitrogen in the form of urea.

i had previously ascertained by repeated experiments, extending from
1860 to 1865, that my excretion of urea (under ordinary conditions as to
exercise, which never amounted to five miles per day) ranged from—

465. 09 grains per day, to
537.47 grains per day.

501. 28 mean.

This quantity of urea I regarded as my natural physiological average,
and it was so well established that I thought I should obtain an impor-
tantresult by comparing it with the average found from several days of unu-
sual muscular exertion. I accordingly walked for five consecutive days
in the hilly districts of Wicklow, noting carefully the horizontal distance
traveled each day, and the vertical height traversed up and down. ‘The
vertical heights were reduced to horizontal distances, on the assumptions
(which are well founded) that 20 is the proper coefficient for converting
one into the other, and that the work of descent is half the work of
ascent.
278 ITS BEARING ON MEDICAL PRACTICE.

During the five days of observation the work done, expressed in hor-
izontal miles of walking, was as follows:

First day.
Miles
Milesiwalkediy 2 atest oe eeeeihe ee See ee cere eee 11.4
Heipht ascended)... 25/2 (2-4-2 - 2/2 1,800 feet — 10. 2
21.6
Second day.
Miles walked: i205 ete sos prin sepa eteterpraret cage woeleieteneetet 12.0
Height ascended «5 -fo2 4. os eoeean eee 2,400 feet = 13.7
25. 7
Third day.
AVENE ey ROU soo a5 2 elie oe one el ain oto eo eee au 11.6
Heishb ascended. . si 22 .<\</-)-)2 5 mises = cia 1,400 feet = 8.0
1956
Fourth day.
Males walked: 21 yz: /ohesc teria ARISE ois SEER SON ye crore 9.3
Heightiascended .). [he i icie nels ee 1,400 feet = 8.0
17.3
Fifth day.
NGS WKOU Cc oe ese to cieto me 2 ak ces emuatate eens 10. 4
Heieht ascended... Jo. ss Seco 2 at 1600 feet — oak
1935

From the preceding statement it follows that the average work done
each day was 20.74 miles of horizontal walking, the result of which upon
the urea excreted was to be compared with the result already mentioned
as a physiological constant, determined under circumstances in which
the daily muscular work never exceeded five miles of horizontal walking.

Tn order to determine the urea, I collected each day all the urine passed,
and kept one-fifth part of it; and at the close of the fifth day examined
the mixture formed from the five days’ urine. It was found to contain
501.16 grains of urea per day—a result practically identical with the
physiological quantity previously found by me under totally different
conditions, viz, 501.28 grains. I was much surprised at this result, for
I had previously believed in the theory laid down by Liebig, which at-
tributed the excretion of urea to the disintegration of muscular tissue.

It might be objected to the preceding reasoning that the combustion
of proteinic compounds represented by 501.28 grains of urea excreted is

rE

a ee eT
RELATION OF FOOD TO WORK, AND 279

actually sufficient to produce the mechanical force necessary to maintain
the muscular exertion of walking 20 or 21 miles per day.
1. The urea excreted bears to the proteine consumed the proportion
of 24 to 79, as appears from their chemical compositions, viz:
Wirean es Ala eee gage cw te ehdink Teh ee Corey IN, Os 2e8es2 60
IBTORCINE States seer ses IN EL ANS Cae ENG Op 2 ges 395
2. In 100 parts of proteine there are 53.7 parts of carbon, and 7 parts
of hydrogen; the total heat due to the combustion of 1 gram of pro-
teine is, therefore,
Heat-units.

02537 sramNor carbon tes. O le Serr UGE ae 4, 3389
OLOtGcoram: of Wy drogenin. 32.) shia sas ee gece 2. 4123
6. 7512

This number, 6.7512, represents the maximum quantity of heat-units*
that could be produced by the combustion of 1 gram of proteine; but
the term depending on hydrogen in it should be reduced to five-ninths
of its amount, in consequence of the hydrogen already combined with
oxygen in the proteine. Hence we find—

Combustion of one gram of proteine.
Heat-units.

WARD OTAEE SEE ak hati Tees 5 ea “eh, DE a pee 2 4, 3389
ER lire nie) 1a Vie Thess i Sa 8 1. 3402
5. 6791

3. In 100 parts of urea there are 20 parts of carbon, and 63 parts of

hydrogen; the total heat, therefore, due to the combustion of 1 gram
of urea is:
Heat-units.

OS 20; ramon CamuOney sn | MRNA sO Ae eeal ih ge | 1. 6160
QVOG (eran ob hydrogen’ 2))/ 5. goes ie ot vai 2. 3089

3. 9249
The term depending on hydrogen, in this result, should be reduced
to one-half, in consequence of the hydrogen already combined with oxygen
in the urea.
Hence we find—
Combustion of one gram of urea.

Heat-units.
PRE RR Not aay eveneh dercyenayeh sey arn Penk acon Mb sn 3, Sree eee 1. 6160
Ely dvosceni eres ja/ ben ee Boe Sea Leer 1, 1544

*Heat-unit = 1 kilogram of water raised 1° C.
280 ITS BEARING ON MEDICAL PRACTICE.

4. From the three preceding statements it is easy to see that, for
every gram of proteine consumed, 0.8416 heat units are contained in
the urea excreted ; so that—

The digestion of 1 gram of proteine gives out 4.8375 heat-units.

It is easy to see that 501.28 grains of urea excreted correspond to
1,650 grains of proteine in the food, or to 106.92 grams; and the total
work due to the digestion of this quantity of food may be found by mul-
tiplying it by the “digestipn coefficient” already found, and by 423, which
is Joule’s coefficient for converting heat-units into kilogram-meters.
Hence we have—

Work due to production of 501.28 grains of urea

— 106.92 x 4.8375 x 423 — 218786 kilogram-meters — 704 foot-tons.

This amount of theoretical work produced by nitrogenous food is
double the work actually done during the walking excursion.

The average work was 20.74 miles horizontal per day, which may be
considered as the exact equivalent of lifting my weight (knapsack and
clothes included — 150 pounds) through one mile of vertical height.
Hence the work actually done by me was—

ae — = 354 foot-tons.

This amount of muscular work accounted for almost exactly half the
whole theoretical work supplied by the food that goes to form urea, viz,
704 foot-tons. But it has been already shown that 2 grains of urea per
pound of body weight is required to maintain the vital work, including
circulation and respiration; this would give (since I weighed 128 pounds)
256 grains of urea required for vital work, or almost exactly half of the
501.16 grains excreted, so that one-half of the available work might be
considered as expenced on vital work, and the other half as expended
on external muscular work. This supposition, however, requires us
to believe that the muscles act without loss by friction. This is not
admissible, for I have elsewhere endeavored to show that there is a loss
in the force applied by the muscles of various animals, in consequence
of the friction of their tendons, amounting on the average, in man, to 35
per cent., and in the mastiff, to 41 per cent.

Hence it may be regarded as certain that the available force repre-
sented by 501 grains of urea is not sufficient to account fully both for
vital work and for the external mechanical work expended by me during
the experiments just described.

The foregoing observations and calculations were made in the month
of July, 1866, bat I did not then publish them, as I found afterward
that I had been anticipated by Dr. Fick and Dr. Wislicenus, of Zurich,
in a paper published in June in the Philosophical Magazine, on the urea
excreted during an ascent of the Faulhorn. Professor Frankland, in a
paper published in the same journal in September, 1866, corrected some
erroneous reasoning that found its way into Fick and Wislicenus’s
paper, and further supplied, from direct experiment, the digestion coefji-

a

¢ Set oe ae ae

i
‘

RELATION OF FOOD TO WORK, AND 281

cient of proteine, which had been obtained by me from calculation. The
actual value of this important constant was found by him to be—

Actual value of digestion coefficient of proteine .. 4.3155
Walenlated iva ees 5" ol. Pe ey Ie ke 4. 8375

My only object in now publishing an account of the independent ex-
periment and calculation made by myself is to confirm the certainty of
the important fact first proved experimentally by Fick and Wislicenus,
that the force due to the urea excreted in a given time is not sufficient
to provide the actual work that may be done by the muscles in the same
time.

Liebig and his followers, misled by a preconception of the simplicity
of nature, assigned to nitrogenous food the duty of providing the force
necessary for the production of muscular work, by supplying the waste
of muscular tissue; while they supposed the farinaceous and fatty foods
to provide the amount of animal heat required by the body.

The opponents of Liebig have fallen into the opposite error, and deny
that nitrogenous food contributes any portion of the force employed in
muscular work.

The truth, as is usual, lies between the two extreme hypotheses, and
we are now compelled to admit that a given development of force, ex-
pressed in animal heat, muscular work, and mental exertion, may be
the effect of several, perhaps many, supposable supplies of digested
food, farinaceous, saccharine, fatty, and albuminous.

Just as a given algebraical function may be equated to a given con-
stant, by the use of a certain definite number of values of its variable
quantity, so may a given effect of work in the:animal body be produced
by certain definite though very different combinations of various kinds
of food, the digestion of which follows each its own law, and develops
its own amount of force. The number of roots in our equation of life
inereases the difficulty of solving it, but by no means permits the accept-
ance of the lazy assumption that it is altogether insoluble, or reduces a
sagacious guess to the level of the prophecy of a quack.

Lavoisier supposed in his earlier investigations that animal heat was
developed by the combustion of carbon and hydrogen in the lungs; just
as in earlier times it was supposed to be produced spontaneously in the
heart, which was imagined to be so hot as even to burn the hand that
should imprudently venture to touch it.

In like manner, Liebig and his followers supposed the muscular work
to be developed in the substance itself of the muscles that were its in-
struments.

Both of these doctrines are now justly repudiated by physiologists,
and the view proposed in 1845, by Dr. Mayer, of Heilbronn, and recently
developed with much ability by Mr. C. W. Heaton, of Charing Cross
Hospital, in the Philosophical Magazine for May, 1867, that the blood
itself is the seat of all the chemical changes that develop force in the
282 ITS BEARING ON MEDICAL PRACTICE.

body, has gained favor among physiological chemists, and also met with ‘
acceptance among practical clinical observers. ;

Thus the human mind revolves in cycles, and the physicians of the
nineteenth century are preparing to sit at the feet of Moses, and learn —
that the blood of an animal really constitutes its life; while South Afri- —
can theologians are disposed to reject his authority, because he happened —
to confound a rodent with a ruminant.* ;

Whatever be the kind of food employed, its effect in the production ~
of force must be ultimately measured by the quantities of carbonic acid
and water produced by its combustion, and there is no more convenient |
measure of the production both of carbonic acid and water than urea, ©
so far as it goes. J shall prove sbortly that every four grains of urea 7
excreted represent five tons lifted through one foot; and I have shown —
by the preceding investigation that the work represented by urea is not —
sufficient to account for vital and external work, much less for animal ~
heat. The investigations of Dr. Edward Smith, on the excretion of |
carbonic acid, enable us to show that the carbonic acid alone is sufficient 7
to account for both vital and external work, and also for the production ~
of animal heat. This may be proved as follows: f

Dr. Smith has given results, from which may be deduced the quanti- —
ties of carbonic acid excreted per minute during the four following —
conditions:

1. Lying in the horizontal position, and nearly asleep.

2. Fasting, and in sitting posture.

3. Walking at two miles per hour.

4. Walking at three miles per hour.

5. Working on the tread-mill, ascending at the rate of 28.65 feet per

minute.
Carbonic acid per min.

HE DLC PMANOLTOSL 6 - says ee Sec, tyes 5.522 grains.
CAPES ING AO ITCH SBOP ORES LS EL Pipi Ray gee RR 7.440 grains.
3. Walking at two miles per hour.... .... 18.100 grains.
4. Walking at three miles per hour....... 25. 830. grains.
Sebel Note 5 CUT alee eee oe SiO Iai ee Soe Meee Nt es PIPERS 44,973 grains.

The foregoing quantities of carbonic acid per minute may be converted
into vertical miles per hour for the body weight, by multiplying them
by the following coefficient: t

60 x 6 x 8080 x 9 x T72 — 0.025263
22 x 196 x 5280 x 5 x 7000 i
log = 2.40420

*No reasonable person can fail to perceive the ignorance of the great lawgiver who
will apply to him the test first proposed by Swift for Homer; Moses, like the author
of the Iliad, was profoundly unacquainted with the discipline and doctrines of the
Church of England.

t Dr. Edward Smith’s weight was 196 pounds. -
RELATION OF FOOD 70 WORK, AND 283

Performing this calculation we find—

Body weight lifted

Carbonic Acid. through miles.

De Ga GRE nc Sy OTL AMER gf ap 5.522 grains. 0.1400 mile.
SUI LA MOTTE SANE 9h a 8 ar 7.440 grains. 0.1887 mile.
a aR PIAA NARA FO aE 18.100 grains. 0.4591 mile.
Gas Reta Pe SRR ab ie se eins In 25.830 grains. 0.6551 mile.
(SSO AIR a PA Edn SRS ee Ra a 44.973 grains. 1.1406 mile.

It is easy to calculate that the external work done in the cases 3, 4,
5, was as follows:
External work.

No. 3. Walking two miles per hour......-. 0.1000 mile.
No. 4. Walking three miles per hour. ...... 0.1500 mile.
INGOs Da Re SHADES crt ols a eaoleh a woe Wes oa ss Ooo Gmmamles

Subtracting these amounts of work from the applied work, due to the
production of carbonic acid, we find, as the quantities left for vital
work, including circulation and respiration, and for the production of

animal heat, per hour:
Vital work and

animal heat.

GINO eter or ee eee eee aaa eR, Gene Neda ML MANA on een 2 0.3591 mile.
ENG ep Sree Meer erent eh cH MO res (CAs Clays puint en tie eG ay ta 0.5051 mile.
TN ICay SEs INES Saat ES pe IRE UNI Ws ARE EA TU 0.8150 mile.

As I have already shown the work due to animal heat per day to be
6 miles, it follows that the work of animal heat per hour is 0.2500 mile.
Deducting this amount from the foregoing, we find for the vital work
done, under the three different conditions—
Vital work.

No. 3. Walking at two miles per hour...... 0.1091 mile.
No. 4. Walking at three miles per hour...- 0.2551 mile.
No. 5. Tread-mill work... :....-....- 21.25... 0.5650 mile.

This result proves, in a striking manner, the great disadvantage under
which an increased amount of muscular work is done in a given time;
and it is quite in accordance with other results obtained by me from
totally different experiments.

No two classes of animals can well differ more from each other than the
eats and ruminants, one of which is intended by nature to eat the other.
They differ in all respects as to food, the cats requiring a supply of fresh
meat and blood for their health, and the ruminants being exclusively
vegetable-feeders; yet in both classes we find a great development of
muscular power, and of rapid action of muscles, qualities alike necessary
to the pursuer and to the pursued. There can be no doubt that muscular
work is developed in the cats from the combustion of flesh, and in the
ruminants, mainly, if not exclusively, from farinaceous food. It is, how-
ever, worthy of remark, that the muscular qualities developed by the
two kinds of food differ considerably from each other. The hunted deer
284 ITS BEARING ON MEDICAL PRACTICE.

will outrun the leopard in a fair and open chase, because the work sup- ©
plied to its muscles by the vegetable food is capable of being given out
continuously for a long period of time; but in a sudden rush at a near —
distance, the leopard will infallibly overtake the deer, because its flesh- —
food stores up in the blood a reserve of force capable of being given out —
instantaneously in the form of exceedingly rapid muscular action.

In conformity with this principle, we find among ourselves an instine-
tive preference given to farinaceous and fatty foods, or to nitrogenous
toods, according as our occupations require a steady, long-continued, slow
labor, or the exercise of sudden bursts of muscular labor continued for
short periods. Thus chamois-hunters setting out for several day’s chase
provide themselves with bacon fat and sugar; the Lancashire laborers
use flour and fat, in the form of apple-dumplings; while the red Indian
ot North America almost transforms himself into a carnivore by the
exclusive use of flesh-food; he sleeps as long and can fast as long as the
puma and jaguar, and possesses stored up in his blood a reserve of force
which enables him, like a cat, to hold his muscles for hours in a rigid
posture, or to spring upon his prey, like a leopard leaping from a tree
upon the back of an antelope.

If the preceding view of the muscular qualities developed by the two
kinds of food be correct, important inferences suggest themselves as to
the food that should be employed in relation to several kinds of work.
Of these inferences I shall select two examples:

1. The nurses of one of our Dublin hospitals were formerly fed chiefly
upon flesh-food and beer, a diet that seemed well suited to their work in
ordinary times, which was occasionally severe, but relieved by frequent
intervals of complete rest. Upon the occasion of an epidemic of cholera,
when the hospital duties of the nurses became more constant, although
on the whole not more laborious, they voluntarily asked for bacon fat
and milk, as a change of diet from the flesh-meat and beer; this change
was effected on two days in each week with the best results as to the
health of the nurses, and as to their power of discharging the new kind
of labor imposed upon them.

2. [have been informed, on competent authority, that the health of
the Cornish miners break down ultimately from failure of the action of
the heart and its consequences, and not from the affection of the lungs
called ‘ miners’ phthisis.”. The labor of the miner is peculiar, and his
food appears to me badly suited to meet its requirements. At the close
of a hard day’s toil, the weary miner has to climb by vertical ladders
through a height of 100 to 200 fathoms before he can reach his cottage,
where he naturally looks for his food and sleep. This climbing of the
ladders is performed hastily, almost as a gymnastic feat, and throws a
heavy strain (amounting from one-eighth to one-quarter of the whole day’s
work) upon the muscles of the tired miner, during the half hour or hour
that concludes his daily toil. A flesh-fed man (as a Red Indian) would
run up the ladders like a cat, using the stores of force already in reserve

RELATION OF FOOD TO WORK, AND 285

in his blood; but the Cornish miner, who is fed chiefly upon dough and
fat, finds himself greatly distressed by the climbing of the ladders—more
_soindeed than by the slower labor of quarrying in the mine. His heart,
_ overstimulated by the rapid exertion of muscular work, beats more and
more quickly in its efforts to oxidate the blood in the Jungs, and so sup-
_ply the force required. Local congestion of the lung itself frequently fol-
lows, and lays the foundation for the affection so graphically,though sadly,
described by the miner at forty years of age, who tells you that “‘ his other
works are very good, but that he is beginning to leak in the valves.”
Were I a Cornish miner, and able to afford the luxury, I should train

myself for the “‘ladder feat” by dining on half a pound of rare beefsteak
| and a glassof ale from one to two hours before commencing the ascent.
| The excretion of nitrogen by the cats and ruminants is very different,
as might beexpected from their food. I have ascertained that the urea
| discharged by a Bengal tiger and a sheep daily is as follows:
| 2 5 Siig 12) i eg ee a na ae aa 4,375 grains of urea.

Sheep 222. ere enn aleve sas 256 grains of urea.
Tt is worthy of remark, and serves to throw light on the meaning of
| the excretion of nitrogen from the body, that causes but slightly con-
| nected with muscular exertion in ruminants increase amazingly the
' excretion ofurea. Thus [have found the following excretion of urea from
| aram during the rutting season:

Ram: (rutbing, SCASOR) .-\.--- 2.< ys... 1,493 grains of urea.
This amounts to a sixfold increase of urea, which cannot possibly be
/ accounted for by the food consumed at the time, but requires us to assume
/ a certain storing up of force, represented by nitrogenous compounds,
| which has been going on for a considerable period previous to the rutting
/ season. A similar and equally remarkable storing-up of phosphates and
carbonates takes place, previous to the rutting season, in the rumi-
nants that shed their horns, which, in the Cervus megaceros, often weigh
90 pounds.
These remarkable phenomena remind us of the maxim of the wise
| Hippocrates, who recommends moderation in the use of the gifts of the
_Golden Venus as well as in those of Ceres and Bacchus: « Mévo, cria,
Tord, irvoc, adpodiore perpia,” With which may be compared its converse in the
Latin proverb: ‘“ Sine Cerere et Baccho, friget Venus ;” or, as the old
proverb says, ‘When the wolf comes in at the door, love flies out at the

window.”

APPLICATION OF THEORY TO DISEASED CONDITIONS OF BODY.

The relation of food to work, complicated enough in health, becomes
/More so in disease, and the problem to be solved by rational theory
becomes still more difficult. I cannot attempt even to sketch an outline
_ of this part of my subject considered in general, but shall content myself
_with asking your attention to three remarkable examples of disease which
286 ITS BEARING ON MEDICAL PRACTICE.

illustrate the principles I have attempted to lay down. These diseases
are—

A, Typhus fever.

B. Cholera asiatica.

C. Diabetes mellitus.

A. Typhus fever.—In typhus fever a prominent symptom is the remark-
able elevation of temperature, accompanied by an increased excretion of
urea and carbonie acid by the kidneys and lungs, indicating (as no food
is taken) an increased morbid metamorphosis of the blood and tissues.
The temperature commonly rises to 104° F., representing an increase of
upward of 5° F. above the normal temperature.

If we knew the cause of this increase of temperature, or, rather, of the
increased metamorphosis of which it is the sign, we should know the
cause of typhus fever, and learn to combat the disease on rational grounds.
At present the cause is unknown, and, therefore, the physician is forced
to treat the symptoms as they appear, instead of attacking the cause of
the disease. Let us examine for a moment the terrible significance of
the symptoms.

Your patient lies for nine or ten days supine, fasting, subdelirious,
the picture of weakness and helplessness, and yet this unhappy sufferer
actually performs, day by day, an amount of work that might well be
envied by the strongest laborer in our land.

The natural temperature of the interior of the body is 100° F., while
the temperature of the corresponding parts in typhus fever is at least
105° F. This seems at first sight a small inecrease—only 5 per cent. of
the whole—but it Is in reality 24 times as great as it appears, and
actually amounts to 124 per cent., or one-eighth part of the total animal
heat; for the total quantity of heat given out by the heated body is pro-
portional (from Newton’s law of cooling) to the elevation of its tempera-
ture above the temperature of equilibrium, toward which it tends. If
we suppose this equilibrium temperature to be 60° F., then the quanti-
ties of animal heat given out in typhus fever and in health will be in
proportion of 45 to 40, showing that the animal heat of typhus exceeds
that of health by one-eighth of its amount.

We have already seen that the work due to animal heat would lift the
body through a vertical height of six miles per day; and it thus appears
that an additional amount of work, equivalent to the body lifted through
nearly one mile per day, is spent in maintaining its temperature at fever
heat. ;

If you could place your fever patient at the bottom of a mine twice
the depth of the deepest mine in the duchy of Cornwall, and compel the
wretched sufferer to climb its ladders into open air, you would subject
him to less torture, from muscular exertion, than that which he under-
goes at the hand of nature, as he lies before you, helpless, tossing, and
delirious, on his fever couch.

The treatment of this formidable disease in former times consisted of

RELATION OF FOOD TO WORK, AND 287

purging, voniiting, and bleeding the patient, with the view of eliminating
an imaginary poison, and so heiping nature to terminate the disease.*

In modern times, thank God, the physician either does not interfere
at all, or adopts the rational process of retarding the disintegration of
the tissues consumed to supply the fever heat, by furnishing in their
stead fuel, in the form of wine and beef-tea, sufficient to maintain the
increase of temperature imperiously required.t This practice may be
justly considered rational, because the condition of the circulation admits
of its application; and it is considered good, because it has been rewarded
with success in the hands of the skillful clinical physician. In concluding
this sketch of the prominent symptom of typhus fever, and as an illus.
tration of the eagerness with which every possible combustible in the
bedy is made use of, I may mention, on the high authority of Dr. Stokes,
of Dubiin, that the very urea excreted by the kidneys is not permitted
to leave the body without first paying its tax to fever, by being burned
into carbonate of ammonia, thus rendering the urine of an advanced case
of bad typhus fevereminently alkaline.

B. Asiatic cholera.—This remarkable disease presents, as every one
knows, three distinct stages, viz :

1. The premonitory stage of diarrheea.

2. The stage of collapse.

3. The stage of consecutive fever.

The stage of collapse exhibits the following symptoms: Vomiting or
purging; muscular cramps; suppression of bile and urine; lowering of

*Notoup dvovec tytpot.—EPIp. vi, Sect. v, 1.

tIt is not intended by this to assert that a high temperature, 104° to 108° F-., must be
maintained in order that the disease may terminate favorably, for the very contrary
is the fact. The blood, in typhus, as in other pyrexies, is a fluid possessed of greater
oxidizing power than it has in health; in consequence of this, an increased metamor-
phosis of tissues takes place, accompanied, of course, by an elevation of temperature,
which measures precisely the oxidizing power of the blood, and the risk to life in typhus
is directly proportional to the rise in temperature. The indications of the sphygmograph
are similar to those of the thermometer, a “ full dicrotic” pulse corresponding to a tem-
perature of 103° I., and the pulse of “death agony,” with the heart’s first sound gone,
corresponding to a temperature of 109° F. There is no case on record of recovery from
2 condition marked by such a pulse and temperature.

The effects of alcohol, administered in fever, when the temperature does not exceed
105° F., are twofold—immediate and secondary. The immediate effect is to supply a
hydrocarbon to the blood, which is decomposed by it in preference to the body tissues.
The secondary effect of alcohol is to change the blood itself, which thus loses its oxidiz-
ing qualities; in consequence of which the temperature falls, the hyperdicrotic character
of the pulse disappears, and the destructive metamorphosis of the tissues becomes les-
sened. The statement here given of the effects of alcohol given in typhus, to the exact
amount required by the condition of the blood, in narcotic doses, is borne out by clinical
observation, and is independent of any theory as to the cause of typhus.

It is not at all improbable that the theory of contagious disease, that each such
disease owes its existence to a special living organism and not to an organic poison,
may ultimately prove to be correct.
288 ITS BEARING ON MEDICAL PRACTICE.

body temperature to 95° F.; extreme prostration of strength; extremi-
ties pulseless ; and face hippocratic.

When death occurs during collapse, the following symptoms are usually
found on careful examination of the corpse: The temperature rises to
105° F.; the muscles give out their characteristic susurrus CCC, and
exhibit spontaneous movements; the whole train of symptoms producing
the effect of a ghastly attempt at resurrection.*

In this disease we have phenomena respecting animal heat the very
reverse of those found in typhus fever; the body performing one vertical
mile short of its daily work, instead of one mile in excess. The prostra-
tion of strength resulting from this deficient combustion is so great that
death is often caused by bringing the patient to hospital in a cab instead
of upon a stretcher, by his walking up a dozen steps into his ward, and
sometimes even fatal results have followed a sudden effort to sit up in
bed to vomit.

The rise of temperature after death, and the continuance of muscular
susurrus and motion, tend to prove that the impeded circulation, which
is the prominent symptom in cholera collapse, is due to constriction
(probably vasomotor-nervous) of the capillaries, in consequence of which
the muscles are deprived of their supply of freshly oxidized blood, the
result of which is necessarily contraction and cramp, which produces the
excessive agony that characterizes this disease.

All authorities on cholera, whether their object be to “impede” or to
‘cassist” nature, are agreed that medicines, whether astringent or pur-
gative, are not only useless, but dangerous, in the stage of collapse.

It is useless to give alcoholic fuel to restore the loss of animal heat, for
there is no circulation to cause the oxidation of the hydrocarbons.

It is equally useless and more dangerous to give opium, to check the
remaining purging that exists; for if vomiting have ceased, your acetate
of lead and opium pills lie as if in the stomach of a corpse, and at the
termination of collapse, your patient enters upon the consecutive fever,
with perhaps a dozen grains of opium in his stomach, placed there like
an explosive shell by your ill-timed zeal, and rapidly passes into a coma-
tose condition, from which he never for a moment rallies. His death is
always accredited by the registrar to cholera morbus and not to opium.

Purgatives and emetics{ in cholera collapse effect the same object as
opium, but with greater rapidity. In the stage of blue collapse, the
chances of life and death are almost exactly equal, and the slightest
additional loss of force turns the wavering beam on the side of death.
The effects of a brisk purgative or emetic (if they act) upon a patient,
unable to climb a dozen steps, or sit up for a quarter of an hour, without

“It is startling, on making a post-mortem examination of a cholera patient alone and
by candle-light, to witness, on the first free incision of the scalpel, the hand of the corpse
rise slowly from its side and placed quietly across its breast.

+ When mustard is used, its conservative effects as a stimulant sometimes counteract
its destructive effects as an emetic.

RELATION OF FOOD TO WORK, AND 289

fatal syncope, may be easily imagined; and the use of them cannot be
justified by any arguments borrowed from right reason.

A remarkable though transient improvement takes place in cholera
collapse by the injection of warm water (brought to the specific gravity
of serum by the addition of mineral salts) into the veins or bowels; the
patient loses the cramps, feels that he is about to recover, speaks to his
friends, and often transacts whatever business is necessary; but speedily
falls back into collapse. The improvement in his condition is altogether
due to the temperature of the fluid injected, which supplies for a brief
period the deficient animal heat, permits a partial oxidation of the blood,
restores the capillary circulation in the muscles and so destroys their
cramp, and, by supplying the deficient work required, removes for the
moment the fatal prostration of strength. Any one who has witnessed
the remarkable effects of warm liquids thus injected in cholera collapse
must feel that recovery would be certain if the improvement could by
any possibility be made permanent.

Our hopes for the future, as to the treatment of cholera, lie, as 1
believe, in the direction of supplying to the body directly its lost animal
heat. I have witnessed the happiest results from an injection of warm
salt water into the bowels, assisted by hand friction of the surface with
turpentine and chloroform, and the application of bags of hot salt along
the spine; in cases treated in this manner, we may expect to witness
cessation of muscular cramp, restoration of perspiration to the skin, with
increase of capillary circulation, and finally, to reward our efforts, a
return of the excretions of urine and bile; when these reappear, all
vomiting and purging cease, and our patient is almost cured.

After recovery, the contrast between the cholera and fever patient is
as great as it was during sickness. The fever patient has been over-
worked for nine or fifteen days without a suitable supply of food, and
when convalescent experiences a complete exhaustion of strength that
lasts for many weeks. The cholera patient, on the other hand, has been
prevented from working by constriction of the capillary vessels, caused
by the absorption of the cholera poison,* and feels, on recovery, much
like a man that has been half drowned, while the fever patient resembles
aman that has been half starved; the one is able to return to his work
in the course of a few days, the other only after the lapse of as many
weeks.

There are two popular superstitions prevalent among medical men
respecting nature, which yearly slaughter hecatombs of victims, viz,
that nature is simple in her operations, and beneficent in her intentions;
she is often both simple and beneficent, but at other times she is un-
questionably both complex and malevolent.

An Egyptian fable informs us that the votaries of goddess Nature
were divided in opinion as to whether she was transcendently beautiful

* Whatever this may be, its period of incubation is 49 hours; that of strychnine is 22
minutes. 198

290 ITS BEARING ON MEDICAL PRACTICE.

or hideously ugly; and that, in order to keep up this difference of opinion
which suits her purpose, she always wears a thick veil over her face.
“For, with a veil that wimpled everywhere,
Her head and face were hid, that mote to none appear;
That some do say was so by skill devised,
To hide the terror of her uncouth hue
From mortal eyes that should be sore agrised ;
For that her face did like a lion show,
That eye of wight could not endure to view ;
But others tell that it so beauteous was,
And round about such beams of splendor threw,
That it the sun a thousand times did pass,
Nor could be seen but like an image in a glass.”

Before trusting nature in the matter of cholera, and proceeding to
help her, it would be well to inquire whether she intends to cure the
patient by her evacuations or to put him into his coffin. For myself, I
greatly mistrust her, and would wish to ask, previous to assisting her,
whether she is really my mother or only my stepmother. Our experience
in Dublin has shown that no more effectual mode of shortening life could
be devised in cholera than the “eliminant” treatment; and it was accord-
ingly abandoned as soon as tried in that city.

It is much to be regretted that an authority so deservedly held in
high repute as that of Sir Thomas Watson can be now quoted in favor
of the treatment of cholera, by the maxim, similia similibus curantur.
So far as Dr. Watson has informed us, his change of opinion rests upon
the statements of others, and not upon his own experience. He has
suddenly become an advocate of the castor oil, rhubarb, calomel, and
eliminant treatment of cholera, and writes as follows:

‘‘When I last spoke on this subject in these lectures, I stated that
the few recoveries which I had witnessed had all taken place under large
and repeated doses of calomel, but I could not venture to afiirm that the
calomel cured them. At present I am much disposed to believe that by
its cleansing action the calomel may have helped the recovery; and after
all that I have since seen, heard, read, and thought upon the matter, I
must contess that in the event of my having again to deal with the dis-
order, I should feel bound to adopt, in its generality, the evacuant theory
and practice.”

Sir Thomas Watson omits to add that the cases here referred to
were only six in number, of whom three died and three recovered,

which is exactly what might have been expected if he had not interfered
at all.

Cholera from Bengal visits these islands at intervals of about seven-
teen years, and it is much to be feared that on its next outbreak hun-
dreds of patients will be sacrificed, in obedience to the dogma that
asserts it to be our duty to assist nature.

©. Diabetes mellitus. —This disease furnishes us with one of our best
proofs that all the chemical changes, by means of which work is pro-
duced, take place in the blood and not in the tissues of the body: and,
RELATION OF FOOD TO WORK, AND 291

atthe same time, an examination of its phenomena explains satisfactorily
the regimen and diet which has been found, by experience, most suitable
to the diabetic patient. I shall illustrate the disease by a case which
was placed under my control by Dr. Stokes some years ago.

A young man (et. 20) named Murphy suffered from fever (enteric?)
in November, 1859, and on recovering became diabetic; he was admit-
ted into the Meath Hospital in October, 1860, where he remained under
my observation until his death, on the 12th January, 1861.

He was allowed, for nine weeks, to eat as much as he liked of certain
kinds of food, which were varied, week by week, to suit his wants, my
object being to obtain, if possible, the natural constants of the disease,
undisturbed by external interference; the only medicine used by Dr.
Stokes’s order being opium, to produce sleep, and a little creosote occa-
sionally, to promote digestion. As the details of this experiment have
been fully published, I shall confine myself to the final results. His
food and excretions were analyzed from week to week, so as to determine
the total quantities of sugar-forming and urea-producing food, as weil
as the sugar and urea actually excreted.

During six of the nine weeks, the sugar excreted was in excess of the
sugar ingested; and the means of the whole nine weeks’ daily excretion
and ingestion of sugar were

Grains.

SHAE OREO CCE: Te es INE IE EIS OEE Shs (9). pee 9,773
D ?

SU Soe NCSC Oe Sa Ac ts oe ce. meee neta aoe 10 982

DMS TeNn Ge Ne ss a ee RAS A452

During two of the nine weeks of observation, the urea excreted was
in excess of the urea ingested; and the means of the whole nine weeks’
daily exeretion and ingestion of urea were—

Grains.
Wiremrexerefedis sees h Soe. Seal Bs 1, 182
neanigested eh oi 2 2 AS aoe oh ASS ae 1, 349

The foregoing facts illustrate strikingly one of the prominent symptoms
of diabetes, viz, the canine appetite; the quantity both of sugar-pro-
ducing and urea-forming food consumed is more than double what is
necessary to maintain a vigorous laborer in perfect health. An exami-
nation of the excretions explains the other prominent symptom of dia-
betes, viz, the complete prostration of strength in the patient, notwith-
standing the great amount of food consumed.

In a state of health, food produces three excretions only, viz, urea,
carbonic acid, and water; in diabetes, the farinaceous foods appear in
the excretions as sugar, and not as carbonic acid and water; and the
work necessary to maintain animal heat must be provided altogether at
the expense of flesh food, which is the very form of food least fitted to
maintain it.
292 ITS BEARING ON MEDICAL PRACTICE.

The diabetic patient resembles a racing steamboat on the Mississippi
whose supply of coals is exhausted, and whose cargo furnishes nothing
better than lean pork hams to throw into the furnace to maintain the
race. It cannot be wondered at that our poor patient, under such dis-
advantageous conditions, fails to keep in the front.

Let us compare together the minimum of work necessary to keep
Owen Murphy alive, with the work actually supplied to him by the food
digested.

1. I have already stated that Dr. Ranke found 660 grams of carbonic
acid excreted daily, in the extreme fasting condition, when he weighed
67 kilograms. Now, since—

660 grams = 10185.55 grains,
67 kilograms = 147.71 pounds,

we find 69 grains per pound of body weight as the minimum excretion
of carbonic acid consistent with continued life.

This quantity of carbonic acid represents a work generated by its
production that would lift its corresponding pound of body weight
through a height of—

6 9 172
69 pS (S80) Sar — 5.716 miles.
Mohs eis. TOO THRU ME

Under ordinary conditions, the greater part of this carbonic acid and
work is produced by the digestion of farinaceous food; but since, as we
have seen, the farinaceous food is excreted as sugar in the diabetic
patient, and, therefore, does no work at all, the whole of the foregoing
work must be done by the digestion of other kinds of food.

IT have already shown that it follows, from Lavoisier’s experiments,
(confirmed in a remarkable manner by those of Regnault,) that the work
done by the combustion of carbon in the body is to the work done by
the combustion of hydrogen in the proportion of 9068 to 3024, almost
exactly 3 to 1; hence we have the work done by Owen Murphy, as a
minimum in health—

Miles.
Dyesto CARBON: ios ha vend vbw seleseebins ais Meee 5. 716
Due to liydro@en: © do. cithe 222 Sides Se ec ee Geek Ae 1. 905
7. 621

This result is somewhat in excess of the truth, for the same reason
that the calculated digestion coefficient of proteine is in excess of that
found by Frankland from experiment; for the combustion coefticients of
carbon and hydrogen in organic compounds are slightly less than when
free. If we are permitted to reduce 7.621 miles in the same proportion
as in the digestion of proteine, viz, 48 to 43, we shall find—

Owen Murphy minimum of work consists of body weight lifted through
6.85 miles.

Let us now compare this minimum with the work actually performed

RELATION OF FOOD TO WORK, AND 293

by him when suffering from diabetes, by the digestion of flesh food and
production of urea.

2. I have already shown that the work produced by the formation of
501.28 grains of urea is 704 foot-tons by calculation from the composition
of proteine and urea. This result should be reduced in the proportion
of 48375 to 43155, in order to obtain the work given by Professor Frank-
land’s eae. Making this reduction, we find that 500 grains of
urea correspond to 626.3 foot-tons of work, or 100 grains urea to 125.26
foot-tons; or, in other words, every four grains of urea excreted correspond
to five tons lifted through one foot.

Owen Murphy excreted, on an average, 1,182 grains of urea daily
during nine weeks, which, by the foregoing rule, are equal to—

1475 foot-tons = Murphy x a
where x represents in miles the height through which the patient could
be lifted by the work done per day, and is equal to—
__ 1475 x 2240
93.50 x 5280

This result is almost exactly equal to that already found as the min-
imum consistent with continued life, and explains in the most satisfactory
manner the complete prostration of the patient, notwithstanding the con-
sumption and digestion of more than double the usual quantity of flesh
food.

In corroboration of the foregoing conclusion, I may mention that
Murphy’s temperature was found to be constantly 29 F. below that of
other patients (chronic) placed in the same ward, and, in other respects,
under similar conditions.

His unfavorable symptoms (so long as his powers of digestion were
not impaired) were invariably alleviated by the free use of flesh food
and fat, the latter being instinctiveiy preferred by him; so much so,
that during the delirium that preceded his death for twenty-four hours,
he raved incessantly about “fat, roasted fat, which the angels of heaven
were preparing for him.”

I have studied many other cases of diabetes mellitus, and found similar
results in all; but I feel it to be unnecessary to describe them, as one
well-ascertained train of phenomena, carefully observed and recorded,
is quite sufficient to establish the order of nature.

— 6.69 miles.

CONCLUSION.

T have, now, Mr. President and gentlemen, to apologize for the length
of time during which I have spoken, and bor thank you for the patience
with which you have listened to me. I am well aware how much I am
indebted to your kindness, for I labored under two serious disadvantages
in addressing you—in the first place, I had undertaken a task beyond
my strength; and again, my address is made shortly after you had,
like myself, been charmed and instructed by the luminous, learned, and
294 ITS BEARING ON MEDICAL PRACTICE.

eloquent oration of Professor Rolleston. I felt confident, however, that
I possessed one advantage that he did not; I was a stranger in Oxford,
and believed that my faults in matter and style would be leniently criti-
cised; in this expectation, I am happy to say I am not disappointed;
and again I thank you for your kindness. Two other advantages I share
with him, which have contributed to his address as much as to my own—
a profound respect and reverence for all honest laborers in search of truth,
whether they have preceded us by twenty years or by two thousand
years; and an unwavering confidence and faith in the future that lies
before the science of medicine. We traverse a sea mapped with imper-
fect charts, but assured of a safe guide in our compass and stars; but
we cannot afford to neglect a single rock or shoal, buoyed for us by the
skill and care of those that have preceded us. Let us follow their
example, and mark with conscientious care, for our successors, the dan-
gers we ourselves discover and escape.

Assembled, as we are, within the halls of the University of Oxford,
the center and heart of all that is intellectual and religious in the life
of England—a university that borrows its accurate logic, as well as
its refined ethics, from the lips of Aristotle; that reverences Euclid as
the fountain and source of its elegant geometry; and sits at the feet of
Homer, Pindar, and Eschylus, to learn its poetry—we need not fear that
Hivpocrates and Galen will ever want admirers and students; but the
Oxtord of to-day has taught us, what many did not anticipate, that she
is equally ready and skillful, as she has proved herself to be in cultivat-
ing literature, to devote her vast intellectual energies to the encour-
agement and development of the natural sciences, based upon the solid
and only permanent foundation of mathematical research. The efforts
made within the last few years by Oxford to encourage within her walls
the mathematical and natural sciences, have won for her the respect,
and warmed toward her the hearts, of all that search for truth in the
study of nature. Our brothers in Oxford, like the Athenians at Syra-
cuse, have gone on board the fleet, while we watch them from the shore,
sympathizing in the sea-fight; as they win, we shout; when they fail,
we weep.

Long may the union of the far distant, but never to be forgotten, past,
with the living present, that now exists in Oxford, continue. No science,
no profession, can benefit so much by it as that of medicine.

;

HYDROGEN AS A GAS AND AS A METAL.

By Dr. J. EMERSON REYNOLDS.

Notes of a lecture delivered in the theater of the Royal Dublin Society.

When the programme of this course of lectures was published, it
became evident that the subject of the present one was, by a singular co-
incidence, closely connected with that of two of the earlier lectures of
the series. JI refer to the discourse of Mr. Stoney on ‘“ Meteoric Show-
ers,” and of Professor Ball on ‘“ Nebule.” In the latter lecture, we
learned that,many of the thin mists observable in the heavens are not
star clusters, as they were long supposed to be, but are enormous masses
of gaseous matter in a state of intense ignition. The examination of
the light emitted by these nebula enables us to state with certainty that
at least one elementary body well known upon this earth is present
in all of them as a principal constituent, and that element is one which
chemists call hydrogen. In Mr. Stoney’s lecture on ‘‘ Meteoric Showers,”
he pointed out that some of these strange visitors to our globe, the me-
tesric stones, are found to contain pent up within them a certain gas,
which gas has been shown by analysis to be hydrogen. We find, then,
this hydrogen in enormous quantities throughout space, and at so great
a distance trom our planet that the human mind is unable to appreciate
the interval which separates us from even the nearest of those mighty
gaseous oceans. Again, we find this hydrogen carried to our planet by
those strange wanderers of interstellar space, the meteors. And, finally,
we have it on this earth, not in the free state, it is true, but as an essen-
tial constituent of one of the most important components of this globe,
viz, water.

Our object in this lecture, then, is to study this remarkable element,
hydrogen, as we meet with it here, to determine some of its chief prop-
erties, and to ascertain its nature.

It has been already said that our chief storehouse of hydrogen on
this earth is water, but we find it in many other well-known bodies; for
instance, in the dreaded “ fire-damp” of our coal mines we have the hy-
drogen combined with another element, carbon. Again, common coal-
gas contains a large proportion of hydrogen; and I have only to men-
tion that this same bedy is an essential constituent of the bread we eat,
the sugar we mix with our tea, the clothes we wear, of our flesh and
blood too, in order to show that this is one of the most widely diffused
of that class of bodies known to chemists as elementary forms of mat-
ter. But though we find hydrogen in all the substances mentioned just
296 HYDROGEN AS A GAS AND AS A METAL.

now, and in many more besides, for the purpose of the present lecture
we shall confine our attention to one of its most remarkable and widely
diffused compounds, viz, water.

Water, in whatever condition we find it in nature, whether solid, liquid,
or gaseous, (as steam,) is a compound body, being made up of two sim.
ple forms of matter—the one called oxygen, the principal constituent
of the air we breathe, and the other hydrogen. Chemists are acquainted
with several modes of breaking up the compound water into its two
elementary components; but one of the most convenient methods we
ean employ for effecting this analysis of water is to make electricity
tear asunder its two constituents. When water is made part of a gal-
vanic circuit, by plunging the two poles of a galvanic battery into a
vessel of the liquid, we find that bubbles of gas are evolved at each
pole. By avery simple arrangement, we can collect the gases given
off at each terminal of the battery, and we then find, on testing the
products, that two colorless gases are obtained, possessing widely dif-
ferent properties. We observe that the gas liberated at the end of the
wire connected with the platinum plate of the galvanic battery (the
positive pole) is colorless, heavier than atmospheric air; and that when
a glowing wooden match is dipped into a vessel filled with the gas, the
wood burns with great brilliance, though the gas does not itself take
fire. This peculiar gas is therefore a powerful supporter of combustion,
though incombustible itself, and is called oxygen. We now turn our
attention to the gas given off at the negative pole of the battery, 7. ¢.,
at that connected with the zine plate. This is also found to be a color-
less gas, but very much lighter than air, and incapable of supporting
the combustion of a burning taper plunged into it; but though not asup-
porter of combustion in the ordinary sense of the term, it possesses the
remarkable property of burning itself with a pale lambent blue flame.
This is the gas hydrogen—the remarkable body whose chief properties
we have now more especially to study.

[Other modes of liberating hydrogen from water were shown, and the
leading properties of the gas demonstrated. |

When hydrogen burns in air, its sole product of combustion is water ;
hence the name of this remarkable substance, signifying ‘ water-pro-
ducer.” But oxygen and hydrogen can also be made to combine and
produce water when presented to each other in conditione nascenti, or at
the moment of liberation from other forms of combination. The im-
portance of knowing this fact will be apparent further on.

The beautiful researches of the late Professor Faraday have made us
familiar with the fact that many of the gases known to chemists are
merely the vapors of extremely volatile liquids; for, on subjecting
these gases to very great pressure and to intense cold, in many cases
liquids are obtained and even solids, which, on removal of the pressure
under which they were produced, resume the gaseous condition at ordi-
nary temperature. Hydrogen has been likewise subjected by the learned
HYDROGEN AS A GAS AND AS A METAL. 297

Dr. Andrews, of Belfast, to enormous pressures, and to extremely low
temperatures, but without exhibiting the slightest tendency to conden-
sation. Hence it has generally been considered a permanent gas; but
recent investigations, conducted by the master of the British Mint, the
learned and distinguished Professor Graham, tend strongly to show
that hydrogen gas, as we meet with it under ordinary circumstances, is
really the vapor of a highly volatile metal.

It may be now generally stated that when a solution containing a
metal and a non-metallic body is decomposed by a galvanic current, the
metal is usually deposited on the negative pole, and the non-metallic
body on the positive electrode. If, for instance, we take a solution of
common blue vitriol, or sulphate of copper, and plunge the poles of a
battery into the liquid, we find that immediately metallic copper is depos-
ited on the wire forming the negative pole, while the sulphurie acid (a
non-metallic body) appears at the positive end. If now we plunge the
two poles into plain water, which, as we have already seen, is a com-
pound of hydrogen and oxygen only, the hydrogen appears at the negative
pole and the oxygen at the opposite one. We learn, then, in applying
the galvanic test, that hydrogen arrays itself on the side of metals, and
this fact is completely in accord with the view of its nature referred to
above.

Again, it is a well-known fact that metals are capable of uniting with
each other so as toform compounds called alloys ; thus, brass is an alloy
resulting from the fusion of the two metals copper and zine in suit-
able proportions. But it is not always necessary that the two metals
should be heated together in order to make them combine; for, if we
take a slip of gold and plunge it into some of the liquid metal,
mereury, or quicksilver, as it is called, the gold and mereury combine
with each other to form an alloy or ‘ amalgam,” possessing a strong
metallic luster. To go just one step further: if we convert this metal,
mercury, into a colorless, invisible gas, which we can do by applying
sufficient heat, and if into a vessel filled with this mercury gas we
plunge a slip of gold, we find that the two metals combine or amalga-
mate nearly as easily as under ordinary circumstances. If, then, we
can accomplish so much with the mercury gas, whose metallic nature is
certain, why may we not make hydrogen gas alloy with some metal also?

By the very beautiful and interesting discovery that certain metals
possess the power of absorbing enormous quantities of hydrogen with-
out loss of metaliic appearance, Professor Graham has greatly strength-
ened the evidence in favor of the metallic nature of hydrogen, and hag
even gone so far as to calculate the density of the metal, which he calls
“ hydrogenium.”

Professor Graham found that certain metals—palladium and platinum
more particularly—possess the extraordinary power of absorbing large
volumes of hydrogen gas, and retaining it in some kind of combination.
In order to demonstrate this, it is only necessary to take a plate of pal-
298 HYDROGEN AS A GAS AND AS A METAL.

ladium foil, and, having connected it by a wire with the zine end of a
galvanic cell, to immerse the plate in acidulated water, the positive pole
being connected with a plate of platinum likewise immersed in the liquid,
hydrogen is immediately set free at the palladium surface, and oxygen
at the platinum end. The latter gas is given off in bubbles from the
platinum, whereas the hydrogen is absorbed by the palladiuin.

The palladium is capable of thus absorbing about nine hundred times
its volume of hydrogen, and this enormous absorption or condensation of
hydrogen witkin the pores of the metal takes place without any mate-
rial alteration in the color of the palladium, the latter retaining its metallic
appearance. This, amoug other circumstances, induced Professor Graham
to regard the charged palladium as being a true alloy of palladium with
the metal hydrogenium ; for it has been found that when two metals
unite, the compound resulting retains the characters of a metal, whereas
this is not the case when a metal and a non-metallic body combine. In
order to exhibit this absorption on a large scale, I have arranged the
following experinents :

TMT

MULTAN

Fig.

A small glass cell is partially filed with water, slightly acidulated with
sulphuric acid. Into this watera bar of metallic tin is dipped; this bar
is of the size shown at T, Fig. 1, and is supported in a horizontal
position by means of a varnished wire clamped to the side of the glass
cell with the aid of a binding-screw. Having secured T in its position,
we now take a slip of rather stout palladiam foil, about four inches long,
and a quarter of an inch wide, and coil it as shown at P; to the end
within the spiral is now attached a fine fiber of glass by means of a
minute quantity of cement, and this is so adjusted that the glass shall
act as a needle-indicator, as shown in the diagram. The palladium is
then attached to the edge of the glass cell by means of a binding-screw
and varnished wire. When the cell, so arranged,is placed at D, Fig.
2,* the image is projected on the screen, as in Fig. 1.

* This projection may be most conveniently effected by means of the apparatus shown
in section at Fig. 2,and which was arranged for me by Mr. Yeates, of Dublin. AtA we
have the front of a lantern with the object-glasses removed, the light oxyhydrogen,
oxycalcium, or any other, having to pass only through the condensers. After passing
the condensers, the rays fall on an ordinary mirror, B, suitably inclined to the boam of

HYDROGEN AS A GAS AND AS A METAL. 299

Without disturbing the apparatus, we now connect, by means of the
binding-serew and a copper wire, the palladium spiral with the zine
plate of a galvanie battery—one or two cells are sufficient—and the tin
rod is connected with the opposite plate of the battery. Immediately
on making contact, the water is decomposed by the electric current, hy-
drogen being liberated at the surface of the palladium, and oxygen on
the tin. The latter gas is set free in bubbles, but the hydrogen, instead
of being liberated in the gaseous form, is absorbed by the palladium ;
the volume of the metal is thereby increased, and the coil opens out as
if endued with vitality. In doing this the glass needle is made to travel
over several feet on the screen, and assumes the position represented by
the dotted line 8.

In this way we are able easily to show the expansion of the palladium
then charged with hydrogen; but it is obvious that, on the removal of
the hydrogen, the needle should return to its original position. In
order to take away the hydrogen from the palladium, we have simply to
reverse the poles of the battery; that is to say, we now connect the tin
bar with the negative wire, and the palladiam with the other pole.
Now, on passing the current, oxygen is set free at the surface of the
palladium spiral, and hydrogen on the tin. The oxygen, liberated in
juxtaposition with the hydrogenized palladium, unites with the hydro-
gen, and forms water, no material amount of oxygen appearing at the
surface of the palladium until ail the hydrogen has been removed from
the latter.

If we watch the effect of the change produced in this way on the
screen, we find that, according as the hydrogen is removed from the
palladium, the needle begins to move from the position it assumed at 0,
when the spiral was charged with hydrogen, or alloyed with hydro-
genium, if we prefer the term, until it returns to the starting-point a.
instead of resting there, as it cught to do, however, it travels on steadily
until it reaches the position c; thus demonstrating the singular fact
that the contraction of the palladium on losing its charge of hydrogen
is double the amount of its previous expansion. Proiessor Graham
accounts for this singular phenomenon by supposing that the particles
of the metal slide over each other in a lateral direction, so that the band
of the palladium is unusually shortened, though its density is not in-

light, so that tho latter may be reflected in a vertical direction, as indicated by the
dotted line. Immediately above this mirror is placed on a wooden support the flat
glass cell D, about an inch in depth, and of any required size. Above this vessel is
placed a double convex lens, E; the height at which this must be placed above D will
depend on the focus of the lens, and is readily found by ascertaining the point at
which the image of the object placed in D is most clearly defined on the screen. The
rays reflected from the first mirror, B, and having passed through D and E, now fall
on a second mirror, C, by which means they are projected on to the screen, and, when
the focus is properly adjusted by shifting E, a well-defined image of any object placed
at D is shown erect on the sheet.
300 HYDROGEN AS A GAS AND AS A METAL.

creased, since reduction in length is accompanied by a proportional
increase in other dimensions.

It is found that this palladium foil charged with hydrogen possesses
most powerful reducing properties; that the hydrogen within it is just
as capable of reducing silver salts as a metallic layer of zine would be.
As illustrating this point, we may cite an experiment: A plate of pal-
ladium foil was charged with hydrogen, as above described, and then
immersed in a solution of corrosive sublimate; almost immediately a
white precipitate of calomel made its appearance, and, when the action
proceeded a little further, mercury was reduced. On repeating this
experiment with a slightly alkaline solution of nitrate of silver, the
metal was quickly thrown down on the palladium plate, and, when an
alkaline solution of gold was used, the metal was likewise precipit«ted.
These precipitates were obtained under circumstances in which the ordi-
nary hydrogen gas or palladium foil alone would have been quite inea-
pable of effecting reduction.

We have already seen that hydrogen can be liberated from the charged
palladium by presenting to it oxygen in conditione nascent, but it ean
also be set free by heat, or by reduction of the pressure of the atmo-
sphere surrounding the charged plate. If a palladium wire be made to
absorb as much hydrogen as it can take up, and if the tip of the wire
be heated in the flame of a spirit-lamp, hydrogen gas is liberated, and
burns on the surface of the palladium, the flame continuing until all the
gas has been set free. Again, if a similarly charged wire be placed
under the receiver of an air-pump and the air exhausted, the hydrogen
is completely liberated in its ordinary gaseous condition.

In order to complete this account of hydrogenium, it is only neces-
sary to mention that its density is stated to be nearly 2, or about equal
to the specific gravity of the metal magnesium; but the means by which
Professor Graham has arrived at this result, though very ingenious, are
so unsatisfactory that we must take this estimate as being a mere ap-
proximation to the truth. In all probability we must wait for the accu-
rate determination of the specific gravity of hydrogenium until the metal
itself will have been isolated in a pure condition.

Thus, in the course of this lecture, we have liberated hydrogen, “ as
a gas,” from water, and in this condition have studied some of its proper-
ties. Again, we have made this remarkable element alloy itself with
palladium ; and when thus appearing in the guise of “ a metal,” we have
noted the chief phenomena it gives rise to. And now, like the bird
from its cage, we will set free this hydrogen from its prison-house of
palladium, and let it mingle with the mighty aerial ocean in which we
live and move.

A LECTURE ON THE IDENTIFICATION OF THE ARTISAN AND ARTIST.

By CARDINAL WISEMAN.
r

[In the spring of 1852 an association was formed by the Catholics of Manchester and
Salford, in England, to raise funds for the education of the poor. The committee, in
aid of this purpose, invited Cardinal Wiseman to deliver an address upon some literary
subject of general popular interest. The invitation was accepted, and the following
admirable address, for a copy of which we are indebted to a friend, was delivered in the
Corn Exchange, Manchester. We have thought that a more general diffusion of it
would be acceptable to those who are interested in the establishment of schools of art
in this country, and accordingly have given it a place in this report.—J. H.]

LADIES AND GENTLEMEN: I ought certainly to commence my address
to you by thanking you for the extremely kind manner in which you
have been pleased to receive me; but I feel that I must not waste your
time in mere expressions of a personal character, feeling rather that I
shall have to tax your time and your attention to a considerable extent.
I will, therefore, enter at once upon the proposed subject of my address,
which has already been communicated to you by my old and excellent
friend, the Bishop of Salford. And I am sure I need not say, for he
already has well expressed it to you, that it is a topic which at the mo-
ment has engaged its full share of public attention, as drawing to itself
the interest of all the educated classes, and it is in fact a topic connected
with important questions, the solution of which may have to exert an
important influence not only on our social but likewise on our moral
progress.

The topic on which I have to address you, then, is the CONNECTION
OR RELATION BETWEEN THE ARTS OF PRODUCTION AND THE ARTS OF
DESIGN.

By the arts of production, I mean naturally those arts by which what
is araw material assumes a form, a shape, a new existence, adapted for
some necessity or some use in the many wants ofdife. Such is pottery;
such is carving in its various branches, whether applied to wood or to
stone; such is the working of metals, whether of gold or silver or brass
or iron; such is the production of textile matters, of objects of whatever
sort and for whatever purpose; such is construction in its different
branches, commencing with the smallest piece of furniture, and ascend-
ing to a great and majestic edifice. By the arts of design, I understand
those which represent nature to us in any form, or which bring before
us beauty, whether in form or in color.

Now, these arts ought, as every one agrees, to be in close harmony
one with the other; but that harmony which I wish to establish between
them must be an honorable union, an equal compact, a noble league.
302 IDENTIFICATION OF THE ARTISAN AND ARTIST.

There is not to be one the servant, and the other the master; each must
be aware of the advantages which it can receive as well as those which
it can confer. Thus the arts, for instance, of design, will have to give
elegance of form, grace of outline, beauty of ornament, to that which is
produced by the other class of arts; and they in their turn have to trans-
mit and multiply and perpetuate the creations of the arts of design.
Now, it is agreed on all hands that as yet this complete harmony does
not exist; that we have far from arrived’ at that mutual application of
the one class to the other which gives us a satisfactory result. It is
unnecessary, I believe, to bring evidence of this. As we proceed, I
trust that opportunities will present themselves of bringing before you
authorities for that assertion. But I may say, at the very outset, that
the report which is published by the department of practical art is
almost based upon the acknowledgment that as yet we have not attained
that application of the arts of design to the arts of production which we
desire, and which is most desirable to the arts ef production to obtain.
It acknowledges the existence of a necessity for much more instruction
than has yet been given. It allows that for several years—thirteen
years, at least—of the existence of schools of design they have not been
found fully to attain their purpose, and a new organization and a new
system has now begun to be adopted. No one can appreciate, I trust,
more than I am inclined to do myself, the advantages which must result
from the multiplication of these schools of design as applied to manu-
factures, and other great improvements which they have already begun
to confer, and will continue, no doubt, still more to bestow upon the
industrial classes. I believe it most important to propagate to the
utmost the love of science, the love of art. J believe it most useful to ac-
custom every child to its first rudiments, its elementary states. 1 think, if
we can make drawing a part of universal education, a great deal will be
gained. But this, certainly, cannot be enough. I am willing to grant
that we shall have a great improvement upon what we have produced
in the form of art. I believe that we shall see better designers; men
with better imaginations; men who understand the harmony and com-
bination of colors better, and who ean give to the artisans patterns
which will greatly improve every department of our industry. Bat, I
ask, is that sufficient? Will this bring art up to what we desire? This
is the great question. This is the subject of which I am going to treat.
It appears to me that there is a very simple mode of looking at it; and
it is the one, consequently, which I shall adopt. It is a question partly
of experience. It is a lesson much of which history can teach us; and
I desire (o bring before you such facts as seem to me to bear upon the
question, and to enable us to come to a practical and satisfactory con-
clusion. I will endeavor to state the question under a very simple, but,
perhaps it may appear, not a very practical form.

There is now a great desire to form, not only in the capital, but also
in all great cities where industry prevails, museums, which should
IDENTIFICATION OF THE ARTISAN AND ARTIST. 803

contain all the most perfect specimens of art antiquity in every age has
left us of beauty in design and elegance in form. We wish that our
artisans should have frequently before them what may be considered not
merely actual models to copy, but likewise such objects as may gradually
impress their minds with feelings of taste. Now, I should like to have
the construction, the forming, of such a museum. And, in describing
it, L will confine myself entirely to one small department—that of classi-
eal art, classical antiquity—because I know, that, for a museum in-
tended to be practical to the eves of artisans, there is a far wider range
of collection to be taken than that to which I will confine myself. Well,
now I imagine to myself a hall at least as large as this, and of a more
elegant and perfect architecture. I will suppose it to be formed itself
upon classical models; and around it shall be ranged, not merely plaster
casts, but real marble statues and busts collected from antiquity. I
would range them round the throne so that each could be enjoyed at
leisure by the student. There should be room for the draughtsman to
take a copy from any side. In the center I would spread out a beautiful
mosaic, such as we find in the museums, for instance, of Rome, a pave-
ment in rich colors, representing some beautiful scene, which should be
most carefully railed off, that it might not be worn or soiled by the pro-
fane tread of modern men. There should be cabinets in which there
should be—but inclosed carefully with glass, so that there would be no
danger of accidents—the finest specimens of the old Etruscan vases, of
every size, of every shape, plain and eolored, enriched with those bean-
tiful drawings upon them which give them such rich characters, and at
the same time such price ; and on one side I would have collected for you
some specimens of the choicest products of the excavations ef Hereula-
neum. There should be bronze vessels of the most elegant form and the
most exquisite carving, and there should be all sorts even of household
utensils, such as are tound there, of most beautiful shapeand exquisite fin-
ish. Ona the walls I would have some of those paintings which have yet re-
mained almost unharmed after being buried for somany hundred of years,
and which retain their freshness, and would glow upon your walls, and
clothe them with beauty, and at the same time with instruction. And
then I would have amost choice cabinet, containing medals in gold and
silver and bronze, of as great an extent as possible, but chiefly selected
for the beauty of their workmanship; and engraved gems likewise,
every one of which should, if possible, be a treasure. Now, if such a
museum could be collected, you would say, i am sure, that so far as
classical antiquity goes—classical art—you have everything that you
could desire, and you have as noble, as splendid, as beautiful a collection
of artistic objects as it is within the reach of modern wealth and influence
to collect. In fact, you would say, if you could not make artists now by
the study of these objects, it was a hopeless matter, because here was
everything that antiquity has given us of the most beautiful.

Now, I am afraid that, while you have been foliowing me in this
304 IDENTIFICATION OF THE ARTISAN AND ARTIST.

formation of an ideal museum, you have thought it required a great
stretch of imagination to suppose it possible that such a collection could
be made in any city of England. I will ask you, then, now to spread
your wings a little more, and fly with me into even a more imaginary
idea than this. Let us suppose that by some chance all these objects
which we have collected were at some given period, in the first century
of Christianity, collected together in an ancicnt Roman house; and let
us suppose that the owner of the house suddenly appeared among us,
and had a right to claim back all these beautiful works of art which we
so highly prize, which we have taken so much trouble, and laid out so
much money, to collect. Now, what does he do with them when he has
got them back? What will he do with these statues which we have been
copying and drawing and admiring so much? Pliny finds great fault, is
very indignant with the people of his age, because he says they have
begun to form galleries, pinacothecas ; that such a thing was unknown
before; that no real Roman should value a statue merely as a work of art,
but that it was only as the statue of his ancestors that he ought to value
them. And thus that Roman looks at them as nothing else. He takes
them back; he puts the best of them, not in the center of a room where
it may be admired; but to him it is a piece of household furniture, and
he puts it with all its fellows into the niches from which they have been
taken, and where they are, perhaps, in a very bad light. It is exceed-
ingly probable that if the statues were not of his ancestors, he would,
instead of allowing them to remain in the beautiful hall prepared for
them, send them into his garden, into his villa, to stand out in the open
air, and receive all the rain of heaven upon them. The mosaic which we
have valued so much, and which is so wonderful a piece of work, he will
put most probably into the parlor of his house to be trodden under foot
by every slave that comes in and goes out. And now he looks about
him at that wonderful collection of beautiful Etruscan vases which we
have got together, and he recognizes them at once: “Take that to the
kitchen; that is to hold oil:” “Take that to the scullery; that is for
water:” “Take these plates and drinking-cups to the pantry; I shall
want them for dinner.” And those smaller, those beautiful vessels, which
yet retain as they do the very scent of the rich odors which were kept
in them, “Take them to the dressing-rooms; those are what we want
on our toilet, This is a washing-basin which I have been accustomed to
use. What have they been making of all these things, to put them under
glass, and treat them as wonderful works of art.” And, of those beau-
tiful bronze vessels, some belong again to the kitchen, others belong to
our iurnished apartments; but every one of them is a mere household
piece of furniture. And then he looks into the beautiful cabinet; and
he sends those exquisite gems into his rooms, to be worn by his family,
as ordinary rings. And your gold medals and silver medals and bronze
medals he quietly puts into his purse; for, to him, they are common money.
Now, then, here we have made a collection of magnificent productions

SS ae i mr na ae

SSS ee ee —

IDENTIFICATION OF THE ARTISAN AND ARTIST. 305

of art; and, in reality, these were all the fruits of the arts of produc-
tion.

Now, what are we to say to this? We are to say that there was a period
in Rome, and there were similar periods in other countries at different times,
when there was no distinction between the arts of production and the
art of design; but those very things, which to us now are objects of ad-
miration as artistic work, were then merely things made and fashioned
as we see them for the ordinary uses to which we adapt other things of
perhaps similar substances, but of a very different form. Yor, in fact,
if you had these vessels, you would not know what to do with them.
We could not cook a dinner in them. We certainly could not adapt
them to our common wants. But to the Romans they were the very
objects which were used for those purposes ; and although now, in read-
ing the old writers, and trying to make out the dreadfully hard names
by which all these different pieces of pottery are called, yet, learned and
classical as all that may be, when we come to translate these high-
sounding Greeks names into English, we get very modest results—pip-
kins and basins and ewers and flagons, and such homely names as these.
Now, where is the art there? Is it that these were designed, do you
think, by some man of great reputation; and then that they were all care-
fully copied, exactly imitated, from his design? Oh, certainly nothing of
the sort. The art that is in these beautiful things is a part of themselves;
is bestowed upon them in their fabrication. You may take the Etruscan
vase, and you may scratch away from it, if you please, every line which
had been traced by the pencil of the embellisher upon it; and, after that,
the seal of beautiful design, grace, and the elegance of true art are
so stamped upon it, that, if you wish to remove them, you must smash
the vase. It is inherent in it; it was created with it.

Then what I fancy is desired is, that we should bring art back to that
same state in which the arts of design are so interwoven with the arts
of production that the one cannot be separated from the other, but
everything which is made is by a certain necessity made beautiful. And
this can only be when we are able to fill the minds of our artisans with
true principles, until really these have pervaded their souls, and until
the true feeling of art is at their fingers’-ends. You will see, I think, from
the example which I have given you, what is the principle at which I
am aiming; which I wish to establish. It is this: That at any period in
which there has been a really close union between the arts of production
and the arts of design, this has resulied from the union in one person of the
artist and the artisan.

Such now is the principle that Iam going to develop; and in doing
so I will distinguish between arts of production belonging to two dis-
tinct classes. There are those in which necessarily there is manipula-
tion—the use of the hand, or of such implements as the hand directly
employs; and there are those in which mechanical ingenuity is employed
in the art of production. It is clear that these two must be treated

distinctly ; and I will begin with the first, which affords the greatest
208
306 IDENTIFICATION OF THE ARTISAN AND ARTIST.

number of illustrations and examples, in proof of that principle which I
have laid down.

I will begin first, then, with illustrations from metal work. Now, the
period in which there was the greatest perfection in this sort of work,
as is universally acknowledged, is from about the fourteenth century—
1300, I think to 1600, or at least after 1500. It is singular that, in that
period, five at least, very probably more—but we have it recorded of five
of the most distinguished sculptors whose works are now the most highly
prized, that they were ordinary working goldsmiths and silversmiths.
This is given usin their respective biographies: Benvenuto Cellini, Luca
della Robbia, Lorenzo Ghiberti, Brunelleschi, and Baccio Bandinelli, all
of whom were goldsmiths and workers at first, developed most extra-
ordinary talent as sculptors. How was this done? Can we conceive a
person who is merely a workman, working upon such plate as is put
before him, becoming a man of high first-class character in art? There
have been examples, but they are rare. But here we have five men, in a
limited period, becoming most eminent. Now, what was the reason of
that? It was because the jeweler, the silversmith, who worked with his
hands, was educated, not only as an artist, but an artist of the highest
class; and Vasari observes, in the life of Bandinelli, that in those times
no man was reputed a good goldsinith who was not a good draughtsman,
and who could not work as well in relief. We have a principle then
established, that the person who did the material work in the finer works
was an artist, who could not only draw, but model, and did the same with
the metal itself; for that is the nature of that class of work of which I
have spoken.

Now, take the life of Cellini. Here was a man who originally was put
to a totally different employment. His father had no higher ambition
concerning him than that he should become a great player upon the
flute; and he teased him during all the last years of his life because he had
no taste for this, and would run after goldsmiths and others, and learn
the different branches of their profession. He led the most wonderful
life. He was to day at Rome; next day at Florence; then he was at
Naples; then at Venice; then in France; then back again: that he could
have done any work, in fact, seems incredible to any one who reads his
life. And he did not travel by train or any public conveyance which
could take on his luggage. He traveled on horseback each time, from
Rome all the way to Paris. He had no luggage; he was a poor man,
and whenever he came and started his shop, he began by making his
own tools; and he worked with his scholars, who were generally young
men that became themselves eminent in the profession, in a little open
shop, looking to the street; there he himself hammered and carved and
cast and shaped, and did whatever else was necessary for the work. He
was an actual working goldsmith ; and the beauty of his works consists
in this, that they have the impress of genius so marked upon them, that

they never could have been designed by one person and executed by an--
IDENTIFICATION OF THE ARTISAN AND ARTIST. 307

other. There is as much art in the finish by his own hand, in every
enamel, in the setting of every stone, as there is in the entire design ;
nor does he ever dream of talking of himselfin any other way; and yet how
he went on from step to step, until at length he produced the most mag-
nificent works, on the largest scale, in marble and in bronze! He describes
how he constructed his own Perseus. He went to buy his own wood,
and saw it brought; and when he was casting that most exquisite statue
of Perseus, which is still one of the wonders of art, he had every sort of
misfortune. His furnace blew up, the roof was blown off, and the rain
came in torrents upon the fire just the moment that the metal was going to
be poured in. By his ingenuity, hisextraordinary contrivances, he baffled,
it might appear, the whole chain of accidents, and brought out, almost
without a flaw, that most perfect piece of workmanship. You may
imagine to what a state he was reduced, when, the very moment that
the metal was ready for pouring out, the explosion took place. He had
no other resource but to run to his kitchen, as he says, and to take every
piece of copper, to the amount of two hundred porringers and different
sorts of kettles, and throw them into the fire; and from these that splen-
did statue came forth. There was genius.

As a curious instance of the most extraordinary ingenuity, he tells us
that on one occasion a surgeon came into his shop to perform an opera-
tion on the hand of one of his pupils. Upon looking at his instruments,
he found them, as they were in those days, so exceedingly rude and
clumsy, that he said, “ Ifyou will only wait half an hour, I will make you a
better instrument;” and he went into his workshop, and took a piece of
steel, and brought out a most beautifully finished knife, with which the
operation was successfully performed, Now this man, at the time you
see him thus working in his shop as a common workman, was modeling
in the most exquisite manner in wax; spending his evenings in the pri-
vate apartments of the Grand Duke, modeling in his presence, and assist-
ing him with a hundred little trifles which are now considered treasures
of art. And so wherever he was, and under all circumstances, he acted
as an artist, but at the same time asa truly laboring artisan. It was the
same with others in the same profession. He was not the only man, by
any means, whose genius was so universal; because we find him telling
us repeatedly that the moment he heard of some goldsmith (and in those
days a goldsmith was really an artist, as I have already said) who excelled
in any particular branch of art, he determined to excel him. Thus it
was that he grew to rival the medals of one, the enamels of another, the
peculiar manner of putting foil to precious stones of another; and, in

fact, there was not a branch of art which he did not consider it his duty
toexcelin. With this spirit, isit wonderful that men of really great taste
should have been produced? men who, you observe, looked upon every
branch of productive art as really a branch of the higher art of design ;
and thus in their own persons combined that art with the power of the
tool; were artists as well as artisans.
308 IDENTIFICATION OF THE ARTISAN AND ARTIST.

There is another celebrated jeweler of that time, whom he mentions
frequently, of the name of Antonio Foppo, a Milanese, who is better
known in the history of art by a name which he received in derision
in Spain, the name of Capodursa, which means a bear’s face, and which
he is known by, commonly, in works of art. Cellini describes to us
the processes by which he produces his works; and they are so careful,
and require such accurate knowledge of art, that his knowledge must
have been very superior indeed in the arts of design. As an instance of
what was the latitude and the extent of art, and how really a jeweler
or goldsmith in those days was not above work which in our days no
one would dare offer to a person of such a profession, we have a case
recorded in the history of one of the painters, Pierino del Vaga, by
Vasari, speaking of a very particular friend of Pierino’s, a goldsmith.
When the Grand Duke of Tuscany was building his palace, he gave to
this man a commission to make the metal blinds for the ground floor
of that palace; (and it is considered a great pity that a work of so
homely a nature should have perished, because there can be no doubt
whatever that it was a work of exquisite beauty.) So that, even upon
what would be considered the lowest stage of common production,
the artist did not feel it was beneath him to design; -.not to give a de-
sign to others, but to execute it himself. We have in the collections,
particularly of Italy, in the palaces, evident proofs of the great extent to
which this combination of various arts must have been carried, in works
exceedingly complicated, extremely beautiful, and at the same time
necessarily requiring a great deal of ability to execute. Those are the
rich cabinets in which may be found, mixed together, work in marble,
and in ivory, in wood, in metals, in enamel, and in painting, all com-
bined together by one idea, and all executed by one hand, but of the
authors of which it seems impossible to find any good trace. They
probably were produced by those men called goldsmiths, and who, as I
said before, could work as well upon any of those substances, and thus
bring them harmoniously to form one beautiful whole.

Now, proceeding from what is most precious in art to what is more
homely, let us return fora moment to a subject on which f have al-
ready touched. IE have spoken of the beauty of the productions of an-
tiquity in metal, which were found in the excavation particularly of those
two buried museums, as we may call them, of antiqury, Pompeii and
Herculaneum. The collection of these is chiefly in Naples. Except
where presents have been made to other countries, they have been
jealously kept together. Now, these different objects have not been
dug out of temples or out of palaces, but they have been taken out of
every sort of house-—-houses evidently belonging to the citizens—
and I think you may see that there is not one in that eolleetion which
does not immediately arrest the eye both by the beauty of form and by
its exquisite fancy. Many of them have been engraved in the publica-
tion called the ‘“‘Museo Borbonico,” the Bourbon Museum, the Museum

IDENTIFICATION OF THE ARTISAN AND ARTIST. 309

of Naples; and I think very justly the remark is made by the editor in
the fifth volume, that the whole modern civilized world, however vast it
may be, and however it may labor in so many arts and so many trades,
does not and cannot exhibit even a small proportion of that elegance
and ornament, varied in a thousand ways, and in innumerable most
fantastic modes, which are to be admired in the remains of furniture
found in Pompeii and Herculaneum—two cities which oceupied so in-
significant a place in the ancient world. That is quite true. Now,
what are we to infer from this?) There can be no doubt, as I have said,
on examining these beautiful objects, that they have been for common
use. There are scales, steelyards, which can only have been made
to weigh provisions; the chains are most delicately worked; the weight
is frequently a head with a helmet, most beautifully chiseled; and so
genuine and true are these, so really intended for’every-day use, that
one of them has stamped upon it yet, the authentication made at the
capitol of the weights being just. This was a steelyard which was in
the kitcherf, and it was for the ordinary purposes of the house. There
are other large vessels which must have served for culinary purposes,
and of which the handles and the rings and the different parts are fin-
ished far beyond what the finest bronzes that are made now in Paris can
equal. What are weto conclude? You do not suppose these were the
designs of the Flaxmans and the Baileys of that day. Who ever heard of
a great artist in Pompeii and Herculaneum? And how can you imagine
that every house furnished itself with what were considered exquisite
and extraordinary specimens of art for the use of their every-day life?
And then, where are their common utensils, if these are not they? If
these lamps were not what they burnt, if these candelabra were not the
shafts upon which they were hung, if these vessels were not those in
which they prepared their viands, where are those? Were they carried
away in the flight? But the most precious would surely be carried
away, and the commoner be left behind. Nothing of the sort. One
may see here everything is to be found; and everything is beautiful in
shape, and generally in finish. What are we to conclude? Why, noth-
ing less than that the braziers who made these things were able to
make them. They came from the hands of the brass-founder; they
have been chiseled in the workshop; they have been finished, not to
be put up in cabinets, but in order to be knocked about by servants.
Then here we have a state of art in which the producer, the man who
makes, who manipulates, who handles the object of manufacture which
he produces, was able to do what now defies almost our most superior

_ workmen.

Now let us go to another part of the world, and come to a later
period. Nuremberg, during the time which I have specified—between
1300 and the middle of 1500—was a center of art, and especially
in all metal work. There is an observation of Hoffman, a German
writer, that Nuremberg was the city in which the artist and the crafts;
O10 IDENTIFICATION OF THE ARTISAN AND ARTIST.

mman walked most harmoniously hand in hand; but I think he does not

go far enough; he ought to have said that it was a city in which the arti-

san and the artist were the most perfectly combined. At avery early period,

that is, as early as 1355, there was produced a piece of work such as is at

this day the admiration of all artists. And what was it? It was a mere

well, a fountain in the public square; ‘the beautiful fountain,” “the beau-

tiful well,” as itis to this day most justly called. Now, this was made en--
tirely by the designer, by the artist himself, Héfer, who united in himself
these two qualities; and it is acknowledged that in the treatment of the
metal work, and in the beauty of the religious images which surround this
fountain, but few steps have been made in art since that time. And he,

as I observed, was a mere workman; he did his own work. At a later
period—at what is considered the third period of art, in Nuremberg—
there is another remarkable piece of metal work; and I am glad to
find that in the last report just published by the department of practi-

cal art, Mr. Smirke has introduced a letter in which he begs that this
piece of workmanship, which he calls one of the most celebrated pro-
ductions in metal, may be copied by casts, and brought to England as a
specimen of art. Now that beautiful production was of as early a
period as 1506; it was made between 1506 and 1519, and it is the
shrine of St. Sebald, in his church at Nuremberg; an exquisite piece of
work—so beautiful, so elegant, as that no iconoclasm had dared to touch
it (though I must say that Nuremberg had been preserved from the re-
proach of that error)—but there it is, in its freshness and its beauty

as it came from the artist’s hand; in the center, a shrine of silver, in
which is the body of the saint, and around it what may be called a cage
or grating of the most perfect metal work, and with statues of most
exquisite workmanship. Now I do wish this to be brought to England—
a copy, that is, of it—not merely because it will show what was done
in ages that we consider hardly emerging from barbarism; not only what
beautiful inspirations religion could give the artist; but because it will
show to those who are trying to raise the character of any art the true
principle upon which alone tt can ever be raised to what it was then. They
will see the artist portrayed upon it—Peter Vischer; they will see him

with his apron on; they will see him with his chisel and his mallet in
his hand; they will see that he aspires to nothing more than to be a
handicraftsman, a workman in metal, who yet could conceive, and then
design, this most magnificent production of man’s hand.

Another example, something of the same sort, we shall find in a
neighboring country. There is at Antwerp, likewise, a beautiful well
near the cathedral; and if you ask who it was that produced this, you
will hear that it was one who sometimes had been known as a painter,
and at others, under the more familiar appellation of the “ Blacksmith
of Antwerp,” as a blacksmith; and there is a piece of iron-work which
I fear that not our most perfect works could turn out—certainly not,
nothing that could be compared with it. And Quintin Matsys was

IDENTIFICATION OF THE ARTISAN AND ARTIST. oilck

a poor school-boy, who, finding the heavy blacksmith’s work too much
for him, took to drawing and coloring little images of saints, to be
given out in processions, and thus rose to be a painter and an artist,
finding his first profession too heavy for his strength. But this iron-
work is a work of art; it is not a work merely cast in the lump, and
then put together; but it is a work that required genius, that required
great artistic skill; it shows that the artist even worked in iron; that a
man who belonged to the very lowest branch of what may be considered
the arts—laboring in metal—was able, notwithstanding, to imagine and
to carry out the most beautiful conceptions.

Now, coming to modern times, do we find anything of this sort? I
content myself with referring to that last report which I have just men-
tioned—of the department of practical art. In that report there
are incorporated letters from some of our best silver and goldsmiths
upon the character of the artistic proficiency of the workmen. I will
only read one, forall in reality repeat the same sentiment. ‘At present
we seldom find an English workman who understands drawing. Not
one of our English workmen has a knowledge of drawing;” and it is
said that, without exception, these men will not even go to the school.
Attempts have been made to bring them to the school of practical art, that
they may learn something of the principles by which the works in their
branch of productive art should be conducted. They cannot be induced
to go and obtain that information, though it is nearly, or entirely,
gratuitously given. So little taste, so little feeling of artis there in
our workmen now. Can we expect they will produce works that will
rival those of ancient times? Jor there is this broad, immense differ-
ence: in one, the artist was the workman; now, the workman has only
a degree of intelligence above the machinery which he uses. He can
apply those means which are put into his hand; but can have no artistic
feeling to give the last touch, or even to bring things to ordinary perfec-
tion. On the other hand, we must be struck with the difference, that
in France there is much more taste, much more knowledge, much more
intelligence, in the actual artificer; the exhibition showed, that, though
we had magnificent things in silver-work, and gorgeous objects in
metallic productions, beautiful and splendid, yet, when you came to
look at them with the artist’s eye, you could not help observing the
immense difference between our English productions and those of France;
though, be it spoken to the glory of our English goldsmiths, they have
both the taste and the generosity and munificence to bring over and to

employ the very first foreign artists; and it was thus we did produce

some objects that stood in competition, not with those of the workman’s
rivals, but with those of his own countrymen.

In Vecht there is an example of what the artists in old times were.
He began as a cotton-spinner; he became a manufacturer of toys; then
a button-maker; and then he began to work with the chisel. His ge-
nius developed itself. He began to retouch and repair ancient armor,
312 IDENTIFICATION OF THE ARTISAN AND ARTIST.

and then was tempted, seeing that these were things sought after, (it
appears with the most honest intention,) to imitate them; and he found
that they were bought and put in royal and imperial cabinets as real
work of what is called cinquecento. And then he imitated the shields,
working exactly upon Cellini’s principle, that everything, however small,
is worked out separately, and then fastened together; that nothing is
cast, but that everything, to the smallest tip of the least finger, is hol-
low; and he worked on, and produced it by hisartistic and careful ma-
nipulation. He began to work this way, and he found his silver-work also
became considered as ancient, and was adopted into collections of valuable
antiquities. He then learned the power of his own genius, and he soon
rose; and, when the late revolution in France took place, he had com-
missions for works to the amount of £60,000. And this was all his own
work, the production of his own hands. However, his losses were in
common with many others who had engaged in higher branches of art,
and he has been since in this country; but certainly those specimens of
his work which we had in the exhibition were not only most beautiful,
but most exquisite ; and many persons who took the pains to examine
in detail some of the works in silver, which were presented by one
French house in particular—the Fréres Maurice—must have been struck
by the high artistic merit of them all. And they all are worked entirely
bit by bit by the artist; and it was impossible they could be executed
but by an artist who could model as well as draw, and who knew how
to treat his metal perfectly, so as to give all the softness, beauty, and
delicacy of the original model.,

Now let us proceed to what may be considered a higher branch of
art, and that is sculpture. We shall find exactly the same principle
throughout; all the greatest artists of the most flourishing period were
men who did their own work. You are probably aware—many, I have
no doubt, are—at the present day, when a sculptor has to produce a
statue he first of all makes his model in clay; probably a drawing first,
then a small model, then a model exactly as he intends the statue to be,
fall-sized and completely finished; from this the cast is taken in plaster;
the block of marble of proper size is put beside it, and a frame over it
from which there hang threads with weights; these form the points
from which the workman measures, from corresponding lines, first to
the models, and then from these which are over the cast to the cast it-
self; and by means of the merest mechanical process he gradually cuts
away the marble to the shape of his cast, and often brings it so near to
the finished work that the artist himself barely spends a few weeks upon
it. This was so much the case with a very eminent sculptor that it is
well known he hardly ever had occasion to touch it.

Now that was not the way the ancients worked: they knew perfectly
wellthat there was more feeling in the few touches which the master-hand
gives, even from the very beginning of the work, than there can be in
the low and plodding process of mechanical labor; and we find that

IDENTIFICATION OF THE ARTISAN AND ARTIST. ole

those who were really exquisite sculptors in ancient times were also
their own workmen. Vasari tells us of Orcagna, that he made at Florence
seven figures, all with his own hand, in marble, which yet exist. Now,
Oreagna was certainly a remarkable person. He was asculptor, painter
and an artist: and so justly vain, if one may so speak, of this varied
character of his art, that, upon his monuments or sculptures, he calls
himself a painter; upon his paintings, he always calls himself a seulp-
tor. His paintings are to be found in the cemetery at Pisa. The most
beautiful and splendid of his works is the matchless altar in the church
at San Michael, in Florence, of which, I am glad to say, there will be
an exact copy in the future Crystal Palace. This artist, now, whose
work is certainly: most beautiful, most finished, as far as we can gather
from his life, actually did the work with his own hands, and carved the
whole of the marble himself.

I shall have occasion to speak of another celebrated artist under an-
other head; and therefore I now will mention one who became very cel-
ebrated, and from whose life it is‘evident that he did the whole of the
carving with his own hands, and that is Brunelleschi. He lived at the
period when art was becoming truly most beautiful—the period which
just preceded the appearance, perhaps, of a still greater artist, but who,
in some respects, departed from the purest principles of art. He was
the contemporary of Donatello, and they were both very great friends,
and worked even in the same church. An anecdote related by Vasari,
in the life of Donatello, will show us how truly Brunelleschi was not
merely a sculptor, but a carver who performed the work with his own
hand. He tells us that Donatello had received a commission to carve
a crucifix, (which yet exists in the church of Santa Croce, under a beau-
tiful painting by Taddeo Gaddi,) and that he produced what was con-
sidered a very fine work; but he was anxious that his friend Brunelles-
chi should see and approve of it. He invited him therefore, one day, to
inspect it; which shows that the work had been covered up and con-
cealed during the execution. Brunelleschi looked at it, and said noth-
ing. His friend Donatello felt hurt, and said, “I have brought you
here to give me your opinion; tellme candidly what do you think of it?”
“Well, then,” Brunelleschi said, “I will tell you, at once, that itis a

figure, not of Christ, but of a peasant or a rustic.” Donatello was in-

dignant. It was perhaps the most beautiful specimen of the subject in
carving that had been produced; and he used an expression which be-
came a proverb; and I cannot help remarking how many expressions of
artists have turned into proverbs. The expression in Italian means
this: “Take a piece of wood, and make another.” Brunelleschi did not
reply. He went home. He did take a piece of wood. He said nothing
to Donatello, and he carved his crucifix. When it was quite finished, he
met Donatello, and said, “Will you come and sup with me this even-
ing?” (Now I narrate this anecdote partly because it shows us what
the great artists were—that they were not great gentlemen living in any
314 IDENTIFICATION OF THE ARTISAN AND ARTIST.

particular style.) ‘ I will do so with pleasure,” said Donatello. ‘Then
come along ;” and Brunelleschi, as they went on, stopped a} the market,
bought eggs and cheese for their supper, put them in an apron, and said
to Donatello, ‘‘ Now, you carry these to my house while I buy something
else, and Vl follow you.” Donatello entered the room, saw the crucifix,
let fall his apron, and smashed the eggs. Brunelleschi soon followed,
and found Donatello with his hands stretched out, and his mouth open,
looking at this wonderful work. “Come,” said he to Donatello, ‘‘ where’s
our supper?” “‘Thave had my supper,” said he; “ you get what you can
out of what is left.” And then, like a true, noble-hearted, generous
artist, he took his friend by the hand, and said, “ You are made to
represent Christ; I, only to represent peasants.” Now; this shows, as I
said before, that this poor artist carried on his own work with his own
hands, shut up in his own house; in fact, that, as Vasari tells us, he
never allowed any one to see it until it was quite completed.

There can be no doubt that, among all the names celebrated in art,
there is not one that can be put in comparison with that of Michael An-
gelo; aman who, not merely from his follower, disciple, and intimate,
Vasari, but even from jealous and envious and ill-tempered Benvenuto
Cellini, receives constantly the epithet of ‘the divine.” No man cer-
tainly ever had such a wonderful soul for art, in every department: the
cupola of St. Peter’s, as an architect; his Moses and his Christ, as a
sculptor; and his Last Judgment, on the ceiling of the Sistine Chapel,
as a painter, are three monuments which would have made the eternal
fame, not of three, but of a hundred, artistsin each department. Great,
noble, generous, and though perhaps somewhat in his temper not amia-
ble, yet sternly honest in all his dealings, he seems to have been the
great center around which the art of his period revolved. There was
no one so great, so sublime in any particular branch of it, that did not
look up to Michael Angelo, and consider him his superior. Jt is acknowl-
edged that Raffaelle went into the Sistine Chapel, and saw Angelo’s
wonderful works, and changed entirely his style upon beholding them;
and it is particularly acknowledged by the writers of that time, that in
every other department—civil engineering, &c.—he was considered
equally supreme. Now, you would suppose that this man, upon whom
commissions poured in every day for great works, would have employed
a number of artisans to assist him; that he would have had carefully
prepared models, which he would have intrusted to skillful artificers,
so as to lighten his labor. But nosuch thing. There is every evidence
we can desire, that, from the beginning to the end, Michael Angelo per-
formed the whole of his own work; that he began with the piece of
marble as it came from the quarry; that, if not always, pretty generally,
he did not even condescend to make a design beyond a small wax
model, but immediately set to work with chisel and mallet on the figure
which he had in his imagination, and which he knew was as truly lurk-
ing in the inanimate block. Vasari shows us, in fact, from his unfin-

IDENTIFICATION OF THE ARTISAN AND ARTIST. aLd

ished pieces, in what way he must have mapped out the marble and
done the work himself; and that is why we have so many vast pieces
by him unfinished: either the stroke did not come out as he desired, or
it went too far into the marble, and spoilt his labor. But so it is, that
by far the greater part of those gigantic pieces which he finished, if not
all, were the productions of his own hand, as well as of his intellect.

When about seventy-five years of age, Vasari tells us, he used to be
just as indefatigable with his chisel and hammer as when he was a stout,
young man. He had near his bed-room, if not in it, (for he lived ina
most primitive and simple manner,) an immense block of marble, and,
when he had nothing else to do, he used to be hammering at that; and
when asked why: he so continuously worked at this branch of his vari-
ous arts, he used to reply that he did it for amusement, to pass his time,
and that it was good for his health to take exercise with the mallet.
He undertook at that age, out of an enormous block of marble, to bring
out four figures, larger than life, representing the descent from the
cross; and he had nearly worked out the figure of our Lord, when, hap-
pening to meet with a vein that was hard and troublesome, he one day
broke it into half a dozen pieces. It was seen in this state by a friend,
and his servant begged it for him. It was put together, and it is now
to be seen at Florence. But Vasari says that it was necessary, in order
to give him occupation, to get another large block of marble and put it
near his bed, that so he might continue at his work; and he began
another group of the same sort. This was at the age of seventy-five.
And Vasari gives us an interesting account of how he worked: he says
he was remarkably sober, and while performing his greatest works, such
as the paintings, he rarely took more than a crust of bread and a glass
of wine for his dinner. This sobriety, he says, made him very vigilant,
and not require much sleep; and very often in the night he used to rise,
when he could not sleep, and work away with his chisel, having made
for himself a sort of helmet, or cap, out of pasteboard, and upon the
middle of this, in the top, he had his candle, so that the shadow of his
body never could be thrown upon the work.

Apropos of this, Vasari tells us an anecdote which is interesting as
showing the character of Michael Angelo and of his time. Vasari
observes that he never used wax candles for this purpose, but a particu-
lar sort of candles made of goat’s tallow, which, he says, are particularly
excellent. Wishing to make him a present, he (Vasari) sent to Michael
Angelo his servant one day with four bags of these particular candles,
containing forty pounds of them. The servant brought them; and
Michael Angelo, who never accepted a present, told him to take them
back again, he would not receive them. The servant said, ‘They have
nearly broken my arm in bringing them, and I shali not carry them
back.” “Then do what you like with them,” said Michael Angelo.
“Then,” replied the servant, “I observed, as I came to your house, that
just before your door there was a nice bed of just-hardened mud: Vl go
316 IDENTIFICATION OF THE ARTISAN AND ARTIST.

and stick all the candles in this, and light them all, and leave them
there.” Michael Angelo said, “No, I can’t allow you to make such a
confusion as there would be about my door; so you may leave them.”
This shows the homely and friendly way in which the artists lived among
themselves.

We have a very interesting account of the manner in which he used
to work at his marble, from a contemporary French writer, who says:
“T can say that I have seen Michael Angelo, when he was about sixty
years of age, and not then very robust, make the fragments of marble
fly about at such a rate, that he cut off more in a quarter of an hour than
three strong young men could have done in an hour—“a thing almost in-
credible to any one who has not seen it; and he used to work with
such fury, with such an impetus, that it was feared he would dash the
whole marble to pieces, making at each stroke chips, of three or four
fingers’ thick, fly off into the air;” and that with a material in which,
if he had gone only a hair’s-breadth too far, he would totally have de-
stroyed the work, which could not be restored like plaster or clay.

Going now to another part of the world for the same art, we return
to Nuremberg, and find a most magnificent piece of sculpture in stone,
unrivaled in the delicacy and exquisite beauty of the work; that is
the tabernacle in the church of St. Lawrence. It rises from the ground
and goes up, not merely to the top of a very high church, running along
like a plant, with one of the pillars against which it is built; but, as if
the church was not high enough for it, creeping far beyond, and making
the most graceful termination, which has nothing similar in works of
this sort. So beautiful and delicate is the whole work, representing all
the mysteries of our Lord’s life and passion, that, for a long time, people
used to assert that it was not stone, but modeled in some composition.
But it has been proved beyond doubt that it is stone. Now, the man
who made this was a mason—a common working stone-mason—Adam
Kraft, who built part of the tower of the church, and whose name is
upon it as the mason who built it; and he, until 1490, when he was
fifty-three years of age, had never attempted to work as a sculptor;
and yet, before he died, he had not only executed many beautiful works,
and among them a carved staircase in the tower, but this exquisite
work, which is without a parallel. He has represented the whole of it
as supported by three kneeling figures, himself and his two apprentices,
who executed alone the whole work.

We see, therefore, that wherever there has really been grand or noble
work executed by sculptors, they have been artificers as well as designers ;
they have done the work with their own hands, as well as imagined it in their
own fancies. :

Let us go now to another department of art. We have treated of met-
als and carved work in wood and stone. Letusnow go to pottery. Ihave
already observed that those beautiful vases, known by the name of Etrus-
can, were really made originally for domestic use; that, consequently,

IDENTIFICATION OF THE ARTISAN AND ARTIST. one

they were made by the potter, and not by a fine artist only. This
has been fully proved. It usedto be thought at one time that they were
all funereal, or of symbolical use, being found almost entirely in tombs;
but it has been proved that the greater part of them were for the common
domestic purposes of the table and the household; that some, indeed,
were given as prizes at the games, filled with oil; others were marriage
presents, kept with more care in houses, but still they were the work of
the potter, and must have been produced entirely by hand. Pottery
was so much considered as a branch of art, that in early Rome, in the
time of Numa, there was a college of potters; they were ennobled by
being made a special guild. Any one who went through the exhibition
must have been particularly struck with the elegance of forms which
prevailed in all the Indian and also in the Turkish pottery; and the
common vessels, used to carry water on the head by the peasantry of
Italy and Spain, have the same elegance of form which very little of our
china, or of our finest pottery, can exhibit; and the question naturally
suggests itself, how is this, that in many countries there should be such
beautiful productions, and at the same time that we should not be able
to give the same beauty of form? The answer to this is given, I think,
very correctly by Mr. Digby Wyatt, in his beautiful work on the late
exhibition. He observes that “there can be no doubt that the reason
of this beauty in the old pottery and in that of the Hast is, that it is made
entirely by the workman himself.” There can be little doubt that the most
beautiful forms of Greek and Etruscan vases have been generated by a
simple process of formation, and by the refined delicacy of touch acquired
by the potter during years of practice. The perfect outline of some of
the commonest objects of pottery from India, Tunis, Turkey, and the
rest, demonstrate the methods by which contours equal in grace to the
Etrurian and those of Magna Grecia have been produced. In the finer
work of pottery among us, a distinct person is employed to design from
him who makes the object; the one makes the pattern, and a mold
is then made of the same figure as is given. But in the ancient and
oriental objects, the beauty of form is attributed to the art being literally
in the potter’s fingers; and he acquires by the manipulation a fineness of
touch, a delicacy of eye, which enables him to produce beautiful forms,
which no one in the abstract could imagine.” This is corroborated by the
fact that in the British Museum, in the great gallery where the Etruscan
vases are kept, you will find two—an@ if you search the Vatican and
Bourbon Museum, and all the collections in Europe, you will not find
two—periectly alike; there is a difference in them, which shows they
were not produced by a model, but simply out of hand; and I have no
doubt that the influence of this working in clay without a pattern is to
be traced in all the works in metal and in glass of the ancients; because,
no doubt, the eye of the man who worked in bronze had been formed
by his familiarity with the beautiful patterns which came forth every
day from the hands of the workmen in clay. I find, too, it is mentioned
318 IDENTIFICATION OF THE ARTISAN AND ARTIST.

in Pliny, that when a knight named Octavius, in the time of Augustus,
wished to have a vase made, it cost him a talent, or upwards of £50, to
have the model made; which shows that the clay model was to be mod-
eled before the marble vase was sculptured. In this art, then, the pro-
ducer is the designer, the artist is the artisan, and hence comes perfect
beauty.

Next to this must be mentioned a very important branch of productive
art, in which the art of design is always necessary to be in combination
with the actual manufacture; and that is china, or painting upon pot-
tery. The Etruscan vases are often simple, sometimes of one color,
sometimes they have nothing of ornament; at other times they have
most beautifully executed, though sketchy, scenes of ancient mythology,
or very frequently from the “Iliad.” These are done in a way which
shows there must have been hundreds of artists who could do that work.
Very frequently it was not a painter who did them, but the man who
was at work on the pottery throughout; and, although mere sketches,
they are considered as containing the elements of very beautiful draw-
ing. If we come to speak of the art of modern times, a remarkable
instance of genius persevering in its work may be taken from the history
of Bernard Pallissy. He was an artist, but as a painter of comparatively
humble pretensions; for he tells us he used to paint figures, images, and
so on; but in this he was an artist, to a certain extent. He tell us
himself, in the biography he has written, that in 1544, when there
seemed not to have been anything approaching to ornamental pottery
in France, he happened to see an Italian cup, which struck him as being
very beautiful; and he thought to himself, “‘Why could not this be
produced in France?” He set to work. He was a poor man, hardly
educated; but he had a great turn for chemistry, and was particularly
desirous of finding out a manner of enameling pottery, and especially
a white enamel, which he at length contrived to make. He took his
worked to be baked in glass-houses, and found it completely fail; then
he set to work in his own house, and built a furnace for the purpose.
He put his ingredients into the furnace; they would not set nor harden.
He had spent all his money, and he gradually pawned all his clothes, and
burnt every article of furniture, to keep up the furnace, and pulled up
the fruit trees in his garden, and then the very floor of the house, to
keep up the fire. Still the work was all spoiled. When he went out
the people charged him with being a coiner; he was ridiculed as mad;
and every sort of annoyance came on him. He persevered yet; and,
having found that his furnace would not act, he pulled it down, and with
his own hands bringing the lime and bricks, he built another furnace,
and then sat for six days and nights watching the fire. Then he gota
little money by having a commission to make a survey, and came back
to his work, and tried again. The mortar he used, however, happened
to have some deficiency in it; and, just as the pottery was going to set,
he heard a crack, and the pebbles in the mortar began to fly and broke
IDENTIFICATION OF THE ARTISAN AND ARTIST. 319

his enamel. He set to work again, and put his materials again in the
fire; and this time there was a tremendous explosion, the ashes burst in
and the whole of his work was covered with black, so firmly set into the
enamel that it all had to be thrown away except a few pieces, by which
he made a trifle. For sixteen years he persevered in this way, and
then was crowned with success, and produced the finest specimens of
colored and beautiful pottery, such as are to this day sought by the eu-
rious; and he received a situation in the king’s household, and ended
his days in comfort and respectability.

I could mention the beautiful earthenware of the sixteenth century,
known by the name of “‘ Raphael’s ware,” because it is supposed that
Raphael himself did not disdain to make designs for common pottery,
pottery not to be used merely by the rich, but to be found in the common
cottages and houses of ordinary classes; the most beautiful specimens
being in the apothecaries’ shops of Padua and Verona. There we have
the employment of high art in the decoration of a common and ordinary
object; for the pottery itself has no particular pretensions to elegance of
make, but yet one of these plates, thick, heavy, clumsy, and coarse as
they are, is worth a service of modern production as a work of art.

Another department is statuary in pottery, which presents some very
interesting features in the history of art. Its very origin is exceedingly
interesting. Pliny gives it to us as the invention of a certain potter, of
very ancient date, whose daughter, when parting with a youth to whom
she was engaged, did what I dare say some of you have done, made
him stand before the lamp, so as to throw his shadow on the wall, and
so sketch his head and face; and the father, wishing to preserve this
sketch, took some of his clay, and filled up the outline, and made a
bass-relief of the countenance. That piece of pottery, at the time when
the Romans first became acquainted with art, and carried away the
monuments of Greece, was preserved in the temple of the Nymphs, at
Corinth, as a treasure of art—as the first germ from which had been
developed some of the most beautiful productions of that kind. At the
time of the Roman kings of the race of Tarquin, the inhabitants of Italy
had arrived at such perfection in this art that they used to make chariots,
horses, and other representations of clay, so well baked that they could
be placed in the open air, and stood for many centuries without injury ;
and, in fact, we find them now among Etruscan monuments. The Romans
must also have learned well how to paint them; because we find it
stated that there was an artist, whom Varro particularly mentions, who
imitated fruit in pottery so perfectly as to deceive any one, and make
one think it was real.

But the most interesting example of this application of high art to
such products is what we find in the life of an eminent artist, and at the
same time a potter, Luca della Robbia. He was put, when quite a boy,
apprentice to a jeweler. He very soon began to make things in bronze;
he gave up mere small modeling, and began upon marble, and succeeded
320 IDENTIFICATION OF THE ARTISAN AND ARTIST.

very well. He worked the whole of the day at his chiseling, and sat up all
the night drawing. He was poor; he was hungry and cold; and the
only means he had of warming himself at night was to put his feet in a
basket of shavings, while he sat there drawing, and would not be driven
from it. Now, there was an education for him, beginning first with small
work, and exercising his patience and skill in that way. Sigismund
Malatesta, the great patron of art at Rimini, was then building a splen-
did church, and he sent to Florence to find workmen to do the carving;
and Luca della Robbia was engaged for this purpose. He had at that
time been a silversmith’s apprentice, had executed works in marble and
bronze, and was set to undertake that noble work at Rimini; and how old
was he when Sigismund engaged him? Hewas fifteen! And what pains
and study must have been gone through in that time by the poor boy to
make himself really anartist! Hesucceeded admirably at Rimini, and came
back and received a commission to work with Donatello, to make a screen
for an organ, and a bronze door. After all this, he suddenly discovered a
totally new branch of art—modeling in pottery. He first contrived to
manufacture his own clay; he then discovered a mode of glazing it to
such perfection that centuries of weather do not in the least affect it.
He then contrived to color it in the most beautiful manner; and all
Florence, and every part of Italy, may be said to be filled with works of
art equal to anything produced in marble, and valued as high. He went
on improving his art; he began, then, tesselated pavements, and outsides
of churches, which are most beautiful; and then, taking to himself, not
a number of workmen to mold under him, but two near relatives of his,
who were also artists and sculptors in marble, and who had left marble
to come to work in clay, this family carried on the same work to the
third generation, when the secret of the art expired with the family.
But in those three generations, till Pope Leo gave the commission of
making the pavement of the Loggie Ratftaelle, this family made an infi-
nite number of original works of art, executed by hand, colored and
baked by themselves. Now, there is a whole family of artists, in whom
the productive and artistic skill were united. In our estimation we
should say what a descent that was for a sculptor in bronze and marble
to come toa mere potter! But I will read to you Vasari’s sentiments
on that subject, who, as the great biographer of artists, and who lived
among artists, and was himself an artist, may be allowed to havea right
sentiment upon it. He says: ‘Luke therefore, passing from one sort of
work to another, from marble to bronze, and from bronze to clay, did
so, not from any idleness, nor from being, like many others, capricious,
unstable, and discontented with his art, but because he felt himself
drawn to new pursuits, and to an art requiring less labor and time, and
rendering him more gain; hence the world and the arts of design became
enriched with an art, new, useful, and most beautiful; and he, with glory
and praise, immortal and unfailing.”

We are told by Pliny that it was in the time of Augustus the prac-

IDENTIFICATION OF THE ARTISAN AND ARTIST. 321

tice was introduced of painting the walls of houses. Temples were
undoubtedly painted before; because he tells us, that, when the temple
of Ceres was falling into ruins, the paintings of Demophilus were cut
away from the walls, (as is sometimes now done with frescoes,) and put
into frames in order to preserve them. On one occasion, by the way,
the city of Rhodes was saved, when Demetrius besieged it, because he
feared a beautiful painting would be destroyed that was on the wall! of
one of the buildings. This painting of walls corresponded to our paper-
hangings. What we do by putting on stained or colored paper, they
did with the brush and the skill of the artist. The walls of Pompeii
and Herculaneum are covered with most beautiful paintings, not merely
ornamental patterns and arabesques, but there is such a mixture of
the mere ornament, and of figures perfectly designed and colored, as to
show that there was no distinction made then between the painter of
a fresco and the house decorator; the artist was himself the performer of
the work, and so beautiful is it, that we have hardly anything in modern
times superior to what is commonly found on the walls of the private
houses of cities which were in a province remote from the capital, and
which had no particular recommendation, that we know of, as seats of
art.

We have an instance, also, in modern times. Perhaps one of the
most beautiful productions of modern art is the painting of that gallery
to which I have alluded, where we see that Raffaelle undertakes to do
what now one would never think of committing to the hands of any one higher
than a common house-decorator. No nobleman, nor even a monarch, would
think of asking the first artist of the kingdom to design the ornament
of a gallery, scroll-work, and grotesques, or mechanical ornament, which
now would be done by a common process or a common hand. But ina
former age there was no distinction made between what we now consider
the higher and the lower sorts of art; but the whole of art was regarded
as one thing ; the greatest of artists considered it was his place to make
even the smallest work—which might be insignificant in itself—great
and noble, and to stamp the highest impress of art on the commonest
and most ordinary commissions that were given to him.

I will now speak of a department of art which will interest you,
perhaps, more than others—art applied to textile fabrics. There isa
great difference between what art can do in this department, and what
it can do for those through which I have passed; because the others
are in their nature more lasting; they are to continue for a time; they
are worth, therefore, the attention and care of artists of the very high-
est class. The fashions of textile fabrics are perishable and fragile;
they are capricious and changeable; therefore it is impossible to have
the time, the leisure, and the same degree of labor expended on them
as is necessary to produce a great work of art. I have read with con-
siderable pleasure, and can bear testimony to the important suggestions
in a pamphlet or lecture on this subject delivered in this city by Mr.

218
322 IDENTIFICATION OF THE ARTISAN AND ARTIST.

Potter. He is quite correct in his estimate of the somewhat exaggerated
ideas which may exist of the power of art in connection with that which
is not durable, and which, in reality, has its value, necessarily, for only
a brief period. I agree, therefore, with him on that subject; but at the
same time I accept as very important his concession that, even with
regard to that degree of art which is compatible with the nature of the
substance on which itis to be displayed, we do not do what we ought to
do, and that we fall short of our neighbors, the French; or at least, that,
while in that which is of secondary character we have put forth such
perseverance and study as to have attained an equality with them,
there is a point in that which is more delicate and perfect which we have
not reached. This is an important concession. It appears there is some
reason why, in France, they can produce, even in printed fabrics, a
superior and more delicate artistic effect than can as yet be given here;
and I shall have to speak of the reason of this, which accords completely
with what I have said, because in these works, which are not made ab-
solutely by handicraft, but with the assistance of mechanical skill, there
must be a distinction between the designer and the mere workman—a
man who keeps the machine in motion, and puts the work through it;
although, no doubt, it is necessary for the designer also to have a con-
siderable acquaintance with the process by which his design is to be
brought out in actual manufacture. I only wish to observe how the
principle comes down here. You know the cartoons at Hampton Court,
the most perfect and finished work of art of Raffaelle. You would sup-
pose these would be a labor of years, for they are all by his own hand,
perhaps hardiy aided by a disciple; and nothing can be more perfect
than the outline and artistic distribution of the parts of the painting.
What were these cartoons? Simply drawings for the loom. Raffaelle
did not think it below him to draw patterns which were to be sent to Holland
or Belgium, and there to be executed in the loom by weavers of a carpet.
This shows how the very highest ideal art may bend without degradation
to assist practical art with all its powers and resources; and where the
union of the two in the same person cannot be got, then we have to think
of the means by which the harmonious combination of both may be
brought to produce one effect. While upon this subject, 1 am tempted
to quote some beautiful lines upon the subject from one of our oldest
but wisest poets; one who calls himself, upon hig tomb, ‘“ the servant
of Queen Elizabeth, the councilor of King James, and the friend of Sir
Philip Sidney,” Lord Brooke. Speaking as if it was considered in those
days that the impulses of industry must be entirely regulated by the
ruling power, he prescribes the duty of that in regard to the production
of manufactures:
““To which end, power must nurseries erect,

And those trades cherish which use many hands;

Yet such as more by pains than skill effect,

And so by spirits more than vigor stand ;

Whereby each creature may itself susta.n,

And who excel, add honor to their gain.”

IDENTIFICATION OF THE ARTISAN AND ARTIST. ane

Another remark I will read, which comes in the same passage, because.
it seems as, written in that age, prophetic of what may be considered
the characteristic commercial policy of this day—that policy which par-
ticularly owes, if not its origin, certainly its greatest impulse, to this
city of Manchester. He says:

“Now, though wise kings do by advantage play
With other states, by setting tax on toys,
Which, if needs do permit, they justly may,

As punishment for that vice which destroys,

To real things yet musé they careful be,

Here and abroad, to keep them custom free ;
Providing clothes and food no burden bear,

Then, equally distributing of trade,

So as no one rule what we eat or wear,

Or any town the gulf of all be made;

For, though from few wealth soon be had and known,
And still the rich kept servile by their own,

Yet no one city rich, or exchequer full,

Gives states such credit, strength, or reputation,
As that far-seeing, long-breathed wisdom will,
Which, by the well disposing of creation,
Breathes universal wealth, gives all content,

Is both the mine and scale of government.”

Now, gentlemen, I wish to come to some general results. We have
seen, that so far, in every instance we have examined, wherever
there has been real beauty and perfection of work, it has been in con-
sequence of the practical art, and of the fine art, which ought to work
together, being most closely combined, and, as nearly as it ean be done, in
the same individual, or else in the most perfectly harmonious coépera-
tion. Now, we must watch very carefully whether the plans which are
being proposed for artistic education—to be applied to preduection—
will tend to combine these two characters better, or further to sepa-
rate them. I come to the conclusion, that if art has always flourished
in its perfection when the two have been combined; and if, on the
other hand, it is acknowledged that at present art is not applied
to manufactures as it might be, and if it is, at the same time, the
clearly visible fact that our artisans and workmen are not artists—I
think I have a right to conclude that this separation of the two characters
is the cause of our inferiority, and that, therefore, the education which we
are to prepare for those who are to carry productive art to its perfection
must be one which will combine, closer than is now done, these tio depart-
ments of what I consider one and the same thing, Now, is it or can it be
so by the education -we are now giving? I observed that what I have
said till now has been acknowledged long before by one of the greatest
authorities in matters of art—that is, Dr. Waagen, the director of the
Royal Gallery at Berlin. He was examined, in 1835, before a committee
of the House of Commons on the improvement of arts and manufactures,
and he said that ‘in former times artists were more workmen, and the
ie)

O24 IDENTIFICATION OF THE ARTISAN AND ARTIST.

workmen were more artists, as in the time of Raffaelle; and it is very
desirable to restore this happy connection.” I was glad to find this
corroboration of what I intended to say. He says again, ‘“‘ We have,
then, to endeavor a connection between these two, the productive and
beautifal art.” Now, I ask what class of art was it which was in com-
bination with productive art, to make it the parent of such a beautiful
offspring in every department? Jt was not low art; it was not the
mere knowing how to sketch an object from nature; it was not merely
linear drawing; it was not merely elementary art: but it was high art,
and the highest art. In every one of these cases the state of society
was such—from what causes I do not undertake here to say—that it
did permit the highest artists devoting themselves to what now they
contemn and would despise; and, on the other hand, there was such
honor given to the product of industry, that, when it really had the
stamp of beauty upon it, it rose of itself to the department of high art.

Let me illustrate what I consider the danger to be guarded against
by another example. When you go into a picture gallery now, and you
see the portrait of a man, why do you care the least who that man was?
You see the splendid effect; the countenance, which perhaps has not a
beautiful feature in it, but which, by the noble expression, by the beau-
tifal tone of color, by the majestic character thrown around the head,
by the harmony between the parts, even by the accessories, is made so
glorious that you can gaze upon it for hours. It may be a doge, it
may be a merchant, a soldier, or a prince; you care not: you see there,
not the portrait, but you see the painting by Titian, or by Rembrandt,
or Vandyke; and the artistic merit so completely swallows up all the
idea of personality of him who is represented, that, unless it happens
to be some one particularly known, you never take the trouble of inquir-
ing whom the painter represents. And why so? Because then por-
trait-painting had not become a distinct department of art. There was
no such thing then as a person who called himself'a portrait-painter,
who thought he could produce a noble likeness of a man by merely giving
a fac-simile of his features; but portraits were paintings by men who
who eould have painted an historical painting of the highest character,
and to whom it would have been thought not unbecoming to commit the
greatest artistic works imaginable. But in modern times the portrait-
painter is an entirely different person, and the pictures produced by
that class of artists are unfortunately of but little value except to those
who have a personal interest in the subject of the portrait. You know,
too, that every one of these portraits, which cover such a vast extent of
the wall of the exhibition, will be transferred to the place of honor over
the chimney-piece in the house of the owner; and, when his son grows
up, it will be put on one side, that a portrait of the inheritor may take
its place: and in the next generation it will be transferred to some other
more out-of-the-way corner of the house, until at last it will find a more
ignominious position than Cesar’s dust, stopping up a bunghole to keep
IDENTIFICATION OF THE ARTISAN AND ARTIST. oau

out the inclemency of the weather. From what does thiscome? Simply
from the attempt to divide art into paris—to say that there shall be a class
of men who can do a portrait, but who cannot do a historical or other
great painting. And you find a difference when some of the great artists
of the present day—for there are some truly great artists in England—
do put their hands to what is considered another department of art, and
paint the portrait of a friend, or of any one else; it becomes in itself
a fine creation of art, and it will not perish when the person is forgotten;
but it will be known by the name of the person who painted it, and not
by the name of the person who sat for it. In this way, too, high art,
when applied to a lower branch, raises its character. This is what ought
to be the fundamental basis of artistic education. If we really mean to
make more than improved designers or draughtsmen for mechanical
work, we must have great artists who are not afraid to work mechanically
at the same time that they are great artists ; we must have the feeling
that art commits no unworthy cbivlaseonsion 4 in giving immediate assist-
ance to the processes of production. The famous artists of whom I
have been speaking were, as we have seen, men who worked at their
business, and yet were not considered as working men; they were con-
sidered as artists, and treated as such. And it is that, I am afraid,
which makes the great difference between our time a theirs. ine
unfortunately, is not now considered so noble asto give rank and station,
as it did in those days. Ido not mean that the great artists, those who
devote themselves to what are considered works of high art, do not
receive patronage and countenance, and even high honor; but we find
that in those days such distinctions were bestowed on the artists them-
Selves in productive toil. There is not, perhaps, any part of the history
of art more interesting and beautiful than those portions of Cellini’s
memoirs which show us the manner in which he was treated; he used
to go, when he pleased, to the pope to take him drawings and models;
he speaks of going in without even waiting to be announced—going in
the evening, after laboring all day in his workshop, as a matter of course.
He was treated in the same manner by the grand duke of Tuscany, and
by the king, Francis the First; when he was working for him, the king used
to go at any hour and visit him; and Cellini gives rather a characteristic
anecdote, proving how very familiar such visits were. One day, while
at work, and, as usual, rather in ill temper, an apprentice or servant did
something which displeased Cellini, and he roughly took the youth by
the shoulders and pushed him across the room. The apprentice fell
against the door, which was just then opened by the king, and he fell
fairly into the king’s arms. Such was the familiar way in which kings
and great personages used to visit Cellini, and find him in his apron
among his workmen. But I believe, myself, that it is not patronage
which art wants in modern times. Patronage it has; you, gentlemen,
here, many of you, I know, would not scruple to go far beyond the mere
calculation of interest, were it in our power to raise, by your patronage,
S)

326 IDENTIFICATION OF THE ARTISAN AND ARTIST.

©

any one who gave evidence of genius, and reward him as he deserved.
It is not patronage, but honor, that art wants.

Now, speaking of the department to which I have just alluded, there
is a passage worth quoting from Mr. Ward’s book, “The World and its
Workshop,” on the difference between English and French designers in
the textile fabrics. ‘‘France has studiously cultivated the art of design,
and advanced its professors to the rank of gentlemen; in England, on
the contrary, with some exception, it has been degraded to a mechanical
employment, and remunerated at weekly wages. Trance has, in conse-
quence, a species of industry to which we have no claim—the pro-
duction of design for exportation.” Now, having drawn these general
conclusions, we must come to some practical applications. ‘The first,
that we must avoid making too great a separation between that char-
acter of art which it is proposed, now, to impart to our products and
the higher departments of arts. I have observed that the separation
of art into two departments, high and low, seems to be dangerous,
and it will, perhaps, prove fatal. You may educate a great number of
good designers, persons who will make tolerable drawings, and with
rapidity; but the influence upon these which are considered the lower
stages of art must come, not from below, but from above; it is only art
in its highest department that gives the true feeling of proportion, the
right sense of harmony, whether in color or in design, that gives also
that sense and feeling of the adaption and propriety of things to their
purpose, which is indispensable. Any one must be surprised at seeing
the extraordinary combination of the styles of different countries and
times in our works of art, from the want of a regular artistic education.
I therefore think that the first thing which must be done is to try an
education which will not give merely a great degree of elementary
artistic power, but that, while we give what may be called the rudiments
of art to every one, if possible, so as to give them all the opportunity
of developing a higher taste and power, if they possess it, we must not,
in looking beyond that, satisfy ourselves with the idea that we can
educate a great number of artisans to a middling degree of artistic
feeling, in the hope that thereby we may influence the character of our
manufactures; but we must endeavor to combine the two, to bring
down the high art to mingle with the lower, in the feeling that it is the
common interest and duty of artists to improve the productive arts,
and to carry into actual work—not merely into design—the powers which
they possess.

The evidence of Mr. Skene, before the committee of the House of
Commons, is to the same effect. He and Mr. Potter, and every other
writer I have seen, agreed that we are not equal with the French in the
more delicate operations of art applied to manufactures, and especially
in textile fabrics; and he gives this reason: ‘The system of France is
very different from that of this country, because in France artists of the
first eminence employ their time—and make it a most profitable part
IDENTIFICATION OF THE ARTISAN AND ARTIST. 520

of their employment—in pattern-drawing, and they are paid very high
prices by the manufacturers.” This, then, accounts for everything,
because it is the union of high art in design with manufacture that
makes the French superior. The evidence of M. Coquerel, who is
himself an eminent architect and designer, shows that a distinguished
artist, who became president of the French Academy of Arts at Rome,
and one of the first of his day, was employed at Sevres, in the china
manufacture; and he states, also, that of fourteen or fifteen French
artists of the first rank, educated at Rome, with whom he was acquaint-
ed, many were scattered through France assisting in the different
manufactures. Finding the market for the highest class of artistic works
so limited, and so full, these men, instead of sinking into despair or com-
mitting suicide, as has been seen in similar cases, turned their high
talent to the assistance and improvement of manufactures; and they are
not thought to have dishonored themselves by doing this; nor is it con-
sidered their superior education was thrown away upon them in quaii-
fying them for the posts they now occupy. Why should it not be so
here? Let any one go into the exhibition of paintings in London, and
look around the walls; he will, perhaps, find only a small number of
artists who can, with any hope of advancing themselves in the path to
eminence, eontinue in what they may consider the highest department
of art; and I cannot but think there are many in distress, persons who
might be making an honorable livelihood, if they would apply their
talents to what they would wrongly consider, perhaps, a degrading
employment, but which is most honorable—the improvement of art in
its productive department.

The second step which seems to me of the greatest importance, is to
familiarize the people with art. This I know is a very trite topic, and
one which can hardly be considered to require from us much attention.
I know it is proposed to make museums in every part, and I think tha
excellent. But we must observe how it is that that familiarity with art
has been obtained by other people; it has been, not so much by having
places to which people were to go to see art, but by rendering it familiar
everywhere to their eyes. The ancient Greeks, proceeding from other
considerations, which we, as Christians, could not for a moment wish to
have considered, such as the public spectacles, and feasts, and ceremonies
of Greece, filled their whole country with works of art. Any one that
will read the works of Pausanias, or the first book alone, will see how
impossible it was for an Athenian to go ten yards in any direction in
the city without seeing some beautiful work of art. On every side there
were monuments, and statues, and temples, of the most beautiful work-
manship and design; and the people became impregnated with the sense
of artistic beauty; and therefore whoever, even a mechanic, put his hand to
any work, worked under the influence of that feeling. In a later period, in
Rome, there was the same plan of filling the public buildings, the streets
and squares of the city, with sculptured monuments and with paintings
328 IDENTIFICATION OF THE ARTISAN AND ARTIST.

hung up so that the people could gaze on them; and Pliny gives us a
long list of paintings put up by different emperors; and, by way of
showing what was thought by the Romans of our northern ancestors, he
says, that among those paintings on the walls of the; Forum there was
one of a shepherd; and when a German ambassador came to Rome, he
was asked at what price would he value that picture?—which shows
that it was considered by the Romans to be worth a high price, quite
beyond a German’s estimate; he, having so little idea of art that he did
not consider that question applicable to any possible artistic merit, said,
“Why, I would not have the man, if he were alive and breathing, if you
would give him to me,’”—he considering it was the value of the man, as
a servant, and not of the picture, that he was to regard. In a later age,
at Florence, Vasari tells us how he and Michael Angelo, and other
artists, used to meet together, and then go from church to church to
see the beautiful works of art in each, and then to discuss and criti-
cise them. In the middle ages it was the Church, no doubt, which gave
to public admiration the specimens of fine art, and kept them before
the minds of all, and, in fact, made the people be artists. The conse-
quence of this was, that, as Cellini tells us, when his statue of Perseus,
after having been finished, was put into a public place, and when he
uncovered it for the first time, ‘It so pleased God, that, as soon as ever
my work was beheld by the populace, they set up so loud a shout of
applause, that I began to be comforted for the mortifications I had
undergone; and there were sonnets in my praise every day fastened up
on the gate, and the very day I finished my work twenty more sonnets
were set up, with the greatest praises of the work, and Latin and Greek
poems were published on the occasion.” So well had the Italian public
learned how to appreciate a noble work of art!

Now, [ look forward with no small expectation to what will be done
by the new exhibition which is preparing, (this refers to the Manchester
exhibition,) because I know that great pains have been taken to collect
casts and copies of whatever is most beautiful in every department of
art, beginning with the most remote period, down to the present time;
and if it be really open to the public, and if, especially, it be open for
some portion, at least, of that day on which alone the artisan can enjoy it,
then I am sure it will do more toward raising the feeling of the people
for art, and consequently toward introducing an improved practice,
than any set of lessons or any teaching could do. A very strong remark
is made by Dr. Waagen, before that committee, when asked if they shut
up the museum at Berlin as they doin England, at certain times, to
enable artists to copy; he says, ‘‘ By no means, because I believe art is
far more promoted. by the people seeing it than it is by any number of
artists making copies.” But it appears to me there has been a deficiency
in the general education among us in the matter of artistic culture. I can-
not but be struck with this when I see that among all the colleges and
schools belonging to this country, so respectable, and richly endowed,
IDENTIFICATION OF THE ARTISAN AND ARTIST. 329

there is not one of them, so far as I know, which has made any collection or
museum that might train the young men who are educated there in a famitl-
iavity with art. Ido not think any college in either of our universities,
Eton, or any of the schools, keeps before the eyes of its young men exam-
ples of painting, sculpture, and of other arts of design, which might
accustom them during their early years to admire and appreciate art,
and thus to contribute afterward their influence to elevate its character.
At the same time, I must observe with sincere pleasure that this is not
the case with our Catholic colleges; that, poor and unendowed as they
are, there is not one of them which has not striven, at the same time
while it has provided itself with a library, far beyond the proportion of
its means, if compared with what others have done, to provide also some
works of art, and keep them constantly before the students. At Stony- ’
hurst there are many beautiful things, carving, lapidary, silver-work,
and jewelry, especially for church purposes. Ushaw, or St. Cuthbert’s
College, near Durham, is another instance; the walls there are covered
with paintings, many of excellent masters, and engravings o¢ great
beauty; there is a museum filled with specimens of art; the sacrist¥ of the
chapel is growing with proofs of the encouragement given there to
modern artists, as well as with carefully-collected specimens of ancient
art.

I may be allowed to revert also to the days which I spent in St. Mary’s
College, at Oscott. There, through the munificence of a departed noble-
man, and under the guidance of the refined taste of the greatest artist of
this day, because a practical disciple of all the arts—Mr. Pugin—there
was collected a museum which would have been worthy of a larger estab-
lishment; beautiful specimens of carving, of enameling, and metal-work
of every sort, so valuable that persons were sent from the department of
practical art on purpose to make molds and copies of the specimens; and
almost all the cloisters were covered with paintings, some by very respect-
able artists, and others good copies. The students were thus brought
up in familiarity with choice objects of art, which has had an influence
upon their lives since, and induced them to patronize and encourage art.
That collection, moreover, was, in the most liberal way, thrown open to
every one who chose to come and visit us; we never saw any feeling of
narrow partisanship or exclusiveness of religious distinction; the house
used to be visited every day by parties of people from the neighborhood;
and nothing gave me greater pleasure than to see the young men who
used to come there, and who were permitted to walk freely through the
house. There was, at no great distance, a very considerable establish-
ment for education, richly endowed, and having everything that could
encourage the study of literature; but it did not possess, as it appeared,
a single object of artistic interest within its walls; and often did the
students of that establishment come up to St. Mary’s and roam freely
through it, and receive every courtesy. And that was at a time when
Oscott was considered almost the center of a strong proselytizing ten-
dency, and I know that personally J was much more engaged in contro-
330 IDENTIFICATION OF THE ARTISAN AND ARTIST.

versy then than I am at the present moment; and it was pleasing,
therefore, to see that there was no feeling on the subject which could
make it be apprehended as unpleasant for those young men to come to
us. Bodies of those young men used to come to St. Mary’s with letters
from their principal, couched in the most courteous terms, asking, as a
favor, that his students might be allowed to attend the establishment,
which could have very little other merit to thany than as it was filled
with works of art; and on one occasion he informed me that, when any
of the students of his house were particularly well-conducted, and had
especially distinguished themselves, the best reward he could give them
was to send them with a letter to us, to come and see Oscott College.
Now, it will give you all pleasure to know that this generous, liberal, and
gentlemanly-minded individual, the head of that neighboring college,
was—the Rev. Prince Lee.

One thing more, I will observe, is important—that we must not nar-
row the sphere of art. There is a tendency to do so in this practical scheme
of education. I observed in the late report, which may be considered
as a programme of the department of practical art, that there are
prizes proposed for artistic designs in three different departments—for
printed garments, fabrics for carpets, and for paper-hangings. Now,
one of ‘the conditions of the four drawings to be sent in to compete for
the prize in all three instances is this: “the designs to be flat, not imita-
tive, but conventional, without relief, shadow, or perspective.” Now,
that is the medieval principle, and cannot apply to other styles of art;
and you are narrowing the sphere of art if you dictate, as a necessary rule
of all designs in those three departments of productive art, that there
shall not be relief or perspective in the painting; that the flowers must
all be of one color, and that there must be no shadow, and no attempt
to copy nature, but that the forms must be all “conventional,” that is,
such as a rose spread out into four parts, with a point between them,
and the lily changed into a fleur-de-lis, and no natural forms to be truly
imitated. Now, it is folly to think of competing with French art if our
artisans are to be educated: on that principle, because the beauty of de-
sign where nature is copied—where the flower glows in its own colors—
will carry the taste of the public, and I think rightly, in preference toa
series of flat and unshaped designs. I think itis a wrong principle; and
why? Artists will tell you that the carpet is nothing more than a back-
ground for the furniture; that the hanging of a wall, paper or whatever
it may be, is nothing but a background for the furniture ; and therefore
that these must be quiet and of a lower tint, with nothing brilliant, and
no attempt at the representation of natural objects. Now, I deny this
principle; they are not background. The papering of the wall is in the
place of the ancient painting on the wall; and I do not see why, if you
only avoid whatever may offend the eye—such as false perspective—
there should not be all the beauty and glow of natural objects given to
the pictured papering of the wall. If we are to collect museums, to put
before our young artists specimens from the paintings of Pompeii, and
IDENTIFICATION OF THE ARTISAN AND ARTIST. DOU

then to tell them that these wall paintings are done on a false principle,
because they are good representations of natural objects, and not merely
conventional drawings, how are.we consistent? Andif you tell a young
man who designs patterns for carpets that there must be nothing there
which would not be, naturally, in such a position—that there must be no
sky or flowers there—then you go to make it amere pavement and noth-
ing better. I should say that the real carpet should take the place of
the ancient mosaic. The ancients thought it not amiss to represent whole
scenes on their pavement, with sky and rivers, men and horses; and Pliny
tells us there were many celebrated men for this sort of work in Greece;
but the most celebrated of all was Sosias; and he says among his other
works at Pergamus there was a remarkable one which was called *‘The
Unswept House.” It was a representation which certainly does not give
us a very good idea of cleanliness of domestic habits—of a floor on which
all sorts of refuse had been left to He about, fragments of meat, and the
shelis of crawfish, and everything which untidy people might leave after
their meals. Such were the notions the ancients had of designs. I
should, therefore, be inclined to fear that if we began to deal with art
upon a too confined basis, and on principles which belong only to one
period of the history of art, and if we now insist on their being made the
sole basis of artistic education, we shall produce cramped and narrow-
minded artists, and never enable them to take advantage of the great
classical patterns to improve their taste.

In concluding, I think among the greatest errors that language has
imposed upon us, there‘is none more remarkable than the sort of antag-
onism which is established in common language as between nature and
art. Wespeak of art as being, in a certain manner, the rival of nature
and opposed to it; we contrast them—we speak of the superiority of
nature, and depreciate art as compared withit. On the other hand,
what is art but the effort that is made by human skill to seize upon the trans-
itory features of nature, to give them the stamp of perpetuity? If we
study nature, we see that in her general laws she is unchangeable; the
year goes on in its course, and day after day pass magnificently through
the same revolutions. But there is not one single moment in which
either nature, or anything that belongs to her, is stationary. The earth,
the planets, and the sun and moon, are not for any instant in exactly
the same relation mutually as they were in another instant. The face
of nature is constantly changing; and what is it that preserves that for
us but art, which is not the rival, but the child, as well as the handmaid, of
nature? You find, when you watch the setting sun, how beautiful and
how bright for an instant! then how it fades away! the sky and sea are
covered with darkness, and the departed light is reflected, as it had
been just now upon the water, still upon your mind. In that one evan-
escent moment a Claude or a Stanfield dips his pencil in the glowing
sky, and transfers its hue to his canvas; and ages after, by the lamp
of night, or in the brightness of the morning, we can contemplate that
evening scene of nature, and again renew in ourselves all the emotions
332 IDENTIFICATION OF THE ARTISAN AND ARTIST.

which the reality could impart. And so it is with every other object.
Each of us is, but for the present moment, the same as he is in this
instant of his personal existence through which he is now passing. He
is the child, the boy, the man, the aged one bending feebly over the last
few steps of his career. You wish to possess him as he is now, in his
youthful vigor, or in the maturity of his wisdom, and a Rembrandt, or
a Titian, or a Herbert seizes that moment of grace, or of beauty, or of
sage experience; and he stamps indelibly that loved image on his can-
vas; and for generations it is gazed on with admiration and with love.
We must not pretend a fight against nature, and say that we will make art
different from what she is. I willread you some beautiful lines, which
show how our art must be derived from nature. I translate them from
the excellent poem of Schiller, addressed to artists:

The choicest blossom which the parterre warms,

In one rich posy skillfully combined—
Such, infant Art crept first from Nature’s arms:
Then are the posies in ene wreath entwined.

A second Art, in manler bearing, stands,

Fair work of man, created in his hands.
I belieye the idea of these beautiful lines is taken from the anecdote
which Pliny has preserved to us of the contest of art between Pausias
the painter and Glycera the flower-girl; she used to combine her flowers
with such exquisite beauty that they excited the admiration of the chief
of artists, and he did not think it beneath his art to copy on the can-
vas the operation of her naturally-instructed fingers; and then she, in
her turn, again would rival the picture, and produce a more beautiful
bouquet still; and the painter, with his pencil, would again rival her,
and produce by his art the same effect as she had done with the flowers
ofnature. Let us therefore look on art but as the highest image that can be
made of nature. Consequently, while religion is the greatest and noblest
mode in which we acknowledge the magnificent and all-wise majesty of
God; and what he has done both for the spiritual and the physical exist-
ence of man, let us look upon art as but the most graceful and natural trib-
ute of homage we can pay to Him for the beauties which he has so lavishly
scattered over creation. Art, then, is to my mind, and I trust to you all,
a sacred and a reverend thing, and one which must be treated with all
nobleness of feeling and with all dignity of aim. We must not depress
it; the education of our art must always be tending higher and higher;
we must fear the possibility of our creating a mere lower class of artists
which would degrade the higher departments, instead of endeavoring to
blend and harmonize every department, so that there shall cease to exist
in the minds of men the distinction between high and low art. I will con-
clude with another beautiful sentiment from the same poem:

The bee may teach thee an industrious care ;
The worm, in skill, thy master thou must own;
With higher spirits, wisdom thou dost share,
But Art, O man! hast thou alone.

THE DIAMOND AND OTHER PRECIOUS STONES.

By M. BaBrnet, or THE INSTITUTE OF FRANCE,

Translated for the Smithsonian Institution
BY JOHN STEARNS, M. D.

The diamond, called by the Greeks ‘“adamas,” from its hardness and
infrangibility, has attracted the attention of amateurs of precious stones
from the most remote antiquity.

In regard to hardness, says Lucretius, diamonds are placed in the
first rank, as they resist the blow of a hammer.

“Adamantina saxa
Prima acie constant, ictus contemnere sueta.”

The second of these peculiarities is much more easily contested than
the first; for notwithstanding all the fabulous assertions of ancient
authors, the diamond, which scratches all other bodies and can be
scratched by none, is easily broken by percussion, and is susceptible of
cleavage, that is to say, of being readily divided by pressing steadily the
sharp blade of a steel instrument in the direction of the natural seams
of the stone.

When the rude Helvetians captured the treasures which were found
in the tent of Charles the Bold, more sumptuous than those of the King,
they divided with their hatchets some of the diamonds of this prince, to
the great detriment of their value, as the entire stones were worth much
more than the pieces into which they were divided. If we examine the
many compilations from the ancients made at the time of the renaissance,
we shall find a mass of undigested learning on the subject of gems.
Notwithstanding the uncertainty of the names which he applies to many
of the precious stones, Pliny is still highly esteemed as a compiler from
ancient works now lost, and as an author of the first class. It was he
who dared to undertake the composition of a history of nature analogous
to what had been done before his time in regard to nations. The term
natural history has become so familiar to us that the idea it conveyed,
namely, a history of ail things that contribute to make up a world,
minerals, vegetables, and animals, has almost entirely lost the original
magnitude of its signification. And in this connection it is worth while
to pause for a moment to remark that science in its progress, as it has
become more real and important, has gradually become more and more
modest. Where, as with the Greeks, the word nature, physis, signified
the generation or origin of beings, with us it is restricted to the system
334 THE DIAMOND AND OTHER PRECIOUS STONES.

of objects that constitute the physical universe, and is not applied to
the occult cause by which they were produced. Here, as everywhere
else, scienee, in order to make real progress, has abandoned ambitious
metaphysical speculations for sagacious observations and wild hy-
potheses for sober facts.

It would be interesting to trace the history of gems in connection with
the history of man from the times of Aaron’s ephod to those of the pas-
toral cross of the archbishop of Paris; from the time of the presenting
of rubies, sapphires, emeralds, diamonds, topazes, sardonyxes, ame-
thysts, the carbuncle and loadstone, as offerings in the temple of Jupiter
and other pagan divinities, to that of an accumulation of wealth of
a similar character prior to the sixteenth century in the treasury of
Christian churches.

But, without attempting this labor, we may observe, in passing, that
these precious gifts, the offerings of the piety of the faithful, have not
always been faithfully preserved. When, during the reformation of
Calvin and Luther in Germany, and later, in the time of the French revolu-
tion, this votive wealth was délivered over to the civil authorities, it was
discovered that many fraudulent substitutions had been made, and that
paste had very often been substituted for the primitive gem. -

The famous London Exposition of 1851 prided itself upon the posses-
sion of the great diamond, the Koh-i-noor, (Mountain of Light,) captured
from the Maha-radjas of India, and presented to Queen Victoria. As
to the antiquity of this gem, it is asserted that it was worn by Karna,
King of Anga, three thousand and one years before our era. Observe
the preciseness of this date. I have nothing to offer in objection to it,
and am even ready to grant the truth of the assertion; for who can
prove the contrary? We can say, however, quite as much in behalf of
the truth of the marvelous properties ascribed to precious stones by
antiquity and the middle ages, and admit without hesitation, as they
have done, the influence of the planets and other celestial bodies. For
the cure of all diseases of a moral or nervous character, wherein the
imagination exercised a predominantinfluence, gems were the sovereign
remedy. In declaring to a patient that an emerald, placed at the head
of his bed, would cure hypochondria, drive away nightmare, calm palpi-
tations of the heart, enliven the imagination, or dissipate mental troubles,
success was assured by the faith alone in the efficacy of the remedy. The
expectancy of cure in these affections was itself the cause of the cure,
and in all of the countless cases in which the moral exercised an influ-
ence over the physical, an imaginary cause must produce a real effect.
In short, a constant tendency to self-deception of the human mind, which
leads us to regard only accidental successes, and to take no note of
failures, contributed to maintain the belief in the hidden virtues of
precious stones. It is not above half a century since diamonds and
other gems were borrowed from rich families to be applied in the cure
of local diseases. Care, however, was taken when the jewel was intro-
THE DIAMOND AND OTHER PRECIOUS STONES. 335

duced into the mouth, for toothache or sore-throat, to secure it by a
string, to prevent its being swallowed by the patient.

The study of precious stones, which may seem frivolous when these
are considered only as objects of ornament, rises in importance when
looked upon in connection with commerce, optics, and mineralogy. The
classic Haiiy, creator of crystallographic mineralogy, has not disdained
to publish a book on precious stones, in which he leaves nothing to be
desired in the way of description. In his preface he acknowledges his
obligations to M. Achard, mineralogist and lapidary, of Paris; and I
ought to say as much for M. Achard, the son, without whose aid I should
not have felt able to compose this article.

What is the diamond? It is the most rare and the most priceless of
minerals. Whatis carbon? It is one of the most common of known
substances, found in the earth in immense quantities and furnished by
all plants and trees in great abundance. The diamond is priceless,
since one of pure quality, of the weight of a twenty-five-franc piece—
that is, of 125 carats—will have a money value of at least four millions
of francs. Now, the value of an,equal weight of carbon is scarcely any-
thing, and yet the two are identical; the diamond is only carbon crys-
tallized. Every one knows that if a body is dissolved in a liquid—for
example, common salt, saltpeter, sugar, or alum, in water—the deposit
left by evaporation of the liquid will present regular geometrical forms,
Salt assumes a form identical with that of playing-dice, to which the
Greeks gave the name of cubes; saltpeter presents elongated bodies
with four flat sides and square ends; sugar takes the form known as
rock-candy; and finally alum crystallizes into pointed pyramids. This
latter form is precisely the same as that under which nature presents
us with the crystals of carbon called diamonds.

As soon as the character of the diamond was discovered, chemistry
aspired to emulate nature-in producing the gem from carbon; but up to
this time science has been baffled in her attempts—nature has not been
induced to reveal the secret of her process. These geometrical products
of nature, when not worn by attrition, are as smooth and as polished as
the finest cut glass. Colored crystals are also produced by nature as
well as white ones. The red ruby, the blue sapphire, the green emerald,
the yellow topaz, the violet amethyst, and the crimson garnet are all
the products of her unrivalled laboratory.

Chemistry, it is true, furnishes us with hundreds of crystals of differ-
ent forms, according to the character of the substances of which they
are composed, and many of them are not found in mineralogy. Nature,
however, as if by way of revenge, has produced in the course of ages,
and under the influence of actions scarcely as yet recognized, crystals
which art, directed by science, has not been able to imitate. Such is
emphatically the diamond, and many other minerals not embraced among
gems. To the study of these geometrical forms, whether the products
of nature or of art, the celebrated Haiiy, about the beginning of this
336 THE DIAMOND AND OTHER PRECIOUS STONES.

century, gave many years of his life, and out of this study created a
new science, one of the titles to glory of the human mind.

Pythagoras and Plato had without doubt.given attention to crystal-
lography, since in their schools they announced the marvelous propo-
sition that nature, in the depths of her recesses, occupies herself with
geometrical problems, and that God geometrizes incessantly,

Agt dcog yewpeTpet.

The old alchemists contended that the philosopher’s stone could be
produced from the commonest substance possible, and nature seems to
have favored this idea in producing the most costly gems from the most
worthless materials. She converts, as we have seen, a small quantity
of black and friable carbon into a transparent diamond of a hardness
and brilliancy unequaled. She takes a little of the glazing which the
potter uses in his ordinary operations, and, coloring it with a trace of
iron, produces a ruby or a sapphire. From a little worthless pebble, with
slight additions, she forms the topaz, the emerald, and the amethyst.
Some of the last-named gems have been reproduced in the furnaces of
Sevres in the same manner, without doubt, as nature has elaborated
them, in her vast voleanic workshops, by those mysterious operations
which have given to Vesuvius the title of the great crystal manufactory.
Every one knows of the sarcasm with which Rousseau reproached the
chemist Rouelle, demanding of him that he should produce corn from
the chemical materials of which it was composed, rather than destroy
that already made in its analysis. What would he say if he had seen the
chemist produce carbon from the diamond, as readily as from a bit of
wood or sugar, while he was powerless from the carbon to create the
precious gem? ;

It might seem at first sight that those countries containing diamond
mines, or mines of crystallized carbon, were the most favored; but this is
far trom being the case. The mines of Goleonda, and of Visapour in
India, of Brazil, of the Ural, and of Borneo, are not worth a moiety of
those deposits of coal with which nature, a little parsimonious in regard
to France, and still more so toward the vast territory of Russia, has
endowed Belgium, England, and to an immense extent the United States.

By way of illustration, we can state that England, with all her wealth,
does not import precious stones of a value greater than twelve or thir-
teen millions of frances, while her mines of coal yield a value of five hun-
dred millions of franes per annum. How precious is this coal!

The diamond is commonly found imbedded in a sort of reddish cement.
Sometimes the rock containing them requires to be broken, and often
the sand at the base of torrents, or the earth which has received the
waste of diamond-bearing rocks, is gathered, and submitted to frequent
washings by machinery, to exclude the gravel and stones prior to the
hand-washing which secures the gem.

Diamonds are always found covered by a rough coat, which is, in fact,
the product of the chemical action of the crystalline formation. Nearly
THE DIAMOND AND OTHER PRECIOUS STONES. Sat

all the other crystals, and especially those of quartz, are much more
brilliant in their natural state. Had Socrates, who regarded the natural
man as a block of marble, from which art can create a beautiful statue,
known of the transformation created by the cutting of the rough dia-
mond, he would certainly have preferred this comparison. The dif-
ference, however, in money value between the cut and the uncut diamond
is not so great as might be supposed. For if the rough diamond loses
half its weight by cutting, on the other hand, its value is doubled by
the operation, without estimating the dust remaining, which has a
value in the arts from its being employed in polishing many gems as
well as the diamond itself.

The ancients do not appear to have had a suspicion that the diamond
could be cut. They only knew it in its natural condition as a stone,
having eight triangular surfaces, and in every direction presenting a
double pyramid.

Louis de Berqueu, an artist of Bruges, about the middle of the fifteenth
century, conceived the idea of cutting it at first by rubbing two diamonds,
one against the other. If, in fact, we cement two diamonds on wooden
handles, and rub point against point, we shall, little by little, grind them
away, and obtain an artificial unpolished surface. To polish this surface
we must use a circular plate of steel or of cast iron, like a grindstone,
placed horizontally. But it is easy to see that if a diamond is merely
placed against this grindstone. it would require a century to produce a
polished surface. All that can be obtained by this process are grooves
cut in the iron or steel. To effect the desired object, a happy thought
suggested itself to Berqueu to sprinkle the surface, against which the
diamond was rubbed, with diamond dust mixed with oil. The surface
obtained in this way is regular, smooth, and perfectly polished. After
the discovery that facets could be produced in the diamond, experience
indicated in each case how a particular stone should be cut to produce
the most advantageous effect.

There are two principal styles of cutting. The first is called the
brilliant. In order to produce this style, the diamond to be cut must be
pointed. If not naturally in this form, it must be reduced to it artificially.
The points on the upper surface are ground down a little more than one-
half, anc those on the lower or under surface one-eighth. Then the light,
entering through the larger upper surfaces, strikes the bottom surfaces,
is reflected backward, traverses the side facets, is refracted, and produces
prismatic effects. Every one knows what is the result when white light
is decomposed into the colors of the rainbow, and coming to the eye,
with every variety of hue, produces what is called the luster of the
diamond. For this effect the light should not be voluminous, for there
might be neutralization of these colors, and white light be reproduced.
Nor should the facets be too large, for then the eye would receive all
these colors at once, which would also reproduce white light.

The large diamonds, the Regent, belonging to the crown of France, ,

228
338 THE DIAMOND AND OTHER PRECIOUS STONES.

and the Koh-i-noor, belonging to that of England, are cut with facets
too large, and not sufficiently numerous. It would have been better if
the large upper surface, called the table, had been cut in a series of
smaller facets, made to slope toward the edge, as is done for small
colored stones.

The following is my method of studying the effect of a diamond: I
pierce a hole in a white card a little larger than the diamond to be ex-
amined. Then passing a ray of sunlight or that of the electric lamp
through this hole, I place the stone in the path of this ray, at a certain
distance from the hole, behind the card, so thatit shail receive the light
on the table of its anterior surface. The rays reflected from the table,
and also those which pass through into the diamond, are reflected back
on the card, where they exhibit a white image of the table, surrounded
by small bands iridescent with ail the prismatic colors. Now, if the
colors are considerable in number, well separated, and equally spread
around the white reflection of the table, the diamond has been well cut.
Each of the bands indicates one of the lusters of the stone, which may
therefore be counted, and, consequently, in this way, the number, the
quality, and the symmetry of the lusters can be determined ; errors in
cutting can be detected; and the form to produce the best effect can be
ascertained. I have always intended to undertake by this method the
study of the principal diamonds of France, but have always postponed
it, being, like Homer, too much pressed with other work.

The second kind of cutting is called, for what reason I know not, the
rose. It consists in leaving a large, smooth surface underneath, and in
covering the uppersurface with a great number of small facets, in order
to produce on the face, by the reflection from below, lusters and colors
similar to those of the brilliant. This cutting is used for stones of a
flat form, the weight of which would be too much diminished in redue.-
ing them to the form of the briiliant. In this manner the great Indian
diamond of England was originally eut, before it was presented to the
Queen ; in cutting it as a brilliant it has been reduced from 186 to about
W)3 carats. It is scarcely necessary to say that, by the process I have
given, the rose-cutting can be as well verified as that of the brilliant.
In both, large facets should be avoided even for the larger diamonds.
As to the identity of the diamond known as the “ Sancy,” the name of
one of the captains of Henry the Fourth, there is no agreement among
connoisseurs. All the diamonds which pretend to this name weigh from
59 to 70 carats, and are cut in the form of a flattened pear, almost
round, a shape called the pendalogue, having facets above and below,
with a small, flat surface on the top. Several imitation diamonds cut
in this style have given admirable effects, and I think that it should
have been adopted in the cutting of both the crown diamond of Eng-
land and the rough diamond, known as the Star of the South, presented
to the Academy of Sciences by M. Dufrenoy. This kind of cutting,
which I venture to call the Sancy, merits as much attention as those

THE DIAMOND AND OTHER PRECIOUS STONES. 339

known by the name of the rose or the brilliant. If from a single
luminous point, multiplied by facets, we obtain several colored lights, it
is evident that from a number of luminous points more splendid effects
will be produced. For this reason the light from a number of wax
candles or from uncovered jets of gas is more favorable to the brilliancy
of the diamond than that from lamps or gas inclosed in globes of ground
glass. Therefore those who sell diamonds would do well to remember
that if. in exhibiting them they substitute for the one or two large lamps
frequently employed, candelabra containing a number of wax candles,
the character of the gem will apparently at once be changed, and it
will resemble in brilliancy that grouping known as the parterre or basket
of flowers.

Whenever J have been invited to see an amateur collection, among
which there was one princely diamond, (that is, above 10 carats weight,)
I have often given the owner great and unexpected pleasure by lighting
on a mantle-piece from eight to sixteen wax candles, thus calling forth,
as it were, all the latent splendor of the gem. The reflection in the man-
tle-mirror doubles the number of candles; and if we turn our back to the
mirror while holding the diamond in the hand, about the level of the
eye, and vibrating it rapidly, the most beautiful effects are produced.
If this secret had been known to Prince Potemkin, who enjoyed like a
svybarite the company of bis beautiful diamonds, he would have obtained
amuch higher pleasure from his favorite contemplation. In the splendid
apartments of the Tuileries nothing is more easy to remark than the
great difference between the brilliancy of these gems in the rooms lighted
by wax candles compared with that obtained in those where gas-jets
are inclosed in ground-glass globes. Walking, dancing, every movement
of the body, however slight it may be, varies very perceptibly the ever
changing play of the lights of this transcendently beautiful gem.

It is remarkable that the price of diamonds has remained invariable for
several centuries. A perfect diamond, weighing one carat, is worth about
200 frances. Double this weight, and you quadruple the price, which is
as the square of the weight, so that one weighing 10 carats would cost
10 x 10 x 200, or 20,000 franes, which would be more than that of a first-
class solitaire. Though it does not enter into our plan to speak of the
arrangement of diamonds, and the best manner of setting them, which
is properly the business of the jeweler, we will say that recently, admir-
able effects have been produced, at a great saving of cost, in substitut-
ing for one very large stone a diamond of more moderate dimensions,
surrounded by eight brilliants of one carat each. Suppose we have for
the middle stone of the necklace a diamond of four carats, worth 3,200
francs, surrounded by eight stones of one carat, worth 1,600 franes.
We get for 4,800 franes an effect equal to that of a 10-carat diamond,
which would cost from 20,000 to 25,000 franes.

The mines of India, at Goleonda, Raolconde, Visapour, held for a
long time the monopoly of the diamond market of the world. Of late,
340 THE DIAMOND AND OTHER PRECIOUS STONES.

however, Brazil has added its productions, which, having almost always
a slight yellowish tint, contrast finely with the diamonds of India. It
is from Brazil, at present, that nearly all the diamonds sold in Europe
are obtained. These are first sent to Amsterdam to be ent, thence to
Paris and London to be set, and thence they find their way through
commerce to every part of the world. Borneo also furnishes a few hun-
dred carats of diamonds. Humboldt conjectured that, from their forma-

‘tion, the Ural Mountains ought to produce diamonds, and research has |

justified his prediction. It does not appear, however, that these depos-
its have even yet been made productive in the way of regular mining.
Algeria, also, has had the reputation of producing diamonds, and we
have seen, in the possession of amateurs of mineralogy, specimens said
to come from this locality ; but whether these came from a real or sup-
posed deposit, they have had no place in commerce, and the same may
be said of the Californian and Australian diamonds. In general, the
proportion of diamonds in circulation augments with that of the popt-
lation that can afford to purchase them, which causes their price to
remain nearly the same at all times. A panic dne to the discovery of
some new diamond beds in Brazil, about the year 1845, caused a tem-
porary fall in the price of this gem, but the equilibrium was soon
restored, and now, at London as at Paris, a diamond of one carat is
worth the old price of 200 francs, more or less.

The number of stones which surpass in weight 100 carats is extremely
limited. It is estimated that among 10,000 diamonds only one will
be found weighing 10 carats, and consequently this will merit the
name of princely. Russia, France, Tascany, and Mngland possess dia.
monds weighing over 100 carats. By far the chief among these, on
account of its beauty, is the Regent, so called because it was to the
Prince Regent that England owed its acquisition. All these large dia-
monds come from India. The Star of the South, of which we have just
spoken, and which was shown to the Academy of Sciences January 3,
1856, came from Brazil, and was obtained from one of the new mines,
the discovery of which caused the transitory depression of the diamond
market. It was found in July, 1853, and weighed 2544 carats. This
gem appeared perfectly limpid, and without that tint which has been
the reproach of Brazilian diamonds. The cutting of it as a brilliant
reduced it to half its original weight, which will make it about the same
as that of the Regent, which is 1364 carats. To have cut it in the form
which I call the Sancy, would have left it three-fourths of its original
weight, and have given it a much more splendid luster. When I
wished to suggest this the diamond had already been sent to Amster-
dam. It was exhibited at Paris in the great exposition of 1856. It is
estimated to weigh 127 carats. It is one of the five diamonds to which
the name of sovereigns has been exclusively applied. Everything indi-
cates that the number of these peerless minerals is extremely restricted,
since so few have rewarded the arduous labor of searching for them.
THE DIAMOND AND OTHER PRECIOUS STONES. 341

If no more should ever be found, it will be on account of their extreme
scarceness, which recalls a saying of Tacitus with regard to the pearls
of England: “It is rather nature that fails in their production than
the avidity of man in their discovery.” Hitherto Borneo has contributed
no diamond of any considerable size. It is true, however, that the
almost impenetrable forests of this equatorial isle have prevented a
thorough research. A late number of the Journal of the Geographical
Society of London gives about 2,000 carats as the annual product of
the mines of Borneo, which have never yet yielded a diamond of 36
earats. The monopoly of the government of Holland in this matter is
found to be quite profitless, and it is probable that, as in Brazil, a con-
siderable portion of the production is abstracted by contraband trade.

The rank of a diamond can only be approximately determined by its
weight. If, for example, it is not of a beautiful water, perfectly pure,
colorless, and limpid, it cannot receive the title of sovereign. Further-
more, if its luster is not brilliant, it will have to be recut to render it per-
tect, and in this operation it will lose weight. The Regent and the Koh-i-
noor are equal in beauty, but the Regent of 136 carats is more valuable
than its rival, which has been reduced in cutting from 186}. carats to
10213 carats. The diamond of Tuscany is of an inferior color, a yellow-
ish lemon. The great diamond of Russia is rather ill-shaped ; it is like
& pigeon-egg cut in half, with facets over its whole contour. Itisonly a
big stone, a species of heavy rose much too thick. If the Koh-i-noor and
the Star of the South had been cut in the Sancy form, it is probable
that with a brilliance equal to that of the Regent they would have sur-
passed it in weight. The Star of the South, when I saw it in the pos-
session of M. Dutfresnoy at the Instituée, weighed 2543 carats; but by
injudicious cutting, I regret to say, it was reduced to 127 carats.

Permit me further to remark in regard to the Saney form that it
always admits of a subsequent cutting into that of the brilliant, and is
easily experimented upon. For this reason it is prudent not to sacrifice
until the last extremity so much weight as must be lost in reducing a
stone of the form of the Indian or Brazil diamond by the ordinary eut-
ting. I have seen at Amsterdam a model of the form which the latter
would take by ordinary cutting. It will be like the Koh-i-noor, that is
to say, not sufficiently thick for the size of its face.

In comparing the English diamond with the model of 100 carats given
by Jeffries it will be found that its extent of face is almost double what
it ought to be for a diamond properly cut.

It would be a curious speculation to follow the future history of the
Star of the South after having shone at the French exposition. What

1ame will this sovereign diamond assume? Willit be Albert or Francis
Joseph? The proud Americans, sagacious estimaters of all commercial
values, will they have the ambition to possess one of these rare produc-
tions of nature? “How have you managed to put so immense a price

-
342 THE DIAMOND AND OTHER PRECIOUS STONES.

on this pearl?” asked Philip 11 of an eastern merchant. ‘Sire, I knew
there was in the world a King of Spain to buy it.”

Thus far we have said little for science in this dissertation, and yet
precious stones, and, in general, all crystals, from their geometrical
forms, their chemical and mechanical properties, their weight, their color,
their action on light, and their electrical qualities, they all offer the most
delicate as well as interesting applications of the principles of physics.
Haiiy conceived a crystal to be made up of an assemblage of minute
parts or molecules, each having the same definite form. From a few of
these elementary molecules, which he called primary forms, he was ena-
bled to build up all the forms which occur in nature, and in so doing he
was led to inquire whether the same elementary forms might not give
rise to more than one derivative form, or, in other words, whether the
same substance could not crystallize in more than one form. Nature
replied that she had anticipated his question by producing a specimen
of the anticipated form. By the application of mathematical analysis
to the fertile conception of Haiiy all the forms of erystals which can
possibly be produced by an aggregation of a given elementary form, as
well as the forms which are incompatible with a particular elementary
molecule, can be foretold, and these predictions are, in all cases, found to
be in exact accord with the actual facts of observation; while the
chemist and the mineralogist are continually adding to the list of crystals
of theoretically possible forms, in no case has one been obtained of an
@ priort incompatible form.

Hardness is an important quality by which valuable stones are
distinguished. In the cutting of the Koh-i-noor it was found that it
required a whole day to produce facets which could be commonly formed
in the course of three hours. It was also found necessary to increase the
rapidity of therotation of the wheel on which the diamond powder is
spread. In an experiment made some years ago at the expense of the
Institute, a black diamond of Borneo was put in the hands of Gallais,
the diamond-cutter. On this he wore out a steel wheel and a large
quantity of ordinary diamond powder without making the least impres-
sion on its surface. It lost none of its roughness, although loaded with
a considerable weight, and heated almost to whiteness by the rubbing
of the wheel, which revolved with such velocity as to emit a continual
shower of sparks during the operation.

This intractable substance required the powder of black diamonds,
like itself, to produce the desired effect, and doubtless some day the
powder of black diamonds will be used to advantage in cutting the ordi-
nary diamond as well as in other processes of the arts. Every one has seen
a glazier, with a minute point of a diamond, trace upon glass an almost
imperceptible groove in the crust of the glass, which renders it easily
frangible in a given direction. It is conjectured by some that the an-
cients in engraving on sapphires and rubies have used a diamond point
as a burin, and the finish of some parts of cameos and intaglios deeply

THE DIAMOND AND OTHER PRECIOUS STONES. 343

cut would appear to warrant this supposition. An art has been lost to
France. Who will restore it? Since the last encouragements given to
engraving on stone by the Empress Josephine and Napoleon I, every-
thing of this kind comes to us from Italy, and there is not a single glyptic
monument of the reigns which have succeeded the Empire.

The diamond is heavier than rock-cerystal and lighter than white
sapphire. It has almost the same weight as the white sapphire of Bra-
zil, called goutte @eau. It is often confounded with these three stones,
which resemble it in whiteness. Let us see then how these may be dis-
tinguished by the weight.

It is known that if a real diamond be suspended by a fine thread from
a delicate balance, and when in perfect equilibrium it be immersed in a
glass of water placed immediately under it, it loses two-sevenths of its
weight, or, in other words, two-sevenths of its weight in air must be
added to the pan from which it is suspended to restore the equilibrium
when the diamond is in the water. In like manner, a diamond weighing
21 carats loses in water about 6 centigrams. A white sapphire of
the same weight loses only a fourth of its weight when weighed in
water, that is to say, about 5 centigrams. <A piece of rock-crystal in
the same conditions loses 8 centigrams. Hence, whenever any species
of crystal weighed in water loses more than two-sevenths of its actual
weight, it cannot be a diamond. We shall presently see how the dia-
mond is distinguished from the white topaz, which, like itself, loses in
water two-sevenths of its weight.

Chemical tests being, in general, very difficult of application, and in-
volving a loss of the substances examined, need not here be described ;
but we shall point out an optical test of a very delicate character which
traces at once the line of demarkation between the diamond and all
other colorless gems; we refer to that of double refraction.

In looking through a transparent stone at a detached object, such as
the point of a needle, or a small hole pierced in a card, the object is seen
double,.as if there were two needle-points or two holes. This phe-
nomenon is called double refraction, and is exhibited by all white or
colorless gems except the diamond. As some little dexterity is required
to readily exhibit this curious property, the object to be looked at and
the stone should be fixed at the proper distance apart on a support by
a little modeling-wax, so as to be more conveniently seen by those inter-
ested in the experiment. M. Haiiy was often called upon in consultations
of this kind, and sometimes, in the case of a suspected fraudulent sale,
he gave his testimony in court as an expert in regard to the character
of gems. The white topaz of Brazil produces double refraction, and
may at once be recognized by this quality as a false diamond. I have
a painful recollection of a visit from an English gentleman, who brought
for ny examination a magnificent white topaz, which, had it been
diamond, would have been of immense value. It was very easy for me,
from the cutting of the stone, to perceive the double refraction; but
344 THE DIAMOND AND OTHER PRECIOUS STONES.

such was the agitation of the owner, and so convulsively did his hand
tremble, that I was obliged to attach the stone to a wooden ruler with
a bit of green wax before I could render the phenomenon clear to him.
The instant he saw the double refraction, the bearing of which I had
explained, he seemed overcome with emotion; and after remaining some
minutes in a half-stupefied condition, he suddenly rose and abruptly
teok his leave, doubtless to hide his emotion, too powerful to be con-
trolled. He afterward sent me his card, apologizing for his hasty
departure, but I never learned what great interest [had compromised or
what hopes I had dissipated in thus determining the character of the
stone. In the work of Mawe, it may be seen that the white sapphire
and the white diamond owe their high price to the fact that they ar>
often fraudulently substituted for diamonds. Mawe might have added,
also, the white zircon, which is heavier even than the sapphire, and
which much more resembles the diamond. To exhibit one of these stones
in dress as areal diamond may be only a small exhibition of vanity,
but to sell one for a diamond is a felony which, fortunately, is recognized
as such by our courts of justice.

I need scarcely add that the zircon, like the white sapphire and topaz,
possesses the quality of double refraction in a high degree. The test of
double refraction is a very convenient one, because it can be exercised
without unsetting the stone, and without any complicated apparatus.
A little practice enables any one very soon to learn how to recognize the
phenomenon; and this is not much to pay for gaining so absolute a means
of identifying a false diamond.

Diamonds are capable of being colored in various ways. A slight
tinge, as in the ease of the great Tuscany and the Russian diamonds,
detracts from the value; but when a diamond is found of a lively and
rich color, it is very much sought after as a very rare specimen. The
Marquis of Drée possesses several of this kind, and especially one of
fine rose tint. The specimens which have this character are called stones
of affection, and really their owners sometimes regard them with a sen-
timent which fully justifies the name. Among the crown diamonds of
France there was one of triangular shape, of a fine sapphire blue, and
weighing 60 carats. This disappeared at the time of the theft of these
diamonds, none of which, except the Regent, were ever recovered, doubt-
less because this latter was of more difficult sale than the rest. During
his imprisonment, the thief enjoyed among his companions great con-
sideration on account of the magnitude of his villainy. On what may
not distinction be based in this world ?

But the wonder of all colored diamonds is the blue one, owned by Mr,
Hope, the form of which has been engraved in the report of the London
Exposition. Mawe characterizes it as superlatively beautiful. It weighs
444 carats, and often, according to Mr. Tennant, unites the blue color of
the sapphire with the prismatic luster and brilliance of the diamond.
Every one who has studied the play and the effect of precious stores in

THE DIAMOND AND OTHER PRECIOUS STONES. 345

any brilliant evening assembly has remarked that the sapphire, spark-
ling as it may be by day, becomes dull and lusterless in the light of
lamps, wax candles, or gas. It would be curious to know whether the
same loss of brilliance happens to the blue diamond of Mr. Hope, which
I do not hesitate to place beside the sovereigns in value, because, though
less heavy than they, it surpasses them in rarity. The term stone of
affection is scarcely an inappropriate name for this precious object,
though it is sometimes applied with more questionable propriety. I once
saw a stone at M. Bapst’s, known as a black diamond, which had the
color of a tobacco-leaf, and was only admirable on account of its singu-
larity. Louis XVIII, however, selected it for the crown of France, at
24,000 francs, but it was never placed there. Such diamonds are always
cut very thin; for what isthe use of thickness in a stone which is not
transparent, and of which the superficial brilliance is quite vivid? If
to an amateur such a stone should become one of affection, he certainly
would run no risk of having his taste disputed. It is curious to remark
that Pliny says almost the same thing of Nonius, who, owning a
beautiful opal, preferred to quit Rome as a proscribed traitor, rather
than yield to Antony his stone of affection. ‘It was,” says Pliny, “ an
astonishing instance of tyranny on the part of Antony to proseribe a
citizen for the sake of a gem; but we can none the less wonder at the
obstinacy of Nonius, who, rather than give up his beloved opal, suffered
himself to be exiled from his country. In reading the interminable list
of marvelous qualities attributed before the seventeenth century to gems,
we may understand something of the extreme value set by the possessors
of precious stones on these treasures. The native Indian princes are great
amateurs of diamonds, and seek for them with great assiduity. In one
of their collections I have seen a small natural diamond, with brilliant
points, encased in the red cement which ordinarily envelopes the stone
in the mine. This specimen, which was about the size of a small! hazel-
nut, and in which the little diamond was enshrined within the cement,
formed an object well adapted to excite the wonder and admiration of
the mineralogist, as well as the superstitious regard of the princely,
though unscientific, owner.

Mawe states that of all values the least variable is that of the diamond.
He cites various crises which have occurred in England in the quantity of
diamonds received, and shows that, with regard to price, these crises have
been generally very light and of short duration. There have been two
great panics in the diamond market since 1840. The first was on the dis-
covery of the new mines in Brazil, about 1843 or 1844. The second was
in France, and followed the commercial shock caused by the revolution
of 1848. The price of diamonds then rose and tell with other securities,
and in precisely the same proportions. The price is now about 200 ‘ranes
the carat, a price indicated by Jeffries reaching to about 250 frances.
M. Castelnau, in his Voyage across South America, hints that the fall
in the price of diamonds came from a diminution in the taste of society
346 THE DIAMOND AND OTHER PRECIOUS STONES.

for these brilliant and other frivolous decorations. If the depreciation
in the value of diamonds is to depend on a decline in the taste for luxury
and .ostentation, a desire to shine, and even on the cupidity of man, a
rich commerce in these gems may be assured in London and Paris for
many centuries to come.

Without recurring to the Arabian Nights, or to the legends of the middle
ages, where gnomes and griffins are seen jealously guarding these treas-
ures of the earth, and only by the force of some cabal allowing mortals
to obtain them, it is evident that a great value assigned to a small
quantity of mineral substance has given rise to singular changes in
fortune. I do not know on what foundation Mawe says that Liégés,
embassador to the court of Berlin, obtained from the King of Prussia a
treaty of alliance, offensive and defensive, by dazzling his eyes with
the splendor of the Regent, for the cession of which by France the abbé
allowed the King to entertain a hope. Frequently the precious stones
of sovereigns have been used as pledges for the payment of debts; but
these transactions .are comparatively of little interest, and we prefer
much more to contemplate the incident of a poor gardener of Golconda
finding in his garden a beautiful stone, which proving to be a diamond,
afforded, not only ease and comfort to himself and his family, but
opened to his whole country a source of riches. We also prefer to dwell
on the fortune of a poor negress who found the Star of the South, in July,
1853, while washing the sands of the Brazilian mine of Bagagen. Ac-
cording to the ancients, Hercules presided over the discovery of treas-
ures. By this perhaps they wished to indicate that what is truly valu-
able ean only be attained by untiring industry. But be this as it may,
the discovery of a gem was never considered by them as a favor from
Hercules, but as the reward of labor.

An anecdote of notable fidelity is connected with the Sancy, which is
worthy of repetition. This gem was bought at Constantinople during
an embassy, by a baron of the name of Sancy, for 600,000 livres. During
the many years in which Henry IV, after the death of his predecessor,
was rather an appendage to the throne than King in reality, several
of his barons rendered him pecuniary assistance, and, among others,
the Baron of Saney, who placed the diamond bearing his name in charge
of a domestic, to be delivered to the King. In the brigandism which.
then desolated France, this servant was attacked and assassinated.
For a long time his master knew not what had become of him; but
after much searching it was discovered that he had been killed ina
certain rural commune, and that his body was interred in the cemetery
belonging to the locality. When condolences on this discovery were ten-
dered to the baron on the loss of his splendid jewel, he replied, ‘‘ You
are very much in error, gentlemen; since I now know where to find
the body of my servant, I know, also, where to find my diamond.” In
fact, when the body was disinterred the diamond was found; it had been
swallowed by the man to secure it from his assailants.

THE DIAMOND AND OTHER PRECIOUS STONES. 347

I may in this connection also recite an incident coming within my
personal knowledge. I had intrusted a diamond of considerable value
to a young trader to be recut in Amsterdam. He there, however, met
with reverses, and returned to Paris in a state of the greatest destitution.
During the last days of his homeward travel he was obliged to live upon
the wild fruits of the earth, and to sleep in the open air. Although I
found him on his return in an apartment with bare walls, and his couch
a bed of straw, he had been faithful to his trust. He handed me my
jewel, apparently unconscious of merit, merely claiming from me the
price of the recutting. After this sad epoch, fortune smiled upon him,
and in his prosperity I fancy that I see a providential recompense of
such rectitude amid unusual temptation.

The art of making diamonds has been almost as eagerly sought as that
of producing gold. The problems are not, however, the same in prin-
ciple, since to make a diamond is simply to crystallize carbon or charcoal;
while in preducing gold the alchymists attempted to change the very
nature of bodies, and to make gold of all things. . Modern chemistry
having burnt the diamond, and discovered that the product of its com-
bustion is the same as that obtained by the burning of charcoal, we
would suppose that some peculiar compound of charcoal might be found
which, submitted to such process as would allow the carbon to separate
very slowly in a condition of perfect stillness, would produce regular
crystalline forms.

It is thus that sugar, salt, and alum are deposited when the water
which held them in solution is evaporated very slowly and in perfect
stillness. Looking at it in this light, there isa curious substance which
renders the experiment of diamond-making a hopeful matter. It is not
generally known thatin combining sulphur and carbon a colorless liquid
is produced resembling water, and containing really nothing but sulphur
and carbon. If by some process the sulphur could be got rid of, either
wholly or partially, we might expect to see the carbon deposited in the
crystalline state. So far this hope has failed. Many other plans have
alse failed, so that at this day the crystallization of charcoal is by most
persons a thing despaired of. Despretz, a member of the Institute, was
however, of a different opinion. By means of the voltaic battery he has
obtained on a thread of platina small crystalline depositions, which, by
their form and hardness, seem to be really embryonic diamonds. These
crystals, or rather, let us say, these particles of diamond dust, have been
used in polishing hard stones, in the same manner as ordinary diamond
powder. The scientific question is then resolved. But this ingenious
and sagacious academician did not stop here. He organized, as we
may say, hundreds of preparations to facilitate the precipitation and aid
crystallization of charcoal under the influence of electricity, an agent
which in the researches of men is the obedient servant of his will. These
interesting facts lead us to indulge the hope that persevering and saga-
cious labor will be rewarded by success in the crystallization of carbon,
348 THE DIAMOND AND OTHER PRECIOUS STONES.

and the manufacture of the diamond. Although this result might not
be advantageous to commerce, it would be so to science. Nowhere does
nature show us the diamond in the locality where it has been formed ; it
is now only obtained from ground which has changed its place, so that
we get no light on the primitive conditions of its crystallization, a cir-
cumstance which seems to confirm the views of Despretz, which is, that
in Brazil, side by side with the diamond, there occurs a curious substance
as hard as the diamond, which is called by the Portuguese carbonado, and
in trade at Paris carbone. Speaking of the mines of Brazil, Tennant
says of it: “There is found here a considerable quantity of a black sub-
stance of the same specific gravity as the diamond, laminated or rather
composed of a succession of laminella generally broken into separate
fragments. It is too imperfectly crystallized to be cut; though it pos-
sesses in places the brilliance of the diamond, and can be reduced to
powder for the polishing of other stones. Its name, carbonado, is due to
its having an appearance resembling charcoal. May not this be the
same substance as that artificially obtained by Despretz? In the age
of Louis XLV, it was thought that it was quite possible to increase the
size of diamonds by placing them in certain solutions, just as a piece of
salt may be increased in size by placing it in a solution of the same
substance. Despretz has, doubtless, considered the property that a
erystal possesses of attracting and regularly arranging around itself
particles of matter analogous to its own. At present this is the whole
scientific condition of the subject. Let us wait for future developments.

Several years ago the premature announcement of the artificial pro-
duction of diamonds agitated all Paris. Baron Thenard, however, by
an experimental examination reassured the many merchants and families
who had been alarmed on account of the threatened depreciation of their
fortunes, based on the value of this queen of gems. Since this time the
number of diamonds has ivereased in France, and is every day increasing,
even more rapidly than in England, and now represents an immense
capital. According to the remark of Achard, there is no article which
being resold, suffers so little loss, so little depreciation, while at the same
time it is always in demand. It may almost be considered a circulating
medium for high values. Furthermore, in the actual state of physies
and chemistry, nothing warrants the fear that the artificial will ever
compete with the natural product. The case is analogous to the well-
known production of the gold pieces made by M. Sage, from gold ex-
tracted from the ashes of certain burned vegetable substances, a beautiful
scientific result, but by no means lucrative, since every piece of twenty
franes cost 125 franes in the making.

In like manner, we may say that if the process were known, the arti-
ficial gem would cost more than its worth.

The other precious stones have been designated “ colored gems.” In
fact, their principal merit is the beauty of color and play of light which
distinguishes them, but to this we may add hardness, which insures their
THE DIAMOND AND OTHER PRECIOUS STONES. 349

preservation, and which is one of the most important qualities that a
precious stone can possess. Pliny says that in gems we see all the
majesty of nature united in a small space, and that in no other of her
works does she present anything more admirable. According to hin,
the first one who wore a precious stone was the Titan Prometheus.
Released from his bonds and impressed by some ideal sentiment, he in-
serted in a piece of his chain a fragment of the rock to which he had
been fastened, and thus formed a ring,which he ever after wore in memory
of his misfortunes. Is there not some allegorical sense in this story of
the construction of the first ring? What leadsus to this supposition is
the mysterious personage himself who is made the wearer. This grand
personage Prometheus, the benefactor of man, who gave him fire stolen
from the gods, has always been venerated in antiquity for his opposition
to the imperious domination of Jupiter.

The ancients included also, under the name of gems, stones engraven
either in relief or in intaglio, and in this form of art they have left us
the most admirable productions that the imagination can conceive.
Here, as in sculpture, the moderns have neither surpassed nor even
attained to the perfection of the works of antiquity. MHngraven stones,
which were used as seals, are now the most precious and valuable of
relics, while they afford us definite mineralogical ideas as to the various
kinds of ornamental stones known from the earliest period of history.

Stones of color do not probably, at the present day, represent more
than one-tenth of the total value of gems, while diamonds may be esti-
mated as ninety per cent. This was different among the ancients. With
them the diamond was hardly known as an ornamental jewel, because
it was uncut, and did not exhibit those vivid colors which now place it
in the highest rank among precious stones. Furthermore, cur system
of lighting with lamps, gas, or candles, throws upon all objects tints
very unfavorable to the natural color of gems. Thus the garnet, tur-
quoise, amethyst, and even thé opal, lose much of their luster in these
artificial ights. When a colored stone is placed in the path of the solar
spectrum, its color will vary with the portion of the spectrum which
falls upon it; and two stones of the same color, but of a different na-
ture, will exhibit different effects. Thus a paste, placed beside a fine
colored stone, betrays its worthlessness. A simpler method of testing
stones is to look at them through a bit of glass colored red, yellow, blue,
or green. Every stone will exhibit under this test properties peculiar
to itself, and by which its nature may be recognized.

Since we have spoken of paste, | would remark that in spite of the
high price of fine stones, there are fewer false ones used than at first
we should be inclined to believe. Paste, colored or not, is only a very
fine glass overcharged with lead and enamel, analogous to the best
quality of cut-glass for table service. In the early times of its substi-
tution for precious stones, it was cut very carefully ; now it has become
common and cheap and inferior in workmanship. Besides, national
350 THE DIAMOND AND OTHER PRECIOUS STONES.

riches augmenting from day to day, and the insufficiency of paste for
beauty and duration becoming more and more apparent, a greater ex-
pense for something of imperishable value is preferred to a less price
paid for what is really an article of no permanent worth. We are now
long past the tine when the Duchess of Berri, arriving in Franee, re-
ceived for her bridal ornaments only paste, and when, in order to make
the Duke of Wellington a present in diamonds of less than a million
frances in value, the Paris trade was obliged to borrow from the civil
list a certain number, guaranteeing their restitution in kind.

Before speaking further of colored stones, a question presents itself:
Can science explain the coloring of these gems? There are, I suppose,
few persons who do not know that the white light which reaches us
from the sun and other heavenly bodies can be decomposed into a num-
ber of colored rays. Thus, when the light of the sun passes through a
triangular prism, it is bent, and will trace on a white card placed oppo-
site to it an iridescent band, in which Newton has marked seven colors,
according to some idea of analogy with the seven notes of a musical oc-
tave; an idea which is, after all, without foundation, since every prism
gives its own peculiar band. The idea was by no means new. The
Greeks and Romans entertained it, and Nero, who in dying pitied the
world for losing so great an artist as himself, has sung it in verse. A
child blowing a soap-bubble produces colors as splendid. In a word,
every thin plate of any transparent substance whatever becomes colored
under white light. Striated surfaces also offer effects not less brilliant ;
so that, to clothe certain insects more vividly, nature has grooved the
tissue that envelopes them. The globules of clouds betweenus and the
moon produce also, with white light, the most vivid colors; and, above
all in beauty, the iris or rainbow, which the sun paints in a thousand
colors in the drops of the falling shower, is the transcendent effect of de-
composed light. Nature always, with a palette, so to speak, charged only
with white, knows the art of spreading over all her pictures the magic
and glow of the most brilliant coloring. But we have not exhausted
all the resources of this coloring, the secret of which is the light itself.
How shall we explain the whiteness of the snow, which covers our planet
at either pole, and on the summits of the loftiest mountains? How ac-
count for the perpetual greenness of countries covered with plants and
trees, the blue of the vast aerial sea which envelopes the earth, or the
color of the great ocean which rests on its surface? Here science is in
default. The cause of the color proper to bodies is only half perceived ;
and we can say still that which Huyghens said at the end of the seven-
teenth century, ‘In spite of the labors of Newton, no one has yet fully dis-
covered the cause of the color of bodies.” We myst then admire, with-
out penetrating their secret, the unparalleled red of the oriental ruby,
the pure yellow of the topaz, the unmingled greenness of the emerald,
the soft blue of the sapphire, and the rich violet of the amethyst. This
is not the only thing the discovery of which we shall leave to posterity.

THE DIAMOND AND OTHER PRECIOUS STONES. 351

In the enumeration that follows we shall place the precious stones in
the order of their actual value. This order varies little in different parts
of the world. When an extraordinary demand, however, occurs, that
causes a rise in price of any particular gem, there flows into the
market such an overplus of that gem, that a fall in value is at once
effected. This is the case at present with the beautiful Hungarian opal,
which in the last ten years has become abundant, the mines producing
it being more actively worked on account of the high price of these
stones, which for a while has surpassed that of the sapphire. The ori-
ental ruby is, for its price as well as its beauty, the first in rank among
eolored stones. In order to appreciate its color in its finest quality we
must compare it with the blood as it spirts from an artery, or the red
ray in the solar spectrum. It is the pure red on the painter’s palette,
without any admixture on the one side of orange, or on the other of violet.
Many of the stained-glass windows in our ancient churches, when trav-
ersed by the rays of light, give this color in its brilliance. The ruby is
excessively hard, and, after the sapphire, which surpasses it a little in
this respect, is the first of stones, always excepting the diamond, to
which there is nothing at all comparable. According toa perfectly just
remark of M. Charles Achard, more competent than any one in France
to ‘give an opinion touching the trade in colored stones, there is a great
difference between these and the diamond, which, from the minutest
specimens to those of princely or sovereign size, have a fixed price pro-
portioned to their weight, as is the case with gold and silver. As for
rubies and other geins, the very small specimens have hardly any value,
and it is only when of some weight that they command high prices.
Rubies are, therefore, much used for watch-pivots, and, from their
abundance, are of little value ; but for a ruby of 5 carats, double the price
of a diamond of the same weight will be paid. If the ruby weighs 10
carats, triple the value of a diamond of the same weight may be asked
for it; which price would be about 20,000 to 25,000 francs. All the
world admits that a perfect ruby is the rarest of all the productions of
nature. Its tint shows to the same advantage by day as by lamp light;
but to render the color more resplendent it should be placed in the midst
of the red rays of the spectrum in such a manner that the rest of the
colors do not fall very near it. The possessors of choice collections of
stones can repeat this interesting experiment with various stones, placing
each in that color of the spectrum which is analogous to that of the
stone itself. Itis a severe test for the purity of the tint; for if pure and
unmixed, the stone will appear completely black in every other light but
its own. Milky and turbid stones cannot bear this test.

When Pegu was annexed to the British East India Possessions, it was
thought that that country, so rich in rubies, would send many of these
stones, so jealously guarded by the Indian princes, into the European

nxarket. Such has not been the case. It is not yet proven, however,
that the ruby mines are still worked; and this part of Asia is the least
352 THE DIAMOND AND OTHER PRECIOUS STONES.

known of all the countries of the globe. Merchants in rubies will never
cease expatiation on the number of tigers, lions, elephants, and venom-
ous serpents which people the forests and’ the plains of this country,
which, according to them, is only accessible by the openings of the
rivers from thesea. The actual state of the island of Borneo, as authen-
tically given, seems very much to confirm these rather interested ae-
counts. Ido not know that the rajahs attach a superstitious importance
to the possession of rubies, but it is certain that they never sell any of
considerable weight. With the Mtoh-i-xoor, Runjeet Singh possessed a
no less precious ruby, which was of the shape of the large end of an egg
that had been cut intwo. This enormous gem made a part of the neck-
lace of this prince, and was estimated by him, without any fear of finding
a purchaser, at 12,500,000 pounds sterling—about as much as 300,000,000
frances. We know nothing of the quality or weight of this ruby, which
has not yet been brought to England. The ruby is, with the sapphire,
the zircon, and the garnet, one of the heaviest of stones. In water it
loses only about the fourth of its weight.

The Indian princes set their beautiful rubies in the collet of a ring,
somewhat elevated, and surround them by several rows of small dia-
monds, so that the whole produces a kind of disproportionate elevation,
contrary to our ideas of good taste, which admits but a single stone in
a simple French setting, the stone not too prominent—for example, in
diamonds, 2 solitaire of three or four carats.

The composition of rubies is no less extraordinary than that of the
diamond. Like the sapphire, the ruby is nothing more than a bit of
crystallized earth, colored by iron, which naturalists call the painter ot
nature. Itisnottoo much to repeat the strange assertion, that nature has
made the most precious stones with the most common materials, we will
say that this kind of earth, called aluminium or clay, and the white pebble
or rock-crystal, called sélica, or flint, form the base of nearly all gems. Opal
isrock-crystal with water. Topaz joins a little fluoric acid to silex and
aluminium. The emerald, the crysolite, the aqua-marine, the tourmaline,
and the enlase contain another element besides silex and aluminium, viz:
glucine. Vinally, garnet is so ferruginous that it acts on the magnetic
needle. The zircon, a stone very little esteemed in France, has for base
a peculiar kind of earth called zircone.

As accessory to the ruby, we may mention a stone less deeply red in
color, called the spinelle ruby. The crystalline form of this differs from
that of the oriental ruby, which is a six-sided cylinder, cut squarely at
both ends; while the spinelle is, like the diamond, a double pyramid.
The namne of balass ruby has been given to a stone of Magal, which
several authors regard as a real oriental ruby, only having a less rich
eolor. The ancients did not apply the name ruby to this stone. It is
called by Pliny carbuncule, (incandescent coal,) and by Ovid and the
poets pyrope, or that which has the color of fire—

Flammas imitante pyrope.
THE DIAMOND AND OTHER PRECIOUS STONES. 353

With us the word carbuncle is little used except to describe a ruby of
considerable size. Pliny has evidently confounded the Indian ruby with
the garnet, whichis found everywhere. Certain rubies cut spherically—
a form which is called calotte spherique, tallow drop, or cabochon—pre-
sent in the middle of their red tint a white six-rayed star, which changes
with the position of the eye and forms in the sunlight a beautiful spec-
tacle. This effect is called astérie. It is found also in the sapphire, a
near relation of the ruby; like it, being composed of aluminium, and
colored by iron, differing only in its color, which is blue, while that of
the ruby is the most vivid and purest red.

Next in rank to the ruby we place the emerald, of which Pliny says
no gem has a color so agreeable. This stone, which comes to us from
Peru and New Grenada, is very soft, hardly scratching rock-crystal. It
is found in beautiful green crystals, implanted and produced in a kind
of freestone of a whitish color; and we can comprehend no cause other
than electricity for such a deposit as that of the emerald in the midst
of a stone differing both in nature and in color from this gem. Nero,
who was near-sighted, used an emerald, hollowed on both sides,
through which to look at the games in the amphitheaters. This was
doubtless the first approach to spectacles, since this invention does not
date very far back.

The emerald, like the ruby, is a six-sided prism and squarely cut at
the ends. This stone is very light, losing in water more than one-third
of its weight. Its tint is so lovely that we overlook its want of hard-
ness, which might properly almost exclude it from the rank of distin-
guished gems. At the time of the conquest of Peru a magnificent
emerald was sent in homage to the Pope; and several years afterward
the emerald mines there were said to be exhausted or lost. About
twenty years ago the principal of a large establishment in Paris, M.
Mention, received from South America some magnificent specimens,
which quite revived the emerald trade, continued since without inter-
ruption by Charles Achard. The deeper the hue of the emerald the
more it is esteemed. It is the largest end of the crystal that is the most
strongly colored. The emerald loses none of its brilliance in artificial
light; a valuable property in our modern society, where all great re-
unions are held at night. WHaiiy includes in the emerald family the
aqua-marine and the beryl, one of a greenish blue, the other yellow,
but both being like the emerald in form and chemical composition.

The emerald, as well as all stones whose color we wish to develop,
should be cut with a flat upper surface, surrounded by retreating facets,
continued all the way underneath. The orientals cut them in broad
thin plates, which, apparently, ought to show the colors of the stone to
the best advantage; but the reflection of white light from the large
upper surface becoming mingled with that which traverses the gem,
renders the hues of the latter less discernible. This is the reason why
they are not cut with a table and surrounded by facets; for thin in

23 8
504 THE DIAMOND AND OTHER PRECIOUS STONES.

avoiding a large reflecting upper surface, the stone is made to exhibit
its fundamental color throughout its whole extent. The emerald, though
much cheaper than the beautiful ruby, is nevertheless much admired
and sought for. We might almost call it a “stone of general affection,”
so much is it esteemed by the many.

The sapphire, which comes after the emerald, is the hardest of colored
Stones. It may be considered as a blue ruby, or the ruby as a red
sapphire. With Haiiy and Mawe, we can say that aluminium is suscepti-
ble of crystallizing in almost all colors. The mineralogical species to
which the sapphire belongs is called the corindon. After the red corin-
don, or oriental ruby, comes the blue corindon, or oriental sapphire. Some-
times the corindon is of a beautiful yellow color; then it is called oriental
topaz. More rarely it is of a violet hue; then it takes the name of orien-
tal amethyst. Finally, it may be perfectly colorless, like rock-crystal,
when it greatly resembles the diamond, with which it is sometimes con-
founded, but by its greater weight and its double refraction it may be
easily distinguished.

By the microscope there may be discovered, in certain pale sapphires,
traces in the direction of the faces of six-sided prisms. The light re-
flected by these interna! filaments produces three small brilliant traces
transversely to the filaments and to the faces of the prism. The cross-
ing of these little bright lines forms within the stone a six-pointed star,
which gives to the stone the name of starry sapphire. Among the ori-
entals these stones are highly esteemed, especially when they exhibit
the star in a ground of deep blue. Corindons of all colors are suscepti-
ble of being thus marked. In his voyages in Africa, M. Abbadie wore
a blue starry sapphire, which often commanded the respect of the
natives. There are stars on a red, blue, or yellow ground, according to
the color of the corindon. As yet, this phenomenon has never been
seen in the white sapphire. I have just said that this refiection arises
from little filaments within the stone. These may result either from
some foreign substance or from minute hollows left by the regular dis-
position of the particles at the moment of crystallization. Lf, instead of
trying to observe these starry appearances by reflection, the stone is cut
so that it can be looked through, then the phenomenon can be easily
seen. Unless the stone isof avery perfect crystallization, the observer
who takes for the point of sight a lighted candle, placed at a moderate dis-
tance, will perceive these little luminous lines of light crossing all the
series of filaments which the mineral contains. According as the stone
has a four or six sided form, we have a four or six rayed star, and if the
filaments are all in one direction we have a luminous band.

In scratching with the point of a diamond a plate of glass in various
directions, we produce bands of light of the same number as the traces
upon the surface, which are always in a transverse direction to these
traces. We can even very simply produce a star in spreading with the

d

finger a little wax or grease upon a plate of thin glass. It is necessary
fo) ao fo)
THE DIAMOND AND OTHER PRECIOUS STONES. 355

for this that the coating should be very thin so as merely to dull the
glass, and that the finger should be moved directly across—for example,
from right to left, or from above downward; then looking through it at
a lighted candle, there will be seen a band of white light crossing the
direction of the lines of tarnishing. If thesame operation is performed
in twe directions on opposite sides of the glass, then a four-limbed cross
will be formed by the two luminous bands which cross each other be-
fore the eye.

Ceylon produces a greenish stone traversed by filaments of white
amianthus, which is called the cat’s-eye, and which is usually eut spheri-
cally and quite prominent. We see in it a floating band, which comes
from the play of light on the lines of amianthus within it. In general
with these curious accidents of light exhibited by exceptional stones,
the color of the starry radiance should contrast as much as possible
with the tone of the stone itself. In simply scratching crossed lines on
a beautiful carnelian, I have succeeded in producing a white cross on a
red ground. In minerals this starry quality is very valuable, because
it reveals the primitive form of the substance in which it is found, and
I repeat that, by looking through a stone suitably cut, we find these
luminous transverse bands in a great variety of crystallized minerals.

There is a very hard dust employed in the arts, called emery, a pow-
der used in rubbing or grinding down bodies with hard surfaces. This
substance is a species of corindon or sapphire, containing a tolerably
large proportion of iron, which has been substituted for the aluminium
at the time of the formation of the stone. This substitution is quite
common in chemistry and mineralogy. It is believed that the Chinese
succeed, by patience, in cutting diamonds with emery. This must be
very slow work, because the stone of which emery is composed is very
much softer than the diamond ; it is like sharpening steel by rubbingit
on paper or linen. However, if patience can work miracles, it is doubt-
less reserved for the Chinese to accomplish this result.

We shall place after the sapphire, the opal, which comes from Hun-
gary and Mexico. The Hungarian opals are much the superior, and
have not the disadvantage of deteriorating with time. Some years ago
the opal was higher in price than the sapphire; but increase in value
inducing a more active working of the mines, the price of opals, beauti-
ful as they are, fell to what we find it at present. For the perfection of
an opal, it should exhibit all the colors of the solar spectruin, disposed
in small spaces, neither too large nor too small, and with no color pre-
dominating. The opal is sometimes called the harlequin, in allusion to
the great variety of colors which it displays. The substance of the opal
is of a milky hue and of a pale greenish tiut. This milkiness is gener.
ally known by the term opalescence. It is the color of water in which
a little soap has been dissolved. In order to explain the brilliant colors
of the opal, we may imagine in the stone a great number of isolated fis-
sures, of variable width, but always very narrow. Each fissure, accord
356 THE DIAMOND AND OTHER PRECIOUS STONES.

ing to its width, gives a peculiar tint similar to the effect produced by
pressing two plates of glass together: we may recognize violet, blue,
indigo, red, yellow, and green, the last two being exhibited more rarely
than the others.

Asa proof that the brilliant colors of the opal are due, as we have
said, to narrow fissures, similar colors may be produced by partially
fracturing, with the blow of a hammer or a wooden mallet, a cube of glass
or even a rock-crystal. Colors obtained in this way are known in optics
by the name of colors of thin plates, and are of the same character as
those of flowers, which result from the overlaying of the transparent
tissues of which the petals are composed. Herein lies the secret of all
their varied hues from their first opening until their final decay.

Sometimes the opal is colored only in its substance, has not so great
a play of light as when it is variously traversed by fissures, and then it
is not so much esteemed. Again, it may have extended fissures exhibit-
ing a somewhat changeable single color—red, blue, yellow, or green.
The Empress Josephine once paid a very high price for a pair of these
stones, it being then the fashion to wear two bracelets exactly alike,
and it was quite difficult to get two stones perfectly matched, since the
interior disposition of the fissures of the opal, which gives its peculiar
play of color, depends entirely upon accident. At present it is only the
harlequin opals that are much valued, and those of Josephine would
not now bring a tenth of their former cost.

Except for ear-rings, the opal should be set singly, with or without a
surrounding of small brijliants, whose vivid lusters and scintillations
contrast favorably with the tints of the opal.

The opal is not a very hard stone. In its chemical composition it is
only hydrated quartz—that is, white pebble, combined with water.
Heat, expanding its fissures, varies its colors, and pressure obviously
produces the same effect. I have thus often changed, without perma-
nent alteration, the colors of a beautiful Hungarian harlequin opal.

Before the revolutionary tempest, in the closing years of the past cen-
tury, the financier d’Augny possessed a harlequin opal of great beauty.
It was a perfect oval, 21 millimeters long, and from 15 to 16 millimeters
in breadth. Esteemed as entirely perfect, the stone had a great celeb-
rity. I do not know if d@Augny ran, like the senator Nonius, any risk
of proscription during the years of terror; but certainly if he did, it was
not on account of his possession of this unparalleled opal, since the
wretched tyrants of 793, who sold to foreigners the treasures of St.
Denis, and of many other churches, for 80,000 francs, did not dream of
opals exhibiting all the colors of the rainbow.

The opal of d’Augny, the value of which I have nowhere seen esti-
mated, passed some time ago into the hands of Count Waliski. The opal
of Nonius, of the size of a hazel-nut, which he selected from among all
his treasures as the companion of his exile, was estimated at 20,000,000
sesterces, which, aecording to the exact table of M. Dureau de la Malle,
THE DIAMOND AND OTHER PRECIOUS STONES. 357

in his book on the Political Economy of the Romans, is about 4,000,000
francs. Now, if we recollect that before diamond-cutting was under-
stood, the opal was the only stone which, receiving the white light of
day, gave it back refracted in a thousand magic tints, this price does
not appear too much for a gem which was the Jfoh-i-noor or the Regent
of Rome. The opal, at the same time that it is the lightest of all gems,
losing in water one-half its weight, is also one of the softest. Those of
India are somewhat superior in these respects.

In actual value the Paris market places, next after the opal, two
stones of an undecided greenish yellow, viz, the chrysclite and the peridot.
The first is characterized by its lively luster, its polish, analogous to
that of the sapphire, and its warm bright tint. It is the “stone of atfec-
tion” of Sir David Brewster, so celebrated for his researches in optics.
The chrysolite,or Cymophane, has often the milkiness of the sapphire. To
enumerate its other properties we must enter the broad field of modern
optics, speak of double refraction, of polarization, and the colors which
are exhibited in the light which traverses crystals, and finally of the
three kinds of colored rings, namely, those with black lines, those with
black erosses, and those without either lines or crosses. The rings in
the chrysolite, as in the topaz, are of the first kind. Thisis not, however,
a distinguishing property, since it can be made to appear, with a little
dexterity, in almost all cut stones. As to the peridot, or olivine, its color
is deeper than that of the chrysolite; it is always of a greenish olive,
mingled with yellow, the green predominating; is very soft, scarcely
scratches glass. Its lack of hardness gives an appearance of dullness
to its edges. The peridot, which comes to us from India, is there used
as ornaments of harness, as well as are the flatly cut emeralds of the
same country. Ceylon, which is above all other places distinguished
for the production of colored stones, does not continue to furnish the
peridot, which, however, is not rare in the lava from volcanos, although
the specimens are too minute to be worthy of the art of the lapidary.

I have often seen in the possession of an amateur interesting collections
of these small crystals, which, viewed by lamp-light and under a micro-
scope, verified all the crystallographic laws of Haiiy. A crystal of a
peculiar property, though of the minutest dimensions, was to this eccen-
tric amateur what the Star of the South would be to an ordinary collector
of diamonds. His long and minute investigations gave him great facil-
ity in the study of minute gems. From a stone covered with small erys-
tals he would select one which, under the microscope, and properly
lighted, would present the most interesting scientific indications.

The peridot has the distinguished honor to be the only precious stone
that has thus far been found in aerolites falling from the sky, although
these little olive stones are of no great value if sold by the carat; but if
suitably cut in their matrix, they afford, if not very beautiful, certainly
very curious, specimens. I need scarcely say that the existence of a
crystallized stone found in bodies falling from the atmosphere refutes the
>

398 THE DIAMOND AND OTHER PRECIOUS STONES,

idea that these meteorites are formed suddenly by the condensation of
exhalations from the earth. The regular disposition of the particles of
a substance in the form of a crystal requires immense time as weil as per-
fect freedom of motion.

From the peridot we pass to the garnet, which is a ferruginous stone
of a deep-red color, and often wanting in transparence. It is, however,
sometimes found of the beautiful color called peach-bloom. To the per-
fection of colors it is necessary that a specimen should join a regularity
of tint, wanting which constitutes a defect easily perceived by an eye
properly trained. There is sometimes found with cut garnets a very
pretty assemblage of stones in juxtaposition, which gives a very agree-
able appearance of black mingled withred. The only garnet I have ever
seen of any value is the hyacinthe, a stone of a luscious orangy yellow
color, having a little the appearance of candy made of brown sugar.
This stone, which Haiiy wrongly separates from garnets, is not much
esteemed except by amateurs or collectors of curious specimens. The
Hollanders formerly cut garnets into a pearl shape, which were strung
in necklaces and used as money among the slave-traders. As in sap-
phires, astérs may be observed in garnets, and I have been able to
verify, by the cutting, all that this phenomenon indicated of the struct-
ure oi the stone.

In the garnet can be developed crosses with six and also with four
limbs, besides straight and oblique crosses, without counting certain
circles of light resulting from a cutting perpendicular to the astérial fila-
ments.

Both for mineralogy and also for optics the study of gems affords
many important facts. It is to the study of mineralogical optics that
Malus, Arago, Fresnel, and Biot, in France; Huyghens, in Holland;
Wollaston and Sir David Brewster, in England; and Seebeck and
Haidenger, in Germany, owe so much of their renown, and to which the
science of light is indebted for its most beautiful discoveries.

Pliny gives no Latin name to the garnet, but confounded it with all
stones of a red color, under the head carbunculi. It is the heaviest of
gems, and like the diamond does not possess double refraction. From
the white garnet of Norway very excellent microscopic lenses have been
made, although it is ordinarily from the diamond that small and exceed-
ingly powerful lenses of this kind are formed. The cutting of such lenses
is very difficult, and the price commensurate with the labor and skill re-
quired in the operation. I may here observe that another mineralogi-
cal crystal having single refraction, the amphigéne, strongly refractive
and perfectly colorless, may also perhaps be used to form smail, powerful
lenses.

The topaz, whose name is derived from its yellow color, is a mineral
which also crystallizes in prisms, and is susceptible of being very nearly
broken transversely. They are of all colors, and come principally from
Brazil and Saxony, though Siberia also furnishes them. The price of
THE DIAMOND AND OTHER PRECIOUS STONES. 359

the yellow variety, which, strictly speaking, only ought to bear the name
of topaz, has wonderfully declined during the last quarter of a century.
The Brazilian topaz cannot be confounded with the oriental, which is a
beautiful corindon of a yellow color, deepening almost to orange.

Although the topaz is not considered a very brittle mineral, it is said
that the Emperor Maximinius, who broke the teeth of his horse with a
blow of his fist, and the leg of a beast by one of his royal kicks, was so
strong in the hands that he could crush topazes as we crush a lump of
sugar. The topaz has been for a long time a great favorite, especially
with the Spaniards, but with the caprice of fashion it has of late years
greatly deciined in the estimation of the public.

It was on the white topaz of Brazil that Fresnel made the important
discoveries of double refraction with two axes. It is, also, the topaz
which bears the name of water-drop, which is made so often to pass for
the diamond. In mineralogy this stone serves as one of the types of
comparative hardness. Thus, we say a stone scratches glass, scratches
rock-crystal, scratches topaz and sapphire, according to the various
degrees of hardness. For example, the Brazilian topaz cannot scratch
sapphire, which is one test of adiamond. The black diamond of Borneo
scratches every stone, even diamond itself. As to the peridot and opal,
they scratch nothing, not even ordinary bottle-glass, which I use in ex-
periments of this kind; as to window-glass it has become too soft of late
to be used as a test, since for economy it is now made with too large a
proportion of alkali.

The blue topaz of Brazil has never as deep a tint as that of the
sapphire; it is only an aqua-marine of superior quality. Of all topazes,
the only one highly esteemed is that artificially colored, of a pale rose
hue, by means of fire. For the specimens that we wish to experiment
with we must choose those of a deep yellow or rich orange color. After-
ward they are placed in ashes or sand and submitted to a red, or even
a white heat, more or less prolonged. When they are taken out we
find the tint changed to the light red of what is called ruby balais or
ruby brulée, (burnt ruby.) The gay color of this ruby is very pieasing
to the eye. A dilettante once remarked to me, “This stone has an
amiable character.” I was entirely of his opinion as to the moral of
this gem, although there is certainly nothing very sincere in the means by
which it acquires its beautiful tint. If, like the olivine, the topaz had
been enveloped in volcanic fires, it would naturally have become a ruby
balais, and no cloud would have rested on the truthfulness of its
character.

The mineral species which the topaz forms is characterized by a cer-
tain quantity of fluoric acid, which it contains exclusively of all other
gems. This stone, moderately heated, becomes electric and will attract
light movable bodies. <A delicate linen thread, suspended vertically from
one end, is attracted by the warmed topaz as it would be by a stick of
sealing-wax after being rubbed on cloth. The topaz shares this curious
360 THE DIAMOND AND OTHER PRECIOUS STONES.

character only with the towrmaline. This latter stone, of which we shall
say very ‘ttle as agem, is highly prized in optics on account of its polar-
izing qualities, which are utilized in a great variety of apparatus. Itis
without any brilliant luster; and though proposed as a stone for mourn-
ing ornaments, to compete with jet, jewelers have not yet made up
their minds to employ it for this purpose. For a really rich mourning-
decoration, black diamonds are the gems to be used, as they have been
in Portugal in decorating the crown-royal. The earliest specimens of
tourmalines came from Ceylon through Holland. The red tourmaline
of Siberia, called also sibérite, is pretty enough for a ring; it occurs
in minute crystals. The amateur of whom I have spoken had in his
collection very small sibérites, from Corsica, of a crystalline form and
exquisite in color; they would have served as gems for the decoration
of the Liliputians. There are beautiful green and blue tourmalines,
which come from South America, and are called Brazilian emeralds and
sapphires. The aqua-marine, the name of which indicates its sea-green
hue, is a stone of a mineralogical character similar to that of the eme-
rald, but little in demand at the present time. It is possible that there
may be an augmentation in its price, since no new ones are received in
market. This stone loses nothing of its appearance in artificial light,
and it is sometimes curious to see a magnificent decoration of sapphires
wanting in effect at night, while a cheaper one of aqua-marine is not
only preserving its splendor, but seeming to gain in brilliance by can-
dle-light. The English regard aqua-marine with the partiality the Span-
ish had for the topaz.

This stone takes a beautiful polish, and preserves it for a long time.
It is less hard than the topaz, and possesses many optical qualities, on
which our limits will not permit us to touch.

We come next to the amethyst, the name of which signifies a specific
against drunkenness. It is a true rock-erystal of a beautiful violet color ;
it is essentially a daylight-stone. Nothing is wanting to this lovely
gem but rarity. Pliny employs the word amethystize as synonymous
with violetize. Modern savans, with their lynx-eyes, find a difference
between violet rock-crystal and pure amethyst. The latter is charac-
terized by a series of little undulated strata, which is wanting in the
violet rock-crystal. There are specimens of colorless quartz which
have a structure similar to that of the amethyst. When certain agates
consist of very thin layers of a uniform thickness, they take the colors
of the spectrum, and are called iridescent agates. It is probable that
the myrrhine vases, whose value reaches some hundreds of thousands of
francs, were cut from iridescent agates. Sir David Brewster has given
the exact theory of this iridescence, ignorant that I had already done
so before him in the reports of the Institute.

The same philosopher has also demonstrated that the color of sea-
shells is also due to their surface being striated by undulating and
closely approximated minute lines; for, if we take the impressions of

THE DIAMOND AND OTHER PRECIOUS STONES. 361

one of these shells in finely prepared wax, we get the colors as well as
the form ofthe specimen. Myrrhine vases were sold at 70, 100, and 300
talents. The talent was about 540 francs. We may find among miner-
als many stones which, being cut, will make excellent gems. There is
the euclase, 2 weak emerald in color, but not so hard as a real emerald.
The amphigéne is as pretty as the white sapphire. The prehnite is a
tolerably good céladon. It is somewhat remarkable that researches in
mineralogy have led to nothing new in the way of precious stones. This
illustrates a remark of Humboldt that mineral nature is the same from
one end of the world to the other, which cannot be said of either the
vegetable or the animal kingdom.

There is no hope, then, of our finding anything beyond diamonds, ru-
bies, sapphires, topazes, emeralds, and amethysts. The only resource
is the laboratory. To obtain new gems man must not count upon nature
but upon his genius.

In terminating the list of precious stones let us say a word about the
white pebble or rock-crystal. This is nothing but flinty sand, crystallized
and variously colored. Almost all false gems, so called, are made from
rock-crystal or quartz. Thus rock-crystals, cut like the diamond, as
Rhine diamonds and Alengon diamonds, are called false diamonds. It is
only violet quartz which makes the true amethyst. Recently an attempt
has been made, with considerable success, to imitate the yellow topaz
with rock-crystal of the same color. There is developed in the stone a
very rich, velvety, orange color. As to all the reflections, the tints, the
degrees of transparence, or of opalescenee—in fine, of all the forms which
quartz, a veritable proteus, can assume, a volume would hardly suffice
to detail them. Formerly rock-crystal was used for chandeliers and
many other articles for which glass is now substituted. The ancients
were cognizant of the power balls of rock-erystal possess to concentrate
the sun’s rays and of setting fire to bodies. Physicians also used them
to cauterize certain wounds, in accord with the adage, “After medi-
cine, the knife; after the knife, fire; after fire, nothing.” These balls can
likewise be employed as inicroscopes, especially when they are small.
Minute nature might have been studied as well by the ancients as in our
day had they been so inclined.

I have not mentioned turquoises, of which there are two kinds,
both without transparency, One of these is made from the teeth of
the mastodon and colored with copper, a green céladon. Itis a kind
of fossil ivory. The other is a true mineral of the same greenish
blue color, and is a great deal admired; it costs about forty frances
the caret. The turquoise is perfectly imitated by porcelain. This
stone, without transparency, can scarcely be reckoned among gems;
it is rather a kind of natural enamel. We have also omitted feldspar,
which contains an alkaline principle, and which yields stones having a
mother-of-pearl luster, but without colors. However, when feldspar is
362 THE DIAMOND AND OTHER PRECIOUS STONES.

of a golden-yellow tint, covered with little reddish spots, itis cut like a
gem, but is at the present time very little known; it is called aventurine.

After the consideration of crystallized minerals in nature, we should
attempt the imitation of them in the laboratory. Ido not mean such
imitation as paste and color produces. I refer to the reproduction as
nature gives the gems to us, and propose the making of real precious
stones, such as has been attempted in the case of the diamond. I have
already said that Ebelman, at Sevres, has crystallized aluminium and
silex thus making a true spinella. M. Despretz, in the experiments
by which he has volatilized charcoal and the diamond, has also
melted aluminium and silex. He has obtained from these substances
little hollow spheres, lined inside with crystals, like the cavities which
are found in mines containing crystals of various kinds. In ali the ex-
periments of Despretz, the exceedingly intense heat which he produced
by electricity only served to dissipate the particles of the diamond
without producing any erystallization. It is therefore evident that the
diamond is not an igneous production. Its origin is probably electric;
but what was the epoch of its first production from ordinary carbon,
_ and where did its crystallization begin ?

According to M. Boutigny, the carbon of the earth comes from
showers of hydrogen, united with carbon, which watered as it were the
earth when it was too hot to receive ordinary rains. We have not yet
seen the bearing of this hypothesis on the crystallization of the diamond.

I have already said that sulphur and carbon, in uniting together, produce’

a liquid as limpid as water or pure alcohol. Now, with this it might
be well to try the following experiment: Having filled a strong iron
bottle with the liquid, and having covered it with an iron stopper, firmly
serewed into the neck, I would place it in an oven at 200 or 500 degrees
centigrade of heat. At this temperature the iron of the bottle and the
sulphur would possibly react upon each other and enter into combina-
tion. Now, the sulphur, uniting with the iron, would leave the carbon
free, which might thus slowly arrange itself in the erystalline form. I
merely propose this experiment, which might require a long-continued
heat of uniform temperature, to illustrate the play of chemical aflinity.
It is possible the effect would be analogous to that which takes place
when a porous body is plunged into a saline solution, which absorbs
the water and leaves the salt crystallized on its surface. We should
inform those who may be tempted to try this experiment, that the
fluid within the bottle would acquire by heat an immense repulsive force,
sufficient to break almost any vessel inclosing it, especially one of iron,
after the metal has been acted on by sulphur. The old alchemists fre-
quently met with serious accidents in their attempts to transmute mer-
cury by overheating it in closed iron vessels.

We have just said that there is very little chance that nature will
furnish us with any new minerals. We must therefore depend on the
results of the laboratory, and examine every substance whose hardness,

ae

THE DIAMOND AND OTHER PRECIOUS STONES. 363

polish, transparence, and crystallization render them suitable for gems.
We may afterward discover the method of coloring them, which would
not seem a very difficult task, from the fact that the coloring-matter is
always a foreign substance, and that, in many cases, gems have already
been artificially colored. Hbelman, by evaporating ether from silica,
has obtained beautiful specimens of paste, exactly resembling opal.
Though man may never be able to discover all the processes of nature in
the production of objects of curiosity or practical utility, yet he is every
day inducing her to disclose some of the secrets of her operations, either
as she reveals them spontaneously in the changes of the ez:th or is
forced to repeat them under the coercion of har ewn agents—heat, light,
and electricity.
ED HNO) k, O..GaX,.

ON THE LANGUAGE OF THE ABORIGINAL INDIANS OF AMERICA,
By GEORGE GIBBS.

Among the questions submitted for consideration at the meeting
of the American Philological Convention in July, 1869, was the fol-
lowing: ‘What more efficient measures can be taken to preserve
from destruction the languages of the aboriginal Indians of America ?”
This communication embodies the substance of my individual views, as
then offered, and I now take the liberty of presenting them to your
consideration in the belief that the Smithsonian Institution possesses
the only appliances adequate to the task.

The introduction to this topic might suggest an account of what has
already been done in the collection of materials on those languages; but
this would involve a multitude of details, chiefly the names of books,
to criticise which would be out of place. A very full catalogue of all dic-
tionaries, vocabularies, grammars, and grammatical notices prior to the
year 1858, was compiled by Dr. Hermann E. Ludewig, and published in
London by the Messrs. Triibner, with corrections by the late Professor
Turner. From this it appears that, with the exception of a compara-
tively small number of languages, out of over thirty distinct families
enumerated by Mr. Gallatin, and not including those of Texas, New
Mexico, Arizona, or the Mexican States, there are no grammars or dic-
tionaries worthy of those names. Of the rest of those north of the pres-
ent Mexican line nearly all that we have consist of mere word vocabu-
laries, such as have served for the comparisons by which the various fami-
lies have been distinguished. These are for the most part confined to
the forms adopted by Mr. Gallatin, and are either of sixty or at most
one hundred and eighty words, too few to allow any but very close
affinities to be recognized, and many of the words ill adapted even to
that object. Without disparaging labors of this kind, a very necessary
preliminary to further examination, it is certain that they do not fill the
requirements of philological science at the present day. The collections
already published, and those in manuscript in the possession of the
Smithsonian Institution, soon to be put to press, cover nearly the whole
of the American and British possessions, with the exception of a few
New Mexican pueblos and some scattered and unascertained tribes.
With the publication of these last, what may be considered as the pri-
mary classification of the Indian tribes in those territories, on the basis
of linguistic affinity, is about complete. To go beyond this some new
standard is required.

LANGUAGE OF ABORIGINAL INDIANS. 365

I would suggest, in the first place, the preparation of a far more copi-
ous vocabulary, to be based on the ideas exhibited in the languages
already known. The words should be arranged not alphabetically but
according to subjects, as the only mode consistent with intelligent in-
quiry, and as permitting the distribution of special or local words;
for instance, objects familiar to one nation and not to another. Such
a vocabulary should consist of not less than fifteen hundred words, and
an even greater number would be advisable. In selecting these words,
particular reference should be had also to such as are radical or contain
radicals, and plain instructions be given by which the collector, if he has
leisure and inclination, may dissect them.

Secondly. A large number of well-digested phrases, based upon these
words, calculated to draw out the different forms of speech, and from
which the grammatical structure of the language can be deduced.

Thirdly. The preparation of a succinct and popular statement of
the most striking peculiarities of some of the different languages as
derived from grammars already published and of well-known authority.
No one who has ever attempted, for the first time, to acquire an Indian
language but has been foiled, over and again, by a want of knowl-
edge how to direct his inquiries; and the most intelligent student has
labored for a long time without success, where a slight clew would have
guided him. Although there are certain characteristics which pervade
almost all American languages, they yet differ greatly from one another
in the degree in which these are marked, and often in the method in
which they show themselves. Some languages, also, have evidently
reached a far higher degree of culture, so to speak, than others. In
fact, there is as much difference in the grammar and syntax of differ-
ent Indian languages as in those of the Indo-Germanic stock. In
many of them a modification of the numerals takes place according to
the nature of the object counted, sometimes indicating whether the
object is animate or inanimate, at others various other qualities, as form,
&ec.; and the number of these modifications varies from two in the Selish
(one applied to the first, the other to the second class) to over forty in
the Cakchiquel. In the Otchipwé, or Chippeway, language, on the other
hand, where the nouns are all divided into animate and inanimate, there
are a variety of changes in the cardinals, but none on that principle;
while in their place there are certain numeral verbs which are animate
or inanimate according to the object expressed. In the Cherokee this
principle is not found either in the nouns or numerals, nor are the latter
modified at all; but the modifications, which are numerous, including
animate and inanimate, are confined to the verbs, many of which change
according to the quality of the object in which the action terminates.
For example, the verb “ to take” is in English simple, no matter what
is the nature of the thing taken, but in Cherokee there is one form
signifying to take a pliable object, another to take a long object, others
to take a liquid, an upright, or a living object, and the particles indi-
366 ETHNOLOGY.

cating these go through all the conjugations, moods, tenses, numbers,
and persons. It will at once be seen under what difficulties the student
labors who is not forewarned of these modifications.

ft would, of course, be unwise to swell a work intended for popular
use, with all the nice distinctions of these languages, but it is desirable
that the main features of some leading ones be pointed out; and in my
opinion the best arrangement would be to take each part of speech con-
secutively, and to show those features as varying in different languages.
Those persons who have time and leisure for closer and more intimate
study could afterward refer to more elaborate grammars.

Such guides, in the nature of instructions, “‘ How to Observe and What
to Observe,” should, of course, be disseminated widely through the Army,
among missionaries, agents, surveyors, and other persons residing in or
traversing the Indian country. It is hoped that in this way a stimulus
may be given to the exertions of many who only require to knowin what
direction to employ their leisure and tastes.

In order to the fit preparation of complete and exhaustive works on
the indigenous languages, it is, however, necessary that there should
be fit collectors in the field. Among those who have given most time
to the actual study of our linguistics but few can afford to devote them-
selves to procuring new material. It is chiefly by missionaries, and by
the Catholic priesthood especially, that the most valuable works on the
subject have been prepared. Willing collectors of vocabularies have
not been wanting, but of trained men there are few or nove.

It appears to me that to accomplish any thorough and satisfactory
result, an attempt should be made to prepare the laborers. It is possible
that a foundation may hereafter be created for a professorship in some
leading college where the teaching of American philology will form an
important item, if not its exclusive object; but that would, at best, reach
only a few individuals. Some wider method must be adopted to instruct
a larger number. There has, as yet, been little or nothing of ‘‘ Universal
Grammar” taught at any of our institutions. Grammars of special
languages are taught, it is true, but with hardly an attempt to show
the common sources whence these are derived, or to exhibit the phonetic
changes undergone in the lapse of time and under physical iniluences,
or to trace back the ideas which have developed, from single roots, words
of widely different signification, and none at all to develop the principles
lying at the root of ail speech.

It is very true that in a short collegiate course, pursued for the most
part before the mind has become mature enough to grasp at more than
the facts of language, and where utility is the presumed basis, it would
be impossible to include such training to any considerable extent, but
the course might yet be pointed out for after-inquiry. When the time
comes—and it is to be hoped it will before the last vestiges of the
aboriginal tongues shall have disappeared—in which general grammar
becomes a common part of education, the curious modes of thought
ANTIQUITIES IN SOUTHERN STATES. 367

presented by the American natives will doubtless excite the interest of
the student, and every opportunity be sought of gathering up their
remains. How many languages which have arisen since primeval man
first trod the earth have perished from its face, each indicating, to a
certain extent, in its mere words and forms, not only the outward cir-
cumstances in which those races moved, but the degree of their mental
culture and the character of their thoughts. Ethnology has no surer
basis than an intelligent philology. One of the least functions of the
latter is to bring together or distinguish races.

There is one important point on which I have said nothing. I mean
the alphabetic system to be adopted. I am clearly of opinion that the
Roman and Italic letters should be used wherever practicable, and that
they are in most cases sufficient. The alphabet prepared by Professor
Whitney for the Smithsonian Institution is simple and intelligible,
though in particular cases it needs supplementing. Foreign characters
and redundancy of diacritical marks are objectionable on many grounds.
It is the difficulty with most systems, as with that of Lepsius, that they
are beyond the comprehension of any but their inventors, or at least
require too varied a knowledge and too great nicety for any practical use.
When a work is undertaken by a European, other than an Englishman,
it is better, perhaps, that he should write as in his own tongue. That
will carry a definite meaning at least to those who understand its pro-
nunciation, and will insure a degree of certainty not otherwise to be
relied upon. The explanation, in writing, of unusual sounds is always
a hazardous experiment.

The preparation and publication of such a vocabulary, phrase-book,
and grammatical guide as I have indicated would, it seems to me, pro-
perly come within the objects of the Smithsonian Institution, and I feel
assured, from the interest you have always manifested in original philo-
logical research, that the subject will at least meet with consideration.

ON ANTIQUITIES IN SOME OF THE SOUTHERN STATES.

By H. C. WILLIAMS.

NEAR VIENNA, VIRGINIA, December 30, 1869.

Agreeably to promise, I send to the Institution a few specimens of
Indian arrow-heads, all that I have been able to collect. I regret that
the number of perfect ones is so small.

In Franklin County, Tennessee, in the days of my youth, when the
country was fast filling up by emigrants from the older States, Indian
relies, such as broken pieces of pottery, pestles, axes, heads of war-clubs,
and arrow-points, were of frequent occurrence. There was no memorial
in that part of the country to induce a belief that it had been inhabited
by any race of aborigines, but**¢ genera! diffusion of the articles above
368 ETHNOLOGY.

named may be received as satisfactory evidence of its having been a
hunting-ground to some not very distant village or encampment. The
burial-mounds near Chattanooga and Sparta indicate those places as
headquarters of the tribes for a long duration of time.

The fragments of pottery were generally of a dark color, not very
hard or compact, with white specks mingled through the mass as though
small pieces of shells had been mixed with the clay, and had not been
converted into lime by the process of burning. The pestles and other
implements were fabricated from stones of different colors, apparently
of a clay basis, and corresponding, in appearance, to rocks which are
common to the Blue Ridge. No such rocks occur between the Apa-
lachian chain and the Rocky Mountains. The arrow-heads were made
from quartz, which of this kind is not found in that country, the siliceous
minerals, except the sandstone, being more or less cherty, with a semi-
conchoidal fracture, often associated with and sometimes embedded in
the limestone below the coal seams. Rarely an arrow-head of this
mineral was discovered.

The mounds near Chattanooga have been already noticed by your
correspondents. I would it were in my power to direct attention to
another interesting locality. Of this my only knowledge is obtained
from a publication, I think in the year 1825, in the Review, a newspaper
printed at Sparta, the seat of justice of White County. As well as my
memory serves me, Dr. Fiske and some other gentleman made an ex-
amination of an ancient cemetery near that town, and, finding no remains
of adults, came to the conclusion that the country had been inhabited
by arace of pigmies. The graves were numerous, covering more than an
acre, were generally three feet long and eighteen inches deep, with a “ cof
fin” of slaty rocks. The bones were so much decomposed that they fell
to pieces after a few moments’ exposure to the atmosphere. Perhaps a
file of the Review for that year may be in the Department of State, for
in it were published the laws of Congress, and it was then the custom of
the Department to bind and preserve such papers. I mention this to
enable persons investigating Tennessee antiquities to avail themselves
of the information furnished by writers who observed and described
those interesting objects before they were changed or obliterated by the
hand of civilization. In this connection no book will be so lkely to
arrest the attention of the curious as Haywood’s History of Tennessee.
It is to be regretted that this, one of the earlier books published beyond
the Alleghanies, is now so scarce in the State where the author was
one of the first and ablest of its jurists.

In closing this communication, intending in another to notice the
locality of some mounds and fortifications not alluded to by any of your
correspondents as [ have seen, [will state that when on an excursion into
the State of Arkansas in the year 1857, I came to a place where doubt-
less an immense number of arrow-heads had been manufactured. It
was near the summit of a ridge about two miles north of the Hot

INDIANS OF RED RIVER OF THE NORTH. 369

Springs, and west of the road that passes over the ridge. At that place
there is an outerop of the milky white variety, an intermediate stratum of
the celebrated Arkansas novaculite. There the hill-side for about one
hundred yards in length was literally covered by thin chippings of that
mineral. Dr. Sibley and Dr. Dunbar, who explored the Arkansas,
Washita, and Red Rivers during Mr. Jefferson’s administration, men-
tioned in their report that they had discovered a place where Indian
implements had been made. I have not seen the report for many years,
and cannot say whether this is the locality alluded to by them, but think
it is, for they were at the Hot Springs, and there is not another mineral
in the State so well adapted as the novaculite to this purpose. This is
the only place in the Southwest that I have seen which affords any evi-
dence of the fabrication of implements used by a people whose history
is unknown. At Santa Fe, in 1858, a gentleman showed me several
arrow-points that had been formed out of the obsidian found in that
country, and a few days afterward, in the village of Casa Colorado,
I gathered up a small quantity of that mineral in thin flakes that had
obviously been chipped off in fashioning arrow-heads. By careful atten-
tion to the mineral characteristics of those ancient implements, espe-
cially when composed of as rare minerals as the novaculite and obsidian,
we may be able to trace the migrations of the people who used them.

The report of Dr. Sibley, no doubt, can be found in the congressional
documents of the period or in the reprint of them by Messrs. Gales and
Seaton. It contains information that would be appreciated by persons
engaged in ethnological or philological researches. Among other things
it states that two tribes of Indians, the Natchez and Tensaws, if my
memory is correct, were at war, that one party was disastrously defeated,
and escaped over the Mississippiinto Louisiana. On making a halt, the
first thing they did was to throw up a mound. This is the only record
that I have seen of a mound being constructed within traditional
history.

ETHNOLOGY OF THE INDIANS OF THE VALLEY OF THE RED RIVER OF THE
NORTH.

By Dr. W. H. Garpner,
Assistant Surgeon United Siates Army.

The earliest explorers of Minnesota found the Dakotas occupying all
this country they now roam over or have only lately ceded their title to.
In prehistoric times what race dwelt here cannot be told; the burial
mounds and crumbling skeletons, the “refuse heaps” and fragments of
rude pottery, point to some branch of the “mound builders,” but whether
Nahoas, Toltecs, or Aztecs, will probably never be known.

About Big Stone Lake, Lake Traverse, and the west bank of the Red
River of the North and the country adjacent, for many years past, the

248
370 ETHNOLOGY.

Sisseton and Wahpeton bands of Dakotas have resided ; almost as rude
and ignorant as the lowest branch of the Athabascan stock, yet they
are tractable and show a desire for bettering their condition. Their
manners, customs, and language do not differ essentially from the other
bands of the great Dakota Nation, save from the aberrant branches, the
Yanktonais and Tetons; neither can those bands understand the Wah-
kantans, Wahpetons, Wahpecutas, the Wabashaw band, the Black-Dog
band, the Red Wing band, &c. The language used by them is con-
structed on the well known polysynthetic plan, and is so well known
that one or two dictionaries have been published of the language.
Polygamy is common among them, each brave having as many wives
as he chooses and can support, but lately some of them have embraced
the Christian religion and have “ put away” all their wives but one.
Their Christian system, ingrafted upon their former fetichism, has resulted
in acurious mongrel theology, which would puzzle even Buddha to under-
stand. They have the same cruel instincts that always characterize a
race of hunters; hardly one has come under my observation that has
not more or less of small scars upon the body, purposely made with
fite or cutting instruments, to show they have “ brave hearts,” yet my
experience with them in sickness has been that they bear necessary
pain quite as badly as even negroes. Their tribal governmentis arude
democracy, if that can be called a government whose most binding
law is the lex talionis ; nor do they recognize any head or chief save him
who is bravest in war and most persuasive in council. Their legends
and traditions are too well known to require only passing comment.
Some of them are pleasing and instructive; but the most of them are
puerile beyond description, and it is very hard to tell what purpose of
national or social economy they could possibly subserve. The most of
them are detailed at length in ‘ Mrs. Eastman’s Legends of the Sioux.”
Of the arts of life they are almost entirely ignorant; even the ceramic
art, with which most of savage tribes are necessarily acquainted, they
are now ignorant of, though it would seem that before their communi-
cation with the whites they knew something of this art and used pottery
made by themselves to cook their food in. After communication with
the whites, and a knowledge of metallic vessels for the purpose of cook-
ing, the art of making pottery was gradually neglected until it has now
been lost. At all events the Indians of these bands know of no way of
boiling their raw food now save by digging a hole in the ground and
covering it with the skin of an animal recently killed, into which are
poured the water and the food to be cooked; stones are then heated in
an adjacent fire and held in this novel pot until the meat is done, As
to their cooking, Professor Soyer, Monsieur Blot, or the most wonder-
ful chef de cuisine that ever raised a pot lid, would stand amazed to see
the wonderful heterogeneous mass combined to make one of their ollas—
beasts, birds, reptiles, and fishes, berries, herbs, and roots, thrown
together into the pot all in purus naturalibus, and stewed into a disgust-

INDIANS OF RED RIVER OF THE NORTH. 371

ing paste. And the amount of this one of these “sons of the forest”
will eat, will cause even an anatomist to wonder at the distensibility of
the human stomach.

Until 1861 those about this locality—chiefly Sissetons—lived entirely
by hunting and fishing. About this time some of them were furnished
eorn and potatoes by their agent, and they commenced to cultivate the
soil, but shortly afterward, from causes not relevant to mention here,
the Dakota outbreak occurred. The Sisseton and Wahpeton bands
were implicated with the others, and the distrust and animosities this
has necessarily engendered have much delayed their civilization.

The men are rather over medium height, are well made, and many of
them are intelligent-looking, some even handsome. The type of their
heads, with their “low defective forehead,” the vertical occiput, the
prominent vertex, and great interparietal diameter, hardly need men-
tion, though it is deserving of remark that the “‘ low defective forehead”
iS not so characteristic of the crania of the Sisseton band as of some of
the other bands of the Dakota Nation. Their shades of color show con-
siderable variation; many of them on the parts of the body not habitu-
ally exposed are not darker than many brunettes with us, while others
in the same band are.of a deep bronze or even coppery brown color.
As a rule their hands and feet are small and delicately formed, and as
a people they are remarkably free from deformities. Their hard “ strug-
gle for existence” probably acts on the principle of “ natural selection ”
to keep up the best and hardiest of the stock, while the weaklings and
the deformed die off. Ihave seen but one deformed Indian during my
stay here. He was a Wahpeton with a simple case of “ hair lip,” which
its owner refused to allow me to operate upon. They are enthusiastic
and excitable gamblers, and will stake their ponies and even their wives
on a game of “moccasin.” The females are short in stature and broad
and more ungainly than the males; they possess great strength and
great power of physical endurance, as is commonly the case among
uncivilized tribes, where the women are the drudges and slaves of the
males. Iam inclined to the belief that the females arrive at the age of
puberty before the age usual among civilized females. I have seen one
Sisseton girl who was the mother of a healthy child—which she was
nursing—when but thirteen years of age, and two or three who were
mothers before they had quite attained the age of fourteen; though
this precocity may be caused by the promiscuous intercourse of the
sexes in their rude manner of life. Writers have spoken of the dreary
existence of Dakota women, and nothing that has been said can draw
too exaggerated a picture of the never-ending drudgery of their lives,

-uncheered even by the hope of happiness in the spirit land; therefore
Suicide is very common among them; even for trivial causes a Dakota
woman will cut a thong of buffalo hide and hang herself. A case came

under my observation a few weeks since where the wife of one of the
Se ETHNOLOGY.

scouts here hung herself to the ridge-pole of her tent just because her
husband told her she should not make a visit which she wished to do,

Under the provisions of General Order No. 27, Headquarters Depart-
ment of Dakota, St. Paul, Minnesota, dated May 19, 1867, friendly
Indians have been enlisted as scouts and guides, since which time fifteen
of them have been on duty at this post in that capacity. Those here
are all full-blooded Indians of the Sisseton band of Dakotas. They are
ambitious and zealous in the performance of their duties, and take a
pride in keeping their clothes, bedding, equipments, arms, and horses
neat and in good order, and I believe this is the testimony which all
their commanders will give; and it shows that they can be made valu-
able auxiliaries in prosecuting warfare against Indian tribes ““avowedly
and obstinately hostile.” Those on duty here show no repugnance or
even disinclination to work, and the scouts have taken their regular
tour of ‘‘police duty” with the rest of the enlisted men, and have shamed
them by their willingness to do this duty.

One of the scouts here is tattooed with a “totem” of an open right
hand, back to the front, placed vertically in the center of the forehead.
This is the only instance which has come under my observation of any
tribal or family mark or ‘“‘totem” among them.

The Chippewas occupy the country east of the Red River of the North,
in Minnesota, about the lakes forming the source of the Mississippi
River and Red Lake farthernorth. Though they are occasional visitors
to the post, they are situated too far away to be described as Indians
about the post.

The valley of the Red River of the North on both sides is the peculiar
habitat of half-bloods, (Bois Brulés, or Couriers des Bois,) a mixture of
the blood of the lawless white traders (who until recent times were the
only white people in the country) and Indian women. These half-bloods,
the result of this mixture, are tall, well formed and hardy, with dark
eyes and swarthy skin, and black, straight hair, though oceasionally one
is seen with the hair curly. The general shape of the head and face is
much like the Indians. Their vernacular is a patois of the French,
though they usually speak the language of both parents. They are
natural-born hunters and trappers, scouts, guides, and interpreters, and
are a valuable link of communication between the tax-paying citizen
and the untamed red man. These people have no “local habitation ;”
like their half-brothers, the Indians, they live in tents of tanned buffalo
hide, which they move whenever and wherever inclination or the pursuit
of game may lead them. They have the same freedom from moral and
social restraint as the Indian. They eat anything and everything, even
the flesh of dogs and wolves poisoned with strichnine, and think a foetal
calf of cow or buffalo wne bonne bouche; they wallow in dirt and vermin,
and are remarkably healthy and tenacious of life. Their severe, laborious
lives probably prevent them from being very prolific, but it also acts to
make them healthy and long-lived. Even syphilitic diseases, which (with

ANTIQUITIES IN VERA CRUZ. ws)

the loose virtue of their women) it would seem would be particularly
prevalent, do not appear to attack them at all. At least, not one of
these cases among them has been brought to my notice.

ACCOUNT OF ANTIQUITIES IN THE STATE OF VERA CRUZ, MEXICO.
By HuGo FINck, or CORDOVA.

A few general remarks relative the traces left by the aborigines of
this neighborhood may not be uninteresting. As a resident of twenty-
eight years in this part of the country, (Cordova, Huatusco, and Mero-
dor,) and during my many botanical excursions, I have had good oppor-
tunities to examine them. These traces are of two kinds—the first be-
longing to a semi-barbarous; the second to a half-civilized people, who,
for a long period of years, must have lived together as neighbors, but
in a state of continual dissensions.

Like the actual descendants of the Aztecs, the semi-barbarous people
built their houses, or rather huts, of light timber, covering the roof with
palm-leaves or dried grass. Nothing else was required by them in a
tropical climate, where the thermometer never descends below 55°
Fahrenheit. Of such constructions no trace whatever is left, and if it
were not for the innumerable mounds of stone of different dimensions,
some united, others isolated, and which were always annexed to their
dwellings, we would come to the conclusion, either that they had no
dwellings, or that the country was very thinly inhabited. The very
contrary was the case. There is hardly a foot of ground in the whole
state of Vera Cruz in which, by excavation, either a broken obsidian
knife, or a broken piece of pottery is not found. The whole country is
intersected with parallel lines of stones, which were intended, during
the heavy showers of the rainy season, to keep the earth from washing
away. The number of those lines of stones shows clearly that even the
poorest land, which in our days nobody would cultivate, was put under
requisition by them; furthermore, when we consider that their imple-
ments of agriculture were very primitive or almost null, requiring a so
much larger space of ground for their sustenance, we must come to the
conclusion that the population must have been immense, or at least as
large as the most populated districts of Europe. In this part of the
country no trace of iron or copper tools has ever come under my notice.
Their implements of husbandry and war were of hard stone, but gen-
erally of obsidian and of wood.

The small mounds of stones near their habitations have the form of a
parallelogram, and are not over twenty-seven inches high. Their length
is from five to twelve yards, their width from two to four. On search-
ing into them nothing is found. <A second class of mounds is round, in
the form of a cone, always standing singly. They are built of loose
374 ETHNOLOGY.

stones and earth, and of various sizes ; some as high as five yards, with
a diameter of from five to twenty yards. Excavation made in them
brought to light a large pot of burned clay filled with ashes, but
in general nothing is found. The third class of mounds, also built of
loose stones and earth, have the form of a parallelogram, whose smaller
sides look east and west, and are from five to six yards high, terminating
at the top in a level space of from three to five yards in width, the base
being from eight to twelve yards. They are found from fifteen to two
hundred yards long. Sometimes several are united, forming a hollow
square, which must have been used as a fortress. Others again have
their outer surface made of masonry, but still the inside is filled up with
loose stones and earth. Near river-beds, where stones are very abund-
ant, these tumuli are largest. Principally in this latter class, idols, im-
plements of husbandry and war are discovered, sometimes lying quite
loose, and at others imbedded in hollow square boxes made of masonry.

The last-described mounds form the transition to those constructions,
which are altogether built of solid masonry. I speak only of such as
are found near Cordova, Huatusco, Cotastla, &c., in the state of Vera
Cruz. One peculiarity of the last-men- i
tioned ruins is, that they are all con-
structed at the junction of two ravines,
(barrancas, canons,) Fig. 1, and used as
fortresses, on account of their impreg-
nability. Most of the larger barrancas
have precipitous sides from three hun-
dred to one thuosand feet deep, which
guarded the inhabitants on their flank,
so that nothing more was required than
to build a wall from A to B, leaving a
small entrance in the middle, C, as a
passage, which could be barricaded in
time of war. Between Zacuapan and
Tlacotepec, at the Rancho del Castille,
at Matlaluca, at Cotastla and Consoqui-
tla, such constructions can be seen to this
day in tolerable good condition. The in-
terior of these fortified inclosures is in general large, sometimes holding
from four to five square miles, and could be put under cultivation in
case of a siege.

The wall A B is in general from four to five yards high, and has on
the inside terraces with steps to lead to the top. At other places there
1s a Series of semicircular walls, the front one lower than the following,
and a passage between each to permit one person at a time to pass from
one to the other. The innermost wall is sometimes perforated with loop-
holes through which arrows could be thrown.

Quite a number of ruins are found inside the fortification, as mounds,

s

ANTIQUITIES IN VERA CRUZ. oto

altars, good level roads with a foundation of mortar. Most of these
monuments have good preserved steps leading to the top. In some
very small pots of burned clay are found filled with ashes.

Between the simple mounds of loose stone and earth and the last-
mentioned monuments we may easily discern two classes of people—one
semi-barbarous and the other tolerably advanced in civilization—living
continually at war with each other, impeding on that account a higher
grade of civilization than that found at the arrival of Cortez with his
Spaniards.

Civilization in all countries has been very gradual and must always
have commenced in warm climates. It was in Asia, in Africa, in the
tropical parts of China, Syria, Egypt, &c., wlere we find the oldest
monuments, where the people as far as 3,000 years back had made some
progress. The inhabitants of colder countries were, up to that time, in
a barbarous state, and only received civilization by contact with the
others or by conquest. This may be accounted for in the following man-
ner: The first knowledge we have of man is in a tropical climate. It is .
there where vegetation the whole year round is luxuriant; where fruits
of all kinds are abundant, furnishing him with food without exertion ;
where a hot climate dispenses with all covering against cold; where the
first necessities once satisfied he had leisure, if endowed with a lively
imagination, which is natural to people of hot countries, to set his wits
to work in order to better his condition. One step followed another,
creating daily new necessities. Those of a strong arm imposed on the
weaker, and obliged them to work for them or for the community. In
this way civilization gradually advanced.

Now let us transfer ourselves to a cold country. Its primitive inhab-
itants had to guard against the weather in winter, which obliged them
to become hunters in order to slay the wild beasts which were to
serve them as clothing as also to allay the cravings of hunger. Wild
fruits could only be gathered in summer and autumn, and were much
less abundant than in the tropics, so that their whole time was occupied
in attending to the necessities of their existence, or in guarding against
the cold of winter, being continually slaves to their wants, leaving them
no leisure to better their condition. History has shown that such has
been the case throughout all cold countries, and that civilization made
very little progress there until the inhabitants came in contact with
more southern nations. The same has happened in America. Where
do we find the traces of higher civilization on this continent? Is it in
British America, in New England, in Oregon, or in Patagonia? No!
In tropical America. The same causes have created the same effect.
Peru, Ecuador, Yucatan, and Mexico, ali countries between the tropics,
have taken the first steps toward advancement. The yet existing monu-
ments speak for themselves.

rom Palenque, in Yucatan, and Quito, in Ecuador, as centers, civil-
ization spread north and south, but found much greater resistance by
376 ETHNOLOGY.

the neighboring savage tribes than in the old continents. In some hot
countries, as Guiana, Brazil, topical reasons have retarded this; as
yearly inundations; excessive number of insects, particularly mosqui-
toes; wild beasts, &c.

After the first progress of civilization the neighboring savage tribes,
among which we may count the Aztecs, who appear to have been in
nothing different from our contemporary Comanches, Arapahoes, Sioux,
&e., made,like of old the Scandinavians, irruptions on their more southern
neighbors, destroying again partially what had been gained, but accept-
ing part of the advantages of their conquered people. The inhabitants
of Central America were much farther advanced before the dissemination
of those barbarous tribes than at the arrival of Cortez. This is shown
by the ruins still in existence. It wasa great misfortune. Those savages,
less docile than the Goths, were slow in receiving the advantages of their
conquest. Accustomed to a roaming life, expert in war, they destroyed
in a few years what had cost thousands to build. Then commenced a
reign of terror. The vanquished were obliged to work for their con-
querors, creating those rude monuments, as the stone-mounds, the
pyramid of Cholulu, and other similar works, which could only have
emanated from the brains of half-savages, and been executed by a peo-
ple completely enslaved. But this had its limit. The conquerors
gradually accepted such benefits from'their vassals as suited them, so
that if the Spaniards had not arrived, civilization would have taken a
new start, as at this time the Aztees were strong enough to keep at bay
all new irruptions from the north.

Aztec hieroglyphics are too obscure to give us a longer insight into
their history than fora century or two at most. Spanish historians have
given free scope to their lively imagination, exaggerating and distort-
ing whatever came under their hands. The Spanish clergy seized and
burned what could throw any light on history, and wrote about what
best suited them. ‘The real and only true documents we can with safety
count upon are the monuments, ruins, implements of industry and war,
which are yet in existence; anything else will only lead us astray.

CCOUNT OF ANTIQUITIES IN TENNESSEE,

By E. O. DUNNING.

CHILHOWEE, TENNESSEE, June 19, 1870.
The territory recently explored by myself lies along Little Tennessee
River, in Blount County, Tennessee, and extends about twenty-five miles
into North Carolina, a country once inhabited by the Cherokees. One
of their principal routes from the south to the ‘Over-hill Towns” passed
through it. For miles the old trail may be seen crossing Chilhowee
Mountain in a straight line, according to the Indian course, between

ANTIQUITIES IN TENNESSEE. oe

two points, which was always direct, without regard to obstacles.
Lately I had an opportunity of observing this peculiarity. While wind-
ing my way around the base of a mountain in North Carolina, 1 saw
some Cherokees going to the same point as myself, right over the erest
of the mountain, by a more direct but more difiicult route.

Chilhowee derives its name from two words, which mean fire and deer.
The Indians were accustomed to hunt by fire. At night they carried
before them torches—blazing pine-knots—in the face of their game,
which, becoming frightened by the glare, were easily brought to a stand
and killed by the hunter, who, resting his gun across the left arm, held
the torch in his right hand until the deer was enough terrified to be
shot down. ‘The old trail over Chilhowee is used now by the “ mail-boy”
once a week, and by foot-travelers like myself, who are warned not to
take horses beyond the mountain for fear of their being stolen.

In Chilhowee Valley, after crossing its northern boundary by the pass,
I examined two mounds on the left bank of Little Tennessee and sev-
eral rock graves, or tombs, near them. These tombs are unlike any
depositories of the ancient dead that I have observed. They were, un-
doubtedly, constructed by the ‘“mound-builders,” as similar ones were
discovered in the mounds containing similar relics. The great freshet
of 1867 uncovered a large number of these graves on the “river-bot-
tom” or alluvial terrace, which had been plowed over for seventy years.
They are built of slabs of slate, nicely fitted together, about three inches
thick, four feet long, and two feet broad, inclosing receptacles, not of
uniform space—generally five feet long, four feet high, and two feet
broad—covered with flat pieces resting upon the upright slabs, and con-
forming to the rounded corners of the tomb. The material had been
brought from the other side of the river, as no slate was found in the
vicinity of the constructions. They were found to contain, for the most
part, fragments of human bones, too much decomposed to be removed
in considerable portions, implements of stone, and broken vessels of
clay. Irom the head of one I extracted a vase of black pottery, nearly
whole, shaped like a gourd; it had been filled with vegetable matter,
which, perhaps, was intended to sustain the spirit on its journey
to the other world, some flint arrow-heads, and a stone pipe. Charcoal,
ashes and burned clay indicated that fire had been used in’ the burial,
by which bones and many other relics were consumed.

Judging from the form and size of these graves, the dead must have
been inclosed in a sitting or crouched position, often bent nearly double.
The bones were those of adults, and their juxtaposition, in some in-
stances, showed that they could not have been deposited indiscrimi-
nately, after the decomposition or removal of the flesh, according to the
custom of some modern Indians. Fragments of the skull-bone, with
teeth and jaws, were found at the head of a grave which pointed toward
the west, and the bones of the foot at the other end. In connection
with the first were vertebra and other portions of the trunk and cor-

378 ETHNOLOGY.

responding members of the skeleton, which had crumbled and fallen
down together, and which would naturaily occur if the body had been
set upright or slightly bent over.

I did not expect to find rock graves in a mound of earth, but after
clearing away rubbish and penetrating six feet below the top, near the
center, the workmen struck a slab of slate, which proved to be part of
the covering of a stone tomb. It was much like those scattered over
the “river-bottom”—more nicely constructed, however, and fitted with
more care—being arched over the top, at an acute angle, with pieces of
slate three inches thick. Owing to its situation, raised above the level
of the river and covered with sand to the depth of six feet, its contents
were better preserved than those of the graves just mentioned. At the
head of it I took out a vessel composed of fine red clay and pulverized
muscle-shelis, a foot in diameter, gourd-shaped, having a handle and spout
six inches long, and holding about a quart. It was preserved nearly
whole. Artificial fire had been kindled in the tomb, but it had been
smothered by the throwing in of sand before ali the contents were con-
sumed. Besides some entire bones of the human skeleton, flint arrow-
heads and a large number of shell and stone beads were removed. The
beads could be traced along the lines of the legs and arms, as if they
had been attached to the garment in which the dead was buried. Fur.
ther excavations disclosed two more of these stoné sepulchers, the first
three feet below the one described, the other two feet from it, in the same
plain. They contained only fragments of bones, charcoal, and ashes.

The mound, which was conical in shape, must have been fifteen feet
high and fifty feet in diameter. Successive floods had impaired its orig-
inal dimensions. The last carried away a section on the west side, ex-
posing a tomb and some valuable relics, which have pot been preserved.
Among them were large shells—pyrulas, probably, judging from the de-
scription, from the Gulf of Mexico—such as I have discovered in two
other mounds on the banks of the Tennessee, and which are deposited
in the Peabody Museuna of Harvard College. In connection with ma-
rine shells, images in stone were found in this tomb. The mound was
composed of sand-loam taken from the bank of the river and raised
upon a foundation of water-washed rocks, four feet high from the bed
of the stream hard by. There‘had been extensive burnings throughout
this mound, at various depths, indicated by layers of charcoal, ashes,
and burned clay, simply in honor of the dead or to consume their effects
and mortal parts, or for human sacrifices to their manes.

As no relics, except fragments of charred bones, not even stone imple-
ments, that would escape destruction by fire were found, after careful
searching among extensive layers, I am inclined to the opinion that cap-
tives in war were freely slain and burned, for a sacrificial offering to the
dead in the tombs. It is not probable that a people so particular about
their burial-rites, as shown not only in the mound-sepulchers, but in
those seattered over the plain, which we may suppose contained their

|

ANTIQUITIES IN TENNESSEE. 379

common dead, would have assigned a large number of their tribe, after
death, to a promiscuous or general conflagration. Fire, as is wel
known, bore an important part in the obsequies of the “mound builders,”
but so as to show neither in the extent and composition of the charred
layers, norin the kind of relics preserved, the design of the burnings. Two
other mounds were found in Chilhowee Valley, which will be described
at some future time. The tradition, as derived from a lady over eighty
years of age, who lived in her youth among the Cherokees, is, that these
mounds were made by a people inhabiting the country long before the
recent Indian race; that their fathers found them there and did not dis-
turb them, a statement which confirms all oral testimony respecting
those monuments.

Leaving Chilhowee Valley and crossing the Alleghany range toward
North Carolina, in a southeast course, having Little Tennessee River on
my right and occasionally in sight from the cliffs, my attention was
called, along the road, to ‘‘ stone heaps,” a class of antiquities not often
mentioned and seldom distinguished in books. After an examination
of the objects and a talk with Indians and the oldest inhabitants, I came
to the conclusion that there were two kinds of these remains in this part
of Tennessee, which are sometimes contounded, viz, landmarks, or stone-
piles, thrown together by the Indians at certain points in their journeys,
and those which marked a place of burial. At a pass called “ Indian
Grave Gap,” I noticed the pile which has given its name to the mountain-
gorge. The monument is composed simply of round stones raised three
feet above the soil, and is six feet long and three feet wide. As the grave
had been disturbed I could make no satisfactory examination of its con-
tents. On the opposite side of “The Gap,” a stone heap of another
description was observed, which had been thrown together in accord-
ance with Cherokee superstition, that assigned some good fortune to the
accumulation of those piles. They had the custom, in their journeys and
war-like expeditions, at certain known points, before marked out, of
casting down a stone and upon their return another. In this way, in
time, a landmark became a conspicuous object. It may be distinguished
from grave-stone heaps, which were composed of large round stones of
uniform size; the other of small stones, of no particular shape, such as
could be easily taken up and hastily thrown down. Four miles from
‘Indian Grave Gap,” on the west side of my path, on a ridge destitute
of vegetation, Ll observed twenty-five of these stone heaps which covered
human remains. I examined a number of them, which were four or five
feet high and eight in diameter, and shaped like a hay-cock. Trees
three and four feet thick had grown and decayed on some of them. In
one I found pieces of rotten wood that had been deposited there, frag-
ments of bones, and animal mold. The deposit had been made on the
surface of the earth, covered with wood and bark, and crowned with a
cone of round stones. From the center of one heap three small bells
were extracted, having the letters J R engravedonthem. They much
380 ETHNOLOGY.

resemble sleigh-bells of the Northern States, and must have been obtained
from Europeans having intercourse with the Indians. The bells were
used as “tinkling ornaments” by Cherokee women in their dances, and
were attached to bear-skin belts that were bound about their limbs.

The great number of rattle-snakes that [ encountered on the ridge pre-
vented a thorough examination of the place in the heat of summer, an
employment that may be resumed at a future time.

The stone heaps were put up, undoubtedly, by the Cherokees of a re-
cent period. My researches did not throw much light upon their antiquity,
but they were found to differ essentially, in structure and contents, from
the rock tombs of the “*mound-builders,” already described, and they
must have had a later origin.

The Cherokee custom of burying the dead under heaps of stone, it is
well known, was practiced as late as 1730. After free intercourse with
the whites their custom of inhumation prevailed with the natives. Con-
sidering the dilapidation, the condition of the animal remains, and the
decay of vegetation that. indicated the former growth of trees of more
than a century, I regarded those piles that came under my observa-
tion as being two or three hundred years old. The bells, silver orna-
ments, and coin discovered in them belong, of course, to the age of metals
in this country, which may have begun on the banks of the Little Tennes-
see more than three hundred years ago. In 1690 trading-stations were
established there by northern adventurers.

ACCOUNT OF ANCIENT MOUNDS IN GEORGIA.

By M. F. STEPHENSON, GAINESVILLE, GEORGIA.

The most extensive and perfect tumul exist in Bartow County, on the
Etowah River, near Cartersville, consisting of ten mounds, situated in
the bend of the river, and protected from attack on the land side by <
moat, which is from twenty to thirty feet deep and was doubtless once
filled with water. The central mound is square, and measures one hun-
dred and fifty feet on the top,* with raised platform on the east side
twenty feet high and forty wide, evidently where sacrifices were offered,
as an idol of sandstone was plowed up on it, with excavated disks or
mortars six inches in diameter and of translucent quartz of elegant work-
manship, the stone axe, a small native copper vessel, the perforated shell,
(which is found in all the mounds,) the mica mirror, and the only gold
beads ever found, native gold being found in the neighborhood. This
mound is eighty-eight feet high, and a few rods from it is a circular one,
sixty feet high, which twenty years ago had a parapet on top five feet
in height. The remainder are small and only about twenty feet high.
Two points in the ditch are excavated an acre square as deep as the

*It is not exactly a quadrangle, but the north side is 150 feet; the eastern, 160 feet;
southeastern, 100 feet; south, 90 feet; and the western side, 100 feet.
EXPLORATIONS IN TENNESSEE. 381

moat, to procure earth to raise the mounds. The valley and country
for thirty miles westward and northward is very fertile, and exhibits
evidences everywhere of having been densely peopled by the mound-
builders. ;

At the falls of Little River, near the Alabama line, on the crest of the
fall, are three chambers hewed out of the solid sandstone; and at Na-
coochee the crest of a conical hill was cut off at about fifty feet, so as to
embrace an acre and a half, which on two sides is quite precipitous, and
on the others has a ditch and wall, which was formerly six feet high,
inclosing about twenty acres. This was doubtless used by De Soto in
the battle he had with the Cherokees in 1540, which is proved by the
relics which have been found.

At Macon are stupendous remains, as also in Campbell County, on
the Chattahoochee. The Yond Mountain, four thousand feet high, of
solid granite, is a cone, crested with trees, but perpendicular on all sides
except one space, which was walled with stone; so was the Stone Moun-
tain, which is, without exaggeration, two thousand three hundred and
sixty feet high, a cone, and accessible on one side only; this was walled
with stone. All defensible mountains in this country were fortified.
Neither the Cherokees, Creeks, nor Seminoles had any tradition of this
extinct race, which is proved to have been a powerful and despotic na-
tion from the extent of their territory and the stupendous character of
their fortifications and cemeteries.

EXPLORATIONS IN TENNESSEE,
By E. A. DayTon.

KNOXVILLE, TENNESSEE, April 9, 1868.

I left this place on Saturday last, and reached the house of Wm.
Staples, in Roane County, on the evening of the same day. I went via
Cross’s Ford of the Clinch River; thence via Robertsville. The distance
is about twenty-eight to thirty miles. Staples’s farm is on the west side
of Poplar Creek and on the line of Anderson County. On Monday [I
made an examination of the salt well or lick, and the Indian remains
spoken of in the newspaper article I sent you. They are located a mile
south of west of Staples’s house, one-fourth of a mile from Poplar
Creek, and on a small branch, in which the water was about three inches
deep and four feet wide; it flows between hills, and a well is at the
base of one of the hills which is abont one hundred or one hundred and
twenty-five feet high. The rock is a clay shale. The well is about five
to five and a half feet in diameter, and is full of water to the top, which
is about on the same level as the water in the branch. There was little
or no water flowing from it. It was possibly a little brackish or sulphur-
ish, but very little of either. The well did not appear to be stoned up, but
382 ETHNOLOGY

to have been dug through the loose shale rock. Irana pole down into the
water and mud from twelve to fifteen feet, and it did not then touch
hard bottom. A quantity of logs and sticks had lately been taken from
the well; they were much decayed. On the opposite side of the branch,
and a little down it, say about sixty to seventy-five feet from the well,
were Indian remains. They covered a space of about thirty by fifty
feet, and about three to four feet above the water in the branch. The
soil is a vegetable mold from six to eighteen inches deep, through which
are found fragments of earthen-ware, ashes, and burned stones. Iduga
trench, twenty feet long and as deep as any remains were to be found,
along the center from one side of this place. The bottom of the branch
is the shale in place, and there is no deep soil, that about the well being
about a foot deep, made up of loose stone. This place was pointed out
to me by Mr. Staples as being the one spoken of in the paper, and
where he had found fragments of earthen kettles of a diameter, as indi-
cated by their curvature, of over three feet. Half a mile east of the
dwelling of Mr. Staples, on a low ridge, and about the same distance
west of Poplar Creek, are three mounds. They are on nearly a straight
line north and south, and one hundred and fifty feet apart. The south one
is fifty feet in diameter and six and a half feet high, round and oval on
top. They have all been plowed over for several years; very small frag-
ments of bones are found about them now, and I was told that human
remains were plowed up on allof them. Idugatrench across the center
of the south one, nine feet long, seven and a half deep, and two wide; I
went below the streak of black soilthe mound was built on. The earth
of the mounds is of the same color as that in the fields on all sides,
only it was streaked a little with darker colored earth. The middle one
of the mounds was only about four feet high; I did not dig into it.
The north one was about sixty feet long from the southeast to the
northwest, of an oval shape, and about forty feet wide. I dug down
into this one about three and a half feet, and found nothing. In the
fields I found a quantity of arrow-heads, but not a particle of pottery.
A third of a mile to the southeast, on lower ground, is another mound
a little larger than the first one described. I did not dig into it.

I left Mr. Staples on Tuesday morning, and traveled via the old salt-
works, three miles up the creek from his house. Salt was made here
years ago, before the completion of the railroads; and Staples made some
there during the war, using the coal obtained from the hills only one-
half to three-fourths of a mile from the well; but as the brine is weak it
does not pay now to work the well. I reached the house of Alfred
Cross, on the west side of Clinch River, and five miles down it from
Clinton, about noon. I had heard of the finding of many Indian relies
on the opposite side of the river, on the lands of George and John John-
son, they having been washed out of the soil on the river-bottom by
the flood of last year. I crossed the river and went to the house of C. R.
Robins. A negro man in his employ had found and gave me the shal-

EXPLORATIONS IN TENNESSEE. 383

low round dish I send you, and the soapstone pipe. The piece was
broken out of the side after it was found. Of Robins’s people I also got
the jar, and the smaller jug, or whatever it may be called. I then went
to the Johnson’s; they had had two larger vessels than these, but let
the children use them for playthings, and they broke them up. Jerry
then showed me to the place on the river where these things had been
found ; the water is now twenty-five to thirty feet below the level of the
bottom, and it was covered, judging by the marks, along the higher
land, six to twelve feet deep. Along this bottom, for one-half to three-
fourths of a mile, and for one hundred to three hundred feet from the
bank, every yard of the soil has fragments of pottery, burned sand-
stones, and shells, and flint fragments, but I did not find a single arrow-
head here. At the lower end ofthis bottom the water washed out the soil
three to five feet deep in spots, covering from one-half to one acre. In these
pits were found these vessels. I could see along the banks of these pits that
the remains reached to a depth of only twelve to sixteen inches. The
soil did not appear to have been washed off only where these pits were
excavated; nor was there any appearance of mounds, and I was told
that there never had been any on this bottom. Last year the field was in
corn; this year, wheat. Many of the specimens of earthen-ware appear
freshly broken, as if done in plowing. I saw many very small frag-
ments of bone, and I believe that there is now a large quantity of these
earthen vessels buried in the ground, for these I have, must have been
buried, and for a purpose. The owners would certainly have thrown
away only the broken ones. I had no time to dig, and only stopped my
surface search at dark. Wednesday I traveled up the west bank of the
river to Alfred Taylor’s. Here the water had washed the soil off of
some three to five acres, and there were great quantities of burned
sandstones, fragments of flint, &c. Very few fragments of earthen-
ware were to be seen here. Here Mr. Taylor said that the flood of 1862,
which was much greater than that of 1867, washed out many articles,
bones, &e.; one, a stone jar, some person carried away, as well as many
other things; but I could not hear of any of them being in the neigh-
borhood at the present time. You will see by the large fragments of
soapstone that they likely made vessels of that article. J hear of other
places, one Watson’s Island, where there were many articles washed out
by the flood, and there are a great number of mounds along the Ten-
nessee and its branches; and if there are any questions in regard to the
mound-builders yet unsolved, I think this country the place to solve
them in. Did they bury their dead in the bottom or on the top ofthe
mounds; or did they bury thei in or near their villages; and did they
bury one of the jars or pots with them; or was something hidden in the
buried vessels? I think that nothing but careful digging will solve
these questions.
384 ETHNOLOGY.

SOME ACCOUNT OF THE SARCOPHAGUS IN THE NATIONAL MUSEUM NOW
IN CHARGE OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

By REAR-ADMIRAL A. A. Harwoop, U. 8. N.

WASHINGTON, December 17, 1869.

I recognize this sarcophagus as one of two monuments removed from
elevated grounds just in the rear of Beirut, in Syria, and embarked on
board the United States frigate Constitution, the flag-ship of the Med-
iterranean squadron, of which I was at the time first lieutenant. I left
the ship shortly after, and on my return to the United States learned
from reliable sources that one of the sarcophagi referred to had been
presented by Commodore Elliott to Carlisle College, in Pennsylvania,
and that the other, after having been offered to General Andrew Jack-
son to be buried in, and the old hero’s declining the honor, was depos-

ited in the Patent Office as the tomb of the Emperor Alexander Sev-

erus.

As you have probably observed, there is no inscription on this coffin,
(to give it its English name;) consequently who the cccupant was, or
what his position, is a subject of pure conjecture.

The somewhat profuse carving upon it might suggest that its former
tenant was ‘well to do in the world,” but the style is hardly chaste and
simple enough to encourage the supposition that he or she was of im-
perial or patrician rank. Nevertheless, for nearly twenty years this relic
was exhibited in a public building of the metropolis, labeled as the last
resting-place of the Emperor Alexander Severus, and nobody took the
pains to question the accuracy or expose the absurdity of the legend.

It was found near to the one referred to as having beeu presented to
Carlisle College, which is inscribed with the name of “Julia Slamaea,”
and in virtue of that fact assumed to be the coffin of the Roman Impress
of the same name, and the wish thus becoming ‘father to the thought,”
the contiguous receptacle was incontinently credited as having contained
the mortal remains of her imperial son.

Any respectable coffin in the same grave-yard would have had as good
a claim to the honor of having inclosed an emperor; but after all, the
first step to be taken should have been to ascertain who the Julia re-
ferred to by the inscription was. She might have been a relative of the
Empress, the mother of Alexander, both because the Empress was of a
Syro-Pheenecian family, and because the style of the sarcophagus, incor-
rectly represented as hers, is simple and elegant, and such as might
have contained the bones of the kinswoman of an empress, but the
inscription, which I copied carefully at the time, very conclusively
establishes the fact that she was not the Empress Mamaea. It runs as

follows:
VATA Oi:

MAMAKA
WISE. AN NY eo

ACCOUNT OF STONE IMAGE FROM TENNESSEE. 385

which, if I have not lost ali my Latin, means Julia Mamaea, daughter of
Caia, lived thirty years.

The Empress Julia Mamaea was not the daughter of Caia, but of Julia
Soemias; the legend on her tomb should therefore be I. FIL, and not
C. FIL. Then she was killed in Gaul with her son Alexander, in a
mutiny of the soldiers, on the same day.

According to the best authorities, he was just thirty years old when
this event took place. None make him more than thirty-three. Assum-
ing the least probable as the date, then, if the sarcophagus at Carlisle
College be that of the mother of Alexander Severus, she must have given
birth to her son when she was but three years old, which is, to say the
least, unusual.

In brief, that the sarcophagus now deposited at the Smithsonian In-
stitution was taken from an ancient cemetery at Beirut, in Syria, and
brought to the United States by Commodore J. D. Elliott, in the frigate
Constitution, and by him deposited in the Patent Office, and thence
transferred to the Smithsonian Institution, would be a plain and truth-
ful label to put on the relic.

ACCOUNT OF THE DISCOVERY OF A STONE IMAGE IN TENNESSEE, NOW IN
POSSESSION OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

By Epw. M. GRANT.

NASHVILLE, TENNESSEE, August 12, 1868.

The history of its discovery is as follows: Near Strawberry Plains—
a Station of the Hast Tennessee and Virginia Railroad, about sixteen
miles east of Knoxville, Tennessee—there is a cave, one of the many
hundreds of those natural curiosities that are to be found in the belt of
country lying between the Ohio River on the north and Northern Mis-
sissippi, Alabama, and Georgia on the South, the Mississippi River on
the West, and the Atlantic Ocean. This cave is in the direct line of
march of De Soto’s expedition to the Mississippi River; many of his
forts, and other traces, being still visible at the present day in that sec-
tion of country. In the early spring of 1867 I had a force of men build-
ing the large bridge over the Holston River at Strawberry Plains; and
during one of the various visits that I made to the work I saw this stone
image, which had just been found in the cave referred to, about one-half
mile from its mouth, I think, by a man named Douglas, who was wan-
dering about in the cave one Sunday. It was attached to a stalactite
or stalagmite at the back of the head, where a fresh portion of the rock
can now be observed, evidently having been chiseled from one of the
formations mentioned, an operation that required considerable skill and

patience, as the red Tennessee marble, which it is cut from, is very hard,

and its GEMS ATINe formation renders it very difficult to carve. Douglas
o8
386 ETHNOLOGY.

was away from home at the time, and consequently I could not obtain
itfrom him. My evident desire to possess it, however, attracted the atten-
tion of my foreman, Mr. B. F. Price, and after Douglas returned Price
purchased it and sent it to me by express as a present.

It has been examined by several persons who have paid considerable
attention to Indian antiquities in the South, and none of them has ever
seen anything like it. Traditions here indicate that the tribes who
inhabited this country were not idol-worshipers; still, this may be
erroneous. The cave in which this image was found has never been
explored. I believe the inhabitants in the neighborhood are too super-
stitious to make many explorations in such places, and the finding of
this image did not tend to allay their apprehensions ; consequently there
may be many other traces of the worshipers of this idol in the mazy
passages of this subterranean labyrinth. Very few of the immense
numbers of these caves have ever been thoroughly explored. Some of
them have been traced many miles, and hundreds of passages, in every
direction, discovered, but no termination was reached in any of them. I
have been in one of these caves that I think surpasses the far-famed
Mammoth Cave of Kentucky.

I believe that the belt of country referred to in the beginning of my
letter is richer in interesting features of geology, mineralogy, antiqui-
ties, &c., than any other section of this continent. Itis a region that
never has been scientifically surveyed, and promises a rich field for the
naturalist, geologist, and mineralogist, as well as the antiquarian.

ON MIXED RACES IN LIBERIA.

By Epw. D. BLYDEN.

[The writer of the communication from which the following extracts
are given is a pure negro, a native of St. Thomas, and now professor in
Liberia College. The letter was addressed to a member of the board of
directors of the American Colonization Society.—J. H.]

MownrovIA, October 6, 1869.

My Dear Stir: I send inclosed a catalogue of all the students who
have ever been in Liberia College. It will be seen that not only were
they not natives, (aborigines,) but more than three-fourths the number
have been largely mixed with Caucasian blood, and among these death
and disease have made sad ravages.

The great practical difficulty in the way of succeeding with our schools
is the lack of suitable teachers. It is sad to relate that notwithstand-
ing the thousands of dollars spent annually here by the different mis-
sions for educational purposes, there are still but very few teachers to be
found, especially among females, able to conduct properly an elementary

juste eek

MIXED RACES IN LIBERIA. 387

school. The reason is that pains and money have been bestowed upon
persons largely mixed with Caucasian blood, who, if males, have mostly
died, or if females, have got married and assumed the cares of a family.
It seems that the females of mixed blood, who are not obliged to put
forth much exertion, and not subject to much exposure, last longer than
the males. It appears, also, that mulattoes born and brought up in
America, if they can pass through the acclimating process, stand the
climate much better than those born here, but only by engaging in as
little physical or mental labor as possible. Persons having an admix-
ture of foreign blood are very frail, easily take cold, and seldom recover
from a severe attack of illness. This will account in part for our want
of enterprise and progress here. Such men have had the lead and man-
agement of things, and, by the fearful example of their disastrous inac-
tivity, have been obstructive guides, discouraging all energy and go-a-
headativeness.

Before the question of race came up here, mulattoes died just as they do
now, but it was not noticed. Their mortality was put down to the gen-
eral unhealthiness of the climate. But since Professor Freeman, in his
address of July, 1868, called the attention of the people to the startling
history of mixed breeds on this coast for the last two hundred years,
the mixed classes have been watching with alarm the numerous indica-
tions of the frail tenure of their existence.

I have been for the last eighteen years connected with educational
matters here, and feel safe in giving it as one reason why we are no
better off in men to take charge of schools and churches, that the atten-
tion of educators has been principally devoted to persons of feeble con-
stitutions.

The idea was that the presence of white blood imparted greater apti-
tude for learning, and such persons were to be fitted for teachers.
Black boys of hale and hearty physique were left to grow up unnoticed.
Many of them have taken to sea-faring life, or gone to reside as perma-
nent traders among the natives, who might now be active workers in
our destitute fields. But with all the advantages afforded to the misce-
gens, still the only professors for the college yet produced in Liberia
are pure negroes; and the only man with enterprise, energy, and talent
enough to explore the interior, calculate distances, and construct a map
is a pure negro; and in the future, if we have any scientific men. here,
botanists, mineralogists, chemists, &c., they are sure to be pure negroes,
and perhaps from the native tribes.

But what has become of the half and three-fourths white protegés ?
In the Alexandria high-school we had Armistead, Miller, Fleming, Mel-
ville, Augustus, Fryzon, Samuel D’Lyon, Colston, Waring, James H.
Roberts, all are dead. In Liberia College, we have had James H.
Evans, J. J. Roberts, jr., Beverly Russeil, J. T. Chambers, John Henry,
J. H. Harris, Edmund J. Payne, all dead. J. W. Leone is a raving
maniac, and may die at any moment. In connection with this, I would
388 ETHNOLOGY.

like you to read a letter which I wrote last year to Mr. William Tracy,
of New York, dated September 11, 1868. Facts, it is said, are God’s
arguments. I venture to affirm that if the names I have just cited had
been negroes, three-fourths of them at least would have been living
to-day; for in all that space of time I know of only one negro con-
nected with either institution who has died, N. R. Richardson, of sun-
stroke.

Now, who is to blame for these things? No one in the past; but if
they are continued in the future, after God has presented his arguments,
then those who continue them must be blamed. I do not charge guilt
upon any one in the past, for I believe that these things were not done
at the instigation of wrong passions, but under the delusion of a false
theory. And you, gentlemen in America, proud of your race and blood,
have thought, perhaps, that it must, as a matter of course, endure here,
when strengthened by a negro basis, and bring to the negro an acces-
sion of improving mental qualities. But your theory has not stood the
test. So far as physical health and vigor are concerned, I would rather
take my chance here as a pure Caucasian than as a mongrel. The ad-
mixture of the Caucasian and negro is not favored by Providence in
inter-tropical Africa, whatever may be the case in America. Let me
beg you tolook at this matter at once before wasting any more thou-
sands upon an impracticable scheme. God does not intend that the
Egypt of America shall be reproduced in this African Canaan. If per-
sons who are half and three-fourths Egyptian could live and thrive here,
if the families whose disappearance and extinction I have noticed in my
letter to Mr. Tracy could have lived and carried out .their views, and
gratified their tastes, we should long since have had a miniature Egypt
here with its caste feelings and prejudices.

The friends of the negro in America must learn to believe that the
negro can exist and prosper without the aid of white blood in his veins.

Now that slavery is abolished in America, and the blacks are being
educated, it is to be hoped that all good men will discourage, as far as
possible, the ‘ miscegenation” doctrine. The negro race is injured
by it far more than the white, for by prejudice the nondescript progeny is
consigned to our side, even if they are three-fourths or seven-eighths
white, and thus involve us in an inextricable “ muddle.” This is cer-
tainly a vexed question. But the higher plane to which the American
people have attained by the recent revolution has given them loftier
views and wider sympathies, and has furnished the means of education
for the negro, which will supply the transition process from his low
estate to a more intelligent and respectable position. Respect for the
negro is becoming more and more, in the progress of events in America,
the happy distinction of our age. The negro is being taught to respect
himself, and soon he will think it no honor to mingle his blood with
that of the Caucasian, Indian, or Mongolian.

SHELL-HEAPS. 389

ON SHELL-HEAPS.
By Rev. James FOWLER, OF NEw BRUNSWICK.

I have lived for a number of years near the coast, but have never
enjoyed the pleasure of discovering any of these heaps, and, as the
result of my inquiries, have come to the conclusion that none such
are to be found along the shores of this county or the neighboring
county of Northumberland. Their absence may be accounted for by
the fact that the whole coast is very low, and, being composed of the
soft sandstone shale of the carboniferous formation, is constantly wear-
ing away by the action of the waves. Within the last ten years the sea
has encroached several rods upon the land. At Bay du Vin a church
was erected about fifty years ago at such a distance from the shore that
it was thought the sea could never reach it, (the bank or cliff being ten
feet-high,) but the church toppled into the sea five or six years ago,
and the burial-ground that Jay around it will soon have disappeared.
Ten years ago a single storm, in October, removed the coast-line from four
to five rods inland in exposed situations, and changed the appearance
of long stretches of the shore. If shell-heaps ever existed on this coast,
they must long ago have been swept away by the constant encroach-
ments of the sea. Again, there are portions of the mainland protected
by outside beaches running parallel with the coast and separated from it
by distances varying from a few rods to a mile. These are composed of
loose sand, and are continually changing their positions, owing to the
action of winds and tides, so that any heaps that may have accumu-
lated on them must have been buried or swept away long ago.

The coast of the Bay of Fundy is composed of harder rocks than our
coast, and is consequently better fitted for preserving any deposits on
the banks. Ido not see, however, why heaps should not be found in
some of the more sheltered bays or recesses of the coast, but I have
not yet been able to discover their existence.

JT have made inquiries about the stone implements of the aborigines,
and have succeeded in securing two arrow-heads and an ax. Several
have been found in this locality ; but as those who find them are ignorant
of their value, they never think of preserving them, and they soon dis-
appear, or are broken up by children. Should these I have be of. any
service I can forward them.

I regret that I am incapable of furnishing you with more positive
information, but negative conclusions are sometimes valuable.
350 ETHNOLOGY.

ON THE USES OF THE BRAIN AND MARROW OF ANIMALS AMONG THE
INDIANS OF NORTH AMERICA.

By Titian R. PEALE,
United States Patent Office.

The uses of the brain and marrow of animals among savage people
having become of interest in connection with the ethnological researches
which are being prosecuted with so much ardor in this and other coun-
tries, a brief exposition of the facts relative to the subject, observed by
myself, and collected from the writings of others, may not be unaccept-
able for the Smithsonian report. It may not, perhaps, be improper to
state, aS introductory to the subject of this communication, that I
am, with one exception, (that of General Swift,) the only survivor of
the celebrated expedition of Major Long to the Rocky Mountains. We
owe this delay of the inevitable summons of the grim messenger princi-
pally to the fact that we were the youngest of a party numbering twenty-
six. I was appointed as assistant naturalist and draughtsman of the
expedition, and, among other duties, was directed by the letter of my
instructions to give attention to the method employed by the natives in
the preparation of the skins of animals killed for food or for their furs.

The material used for the preservation of the skins is principally the
brains of the animal from which they were taken. While the skins are
fresh, or in their green state, they are stretched on the ground, and
scraped with an instrument of bone or stone, resembling an adze; the
adhering portions of flesh are removed, and the surface is then plas-
tered over with the brains, mixed in some cases with the liver, and on
this is poured, from time to time, warm water in which the meat has
been boiled. The whole is then suffered to dry, after which the skin is
again subjected to the action of the brain and hot water, further
stretched, and, while still wet, scraped and rubbed with stones until per-
fectly dry. It is further softened by rubbing and passing it backward
and forward over a twisted sinew, stretched horizontally. The brain
of an animal is sufficient to dress its skin; but, in some cases, a less
quantity is sufficient for the purpose. I have myself used this process
in the preparation of skins, but have found animal brains inferior, as a
curing material, to a mixture of saltpeter and alum. The Indian, how-
ever, has no choice, and makes use of such materials as he can procure,
and which, probably from accidental discovery and subsequent experi-
ence, he has found to produce the desired effect.

The marrow of bones of animals has generally been esteemed as a lux-
ury, and among the Indians of this continent is held in high estimation,
particularly that of the bones of the buffalo, the elk, the moose, and the
deer. The round bones of these animals are roasted on the coals or be-
fore the fire, then split with a stone hatchet, and in some cases with a
wedge driven in between the condyles when the bone has these ter-

INDIAN USE OF BRAIN AND MARROW. 391

minations. The marrow is then scooped out with a piece of wood cut
into the form of a spoon, and eaten on the instant by the members of the
party, seated around the camp fire. <A feast of this kind can only be
fully enjoyed after a successful hunt. When the marrow is collected in
quantity for storing during the hunting season, which occurs usually
twice a year, the bones of the larger animals are broken into small frag-
ments and boiled in water until all the marrow which they contain and
the grease which adheres to them are separated, and rise to the surface,
when they are skimmed off and packed in bladders, or in the muscular
coat of the stomach and in the large intestines, which have been pre-
viously prepared for this use. Not only is the marrow of the large
bones of the limbs preserved in this manner, but also that of the verte-
bral column. The bones of this are comminuted by pounding them with
a stone hammer, similar to those which are plowed up in the Hastern
States.
REPORT OF AN EXPLORATION OF ANCIENT MOUNDS IN UNION COUNTY,
KENTUCKY,

Made by the request and at the expense of the Smithsonian Institution.
By Srpney 8. Lyon.

JEFFERSONVILLE, INDIANA, July 29, 1868.

I have made to the Institution the following shipments: First, from
Shawneetown, one box containing casts of all that was left of the
famous “ Foot-print Rock,” the last of this rude carving having been
destroyed or removed since my examination in 1858. Second, four bar-
rels of specimens from the Lindsay mounds, or that from which was
taken the parcels sent by myself several years since to the Institution.
These articles were taken from the land belonging to Leonard Rober-
son, but the property has since changed ownership. Third, three bar-
rels and three boxes; the barrels contain articles from mounds 37 and
38, shown on diagram No. 6; box No. 2 contains articles from the Lind-
say mound, and a few trom other places; box No. 3, articles from
McCoughely’s mound, in the rear of Raleigh, Kentucky; box No. 4,
some of the best articles from mounds 387 and 38.

The results of this exploration have been of less interest than I ex-
pected. I encountered unforeseen difficulties. The greatest trouble was
to get and retain good laborers, and the utter impossibility of boarding
them near the field of operations. During the last twenty-two days the
men had to walk four miles to and from their work, with the thermometer
at 95°. An expedition, to operate most efficiently, should be provided
with tents and encamp near the work. The company should be organ-
ized before starting and not depend on assistance which may be pro-
cured in the country. There is a great field for investigation on both
sides of the Ohio, near the mouth of the Wabash River. The people of
the country have little or no exact information as to the number or loca-
tion of the mounds. When a field is cleared inclosing a mound, and
bones are ploughed up, the fact becomes known, but the existence of
mounds in the woods or on the ridges is almost unknown; and as they
are undoubtedly very numerous an explorer would find work enough
to do.

I send you diagrams of some of the groups I have examined, with an
account of their character, and of the facts obtained during the forty-
two days of our exploration. I hope the results of my labors may prove
satisfactory to the Institution, although they are not all I could have
wished.

The diagrams of the groups of mounds are not deduced from exact
surveys as to course or distance, the bearings having been taken by a
common pocket-compass and the distance measured by stepping.

ANCIENT MOUNDS IN UNION COUNTY, KENTUCKY. 395

This group consists of three
sub-groups. The one most
eastwardly 1s composed of

== |twomounds. No.1is 80 feet
(ili ™ in diameter and 10 feet high;
A No. 2 is 40 feet in diameter
} and 4 feet high. The middle
wmtiok | weee 5 O= sub-group consists of four

a 09 Bo 4 mounds 171 feet* distant from

Nos. 1 and 2; Nos. 4, 3,
and 6 are severally 45, 45, and 40 feet distant from No. 3, which is 60
feet diameter and 8 feet high; Nos. 4,5, and 6 are 33 feet diameter;
Nos. 4 and 5 are 3 feet high; No. 6 is 54 feet high.

The most westwardly sub-group consists of seven mounds. No. 7 is
a large one, about 70 feet diameter and 10 feet high; Nos. 10 and 11 are
4 feet high; Nos. 8, 9, 12, and 13 are 3 feet high; Nos. 8, 9, and 10 are
60 feet from No. 7; Nos. 11, 12, and 13 are from 33 to 35 feet from the
bases of Nos. 8, 9, and 10 severally.

This remarkable group of mounds is situated in Union County, Ken-
tucky, about two miles from the ferry-landing opposite Shawneetown,
and about half a mile south of the “foot-print rocks.” Mounds Nos. 1,
3, 6, and 7 were opened near the center many years since by Dr. Gieger.
I could not learn if anything had been taken from them. The appear-
ance of disturbance left by the excavation of Dr. Gieger indicates that
the openings made by him were not sufficient to develop the full con-
tents of the mounds.

I opened mounds Nos. 2 and 4 by digging a ditch about 5 feet wide
from the margin of the mounds to the middle of each, expanding the
opening at the center to a circle of 8 feet. The ditch and center of the
mounds were excavated to the original soil; nothing was found in either.

The mounds 2 and 4 were begun on the soil and composed of a loose
sandy loam, probably obtained in the neighborhood.

Nos. 1, 3, and 7 are large mounds, the others are low and flat and have
the appearance of the mounds which I consider as common burial
mounds.

|!

MUL

All the mounds of Diagram No. 1 are on
a flat, low ridge, about 40 feet above high-
water of the Ohio River.

This group of four mounds (Diagram No. 2)
was visited with the intention of excavating
No. 3, but it was not possible to get men to
walk so far. My attention was called to this
group of mounds by Mr. Richardson, of Un-
iontown, who had knowledge of the opening
of mound No. 3 for the purpose of interring a

* The measurements above are from base to base of the mounds and not from center
to_center.
394 ANCIENT MOUNDS IN UNION COUNTY, KENTUCKY.

negro man, who desired to be buried there. In digging the grave,
skeletons were discovered and also three or four earthen vessels.
These mounds are on the lands of Mr. Burbank, about 14 miles west
of the group on Diagram No. 1. No examination was made of the
country lying immediately between these groups.

The Lindsay mound.—This is an isolated mound, there being no other
nearer than half a mile. It is situated on the low hills which form the
margin of the flat lands on Buffalo Creek, a tributary of Cypress Creek,
of the Ohio, about four miles in the rear of Raleigh, Union County,
Kentucky. It terminates a low point of alow ridge and is about 33 feet
in diameter. It was examined in 1854 and many skeletons discovered,
with specimens of pottery; with three skulls. The latter were forwarded
to the Smithsonian Institution at that time. This examination having
revealed the character of the mound, I determined to explore it thor-
oughly. ~The work was begun on the west side (the lowest) and the
whole examined by trenches from 4 to 6 feet deep.

On the west side bodies were found covered with six feet of earth,
forming there about five separate layers. The bones of the lowest layer
were so tender that they could not be removed, and deeper digging
was not made. It is therefore not known whether the lowest bodies
in this mound were reached. It would appear that the general plan of
burial was to scrape the surface free from all vegetable matter, and de-
posit the body on its back, with the head turned to the left side. The
bodies at the bottom of the heap, so far as could be ascertained by the
examination, were buried without weapons, tools, or burial urns, (pots.)
No traces of vegetable matter could be found in the fine siliceous earth
with which these deeply-buried bodies were covered. To the depth of
three feet from the surface, some of the bodies had with them burial
urns. They were found near the bodies of infants and young persons, and
it was with difficulty a single fragment of the bones could be pro-
cured by caving in the face of the digging. The bones of old and
adult persons were well preserved in the siliceous loam, but very imper-
fectly in clay. Three or four tiers of skeletons, of later burials, were
covered with clay. It is probable that as many as three hundred

‘bodies, infant and adult, were buried in this mound. All the flints
and other works of art found entire were packed in the four barrels and
box No. 2 sent. The pressure of the roots of the trees growing upon
and around the mound had broken many of the burial urns. Sev-
eral of these, of unusual form, were sent without any attempt at
restoration. No bodies were buried exactly in or near the center of the
elevation, but they appear to have been arranged in a circle, head in-
ward for the first layer, and extended toward the margin by an addi-
tional circle or more of bodies. Adults and children were buried together,
the latter lying between the former. Toward the margin of this mound
on the east side, there was some irregularity in the burials. Three bodies
were found head outward, three or four lying nearly at right angles

|
|

ANCIENT MOUNDS IN UNION COUNTY, KENTUCKY. 395

to the radii of the circle. No urns were found with any of these
irregular bodies. Some of them lay in clay were too tender for re-
moval.

A poplar tree was felled ten years ago at the margin of this mound,
of which the rings, counted at the time, indicated an age of two hun-
dred and forty-nine years. A root of this tree, over one foot in diam-,
' eter, ran nearly across the mound. At one point where this root
was cut away were found four tiers of bodies under and two above it.
Two or three excavations had been made long since into this mound,
through one of which the large root passed, showing a greater antiquity
than that of the tree. The colored earth showed, in one of these excava-
tions in section, an inverted cone with irregular outline four and a half feet
at the surface and one foot wide at the depth of five and a half feet.
This hole or evidence of an excavation extended down to the earth of uni-
| form color. At the bottom were found the skull of a female elk, two
| odd jaws of bears, and a small bundle of deer-bone awls. Three other
| of these ancient pits contained bodies. The direction of the heads
_was irregular, not conforming to the common method of burials.
| With one body flint weapons were found; this was at a depth of
| five and a half feet. The parcel of flints in box 2, the deer-horn tips,
} and the fragment of elk-horn were found with this body. The principal
| works of art obtained were the specimens of pottery.
| On the northeast side of the mound the original soil was reached. On
| the west side it was not met with at a depth of 64 feet. The entire mound
| was dug away except at the margin, and where large trees interfered
| with the work on the northwest side. ‘The first burials either were
| made by those who had no works of art, or no superstition er usage
} requiring such articles to be buried with their dead. No bark or vege-
| able substance was used to cover and protect the bodies, or else they
| have entirely disappeared.
| The character of the earth forming the whole mound, except at the
| northeast side, is such that it may be traced to a considerable excavation,
| distant one hundred and fifty yards toward the southwest. The mound
| was evidently formed by burials made on a cleanly-scraped surface, on
| which the body was laid, and then covered with the yellow sandy loam
from the pit just alluded to.

The burials to the depth of three feet from the surface appear to have
| been made in the same form and manner as those below, and the addi-
| tion of the burial vases distinctly marks either a change of art or super-
| stition. The irregular burials are those made by excavation in the
} mound, and filling the hole over the bodies. A critical examination of
| these holes satisfied me that no sharp tool was used in making them.
| Sticks and the hands appear to have been the implements employed.
| In the Lindsay mound are three kinds of burial: those without works
| of art; those with works of art bodies laid on the surface; and those
of the deep excavations, which contain badly preserved bones, and
396 ANCIENT MOUNDS IN UNION COUNTY, KENTUCKY.

cut through the ancient surface. The graves dug were filled with
mixed and discolored earth. Such a mound as the Lindsay mound I
term a common burial-place, or a burial-place of the common people.

Cornfile

Grundy's heirs

There are other mounds somewhat differing from the preceding and
evidently for a different use. Of these, No. 1, Diagram No. 3, is an ex-
ample. This mound is about 125 feet in diameter, and from 9 to 10 feet
high. It was examined by digging a ditch 45 feet long, 6 feet wide, and
8 feet deep; beginning about 10 feet from the southeast side, curving a
little toward the north to avoid a large tree, and at the middle bearing
under in various directions to obtain any articles that might have
been buried near the center of the structure. Here I found nothing. I
learned after my work was done that many years ago this mound had
been examined and some articles obtained at a center opening.
Although I added nothing to the collection, I ascertained that this
mound was of a different construction, and evidently for avery different
purpose from that of the burial mounds.

The excavation exhibits a central nucleus of sand, about two feet high
and twenty feet in diameter. This was built upon, preserving the rounded
form, the layers of earth thicker in the center, and gradually becoming
thinner toward the margin, until the work was completed. The earth
over the sandy center appears to have been deposited in loads of about
half a bushel each of the soil and subsoil of the surrounding fields, dis-
tinetly marked in sections into mottled layers; such a structure as
would be made if the soil and subsoil were excavated from 15 to 18
inches deep around the mound. Near the margin of the mound was
found a pit about three feet in diameter, extending into the subsoil
about two feet, filled with alternate layers of earth and ashes. The ap-

|
ANCIENT MOUNDS IN UNION COUNTY, KENTUCKY. 397

pearance was such as would be presented if a pit were dug of the di-
mensions stated, a considerable amount of wood burned in it, after a long
interval of time (leaves and earth having accumulated half a foot thick)
a large fire again made and long continued, producing an ineh thick-
ness of ashes, the fire suffered to burn out and no coals left, thus adding
successive layers of ashes and earth until the hole was full. The fires
must have been repeated seven or eight times, lining the entire hole
with ashes, and gradually filling the excavation.

No. 8, Diagram 3, was next examined. This is a low mound, 45 feet
in diameter, formed of sandy loam, very uniform in quality and color.
Rounded pebbles of the same character and general appearance as those
on the shore of the Chio, one and a quarter mile distant, were found
buried in groups of two, three, five, and seven. Attracted by this group-
ing of the pebbles a large amount of labor was bestowed on this mound.
It had evidently not been made for a burial-place.

No. 3 appearing of the right form, and not being on cultivated land
liable to be injured by the excavated materials, was more than half dug
over by my party to a depth of three feet. It yielded broken pottery,
rough fragments of flint, burnt surfaces from one to three feet deep,
but nothing worth preserving.

By permission of the proprietor, and promised payment for the corn
destroyed, I opened mound No. 4. This, like the Lindsay mound, proved
to be a common burial-place. Pottery and broken pots strewed the
ground. The top of the mound had been reduced by cultivation. Some
of the bodies had been half cut away by the plow, and most of the bur-
jal vases broken. JI dug this mound entirely over. The bones found
were very tender. With one skeleton was a parcel of paint, a large
double-pointed flint, and a small one; an arrow-head, a small piece of
specular (?) iron ore from Missouri_or Arkansas, and some small flints.
The broken pot was a large one, placed near the shoulder on the left
arm. Only a few of the burial urns escaped the plow, roots, frost, and
the spades of my men. I sent in the box (marked McCoughtry mound
on some of the parcels) every thing supposed to be of interest. My
own experience teaches. me that clay or tough, loamy soil is not as
good a material to preserve the bones and pottery as the fine siliceous
earth. (Loess of Dr. D. D. Owen. See Kentucky Reports.)

I next began operations on the first range of low hills immedi-
ately in the rear of Uniontown, nearly south of the mouth of Highland
Creek, Diagram No 4. This group consists of seven mounds, three large
and four small ones. Southeast lies a group of three, and south of these
another group of three; Nos. 14 and 15 are about fifty yards apart,
40 feet diameter, 8 to 10 feet high, about the size of Nos. 3, 4, and 5.
Nos. 1, 2, 6,7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, and 13 are low mounds, varying in size
from 25 feet to 60 feet diameter, and from 3 to 4 feet in height. Near
the mouth of Highland Creek is a Kitchen mound. There are a few In-
dian burials along the line of the river bank. These are covered with
398 ANCIENT MOUNDS IN UNION COUNTY, KENTUCKY.

clay, evidently subjected to the action of fire. Mound No. 1 was ex-
amined by a ditch from east to west, 4 feet deep, 50 feet long. This
ditch cut out the center of the mound and reached the subsoil. Some

Highland
SEA CF CC

aA Li
NYU ARN Ute =a

Sulphur Well ,
ae Kitchen Mound S

ami ; %y,
MNS Cemetery’
geld Clery,

FF

U

>
ie

=

Yul {|) / My,

ANN) RS
WQ0w

w
Aw

Ww
tn

Uniontown and Cha

small fragments of pottery and a few irregular chips of flint, and the
character of the material forming the structure, were the only evidences
of its artificial nature.

Mound No. 5, one of the three large ones of this group, we dug away
about one-third. On the southeast side several skeletons were found,
at a depth of about 34 feet; two or three skulls without bodies, and
some parcels of bones, evidently dismembered before burial. All these
interments appear to have been secondary. This mound is composed
of materials differing in character, and resembles mound No. 1, (Dia-
gram No. 3.)

Mounds Nos. 9, 10, and 11, on examination were found to be of clay,
and therefore, as already explained, a detailed investigation was not made.
Mound 14 had been dug into for an ice-house vault. Mr. J. W. Hagar,
son of the party who built the ice-house, and who aided in the excava-
tion, made the following statement in reference to this mound:

“ At a depth of 64 feet, near the center, we found the body of a man,
buried in a sitting position. Near his head, on the west side, was found
a variety of articles—a pointed flint-arrow or spear-head, from 10 to 12
inches long, 34 to 4 inches wide, beautifully made; it was not a double-
pointed flint, but had a groove for fastening; three circular stones, half
an ineh thick, an inch and a half in diameter, concave on both sides, a

ANCIENT MOUNDS IN UNION COUNTY, KENTUCKY. 399

hole through the center, the margin grooved like a pulley, (we called
these pulley stones,) with about five small perforations from the center
of the margin of the pulley, in the direction of radii, to the opening in
the center; an article five inches long made of copper nearly in the
form of an awl, the large end or handle very much oxidized, (probably
had a wooden handle;) a flat stone with holes; an earthen pot broken,
contents about one gallon; a thin piece of copper one-sixteenth of an
inch thick, irregularly round, covered with some woven fabric not un-
like fine linen. The diameter of the disk of copper was about three
inches.”

In box No. 2 is a copper disk, which was found in a low mound with two
other pieces similar in form and size, by Mr. McKenny, who states that
the three disks appeared to be the ends and middle of a “ spool,” which
when found had on it what appeared to be the remains of a fine twine

+

Nin
eee

Pe

nnn,
nang

LOT Pen

Up Se
MHI MMS T=
e TIS

y
—
ta ol 728
JR's Bouse!

Rd
SS

Farm

Ny
Wty
Mey ii

&

il nw}

Jack Rebu

or coarse thread. The mound from which this copper article was taken
was a low one, 10 feet in diameter. Being in a field, it was soon plowed

400 ANCIENT MOUNDS IN UNION COUNTY, KENTUCKY.

down to its foundation, which was a circular pavement of stones. These
being in the way, they were dug out and removed. On the north side
of the pavement was found a heap of ashes, and lying across the pave-
ment, nearly in the center of it, the bones of an adult. No other work
of art than the disks was found. The earth removed from the center
was about 18 inches deep.
The mounds near Uniontown not proving of sufficient interest for my
present purpose, I proceeded to examine a locality near the mouth of
Lost Creek, opposite Wabash Island, Union County, Kentucky. Dia-
gram No.5 presents a rough sketch of this remarkable collection of
groups of mounds. When I first examined this series of mounds I
noted them roughly on a sketch. As my knowledge of their number
increased, and my book being too small to map them on a scale, I
proceeded to measure the distances between the several mounds, and
to estimate their height. I began on the 8th mound and made the fol-
lowing measurements and estimates, from center to center of mounds:

Copy of notes.

8. Mound in field, 54 feet high, 90 feet diameter; distance between 8 and 10, 354 feet;
distance from 10 to 12, 54 feet.

12. Diameter 33 feet.

In the following notes the distances given is that between two mounds, as for
example between 10 and 13:

10 and 13, distance, 54 feet; 10 is 3 feet high.

12 and 13, distance, 84 feet; eight of 12 and 13, 4 feet; 13 is 40 feet diameter.

13 and 15, distance, 120 feet.
, 13 and 16, distance, 159 feet; 15, 42 feet diameter; 16 is 54 feet diameter.

16 and 17, distance, 51 feet; diameter of 17, 36 feet.

17 and 18, distance, 81 feet; diameter of 18, 33 feet.

18 and 19, distance, 165 feet.

13 and 14, distance, 80 feet; diameter of 14, 40 feet; 18 is 3 feet high.

14 and 20, distance, 54 feet ; diameter of 20 is 74 feet; height of 20, 7 feet.

20 and 21, distance, 71 feet; diameter of 21, 33 feet ; 3 feet high.

14 and 22, distance, 75 feet ; diameter of 22, 48 feet; 3 feet high.

22 and 23, distance, 114 feet; diameter of 23, 72 feet; 3 feet high.

23 and 24, distance, 69 feet; diameter of 24, 66 feet; 8 feet high.

24 and 25, distance, 75 feet.

25 and 26, distance, 75 feet; mounds 25, 26, and 27 are 3 feet high; diameter of
mound 26, 36 feet.

26 and 27, distance, 100 feet ; diameter of 27 and 28, 40 feet.

28 and 29, distance, 50 feet; diameter 33 feet; height, 3 fect.

29 and 30, distance, 63 feet; diameter 33 feet; height, 3 feet.

30 and 31, distance, 75 feet; diameter 33 feet; height, 3 feet.

31 and 32, distance, 45 feet; diameter 20 feet ; height, 2 feet.

32 and 33, distance, 75 feet ; diameter 33 feet; height, 5 feet.

33 and 34, distance, 100 feet; diameter 33 feet; height, 5 feet.

35 from 8, distance, 800 feet; diameter 80 feet; height, 6 feet.

Nos. 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, &c., are quite close together on the back of a
sharp, narrow ridge. No. 4is an oblong, rectangular mound, about 30
feet long, 12 feet wide on top, 8 to 10 feet high. Mounds 5, 6, and

7 have been used for burial places within the last few months. Mounds

ANCIENT MOUNDS IN UNION COUNTY, KENTUCKY. AOL

22, 23, and 24 were partially examined. They did not prove to be com-
mon burial-places, and were abandoned for the present. These mounds
are formed of sand, different from that found in the hills near by and
that used for the covering of bodies in the common burial-places. The
material used appears to have been taken from the drifts of fine sand
washed by the Ohio River in to the overflowed land.

The operations were then carried on in mounds 37, 38, and 46. I was
attracted to mound 37 by stones standing near the center of it. This
is the only mound examined by me in which stones were used to form
any portion. No. 371s an oblong or pear-shaped mound, the largest
part being 65 feet diameter ; the neck, 42 feet long. The greatest length
107 feet ; greatest width, 65 feet. The scale of Diagram No. 5 is too
small to exhibit the form or arrapgement of the group to which 37 be-
longs. It will be better seen on Diagram No. 6.

Mound No. 37 (Diagram
No. 6) was opened on the
northwest side, at a point
which appeared to be the
Milt Y\S margin of the artificial part
“ii | eg Ss of the hill. The discolora-
tion from the leaves and de-
“=| composed vegetable matter

ON
Excavation

made jor materia. | Nenetrated the earth about

or the mounds.
; three feet deep. At thedepth
of two feet bodies were en-
countered. The earth was
well thrown back and an open-
ing 14 feet long and 5 feet
deep was made, giving a face on the side of the ditch toward the mound
14 feet long by 5feet deep. The bottom of the ditch appeared to be the
subsoil of the country, a stiff clay. By digging into this clay it was
found to be very stiff, and full of a whitish mold not unlike that found
within the skulls, and at the bottom of some of the burial urns or pots.
During the progress of the work this clay was found to cover all the cir-
cular part of the mound removed. (See Diagram No. 6, mound 37.) In
contact with the clay 54 feet deep the bones were ver . tender. When
near the center of the mound I had an opening made into the supposed
subsoil, and found it to be a coat of stiff moldy clay covering bodies
buried one above another to the depth of 124 feet. At the base of the
clay, 6 feet deep, was found an irregular pavement of limestone, evidently
obtained from an outcrop of the “Carthage limestone” occurring half
a mile tothe north. The same limestone forms the bed of the Ohio River
between the Kentucky shore and the head of Wabash Island, one mile
distant.

The margin of the mound at 6 feet below the summit and on a line
with the pavement was composed principally of small pieces of the same

26'S

402 ANCIENT MOUNDS IN UNION COUNTY, KENTUCKY.

rock. The pieces composing the pavement varied in size from 20 to 150
pounds weight. Many of the bodies found at the base of the clay ap-
peared to have been covered by slabs of the stone forming the pavement
set up slanting toward the body with the ends of opposite stones rest-
ing against each other, thus roofing the body in.

The bodies beneath the clay did not appear to have been buried in the
order generally observed in the mounds heretofore examined. Beneath
the clay bed, to the depth of 6 feet, the bodies were evidently buried by
covering, after having been laid upon a cleaned surface, with the sandy
earth obtained from some of the banks, marked a, b,c. (Diagram No. 6.)

A large excavation was made below the clay and pavement and many
bodies removed; the bones were quite tender. No works of art were
found. The hole was filled up and the work carried across the mound
to the depth of the mouldy clay.

I was particularly interested in the fact that in this mound there was
an absence of all works of art in the deep burials, and less regularity
and system in the manner of arranging the bodies than that observed
in the later burials or the urn-burying tribes. As in the Lindsay mound
the deeper-placed bodies did not invariably lie on the left side, and the
head was sometimes on one side, sometimes on the other, sometimes
thrown forward or backward. The mouth was frequently open, retain-
ing a horrible expression. No fragment of pottery or flint was found
under the clay layer in mound 37. Two or three of the skulls of the
deep burials will be found in barrel No. 5 shipped from Uniontown,
Kentucky.

The burials above the clay layer of this mound conform generally to
the plan of those of the Lindsay mound: heads inward, lying on the
left side, &c. There do not appear to have been so many pots buried
as there were bodies. The use of the burial urns seems to have been
more frequent at the burials in the Lindsay and McCoughtery mounds
than in this one. Some of the last bodies placed in this mound with an
urn were very slightly covered. Two bodies which were found with
urns were covered from the head to the hips with rough stone similar
in arrangement to those bodies alluded to which were found under the
clay layer of thismound. <A few vases were found entire, but the greater
number were broken. Some appeared to have been broken before they
were placed with the dead body about to be covered.

With some of the bodies, about 3 feet below the surface, there
occurred a parcel of small, long, round bones. Im one of these par-
cels was a needle made of bone and an ornament made of the shell
of an unio, also a pair of unio shell drops. The hurry and discomfort
of the work forbid a very careful examination of the articles, or an
attempt to sketch any of them. <A single double-pointed flint was the
only article of stone found in the mound, and this not in any apparent
connection with a body. It appeared to have been dropped upon

ANCIENT MOUNDS IN UNION COUNTY, KENTUCKY. 403

the top of the mound, and was found not deeper than six inches below
the surface. In working southwardly, toward the white-oak, in mound
37, the end of a discolored line of earth, 3 feet wide, was encountered.
This was carefully followed 5 feet deep to a skeleton, the head lying
toward the north, feet south. This was evidently an interment made
in an excavated pit. Extreme caution was used in removing this body.
The head was found entire. Near the head, in the position of the ears,
were found the two copper bells packed in box No. 3.

In making the original excavation for the reception of this body, at
least three bodies, or parts of bodies, had been removed, and this body
placed as deep as the third or fourth tier of layers, the head resting on
the layer of moldy clay, so frequently referred to. There were three
or four other burials made by excavating in this mound, but as nothing
worthy of note was found with them they require no special description.
The bones removed by digging the graves referred to appear to have
been carelessly thrown into the grave over the newly buried body, but
never in unmediate contact with it.

A considerable excavation was made into the elongated neck of: this
mound. Urn burials extended down about 5 feet, regularly disposed.
The digging was earried 9 feet in depth, and great irregularity was ob-
served. At the depth of 54 feet the body of a youth was found. The
skull and long bones were sent in barrel 6. This body may be known
by the base of a deer’s horn packed with the skull. The whole horn
was buried just above the face, the head slightly elevated, directed
outward, and toward the falling land or slope. Parcels of bones dis-
connected were found buried in this part of the mound, in excavations
which cut through former burials ; heads disconnected from bodies, loose
bones, &c. With one of the regular covered burials, about 3 feet deep,
were found some ornaments made of panther’s (?) teeth. Two or three
feet distant from this body was found a parcel, in discolored earth, con-
taining parts of a jaw with feline teeth and some pieces of vertebra of an
unknown animal. The number of relics obtained was very small, when
the amount of work done in the examination is considered. A considera-
ble number of long bones were preserved and packed in barrel No. 5,
also one entire vertebral column. The material among these bodies is
the same as that in the Lindsay mound, but generally the bones are not
as well preserved.

There are several mounds in this group of grander proportions than
No. 37, which would doubtless prove of great interest if thoroughly ex-
amined—300 or 400 eubie yards carefully removed from some of these
mounds would probably yield many valuabie and interesting results.

In the group of mounds 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, and 7, (Diagram 5,) the mounds
5 and 6 are the site of a recent burial-place.

Mound No. 36 (Diagram No. 6) was examined by a ditch 5 feet wide
and 18 feet long, extending from the south side northwardly beyond
404 ANCIENT MOUNDS IN UNION COUNTY, KENTUCKY.

the center. It proved to have been a kitchen, being composed prin-
cipally of ashes of unio shells, broken pottery, bones of animals,
&c. A small ax or skin-dressing chisel was found at the surface. The
fragments of pottery appeared to be parts of vessels, differing in form
from those found in the mounds. The vessels were larger, thicker, and
generally parts of shallow dishes. The fragments of one vessel, resem-
bling these, was found in mound 38, and one in the neck of 37. These
fragments are among the articles from these mounds sent to the Smith-
sonian.

Mound 38 (Diagram No. 6) was thoroughly examined. It was a low
mound, about 4 feet high and 45 feet in diameter. Figure 38 (a) (Dia-
gram 6) shows the amount of surface uncovered in this mound,

It appeared to have been completely covered by two layers of the
bodies of the vase-burying people. On the southeast side were found
three of the stone burial-places, of a later period than the vase burials,
some of the vases and bodies with which they were buried having been
removed to give place for these later struetures. A trench from 4 to
& feet wide had been worked over through the center of the mound,
irom the stone boxes toward the northwest, disturbing the bodies.

Sometime this later digging cut a previously buried body in twain,
leaving the head and feet in place, the more recent burial having been
made in a line nearly at right angles with the body partially removed.
This disturbance rendered the work very difficult. While tracing one
body longitudinally another was encountered lying at right angles,
either above, below, or cutting through the body being traced.

In the undisturbed part of mound 38 the bodies observed the arrange-
ment referred to at the Lindsay mound.

it was in the disturbed part of mound No. 38 that the two pipes were
found. I was careful that the decomposed portions of the stone on one
of the pipes should be preserved, for it may possibly give some hint as
to the length of time these articles have been buried. A small conical-
shaped article was found with the body, and also the black stone with
holes through it. 1 have seen this kind of an instrument used by the
Pah-Utes, of Southeastern Nevada, for giving uniform size to their
bow-strings.

A few burial urns with seven ears were found in No. 38. I do not rec-
ollect that any of this form were found in any other mound. The bones
in mound 38 were not so firm as those found in other mounds. Many
bodies were disinterred of which bones were sufficiently firm to pack up.
Barrel No. 6 contains the most perfect skulls from mound 38. <A con-
siderable number of long bones from this mound will be found in barrel
No. 7. I omitted to mention an article found in mound 37, circular in
form, apparently formed of bone.

With the exception of the copper bells all the articles found and for-

rarded to the Institution are of the radest form and evidently the pro-
duct of a primitive people. The fact of the bells having been found in

ANCIENT MOUNDS IN UNION COUNTY, KENTUCKY. AQ5

a dug burial-place indicates a later burial and a race of different habits.
I have no hypothesis as to the time these mounds were made. They
do not appear to have been constructed by a warlike race. Only two
bodies, of about 1,000, that I have encountered seem to have been
buried with anything like arms.

To one who has made a study of the mound-builders, the groups of
mounds (Diagram 5) would offer great inducements for investigation.

I have observed some remarkable facts in reference to the mounds,
but they are too few in number and too disconnected to form a good
foundation for a true theory of the life and condition of the mound-
builders of this district. A careful examination of the cranica by :
competent person will perhaps throw some light on the intellectual con-
dition of this people.

This reportis hastily written from my notes made in the field. It may
serve, however, as part of the basis of a regular work, to be prepared
by some properly qualified person who may have the results of this inves-
tigation before him. In my examination of the mounds I was compelled
to pack away the articles collected as fast as they came to hand, the sun
affecting the bones injurionsly.

To any one who may continue this work I would recommend the
months of September and October, with tents, and all such con-
veniences as will enable the party to make full notes. Let the laborers
be hired for the trip, and informed as to what they are to do and
how they are to do it. Many ecrania and burial-vases in good con-
dition when reached, were broken by the haste, awkwardness, ov
carelessness of the men. With proper preparation and careful, indus-
trious laborers, important results may be expected.

Probably many of the articles, especially the bones sent, will be thre
out as useless. Some - the bones were packed up and forwarded to
show how much they were decayed. Many long bones were sent to de-
termine the stature of these people. It was a common remark ducing
the work that the bones were of very large size. I think the men were
generally under size—not so large as the men of this age.

A eonsiderable number of ribs were taken from the Lindsay mound
under the impression that they indieated bodies less round than the
present races. This question I am not able to answer; but I have, on
much reflection, concluded that the peculiar form of these ribs is in a
great measure due to the pressure of the earth on the bodies.

In unpacking the bones sent I would recommend that each parcel as it
is opened be washed and dipped in weak glue, when dry, that each bone,
intended for preservation, receive a thin coat of the best copal varnish.
This was the treatment I gave to the bones sent to the Institution in
1856, taken from the Robinson mound.
SKETCH OF ANCIENT EARTINWORKS ON THE UPPER MISSOURI.
By A. Barranpt, C. E., of Sioux City.

The archeological remains of the Upper Missouri, from the mouth of
the Yellowstone, in a southeasterly direction as far down as Bonhomme
Island below Fort Randall, exhibit a progressive change of structure
and outline from the most simple to the most complicated. During my
stay in that region, 186970, I had occasion to visit several of those
ancient fortifications. Among the most important and well preserved
is one existing about nine miles south-southeast of the Missouri
and within half a mile of Clark’s Creek, Dakota. The main work is
in the form of a parallelogram, three hundred and forty feet long, one
hundred and ninety feet wide, and twenty and twenty-five feet ioe
the walls are, on an average, seven feet thick at the summit. There are
two openings, one facing the west, twenty-four feet wide, and the other
facing south, only nine feet wide. ‘The space inside is now full of cotton-
wood and ash trees. Several large blocks of sandstone, roughly hewn,
were found, but the walls and a ruined portion of what appeared to be
the remains of a smaller inclosure, were of calcined clay, changed by
burning into a brick color. Following the banks of the creek for
half a mile, we came to the remains of a wall of about five feet in width
and in some places attaining the height of from three to five feet. We
traced the wall for about four hundred yards; it runs for about one
hundred and fifty yards from east to west, then turning at right angles
from north to south, the end of which re: adits the edge of a deep and
precipitous ravine, a ond which we could not find any traces of ruins.

About two hundred and fifty miles up the Bighorn River we found
also another large mass of ruins, where was probably the site of a large
ound city, but none are now existing; they have all crumbled away,
and from a large oak tree that we felled, I found that they must have

ecupied this spot at least six hundred years ago, as the tree grew on
the remains of what had been probably the largest mound. We found
that these mounds had, for the most part, been constructed of turf and
adobe or sun-dried bricks of inferior manufacture, which accounts for
their decay.

Another curious spot that I visited was what the Indians of the pres-
ent time call Matou-tipee, (Bear-house.) It is a large mound constructed
of caicinated clay, which by burning was changed into a brick color.
It is situated near Grand River on a high elevation of land; it is encir-
cled by the remains of a wall; one portion running from east to west
and then down a hollow; turning at a right angle it runs from north to

ANCIENT EARTHWORKS ON THE UPPER MISSOURI. AOT

south, the ends reaching the banks of the creek. Within the area of these
remains of gigantic walls we found seyeral small mounds of from twenty
to forty feet in circumference, and from ten to fifteen feet high.

Further up the Yellowstone I found the remains of an ancient city of
mounds. It is situated about one hundred and forty miles from the mouth
of that river, on a bluff of about one hundred and eighty feet in height.
It seems to have been regularly laid out. The streets are regular, and
the mounds equidistant from each other. In the southeast quarter of
this city, on the widest of the streets, is one of colossal dimensions, sixty-
three feet in diameter at the summit, and twenty-seven feet high.

We could not find any opening in this mound, but succeeded by digging
into several of the smaller ones to gather remains of some sun-dried
pottery; and in one we also found several arrow-heads of stone, frag-
ments of flint, &e. I counted these mounds, and found eighty-seven in
good state of preservation, and about sixty-three in ruins. I am satis-
fied that the remains of the elongated mounds, which are found always
on the outskirts of a city, were designed and used for fortifications,
though I have not been able to determine if there were any ditches
around them. Again, on the banks of the Moreau river, a few miles
from its mouth, we discovered another of the mound cities, containing
about two hundred mounds, and a number of the elongated ones, which
form a regular line of outworks, each wing reaching the bank of the
river. Again, about tworand a half miles further back to the north
upon an elevation of the ground there is a group of the largest mounds
I have ever seen. They are built very near together, and are perfect in
their form. There are no ditches at their base, and they are wanting in
other appearance of fortifications. Yet I believe them to have been
used as forts, and that they were placed here to guard the approaches
to the town from this direction.

There is still another group of mounds located on the banks of the
Great Cheyenne; these resemble those last described—not so large, but
more in ntunber.

On Bonhomme Island there are also remains of fortifications, which are
described in Lewis and Clarke’s journal of their expedition up the Mis-
sourl, 180456.

This hasty sketch of some of the ancient remains in the Missouri
Valley, though the result of the observations of two years, is principally
drawn from the hasty entries in a diary; therefore no pretensions are
made to minute exactness. As, however, the preservation of a record
of the sites of the ancient remains, and every fact connected with it, is
important to the student of archeology, this sketch, brief and imper-
fect as it is, may afford some data of interest in regard to the character
of the race of men who once thickly peopled this country.
ACCOUNT OF ABORIGINAL RUINS AT SAVANNAH, TENNESSEE.

By J. ParisH STELLE.

These ruins occupy high rolling ground, on the east side of Tennessee
liver, immediately on the west edge of the town of Savannah, Tennes-
see. North and south they measure, from outer earth-works to outer
earth-works, thirteen hundred and eighty-five yards, and east and west,
five hundred and fifty yards. The inner line of earth-works is dis-
tinetly traceable, and consists of an embankment thrown up inside from
a deep trench, twelve or fourteen feet in width. At every eighty yards
there is a redoubt, each one extending outward twenty yards, excepting
those at the angles, which project thirty.

Sa 3 =
BSS os &S
SS bs
Sees et
— aaat a
= s328 —
ZB ReSoae S| 5
Z Sere Fegis
Ly, sae, Soe
WM, fiy Xeaat 282 S
UW razs o83 5
SSeS OS
HF “Miff
uy, py
‘Ny

SOUT)

—

ZS

oii”

SS
= y
eit

LPT AUS

RNA ‘oping ‘aaganDd bug ‘49)punyyg $ PREG ba

‘NNSL ‘HYNNVAVS LY SNINY TVNIDIYOSY

os

rf
3

Pee

SA
aw” fi

AS

oe

OST 'A1L9IS URL “ply peifoap pun pehdaang

ay

youn Lad

ABORIGINAL RUINS IN TENNESSEE. 409

The outer line of earth-works appears to have been muchlighter. At
some points it is still visible, while at others, especially on cultivated
grounds, it has entirely disappeared. In the diagram the obliterated
parts are represented by dotted lines, and the distinet portions by con-
tinuous lines. The outer works are fifty-five yards from the inner, and
parallel with them. They also have regular redoubts eighty yards
apart; but the redoubts are longer than those of the inner works,
measuring forty yards along the line, and fifty-five yards at the angles.
The two lines are so arranged that the redoubts of one generally alter-
nate with those of the other.

The earth in which these trenches have been dug is a tough red clay,
intermixed with gravel, exceedingly hard to excavate. In fact, the en-
tire elevation upen which the ruins le is composed of the same mate-
rial, down almost to low-water mark of the river, where a deposit of
limestone begins.

The relative position of the mounds have been located on the diagram
by careful measurement.

Mound A: Ten feet high, forty yards east and west, and sixty yards
north and south. I made a large excavation in the highest part of it,
going down in shape somewhat as shown by the dotted line. At the
depth of a foot and a half we came upon a human skeleton, lying on its
back, with the head to the south. The bones were so decayed that but
few could be taken out. At the left side of the head was a vase, con-
taining the remains of a shell. The root of a tree had grown against
and broken the vase, but I took out all that could be found. At the
right of the skeleton, about where the hand should have been, if the
arm lay at the side, were found three flint implements—knives, [ sup-
pose—and a small polished stone that had probably been used for paint-
ing purposes. Nothing more was found in this mound. We dug down
to the solid earth in two places, as shown by the dotted lines. The
mound was composed of a soft alluvial soil, evidently brought from the
river bottom, about two hundred yards distant, and down a steep hill.

Mound B: A small one, into which we made a large opening in the
center, and at one foot down obtained a stone implement, which was the
only article found. The composition of this mound was the same as that
of A.

Mound C: Double mound, four feet high. Into this we went down to
solid earthin two places, but found nothing, except some bits of char-
coal and other evidences of there having been fire at several points.
It was made up of alluvial soil, the same as A.

Mound D: Has a house upon it, and therefore could not be opened.

Mound E: Small mound in the garden, with a large tree upon it. I
did not open it.

Mound F: Double mound, seventy yards long, forty yards wide at
widest point, and twelve feet high. We dug down to solid ground by
two large excavations started at the highest points. Within three feet
410 ABORIGINAL RUINS IN TENNESSEE.

of the surface, in the excavation, fragments of pottery utensils were
found. Nothing further was discovered. These mounds, unlike the
preceding, were composed of the tough clay and gravel of the ridge
upon which they stood. A depression near at hand showed where the
material had been obtained.

Mound G : Forty-five yards in diameter at base, and twelve feethigh.
Two large white-oak (Quercus alba) trees were upon it. In one, whieh
had been cut down, two hundred and fifteen rings were counted, mak-
ing it two hundred and fifteen years old. We dug a large circular
excavation in the center on the top. The earth at the surface gave
indications of having been intensely heated. At two feet down we
came upon a human skeleton lying on its back, with the hands at the
sides, and the head toward the east; the bones badly decayed. At
three and a half feet we found another skeleton, lying precisely the
same as the first, and immediately under it. At five feet we came
to loose stones lying upon one another, and rounded up mound-
shaped, which we removed, to the amount of several tons, when the
solid earth was reached, and a skeleton was found lying exactly as the
others, but further east, the feet of this one being immediately under
the heads of the other two. The stones seemed to have been thrown
directly upon the body; consequently most of the bones were more or
less broken. The skull was crushed entirely flat. At the left side of
the head were found three copper relics, lying just as I have tied them
together. The string still to be seen in one of them is made, 1 think,
from the bark of papaw, (Asimina triloba, Dunal,) a circumstance worthy
of note, as it proves that material to be almost imperishable. Modern
Indians used it extensively for strings and ropes, and I can recollect
when our southern and western people did the same. It was prepared
by peeling the bark from the trees when the sap was up, and sinking it
under water, to remain several weeks, to “rot,” as it was called. When
taken out the inner separated from the outer bark, and split up into
very thin sheets. It was these sheets that were used, and after having
gone through this process they were much stronger than the entire bark
was before. I send you a slip of “rotted papaw bark.” Imimediately
upon the breast of the third skeleton was found the fragments of a shell
ornament. Nothing further was discovered in “G,” though we made
careful and extensive search. The composition of the mound, aside
from the stones already mentioned, was light surface soil, which seemed
to have been scraped up from the high lands.

Mound H: A large mound, ten feet high. It is under cultivation,
and therefore cannot be opened before autumn.

Mound I: Has a house upon it, and therefore no examination could
be made.

Mound J: Isthe largest mound in the group. It is over one hundred
yards in diameter at the base, thirty feet high, and perfectly level on
the top. We rigged a windlass, and sunk an eight-foot shaft in the

ABORIGINAL RUINS IN TENNESSEE. All

center, down to the solid earth, but found nothing, except now and then
a broken flint or fragment of pottery. We then dug in the sides, per-
mitting the earth to fall into the shaft, until we had a large excavation,
in the shape represented on the diagram, but still found nothing. We
next made excavations twelve feet deep, at various points, but discovered
nothing in any of them, except in one. Here, within a few inches
of the surface, we came upon broken fragments of brick, or burned

earth, exhibiting some kind of molded work. They were in consider-
able quantities, and locked as if they might originally have been hollow
columns. If solid columns, the fragments would certainly have been
larger; the specimens sent are of average size. Immediately under
these, about one foot below the surface, was what might be styled a tile
floor, perfectly level and smooth. We removed the earth, and found it
to be somewhat crescent-shaped, covering a space of forty-four feet one
way, and sixteen the other. How much larger it had been we could
not learn, for roots had grown into it and broken it up. The tiling, if
such it can be called, was about an inch thick, and seemed to have
been made by spreading tempered clay eoonhy upon a leveled space
of earth and then hardening by means of fire built on top of it. There
were no seams to indicate that it had been made otherwise and laid
downin sections. Nothing else was found, except some charcoal around
the edges.

Like F, this large central mound was composed of tough clay and gravel,
making it very hard to dig. Within a short distance were three great
depressions, from which the earth of which it was formed had evidently
been taken.

Mound K: A low mound, eighty yards in diameter at the base. We
opened it in various places, as shown in the drawing. Six feet in the
center brought us to the bottom, eighteen inches of which was com-
posed of a soft, biack earth, in which were found bones, deer horns,
shells, fragments of pottery, &c. In this deposit we also found two
stone implements, probably aeeal for pounding corn, opening shell-fish,
or something of the kind.

Mound L is similar to K in every respect. In addition to the usual
melange of black earth, bones, shells, &c., we found one pounder and
two pieces of red stone, which, I suppose, had been used for painting.
We also found one flint ae Persons not familiar with such relies
might mistake these knives for arrow or spear heads, from which they
differ in not having notches worked in the large end for the purpose of
attaching them to a shait.

Mound M: Thirty yards across at base, and five feet high. At two
feet down we came upon a fossil shell and a beautifully-finished little
stone; I call it a paint mortar. There was no sign of bones, which
leads to the supposition that these articles were simply buried there for
safe-keeping. At four feet down we found a large and splendid stone
implement. It was lying near one side of the mound, and appeared to
A? ABORIGINAL RUINS IN TENNESSEE.

have been lost there, as there were no visible marks of anything further.
Nothing more was found in this mound. The composition, light soil, as
usual, shows that it had been gathered from the surface.

Mound N: Fifteen yards across, and three feet high. Two feet down
we found a broken stone implement, which was the only article obtained.
The composition of the mound was the same as M.

Mound O: A double mound, forty by seventy yards at base of largest
end, and eight feet high. We excavated at three points, and found two
to be of no interest whatever. The third one, at the large end of the
mound, proved otherwise. We started down through red avd crumbly
earth, indicating that it had been exposed to high heat. The deeper we
went the stronger the indications of fire became, until finally, when three
feet below the surface, we came to a bed of charcoal, or rather what
proved to be a charred log lying horizontally. We opened the mound
thoroughly, and found that it had three furnaces passing in at the base
of the lower side, (the mound is on inclined ground,) and running par-
allel, about six feet apart, almost entirely through to the base of the
higher side; that is, ranging upward through the mound at the angle
of the surface of the solid ground upon which the mound stood. They
had been formed by first digging trenches into the earth, two feet wide
and eighteen inches deep. Over these, rude arches had been, thrown,
formed of irregular masses of tempered clay, probably sun-dried. Some
of these masses we took out entire. They are about as large as a man
could handle conveniently, and having been immediately in contact
with the fire, are burned very hard.

In the spaces formed between these furnace trenches, and near the
center of the mound, were found two small piles of human bones, (one
pile im each space,) which seeined to have been thrown together without
regard to regularity. I do not think there could have been more than
about two skeletons in each pile. They were completely charred by the
heat from the furnaces, and consequently were very tender to handle.
On drying out they became much harder. From the three main fur-
nace trenches went up a large number of small flues, eight or ten inches
in diameter, whose walls had also been formed of tempered clay, and
were now burned very hard. At some points they rose directly toward
the surface of the mound, while from others they wound and twisted
about through it in various directions, all skillvully planned with a view
to conveying the heat to all parts of the pile.

Running through the mound horizontally, at different elevations,
were large logs still retaining their entire shape, but completely charred.
We traced one from end to end, eighteen inches in diameter and twen-
ty-two feet long. The ends showed that they had been burned off to
make the piece the desired length, and their great irregularity of out-
line led me to think that the operation had been performed while the
log was yet green, and retained its sap. The burning had evidently
been forced by placing dry pieces of wood across the log and keeping

ABORIGINAL RUINS IN TENNESSEE. 413

them carefully “chunked up,” and the irregularities were due to the
different positions of the cross-pieces; the log, in consequence of being
green, having immediately ceased to burn when there was no direct
contact.

In addition to these charred logs there were a number of upright
posts, also charred, which seemed to have been placed in position as the
earth had been filled in, to prevent too great a pressure upon the flues.
Some of them were more than a foot in diameter and five or six feet
long. Their ends presented the same irregular outline as the hori-
zontal pieces. I found one piece of split timber four fect long, eight
inches wide, and two inches thick. Its ends showed that it had been
broken to its existing length by main force, for, although a solid coal,
the splinters were yet perfect.

IT saw nothing about any of these timbers that indicated their having
been worked by other means than fire, and if there had been anything
I would certainly have noticed it, for they were entire, just as they had
been placed in the mound, merely large, solid coals. The coal was in
as good a state of preservation as if burned but yesterday, as you will
see by the specimen sent. Two of our blacksmiths have examined these
specimens. Both agree that one kind is chestnut, (Castanea vesea, Linn.,)
but differ with reference to the other—one claiming that it is poplar,
(Liriodendron tulipifera, Linn.,) while the other pronounces it our yellow
pine, (Pinus rigida, Miller.) The two former trees grow abundantly
about the locality of the ruins, but the pine has not grown nearer than
four or five miles since the country has been known to white people.

Every part of the large end of this mound, from base to top, had
been affected by the heat from the furnaces and flues. in fact, it was
one huge brick, hard burned near the base, and softer toward the top.
The earth seemed to have been throwu up loose; none of it had been
tempered except that forming the arch of the furnaces and the walls of
the fiues. There were no fragments of pottery, or dross, or cinders, or
anything else upon which a hypothesis could be based touching the
object for which the mound had been used. Ashes in the furnaces,
bones, burned earth, and charred timbers, as already mentioned, were
the only things found after a most careful and exhaustive examination.

Mound P: This mound, about fifteen yards across and four feet high,
was opened by curiosity-seekers two yearsago. Report says they found
iine copper spools like those taken from G, a copper wedge, and a stone
paint mortar, as I call it in default of a better name. After diligent
inquiry among the people interested in the digging, I have succeeded in
obtaining the “wedge,” the mortar, and part of one of the spools. The
discoloration in the concaves of the mortar is due to something put into
it since it was found—indelible ink, (nitrate of silver,) I think. The
markings around the edge were the same when found.

The parties who did the digging assure me that they saw no bones,
but I think they must have overlooked them, for on opening the mound
414 ABORIGINAL RUINS IN TENNESSEE.

more thoroughly I found fragments of a human skull, but no other
bones. These lay near the edge of their opening; hence i conclude that
they must have taken the skeleton out. I also found, lower down, three
fragments of stone implements. The composition of the mound was
surface soil, as usual.

Mound Q: Twenty yards aeross at base, and nine feet high. At
eighteen inches down we came upon a bed of coals and burned earth,
evidently where a large fire had been. At three feet, in what appeared
to be a deposit of ashes, we found a copper relic; at four feet, lying
alone in the yellow earth, a stone implement; at four and a half feet,
what seems to be a copper plate attached to a fragment of matting; at
six feet, a second stone implement like the first; at eight feet, lying
immediately together, three pieces of lead ore; and at nine feet, on the
solid earth, a small string of copper beads.

There were no bones or other things in this mound indicating that it
had been used as a burial-place. All the articles found, except the cop-
per wheel, lay immediately in the yellow earth, and there were no dis-
colorations in the adjoining soil, which must have been the case had
perishable articles been buried with them.

IT think you will find the beads are held together by the same imper-
ishable material to be seen in the copper relics found in G.

SHELL BEDS.

There are two extensive shell beds in connection with these ruins,
one on each side of the river. That on the eastern side has been under
cultivation for years, and lying immediately upon the surface it is not
in so good a condition as it would otherwise have been. It covers about
half an acre of ground, and is some eighteen inches in thickness. I
explored it pretty thoroughly before this season’s crop was put in, and
in the collection marked “RK” you will find the result, together with
some of the shells composing the mass.

The bed on the west side of the river was entirely undisturbed until
I examined it. It covers a little less than half an acre, is about two
feet in thickness, and lies three feet below the surface; that is, the
overflows of the river have made a sedimentary deposit upon the shell
bed three feet thick. Taking into consideration that this river seldom
overflows oftener than once in a year, and sometimes but onee in several
years, that its waters are not then as muddy as most other rivers at
such times, and that being a mountain stream it soon subsides, we can
form at least some idea of the age of this shell bed. In addition to
this, I may say there is now growing upon it a burr-oak tree, (Quercus
macrocarpa, Michx.,) fully six feet in diameter.

J explored this bed carefully, and you will find an assortment of what
1 obtained in the collection marked “8,” together with specimens of the

eee eee ee eee

ABORIGINAL RUINS IN TENNESSEE. 415

shells. The broken pottery was in great abundance, and seems to have
been broken vessels thrown away with the shells and other refuse. The
same shell-fish are now to be met with in the river, but they do not
seem to be in great abundance, judging from what are found along the
shore. It is possible that they are more plentiful at the bottom of the
river, however, and that these ‘old-time people” had some way of
dredging them up.

The river 1s wearing the bank away where the bed crops out; conse-
quently I had avery good opportunity of noting its position. It lies
perfectly horizontal, and, for some distance up and down the river on
either side of it, the caving bank is literally dotted with places where
fires seem to have burned for a long time; the earth is burned hard
and to redness, and ashes and coals are there. In digging out the
places I found several with three stones in the center still occupying tri-
angular positions, as if arranged for the purpose of supporting cooking
utensils above the fire. These fires were generally on a level with the
bottom of the shell bed.
ACCOUNT OF ABORIGINAL RUINS ON THE WILLIAMS FARM, IN WARDIN
COUNTY, TENNESSEE, TWO MILES BELOW SAVANNAH, TENNESSEE.

By J. PArisH STELLE.

These ruins occupy a set of ridges running toward the bottom lands
of the Tennessee River, about two miles below Savannah. The fronts
of the ridges terminate in steep bluffs rising fifty feet above the level of
the bottom. Along the foot of the blufis there is a series of springs,
spreading and forming swampy lands, and through these lands, also at
the foot of the bluffs, runs a line of earthworks, made precisely on the
plan of the earthworks in the Savannah ruins, w "it h the exception that
there is but one line traceable instead of two. It seems to have been
located in the swampy grounds where the springs came out, with a view
to having the ditch always full of water, which must have been its con-
dition. The redoubts are about eighty yards apart. Most of the work
is traceable; the points at which it is not clearly so I have indicated en
the diagram by dotted lines.

No other line of earthworks save this at the foot of the bluffs is to be
seen; hence we :must infer that the defenses on other sides of the town
were stockades, or something of the kind. The regular line of mounds
back (A, P, V, W,) would lead to the conclusion that there had been
other Hence. and that these mounds were erected for the purpose of
overlooking them.

All the mounds of the group were carefully opened; the markings on
the diagram show the shape and position of the excavations made.

A.—This is a round-shaped Om: twenty yards across and five feet
high in the center. Upon its side is a dead w vhite oak, (Quercus alba, )
over three feet in diameter. Went to the bottom in the center, but
found nothing. Composition yellow clay without gravel, showing that
the material had been taken from the surface of the ridge, as gravel
occurs a short distance beneath.

B.—Ten yards across and four feet high in center. Same character

1s A. Cut entirely through it, but found nothing.

C.—Ten yards across and four feet high in center. Same character
as B; opened it with same result.

D.—About same size, and precisely same character as C. Opened it,
but found nothing.

i}.—Ten yards across and six feet high. At eighteen inches down

e came upon a buman skeleton lying with its head toward the south-
east. The bones were very badly decayed. There were a few shells
with the bones. Nothing more was found. Upon the sideof this mound
there is a white oak stump over three feet in diameter.

ABORIGINAL RUINS ON THE WILLIAMS FARM, TENNESSEE. AIT

F.—Five yards across and two feet high. Contained nothing.

G.—Fifteen yards across and four feet high. White oak tree over
two feet in diameter growing upon it. At two feet down came upon a
few fragments of decayed bones, so far decayed that we could make noth-

ing of them.

|

i)
f

a

hk

\

\
May,
My

Lys
CS)
Ee

yoay |

os
ap
Ze, ai
ei
Pel Ry 0

HINO SZ
EHS Zeopapnnmmngmmm te rrp ste
Valley
SLUM MN
Ste

00

HOLLOL HOI

@
ae } x

MPT

SS . ]
Suton nnsasiee
Valle

HEM

Wr, k Aig
CH" Ws Xx

Re

0

"UWNNWAWS PAO138 S3TINW OML"NNBL ALNNOO NIOHYVH Nt
WAV4 SWVITTIM SHL NO SHINY

SIG-NORs Le

Maytag

NUM

a
fe
\\

My,

Ml

—

Mi

: a iS

FR ty

|

MN)

Uy
“My

H.—Twelve yards across and three feet high. On removing the suar-
face, we found the mound to be nothing more nor less than a great shel!-
heap. Gave it a thorough turning, but found nothing save such things
as are usually met with in these shell beds.

I.—Ten yards across and three feet high. Another mound composed
partially of shells, though not entirely,as wasthecasewith H. Theshells
were intermingled with yellow clay. At one foot down found a stone
implement—probably a plow or hoe. You will observe that the large
end of the implement is much worn, the probable result of working in

the earth. There was nothing more.
278

418 ABORIGINAL RUINS ON THE WILLIAMS FARM, TENNESSEE.

J.—Ten yards wide and three feet high. Contained nothing.

K.—Twenty yards across and six feet high. Contained nothing.

L.—Ten yards across and two feet high. Contained nothing.

M.—Ten yards across and two feet high. At the bottom found a small
stone implement lying alone in the yellow earth, apparently lost there
when the mound was being made. There was nothing more.

N.—Twenty-five yards across and eight feet high. At two feet down
came upon shells and fragments of pottery in considerable abundance.
At three feet down, fragments of charcoal were to be seen, and the earth
had a red appearance, indicating that it had been intensely heated. At
six feet down we found an imperfect stone implement. There was noth-
ing of further interest.

O.—Ten yards wide and three feet high. Contained nothing of
interest.

P.—Twenty yards wide and five feet high. Contained nothing.

().—Highteen yards wide and three feet high. A fewscattering shells
were found, but nothing of additional interest.

R.—Tifteen yards across and four feet high. Found one large arrow
or spear-head, but nothing further.

S.—Twenty yards across and six feet high. Contained nothing.

T.—Ten yards across and two feet high. Nothing of interest.

U.—Twenty-five yards across and six feet high. A few small flint
implements were found scattered here and there, as if lost at the time of
building. Nothing more.

V.—Twenty yards wide and five feet high. Contained nothing.

W.—Tweuty-two yards wide and six feet high. There were some
traces of bones a few inches below the surface, but they were so much
decayed that nothing could be made of them.

X.—Twenty-three yards wide and five feet high. Three feet down
there was a deposit of black matter, looking as if some perishable sub-
stance, as a log of wood, had decayed. There was no sign of bones or
anything else of interest.

Y.—Sixty yards across and seven feet high. Composed of black allu-
vial soil, evidently brought up the bluff from the river bottom. Exam-
ined it carefully, but found nothing.

Z.—One hundred yards across and ten feet high. Composed of black
soil from the river bottom, the same as Y. Found traces of bones, evi-
dently human, immediately on the solid earth, but the character of the
soil making up the mound had caused them to decay so badly that but
little could be made of them. There was nothing further of interest.

&.—Thirty yards across and twelve feet high. This mound has three
arms running out from it, as shown in the diagram. They were evi-
dently for the purpose of affording an easy ascent to the summit—the
sides were, probably, too steep to be ascended with ease. Three feet
down we came upon some badly decayed human bones, and with them
some black substance which seems to have been matting. At seven feet

ABORIGINAL RUINS ON THE WILLIAMS FARM, TENNESSEE. 419

we found fragments of charcoal and red burned earth one foot thick,
and four or five feet in diameter. At nine feet we found another stone
implement, evidently used m working the earth. It has been broken,
and on that account may possibly have been thrown away by the work-
men engaged on the mound. There was nothing further worthy of note.

CHARACTER OF THE MOUNDS.

All the mounds of this group, with the exception of Y and Z, are
composed of yellow clay, evidently taken from the surface of the ridges; -
and all, with the exception of &, are rounded on top and reasonably
regular in outline. In general character, they seem to differ somewhat
from the Savannah group, for none of them appear to have been places
of deposit; in fact, I do not think there is a burial mound in the asso-
ciation. Iam of the opinion that the few bones taken out are not those
of the mound builders, but that they are the remains of more recent
Indians, buried in the mounds by mere chance, or because their eleva-
tion above the common level gave them attractions as burial places.

The arrangement of this “Williams Farm” group has quite strongly
impressed me with the belief that the mounds were made for two special
purposes—one set, as A, P, V,W, and perhaps others, to stand as watch-
towers, from which to overlook the defenses, and the other set, as A, C,
F, O, 8S, U, W, X, to act as the lamp-posts of the town; that is, erected
for illuminating purposes. I am led to this latter conclusion by their
situation at the heads of the valleys. Fires kindled upon them even
now, (and they must have been much taller originally,) would light every
foot of valley making up into the townsite. Add to these a few that
might be selected upon the interior of the ridges, and the illumination
of the entire site might be made complete. I found the same arrange-
ment in the Savannah group. In fact, I have found it so in all the
groups that I have visited.

SHELL BEDS.

There are a number of shell beds in connection with these ruins, but
since they do not differ in any particular from the shell beds of the
Savannah group, I have thought it best not to go into any particular
exploration of them, or to trouble you with specimens.

FOSSIL WOOD.

Tn the same box with this I send you some specimens of fossil wood,
taken from “Chalk Bluffs” on Tennessee River, in Hardin County,
Tennessee. The “Bluffs” are caving banks, about three hundred feet
high, washed at the base by the river.

J. The piece marked thus will explain itself. It is a sample of what
I wrote you about as being part wood and part stone.
420 ABORIGINAL RUINS ON THE WILLIAMS FARM, TENNESSEE.

II. Fragments broken from the trunk of a tree six feet in diameter.
Eight feet of what appears to be the butt end of this specimen is exposed,
the remainder (no one knows how much) runs into the bluff.

Ii. Broken from a specimen seven feet long and four feet in diameter.

IV. Bark. Is washed out of the bluff in considerable quantities.

V. Specimens broken from the end of a log three feet in diameter,
sticking squarely out of the bluff, embedded in the center of a seven-
foot stratum of yellow sandstone. Bounding the stratum above and
below are thick bands of iron ore.

VI. Sample of the yellow sandstone mentioned above.

VII. Sample of the deposit in which most of the fossils are found.

VIII. Specimens picked up at random about the bluffs.
TERRESTRIAL PHYSICS.

THE EARTHQUAKE IN PERU, AUGUST 13, 1868.
[Extract from letters of John V. Campbell, superintendent of the Arica and Tacua Railroad.]

Tacua, November, 1868.

The sight of Arica would fill with dismay any one who had known the
place before. The destruction has been complete, and more need not be
said, were it not that the ruins and signs of the great devastation
that meet one on all sides make the aspect of the place so painful that
people who once see it are afraid to look on it again. The lower part of
the town is a heap of ruins, except where passages have been cleared to
Serve as streets, while in the upper part, beyond the reach of the tidal
wave, many walls and parts of houses are still standing, but so cracked
and shattered as to be quite uninhabitable, and they evidently show
that, even without the aid of the sea, Arica was a mass of ruins after
the heavy shock of theearthquake. Further back on the pampa, going
toward Arapa, the people have built their wooden sheds in great num-
bers and with much regularity. It is said this will be the future site
of the town.

In the part of the town that was washed by the sea the confusion of
the ruins is indescribable, and the effect of the waves is bewildering.
Alongside the mole is the stationary engine-boiler of the railway, also
the remains of the two locomotive-tenders; up in the market-place is
another tender, one of the boilers of the flour-mill, and one of the iron
girders of Mr. Hegan’s turn-table, all large pieces of iron weighing
many tons, that have been carried by the force of the waves more
than seven hundred yards. Facing Eusert’s house, or rather the site
where it stood, is one of the locomotives; farther on, facing Nugent’s
house, is another; and a few yards farther, the third, ‘all in the sea,
broken and completely worthless. The strength of the wave is, how-
ever, more apparent at San José, where the piers of the bridge have
been cut off, on a level with the bed of the river, and carried in large
compact blocks of masonry intact, four, five, and six hundred yards on to
the highest ground behind. The tubular girders have been carried a
similar distance, and many broken.

The bed of San José River has been filled up about four feet, while our
embankment on each side has been washed down, and the temporary track
we have built passes over the bed of the river with a culvert of only
three feet. This of course the floods will carry away in winter, and
how we shall ever manage to construct a permanent bridge I cannot yet
422 TERRESTRIAL PHYSICS.

conceive. From San José to near the side track at Chacalluta, fully
four miles, the railway track has been torn up and obliterated, the large
sand-banks at Chiucoro have disappeared, and an open, level beach
remains. The vessel Wateree is on the pampa five hundred yards inland,
and about eighty from the highest ground; the America lies in the same
line, about two hundred yards nearer the sea; while between them are
the shattered remains of the Chanarcillo.

The waves approached nearer the hills than I ever could have thought
possible, and the pampa for miles is strewn with wreck. The beach all
along is covered with large stones, mixed up with sea-weeds, pieces of
wood, of furniture, of machinery, and of boats and vessels; the mixture,
which also includes rags, and abundance of papers, custom-house doc-
uments, ete., is, however, quite beyond any attempt at description.

Very few people can give a clear account of the catastrophe. Almost
all appear to have been paralyzed with fear, and certainly they had
good cause. Nugent is almost the only one who appears to have been
collected and to have watched the progress of events. He says that
when the sea receded, the anchorage of the steamers, which was in
seven fathoms (forty-two feet) water, remained dry; that all the vessels
were dragged seaward except the Chanarcillo and A. Riviere, which
remained aground, and high and dry at their anchorage. Many minutes
elapsed, during which the sea appeared to be gathering itself up, until
at last it came like an enormous dark green wall, and swallowed up
everything it could reach. The wave came over the top of the custom
house, which will give some idea of its altitude.

The line to which it reached is forty-five feet nine inches above high-
water level, which, added to the forty-two feet that it had receded, will
give a wave nearly ninety feet in height. The current was very strong,
the log of the Wateree says sixteen miles, and appears to lave been
circular like a whirlpool. The vessels could do nothing, and were ¢ar-
ried about like chips. The A. Riviere was never seen again, but frag-
ments of her wreck were washed ashore. The Chanarcillo, a much
stronger vessel, came on shore completely smashed ; and from the fact
of her having five or six turns of her cables around her hull, we surmise
that she must have turned over as many times before her anchor parted.

The loss of life so far ascertained is about five hundred and fifty,
between the town and the bay. There were some singular escapes.
John Williams’s wife and children were carried in and out by the waves,
of which there were eleven in all, a number of times, and were finally
deposited on the high ground. Vacarro, who, having a broken leg,
was placed by his friends in a large launch, was carried in and out
every time, and was left at last among the ruins of the chureh of San
Francisco. Eusert’s horse at the mill was carried off by the waves, and
two days afterward was found unhurt on the little island in the middle
of the Sisera.

Matters in Arica are stillin a bad way, as you may judge for your-

EARTHQUAKE IN PERU. 423

self, when I mention that the best-housed man in Arica is Ausdell, who
is living in the remains of a first-class railway-car. I stay with him
when in Arica.

Tacua had a marvelous escape. Only a few very old houses, these
principally at the corners of the streets, where they had no support from
other walls, came down. Of course every building suffered; but beyond
plaster and paper falling down, and cracks at all the joints, I do not find
much damage in any of our property. The dwelling-house stood well,
and I have now increased confidence in its strength—a consolation, you
may be sure, as we have seldom less than four to six earthquakes daily.

* * * * * ; * *

Tacua, September 15, 1869.

Months have appeared years since I last wrote you, so horrid have
been the times through which I have passed, and yet I have to be grate-
ful that I and my family are yet alive. J allude to the dreadful visita-
tion of yellow fever, which now, thank God, has passed away.

Itcommenced in Arica in November, and up to 31st March, 1869, the
official records alone show one thousand nine hundred and fifty-nine
burials, but the real mortality was over two thousand five hundred. Of
our contract-men in the station and workshop seventeen out of twenty
died. In July, 1868, I shipped at Liverpool! a blacksmith, John Parry,
with his wife and three children, and I was in Arica when they reached
their destination. First a child died, then the mother, the father fol-
lowed, and I was taking measures to send home the two orphans, when
they died also. The family was thus wiped out completely, and there
were many other similar cases.

In Tacua the fever broke out with the suddenness of an explosion and
swept to their last rest over three thousand three hundred souls. The
mortality would have been much greater, but the people fled to the hills
and in that way escaped contagion. Among my wife’s relatives we lost,
counting grown-up people only, her aunt, and two of her sons, and two
cousins. Ilost four clerks, and among them our book-keeper and cashier,
men we cannot readily replace.

Our situation through March, April, and May was awful; we were
expecting death at every moment and continually sorrowing for the
loss of one friend after another. At times there were no bakers and no
bread, no butchers and no shops. Ali the apothecaries died and their
places had to be taken by amateurs. The carts were insufficient to
carry the dead, and three relays of cartmen died in suecession. The
cemeteries were filled to repletion, and then the bodies were thrown
into trenches. We are now walling round these trenches, and they take
over seven thousand feet of wall to inclose them.

I have recalled to my memory a time that now appears to me a
horrid dream, and I had better turn to a more agreeable subject. You
424 TERRESTRIAL PHYSICS.

will now comprehend my long silence, as since the 30th May I have been
busy at reorganization, drilling new hands, and pulling up heavy arrears
of work.

As you ask me for particulars of earthquakes, I will tell you the
result of my long-continued observations. Their course here is invaria-
bly from the mountain range to the sea—in this district from east by
north to west by south. Walls built north and south—that is, across the
course of movement—are those that suffer most. Many have fallen and
all are more or less injured. Walls built east and west suffer little if at
all, except occasionally when they are at the corner of the street, and
then only a few of the last adobes fall.

The movements appear to have the greatest intensity or rather effect
in sand. The walls of houses built on sand when they do not fall, as
most frequently they do, are left in a crumbled condition, crashed and
shattered in every direction. It is clear that the earthquake movement
imparts a variety of movements to sand. I think, too, the force that
causes the movements acts in the line of least resistance, or tries to lib-
erate itself where it finds its work easiest.

You remember the “ big cut” on the A. and T. line and the conglom-
erate that you so often anathematized. That conglomerate, however,
resists earthquakes, and I attribute the preservation of Tacua on the
13th August, 1868, to the town being built on it. Not a stone falls in
the big cut, and I have a hole in the yard of my house fifty-one feet
deep, all through this formation, with an old wall two feet from its edge,
that I was sure would have fallen in, but to my great surprise every-
thing remained sound and intact. This conglomerate is, as you know,
very tough and must offer immense resistance to the earthquake force.

Our rock here is all trachyte tuffa, a few stages only removed from
pumice-stone, and offers little or no resistance to the earthquake shocks.
Houses built on it fall easily.

The earthquake waves are low and only measure a few inches in
height. The damage they cause appears to me more owing to duration
than to altitude of the movement. The earthquake of the 24th ultimo
lasted ninety seconds and left things standing; while a duration of five
minutes would have brought them down. The effect of this last earth-
quake on vessels at sea you will find in the Valparaiso papers of last
mail in the case of the ship Payta. The water appeared to run away
from the vessel’s sides, and the people in her feared being submerged.
She was fifty-seven miles south of Arica, in a direct line east and west
with Islaya, now, as then, in a violent state of eruption, and must
have been caught in the very center of the movement.

The effects of an earthquake on a train in motion are worth mention-
ing. On the 13th of August, 1868, the Presidente (our very first and
jast engine) took up the train, (regulation load one hundred and twenty
tons, cars ineluded, but exclusive of locomotive and tender twenty-two
aud one-half tons,) and was going at about sixteen miles per hour when
ELECTRO-MAGNETIC SEISMOGRAPH. 425

it suddenly stopped with a smart shock. Myr. Ansdell, who was a pas-
senger, thought something had given way on the engine, while Braith-
waite, the driver, thought the stoppage was caused from behind. The
train, however, would not move, so the steam was shut off and both got
down to examine matters. They could hardly stand on the ground, and
at once perceived the true state of the case.

Earthquakes are very frequent yet, and the people are in a state
of panic, a German astronomer, Falb, having predicted our total de-
struction on the 80th September or Ist October; while an Englishman,
Saxeby, defers the event until the 5th of October. The people are de-
serting Arica, and the authorities are making us bring up the custom-
house to Tacua. On the railway we can barely keep our work going.
In Tacua two-thirds of the population are sleeping in tents. I never
before witnessed sucha fright. People refuse to transact business until
after the dth of October, or when purchases are made delivery is stipu-
lated for after that date.

Several shocks, and two very severe ones on the 20th and 24th of
August, have enforced the German’s predictions, and it is becoming
heresy to argue against him. The Cordillera is to be the shore of the
Pacific.

The anniversary of the 13th August was a great day in Arica. There
were masses and Yeligious processions to prevent a repetition of the
great cataclysm, but the people were very anxious, and passed the day
on the hill-tops, relieving themselves at intervals by prayer and flying
visits to the taverns. All, however, passed off well.

THE ELECTRO-MAGNETIC SEISMOGRAPH.
By Pror. PALMIERI, OF THE UNIVERSITY OF NAPLES.

[ Translated by B. O. Duncan, esq., United States consul, and furnished to the Snvithsonian
Institution by the Department of State. ]

Tn all the instruments invented up to the present time for registering
the movement of the earth’s surface, the force itself of the motion of the
earth has been charged with the labor necessary for preserving the trace
of the shocks; and this is the reason why slight oscillations of the soil
could not be registered. In the seismograph, which I am about to de-
seribe, it is the electric current which performs the labor, and, there-
fore, it is possible to have a registering apparatus capable of the great-
est precision even for the slightest shocks. It is also possible by means
of this apparatus to perceive the register of many vibrations of the earth
which would otherwise escape observation.

Suspended above a small iron cup containing mercury is a fine brass
wire coiled into the form of a cork-screw, of about fourteen or fifteen turns.
426 , TERRESTRIAL PHYSICS.

The diameter of the wire 1s about one millimeter, and that of the spiral
twenty or twenty-five millimeters. This spiral is supported at its upper
extremity by a thin elastic spring, and can be elevated or lowered by
means of a screw. The lower extremity of the spiral is terminated in
a cone of copper, pointed with platinum, which is kept at a very minute
distance from the mercury contained in an iron cup, which is placed on
a column of wood or marble. The distance from the point of platinum
to the mercury may be varied at pleasure, but once fixed upon it re-
mains invariable, in spite of any changes of temperature, owing to a
very simple system of compensation ; the rod which sustains the spiral
being of a metal which expands upward, with an increase of tempera-
ture, as much as the spiral is lengthened downward. The iron cup and
the spiral are in communication with the poles of one of Daniell’s gal-
vanic batteries of two couples.

If the surface of the earth is agitated by a vertical shock, even
scarcely perceptible, the point of platinum will touch the mercury below
it, and will complete the current of the battery. Then two electro-mag-
nets, which are in the same circuit, will attract their armatures or
keepers, and the first will stop the running of a clock, which marks the
days of the month, the hours, the minutes, and the half-seconds; and
will thus register the exact moment of the commencement of the shock.
At the very instant the clock stops it gives a signal’of alarm by means
of a bell. The second electro-magnet in drawing its armature sets free
the pendulum of a second clock, which had been stopped out of the ver-
tical line, and this clock in running causes a band of paper to move at
the rate of three meters an hour. At the same time the armature of
the second electro-magnet presses a pencil against the paper as it passes
over a little pulley, and causes it to trace a series of dots on the paper,
corresponding in length to the duration of the shock; the shock having
ceased, the paper will continue its movement unwinding from one cylin-
der and winding up on another ; and if another shock occurs, the pencil
will register it as before by another series of dots, and thus continue ;
so that the intervals remaining unmarked will indicate the hours of
repose, and the parts marked the duration of the oscillations.

To other spirals, formed with different numbers of coils, are suspended
small magnets, under which are placed some iron filings, which adhere
to the magnets when they oscillate vertically ; and thus they preserve
the trace of vertical shocks. One of these spirals causes a light needle
to move on a graduated are, and thus measures the extent of the oscil-
lations.

Four glass tubes, each bent at both extremities at right angles, hav-
ing thus two vertical branches, united at the middle of the base of the
horizontal portion, serve to indicate the horizontal shocks; one of the
two vertical branches has a diameter at least double the other, but is
shorter. These four tubes are arranged in the direction of the four
cardinal points. As they are all alike and act in the same way, it will
ELECTRO-MAGNETIC SEISMOGRAPH. 427

be sufficient to notice one of them. A certain quantity of mercury hav-
ing been poured into this tube, a wire of iron or platinum is put in the
branch with the greater diameter, and another platinum wire is placed
at a very small distance from the surface of the mercury contained in
the branch with the smaller diameter.

On the surface of the mercury contained in the branch with the small-
er diameter is placed a floating piece of iron suspended by a fine silk
thread, which passes over an ivory pulley, with a counter-weight so reg-
ulated that if the floating piece is raised by the mercury it remains sepa-
rated from it, (at the point to which it had been raised ;) and as the axis
of the pulley has attached to it a long and light needle, it is evident
that this needle will deviate when the floating piece rises, and that re-
maining fixed, it will indicate upon the are of the graduated circle the
number of degrees it has traced. If there be a horizontal shock in the
direction of one of these tubes of mercury, the mercury will be agita-
ted in the two vertical branches, but, undergoing more perceptible oscil-
lations in the branch with the smaller diameter, it will raise the floating
piece of iron, and will cause the needle to deviate in a corresponding
manner. But at the same instant the mercury will touch the point of
the platinum wire, and the electric current, which will thus have pas-
sage, will excite the two electro-magnets before mentioned, and will act
in the same manner as already explained for vertical shocks. The
deviation of the needle will indicate the direction of the shock ; and if
the shock is not in the exact direction of the tubes, its real direction
will be indicated by two needles.

By the aid of the electric current, shocks may be registered which
would otherwise escape notice on account of their extreme slightness,
for the trembling of the surface has no resistance to overcome, pro-
vided that the points of platinum are placed very near the surface of
the mercury. I have added some auxiliary apparatus for shocks a little
more violent. For instance, I have placed at the base of the column the
mercury-apparatus of Coulier or of Cacciatore. At the extremity of the
metallic wire I have suspended a metal globe, which, in oscillating,
moves the light horizontal tubes by which it is surrounded,

One clock is intended to make known with the precision of a half-see-
ond the beginning of the shock; but to know the hour in which the
shock occurs, the other clock will suffice; for the length of the paper
unrolied by the wheel, and the hours marked by the needle, will indicate
sufficiently the time. This apparatus registers all the shocks that take
place, indicating the duration of each and the time that elapses between
them; but it cannot give the nature and intensity of each of them.
By it we can know if all the shocks were vertical, and also their maxi-
mum intensity. We can likewise know if all were horizontal, and if
they had the same direction, or if the direction was different. We can
also know if there was one shock of one kind, and another of a different
kind. This seemed to me sufficient for registering the movements (trem-
428 TERRESTRIAL PHYSICS.

blings) of the surface, which are frequent on Vesuvius, but which are
very rarely observed. The apparatus being visited at least three or
four times daily, at the ordinary hours of observation, and the alarm-
clock announcing the moment when the shocks occur, the instrument
may always be put back into its normal condition. This is the reason
why I have not thought it necessary to add other parts, which would
render it more complicated.

But for violent earthquakes, which compel the leaving of the house,
and which render the visiting of the apparatus dangerous, one can, by
the action itself of the violent shocks, register the character, the dura-
tion, and intensity of each of them, with the aid of an auxiliary appa-
ratus that I have long ago prepared in my mind, but which I have not
yet had exeeuted. My principal object was to discover the slight move-
ments of the surface which hitherto escaped us entirely. The seismo-
graph above described has not only given me the surest indications of
approaching eruptions of Vesuvius, but it indicates also the violent
earthquakes which occur in Italy and the entire basin of the Mediterra-
nean, even the eruptions of Etna and of Santorin.

In localities exposed to violent earthquakes this apparatus should be
placed on a solid foundation of masonry, constructed immediately on
the surface, and protected by a covering of wood capable of resisting
the shocks.

ON THE DISTRIBUTION OF FOREST-TREES IN MONTANA, IDAHO, AND WASH-
INGTON,

By W. W. JOHNSON.

Tn accordance with the promise made, I submit the following views of
the distribution of forest-trees over that portion of the Northwest com-
prising the Territories of Montana, Idaho, and Washington, or more par-
ticularly the region extending from the forty-fifth to the fiftieth parallel
of north latitude and from the one hundred and tenth meridian to
the Pacific Ocean. This part of our continent is traversed by three
systems of mountains, the Rocky, Bitter Root, and Cascade Ranges,
The mountain system of the two first named occupy a space of about
two hundred miles in width, or from about the one hundred and twelfth
to the one hundred and seventeenth meridian, while the latter lies in
the vicinity of the one hundred and twentieth meridian, and their general
direction is north and south; these are approximate locations, and are
stated-as limits of description. The traveler through the Rocky and
Bitter Root Mountains would be unable to tell where he left the one or
entered the other. The valleys of the main water-courses are broad and
timberless, while the banks of every stream are fringed with a belt of
cottonwood, with willows, alders, and a small birch undergrowth.
While the mountain spurs and ridges which form the boundaries of these

FOREST TREES. 429

&

valleys, and in which these streams take their rise, are timbered more or
less heavily with the several varieties of firs and pines, the loftier
ranges, say from six thousand to eight thousand feet in altitude, are
clothed with a thick growth of tall black pines, which are from three to
ten inches in diameter, of from. thirty to fifty feet in height, while the
lower ranges and spurs have firs and pines from saplings up to six and
nine feet in diameter, the tallest trees being probably from one hundred
to two hundred feet in height. Geological formation has something to
do with the growth and variety of timber, the granitic soils being ap-
parently preferred by the pines, while the firs are the most abundant on
the limestones and old red sandstones. Upon nearing the limits of
vegetation upon the many peaks whose summits are seldom destitute of
snow, the stunted pine appears to be the only tree which struggles there
to maintain its foothold.

West of the Bitter Root River, which washes the eastern base of the
formidable range of mountains called in one locality the Bitter Root and
in another the Coeur d’Alene Mountains, the character of the country
changes. The streams which meander in sinuous courses through the
canons, gorges, defiles, and ravines of this region, which has a width of
from seventy to one hundred and forty miles, are confined to narrow beds
between mountain spurs, and the entire face of the country is covered
with a forest which has forbidden, until lately, even the hardy and ad-
venturous miner from exploring its fastnesses, and determining the
heads and courses of its draining streams. After leaving the western
base of this mountain-bed we enter the great plain of the Columbia,
where no trees are seen, except along the water-courses, as on the eastern
side of the mountains, over a vast plain which presents to the eye the
appearance of a rolling ocean tossed by contending billows. Crossing
this plain, up nearly to the summits of the Cascade Mountains, a dis-
tance of about one hundred and fifty miles, we again enter into the
timber, which stretches thence in an almost unbroken forest to the Pacifie,
where the trees of pines and firs assume gigantic proportions, and have
given to Washington Territory the reputation of affording the best spar
and ship timber in the United States, if not in the world. To the north,
when you enter into the region of the Upper Columbia and its tributa-
ries, which rise in the damp lake country of the British possessions, as far
as my experience goes, the fiftieth parallel, the country yields as fine a
growth of timber as in the mountain regions to the south of it, similar
in character, but wider in its extent. This country is devoid of any
extensive prairies, and is but sparsely inhabited, and has been imper-
fectly explored.

Having thus given the outlines of the distribution of the trees over
the tract set forth, I would suggest the theory which presents itself to
my observation, as accounting for the treeless valleys, prairies, and plains
which form so large a part of our great West. When I first entered that
country, nearly eleven years ago, I was much struck by the absence of
430 TERRESTRIAL PHYSICS.

rains in summer on these plains. Showers would come up as they do
in the eastern part of the United States, but seemed to be drawn and
swept along the sides of the mountains, where they expended their
moisture, giving only to us in the prairies the comfort of their shadows.
I noticed this in a residence of some five*years in the Walla-Walla Val-
ley, on the southern boundary of the great plain of the Columbia, as
well as in the many valleys of Montana. Living, as I have for several
summers, under canvas, and my business calling my attention to the
clouds and the trees, my experience there corroborates my observation
in Walla-Walla, as showing that the showers of summer are of much
more frequent occurrence along the mountain-sides, and are always of
longer duration among the timbered peaks and foot-hills than in the
lower and treeless portions of the country. The trees grow always along
the streams, where there is a constant supply of water, although the soil
may not differ in any material respect from that in the immediate vi-
cinity, which, being dry and unnourished by rains, afford no nutriment
to the seeds of the cottonwood, the pine, or the fir. Not only the ab-
sence of rains in summer, but the absence of snows in winter, are a pre-
ventive to the growth of forests. Thus, we see these valleys are sel-
dom visited by snows of any depth, from twelve to twenty-four inches
being the limits of deposit in ordinary winters, and frequently the fall
over their surfaces does not reach a depth of over five or six inches,
while in the elevated lands of the mountains in the timber, snows of from
three to seven feet are of almost universal occurrence every winter, and
in the northern latitudes referred to, while the altitude is not so great,
still the snow deposit is as great and as widely diffused.

As another evidence of moisture being a controlling element in the
growth of trees, wherever a spring starts out of a mountain-side, other-
wise treeless, a clump of timber marks the spot, and is an almost sure
sign of its presence; and wherever a tree is planted and supplied with
its requisite amount of water, the growth is as thrifty, as healthy, and
as enduring as in its native forest.

INFLUENCE OF THE AURORA ON THE TELEGRAPH.

By W. D. SARGENT.

HARRISBURG, PENNSYLVANIA, September 27, 1870,

I take the liberty of laying before vou some crude observations of
mine on the effect of the aurora on telegraph lines on the nights of the
24th and 25th instant. ;

Saturday, September 24th, the wires were very much interrupted all
the evening, and we supposed a storm was gathering in the west, but
the appearance of the aurora between 8 and 9 p. m. discovered the real
cause of the trouble. The light and flashes increased in brilliancy and
INFLUENCE OF AURORA ON THE TELEGRAPH. 431

color up to about 11 o’clock, when the whole northwestern part of the
heavens was a brilliant red, reaching to the zenith, the color fading
gradually to the north to a strong white light, and then rising again in
the northeast, but not so brilliantly as in the northwest. At this time
(11 p.m.) I came to the office aig] had one of our lines disconnected from
the batteries and the ends grounded at Harrisburg and Philadelphia.
This arrangement gave a current a trifle stronger than the regular bat-
teries and in the same direction, galvanometer deflecting to the right.
At 11.45, after one or two breaks, the current changed, the galvanometer
needle deflecting to the left; at 11.55 back to the right; at 12.10 to the
left, where it remained until 1 o’clock, when I went home.

After the galvanometer needle deflected to the left, at 11.45, the current
became very unsteady and weak; was only sufficiently strong to move
the relay for a few minutes at a time. The galvanometer showed a
current of varying strength all the time.

Sunday, September 25th, the aurora again appeared about 8.30 p. m.,
but not near so brilliant as on the former evening.

I had a wire connected as before, viz, to the ground at Harrisburg and
Philadelphia. This produced no effect whatever on the relay. The gal-
vanometer at 8.40 deflected to the left; 8.45, right; 9, left; 9.20, right;
9.21, left; here the current was very changeable, the needle fluttering
from side to side; at 9.22 again to the right, where it remained until
10 p. m., when I went home.

The galvanometer I have is Dr. Werner Siemen’s universal galvan-
ometer.

[The change in direction of the current may possibly have been
due to the greater action of a beam of the aurora on the easterly part
of the wire between Harrisburg and Philadelphia, and afterward of
another beam on the westerly part of the wire. It is therefore import-
ant to note whether a change of a similar kind takes place in a wire
extending north and south.—J. H.]
MER PRO RO OGY?
6

NEW CLASSIFICATION OF CLOUDS,

By Prorrssor ANDRE Poiky,
Late director of the observatory at Havana.

HISTORICAL SKETCH.

The meteorologists of antiquity felt the need of distinguishing the
different appearances of clouds, but were, at the onset, completely be-
wildered by the great variety of form which they assumed, apparently
without order. Aristotle* first studied the phenomena of clouds in rela-
tion to their optical properties—their power of reflecting and refracting
light, and the production of rainbows, halos, and coronas. Theophras-
tus,t his disciple, afterward vaguely observed the forms of clouds rela-
tive to the predictions of change of weather. He remarked, for exam-
ple, that the appearance of straight horizontal layers of clouds on the
summits of mountains is an indication of wind and rain; but these
attempts evidently must have failed, because the natural classification
of objects in the time of Theophrastus was unknown. It was not until
1801 that the great naturalist Lamarck, t and in the year after the cele-
brated English meteorologist Luke Howard, § perceived the possibility of
referring the clouds to some fundamental types, following the example of
the natural classification for living beings adopted by Linneus. Lamarck,
who pointed out the importance of the study of the forms of clouds, de-
termined six principal types, which he denominated clouds en balayures,

* ARISTOTLE.

+t THEOPHRASTUS.—Liber de ventis, et opuscula de signis pluviarum et tempestatis,
auct. Theophrasto, in lat. vers. et illustr. apud Franciscum de Franciscis Bonaventura,
Venetiis, 1594, 4 parts, 1 vol., 4to; Eresii Theophrasti qua supersunt opera et excerpta
Librorum quatuor tomis comprehensa Jo. Gottlob Schneideri, Lipsiz, 1818-21, 5 vol.,
8vo, vol. ii, pp. 466-476, 599-605; vol. iv, pp. 719-756; vol. v, pp. 163-173.

¢{ Lamarck.—Annuaire meteorologique, Paris, an x, No. 3, p. 149; an xi, No. 4, pp.
126-128 ; an xii, No. 5, p. 159.

§ Howarp.—Tilloch’s Philosophical Magazine, 1803, vol. xvi, pp. 97-107, 344-357; vol.
xvii, pp. 5-11, pl. vi, vii, viii, with some changes not affecting the nomenclature in
Ree’s Cyclopzdia, 1819, vol. viii, art. cloud; in Nicholson’s Philosophical Journal, 1812,
vol. xxx, pp. 35-62, without plates ; in supplement to the Encyclopedia Britannica, 1824,
vol. ili, pp. 202-205, art. cloud, with plates, and the addition of a set of new terms for the
modifications, intended for the use of English readers; The Climate of London, London,
1833, vol. i, pp. xxxix—lxxii; On the Modifications of Clouds, and on the Principles of
their Production, Suspension, and Destruction, being the substance of an essay read
before the Askesian Society in the session from 1802 to 1803, issued separately, in 1832,
London, 8vo., without plates; id , London, 1864, in 4to, with lithographs.
CLOUDS. 433

(sweeping ;) en barre, (bars;) pommelés, (curdled ;) groupés, (grouped ;)
en voile, (veil;) and attroupés, (piled.) The year following, 1802, Luke
Howard proposed a classification of clouds still more elaborate than that
of Lamarck. Itis a remarkable fact that these two savants, who labored
independently of each other on clouds observed in two different coun-
tries, should have arrived at almost the same fundamental types, and
especially at the determination of the same clouds, though designated
by different denominations. Thus, in the seven types which Howard
has established, we find the first five types of Lamarck, according to
the following table:

Types of Lamarck. Types of Howard.
Pniybalayures, (SwWieepimles)\eosseses6 ass seeeeeee Cirrus.
BE Nevarres (DAL) ess cccseec saaac Sees ee yee ee Cirro-stratus.
Rommelés,/(Curdled\s so occsc sacee esse eee Cirro-cumulus.
Groupes; (crouped) sees 4 aseesese case ee eee Cumulo-stratus.
Binisvoillem Gvieil)\isss nn. eee ead ae SOS Nimbus.

As to the two other clouds of Howard, the stratus being but a mist,
and the cumulus corresponding entirely to his own cumulo-stratus, since
he made double use of these identical ferms, we see how the five true
types of Howard are fundamentally the same as those of Lamarck. If
we consider that my new type of fracto-cumulus is found in the classi-
fication of Lamarck under the name nuage attroupé, (piled cloud,) adding
besides my two other types of pallio-cirrus and of pallio-cumulus, the
last being a modification of Howard’s nimbus, we have the classifica-
tion of clouds established by me in 1863, which I shall describe in the
following exposition. The types which served as the base of Howard’s
nomenclature were very happily chosen, since, as Kimtz well observed,
they are connected with anterior atmospheric changes, and consequently
furnish us with indications of approaching change of weather. How-
ard in his classification, which is almost entirely based upon the form of
the clouds, distinguishes three simple modifications: The cirrus: par-
allel flexions, or diverging fibers, extensible by increase in any or in all
directions; the cumulus: convex or conical heaps increasing upward
from a horizontal base; the stratus: a widely extended, continuous,
horizontal sheet, increasing from below upward, from which the two
following intermediate modifications are derived: The cirro-cumulus :
small, well-defined, roundish masses in close horizontal arrangement or
contact; the cirro-stratus : horizontal, or slightly inclined masses at-
tenuated toward a part or the whole of their circumference, bent down-
ward or undulated, separate or in groups consisting of small clouds
having these characters; and, finally, the two following compound
modifications: The cumulo-stratus: the cirro-stratus blended with the
cumulus, and either appearing intertwined with the heaps of the latter,
or superadding a wide-spread structure to its base ; the cumulo-cirro-stratus
vel nimbus: “The rain-cloud, a cloud or system of clouds from which
rain is falling. It is a horizontal sheet, above which the cirrus spreads,
while the cumulus enters it laterally and from beneath.” I shall point

288
434 METEOROLOGY.

out below the faulty interpretation which has been given by all the
writers to the description of Howard’s two types of clouds, the stratus
and nimbus, then the defects of this nomenclature, which I reject, and
the new classification which I substitute, although since the time of
Howard no other classification having been hitherto proposed, the fol-
lowing are some partial attempts which have been made on the subject.

In 1815 Thomas J. M. Forster* reproduced, with some remarks,
Howard’s description of clouds, adding an English nomenclature of
common names. In 1817 A. Miillert proposed the removal of some ob-
securities in Howard’s descriptions, founded upon observations which he
had carried on for twenty years at Vienna, in the north of Germany,
upon the northern and southern slopes of the Alps, on the banks of the
Rhine, and in France. In 1832 the celebrated meteorologist Kiimtzt{
determined a new form of clouds under the name of strato-cumulus, or
night-clouds; that is to say, the reverse of Howard’s cumulo-stratus.
But before his death, M. Kimtz himself acknowledged to me that he
no longer attached any importance to his strato-cumulus, and that I could
erase it from the nomenclature of couds. In 1857~58 W.S. Jesons§
published two notes upon the form of cirrus and other clouds. He
endeavored to account for their formation by laboratory experiments,
which he had made with vapor of water. In 1863 the lamented Ad-
miral Fitz Roy,|| having in charge the meteorological department of
the Board of Trade, (London,) proposed the adoption of an augmenta-
tive termination in onus, and a diminutive in itus, to the nomenclature
of Howard, in the following manner: From cirrus he forms cirronus
and cirritus ; from cirro-stratus, cirrono-stratus and cirrito-stratus, and
so on. Not only does this modification refer to the less or greater
quantity of clouds without changing the primitive form, but it is
subject to great error in practice without being warranted in this
by either the observation or the plates of Fitz Roy. Finally, in 1863,
I proposed to the Academy of Sciences of Paris the determination of
the new types, which I have named pallium (pallio-cirrus and pallio-
cumulus) and fracto-cumulus, the description of which will be found
farther on. When one considers the imperfection of Howard’s old
classification, the difficulties of distinguishing each stratum of clouds,

* Forster.—Untersuchungen iiber die Wolken und andere Erscheinungen in der
Atmosphiire, Aus. d. Franz, 2. Auflage, Leipzig, 1819; Researches about Atmospheric
Phenomena, London, 1815, 2d edition, pp. 1-113; id. dite 1823, 3d edition, pp. 1-113.

+t Miiier.—Gilbert’s Annalen der Physik, 1817, vol. lv, p..102; Bibliotheque univer-
selle de Généve, 1817, vol. v, pp. 6-12.

¢ Kamrz.—Lehrbuch der Meteorslogie, Leipzig, 1831, vol. i, p. 377; Vorlesungen tiber
Meteorologie, Halle, 1840; id., translated by Ch. Martins, Paris, 1848, p. 115, pl. iii.

§ JEsons.—Philosophical Naeem) 1857, vol. xiv, pp. 22-35; 1858, vol. xv, pp. 241-255.

|| Frrz-Roy.—The Weather Book, London, 1863, p. 391, pl. ix, x.

{ Poiiy.—Sur deux nouveaux types de nuages observés 4 la Havane, denommés pal-
lium (pallio-cirrus et pallio-cumulus) et fracto-cumulus—Comptes-rendus de VAcadémie
des Sciences de Paris, 1863, vol. lvi., p. 361; Annuaire de la Société Metéorologique de
France, 1863, vol. xi, p. 53.

CLOUDS. ASD

with their corresponding elements, and especially the considerable
length of time that an observatory must spend in making a good obser-
vation, according to our present faulty method, we are less surprised
at the little progress that a study so interesting has hitherto made. I
must add an important fact, which has passed completely unnoticed: that
the classification of Howard also is faulty in the definition of stratus
and nimbus. Kiimtz’s treatise on meteorology gives the following defi-
nition of stratus, which has been since blindly adopted by ail meiteor-
ologists: “It is a horizontal band, formed at sunset and disappearing
at sunrise.” On the contrary, Howard’s definition has always been that
the stratus “is the lowest of clouds, since its inferior surface commonly
rests on the earth or water; this is properly the cloud of the night, the
time of its first appearance being about sunset. It comprehends ail
those creeping mists which, in calm evenings, ascend in spreading
sheets (like an inundation) from the bottom of valleys and the surface
oi lakes, rivers, and other pieces of water to cover the surrounding
country.” In continuation, Kamtz, describing the cirrono-stratus, re-
marks that “ these clouds form horizontal strata, which, at the zenith,
seem composed of a great number of thin clouds, while at the horizon,
where we perceive the vertical projection, we see a long and very narrow
band.” Thus for the stratus we have a horizontal band, and for the
cirro-stratus at the horizon another band, long and very narrow. Accord-
ing to this savant, between these two bands there is no distinctive mark
save the hour at which they appear. But as the bands cirro-stratus are
frequent exactly at the rising or setting of the sun, it is very difficult to
distinguish these two orders of clouds. It must be added that the cirrus
and the cirro-cumulus show a tendency to dispose themselves in bands
parallel with each other, which at the horizon may be equally confounded
with those of stratus and cirro-stratus. As to the origin of the stratus
can we, without confusion, give the name of cloud to a phenomenon
already designated as mist? The sole connection which exists between
a cloud and a mist is in the first precipitation of vapor of water in the
atmosphere, and its greater or less condensation. It is when the mist
is elevated to the region of inferior clouds that it is condensed under the
form of a cumulus, and the visible vapor of water takes its first forms.
Hitherto the mist was but a shapeless mass of vapor molded, so to
speak, by the accidents of the earth and sheets of water, and following
the permanent or transient outlines of these surfaces. It seems that
Howard’s first error was calling a mist a cloud, and the grave responsi-
bility rests upon his successors of giving the mist of this writer asa
true cloud under the form of a horizontal band. This error has been
extended to the different plates published in 1815 by Forster, in which,
nevertheless, the stratus is not given as a band, but rather as a mist
raised at the horizon. But this representation is equally faulty, as it
gives no idea of a mist covering the surface of the earth. As early as
1820, in Brande’s* work, the stratus appeared as forming a horizontal

* BRANDES.— Untersuchungen zur Witterungskunde, Leipzig, 1820, p. 385.
436 METEOROLOGY.

band, which was reproduced by Kimtz in 1840, and by Schiibler* in
his four splendid engraved plates in 1849. In fine, the plates which
were published by the Smithsonian Institutiont at Washington, and
in 1559 by the chart department of the French minister of marine,t
to serve as instructions for seamen and observers, were reproductions
of those of Kamtz. The French edition alone contained two plates,
of which the first embraced the simple forms of clouds, cirrus, stratus,
cumulus, and nimbus, and the second the compound forms, cirro-cumu-
lus, cirro-stratus, and cumulo-stratus, with four variable cirri. Howard’s
Plate VI, on the contrary, published in 1803 for the first time, in Tilloch’s
Philosophical Magazine, represents the stratus as a mist spreading above
a lake surrounded by hills. Thus far in relation to the erroneous inter-
pretation given to Howard’s stratus. We-now proceed to note another
error hitherto propagated, relative to the nimbus. In the first place,
Kiimtz’s definition, which all the late meteorologists have adopted, is
as follows: When the cumulus is piled up and becomes more dense it
passes to the state cumulo-stratus, which often takes at the horizon a
black or bluish tint and passes to the state of nimbus, or rain-cloud.
This is distinguished by its uniform gray tint and its broken edges, the
clouds which compose it being so much confounded that it is impossible
to distinguish them. Thus the single primordial and distinctive char-
acter which results from this definition is that of a rain-cloud, and there-
fore we shall call every rain-cloud nimbus, as has been done to the present
time. Its secondary characteristics are: Ist, a tint of uniform gray;
2d, its edges broken; 3d, confusion of all the clouds of which it is com-
posed. All this gives no idea of the most essential element, namely,
the real form of the rain-cloud. Though the definition of Kaimtz, and
other writers, is not that of Howard, this observer has not given one
more intelligible and exact. We see that he unconsciously felt the
formation of rain-cloud, but was not very settled in his description. I
am speaking of the double superposed stratum, the inferior formed of
cumulus, Which it designates, and the second superior stratum of cirrus,
whose existence was vaguely felt by Howard. The remainder of his
definition is cumulus cirro-stratus vel nimbus def. nubes vel nubium con-
gerieo (superné cirrata) pluvian effundens. A cloud or system of clouds
from which rain is falling is called arain-cloud. Itis a horizontal sheet,
above which the cirrus spreads, while the cumulus enters in laterally
and from beneath. In other isolated passages of his long description
of the nimbus, the idea of this double stratum appears yet more plainly.
“‘ Clonds, in any one of the preceding modifications, may increase so as
completely to obscure the sky. Before this effect takes place there ex-
ists, at a greater altitude, a thin, light veil, or at least a hazy turbidness.

—_—

* ScatBLer.—Grundsitze der Meteorologie, Leipzig, 1849.

+t SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, Washington, D. C.

{ VaANEECHOUT.—French translation of the “ Explanations and Sailing Directions of
Lieutenant Maury,” Paris, 1859, 4to.
CLOUDS. 437

When this has considerably increased we sce the lower clouds spread
themselves till they tnite in all points and form one uniform sheet. It
will rain during this state of the two strata of clouds, one passing be-
neath the other and each continually tending to horizontal, uniform dif-
fusion, (the superior stratum is often seen in this case to partake of cirrus,)
although they should be separated by an interval of many hundred feet
in elevation. The intermediate space on these occasions is not supposed
to be at any time free from a conducting medium of different watery
particles, enabling the opposite electricities to neutralize each other.”
Hence we see that this description of Howard’s nimbus has no connec-
tion with that given by Kiimtz and the late writers, of a cloud inter-
mediate in form, which, according to the latter, is supposed to have the’
property of producing rain. Itis not the property of any cloud to pro-
duce rain, but it is produced by the reunion by the electric action and
reaction upon the aqueous vapor of two superposed strata of clouds, the
superior being cirrus and the inferior cwmulus. It is this latter cir-
cumstance that Howard has neglected to properly establish. All the
plates which have been published, not excepting that of Howard, give
no idea of this double stratum which constitutes the rain-cloud, that
is, the nimbus of Howard, or properly my pallium, (pallio-cirrus and
pallio-cumulus.) I now proceed to point out the error equally inherent
in the three orders of clouds denominated cumulus, ewnulo-stratus,
and strato-cumulus, and to show that they can all be reduced to
the second type of cumulus. I remark, in the first place, a great
confusion, or it may be a great similitude, between the cumulus
and the cumulo-stratus ; afterward I observe in the sky other cumuli,
whose characters partake of more than these two types; for example,
M. Kamtz’s definitions, which are generally accepted. M. Kiimtz says:
“The cumulus is often seen in the form of a hemisphere, reposing upon a
horizontal base. Sometimes these hemispheres are piled one upon the
other, forming those great clouds accumulated at the horizon, which
resemble at a distance mountains of snow.”

Now for the cwmulo-stratus: ‘When the cumulus is piled up and
becomes more dense, it passes to the state of cwmulo-stratus, which often
takes at the horizon a black or bluish tint and passes to the state of
mimbus or rain-cloud.” Thus, it is sufficient that the cumulus be piled
up and become more dense in order to be changed into cumulo-stratus,
strikingly implying great development in the horizontal base, which is
not mentioned, though it is one of the most essential characters of this
type of clouds. While, on the other hand, this horizontal base is
expressly pointed out in Kimtz’s definition of cumulus. In a word,
these fundamental points are found equally in the formation of cumulus
and cumutlo-stratus : 1st, a horizontal base; 2d, a superior hemispherical
dome; 3d, a formation by increase from below upward. The points of
difference as to the cumulo-stratus rest upon the irregularity of the
base of the convex summits, and the aggregation from below upward ;
438 METEOROLOGY.

upon the greater density, dark coloring, and semblance of their isolated
masses to a mountain chain. These differences are so accidental and
insignificant that Howard and Forster could not distinguish them
in their definitions, and they are forced to aver that these character

were found here and there at such points that they were easily con-
founded. We see there is no reason to maintain a radical separation
and a double denomination for two forms of clouds which are of the same
kind and whose slight modifications are not even continued. It is
therefore more exact to preserve the single denomination of cumulus for
this second type, which embraces at once the two characteristic forms
of cloud—on the one side the accumulation of hemispheres, and on the
other the horizontal base, which are always inseparable.

Let us now pass to Kiimtz’s description of strato-cumulus: “Tt is
composed of dense cloudy masses, round or extended, badly defined at
the edges, which appear in the afternoon, increasing toward evening,
until during the night the whole sky is completely covered, disappearing
the next morning some hours before sunrise and finally replaced by the
true cumulus. These strato-cumuli are composed of very dense versicular
vapor, like the cumuli and cumulo-strati. They differ by their dependence
on different hours of the day; they have also some analogy with the
sirati by reason of their extension, but are distinguished by greater
altitude; yet they approach the cumuli. In winter the strato-cumulus
often covers the sky during entire weeks; but as the sun approaches
the zenith, his rays dissolve these clouds, the vapors rise, and the
cumult are formed.” We find again in Kiimtz’s definition of strato-
cumulus the same confusion as in Howard’s description of cumulo-stratus,
which I pointed out above. The terms “cloudy masses rownded, ex-
tended, or yet badly defined at the edges,” embrace three expressions
which are mutually exclusive, so that it is impossibie to know the true
form of the cloud, for if the cloudy masses are rounded they are not
extended in Kiimtz’s sense, and still less are their edges badly defined.
As to the physical constitution of the strato-cumulus, it is the same,
according to Kiaimtz, as that of cumulus and cumulo-stratus, that is to
say, composed of very dense versicular vapor.

in fine, ‘‘ the strato-cumulus approaches the stratus by its exterior, but
is separated from it by greater altitude.” Ihave already said that we
can compare the stratus-mist with no other form of cloud. Hence no-
thing remains but the hour of the appearance and disappearance of the
strato-cumulus, (which seems to be the fundamental distinction Kiimtz
wished to establish,) to separate them from the cumulus and cumulo-
stratus, added to their continuance in winter for whole weeks at a time.
In a word, the strato-cumuli, with Kimtz, are the clouds of the night
and of winter, predominating during the absence of the solar rays, and
dissolved on the appearance of the sun. On this latter circumstance,
we remark that the distinction of clouds of the night made by Kimtz
and Howard appears to have no foundation; I have never been able
CLOUDS. 439

to perceive them. So true is this, that these two savants are nowise
agreed upon this point, which has given rise to the new variety of Kimtz.
With Kimtz, the cloud of night is the strato-cumulus, while with How-
ard it is the stratus. On the other hand, since the stratus is not a true
cloud according to Howard himself, but simply a mist or hoar-frost, the
distinction between the cloud of night and the cloud of day must be-
come wholly superfluous. I will close this proof of the non-existence of
strato-cumulus by reminding the reader that Kiimtz himself told me
before his death, without discussion, that he no longer attached any im-
portance to his cloud of night, and authorized me to erase it from the
nomenclature of Howard. In the exposition of my new classification of
clouds, published in 1855, in the Annual of the Meteorological Society of
France, while pointing out the identity of the cumulus and cumulo-stratus,
I retained both these determinations, because the term cumulus did not
designate its peculiar cloud-type as well as ewmulo-stratus. But, as cwmu-
lo-stratus is derived from two species of clouds, it is preferable to keep
the generic name of cumulus for the two identical clouds described by
Howard, attributing to them the character given above.

DEFINITION OF CLOUDS.

Every country, according to its geographical position, topography, &c.,
has its own type of clouds. Here the cirrus predominates; there the
cumulus. All these different appearances of clouds are everywhere in-
timately connected with some particular condition of climate, which
powerfully influences health, agriculture, navigation, and a thousand
other objects of importance to humanity. They show us at every in-
stant the direction, the velocity, and the altitude of the superior cur-
rents which afterward determine the winds at the surface of the earth.
We may regard the clouds as a weathercock in the sky, constantly indi-
cating changes so long as a single one, however small, exists, and there-
fore a profound study of them, in their diverse, scientific, and social ap-
plications, becomes of high importance. For this we should consider
their nature, form, quantity, direction, velocity, and azimuthal rotation.

Despite the scientific interest and the practical value which is attached
to this subject, the study of clouds is unhappily initsinfaney. Itisrarely
we find clouds included in the meteorological registers, and when they
are so the characteristics above mentioned are omitted. Some observers
simply write “clouds;” others denote the form, or, it may be, the quantity,
the direction, or perhaps all these three elements, but neglect the velocity,
and especially the azimuthal rotation to which I was the first to call
attention and which is not yet understood.

We now preceed to present the basis of a new classification more in
harmony with the actual facts of the science, and which is the fruit of
twenty years’ assiduous study of clouds in the Antilles, Mexico, the
United States, and Europe. From the beginning of my meteorological
investigations in the tropics, where the entire phenomena of the atmo-
440 METEOROLOGY.

sphere assume a character of simplicity unknown in higher latitudes, I
have more and more felt the necessity of a reform of Howard’s nom-
enclature. I was unable to understand his stratus, nimbus, cumulo-
stratus, and strato-cumulus. It was not until I had an opportunity to
consult Howard’s original work that I perceived the errors into which
Kimtz and other meteorologists had fallen. I had then to introduce
into Howard’s classification the modifications which the continued prog-
ress of meteorology requires, in order that the nomenclature may
be more in harmony with our advances in this line. I acknowledge
with pleasure that Howard’s classification, which has existed without a
rival for more than half a century, was originally based upon profound
_ Study, directed by great acuteness of observation; unhappily, however,
it is too plainly stamped by the locality where his studies were prose-
cuted. I refer to the gray and cloudy sky of Great Britain, whence
result his strato-mist, his imperfect distinction of the two great strata
cirrus and cumulus, or his nimbus, (the rain-cloud,) the difference which
he has established between cumulus and cumulo-stratus, besides many
other faulty details of description in relation to cirrus, cirro-stratus, and
cirro-cumulus.

I shall now proceed to give the derivation of my three new clouds.
When certain clouds spread out uniformly over the whole face of the
heavens and assume a gray or ash color, under which state rain may
occur for hours or whole days, what name do we give them? They are
not Howard’s nimbus, as we conceive them, and as they are generally
described; they are neither stormy nor electrical; they yield only a fine
and continuous rain. Under this stratum we see constantly other clouds
of more or less extent, but always isolated, becoming lost in it and
increasing its thickness. But just before this stratum begins to break
up, and during this operation, we see these same formless fragments
detach themselves and fly to other regions. This inferior stratum is not
alone; for when its disruption is completed we see through it another
stratum of clouds, whiter and less dense, which breaks up in its turn,
and ends by disappearing in an opposite direction to that of the inferior
stratum. Have we a name for this variety of cloud so common in time
of rain from the inter-tropical regions to high latitudes, especially in
winter during the fall of snow? Does Howard’s term nimbus and his
description of it answer for its designation? Certainly not. We apply
the name nimbus to the single storm-cloud, as well as to this inferior
Stratum, or to the united strata, and this without electrical manifesta-
tions. To this cloud I give the name pallium. When the superior
stratum is formed of cirrus it constitutes the pallio-cirrus, and when the
inferior stratum is formed of cumulus it constitutes the pallio-cumulus.
The fragments of clouds, which differ entirely from the cumulus or cumulo-
stratus, are the fracto-cumulus.

' From what has been said, the necessity of distinguishing these two
Strata by different names is evident; but this necessity results, more-

CLOUDS. AAL

over, from the fact that the stratum of cirrus is formed many hours, and
even days, before that of cumulus, especially in the equatorial regions,
and disappears after it. Without this distinction, we are obliged to call
the first stratum of the pallium cirrus, and the second cumulus; but as,
under this state of strata, the form and physical properties of cirrus and
cumulus change completely, confusion and errors continually result.

Regarding Howard’s classification as a whole, while retaining the two
types of cirrus and cumulus, together with his two derivative clouds,
cirro-stratus and cirro-cumulus, I reject entirely his stratus, nimbus, and
cumulo-stratus, as well as the strato-cumulus of Kaimtz, for the following
reasons: The stratus,* because it is not (according to Howard) a cloud
properly so called, but a mist, or hoar-frost, or the effect of optical illu-
sion, a cirrus, cirro-stratus, or cirro-cumulus, Seen in perspective near the
horizon; the nimbus, for the reason that the name is an inexact denom-
ination applied to an idea as vague as it is incorrect from the moment
that cwmulus is not truly rainy, as far as it is found displayed, forming
a stratum as dense in appearance and below a second superior stratum
of cirrus, equally rainy; the cumulo-stratus, because it differs in nothing
from cumulus, according to Howard’s own definition, these two forms
possessing in common the three fundamental characteristics of his cloud-
types and their derivatives, namely, horizontal bases, superior hemi-
spherical basins, and the ascending aggregation of their aqueous parti-
cles; and, lastly, strato-cumulus, (Kimtz’s cloud of night,) because this
modification answers no better to clouds of night than Howard’s stratus,
and because its other characteristics correspond to cumulo-stratus.

On the other hand, as I have said before, I substitute for nimbus the
pallium, which I subdivide into pallio-cirrus.and pallio-cumulus, accord-
ing as its stratum is composed of cirrus or cumulus. This term has the
triple advantage of embracing the character, the form, and the effect, as
the cirrus or cumulus forms the rainy stratum. I introduce, in fine, the
definition of a second intermediate form, which can be rigorously distin-
guished from the preceding by the double relation of cause and effect.
This is the fracto-cumulus, fragments of cloud floating about without
determined form. Before their transformation into cumulus, they are
precipitated or detached from the inferior surface of pallio-cumulus, and
are spread out in horizontal bands at the top of the cwmulus on the ap-
proach of gusts of wind. These fracto-cumuli differ from the cumulus
in that they have neither the horizontal base nor the superior hemi-
spherical form, while they are not much extended; but when they are
a little more increased we see at once forming at the center of the frag-

ment a space more dense and blackish than the rest, which gradually
settles until it constitutes the horizontal base of the cumalus, (vel cu-

*In Howard’s Plate VI, published in Tilloch’s Philosophical Magazine, in 1803, he rep-
resents this cloud as a mist spreading above a lake surrounded by hills. AJ] succeeding
meteorologists have misunderstood this plate, and given the séraius as a band spread
out at the horizon.
442 METEOROLOGY.

muto-stratus,) the upper part becoming rounded by degrees. Thus the
Jracto-cumulus is the infancy of the cumulus, otherwise called eumulo-
stratus, the terms being synonymous.

This new classification is wholly based upon the nature, the form, the
quantity, the direction, the velocity, and azimuthal rotation of the clouds
of each stratum, fully characterized by the origin, intimate constitution,
and meteoric products of the vesicular vapors and congealed particles
which constitute them; for, in the intimate nature of clouds, there is
one fundamental condition to be established, depending upon the phy-
sical force which first acts upon their constitution: it is the element of
heat. Clouds are therefore distinguished into snow-clouds and ice-clouds,
of which the constituent particles are more or less congealed; then into
clouds of aqueous vapor, of which the vesicles, empty or full, float in a
medium above the freezing-point.

Under this fundamental aspect, there are but two types of clouds,
properly so called, the cirrus and the cumulus. To the cirrus are attached
three transitional forms, the cirro-stratus, cirro-cumulus, and pallio-cirrus ;
and to the cwnulus, two other transitional forms, the pallio-cumulus and
the fracto-cumulus.

The following is a table of my new classification of clouds compared
with that of Howard:

NOMENCLATURE OF HOWARD.

BURSE AYP Cc wie sact a= Cirrus.
Gate ; Cirro-stratus.
Cirro-cumulus.
Second type-------- Cumulus.
Derivatives .-.--- Cunulo-stratus.
Third type is---<-e- Stratus.

Derived from the three types-. Nimbus.

YEW NOMENCLATURE OF POEKY.

First type..-------- CUPUSa eS cassen )
( Cirro-stratus ....--
Den ea veseeee Cha ocenee eee (ice clouds; snow clouds.
Pallio-cirrus ---- -).-
Second type......-. Guimiuiliisnee eee
ee ie ; Pallio-cumulus -- -- {cron of aqueous vapor.
Fracto-cumulus.. -.

The nomenclature I have adopted appears more in accordance with
the nature of clouds, for this reason, that the two types, cirrus and cumu-
lus, are strictly based upon the constitution of ice and snow clouds and
of clouds of aqueous vapor; while there is no proof of the existence of
Howard’s third type, since, according to this savant, it is a mist which
overspreads the earth at sunset, but is raised in the morning at the first
appearance of the sun. My nomenclature offers the same number of
cloud forms; that is to say, seven, two types and five derivatives.

The order in which the clouds are placed in my table corresponds at
the same time to the order of their.appearance, from the highest regions

No. II.

ILLUSTRATION OF CLOUDS.

No. I.

KT]

ib

il.

al

Cirrus (Howarp) CURL-CLOUDs.—More than six and one-fourth miles in altitude. Figs. 1 and 2, cat’s tails; figs. 3 and 4, twisted tufts; fig. 5, plumage ; fig. 6, horse's t
At os

ret & - - :
4, ns 7 7 ‘ih
'
\

Noy el.

ILLUSTRATION OF CLOUDS.

No. III.

i
|

|
|

ted and palmated bands.

ina

tud

i

or
5S

Fig. 7, fine pencils ; fig. 8, lon

Cirrus (HOWARD) CURL-CLOUDS.—More than six and one-fourth miles in altitude.

CLOUDS. 443

of the cirrus down to those nearest the earth where the fracto-cumulus
is produced, as the vapor of water passes from the state of frozen par-
ticles to that of aqueous globules, or vice versa. However, the pallio-
cumulus, which serves as a transition from the two types and their deri-
vatives, is found a little more elevated than the cumulus.

I have thought it proper to modify Forster’s nomenclature by substi-
tuting names more in harmony with the form and nature of clouds. I
give, in continuation, the old and the new classification :

Forster’s nomenclature. Poéy’s nomenclature.
@innus) See eS ee Curl-cloud .....--. --- Curl-cloud.
Chirro-stratus eee see & Se sessile Wane-cloud...------.- Thread-cloud.
Cirre-cumulussoseeers casos Sonder-cloud...---.---- Curdled-cloud.
pallio-eimGu Sie cis see eee ces le) eis aee ofat= Mees erste a tiaicte Sheet-cloud.
Cumulus! ss les cen. Stacken-cloud ....-..- - Mount-cloud.
IP iho-CuUmlUlUsce oats. See elses sits ac ose ete aa eames Rain-cloud.
TrachoO-cumM ass Lee Seyse) Va tiatlcs dal peee See ueeee Wind-cloud.

With the exception of cirrus, whose name curl-cloud approaches near-
est the form of that cloud, all the determinations have been changed.
The pallio-cumulus replaces the nimbus, also named rain-cloud. *

I.—Crrrvus, (HOWARD.)

Ourl-cloud—cirrus, so named by Howard, (the “cat’s-tail” of sailors,
illustration No. I, figs. 1, 2,) is composed of filaments which resemble a
twisted tuft of curled hair, (illustration No. I, figs. 3, 4,) plumage, (fig.
5,) the flowing tail of a horse, (illustration No. II, fig. 6,) or a fine pencil,
(illustration No. IL, fig. 7;) at other times are disposed in long, straight
bands, parallel to each other, or divergent, palmated, or like a herring-
bone or vertebral column, (illustration No. IV, fig. 8,) their greater axis
oriented according to the sailing of the cloud and the direction of the wind
at that altitude, which soon makes itself felt at the surface of the earth.
When it forms two or more systems of straight, parallel bands, by an
effect of perspective they appear to diverge from their point of depart-
ure at the horizon, and to converge toward the point of the horizon op-
posite, as do the rays of the rising and setting sun.

The cirrus is always white—sometimes brilliant, sometimes pearly-
dull. The earliest and latest reflections of the solar rays upon these
clouds color them with a delicate rosy tint, more or less intense, accord-
ing to their density. Their movement is exceedingly slow, and their
altitude is not less than 10,000 yards, (more than six and a quarter
miles.) These clouds are the highest, apparently, slowest, most rarified,
most variable in their forms, and the most extended. The appearance
or disappearance of cirrus proclaims the end or the commencement of
good weather. The barometer sinks and then rises, all the accompany-
ing meteorological phenomena undergoing a similar change. We quote
from Howard:

They are first indicated by a few threads penciled, as it were, on the sky. These in-
crease in length, and new ones are in the mean time added to them. Often the first-
formed threads serve as stems to support numerous branches, which in their.turn give |
444 METEOROLOGY.

rise to others. The increase is sometimes perfectly indeterminate; at others, it has a
very decided direction. Thus the first few threads being once formed, the remainder
will be propagated in one or more directions laterally, or obliquely upward or down-
ward, the direction being often the same in a great number of clouds visible at the
same time; for the oblique, descending tufts appear to converge toward a point in the
horizon, and the long, straight streaks.to meet in opposite points therein; which is
the optical effect of parallel extension. The upward direction of the fibers or tufts of
this cloud is found to be a decided indication of rain; the downward as decidedly indi-
cates fair weather. Their duration is uncertain, varying from a few minutes after the
first appearance to an extent of many hours, and even days. It is long when they
appear alone and at great heights, and shorter when they are formed lower and in the
vicinity of other clouds. This modification, although in appearance almost motionless,
is intimately connected with the variable motions of the atmosphere. Considering
that clouds of this kind have long been deemed a prognostic of wind, it is extraordi-
nary that the nature of this connection should not have been more studied, as the
knowledge of it might have been productive of useful results. In fair weather, with
light, variable breezes, the sky is seldom quite clear of small groups of the oblique
cirrus, Which frequently come on froin the leeward, and the direction of their increase
is to windward. Continued wet weather is attended with horizontal sheets of this
eloud, which subside quickly and pass into the cirro-stratus. Before storms they ap-
pear lower, and denser, and usually in-the quarter opposite to that from which the
storm arises. Steady, high winds are also preceded and attended by streaks running
across the sky in the direction they blow in.

IJ.—CIRRO-STRATUS, (HOWARD.)

Thread-cloud, (illustrations Nos. V and VI.)\—Howard’s cirro-stratus is
distinguished from the pure cirrus by its filaments being smaller, more
compact, more ramified, and, so to say, completely stratified. They are
lower and more dense, for the sun’s rays often pierce them with difficulty.
Their whitish tint is clearer, and it becomes rose-color in similar eircum-
stances. Their motion is a little more rapid. When atthe horizon, we only
seeing the vertical projection, they take the appearance of a long and very
narrow band. According to Howard, “ this cloud appears to result from
the subsidence of the fibers of the cirrus to a horizontal position, at the
same time that they approach each other laterally. The form and rela-
tive position, when seen in the distance, frequently give the idea of
shoals of fish. Yet in this, as in other instances, the structure must be
attended to rather than the form, which varies much, presenting at
times the appearance of parallel bars, or interwoven streaks like the
grain of polished wood. It is thick in the middle, and attenuated
toward the edge. The distinct appearance of a cirrus, however, does
not always precede the production of this and the last modification.
The cirro-stratus precedes wind and rain, the near or distant approach
of which may sometimes be estimated from its greater or less abund-
ance and permanence. It is almost always to be seen in the inter-
vals of storms. Sometimes this and the cirro-cumulus appear together
in the sky, and even alternate with each other in the same cloud, when
the different evolutions which ensue are a curious spectacle ; and ajudg-
ment may be formed of the weather likely to ensue by observing which
modification finally prevails. ~The cirro-stratus is the modification which
‘morvartoy yuooseu ‘6 ‘f ‘a ‘p ‘9 ‘q ‘vw Suotyeut.oy qooji0d ‘f fuotruitoy Teaed ‘a “p ‘9 ‘q ‘y—'SaN0T9-AOI (AV MOF) SAIVULS-OUNTO

eee

"

Mil

st g il
jig until ie mu Hh
| MI nr y! la
aT WN i ii Hi

i? a siggy ttyl
Mia en i
4 iii al "ll a i
vl, My “ui hi u

il i | itn mu
‘si

i Mh

Ih I nl ul |
ig “el ini
Hatt f ui

——

bh ly i, in |

Hye ye ea
Ms ig
i

“A ON

7 ‘SaNOTO HO NOILVULSNTII

TA ‘ON
No. VIII.

ILLUSTRATION OF CLOUDS.

WO; WAG

i

ville Hutt

H bl Fe 4 an
il tM

a il
| hi i

| ;

alt it

es

ge

esi

AUN mT TNINTIIT WN) Ti Ti
|
i 1 l
i WI Hi
|
|
} i
|
'
Hl
i

I lal I

ili

ait '

ve Ai
1 typ it
ill a u ‘Ath il

i i a Pu) it

al silty “ |
hi lei
nha li,

re | ;

Kt Sy
sp j
Y haat ot!

“ta

Vay Li

ie
( iy

+

=

hte il

ii

Macl fl f

i

i

Hf

i ul Se

_

Mg tl

I Sr

i

nftul Why ih!
i din, om

Ht il
|

i ‘
a) .
HT hy
i
Il
ul
i} i
Il

| ileal,
Wh | nie
ii sii i al!
bene il !
"i lh

a,

nf
all

al wil

il wt
fh ae s
sit Me
if hig ll cle

o>) aint %
a

os

CIkkO-CUMULUS (HOWARD) CURDLED SKY.—Fiz. 1, perfect type; fig. 2, bizarre form ; fig. 3, irregular form.
CLOUDS. 445

most frequently exhibits the phenomena of the solar and lunar halo, and
(as inferred from a few observations) also the parhelion and paraselene.
Hence the reason of the prognostic of foul weather, commonly drawn
from the appearance of halo. The frequent appearance of halo in this
cloud may be attributed to its possessing great extent at such times
with little perpendicular depth, and the requisite continuity of substance.
This modification is, on this account, peculiarly worthy of investiga-
tion.”
III.—CIRR0O-CUMULUS, (HOWARD.)

Curdled cloud, (illustrations Nos. VIT and VIIL.)—Itis sufficient that the
cirro-stratus sinks a little, or that the temperature of the region it occu-
pies be slightly elevated, in order to give birth to Howard’s cirro-cumu-
lus. In the first place, the axes of the strie grow round; then, by de-
grees, the entire stratification becomes so, until it resembles carded cot-
ton, which we call frizzled clouds or curdled sky; in French, when it is
completely covered, moutonnés or pommelé ; in Spanish, cielo empedrado.
On the contrary, if the cirro-cumulus is elevated a little, or the tempera-
ture is lowered, it returns to the type of cirro-stratus.

The cirro-cumulus is more dense and lower than the cirro-stratus, from
which it is derived, though generally the edges of the small accumula-
tions or of the entire mass of cloud are transformed into cirro-stratus,
wherever, from a greater elevation or a lower temperature, the congela-
tion is more vigorous. Its motion is also more rapid, its color slightly
grayish, and it may be tinged rose-color or rather reddish.

The cirro-stratus, and especially the cirro-cumulus, is remarkable from
a characteristic of the highest importance, which has escaped the sagacity
of Howard and his successors, viz, the distribution of congealed aqueous
vapor. Itexistsin the most fantastical combinations, reproducing all the
formations of our continents and seas. Here, a deep bay with promon-
tories, capes, peninsulas, isthmuses, &c.; there, a river, brooks, lakes,
&e.; farther on vast continents and open seas. The outlines and the
entire mass of each of these are besprinkled with cirro-cumulus, some-
times edged with cirro-stratus, whose volumes of little balls diminish and
vanish from center to circumference, while in the empty spaces is
the ‘purest azure of the heavens. (Plate.) Should it be a lake, the
water will be represented by the blue sky, and terra firma by the cirro-
cumulus which surrounds it. By carefully studying all these transfor-
mations, we can observe in them a striking analogy to the phenomena
of the precipitation and congelation of dew. There must be at this
altitude, in the same stratum, one above the other, portions of the atmo-
sphere having different degrees of density and of temperature, in order
that the congelation of aqueous vapor should take place in so variable
a manner.

The influence of cirro-cumulus upon the temperature at the surface of
the earth is so marked that the human body feels it at once. <A curdled
sky.at the new moon, on a calm night in the tropics, is a sky compara-
446 METEOROLOGY.

tively glacial, an effect probably due to the nearness and the quantity
of snow which compose this type of cloud.

The cirrus being much more elevated and the cirro-stratus much less
abundant, although both formed of glacial aigiets, have not the same
influence on terrestrial temperature. According to Howard, the cirro-
cumulus is formed from a cirrus, or a number of small separate cirrus
by the fibers collapsing, as it were, and passing into small, roundish
masses, in which the texture of the cirrus is no longer discernible,
although they still retain somewhat of their relative arrangement. This
change takes place either throughout the whole mass at once, or pro-
gressively from one extremity to the other. In either case the same
effect is produced on a number of adjacent cirri at the same time and
in the same order. It appears in some instances to be accelerated by
the approach of other clouds. . This modification forms a very beautiful
sky, sometimes exhibiting numerous distinct beds of these small con-
nected clouds, floating at different altitudes. The cirro-cumulus is
frequently seen in summer, and is attendant on warm and dry weather.
Jt is also occasionally and more sparingly seen in the intervals of showers
and in winter. It may either evaporate or pass to the cirrus or cirro-
stratus.

IV.—PALLIUM, (PoY,) (vel nimbus, HOWARD.)

Under the generic name of pallium I have classed two forms of cloud,
which present the appearance of a mantle or veil of considerable extent,
of very compact texture, well defined at the edges, of excessively slow
motion, and embracing the visible vault of the sky. As the pallium is
formed of cirrus or of cumulus, it is distinguished into pallio-cirrus and
pallio-cumulus. The appearance of this cloud signalizes bad weather,
and its disappearance, good weather.

The stratum of pallio-cirrus is first produced, and some hours or days
afterward that of pallio-cumulus is formed under it. These two strata
remain in view at a certain distance from each other, and in their recip-
rocal action and reaction are accompanied with storms and heavy rains,
and with considerable electric discharges. ‘They are both electrified,
but with contrary signs; the superior stratum of cirrus is negative, and
the inferior one of cumulus is positive, the same as the rain which is
disengaged, while the electricity of the air, at the surface of the earth,
is negative. But when these two strata attract each other a discharge
is produced, and the inferior stratum continues to pour out the surplus
water it contained, without giving any sign of electricity, more than the
air in contact with the earth. This state continues until the inferior
stratum opens, afterward the superior, and then disappear, one after
the other, fine weather succeeding. The pallium chiefly predominates
during the rainy season, in tropical regions, and in the higher latitudes
during winter, at the time of falls of snow. A part of the pallio-cumulus,
which has not been reduced, or has not been scattered to other regions,
gathers at the horizon, and is transformed into the cumulus. As to the

ILLUSTRATION OF CLOUDS.

INOW IEXG

LL ara! Mee atts dhe
! lal { an ll fe f il! ‘ wif ihe dvi
ul Fs 9 : ” BN, ° “hi ply, : iP |
; i | i i ‘II y tl j i :
Poe aa hab Hy lt i oe i Wis
i i ae at il et ao lie : ‘ "y |
Mt, tl ily il" Til HA
Heyyy, alll val ih, Ht ; Hl i
| » i | ia "a oe a
3 JIN i Ny ful Ml ni Hip
fa mL / Wi My i, Hl | | i \ f it ll vA
| MN th | i oii it wl fling \ il, Nd
Mh gh lal TN
| wi ont ys cil wl Ally, it
a. a oe uk vf ee
abi th wl, ey ih (
a Mm a Ny, Wl) )
Pl) aah,
| H Ii yl \ ‘a
iy wil ir ni Me il), i
hy |) . it Ih
wet jm wih vi | {hy Il
\ da HK \ Mh | a
4 ean i \udtnyd
i | | i) eh, \ u Mh i WAVY | ! i I)
| i i i )
a a al atl Mnnllltgayllte Nt eet
a one
\ Hl I il Wj , A ‘hy Min. : 4
i i. ee yt Oe TE
Ml aiff [TAMA Mh HN SAAT ATU
Nh. cl ‘ fil me a dk oN i

CUMULUS (VEL CUMULO-STRATUS) (HOWARD) MOUNT-CLOUD.—a, perfect type.

PALLIO-CIRRUS (PORY) SHEET OR SNOW CLOUD.—a, b, gradual formation ; ¢, perfect type; d, veiled sun.
CLOUDS. 447

pallio-cirrus, it disappears entirely if fine weather is maintained. Let us
now see what are the inherent characters of the two pallio.

V.—PALLIO-CIRRUS, (POEY.)

Sheet-cloud, (illustration No. [X.)—The pallio-cirrus is formed by the aceu-
mulation of a cirro-cumulus, which is visibly sinking, or appears already
formed toward a point of the horizon in the stratum, corresponding to this
latter type. In the first case it is a little lower, more dense, less compact,
morerapid inits movement, grayish, and often shows some traces of polari-
zation. In the second case itis a little higher, less dense, more compact,
less rapid, pearly whitish, impenetrable to the solar rays, and without a
trace of polarization. In the two cases it appears generally in the south-
westerly horizon, showing the presence of the superior equatorial cur-
rent, and determining the fall of rain while it remains above and oppo- -
site the pallio-cumulus. When a breach is made in thisinferior stratum
it is speedily produced in that of the pallio-cirrus ; sometimes it has
already been formed in the latter. After the rupture of this stratum,
the pallio-cirrus is transformed into cirro-cumulus, studded with cirro-
stratus. On the approach of pallio-cirrus we observe the following me-
teorological manifestations: the barometer falls, the thermometer rises,
the relative humidity increases, the tension of vapor diminishes, and
a little after the wind at the earth is felt from that direction.

VI.—CUMULUS, (vel CUMULO-STRATUS,) (HOWARD.)

Mount-cloud, (illustrations Nos. X and XI.)\—Howard’s cumulus,(or cewmu-
lo-stratus,) summer and aqueous vesicle clouds, (the “ cotton-balls” of sail-
ors,) always appear in the form of ahemisphere or ares ofa circle, and repose
upon a horizontal base. When these hemispheres are piled upon one an-
other, there are formed great clouds accumulated atthe horizon, similar to
mountains in the distance covered with snow. Their contours take many
forms, human, animal, and of every kind, more or less bizarre and fan-
tastic, which inspired the poet Ossian with his finest images, and have
given rise in mountainous countries to many popular traditions.

When the cumulus moves along the horizon, it is, excepting jfracto-
cumulus, the most rapid of all clouds. But when it is piled up along
the horizon, in summer toward the south, in winter toward the north,
it is excessively slow, and remains a whole day scarcely moving. It
then extends perpendicularly or obliquely toward the zenith. Its
roundish summit is of a glittering whiteness, and when elevated high
enough, it is dyed rose color morning and evening like the cirrus. The
center of the cloud is grayish, the base slate color or black. The base
of the cumulus always rests upon the horizon, and is little elevated dur-
jng a storm. It follows the direction of surface winds. Upon the pla-
teau of the valley of Mexico, the cumulus completely disappears during
the winter half of the year, and appears anew during the other six
months. In summer it appears about eight or nine o’clock in the morn-
448 METEOROLOGY.

ing. It attains its highest elevation from two to three o’clock in the af-
ternoon, during the greatest heat, after which it fades away gradually,
and a little after sun-down disappears entirely behind the hills. Thus
cumulus in Mexico is only visible in summer and during theday. How-
ard says:

Clouds in this modification are commonly of the most dense structure; they are
formed in the lower atmosphere and move along with the current which is next the
earth. A small, irregular spot first appears, and is, as it were, the nucleus on which
they increase. The lower surface continues irregularly plane, while the upper rises
into conical or hemispherical heaps, which may afterward continue long nearly of the
same bulk or rapidly grow to the size of mountains.

In the former case they are usually numerous and near together, in the latter few
and distant; but whether there are few or many, their bases le always nearly in one
horizontal plane ; and their increase upward is somewhat proportionate to the extent
of base, and nearly alike in many that appear at once.

Their appearance, increase, and disappearance in fair weather are often periodical
and keep pace with the temperature of the day. Thus they will begin to form some
hours after sunrise, arrive at their maximum in the hottest part of the afternoon, then
go on diminishing, and totally disperse about sunset.

But in changeable weather they partake of the vicissitudes of the atmosphere; some-
times evaporating almost as soon as formed; at others suddenly forming and as quickly
passing to the compound modifications.

The cumulus of fair weather has a moderate elevation and extent, and a well-defined,
rounded surface. Previous to rain it increases more rapidly, appears lower in the
atmosphere, and with its surface full of loose fleeces or protuberances.

The formation of large cumulus to leeward in a strong wind indicates the approach
of a calm with rain. When they do not disappear or subside about sunset, but con-
tinue to rise, thunder is to be expected in the night.

Independently of the beauty and magnificence it adds to the face of nature, the cwmnlus
serves to screen the earth from the direct rays of the sun; by its multiplied reflections
to diffuse, and, as it were, economize the light, and also to convey the product of eva-
poration to a distance from the place of its origin. The relations of the cumulus with
the state of the barometer, &c., have not yet been enough attended to.

VII.—PALLI0-CUMULUS, (POEY.)

Rain-cloud, (illustration No. XIL.)—The pallio-cumulus is produced by the
accumulation of fracto-cumulus, which is gradually extended under the
form of auniform and compact stratum. This stratum is constantly sus-
tained by the entrance of new jfracto-cumuli, which increase its thickness
until rain begins; then the fracto-cumulus ceases to penetrate it, and passes
along the stratum of pallio-cumulus, but before the end of the rain it is dis-
engaged anew from the stratum, which grows thin, is broken up and dis-
appears. The pallio-cumulus is lower, more dense, less compact, more
rapid than the pallio-cirrus, and is slate-colored or grayish. The thicker
and more compact this stratum is, the longer will the rain continue;
but as soon as a breach is made, it disengages fragments of cumulus,
(fracto-cumulus,) which rapidly disappear, while the remainder are piled
up at the horizon in the form of cumulus. The pallio-cumulus appears
almost always from the northeast, showing the inferior polar current,
which soon reaches the surface of the earth. The meteorological mani-
festations determined by them are inverse to those of pallio-cirrus ; the

“dNO10-LNOOW (SALVULS-OTANNO THA) SATAWAD

seu ‘q ‘q

*MOLVULLIOF 99

‘aca

Y—TNOTO"NIVU (ATOM) SQ INWAD-O1NIV

oF QUOOSBU

T}VULL

"addy Qoopaod ‘q ‘10

Tm } A
Hi
iM 4 :
wh ri
w mi

———

f i NM) A
ch lie
i t i ri hi

a

1

an

Wi)
!
i}
i}
WAI
WU
it }
Mn |
H }
i}
4 |
}
Hi |
| Hl wal
i WLU

‘TX ‘ON

‘SaNO10 AO NOILLVULSNTII

TIX “ON

No. XIV.

ILLUSTRATION OF CLOUDS.

No. XIII.

Ltt

li i

il Hl mn

i

CVU
| Ht I II il | | HANA
Il He HATHA Ml
Le ee AMAA Il
wi c | WI | |
Hi Vil} \} | HH}
HAP ei AAA
Aes /
ity! ] | WA
il i Hf
mcf east | HI WIN
li, i lj im |
fy |
MTT
iil
| i i
Wily AN
Nia
. * li | |
il i i \ | | |
hil Ii} i HANH
ra ni Mh i H WH
1 lt may |
\P iil | | | |
HATA
| cee | | WNT Ht
a
HI yell Hl ATE | fh by
en A | i HAA | Wize
Nee |) Hy aA a
i rH aa i | WII ill! all
Hi llr a AAA Mi }
IATA TN i i
Hi [ean RMU H | WN | ih, MMH i \, %
Hl ith Wb HA | | hn HA LINZ

FRACTO-CUMULUS (POBY) WIND-CLOUDS.

FRACTO-CUMULUS (POEY) WIND-CLOUDs.
CLOUDS. 449

barometer rises, the thermometer falls, the relative humidity dimin-
ishes, and the tension of aqueous vapor increases.

VUI.—FRACTO-CUMULUS, (POEY.)

Wind-cloud, (illustrations Nos. XII and XIV.)—The clouds which Ihave
denominated fracto-cumulus are isolated fragments of cumulus, more or less
considerable, without determinate form, jagged at the edges, the lowest and
most rapid of all, and whitish, grayish, or slate-colored, according to their
density. As soon as an invisible storm has broken out in the distance, we
see them moving with great rapidity, almost grazing the highest buildings
and tallest trees; their borders are greatly torn and white, contrasting
strongly with the grayish stratum of superior pallio-cumulus. They are
visible day and night, and often traverse the firmament from northeast
to southwest without interruption for many days, while the sky above
and in the intermediate space is perfectly clear. In winter we see them
alone under a blue sky, sending in their passage to the zenith inter-
rupted showers of rain, accompanied by strong gusts of wind, which
occasion a very slight elevation and oscillation in the barometric column.
In the Antilles these clouds produce the disagreeable winter rains, and
in Europe the March storms. They generally follow the direction of
the wind prevailing at the surface of the earth. When this wind is
contrary to the direction of fracto-cumulus, it soon takes the same course.

A little before a storm or tempest arises, there appear a series of very
small fracto-cumuli, which move rapidly, almost to two-thirds of their
height, along a considerable mass of cumulus, which is stationed very
often, as if immobile, near the southern horizon. Soon these fracto-
cumuli become more abundant, less rapid, and form a horizontal band,
which cuts the cwmuli near their summit. This appearance is a warning
sign for sailors, as it announces a squall. In fact, the fracto-cumuli
become more and more developed; an exchange of opposite electricities
takes place between them, and the storm quickly arises. It is, there-
fore, the same little cloud, of which I have spoken above, that, returning
then from the combat, comes now to offer new battle. The aggregation
of fracto-cumulus forms the patlio-cumulus, and increases and constantly
maintains this stratum.

NATURE OF THE CLOUDS DEDUCED FROM THE FORMA-
TION OF HALOS, CORONAS, AND RAINBOWS.

We can further distinguish the nature of clouds by the optical pheno-
mena to which they give rise, according as their intimate constitution
is more or less connected with a certain degree of aqueous vapor, in the
state of snowy or glacial congelations of the strata corresponding to the
formation of each type. The following are some facts which I have ob-
served at Havana, which it is important to verify in other regions:

Generally speaking, cirrus, more especially pallio-cirrus, gives rise to
a large pola and lunar halo of 229 radius. When it is produced by the

2
450 . METEOROLOGY.

sun, it sometimes presents the seven colors of the spectrum, although
usually there is only a single internal tint of orange, terminating at
times in a little red. On the contrary, the great halo produced by the
moon 1s almost always white, and seidom exhibits the tint of orange
without the réd.

The cirro-cumuli produce the lunar halo of about 2° to 4° radius,
which may be triple or formed of sixteen prismatic rings with an inter-
nal tint of red. This halo is still more brilliant when it takes place,
rarely enough, with cirro-stratus.

The fracto-cumuli are the only clouds which do not produce halos,
but they do produce complete coronas or segments of arcs, according
to the extent of the fragments which traverse the lunar disk. These
coronas are also prismatic, having a blue internal tint.

The pallio-cumulus and the cumulus form neither halos nor coronas,
but solar and lunar rainbows. In fine, aqueous vapor extremely dis-
solved, elastic, uniformly distributed in the higher regions of the atmo-
sphere, without much altering the transparency of the air, gives rise to
the formation of a little halo. Their unique coloration, in brown or rus-
set, light or dark, as well as their size, is intimately connected either
with the density of aqueous or elastic vapors or their altitude; their
dimensions may vary from the borders themselves of the lunar disk up
to 2° radius. We find them in every lunation.

QUANTITY OF CLOUDS.

We measure by the eye the blue vault of the sky, or the quantity of:
visible clouds, which can then be determined according to a conven-
tional scale in decimal fractions from zero (0) to unity, (1.) But itis
preferable to take directly the quantity of clouds, and to repeat this
caleulation for each quadrant, upon each stratum and upon each type,
instead of restricting ourselves to the ensemble of the sky, paying no
attention to their nature, as has been hitherto everywhere done.

Here is the mode of proceeding: We explore the first quadrant,
and if we find three different types of clouds—for example, the cirrus
elevated, cumulus at the horizon, and fracto-cumulus low and isolated—
we judge one after the other, according to their extent in height and
breadth, the space which they occupy relatively to the 90° comprised
from north to east, and from the horizon to the zenith of this quadrant.
We then write for example in the corresponding columns 0.4 cirrus, 0.3
cumulus, and 0.2 fracto-cumulus. If the quadrant examined is completely
covered by a single cloud, we mark unity, (1,) and its corresponding
type. If, on the contrary, there is no cloud, we place 0. We repeat in
turn the same operation in the three other quadrants, from southeast,
from southwest, and from northwest.

At times the quantity of clouds associated with others of a different
nature is so small, consisting merely of fragments, that it would be ex-
tremely difficult to make a just calculation, and then we mark isolated

‘spnop) Mous pue 9dr ‘q—(*‘XAOd) ‘SATAWNI-OLVULS-OWNID

‘spnopd MoUs pue aor ‘v—("AAO) ‘SALVUIS-SATAWAD-ONNID

(FORT UL Bqny ut ATWO pearasq¢)

innul,
Hii!

|
Leta rL|

|

Ait
|

({

4
Serna
il

(|

|

{i
!
|
|

i

|
|

|

Dh

“AX ‘ON

‘SdNOTO HO NOILVALSOTII

TAX ‘ON
Sed ay en,

e a ; 4s i). =

: , 3 “5
: L = , Pie ped

Bact

¢
#
s
'
‘
“
a

a

_

rey
CLOUDS. 451

cloud of the corresponding type. During a continuous rain, when the
sky is completely covered with a pallio-cumulus, we are sure to find above
it a second stratum of pallio-cirrus, which occasions this rain. So after
this examination we write in each quadrant unity for these two types.
But as soon as a breach is made in the stratum of pallio-cumulus, then
care must be taken not to confound the quantity of cloud corresponding
to each of these two strata, which are perceived one after the other.
With a little attention we come perfectly to know each order of cloud
and the space it occupies. 7

DIRECTION OF THE CLOUDS.

We should notein another column the direction of each type of cloud
corresponding to the first sixteen cardinal points of the compass. For
this purpose, we must observe the space whence the cloud sets out, and
that of the opposite horizon, where it is lost. When the cloud tra-
verses the zenithal region, the observation can be easily made. There is
only a single position which can give rise to error by an effect of per-
spective, which takes place morning and evening, when the cumuli are
not removed from the limits of the horizon, where they have a very slow
march and disappear at the opposite side in the same parallel plane.
We think then that a cloud freely sets from east to west, or vice versa,
either by the north or by the south, when it has rather an inclination
from northeast, from northwest, from southeast, from southwest, or any
other. If it is at sunrise or sunset, if the wind is from east to west,
or if the vane remains stationary in one of these directions, we may be
certain that the e@umulus pursues this horizontal course perpendicularly
to the meridian.

Often it is very difficult to grasp the direction of cirrus, because of its
extreme slowness, and the considerable quantity and great extent of its
filaments, which are criented on every side. The attention must be prin-
cipally fixed upon the side of the displacement of the ridge or central
trunk whence this multitude of bands and lateral filaments is detached.
The march of cirrus is then almost always in a longitudinal plane or
parallel to the longer axis. By a law of perspective, the parallel bands
appear to diverge from a point of the horizon, and on the other hand to
converge toward another point diametrically opposite ; but the observa-
tion of the point of convergence on the opposite horizon will give the
mode of orientation.

There is another optical illusion, against which we must especially
guard, in order not to commit a very grave error; for it appears each
time that below a stratum of superior and very slow cirrus, we perceive
a second stratum of inferior and rapid cumulus. In this case the cirrus
seems to march rapidly in the opposite direction to that of the cumulus,
when, in reality, it is following the same path, but more slowly. It is
an illusion analogous to that remarked in a railway carriage when the
objects closer to us file rapidly past in a direction contrary to that of the
452 METEOROLOGY.

locomotive; while objects more removed, beyond the second plane, move
in the same direction. We cannot caution observers too much against
this error, especially when there are three or four strata of superposed
clouds, some having the same direction, and others opposite ones.

Very often, also, the cirri are so slow that it must take many hours
to comprehend their march. This extreme slowness contributes to a
Jateral movement perpendicular to their advance still more pronounced
than that of the cwmulus or other types of clouds; to this must be
added their filamentous form and the great number of their ramifications.
In this case the observer must take a bench-mark upon some elevated
structure in the city or the summit of a mountain or top of a tree, verify-
ing it from hour to hour, and if these precautions are not yet sufficient,
wait until the cirrus has passed the meridian or disappeared at the op-
posite horizon. Generally, at the observatory at Havana, the direction
of cirrus is definitely noted upon the register only in the afternoon,
although it has appeared at five or six o’clock in the morning.

When a cumulus is swelling up from a base below the horizon toward
the zenith it presents the appearance of a motion which must be dis-
tinguished from the true direction of the cloud.

Cirrus, cirro-stratus, and cirro-cumulus come generally from the south-
west, showing presence of the superior equatorial current.

Cumulus, cumulo-stratus, and fracto-cumulus, on the contrary, appear
toward the northeast, determining the inferior polar current. But the
cumuli from June to December generally take a middle direction, from
the east, under the influence of the northeast and southeast trade-winds,
while the fracto-cumulus accompanies the polar current from the north-
east, from December to May, when this last, going against the current
from southeast of the southern hemisphere, draws near the équator and
causes the trade-winds to descend from north to east-northeast, or east.

Moreover, the pallio-cirrus and the pallio-cumulus serve alternately as
a transition between these two opposite currents, the equatorial and polar,
although the first type accompanies more frequently the superior cur-
rent and the second the inferior current; so that these two pallia
alternate in the following order :

Cirrus,

/Cirro-stratus, ¢ Superior equatorial current.
Cirro-cumulus. J

Pallio-cirrus.

Pallio-cumulus.

Cumulus.
Fracto-cumulus,

VELOCITY OF CLOUDS.

; Inferior polar current.

Our present uncertainty as to the velocity of clouds, the difficulties
which are presented to a single observer, perhaps, deprived of sufficient
knowledge or suitable instruments to undertake directly this calculation,

CLOUDS. 453

makes it only possible to determine it visually and approximately. As
a general rule, clouds appear more rapid the nearer they are to the sur-
face of the earth, and slower the farther they are removed from it.
Therefore, the fracto-cumulus, which almost grazes the summits of.
mountains and tops of trees, is more rapid; while the cirrus, which is
found in the torrid zone with an altitude of at least 10,000 to 15,000
meters, (Six and one-fourth to nine and three-eighths miles,) is the slow-
est, seeing that it remains for hours at a time almost immovable.

We adopt the four following terms: Slow, very slow, rapid, very rapid,
which suffice to express, with sufficient exactness, all velocities of clouds,
because there is no case where we need a more minute nomenclature.
The absolute determinations, especially very rapid, being the most diffi-
cult to seize, we must guard against making use of them before we are
perfectly acquainted with the march of the cirrus, which loiters for
hours, describing a little are, and that of the fracto-cumulus, which has
variable velocities. But after a few appearances of clouds with high
velocity, the observer will be able to judge them correctly.

AZIMUTHAL ROTATION OF CLOUDS.

In a note presented to the French Meteorological Society, May 10th,
1864, | showed, from 280,320 observations made at the observatory of
Havana, that the law of the rotation of winds formulated in 1827 by M.
Dove is perfectly applicable to clouds, and it is this same rotary direc-
tion which determines the rotation of the inferior winds, and modifies
all the meteorological phenomena; in a word, that meteorology must be
taken from above, according to the profound remarks of M. Biot, at the
French Academy of Sciences.

M. Dove’s law of the chauge of winds may be thus recapitulated: 1.
When in the northern hemisphere, currents of air coming from the
equator, alternate with polar currents, the wind makes the tour of the
compass oftenest in the order south, west, north, east, and south. 2. In
the southern hemisphere it is the reverse, south, east, north, west, and
south. 3. The influence of the wind upon meteorological phenomena,
combined with this law of its change, shows two parts of the compass,
opposed in all respects, the region of the east and that of the west, where
the atmospheric variations offer a correspondence with the instruments,
which it is easy to understand. We see, therefore, that this important
law of M. Dove can assist us in scientific prevision, if we add M. Buys-
Ballot’s method of ecarts, which consists in taking the difference between
the highest and lowest standing of the barometer, thermometer, ce.

Now, if the change of clouds, from cirrus to fracto-cumulus—that is
to say, from an altitude of at least 10,000 meters to the surface of the
earth—really obeys the same law as the change of winds, then our pre-
visions acquire a greater degree of certainty.

In 1863 the wind at Havana completed twenty-three rotations, con-
jointly with cumulus ; these latter, twenty-five rotations ; cirro-cumulus
454 METEOROLOGY.

eighteen, and cirrus, seventeen. Two rotations, from 29th of June to
19th of October, were not accompanied with those of the wind.

Sometimes we find that all the strata of clouds, up to the cirrus, com-
-plete their rotation at the north on the same day and at the same hour.
At other times, and these are the most numerous, the wind gains upon
the cumuli, these on the cirro-cumuli, and these latter on cirri; that is
to say, from below upward instead of from above downward, as before
their rotation. This fact seems to contradict the hypothesis that the su-
perior currents determine gradually the inferior currents. This, how-
ever, is owing to the fact that the currents are inclined, forming very
nearly an angle of 45° with the surface of the earth, so that they are
first felt at a point more to the north, falling by degrees until they at-
tain all the points of their journey toward the south, through which
they have passed above, till their extinction naturally, or by the shock
of opposite currents. This appearance of the inferior current before the
superior is especially frequent in low regions. It is presented five
times against four between the wind and cumulus, and four other times
simultaneously. In the higher regions, six times to five, the cirro-
cumulus appeared before the civrus, and in three other cases at the same
time. The cumuli, in their turn, gained eleven times against two upon
the cirro-cumuli, and twice again they happened at the same time.

By reason of the opposition or inversion of temperature between land
and sea, the wind tends toward the south in the evening, and in the
morning toward the north. The influence of these local movements of
the breeze is such, in the general circulation, that it may retard the
rotation of the wind, which terminates at the north, not only many
hours, but besides from 90° to 180° in azimuth. The action of the sea-
breeze seems to be more considerable than that of the land-breeze; but

the breezes are much less sensible upon the cumulus and cirro-cumulus, °

especially when these latter are elevated, and they do not seem to reach
the region of the cirrus. The continuance of each rotation varied con-

siderably in 1863, as follows:
Days. Hrs. Days. Hrs.

IROrsbheycumis: AVON eerie weiss eae By Sy ine cl ail
For the cirro-cumutus, from ..-...-----.---- 3 Om bon 1Oe 5
onthe cumulus, WOM eres ele emicie aa 30 3) b01c0, ee
Por the wind} from sige ee ee ea ALO MON 7 9

The month of July did not present a single rotation of any of these
four elements. It should be remarked that the greater number of the
wind’s rotations are accompanied by another rotation in the cumulus ;
that those of cirro-cumulus are more rare and less corresponding with
the first ; and that, in fine, those of cirrus are still further removed. It
also appears that the rotations are less frequent in the higher regions
than at the surface, and that the first of the cirrus, due to the equato-
rial current, are borne rather to the west, and especially to the south-
west; while the second of the cumulus, arising from the polar current,
are confined more to the region of the east, from north to southeast.
CLOUDS. 455

Whatever may be the regularity presented by the circulation of the
winds, and of the clouds in the tropics, and whatever care, also, is
taken in studying it, this circulation is not yet exempt from perturba-
tions which mask a little the precise moment of the beginning and end
of each rotation. The southeast trade-winds, and the configuration of
the ground, are among the number of general disturbing causes; while
the land and sea breezes, the cloudiness of the stratum of cumulus,
which is more or less time prolonged, and covers that of cirro-cumulus,
or these latter that of cirrus, their inclination in space, and conse-
quently their transformation accidental and sudden, constitute the local
disturbing causes.

I surmise, besides, the existence of great annual rotations produced
by the earth’s motion of translation in its orbit analogous to those pro-
duced by the rotation of the earth on its axis, both classes of rotation
belonging to each climate of the terrestrial zones, having regard to the
distribution of continents and seas, and to their physical constitution.
These annual rotations appear to commence and terminate at the north;
for the cirrus in October, for the cirro-cumulus in November, for the
cumulus in December, and for the wind in January. According to this,
the superior current employs a month in accomplishing its rotation from
stratum to stratum, continually approaching the surface of the earth,
and three months in reaching it.

Lieutenant Maury claims that the trade-winds are so constant and
uniform that their direction no more changes than the current of the
Mississippi. I do not share the opinion of this savant, for the observa-
tions at Havana demonstrate, on the contrary, that the north trade-
wind varies from northeast, and sometimes north-northeast, up to east-
northeast, chiefly from December to May, the time at which the current,
from the northern hemisphere appears to be stronger than that from
the southern, and consequently it approaches the equator. In the sec-
ond part of the year, from June to November, the south polar current,
being more intense, drives back the first, and advances to the latitude
of Havana, and probably to the parallel of 30° north, the trade-wind
then varying from east-northeast to southeast; so the limit of the dis-
placement in latitude of the trade-winds depends more particularly on
the respective intensity of the polar currents of each hemisphere. We
see, therefore, that the time of appearance which I have established for
fracto-cumulus and cumulus seems to correspond with the displacement
of the trade-winds.

In fine, it is at the moment when the rotations of the wind and of
cumulus correspond toward the southwest with that of the equatorial
current that storms and great showers have generally taken place, in
presence of a compact stratum, and a condensation of superior pallio-
cirrus, and another stratum of inferior pallio-cumulus. But as soon as
the wind and the cumulus revolve to the west, the storm begins to clear
off, and the barometer rises. When these first two rotations terminate
456 METEOROLOGY.

at the north, the weather is completely reéstablished. The stratum of
pallio-cumulus opens up, is broken, and continues thus to chase from the
southwest; then it revolves, in turn, toward the north, in order,
later, to commence a new rotation. The second stratum of superior
pallio-cirrus proceeds in like manner, and disappears also.

Such are the principal facts concerning the azimuthal rotation of the
winds and clouds, and, in general, of the diverse questions which have
been treated in the course of these summary instructions, on which it
is of the highest importance to fix the attention of observers in all
parts of the world. Indications analogous to those which the observa-
tions made at the observatory of Havana have furnished us, should
they be contradictory under identical latitudes, either by reason of the
difference in longitude, or by the difference in the topography of the
countries explored, will not be the less important on this account, and
they will conduct us to a true conception of atmospheric circulation alto-
gether, by putting us on the track of rational and scientific previsions.

EVAPORATION AT PALERMO. 457

ON THE EVAPORATION OBSERVED AT PALERMO IN 1863 AND 1866.
By P. TaccHrt.

[ Translated for the Smithsonian Institution from the Meteorological Bulletin of the Royal Ob-
servatory of Palermo. ]

Evaporation is one of the most important elements bearing upon
climatological relations, but one which, until now, has been little studied.
In Italy there are some few stations in which such observations are con-
ducted, although by different methods. In the determination of this
element many difficulties and anomalies present themselves, insomuch
that it is regarded as the Jeast certain of all the problems offered by
meteorology. Yet the instruments devised for the measurement of
evaporation have been of late greatly improved, and in our opinion that
of Vivenot is to be regarded as among the best. In our observatory the
evaporation is observed simultaneously with two atmometers, one of
which, being that of Gasparin, is entirely exposed to the direct action of
the air and the solar rays; the other, that of Vivenot, is stationed with
the other instruments of meteorology, designed for the temperature and
humidity, that is to say, is defended from the direct action of the wind
and sun. These two atmometers were described in our Bulletins Nos. 1
and 4 for 1865. The series of observations which we are about to pre-
sent extends through twenty months, from May, 1865, when a com-
mencement was made with the atmometer of Vivenot, to December,
1866, inclusive. This interval is undoubtedly too short for arriving at
definitive conclusions; but on a comparative examination of the curves
of evaporation with those of the other meteorological elements, we have
always observed a constant relation, especially in regard to the tempera-
ture, force of the wind, and humidity, as may be verified by the monthly
reviews. In consequence of this, I propose to determine these relations
from the observations made, that is, to seek an expression for the eva-
poration in functions of those elements, whence a first approximation
may be obtained, serving as a contribution on our part to the researches
on the climate of Italy.

[We are unacquainted with the atmometer of Vivenot; that of Gas-
parin consists of a shallow vessel of tinned copper, one meter square,
and fifty centimeters in depth. In one corner of this is a fine screw
placed perpendicularly, with a micrometer head at the top, and a fine
point at the bottom, by means of which a small fractional part of a milli-
meter of the depression of the surface of the water can be estimated. It
is also furnished with a maximum and minimum thermometer, the bulbs
of each being sheltered from the direct rays of the sun, while they par-
take of the temperature of the surface of the water. This apparatus is
freely exposed to the open air and sunshine. Care is required that no
water is allowed to fall into the vessel from rain, or if it does fall in, to
allow for the quantity.—J. H.]
458 METEOROLOGY.

Table of the elements which have been employed in the researches on evapo-
ration, as observed with the Vivenot atmometer, transcribed from the
monthly bulletins.

. Total
Tempera- a Force of | Daily evapo- fit
Months. ture. oe the wind. ration. Mer ey
1865.
May iccces cuss tse socees +20.5 68. 9 7.4 3. 394 105, 215
MOHOvoscs js see eesecsibe 23.5 63.5 11.2 4.719 141. 581
PUL ec seaisisoscivcosee as 26.0 64.3 9.7 5. 113 159, 082
Ausustpescsdeiescecestoes 26.7 64.7 6.9 5. 268 164, 008
September’... s2se.chst sas. 23. 4 67.3 9:2 4, 329 128, 921
Octoberiee-cinsee Seen 20.3 40.9 10.9 2.746 85. 132
November... -2 st eeceeee 15.9 69.0 9.0 2.790 83.730
December -32/2= 5) as-aces: 12.3 73.3 8.0 2.151 66. 683
1866.

JaANUALyaws2c.0 saccycesces 11.6 75.0 8.9 2. 492 77. 240
Hebruary):.-s4 sso 2s! 14.0 71.4 9, 2 2.819 84. 720
Marchipse acre cme gse nee 15.2 64.6 DS 3. 906 121. 080
April vce-s sasectvsceee es 16.7 67.1 8.2 3. B47 115, 410
Miaiy 7. Beihetoce Leas See 18.9 66.9 6.5 4.239 131. 411
PUNO se ae nee ign < Hee ence 2275 71.8 5.4 4, 432 132. 960
July cece e ee tae 26. 1 63.7 9.8 6. 905 214. 047
AUSUBt =e Pero seco eee e 25. 0 66. 0 19 5. 918 183. 460
Sepsembermcce- eee 23.4 72.3 4.4 4.089 122. 752
OGtober ct acctoe osesere 20.0 70.6 5.4 3. 493 108. 285
Nowembeéresss422 5-22: 15.9 68. 9 7.6 3. 211 96. 318
Mecemper eee eee ea 12:9 73.0 92 2.314 71.740

From the above table it will at once be perceived that the prime pro-
ductive cause of evaporation is the temperature, the action of which
may be promoted by the force of the wind and impeded by the humidity.
If, therefore, we consider the quantity of evaporated water in relation
alone to the temperature as the sole cause, we may deduce the equation—

390.8 t= 78.175
whence—
t= + 0.20004

If then the heat alone were the evaporating force, by multiplying the
mean daily temperature by the coefficient we should have the quantity
of the evaporation in millimeters. By making this calculation for the
months from the preceding table, and considering the differences between
the observation and the calculation, it will be seen that, in 1865, the
greatest differences are met with in the months of May and October, in
which there occur two maxima of humidity, and that at that time
the evaporation observed is less than that calculated; and, in 1866, the
greatest differences are observed in the months of March, July, and
August, in which there oceur minima of humidity and an increase in
the force of the wind, so that the observed evaporations become in these
months greater than those calculated. Hence the influence of the force
of the wind and of the humidity of the air is manifest. Taking account
EVAPORATION AT PALERMO. 459

then of the three elements, temperature, humidity, and force of the wind,
we establish with the data of the table, for the daily evaporation, 20
equations of condition, which being resolved by the method of least
squares yield the following normal equations:
8.10.¢+4 26.78 .h+ 3.22. f—1.63=0
26.78 . + 95.93 .h + 11.45 Josi=ot PIED SNA ah ie)
3.22.¢4+1145.hk+4 1.45. f—0.65=0
wherein ¢, h, f, are the coefficients of the temperature, humidity, and
force of the wind, to be determined. The equations (1) being resolved,
we obtain the following values:
t= + 0.20675
h= + 0.01517
S= + 0.11006

which coefficients indicate that with the increase of the temperature
and force of the wind, the evaporation also augments, while it dimin-
ishes with the increase of the humidity, which, in effect, is also shown
by the actual review of each month. The formula, then, of the evapora-
tion, by the Vivenot atmometer placed in the shade and defended from
the direct action of the wind, will be the folowing:
E=T . 0.20675—H . 0.01517 + F . 0.11006

in which T indicates the temperature in centesimal degrees, H the hu-
midity in hundredths of saturation, F the horary velocity of the wind
in kilometers. If, with this formula, we calculate the daily evaporation
for each of the twenty months under consideration, we obtain the fol-
lowing figures, which we transcribe, beside those resulting from obser-
vation, with the relative differences :

Evaporation | Evaporation

calculated. observed. Ditlerence.

Months.

Millimeters. Millimeters. Millimeters.

4, 024 3. 394 — 0.63

5. 144 4.719 — 0.425

5. 485 5.113 —- 0.372
INGO, sesSnocsoaue soDEcorooadS cloosd ease 5. 317 5. 268 — 0.049
Septemberyeese ssa se sock ele arses eee 4.847 4. 329 == (STE!
ORTON ere aa seo e esi ce ae shee ote rience 4, 269 2.746 = 1 3
INOVEMDEDEeerons:jcce Sobleneaes soaaae cesar 3. 246 2.790 — 0, 456
WMECEMPOre ys y awaeeit= Stes she see ee 2. 207 SOL — 0.106

1866.

US iy Sart Se ee aor eene ee ee ee 2. 255 2. 492 + 0.237
PepMary ooo. sa. ess oo5 see tee cesece sees 2. 839 2.819 — 0.020
MEK Sb obeaein oSog seams eoeu bese S55 3. 320 3. 906 + 0.586
MADEN So esidmae sd se aeis wise aie shee isieuae ieee 3, 374 3. 847 -+- 0.473
May Me ao). Soe ete eset coca Saye cme cement 3. 624 4, 239 + 0.615
AWN SS Seep as aa Heaoc EE SHoe casaoc GuOuse 4.177 4, 432 + 0,255
Snulipeere teeta, eine set esicipcn ye acts aise cee 5. 526 6. 905 + 1.370
AUSUBbReRe sesh asceice saat eee ees 5, 054 5. 918 + 0.864
Seplemberqec aes. .s2 2225 saecele cae ere ae 4, 244 4.089 — 1.155
Octoberayate sees cei sees Cee eee 3. 696 3. 493 — 0.203
November ttasessiet sce ssisetecene sesckre 3. 094 3. 211 + 0.117
WD GCE DOG ee ete eae ee ee ate ee ee ee 2. 574 2.314 — 0.260

469 METEOROLOGY.

Hence it would appear that if the daily evaporation be calculated in
this way we incur the risk of an error of + 0™".6; and although this
difference may seem considerable, yet, taking into account the small
number of observations, and the anomalies which ordinarily occur in
this element, as well as the excesses of the weather experienced in the
two years of the observations, it will be seen that the variations in the
evaporation are distinctly represented.

If the daily mean be thus calculated from the total of the twenty months,
with 2 == 19°.54, W693 and f == 3.515

Piiwill: be found 222/428: be Sacbses ee eee ee eee = i55 915
And the mean of the observed evaporation ......... Bad 3™, 924
DifPeTen Ceo... o «wrx Sc. o ie PASTS ae lets mp emetawre Se eieto a OT

So that the total of the calculated evaporation for the twenty

MON GAS IS TOMMG din kee pe aie sect aie oo eraeioke Paes = 2386™.93
Wiile that tromiobservavion. 6.) ace os see eee eee. 2393.78
Wihence the: ditlerenee 2 eyes). Sot oe eo. . See ere eas = 6™.85

Asa proof of the manner in which this formula may represent the
course of the daily evaporation, we have calculated it for each day of
the month of October, 1866, selecting this month for its variety in the
different elements, so that the evaporation does not proceed directly in
accordance with any of the curves of these elements.

The sum of the daily evaporations calculated for every day

of this month givesa total of. . 2+ .2s. .5e eee ee oe ag 1137.34
While the observed amount was...........-----.-+- Ee 108,29
Whence results a difference only of. -.........--.-.2ccees--- 5™™,05

And from the course of the evaporation we have constructed the curves
of evaporation as observed and calculated, which will be found in the
annexed table, and which clearly demonstrate their conformity ; thus
proving the distinct exactness of the formula and the excellence of the
instrument in its sensibility to the variations of the different elements
which concur in the production of evaporation.

It is not at present possible to establish the exact ratio of the evapo-
ration in the different seasons and months, because the proper elemeuts
are wanting. In regard to the meteorological year 186566, we have
the evaporation distributed in the following manner :

Millimeters.
INVER GOR Hest Shear aie RNR aN Ua Se a 228.65
oj Oy 5tCap Mb aN Meth Act a IRR bein ND. lh rea eas al 367.90
Ned 6.01108) 5) ee Ro apna a Na | he AE eA RPL SoD) 530.47

Autumn 327.36

ee er |

EVAPORATION AT PALERMO. 461

that is to say, least in winter, greatest in summer, nearly equal in
spring and autumn, being more restricted in the latter season, for
reasons which will be easily perceived from the following table :

Tempera- »4:, | Force of
Seasons. ture, | Humidity. Fe a Ep
Wiinterink eh ase sem sceeanins soon cae sic cheat nen es aati ONT 74,6 Sad
SPEUN Oye a SE as LSS ee ae cea SS hh tle 2) SERN 17.0 66. 2 Si,
POMUUTEM MAYES jee teeter RB se eb Nar 24.5 67.2 ded
ANUGUIMM eta elec ser oe ctor aimee s ae eiatiearenice 19.8 70.6 5.8

For a first approximation, therefore, we may calculate the mean daily,
monthly, and annual evaporation, as well as that for the seasons, by
employing the coefficient only of the temperature, ¢ = 0.20675. Thus,
taking the mean monthly temperature derived from the observations
of seventy-six years, we form the following table:

Daily evapora-| Monthly evapo- |Mean quantity
Months. pou ee ‘| tion as ecal-| ration as ane of rain as ob-
Bete ‘| culated. culated. served.
Millimeters. Millimeters. Mitlimeters.

JANUALY- soa. se se seis seioe +10. 98 2. 270 70. 37 71.74
IGEN Sees Jaoo doo coode 11.15 2.305 65, 12 63. 55
WEN RON SSeS a Ae a ee ee 12, 42 2, 567 79. 59 72.69
Apple erracnt Seta cic tonretete = 14. 86 3. 072 92.16 42, 65
Mave iesecicena stalsen oat ants 18. 59 3. 843 119. 13 26. 60
PUTTS ae eye re ER peste ee ae a 22. 34 4,619 38. 57 17.21
Fl} os ee, eis tere eases eee te 25, 04 5. 176 160. 46 5. 80
AUICUSbs 2s cue citsetsaeeiclaeicles 25, 22 5. 214 161. 64 ot
September ss. rae sais sae nie 22. 98 4,751 142,53 51. 88
Octobermeresece seaseeee sce 19. 68 4.068 126. 11 71.65
INGVeMmberesn ee. cote saws 15. 57 3. 218 96, 54 72.28
Mecemberaaeseecneee esa 12. 30 2.544 78. 86 3. 80

Hence, as regards seasons, the evaporation results as follows :

Millimeters.
RATT 02) CPR Ree ee os ee eyo Ree tien ene Ac 0) CPs 214,35
POTN eiek 5) Sey eeearsl veh aie a anal same re eR, ette Ea is 290.87
LSUS SETH OWS) gee aad Gg APA aE ayer Celia tos AFR A A oa SRE ERY of Beh 460.67
SATU GT 00100 Rape a ae EN aT SORE PE ap SG gen NN Ne NEU Lae ard 365.18
ARTI MOAI eres cot a olenee cla apeus teas See ROOK

In regard to the water which fell, it will be seen that in the months of
January, February, March, and December, the evaporation was nearly
equal; and that the annual evaporation was equal to twice and one-fourth
the quantity of rain.

THE GASPARIN EVAPORATOR.—With this atmometer the inconveni-
ence constantly presents itself that, on days of rain, the indications
point to erroneous results, through the impossibility of applying the
462 METEOROLOGY.

just correction for the water which falls, especially when there are very
light showers, which cannot be measured by the pluviometer ; whence
the evaporation given by the Gasparin atmometer during the months
when there has been rain will be always inferior to the reality. To
have, therefore, the true ratio between the indications of the two atmo-
meters, and to correct those of the Gasparin instrument, we proceed in
the following manner: From the sums of evaporation, given by the two
instruments in days when there was no rain, is deduced the ratio be-
tween the two evaporations for each month, and from the evaporation
observed with the atmometer of Vivenot, on the days of rain, is derived,
by means of the ratio, the corrections to be made in the indications of
that of Gasparin.

In the following table will be found the monthly sums of this atmo-
meter thus corrected, and which differ from those given in the single
bulletins, because the aforesaid correction is then not applied. Hence,
to determine a formula representing the evaporation according to the
Gasparin atmometer, it is to be remembered that in this instrument the
action of the force of the wind must needs be greater than for that of
Vivenot, and that it is necessary, moreover, to take into account the di-
rect action of the solar rays, as we have not the temperature of the
water by that atmometer. We will suppose this action of the solar rays
proportional to the sine of the meridian altitude of the sun, for the effect
of the solar rays may be modified by the presence of clouds, diminishing
that action whenever they interpose between the sun and station. On
the other hand, the action of the daily temperature and the humidity
will, for this instrument, be the same as for that of Vivenot; whence
the coefficients relative to these two elements will remain the same. If,
then, we calculate the part of the evaporation due to these two elements
and subtract it from the daily evaporation of the Gasparin atmometer,
the remainders of evaporation will be due to the direct action of the
solar rays, the direct action of the wind, and the serenity. With these
remainders will be established the equations of condition from which
are to be found the coeflicients, a, v, and f, relative to the sine of the
meridian altitude of the sun, the serenity, and force of the wind.

In the table which follows will be found united all the necessary ele-
ments, that is to say, the mean value of the sine of the sun’s altitude
for every month, which we will denote by sine h, the volume of the
clouds, the force of the wind, daily evaporation of the Gasparin instru-
ment, the total for every month, by both the atmometers, and their
relation; finally, the remainders of that of Gasparin, calculated as has
been above stated.

EVAPORATION AT PALERMO. 463

oat Se
See
o 2 < : n Total .
BS | og Daily Totalin the evaporation, Difference, ms
e 2 K = | evaporation. month, WaranGie. G-—V.
> fe
Millimeters. | Millimeters.| Millimeters. | Millimeters.| Millimeters.
38 7.4 OD: tod 178. 33 105. 21 1. 695 2. 528
28 | 11.2 7. O74 212. 21 141. 58 ipais 3. 145
15 if 917 247. 30 159. 08 1. 554 3. 538
11 6.9 7. 490 232. 18 164. 01 1. 416 2. 913
z 24 9.2 6. 002 180. 06 128. 92 1. 397 2.149
Oetebert=..3.-s2: 0. 682 50 | 10.9 3. 524 109. 32 85. 13 1. 284 0. 439
November -....-- 0. 548 By) 9.0 2. 751 82. 54 83. 73 0. 986 0. 482
December........ 0. 478 61 8.0 1. 928 59. 78 66. 69 0. 896 0. 531
1866.
DANUATY, so esas 0. 515 53 8.9 2. 209 68. 46 17. 24 0. 886 0. 924
February ....-..- 0. 630 36 9. 2 3. 159 88. 46 84. 72 1. 044 1. 321
APCI Se se ccsents 0. 768 49 | 11.3 4.974 154. 19 121.08 1. 274 2.785
AC Re mera 0. 882 34 8.2 5. 833 175. 00 115. 41 1. 516 3. 371
Misiy accra e ess 0. 945 43 6.5 5. 568 172. 61 131. 41 T5313 2. 648
WUNG eet ec assis 0. 967 Q7 5.4 6. 232 186. 95 132. 96 1. 406 2. 634
DULY Ae eclaceciee ss 0. 958 6 9.8 8. 911 276. 24 214. 05 1. 291 4. 442
AtonSi 4-32 eee 0. 911 17 7.9 7. 547 233. 97 183. 46 1.275 3. 342
September ......-. 0. 816 30 4.4 5. 002 150. 05 122075 17222 1. 223
Octoberi2=-555- 0. 682 46 5.4 3. 236 100. 32 108. 29 1. 926 0. 139
November ....... 0. 548 38 7.6 2. 863 85. 89 Yo. 32 0. 892 0. 593
December.......- 0. 478 43 9.2 2. 495 77. 35 71. 74 1. 078 0. 931

With the numbers of the Ist, 2d, 3d, and last columns are, formed
twenty equations, which, treated by the method of least squares, yield
the three following equations:

12.50°. a4 5084S } ye 11715. f=! 34.7520
503.18 . a+29270.00 . v+5883.60 .f—1117.61=0% - - - (2)
117.15 .a+ 5883.60. v+1449.90 .f— 341.62=

These equations (2) being resolved, we find—
a=+2. 9227; v=—0. 0651; f=+0. 2642

The signs of these coefficients agree with the considerations before
stated, and the value of /, coefficient of the force of the wind, gives a
result more than double that determined by the Vivenot atmometer, as
we had supposed would be the case in the independent description of
that instrument.

The daily evaporation of the Gasparin atmometer, indicated by E’,
would be represented by the formula—
E’/=T . 0.20675—H . 0.015174 F . 0.2642—V . 0.06514 (sin h) . 2.9227
where T is the daily mean temperature, H the humidity, F the force
of the wind, V the quantity of the clouds expressed in hundredths of
the sky obscured, and sin / the sine of the meridian-altitude of the sun.
Calculated by this formula, we obtain the following results for the daily
evaporations, which in the annexed table are placed beside those ob-
served, as well as their relative differences:
464 - METEOROLOGY.

1865. 1866.
Month. i :

Calculated. | Observed. O—C. Caleulated. | Observed. o—C.
Millimeters.| Millimeters.| Millimeters.| Millimeters.| Millimeters.| Millimeters.
VAMUMEY, oss cwercoige es acslalstein Peete temceriols Se eeeeineiate aiela ae aoe eee 1. 689 2.209 +0. 520
a ROLE Ae OH oes 5 Soe | REE ema ee sata yah ae eee 3. 766 3. 159 —0. 607
IT aot Taio sre Sere veya atas cic tire oP te es | rata late ta ape wares | meats ter oe ete Perens oe ota mee 4. 327 4,974 +0. 647
ERED? Si ARRAN a pr Mey Baas glial Iba prada oid (gl (RRA 4.992 5. 833 +0. 841
5. 466 5D. 153 +0. 287 4. 599 5. 568 +0. 969
7. 890 7. O74 —0. 816 6. 093 6. 232 +0. 139
8. 823 asda —0. 846 9. 465 8. 911 —0. 554
8. 345 7. 490 —0. 855 7. 846 7. 547 —0. 299
7.105 6. 002 —1. 103 5. 373 5. 002 —0. 371
4. 701 3. 524 —1.177 3. 521 3. 236 —0, 255
2. 666 2. 751 +0. 085 3. 404 2. 863 —0. 541
0. 935 1, 928 +0. 993 2. 591 2. 495 —0. 096

From the differences it is seen that the results obtained by this in-
strument also are sufficiently exact to be capable of being approxi-
mately represented with the special formula, and the accord between
the calculation and the observation seems to us satisfactory, regard
being had to the construction and conditions of situation of this appa-
ratus.

The daily mean thus calculated from the elements of the twenty
months gives a result equal to 5™".156, while the observed mean was
5™™,027; whence we have the difference, 0™™.129, so that the total
evaporation as calculated for the twenty months is found to be equal to
3,145™".16, and the sum of the evaporation observed 3,071%™.21—dif-
ference, 737™.95.

The daily mean, as calculated for 1866, gives a result of 4™™.7852,
and the total in the twelve months, 1,746™".60, while the observed was
1,769"™.49—difference, 22™™.89.

Knowing, therefore, the mean force of the wind, the mean humidity,
and at the same time the clearness and temperature, we shall be in a
position to verify approximately the mean monthly and annual evapo-
ration by this atmometer exposed to the direct action of the wind and
rays of the sun. We have not all these elements, and hence cannot at
present apply the formula in its entirety. But, for a first approxima-
tion, we may take account solely of the temperature, humidity, and alti-
tude of the sun, having the coefficients of the force of the wind and vol-
ume of the clouds contrary signs; in effect, thus calculated the evapora-
tion for 1866 results differently from that observed, which was 1,769™™.0
by only 56™™.0.

By making the calculation, with the relative humidity transcribed
from the only decennium in which psychrometrical observations were
conducted, the evaporation in the open air yields the results denoted in
the following table, as well for the daily mean as for the total of each
mouth and each season, together with the annual mean:

EVAPORATION AT PALERMO. 465

Beata: 2. at
Se ee ra | 38
Months. = 3 as Sin h. e 3 =a By seasons.

& o o s — aS a
JaMUaLyse eee +10.98 | 78.7 0.515'| 2.595) 80.45 | Winter ... .... 949,32
February ..---.- EL aided 0. 63 2.982 | 84.24
iIManeieecesssene PD Ne ize 0.768 | 3.654 | 113.27
Aprile sess asses 14.86 | 76.1 0.882 | 4.508 | 135.24 | Spring -.---... 419, 07
Mayes. -itss2 o SE) lah) 0.945 | 5.502 | 170.56
divtis Gacoeneasee PE Ne Psi) 0.967 | 6.366 | 190. 98
Tanlytseyhe Sst: 259 OA ler cau 09958) 63925) 4568 | Summer 22. 22 617. 64
AM SUSth.< scenes 2a e2 1 ONS 0.911 | 6.838 | 211.98
September.-.---. 22.98 | 73.5 | 0.816 | 6.034 | 181. 02
October .----.:: TOSGSa ease, ORGS20) 48926) ela25 708 Autamn soe oee 444,19
November ...-.. 15, 57 Wo.9 0. 548 3. 682 | 110. 46 —_—_
December ..---. LPAI) Il tO 2/ 0.478 | 2.730 | 84.63 Annual mean.1, 730. 22

In relation to rain, by comparing the total monthly evaporations with
the mean quantity of water which falls in each month, and which will
be found recorded in one of the preceding tables, it will be seen that
the evaporation according to the Gasparin apparatus is about equal to
the rain only in the months of January and December, being always
greater in the other months; the annual evaporation is very nearly
thrice the height of the water which falls, and equal to once and a third

_ of that in the shade, or as denoted by the atmometer of Vivenot. From

the quantities of the monthly evaporation calculated after both instru-
ments let us take the differences referable to the different positions of
the atmometers, and transcribe them in connection with those actually
verified in 1866. G—V indicates the Gasparin evaporation less that of
the Vivenot atmometer.

Differences.
G—V from calculation. G—V observed in 1866.

Millimeters. Millimeters.
PAULA ito Seca atlas aes ope hed otay— rene eee +10. 08 — 8.78
MEMEO AMS viata) ee si es +19, 12 + 3.74
SETS (is ae ibis Dee BEe? Wafer ott agin oo +33. 69 +305. 11
PACH liree sa.2 sige). bie prey eee Pa ey » +45. 08 +59. 59
Maye io sre Sst ns arene PN oe +51. 43 +41. 20
RNG. 52,53! < a are «5s Sale ee ees eae +52. 41 +53. 99
SUE Sci see aterraropaiala! nic: Sareea ances octet a= +54, 22 +62. 19
PRATT Ga otc aa ape Aree rece eye +50.5 +50. 51
GDLCMDCE 05. a nee gaan Tees wisn +38. 49 +27. 30
DeCOwees- sae PFs 8 +26. 60 — 7.97
INO Vet OL Hsp Pyh 5 Aes ee +13. 92 —10. 43
IDE GEMDOl es ysce se yer eS Rew + 5.77 + 5.61

The above differences, if we consider the disturbances to which the

Gasparin atmometer is exposed from rain and clouds, discover a sufii-
308
466 METEOROLOGY.

cient agreement, and at the same time show that these differences in-
crease from January till the month of July, and then diminish until
December, in which occurs the minimum of difference for the two in-
struments.

In calculating the evaporation by day and that by night for each
month, we have found the following numbers:

Evaporation.
Months.
By day. | By night.| Ratio.

Millimeters.| Millimeters.| Millimeters.
JAMUATY ---------- --- 2-22 eee eee wee ee eee ee eee ee Li a. 96 0. 64 3. 06
INS DONC so5 5 Bob Se Sop ee Seso ness caserscapehascns 2.39 0. 63 3.73
Maren Se ce soe se Siac gamle were sie. 2Ps) stare Hee OcQs 0.7 4,21
Moll! soho seo sssseeessseeosan Seo8¢asecgad escssade | 3.64 0. 87 4.18
Maly n= <= 5) 22 ao os mn 2) Cena onan -in nice laine em ied 4.3 1.12 onl
AMINE). Ae 6 Ase Se abosehestas5 Geccesse sohsss Gosecse= 4, 99 3 3. 62
Uw) s2 5565 65 5s6 oSbese cease stsecess soassésooase 2605 He hau 1. 63 3. 20
IMME Sacco Qsdase sob osesco abeacsesodosas gases se 5. 02 1. 82 2.76
SVEN GSP Loses cbosco cesses ssassaetse Sens sacssse- 4.27 1.76 2.43
OYCIGINER 32 85 So eiSa5 esos soe Scopes Scos'ss5 Ses050- | 3.26 1. 67 1.95
INONVEMN Wee Gack s5 etacdo Soeclesdssé senSse ada sysesc6- | 2.48 1.20 2. 07
ID eee hen. Sho Sangh b AAS cessuc) Sasceoissso Seas Gnssloedc 1.93 0. 80 2.41

Thus the greatest evaporation at night occurs in the month of August,
the least in February ; the ratio between that of day and night increases
from October to March, and then diminishes gradually till October.

From what we have thus been able to compile it would evidently seem
that for a complete study of the subject of evaporation it is indispens-
able to have two atmometers, one to be stationed with the other meteor-
ological instruments, and defended from the direct action of the wind
and rays of the sun, the other entirely free. For the latter purpose the
construction of the Gasparin atmometer is suited, for the former that of
Vivenot, though it might be expedient to give to this last greater dimen-
sions than those heretofore employed.

ON THE ELECTRICITY OF INDUCTION IN THE AERIAL STRATA OF THE ATMO-
SPHERE WHICH, IN THE SHAPE OF A RING, SURROUND A CLOUD THAT
IS RESOLVING INTO RAIN, SNOW, OR HAIL.

By Proressor Fr. ZANTEDESCHI,
Of the Royal Venetian Institute of Sciences, Letters and Arts.

[Extracted from Vol. XII, series III, of the Transactions of the Institute. ]

Professor Luigi Palmieri states as follows:

‘“¢ Where rain is falling there must be present positive electricity, with
a zone or wave of negative electricity on every side, which zone, in tem-
pestuous weather, may extend to a distance of thirty miles, especially in
summer. Upon this subject, after so many observations, conducted by

ELECTRICITY OF INDUCTION. 467

precise methods and under favorable circumstances, I feel at liberty to
deny the free negative electricity of a serene sky, and also the existence
of clouds endowed, as a property, with this electricity, maintaining that
the negative electricity only manifests itself with the falling of the rain,
hail, or snow, through the effect of the influence of the positive electricity,
which is copiously developed on the resolution of the clouds inte water.
I deem it useless to explain how negative electricity may also be pres-
ent when rain falls on the place of the observations, for this indicates
another more intense rain which is proceeding at a certain distance.”*

The Rev. Padre A. Secchi shows that he holds the same doctrine, for
he says:

““In regard to the fact asserted by Professor Palmieri that nega-
tive electricity is not present in a serene state of the sky, except in the
case of rain actually falling on the spot, or at least at some distance off
and in view of the horizon, I have found it to be constantly verified.”

He also recognizes a primary negative zone, which attends a storm
through the effect of induction.t

The opinion of Professor Palmieri, thus sustained by Rev. Padre A.
Secchi, is wanting in point of positive proof. It would be necessary, in
order to supply such proof, that an experimenter should be stationed at
the center where the cloud which is being resolved into rain is directly
superincumbent, and should investigate the kind of electricity of the
falling shower; while other experimenters should be placed around its
periphery, so as to form a ring, each of whom should explore the
nature of the electricity of the air surrounding the dissolving cloud.
By a complete experiment like this, the problem propounded by Pro-
fessor Palmieri might be solved. The rain falling at the center, endued
with positive electricity or with negative electricity, should be found to
have around it a circle of negative electricity or of positive electricity.

Irequested Padre A. Secchi to make this experiment in the environs of
Rome, but he assured me that it could not be carried into effect there
on account of the topographic difficulties of the hills which encompass
that city. Not being myself able to prosecute the experiment on a
large scale in the Euganean region and the circumjacent cities of
Vicenza, Lignano, Badia, Rovigo, and Padua, I limited my views to a
cabinet experiment, which, nevertheless, appears to me sufficient for the
solution of the proposed problem. I suspended to a thread of silk a
hollow sphere of brass, which I proceeded to electrify now positively
and again negatively. Arranging around it the wire of a straw electro-
meter and bringing it successively nearer to the electrified sphere, I

* Bolletino meteorologico del” Osservatorio del Collegio Romano, Vol. II, No. 15, p. 113,
for the year 1863: Letter from Signor L. Palmieri, director of the Osservatorio Vesuviano,
to Padre A. Secchi.

t Bolletino meteorologico dell’ Osservatorio del Collegio Romano, Vol. I, No. 17, p. 129,
for 1863: Reflections of Professor Francesco Zantedeschi on the article of Padre A,
Secchi, entitled: Altice studii di clettricita atmospherica.
468 METEOROLOGY.

closed it at the distance at which the straws began to diverge. I now
tested with an essayer the nature of the electricity of the electrometer.
I found that if the electrified sphere was positive, the electricity of the
electrometer was also positive; but if the sphere was electrified nega-
tively, such also was the electricity of the electrometer. From this
extreme point, on carrying the electrometer toward the sphere, I saw
the tension always continue to increase without any change occurring
in the species of electricity. An electrified solid then has around it an
electric atmosphere of the same name. We should not confound, there-
fore, the distribution of the electricity presented by an isolated solid con-
ductor at its surface, submitted to the influence of an electrified body, with
the distribution of the electricity presented by the ethereal space sur-
rounding that electrified body. This difference I demonstrated in all
its particulars and circumstances in my memoir entitled ‘‘ New experi-
ments regarding the origin of atmospheric electricity and the electro-
static induction of the isolated solid conductors of Zantedeschi.” *

I arrived at the same result by causing an artificial shower to fall from
a certain height, which shower I electrified positively and negatively in
suceession, by means of my electrical machine, for the two electricities.
The elegtrometer placed at a distance from the falling rain, which
scarcely gave signs of tension, and which was next advanced to the
place where it was raining, manifested an increasing tension, without
yielding any signs of a changed electricity.

The following is a description of the experiment: A car was constructed
with four wheels, which moved upon two threads stretched horizontally
like the two lines of arailroad. The wheels as well as the threads were of
gun-elastic, in order perfectly to isolate the car suspended by bodies com-
monly recognized as conductors. The vertical walls of the car and the hor-
izontal floor were formed of conducting substances, but the floor was perfor-
ated throughout in order to give passage to a kind of artificial rain,
when the cavity of the car was filled with water. At one end the floor
of the car communicated by means of a conducting-wire with the
electric machine, which, when charged positively, electrified positively
the isolated car with the water which it contained, and, charged nega-
tively, charged with negative electricity the aforesaid car and the water
contained in it. Hxamining with an electrometer the kind of electricity
of the falling rain, I have found that it was of the same nature with that
of the electric machine, that is to say, positive if I had used the positive
electricity of the machine, and negative if I had employed its negative
electricity. Having assured myself of this result, I proceeded by means
of an isolating thread of silk or gum-lac attached to the other end of the
floor to bring the hydrometeorie electrical car into the proximity of a
straw-electrometer. These straws always diverged more in proportion
as the distance from the falling rain diminished, without, however,

* Ateneo Italiano, Vol. I, p. 339, printed at Paris by Victor Masson, 1884, and at Ven-
ice by G. Antonelli, 1854.
ELECTRICITY DURING RAIN. 469

changing the kind of electricity. There must, of course, be the zero of
tension, which occurs in solid and isolated conductors submitted to the
electricity of influence, as it is now commonly termed in the schools,
and I should say this zero of tension was immersed in the ethereal space
electrified with the same electricity with which the body existing at the
center was invested. I invite physicists to repeat my experiments, since
by them may be overthrown the doctrine of atmospheric electricity of
influence in the air; and, still more, the law, enunciated by Signor Luigi
Palmieri, and confirmed by Padre A. Secchi, regarding the negative circle
which surrounds the cloud that is being resolved into rain, snow, or
hail.

ON THE PRESENCE OF ELECTRICITY DURING THE FALL OF RAIN.

By Pror. PALMIERI, OF THE VESUVIUS OBSERVATORY.

[Translated for the Smithsonian Institution.]

All the observations upon .atmospherical electricity made during
storms before 1850, the date of my first memoir upon electrical mete-
orology, had established the presence of electricity of greater or less
tensions—alternately positive and negative—and consequently neutral
during its passage from one phase to the other. During the fall of rain
in calm weather electricity had been observed to be sometimes positive,
sometimes negative; and many authors, as Kiimtz, were induced to dis-
tinguish positive and negative rains. Quetelet alone had observed that
during the same fall of rain there might be positive and also negative
electricity. During this confusion I found, in 1853, a very simple law
that determines electrical manifestations during the fall of rain, hail, or
snow; having been enabled to discover it, thanks to a movable conductor
and to the possibility of placing it on the Vesuvius Observatory, 637
meters above the level of the sea, and under the clear atmosphere of
Naples, through which objects can be seen ata great distance. This
law can be expressed thus: When rain falls there is a considerable devel-
opment of positive electricity, with a zone or wave of negative electricity,
Jollowed by another of strongly positive electricity.

The breadth of the zones depends upon the extensiveness of the show-
ers, and also upon the conditions of the air surrounding the clouds that
resolve themselves into water. The course followed by the rain while
falling through a more or less extensive space, according to the direction
of winds, gives the observer an opportunity to note the passage from one
phase to another; and if rain was falling on a given point with the same
intensity, and without change of direction, the observer would have con-
tinually the same phase. The breadth of the zones alters rapidly during
the appearance of lightning, and then soon returns to its previous state.
Any variation in the intensity and extensiveness of the showers causes
changes in the breadth of the zones, and therefore the observer is easily

°
470 METEOROLOGY.

enabled by all those causes to note the passage from one phase to the
other. Such is the origin of every phenomenon previously observed.
After having established this law by many personal observations, I did
not fail to seek for its corroboration in the records of the observations of
others; and many facts mentioned by Beccaria seemed to me derived
from that law, which is otherwise corroborated in a description of a fall
of hail observed by Oward. Quetelet, upon hearing of this law, exam-
ined the records of his own observations, and found it corroborated. by
them; and he then proclaimed it also, taking my observations into ac-
count, but not giving me clearly the priority of discovery that undoubt-
edly belonged to me. Afterward others confirmed said law, which I
never failed to verify whenever opportunity offered, the best conditions
being to have a very extensive horizon and a rain or storm commencing
at a considerable distance from the observer, approaching him with the
wind, and then leaving him behind. These are, in fact, the only condi-
tions in which it is possible to verify the truth of the above-mentioned
law.

On the 20th of September, 1868, on or about 11 o'clock a. m., there
appeared above the sea, in a westerly direction, somewhere beyond the
Ponzie Islands, a cloud of very small dimensions. Suspecting a storm,
IT used the apparatus with movable conductor, and noticed a strongly
positive tension, indicating a distant rain; and suspending the con-
ductor in an elevated position, the oscillations of the gold plates of Boh-
nenberger’s electroscope indicated lightning. The wind was very weak
and coming from southwest, bringing the storm toward the observatory.

At noon the tension became negative, and after a few moments, dur-
ing which it was null, and when already could be heard the thunder-claps
of the approaching storm, the negative tension increased so as to emit
sparks; thunder was heard more distinctly, and rain was seen falling
on the Campania. At 1 o’clock p. m. rain was falling upon the observa-
tory, and the tension, passing through 0, became positive. At 3p. m.
rain had ceased to fall on the observatory, but was falling over Castel-
lamare, giving again a strong negative tension. Over the Mounts of
Castellamare it ceased to rain, and positive electricity returned, but with
a weak tension of 15°. Had the storm kept on its primary course east
of the observatory, there should have been a strong positive tension
(+09). In this ease, therefore, the last phase alone failed to be observed.

Whoever found himself in elevated places, or upon the open sea, must
have often noticed two or more rains, each distinct from the other, fall-
ing with small intervals between them; and this explains why apparent
exceptions are often recorded against the universality of the law. Let
us suppose, for instance, that on the spot where is the observer a rain is
falling, while another, stronger, fails at some distance; then it becomes
evident that, if positive and negative electricity were to be obtained
from the first stronger than from the second, with the rain falling upon
the observatory, there should be in it negative electricity. And this is

;

ELECTRICITY DURING RAIN. ATL

the origin of the assumed negative rains, as well as of the supposed nega-
tive clouds, two errors as yet taught by some authorities. After twenty
years of study of electrical meteorology, I believe I have acquired the
right to reject many errors, without caring about the names of those by
whom those errors were accredited. But, giving a proper interpretation
to the facts recorded by diligent and eminent observers, instead of ob-
jections to the truth of the principle I have exposed, we discover in them
the proof of what I have said. Many, for instance, upon the authority
of Beccaria, affirm the production of electricity in pure atmosphere, (ciel
sereno,) and I have demonstrated that this can only take place when, at
some distance from the place of observation, rain, hail, or snow is fall-
ing. Now, by a careful perusal of the illustrious electrician’s works, we
see that, instead of a refutation of my principle, there is in them what
might entitle him to the right of priority in the discovery. The follow-
ing passage from Beccaria’s works seems quite clear: “ Electricity in pure
atmosphere is always in excess, and whenever in serene atmosphere elec-
tricity in defect is observed, it has been carried there by wind from some
part of the atmosphere, as distant as it might be, where there are actually
clouds, snow, rain, or hail.” It is evident that the diligent observer
derives the electricity in such case from a distant region, not serene,
and, instead of the influx, believes it to be carried by the wind;
but the fact of electricity becoming negative after the storm had passed
the place of observation, and was carried eastward by a gentle wind, as
previously described, would be sufficient to preclude the idea of the wind
as carrier of negative electricity, even had I not observed, a hundred
times, electricity with the most perfect calm. Suppressing, therefore,
the word cloud in Beccaria’s sentence above reproduced, it will remain
a fact that negative electricity in serene atmosphere is obtained only
when, at a distance from the place of observation, rain, hail, or snow is
falling.

Peltier had observed negative electricity in presence of certain clouds
of a dark-bluish color, and thought that their electrical nature might
be made known by their color. When clouds at a distance resolve
themselves in rain they exactly assume that color described by the French
physicist, and the falling rain produces negative electricity. Thus my
observations are confirmed, not refuted.

The existence of clouds loaded with negative electricity pertaining to
them has been attributed either to the negative electricity often observed
with a fall of rain at the place of observation, or to the same electricity
observed in presence of clouds. We have explained how the first is
produced; the second is a certain sign of distant rain.. On the Vesuvius
Observatory clouds often pass in such a way as to surround the whole
building; yet in many years of continued observations, with fixed and
movable conductors, I have never met, under those conditions, with
negative electricity.
472 METEOROLOGY.

CLIMATE OF KANSAS.

By R. 8. ELLrort,

Industrial agent Kansas Pacific Railway.

POND CREEK STATION, KANSAS PACIFIC RAILWAY,
September 22, 1870.

I have been on the Plains nearly all the time from early in May till this
date. There has been much dry weather, but I have not seen one cloud-
less day ; no day on which the sun would rise clear and roll along a canopy
of brass to the west. There has always been humidity enough to form
clouds at the proper height, and on many days they would be seen
defining, by thin flat bottoms, the exact line where the condensation
became sufficient to render the vapor visible. The sun would be only
partially obscured at intervals, the condensation not being of a character
materially to lessen the effect of his rays in giving us heat and light, .
until in the after part of the day, when appearances of a stormy were apt
to present themselves in some part of the heavens; only, however, too
often to pass away without giving us the desired shower.

I conclude from all this that abundant moisture has floated over the
Plains to have given us a great deal more rain than would be desirable
if it had been precipitated.

Sometimes a storm would be seen to gather near the horizon, and we
could see the rain pending from the clouds like a fringe, hanging appar-
ently in mid-air, unable to reach the expectant earth. The rain stage
of condensation had been reached above, but the descending shower
was revaporized apparently, and thus arrested.

In a moderately calm day—for our calms are only moderate in this
airy region—I have observed little columns of dust to arise in all direc-
tions, generally widely scattered. These usually, if not always, coin-
cided with mirage in all directions; not that they appeared in the
mirage, but coincided in the day of their appearance. The mirage,
however, very often appeared on days too windy for the little columns
to be formed; they being only whirlwinds rendered visible by the dust
taken up. Within forty-eight hours after the little column phenomena,
LT have noted that the wind is apt to be coming strongly from the north-
ward, laden with a mist or scud that sometimes reaches the dignity of
rain.

The changes of wind are often very sudden, from southward—the
prevailing point in summer—to all points, but mainly to the north.
Sometimes this change is observed during the progress of a rain-storm,
and seems to be due to a sort of local or limited cyclone; but the differ-
ence in temperature between the south and north winds seems to forbid
the cyclone theory. I cannot understand how a circuit of a few hun-
dred miles in the heated prairie should so cool a current that had only
CLIMATE OF KANSAS. 473

whirled by us a very short time before. If we reject the cyclone theory
we must suppose parallel but opposite currents, in streaks, thus:

2S ot eae 7 ae
ee a=
net RE TOVAs ees Fe Ree
pie
oo _
eee ae eal pa ae

On 15th July last I witnessed a fine example of this sudden change
of direction and temperature in the wind. A storm arose, with light-
ning in the west, the southwest, and the northwest. The railway train
was going eastward at the distance of about three hundred and twenty-
five miles west from Kansas City. We were soon enveloped in the
storm, rain, and wind so strong from the north that the wheels of the
coaches could be felt grating their flanges on the south rail, and the
rain, striking the end windows of the car, ran across in a true horizon-
tal line. In a few minutes the temperature had fallen so low as to be
uncomfortable; but in a run of not, I think, over ten miles, we were
again in the warm winds usual at that season, and these, by contrast,
seemed to be the hot winds sometimes experienced.

These hot winds are not, so far as I have observed, apt to be constant
in one place for any considerable length of time; they strike your face
suddenly, and in perhaps a minute are gone. They seem to run along
in streaks, or ovenfulls, with the winds of ordinary (but rather high)
temperature. They do not begin, I believe, till in July, as a general
rule, and are over by September 1, or perhaps by August 15. Their
origin I take to be, of course, in heated regions south or southwest of
us; but their peculiar occurrence, so capricious and often so brief, I
cannot explain to myself satisfactorily.

I have no rain-gauge record at hand for this and past seasons; but I
may remark that this season, since about 15th of July, in these distant
plains, has given us rain enough to make beautifully verdant the spots
in the prairie burned off during the “heated term” of July. From Kit
Carson eastward the rains have been, I think, exceptionally abundant.
All through the summer we have had dew occasionally; and it has been
remarked that buffalo meat has been more difficult of preservation than
heretofore; facts indicative of humidity in the atmosphere, even when
but little rain-fall was witnessed. Turnips sown in August would have
made a crop, without irrigation, in this vicinity, four hundred and twen-
ty-two miles west of the State line of Missouri, and about three thou-
sand two hundred feet above the sea-level.

Facts such as these seem to sustain the popular persuasion in Kansas,
that a climatic change is taking place, promoted by the spread of settle-
ments westwardly; breaking up portions of the prairie-soil; covering
the earth with plants that shade the ground more than the short grasses,
474 METEOROLOGY.

thus checking or modifying the reflection of heat from the earth’s sur-
face, &c. The fact is also noted that even where the prairie soil is not
disturbed, the short buffalo-grass disappears as the “frontier” extends
westward, and its place is taken by grasses and other herbage of taller
growth. That this change of the clothing of the Plains, if sufficiently
extensive, might have a modifying influence on the climate, I do not
doubt; but whether the change has been already spread over a large
enough area, and whether our apparently or really wetter seasons may
not be only part of a cycle, are unsettled questions.

The civil engineers of this railway believe that the rains and humidity
of the Plains have increased during the extension of the railroads and
telegraphs across them. [f this is the case, it may be that the myste-
rious electrical influence in which they seem to have faith, but do not
profess to explain, has exercised a beneficial influence. What effect, if
any, the digging and grading, the iron rails, the tension of steam in
locomotives, the friction of metallic surfaces, the poles and wires, the
action of batteries, &c., could possibly or probably have on the electri.
cal conditions, as connected with the phenomena of precipitation, I do
not, of course, undertake to say. It may be that wet seasons have
merely happened to coincide with railroads and telegraphs. It is to be
observed that the poles of the telegraph are quite frequently destroyed
by lightning; and it is probable that the lightning thus discharges in
many places where before the erection of the telegraph it was not apt to
do so, and perhaps would not reach the earth at all.

I trespass on your attention with these crude remarks, not knowing
but what I might possibly lead your thought to something of value in
connection with meteorological phenomena in this distant but interest-
ing region. You will readily see that I have no claim to the possession
of meteorological knowledge, in the higher sense of the term.

I may state that during the past season, from April to July, wheat
was grown and matured, without irrigation, at a point on the Plains
three hundred and seventy-six miles west of Kansas City, and two thou-
sand nine hundred and forty-eight feet above the sea. A sample has
been sent to the Department of Agriculture. This wheat, about meri-
dian 101, sustains the views of the article I took the liberty of sending
you in March last on the “ Climate of the Plains.”
ACCOUNT OF A HAIL-STORM IN THE BOSPHORUS. A75

ACCOUNT OF A HAIL-STORM ON THE BOSPHORUS.
Fron Porter’s (Commodore) Constantinople, 1835, Vol. I, pp. 43-47.

[Our attention has been called to the following account of a remark-
able hail-storm, published in the letters of the late Commodore Porter,
of the United States Navy, a work now out of print and not likely to
meet the eye of meteorologists.—J. H.]

On our way from the residence of the minister to meet the Reis
Effendi, at Candalie, half way between this and Constantinople, and a
few minutes after leaving the landing, I witnessed a scene the most
awful and appalling that the imagination can depict.

In a six-oared kaick, the American minister, his secretary, &c., and
myself, with his kervoss, started with the treaty and regalia of about
thirty thousand dollars worth of snuff-boxes, which you might have put
in your coat pocket. We had got perhaps a mile and a half on our
way, when a cloud rising in the west gave indication of an approach-
ing rain. In a few minutes we discovered something falling from the
heavens with a heavy splash, and of a whitish appearance. I could not
conceive what it was, but observing some gulls near, I supposed them
to be darting for fish; but soon after discovered that they were large
balls of ice falling. Immediately we heard a sound like rambling thun-
der, or ten thousand carriages rolling furiously over the pavement.
The whole Bosphorus was in a foam, as though heaven’s artillery had
been discharged upon us and our frail machine. Our fate seemed inev-
itable ; our umbrellas were raised to protect us; the lumps of ice stripped
them into ribands. We fortunately had a bullock’s hide in the boat,
under which we crawled and saved ourselves from further injury. One
nan, of the three oarsmen, had his hand literally smashed; another
much injured in the shoulder; Mr. H. received a severe blow in the leg ;
my right hand was somewhat disabled, and all more or less injured.

A smaller kaick accompanied, with my two servants. They were
both disabled, and are now in bed with their wounds; the kaick was
terribly bruised. It was the most awful and terrific scene that I ever
witnessed, and God forbid that I should ever be exposed to such another.
Balls of ice as large as my two fists fell into the boat, and some of them
came with such violence as certainly to have broken an arm or a leg,
had they struck us in those parts. One of them struck the blade of an
oar and split it. The scene lasted, may be, five minutes; but it was
five minutes of the most awful feeling that I ever experienced. When
it passed over we found the surrounding hills covered with masses of
ice, 1 cannot call it hail; the trees stripped of their leaves and limbs,
476 METEOROLOGY.

and everything looking desolate. We proceeded on our course, how-
ever, and arrived at our destination drenched and awe-struck. The ruin
had not extended so far as Candalie, and it was difficult to make them
comprehend the cause of the nervous and agitated condition in which
we arrived; the Reis Effendi asked me if I was ever so agitated when
in action? I answered no, for then I had something to excite me, and
human means only to oppose. He asked the minister if he was ever so
affected in a gale of wind at sea. He answered no, for then he could
exercise his skill to disarm or render harmless the elements. He asked
him why he should be so affected now. He replied, “ From the awful
idea of being crushed to death by the hand of God with stones from
heaven, when resistance would be vain, and when it would be impious
to be brave.” He clasped his hands, raised his eyes to heaven, and ex-
claimed, ‘“‘ God is great!”

Up to this hour, late in the afternoon, I have not recovered my com-
posure; my nerves are so affected as scarcely to be able to hold my pen
or communicate my ideas. The scene was awful beyond all description.
[ have witnessed repeated earthquakes, the ightning has played, as it.
were, about my head; the wind roared, and the waves have at one
moment thrown me to the sky, and the next have sunk me into a deep
abyss. I have been in action, and have seen death and destruction
around me in every shape of horror; but I never before had the feeling
of awe which seized upon me on this occasion, and still haunts, and I
feel will ever haunt me. J returned to the beautiful village of Buyue-
dent. The sun was out in all its splendor; ata distance all looked smil-
ing and charming, but a nearer approach discovered roofs covered with
workmen repairing the broken tiles; desolate vineyards, and shattered
windows. My porter, the boldest of my family, who had ventured an
instant from the door, had been knocked down by a hailstone, and had
they not dragged him in by the heels would have been battered to
death. Of a flock of geese in front of our house, six were killed, and
the rest dreadfully mangled. Two boatmen were killed in the upper
part of the village, and I have heard of broken bones in abundance.
Many of the thick brick tiles with which my roof is covered are
smashed to atoms, and my house was inundated by the rain that suc-
ceeded this visitation. It is impossible to convey an idea of what it
was. Imagine to yourself, however, the heavens suddenly frozen over,
and as suddenly broken to pieces in irregular masses, of from half a
pound to a pound weight, and precipitated to the earth. My own ser-
vants weighed several pieces of three-quarters of a pound, and many
were found by others of upward of a pound. There were many which
fell around the boat in which I was that appeared to me to be as large
as the swell of the large-sized water decanter. I have heard of a stout
tree in my neighborhood, into the crotch of which a mass of ice fell
which split the tree as though it had been riven by a wedge of iron.
ACCOUNT OF A HAIL-STORM IN TEXAS. ATT

ACCOUNT OF A HAIL-STORM IN TEXAS.

By LIEUTENANT GEORGE M. Bacug, U. S. A.

One of those terrific hail-storms often heard of, but seldom experi-
enced, visited this city last evening.* Captain A., Doctor B., and my-
self were returning from a day’s fishing some ten miles from San An-
tonio, in an army ambulance, about 7 p. m., when we first noticed indica-
tions of rain. Dark clouds were rising in the northwest, accompanied
with a great deal of what we at first supposed to be heat lightning.
This gradually became more vivid, the clouds blacker, the thunder be-
gan to make itself heard, and our first supposition of a light shower
changed to a certain prospect of a severe storm.

The mules were put to their most rapid gait, with the hope of reach-
ing town before the tempest assailed us, but to no purpose; it broke on
us when we were about two miles from home. A fierce wind from about
due north, driving sheets of rain right in our faces, put a stop to any
further progress, and compelled us to turn the ambulance from the di-
rection of the storm into the “mesquite” bushes, where we prepared
ourselves to quietly sit and take the result. Suddenly, however, some-
thing struck the side of the ambulance, with a noise similar to that of
a stone violently thrown—another, and another—and now we hear the
resounding thuds on the bodies of the mules, and the war of the ele-
ments has commenced in earnest. Neither mule nor man was prepared
for this, and the former, beaten to infuriation, dashed off wildly into the
mesquite bushes. It was impossible to see, and, fearing a capsize and
a drag in the chaparral, we jumped out, still not realizing what was upon
us; for all this had happened in a few moments of time.

Continuous blows on the head, body, and legs soon enabled us to real-
ize the Serious nature of our condition. Stones of ice of all shapes and
of the size of the fist, cut and bruised our bodies, and with our arms
crossed above our heads we rushed to secure the slight protection of a
mesquite bush, there being no trees on the prairie. We were each at
different times knocked down by blows about the head; one of us, Cap-
tain A., three times. Cut, bleeding, bruised, and still with no prospect
of abatement, not knowing howlong such a phenomenon might last, nor
how soon we might be rendered senseless, we felt our situation as by
no means enviable.

In the mean time, the mules, which having again headed the storm in
their fury were nearly stunned by repeated blows on the head and sides,

* May 10, 1868.
478 METEOROLOGY.

eame near us, being driven before the storm, but too much weakened to
move rapidly. We took advantage of this and leaped into the ambu-
lance, choosing the lesser evil. Providentially the wheels of the car-
riage became locked in a rail fence, and the mules were too much ex-
hausted to do any more running. We put the seats over our heads, and
thus protected, drenched, shivering with cold, and continually beaten
on the legs and sides, we awaited the subsidence of the storm. The
falling of the hail lasted twenty-two minutes, commencing at half past
eight p.m. It was accompanied with heavy rain, bright blinding flashes
of lightning, and a continuous roar, varied with sharp crashes, of thunder.
The rain ceased with the hail, but fell very heavily again during the
night, causing arise of nearly twenty feet in the San Antonio river.
The curtains of our ambulance were cut to ribbons, and we scarcely
thought the mules would live through the tempest, but they did, and,
though much bruised and stunned, brought us safely to town. With
black eyes, bloody heads, smashed hats, bruised arms, and torn and
muddy clothes, we appeared as if we had just come from a free fight
and had been very badly used. Indeed, experience only could have
convinced us that any one could have endured exposure to such a vio-
lent storm and lived.

We found our house flooded with water, and all the window panes
and venetian blinds on its north side smashed to pieces. Persons who
were in the house describe the noise of the hail as it struck the roof
and sides as exceedingly terrific. The next morning the town pre-
sented the appearance of a bombarded city. The houses appeared as if
thousands of shots had been fired against their walls and roofs at point-
blank range. The walls of our house, covered with an inch thickness of
plaster on the outside, show, as in the inelosed photograph, the innumer-
able dents made by the hail. Shingleroofs were broken by the hail and
scattered in pieces by the wind. Large holes were cut through tin roofs
and gutters. Several houses were entirely unroofed; among others, that
of General Mason, who, with his family, took refuge in a doorway. The
walls of an old church were blown down and its roof deposited in the
street. Trees, in some instances, were torn up by the roots, and in
others thrown down. In one ease a hail-stone penetrated the roof of a
house and did not spend its force until it reached the floor. The trees
and bushes were entirely stripped of their foliage, and small branches cut
off. The Indian corn was cut down as if with a scythe, and vegetables
and flowers beaten into the ground. The largest authenticated stone
that I have heard of weighed two pounds, though there are various
reports of five and six-pounders. The stones probably averaged from
four to eight ounces, and were of the size of the fist and upwards. The
very large ones, of two pounds and thereabouts, must have been few
and far between, as nothing could have withstood them. They were
irregular in shape, as if, in their descent, many had been frozen together
and thus formed one mass as hard as rock.
ACCOUNT OF A HAIL-STORM IN TEXAS. 479

A woman who, with her husband, had camped out on the prairie, had
two ribs broken, and was thought to be fatally injured. A dog was killed
outright; and there are numerous cases of cuts and bruises, more or
less severe. ‘There are also reports of fatal casualties to human life in
the vicinity, which have not yet been authenticated. The momentum
of the hail-stones is shown by the fact, as witnessed by myself, of a hole
about four inches in diameter through both sides of a sheet-iron stove-
pipe which rose from the roof of a small out-house in the garden and
did service as a chimney. Boards of fences were knocked off and split
in pieces, and trees barked as if by cannon balls. I think the storm of
hail not to have extended over a path of more than two miles in width.
We hear of the storm having visited other places, but having no com-
Inunication, save by stages and a semi-weekly paper, we have not yet
learned its course. The hail came down at an angle of about 30° from
the horizontal, and lowered the temperature from 90° to 64° Fahrenheit.
The day had been close and sultry. The temperature again rose after
the storm, and the stones on the ground were soon melted.
Y na

nets

CONTENTS OF THE REPORT FOR 1870.

Resolution of Coneress to print the report. --.. ss <-aee-ce ee sae Nelo eine
Letter from the Secretary submitting report to Congress............---.--.--
List of Regents and members ex officio of the Institution............-...-----
bxecutive omicersior thewlnshibutionc|s- joc aie ateteint= eae eee eee ee
Procrammesor Oreanizations=. 55-60 - eee BESTS Cerda BEES Ace

REP ORM OAV ERB SE CRUE NING 2) ican otra ra araay a aletay slant Se oP eo
INaiiL OMA MUST ty sy-\syehe sien Speen nn- yatta anny ayaa eis ine mately a apa eS ats
MAUD MAM gee es setae aio <\ Sura /ecieiisisis Sigalaaisie nis aos Dae SESS eee oe Ree ee ke
ICR OD ORS SE Se BhGSES SoG COR OeOS BU BSSH USA SHeRAEaAn seeuSe csccus ash
MINA COS eeyata eye erseyasniene aiaja/a cists <5 abana a) aie alee era ciel oe aye se ee ee een et
AVA ONIN) SbOC Keer teehee Steyn a vicieeeie eee each ee cle yniatnray oec arte a) nee talaye epee
Renmicesnate Wl Carlisle esgcc ce cee certs teen cee at nha Sone nee
BUD MCATIONS eso chace alsa ose aera sore isbsteiene eee eee eee eter eee ere em
NAMES TO asl OMS eal retaerm a cicte cial tena e ats ay siora Sele aya ers eM a tay eae ee a ree
JOO AMG ob ee pa Saaete Gear OSS oAG ct iebS Men cHtinee ARAM EUS een alate 2a
PREV MNG LACT NELE Sie cee alae tae! tsa ae cea aaNet teres cea Sle Cte asum etiam ere
PEE teen yeaa) C1 CULT O 12S sete oe cer aces alia patch mS Tey a ca Neoe a ates mere rey
EE OlOTALON Sr Od GeCM eC TON See eyeetae rome a eer eye irate eee rte te a
WUE UMN BESS Bie G Saad Geos od KAS UEC oN ENE Ae eeSAaeederc sabamonis

Works done micoumection with collechionis =2s2 22-4 -. 2552s e eee eee eoee
IMGLCOTOlO Mya eesti erences one cs 3 te eye yt erecta en Sa ek eee
BVATSIimbO MM URO DO ins 2 es) rete ener ears ai ae as alae 2 rowan n= alee ee oe Seas
ARPENDEXOTOSRE PORTE OE) REESE CREICA RY 22 20-2 500) Soe oe
Entries in museum record-books in 1869 and 1870 ........-..----.-+-----
Wistribution,ofiduplicate, specimens. 2. e asee os see ees ee eee eee eee
Additions torvhe collections im dS70 e227. se een en een eee :
Statistics of literary and scientific exchanges :2..- 922.2222 .2 1.222228
Packages sent from America to foreign institutions................-..-.-
Rackares Tecelvied irony forelonMinstiLUelONs) .-e jae aoe ea eee ee ee
List of meteorological stations and observers for the year 1870........_-.
Colleges and institutions furnishing meteorological observations .-...... -

- Meteorological material received in addition to regular observations... -
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE, with receipts, expenditures,
MOG COTA EE Seas Seer RICO ORA Reet ioty Here eee Brahe peak mew aes

GENERAL APPENDIX.

EULOGY ON ALEXANDER DALLAS BACHE. By Prof. Joseph Henry..-.

LECTURE ON SWITZERLAND. By Alexander Dallas Bache ..............
ON A PHYSICAL OBSERVATORY. By Prof. Joseph Henry..........-.-....
THE HISTORY OF MY YOUTH. An autobiography of Francis Arago.....

BU LOGY ON. EE RSC HiBIE.. By Ma ATapOs eects Cu eT Gs Ook lets ae

wm o> te
ID DH

So St OV ON
OD & vO

117
141
145
197
482 CONTENTS.

LIFE AND LABORS OF HENRY GUSTAVUS MAGNUS. From the Ar-
éhives des sciences physiques et naturelles, Geneva ..-...---...----...---.
SKETCH OF THE LIFE OF PROF. CHESTER DEWEY, D. D., LL.D.
By Martin B. Anderson, LL. D., president of the University of Rochester...
THOUGHTS ON THE NATURE AND ORIGIN OF FORCE. By William B.
UR CO) ee ai viS She a Aee ei ceoE Seboes RoacdSo coda cospen mccesb co oosoconkbos Sunod

INDUCTION AND DEDUCTION: A discourse by Justus Baron Von Liebeg,
delivered in the Royal Academy of Sciences, Munich .....----..----..-----
ADDRESS ON THE RELATION OF FOOD TO WORK, AND ITS BEAR-
ING ON MEDICAL PRACTICKH. By Rev. Samuel Haughton, of Dublin--
HYDROGEN AS A GAS AND AS A METAL. Notes of a lecture delivered
in the theater of the Royal Dublin Society. By Dr. J. Emerson Reynolds. -
A LECTURE ON THRE IDENTIFICATION OF THE ARTISAN AND ART-
1S.) By Cardinalhwisenian 222 522225522 cane onesies aente ee ae ee eee
THE DIAMOND AND. OTHER PRECIOUS STONES. By M. Babinet .... -

TSIM EBS, OL S66) Ga ge a fee eG eso eased shoes ssa soteodedeased SoS aKe
On the language of the aboriginal Indians of America. By George
Gibbs Stee ge ols Ute ete ite ae eee slecsinettes meleene Beem ea ieme ce emis

On antiquities in some of the Southern States. By H. C. Williams. ....-
Ethnology of the Indians of the valley of the Red River of the North.

Tey dT Vee G ALON ORs eee ee cne ie alee oat
Account of antiquities in the state of Vera Cruz, Mexico. By Hugo Finck,
LEK CONGO A See eee a Gono SoS samccsor top dtea Sadepo se Sacaeess sosecs =

Account of antiquities in Tennessee. By E. O. Dunning..-----.--------
Account of ancient mounds in Georgia. By M. F. Stephenson, Gaines-
salllyas \Gietonienley Os Sane Hobe ece tabi oceee oheb Soe So coed Seonds ceesbesdstoss
Explorations in Tennessee. By E. A. Dayton.-.-..-.---- Ps cay et
Some account of the sarcophagus in the national museum, now in charge
of the Smithsonian Institution. By Rear Admiral A. A. Harwood,
(WmibediStabesiNaviyeece messes se a eee eee le eo eee cer ae eit
Account of the discovery of a stone image in Tennessee, now in possession
of the Smithsonian Institution. By Edw. M. Grant ...--...---..-----

On mixed racesin Liberia. By Edw. D. Blyden-... -.-.--=--.--.-..--..
On shell-heaps. By Rev. James Fowler, of New Brunswick......-..----
On the uses of the brain and marrow of animals among the Indians of
Nard a AveraCers | Isp Thnniehn Ik, IEGey Bees bodsco dog Goes oeaaseoodscce
Report of an exploration of ancient mounds in Union County, Kentucky.
ley sncbaeny Sh. lbayOMl Aon Sonne kS se Sedo 6556 sand ce on bookod coenes cesauagaue
Sketch of ancient earthworks on the Upper Missouri. By A. Barrandt,
Ooallienanvecie oy [Sr@ub< (Onn s46856 c6s5c0 Bos6 saceas cedess cosa cEdos sand

Account of aboriginal ruins at Savannah, Tennessee. By J. Parish Stelle.
Account of aboriginal ruins on the Williams farm, in Hardin County,
Tennessee, two miles below Savannah, Tennessee. By J. Parish Stelle.

AtVOY Peo DSO UM UE IPAS ASI ON See oe Ge hea See ees eaonbn cas onnesd banced Sbdacs
The earthquake in Peru, August 13, 1868. By J. V. Campbell .....----.--
The electro-magnetic seismograph. By Prof. Palmieri, of the University

DUNE NGC aceassed pee kos see BOS SO RReRaEe be > Use Abu ees Bede pascnuesosc

On the distribution of forest trees in Montana, Idaho, aad Washington.
LEG) ferd OMENS OST) AEB SSMS eoese seen sogeoce seeasocncet eae see san 6e 5g
Influence of the aurora on the telegraph. By Wi: D. Sargent nus 123-2
ME THOROMOGY. ssaeas oe Hea See te ee ett aoe in era etalie Acta cme storey nie ole eimai

New classification of clouds. By Prof. Andre Peéy...-.....-----.------
CONTENTS.

On the evaporation observed at Palermo in 1865 and 1866. By P. Tacchini.
On the electricity of induction in the aerial strata of the atmosphere,
which, in the shape of a ring, surround a cloud that is resolving into
LAW SHOW. OLA.) By brofe Ur, Am ted eseiiemeanes ses sacs senses
On the presence of electricity during the fall of rain. By Prof. Palmieri,
ofp thevViesuvius) Observatoryeees (seen Sea eee eee eee a eal eas
Olimateromiansasw Dy las elObb a aeer aoe series ene eon ee cece mae
Account of a hail-storm on the Bosphorus. From Porter’s Constan-
DING Wile eee iat ace epee ois SS SPAS aig oe Se OT eae Ce ee
Account of a bail-storm in Texas. By Lieutenant George M. Bache....--
ILLUSTRATIONS.

Page
Figure 1. Absorption of hydrogen by palladium..-..............----- SESSE Oe fase pls:
Figure 2. Absorption of hydrogen by palladium..-.--....---- See ese sauooS S505 298
Bicuren wy uins ani Were CLuziseses sec ceeeice ene marie secre eee incon acer errr 374
Figures 1 and 2. Ancient mounds in Union County, Kentucky..-......--.-.--.---. 393
Figure 3. Ancient mounds in Union County, Kentucky..--.-..-.--.----. Be Sejealsees 396
Figure 4. Aucient mounds in Union County, Kentucky...-.....--.-..---..-..-- 6 3ts
Figure 5. Ancient mounds in Union County, Kentucky ..--...-.--.........------ 399
Figure 6. Ancient mounds in Union County, Kentucky...............-......---- 401
Figure 1. Aboriginal ruins at Savannah, Tennessee........-.-- ..-.2-----06 +----- 408
Figure 1. Aboriginal ruins on the Williams farm, near Savannah, Tennessee..-.--- 417
HMicures 1 Wind -currents 1p Aansas re eat ete eee rae eee epee mea ae eee 473
Figures 1 and 2. Illustrations of clouds, Cirrus, (Howard,) curl-clouds, facing. ---- 443
Figures 3 and 4. Illustrations of clouds. Cirrus, (Howard,) curl-clouas, facing ---. - 443

Figures 5 and 6, Illustrations of clouds. Cirro-stratus, (Howard,) ice-clouds, facing 444
Figures 7 and 8. Illustrations of clouds. Cirro-enmulus, (Howard,) curdled gky,

PAGING 22 sig cere clsel see Se eh Se aerate SN ele fee ca es aI ea ene ease a eter i ec 445
Figures 9 and 10. Illustrations of clouds. Pallio-cirrus, (Poéy,) sheet or snow
cloud) fncim poo. 225 bo eee juices wen ae eel cia eres oe yas eerie ace te eae een 447
Figures 11 and 12. Illustrations of clouds. Cumulus, (vel cumulo-stratus,) mount
Cloud sfacino ses. ss ceccie ons cee. =e Bee eae Beeen mer cee Gist ee ee ae eae 448
Figures 18 and 14. Illustrations of clouds. Fracte-cumulus, (Poéy,) wind-clouds,
PACING Ae 9. el Seance Saito oP obese imae we haa (a ienrs jase bien mise deh ie eile bstorer 449
Figure 15. Illustrations of clouds. Cirro- eae stratus, (Poey,) facing. =.= ---- 450
Figure 16. Illustrations of clouds. Cirro-strato-cumulus, (Poéy,) facing .-..--... 450
On the evaporation observed at Palermo in 1865 and 1866. By P. Tacchini......-. 457

On the electricity of induction in the aerial strata of the atmosphere, which, in the
shape of a ring, surround a cloud that is resolving into rain, snow, or hail. By

Protwin Aanted ese hier n es sice ane tees aie ee ae ee iets ote ee ee ee eee rae 466
On the presence of electricity during the fall of rain. By Prof. Palmieri, of the

Vesuvius Observatoryce. awe ccceeciccne seen se steal PREP OCC Ree ee eee ae 469
Climatevof Kansas) y By 7.18; blliottee=sesissessteee eae ee nese teen ee eee eee 472
Account of a hail-storm on the Bosphorus. From Porter’s Constantinople...----. 475
Account of a hail-storm in Texas. By Lieutenant George M. Bache.......--.-.. ST

END EX.

Page.
Abbe, erofessor C;meteorolosical services! jos. s-sc oe eee oe eeceiecs sees in
Aboriginal ruins at and near Savannah, Tennessee, by J. P. Stelle -...-.-- 408, 416, 417
AHORA cols: (SEO MNCIMMOLO Ry) seer sete eter sees ae hectare easter yaar
Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, aid to Sumichrast’s exploration 30
ANccounbs, reporucon Commute; ONes-s ace see es saci eee eee ae a aiecee ee eyaeciee 84
Aa Seu Xpress yackNowlea omen) tO! seme a see cee acetates cial semeets eis 26
Addinons torcollections an 1870222 oa. saccsaie se cess ono eases es ieee ee eer 47
PATCH SINE Ke COTA CESMIMser sais cine Bat clse sais srehste nicl sle ia nie stots eteereiate Meteretee neat 386
SASSIZ EE LOLSSOL, MUSCUME OLA noc ace ewe cou neice cla acie a fale a aetna 3
INCHING as 5coo bat pbs cHotoUeTED conolnon pene noo aEn Ebed Beéubds cou sieccs 5
Agricultural Department, agreement with, as to herbarium.-.....-......-...- 3
Nees SEMI OU RESBS GER a eee hc cisco SOC SA OOO SOR AE BEAR CAO DR OGE erage Sees atte 37
APESD= Wael, MOTs VW OOCL ON stereo ee aety ott eels cect tava lee le aay e ae a es aaa 21
WORTH Dip eS RIAYGN Oils Sooo mdse eto dGkadonadceoes Weds Boadiese tea econ 21
Aifitudess material collected relative tOeestaoas ce cee cee ene oe lee ane ee 24
American distribution of packages from foreign institutions.-......---.---.- 56
Oriental Society, reference of Morgan’s memoir..:....:-.-----.-.-. 17
Philosophical Society, publication by, of Choctaw grammar ...... 20
AMStELdamM yEXChang Or aAGeNCy, socal e nye sara alee aetna see tals se eens 53
Anchorssines shanks io torre iricohtesaea een eee eee ee Seen oes 26, 86
Ancient exrbh-works on) the Upper Missourte- 7-5-4. see cose oie cence eee 406
MmOunaSs in Georgia s2t.(cse see Seo se oats eee are teeta ee aS pean 380
Mmoundses * (Seer UANOlO my) esos taal teeta eee ee aie eels ey fo
Anderson, Martine. wiittevor Chester Dewey: aesee se aces ee oe eee eee ee 231
Anthropology, Smithson ecllection unsurpassed........-.-..---------------- 35
Antiquities m Southern States, by H.C: Williams .2-2-...:...2.--2.2-:----- 307
Tennessee, account of, by Hs O. Dunning: 2: 2245.22.32 925. 4 376
VSL Orta ssa Nata ae eee ate hy loa aa ete Re ae ea : O73
(SeerPithmolog yea oe oe See ee ees Soe ee ams Sey na aay Fe tel are
Appendix, containing lectures, d&c./02 22222222252. 29- Br eR ae eae ee ae 89
to the report of the Secretary..-...-- PACERS ete nate eae ae : 46
Appropriations by Congress for National Museum..-.....-.-......-...--.--- 82,13
FORMS as EE Ser h SIL TLg b eateti ts ARI Rg PRD ETS 83
resolution of Regents relative-to 7. UUSs gees eok eee 12
ATA COME CANCISs AU LODIOL TPM yA Ohrees spate latereirtee sles raven eee eee cree tee 145
Araco sibliograp hy; Of iWalliamy Hersche]ijeence-cioe levee ras sae alee oer e eee oF
AnICarande hacia kad road canthgiakesinsoe- eee cee ele eee eee ae eee 421
Army, Medical Museumjexchanses! withlaenes-e ce ssoa te oe eat eee eee 30
Art Gallery, Mr. Corcoran’s........---..-------+--+-- 222-22 eee ogtars areata 14
Artisan and, artist, lecture on, by Cardinal Wiseman ....-....--...--.-..---.-- 301
Astronomical investirations'or Newcomb -©22-)..22-- 2+ -- .22e4. oo eee ee eee 17
Astronomical observatories, Professor Henry on--..----..-.-.----.-22-2----- 141
ATMOMOLELrS, CESCLIPllON OLia uses we aete ce aoe opal a ccleicte eee ae ee Ee 457
EATITOCH Ss ALOHA HV LCI Atlas | seas cia ter aie pa cue a epee ets sal ssl c et EN At Pan AM peta 31
AITGrasiniluence OL on telegvaph sae saee ees weet cae eee eee a eee eee ee 430

AULMnMoOotapliy Of PrANCIS*ArAHO Ys oses se vatace cance spose seek as on cee ene 145
486 INDEX.

Babinet on the diamond and other precious stones .---....-.- eaeee Bk Fe
Bache, Alexander Dallas, eulogy on, by Professor Henry ...-..-.-- cir
lecture on Swatzerlamd’ Wyo sec 1 sei cinerea Setar ct te al ty ety ee ea

list.of scientific: papers, byes. 3. Fas 25 Be SSN eee ee eee

Bache, Lieutenant G. M., account of hail-storm in Texas -....-.-...------.-.
Bailey, Professor, onal ee sce. 2s rae te ee eon art eA otse
Baird, S. F., Assistant Secretary, in charge of museum, exchanges, &¢. ..--..
imvestirabion of sshell-heaps; C= seceateia eee alae e ee areata

systematic description of land birds of Pacific States..--....---.

Bannister, Henry M., clerk, in charge of meteorological records..-.-.....----
Barnard, General J. G., memoirs by, on precession, gyroscope, &c..-.-.-----.
on! motionsvof pendulume ee esas oe eee eee eae ae

on precession and nutation affected by internal struc-

ture of thevearths: 222.225 See een ed ae aaa

Barrandt, A., ancient earthworks on Upper Missouri-...-.. /.---..----.-.---.
Bequest Of SmMUnsOmesa sss. eete reas seme ened ss ae eam ae BEOUeneraaecasese
Berkely; (Dr;, on fungiz..oazse=2 2 222 Secs Ce eee ce eee ce te emeeeeee
Binney, W. G., bibliography of North American Conchology.----....---..---
landVand fresh-water Shells sue\ce ste noe eeee ene eee seme eye ae

Bioeraphy*of PrancistArago nc sacese ee sce anaes se elede mac ee meee ee eee
Chester Dewey. sts sssec'Ssoce ds asses SIRE See eae eases

Henry Gustavus Maonus-o-¢ coo 55ce56 essen feel MP See

William Herschel.-.... sn. Sema see artlels ML ae Ce oe

Birds, arrangementiof families Ofs2. se. acs sees ce aelo eee stone mew aeeloeleeine =
circular relabive tosses oss Gas cose sae See R Sis a ae see

in museum, 4,154, mounted and on exhibition..-....-.--- 2-22. -2---,
Bland, T., examination of shells.-........- de Stee RS Se re PRO i eg
landand!:fresh-water shells.2c22 :Sosbee eae eciee ete ence eeeeeisentee
Blyden, Hdvwara 1). on mixed racesiin’ Wiberian soso. see fesse eles isee ener
Bosphorusaccount/of,hail-storm ono. -S0-— el. Oeteee eee ocean cee a pa
Bossange, Gustave, exchanges with: . .22):s2c\s2 essa owe eee oe
Boston Society of Natural History, aid to Sumichrast’s exploration...--.-....
Botanist of Agricultural Department and Smithsonian Institution...-...-...
Botany, ofiresion wwestiofMississippileseisec te smicicn ete ee ces = cer eiaemeee eda ele
Brack enrid Ge qWi- LO ORMESLIS 5 epee sy Sarasa sina soe hei eye nee te RI se nore
Brain and marrow of animal, uses of, among the Indians..-.......-......---
Brewer, Dr. T.M., ornithology of North America: : 25222. 22ee eee eral oo
Brinton, Dr.,.revision of \Chochaw, grammars. ee- ee le see ee oe eee oer
Brown, Solomon G., clerk, in charge of transportation ...........--..---.----
Building expenditures One22s 2 12 52s.5cessce- ase sae ee tenet eee ee os
spacein, formuseum : 22.2 sieigde es Sle ose be cct eke seoee Noo eeeee
Byington, Dr., Choctaw grammar and dictionary..-+2. 4222. 2222 Sc. eae yas
California, weclovicalsurvey2s = 2s. 2sce8 oe PE ere teehee a eas
Campbell, John V.,account of earthquake in Peru...4--.. $2. -25-.--- -------
Capron, Horace; agreement with: 2322 25.524/42sten- sone oe atceere Geese
Carlisle, James M., services rendered as counsel... <<... 2 asees eae eco kere =
Carpenter; PP: arrangement of ‘shells s2e.k cane Se ceeiae eee eee eel
Catalogue of publications of societies and of periodical works .-.--.-.-.----
Chief, clerk, appointment of. 5225 -h. ses ssecee ea ceeetee Dye Seat NET AT cr 2 Tuan
Choctaw grammar and dictionary, by Dr. Byington......--.........--.--.--
Christiania, exchange agency .-......:-...--.- Pee Ooo ees. BS ree
Circular relating to collections in archeology and ethnology .-.-....----.----
relative to collections of birds from middle and South America -...-

to ethnologists ......... esdeietee cw eee te tee ah SET ee

wo O
Oo

oN
co

Ww % «
Ww 0

0
©

INDEX.

Circular tooficers of Hudson’s Baw Company a= tsica--/2- cers soci yee es Sean
Clark, Edward, architect, services in relation to building...........-....2..-
Cleaveland, Parker, meteorological observations at Brunswick, Maine......-.
Climate of Kansas, by R. 8. Hlliott...--.--.-....2...- OBES SRS Peace rye ected Uae
Clouds, new, classificationvor, iby ProkvAlwRoGy wer sae a kese 2 Ae) a
Coffin, James H., orbit and phenomena of meteoric fire-ball ................-
WOLISIONSWIMESESS adits eA Se ee NE A SO Se ay aNd

Qelleciions, dsiloL AAU ONSstO sss, ae ces Fs Aes. MO MEI yee Aa
Collesesitunnishingymeteorolocicall meports!ta-eeie ee eee eee oe eee
Colonial Museum, New Zealand, collections from... 242. Jil 220.32. 3255.2 --
Congress, resolution of Regents asking for $10,000 from............-----.----
RESOLULIONGOL, LOWERING TED OL bess sae eee eee Leo) ea ere
Consancuiniby, (SyStems Ofer nites see oe tae esi = heayetle oS oeN oe Sareea are
Contributions to Knowledge, contents of 16th and 17th volumes.........-.--
Cooke; Governor: Henny 5 Recentiofithe Institution {262 $242.24 ale eee
Wooper, Drv G. ormunology of, Californias a5 esc ee oes eia sae eee
Wonenharenvexchanweey AGENCY. oa We a see aki ee sere SS een ool
Cope, Professor E. D., examination of reptiles and fish ....-.-...-....-2..---
CODEN MON chess escces eGsece 6455 soos Geb anno obsess eheose OE Sei eins oar
CorcoranseAnt: Gall ery steve cesar deet toh ete ee hetche cee anor arctan aan Sees SE Sees i
Coxe HonySas siCoSi OL (aS Rete Mb mesos teasers et Salons Seaver aa a
Caurbis Me A. ON LUM Macc acto ent ae ne aie aoe Pe cde Ra NL es
Dall, W. H., labors in museum, and investigations.......--.- TAS ik See Me
tran slatlonsybye-2e peso cats oooh oe Soe ae ape eg Sara See See Erne

Dayton, AC exp) Ord tlOnsM) Lenmesse@ sana sesaceseae Seale ene eee sents
Dean, John, medulla; oblong@atalssersvsetsees ee noha supe eters ss AEs ate ere
Weductionsand induction; by, Bichbesisss aoe nee ese easel seme eee eetee
Delafield, General Richard, acts \of, as Recent. ---- hyo) seh) cece ss a eae
LESION ALON ASUNEPSN OL seas See Nees soelleee eee

resolution of Board relative to... .-----.--- Sei3t

De) Saussure, monocraphiot hymenoptera- gas. oo 4. se eee eee aes See
iDeweryerofessoriGhes ten Lites Ofte ja </29 sre yee eee eye See eA VER els eee
Diamonds and precious stones, by M. Babinet_..... -.-- 5... -22-:2ecee- 5-228
DIP LELAPIMONO OTAP HS! Olactroscesa eae ehwae setae ais chee cl EIA EERE ee oe as
Distribution ot duplicaterspecimens iy a. eae ign Se eee Ween ee epee
forest-trees in Montana, an and Wesuinetane soe Ue

Donation of $1,200 to print Stockwell’s memoir .-3.. 32.2222 2.20....0 29. Lk
Donations of meteorological material )jn ssa. see es oes eee ee eects eee
to collections) 1m) 1870 see ee ne Fee eee epee ah

Wow, Capita, collections from... ee S25 Gee 2 teaes 4 selene cema ase cise sony
Dredging, by Professor Webster....-. sudisso steadied dygabe soceed pees code eae Seu
Dunning, E. O., account of antiquities in Tennessee..--.----.-..-..---..--.--
Duplicate spécimens, number.of, distributed = --....-...3255.254.-.--5--+-----
Darkec, Mr. collections from )22o-n\rooss a see ne areal aalae leusos eee aoe
Barth, internal structure Of. 224255525 ssaesssseo vaste as Ste eee sh wooo seeks
Harthquake in: Peru, account ol 52 353 sh asy sted cos ins cS ELEN eee een =
TTISERUMEN PS LOL LEIS be Miia Oya a ae sare ven en cree ey eis meen ees eRe

Hlectricity dure: rain; by-Palmieritesso4. see seer ease eee eee
of induction during rain, by Zantedeschi....?.---...--..--------
Hlectro-magnevic seismooraph sae 35 saa as a ak sales eeiaa ey ets eal seo alee ne ysis
Hilott, he S. climate Of Mansass oos2 22s psciscss es osee sateen c= eee ele ane
mery, MiG acts of, as Rerenteta: o5 22 t2 4 Ges el etek oe te ee eae Lk
PE TUOINOLOMNY sWOLKS: O10. Aalc as donate ntyacre sete ental nae oe (ese ee ale tay staia bra eye ep ueea ape
Putries in-record-books of museuni.3! s. FSU se. soot Sabha es
488 INDEX.

Page
Pistimates for W871i. se aaa an chalet Mera CN ea a aye Nees Ce cee eee rer cee 83
Bthnolocical cincwlane jee. eee ee eee eta else eiaiee ala aes eee ae eee 22
thnology, articleshon'. ce. r reams dee Seek Mer eel eee ee er iae eee 364
of (RedvRiver Indians. 2 eeys-65 cei seen nee eee cee oe eee 369
Eulogy on Professor A. D. Bache, by Professor Joseph Henry ...--....--.---- 91
I SUH) NEL SOC IAT VAISS UR So bones 2560 obo6 oto] bse Sse sa06 senca6 osSaKo S 45
Hvaporation atwPalermo, by. P. Tacehii.- 2-4-6 cee eeeesee meters eon ee 457
Pvaporaiors MUeschiption Olen ee eeeeee eee ee ekae ela eee ed Dt ss 457
Pxchan ves, Account Ol Fe eae ieee Aero ee eye ee eae are tae , 25
statistics o£, dn 1870 sees pis et ae he ey ONS, Papeete tere eae 5733
Pecuvive Commitee, reporbliohjeesee a: ee eee eee eee eee eee eee 81
report, presentediio) Kecentsteass-sse- a see eee 86
vacancy in, filled by General Sherman..--....---.-..-.- &8
Expenditures during 1270 eis ease peas hee eu aes cieioe ee eerie ee seats 82
Shatementanidetail eee. se = sete ele tL SEL Sema 82
Bxplorationsamdscollec tons im G10 see se. ele ee aetna eae ee ee area 29
(Seevithnolory) so) c 2255 te casey ee ais a Sey aah ere te pe tee 364
in Tennessee; ‘bye A.Dayboniss seve eee ieee eae eeeereets 381
of moundsan\, Union, County. entucley se opeese tee oe eee ee ae 392
Hinances;con dion Ota ee)ses ees eee Stee Ne ce Nt a om ees gee May a 14
IKSIOOH NO S55 955 cig Sn ondg de ooenessSdS SoOsas Coseisbos osesesssensu ssa: 81
Finck, Hugo, antiquities in Vera Cruz, Mexico..-..----------.-------------- 373
Taher IL Gl ON OE sags s¢ acne oboe sb DoDdocidenrcaedos bochosas soshed cas > soShse 16
Tiiris}al, Gee PoMiNeNKON OF baa cao cossso ened Conc Saccee Hotes CoE bebe sos Coss Uopn oSSS 31
Flugel, Dr., statistics of exchanges.....--. Sime ash = ee eR AA ee oe 53
Pood, relation ‘of, Po WwOrk. 22itce.cce2 bho seen mtemi ease sete ct ae aoe ete 268
Force, on the nature and origin of, by W. B. Taylor....---..----.----------- 241
Foreign correspondents, number of .....----.--------- Ae Bi ore ANG teen otha 25
disiribubion of American packacesea: seems seeresce see) a ete 54
Forests, distribution of, in Montana, Idaho, and Washington.---...-..------- 428
Fossils, reports on, by Mr. Meek..---- ABS OME aero Onen HaCuOD ondaaouneSS: Ge Al
HMossil-woodsam Menmessee ste) -- Sei. fala /slee een eee teil alanis 419
Fowler, Rev. James, on shell-heaps....-..---.----------- ------ +--+ e-++----- 389
Francklyn, C. G., acknowledgment to -..--..--------------- +--+ +--+ ++------ 26

Fungi, Curtis on .... 2.2. ---- e222 eee ene nee rene cece eee cece eee eee ee ee 3
Fund, statement of ...--...---. -- 2-26 eee ene ete eee ee eee eee ee enn cece eee ees 81
Gardner, Dr. W. H., ethnology of Indians of Red River....-..-..----.-------- 369
Garfield, Hon. J. A., acts of, as Regent.-..-.-.-.-----------------------+----- 85, 86
resolution of thanks to steamship lines .....--..-----..- &6
resolution relative to chief clerk... --2.2-J52----- «----- 87
resolution requesting Secretary to give account of his tour. 86

resolution to apply to Congress for $10,000 for care of col-

VectiOne eter rae yee ene eerelueaieiates ele me ieeet et eet elas 85
Geological exploration of Louisiana, by Professor Hilgard.,....------------- 20
survey of California... 220... .--s\s-----)--- 2 295 =b- eae 9== <9=5)== 40
Georgia, ancient mounds in.... ..---...---- j--0-- eo eens dene eons ones see one 330
Gibbs, George, language of Indians ..---..---.-----------+-+---++---- phe 364
Gill, Professor Theodore, arrangement of mollusks..--.------------+----+---- 3
assistant imlibremy 2-552 cem eae meme eee eta 28
Investigations Dy aa. -)-4-- l= ee =i 23
Gliddon mummy-caso...--. 2-2-2. -- onan ene one ee noes ans eee as wane ones 16
Gould, B. A., transatlantic longitude ....-.-...-.---.-----+ 0-2-2 + eee eee eee 16
Government collections, action of Regents relative to..-..-..---.-.----------- 85

Governor of Territory of District of Columbia to be a Regeut..---..----.---- 88
INDEX. | 489

Page.

Grant, Edward M., account of stone image from Tennessee.........-...----- 385
(Garang LEMOS SOLE JN, Oral WleNoS Sebo Ha cead hae dcondocced boAG oo beeeos cadeaolseee 37
Green, Professor W. H., reference to, of Morgan’s memoir......-.---.-------- 16
Grounds, expenditure on..--.. Rien SE SoM ounces asia aM Ri a te ke Se 14
Gyroscope, papers on, by Genenalipbarmarde = ope ece acini jets eles yee 18
Hadley, Professor, reference to, of| Morgan’s memoir. 5.52 <2... <2-.<2--. 3-56 Wy
Hatl-storm: im Texas jo22)4s be ccisi iene s sciences a casais eee aa ceiacin a. ote Reet ATT
onthe, Bosphorus: ssiayses Sa sta ce eae eee See epee ee cian ene 475

Famaliny woe ls FACES Ol, AS IRE GON. 35s eee ee sees ie tsa) ol eel ered es 86, 88
HaRVeya ip OM Marine Aloe sais ce. ce ek tye Rl ahah eke SS aera arent ga ae 21, 37
FlarwOOd wAL A. ACCOUNLOL Sarcophagus) 2s. seo tee enm = ao Ae oe eee ee 384
Haughton, Rev. Samuel, lecture on relation of food to work ..-.-. .-.-------- 268
Hawkins, B. Waterhouse, illustrations to be prepared by..--.. .------------- 88
Eavden wr) Hae x<COMCCELONS TOM -K =. 5.5 saetaieeie ss Ses ein cals = aes ae 29
TEPOLGAONMOSSIIS< set Ns. nos Ns eae oa seek easy arts ene eee 41

Reto luis ama Ofe eos bois Safes LS a ale ease crys ON cee a 24
HEMI tEra Vere ken WN OT fifa sce/eoe Sans goto oc yee Mai ae ec eee 23
iendersonpande brother jhanks: tos..s 255 saesGe=s ae eee eee SE eee 26
Henry, Professor Joseph, acts of, as Secretary of Board.-.....-..---22./.---=- 85, 86, 88
eulocy, on) Professor Bacho)s-- = -2e6 see eee eee 91

: Ova phy sicaluobSeRVvatOnyys-— aaa) eee aaa 141

TEPort, OF 2:.)<5< -.5\ ee sere Liepslaeee se Esha te Ac cia hae te "aby tels:

SecretanyandsDinectorss sea. soy naa eee eee = 6

VISTA LOMMULOPe esas. wa eseeneces aise aree ee eee 85

Hen barinny jac counmtOhes1 cones = ass mas eyes sre sarees) siceisins ae daiepr scenes 36
ACTECMENt AS LOsUTANSlOl eee satel ahaa eae aceite 39

Herron, Joseph, janitonof the museums so yas ete oa =) seis oc niee Hee eee 6
ersehe lea Wallivam pb1OCTAN bys OLS sey teers alee oleae ay aiein em iwiciciens aia eee 197
Hildreth, 8. P., meteorological observations at Marietta, Ohio....-...---.---. 16
ileard Protessor 2.) Wi. )ceolocyy Of Wouisianal ye socete aeleletctele cao ane arias al 20
nbz Ohm, MOLES ONY walZOLlan Gsm see ee\ sa sae een eeine ore ee eneieineeneaise Ilys
Mdsons bays Company. Circulate s<1-)ca(c- ca aeseacisie sarees eee eee 22
Hydrogen as a gas and as a metal, by Dr. J. Emerson Reynolds...--...---.-- 295
Ev ENO LOLA WD CSAUSSULG) OM ceed aise S10) 2a) shel 55 aps apayam nape a ratios stele ae 22
idaho forestsiint sae sere te ap eres oat ve te area eh ys ate oi Saf Src spe men penis tes ote 428
Wwlmace, Accounb of stone, irom) Nennessee ja=an4sseica sae aie ee = ene 330
Imperial Academy, St. Petersburg, plants from...-..--.-.2...:--...-.-.- aoe 40
improvements, Account of imp utl Ging eae eeprncrecee si ateieieeianat= at sors) 88
incomextro mein Ges so sv<— = ajar teeehecicto as Meee kobe aatianee ie een ae eee 255520) SyLOVSL
Indian: use/of brain-and marrowun animals 2-25). .)-s2so-)+= sas -)-ere aii an 390
Toorsbienatsy lbvaeqneere Oye |ohy (Emote) Cal Jab oo eo see cassie a done Sacn soa oaeoo sore 304
Ot (Chhae IMbnem ys, AKCCOWINN eR Hho Age ewes booed Hobe 6 oco0 caeusS 16

Oi? I8eCl INHER, GUONONWLAP OE leo Gash ce new bose Ss bo soS5 Oooo Snes Osore: 369
Induction and deduction, by Justus Baron von Liebeg..-..----..------------ 208
CACETOTN, Ohe WN MAVEN So oocgtec boy copes Soe bos OseSsu Scos caso encase 466

Insecis, examination of .- <2 ..--5-e\c ccc coccinn saeco cian = eign = oo Hees ean él
Institutions furnishing meteorological reports........-.-.-.--------.--------- 74
surance of, 10,000 on building apes. a. tes eae seein oe ani aan eine e 86
InterionWepartment funds strom separ slept sseeingfaaaed eaten asters 82
International exchanges......---- Ecceee gupetotais| was Were Pap ter ats ns AL See ES MES ek 25, 53
Nipliinexchan ces wtnee mel ois Olesya etelala ata ots) ay stele se eaters afeniatee never 86
Mialivapireel admissions Of pakCelsetOp teas cise tele eae oneal ease aie eae 25

Johnson, W. W., distribution of forests in Montana, Idaho, and Washington... 428
Jones, Strachan, collechionspromeseaa-rn) eae eats eee nem eieiael-ee aes 30
A90 INDEX.

Page.

Journal of proceedings of Regents..-.- See mens ae rates Lara Sates 85
Kansas, climate of, by R. 8. Elliott...-......- UMS aca ee MEE She LSS ae eee m 472
Kentucky, exploration of mounds in Union County.-....----..---- oe aloes 392
University, aid to Sumichrast’s exploration ~-:: --.5.-+-2.2-l02--- 30

icone, Clarence, reportionybinds|---+ = =--jeeee eee o= eee eee eee eee Me sos 41
TEPOTPOMMOSREES sl AEE ES aie SR ee pecan tea ora aa f 41

Language of the aboriginal Indians of America, by George Gibbs-....-- peas 364
Latitudes and longitudes of stations .............-.-- sed tet ANS Ay Biel et ees 65
iawrence, George, N., examination: of birds 9545.3 see eae eee 31
Heeture, on hydrogen, ibyJ.7E. Reynold s.<\isas ee Ree ee eee eee 295
on identification of the artisan and artist, by Cardinal Wiseman..... 301

on relation of food to work, and its bearing on medical practice... -- is 268

on) Switzerland, by Professor Bache: 32.5225 asec ee eee ee ae ees 117

Leech, D., clerk, in charge of correspondence... ....-...---.---- aie eet tits 2 6
Leipsic, exchange agency -.-.-..-- sate torelaiamatemictatefaiwior Pe einee Astienetene i A elescts users 53
Letter of Professor Henry submitting report to Congress -.-.-...------.--- Sys 3
Letter of Prefessor Henry on a Physical Observatory -.----.-.---- = Seed : 141
Liberality of railroad and steamboat lines ..---..-.-- MAAS se ee a 2 26
Liberia, on mixed races in...-- Ss Sa5nedos6CC SO OD SOD ao Ie aneE One EE aE suk 386
College, statisticsiof .....- 22-22-05. --- Bi btsae PER aie No saicers Melee u 386
hibrary, additions to; iml870 545, toss 2.2 ean oe ee alee de Mer etidgae mus. Nae 26
incorporated with thatof Congress) ..--.- soe. eee oe eee ee se é 14
ichens, Luckerman\onl =: oo... soscc sees SHS heso00dC AeA NS a ees ce ye Pe can : 37
Liebeg, Justus Baron von, on induction and deduction. ...-....-.-.----..-.-- 258
Mitel OL CATACOsereylsarsciaelosieee sorscse Slee cien sare er ain eae eae EE SG aE 145
Wersche less eeeeeeceiee Seagagsoud scuSs¢ oteeeee ape a eee EEE Se pee 197
IMiaiomnaS este eile eter wc ieiar er si Safataraaete a sieee ioe aia eee evil ees 223
Dewey ----- Sct eeceee eae see go goer eienaeisate at atts Soh aves, ce a Bd 231
Hiverpool Museum)... 22). 5-7 Secbo senadsecor BODE HA CED eb tameEnicsoc pode 33
Lockhart, James, collections from ....-.--- arsenate sve d dosceipteisseeeess 2 30
Lockyer’s observations .....-..-- Soasso beoseS Seer Feces onc 56 BE BRS ease 144
London exchange agency -.-..--..---..-..-.-----. ot SUSE a BR ae ee eile 8 53
Longitude, transatlantic ..........---- panne siete koe EES Jk som eae See ee ae 16
owisiana, Color yiOl, saat tere eA aa ay stelle? lel atolete eee ae Pee Bhs tc 20
Lyon, Sydney S., exploration of mounds in Union County, Kentucky .. ...--.- 392
MacFarlane, R.,.collections from...... .-.0.2...2- Eee Ee oe ESS 5 te 30
Maclean, Rev. Dr. John) dets\of, as Regent. : sss. ee emer see ee eee ee 85, 86
report of executive commitittee..-....-....-.--- bred itd 84

McIlvaine, Professor, reference to, of Morgan’s memoir...-- wrissaretets et SSE 16
MacMinn,,James, donation of plants) from. 226 52.).2 252 setae aan. ae Sua ee 40
Magnus, Henry Gustavus, life and labors of.....-.... socemetatage spesone Meee 223
Mammals, five hundred mounted and on exhibition -.----..----. Hoa RE ates rae 4G
Map of North American continent, with altitudes ...-. 2... ..---. -----..--- 24
Marsh, Hon. G. P., services of, in procuring free admission of Italian packages. 25
Mayor of Washington, offiee of, ceased to exist...---.-------+- +--+ ES raee 88
Medical Department, United States Army, meteorological system --..--.-.--- ‘ 42
co-operation with ..-. ....-. ens 30

Medical practice, relation of food to work, and its bearing on.-...--..---.- pues 268
Medulla oblongata, Dean on..-.-- Sie en ree Spar roege SOR Wad aSithes Bast 3 16
Meek, F. B., paleontological labors.....-...---- ax reign ae Ape 41
Members, ex officio, of the Institution.....-..---.....2- Seth REh Gods seh oaeease 5
Meteorolocy, articles ON 2... So. <2 Saysyqars/= clot oor o4 pal Saree eee Tae oe eee pbk 26 432
what the Institution has done in regard to...--. ..--.---.- nigettg 43

Meteorological material received in addition to regular observations......-.- - 75
INDEX. : 491

Meteorological observations of Dr. Hildreth..--. Vols steno esis’ sepa tie a 16
of Proressor Cleaveland {222 sso-es sac cee ce eee 16

registers from colleges and institutions.:-. .-.22....222. 5.-<-- iG
SLALONS: ANG. OVSeErMOTSss eet oie sees oe ee oes Le 65
SVSHEMGIACCOUMbIOR 2 AA8S-(553 54s Hasse ok edie SS Re es, ee 42
Or, Signal. Corps'< oss. sek eee eS Le UCR oa 44

should be extended by Congress and

include ‘Smithsonian {222222225 2222 A4
Mexican Houndaryesunvyey, DOM Ole ec o~<r-ce cost ee ee eee oe eee eee 38
MExIcO ACCOUNT OL ANTIOUIGIES IM... Soci, em oicistea olseioetse cee Gee ema emer oars 373
Milan Vex chan ceaceneyr vce ewcne adocccnnieettet ce ucts cscs Hee ae eee e 53
Miscellaneous collections, contents of volumes 8 and 9........--..----..----- 22
MISsOUrI, ancient) CarbhiwOrks twee lac acas ete enna eee mile eek en ee 406
Mixed TAGES uM UTD CRIA jase te cerenen tlaeereeeor wees eee DALE Wait, Bae ee 386
Mollusks, arrangement of families of, by Professor Gill ...--..........-....-- 23
Montana, Ones tsi) sip yon = whet ratotee SR Bt A Lt ei AP ed oe Ee 428
Morgan, Lewis H., systems.of consanguinity ....2...2..- 222) 22. 28 elie 16
DYGSSCS, aWi Se SUL VAD HOM a eles Ales aes se 2 yee MEE eeu a 37
MoT Ses (Seelph thn OlO py) mje) p see seta ste eer nn erate Mecca ae Shue SNS 364
Mud re nProfessor report OM MOssUl Ss). ckc cere sere ates teyoee eee ae ee Al
Muller, Wred-.exchanGes, Wibhh .cnina-ciwoecese aoe Saws bake eee dic 2h OR 53
Mim niy=Case, ACCOUNT Of. sii. me apemannoracarsewete eae ee en ue ae ae Oy 16
Museum, appropiiations) by; Coneressitoreseceeeececees eet epee eee teen eset eee 13
CNETIES MM TECOTA-DOOKS sc peta iemicel= ree ioueh etter te heicreree ies Sea 46
MIShOF- ACAUIONS bis. c.sccmrese weap erctetoseuroeee Nise ee Soe aaa Hae 47
aoH VELL DE Have ye HO! MEER I May Oe UMN Wg De Reka a SOBs Me meOL LS og Bey 2 RS 22
Museums; Senerall views: Pelabivie Os ea ay erste exes se poreer verter trate ar ceap pane oe 31
Myer, General A. J., meteorological system Of.........20¢.--202 e22c0e eee eee 44
National NM brary: 2 ccsise sececatmacs ont wee secrete tet oe AS 28
TUMACHIN, NALULC: Ofc sem saesalerm ess case Werte aloe cee re es ates 13, 34
Nepinne, Newcomb’ s\Orbit, Of e's sos eoareetr arnt teas Saad es PL 17
News brunswick .shell-h Gap saim-sat ot .cpen te eeseetacaee rere ee eee Se ae eee lc a omen Le 389
Newcomb, Professor, account of investigation relative to Ur aNUSs cee eee eee 17
New Orleans Academy of Sciences, geological explorations by........-...---. 21
New Zealand, collections from..+22.-2222. 05.2... 222 ote eo ae ale 30
Nicholson; -Wi..1., work on. altitudesisssehs -dase etna eee Sete ee 24
North, German. Lloyd, acknowledement to:.-s5..2222s.2252 528-8225. 26
North Pacific exploring expedition, botany of-/)0.52.. 722022220. 2 2 Le. 37
Norton Hd ward sony hyn enopberaisss- ways cerscmiecr. ao oneree ee een ee eee 22
Observatory, physical, Professor Henry’s letter relative to..............----. 141
Observers, list, of meteorological «oc o\sacscmrars Vee kam he eek a ee ae 65
Ocinichs& Co. jacknowedomentito-: 2252 Clea SORE ee SUR 26
Omicers of the Institutions... ajo ewe oe seeeuc enews eebocen bet ee eens Leek ee 6
OhiG ceolorical Curve yi tite ns soi gece voce lalate SE La DE ee 41
Orbits of planets, secular, variations of 246 5.05355 202 eee ee 19
Ornithology, Dall’s compilation of notes onli. 2V.Le seve ae a 4l
Orihoptera .catalogues of ieee qetacerer ciowla teste Tit tole = eS ae 22
Ostensacken, R., monograph of diptera of North America..................-. 22
Pacific Railroad explorations, botany of..-.........-....-.-. Erp deh Soak cet tity ea 38
Palcontolosy .Meek’s: researches: 2.225 tee seo eke eS ee 41
Ralermo; evaporationiat, by: Lacchini<: 2021 seaes SUNS eee 1h EI ee ee 457
Famer, Dr. -Maward, ethnological laborsiss-s2.2 cps ess cee Ue eke ese! 30
Palmieri, Professor, owelectricity during rain 22). Uso P Le Pe Se 469

on the electro-magnetic seismograph ...............----. 425
492 INDEX.

Page.
Paris exchange agency -..-- dsb bebo ceosae s6acc a acoa0G Wesson oscar a Songosace é 53
Parker, Hon. P., report of Executive Committee presented by-.--.-.- Se ae ri
acts (of, assheventn-seeeei--- otitis eiseilalos epee eee in aleeee SOs) 805/60
report) of Executive ‘Committees-.-. 2252 3u22 252. 24.1 sees 84
Peale, Titian R., on uses of the brain and marrow of animals by Indians. -... 390
Pendulum, motions of, by General Barnard....-. es Le REM Bry bee ee 18
Peru, ;eartha walkie simi sc:90. fees hls etc ee ee ee pa ASS Sey stores epee eras AQi
Physical observatory, Professor Henry’s letter relative to.-.--..-.-..-..+--- - 141
Physics terrestrial... thse ee eoe nee wees cme ele Seats ee Ara ale 421
Pickerine Charles Gliddon;mummiy-caseos-2 44. sce saeco e sae e eee 16
Plan iof ‘organization. soos Ace ese kee ate eee eee sie on Se oe Ree eee ears 7
Plants, account of collection of..... eobos DBO SE HOS BRA coe on asa Se Sooh ese 34
ist. of; sbyn Sereno yWatsome- tse ces asc eon Si eae fe arena PoE : 23
presented to foreign museums...--...---- ASH ats ese OG bee A “ 39
Poéy, Professor Andre, new classification of clouds.......-----...-.--------- 432
Porter, Commodore, hail-storm on the Bosphorus. .-..--.-.--- aateient et aeieaber or 475
Poland; Hon. Ps,acts.of, as) Rement-.7-eacaej-cis eee seine See eee - 85, 86, 88
resolution relative to General Delafield Behe eel ae ec siete vi
Precession of the equinoxes, &c., by General Barnard........-- ee Ruse 18

Precious stones, M. Babinet on..-.......- AM Pes re ches Ure See Roemer 3°
Printing report ordered by Congress.-...-.---..-------+- Urea saHe be tase ste ; 2
Proceedings of Board of Regents... .- ptlkeinm sereeeeea lncieeons Seiya Scere tana 85
Programme ofiorganization of the Institutions. . sas 2... bsso eee 5 U
Publications, classes of--2.-----.2--: S JSS eta i oeeneeeas Boosh cnn oeoseae 15
Rain, account of work on..... See Sicee Deco enenee sulle at cee ee a Pe 42
electricity of induction during TaM..-. <2 2.51262 < sas swos else eae : 466
Races in Wiberias-—. --2-.. ciate la Slee Kes cali SIGNS oem cis SEIS aL SN ore he Ste sae 386
Receiptsdumine T8710 tos ys So evs so Nee Ee one ee es saresr B 81
Record of specimens received.---- Sonia ncweloeteneeels pie Giis elaine eee eee 46
Reimtz,;Wr-plantsifromies 25422 S555 See ee ae oe oc ee ee eanee 40
Regents of the Institution, list of..--. shasteiy es ie dal ays hater weet eee ae a 5
JOURN aWoteproceedimes to fe sate aa ee ene ee eee eer sige eld Teese 85
Report, contents of, for 1869-.-...... adem siete sistas Bis aces win a eke eset 24
ExbrauCOplesiOla-b ee car eee eee neice Seine alo crm ieee abiotic ae eee ae 23
new editions from stereotype plates desired ..--.. -----.2.--:.-.---- 24
of the Executive Committee..--..- SE ae Sere Beis Ar ee att 81
OW GHG, SCCLE tA sea) aw onene sil ere ee = ae eer Ne hale, Ue eae ee NAA m3
of Secretary presented to Regents..--- esis a hsmee sroheeaes geee ae &8
Reptiles jexaminationyotese ss -me-es ees ate ic Es eee icra eee a an SERS ol
Resolution of Congress to print report........---. Ao (Ooms ES Saas ase 2
IVESOMULLONSTOLPRE Semis) ieee tomer ete pee reese Aa, LUNN ee, eid ae 12, 85

Rhees, William J., chief clerk, in charge of accounts, printing, and general

IDUSINICSS Yeas ee eat See eee aa ret ee ae sessions EE ee ey testes SUS 6, 87
Eich Walliam) ono were plantSeces= bse eere ee Sane ae ere eee ae eee 37
Ridgeway, Robert, ornithology of North America......-...-2-2.4.-.-22222---e 41
Ringgold and Rogers, North Pacific explorations......-.- Saveidiajetehala cr tafe A 37
Ring, Lieutenant, collections from.........--..----- eo a Stee eee ‘ 30
Royal Danish Society of Sciences, exchanges with...--- RISERS LG eee Pde eet 53
Istituto Lombardi di Science e Lettere, Milan, exchanges with....-.. S 53
Swedish Academy of Sciences, exchanges with......-..--..---.-.--- : 53
University of Norway. exchanges with....... er areyS «Bee Cee emanate T 53
SaltidepositiotMowisiana |. esas ae ol coer eee eevee ee 21
Sarcophagus in National Museum, Admiral Harwood’s account of.......---- 384
Sargent, W. D., on influence of the aurora on telegraph...-. Bay ccishatntiein ae 430
° INDEX. 493

; Page
Savasinake henmessees DIM GMICS Gitte cant. nat tetee/alel sn eialelnleiwinio bla see Mare eam ote 417
Scammon-)| CaptamuG@., M. /collectionsirom 2-2 sae ose insjeci=e aS. aN ayaa 30
Schott, Charles :A., meteorological reductions.-.-.-...2..2.- 20-226 -22- cece 42
Schumacker é:.Conacknowledgment. to... 5. ..22 oes eee oes eee ee eee 26
Seudder, Samuel H., catalogue of orthoptera.....-.. 2... 2-2... -+-+-.----.2--- 22
Examination Of iNseetsys- 522-24 eerie oes 31
Seal SeScammonsone hares Obras asnssct ceia selene alee ae ase alerel eens el oma are 30
SCORAIMA IOI CHE Hor US boob coocsgus cosplesond sa oOdd sobceNaes cSoueeEs 13
THIS Orly 1HGr IB WIR) NE) Seo Gao Sebaboesogsopoooccsoone ens SAAS oe enc 45
Seino erape ele uLO Mae NChiCee a waa )a\acsm clo note slaes elem ass = ee mins eo 425
Shells wanraneementt Olesen eme eee = sales sae lesa etn) = BOSS RC ABeEBeO OTe se 23, 41
ISA BAG) IBING! Oceans s6oses coeecoRasedo cosooscccoe uSeeauedeasS 22
GRAIN ah] ONO Pee eet en sites cant aeatel aco ere ee ese sitel arate Steet aerator repays 31
ShrellSbedsimMillenmesseau ena tera ete iatalata, ts Season a inavals nlcia'a eriuine eiateteats crete 4i4
Sli@lneeyory Gx gloom: Ci yes sbhesnoobe season se spaciseoeectcocses been ese 29, 389, 414
TMBNG Wa DS UUUAS Wa Clic jot acs. osalajo ainia csiaisintay ion sre tercioleeiecia wieeie eae 389
Singing nay, Ceara Wye Mg Sis Ore, BS Meme aSe pose adie eean Chooco Manoee cocks 88
election as Regent by Congress, for six years...-.--- 88
Siena Oficesweauher TepoOrus Olas. sae ss tee = os aioe oe salen cae a peso ssa aela 44
SoA OVS WEG WOSWE LS Coo beHe as Oser BOO SOHDReD Heoabo doadodbeuo meeheo seen seer 7,14
books of, to be’preserved im metallic case: +: 255-2 2<2- -- 255-2 o-e- 88
SPECIMEN SNGIShEUD ULM Mee. sear ope a cee eterna ccs tema sce Se eteies 46
MMUMIMIESreorseMoLiesiOLe sso ee ias eee aol oe seecterercyere meee sects 46
SPOMOLG Avent 1CO-OpPeElLaviomwilibileqsecmate somata vee erences cette am ete 28
Scars wc) OlMep trans AON Vaeeeeciacice sameeies cee merece sine casei cleeiniemioe 33
Sully, Ue leg, Moule ene | seNbaS) soa Ne NEG wan poosns Soqsho Gee Ade caeocesees ae 408, 416
exploration of mounds in Dennessee. 35.2. c- Sects oe = cee 29, 403, 416
Stephenson, M. I’., mounds in Georgia.......-...---- lee sinisinyaelainisia = eiesysieisieicle 380
SlemperoiO wel. COlleGhOnssOM. san eer. sae celeriac eee eerste a ete yee jeer 30
Din Gee VieCOMEC HONS MOM sey aans eres ean eae chare eevee ee erate 3
SUG VENSOMaw Tr OfESSOESTOSSIISMrOM Aa AS. acetate ee ee oe eelee ene ene eeeeees 41
Suocksholmmexchaneerageneys sans sae cee so aa ce ete ee ete Oe ae ee ee eae eee ecie 53
Stockwell, John N., secular variations of orbits of planets......-.-.----.----- ge)
Diz Coens dune AcAdomy yr) Gd OnatIONSthl OMeeee se ese e ee ae eee oer ene 40
kmpenalwAcademy plants tromesesssreeees cee ence ae eee 40
Suggestions relative to objects of scientific investigation in Russian America. 22
SullliguanteiWies-4 OUMIMOSSES ee eimees eee epee eet eM cepa es tG tie Poe aR 37
SuUMIichrast, serofessorvexploravlons Dyj-c5 asco eeel ne eee cee eee 3
Swan, James G., Indians of Cape Elattery..--..--....-5-.....-...- eee ms 16
Switzerland, lecture on, by Professor A. D. Bache.........-.....-.-.---.---- 117
NOLESHONsy Dy MT! CEG Sc) 2\-) sare cimyialo aisles c Seale elt ee Seems 117
Tacchini, P., on evaporation at Palermo...-. os Sides eleiclaioat sine sists sais eisiicae 457
MaAcua PeaAroAGUalce tas as sere cin coins se scaeiee ae Seeae Saisee Maa mises asec ee 421
Jlaylor We b:,on the natured, orem Of LOLC@ 22 yen eee ae eee eee aa 241
@plesraph iniuence Of AULOFA ON ce lu. Jl eat eee, ec earns one aaa arenas 430
femiperature, account of work onl:2.....222--+---- 22 = Baie sista shbiey'sraieietarss Siena 42
ennesseewabOrioimal MUI IN) Diya Jepen SbCl Ose eae ele eee ee eae 408, 416
ACCOMM Of ab OMILTES Sea ers sarees oy sia Ne are clore ole ok ones ae epee 76
ACCOUNT CL SUONe IMAP e thOMlas sale ee eee tie aera ee ae eee 385
explorationsiin; by aA. Daytonesnc- ccs. seen eae h cece aae eee 381
Heron pieaamly SIGS Ss soo bem see ieee one meen ce ae ea wee Meuse Eos Soe Een aes 421
EGRESS ETE 10) re yp MESS Ve A 1 I ae che a cir ne La =H 477
Fhoushtson the nature and ‘origin. of forces =). 5.0 0.5.28 seo vase ue ssas -ce 241
Lorrey vray Oli. Haccount of herpaniuIne asses vescee eo aeea cacalneseeseeceeee 36
494 INDEX. ‘

Page.
[Pron spPOLbALOM) LACWTDLES note sete = <= aenle lot mae aioe a SOON Spe ENE As 26
Trumbull, Hon. L., acts of, as Regent .----2--..2-2. 32. - wad were dae oo een epee i 85
Professor, reference to, of Morgan’s memoir... -- De UE its On 7
welkkerman) OnwliGhens ee. ser ee see emcee eal ab epee tage acta aed Pees ae ate B 37
Turner, J. A., clerk, in charge of records of exchanges..---.-.--- SEN Sree 6
Ubler, P. R., on hemiptera..-.-- ---- -- ene --- 2 ences cone cee ene ne ene eee 23
Union County, Kentucky, mounds in..---..-------.--------------+--+------ 392
Union Pacific Railroad, acknowledgment to-..--....---.-«..-----.---------- 26
University of Louisiana, geological explorations by.-.--.-.--.---------------- 21
Uranus, Newcomb’s orbit of...--..-.. Sree ah eaten a cere oe apeeesieencnieys sie ie ett 17
Vera Cruz, account of antiquities in..-.-..--.----- She eleiecel ise iat Bem meeiecace 373
Vienna, Imperial Zodlogical Museum, donation from...--..--- eile ehspomeise ol
Virginia stock and interest...-..--- Geocnoscne sudine etiam vis densest oee et eens 15
Vocabulary of Indian languages.... -.- a GaeE wd Doobibnue Sessade Rabe ecco gros 364
Washington library... 2-2 3----9—-2-- ere ee ene boa B ACS aeRO ere oee 29
Territory, forests in..--- ease ese te se sele easels aiater Be ee eee 428
Watson, Sereno, list of plants by.----.----------------- bes Snchde ieee eee aera 23
Weather-reports, Government system of ..--- aioe Sec Ae Same ye ate 44
practicability of, first shown by Smithsonian.-.-.-.-----.-- 5 43
Webster, Professor H. E., dredging by..--.----- ANAS Ss Sra erate Sia a(S sea ee = 29
Wesley, William, exchanges with---..----------.---- ete BS Sane SO arcs 53
Whitney, Professor, reference to, of Morgan’s memoirs. -..-....-----.-------- 17;
Wiilkes’s exploring expedition, botany of.....----.-------- afeieinicis = eiateepetetatele 37
Will of Smithson.........--- AN aeee ins sie eele cee BORE semac ues Boom aneccc neat 7
Williams farm, Tennessee, antiquities.-.--- of etc om poeise sj othe ae Dare 416
H. C., account of antiquities in Southern States.----..-- dae Weeyene tte 367
Winds, account of work on.-.-...-.--- ge aay Seta alent ae Dibeoh 5 a Sele lagu 43
Wiseman, Cardinal, lecture on identification of artisan and artist..---..---- < 301
Wood, Dr. Horatio C., on fresh-water algw.---..-.-.-.--. ----.- Sue ae Seats eal
Wiood ward ss Museums Calitormias ses sees eee ieee axe lelalanieete eet eater eer 2 34
Wright, Charles, botanical explorations... -- BER SCI: GORENG SOUR E eno bos 38
Young, Clarence B., clerk and bookkeeper..---.---- pookebobos acbeeecnos esas 6
Young Men’s Christian Association lectures. .---- CARN N I SEE, Py ee 29
Zantedeschi, Professor F., electricity of induction......----------------- S500 466
e)
mos 8 7
i hen

wy
aA)
us

Dy

vee ew
en

cer rl Mi viak
Pee

a) ee
fh Ota

a
is

ts

i ae

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION LIBRARIES

STR

__3 9088 01421 6295

aie .
V
a —_
Sore 7
ane
_ ee
= ae |
- . ‘
a
fe oa
;
al
—_
—
is =
eel eT
x x x 5
~ —
sas
ote,
-
: : a
= .
a. —
= evs
ll .
pee
—s —
— +
: ~
- cane,
sabe
niet — r
ae
ese -
La
—_ beet

age re

op

wes?

ba

sv
ae
a
~
~a
——
waren
~
s
os
--¥
—
=
<

