Fg Mg A gg
be ee i ‘e re on a |
eee in ¥ an * ® bore -
& & @ & . & oo o . ® & &

a iz m0

Be rey?

aa Ys ® & » fe fe.
fhe Fs dia

A

¥ bP Ff &
oe eee ve on te ne a *
» & | |
a te ts o (* fe fe fe we i ie * o ® @ f& & & B 4
‘ee ets an ope yo oe a sb 8 ee 8
& bb & fe ® oe ee ep’? & fw & BY
state Nata gy a ie a ee ba * * & & h >
, ie ip ts ee
ie ie ff . © ts it @ ® @ @ boy & © & © © ft
ff i ep een eee eee eee
8888.8, ae eo ee ® & He 4 * ef
‘ee le * i ee ee oe
shhh hy! ae, SOOO UE ae
o Solstatety SOOO OO Osa

es ee Ms ye LA A ae ee Rw HH BE
Pata s a ae ee ee re ee
te A ta a ew te +o 8 * f & & ¥ | e Y
ie t & —_
Gate pty stp pets ey DKON Seen ee gee
eee yey Ca tattnlatataagatsse nen elarstyn
7 7 ke b fe ge GS me a . | be ae * :

meee OO

| . & & &
iy He ay te “se
fh Oe
i}

Hit
|
HT HHA il
HEE if AGA nH WAHT
Hi HTT i}
Hi H Leciiit HU) va HAT HTH Hi |
HE baba a i ) i)
} Han sean as } i ii}
HOT ear Mil Hi Hil ay
i Hit NU Ht i i Ht
| :
i
pith itt
i Hi
hi

thik
; vik

A

/ tl Wt Hh
HAA a
| iy i | | | ii i \

}
} } | Tat TTD

' Hitthy } Hil tial }

iit Wt | eateiaeaal Hal

] | Hi ; Hh ;

HA TTTHHATHAT WEE Hi TT

TAGREARERAGaaaeenaaial ; dhe Hail } HW

ERT } A rishi 1)

EEE EER sae )
eaae i

tiahe i
Hitt Hi

Ay Hi |

i) Wy
i UT

Hy al
if HA
|

i i

an HN |
i Hi ih 7 il
Hi

a | i
" , iI

HH 7

i) i

|

|

7 vag
ire

i y ¢ 4 1 AU Nide al ve \) : we y i i Hale aT) RE ' ' hy i
MUMMPR aE en ment en
: % iu Ait } \ r . ' : } ' ¥ ha ‘

yi

iu

re

Ay nt »

¢
\ isa]

‘ 1h
Annual Report of the Board of Regents

of the
SMITHSONIAN
INSTITUTION

PUBLICATION 4530

Showing the Operations, Expenditures, and Condition of the
Institution for the Year Ended June 30

1963

U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE
WASHINGTON : 1964

For sale by the Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Government Printing Office
Washington, D.C., 20402 - Price $4.25 (Cloth)
LETTER OF TRANSMITTAL

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,
Washington, January 24, 1964.

To the Congress of the United States:

In accordance with section 5593 of the Revised Statutes of the
United States, I have the honor, on behalf of the Board of Regenis,
to submit to Congress the annual report of the operations, expendi-
tures, and condition of the Smithsonian Institution for the year ended
June 30, 1963.

Respectfully,
Lronarp CarMICHAEL, Secretary.

II
CONTENTS

SHEP OAT CONC PON tS: ae me 2 oe ye ae ee de ae lee
DTENELDTG OlwP ory MC OU Ei. Apps AP 2 Se et ele ee
EREETEOE OT ULE AIG CC xeR LOE Vs cs oe ee SO Sah a ee
National Armed Forces Museum Advisory Board --.-------------------
EL CuT) COS ne te | es ees re a eo ee eee ge a tee Se
BURR Sees ees ee Say ee ee eee Se se eee eeoe
Benmocnens Of SmitnsGn PIAque=—2 26 Sess. een
Reports of branches of the Institution:
Jnited: States; National Museum:=>. 2.2.54. ...._.....2-...--..~.
Pnieruational Exchange perviee!- 2 052) oe ee
Breau of ameriann dthnology 2528222220. v5. ee ee cls
mniOnel ZOolOriCAl- PArkiste 26 Sets opty TE SLED
mocrophysical:Obseervatorye.==2 = 222222 -5-encecee ends cele u ek see
National-Collection of Fine-Arts-.. -~ =-=22- 22-42. ecu bone tub see
RreersGallenyxowArts = 2-22 ben cee cee ke secede cee cee st ees
MatonnlaGalloryiot Artesia cek ee dee cee eekewte ce ck Lie ete
Woanalefone- iologiesh Aréae< ie + eect teede ete cece eb ick Lele
Pr AtignAl Airs VUIBGGM: Ae Sent en ec eer eckeeceenkencccel Aue

Peeibtr On Gnesi Prary ss <6 oa aye VA Ete eet ae de clear
ReeReINb On ube viOnae oo Sates eter, 2) OD. Sees 9 dese
Other activities:
REC LUT OS ees ee we er Dr a me ay
saionce: Information Hachange- 26 Use <u 22 os) tt bebo le teil) eae 2
Smithsonian# Museum services sett ee ee). enone 8

GENERAL APPENDIX

aie Solar System, by Sir Bernard Lovell=--.. 4. 2-2-2 2. -- 55
Advances in Astronomical Technology, by Aden B. Meinel_________--_--
The Analysis of Starlight, by Bernard Pagel____._-...-_-_---_-_--_----
Astronomical Photography from the Stratosphere, by Martin Schwarz-

The Smithsonian’s Satellite-tracking Program: Its History and Organi-

meters 2. by i. Welson-Hayes_ 222s!) oe oe
neeNeutrines, by Melyin Schwartz. 2252. 2.......-..-__-2-.-.-=_--
The Antibiotics from a Botanical Viewpoint, by Kenneth L. Jones-_- -__-
Atomic and Other Wastes in the Sea, by I. Eugene Wallen__-___------
IV ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1963

Page
What is Cybernetics? by Donald M. MacKay-----.----------------- 401
The Use of the Electron Microscope in the Study of Fossils, by William W.

1 gC PO Se RE eg ee Ag EP CyMpsaepe shee PL Reps ne ee Se 409
Color Changes in Animals, by D. B. Carlisle_.......------------------ 417
History of the Corbin Preserve, by Richard H. Manville-_------------ 427
The Southern Ocean: A Potential for Coral Studies, by Donald F. Squires. 447
The Promise of Underwater Archeology, by George F. Bass__-_--_------ 461
Plants in the Arctic-Alpine Environment, by Stanwyn G. Shetler_______- 473
Concerning Whales and Museums, by A. E. Parr__------------------ 499
Tropical Subsistence Agriculture in Latin America: Some Neglected

Aspects and Implications, by Raymond E. Crist_.._-.---_---------- 503
An Archeological Reconnaissance in Hadhramaut, South Arabia—A

Preliminary Report, by Gus W. Van Beek, Glen H. Cole, and Albert

JaMMe. 2 Seo eee ane eee Se Se ee eee ee ee een trees 521
The Corrosion Products of Metal Antiquities, by Rutherford J. Gettens_. 547
Religious Art East and West, by Benjamin Rowland___-_.------------ 569

LIST OF PLATES
Secretary’s Report: Ha
Plate mest sae ssset sense soe sees eee ee ee ee ee 24
Platess2. d22-55 252 8 22 S82 sce ees oo ee ee ee 84
Plates a= 72 Le eis = wack eee ae ee ae ee 108
Plates SiMe se at et eee AEs NS ee ee 196
12) Fey fl UC: a oe ee ee eee eS ee oes eon oe 212
| RAE Poet ga ee eee Ae ee Arse ee eS eee 236
Advances in Astronomical Technology (Meinel): Plates 1-4____.___.---- 300
The Analysis of Starlight (Pagel): Plates 1-7. __ -. --- - 252222) ee see 308
Astronomical Photography from the Stratosphere (Schwarzchild): Plates

| yee IS ee ae ee ee ee ae eee a ee so oeee 324
The Neutrinos (Schwartz) Plate ds 22 5.2222 Sos soe he eee 366
Atomic and Other Wastes in the Sea (Wallen): Plates 1-2____..___-_.-_- 388
What.is Cybernetics? (MacKay): Plates 1-3.2-2-25 =.2-22)- 5 -- 404
The Use of the Electron Microscope in the Study of Fossils (Hay): Plates

qe eS ee eee Ue Seer e sO Pe ee ee ee ee Sees 412
Color Changes in Animals (Carlisle): Plates 1-2._._.....---.-.-------- 420
History of the Corbin Preserve (Manville): Plates 1-4_._-..--.-------- 436
The Southern Ocean: A Potential for Coral Studies (Squires): Plates1-4-_ 452
Plants in the Arctic-Alpine Environment (Shetler): Plates 1-12.___.__-_-_- 484
Concerning Whales and Museums (Parr): Plates 1-8_____------------- 500
Tropical Subsistence Agriculture in Latin America: Some Neglected

Aspects and Implications: Plates 1—Se 222. Ses sak ae Ee eee ee 516
An Archeological Reconnaissance in Hadhramaut, South Arabia—A Pre-

liminiary Report (Van Beek, Cole, and Jamme): Plates 1-8_-_-_----- 532
The Corrosion Products of Metal Antiquities (Gettens): Plates 1-10__-__- 556

Religious Art East and West (Rowland): Plates 1-6-_____------------- 572
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

June 30, 1963

Presiding Officer en officio—JoHN F. Kennepy, President of the United States.
Chancellor.— EARL WARREN, Chief Justice of the United States.
Members of the Institution:
JOHN F. KENNEDY, President of the United States.
LYNDON B. JOHNSON, Vice President of the United States.
EARL WARREN, Chief Justice of the United States.
DEAN RUSK, Secretary of State.
Dovuae.as DILLON, Secretary of the Treasury.
Rosert 8. McNamara, Secretary of Defense.
Rosert F’. KENNEDY, Attorney General.
J. EDWARD Day, Postmaster General.
Stewart L. UDALL, Secretary of the Interior.
ORVILLE L. FREEMAN, Secretary of Agriculture.
LuTHER H. Hopeces, Secretary of Commerce.
W. WILLARD Wirtz, Secretary of Labor.
ANTHONY J. CELEBREZZE, Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare.
Regents of the Institution:
EARL WARREN, Chief Justice of the United States, Chancellor.
Lynpon B. JoHNSON, Vice President of the United States.
CLINTON P. ANDERSON, Member of the Senate.
J. WILLIAM FULBRIGHT, Member of the Senate.
LEVERETT SALTONSTALL, Member of the Senate.
FRANK T.. Bow, Member of the House of Representatives.
CLARENCE CANNON, Member of the House of Representatives.
MiIcHAEL J. Kirwan, Member of the House of Representatives.
JOHN NICHOLAS Brown, citizen of Rhode Island.
WitiiAM A. M. BurbeEn, citizen of New York.
Rosert V. FLEMING, citizen of Washington, D.C.
CRAWFORD H. GREENEWALT, citizen of Delaware.
CaryYL P. HASKINS, citizen of Washington, D.C.
JEROME C. HUNSAKER, citizen of Massachusetts.
Ezecutive Committee—ROBERT V. FLEMING, Chairman, CLARENCE CANNON,
CaryYL P. HASKINS.
Secretary. LEONARD CARMICHAEL.
Assistant Secretaries —JAMES C. BRADLEY, ALBERT C. SMITH.
Assistant to the Secretary.—THEODORE W. TAYLOR.
Administrative assistant to the Secretary.—Mkrs. Louise M. PEARSON.
Treasurer.—EpGAR L. Roy.
Chief, editorial and publications division —PAvuL H. OEHSER.
Librarian.—RvtH BH. BLANCHARD.
Curator, Smithsonian Museum Service.—G. CARROLL LINDSAY.
Buildings Manager.—ANDREW F’. MICHEALS, JR.
Director of Personnel.—J. A. KENNEDY.
VI ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1963

Chief, supply division —A. W. WILDING.
Chief, photographic service division.—O. H. GREESON.

UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM

Director.—F. A. Taylor.
Registrar.—Helena M. Weiss.
Conservator.—C. H. Olin.

MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY

Director.—T. D. Stewart.
Assistant Directors.—R. 8. Cowan, I. EH. Wallen.
Administrative officer—Mrs. Mabel A. Byrd.
DEPARTMENT OF ANTHROPOLOGY: W. R. Wedel, head curator; A. J. Andrews,
exhibits specialist.
Division of Archeology: Clifford Evans, Jr., curator; G. W. Van Beek,
associate curator.
Division of Ethnology: 8S. H. Riesenberg, curator; G. D. Gibson, E. I. Knez,
W. H. Crocker, associate curators.
Division of Physical Anthropology: J. l. Angel, curator.
DEPARTMENT OF ZooLogy: H. H. Hobbs, Jr., head curator; F. A. Chace, Jr., senior
scientist; W. M. Perrygo, in charge of taxidermy.
Division of Mammals: D. H. Johnson, curator; H. W. Setzer, C. O. Handley,
Jr., associate curators.
Division of Birds: P. S. Humphrey, curator, G. E. Watson, assistant curator.
Division of Reptiles and Amphibians: Doris M. Cochran, curator.
Division of Fishes: L. P. Schultz, curator; H. A. Lachner, W. R. Taylor,
V. G. Springer, S. H. Weitzman, R. H. Gibbs, Jr., associate curators.
Division of Insects: J. F. G. Clarke, curator; O. L. Cartwright, R. H. Crabill,
Jr., W. D. Field, D. R. Davis, O. S. Flint, Jr., D. W. Duckworth, P. J.
Spangler, associate curators.
Division of Marine Invertebrates: D. F. Squires, curator; T. E. Bowman,
C. E. Cutress, Jr., Marian H. Pettibone, R. R. Manning, associate curators.
Division of Mollusks: H. A. Rehder, curator; J. P. EH. Morrison, Joseph
Rosewater, associate curators.
DEPARTMENT OF BoTany (NATIONAL HERBARIUM): J. R. Swallen, head curator.
Division of Phanerogams: L. B. Smith, curator; Velva E. Rudd, J. J.
Wurdack, associate curators; S. G. Shetler, assistant curator.
Division of Ferns: C. V. Morton, curator.
Division of Grasses: J. R. Swallen, acting curator; T. R. Soderstrom, asso-
ciate curator.
Division of Cryptogams: M. HE. Hale, Jy., curator; P. S. Conger, H. E.
Robinson, R. W. Norris, associate curators.
Division of Plant Anatomy: W. L. Stern, curator; R. H. Hyde, associate
curator.
DEPARTMENT OF GEOLOGY: G. A. Cooper, head curator.
Division of Mineralogy and Petrology: G. S. Switzer, curator; E. P. Hender-
son, P. E. Desautels, associate curators; R. S. Clarke, Jr., chemist.
Division of Invertebrate Paleontology and Paleobotany: R. S. Boardman,
curator; P. M. Kier, Richard Cifelli, E. G. Kauffman, F. M. Hueber,
M. A. Buzas, associate curators.
Division of Vertebrate Paleontology: C. L. Gazin, curator; D. H. Dunkle,
Nicholas Hotton III, associate curators; F. L. Pearce, exhibits specialist.
SECRETARY'S REPORT vil

OcEANOGRAPHY ProGRAM: I. BE. Wallen, assistant director; H. A. Fehlmann,
supervisory museum specialist, Smithsonian Oceanographic Sorting Center.

MUSEUM OF HISTORY AND TECHNOLOGY

Director.—F. A. Taylor.

Assistant Director.—J. C. Ewers.

Administrative officers —W. H. Boyle, Virginia Beets.

DEPARTMENT OF SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY: R. P. Multhauf, head curator.

Division of Physical Sciences: R. P. Multhauf, acting curator; W. F. Cannon,
associate curator.

Division of Mechanical and Civil Engineering: S. A. Bedini, curator; W. A.
Battison, R. M. Vogel, associate curators.

Division of Transportation: H. I. Chapelle, curator; K. M. Perry, J. H. White,
Jr., associate curators.

Division of Electricity: B. S. Finn, associate curator in charge.

Division of Medical Sciences: S. K. Hamarneh, curator.

DEPARTMENT OF ARTS AND MANUFACTURES: P. W. Bishop, head curator.

Division of Textiles: Mrs. Grace R. Cooper, curator.

Division of Ceramics and Glass: P. V. Gardner, curator; J. J. Miller II,
assistant curator.

Division of Graphic Arts: Jacob Kainen, curator; F. O. Griffith, Eugene
Ostroff, associate curators.

Division of Manufactures and Heavy Industries: P. W. Bishop, acting
eurator.

Division of Agriculture and Forest Products: EB. C. Kendall, associate curator
in charge.

DEPARTMENT or Civi. History: R. H. Howland, head curator; P. ©. Welsh,
curator; Mrs. Doris E. Borthwick, Ellen J. Finnegan, assistant curators.

Division of Political History: W. E. Washburn, curator; Mrs. Margaret
Brown Klapthor, associate curator; H. R. Collins, K. E. Melder, Mrs. Anne
W. Murray, assistant curators.

Division of Cultural History: C. M. Watkins, curator; Rodris C. Roth, asso-
ciate curator; A. W. Hathaway, Mrs. Cynthia A. Hoover, J. N. Pearce,
assistant curators.

Division of Philately and Postal History: F. J. McCall, associate curator in
charge; C. H. Scheele, assistant curator.

Division of Numismatics: Viadimir Clain-Stefanelli, curator; Mrs. Elvira
Clain-Stefanelli, associate curator; Barbara F. Bode, junior curator.

DEPARTMENT OF ARMED Forces History: M. L. Peterson, head curator.

Division of Military History: BE. M. Howell, curator; C. R. Goins, Jr., asso-
ciate curator.

Division of Naval History: P. K. Lundeberg, curator; M. H. Jackson,
associate curator.

OFFICE OF EXHIBITS
Chief —J. FH. Anglim.
Museum of Natural History Laboratory: A. G. Wright, assistant chief; Julius
Tretick, production supervisor. '
Museum of History and Technology Laboratory: B. W. Lawless, chief; B. 8. Bory,
production supervisor.

INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGE SERVICE
Chief —J. A. Collins.
Vill ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1963

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK

Director.—T. H. Reed.

Associate Director.—J. L. Grimmer.
General Curator.—Waldfried T. Roth.
Zoologist—Marion McCrane.
Veterinarian.—Clinton W. Gray.

BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY

Director.—¥. H. H. Roberts, Jr.

Anthropologist.—H. B. Collins, Jr.

Ethnologists —W. C. Sturtevant, Robert M. Laughlin.

River Basin Surveys.—l. H. H. Roberts, Jr., Director; R. L. Stephenson,
Chief, Missouri Basin Project.

ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY

Director.—¥. L. Whipple.

Assistant Directors.—C. W. Tillinghast, Charles Lundquist.

Astronomers.—G. Colombo, L. Goldberg, G. S. Hawkins, I. G. Izsak, Y. Kozai,
R. Martin, J. Slowey, L. Solomon, F. W. Wright.

Mathematicians.—R. W. Briggs, D. A. Lautman.

Physicists.—K. Avrett, N. P. Carleton, A. F. Cook, R. J. Davis, J. DeFelice, C. H.
Dugan, G. G. Fazio, E. L. Fireman, F. Franklin, O. Gingerich, M. Grossi, P. V.
Hodge, W. M. Irvine, L. G. Jacchia, W. Kalkofen, R. B. McCrosky, H. Mitler,
R. W. Noyes, C. E. Sagan, A. Skalafuris, R. B. Southworth, D. Tilles, C. A.
Whitney.

Geodesists.—W. Kohulein, J. Rolff, G. Veis.

Geologists.—O. B. Marvin, J. Wood.

DIVISION OF RADIATION AND ORGANISMS:

Chief —W. H. Klein.

Assistant Chief.—W. Shropshire.

Biochemists.—D. L. Correll, M. M. Margulies.

Geochemist.—J. J. Sigalove.

Plant physiologists —P. J. A. L. deLint, J. L. Edwards, V. B. Elstad,
L. Loercher, K. Mitrakos, L. Price.

Hlectronic engineers.—J. H. Harrison, H. J. Lehfeldt.

Instrument engineering technicians.—D. G. Talbert, W. N. Cogswell.

Physicist.—B. Goldberg.

NATIONAL COLLECTION OF FINE ARTS

Director.—T. M. Beggs.

Associate curator.—Rowland Lyon.

SMITHSONIAN TRAVELING ExHIBITION ServIcE.—Mrs. Annemarie H. Pope, Chief.

SMITHSONIAN ArT COMMISSION.—Paul Manship (chairman), Leonard Carmichael
(secretary), Gilmore D. Clarke (vice chairman), David BH. Finley, Lloyd
Goodrich, Walter Hancock, Bartlett H. Hayes, Jr., Wilmarth 8. Lewis, Henry
P. McIlhenny, Paul Mellon, Douglas Orr, Ogden M. Pleissner, Edgar P.
Richardson, Charles H. Sawyer, Stow Wengenroth, Andrew Wyeth, Alexander
Wetmore (member emeritus).

FREER GALLERY OF ART

Director.—JouHn A. POPE.
Assistant Director.—Harold P. Stern.
SECRETARY’S REPORT Ix

Hcad curator, Near Hastern Art.—Richard Ettinghausen.
Associate curator, Chinese Art.——James F, Cahill.
Head curator, Laboratory. Rutherford J. Gettens.

NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART
Trustees:

EARL WAREEN, Chief Justice of the United States, Chairman.
DEAN Rusk, Secretary of State.
DovucLas DIL1Lon, Secretary of the Treasury.
LEONARD CARMICHAEL, Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.
PAUL MELLON.
JOHN Hay WHITNEY.
JOHN N. Irwin II.
President.—PAUL MELLON.
Vice President JoHN Hay WHITNEY.
Secretary-Treasurer.—HUNTINGTON CAIRNS.
Director —JOHN WALKER.
Administrator.—ERNEST R. FEIDLER.
General Counsel—HUNTINGTON CAIRNS.
Chief Curator.—PeErry B. Cort.

NATIONAL AIR MUSEUM
Advisory Board:
Leonard Carmichael, Chairman.
Maj. Gen. Brooke E. Allen, U.S. Air Force.
Vice Adm. William A. Schoech, U.S. Navy.
James H. Doolittle (Lt. Gen., U.S.A.F. Ret.)
Grover Loening.
Director.—P. 8. Hopkins
Head curator and historian.—P. E. Garber.
Curators.—L. 8S. Casey, K. 8. Newland.
Curator.—R. B. Meyer.

CANAL ZONE BIOLOGICAL AREA
Director—M. H. Moynihan.

NATIONAL CULTURAL CENTER
Trustees:

Howagp Ff. AHMANSON.

FLoyp D. AKERS.

Lucius D. Barrie, Assistant Secretary of State for Hducational and Cul-
tural Affairs, ex officio.

RatpH EH. BECKER.

K. LEMoynE BILLINGS.

Epear M. BRONFMAN.

JoHN NICHOLAS BRowNn.

RaLPH J. BUNCH. .

Leonarp CARMICHAEL, Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, ex officio.

ANTHONY J. CELEBREZZE, Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare, ex
officio.

JOSEPH S, CLARE.

J. WILLIAM FULBRIGHT.
xX ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1963

Mrs. George A. GARRETT.
Francis Krppret, Commissioner, U.S. Office of Education, ex officio.
Mrs. ALBERT D. LASKER.
GEORGE MEANY.
L. Quincy Mumrorp, Librarian of Congress, ea officio.
Mags. CHARLOTTE T. RED.
RICHARD S. REYNOLDS, JR.
LEVERETT SALTONSTALL.
Mags. JOUETT SHOUSE.
Rocer L. STEVENS.
L. CorRIN STRONG.
FRANK THOMPSON.
Watter N. Topriner, President, D.C. Board of Commissioners, eg officio.
WILLIAM WALTON.
WILLIAM H. Waters, JR., Chairman, D.C. Recreation Board, ez officio.
ConraD lL. WirtH, Director of the National Park Service, ez officio.
JIM WRIGHT.
Officers:
Chairman.—Rocer LL STEVENS.
Vice chairman.—L. CorRIN STRONG.
Treasurer.—DANIEL W. BELL.
Counsel. RALPH BH). BECKER.
Assistant secretary—Mrs. JAMES CANTRELL.
Assistant treasurers.—PAUL SELTZER, KENNETH BIRGFELD.

NATIONAL ARMED FORCES MUSEUM ADVISORY BOARD

JoHn NicHonas Brown, Chairman.

LEONARD CARMICHAEL, Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, ex officio.
Rourvus H. CLeMENT.

Davin L. KREEGER.

FRED Kortu, Secretary of the Navy.

RosBert 8. MCNAMARA, Secretary of Defense, ex officio.
Cyrus R. VAnceE, Secretary of the Army.

EARL WARREN, Chief Justice of the United States.
WILLIAM W. WHITEMAN, JR.

Henry B. WASHBURN, JR.

EUGENE M. Zuckenrt, Secretary of the Air Force.

NATIONAL PORTRAIT GALLERY

National Portrait Gallery Commission:

CATHERINE DRINKER BOWEN.

JULIAN P. Boyp.

JOHN NICHOLAS Brown.

LEONARD CARMICHAEL, Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, ew officio.
LEWIS DESCHLER.

Davin E.. FINLEY.

WILMARTH SHELDON LEWIS.

RicHARD H. SHRYOCK.

FREDERICK P. Topp.

JOHN WALKER, Director of the National Gallery of Art, ex officio.
EARL WARREN, Chief Justice of the United States, ea officio.
SECRETARY’S REPORT XI

Honorary Smithsonian Fellows, Collaborators, Associates, Custodians of
Collections, and Honorary Curators
OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY

John H. Graf
Remington Kellogg

Unitep States NATIONAL Museum
MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY

Anthropology

M. Campbell, Archeology.
G. Holland, Archeology.
M. Judd, Anthropology.

Ue
OF
N.
H. W. Krieger, Ethnology.

Betty J. Meggers, Archeology.

F. M. Setzler, Anthropology.

W. W. Taylor, Jr., Anthropology.
W. J. Tobin, Physical Anthropology.

Zoology

O. L. Austin, Birds

W. W. Becklund, Helminthology.
Mrs. Doris H. Blake, Insects.

J. Bruce Bredin, Biology.

W. L. Brown, Mammals.

M. A. Carriker, Jr., Insects.

Ailsa M. Clark, Marine Invertebrates.
H. G. Deignan, Birds.

C. J. Drake, Insects.

K. C, Emerson, Insects.

Herbert Friedmann, Birds.

F. M. Hull, Insects.

Laurence Irving, Birds.

W. L. Jellison, Insects.

Allen McIntosh, Mollusks.

J. P. Moore, Marine Invertebrates.

C. F. W. Muesebeck, Insects.

W.L. Schmitt, Marine Invertebrates.

Benjamin Schwartz, Helminthology.

T. E. Snyder, Isoptera.

H. K. Townes, Insects.

Robert Traub, Mammals.

Alexander Wetmore, Birds.

Mrs. Mildred S. Wilson, Copepod Crus-
tacea.

Botany

C. R. Benjamin, Fungi.

Mrs. Agnes Chase, Grasses.
HE. P. Killip, Phanerogams.
KE. C. Leonard, Phanerogams.

F. A. McClure, Grasses.
Mrs. Kittie F. Parker, Phanerogams.
J. A. Stevenson, Fungi.
W.N. Watkins, Woods.

Geology

C. W. Cooke, Invertebrate Paleontology.
J. T. Dutro, Invertebrate Paleontology.
A. A, Olsson, Invertebrate Paleontology.

W. T. Schaller, Mineralogy.
W. P. Woodring, Invertebrate Paleon-
tology.
xi ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1963

MUSEUM OF HISTORY AND TECHNOLOGY

Science and Technology
D. J. Price
Civil History
Mrs. Arthur M. Greenwood, Cultural | F. W. McKay, Numismatics.
History. Emery May Norweb, Numismatics
i. C. Herber, History. R. Henry Norweb, Numismatics
I. N. Hume, Cultural History.
Armed Forces History
W.R. Furlong. Byron McCandless.
F. C. Lane.
Exhibits
W. L. Brown, Taxidermy
BuREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY
Sister M. Inez Hilger. A. J. Waring, Jr.

M. W. Stirling.
ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY
C. G. Abbot
FREER GALLERY OF ART

Max Loehr.
Katherine N. Rhoades.

Oleg Grabar.
Grace Dunham Guest.

NATIONAL Ark MusEuM

Frederick C. Crawford. Alfred V. Verville.
John J. Ide.

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK
E. P. Walker
CANAL ZONE BroLocicAL AREA

C. C. Soper
Report of the Secretary of the
Smithsonian Institution
LEONARD CARMICHAEL

For the Year Ended June 30, 1963

To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution:

GuNnTLEMEN : I have the honor to submit a report showing the activi-
ties and condition of the Smithsonian Institution and its branches for
the fiscal year ended June 30, 1963.

GENERAL STATEMENT

James Smithson directed that the Institution founded by him should
be an establishment for the increase and diffusion of knowledge among
men. 'The 117th year of the Smithsonian Institution, covered in the
present report, shows notable achievements in research; that is, in the
increase of knowledge. The publications, museum displays, and the
answering of letters requesting information have all served during
the year to further the diffusion of knowledge.

In the pages that follow, reports of the activities of each of the
bureaus of the Smithsonian present in some detail the story of the year.
Additions to the collections, publications, new exhibits, new research
findings, and explorations are all described.

The year’s most notable development has been the progress made
in the completion of the great new Museum of History and Tech-
nology Building. This marble structure will be one of the largest
and one of the most modern and effective museums in the world.
Its 50 public exhibition halls will almost certainly be viewed each
year by at least 5 million visitors. The building has been planned so
that access to exhibits and the movement of visitors through the halls
will be as convenient as possible and produce a minimum of what is
often all too accurately called “museum fatigue.” In planning each
new exhibit an effort has been made to make every display a complete
instructional unit. Space has also been set aside for the great study
collections of the Institution in the fields of history and technology,
containing objects that are not on public exhibition but that are of
importance to the thousands of research scholars, specialists, and
collectors who come to the Smithsonian every year to learn more

in detail about some particular field of inquiry.
1
ed ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1963

The new east-wing addition to the National History Building, virtu-
ally completed by the end of the year, has been occupied by staff
scientists. Many of the great biological and geological study and
research collections of the Institution have been moved into space
provided in this wing. The completion of these additional facilities,
when supplemented by the later completion of the west wing, will
again allow the opening of some large public halls of the Natural
History Building that have had to be closed for many years in order
to provide space for research activities. During the more than 50
years between the completion of this great Natural History Building
and the construction of these new wings, much exhibition space had
necessarily been encroached upon. Now these fine halls, originally
planned for natural-history exhibitions, can be returned to their
proper use.

As noted in the reports that follow, physical improvements have
also been carried on at the National Zoological Park. Planning has
also been completed for the renovation of the old Patent Office Build-
ing. This building, by an act of Congress, has been assigned to the
Smithsonian Institution as the new home of the National Collection
of Fine Arts and of the new National Portrait Gallery.

The Decade 1953-63

Each annual report of the Smithsonian Institution describes the
advances that have been made in a single period of 12 months. It
may not be inappropriate occasionally in an annual report to sum-
marize accomplishments and changes that have taken place in the
Institution over a longer period of time. The decade 1953-63 has
been one marked by much progress at the Institution. As the present
report is the last one that will be submitted to the Board of Regents
by the present Secretary, it has seemed fitting to review here briefly
some of the highpoints of this 10-year period. ‘These years cover the
major period of tenure of the present Secretary.

It must be emphasized that all the advances made at the Smithsonian
Institution during the period under review are a result of the actions
and support of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution
and of the Congress of the United States.

In the paragraphs that follow, brief summaries are presented of
some of the major activities in this notable decade of each of the bu-
reaus of the Smithsonian.

United States National Museum, 1953-63

Ten years ago, as at the present time, the United States National
Museum consisted of two major sections. The Natural History Mu-
seum, in terms of national and indeed international recognition, prob-
SECRETARY’S REPORT 5

ably the best known part of the Museum, has developed in the decade
under consideration in an outstanding way. The other section, now
called the Museum of History and Technology, has seen an equally
important development.

In 1953 there were more than 34 million cataloged objects in the Na-
tional Museum of the Smithsonian Institution. By 1963 this number
had grown to over 57 million such objects. Sometimes those who
do not know intimately the work of the Smithsonian ask why the
collections have been allowed to develop so rapidly. The answer,
of course, is that the scientific work of the Smithsonian depends
very largely upon the use of these study collections by literally
thousands of competent investigators. Much of the world-famous
scientific study of insects, of plants, of minerals, and of other areas
of the natural resources of our Nation that is carried out at the Smith-
sonian Institution, could not be performed if it were not for the pres-
ence of these great, and in many cases unique, assemblages of care-
fully documented and labeled scientific specimens. During the decade
under consideration the staff of the Natural History Museum has been
markedly strengthened so that it can more adequately perform nec-
essary investigations related to these collections. Much of this re-
search has specific applications to medicine, especially military medi-
cine, the effect of radiation on living cells, insect control, general
problems of conservation, the development of food resources, and the
scientific knowledge of the natural history of the earth.

Field investigations conducted by the Museum have more than dou-
bled in number during this decade, and nearly all of them have been
conducted, not with funds appropriated to the Smithsonian, but with
gifts or grants made by individuals, foundations, or government agen-
cies. Recently the Smithsonian Oceanographic Sorting Center was
established to receive, screen, sort, and distribute for scientific study
the animals, plants, and minerals collected in the expanding oceano-
graphic program of the United States. Publicand private funds have
also made it possible for the Smithsonian to participate in the develop-
ment of techniques for underwater scientific study.

Only 10 years ago most of the corridors of the great Natural History
Museum Building were lined from floor to ceiling with cases containing
the working scientific reference collections of the Institution. Scien-
tists were required to work on stepladders and in walled-off stairwells
or behind screens in exhibition halls. In 1958 Congress appropriated
funds for the design of desperately needed additions to the Natural
History Building that had been authorized many years before. The
east wing, now complete, has added 214,000 square feet of space to
allow the proper and effective housing of scientific collections of the
Smithsonian. Funds have also been appropriated to allow the erection
4 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1963

of the symmetrically matching west wing. Work on the building of
this wing is expected to start in calendar year 1963.

In 1953 the 72-year-old Arts and Industries Building was rather
generally known in the American press as the “nation’s attic.” This
old building for years had led most of the rest of the museums of the
world in the popularity of its exhibits as measured by annual attend-
ance, but it was almost pathetically inadequate to accommodate its
great collections or to provide adequately for the tremendous crowds
that pushed into it day after day. In 1955 Congress authorized the
construction of a new building to be known as the Museum of History
and Technology of the Smithsonian Institution. This additional mag-
nificent building is now nearing completion and will soon be equipped
with exhibits and be open to the public. The old Arts and Industries
Building will not be abandoned but will be used for special exhibits
and for the display of important objects that are appropriate for its
large halls.

During the decade under review, historians of science and tech-
nology, some of them recent additions to the staff of the Institution,
have systematized the collections of the Smithsonian in both history
and technology. They have developed modern exhibits and have pre-
pared scholarly publications to present to the world the results of their
investigations of the collection of treasures housed at the Smithsonian.
Until the beginning of this decade most of the publications of the
Smithsonian Institution were in fields of study related to the sciences
of astronomy, anthropology, botany, zoology, and geology. Today
more than 250 monographs and books have been published to provide
a scholarly basis for the understanding of some of the great collections
of objects in the Museum of History and Technology.

These new Smithsonian publications and the new exhibits in the
fields of history and technology have brought to the attention of col-
lectors all over America, and indeed all over the world, the significance
of the Smithsonian’s work. New interest in the Institution’s collec-
tions in the field of the decorative arts, and in the collections of furni-
ture, silver, ceramics, textiles, and prints, has been especially notable.
Increasingly during these years Smithsonian experts have taken
important parts in the programs of seminars and museum conferences
dealing with the preservation and understanding of objects in these
fields. New methods of examination, interpretation, exhibition, and,
above all preservation have been developed during this time in the
workrooms and laboratories of the Smithsonian.

During this period the Institution has participated in excavations
at a number of colonial American sites. Nearly all this work has been
fully or partly supported by funds provided from private sources.
As a result of these studies new knowledge has come concerning the
SECRETARY'S REPORT 5

mode of life of Americans during the early years of the country, and
the pottery, weapons, insignia, tools, and trade objects of our young
nation are now much better understood than they were 10 years ago.

One of the prime reasons for the vast. increase in the number of visi-
tors at the Smithsonian museums has been the development that has
taken place in this decade in the presentation of exhibits. It is not
by chance that the number of visitors in the old Smithsonian buildings
on the Mall in 1952-58 totaled 3,429,000, whereas the number in 1963
reached the amazing figure of 10,309,000. Since 1953, 28 large exhi-
bition units have been transformed from halls full of poorly lighted
cases crammed with objects to well-labeled, modern, teaching ex-
hibits. It is not an exaggeration to say that the truly creative work
of the exhibit staff of the Smithsonian has become famous, not only in
every other great museum of America but also in all the large museums
in the rest of the world.

A few additional notes may be made concerning developments in
particular areas of interest :

The Institution has long had one of the great collections of musical
instruments of the country. Unfortunately, most of these were not
in condition to be played and were not easily viewed. Many of the
most important have been restored and can now be played. Some of
them have been used in concerts provided free for the public by volun-
teer musicians. A scientific analytical laboratory has been established
at the Smithsonian, and here physical and chemical techniques are now
employed in the important task of providing better methods for pro-
tecting and conserving the treasures of the Smithsonian. During this
decade the White House has been generally renovated. Under the
direction of the President of the United States and the staff of the
White House, the Smithsonian has played a role in the development
of exhibits of the history of the White House as now displayed in the
visitor’s entrance to this historic center of our Nation. An act of Con-
gress, passed in 1961, provided that objects not needed for use or dis-
play at any time at the White House are to be transferred to the Smith-
sonian Institution.

Annual reports of the Smithsonian list the splendid donations that
come to the Institution in each 12-month period. Among the espe-
cially notable gifts of the decade may be mentioned the following:

President John F. Kennedy presented a magnificent volume, the
“Atlas Nouveau” by Nicolas Sanson, 1692, beautifully bound for the
instruction of the Dauphin of France.

Mrs. Arthur M. Greenwood gave many objects illustrating American
colonial living, including an entire two-story, four-bedroom house
built in Massachusetts in 1678.

720-018—642
6 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1963

The Honorable and Mrs. Wiley T. Buchanan, Jr., purchased for
the Museum 600 fine examples of early Rhenish and Dutch pottery;
Harry Winston gave the great blue Hope Diamond; and the estate
of Mrs. Maude Monell Vetlesen, through her son Edmund C. Monell,
donated 180 pieces of beautifully carved jade ranging in age from the
Ming through the Ching dynasties.

Dr. Hans Syz began presenting in annual installments one of the
outstanding privately owned collections of fine European porcelain
of the earliest period. Mrs. Herbert Arthur May made gifts of laces,
glass, Americana, Indian materials, and the magnificent necklace of
diamonds which Napoleon I gave to the Empress Marie-Louise on
the occasion of the birth of their son in 1811.

Lessing J. Rosenwald presented an outstanding English astrolabe
of 1325 and a 16th-century folding sundial compass engraved with
maps and travel routes of central Europe. The International Busi-
ness Machines Corp. presented 21 beautifully engraved astrolabes
from Persia, India, North Africa, and Europe of the 13th and later
centuries, and 24 rare pre-Spanish textiles.

Willis H. du Pont made two outstanding gifts: a collection of coins
and medals struck in the name of Peter the Great, with a copy of
the rare 11-volume monograph on Russian coins by the Grand Duke
Georgii Mikhailovitch; and 860 coins and medals issued in the reigns
of Czar Ivan ITI and Czarina Elizabeth, also from the Grand Duke’s
collection.

The family of the late Henry T. Peters presented nearly 2,000
lithographs by American printmakers other than Currier and Ives,
from the “America on Stone” collection.

Mrs. W. Murray Crane presented a fine collection of French and
English furniture of the 18th century, and the Misses Helen R.
and Elizabeth W. Newcombe gave the complete furnishings of a 19th-
century American parlor.

Senator Clinton P. Anderson, Regent of the Smithsonian, presented
a fine copy of the Kelmscott Chaucer printed by William Morris in
1896; and the late Mrs. Richard Saltonstall, mother of Senator
Leverett Saltonstall, Regent of the Smithsonian, gave a handsome
family carriage made by Thomas Goddard of Boston in 1851; included
with the gift was a grant for its restoration.

Mrs. Clara W. Berwick made several gifts, one of 176 pieces of
early American glass; Mrs. George Hewitt Myers gave 48 pieces of
rare Castleford porcelain of 1790-1820. Arthur E. Wullschleger
discovered a French hand-and-foot treadle loom of the 18th century
equipped with a Jacquard mechanism of the early 19th century, which
he restored and presented to the Smithsonian.
SECRETARY'S REPORT t

Joseph J. Fénykévi donated an African elephant of record size.

Mrs. John Logan (the former Mrs. Rebecca Pollard Guggenheim)
presented a 423-carat sapphire. Ralph KE. Becker gave many out-
standing objects from his collection of political campaign materials,
including a painted banner celebrating the victory of Thomas
Jefferson in 1801.

Through the foresight of Dr. Robert V. Fleming, Regent of the
Smithsonian, the Southern Railway Co. preserved and presented a
fine example of a late steam locomotive which has been installed in
the new Museum of History and Technology.

The Revolutionary War gunboat Philadelphia, complete with its
cannons and 700 pieces of military equipment found in it, was ac-
quired from the estate of the late Col. Lorenzo F. Hagglund, who
expressed in his will the hope that it be preserved in the National
Museum. Also acquired was the unmatched W. Stokes Kirk collec-
tion of 3,000 items of military insignia and accouterments.

Dr. W. L. Libby presented the experimental equipment he used in
developing the carbon-14 method of dating archeological objects.
The Bell Telephone Laboratories gave 66 pieces of early telephone
equipment for the telephone exhibit gallery presented by the Bell
System and the independent telephone industry. Gifts of the Ameri-
can Telephone & Telegraph Co. include the duplicate Telstar com-
munications satellite. The original equipment of the Nobel prize
winners Drs. T. D. Lee and C. N. Yang employed in their nonparity
nuclear experiments was collected for preservation, as was the elec-
tronic digital computer “Maniac,” the gift of Princeton University.

During the period a number of administrative developments
strengthened the work of the United States National Museum. By
act of Congress a National Armed Forces Museum Advisory Board
has been established. The volunteer unpaid Junior League Docent
Service and the Smithsonian Museum Service have both been estab-
lished to provide better educational work for schoolchildren at the
Smithsonian. The installation of an Audio-Guide system in many
exhibition halls has given information about the collections that ap-
peals to the ear to supplement the labels intended for the eye.

International Exchange Service, 1953-63

The International Exchange Service is one of the oldest units of
the Smithsonian. Its work, originated and organized by the first and
great Secretary of the Smithsonian, Joseph Henry, more than a cen-
tury ago, is specifically authorized in 49 international treaties and
conventions.

During the decade under considerations, the International Ex-
change Service received for transmission more publications than in
8 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1963

any like period of its long history. There were 12,704,583 pub-
lications weighing 9,228,617 pounds received for forwarding through
the Service.

The increased workload was handled at little or no additional
increase in cost and with no additional employees. The use of card-
board cartons in place of wooden boxes for packing publications for
oversea shipments has resulted in a large saving.

Direct booking of ocean freight shipments with the steamship lines,
instead of through forwarding agents, has resulted not only in a large
saving of the fees that would have been charged by the forwarding
agents for their services but also in a more efficient operation. Three
weeks or more were necessary under the old system of booking be-
tween packing and the shipping of the publications to the steamship
piers. Publications are now packed, booked, and shipped in a period
of 1 day to 1 week. This method of transmission has reduced the
amount of space necessary for storage of cartons of publications
awaiting shipment to the steamship lines and has speeded up the
turnover of publications on hand for shipment.

A new method of processing publications for mailing has resulted
in a faster transmission to the intended addressees. The old method
of processing required a period of from 1 to 2 weeks before mailing.
The new method provides for mailing on the day of receipt or the
following day.

Bureau of American Ethnology, 1953-63

During the decade 1953-63 the activities of the Bureau of American
Ethnology were concerned principally with expeditions and researches
in the field and publication of anthropological monographs. This
unit of the Smithsonian, founded by the great Major John Wesley
Powell, is possibly the first center in the country, or even in the world,
for research in cultural anthropology. Its publications are famous
wherever anthropology is studied.

Of particular significance in the decade under review is the pro-
gram in archeology carried on in the extreme northern part of the
continent. In the earlier years of the period, archeological excava-
tions were conducted at Cornwallis Island in the Canadian Arctic,
the work being sponsored jointly by the Smithsonian Institution and
the National Museum of Canada. In the Hudson Bay area, investiga-
tions on Southampton and Coats Islands occupied several seasons,
a cooperative project of the Smithsonian Institution, the National
Museum of Canada, and the National Geographic Society. Sub-
sequently the American Philosophical Society joined in the financial
sponsorship of those activities and attention was turned to Walrus
Island. The extensive materials collected from the various islands
SECRETARY’S REPORT 9

greatly increased knowledge about the various peoples who have lived
there over a long period of time. Articles about the results and sig-
nificance of the studies were published by the Smithsonian and in
professional journals.

An extensive program of archeological research was carried on at
the important Olmec site of La Venta, Tabasco, Mexico. This was
a cooperative project in which the Smithsonian Institution, the Na-
tional Geographic Society, and the University of California partici-
pated. The results obtained at La Venta, published as a bulletin of
the Bureau, contribute significantly to a proper understanding of
the place the Olmecs occupied in the cultural development of early
America.

During this decade excavations at Russell Cave in Alabama were
sponsored by the Smithsonian Institution and financed by the Na-
tional Geographic Society. Russell Cave is important because of
the long sequence of cultural deposits it contains, and the materials
from it make possible the reconstruction of aboriginal developments
over a period extending back about 9,000 years. Evidences for many
cultural traits not previously recognized in the American South came
to light during the course of the digging. The National Geographic
Society subsequently purchased the cave and presented it to the Na-
tional Park Service to be established as a national historic site.

During the 10-year period the work of the River Basin Surveys
progressed in a rewarding manner. During that time 23 reservoir
areas were surveyed and archeological excavations were conducted in
324 sites. The funds for the program, transferred to the Smithsonian
from other government agencies and private donors, were greatly
increased during the last 3 years of the decade, making it possible
to expand and speed up the salvage operations. Thirty-two papers
reporting on the investigations and their significance were published
during the period. Others are currently in press. The information
thus far obtained has added tremendously to our knowledge of the
aboriginal Americans.

The archives of the Bureau, constituting a great national scientific
research tool, have increased notably in size and diversity of material
in this decade. Large collections of Indian photographs have been
made available, and either the original negatives or copies have been
added to the files. Included are 312 glass negatives of individual and
group portraits of Indian delegates to Washington during the period
1874-90. The papers of Alice Cunningham Fletcher and her adopted
son, Francis La Flesche, both of whom had been members of the Bu-
reau staff in earlier years, were donated to the archives by Mrs. G.
David Pearlman of Washington, D.C., in memory of her husband.
The collection, filling 36 manuscript boxes, includes correspondence
10 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1963

and other personal papers of both Miss Fletcher and La Flesche and
also extensive ethnographic items relating to the Omaha, Osage, Paw-
nee, Dakota, and Nez Perce Tribes, with smaller amounts on the Win-
nebago, the Indians of Alaska, and a few other North American tribes.
Much of this material has not been published and is a fruitful source
of data for students investigating those groups. Another significant
addition to the archives consists of papers of Dr. Frans M. Olbrechts
relating to his studies of the Cherokee Indians of North Carolina in
1926-31, when he was a collaborator of the Bureau. Dr. Olbrechts
was associated with the Kominklijh Museum, Tervuren, Belgium, and
following his death, Mrs. Olbrechts sent all his field notes and other
pertinent data to the Bureau.

A noteworthy event in the latter part of the 10-year period was the
appointment of a librarian and the reopening of the Bureau library,
with its extensive collection of reference works and documentary
records concerning all aspects of the life of the American Indian.

The Bureau issued several important bulletins during the period.
One of the most noteworthy is “Isleta Paintings,” a book outstanding
both as a contribution to ethnology and as an excellent example of
the effective use of good color reproductions for scholarly reasons.

National Zoological Park, 1953-63

The National Zoological Park was founded as the result of the ef-
forts of the third Secretary of the Smithsonian, Dr. Samuel Pierpont
Langley, about 75 years ago. It was established by an act of Congress
and assigned to the Smithsonian Institution. Previously a number
of great American animals, such as bison, were kept in pens near the
original Smithsonian Building. During the years since its establish-
ment, the Park has grown to become one of the world’s great animal
collections, as well as one of the most visited zoological parks in the
world. In 1961 the Congress of the United States authorized the Fed-
eral Government to make appropriations to the Smithsonian Institu-
tion for capital improvements at the National Zoological Park. As
a result, funds have been provided for a master plan for the moderni-
zation of the Zoo. This project, planned to be completed in 1972,
will be carried out gradually so that there will be very little incon-
venience to visitors or disruption of normal activities. One example
of the additions made possible by this new program is the construct-
ing of an aviary, 70 feet high and 120 feet in diameter, now nearing
completion.

Gifts of animals have been numerous during this decade. Among
them were a pair of Barbary apes from Sir Gordon MacMillan of
MacMillan, Governor and Commander-in-Chief of Gibraltar; three
East Indian monitor lizards from Hon. Carlton Skinner, Governor of
SECRETARY'S REPORT 11

Guam; a tuatara from the Government of New Zealand; two Philip-
pine macaques, early pioneers in space from the U.S. Air Force; two
Korean bears from President Syngman Rhee of Korea; pronghorn
antelopes from both the Wyoming and the Montana State Fish and
Game Commissions; a pair of gorillas from Russell Arundel of War-
renton, Va.; emperor and Adelie penguins from Hon. Charles Thomas,
Secretary of the Navy; a young Bengal tiger from the Ambassador
of Pakistan, Syed Amjad Ali; a pair of okapis from the Government
of the Belgian Congo; an African forest elephant from the Commu-
nity of French Republics; two dorcas gazelles from President Habib
Bourguiba of Tunisia; a spotted leopard and a male pygmy hippopot-
amus from President William V. S. Tubman of Liberia; an Indian
rhinoceros from the Forestry Service of Assam; two Bengal tigers
from Ralph Scott of Washington and Miami Beach; the beautiful
white tigress “Mohini,” from the Metropolitan Broadcasting Corp.,
the first to be seen outside of Rewa, India; “Ambika,” an Indian ele-
phant, from the “Share Your Birthday Foundation” and the Maha-
rajah of Mysore; six North African cranes from President Ibrahim
Abboud of Tunisia; three tree kangaroos from Sir Edward Hallstrom
of Sydney, Australia; and a sea-lion from Attorney General Robert
Kennedy.

The Zoo continued to be fortunate in its breeding program. Among
the interesting births, the first in importance was that of “Tomoka,”
a male lowland gorilla, on September 9, 1961. Other noteworthy births
were those of giraffes, pygmy hippos, gaur, Nile hippopotamus, eland,
snow leopard, wisent, Cape hunting dogs, striped hyena, margay and
serval cats, ring-tailed lemur, and lesser pandas. The kookaburras
have laid eggs and successfully reared the young for the past 2 years,
and the Surinam toads laid eggs and hatched them in their peculiar
manner twice during the 10-year period.

Purchases of unusual interest were a pair of cheetahs; two flat-
tailed Brazilian otters (the first to be exhibited in the United States) ;
a pair of black rhinoceroses and a pair of the much rarer white rhinos
(these also were the first to come to the States) ; two giant armadillos;
two Pére David deer, the rare fossa from Madagascar; a pair of
wisent, or European bison; a trio of Saiga antelope; two Sumatran
orangutans; a pair of snow leopards; a trio of Masai giraffes; three
Cape buffalo; three brindled gnus; Dall sheep; Pallas’s cats; maned
wolves; two yaks; a Colombian red-eyed cowbird that had not been
seen for so many years it was supposed to be extinct; pygmy teal;
crocodile birds; and two king cobras. Scientific work, necessary to
the maintenance of the great animal collection at the National Zoolog-
ical Park and also important in adding knowledge concerning the con-
12 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1963

servation of animals, has also been carried on with increasing success
during this 10-year period at the Zoo.

Astrophysical Observatory, 1953-63

During the decade ending in 1963 the Smithsonian Astrophysical
Observatory experienced greater change and generated more scientific
data than in any other comparable period since its establishment in
1890. In the decade the staff has increased to over 300 members.
Its publications include 130 special scientific reports, plus 7 volumes
of a new scientific series, Smithsonian Contributions to Astrophysics.

At the beginning of the decade the Observatory maintained two
high-altitude stations for solar observations: the resultant data were
used to determine the solar constant and to relate it to atmospheric
phenomena. This important groundbreaking study was discontinued
in 1962 because the method had reached the limit of usefulness.

When Loyal B. Aldrich retired as Director in 1955, Dr. Fred L.
Whipple was appointed his successor, and in fulfillment of an arrange-
ment with Harvard University the Observatory was moved to Cam-
bridge, Mass., where it has gained much from close association with
the large number of scientific research workers in that area.

The following year the Observatory received, through the Smith-
sonian Institution in Washington, the first of a series of grants from
the National Academy of Sciences and the National Science Founda-
tion for the optical tracking of artificial earth satellites to be launched
during the International Geophysical Year. At the end of the IGY
in 1959, the resultant tracking program of the Observatory continued
under a grant from the National Aeronautics and Space Administra-
tion. The tracking camera was designed to achieve a position accu-
racy of 1 second of arc, and a time accuracy of 1 millisecond in photo-
graphing satellites. In addition, there were organized a Moonwatch
program of amateur astronomers to make preliminary observations
of satellites, a computations division to prepare orbital predictions
and ephemerides, and a communications network to tie together the
tracking headquarters in Cambridge with the camera stations, the
volunteer Moonwatch teams, and other Government agencies.

When Sputnik I was launched on October 4, 1957, the first camera
had been completed, the Moonwatch teams were ready to begin visual
observing immediately, and orbital calculations and predictions com-
menced. In the next 9 months 12 Baker-Nunn cameras were com-
pleted and shipped to stations established by the Smithsonian Ob-
servatory in Japan, Australia, South Africa, India, Iran, Spain,
Peru, Argentina, and the Netherlands West Indies, as well as in
Florida, New Mexico, and Hawaii.

By the end of the decade the Moonwatch teams had made more than
53,000 observations of 191 different satellites and the cameras 81,750
SECRETARY’S REPORT 13

observations of 73 satellites. The photoreduction division had deter-
mined more than 54,000 precise satellite positions reduced to atomic
time. Meanwhile, the Observatory had evolved a number of com-
puter programs to process observational data, prepare predictions
of satellite passages, and provide the means of analyzing atmospheric
densities and temperatures, solar radiation, the shape of the earth and
similar phenomena.

The research and analysis division of the Smithsonian unit has pro-
duced some of the major scientific results of the U.S. space program,
including determinations of the coefficients of spherical harmonics for
the earth’s gravitational potential, improved geodetic data, a theory
of the critical inclination of satellite motion, and, from extremely
accurate studies of atmospheric drag, determination of density and
temperature in the high atmosphere as a function of time of day, and
geographical position and solar activity.

The space science of the Observatory has extended beyond satellite
tracking. Project Celescope, as a part of NASA’s orbiting astronomi-
cal observatory, is now being developed to make an ultraviolet survey
of the entire celestial sphere. An experiment on board one of NASA’s
orbiting solar observatories to study solar phenomena is being readied.

A network of automatic camera stations will make simultaneous
observations of meteors over an area of a million square kilometers.
This advanced program will provide the basis for a scientific project
of collecting meteorites and give vital new data for detailed study of
hypervelocity entry, meteoritic physics, and the upper atmosphere.

At the Observatory the first measurements were made of the radio-
active isotopes, argon of atomic mass 37 and 39, produced by cosmic
rays on meteorities in space. These measurements contributed to the
determination of erosion rates of meteoritic materials of various kinds
in space. Radiochemical analyses of recovered satellite materials first
proved that solar flares introduce tritium into such material in space
as well as producing transmutations of elements. The Observatory
participated in a program showing that optical flare stars are also
variable in the radio region of the spectrum.

Other research at the Smithsonian Observatory in the decade
included analyses of sophisticated problems in celestial mechanics; pre-
cision linking of the several geodetic networks of the earth; experi-
ments involving the origins of life and the possibilities of the extra-
terrestrial organisms; studies of comets, meteors, and interplanetary
dust; new methods, theories, and conclusions relating to stellar at-
mospheres and stellar pulsation; and other astrophysical problems.

The Division of Radiation and Organisms is a special unit of the
Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory. Research in this unit during
the past 10 years has been directed principally toward solving prob-
14 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1963

lems in radiation biology, with specific emphasis on elaborating the
intracellular mechanisms involved in regulatory responses of biolog-
ical systems controlled by ionizing or nonionizing radiation.

Emphasis has been centered on the precise determination of the
initial processes involved in a number of diverse light-regulated re-
sponses. In this division were determined the most precise and de-
tailed action spectra that have been reported for photomorphogenic
responses, such as bean hypocotyl hook opening, photoreversal of this
response, seed germination, interaction of visible light with X-ray-
induced chromosome aberrations, and the phototropic response of
oat seedlings in the blue and near-ultraviolet spectral regions. From
such action spectra, a great deal of significant information has been
obtained about the primary photoreceptors responsible for the absorp-
tion and transfer of radiant energy in biological systems.

Kinetic studies have been carried out determining the time course
of sensitivity, temperature-dependence of secondary dark reactions,
the interaction of photomimetric substances, auxins and antiauxins,
with the light-sensitive mechanisms. Descriptions have been educed
for some of the physical factors in plant reactions, including optical
and mechanical properties of cells. The morphological development
of chloroplasts after irradiation has been examined and measured,
using cytochemical techniques.

Investigations have been focused on the intracellular biochemical
mechanisms regulated or altered by radiation. These efforts have
resulted in a number of published articles on chlorophyll synthesis, the
effects of ionizing radiation on chlorophyll synthesis, and the activity
and concentrations of various subcellular components isolated after
irradiation, such as high energy phosphate compounds, mitochondrial
activity, protein synthesis in the photosynthetic apparatus, pigment
synthesis, carbohydrate metabolism, and various other enzymatic
activities.

During the past several years, the division staff and facilities have
expanded in order to approach radiobiological problems with a wider
range of disciplines employing the most advanced techniques of bio-
chemistry, biophysics, cytology, and plant physiology. A tempera-
ture-regulated greenhouse with controlled environment rooms has
been constructed with funds provided by a nonpublic foundation, the
Research Corporation. The growth of plants under natural and
artificial light conditions has been measured with great accuracy.
Concurrently, the construction and acquisition of specialized auto-
matic equipment for measuring the spectral distribution of total sky
light at frequent intervals have been completed, and long-term correla-
tions of daily and seasonal] fluctuations with observed plant responses
are being made.
SECRETARY'S REPORT 15

A carbon-dating laboratory has been operating in this unit of the
Smithsonian for about a year, dating samples of archeological interest
and initiating a research program aimed at developing new dating
technics for geological samples.

Two years ago a section was incorporated for research in marine
biology. This work in pure science has been financed by special gifts
from a non-Federal source, the Bredin Foundation. Marine orga-
nisms are well suited to fundamental investigation of radiation re-
sponses. Studies have been initiated to identify high molecular
weight phosphate compounds and determine the metabolic role of
these compounds in the conversion of radiant energy to chemical
energy.

Electronic and instrument shop facilities are maintained for the
design, construction, and service of the complex and highly specialized
instrumentation necessary to research program of the sort mentioned
above.

The division has published widely and it is safe to say has achieved
a favorable international reputation in radiation biology in the areas
of techniques for the generation, control, and measurements of radia-
tion; kinetics and biochemistry of photoresponses; action spectra;
and solar radiation measurements. Several foreign scientists have
come to the division to study its methods for 1- or 2-year periods,
and work has been done in collaboration with other laboratories
utilizing our specialized facilities.

National Collection of Fine Arts, 1953-63

The original act establishing the Smithsonian Institution directed
that it maintain a gallery of art. The National Collection of Fine
Arts, as a bureau of the Smithsonian, is the oldest gallery of art
directly related to the U.S. Government.

In the decade under consideration many notable paintings, largely
by distinquished American artists, have been added to the national
collections under the care of the National Collection of Fine Arts,
and restoration of anmy works of art in the collection of this bureau
has been carried on.

In the first year of the present decade the exhibits of the National
Collection of Fine Arts were reorganized and a main hall was opened
in the Natural History Building. During the years that have fol-
lowed, many temporary exhibits of importance have been shown in
the foyer gallery in the Natural History Building, and under the
direction of the Traveling Exhibition Service of the National Collec-
tion of Fine Arts, 375 shows, mainly in the field of the fine arts, have
16 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1963

been organized and circulated in over 500 different museums through-
out America, as well as in museums in many foreign countries. Al-
most 4,500 showings have been made possible in this period by this
service.

The greatest event in the decade 1953-63 was the act passed by
Congress in 1958 authorizing the transfer to the Smithsonian Institu-
tion of the historic and beautiful old Patent Office Building for con-
version to art galleries. Plans are well underway for the establish-
ment in this building of public galleries, study rooms, and restoration
laboratories that will allow the National Collection of Fine Arts to
display its great collections of American and other paintings in a
manner that could never have been achieved in its present borrowed
and incongruous space in the Natural History Building of the Smith-
sonian Institution.

Freer Gallery of Art, 1953-63

The period 1953-63 is the fourth decade in the history of the Freer
Gallery of Art. This unit of the Smithsonian Institution was es-
tablished by the late Charles Lang Freer as a gallery for the display
of great collections of art and as a center for the study especially of
the art of the Far East and the Middle East.

The annual attendance of the Gallery during the decade has grown
from approximately 70,000 to 183,000 per year. The collections have
also developed in notable ways. Additions to the collections, as pro-
vided in Mr. Freer’s will and purchased with the income from his be-
quest, have included over 450 major objects of art. The most signifi-
cant of these additions have been in the fields of Ming porcelains and in
Japanese painting. Mrs. Eugene Meyer, the one survivor of the three
persons permitted by Mr. Freer’s will to make gifts to the collection,
generously has given in this period three Chinese bronzes and one
Chinese painting. Members of the professional staff of the Freer
during the decade have published research on the collections in 16
books and over 100 articles.

The Freer Gallery has continued during this decade its world-
famous studies of the scientific composition of metallic, ceramic, and
other objects of art, and the development of new preservation tech-
niques. The Gallery during these years has been the base for the
publication, under the auspices of the International Institute for
Conservation of Historic and Artistic Works, of the /./.C. Abstracts
(commonly called the Freer Abstracts). The current number of this
journal shows that almost 4,000 abstracts of published works on
conservation have so far been made available to the whole museum
world through this medium.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 17

National Gallery of Art, 1953-63

The National Gallery of Art resulted from Andrew W. Mellon’s
munificent gift to the American people of his great collection of art
and a splendid building in which to house it.

Although a bureau of the Smithsonian Institution, the Gallery is
largely under the direction of a separate Board of Trustees of which
the Secretary of the Smithsonian is an ex officio member.

In the decade under consideration, 4,220 works of art were acquired
by the Gallery, including outstanding gifts from the Samuel H. Kress
Foundation, Horace Havemeyer, William Nelson Cromwell, Syma
Busiel, the Fuller Foundation, Inc., Mrs. Mellon Bruce, Mrs. P. H. B.
Frelinghuysen, and many others.

During the period 45 temporary loan exhibitions were held and
the annual series of lectures (A. W. Mellon Lectures in the Fine Arts)
was delivered. These lectures are in the process of being published
in a notable series. Many articles and books by staff members have
also been published during this time.

The annual number of visitors to the National Gallery of Art has
more than doubled in the past 10 years, with an attendance of 1,793,500
in fiscal year 1963 compared with 887,218 in fiscal year 1954.

Funds appropriated by Congress for maintenance of the Gallery
have increased from $1,274,473 in fiscal year 1954 to $2,100,769 for
fiscal year 1964.

National Air Museum, 1953-63

This bureau of the Smithsonian Institution has made significant
progress during the decade 1953-63.

One measure of this progress is the increase in public interest in the
small exhibit (less than 5 percent of its collection) which the Air
Museum now has on display. For example, its old Aircraft Building,
now called the Air and Space Building (a small metal building erected
in 1917 as a test center for Liberty motors), had a visitor count of
237,446 in fiscal year 1953. In fiscal year 1963 the count was 2,673,618.

The greatest need of the National Air Museum has been for a suit-
able building in which to display its great collection of the history of
manmade flight. Progress has been made toward achieving this
objective. In 1958 the Congress authorized the preparation of plans
and specifications for a new National Air Museum Building and
designated a beautiful Mall site for it. In 1963 planning funds were
appropriated by the Congress and planning will now begin.

Very important progress has been made during the decade in the
techniques of storage, preservation, and restoration. In 1953 most
of the collection of historic aircraft, engines, and other aeronautical
materials were stored in an Air Force hangar at Park Ridge, III.
18 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1963

Space requirements of the Air Force made it necessary to move the
collection. An area at Silver Hill, Md., close to Washington, was
acquired by transfer, and temporary storage buildings were erected.
The transfer of storage was completed in 1956.

One of the buildings at Silver Hill was constituted as a restoration
and preservation facility. With the congressional authorization of
the new National Air Museum Building in 1958, this work was
accelerated, and creditable shop facilities have been established, to-
gether with the completion of connecting roadways between storage
buildings and shop. By the end of the decade under consideration,
this facility was engaged in the restoration and preservation of
historic aircraft and engines in anticipation of the increased display
requirements of the new Air Museum Building.

The decade marked a very large increase in the collection of the
Museum. A total of 3,424 historic specimens were added, including
many full-size aircraft and, during the recent years, spacecraft.
Notable among these accessions were: a Douglas DC airplane, No. 164;
the “Excalibur” airplane which made the first nonstop solo flight over
the North Pole; a Boeing 247-D airplane; a 1929 Link Trainer; a
Pitcairn Autogyro of 1929; the “Ole Miss” Curtiss airplane; a “Van-
guard” launch vehicle; a Verville-Sperry “Messenger” airplane of
1920; a bronze statue of Brig. Gen. William Mitchell; the “First
Recovered Nose Cone” from space; a “Jupiter C” launch vehicle; a
collection of original records and memorabilia of Dr. Robert H.
Goddard, given by Mrs. Robert H. Goddard; an original holograph
manuscript of “Soaring Flight” by John J. Montgomery; a Ryan
X-13 “Vertijet” airplane; the Lockheed “Sirius” airplane flown by
Charles A. and Anne Morrow Lindbergh; an “Atlas” launch vehicle;
the “Able-Baker” spacecraft; a McDonnell FH-1 “Phantom” carrier-
based aircraft; the first “space” camera; the “Que Sera Sera,” first
airplane to land at the South Pole; “Freedom 7,” America’s first
manned spacecraft; the “Sacred Cow,” a Douglas C—54, the first Presi-
dential airplane; an early Bellanca airplane; an original oil portrait
of Gen. Claire Chennault and a number of his medals; a “Polaris”
rocket; “Friendship 7,” America’s first manned orbital spacecraft;
gear worn and used by Astronaut John Glenn on his historic flight in
“Friendship 7”; and an original painting of Astronaut Alan B.
Shepard, Jr., by artist James Scalese from the Honorable James G.
Fulton.

One of the most important areas of progress during the past 10
years has been the increase in the study library and reference files.
This collection now numbers more than 12,000 books, more than 300 file
cabinets of reference material, and approximately 100,000 photographs.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 19

The research work of the Museum has increased along with the
increase in public interest in its exhibits. Most of the time of the
professional staff is taken up with historical, technical, and biograph-
ical research to provide a service to authors, publishers, historians,
engineers, teachers, and students seeking authentic information.

In addition, a considerable increase in historical and technical re-
search is required in connection with the accelerated restoration pro-
gram of aircraft and engines.

For the National Air Museum the decade has been a transition
period. It has changed from a collecting and storing agency to a
full museum operation that is commensurate with its world-renowned
collection and its responsibilities to the public. It has developed new
displays, research, studies, preservation and restoration techniques,
and publications in a field of great American patriotic and historical
interest—manmade flight.

National Portrait Gallery, 1961-63

In 1961 Congress provided for the establishment of the National
Portrait Gallery. This gallery will be housed, together with the
National Collection of Fine Arts, in the old Patent Office Building
which, as noted above, has been transferred to the Smithsonian
Institution.

The Congress in 1962 provided for the establishment of a National
Portrait Gallery Commission to advise the Smithsonian Institution in
organizing and developing this new and important unit.

National Cultural Center, 1958-63

The National Cultural Center was established by an act of Con-
gress in 1958, and the new unit was designated as a bureau of the
Smithsonian Institution. Like the National Gallery of Art, the Na-
tional Cultural Center is largely administered by its own special
Board of Trustees.

Since the establishment of the bureau the principal function has
been connected with raising the funds to erect a suitable building in
the Nation’s Capital to provide halls for the presentation of opera,
symphonic concerts, dramatic performances, ballet, and other fields
of the performing arts.

Financial Resources, 1953-63

During the decade many generous gifts of funds have come to the
Smithsonian from private individuals and from foundations. Most
of these gifts are for very specific purposes. The most notable of
these private benefactions is the receipt of a legacy which, when finally
settled, will be in excess of $114 million from the late Robert Lee
Forrest. Another important benefaction came from the estate of
20 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1963

Atherton Seidell. Laura D. Barney has also been most generous to
the Institution during this period, and she and her sister, Natalie C.
Barney, gave the Smithsonian the Barney Studio House in
Washington.

At the beginning of this period (June 30, 1952) the book value of
the unexpended funds and endowments of the Smithsonian was
$11,138,392. As indicated in the financial statement on a later page
of this report, this sum has now reached a total of $22,534,920. The
market value of the securities and assets of the endowment funds of
the Smithsonian at the end of the period is in excess of $25,000,000.
The income from the many funds that make up this total is expended
according to the directions of the donors of the funds.

During the decade Federal funds for building and for planning
buildings have been provided to the Smithsonian to a total of
$61,012,000. At the beginning of the period the annual appropriation
for the basic expenses of the operation of all the bureaus of the Smith-
sonian Institution (except the National Gallery of Art and the Na-
tional Zoological Park, which have separate budgets) was $2,553,200.
The appropriation for these same parts of the Institution for the fiscal
year 1964 is $13,124,000. At the start of the decade the annual op-
erating appropriation for the National Zoological Park was $620,800.
The appropriation for this part of the Institution for fiscal year 1963
was $1,470,200. Capital appropriations for the National Zoological
Park in this period, in addition to operating funds, have been $2,550,-
000. The budget of the National Gallery of Art, which is admin-
istered separately from the Smithsonian Institution as a whole, was
$1,240,000 at the start of the decade, and the appropriation for 1964
for this unit was $2,138,000. Gifts and grants for research projects
and other specific purposes, exclusive of appropriated funds and all
for the particular purposes specified by donors or grantors, have totaled
$32,489,471 in the decade under consideration.

It can be said with assurance, as the progress of the decade 1953-
63 is reviewed, that the Smithsonian’s donor, James Smithson, planned
well when he directed that his Institution should concern itself with
the great and related humanitarian functions of the increase and the
diffusion of knowledge among men.

THE ESTABLISHMENT

The Smithsonian Institution was created by act of Congress in
1846, in accordance with the terms of the will of James Smithson, of
England, who in 1826 bequeathed his property to the United States
of America “to found at Washington, under the name of the Smith-
sonian Institution, an establishment for the increase and diffusion of
knowledge among men.” In receiving the property and accepting the
SECRETARY’S REPORT 21

trust, Congress determined that the Federal Government was without
authority to administer the trust directly, and, therefore, constituted
an “establishment,” whose statutory members are “the President, the
Vice President, the Chief Justice, and the heads of the executive
departments.”

THE BOARD OF REGENTS

The appointment to the vacancy in the class of citizen regent was
effected by the approval on July 2, 1963, of a joint resolution of Con-
gress designating Dr. William A. M. Burden of New York to succeed
the late Dr. Arthur H. Compton as a Regent for the statutory term of
6 years.

The roll of Regents at the close of the fiscal year was as follows:
Chief Justice of the United States Earl Warren, Chancellor; Vice
President Lyndon B. Johnson; members from the Senate: Clinton
P. Anderson, J. William Fulbright, Leverett Saltonstall; members
from the House of Representatives: Frank T. Bow, Clarence Cannon,
Michael J. Kirwan; citizen members: John Nicholas Brown, William
A. M. Burden, Robert V. Fleming, Crawford H. Greenewalt, Caryl
P. Haskins, and Jerome C. Hunsaker.

The customary informa] dinner meeting, preceding the annual meet-
ing, was held in the Great Hall of the Smithsonian Building on
January 23, 1963. Exhibits showing some of the recent work of the
Smithsonian bureaus were in place in the hall at the time of the dinner
to apprise the Regents of current Smithsonian research developments.
Dr. Richard S. Cowan spoke on “Research for a Tropical American
Rain-Forest Exhibit”; Dr. Robert P. Multhauf on “History of the
Measurement of Gravity in the 19th Century”; Dr. John A. Pope on
“The Freer Gallery of Art Research Project on Ancient Chinese
Ceremonial Bronzes”; and Dr. Fred L. Whipple on “Scientific Study
of Recovered Parts of Russian Sputnik IV.”

The annual meeting was held on January 24, 1963. The Secretary
presented his published annual report on the activities of the Institu-
tion. The Chairman of the Executive and Permanent Committees
of the Board, Dr. Robert V. Fleming, gave the financial report for the
fiscal year ended June 80, 1962.

The spring meeting of the Board of Regents was held at 5 o’clock
in the Regents Room. A financial report was presented by the chair-
man of the Executive Committee. The Regents then adjourned to
the hall of fossil mammals for an informal dinner.

RETIREMENT OF DR. KELLOGG

On October 31, 1962, Dr. A. Remington Kellogg, Assistant Secre-
tary of the Smithsonian Institution and Director of the United States
National Museum, retired and assumed the status of honorary re-

720-018—64——-3

Py ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1963

search associate of the Smithsonian. During Dr. Kellogg’s service
as Director, beginning in 1948, the National Museum experienced a re-
markable growth. The collections grew from 25 million specimens
in 1948 to 56 million in 1962. A renovation of exhibits programs re-
vitalized more than 20 exhibition halls in the National Museum. A
wing was added to the Natural History Museum, and a new Museum
of History and Technology was built. Dr. Kellogg directed the
programs that resulted in these achievements and participated
strongly in their execution.

Prior to becoming Director of the National Museum, Dr. Kellogg
had served in the division of mammals, beginning in 1928 as assistant
curator and becoming curator of the division in 1941. His main sci-
entific interest has been, and continues to be, the biology of whales, in
which field he is one of the world’s foremost authorities. His re-
search on the paleontology of whales has been widely acclaimed. It is
altogether fitting, therefore, that he should now be conducting his
scientific investigations in a workroom on the vertebrate paleontology
floor of the museum wing which he helped to create. He is con-
tinuing to publish his excellent scientific reports.

On November 1, 1962, following Dr. Kellogg’s retirement, Dr.
Albert C. Smith, who had been Director of the Museum of Natural
History since 1958, became an Assistant Secretary of the Institution.

NATIONAL PORTRAIT GALLERY

On April 27, 1962, Public Law 87-443 established the National Por-
trait Gallery as a bureau of the Smithsonian Institution to “function
as a free public museum for the exhibition and study of portraiture
and statuary depicting men and women who have made significant
contributions to the history, development, and culture of the people
of the United States and of the artists who created such portraiture
and statuary.”

This act of Congress also authorized the establishment of a National
Portrait Gallery Commission, to serve as an advisory body to the
Board of Regents in regard to programs, methods of operation, and
selections of appropriate displays for the new Gallery. ‘The members
of the Commission, as announced on June 21, 1963, by the Chancellor
of the Board of Regents, the Honorable Earl Warren, are as follows:
Catherine Drinker Bowen, author and historian, of Bryn Mawr, Pa.

Julian P. Boyd, author and historian, of Princeton, N.J.
John Nicholas Brown, Regent of the Smithsonian Institution, of Providence, R.I.
Lewis Deschler, Parliamentarian of the House of Representatives of the United

States Congress, of Bethesda, Md.

David E. Finley, former Director of the National Gallery of Art, of Washington,

D.C.
Wilmarth Sheldon Lewis, historian and biographer, of Farmington, Conn.
SECRETARY'S REPORT 23

Richard H. Shryock, author and historian, of Philadelphia, Pa.
Col. Frederick P. Todd, Director of the U.S. Military Academy Museum, of West
Point, N.Y.
Ez officio:
The Chief Justice of the United States.
The Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.
The Director of the National Gallery of Art.

NATIONAL ARMED FORCES MUSEUM ADVISORY BOARD

Public Law 87-186 (August 30, 1961) established a National Armed
Forces Museum Advisory Board in the Smithsonian Institution to
provide advice and assistance to the Smithsonian Board of Regents
on matters concerning the portrayal of the contributions which the
Armed Forces of the United States have made to American society
and culture, the investigation and survey of lands and buildings in
and near the District of Columbia suitable for the display of military
collections, and the preparation of recommendations to the Congress
with respect to the acquisition of lands and buildings for such
purposes.

This law additionally provides that the Smithsonian Institution
shall (1) commemorate and display the contributions made by the
military forces of the Nation toward creating, developing, and main-
taining a free, peaceful, and independent society and culture in this
country; (2) portray the valor and sacrificial service of the men and
women of the Armed Forces as an inspiration to the present and future
generations of America; (3) demonstrate the demands placed upon
the full energies of our people, the hardships endured, and the sacrifice
demanded in our constant search for world peace; (4) graphically
describe the extensive peacetime contributions the Armed Forces have
made to the advance of human knowledge in science, nuclear energy,
polar and space exploration, electronics, engineering, aeronautics, and
medicine; (5) interpret through dramatic display significant current
problems affecting the Nation’s security; and (6) provide a study cen-
ter for scholarly research into the meaning of war, its effects on
civilization, and the role of the Armed Forces in maintaining a just
and lasting peace by providing a powerful deterrent to war.

Members of the National Armed Forces Museum Advisory Board
will serve 6 years, except for the initial Board which was appointed by
the President in April 1962 to serve for terms of 2, 4, and 6 years:
John Nicholas Brown, Regent of the Smithsonian Institution
Rufus E. Clement, President of Atlanta University
Fred Korth, Secretary of the Navy
David L. Kreeger, Vice President of Government Employees Insurance Co.

Cyrus B. Vance, Secretary of the Army
Earl Warren, Chief Justice of the United States
24 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1963

Henry B. Washburn, Jr., Director of the Boston Museum of Science
William W. Whiteman, Jr., lawyer and financier, Oklahoma City
Hugene M. Zuckert, Secretary of the Air Force

The Advisory Board has held two meetings, during which it selected
a chairman, John Nicholas Brown, adopted bylaws for its operation,
considered the scope and extent of the Board’s functions, and proposed
areas of study. A number of potential Museum sites in the Greater
Washington area have been considered, and several have been examined
by the Advisory Board.

FINANCES

A statement on finances, dealing particularly with Smithsonian pri-
vate funds, will be found in the report of the executive committee of
the Board of Regents, page 261. Funds appropriated to the Institu-
tion for its regular operations for the fiscal year ended June 380, 1963,
totaled $11,060,550. Besides this direct appropriation, the Institu-
tion received funds by transfer from other Government agencies as
follows: From the District of Columbia for the National Zoological
Park, $1,504,997; from the National Park Service, Department of the
Interior, for the River Basin Surveys, $271,000.

VISITORS

Visitors to the Smithsonian buildings on the Mall again surpassed
all records with a total of 10,309,836, which was 1,386,705 more than
for the previous year. April 1963, with 1,720,716, was the month of
largest attendance; August 1962 second, with 1,616,360; July 1962
third, with 1,612,452. Table 1 gives a summary of the attendance
records for the five buildings; table 2, groups of schoolchildren. A
new method adopted for estimating the number of visitors at the Na-
tional Zoological Park showed a total of 3,200,000 for the year. When
this figure is added to the attendance in the Institution’s buildings on
the Mall, and to the 1,793,500 recorded at the National Gallery of Art,
the total Smithsonian attendance for 1962 may be set at 15,303,336.

REPLACEMENT OF SMITHSON PLAQUE

In 1896 the Smithsonian Board of Regents caused to be erected a
handsome marble memorial to James Smithson in the English Church
of the Holy Ghost in Genoa, Italy, where he died on June 26, 1829.
During World War II the church was gutted by fire following Allied
bombardments and stripped of all fittings by looters. Following the
war the church was restored, but all trace of the Smithson cenotaph
had disappeared.

It seemed appropriate and desirable that this memorial to the
founder of the Smithsonian Institution be replaced, and in 1960 the
Board of Regents so authorized. The new plaque, sculptured by Raf-
Secretary's Report, 1963 PLATE 1

JAMES SMI
FOVNDER OF THE SMITHSONIAN
INSTITVTION - WASHINGTON

ERECTED BY THE REGENTS
OF THE INSTITVTION 1I896

te aan ai gt

Smithson plaque as restored in English Church of the Holy Ghost, Genoa, Italy, 1963
SECRETARY’S REPORT ; 25

faello Romanelli, of Florence, is a facsimile of a replica of the original
which is erected adjacent to the Smithson tomb in the Smithsonian
Building in Washington. In May 1963 the Institution was notified
by the American Consul General at Genoa that installation of the new
memorial had been completed (pl. 1).

Thanks are due particularly to the following individuals for their
interest and cooperation in helping to initiate or complete this project:
John LePelley, of Paris, assistant vice president of the First National
City Bank of New York; David Balfour, former British Consul Gen-
eral at Genoa; S. A. H. Eley, Lord Bishop of Gibraltar; F. J. Bailey,
the Archbishop of Malta; Stephen P. Dorsey, American Consul Gen-
eral at Genoa; and to sculptor Romanelli for his faithful creation.

TABLE 1.—Visitors to certain Smithsonian buildings during the year ended June 30,

1963
Smithsonian} Arts and Natural Air and Freer
Year and month Building Industries History Space Building Total
Building Building Building

1962
ik ere 258, 510) 555,775} 267,106) 502, 686) 28, 375} 1, 612, 452
PUSH oe oa e 264, 448] 595, 337| 282,016) 4438, 142} 31, 417| 1, 616, 360
September- ____- 79,136] 200,639] 119,261] 116,104] 14,267] 529, 407
@ctober.--22 =... 64,169] 159, 731; 120,189) 101, 711) 11, 169 456, 969
November---_--- 55, 136} 159,100} 121, 763 92, 541] 10, 846 439, 386
December-__-_---- 34, 400 73, 199 70, 306 45, 726] 5, 940 229, 571

1963
Jamianyeo === 39, 430 96,555} 114, 159 64, 642) 6, 558 321, 344
Hebrilary. ==-=-= 51, 528} 114,532} 106, 570 75, 033) 7, 098 354, 761
Vitae neers Li 2 76, 916} 165, 820) 154, 488) 120, 853) 10, 901 528, 978
A elle See eee 298, 248} 692,693) 337,878} 370, 947) 20, 950) 1, 720, 716
Naive es ra 210, 378} 352, 299) 283,510) 325,157) 15, 574| 1, 186, 918

+ (CTS Se eee 197,981] 368,502) 311,151} 415, 076) 20, 264) 1, 312, 974
26 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1963

Tasty 2.—Groups of schoolchildren visiting the Smithsonian Institution during
the year ended June 80, 1963

Year and month Number of | Number of Year and month Number of | Number of
children groups children groups
1962 1963
TRuliga sels eaanedtaie 12, 810 5487| Sully. 22 eee 23, 808 629
Aususte ee 6, 991 Z208nP Augusta=5 e222 17, 124 493
September- ----- 4, 797 146 || September- ----- 41, 888 1, 046
Qetabers.----= 25, 970 698 |} October. - ------ Ce Peat eh 1, 726
November_ ----- 32, 495 818 || November-_ -_---- 165, 384 3, 428
December.- - ---- 12, 946 368 || December- ---_-- 53, 065 1,174

Total__._| 475,048 | 11, 082

i
Report on the United States
National Museum

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the condition
and operations of the U.S. National Museum for the fiscal year ended

June 30, 1963 :
COLLECTIONS

During the year 1,723,830 specimens were added to the national
collections and distributed among the 8 departments as follows: An-
thropology, 11,993; zoology, 1,361,586; botany, 69,642; geology, 80,-
414; science and technology, 2, 588; arts and manufactures, 2,910; civil
history, 191,753; and Armed Forces history, 2,944. The largest di-
visional acquisition was in the division of insects, which accessioned
a total of 1,209,339 specimens. Most of this year’s accessions were
acquired as gifts from individuals or as transfers from Government
departments and agencies. The complete report on the Museum, pub-
lished as a separate document, includes a detailed list of the year’s
acquisitions, of which the more important are summarized below.
Catalog entries in all departments now total 57,541,770.

Anthropology—tThe division of archeology received as its largest
accession a lot of 8,431 specimens from Alaska collected for the Mu-
seum by Dr. James A. Ford. His published monograph, “Eskimo
Prehistory in the Vicinity of Point Barrow,” made it possible to ac-
cession the specimens according to the published types and illustra-
tions. James P. Mandaville, Jr., donated a well-documented
collection of 185 specimens from northern Arabia, including potsherds,
terra-cotta figurine fragments, and an inscribed copper hoe blade.
Three important collections of Iranian artifacts were presented by
Mr. and Mrs. Anthony Cuomo, Mr. and Mrs. Daniel F. Magner, and
C. Edward Wells. Represented among the 160 specimens are pottery,
bronze weapons, inscribed mud bricks, and glazed architectural
fragments, ranging in dates from 2000 B.C. to the third century A.D.
A group of five Korean bronze weapons of the Han Dynasty was
donated by Gen. George H. Decker. A rare anthropomorphic pottery
figure from the Bahia culture of the Esmeraldas region was acquired
from Mrs. Erika Burt.

The division of ethnology received a collection of 25 items of tradi-
tional court costume from Indonesia, presented by His Highness Sri

27
28 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1963

Paku Alam VIII, through the American Embassy in Djakarta. The
Government of Vietnam, through its embassy in Washington, D.C.,
presented 67 specimens comprising a carved wooden chest, bronze
vessels, and textiles. For use in the preparation of new exhibits, 103
ornaments, household items, and weapons of the people of Burundi
were obtained from David W. Doyle, American Vice Consul at
Usumbura, Burundi. Also for exhibition, a Chinese collection of
365 specimens was acquired from Taiwan with the assistance of the
National Historical Museum and the Provincial Museum, under the
direction of the Ministry of Education and Academia Sinica.

The division of physical anthropology received, from the U.S. Army
Research Institute of Enviromental Medicine, a collection of 50,000
somatotype negatives. ‘These were made during the U.S. Army sur-
vey of male body build in 1945-46 under the direction of E. A. Hooton
and form the basis for the Harvard system of rating body build.
Largest of its kind, the collection will be available for study by quali-
fied professionals. Received for study and exhibit purposes is a new
set of casts of the original Neanderthal skeleton, gift of the Rheinisches
Landesmuseum, Bonn, Germany, and excellent casts of Oreopithecus
from central Italy, received from the Natural History Museum in
Basle, Switzerland. Other accessions include human skeletal ma-
terials from Mexico, Alaska, and various parts of the United States.

Zoology.—Staff members and cooperating agencies contributed ap-
proximately 9,200 specimens to the division of mammals, most of these
being collected by Dr. Charles O. Handley, Jr., and Francis M. Green-
well in Panama. Others were collected by Naval Medical Research
Unit No. 2, in Formosa; by Dr. Dale Osborn in Turkey; by Gary L.
Ranch in Libya and Iran; by the department of microbiology of the
University of Maryland, in West Pakistan and Mexico; and by Ken-
neth I. Lange and James H. Shaw in the Malagasy Republic. Dr.
Henry W. Setzer of the Museum staff participated in the last three
projects. Other valuable collections were made as follows: by Miss
Alena Elbl of the University of Maryland, in Ruanda Urundi; by
Dr. L. G. Clark of the University of Pennsylvania, in Nicaragua, and
by William J. Schaldach, Jr., in southern Mexico. Important speci-
mens obtained for the exhibition series include a large male walrus,
collected by Hugh H. Logan, and two paratypes of the bat Phzlippin-
opterus lanei, presented by Dr. Edward H. Taylor.

To the collections of the division of birds, 2,259 bird skins, 1,011
anatomical specimens, and 1 egg from Panama and 198 skeletons from
Kenya were received through Dr. Alexander Wetmore; 642 skins, 128
skeletons, and 9 alcoholic specimens from the U.S. Fish and Wildlife
Service; 198 skins from Formosa transferred from the U.S. Depart-
ment of the Navy, U.S. Naval Medical Research Unit No. 2, through
SECRETARY'S REPORT 29

Dr. Robert Ic. Kuntz; and a collection of wooden game-bird calls,
together with tape recordings demonstrating their use, from Dr.
Augusto Ruschi, director, Museu de Biologia Prof. Mello Leitao,
Brazil.

In the division of reptiles and amphibians, several additions to the
collections are noteworthy: a gift of 325 Colombian frogs, including
types and paratypes, from Brother Hermano Nicéforo Maria, Bogota,
Colombia; a gift of 162 reptiles and amphibians collected in Mexico
and Central America from Elkan J. Morris, Fairbanks, Alaska; 71
reptiles and amphibians obtained for the Museum in South America
and Panama by Dr. Charles O. Handley, Jr., and Francis M. Green-
well; 70 amphibians acquired for the Museum from South America
and Panama by Mrs. Doris H. Blake and Dr. Doris M. Cochran; an
exchange of 27 Colombian frogs with the Chicago Natural History
Museum; and an exchange of 21 Brazilian frogs with Werner C. A.
Bokermann, Sao Paulo, Brazil.

Exchanges of specimens netted the division of fishes the major por-
tion of the current year’s new accessions. Received on exchange was
the holotype of a new Dascylus from D. Woifgang Klausewitz, Frank-
furt, Germany. Horace Loftin and Dr. R. W. Yerger sent, on ex-
change, 10,000 fresh-water fishes from the Canal Zone, Panama, col-
lected by Mr. Loftin. Other contributors of holotypes include Drs.
Giles W. Mead and Henry B. Bigelow, Museum of Comparative
Zoology, Harvard University; Dr. George S. Myers, Stanford Uni-
versity; and Loren P. Woods, Chicago Natural History Museum.
Among the contributors of paratypes were Dr. C. Richard Robins,
University of Miami, Marine Laboratory ; Dr. Norman J. Wilimovsky,
University of British Columbia; Dr. Jacques R. Géry, Laboratoire
Arage, France; and Dr. José Alvarez del Villar, Instituto Politécnico
Nacional, Mexico.

The division of mollusks added a total of 23,967 specimens to its
collections. Dr. Joseph Rosewater of the Museum staff collected 1,194
marine and land mollusks on Eniwetok Atoll. Mr. and Mrs. Delmas
H. Nucker donated 699 specimens of marine mollusks from the Caro-
line Islands, and Dr. Tadashige Habe added 120 specimens, of which
28 are paratypes, of recently described mollusks from Japan. Holo-
types of molluscan species and subspecies were received from Dr. Raul
Guitart, Dr. Harry W. Wells, Messrs. Leslie Hubricht, Thomas L.
McGinty, and William G. Pearcy, and from the U.S. Fish and Wildlife
Service Laboratory, Pascagoula, Miss., through Harvey R. Bullis, Jr.
A total of 1,257 helminthological specimens, among which were many
types of new species, were added to the collection housed in the Para-
sitological Laboratory of the Animal Disease and Parasite Research
Branch of the U.S. Department of Agriculture, Beltsville, Md.
30 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1963

The division of marine invertebrates acquired a number of impor-
tant collections. Leslie Hubricht of Meridian, Miss., presented his
personal collection of 32,327 fresh-water invertebrates, containing
what is probably the largest and most valuable series of American
fresh-water isopod crustaceans ever assembled. A total of 83,177
specimens were received from the Fourth Smithsonian-Bredin Carib-
bean Expedition, 1960. Through Dr. Harry S. Ladd, the Paleon-
tology and Stratigraphy Branch of the U.S. Geological Survey con-
tributed 1,079 corals from the Marshall Islands, including 217 type
and figured specimens described by Dr. J. W. Wells in his comprehen-
sive monograph on Indo-Pacific reef corals. Through Dr. Arthur G.
Humes, Boston University donated 852 copepod and isopod crusta-
ceans. Approximately 974 isopod and 322 amphipod crustaceans were
received from the Beaudette Foundation for Biological Research,
through Dr. J. Laurens Barnard. Included in this group are 198
paratypes of 4 species of isopods described by Dr. Robert J. Menzies.

The U.S. Department of Agriculture, through Dr. William H.
Anderson, transferred to the division of insects the largest single
accession ever received: a collection of Coccidae (scale insects) con-
servatively estimated to contain 1 million specimens. Additional im-
portant accessions include the Harold E. Box collection of 5,000 Neo-
tropical cane-boring moths of the genus Diatraea; a donation of 8,000
North American butterflies and moths by Dr. George W. Rawson; the
J. C. Hopfinger collection of butterflies and moths; 6,741 specimens,
mostly Coleoptera, from William W. Pinch; 805 Brazilian insects from
Dr. C. M. Biezanko; 6,543 British Columbian insects from C. Garrett;
6,612 specimens from N. L. H. Krauss, who has been a devoted con-
tributor for many years; and 2,000 specimens from Guatemala from
Dr. Thomas H. Farr.

Noteworthy contributions to the collections by staff members in-
clude 900 specimens, mostly European centipedes, from Dr. Raiph E.
Crabill, Jr.; 41,110 specimens collected in Puerto Rico, Virgin Islands,
and North America from Dr. Paul J. Spangler; 400 specimens of but-
terflies from the eastern United States from William D. Field; 1,192
miscellaneous insects, chiefly caddisflies, from Dr. Oliver S. Flint, Jr.;
7,826 specimens, mostly Microlepidoptera, from the northwestern
United States from Dr. J. F. Gates Clarke; and 285 specimens, chiefly
Orthoptera, from Dr. Ashley B. Gurney, U.S. Department of Agri-
culture. Others making important donations were Drs. Nell B.
Causey, G. E. Ball, W. L. Brown, Richard L. Hoffman, and Bernard
Feinstein.

Botany—A fine lot of 4,143 herbarium specimens and 480 wood
samples from Brazil, presented by Boris A. Krukoff, Smithtown,
N.Y., adds appreciably to the national collections. Among them
SECRETARY’S REPORT 31

was a group of woods from laticiferous plants on which anatomical
research was planned by Mr. Krukoff. Dr. José Cuatrecasas gave
3,200 specimens which he collected in Colombia. Other gifts included
620 excellent specimens of Pennsylvania plants from Muhlenberg Col-
lege, Allentown, Pa.; 850 cryptogams, mostly mosses, from Dr. F. J.
Hermann, Adelphi, Md.; and 504 specimens from the University of
Alaska.

Several large collections were received in exchange. A group of
845 slides of pollen of African plants was received from Duke Uni-
versity through Mrs. Shirlee Cavaliere and 765 slides from the Pan
American Petroleum Corp. of Tulsa, Okla., through Dr. Donald W.
Engelhardt. Gray Herbarium of Harvard University sent 1,037
specimens collected by Dr. L. J. Brass on the Fourth Archbold Expe-
dition to New Guinea. Other exchanges included 845 specimens of
Asia and eastern Europe from the V. L. Komarov Institute of Botany
of the Academy of Sciences, Leningrad, U.S.S.R.; 888 specimens
collected in Mexico by Dr. Faustino Miranda from the Instituto de
Biologia, Universidad Nacional de México; and 392 plants of Aus-
tralia from the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research
Organization, Melbourne.

Dr. John J. Wurdack collected for the Museum 9,258 specimens in
Peru; Dr. R.S. Cowan and Dr. Thomas R. Soderstrom, 3,370 specimens
in British Guiana; and Dr. William L. Stern, 439 specimens in Oregon,
Wyoming, and Colorado.

From the U.S. Geological Survey were transferred 801 specimens
collected on the Pacific islands by Dr. F. R. Fosberg; from the U.S.
Fish and Wildlife Service, 420 plants collected in Alaska by Frank
Beals; and from the Agricultural Research Service, Department of
Agriculture, 235 specimens collected in Iran and Mexico by Dr. How-
ard Scott Gentry. .

Geology.—A total of 3,885 specimens was received in the division
of mineralogy and petrology. Among the important gifts are a very
fine specimen of legrandite, Mapimi, Mexico, from Bernard T. Rocca,
Sr., and an exceptional specimen of fairfieldite, Kings Mountain, N.C.,
from Carter Hudgins. Outstanding among specimens received by
exchange was a collection of cerussite, azurite, and associated minerals
from Tsumeb, South West Africa; a crystal of vivianite, 31 inches
in length from the Cameroons; and a fine piece of malachite, from the
Congo. New species received in exchange were: calumetite, Michi-
gan; angelellite, Argentina; arsenate-belovite, fersmanite, gerasimov-
kite, kupletskite, lomonossovite, and vinogradovite, from the
U.S.S.R.; bafertisite, Inner Mongolia; bergenite, East Germany;
bonattite, Canada; carobbiite, Italy; cuprorivaite, Italy; hydroames-
32 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1963

ite, Hungary; reinerite, stranskite, and gallite, South West Africa;
and schuetteite and wightmanite, California.

A total of 815 specimens was added to the Roebling collection by
purchase or by exchange. Among these are outstanding specimens of
wulfenite, calcite, and agate from Mexico. Gem specimens include
a 17-carat greenish-yellow brazilianite, from Brazil; a 30-carat cat’s-
eye cerussite, from South West Africa; and a 9.35-carat axinite from
Baja California, Mexico. Acquired by purchase through the Canfield
fund is a magnificent group of amethyst quartz crystals from Guer-
rero, Mexico. The largest crystal measures 4 by 18 inches, and each
is tipped by white quartz.

New acquisitions to the gem collection include a 2.86-carat deep-
pink diamond, Tanganyika, from S. Sydney De Young; a 235.5-carat
morganite, Brazil, from Mr. and Mrs. Frank Ix, Jr.; a 277.9-carat
citrine, Brazil, from Albert Cutter; and a 177-carat kunzite, Cali-
fornia, from the American Gem Society. Gem specimens acquired
by purchase through the Chamberlain fund for the Issac Lea collection
include a 17.5-carat pink tourmaline cat’s-eye and a 4,500-carat faceted
smoky quartz egg, both from California; and a 9-carat axinite, from
Baja California, Mexico.

During the year 20 meteorites were added to the collection, of which
11 were not previously represented. The Bogou meteorite was of
special interest. This 8.8-kilogram coarse octahedrite, which came
to the Museum through the generous cooperation of the Government
of Upper Volta and the U.S. Atomic Energy Commission, was ob-
served to fall in Upper Volta on August 14, 1962. It is being ex-
tensively studied in several laboratories because observed falls of iron
meteorites are extremely rare.

In the division of invertebrate paleontology and paleobotany, a
number of important collections of invertebrate fossils were acquired.
Among transfers of type specimens from the U.S. Geological Survey
were: 68 Permian pelecypods described by K. Ciriaks of Columbia
University; 369 specimens of Upper Cretaceous oysters from the
western interior; 40 Permian corals from Nevada with thin sections;
and 83 specimens and 87 thin sections of Middle Silurian corals from
Quebec, described by W. A. Oliver, Jr.

Funds from the Walcott bequest were used to purchase the Hughes
collection of Tertiary invertebrates from Florida, numbering more
than 50,000 specimens. The Walcott fund also provided means for
staff collections which included 4,000 Upper Cretaceous mollusks
from the western interior; 5,000 Tertiary invertebrates from Hamp-
ton, Va.; and 2,000 fossil echinoids from southwestern Florida. The
Springer fund made possible the purchase of 210 Triassic echinoids
and 72 Paleozoic echinoids from the western United States.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 33

Gifts from collectors outside the Smithsonian Institution include:
221 type specimens of planktonic Foraminifera from Recent bottom
sediments of the Pacific Ocean from Miss Frances Parker of the
Scripps Institution of Oceanography; 1,000 Upper Cretaceous mol-
lusks from Tennessee and Mississippi arranged by Margaret J. Hall
through Mid-South Earth Science Club; 6,000 Silurian brachiopods
from Czechoslovakia collected by Dr. A. J. Boucot of the California
Institute of Technology; 1384 type specimens of Foraminifera from
the Cretaceous Adelphia Marl of Arkansas from Dr. H. C. Skinner,
Tulane University; 500 specimens of Middle Devonian brachiopods
and corals from northern Ohio from Bernard Keith; 100 Early Devo-
nian invertebrates from Flute Cave, W. Va., from the Potomac Spele-
ological Club; 50 specimens of early Ordovician brachiopods from
Kielce, Poland, from Dr. R. B. Neuman; 23 rare and unusual Miocene
mollusks from Virginia from Mr. and Mrs. W. M. Rice; and 52 thin
sections of type Foraminifera from the Mississippian of southern
Illinois and Kentucky from Mrs. D. E. N. Zeller of the University
of Kansas.

Outstanding specimen exchanges brought 76 specimens of Pliocene
mollusks from the Sealdesian formation of Belgium, through Dr. S.
Amelinckx; 99 specimens of fossil invertebrates from Argentina
through Dr. A. J. Amos; 13 ammonites from the Cretaceous of Russia
through Dr. D. P. Naidin; and the Harris collection of type specimens
of fossil crinoids, from the University of Houston.

In the division of vertebrate paleontology, the major specimens of
fossil vertebrates accessioned this year consist of two skulls and a
skeleton of three different tetrapods from the Permian of Texas,
and two partial skeletons of Mississippian amphibians, probably new
to science, from West Virginia. The Texas material is of superior
quality and will be most useful in morphological work. These speci-
mens were collected by associate curator Nicholas Hotton IIT and
James Kitching of the University of the Witwatersrand, Johannes-
burg, South Africa.

A remarkably good collection comprising remains of a variety of
Kocene mammals found by W. L. Rohrer in the Big Horn Basin
of Wyoming was transferred from the U.S. Geological Survey. Note-
worthy are skull portions of the large pantodont Coryphodon, jaws
and maxillae of the early horse Hyracotheriwm and the lemuroid
primate Pelycodus, and the greater part of.a skull of a rare leptictid
insectivore.

Science and technology.—tThe division of physical sciences received
from the Bell Telephone Laboratories the apparatus used by Dr.
Clinton T. Davisson in his 1927 investigations of interference phe-
nomena in crystals irradiated by electrons, for which he received
34 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1963

the Nobel prize in physics in 1936. Received also was a full-scale
reproduction of an observational armillary, one of the large astro-
nomical instruments used by Tycho Brache, from L. 8. Hichner. A
sectioned model of a 1962 microscope showing its optical system was
given by the E. Leitz Co. A large collection representing the history
of the water meter was donated by A. A. Hirsch.

The division of mechanical and civil engineering received an im-
portant early (1905) example of steam turbine power, a Parsons
turbine with direct-connected direct-current generator. The machine
was presented by the Department of the Navy, San Francisco Naval
Shipyard, through Eduardo Magtoto, General Superintendent;
Varadero de Manila, Republic of the Philippines; and Rear Adm.
Charles A. Curtze. Of a number of bridge models received is one
of the famed bridge “Colossus.” The original was the longest timber
span for a century following its construction in 1812. The section of
tools received the Rogers Bond Comparator No. 2 from the Pratt &
Whitney Co. This was the first instrument in this country used to
transfer the length of a standard by microscopic measurement and to
subdivide it directly, converting line-standard to end-standard meas-
urement. The section of light machinery acquired, from the Amer-
ican Watchmakers Institute, the James Ward Packard collection of
complex watches.

Senator Leverett Saltonstall, Regent of the Smithsonian, presented
a piano-box buggy and a fine set of silver-mounted coach harnesses
to the section of land transportation. A beautifully restored and
fully documented farm wagon of 1860 was donated by Don H. Berke-
bile. The section of marine transportation acquired several fine ship
models, including a downeaster, the Z'mily F. Whitney, and a Pitts-
burgh & Cincinnati steam packet, the Buckeye State.

The division of medical sciences lists as its most important acqui-
sition a 17th-century Lambeth Delft pill tile bearing the coats of arms
of the City of London and of the Worshipful Society of Apothecaries.
This was received through the generosity of Charles Pfizer & Co., Inc.
Other gifts include the first ionization X-ray condenser dosimeter,
developed and donated by Dr. Otto Glasser, and a Cambridge indi-
cator dye-dilution curve apparatus, from Dr. Alfred Henderson.

Through the generosity of Franklin Wingard, the division of elec-
tricity acquired a large collection of radio material which greatly
strengthens its holdings in this field.

Arts and manufactures—The division of textiles received an espe-
cially well-executed 19th-century appliqué and stuffed-work quilt from
Stewart Dickson. A very early silk throw, made for an ante-Civil
War bride, was presented by Commander and Mrs. James P.
Oliver, John P. Oliver, and their aunt, Mrs. Ruth P. Hall. A very fine
SECRETARY’S REPORT 35

Brussels needlepoint and bobbin appliqué lace collar and Gros Point
de Venice lace cape were presented by Mrs. Herbert May. An addi-
tional group of seven beautiful oriental rugs was presented by Mrs.
Clara W. Berwick. These included examples of wool and silk rugs,
which are in both the Sehna and Ghiodes knot techniques.

The division of ceramics and glass acquired, from Mrs. Ellouise
Baker Larsen, of Lima, Ohio, her entire collection of Staffordshire
ware. Consisting of about 900 pieces, this is the most important
assembly of these ceramics in America. Mrs. Larsen has spent more
than 80 years compiling data and gathering the representative pieces,
many of which are extremely rare. Hugh D. Auchincloss, McLean,
Va., donated five pieces of ancient glass illustrative of the high degree
of artistic skill of the glassmakers when Rome dominated the Mediter-
ranean. Dr. Hans Syz, Westport, Conn., presented another group
of 18th-century German porcelains including fine pieces from Meissen,
Hochet, Ludwigsburg, Nymphenburg, and Furstenberg.

An important accession of the division of graphic arts was the
color aquatint La Promenade Publique, by Philibert-Louis Debucourt,
generally considered to be the finest example of French color print-
ing of the last quarter of the 18th century. Other outstanding acces-
sions were a chiaroscuro woodcut, The Death of Ananias, after
Raphael, executed about 1530, by Ugo de Carpi, who is usually ac-
cepted as the first and most important Italian chiaroscuro woodcutter ;
and The Fountain of Trevi, one of the most desirable subjects from
Giovanni Battista Piranesi’s great series of etchings, Veduta di Roma,
published in 1765.

The eminent Hungarian artist Joseph Domjan, now an American
citizen, donated his highly original woodcuts Starlit Night, Peacock of
the Carnations, and Moon-Shine Peacock. Through its president,
Prentiss Taylor, the Society of Washington Printmakers presented
the color lithograph Black Fire, by Jack Perlmutter. Mr. Taylor, a
well-known Washington artist, also donated a print of his lithograph
La Presa-Marfil, together with the original preliminary drawing of
the subject, the transfer drawings, and the zinc plate used in printing.

The section of photography acquired some notable additions to its
historical collections as well as items representative of significant cur-
rent developments. The Eastman Kodak Co. presented a matchbox
camera developed during World War II for the Office of Strategic
Services, a 1922 cine-camera, Model-A, their first motion picture
camera, and several cutaway cameras illustrative of design changes.
Dr. Harold EK. Edgerton donated a pair of deep-sea stereo cameras
of his design. These were first used in 1954 by Capt. Jacques Yves
Cousteau and by the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution.
36 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1963

Noteworthy donations to the division of manufacturing and heavy
industries include a collection of more than 300 tinware items, cover-
ing the entire range of the 19th-century tinsmith’s art, from Kenneth
Jewett. President John F. Kennedy, through the U.S. Atomic Energy
Commission, transferred a cube of uranium fuel used by Enrico Fermi
in the world’s first controlled neutron chain reaction (December 2,
1942). Obtained from the Army Nuclear Power Program was a model
of the first land-based nuclear power plant (SM-1), the prototype of
small reactors being developed for the use of the U.S. Army in the
field, and the Oak Ridge National Laboratory provided a display show-
ing the method of fabrication of the fuel elements used therein. The
section of iron and steel was successful in locating the original Ajax-
Wyatt electric induction furnace which was transferred by the Ajax
Magnethermic Corp.

The division of agriculture and forest products received, from
Minneapolis-Moline, Inc., a 1918 Moline Universal Model D tractor
with a two-bottom plow attached. The tractor is notable for its use
of electrically operated accessories. Another historical item acquired
by the division is an 1869 portable steam engine, the first made by the
J. 1. Case Co. and donated by that firm.

Ciwil history—Among the important accessions received in the divi-
sion of political history is Mrs. John F. Kennedy’s gift of her inaugu-
ral-ball gown and cape, made of peau d’ange covered with several
layers of white silk chiffon. Mrs. Kennedy also presented her dress of
white ottoman silk worn at the inaugural gala on January 19, 1961.
Items of clothing worn by Presidents William Howard Taft, Theodore
Roosevelt, Calvin Coolidge, and Woodrow Wilson were presented by

harles R. Taft, Ralph E. Becker, John Coolidge, and the National
Trust for Historic Preservation, respectively. A handsomely bound
book presented to Theodore Roosevelt by the Faculty Club of the
University of California, Zhe Silva of California, was given by his
grandson, Cornelius Van S. Roosevelt. A number of items, including
a fan, a brown satin apron, and other articles of the clothing which
belonged to Dolley Madison, were donated by her great-great-great-
grandniece, Miss Barbara Donald. Mrs. Herbert A. May donated the
famous Napoleon diamond necklace presented by the Emperor to his
wife, the Empress Marie-Louise, on the occasion of the birth of their
son, the King of Rome.

To the collections of the division of cultural history were added
an important block-front tall clock from Rhode Island, a Philadelphia
“pie crust” table, and other significant items, donated by Mrs. Francis
P. Garvan. Mrs. Harry T. Peters and her children, Harry T. Peters,
Jr., and Mrs. Charles D. Webster, presented 11 large folio lithographs
by Currier and Ives and others, a valuable addition to the nearly 2,000
SECRETARY'S REPORT 37

prints given by this family. Mr. and Mrs. A. Philip Stockvis gave a
varied group which includes an American Chippendale armchair. For
the musical instruments collection, the Le Blane Corp. presented a
basset horn, contra-bass clarinet, bass clarinet, and two alto clarinets.

The division of philately and postal history added 178,626 specimens
to its collections. One of the most significant of the recent gifts came
from Bernard Peyton of Princeton, N.J., who presented a Confederate
States cover, to which is affixed a block of twelve 2-cent Jackson Con-
federate stamps. This is the largest known block of these stamps
on a cover. Funds donated by the Charles and Rosanna Batchelor
Memorial, Inc., made possible valuable additions to the Emma EF.
Batchelor Air Mail Collection.

The division of numismatics received significant contributions of
rare half dollars from R. E. Cox, Jr., of Fort Worth, Tex. Extensive
donations of the Messrs. Stack of New York City included original
drawings for U.S. patterns and medals, and Harvey Stack gave a
hitherto unknown variety of the extremely rare Indian Peace Medal
dated 1843, portraying President George Washington and distributed
by one of the fur-trading companies in the Missouri Territory. To
our holdings in modern coins the Honorable R. Henry Norweb of
Cleveland, Ohio, contributed a virtually complete collection of New-
foundland issues dating from 1865-1947. Willis H. du Pont of Wil-
mington, Del., added to his previous donations of Russian coins and
medals formerly owned by the Grand Duke Mikhailovitch a group of
778 coins struck during the reigns of Peter III and Catherine IT up
to 1774, and medals struck during the period from 1762-94. Mrs.
Wayte Raymond of New York City contributed 620 important modern
coins of the world, and Mrs. F. C. C. Boyd of New York City gave 572
Mexican coins comprising many issues of the Revolutionary Period.
Philip H. Chase of Wynnewood, Pa., donated a very rare album, The
Currency of the Confederate States of America, prepared by Raphael
P. Thian about 1880 and containing 286 notes and their descriptions.
Mr. and Mrs. Isadore Snyderman of New York City presented to the
Smithsonian a unique gold plaquette of 1906, made by Victor D. Bren-
ner in commemoration of the removal of the remains of John Paul
Jones from Paris to Annapolis in 1905.

Armed Forces history—The collections of the division of military
history were enriched by a unique Henry rifle once presented to
President Lincoln and given to the Museum by Robert Lincoln Beck-
with. The William De Laney Travis Civil War panorama “The Army
of the Cumberland” was received from C. C. Travis and Mrs. Hattie
Kidd. A fine group of decorations awarded to Capt. C. H. Hunting-
ton was presented by Mrs. Huntington. A rare Medal of Honor and

720-018—64—4
38 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1963

associated Civil War medals awarded Lt. Edward B. Williston were
received from the Department of the Navy.

The division of naval history acquired, from Capt. P. V. H. Weems,
the Weems Memorial Library and its associated collection of naviga-
tional instruments illustrative of the progressive solution of problems
posed by aerial navigation from its earliest days. The collection in-
cludes a notably fine run of Bowditch’s The New American Practical
Navigator from the 1st to 15th editions. Also included are navigation
instruments used in the polar flights of Richard E. Byrd and Lincoln
Ellsworth.

The division’s uniform collection has been greatly enhanced by the
gift of Mrs. Ernest J. King, widow of Fleet Adm. Ernest J. King,
which included a number of her late husband’s uniforms, orders, and
decorations.

Philip Wrigley presented rare and interesting naval uniforms
including the period of World War I, and an extensive collection of
contemporary naval uniforms was presented by the Department of
the Navy and Jacob Reed & Sons of Philadelphia.

The U.S. Coast Guard transferred a wide selection of objects per-
taining to the history of that service. These included items of
ordnance, two sets of gangway headboards, a first order catadioptric
lens, original drafts of a wide variety of lighthouse lenses, a lifeboat,
and fully equipped beach cart, and, most important, eight extremely
handsome models of revenue cutters. Floyd D. Houston of New
Suffolk, N.Y., presented his finely executed model of the submarine
Holland, first submarine in the Navy.

Through the courtesy of M. E. Tucker and the government of
Bermuda, head curator Mendel L. Peterson and museum technician
Alan B. Albright collected a significant number of artifacts from
underwater sites in the Bermuda reefs. These included materials of
glass, ceramics, and metal from sites dating from 1595 through 1838.

EXPLORATION AND FIELDWORK

Dr. R. S. Cowan, assistant director of the Museum of Natural
History, conducted a 5-week expedition to Baja California, Mexico,
in February and March, primarily to collect data and materials for
constructing a desert-life group in the future hall of plant life. With
the assistance of modelmaker Paul Marchand and sculptor-artist
Vernon R. Rickman, fiber-glass models and plaster models were pre-
pared of several cacti and other plants characteristic of the desert.
Dr. Cowan also made a systematic collection of wood specimens, almost
half of which are new to the Smithsonian Institution wood collection.

During November and December, Dr. I. E. Wallen, assistant direc-
tor for oceanography, visited institutions specializing in marine
SECRETARY'S REPORT 39

sciences in England, Denmark, Sweden, Holland, France, Monaco,
and Italy. He obtained information which has been useful in the
planning of the Smithsonian Oceanographic Sorting Center. The
establishment and functioning of this Center constitute perhaps the
most important single accomplishment of the first year of the ocean-
ography program. At the close of the year Dr. Wallen was in Kast
Pakistan on a temporary assignment as visiting professor of zoology
for the Asia Foundation.

During September and October Dr. T. D. Stewart, then head
curator of anthropology (now director of the Museum of Natural
History), was in Baghdad, Iraq, reconstructing and studying the
remains of Neanderthal skeletons IV and VI recovered in Shanidar
Cave in 1960. The results of this year’s work, embodied in a manu-
script scheduled to be published in Sumer, the Journal of Archaeology
and History in Iraq, led Dr. Stewart to the conclusion that the
Shanidar Neanderthal population remained fairly homogeneous
throughout the estimated 15,000 years during which their skeletons
accumulated in the cave.

The investigation of the late Pleistocene bone bed near Littleton,
Colo., was underway again at the beginning of the year. Dr. Waldo
R. Wedel, then curator of archeology (now head curator of anthro-
pology), museum specialist George Metcalf, and exhibits specialist
Peter W. Bowman continued to work until late in August, by which
time some 2,400 square feet of deposits around an ancient spring had
been excavated to depths up to 11 feet and extensive additional collec-
tions made of mammoth, bison, and other mammal bones. Although
conclusive evidence of man’s association with the mammoth was not
obtained, a stratified section of the deposit and recovery of several key
artifact types in situ established man’s presence here at least as far
back as 7,000 years ago.

From January to March Dr. Saul H. Riesenberg, curator of eth-
nology; Dr. Clifford Evans, curator of archeology; and Dr. Betty
J. Meggers, honorary research associate, were on the island of Ponape
in the Caroline Islands of the Trust Territory in the Pacific studying
ancient megalithic structures and the traditions relating thereto.
Just off the eastern end of Ponape is a complex of artificial islets,
known as Nan Madol, on which are structures made of columnar basalt.
By using 25 workmen to clear the areas to be investigated, Drs. Evans
and Meggers were able to excavate and map eight distinct parts of the
complex. In the process they collected typical artifacts and a se-
quence of carbon samples which may yield reliable dates. The team
spent 6 weeks at the site, Dr. Riesenberg collecting the traditions
related to the structures and Drs. Evans and Meggers investigating
the archeological clues and interpretations provided by these traditions
40 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1963

and, consequently, offering new leads for ethnological explorations.
As a result of this unusual approach, they concluded that orally trans-
mitted tradition has greater historical validity, at least in this area,
than is generally recognized by most anthropologists.

After finishing their work on Ponape, Drs. Evans and Meggers
went to Japan and Taiwan to consult with Japanese and Chinese
archeologists and to examine sites and collections of the Early-Middle
Jomon Culture of Japan in order to determine the relationship be-
tween that pottery complex and the pottery complexes relating to the
early Valdivia Culture of coastal Ecuador. The Valdivia Culture
has yielded the earliest dated pottery in the New World (5,000-4,050
years before the present, as determined by carbon-14 tests). Not only
is this pottery unexpectedly early for the New World, but also it indi-
cates no relationship with any known New World culture. Since
the Jomon pottery shows suprisingly similar features, and is of about
the same antiquity, the records obtained during this trip open up
many doors to research on the problem of transpacific movements of
early populations.

While in Japan, Drs. Evans and Meggers examined the collections
made by staff members of the University of Tokyo during two arche-
ological expeditions to the northern Andes of Peru. Here also the
pottery was found to bear directly upon some of the cultures of
Ecuador. ‘These rewarding contacts between American and Japanese
archeologists having mutual interests promise to open up a fruitful
era of cooperation.

Late in August Drs. Evans and Meggers, together with Dr. William
H. Crocker, associate curator of ethnology, attended the 35th Inter-
national Congress of Americanists in Mexico City, after which they
examined collections and sites in various parts of Mexico, giving par-
ticular attention to those in Yucatan.

Dr. Henry W. Setzer, associate curator of mammals, was engaged
during much of the year in organizing and supervising field parties
operating in Asia, Madagascar, and Mexico with the objective of mak-
ing collections of small mammals and their ectoparasites. Late in
August he went to London to study type and other specimens of
mammals in the British Museum (Natural History). After this he
spent brief periods with field parties in West Pakistan and along the
Afghanistan border in Iran, consulted with American officials in
Cairo, Egypt, and helped the Madagascar field party initiate work in
the vicinity of Ihosy. Another trip late in February and early in
March took him to Mexico, where he joined a field party on the
Mexican plateau.

Col. Robert Traub, who in January was appointed honorary re-
search associate, worked closely with Dr. Setzer in organizing and
SECRETARY’S REPORT 4]

participating in fieldwork in widely separated areas. During most
of September and October he collected small mammals and their
ectoparasites in West Pakistan, particularly in the Kagan Valley and
in the vicinity of Lahore and Sialkot. From there he went to north-
ern Thailand for 4 weeks. Then, late in February, he spent a month
in Mexico collecting in the States of Veracruz, Guerrero, México,
Nuevo Leén, and Tamaulipas.

From January to April Dr. Charles O. Handley, Jr., associate
curator of mammals, with the assistance of Frank M. Greenwell of
the Smithsonian’s office of exhibits, continued his major project of
studying the mammals of Panama. The areas investigated this year
were the San Blas coast in extreme eastern Panama and the Bocas del
Toro Archipelago and adjacent mainland near the Costa Rican bound-
ary. The resulting mammal collection amounted to 1,914 specimens.

In order to study the relationship of birds to arthropod-borne
virus diseases, especially eastern equine encephalitis, Dr. Philip S.
Humphrey, curator of birds, collected extensively in the vicinity of
Belém and in Braganca, Brazil, from the end of January to the end
of April. In this work he had the cooperation of the Belém Virus
Laboratory, Fundacao Servico Especial de Satide Piiblica, and the
Museu Paraense “Emilio Goeldi,” all of Belém. In addition to 986
skins and 1,035 anatomical specimens, he took over 1,100 liver and 788
blood samples. Since three or four different habitats are represented,
Dr. Humphrey hopes that the serological findings can be subjected to
ecological analysis.

Field studies concerned with the birdlife of the Isthmus of Panama,
under Dr. Alexander Wetmore, honorary research associate and re-
tired Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, covered the period
from early in January to late in March. The first work of the season
centered on the white-winged dove colonies found last year in the ex-
tensive mangrove swamps along the lower Rio Pocri, below Aguadulce
in the Province of Colcé. These colonies were especially interesting,
since elsewhere the doves inhabit drier upland localities. Traveling
by dugout canoe along the river channels during these investigations,
Dr. Wetmore found also the rare rufous-crowned wood rail, Aramides
axillaris, known previously in Panama only from a few reports
around Almirante Bay on the Caribbean coast. In addition, he ob-
tained information on wintering dowitchers among the many sand-
pipers, and on gull-billed terns, all migrants from the north.

Late in January Dr. Wetmore was a guest on the small motor vessel
Pelican engaged in a study of the distribution of the spiny lobster, a
cooperative project between the Bureau of Commercial Fisheries of
the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service and agencies concerned with as-
sistance to the Panamanian Government. Their route through the
42 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1963

Canal and along the Pacific coast to islands off western Chiriqui gave
opportunity for daily work ashore on Isla Parida and Isla Bolafios,
in continuation of the island survey of last year on the launch Barbara
If.

On his final fieldwork of the season Dr. Wetmore arranged a
charter flight on a small plane east to Puerto Obaldia on the San Blas
coast near the boundary with Colombia. After a few days’ work near
the town, he established a camp, in company with mammalogist Dr.
Charles O. Handley, Jr., in the high forest back of Armila, the east-
ernmost village of the Cuna Indians. Three pairs of the rare ant-
bird Xenornis setifrons, known previously from five specimens, were
special prizes here.

As last year, the Gorgas Memorial Laboratory of Panama provided
Dr. Wetmore with one of their technicians, Rudolfo Hinds, to serve
as field assistant.

Dr. Doris M. Cochran, curator of reptiles and amphibians, in com-
pany with entomologist Mrs. Doris H. Blake, honorary research
associate, was in South and Central America from the beginning of
December through February visiting museums and making collections.
The countries visited included Brazil (Brasilia, Rio de Janeiro, Sao
Paulo, Santos, and Curitiba) ; Argentina (Foz de Iguassu, Buenos
Aires, La Plata, Vila Bela); Peru (Lima, Pachacamac, Rio Blanco,
and Rio Rimac) ; Colombia (Cali, Palmyra, Bogota, and Medellin) ;
and the Canal Zone (Barro Colorado Island). As a result of the
information and specimens obtained, Dr. Cochran expects to complete
reports on the frogs of central Brazil and of Colombia, the latter in
collaboration with Dr. C. J. Goin of Gainesville, Fla.

Two associate curators of the division of fishes, Dr. Victor G.
Springer and Dr. William R. Taylor, participated in oceanographic
expeditions during the year. Dr. Springer was on the oceanographic
vessel Geronimo, operated by the Fish and Wildlife Service, when she
left Boston for West Africa on March 5. Unfortunately, 4 days later
the vessel malfunctioned and had to be towed into Bermuda for repairs,
but again departed for Africa on March 12. During the 3 days in
Bermuda Dr. Springer was able to make only night-light collections.
After leaving Bermuda the vessel again malfunctioned and had to be
towed back to port. Thereupon the cruise was canceled, and Dr.
Springer, after further attempts at shore collecting, left for Wash-
ington by air. In spite of limited collecting opportunities and un-
favorable weather conditions, he returned with about 300 specimens.

Dr. Taylor joined the Anton Bruun of the International Indian
Ocean Expedition when she left Bombay, India, early in March on
her first cruise designed to obtain physical data and biological material
from the Andaman Sea and Bay of Bengal. Malfunction of the
SECRETARY'S REPORT 43

electrical equipment, winches, etc., and difficulties in obtaining fresh
water caused changes in schedules and restricted the activities of the
biologists aboard. Asa result, Dr. Taylor late in April left the ship
at Vizagapatam. The collections obtained were limited to the An-
daman Sea and offshore areas west of Burma.

From early in March to late in May Dr. J. A. F. Garrick, research
associate in the division of fishes, visited several museums and other
institutions in Kurope and Africa primarily to examine type material
of the shark genus Carcharhinus for his revision of the group. He
also wished to obtain additional locality records and to ascertain if
any species had been overlooked or are not represented in the collections
of U.S. museums thus far seen. Dr. Garrick’s findings show that
much of the current nomenclature for the group is in error, particu-
larly in regard to species of the Indo-Pacific, based primarily on the
literature rather than on examination of types. As a result of this
fieldwork, locality records for many species were greatly extended, and
in several cases species thought to be restricted to one ocean were
found to occur in other oceans or to be worldwide in distribution. The
number of recorded species was increased by two. Because of the
value of vertebral counts in identifying shark species, Dr. Garrick
X-rayed critical specimens whenever possible. About 90 specimens
were soexamined. In this and all other respects he received the fullest
cooperation from the staffs of the institutions visited.

From the middle of July through August Dr. J. F. Gates Clarke,
curator of insects, conducted extensive field studies in Oregon and
Washington. While in Oregon he had the company of a colleague,
James Baker, of Burns, Oreg. From numerous stations set up for
collecting purposes at various altitudes, they obtained over 7,000
specimens, including many novelties, which eventually will contribute
much to our knowledge of the ecology and distribution of Microlepi-
doptera of the Pacific Northwest.

From the beginning of June until the end of September Dr. Ralph
EK. Crabill, Jr., associate curator of insects, conducted further studies
of myriapods, particularly in museums in Munich, Vienna, Hamburg,
Copenhagen, and London. He was able to locate and examine pre-
viously unknown material. He also spent a couple of weeks in the
Bavarian Alps collecting topotypical specimens of centipedes for the
national collections.

Since joining the staff as associate curator of the division of insects
this year, Dr. Paul J. Spangler, a specialist in aquatic beetles, has
made several collecting trips, the longest of which, December 15—Janu-
ary 26, took him to Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands. Although
the insect fauna from Puerto Rico is better known than that from other
Caribbean islands, he found numerous new records and new species
44 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1963

and collected approximately 14,000 insects. Although this material
has as yet been examined only cursorily, 1 family (Isometopidae),
12 genera previously unknown from the island, and numerous new
species have been identified. ‘The number of species of aquatic
beetles known from Puerto Rico has been increased from approxi-
mately 40 to 75, and larvae of about 35 of these have been established
by rearing or association. ‘The number of aquatic beetle species known
from the Virgin Islands has been tripled.

During 2 weeks in August Dr. Spangler collected also in South
Dakota, Wyoming, and Montana, concentrating in the numerous and
unusual habitats in Yellowstone National Park and vicinity. He col-
lected approximately 10,000 insects during this trip. Although this
material has not yet been thoroughly examined, several new species
of water beetles have been found. In several rare genera the number
of specimens present in the national collection has been doubled. In
addition, rare and undescribed larvae of several species have been
found and associated with their adults.

At the beginning and end of the year Dr. Spangler in company with
other members of the staff made day-long trips to collecting areas in
Maryland and West Virginia. A trip to the vicinity of Oakland in
Garrett County, Md., yielded several rare species for the first time
and one apparently new species.

Dr. Oliver S. Flint, Jr., associate curator of insects, continued his
research on caddisflies. This year his major collecting effort came
during the latter part of July when he went to Jamaica and again to
Puerto Rico. On the island of Jamaica he obtained well over 1,000
specimens of caddisflies belonging to about 20 species. Almost all
these species are new to science, and one represents a genus new to the
Antilles. The collection of nearly 5,000 specimens from Puerto Rico
included an undescribed caddisfly belonging to a genus unrecorded
from that island.

During the latter part of May, Dr. Flint, accompanied by William
D. Field, made a 12-day trip through the Jefferson and Monongahela
National Forests in Virginia and West Virginia to Bluestone State
Park in West Virginia. Little collecting of aquatic insects has been
done in this area.

A 12-day collecting trip for butterflies was made late in August by
William D. Field, associate curator of insects, along the Blue Ridge
Parkway in Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, and Tennessee
to the Great Smoky Mountains National Park. The 392 specimens
obtained include species which contribute importantly to knowledge
of these insects. As mentioned above, Mr. Field also accompanied
Dr. Flint on a trip into the mountains of western Virginia and eastern
West Virginia in the vicinity of Lewisburg, W. Va. Here he found
SECRETARY’S REPORT 45

a specimen of Pieris virginiensis Edwards, one of the rarest of eastern
butterflies. Over 100 mature larvae of Huphydryas phaeton Drury
and a good series of Glaucopsyche lygdamus Dbldy., another early
spring rarity, also were collected.

During the latter part of August Dr. Donald R. Davis, associate
curator of insects, conducted studies on Microlepidoptera in the
Tenkiller Lake district of Oklahoma. As this is an area practically
unknown entomologically, these studies were particularly significant
in producing information on distribution, ecology, and new species.
Prior to this, in July, on a visit to the Dismal Swamp area of Virginia
in company with Dr. Flint, Dr. Davis collected 800 specimens of
Microlepidoptera, along with a sizable sample of leaf miners. Three
species of leaf miners were reared, and leaves mined by several addi-
tional species were collected.

Associate curator O. L. Cartwright, who in May accompanied Dr.
Spangler to the vicinity of Oakland in Garrett County, Md., collected
specimens of seven species of Scarabaeidae, including three rare
species, the basis for new Maryland State records, and one species
(nine specimens) apparently new to science.

During July Dr. Donald F. Squires, associate curator (now curator)
of marine invertebrates, was in New Zealand conferring with officers
of the New Zealand Oceanographic Institute regarding the identifica-
tion and study of deep-water coral banks, and with the New Zealand
Geological Survey staff regarding the occurrence of such banks as
fossils. At the Auckland Museum and Institute he studied recent
collections of corals, particularly those made by fisheries research
vessels. He also examined outcroppings of fossil deep-water coral
banks at two localities in Wairarapa.

In November, while participating in the annual meetings of the
Bahamas National Trust, Dr. Squires conducted preliminary explora-
tions, with other members of the Trust, of the reef tracts at Lyford
Cay, New Providence Island.

From late in March to early in May, Dr. Squires carried out field
work on R/V Chain of the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution, as
part of the international Equivalent I operation, in the area from
Recife, Brazil, to Trinidad and east to longitude 25° W. He collected
samples and made numerous bathymetric observations on the struc-
tures known as shelf-edge prominences off the Orinoco River Delta.
Also, he made collections of corals from 40 to 200 fathoms in the
vicinity of St. Paul’s Rock and in the approaches to Paramaribo,
Surinam.

Asa participant in the International Indian Ocean Expedition from
the middle of January to the middle of March, Charles E. Cutress, Jr.,
associate curator of marine invertebrates, visited the Indian Museum
46 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1963

at Calcutta and studied sea anemones at Port Canning, the University
of Madras, the Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute at Manda-
pam Camp, the Porto-Novo Marine Biological Station, and the Insti-
tute of Science of the University of Bombay. En route to India
Mr. Cutress examined anemone types at the British Museum (Natural
History) and, on the way home, studied and collected anemone mate-
rial at the Stazione Zoologica di Napoli. These studies will con-
tribute to the solution of major problems of long standing in the
classification of the sea anemones.

As biological consultant of the National Science Foundation, Dr.
Waldo L. Schmitt, honorary research associate, late in November
joined an expedition to the Palmer Peninsula, Antarctica, to survey
possible sites for a scientific station in that area. Delays in obtaining
transportation on an icebreaker afforded Dr. Schmitt the opportunity
to visit institutions and consult with biologists in New Zealand, par-
ticularly at Christchurch, and to visit the USARP McMurdo Station
on the shores of the Ross Sea ice shelf. He finally sailed on the U.S.S.
Staten Island on January 5. During the ensuing 21%4 months before
returning to the Museum, he examined 20 possible sites for a station
from the point of view of logistics, engineering problems, meteorolog-
ical conditions, and biological potential. At the same time he made
land, shore, and offshore collections by various means, including hook
and line, traps, tow nets, and dredges.

Continuing his work on the marine mollusks of the Indo-Pacific
region, Dr. Harald A. Rehder, curator of mollusks, collected on the
island of Tahiti from mid-January to mid-March. Here he con-
centrated efforts in the coastal area immediately to the east of Papeete
but also made several trips around the island, obtaining a good repre-
sentation of mollusks from numerous localities in almost all districts.
Dr. Rehder also gathered fresh-water mollusks at the mouths and
along the courses of the three principal streams that traverse the Dis-
tricts of Pirae, and examined the area for land snails. The results of
this trip will assist in planning for future fieldwork in the southern
Polynesian area.

In connection with his studies on the families Tridacnidae and
Littorinidae of the Indo-Pacific region, Dr. Joseph Rosewater, asso-
ciate curator of mollusks, spent 6 weeks during February and March
on Eniwetok Atoll in the Marshall Islands utilizing the excellent
facilities of the Eniwetok Marine Biological Laboratory of the Atomic
Energy Commission. Representatives of all four species of Tridac-
nidae living around the atoll were collected and maintained in the
laboratory. The brightly hued mantles of these specimens provided
valid distinguishing differences, and dissection of the animals yielded
additional valuable information regarding their anatomical distinc-
SECRETARY’S REPORT AZT

tions. Although a spawning reaction was induced in two individuals
of one species by the introduction of the sex products of a third, no
development of possible fertilized eggs could be noted. It is theorized
that natural spawning in this group may occur during the warmer
summer months and that the event is initiated by the occurrence of a
particular water temperature. Similar studies were carried out on
specimens of Littorinidae.

In connection with her research on Leguminosae, Dr. Velva E.
Rudd, associate curator of phanerogams, joined a group of botanists
from the University of California and the University of Mexico dur-
ing December in a 10-day field trip in the region of San Blas, Mexico.
En route she spent 2 days in Mexico City at the Instituto de Biologia,
University of México, examining plant specimens. The collections
and field experience will be helpful in planning more intensive future
work in the area.

Dr. John J. Wurdack, associate curator of phanerogams, returned
in December from Peru where he had continued on the field trip
reported last year. Most of his collecting centered around Chacha-
poyas in the northern highlands, with the last few months spent along
the Rio Marafién from below Pongo de Rentema to Pongo de Man-
seriche in the tropical rainforest. Total specimens exceed 12,000.
Dr. Wurdack attributes much of the success of the trip to the help
received from the staff of the Museo de Historia Natural “Javier
Prado” in Lima, where one complete set of his specimens has bee
deposited. :

Dr. Harold Robinson, associate curator of cryptogams, spent most
of May collecting bryophytes in Mexico. The work centered in the
Valle Nacional area of northern Oaxaca, with short visits to Chiapas
and Guerrero. Dr. Robinson estimates that about 300 specimens from
the collection will be retained.

Early in December, an algologist, Dr. Richard Norris, was added to
the staff as associate curator. He left Washington almost immediately
to join the first and some of the subsequent cruises of the Anton Bruun
of the International Indian Ocean Expedition.

While in Trinidad attending the Neotropical Botany Conference
early in July, Dr. William L. Stern, curator of plant anatomy, gath-
ered a small group of wood specimens from the northern part of the
island. In the latter part of August, while on his way to attend the
meetings of the American Institute of Biological Sciences in Corvallis,
Oreg., he collected wood specimens in the Rocky Mountains of Colo-
rado and in the Cascade and Coast Ranges of Oregon.

During February and March, Dr. Stern, accompanied by two other
members of his division, Dr. Richard H. Eyde, associate curator, and
Edward S. Ayensu, research assistant, conducted fieldwork in Pan-
48 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1963

ama, collecting not only specimens of fossil woods but also conven-
tional herbarium specimens and associated wood samples in the fossil
localities for comparison with the fossil flora. An abundance of fossil
woods was found on the Azuero Peninsula, particularly in the environs
of the village of Oct. Two other localities for fossil woods, both
on the isthmus proper, were discovered, one near the town of La Mesa
and the other near Colorado, a tiny settlement southwest of Calobre.
Petrifactions from the two new areas superficially resemble those
from Oct.

Dr. G. A. Cooper, head curator of geology, in company with Drs.
Thomas G. Gibson and Druid Wilson of the U.S. Geological Survey,
in October visited a fossil site near Hampton, Va., known as Rice’s
Pit. Although this has become a very popular place for collecting,
Dr. Cooper and his party obtained some good material, especially of
the smaller fossils. Mr. and Mrs. William M. Rice, who own the pit,
and Mrs. George Webb, a neighbor, donated examples of the rarer
species.

For a month beginning late in April, Dr. Cooper was occupied
in a revisionary study of the stratigraphy of the Glass Mountains
in the vicinity of Marathon, Tex. He was assisted by Dr. Richard
Grant, of the U.S. Geological Survey, and John L. Carter, museum
technician. The trip took them to a number of places not heretofore
visited by geologists and accessible only with great difficulty. The
objective was to verify new views on Glass Mountains stratigraphy
which had been developed as a result of work done on the brachiopods
therefrom.

Dr. Cooper and his party spent a day at the end of May in the
Chinati Mountains south of Marfa, Tex., looking for certain types
of fossils reported to occur in that locality. From here they went
to Van Horn, Tex., which they used as a base for forays into the
Sierra Diablo, Guadalupe, and Apache Mountains.

Early in September, Edward P. Henderson, associate curator of
mineralogy and petrology, and Roy S. Clarke, Jr., analytical chemist,
attended an informal conference in the British Museum (Natural His-
tory) on methods of chemical analysis of meteorites. Before and after
the meeting they inspected the museum’s collections of meteorites and
tektites and conferred with staff members about problems of organiza-
tion, equipment, and scientific procedure.

In the Netherlands, Messrs. Henderson and Clarke visited the Uni-
versity of Utrecht and Prof. G. H. R. von Koenigswald, who has one
of the world’s finest tektite collections. Arrangements were made with
him for an exchange. In Mainz, Germany, they discussed mutual
problems with the staff of the Max Planck Institute. Dr. H. Wiinke
of the institute showed them a new shipment of tektites from which
SECRETARY’S REPORT 49

he generously proffered a selection of interesting and unusual speci-
mens. A visit also was made to the University of Heidelberg.

Mr. Clarke then returned home by way of England, stopping again
at the British Museum, while Mr. Henderson continued on to Copen-
hagen, where he studied the meteorite collection in the Danish National
Museum and arranged to exchange Philippine tektites for much-
needed moldavites. He also spent 2 days with Dr. Vagn Buchwald,
metallurgist with the Laboratory of Metals in Copenhagen, who is
working on some specimens that were described from Smithsonian
collections.

Back in England early in October, Mr. Henderson visited Dr. H. J.
Axon of the department of metallurgy, University of Manchester, who
also is working on specimens that have been studied in our laboratory.
Next, he called on the York firm of Cooke, Troughton & Simms which
made the metallograph used in our laboratory. Besides giving Mr.
Henderson expert advice on the care and use of the instrument, mem-
bers of the firm offered to make pictures of one of the meteorites he
had with him.

A collecting party from the division of invertebrate paleontology,
consisting of Dr. R. S. Boardman, curator; Dr. F. M. Hueber, asso-
ciate curator; Dr. J. Utgaard, research associate; and F. J. Collier,
museum specialist, went to western New York State for 3 weeks late
in May. Following a reconnaissance of the Hamilton strata in the
Cayuga Lake region, Drs. Boardman and Utgaard and Mr. Collier
went on to Lockport, leaving Dr. Hueber at Cornell University to
study paleobotanical collections housed there. In the Lockport area
they obtained large numbers of Silurian Bryozoa which will enable
reevaluation and statistical analysis of many species. Dr. Hueber
rejoined the group at Batavia, where detailed collecting of the Hamil-
ton strata was undertaken. As the party moved eastward to the Fin-
ger Lakes region, they made extensive collections of Bryozoa from
many localities at several stratigraphic intervals. A few fossil plant
specimens were obtained which are considered especially important in
taxonomic and morphologic interpretations. After Dr. Boardman re-
turned to Washington, the rest of the party continued the stratigraphic
reconnaissance and detailed collecting eastward to the Ithaca area.
The entire trip resulted in approximately half a ton of specimens,
most of which fall into groups previously poorly represented in the
collections.

Late in October, Dr. Richard Cifelli, associate curator of inverte-
brate paleontology, obtained material for his study of the distribution
of planktonic Foraminifera in the North Atlantic during the 2-week
cruise of the R/V Crawford from Woods Hole, Mass. He collected
50 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1963

28 plankton samples on a track from Cape Cod to the vicinity of Puerto
Rico to Bermuda.

For another scientific cruise beginning late in March, Dr. Cifelli
joined the R/V Chain at Recife, Brazil, as a participant in the Inter-
national Tropical Atlantic Ocean Expedition. Of particular interest
to Dr. Cifelli were the nearly 100 plankton hauls collected which he
will examine for Foraminifera in connection with his long-range pro-
gram to study the relationship between the distribution of surficial
planktonic Foraminifera and oceanic circulation in the North At-
lantic. Also of importance for the study of Foraminifera were the
12 piston long-cores and numerous bottom sediment samples collected
from the abyssal plain, continental slope, Orinoco shelf, and the Gulf
of Paria.

In June and July Dr. Erle G. Kauffman, associate curator of inver-
tebrate paleontology, and F. J. Collier, museum specialist, spent 6
weeks completing a biostratigraphic study of the lower Colorado group
along the Front Range of the Colorado Rockies, tracing faunal zones,
refining the zonation by use of ammonites and pelecypods, and tracing
disconformities and facies change. They were able to tie in 60 detailed
stratigraphic sections along the Front Range and to correlate them
with others in northern New Mexico and southern Wyoming, as well
as with others in the intermontane parks of the middle Rockies. Ap-
proximately 4,000 specimens were collected, predominantly pelecypods
and ammonites.

While studying at the U.S. Geological Survey offices in Denver,
Colo., during October, Dr. Kauffman spent two weekends in the vicinity
of Colorado Springs collecting from previously measured Upper Cre-
taceous sediments. This resulted in the addition of approximately
300 well-preserved pelecypods and ammonites to the collections.

A number of short excursions to the Upper Cretaceous outcrops of
Maryland were undertaken by Dr. Kauffman and Dr. Norman Sohl,
of the U.S. Geological Survey, as part of a continuing restudy of this
rich but incompletely known fauna. Large collections from near
Brightseat, Md., include many species, particularly gastropods, never
before reported in the Middle Atlantic Coast Cretaceous.

Late in August Dr. Nicholas Hotton ITI, associate curator of ver-
tebrate paleontology, and James W. Kitching, research associate on
leave from the Bernice Price Institute in Johannesburg, South Africa,
journeyed to the Appalachian Mountains in search of field occurrences
of middle and late Paleozoic vertebrate-bearing deposits. In quarries
of the Greer Limestone Co., at Greer, W. Va., they collected
partial skeletons, including one skull, of at least two amphibians from
outcrops of the Greenbriar limestone (Mississippian). While in this
area they examined beds above and below the Greenbriar outcrop
SECRETARY’S REPORT 51

along the valley of Stranger Creek but found no fossils. A Greenbriar
quarry at Terra Alta, W. Va., also yielded no results, but one at Fair-
chance, Pa., yielded scraps of fossil fishes.

On September 6, Dr. Hotton, Mr. Kitching, and Gerald R. Paulson,
museum technician, went to Chalk Point, in nearby Maryland, to col-
lect the skeleton of a whale discovered during excavation for a facility
of the Potomac Electric Power Co. The deposits at Chalk Point are
assigned to the Calvert formation, of late Miocene age. The specimen
turned out to be a squalodont whale that was about 15 feet long during
life; the amount of wear shown by the teeth indicates that the indi-
vidual was very old when it died. As recovered, the specimen consists
of a large part of the lower jaw, a number of vertebrae, ribs, loose
teeth, a scapula, and a complete flipper in good articulation. The find
is significant as a locality record, and anatomically because of the
excellent preservation of the flipper. The degree of wear on the teeth
is interesting from the viewpoint of function.

Dr. Hotton and Mr. Kitching conducted October fieldwork in sev-
eral western States and in a variety of formations ranging in age from
Permian to Oligocene. These include the White River Oligocene and
Pierre Cretaceous of South Dakota and Wyoming; the Permian,
Triassic, and Paleocene of New Mexico; and the Permian and Trias-
sic of Texas. The most spectacular result of the trip was the dis-
covery of an untouched pocket of vertebrates in the lower Permian
along West Coffee Creek, Baylor County, Tex., which yielded four
complete skeletons and five additional skulls of various amphibians
and reptiles, plus a considerable amount of material of an as yet
undetermined nature. These specimens represent a good portion of
the fauna of the lower Permian of the United States. Most of them
have been forwarded to the Bernard Price Institute for Paleontolog-
ical Research, in Johannesburg, South Africa, in partial reciprocity
for the excellent Beaufort material from South Africa that Mr.
Kitching’s help and the good offices of the institute enabled Dr. Hot-
ton to collect.

Howard I. Chapelle, curator of transportation in the Museum of
History and Technology, made brief trips to Madrid and Barcelona,
Spain, during December and May to examine the construction of a full-
size replica of Columbus’s flagship Santa Maria and to check the prog-
ress of a scale model to be donated to the Smithsonian. ‘The research
for this project of reconstruction has been carried on by Captain de
Corbita J. M. Marinez-Hidalgo, S.N., director of the Maritime Mu-
seum in Barcelona, who previously had done similar research on a
Spanish galley of the post-Lepanto period and for a caravel, specifical-
ly the Pinta. The Maritime Museum is located in an ancient galley
yard built before the battle of Lepanto (1571). The original stone
o2 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1963

galley slips and sheds remain and are restored and utilized for mu-
seum halls. Interestingly, the launching ends of the slips are now
about a block from the water.

On his way to attend the 18th International Congress of the History
of Medicine, held in Warsaw and Krakow, Poland, during September,
Dr. Sami Hamarneh, acting curator of medical sciences, sought in-
formation in his fields of interest through visits to the British Mu-
seum, the Wellcome Medical Library and Museum, the British
Pharmaceutical Society, and a number of institutions in Poland.

In order to collect further data on the life of Frederick Carder, the
Englishman who came to America early in this century and estab-
lished the Steuben Glass Works, Paul V. Gardner, curator of ceramics
and glass, made several visits to Corning, N.Y., where Mr. Carder is
living, and to various institutions where examples of Carder’s work
are preserved.

From mid-August to mid-October Jacob Kainen, curator of graphic
arts, was in Europe gathering material for an exhibition on typog-
raphy and doing research for his study of the Dutch engraver
Hendrick Goltzius (1558-1617). He obtained typographical material
from Monotype House, Ltd., London, and consulted with technicians
and historians in London, Haarlem, and Brussels. Also he conducted
research in various museums in London, Amsterdam, Rotterdam,
Utrecht, Brussels, Paris, Venice, Florence, Rome, Milan, Parma, and
Madrid.

John N. Pearce, assistant curator of cultural history, with Richard
J. Muzzrole, archeological aide, in October, participated in a 10-day
archeological investigation of the site of John Frederick Amelung’s
“New Bremen Glass Manufactory.” This, the first major glassmaking
enterprise in the American Republic, was operated between 1785 and
1795 in Frederick County, Md. The excavations were sponsored by
the Corning Museum of Glass with the collaboration of the Smith-
sonian Institution. Ivor Noél Hume, honorary research curator, who
is chief archeologist of Colonial Williamsburg, Inc., was director of
excavations, and Paul N. Perrot, director of the Corning Museum, was
executive director of the project. With the evidence of structures and
artifacts thus far revealed, it 1s expected that the results will con-
tribute significantly to knowledge of 18th-century glassmaking in
America as well as yielding particular information about this influen-
tial primary source of American glassmaking skills.

In November and again in December Mr. Pearce worked with mem-
bers of the Maryland Archeological Society in excavations on the
Morgan pottery site in Baltimore, a site which dates from the late
colonial period. ‘They were fortunate to find in one pit a layer rich
with pottery sherds (possibly a working floor) between the undis-
SECRETARY'S REPORT 53

turbed subsoil and a sealing layer of relatively clean sand, presumably
fill. Very few pottery fragments other than those of local stoneware
were found in the test-hole portion of this layer, but all of those which
were found were datable as within the period of operation of the
pottery (1794-1837).

Mr. Pearce and Mr. Muzzrole also conducted archeological excava-
tions during May on the site of the early 18th-century City Tavern
building in Annapolis. In locating the major foundation they identi-
fied four (possibly five) periods of building and found builder’s
trenches of about 1780 containing cultural materials which after study
will make quite accurate dating possible.

At the beginning of the year, through the courtesy of E. B. Tucker
and the government of Bermuda, Mendel L. Peterson, head curator of
Armed Forces history, and Alan B. Albright, museum technician,
collected a number of significant artifacts from underwater sites in
the Bermuda reefs dating from 1595 through 1838. The earliest site
yielded a rare pewter porringer. The site of the San Antonio, a
Spanish ship which sank in 1621, yielded more ordnance materials and
traces of trade goods. The site of the Hagle, a Virginia Company
ship which went down in 1658, produced clay pipes, a soapstone bullet
mold, and a solid iron shot for the ship’s main battery. The site of
L’Herminie, a French frigate which sank in 1838, was extensively
explored, and from it were collected glass and unmarked porcelain
from the wardroom services and a collection of perfect bottles, in-
cluding those for brandy, wine, oil, and clarified olive oil, with the
seal of the merchant.

Frank A. Taylor, director, attended the Sixth General Conference
of the International Council of Museums at The Hague, July 2-11,
1963, where he was elected president of the International Committee
of ICOM for Museums of Science and Technology. He visited mu-
seums in Italy, Switzerland, Germany, Holland, and England.

EXHIBITIONS

Highlights in the exhibits program during the year were the re-
opening of three large halls of modernized exhibits in the Museum of
Natural History and the beginning of the installation of exhibits in
the new Museum of History and Technology. With the opening of
the second hall of North American archeology, the hall of life in the
sea, and the hall of dinosaurs and fossil reptiles, all but three of the
galleries on the first floor of the Museum of Natural History have now
been modernized. At the end of the year installation of exhibits in
four halls of the new Museum of History and Technology began
while the construction of exhibits continued. Exhibit units for 15 of
the halls in the new museum were prepared.

720-018—64—_5
54 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1963

The new hall of North American archeology includes 38 modernized
displays. An introductory section of several units explains the ob-
jectives and dating methods of systematic archeology; most of the
rest of the hall is devoted to displays of the cultures of Indian groups
in various regions of the United States. Curator Waldo R. Wedel
prepared the scripts and selected the specimens for this hall with the
expert assistance of Dr. C. G. Holland and Dr. W. A. Ritchie. The
hall was designed by Ray Hayes and Mrs. Barbara Craig.

Plans for the layout of the new hall of Old World archeology were
completed by associate curator Gus Van Beek and exhibits designer
R. O. Hower. This gallery will present a synopsis of Old World cul-
tural history from earliest times to the end of the Roman Era.

Contract renovation for the new hall of physical anthropology began
on March 30. Exhibits designer Joseph Shannon and director T. D.
Stewart, while still head curator of the department of anthropology,
completed the plan for the new hall layout and the arrangement of
cases. Dr. Stewart prepared detailed scripts for 14 of the exhibits and
Dr. Angel completed the specifications for a large map of the peoples
of the world.

The new hall entitled “Life in the Sea” was officially opened to the
public in February. The most impressive single exhibit here is the
life-size blue whale prepared under the direction of Dr. Remington
Kellogg, recently retired Assistant Secretary of the Smithsonian
Institution. Other mammals depicted include the sea otter, several
kinds of porpoises, and five other species of whales. A group of six
jellyfishes and comb-jellies is shown by means of eight superimposed
reverse-carved sheets of Plexiglas; side lighting provides very lfe-
like qualities. A central alcove in the hall will eventually display
deep-sea views, but an exceptionally fine temporary exhibit now oc-
cupies this space. In each of the openings in the alcove, shells are
presented in a gemlike display which attracts much favorable atten-
tion. Among the other temporary installations is an exhibit of 137
species of mollusks found in Polynesia, the Eastern Pacific region,
and along our Atlantic coast. This and the other temporary exhibits
in the hall will be replaced as rapidly as the permanent exhibit ma-
terials can be installed. The hali has been developed under the direc-
tion of Dr. Fenner A. Chace, Jr., in cooperation with exhibits de-
signers Thomas Baker, Chris Karras, and Gorman Bond.

Construction in the halls of comparative osteology and cold-blooded
vertebrates was virtually completed at the end of the year. Most of
the bird and small-mammal skeletons to be exhibited in the hall of
osteology were cleaned and restored by Leonard Blush of the taxi-
dermy staff. Dr. Leonard P. Schultz is directing the development of
the hall of cold-blooded vertebrates, and scripts for more than half
SECRETARY'S REPORT 55

of the units have been prepared. Several casts of fishes were repaired,
and one cast of a record-size 12-foot white sturgeon was produced by
John Widener for the case on ancient fishes. This cast was prepared
from a specimen obtained through the cooperation of Dr. Murray A.
Newman, curator of the Vancouver Public Aquarium,

All curators in the department of zoology participated in the plan-
ning and development of a temporary exhibit entitled “Zoology in
the Smithsonian Institution” for viewing during the XVI Interna-
tional Congress of Zoology, meeting in Washington during August
1963.

A detailed statement of the purpose and scale for each unit in the
future hall of plant life was prepared as a basis for more precise
planning of the exhibits in this large gallery. Specifications for
models in the rainforest life group were prepared and some of the
models made. Early in 1963 a field party spent 5 weeks in the desert
of Baja California, Mexico, collecting data and materials for the
construction of a desert life group. Dr. R. S. Cowan, assistant di-
rector for the Museum of Natural History, led the party and served
as technical adviser and photographer; Paul Marchand and Vernon R.
Rickman worked together to prepare models, molds, sketches, and
other exhibit items. The work of the field party was greatly facili-
tated by the use of the Vermilion Sea Field Station maintained on
the east coast of the peninsula by the San Diego Natural History
Museum.

The large modernized hall of dinosaurs and other fossil reptiles was
opened to the public in June. The dominance of the dinosaurs in the
terrestrial fauna of the Age of Reptiles is illustrated by displays rep-
resenting all major groups of dinosaurs. Examples range in size
from one which had an arm bone 6 feet long to a tiny beast with a
thigh bone smaller than that of a chicken. Many of the specimens
were collected during the early U.S. Geological Survey explorations
associated with the opening of the West between 1870 and 1895. Also
displayed in this hall are reptiles from which mammals evolved.
These animals apparently were never abundant in the United States,
and the exhibited fossils were collected recently in South Africa.
The displays of fossil reptiles are related to exhibits of fossil inverte-
brates, fishes, and mammals in adjoining halls, so that the visitor can
follow the history of life from its earliest traces almost to the present.
Dr. Nicholas Hotton ITT, associate curator of vertebrate paleontology,
planned the exhibits for the hall with the assistance of exhibits de-
signers Ann Karras and Barbara Craig. Preparation has begun on
four dioramas for exhibit on the balcony in the hall of dinosaurs.
Using the scale of 1 inch to 1 foot, Jay N. Matternes and Norman
Deaton will prepare these dioramas to depict land vertebrates of the
56 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1963

Upper Triassic, the Upper Jurassic, and the Upper Cretaceous, and
the sea vertebrates of the Upper Cretaceous. Mr. Matternes com-
pleted the third mural painting, for the age of mammals hall, which
depicts terrestrial life during the Oligocene in North America. Speci-
fications were prepared for the fourth mural in the hall which will
represent animal assemblages in the Pliocene Epoch.

Eight new exhibits to be displayed in the halls of medicine, den-
tistry, and pharmacy in the new Museum of History and Technology
were temporarily installed in the gallery of medical sciences in the
Arts and Industries Building; these include units on the develop-
ment of the microscope, medical and dental equipment, and crude
drugs. Exhibits planned or prepared to portray various phases of the
history of medicine include a diorama showing the performance of
an operation in about the year 1805, the corner of a ward in the Mas-
sachusetts General Hospital as it appeared in 1875, and a dental office
in Illinois during the period 1912-20. Most of the units have now been
designed and produced for these halls under the direction of Dr, Sami
K. Hamarneh.

Exhibits for the hall of tools, planned by curator Silvio A. Bedini
in cooperation with exhibits designer Harry Hart, neared completion
in the exhibits laboratory. Displays of the handtools of the black-
smith, cooper, wheelwright, pump log maker, and woodworking trades
were in the designing stage. In mid-June artist R. McGill Mackall
of Baltimore installed the first unit in the new hall of tools—a large
background painting showing skilled workmen fabricating marine
propellers. An exhibit of a mid-19th-century machine shop was
moved to the new building and will be erected early in the summer.

The production of exhibits for the civil-engineering hall neared
completion with the construction of a series of wooden arches illustrat-
ing the American, Austrian, and English systems of tunnel timbering.
The Bethelhem Steel Co. fabricated especially for this hall a cast-
iron tunnel segment 10 feet in diameter, such as is used for lining
tunnels through soft soil. The technical direction of this hall is
the responsibility of associate curator Robert M. Vogel, with exhibits
designers John Brown and Harry Hart providing the design of in-
dividual exhibits.

Tn preparation for developing the exhibits in the future hall of elec-
tricity, associate curator Bernard Finn made a study of the electrical
exhibits in the museums of Europe. Substantial progress was made
in the design of exhibits in the first third of the hall, devoted to wired
communications and power.

At the end of the year, the Pioneer locomotive of 1851 joined the
historic engines, coaches, and streetcars now assembled in the railroad
hall in the new Museum of History and Technology. These large,
SECRETARY'S REPORT 57

full-scale exhibits will be complemented by a series of models and
specimens of equipment which will trace the history of railroads and
street railways in the United States. Associate curator John H. White
and exhibits designer Virginia Mahoney collaborated in the develop-
ment and design of this hall.

Curator Paul V. Gardner is revising his plans for the hall of ce-
ramics in order to include important specimens received during the
year. Recently acquired 18th-century German and English porce-
lains, from several donors, were placed on exhibition in the Museum
of Natural History.

The American Petroleum Institute continued to render valuable
assistance in the planning of exhibits for the new hall of petroleum.
A model of the first fluid catalytic cracking plant, which began opera-
tion at Baton Rouge, La., in May 1942 to produce high-octane gasoline
for the United States and its allies in World War II, was placed on
exhibit in the present petroleum hall.

The 50th anniversary of the establishment of the collection of dresses
of the First Ladies of the White House was marked by the instal-
lation of the Inaugural Ball gown and cape of Mrs. John F. Kennedy.
The project of making the mannequins of the First Ladies appear more
lifelike has continued. The application of natural flesh tints to the
features of more than half of the group has been completed.

Exhibits for the hall of historic Americans, planned by curator
Wilcomb E. Washburn in cooperation with exhibits designer Robert
Widder, were nearing completion at the end of the year. Assistant
curator Anne W. Murray continued to direct the fitting of historic
women’s dresses and men’s suits on the mannequins to be exhibited in
the hall of American costume. <A series of 4 introductory panels has
been designed and 15 exhibits completed for this hall.

The exhibits in the cultural history hall in the Museum of Natural
History were dismantled for transfer to the new Museum of History
and Technology. The woodwork and fireplaces of the period rooms
were carefully disassembled and moved to the new building. Twenty-
five exhibits have been produced for the new hall of everday life in
the American past, among them a series of units illustrating the
influences upon early American home furnishings of cultural ele-
ments imported by Spanish, French, British, Dutch, Flemish, Ger-
man, and Scandinavian settlers. Installation of this hall is under
the direction of curator C. Malcolm Watkins, and exhibits chief John
K. Anglim designed the exhibits with the assistance of Deborah
Bretzfelder.

A difficult operation was successfully accomplished with the re-
moval of Horatio Greenough’s statue of George Washington from the
chapel of the Smithsonian Building to the central corridor of the
58 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1963

second floor of the Museum of History and Technology, where it
stands at the entrance to the series of halls which will interpret the
growth of the United States. Exhibits scripts for three of the five
halls illustrating this growth were prepared by associate curator Peter
Welsh in collaboration with Dr. Anthony N. B. Garvan, chairman of
the Department of American Civilization, University of Pennsylvania.
Exhibits designers Robert Widder and Nadya Kayaloff prepared de-
tailed designs for many of the units in the two halls of this series.
George Watson restored an 18-century Pennsylvania waterwheel and
gear-train which will illustrate the ingenuity and skill of the colonial
millwright and demonstrate the use and transmission of power in his
time.

The production of exhibits for the hall of philately was begun,
and 18 units have been completed. Associate curator Francis J.
McCall and assistant curator Carl H. Scheele prepared the scripts
for several series of exhibits in the hall devoted to the history of
postal services in this country and abroad, methods of postal trans-
portation, mail metering devices, and the design and production of
U.S. stamps. Exhibits designer John Clendening is preparing the
detailed layouts for these units.

The history of the Armed Forces of the United States in war and
peace is the subject of a series of exhibits in the new Museum of His-
tory and Technology; curator of military history Edgar M. Howell,
curator of naval history Philip K. Lundeberg, and associate curator
of naval history Melvin H. Jackson continued to write scripts and
provide technical supervision for the design and production of these
exhibits. A striking series of models of militarily historic ships
was produced during the year. Other exhibits produced depict the
role of the Army in the Mexican War, in frontier service during the
middle 19th century, and in the Civil War, and the service of the
Navy in the Mexican and Civil Wars. Exhibits designer Fred Craig
designed the units for these halls.

Design and production of exhibit units for the hall of ordnance
are largely completed. Associate curator Craddock H. Goins sup-
plied technical direction for the exhibits, the design of which was
contributed by exhibits designer John Brown. Among these is in-
cluded an interpretation of the interchangeable-parts system of man-
ufacturing, a significant development in the history of firearms.
Other units trace the development of naval artillery and naval guns
and relate the history of tanks and armored warfare. Dr. Lundeberg
prepared detailed specifications for those units concerned with the
original Continental gunboat PAzladelphia, which include original
items of equipment recovered with the gunboat itself from the waters
of Lake Champlain and graphic materials which help to explain
SECRETARY’S REPORT 59

the battle of Valcour Island on October 11, 1776, in which this gun-
boat participated.

Mr. Howell continued supervision of the preparation of the Star-
Spangled Banner for exhibition in the central rotunda of the new
building. Skilled seamstresses have sewed tapes to the flag backing
to support this great national treasure in its new location.

Following his appointment to the directorship of the Museum of
Natural History, Dr. T. Dale Stewart assumed the chairmanship
of the committee coordinating and supervising the modernization of
exhibits in natural history; he also continued planning and develop-
ment of the new hall of physical anthropology. In addition to plan-
ning for the future hall of plant life, Dr. R. S. Cowan, assistant
director, coordinated the work of the curators and the exhibits staff
involved in preparing exhibits for the Museum of Natural History.

Exhibits chief John KE. Anglim continued in charge of the planning
and preparation of al] exhibits and directly supervised the operation
of the exhibit laboratory in the Natural History Building. In June,
A. Gilbert Wright joined the staff of that laboratory to assist in its
supervision. Julius Tretick supervised the production and installation
of natural history exhibits.

The installation of exhibits in four halls of the Museum of History
and Technology was initiated late in the year. Exhibit units were
prepared for 15 of the halls in the new museum during the past year,
and 2 other halls were in the design stage. Assistant director John
C. Ewers continued to coordinate the work of curators and exhibits
staffs for the new museum. Benjamin W. Lawless supervised the
design and production of exhibits for this museum, as well as the
preparation of additional displays for the Air and Space Building.
He was assisted by Bela S. Bory in production, Robert Klinger in
the model shop, and Robert Widder in design. Carroll Lusk entered
on duty as exhibits lighting specialist in January. The editing of
the curators’ drafts of exhibits scripts was continued by George
Weiner, with the assistance of Constance Minkin and Edna Wright.

DOCENT SERVICE

For the ninth consecutive year the Junior League of Washington
continued its volunteer docent program, conducting school classes
from the greater Washington area through the Smithsonian museums.
The program was carried out through the cooperation of curator G.
Carrol Lindsay, Smithsonian Museum Service, with Mrs. Vernon
Knight, chairman of the League’s decent committee, and Mrs. Dickson
R. Loos, cochairman. Mrs. Loos will serve as chairman for the
forthcoming year, with Mrs. Arnold B. McKinnon as cochairman.
60 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1963

During the 1962-68 school year 22,393 children were conducted
on 783 tours, representing an increase of 8 percent over the previous
year’s participation. Since the beginning of the tour program in
1955, more than 100,000 schoolchildren have been guided through
Smithsonian museum halls by the Junior League docents.

Tours were conducted in the halls of everyday life in America,
Indians of the Americas, the world of mammals, and textiles, for
grades 3 through 6; and in the halls of gems and minerals, and power
machinery, for grades 5 through junior high school. Tours in the
everyday life in early America hall stopped at the end of November so
that the exhibit could be moved to the new Museum of History and
Technology. The Junior League has guided approximately 22,500
schoolchildren through this hall since it opened in 1957. To replace
the early America tour, a new tour through the hall of the world of
mammals was offered beginning January 14, 1963. Four tours each
day, 5 days a week, were offered every half hour from 10 through 11 :30
a.m. in the halls of everyday life in early America, Indians of the
Americas, and the world of mammals. Tours in the halls of gems and
minerals, textiles, and power machinery were conducted on Monday
through Friday at 10 and 11 a.m.

Tours were conducted from October 1, 1962, through May 28, 1963,
with the exception of the month of April 1963, when, as usual, tours
were suspended because of the exceedingly heavy visitor traffic in all
museum halls during the Easter and cherryblossom seasons. The
great number of visitors to the Smithsonian museums during the early
spring so overcrowd the exhibition halls that the school tours cannot
be conducted satisfactorily.

In addition to Mrs. Knight and Mrs. Loos, the members of the
League’s docent committee were:

Mrs. A. Stuart Baldwin, Mrs. Thad H. Brown, Jr., Mrs. Challen E. Caskie, Mrs.
Thomas R. Cate, Mrs. Dean B. Cowie, Mrs, Henry M. deButts, Mrs. Lee M. Folger,
Mrs. Rockwood Foster, Mrs. Clark Gearhart, Mrs. George Gerber, Mrs. Gilbert
Grosvenor, Mrs. Robert H. Harwood, Mrs. Walter M. Johnson, Jr., Mrs. Charles
J. Kelly, Jr., Mrs. Lansing Lamont, Mrs. J. H. Lasley, Mrs. Peter Macdonald,
Mrs. John Manfuso, Jr., Mrs. Samuel D. Marsh, Mrs. Earnest May, Mrs. Alex-
ander McClure, Mrs. Robert McCormick, Mrs. Arnold B. McKinnon, Mrs. H.
Roemer McPhee, Jr., Mrs. William Minshall, Jr., Mrs. L. Edgar Prina, Mrs. Arthur
W. Robinson, Mrs. Donald M. Rogers, Mrs. Robert E. Rogers, Mrs. W. James
Sears, Mrs. Walter Slowinski, Mrs. Joseph Smith, Jr., Mrs. James H. Stallings,
Jr., Mrs. H. Tilman Stirling, Mrs. William R. Stratton, Mrs. Richard Wallis, and
Mrs. Mark A. White.

The Institution deeply appreciates the able and devoted efforts of
these volunteers, whose services to the schools of the Washington area
encourage effective use of the Smithsonian museum exhibits by teach-
ers and students alike.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 61

BUILDINGS AND EQUIPMENT

During the year the new east wing of the Natural History Building
was completed, and the department of geology and the divisions of
birds and mollusks moved into their new quarters. For the first time
in many years these units have adequate workrooms and laboratories
as well as sufficient space in which to arrange the systematic reference
collections for the most effective service to the scientists who employ
these unduplicated materials in essential research. The contract for
the construction of the west wing and the remaining required renova-
tion of the existing building had not been awarded at the close of the
year.

In May 1963, the General Services Administration accepted a lim-
ited area of the new Museum of History and Technology Building
from the general contractor. Exhibits for a number of halls in this
area have been moved to the building, and at the end of the year
installations were proceeding in several halls concurrently. At the
close of the year the construction of the building was estimated to be
98 percent complete.

CHANGES IN ORGANIZATION AND STAFF

Upon the retirement of Dr. A. Remington Kellogg on October 81,
1962, as director of the United States National Museum and as As-
sistant Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, Dr. Albert C. Smith,
then director of the Museum of Natural History, was appointed As-
sistant Secretary. Frank A. Taylor became the director of the United
States National Museum in addition to being director of the Museum
of History and Technology.

On March 26, 1963, Mr. Taylor received one of the 10 National Civil
Service League’s career service awards for 19638.

On November 1, 1962, Dr. T. Dale Stewart, head curator of an-
thropology, became director of the Museum of Natural History. On
December 9, 1962, Dr. Richard S. Cowan was appointed assistant di-
rector of the Museum of Natural History. Dr. I. E. Wallen, formerly
associated with the Atomic Energy Commission, was appointed assist-
ant director for oceanography on August 5, 1962.

During the fiscal year 1963, the following appointments were made
to the scientific staff of the Museum of Natural History: Dr. Paul J.
Spangler, associate curator of insects, on July 8; George E. Watson,
assistant curator of birds, on August 6; Dr. Donald Duckworth, asso-
ciate curator of insects, on August 19; Dr. Victor G. Springer, associ-
ate curator of fishes, on August 28; Dr. J. Lawrence Angel, curator of
physical anthropology, on September 4; Stanywn G. Shetler, assistant
curator of phanerogams, on September 4; Dr. Harold E. Robinson,
associate curator of cryptogams, on October 15; Dr. Richard H. Eyde,
62 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1963

associate curator of plant anatomy, on October 18; Dr. Francis M.
Hueber, associate curator of invertebrate paleontology and paleo-
botany, on November 1; Dr. Richard E. Norris, associate curator of
cryptogams, on December 4; Dr. Stanley H. Weitzman, associate cura-
tor of fishes, on January 2; Dr. Robert H. Gibbs, Jr., associate curator
of fishes, on January 380; Dr. Marian H. Pettibone, associate curator
of marine invertebrates, on March 4; Dr. Martin A. Buzas, associ-
ate curator of invertebrate paleontology and paleobotany, on June 5;
Dr. Herman A. Fehlmann, supervisor of the Smithsonian Oceano-
graphic Sorting Center, on June 17; Dr. Raymond B. Manning, as-
sociate curator of marine invertebrates, on June 24.

Dr. David H. Dunkle was reinstated ‘n his position of associate
curator of vertebrate paleontology on December 16, 1962, after an
absence of 2 years with the U.S. Geological Survey on assignment to
Pakistan.

Dr. Marshall T. Newman, associate curator of physical anthropology
since 1942, resigned on July 6, 1962, to accept a teaching position at
Portland State College in Oregon.

Dr. Robert E. Snodgrass, honorary collaborator since 1953 and one
of the world’s leading scholars in insect anatomy and morphology,
died September 4, 1962, at the age of 87. At the time of his death he
was preparing a handbook of insect morphology for students. His
major work, Principles of Insect Morphology, published in 1935,
stands as a basic text in the field. On the occasion of his 84th birthday
in 1959 a special volume of the Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections,
entitled Studies in Invertebrate Morphology, was published in his
honor. In 1961 he was awarded the Leidy Medal by the Academy of
Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.

Among the additions to the staff of the Museum of History and
Technology were the appointments of Dr. Bernard S. Finn as asso-
ciate curator in charge of the division of electricity on August 20,
1962, and J. Jefferson Miller IT as assistant curator in the division
of ceramics and glass on September 17, 1962. Miss Barbara F. Bode
was appointed junior curator in the division of numismatics on Sep-
tember 24, 1962. A. Gilbert Wright became assistant chief of the
Natural History Exhibits Laboratory on June 2, 1963, coming to the
Smithsonian Institution from the National Park Service.

George T. Turner, associate curator in the division of philately, left
the Museum of History and Technology on March 1, 1968, and Dr.
Charles O. Houston, Jr., associate curator in the division of manufac-
tures and heavy industries, on March 8. Dr. Lester C. Lewis, curator
of the division of physical sciences, resigned on April 12,1963. Joseph
EF. Rudmann of the office of head curator, department of science and
SECRETARY’S REPORT 63

technology, transferred to a position elsewhere, effective May 10,
1963.
Respectfully submitted.
Frank A. Taytor, Director.
Dr. LronarD CARMICHAEL,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
Report on the
International Exchange Service

Str: I have the honor to submit the following report on the activities
of the International Exchange Service for the fiscal year ended June
30, 1963:

The original plan of organization of the Smithsonian Institution,
presented to the Board of Regents by Joseph Henry in 1847, provided
for a system of exchange of current Smithsonian publications which
would afford the Smithsonian Institution the most ready means of en-
tering into friendly relations and correspondence with all the learned
societies in the world and of enriching the Smithsonian Library with
the current transactions and proceedings of foreign institutions.

When the first of the Smithsonian’s long series of scientific publica-
tions was published, copies were sent to scientific and learned institu-
tions in foreign countries. In return, the Smithsonian Institution
received many valuable publications from foreign institutions. To
continue this desirable international exchange of scientific informa-
tion, the Smithsonian Institution appointed agents in a number of
foreign countries to distribute the Smithsonian publications. In re-
turn, these agents received publications from foreign organizations
which were forwarded to the Smithsonian Institution.

In 1851 the privilege of transmitting publications through the
Smithsonian Institution to other countries, and to receive in return
publications from foreign institutions, was offered to governmental
agencies, learned societies, and individuals in the United States. This
opportunity for wide distribution of scientific publications was eagerly
grasped and the system grew rapidly. Thus began a Smithsonian
service that has increased steadily in usefulness, and the quantity of
material handled has increased from a few hundred packages of pub-
lications transmitted in 1849 to more than a million packages during
the last fiscal year.

In 1867 Congress provided that copies of all documents thereafter
printed by order of either House be placed at the disposal of the Joint
Committee on the Library to be exchanged through the agency of
the Smithsonian Institution. This was the first official recognition
of the Smithsonian exchange system. In 1875 there began a series of
international meetings which led to the adoption, in 1886, of the Brus-
sels Convention for the international exchange of literary and scientific

64
SECRETARY'S REPORT 65

publications, as well as for the exchange of governmental documents.
The State Department requested the Smithsonian Institution to assume
the responsibility of establishing in the United States a bureau of
exchange to carry out the purposes of the Brussels Convention. The
Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution agreed to accept this
responsibility, and the Smithsonian Institution has continued to carry
out these functions up to the present time.

The work of the International Exchange Service serves as a means
of developing and executing, in part, the broad and comprehensive
objective of the Smithsonian Institution, “the diffusion of knowledge.”
Over the years the operations of the Service have affected most bene-
ficially the libraries of all learned institutions in the United States
and have helped to promote the rapid growth of science through facili-
tating the international exchange of ideas. Libraries throughout the
world have been enriched by the publications received through the
Service from many institutions in the United States and, in turn, the
libraries of the United States have benefited from the publications
received from the institutions in foreign countries.

The Service operates in this manner: Libraries, scientific societies,
educational institutions, and individuals in the United States who wish
to transmit their publications through the Service to foreign countries,
on exchange or as gifts, advise the International Exchange Service
of the names and addresses of the foreign organizations to which
they wish to transmit their publications, and the general character and
approximate weight of the publications they wish to send. If the
publications are accepted for transmission, packing and shipping in-
structions are furnished the sender. The transportation charges to
the Smithsonian Institution must be prepaid, but there is no charge
to the sender for the cost of transportation from the Smithsonian In-
stitution to the intended addressees. Publications transmitted through
the Service must be packaged and addressed by the senders.

Shipments of addressed packages of publications are received by the
International Exchange Service from foreign exchange bureaus for
distribution in the United States. These packages are forwarded to
the domestic addressees whose names and addresses appear on the
packages. Addressed packages of publications weighing 111,609
pounds were received during the past year from foreign sources for
distribution in the United States. .

Publications weighing 796,622 pounds were received by the Inter-
national Exchange Service during the year from approximately 250
domestic sources for transmission to intended recipients in over 100
foreign countries.

Packages of publications are mailed directly to the addressees in the
countries that do not have exchange bureaus. During the past fiscal
66 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1963

year the International Exchange Service mailed directly to the in-
tended recipients in foreign countries addressed packages of publica-
tions weighing 225,689 pounds, or 28 percent of the total poundage
received, at a cost to the Smithsonian Institution of $51,604.18, or ap-
proximately 23 cents per pound.

The Service transmitted by ocean freight addressed packages of
publications weighing 562,301 pounds, or 71 percent of the total pound-
age received, to foreign exchange bureaus for distribution in their re-
spective countries. The cost to the Smithsonian Institution for
forwarding these publications was $33,843.44, or approximately 6 cents
per pound. Listed below are the names of the foreign exchange bu-
reaus to which the International Exchange Service forwards addressed
packages of publications for distribution.

LIST OF EXCHANGE SERVICES

Austria: Austrian National Library, Vienna.

Betctium: Service des changes Internationaux, Bibliothéque Royale de Bel-
gique, Bruxelles.

Cuina: National Central Library, Taipei, Taiwan.

CZECHOSLOVAKIA: Bureau of International Exchanges, University Library,
Prague.

DENMARK: Institut Danois des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque Royale,
Copenhagen.

Eeyrt : Government Press, Publications Office, Bulag, Cairo.

FINLAND: Library of the Scientific Societies, Helsinki.

FRANCE: Service des Hchanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque Nationale, Paris.

GERMANY (Eastern) : Deutsche Staatsbibliothek, Berlin.

GERMANY (Western): Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft, Bad Godesberg.

Huncary: Service Hongrois des Echanges Internationaux, Orszigos Széchenyi
Konyvtar, Budapest.

Inpra: Government Printing and Stationery Office, Bombay.

InDONESIA : Minister of Education, Djakarta.

IsRAEL: Jewish National and University Library, Jerusalem.

IraLy: Ufficio degli Scambi Internazionali, Ministero della Pubblica Istruzione,
Rome.

JAPAN: Division for Interlibrary Services, National Diet Library, Tokyo-

Korea: Korean Library Association, Seoul.

NETHERLANDS: International Exchange Bureau of the Netherlands, Royal Li-
brary, The Hague.

New Souru WALES: Public Library of New South Wales, Sydney.

New ZEALAND: General Assembly Library, Wellington.

Norway: Service Norvégien des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque de 1’Uni-
versité Royale, Oslo.

PuinipPines: Bureau of Public Libraries, Department of Education, Manila.

PoLAND: Service Polonais des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque Nationale,
Warsaw.

PortucaL: Servico Portugués de Trocas Internacionais, Biblioteca Nacional,
Lisbon.
SECRETARY'S REPORT 67

QUEENSLAND: Bureau of International Exchange of Publications, Chief Secre-
tary’s Office, Brisbane.

RuMANIA: International Hxchange Service, Biblioteca Centrala de Stat, Bu-
charest.

South AusTRALIA: South Australian Government Exchanges Bureau, Govern-
ment Printing and Stationery Office, Adelaide.

Spain: Junta de Intercambio y Adquisicién de Libros y Revistas para Bibliote-
cas Publicas, Ministerio de Educacién Nacional, Madrid.

SweEpEN : Kungliga Biblioteket, Stockholm.

SwitTzERLAND: Service Suisse des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque Cen-
trale Fédérale, Berne.

TASMANTA: Secretary of the Premier, Hobart.

TuRKEY : National Library, Ankara.

UNION or SoutH Arrica: Government Printing and Stationery Office, Cape
Town.

UnIon oF Soviet SocraList REPUBLICS: Bureau of Book Exchange, State Lenin
Library, Moscow.

Vicror1a: State Library of Victoria, Melbourne.

WESTERN AUSTRALIA: State Library, Perth.

Yueostavia: Bibliografski Institut FNRJ, Belgrade.

FOREIGN EXCHANGE OF GOVERNMENTAL DOCUMENTS

Tn accordance with treaty stipulations, conventions, and other agree-
ments made between the United States and various foreign countries
for the mutual exchange of official publications, the Smithsonian Insti-
tution transmits to the foreign recipients the official U.S. Govern-
ment publications. The libraries that receive copies of all of the
official publications are the recipients of the full sets of Government
documents. The libraries that receive a selected list are the recipients
of the partial sets of Government documents. During the fiscal year
632,922 pieces weighing 220,700 pounds were received by the Smith-
sonian Institution for transmission to the recipients of the full sets,
and 74,951 pieces weighing 34,834 pounds were received for transmis-
sion to the recipients of the partial sets.

RECIPIENTS OF THE FULL SETS

ARGENTINA: Divisién Biblioteca, Ministerio de Relaciones HExteriores y Culto,
Buenos Aires.
AUSTRALIA : Commonwealth National Library, Canberra.
New SoutH WALES: Public Library of New South Wales, Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Parliamentary Library, Brisbane.
SourH AuSTRALIA: Public Library of South Australia, Adelaide.
TASMANIA: Parliamentary Library, Hobart.
Victorta: State Library of Victoria, Melbourne.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: State Library, Perth.
Austria: Administrative Library, Federal Chancellery, Vienna.
Beiaium: Service Belge des Wchanges Internationaux, Bruxelles.’
BraziL: Biblioteca Nacional, Rio de Janeiro.
BurMA: Government Book Depot, Rangoon.

See footnotes, p. 72.
68 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1963

CanapA: Library of Parliament, Ottawa.
MAnt1rozpa: Provincial Library, Winnipeg.
OnTARIO: Legislative Library, Toronto.
QUEBEC: Library of the Legislature of the Province of Quebec.
SASKATCHEWAN : Legislative Library, Regina.?
CryLon: Department of Information, Government of Ceylon, Colombo.
CuIiLE: Biblioteca Nacional, Santiago.
Cuina: National Central Library, Taipei, Taiwan.
National Chengchi University, Taipei, Taiwan.
CoLoMBIA: Biblioteca Nacional, Bogota.
Costa Rica: Biblioteca Nacional, San José.
CusBa: Direccion de Organismos Internacionales, Ministerio de Relaciones Bx-
teriores, Habana.
CZECHOSLOVAKIA: University Library, Prague.
DENMARK: Institut Danois des Hchanges Internationaux, Copenhagen.
Heyer: Bureau des Publications, Ministére des Finances, Cairo.
FINLAND: Parliamentary Library, Helsinki.
FRANCE: Bibliothéque Nationale, Paris.
GERMANY : Deutsche Staatsbibliothek, Berlin.
Free University of Berlin, Berlin-Dahlem.
Parliamentary Library, Bonn.
GREAT BRITAIN:
British Museum, London.
London School of Economics and Political Science. (Depository of the
London County Council.)
InpIA: National Library, Calcutta.
Central Secretariat Library, New Delhi.
Parliament Library, New Delhi.
INDONESIA : Ministry for Foreign Affairs, Djakarta.
IRELAND: National Library of Ireland, Dublin.
IsRAEL: State Archives and Library, Hakirya, Jerusalem.
ITaLy: Ministero della Pubblica Istruzione, Rome.
JAPAN: National Diet Library, Tokyo.’
Mexico: Secretaria de Relaciones Exteriores, Departamento de Informacién
para el Extranjero, México, D.F.
NETHERLANDS: Royal Library, The Hague.
New ZEALAND: General Assembly Library, Wellington.
Norway: Utenriksdepartmentets Bibliothek, Oslo.
Prru: Seccidn de Propaganda y Publicaciones, Ministerio de Relaciones Ex-
teriores, Lima.
PHILIPPINES: Bureau of Public Libraries, Department of Education, Manila.
PorTUGAL: Biblioteca Nacional, Lisbon.
Spain: Biblioteca Nacional, Madrid.
Swepen: Kungliga Biblioteket, Stockholm.
SWITZERLAND: Bibliothéque Centrale Fédérale, Berne.
TURKEY: National Library, Ankara.
UNION oF SoutH Arrica: State Library, Pretoria, Transvaal.
UNION or Soviet SocraList Repustics: All-Union Lenin Library, Moscow.
UNITED Nations: Library of the United Nations, Geneva, Switzerland.
Uruauay: Oficina de Canje Internacional de Publicaciones, Montevideo.
VENEZUELA: Biblioteca Nacional, Caracas.
YUGOSLAVIA: Bibliografski Institut FNRJ, Belgrade.*

See footnotes, p. 72.
SECRETARY'S REPORT 69

RECIPIENTS OF THE PARTIAL SETS

AFGHANISTAN: Library of the Afghan Academy, Kabul.
BELGIUM: Bibliotheque Royale, Bruxelles.
BoriviA: Biblioteca del Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores y Culto, La Paz.
Brazit: Minas GERAIS: Departmento Hstadul de Hstatistica, Belo Horizonte.
BrRITIsH GUIANA: Government Secretary’s Office, Georgetown, Demerara.
CampBopiA: Les Archives et Bibliotheque Nationale, Phnom-Penh.’
CANADA:

ALBERTA: Provincial Library, Edmonton.

British CoLUMBIA: Provincial Library, Victoria.

NEw Brunswick: Legislative Library, Fredericton.

NEWFOUNDLAND: Department of Provincial Affairs, St. John’s.

Nova Scorra: Provincial Secretary of Nova Scotia, Halifax.
DoMINICAN ReEpusBLic: Biblioteca de la Universidad de Santo Domingo, Santo

Domingo.

Ecuapor: Biblioteca Nacional, Quito.
EL SALVADOR:

Biblioteca Nacional, San Salvador.

Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, San Salvador.
GREECE: National Library, Athens.
GUATEMALA: Biblioteca Nacional, Guatemala.
Haiti: Bibliothéque Nationale, Port-au-Prince.
HONDURAS:

Biblioteca Nacional, Tegucigalpa.

Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Tegucigalpa.
IcELAND: National Library, Reykjavik.
INDIA:

BomBay: Sachivalaya Central Library, Bombay.®

BrHAR: Revenue Department, Patna.

KERALA: Kerala Legislature Secretariat, Trivandrum.

UTTAR PRADESH :

University of Allahabad, Allahabad.
Secretariat Library, Lucknow.
WEST BENGAL: Library, West Bengal Legislative Secretariat, Assembly
House, Calcutta.

IRAN: Imperial Ministry of Hducation, Tehran.
Iraq: Public Library, Baghdad.
JAMAICA:

Colonial Secretary, Kingston.

University College of the West Indies, St. Andrew.
LEBANON: American University of Beirut, Beirut.
LieErIA: Department of State, Monrovia.
MaAtayA: Federal Secretariat, Federation of Malaya, Kuala Lumpur.
Matra: Minister for the Treasury, Valletta.
NICARAGUA: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Managua.
PAKISTAN: Central Secretariat Library, Karachi.
PANAMA: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Panama.
PARAGUAY: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Seccién Biblioteca, Asuncion.
PHILIPPINES: House of Representatives, Manila.
ScortanD: National Library of Scotland, Edinburgh.

See footnotes, p. 72.
720-018—64—_6
70 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1963

SrinGapore: Chief Secretary, Government Offices, Singapore.

Supan: Gordon Memorial College, Khartoum.

THAILAND: National Library, Bangkok.

VIETNAM: Direction des Archives et Bibliothéques Nationales, Saigon.

INTERPARLIAMENTARY EXCHANGE OF THE OFFICIAL JOURNALS

There are being sent abroad through the International Exchange
Service 87 copies of the daily issues of the Federal Register and 105
copies of the daily issues of the Congressional Record. The names and
addresses of the recipients of the official journals are listed below:

RECIPIENTS OF THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD AND FEDERAL REGISTER

ARGENTINA !
Biblioteca del Poder Judicial, Mendoza.®
Direccién General del Boletin Oficial e Imprentas, Buenos Aires.
Camara de Diputados Oficina de Informacién Parliamentaria, Buenos Aires.
AUSTRALIA ?
Commonwealth National Library, Canberra.
New Souru Watss: Library of Parliament of New South Wales, Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Chief Secretary’s Office, Brisbane.
Viotor1A: State Library of Victoria, Melbourne.®
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Library of Parliament of Western Australia, Perth.
BASUTOLAND: Clerk to the Legislative Council, Maseru.’ ‘
BELGIUM, Bibliothéque du Parlement, Palais de la Nation, Brussels.‘
BRAZIL: 2
Biblioteca da Camara dos Deputados, Brasilia, D.F.*
Secretaria da Presidencia, Rio de Janeiro.’
BRITISH HonpurAs: Colonial Secretary, Belize.
Campbopt1a : Ministry of Information, Phnom Penh.
CAMEROON: Imprimerie Nationale, Yaoundé.'®
CANADA:
Clerk of the Senate, Houses of Parliament, Ottawa.
Library of Parliament, Ottawa.
CEYLON : Ceylon Ministry of Defense and External Affairs, Colombo.‘
CHILE: Biblioteca del Congreso Nacional, Santiago.’
CHINA:
Legislative Yuan, Taipei, Taiwan.’
Taiwan Provincial Government, Taipei, Taiwan.
CUBA:
Biblioteca del Capitolio, Habana.
Biblioteca Ptblica Panamericana, Habana.®
CzECHOSLOVAKIA : Ceskoslovenska Akademie Ved. Prague.’
Keypt: Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Egyptian Government, Cairo.‘
FINLAND: Library of the Parliament, Helsinki.‘
FRANCE:
Bibliothéque Assemblée Nationale, Paris.
Bibliothéque Conseil de la République, Paris.
Library, Organization for European Economie Cooperation, Paris.’
Research Department, Council of Hurope, Strasbourg.‘
Service de la Documentation Etrangére Assemblée Nationale, Paris.‘
Ganon: Secretary General, Assemblée Nationale, Libreville.’ *

See footnotes, p. 72.
SECRETARY’S REPORT yi

GERMANY:
Amerika Institut der Universitat Miinchen, Miinchen.*
Archiy, Deutscher Bundestag, Bonn.
Bibliothek des Instituts ftir Weltwirtschaft an der Universitit Kiel,
Kiel-Wik.
Bibliothek Hessischer Landtag, Wiesbaden.‘
Deutsches Institut fiir Rechtswissenschaft, Potsdam-Babelsberg II.°
Deutscher Bundesrat, Bonn.‘
Deutscher Bundestag, Bonn.‘
Hamburgisches Welt-Wirtschafts-Archiv, Hamburg.
Westdeutsche Bibliothek, Marburg, Hessen.‘ °
GHANA: Chief Secretary’s Office, Accra.*
GREAT BRITAIN:
Department of Printed Books, British Museum, London.
House of Commons Library, London.‘
N.P.P. Warehouse, H.M. Stationery Office, London.‘ °
Printed Library of the Foreign Office, London.‘
Royal Institute of International Affairs, London.‘
GREECE: Bibliothéque Chambre des Députés, Hellénique, Athens.
GUATEMALA: Biblioteca de la Asamblea Legislativa, Guatemala.
Hartt: Bibliothéque Nationale, Port-au-Prince.
Honpvuras: Biblioteca del Congreso Nacional, Tegucigalpa.
Huneary: Orszigos Széchenyi Konyvtar, Budapest.
INDIA:
Civil Secretariat Library, Lucknow, United Provinces.®
Indian Council of World Affairs, New Delhi.‘
Jammu and Kashmir Constituent Assembly, Srinagar.‘
Legislative Assembly, Government of Assam, Shillong.‘
Legislative Assembly Library, Lucknow, United Provinces.
Kerala Legislature Secretariat, Trivandrum.*
Madras State Legislature, Madras.‘
Parliament Library, New Delhi.
Gokhale Institute of Politics and Economics, Poona.‘
IRELAND: Dail Hireann, Dublin.
IsRAEL: Library of the Knesset, Jerusalem.
PPATEY:°
Biblioteca Camera dei Deputati, Rome.
Biblioteca del Senato della Republica, Rome.
International Institute for the Unification of Private Law, Rome.®
Periodicals Unit, Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations,
Rome.
JAPAN:
Library of the National Diet, Tokyo.
Ministry of Finance, Tokyo.
JoRDAN: Parliament of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, Amman.‘
Korea: Library, National Assembly, Seoul. ;
LuxemMsBoure: Assemblée Commune de la C..C.A., Luxembourg.
MExIco:
Direccién. General Informacién, Secretaria de Governacién, Mexico, D.F.
Biblioteca Benjamin Franklin, México, D.F.
AGUASCALIENTES: Gobernador del Estado de Aguascalientes, Aguascalientes,
Baga CALirogNIA: Gobernador del Distrito Norte, Mexicali.
CaMPECHE: Gobernador del Estado de Campeche, Campeche.

See footnotes, p. 72.
72 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1963

Merxico—Continued
CHIAPAS: Gobernador del Estado de Chiapas, Tuxtla Gutiérrez.
CHIHUAHUA: Gobernador del Estado de Chihuahua, Chihuahua.
CoAHUILA: Periéddico Oficial del Estado de Coahuila, Palacio de Gobierno,
Saltillo.
CoriMa: Gobernador del Estado de Colima, Colima.
GUANAJUATO: Secretaria General de Gobierno del Estado, Guanajuato.®
JALISCO: Biblioteca del Hstado, Guadalajara.
México: Gaceta del Gobierno, Toluca.
MicuoacAn: Secretaria General de Gobierno del Estado de Michoac4n,
Morelia.
Moretos: Palacio de Gobierno, Cuernavaca.
NAYARIT: Gobernador de Nayarit, Tepic.
NveEvo LE6n: Biblioteca del Estado, Monterrey.
Oaxaca: Periddico Oficial, Palacio de Gobierno, Oaxaca.®
PuEBLA: Secretaria General de Gobierno, Puebla.
QUERETARO: Secretaria General de Gobierno, Seccién de Archivo, Querétaro.
SINALOA: Gobernador del Estado de Sinaloa, Culiacén.
Sonora: Gobernador del Estado de Sonora, Hermosillo.
TAMAULIPAS: Secretaria General de Gobierno, Victoria.
VERACRUZ: Gobernador del Estado de Veracruz, Departamento de Gober-
nacio6n y Justicia, Jalapa.
YucatAn: Gobernador del Estado de Yucatan, Mérida.
NETHERLANDS: Koninklijke Bibliotheek, The Hague.®
NEw ZEALAND: General Assembly Library, Wellington.
NIGERIA : Office of the Clerk of the Legislature, Enugu.‘
Norway: Library of the Norwegian Parliament, Oslo.
PAKISTAN : Secretary, Provincial Assembly West Pakistan, Lahore.**
PANAMA: Biblioteca Nacional, Panama City.*
PHILIPPINES : House of Representatives, Manila.
POLAND: Kancelaria Rady Panstwa, Biblioteka Sejmowa, Warsaw.
PorRTUGUESE Timor: Reparticio Central de Administracio Civil, Dili.®
RHODESIA AND NYASALAND: Federal Assembly, Salisbury.°
RuMANIA: Biblioteca Centrala de Stat RPR, Bucharest.
Spain : Boletin Oficial del Estado, Presidencia del Gobierno, Madrid
SWEDEN : Universitetsbiblioteket, Uppsala.‘
SWITZERLAND:
International Labour Office, Geneva.*?
Library, United Nations, Geneva.
TANGANYIKA: Library, University College, Dar es Salaam.? *
Toco: Ministére d’Etat, de l’Interieur, de Information et de la Presse, Lome.
Union or SoutH AFRICA:
CapE OF Goop Hope: Library of Parliament, Cape Town.
TRANSVAAL: State Library, Pretoria.
Union oF Soviet Socrarist Repustics : Fundamental’niia Biblioteka Obshchest-
vennykh Nauk, Moscow.
Urveuay: Diario Oficial, Calle Florida 1178, Montevideo.
YUGOSLAVIA : Bibliografski Institut FNRJ, Belgrade.”

1 Added during the year.

2 Receives two sets.

3 Change in name.

4 Congressional Record only.
5 Federal Register only.

6 Three copies.

"Two copies.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 73

The International Exchange Service accepts publications for trans-
mission to addressees in all countries except to the mainland of China,
North Korea, and Communist-controlled areas of Vietnam but will
not accept packages of publications from domestic sources intended
for addressees in the United States or in a territory subject to the
jurisdiction of the United States.

The number and weight of the packages received from sources in
the United States for transmission abroad, and the number and weight
of packages received from foreign sources intended for domestic
addressees, are classified in the accompanying table.

Received by the Smithsonian Institution for
transmission

Classification For transmission abroad For distribution in the
United States

Number of Weightin |Numberof| Weight in
packages pounds packages pounds

U.S. parliamentary documents re-

ceived for transmission abroad____- 715, 347 289i, O04 foe. 2= = MEE Ta ey
Publications received from foreign

sources for U.S. parliamentary ad-

SEECRAORS ice Sts 2 SER Ee 87 need te dS Ded et 2 12, 568 14, 124
U.S. departmental documents re-

ceived for transmission abroad_____ 235, 396 205,031 jee ee ee ee
Publications received from foreign

sources for U.S. departmental ad-

perce eesees Leh kN by LA se BET NG) Ta oe A 4, 553 12, 090
Miscellaneous scientific and literary

publications received for transmis-

SIONIAOLOAGe 2 Se ee 191, 187 PST ats VAL aes Seen as | SCE ce
Miscellaneous scientific and literary

publications received from abroad

for distribution in the United

Berio 2 oi Fe hee atte ot t Pat oc ie tne coding JN VA ool 8 3. 47,069 | 85,395
Lagat I Sea OEE iy ea 1, 141,930 | 796,622 | 64,190 | 111, 609
Total packages received____-_- S206 FU 2OM aires erat teks, Uemeh arena ea eee ®
fEotal pounds Fecelveds 2c Seo hoa a es ee Se 908, 231

Respectfully submitted.
’ J. A. Coturns, Chief.
Dr. LeonarD CARMICHAEL,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
Report on the Bureau of
American Ethnology

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the field
researches, office work, and other operations of the Bureau of American
Ethnology during the fiscal year ended June 30, 1963, conducted in
accordance with the act of Congress of April 10, 1928, as amended
August 22, 1949, which directs the Bureau “to continue independently
or in cooperation anthropological researches among the American
Indians and the natives of lands under the jurisdiction or protection of
the United States and the excavation and preservation of archeologic
remains.”

SYSTEMATIC RESEARCHES

Dr. Frank H. H. Roberts, Jr., director of the Bureau, devoted most
of the fiscal year to office duties and to general supervision of the
activities of the Bureau and the River Basin Surveys.

Early in August, at the invitation of the Czechoslovak Academy of
Sciences, Dr. Henry B. Collins, anthropologist, attended a meeting of
the Permanent Council of the International Congress of Anthropo-
logical and Ethnological Sciences in Prague. Following the meetings
the delegates were taken on a week’s tour to visit ethnographic mu-
seums and inspect paleolithic and neolithic sites being excavated by
Czech archeologists in Bohemia, Moravia, and Slovakia.

On November 9-10 Dr. Collins participated in a symposium on Pre-
historic Man in the New World held at Rice University, Houston, Tex.,
in celebration of the 50th anniversary of the university. His paper,
discussing the present status and problems of archeological research in
the American Arctic and subarctic, together with those of the 16 other
participants in the symposium, will appear in a volume to be pub-
lished by the University of Chicago Press. Dr. Collins’s paper “Bering
Strait to Greenland,” evaluating the results of recent archeological
discoveries in the American Arctic and their bearing on the problem
of the origin and relationships of Eskimo culture, was published in
December 1962 in Technical Paper No. 11, Arctic Institute of North
America. Another paper, “Stefansson as an Anthropologist,” was
published in the Stefansson memorial issue of Polar Notes, No. 4.

In December Dr. Collins was reelected to a 3-year term on the board
of governors of the Arctic Institute of North America. He continued

74
SECRETARY’S REPORT 75

to serve as a member of the Institute’s publications committee and as
chairman of the directing committee which is responsible for prepara-
tion of the Arctic Bibliography, a reference work which summarizes
and indexes the contents of scientific publications in all fields, and in
all languages, pertaining to the Arctic and subarctic regions of the
world. The material for Volume 11 of the bibliography, edited by
Marie Tremaine, was delivered to the Government Printing Office in
October 1962. Approximately 1,500 pages in size, it will contain
abstracts in English of 6,607 publications, of which 2,990 are of books,
monographs, and papers published in Russian, 2,638 in English, and
$79 in Scandinavian, German, French, and other languages. Ameri-
can scientists and others interested in following the course of scientific
research and economic and social developments in the northern parts
of the Soviet Union find the bibliography a valuable source of informa-
tion, including as it does English abstracts of Soviet publications on
such widely varied subjects as acclimatization, acculturation, adminis-
tration and government, aerial mapping and reconnaissance, agri-
culture, archeology, botany and zoology, construction, economic condi-
tions, education, electric power, fishes and fisheries, forestry, geology
and geophysics, hydrology, ice navigation, maps and mapping,
meteorology, mineral resources, mines and mining, oceanography, pale-
ontology, public health and medicine, petroleum, petrology, railroads,
transportation, wildlife conservation and management, etc. Abstracts
of anthropological publications have formed a substantial part of the
Arctic Bibliography from the beginning of the project. An attempt
has been made, with considerable success, to summarize and index the
contents of every paper that has been written on the Eskimos of
Siberia, Alaska, Canada, and Greenland; the Tlingit, Haida, and
Tsimshian Indians of the Northwest Coast; the northern Athapaskans
and Algonkians; and the native peoples of northern Eurasia.

The Arctic Institute’s Russian translation project—Anthropology
of the North: Translations from Russian Sources—which Dr. Collins
organized in 1960, continued its operations under a renewed grant
from the National Science Foundation and the editorship of Dr. Henry
N. Michael. The third volume of the series, an English translation of
the late M. G. Levin’s definitive work on the anthropology of north-
eastern Asia (L'thnic Origins of the Peoples of Northeastern Asia),
was published by the University of Toronto Press in May 1963. Addi-
tional translations of Russian publications on Arctic anthropology
are in the course of preparation.

Dr. William C. Sturtevant attended the 35th International Congress
of Americanists (Mexico City, August 19-25), the joint annual meet-
ings of the American Indian Ethnohistoric Conference and the Con-
ference on Iroquois Research (Albany, October 12-14), the 61st annual
76 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1963

meeting of the American Anthropological Association (Chicago, No-
vember 15-18), and the annual meeting of the Central States
Anthropological Society (Detroit, May 16-18). At the last he
participated in a symposium on primitive art.

Dr. Sturtevant’s time in Washington was devoted to continuing
research on the Iroquois and Seminole, to preparation of a paper
titled “Studies in Ethnoscience” which he presented at the Social
Science Research Council’s Conference on Transcultural Studies of
Cognitive Systems (Mérida, Yucatan, April 17-20), and to his duties
as book-review editor of the American Anthropologist. Papers by
him were published in the Ylortda Anthropologist and in L'thnohistory.

In July Dr. Sturtevant spent about 2 weeks continuing ethno-
graphic fieldwork among the Seneca-Cayuga of Oklahoma, which he
had begun the previous summer. This research, supported by a grant
from the American Philosophical Society, is providing data on the
most extreme variant of Iroquois culture, particularly on religion and
ceremonial aspects, which casts a new light on the relatively well-
known culture of the modern Iroquois communities in New York and
Ontario. In October Dr. Sturtevant spent a few days on the Six
Nations Reserve in Ontario, observing an important Iroquois religious
ceremony and making inquiries for comparison with his Oklahoma
data. In addition to this fieldwork, Dr. Sturtevant conducted archival
research on the Oklahoma Seneca-Cayuga in the Indian Archives
Division of the Oklahoma Historical Society in Oklahoma City
(July 23-24) and museum research on Florida Seminole and other
eastern Indian material in the Milwaukee Public Museum (Novem-
ber 19-21) and in the College Museum of Hampton Institute, Hamp-
ton, Va. (June 8-9).

In November Dr. Robert M. Laughlin, ethnologist, began fieldwork
in Chiapas, Mexico, where he collected and recorded ethnographic
and linguistic materials, particularly myths and dreams, as well as
numerous prayers, from the Tzotzil Indians of Zinacantan, Chiapas,
and surrounding areas. A vocabulary of 2,200 items of the dialect
of Zinacantan collected by Lore M. Colby in 1960 has been expanded
to 4,000 by Dr. Laughlin. He recorded a series of 26 dreams in Tzotil
from a Zinacantan informant. Because specific dream experiences
determine the selection of shamans from the community and also pro-
voke new religious feasts, it is expected that dreams will illuminate
many aspects of Zinacantan world view. This material is being pre-
pared for publication.

Dr. Laughlin utilized the results of a week of ethnographic re-
search in the Huastec area of the States of San Luis Potosi and
Veracruz, Mexico, in January 1963, to supplement library research
for the preparation of the chapter “Huastec” for the Handbook of
SECRETARY'S REPORT 77

Middle American Indians. Another chapter for the Handbook, en-
titled “Tzotzil,” is in preparation. Dr. Laughlin returned to Wash-
ington in mid-May to check on data he had obtained in the field and
to consult references in various libraries, and on June 14 left again
for Mexico to continue his field studies.

RIVER BASIN SURVEYS

The River Basin Surveys, the unit of the Bureau of American
Ethnology organized to cooperate with the National Park Service and
the Bureau of Reclamation of the Department of the Interior, the
Corps of Engineers of the Department of the Army, and State and
local institutions in the program for salvage archeology in areas to
be flooded or otherwise destroyed by the construction of large dams,
continued its activities. An increase in funds made possible an ex-
pansion of the program throughout the Missouri Basin. The investi-
gations during 1962-63 were supported by a transfer of $271,000 from
the National Park Service, a carryover of $64,498 Missouri Basin
money, a grant of $7,285 from the Appalachian Power Co., and a
carryover of $4,080 from an earlier contribution by the Idaho Power
Co. The National Park Service funds were to support the investiga-
tions in the Missouri Basin, and the grant from the Appalachian
Power Co. was to provide for archeological excavations along the
Roanoke River in southern Virginia where the Smith Mountain
Project is nearing completion. The balance from the Idaho Power
Co. came from a grant originally made to conduct researches in the
Hells Canyon Reservoir area along the Snake River, Idaho-Oregon,
and the work this year was a continuation of that project. This par-
ticular investigation was carried on as a cooperative project between
the River Basin Surveys and the Museum of Idaho State College at
Pocatello. The grand total of funds available for the River Basin
Surveys in 1962-63 was $346,863.

Activities in the field pertained, in large part, to surveys and ex-
cavations. Most of the work was concentrated in the digging or
testing of sites but surveys were made in six new reservoir basins.
Five of the new reservoirs were in Kansas; the sixth was in Nebraska.
At the beginning of the fiscal year, nine excavating parties were in
the field in the Missouri Basin and one survey party was operating
in Montana. In September, digging was started in the Smith Moun-
tain Reservoir area in southern Virginia, and in October a small group
collected pollen samples from areas in western Nebraska. During
February and early March one party excavated a site along the Chat-
tahoochee River in Georgia. In May, a small group worked for a
short period in South Dakota, while another made the reconnaissance
of the six reservoirs previously mentioned. Also during May a party
78 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1963

returned to the Smith Mountain area. During June, 11 parties began
operations in the Missouri Basin and were fully occupied in the ex-
cavation program at the end of the fiscal year.

As of June 30, 1963, archeological surveys and excavations had been
made, since the start of the salvage program, in a total of 264 reser-
voir areas located in 29 different States. Furthermore, two lock proj-
ects, four canal areas, and two watershed areas had also been ex-
amined. Since 1946, when the program got underway, 5,009 sites have
been located and recorded; of that number, 1,175 were recommended
for excavation or limited testing. Because of the conditions under
which the salvage operations need to be conducted, complete excava-
tions, except in the case of a few small sites, are rarely possible. Conse-
quently, when the term “excavation” is used, it generally implies that
only about 10 percent of a site was dug.

By the end of the year, 484 sites in 54 reservoir basins and one
watershed area had either been tested or excavated to the degree where
good information about them had been obtained. It has been the
policy of the River Basin Surveys to dig in at least one example of
the various kinds of sites reported in the preliminary surveys. The
sites range in nature from those which were simple camping areas,
occupied by early hunting and gathering Indians of about 10,000 years
ago, to village remains left by historic Indians of the mid-19th cen-
tury. In addition, the remains of frontier trading posts of European
origin and of Army installations have also been examined. The re-
sults of the investigations have been incorporated in reports which
have been published in various scientific journals, in the Bureau of
American Ethnology Bulletins, and in the Miscellaneous Collections
of the Smithsonian Institution. River Basin Surveys Paper No. 25,
which constitutes Bureau Bulletin 182, pertaining to the work done in
the John H. Kerr Reservoir Basin on the Roanoke River, Virginia-
North Carolina, was published in October. River Basin Surveys
Papers Nos. 26-32, which report on investigations in North Dakota,
Montana, and Kansas, and comprise Bulletin 185, were released during
June. Reports on other investigations in the two Dakotas and
Kansas, consisting of River Basin Surveys Papers 33-38, constituting
Bulletin 189, were sent to the Printing Office early in the fiscal year
and will be ready for distribution shortly after the beginning of the
new year. Various members of the staff cooperated with representa-
tives of other Federal agencies in the preparation of short popular
pamphlets about some of the major reservoir projects. These pam-
phlets were published by the cooperating agency and are distributed at
the visitors’ center for the reservoir concerned.

As in previous years, the River Basin Surveys received helpful
cooperation from the National Park Service, the Bureau of Reclama-
SECRETARY’S REPORT 79

tion, the Corps of Engineers, the Geological Survey, and numerous
State and local institutions. The party leaders were assisted in many
ways by the field personnel of all the cooperating agencies, and the
relationship was excellent in all areas. The National Park Service
continued to serve as liaison between the various agencies, both in
Washington and in the field. The Park Service also prepared the
budget estimates and justifications for the funds needed to support the
salvage program.

General direction and supervision of the program were continued
by the main office in Washington. Work in the Missouri Basin was
directed by the field headquarters and laboratory at Lincoln, Nebr.
The projects in southern Virginia and Georgia were supervised by
the Washington office.

Washington Office —Dr. Frank H. H. Roberts, Jr., continued the
direction of the main headquarters of the River Basin Surveys in
the Bureau of American Ethnology throughout the year. Harold A.
Huscher and Carl F. Miller, archeologists, were based at that office.
Mr. Huscher had just returned from the Walter F. George Dam and
Lock area on the Chattahoochee River below Columbus, Ga., at the
beginning of the fiscal year. He remained in the office during the
summer and fall months, working on the accumulating records and
collections from the 4 preceding years. In November he attended
the Southeastern Archeological Conference and the Conference on
Historic Site Archeology at Mound State Park, Moundville, Ala.,
reading a report on the “Archaic of the Walter F. George Reservoir
Area.” On November 10 and 11, he attended the Eastern States
Archeological Conference at Athens, Ga., reading a paper on “Generic
Western Names Identifiable in the Southeast.” On November 22-24,
he participated in the 20th Annual Plains Conference at Lincoln,
Nebr., where he discussed “Southern Athapaskan Names in Early
Spanish Records.” Early in February he returned to Georgia and
completed emergency excavations at a site just south of the City of
Columbus. In May he attended the joint meeting of the Society for
American Archeology and the American Association of Physical
Anthropologists at Boulder, Colo., reading a paper on “Intermontane
Athapaskan Continuities.” At the close of the fiscal year he was work-
ing on his materials from the Walter F. George Reservoir area.

At the beginning of the fiscal year Mr. Miller was in charge of an
excavating party at the Tuttle Creek Reservoir area in northern
Kansas. The results of his activities there are covered in the follow-
ing section on the Missouri Basin. On September 10 he left for
the Smith Mountain and Leesville Reservoir area in southern Vir-
ginia and carried on excavations there until November 18, when
weather conditions made it advisable to terminate digging until spring.
80 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1963

While in the Washington office he worked on materials he had pre-
viously collected in Georgia and also started detailed studies on the
ceramic material he had obtained while digging at Russell Cave in
Alabama. He also examined numerous archeological specimens sent
to the Washington office by private collectors. In January he as-
sisted in setting up a series of archeological exhibits at one of the
schools in Newport News, Va. He also completed two short papers
for publication, one describing certain polyhedral cores found in
Kansas, the other discussing Chenopodium weeds as a source of food
for Southeastern Indians. On May 15, Mr. Miller left Washington
for Rocky Mount, Va., to resume his investigations in the Smith Moun-
tain Reservoir Project area, and at the end of the year he and his
smal] field party were digging in one of the best sites found in
that locality.

Alabama-Georgia.—Harold A. Huscher spent the week of Novem-
ber 4-10 at the Walter F’. George Reservoir, checking and photograph-
ing sites as they were being progressively flooded by the rising waters
of the reservoir. At the upper end of the reservoir the historically
important Coweta Town House site, 1 RU 9, where Oglethorpe
held a peace conference with the Creek chiefs in 1739, was being
destroyed by grading for the new Phoenix City dock development.

The Walker Street site (Key School site), 9 ME 60, reported by
David W. Chase, Fort Benning Infantry Museum, was being destroyed
by an eroding drainage ditch and immediate salvage operations were
recommended. Huscher returned to Georgia on February 7, 1963,
and, working under an emergency grant, investigated this site, which
proved to be an Early Woodland occupation level buried in a natural
levee of the Chattahoochee River south of Columbus. With the as-
sistance of David W. Chase of the Infantry Museum, power equip-
ment was used in stripping the overburden from 1,600 square feet
of the site. The exposed camp layers were then excavated using
power-screening techniques. Post holes in linear and curvilinear
arrangements were recorded, but no complete house patterns were
worked out. Twenty occupational features, including pits and
hearths, were recorded. Over 3,000 sherds and stone artifacts were
recovered, of which 1,000 were sherds of the sand-tempered fine-
checked (Cartersville Check Stamped) types. There were 40 exam-
ples of the tetrapodal pot-base and 9 examples of the subrectangular
flat pot-base, characteristic of the late Deptford Period. Minority
pottery types were, in descending frequency, large check stamped,
complicated stamped, linear check stamped, and simple stamped. A
few sherds showed combinations of check stamped and complicated
stamped, possibly transitional Deptford-Swift Creek forms belonging
with Willey’s New River Complicated Stamped. The characteristic
SECRETARY’S REPORT 81

point is triangular, thick cross-section, slightly excurvate sides, with
baseline either straight, slightly concave, or slightly convex. The
assemblage, seemingly a manifestation late in the Deptford Period,
with some early traits of the Swift Creek complex appearing, most
closely parallels that found in the submound and primary mounds
at the Stark’s Clay Landing site, 9 CLA 1 (“Mandeville Mound,”
University of Georgia), and the Mound at the Upper Francis Land-
ing, 1 BR 15 (“Shorter Site,” University of Alabama), and the
Early Woodland level at the Russell Cave.

Idaho-Oregon.—Under an agreement with the Smithsonian Insti-
tution, the Idaho State University Museum undertook archeological
reconnaissance and excavations in the Hells Canyon Reservoir on the
Snake River between Idaho and Oregon. Fieldwork began on March
25, 1963, and concluded June 20, 1963. The project was under the
general supervision of Dr. Earl H. Swanson, director of the museum.
Max G. Pavesic, a graduate student at the University of Colorado,
directed the fieldwork and was assisted by Roger Nance, Washing-
ton State University, and by David Wyatt, University of Wash-
ington.

Field headquarters were maintained at Oxbow Dam, where the
Idaho Power Co. generously made available a trailer for residence
and for laboratory work. Additional assistance during the excavation
was given by the Morrison-Knudsen Corp., which provided the field
party with a bulldozer. Grateful acknowledgment is also due to
Jess Smith, Mr. and Mrs. Amos Camp, Dan Cole, Ross Parker, Ralph
Page, and Rudy Lanning for the help they gave.

The field studies were conducted throughout by three men whose
work included intensive reconnaissance and excavation at an impor-
tant village site (No. 10-AM-1). Ten archeological sites were lo-
cated which were not reported in the original survey of Hells Canyon
(Columbia Basin Project, River Basin Surveys, Smithsonian Insti-
tution, 1951). These include three rockshelters, seven camp sites,
and numerous rock cairns. Five cairns were excavated. The first
was excavated entirely by hand because these appear to be a type
of archeological feature. Cairns of this nature are constructed of
large boulders, which sometimes weigh several tons and which are
covered by earth. Reports of burials beneath the cairns were given
to the crew, but no archeological materials or data were obtained
from them and they remain unexplained at this time.

An important village site was given careful attention by the field
party. Two adjacent housepits, as well as the area between, were in-
tensively examined by excavation. These lie on a north-south axis
parallel to the river. The largest structure is approximately 25 feet
in diameter, while the smaller measures approximately 12 feet across.
82 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1963

It could not be determined whether there was any superimposition of
the structures. Stratigraphically, and by the artifact inventory, the
housepits appear to be contemporaneous. In both, the house fill is not
more than 314 feet in depth. Little soil change was found in the fill,
which was a dark loam near the top but became sandier with depth.
Above the sterile soil, yellow sand and gravel, an ash layer is found
throughout the limits of the housepits. Stratigraphically, there
appears to be only one cultural occupation.

Large quantities of tools, flakes, and bones were recovered, which
indicate both intensive occupation and use of the area for hunting
purposes. Preliminary examination of the artifacts suggests that
occupation was late in prehistoric time, possibly early historic, and
similarities can be seen with the Camas Prairie Phase reported at the
Weis Rockshelter on Camas Prairie (B. Robert Butler, Contributions
to the Prehistory of the Columbia Plateau, Occasional Papers No. 9
of the Idaho College Museum).

Missouri Basin —At the beginning of fiscal year 1947 the Missouri
Basin Project of the River Basin Surveys began its operations from
the field headquarters and laboratory in Lincoln, Nebr. The Project
has carried on its activities for 17 consecutive years from that location.
The office and laboratory were at first housed with the Laboratory of
Anthropology in the basement of the Social Sciences Building. They
were then moved to a basement hallway of the University of Nebraska
Library. Shortly thereafter much more space was made available in
the basement of the just-completed Burnett Hall on the University
campus, and the Laboratory of Anthropology and the project again
joined forces. By 1950, both the project and the Laboratory of An-
thropology had outgrown this space, and the Missouri Basin Project
rented a building at 1517 O Street. The project laboratory was
transferred to the new location, but offices were maintained in Burnett
Hall. In 1953 the offices were moved to O Street and the entire project
operated from that location for the following 10 years. During the
present fiscal year expansion of the project and deterioration of the
upper floors of the building at 1517 O Street made new quarters an
absolute necessity. On May 1, 1963, the Missouri Basin Project rented
a one-story building at 1835 P Street in Lincoln and moved to that
location. It is a relatively new, fireproof building of 14,000 square
feet, with all laboratory, storage, and office facilities on one floor.

Activities during the current fiscal year, as in past years, included
surveys, excavations, analyses of materials, and reporting of results
of the salvage of archeological remains being destroyed by dam and
reservoir construction within the Missouri Basin. Dr. Robert L.
Stephenson served as chief of the project, except for approximately
3 months when he was on leave and Dr. Warren W. Caldwell func-
SECRETARY'S REPORT 83

tioned as acting chief. During the summer months the work consisted
mainly of excavations. Analyses and preparation of reports received
the major attention throughout the remainder of the year. The special
chronology program, begun in January 1958, was continued through-
out fiscal 1963.

At the beginning of the year the permanent staff, in addition to the
chief, consisted of five archeologists, one administrative clerk, one
administrative assistant, one secretary, one clerk-typist, one scientific
illustrator, one photographer, and four museum aides. The tempo-
rary staff included 4 archeologists, 5 field assistants, 3 cooks, and 83
field crewmen.

During July and August seven field crewmen were added to the
temporary staff. By the end of the first week in August, the employ-
ment of all the field crewmen and cooks had been terminated. Other
terminations of temporary employees were made shortly thereafter.
Four of the temporary archeologists and field assistants were trans-
ferred to the permanent staff as archeologists.

At the end of the fiscal year the permanent staff consisted of 21
persons. These were, in addition to the chief, nine archeologists, one
administrative assistant, one secretary, one administrative clerk, two
clerk-typists, one scientific illustrator, one photographer, and four
museum aides. ‘The temporary staff consisted of 71 persons: 3 arche-
ologists, 2 physical anthropologists, 4 cooks, and 62 field crewmen.

During the year there were 25 Smithsonian Institution River Basin
Surveys field parties at work in the Missouri Basin. During July
and August four parties were working in the Oahe Reservoir area
and four parties were working in the Big Bend Reservoir area of
South Dakota; two parties were working in the Yellowtail Reservoir
area of Montana and Wyoming; one crew was working in the Tuttle
Creek Reservoir area in Kansas; and one party was surveying the Mis-
souri Breaks area between Fort Peck and Fort Benton in Montana. In
October a small crew was collecting pollen samples in western Ne-
braska. In May, a small crew worked in the Fort Randall Reservoir
area of South Dakota and a survey party conducted a reconnaissance of
six proposed reservoirs in Kansas and Nebraska. During June, a crew
was excavating in the Pony Creek area of Iowa; another crew had
begun work on the James Diversion Project in South Dakota; one
crew was at work in the Yellowtail Reservoir of Montana and Wyo-
ming; three parties were working in the Oahe Reservoir; and four
groups were excavating in the Big Bend Reservoir, South Dakota.
One special crew was not in the field but was at work during June in
the laboratory at Lawrence, Kans., studying the skeletal remains from
sites in the Oahe Reservoir.
84 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1963

Other fieldwork in the Missouri Basin during the year included
14 parties from State institutions operating under cooperative agree-
ments with the National Park Service and in cooperation with the
Smithsonian Institution in the Inter-Agency Archeological Salvage
Program.

At the beginning of the year Robert W. Neuman, assisted by John
J. Hoffman and a crew of 10, was at work on the excavation of an
early village of circular houses known as the Molstad site (89DW234) ,*
about 8 miles south of Mobridge, S. Dak., on the right bank of the
Missouri River in Dewey County. This site will be subject to wave
cutting at maximum pool level of the Oahe Reservoir. Artifacts
and architectural details recovered indicate that the site had been a
small, fortified village of the very early period of circular house occu-
pation often referred to as the La Roche. There were five houses
within an oval stockade and one larger house outside the stockade.
The stockade was surrounded by a dry moat 2.6 feet deep and had
a single large loop bastion on one side. The entire stockade line and
five of the houses were excavated, as well as the bastion and two cross
sections of the moat. The people who occupied this site during the
15th or 16th centuries were culturally very closely related to those
who occupied the Potts Village, some 2 miles upstream, which had
been excavated previously by crews from the Missouri Basin Project.

A second field party in the Oahe Reservoir, also directed by Robert
W. Neuman with the assistance of James J. Stanek and a crew of 10,
was at work at the beginning of the year excavating the Swift Bird
site (39DW233), half a mile downstream from the Molstad site.
This site comprised a group of two burial mounds of the Plains
Woodland Period and a circular house depression that appears to
belong to the La Roche Period. The burial mounds date from a
period of some 1,500 or so years ago, while the house dates from
about 500 years ago. Mound 1 was a dome-shaped tumulus 75 feet
in diameter and 4 feet high. Several articulated bison skeletons lay
on the mound floor as did numerous large, charred timbers. Below
these was a burial pit containing several secondary human interments.
Artifacts were few and largely found within the burial pit. In most
respects this mound resembled those excavated at the Boundary
Mounds site at the North Dakota-South Dakota State line. Mound 2
was slightly smaller and had articulated bison skeletons, secondary

1 Site designations used by the River Basin Surveys are trinomial in character, consisting
of symbols for State, county, and site. The State is indicated by the first number, accord-
ing to the numerical position of the State name in an alphabetical list of the United States;
thus, for example, 82 indicates North Dakota, 39 indicates South Dakota. Counties are
designated by a two-letter abbreviation; for example, ME for Mercer County, MN for
Mountrail County, ete. The final number refers to the specific site within the indicated
State and county.
Secretary's Report, 1963 PEATE 2

Walker Street site (Key School site), 9ME60, a buried Deptford camp on the Chattahoochee
River, Ga. Overburden has been removed and the underlying camp levels are being
excavated by units 10 feet square. River Basin Surveys.

Probable house pattern showing at bottom of Deptford level. Shown here are indications

of a subrectangular structure with supporting wall posts set in trenches. River Basin
Surveys.
Secretary's Report, 1963 PLATE 3

GR dy SEL ARE RE HCE
. ‘ Cte te NNT
ta s) a y y a
. wt a Ri am af
at

SEAS eS thn. SO
Close-up view of the Sorenson site (24CB202) in the Big Horn Canyon within the Yellow-
tail Reservoir area during excavation. Evidence of more than 7,000 years of occupation
were uncovered in this small rock shelter. River Basin Surveys.

View of
within the Yellowtail Reservoir area. Smithsonian Institution field camp can be seen
adjacent to the excavation area. River Basin Surveys.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 85

human burials, and a very few artifacts on the mound floor, but no
burial pit. The circular house provided a minimal floor pattern with-
out center posts and a small quantity of artifacts. This party also
excavated Mound 8 of a series of five burial mounds at the Grover
Hand site (39DW240). That mound resembled Mound 1 at the Swift
Bird site, including the burial pit. Remains of 17 bison were re-
covered from the mound fill and floor. A new site, the Stelzer
(39DW 242), was tested. It is situated about a mile downstream from
39DW240. Occupational levels and artifacts indicate that this may
be a substantial camp site of Plains Woodland times. Neuman’s two
crews shared a single camp and completed their fieldwork on Sep-
tember 2 after 12 weeks in the field.

A third field crew in the Oahe Reservoir was directed by Dr. Wil-
liam M. Bass, assisted by Jon Muller and a crew of six. Based in
Pierre, this party utilized a caterpillar tractor and scraper to exca-
vate large sections of the burial areas at the Sully site (39SL4),
which is located approximately 20 miles northwest of Pierre, on the
left bank of the Missouri River. It comprises the largest prehistoric
village remains in the Missouri Basin and was excavated in previous
years by Smithsonian Institution field crews. The large burial areas
were not exhausted and, in order to get a sufliciently large sample of
the physical remains of the people who had lived there some 250-400
years ago, the current season’s work was directed toward exhausting
the burial areas. The heavy equipment was used to remove the over-
burden above the graves. Hach grave was then excavated by hand.
During the first three seasons of work, 264 burials were excavated.
This season an additional 293 were recovered, making a total of 557
burials from this one village. Brief investigations at other sites pro-
vided additional burials. At the Swan Creek site (39PO1), exca-
vated during a previous season by a cooperating institution, a single
burial was obtained. At the Bleached Bone site (89HU48), 20
burials were recovered and 8 were taken from the Second Hand site
(39P0207). In addition, a good quantity of burial artifacts was
recovered, correlating the burials directly with the village areas and
providing cultural meaning for the skeletal remains. This party
completed its fieldwork on August 30 after a season of 12 weeks.

The fourth Oahe Reservoir party was directed by Dr. Alfred W.
Bowers, assisted by William B. Colvin and a crew of 10. Based at
Mobridge, S. Dak., this crew excavated 14 circular earth lodges in the
Red Horse site (89CO34) just west of the bridge from Mobridge and
at the mouth of the Grand River. This was a moderately large,
fortified earth-lodge village of the late period and probably dates
in the 18th century. A large artifact yield as well as good architec-
tural details resulted from the excavations. Bowers’s crew also exca-

720-018—64——_7
86 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1963

vated a portion of the Davis site (39CO14), some 200 yards west of
the Red Horse site. There, a complex defensive system and a series
of long rectangular houses were partly uncovered. Apparently there
were at least two, and perhaps three, occupation periods represented,
but time did not permit sufficient excavation to recover the whole
story. The earliest occupation of the Davis site was several centuries
earlier than that at the Red Horse site. Continuation of the work
was planned for the next season.

In the Big Bend Reservoir area, three field parties were at work
at the beginning of the year and a fourth party was added during
July. One of the parties was directed by Dr. Warren W. Caldwell,
assisted by Richard E. Jensen and a crew of 11. They excavated at
two sites. The Langdeau site (89L.M209) had been a village of long-
rectangular houses and 15 depressions were visible. Four of these
house remains were excavated, and three long trenches were dug in
an unsuccessful attempt to find a fortification system. The houses
were 80-40 feet wide with no small structural posts at the ends. En-
trances were to the south or southwest and floors were compact and
stained with red ochre. Pottery found there is of the Anderson
and Foreman types, suggesting relationship to the early rectangular-
house period at the Dodd site near Pierre, but other artifacts were
extremely exotic, including copper, shell, bone, and stone tools and
ornaments. This crew’s second excavation was at the Jiggs Thompson
site (839L.M208), located 9 miles north of Lower Brule in the loop of
the Big Bend. This site had been a small village of 17 long-
rectangular houses situated on a high terrace finger that was separated
from the rest of the terrace by a moat 4.5 feet deep and 11 feet wide.
Two houses were excavated, the moat was sampled, and numerous
other test trenches were dug. The houses had been about 30 by 20
feet with entrances to the south. They did not have end posts, but
there were massive central support posts. Architecture and artifacts
suggest a close relationship to the Langdeau site; both are in the
Anderson-Foreman and Swanson traditions of early rectangular-
house culture. This party completed its work on August 26 after
11 weeks in the field.

The second Big Bend party was also directed by Dr. Caldwell, with
the assistance of Richard E. Carter. It consisted of a crew of nine.
Excavations were carried out at a two-component site (89LM2)
overlooking Medicine Creek some 8 miles northwest of Lower Brule.
This had been a village of small, rectangular houses with ramp
entrances to the south, minimal end support posts, and many cache
pits. The remains of the first occupation were overlain by those of a
village of square (or subrectangular) houses, 35 feet in diameter,
which had four central support posts of the kind usually found in
SECRETARY'S REPORT 87

late circular houses in the area. One house of each component,
many cache pits, and several midden areas were excavated. Abundant
pottery and other artifacts suggest that the earlier component relates
to the Anderson and Over foci, while the later component was of the
period of the Shannon Focus and similar to component C at the
Talking Crow site. This party also sampled the Jandreau site
(39L.M221), 3 miles east of Medicine Creek in the same general area.
Portions of two long-rectangular houses were excavated as were
cross sections of the fortification moat. Ceramics recovered there
suggest that the village may have been transitional between the An-
derson Focus and the Thomas Riggs Focus and will date toward the
latter part of the long-rectangular house period. In addition, minor
tests were made at the Gilman site (39L.M226) and at site 39L.M228
in the Medicine Creek Bottoms. The latter proved to have been a
rectangular-house village of Over Focus affiliation, while the former
was a circular-house village of the Shannon Focus. After 11 weeks
in the field this crew completed its assignment on August 26.

A third party in the Big Bend Reservoir area, sharing a joint
camp with Caldwell’s two crews, was directed by Vernon R. Helmen.
This crew of three was frequently assisted by members of Caldwell’s
parties during the 2 weeks of its work (July 16-27). Helmen and
his associates provided their services on a volunteer basis, and Mrs.
Helmen made a useful study of the microecology of the flora of one
earth lodge. The Helmen crew excavated one house in site 39LM2238,
a small village of the Shannon Focus. The circular house and several
cache pits yielded Talking Crow and Iona pottery.

The remaining field party in the Big Bend Reservoir area was at
work at the beginning of the year excavating the remains of Fort
George (395T202), a historic fur-trading post built in 1842 and
operated briefly in opposition to the trading post of Fort Pierre
Chouteau. The crew of eight was directed by G. Hubert Smith,
assisted by Lee G. Madison, and was based in Pierre with the Bass
party. Fort George was located on the right bank of the Missouri
River some 15 miles downstream from Pierre. Remains of the log
stockade, two blockhouses, and the interior buildings of timber were
excavated and recorded. Artifacts were abundant and will, along
with the architecture, provide a substantial picture of life at this
early post, of which so little contemporary record remains.

Two Missouri Basin Project field parties were at work at the begin-
ning of the year in the Yellowtail Reservoir area in the Big Horn
Canyon in Montana and Wyoming. Lionel A. Brown, with a crew
of five, operated in the lower end of the reservoir from the Yellow-
tail Dam south to the mouth of Dry Head Creek, a distance of some
25 miles upstream from the dam. They excavated three large, dif-
88 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1963

fuse, occupation sites and tested numerous rock shelters. Site
94BH215 at the mouth of Black Canyon, 6 miles above the dam, was
a stratified campsite with three levels of occupation. Artifacts were
moderately abundant and included a few nondescript potsherds,
corner-notched projectile points, and many scrapers, blades, and bone
tools, but no evidence of structures. It appears to have been a camp
intermittently occupied from a few hundred years ago to historic
times. Site 24BH212 was a complex of occupations at the mouth of
Bull Elk Canyon 18 miles above the dam. It contained six stone
circles, two circles of shallow postholes, midden deposits, fireplaces,
a profusion of scrapers and other small stone tools but very few pro-
jectile points and no evidence of pottery. Five of the stone circles
contained semicompacted floors, floor debris, and a central fireplace,
and one had a midden deposit just outside the stone circle all empha-
sizing the fact that they served the function of actual tipi rings.
The circular arrangements of shallow postholes with a suggestion of
floors indicate structures of temporary pole construction. Occupation
was shallow with only one level apparent except in one small section
of the site where three levels were apparent. Artifacts are not very
diagnostic but probably represent a period of three or four centuries
before White contact. The third major site excavated by Brown’s
crew was located on the opposite (left) bank of the Big Horn River
at the mouth of Dry Head Creek some 25 miles above the dam.
There, four levels of occupation produced large quantities of bison,
deer, and elk bone, numerous small stone artifacts, an elk bone flesher,
numerous fire pits, and basin-shaped pits but neither pottery nor
structures. Several rock shelters between Black Canyon and Dry
Head were investigated and tested but none proved to contain worth-
while occupational materials. This party returned to the Lincoln
headquarters August 31 after 11 weeks in the field.

Wilfred M. Husted was in charge of the second Yellowtail field
party excavating a series of sites in the upper reaches of the reser-
voir. Working from various campsites between the village of Kane
at the extreme southern end of the reservoir to Barry’s Landing, some
20 miles to the north, this crew used boat, Jeep, carryall, and foot
transportation to resurvey this portion of the Big Horn Canyon and
excavate five sites. A rock shelter (48BH206) was sampled but not
completed owing to difficulty of access. A large tipi ring site
(48BH10) with 20 stone circles, on the left bank of Crooked Creek,
was excavated. Five of the circles were dug and three of them
contained central fireplaces as well as exterior fireplaces. One open
campsite (48BH211) and several rock shelters were examined and
tested but provided no useful archeological data. On the Wyoming
side of the reservoir, a site at Barry’s Landing (24CB201) was exca-
SECRETARY’S REPORT 89

vated. It had superimposed hearths and roasting pits and numerous
projectile points and scrapers. The artifacts represent the latter
part of the Middle Prehistoric Period overlain by an occupation of
the Late Prehistoric Period. A nearby rock shelter (24CB223) was
excavated and furnished similar material. ‘The Sorenson site
(24CB202), half a mile below Barry’s Landing, was completely exca-
vated with excellent results. Five levels of occupation extending
from historic times back to the pre-Middle Prehistoric Period were
delineated. Lanceolate projectile points in the lowest level (dated
at 7,500-7,800 years ago) were overlain by materials of the Middle
and Late Prehistoric Period and capped by a historic occupation.
Materials included cordage, basketry, hide, bone tools, stone tools,
roasting pits, and hearths. In the resurvey of this section of the
canyon, 21 new sites were located, of which 18 will be flooded.
Husted’s party completed the season’s work August 30 after 11 weeks
in the field.

A survey party directed by Oscar L. Mallory, consisting of a crew
of three, made a detailed reconnaissance of the Missouri Breaks along
the Missouri River from Fort Benton to the upper reaches of the
Fort Peck Reservoir. Beginning at the Fort Benton end of the
Breaks, this party utilized boats, horses, vehicles, and foot transpor-
tation to locate 55 archeological sites within this 180-mile stretch of
extremely rugged river country. Of these sites, 20 were campsites,
21 were campsites with tipi rings, 2 were burials, 3 were bison-kill
sites, and 9 were historic sites. Surface collections were made from
most of these and two were tested. Artifact yield was minimal but
enough to suggest a fairly long period of occupation and significant
excavation potential in the area.

The final Missouri Basin Project field party at work at the begin-
ning of the year was directed by Carl F’. Miller who, with a crew of
nine, was at work in the Tuttle Creek Reservoir of northeastern
Kansas. With headquarters in the town of Blue Rapids, Kans., this
party investigated seven sites in the upper reaches of the reservoir
and excavated one. This was the last chance to examine any of the
threatened sites in this reservoir, as the water was already rising, and
by the summer of 1963 any sites that were to be flooded would have
been submerged. The Pishney site (89MH2) received the attention
of Miller’s party most of the season and provided a single house
structure, a portion of a second house, several cache pits, and a sub-
stantial yield of artifacts. The houses at this site were square with
rounded corners and the artifacts suggest a cultural position within
the Central Plains Phase but with definite indications of influences
from the south. Miller’s party left the field on August 16 after
working for a period of 9 weeks.
90 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1963

Cooperating institutions active in the Missouri Basin at the begin-
ning of the fiscal year included six field parties representing five State
agencies in Nebraska, Kansas, Missouri, and Montana. Dr. Dee C.
Taylor with a crew from Montana State University conducted a survey
of portions of the shoreline of the Fort Peck Reservoir in east-central
Montana, locating archeological sites that have been exposed by bank
erosion along the shores of the reservoir. Marvin F. Kivett, assisted
by Dr. Roger T. Grange with a crew from the Nebraska State Histori-
cal Society, completed salvage excavations in the area of the Red Wil-
low Reservoir in southwestern Nebraska. Dr. Preston Holder, as-
sisted by Dr. Emily Blasingham and a crew of University of Nebraska
students, completed excavation and testing of sites to be flooded in the
Norton Reservoir area of northwestern Kansas. Dr. Carlyle S. Smith,
assisted by Walter Birkby and a crew of students from the University
of Kansas, excavated two sites, sampled several others, and completed
salvage work in the Melvern Reservoir area of east-central Kansas.
Dr. Carl Chapman and a crew from the University of Missouri con-
tinued the surveying and testing of sites in the Kaysinger Bluff Res-
ervoir area in west-central Missouri. A second crew tested a large
series of sites in the Stockton Reservoir area of central Missouri. All
these parties operated under agreements with the National Park Serv-
ice and in cooperation with the Smithsonian Institution in the Inter-
Agency Archeological Salvage Program.

The 1963 field season began with an archeological survey team under
Lionel A. Brown, assisted by Lee G. Madison and Stephen H.
Schwartz. This team began operations on May 6 and completed its
work on May 29. It investigated the proposed area of the Almena
Reservoir on Prairie Dog Creek, in northwestern Kansas, finding no
archeological sites but recording one paleontological locality. The
members of the party next went to the proposed area of the Herndon
Reservoir on Beaver Creek in Rawlins County, Kans., where they
recorded one archeological site. In Ellis County, Kans., on Big Creek,
the proposed Ellis Reservoir was surveyed and two sites were recorded.
The proposed area of the Fort Scott Reservoir in Bourbon County,
Kans., was next surveyed and six sites were located. The next survey,
made in Anderson County, Kans., found seven sites at the location of
the proposed Garnett Reservoir. The final reservoir of the six sur-
veyed was the Angus Reservoir in Nuckols County, Nebr., where two
archeological sites were recorded. A total of 18 archeological sites and
1 paleontological locality were recorded in 6 reservoir areas.

On May 18 and 14, G. Hubert Smith and Oscar L. Mallory con-
ducted a brief investigation of the site of the Fort Randall Military
Post, near the Fort Randall dam in southeastern South Dakota.
As an aid to the U.S. Corps of Engineers in developing this for public
SECRETARY’S REPORT 91

use, Smith and Mallory pinpointed the significant cultural features
and made recommendations for their development.

On June 7 the Pony Creek field party began work in that part of
Mills County, southwestern Iowa, where the Soil Conservation Serv-
ice is constructing several very small reservoirs and terracing most of
the adjacent valley area. Headquartered in the town of Glenwood,
this party of eight, directed by Lionel A. Brown, had by the end of the
year visited and tested six sites (three of which had not previously
been recorded) and begun excavations in sites 13ML4 and 13M1L18,
both of which appear to be villages of rectangular (or square) houses
of the Nebraska Aspect.

On June 6 Dr. Elden Johnson of the University of Minnesota joined
the staff of the Missouri Basin Project and spent 4 days in a brief
investigation of the area of the James Diversion Project for detailed
survey and excavation early in the next fiscal year.

The single field party in the Yellowtail Reservoir area of Montana
and Wyoming, directed by Wilfred M. Husted, consisted of a crew
of seven which left Lincoln on June11. This crew started in the upper
reaches of the reservoir where Husted’s party left off the previous
season. By the end of the year they had completed excavation of a
small rock shelter and were continuing investigations on downstream.

In the Oahe Reservoir area of central South Dakota, three field
parties were operating at the end of the year. Robert W. Neuman,
in charge of a crew of eight, began work on June 11 at the Grover
Hand site (89DW240), a group of Woodland burial mounds on the
right bank of the Missouri River some 9 miles below Mobridge. By the
end of the year, Mound 1 at this site had been excavated. This mound
contained a burial pit covered with timbers. Bison skeletons were
found on the mound floor.

The second Oahe party was directed by Oscar L. Mallory. Witha
crew of eight he began work on June 11 at site 39D W231, a presumed
village or camp occupation site of the Plains Woodland Period that
may be related to some of the burial mounds being dug by the Neuman
party. The site is situated some 11 miles below Mobridge on the right
bank of the Missouri River. Both the Neuman and Mallory crews
camped at the Molstad ranch about a mile above the Grover Hand
site, and both crews utilized 16-foot motorboats with 10-horsepower
motors as their main means of transportation. This was necessitated
by the high water of the Oahe Reservoir and the lack of roads in the
area south of the Molstad ranch.

The third Oahe party also began work on June 11 under the direc-
tion of Dr. Alfred W. Bowers, who again joined the Missouri Basin
Project staff for the summer, taking leave from his regular position
at the University of Idaho. Dr. Bowers’ crew of 10 camped at the east
92 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1963

edge of Mobridge and started digging on the Davis site (89CO14) at
the west end of the Mobridge bridge. They had begun there the
previous season and by the end of the year were well along with the
excavations. They had also dug the last unexcavated lodge at the
adjacent Red Horse site (39CO34) that Bowers’s crew excavated in
the 1962 season.

One historic-sites party was in the field at the end of the year,
having begun work on June 14. This party, directed by G. Hubert
Smith, was searching for some of the more obscure historic sites in the
Big Bend Reservoir area, such as Loisel’s Trading Post, Fort
Defiance-Bouis, and the Red Cloud Agency. If they find any of these
sites they will begin a program of excavations. By the end of the
year Smith had devoted considerable time to searching records in
various historical files both in Pierre and at Fort Pierre.

Three crews excavating prehistoric sites in the Big Bend area also
began work on June 14. John J. Hoffman and a crew of 11 were at
work at the end of the year on the series of sites, in the southeast cor-
ner of Lyman County on the right bank of the Missouri some 20 miles
below Pierre, known as the “Ya Roche Sites.” ‘There, each of several
sites has been called “a Roche” and much interpretation has been
based on a concept of “a Roche.” Hoffman’s party was to excavate
each of the sites and endeavor to identify some one element as La
Roche and correlate the others with it. By the end of the year ex-
cavations were well under way in 389ST9, the site which W. H. Over
many years ago designated as La Roche.

The second Big Bend field party was directed by William J. Folan,
who joined the Smithsonian Institution staff, for the summer season,
from Southern Illinois University. This crew of eight camped with
the Hoffman crew and was directing its attention to the same problem.
The two crews started together on the same site so that they would
begin with the same orientation. By the end of the year Folan’s crew
was ready to move its operations to one of the other related sites in
the area. All the sites appear to represent villages of Jate circular
houses, or at least have one component of this “La Roche” trait.

The third Big Bend field party was directed by Richard EK. Jensen.
Tt consisted of a crew of 11 and was camped on the left bank of the
Missouri in the “pocket” of the Big Bend, some 40 miles by road below
Pierre. It was to conduct excavations in a series of circular-house vil-
lages nearby. By the end of the year progress had been made in work
on the remains of an extensive, diffuse village, 39HU213. Widespread
test trenching and the excavation of cache pits, middens, and a multiple
burial had been completed.

Dr. William M. Bass of the University of Kansas, and an assistant,
Walter Birkby of the same institution, joined the Missouri Basin
SECRETARY’S REPORT 93

Project staff for the summer as temporary employees, in order to
conduct laboratory research. Dr. Bass and his assistant analyzed a
large quantity of skeletal material, excavated over the past several
years by Dr. Bass, from several Missouri Basin sites in the Oahe
Reservoir. Principal of these was the Sully site (89SL4) where 557
burials have been recovered. Bass and Birkby were working in the
new laboratory facilities at the University of Kansas in Lawrence.

Cooperating institutions in the Missouri Basin at the end of the year
included eight parties operating in five States. Dr. Dee C. Taylor
and a Montana State University crew were continuing the shoreline
survey of the Fort Peck Reservoir in east-central Montana, searching
for and testing sites that had been exposed by bank erosion. Robert
Gant and a University of South Dakota party were continuing a
shoreline survey of the Gavins Point Reservoir in southeastern South
Dakota, searching for and testing sites that had been exposed by bank
erosion. Particular emphasis was being placed on the search for
Plains Woodland and earlier sites. Both of these parties were con-
tinuing work begun the previous season. Dr. Preston Holder, assisted
by James Marshall and a crew of University of Nebraska students,
was excavating the Glen Elder site in the Glen Elder Reservoir in
Mitchell County, north-central Kansas, and was searching for and
testing additional sites within that reservoir. Dr. Carlyle S. Smith,
assisted by Jon Muller and a party of Kansas University students,
began the survey and testing of sites in the area to be flooded by the
Milford Reservoir in Clay County, north-central Kansas. Dr. Carl
Chapman had three University of Missouri parties at work at the
end of the year. One was a survey group locating and testing sites
in the area to be flooded by the Hackleman Corners Reservoir in south-
western Missouri. A second party was excavating sites in the Kay-
singer Bluff Reservoir in west-central Missouri. The third party
was digging sites in the Stockton Reservoir of west-central Missouri.
Both of the latter were continuing work begun the previous season.
Marvin F. Kivett, assisted by Dr. Roger T. Grange, Jr., and a Nebraska
State Historical Society crew, surveyed two small reservoirs, Calamus
and Davis Creek, in central Nebraska. Both surveys located only a
few sites of doubtful archeological potential and it was recommended
that no further work be done there unless material is uncovered during
earth-moving operations for the construction of the two dams.

The Missouri Basin Chronology Program had been in operation for
514 years by the end of the year. Cooperation of nearly all the
archeologists and archeological institutions in the Plains area con-
tinued as in previous years, and leadership and direction of the pro-
gram continued to be by the staff archeologists of the Missouri Basin
Project.
94 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1963

In October a Missouri Basin Project team composed of J. J. Hoff-
man and Lee G. Madison joined Dr. Paul Sears of Yale University,
Dr. J. G. Ogden of Ohio Wesleyan University, and Dr. Harry A.
Tourtelot of the U.S. Geological Survey in a trip to collect fossil pollen
cores in the sandhills of northwestern Nebraska. The field trip was
a part of the chronology program and a part of a continuing program
of palynology designed to reconstruct prehistoric floral conditions
for a portion of the Missouri Basin. Cores were collected at several
of the fossil lakes in the area and will be analyzed by Dr. Ogden.

Other chronology studies included a continuation of the dendro-
chronology section under the direction of Dr. Warren W. Caldwell,
with the volunteer assistance of Harry EK. Weakly. The carbon-14
section continued to progress with the addition of 16 new dated
samples of vegetal material, tested by the laboratory of Isotopes, Inc.,
of Westwood, N.J. Robert W. Neuman continued to be in charge
of this section of the program and submitted several samples for
dating to the new carbon-14 laboratory at the Smithsonian Institution
in Washington, D.C. In addition, two samples were sent to the Uni-
versity of Texas for analysis in its carbon-14 laboratory.

The laboratory and office staff of the Missouri Basin Project devoted
most of its full effort during the year to processing specimen materials
for study, photographing and illustrating specimens, preparing speci-
men records, and typing, filing, and illustrating record and manuscript
materials. The accomplishments of the laboratory and office staff are
listed in tables 1 and 2.

Dr. Robert L. Stephenson, chief, devoted a large part of his time
during the year to management of the overall Missouri Basin Project,
including the office and laboratory in Lincoln, the several field activi-
ties, and the preparation of plans and budgets. His individual arche-
ological research and report writing was minimal during the year,
but some further progress was made on the monograph “The Whitney
Reservoir, Texas” and on analyses of specimens from his excavations
at the Sully site (39SL4) in the Oahe Reservoir. He made final
revisions on his manuscript “The Accokeek Creek Site: A Middle At-
lantic Seaboard Culture Sequence” and submitted it to the University
of Michigan for publication. He also revised a paper he read at the
1962 meeting of the Society for American Archeology, entitled “Ad-
ministrative Problems of the River Basin Surveys,” for publication in
American Antiquity. He continued to serve as chairman of the Mis-
sourl Basin Chronology Program; as assistant editor of “Current
Research” in the Plains Area for American Antiquity; and, until
December 1, as associate editor of the Plains Anthropologist. On
December 1 he became editor of that journal. He also participated in
SECRETARY’S REPORT 95

the Visiting Scientist Program of the Nebraska Academy of Sciences
and lectured to student groups at Sutton and Sidney, Nebr.

Dr. Stephenson attended the 1914 Plains Conference in Pierre,
S. Dak., in July and served as a panel member in a symposium on “The
Salvage Program So Far.” At the 20th Plains Conference in Lincoln
on Thanksgiving weekend he served as local arrangements chairman
and as chairman of a symposium on “Plains Chronology.” During
the period of December 12-21 he attended the “Management Develop-
ment Program for Field Managers” of the U.S. Department of Agri-
culture Graduate School, held on the Voorhis Campus of California
State Polytechnic College in San Dimas, Calif. He attended the 73d
annual meeting of the Nebraska Academy of Sciences in Lincoln on
April 27 and the annual meeting of the Society for American Arche-
ology in Boulder, Colo.,on May 1-3. While at Boulder he participated
in the meeting of the Committee for the Recovery of Archeological
Remains and reported on the year’s activities of the Missouri Basin
Project and on the prospects for the coming year. He wrote several
book reviews for scientific journals, gave talks to various local civic
organizations on the work of the River Basin Surveys, and represented
the Smithsonian Institution at special occasions at the invitation of
local civic organizations. He served throughout the second half of
the year on the organizing committee for the INQUA meetings to be
held in Boulder, Colo., in September 1965, and was named as one of
the field conference organizers for a preconference field trip through
the Plains area.

Lionel A. Brown, archeologist, when not in charge of field parties,
devoted most of his time to analyzing specimen materials he had
recovered during the past year and to materials recovered by others
in the Missouri Basin in previous years. He completed a major
draft of a manuscript entitled “Archeology of the Lower Yellowtail
Reservoir, Montana,” which describes the work and material recovered
from the several sites that he excavated and tested in that area during
the summer of 1963. He completed a major draft of a preliminary
manuscript entitled “Archeological Investigations in the Pony Creek
Watershed, Iowa,” which describes the work and reports the analyses
of materials he recovered from that area of southwestern Iowa in
the spring of 1962. This manuscript will be combined with the report
of the work currently being done in that area to form an overall pub-
lication on the Pony Creek researches. In the early spring he studied
the specimens and field records from the Gillette site (39ST23) in
the Oahe Reservoir, excavated by Donald D. Hartle of the Missouri
Basin Project in 1957, and nearly completed the major draft of a
manuscript covering those investigations.
96 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1963

In July Mr. Brown addressed the Billings Archeological Society in
Billings, Mont., on the subject “The Amateur Archeologist in the
Salvage Program.” During Thanksgiving weekend he attended the
20th Plains Conference in Lincoln and presented two papers, “A
Survey of the Pony Creek Watershed” and “Archeology of the Lower
Yellowtail Reservoir.” Both were published in abstract in the Pro-
ceedings of the 73d Meeting of the Nebraska Academy of Sciences.
He attended the meetings of the Society for American Archeology
in Boulder, Colo., on May 1-8. At the end of the year he was again
excavating archeological sites in the Pony Creek area of Iowa.

Dr. Warren W. Caldwell, archeologist, was in the field from the
beginning of the year until the end of August. He devoted the re-
mainder of his time to specimen and field-record studies concerning
sites that he had excavated in previous years, Primary attention was
devoted to the analyses (with Richard E. Jensen) of sites 39L.M208,
39L.M209, and 391.M232, excavated last year in the Big Bend Reser-
voir of South Dakota by Caldwell and Jensen. He completed the
analytical studies and began a manuscript reporting the results. He
also completed analyzing materials from, and prepared a major draft
of a monograph on, “Investigations at the McKensey Village (39AR-
201), South Dakota,” a site that he excavated in 1960. In collabora-
tion with G. Hubert Smith, he prepared and submitted for publication
a handbook for the U.S. Corps of Engineers’ Reservoir Series, entitled
“Oahe Reservoir: Archeology, History and Geology.” This was the
fourth handbook in this series, prepared by the same authors. He also
prepared a popular article on “Fortified Villages of the Dakotas,”
published in Missouri Basin Progress. He published two book re-
views in the Plains Anthropologist and prepared several administra-
tive and progress reports concerning the work of the Missouri Basin
Project.

Dr. Caldwell participated in the 1914 Plains Conference in Pierre
in July and discussed his current fieldwork. He participated in the
20th Plains Conference in Lincoln at the end of November, presenting
a paper on “Investigations in the Lower Big Bend Reservoir, South
Dakota” and also serving as a panel member on “Plains Chronology,”
presenting a discussion of “Dendrochronology in the Plains—Past
and Present.” He attended the 73d annual meeting of the Nebraska
Academy of Sciences and presented a paper, “Primus in Orbe Deos
Fecit Timor or Ceramics ad Nauseam,” that was published in abstract
in the Proceedings of the meeting. His paper “Fortified Villages of
the Northern Plains” was read in absentia at the annual meeting of
the Society for American Archeology in Boulder, Colo., on May 3.
Throughout the year he continued to serve as chairman of the dendro-
chronology section of the Missouri Basin Chronology Program, as con-
SECRETARY’S REPORT 97

tributing editor for book reviews for the Plains Anthropologist, and as
collaborator for the Plains area for “Abstracts of New World Archeol-
ogy.” He participated in the visiting scientist program of the Ne-
braska Academy of Sciences, lecturing to student groups at Gretna,
Nebr., on January 8. During the period from September to June, on
annual-leave time, he served as part-time assistant professor in the
Department of Anthropology at the University of Nebraska and
taught a course on “The American Indian.” At the end of the year
he was in the Lincoln laboratory analyzing specimens from past field-
work.

John J. Hoffman, archeologist, when not in the field conducting
excavations, devoted most of his time to laboratory analyses and prep-
aration of reports resulting from his work of the past season. He
completed the analyses of specimen materials and records of his 1962
excavations at the Molstad Village site (89D W234) in the Oahe Reser-
voir area and prepared a major draft of a manuscript on this work.
He completed a short article on the “Molstad Village and the La
Roche Sites” and submitted it to the Plains Anthropologist for publi-
cation. By the time he returned to the field in June he was well along
on a manuscript entitled “The Swift Bird Lodge (89DW233).” In
July, Hoffman attended the 1914 Plains Conference in Pierre and
reported on his fieldwork during the season. At Thanksgiving, he
presented a paper at the 73d annual meeting of the Nebraska Academy
of Sciences in Lincoln entitled “Temporal Ordering of the Chouteau
Aspect.” The end of the year found him again in the field engaged
in archeological excavations.

Wilfred M. Husted, archeologist, while not in the field conducting
archeological excavations, was at work in the laboratory analyzing
materials and preparing reports on his activities in the field during
the 1962 season and also on materials that others had collected in pre-
vious seasons. He wrote a “Preliminary Report of the 1962 Archeo-
logical Investigation in the Upper Yellowtail Reservoir,” which will
be combined with a study of his 1963 season’s work in the same area
so that there will be a comprehensive monograph on the archeology of
that region. He also completed the laboratory analyses of, and pre-
pared a major draft of a monograph on “The Brice (39L.M31) and
Clarkstown (39LM47) Sites, Fort Randall Reservoir.” These two
sites were excavated in 1954 by the late Paul L. Cooper. At the 20th
Plains Conference, November 22-24 in Lincoln, he presented a paper
entitled “Investigations in Upper Yellowtail Reservoir, Montana-
Wyoming.”

Richard E. Jensen, archeologist, spent July, August, and June
in the field conducting archeological excavations and the remainder
of the year in the laboratory in Lincoln analyzing materials and
98 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1963

writing reports. He prepared descriptions of the artifacts and fea-
tures recovered from the Langdeau site (891L.M209), the Jiggs Thomp-
son site (39L.M202), and the Pretty Head site (891.M232), which he
excavated in conjunction with Dr. Caldwell. ‘They include various
statistical analyses relative to sequential alinements and relation-
ships to other sites. In July he gave a report of his current fieldwork
at the 1914 Plains Conference in Pierre. During Thanksgiving he at-
tended the 20th Plains Conference in Lincoln. On May 18, accom-
panied by J. J. Hoffman and Dr. Stephenson, he attended an informal
conference on Dakota pottery typology in Vermillion, S. Dak. He
and Hoffman proceeded from Vermillion to the Big Bend Reservoir
area to select campsites for the summer. At the end of the year he
was again in the field excavating archeological sites in the Big Bend
Reservoir area.

Oscar L. Mallory, archeologist, when not in the field was at work
in the laboratory examining materials previously collected. He stud-
ied the background data and analyzed the specimens obtained from
the “Missouri Breaks” area of Montana and prepared a report on
the work entitled “An Archeological Appraisal of the Missouri Breaks
Region, Montana.” He then began a detailed analysis of the unusual
collection of perishable goods from the Mouat Cliff Burial site
(24TE401) excavated last year by the Billings Archeological Society,
in central Montana, near Hardin. He spent much of his evening and
weekend time working on “A Comparative Cultural Analysis of Tex-
tiles from McGregor Cave, Washington,” his thesis for a master of
arts degree at Washington State College. In April he served, with
Robert W. Neuman, as adviser to the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
in conference with the local community developers of Mobridge, S.
Dak., on a project to reconstruct an earth-lodge village in that area
He presented a paper, “Survey of the Missouri Breaks Area,” at the
20th Plains Conference in Lincoln on Thanksgiving weekend. At
the close of the year he was conducting archeological excavations in
the Oahe Reservoir area.

Robert W. Neuman, archeologist, when not in the field was mainly
at work in the laboratory doing research on materials excavated by
him in past years in the Oahe and Big Bend Reservoir areas. From
October 6 to 13 he was on loan to the University of South Dakota to
assist In salvage excavations at the Wolfe Creek Mound site (89HT-
201) in Hutchinson County, S. Dak. In the laboratory, he corrected
galley proof on his monograph “The Good Soldier Site (391L.M238),
Lyman County, South Dakota,” being published by the Bureau of
American Ethnology as a River Basin Surveys Paper. He did re-
search on materials from his Big Bend excavations and brought to
near completion a manuscript on “Preceramic Occupations in the Big
Bend Reservoir Area, South Dakota.” He also served as chairman of
SECRETARY’S REPORT 99

the radiocarbon section of the Missouri Basin Chronology Program.
He reported on his current fieldwork at the 1914 Plains Conference in
Pierre in July. He attended the 20th Plains Conference in Lincoln,
November 22-24, where he served as a panel member in the sym-
posium on “Plains Chronology,” presenting a discussion of “Carbon-
14 on the Plains—Past, Present and Future.” In mid-April he and
Oscar L. Mallory served as advisers to the U.S. Army Corps of Engi-
neers in discussions with local community supporters of a project. to
reconstruct an earth-lodge village near Mobridge, S. Dak. On April
27 he served as chairman of the Anthropology Section of the 73d
annual meeting of the Nebraska Academy of Sciences in Lincoln and
presented a paper entitled “A Brief Review of Anthropology in the
Nebraska Academy of Sciences,” that was published in abstract in the
Proceedings of the meeting. This was the best attended and had the
largest selection of outstanding papers of any of the meetings of this
section of the Academy since its inception. He also attended the
annual meetings of the Society for American Archeology in Boulder,
Colo., May 1-3, where he presented a paper entitled “Check Stamping
on the Northern Plains,” that has been accepted for publication in
American Antiquity. At the end of the year Neuman was conducting
excavations in the Oahe Reservoir area.

G. Hubert Smith, archeologist, spent July, August, and the last half
of June conducting archeological excavations, and during the re-
mainder of the year was in the Lincoln office analyzing and doing
research on materials from historic sites in the Missouri Basin that he
had excavated in previous years. He completed a report on the field-
work done at the site of Fort George (39ST202) in the summer of 1962,
and had a major draft of that manuscript ready for final typing at
the end of the year. He continued with the preparation of the com-
prehensive report on the site of “Like-a-Fishhook Village and Fort
Berthold I and If (32ML2), North Dakota.” ‘With Dr. Caldwell he
prepared a popular booklet on “The Oahe Reservoir: Archeology,
History and Geology,” that was published by the U.S. Army Corps
of Engineers in their Reservoir Series, of which this is the fifth. He
also prepared a book review published in American Antiquity in
April.

Smith attended the 1914 Plains Conference in Pierre in July and
reported on his current fieldwork. During the Thanksgiving weekend
he attended the Plains Conference in Lincoln, where he reported on
“Excavations at Fort George, South Dakota.” On January 10, he
was the featured speaker at the meeting of the Yankton County His-
torical Society in Yankton, S. Dak., where he gave an illustrated
talk on “Salvage Archeology.” On April 27 he attended the 73d
annual meeting of the Nebraska Academy of Sciences in Lincoln and
presented a paper entitled “Ethnographic Contributions of Ferdinand
100 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1963

V. Hayden.” He attended the 17th annual meeting of the Mississippi
Valley Historical Association and took part in the historic sites com-
mittee meeting of that group. He addressed the Kansas City Ar-
cheological Society on “Historical Archeology in the Missouri Basin”
on May 7, and on May 19 he gave an illustrated talk on “Historic
Buildings of Nebraska” at the Nebraska State Historical Society in
Lincoln. At the end of the year he was again in the field conducting
investigations of historic sites in the Big Bend Reservoir.

TaBLe 1.—Specimens processed, July 1, 1962-—June 30,1963

Number Catalog | Number of
Reservoir of sites numbers | specimens
assigned | processed

1 Bye] BY 2h 6X. SO 28 ylge  o  G SR e 13 4, 354 24, 196
MissourieBreakseir choc 00 6 20 oe OE eek ee 24 178 390
(OPA IE nits oS FE Sie A Sao ee eee a Pee ek eA mk he 10 2,978 22, 400
Rory: Creek fess) So Fo eh eree ey fe nell oth ete. 13 408 1,775
Wiollowtallern ee.) vets AINA. 80 ee ee ok ee 22 1, 749 3, 038

Sitestotals see aes oe sre cay Serene ne Me eay 82 9, 667 51, 799
Collections not assigned site numbers_-__-_-_-___-_- 2 11 24

Overaliicollectionstotalsss ss — = e== eee 84 9, 678 51, 823

As of June 30, 1963, the Missouri Basin Project had cataloged
1,891,219 specimens from 2,410 numbered sites and 60 collections not
assigned site numbers.

Specimens restored: Five pottery vessels and six vessel sections.

Specimens donated to the Missouri Basin Project for comparative use:
By the W. H. Over Museum, University of South Dakota, courtesy of Dr. Wesley
R. Hurt—75 pot rim sherds collected from 89GR1 (Scalp Creek site), 39WW7
(Swan Creek site), and 389WW303. ‘These sherds respresent eight pottery wares,
namely: Akaska, Le Beau, Randall, Rygh, Scalp, Steamboat, Swan Creek, and
Talking Crow.

TABLE 2.—Record material processed, July 1, 1962—June 80, 1968

MISSOURI BASIN PROJECT

Reflex: Copies) Of TECOTGSY 22 ea ee ee ee ee ae 8, 967
Photographic, negatives#mad ceases = ee an a ee ee ee ee 3, 128
Photographic prints»madeli-2- = ses ee eee eee 138, 712
Photographie prints) mounted and fled= eee ee 7, 660
Transparencies AN OUNLEM aye aS ae ee ee 66
EKOGACHTOMEHDICEUTES tie leva aim lh Ye pe ee 72
(CRb A Korer gry oy KO Tae bakeds)| Shere lobe hbo 38
Tilastrations 222226 28 te 2 ee SS es es ee 27
Iuettering, of “plates .- {=o i Ab 2) ee eee ee eee 12
Pronlesi (Gra: wits eee as Se) Ske ee ee ee eee 92

Plateway outs inad esto rina Ss Crip tS eee 18
SECRETARY’S REPORT 101

Virginia.—During the period September 10-November 18, 1962,
Carl F. Miller conducted excavations in four sites in the Smith Moun-
tain and Leesville Reservoir areas. Data obtained indicate that the
cultural range represented extended from the terminal phase of Late
Archaic around 4000 B.C. to the Middle Woodland Period at about
A.D. 500. One of the characteristic artifacts normally associated
with such remains, namely, stone projectile points, was scarce, while
ceramics and bone tools were rather plentiful. There were numerous
portions and fragments from clay tobacco pipes. Asa matter of fact,
those particular objects were much more numerous than has been
indicated by evidence from that general area.

Mr. Miller returned to the Smith Mountain Project area on May
15, 1963, and from that date until the end of the fiscal year was
occupied in the excavation of the Hales Ford site (44FR15). In
the work there thirty-seven 10-foot squares were dug to a depth of
5 feet; 186 features and 1 partial burial were recovered. The burial,
representing an early Middle Woodland Phase, was that of a male
who was about 60 years of age at the time of death. Mortuary offer-
ings consisted of two turtle-shell dishes. The use of turtle shells
for dishes apparently was a well-established trait at that location.
At least two new pottery types were found at the Hales Ford site,
and they were apparently correlated to a similar textile-impressed
type found in the John H. Kerr Reservoir area farther south on the
Roanoke River. The latter, however, produced much less of this
type than the Smith Mountain Reservoir. The significance of this
will need to be determined by further studies in the laboratory. The
projectile points recovered are sufficient in number to illustrate a
developmental series. This also is true of clay pipes. The bone mate-
rial was particularly well preserved, and several new types of arti-
facts were recovered. Potsherds number into the thousands, and it
will be possible to restore a number of vessels from them. No Euro-
pean material was found at the site, which apparently was abandoned
well before the White man’s influence reached that part of
Virginia. No evidence was obtained relative to habitations and con-
sequently nothing is known of the type of dwelling used at that
locality.

The material from the combined work in the fall of 1962 and the
spring of 1963 will give an excellent source of information about a
fairly long period of occupation in the upper reaches of the Roanoke
River.

ARCHIVES
The Bureau archives continued under the custody of Mrs. Margaret
C. Blaker, archivist. She was assisted throughout the year by Miss
720-018—64—8
102 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1963

Regina M. Solzbacher, and on a part-time basis by Miss Margaret
V. Lee.

During the week of September 30-October 6, Mrs. Blaker attended
the annual meeting of the Society of American Archivists in Roches-
ter, N.Y., and searched for early photographs of American Indians in
the collections of George Eastman House, the Rochester Historical
Society, and the Rochester Museum of Arts and Sciences. A con-
siderable number of fine stereoscopic views of the 1870’s and 1880's
were located at Eastman House, and copies of them are currently
being made for the Bureau collections. At the University of Roches-
ter Library Mrs. Blaker examined the notebooks of Louis Henry
Morgan that deal with his visits to the Seneca Indians, and the cir-
culars containing the original information collected and used by
Morgan in preparing his Systems of Consanguinity, published by
the Smithsonian in 1870. Microfilm duplicates of the circulars will
be made available to the Bureau through the library’s special col-
lections division.

On October 12-15 Mrs. Blaker attended the joint annual meeting
of the American Indian Ethnohistoric Conference and the Iroquois
Conference at Albany, N.Y., and examined photographic and other
pictorial resources on the American Indian in the New York State
Museum. On November 14-19 she attended the annual meeting of
the American Anthropological Association in Chicago and examined
pictorial resources in the Newberry Library and the Chicago Natural
History Museum. On May 20-21 she visited Carlisle, Pa., to see
photographs in the collections of the Army War College and the
Hamilton Library. Both of these institutions have albums of ex-
cellent photographs of the students who attended Carlisle Indian
school and of their parents, many of them distinguished chiefs, who
visited the school. Arrangements for borrowing the albums for copy-
ing are in progress.

Ethnographic notes of the late Lyda Averill Taylor, on the Alabama,
Choctaw, and Koasati, collected in Polk County, Tex., in 1936-40, and
a partial draft of a manuscript on comparative southeastern ethnol-
ogy, were received from John M. Goggin, to whom they had been
given in 1960 by Walter W. Taylor.

A ledger containing drawings of war scenes, apparently all drawn
by the same Indian artist, was acquired. The book is undated and
the artist unidentified, but he was probably a Cheyenne, since the short
written titles indicate that the winners of the contests depicted were
Cheyennes. Cheyenne warfare with a number of different tribes is
portrayed—Osage, Snake (Shoshoni), Pawnee, Ute, Crow, Shawnee,
Sac and Fox, Navaho, and Pueblo. There are also a number of
pictures of combat with the U.S. Army. Two pictures depict the
SECRETARY’S REPORT 103

Cheyenne Indian “Horse Road in fight with General Miles near
Red River,” and another, the historic fight of the Cheyenne with
Forsyth’s scouts at Beecher’s Island on September 17, 1868, in which
Chief Roman Nose was killed. Another drawing depicts a Cheyenne
battle with soldiers under Lieutenant Henley, 6th Cavalry, on Smoky
Hill River, and one shows Indians running off cavalry horses at Fort
Dodge, 1865.

A sketchbook containing crayon and pencil drawings of Indian
life on the Plains, made by a Cheyenne Indian named Buffalo Meat,
while he was a prisoner at Fort Marion, Fla., about 1875 was received
asa gift from Miss Julia Whiting of Middleburg, Va.

A photograph of an oil painting of the Comanche chief Yellow
Wolf, made in 1859 by Col. Arthur T. Lee, and a photograph of a draw-
ing made by Yellow Wolf were received through the courtesy of
Charles F. Hayes ITI, of the Rochester Museum of Arts and Sciences,
Rochester, N.Y., which owns the originals.

Negatives of four sketches of Missisauga Indians, three of Hurons
and two of Creek Indians, all drawn by Basil Hall in 1827-28, were
obtained from the Lilly Library, Indiana University, which owns
the origina] drawings.

An important collection of photographic negatives and prints, taken
by Jesse Hastings Bratley in the period 1893-ca. 1903, while he was
teaching at Indian schools in the West, was lent by Francis V. Crane,
director of the Southeast Museum, Marathon, Fla. A total of 280
copy negatives were made and added to the Bureau files. Most of the
negatives relate to the Dakota Indians of Rosebud Reservation, S.
Dak.; the Havasupai of Cataract Canyon, Ariz.; and the Hopi of
Polacca, Ariz. There are also a few photographs of Salish Indians
of Puget Sound, and of Cheyenne and Arapaho from Contonment,
Okla.

A series of 36 negatives taken at the mouth of Windy River, north-
western extremity of Neultin Lake, southwestern Keewatin, Canada,
in 1947 shows Caribou Eskimo and a few Cree Indians. The negatives
include portraits; camp scenes showing food and hide preparation;
and views of transport by canoe and on foot with pack and dog travois.
They were made and donated by Dr. Francis Harper, Chapel Hill,
N.C. Dr. Harper also donated five negatives showing Poosepatuck
men and native fishing equipment, taken by him at the Poosepatuck
Reservation, Mastic, Long Island, in 1909 and 1910.

A series of 11 photographs taken at the Poosepatuck Reservation,
Mastic, Long Island, showing members of the Poosepatuck tribe, and
views taken at the June meeting at Poosepatuck in 1912, were copied
from an album of snapshots owned by Walter B. Raynor, Patchogue,
N.Y. Two photographs of White men’s hunting camps having pal-
104 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1963

metto-thatch structures built in the Seminole style were from the same
album.

Nineteen portraits of Jicarilla Apaches and views taken on the
Jicarilla Reservation near Dulce, N. Mex., ca. 1915-62, were copied
from photographs lent by Dr. D. Harper Sims, Arlington, Va.

Negatives of four views of the monument on the grave of the Choc-
taw chief Pushmataha, in the Congressional Cemetery, Washington,
D.C., were deposited by Dr. William C. Sturtevant.

A photograph of a Shoshoni chief, Jack Edmo, and his family,
taken about 1917, was donated by Mrs. Arthur White, Middleburg,
Va.

A collection of 90 Indian portraits from the studios of a number of
late 19th-century commercial photographers was obtained through
Car] Russell, Orinda, Calif. Over 50 of the portraits are of members
of various Dakota tribes; other tribes represented are Apache, Crow,
Diegueiio, Maricopa, Papago, and Yuma.

A collection of approximately 675 photographic negatives made in
the approximate period 1900-1920 has been acquired but is not yet
cataloged in detail. The collection consists of studio and outdoor
portraits, camp scenes, views of dances, and other subjects. Of the
more than 25 tribes represented, the principal ones are: Apache,
Arapaho, Assiniboin, and Gros Ventres; Blackfoot, Cheyenne, Crow,
Dakota, Eskimo, Hopi, Osage, Pawnee, Seminole, and Wichita.

LIBRARY

During the year 1962-63, work continued on the organization of
the collection and its records under the supervision of Mrs. Carol
Jopling in the Bureau of American Ethnology Library.

When the library’s maps were evaluated, several very old and rare
ones were discovered. Among them were a Nicholas Visscher map of
the Western Hemisphere, Novissima et Accuratissima Totius Amer-
tcae, and Nova Belgica et Anglia Nova by W. J. Blaeu (Amsterdam,
1635). Of particular interest to the Bureau, however, was the Census
of the State of California (1852) map and a quantity of other North
American maps with linguistic and archeological annotations.

Some fine books were given to the library, including a set by Sir
Richard Phillips, A Collection of Modern and Contemporary Voyages
and Travels (London, 1805—) presented by Dr. Frank H. H. Roberts,
Jr.

The librarian attended the Special Libraries Convention in Denver,
June 9-14, 1963, and visited a number of libraries and museums having
special collections on the North American Indian and Western history.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 105

The following statistics will serve to indicate some of the work
conducted in the library :

Reference questions answered___-------__________________ 1, 820
LOA LTR EWEN LISS GS 1, 301
Bublications Circulated s sess Se eet oe he Ee 1, 071
Moansttovotherslibraries 22522 Soe ee Se ee eee eee 151
Wolumesi sent, Lor pinging == 222222 a ee eee 1, 103

EDITORIAL WORK AND PUBLICATIONS

The editorial work of the Bureau continued during the year under
the immediate direction of Mrs. Eloise B. Edelen. The following
publications were issued:

Seventy-ninth Annual Report of the Bureau of American Ethnology, 1961-62.
ii+29 pp., 2 pls. 1963.

Bulletin 181. Isleta paintings, with introduction and commentary by Elsie
Clews Parsons. Edited by Esther S. Goldfrank. xvi+299 pp., 142 pls. 1962.

Bulletin 182. River Basin Surveys Papers, No. 25. Frank H. H. Roberts, Jr.,
editor. xvi+447 pp., 110 pls., 65 figs., 20 maps. 1962.

Archeology of the John H. Kerr Reservoir Basin, Roanoke River, Virginia-
North Carolina, by Carl F. Miller. With appendix: Human skeletal re-
mains from the Tollifero (Ha6) and Clarksville (Mc14) sites, John H.
Kerr Reservoir Basin, Virginia, by Lucile H. Hoyme and William M. Bass.

Bulletin 184. The Pueblo of Sia, New Mexico, by Leslie A. White. xii+358 pp.,
12 pls., 55 figs. 1962.

Bulletin 185. River Basin Surveys Papers, Nos. 26-32, Frank H. H. Roberts, Jr.
editor. xii+344 pp., 57 pls., 43 figs., 5 maps. 1963.

No. 26. Small sites on and about Fort Berthold Reservation, Garrison
Reservoir, North Dakota, by George Metcalf.

No. 27. Star Village: A fortified historic Arikara site in Mercer County,
North Dakota, by George Metcalf.

No. 28. The dance hall of the Santee Bottoms on the Fort Berthold Reserva-
tion, Garrison Reservoir, North Dakota, by Donald D. Hartle.

No. 29. Crow-Flies-High (82MZ1), a historic Hidatsa village in the Garrison
Reservoir area, North Dakota, by Carling Malouf.

No. 30. The Stutsman Focus: An aboriginal culture complex in the James-
town Reservoir Area, North Dakota, by R. P. Wheeler.

No. 31. Archeological manifestations in the Toole County section of the
Tiber Reservoir Basin, Montana, by Carl F. Miller.

No. 32. Archeological salvage investigations in the Lovewell Reservoir
Area, Kansas, by Robert W. Neuman.

Bulletin 188. Shonto: A study of the role of the trader in a modern Navaho
Community, by William Y. Adams. xi-+329 pp., 10 pls., 3 figs., 3 maps, 12
charts. 1963.

Publications distributed totaled 17,722 as compared with 19,326 for
the fiscal year 1962.

ILLUSTRATIONS

The staff artist for the Bureau of American Ethnology, E. G. Schu-
macher, prepared the illustrations to accompany 16 manuscripts to be
106 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1963

published by the Bureau, some as entire bulletins and others composing
bulletins in the Anthropological Papers and the River Basin Surveys
Papers series. The work included the drawing or redrawing of maps,
diagrams, charts, and other text figures, and effectively combining and
mounting photographs, all covering the fields of anthropology, arche-
ology, and ethnology. Approximately 500 illustrations were prepared.

MISCELLANEOUS

Dr. M. W. Stirling, Dr. A. J. Waring, and Sister Inez Hilger con-
tinued as research associates. Dr. Wallace L. Chafe, linguist on the
staff of the Bureau from April 4, 1959, resigned on August 20, 1962,
to accept an associate professorship in the department of linguistics at
the University of California in Berkeley.

In addition to the usual extensive correspondence answering specific
questions, many of which were of a technical nature, the Bureau pre-
pared several bibliographies to provide reference material for which
there has been recurring demand. Among those recently compiled,
the following were printed by the multilith process:

SIL-2, 3d rev., 6/63: Selected bibliography on arrowheads. 5 pp.
SIL-105, rev., 7/62: Selected bibliography on Cherokee customs and history.

6 pp.
eriee rev., 6/63: Selected references on the Indians of Southeastern North

America. Compiled by William C. Sturtevant. 17 pp.

SIL-363, 4/63: Bibliography of wild food plants of Canadian Indians. Compiled
by F. R. Irvine. 13 pp.
Other bibliographies prepared are in typescript.

More than 100 specimens, both ethnological and archeological, were
received by mail or brought to the office for identification and such
information as could be provided by Bureau specialists.

Respectfully submitted.

Frank H. H. Roperts, Jr., Director.
Dr. Lronarp CarMIcHAEL,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
Report on the National Zoological Park

Sm: I have the honor to submit. the following report on the condi-
tion and operations of the National Zoological Park for the fiscal year
ended June 30, 1963:

GIFTS

A number of accessions to the animal collection were due to the
generosity of friends of the National Zoological Park. On January 6,
1963, a fine Bengal tiger arrived from the zoo in Ahmedabad, India,
as a gift from Ralph Scott of Washington and Miami Beach. Al-
though Samson is a normally colored tiger, he carries the white genes,
being both half-brother and uncle to Mohini, the Zoo’s white tigress.
Samson was bred under the direction of the Maharajah of Rewa. The
two animals are now living together, and it is hoped that they will
produce white cubs.

Edward D. Sweeney and Ralph E. Becker, both of Washington, pre-
sented a pair of husky young polar bears which they acquired on a
voyage to the Arctic last summer.

The U.S. Air Force retired Ham, the chimpanzee astronaut, which
on January 31, 1961, soared through space in a capsule boosted by an
83-foot Redstone rocket. Ham’s 16-minute ride took him to a height
of 155 miles and a distance of 420 miles down the coast from Cape
Canaveral. He seems to have adjusted nicely to his comparatively
quiet routine in the Zoo’s ape quarters, which he entered on April 5,
1963.

The U.S. Forest Service captured a young adult female (cinnamon
phase) American black bear, which was flown to Washington from
New Mexico and installed in a cage adjoining that of the famous
Smokey Bear. The formal presentation was made on September 8
by New Mexico Forester Ray L. Bell on behalf of the Department
of Game and Fish and the New Mexico State Land Office, the Ghost
Ranch Museum, and the Governor and Senators of New Mexico.
“Goldie,” soon to be “Mrs. Smokey,” was accepted on behalf of the
Smithsonian Institution by Dr. Carmichael. -

The State of Hawaii sent a pair of nene, or Hawaiian geese. A
few years ago these birds were threatened with extinction by hunters
and predators. The State Fish and Game Division undertook a pro-
gram of propagating the birds in captivity and then releasing them
to join wild birds in sanctuary areas on Hawaiian volcanoes, and the

107
108 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1963

numbers have now increased. The nene, the State bird of Hawaii, is

an attractive bird and an interesting addition to the national collec-

tion; it had not been exhibited here since 1936. The pair was pre-
sented by the Honorable Daniel K. Inouye, Senator from Hawaii, on

June 19, 1963, and formally accepted by the Secretary of the Smith-

sonian Institution. The Zoo is grateful to Paul Breese, Director of

the Honolulu Zoo, for his efforts in obtaining for it these rare speci-
mens.

Through Alton W. Hemba, American Consul General at Guayaquil,
Ecuador, a large Galapagos tortoise (from Albemarle Island) was
received asa gift from Dr. Jorge KE. Proano P.

Volkmar Wentzel, of the National Geographic Society, presented to
the Zoo a young specimen of the giant forest rat which he obtained
during his travels in Africa. This animal is now more than 2 feet
long (including the tail) and is still growing.

Dr. Doris M. Cochran, curator of reptiles and amphibians at the
U.S. National Museum, presented a number of reptiles collected on a
trip to Central and South America.

A gift of two hummingbirds, Heliomaster squamosus and Colibri
delphinae greenewaltii, was received from Dr. Augusto Ruschi, Santa
Teresa, Brazil. Dr. Ruschi is an authority on the Colibridae and is
noted for his splendid collection of live birds. His visit to the Na-
tional Zoological Park last September established the standards and
methods of care for a large group of hummingbirds to be applied
when the renovation of the birdhouse is completed.

Kenneth Sather, Round Lake, Minn., sent four giant Canada geese
(Branta canadensis major), a form previously thought to be extinct:
a welcome addition to the waterfowl] collection.

The National Zoological Park’s animal collection has also been gen-
erously enriched by the Kistophos Science Club of Washington, D.C.,
and Mrs. Joseph Campbell, also of Washington.

Space does not permit listing all gifts received in the course of the
year, but the following are of special] interest:

Bogley, Samuel W., III, Hyattsville, Md., woolly monkey.

Cochran, Dr. Doris, Washington, D.C., bronze vine snake, 2 Central American
toads, Brazilian striped frog, Raddi’s frog, Brazilian light-spotted frog, 14
diamondback terrapins, South American water turtle.

Dembin, Edward and Hugene, Washington, D.C., Western indigo snake, red-
tailed boa, boa constrictor, bull snake.

DePrato, Mario, Washington, D.C., river frog, Hermann’s tortoise.

Florida Nurserymen and Growers Association, Key Biscayne, Fla., through Jim
Griffin, 2 mandarin ducks, chestnut-breasted teal, 2 fulvous tree ducks.

Fulton, Mrs. Robert, Washington, D.C., keel-billed toucan.

George’s Pet Shop, Bladensburg, Md., speckled agouti, black agouti, 2 ja-

guarondis, anaconda, 2 matamata turtles, 2 boa constrictors.
Hadley, Mrs. Harry H., Annandale, Va., ocelot.
“9061 ‘9Z euUN[ uO yAeg [RO yeuonyy oy) «
*"yieg [eos

[O07 [vuOeN 9y1 1v [ood sayy Ul ‘(sIsuarlapUDS DUDE) 98903 UPIIEMPTT IO ‘OUD yey (sn upsazommay s 5) suelo uraqig oy} ‘SUIATIY [INS

PLATE 4

al
te)
rox
yey
-
fe)
QO.
o
4
Ae}
>
-
s
-~
7)
-
3
ny

Secretary's Report, 1963 PLATE 5

cs Peiatt ayer

ae 2 * ‘ ‘ ‘ i a ; :

An unusually long-lived many-banded krait (Bungarus multicinctus). This specimen
arrived at the National Zoological Park as an adult on April 3, 1958.

Malayan monitor (Varanus salvator), well camouflaged in grass in its outdoor summer cage
occasionally stalks and catches birds. National Zoological Park.
Secretary's Report, 1963

PLATE 6

1

‘yreq [PO1S0]OoZ [PUN *Z96T
£9 Joquloo9¢(] uo dInso[due IOOp}No sty ul uloq uoqqI3 Aqeg

YM syquou / vad [ 1¥ BYOUIOT,
yleg [eosojoo7 [euoneN oy} ie

‘]eqloyseq ev
‘1961 ‘6 Jequisidag uo
UIOG PIO puR[MOT Ie]

PLATE 7

Secretary's Report, 1963

"IV1IG BUIUDAY UOIBUTYSE AA ‘S91"E J9ITe AA
Aq ydeisojoyg “yirg [eoisojooz [euoyeN oy} Ie UIOG (sHULEND] sajavy0UUOT) snus pe[pul

Iq oy JO sug
Cen

oe
SECRETARY’S REPORT 109

Hecht Co., Washington, D.C., blue peacock.

Henderson, Paul, Silver Spring, Md., drill.

LaDu, Dr. Bert N., Bethesda, Md., habu snake.

Locke, Otto Martin, New Braunfels, Tex., 5 coachwhip snakes, 4 racers, 2
yellow bullsnakes, 2 indigo snakes.

Olafson, Joseph M., Falls Church, Va., jaguarondi.

Purkis, Mrs. Dorothy, Washington, D.C., woolly monkey.

Safeway Warehouse, Landover, Md., South American opossum.

Silva, James R., Washington, D.C., red-shouldered hawk.

Smith, Mrs. Hiram, Richmond, Va., ocelot.

Smith, Mrs. Leland F., Washington, D.C., cockatiel.

U.S. Department of Agriculture, Beltsville, Md., mink.

U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service: Mason, Mich., bald eagle; Seattle, Wash., 4 bald
eagles ; Washington, N.C., bald eagle.

U.S. National Museum, through Dr. Philip Humphrey, 6 red-tailed tropicbirds.

BIRTHS AND HATCHINGS

Following the procedure of previous years, all births and hatchings
are listed below, whether or not the young were successfully reared.
In many instances the record of animals having bred in captivity is
of interest.

MAMMALS

Common name Number Common name Number
Squinrelaeliders- tes oe Sn 1 Neumann’s genet__________-_____ 5
Ratkangaroo sel Joe ee 1 Formosan spotted civet__________ 2
European hedgehog___---------- 1 Wiaterk Civet svete = ie we af
minge-tailed) lemur= 22-22-22 1 Rober te 2 sues eh a 1
SpE donkey =e = STE GS (aU eR ie ala er a 9 a!
Black spider monkey._-------___ 2 Black@leopa rds ees ae ee 2
RneSIsemMonkey 2 22 ses Se 2 1 ALT Coal 1 Omit: ere wean ae ne ee 4
“2a LPT A es cr ae 4 IGA LOM R eee a he a
Ooty Manz aDeY==2- == = 2 Al Grants zebras) = oss oe ee +
DeBrazza’s guenon___-—-.~_-—--- lt Collared: peccaryo2= 2 os eat a 3
iyprigeeibbone se. 2 Le Ss ee v4 Eippopotamuspee.—— ose al
Cnmimpanzee) = 22S5 22S eS 1 Pyemy, hippopotamus=-=———-- == Py
sewo-toedislothe = os eS 2 lama See Seb ee 4
WiMod Chuck: -s==5— Sates Bae eS 5 Wihites tallow, deer2=s-222e.2222 2
TESTE b0y cf ee a el a 2 AXIS HO CCL IS es Sa Eee aE ae Ns 2
SST yee AP ee ee Ee Sees 1 Red deeri =: Ul eee 2
Oresteuhrata === == eae es il Sikay deer lateness Fe a
Egyptian spiny mouse___---___-- 9 WAreini a OeCti. Sa oe os ek ee 3
BarAisonian CAVY=—=--— === 22 9 Reindeehg eee ee ee 7
Ppeckledes 20 Ut 2+ 22. eet Al Garihous>creindeers==.o ss ans = 1
LJ EE GHTST A oe es etn i em beeen, 3 Brindled Gone eee ee 2
Biemier wolt 2.4. 3 EY 5 Yak: 22% AOA GIL) oh vay ie 1
orenni nearest at Poses Ss 2 2 Cape buitalos=+s Seted ae ears 1
European brown bear_____-----~ 3 Doreas;gazellestes fore 2-5 8 2
VAAL 1ST) ee ee 2 African pyemy,20ata—=—— ee De
ESyUrGe eats ase es fe et Be IBATLbary: Sheepsses se See eee *2
Pea eOO Nee ee eee Le 2

*Stillborn.
110 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1963

BIRDS

Common name Number Common name Number
@rested screamer ee 4 Mallard duck2===2 2a 33
Wihoopersw ans sss os ees 1 iPeatowl = tae: oa ee eee ee 4
Canada vo00se=s3-2 oa eee 4 Kookaburra 3.2335 See 8
Woodiduck2=-22: eee 28 Formosan red-billed pie_---_____ 3

REPTILES

Box, turtles 222233 eos. eee 1 Crevice spiny lizard_____________ 31
Painted tuntlet eso... = eae 10 Ribbon snakes 42) is et eee a 8
Red-lined turtles) = ee 31 Queen snakes.) 20 Be Rese eae 6
Yellow-bellied turtle____-______-- 13 Garter*snake: so. ee 8

Northern yellow-bellied turtle___ 10

DEPOSITS

During the process of the National Zoological Park’s capital im-
provement program, animals which are rare in the United States and
would be crowded or poorly housed during the construction period
are being sent to municipal zoos and other facilities. During the
past year rare or valuable specimens have been dispersed to locations
thought to have good breeding conditions as well as better living
accommodations. Other animals have been dispersed with the under-
standing that they or similar specimens will be returned when suitable
portions of the new exhibit areas are available here in the park. These
deposits are:

Brookfield Zoo, Brookfield, Ill., female Dall sheep.
Busch Gardens, Tampa, Fla., male concave-casqued hornbill, female Solomon

Islands cockatoo.

Defense General Supply Center Preserve, Richmond, Va., male American elk.

Round Lake Waterfowl Station, Round Lake, Minn., 31 cotton teals.

St. Louis Zoo, St. Louis, Mo., male guar, 4 king penguins, Adélie penguin,
female chimpanzee.

EXCHANGES

The National Zoological Park continues a program of exchanging
surplus animals with zoos of other countries. Notable exchange
arrangements were negotiated with several foreign zoos. The West
Berlin Zoo in Germany received 4 wood ducks, 2 turkey vultures,
2 whistling swans, 2 great horned owls, a red-tailed hawk, a red-
shouldered hawk, and 2 barred owls. El Pinar Zoo in Caracas, Vene-
zuela, received 2 American alligators, a pair of wood ducks, and a
female Nile hippopotamus. The Calgary Zoo, Alberta, Canada,
received 2 scarlet ibises, 2 roseate spoonbills, 2 cattle egrets, 2 eastern
glossy ibises, 2 little blue herons, a Louisiana heron, a red-shouldered
hawk, an osprey, 2 chimachimas, 2 crested curassows, an Ariel toucan,
2 barred owls, and 2 kookaburras. The Edinburgh Zoo in Scotland
SECRETARY’S REPORT BET

received 6 raccoons, 1 jaguarondi, 2 squirrel monkeys, 2 kinkajous,
4 opossums, and 3 king snakes.

The exchange of specimens with zoos and institutions in the United
States is also continuing. With the decrease in wild animal popu-
lations in various parts of the world, it becomes important to replace
animal losses from stock propagated in other zoos. An actual sur-
plus of any one kind of animal is best dissipated by distributing to
other American zoos so that new displays and further propagation
may be achieved.

Animals obtained through exchange were:

Baltimore Zoo, Baltimore, Md., Grant’s zebra.

Bronx Zoo, New York, N.Y., cusimanse, European dormouse, 2 otters.

Buffalo Zoo, Buffalo, N.Y., 5 timber rattlesnakes, 2 black garter snakes, 2
Blanding’s turtles.

Calgary Zoological Society, Alberta, Canada, 2 bald eagles.

Cheyenne Mountain Zoo, Colorado Springs, Colo., 8 golden-mantled ground
squirrels.

Cincinnati Zoo, Cincinnati, Ohio, clouded leopard.

Columbus Zoo, Columbus, Ohio, 2 golden eagles, king vulture.

Franklin Park Zoo, Boston, Mass., 2 giant salamanders, puma.

Hanson, Charles, Oak Harbor, Ohio, Arizona king snake, ground snake, 2 shovel-
nosed snakes, California mountain king snake, hooded merganser, 3 sidewinder
rattlesnakes, alligator lizard, Texas long-nosed snake, eastern massasauga.

Houston Zoological Gardens, Houston, Tex., 6 blotched water snakes, 2 yellow-
bellied water snakes, diamondback water snake, 2 coral snakes, 6 water
moccasins, 5 rat snakes, 7 western rattlesnakes, 2 speckled king snakes, 3
Lindheimer’s rat snakes.

Hoxie Bardex Circus, Sarasota, Fla., wild hog.

Kenefick, James H., Danielson, Conn., pygmy rattlesnake, 2 gopher tortoises.

Lincoln Park Zoo, Chicago, I1l., brown lemur, ruffed lemur.

Mortimer, Bill, Anaheim, Calif., rosy boa, chuckwalla.

Norfolk Zoo, Norfolk, Va., 4 cottonmouth water moccasins, 2 common king snakes,
brown water snake, rainbow snake, 2 canebrake rattlesnakes.

San Diego Zoo, San Diego, Calif., Allen’s swamp monkey (male).

Tote-Em-In Zoo, Wilmington, N.C., 2 star tortoises, leopard, African scorpion,
4 African red-tail squirrels, puff adder, unidentified tortoise, tree shrew, 2
moustached marmosets, African python, Indian python, titi monkey.

Zinner, Hermann, Vienna, Austria, 12 European vipers, 3 sand vipers, 3 Aescu-
lapian snakes, 3 European water snakes, 14 European lizards, 5 European
turtles, 2 sand boas.

The following animals were sent to other zoos and to private
collectors in exchange:

Air Force Institute of Pathology, Washington, D.C., water moccasin, Asiatic rat
snake, many-banded krait, green palm viper, lesser Indian rat snake.

Baltimore Zoo, Baltimore, Md., Nile hippopotamous, Grant’s zebra.

British Guiana Zoo, Georgetown, British Guiana, lion cub (female).

Buck, Warren, Marlton, N.J.,4 Gelada baboons.

Buffalo Zoo, Buffalo, N.Y., lesser panda, 2 Taiwan cobras.

Busch Gardens, Tampa, Fla., 2 whistling swans.
112 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1963

Cincinnati Zoo, Cincinnati, Ohio, 4 mallards, 4 wood ducks, 4 lesser scaups,
4 canvasbacks, ringneck duck, redhead duck, emu, 2 glossy ibises, 2 scarlet
ibises, 3 snowy egrets, Bengal tiger, 2 European brown bear cubs.

Emperor Valley Zoo, Port of Spain, Trinidad, genet, cacomistle, 2 California
ground squirrels, kinkajou.

Franklin Park Zoo, Boston, Mass., 2 black swans, 2 whistling swans, cavy.

Fresno Zoo, Fresno, Calif., 3 cattle egrets.

Hanson, Charles, Oak Harbor, Ohio, lesser Indian rat snake, Aesculapian snake,
Taiwan habu, palm viper, krait, western cottonmouth moccasin.

Hoxie Bardex Circus, Sarasota, Fla., 2 squirrel monkeys.

Jimmy Morgan Zoo, Birmingham, Ala., 2 magpies.

John Ball Zoological Park, Grand Rapids, Mich., 2 scarlet ibises, 2 curassows,
2 roseate spoonbills.

Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Md., 4 canvasback ducks.

Lincoln Park Zoo, Chicago, U1., lemur catta, pair Barbary apes.

Lincoln Park Zoo, Oklahoma City, Olka., 2 scarlet ibises.

Mortimer, Bill, Anaheim, Calif., 2 baby Cook’s tree boas, Aesculapian snake.

National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Md., 4 fat-tailed gerbils, alligator,
Neumann’s genet.

Palmer, Harold C., Douglasville, Ga., squirrel monkey, kookaburra.

Patuxent Wildlife Refuge, Laurel, Md., red-tailed hawk, 2 sparrow hawks, barn
owl, 3 great horned owls, 4 barred owls, 12 wood thrushes, 9 buntings, warblers.

San Diego Zoo, San Diego, Calif., Allen’s swamp monkey (female).

Southwick Game Farm, Blackstone, Mass., 2 axis deer.

Zinner, Hermann, Vienna, Austria, Lindheimer’s snake, 2 pilot black snakes,
3 bull snakes, timber rattler, 2 western diamondback rattlesnakes, 2 southern
copperheads, 3 water moccasins, 25 anoles, spiny-tailed iguana, common iguana,
speckled king snake, common king snake, 2 common water snakes, diamond-
backed water snake, 3 broad-banded water snakes, yellow-bellied water snake,
3 blotched water snakes, 3 indigo snakes.

PURCHASES

The National Zoological Park has been fortunate in purchasing a
wild Grevy zebra stallion from Africa. This animal is particularly
valuable in that wild blood has been assured in the continued breeding
program of the Grevy herd here in the zoo.

The same is true of a male Masai giraffe import. The reception of
this animal completes a trio of these unusual animals, and it is
hoped that they will produce fine offspring—important items in the
program of the interchange of animals among zoos of the United
States.

A monkey or baboon island is a great attraction to visitors to any
zoo. With the hope of a new island exhibit to be built, 16 Gelada
baboons from Ethiopia were purchased and are being acclimated as
eventual inhabitants of an island exhibit. Geladas are among the
most hardy of the primate family, and it is expected that these speci-
mens will condition to year-round outdoor environment with minimum
heat requirements for their well-being.
SECRETARY'S REPORT 113

Other purchases of interest were:

6 lungfishes 2 olive baboons
3 cantils 2 South American wood rails
2 Mexican beaded lizards 1 wattled guan

STATUS OF THE COLLECTION, JUNE 30, 1963

Class Orders Families Species or Individuals
subspecies

A eeasravn rn | 9 ears a EN Batt 12 47 238 646
FESS eye ern ee LN 20 67 343 1, 068
BEES PO i 5 sks as = 4 25 192 699
MINPMIPIANS..o2- 2.22822 8.8 2 10 25 107
Hishess=-2225< Stal PE Eee 4 10 23 66
_AGULE Cy ((0(0 a ie i ri 3 4 4 ae
Molluskge 3-2 aoe = 2 1 1 1 30

“DBO FES Ue ee 46 164 826 2, 693

In the following list of mammals, sex is given where known; 1.0
indicates one male, 0.1 indicates one female, 1.1 indicates one male and
one female, etc. :

ANIMALS IN THE COLLECTION ON JUNE 30, 1963

MAMMALS
MONOTREMATA
Family and common name Scientific name Number
Tachyglossidae:
Echidna, or spiny anteater_________ Tachyglossus aculeatus_________ 0.1
MARSUPIALIA
Didelphidae:
ODOSSUM = oa ee Didelphis marsupialis virginiana. 0.1
MnTINes OpOSsuUmee = 2 =e eee Marmoee Sp xan fae a nhe Fora 2 0.1
Central American opossum________~_ Didelphis marsupialis__________ 2.0
Dasyuridae:
Masmanian: Geyile=2 22s. Se Sarcophilus harrisii___._________ 1.0
Phalangeridae:
Samo eres. 2 2S. 2 eee oe Petaurus breviceps_____________ gal
Squirrelieli ders 222 220 Ee ee Petaurus norfolcensis___________ 2.4
Phascolomidae:
Hairy-nosed wombat-.-=---2------ = Lasiorhinus latifrons___________ 2.0
Mainland wombatee 2. 222 222 re Wombatus hirsutus____________ 0.1
Macropodidae:
PPreeekanearo0s=2 22.5 <2. Set nts Dendrolagus matschiei_________ 1.0
PE ROMP AT OO = se tee os ek Petorous spi22 2 aa ke 12
INSECTIVORA
Erinaceidae:
European hedgehog________________ Hrinaceus europaeus____________ PAS

African desert hedgehog____________. Paraechinus spo. 2-2 0.1
114 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1963

PRIMATES
Family and common name Scientific name Number
Lemuridae:
Ring-tailed lemur.222205 eee EMA VCO Oi ee PAA
IBTOWI LEMUr. 2s oe Wee ed henvir fulousgs 2 eee ue a
Lorisidae:
Greatialazvoush we! Waser he ee Galago crassicaudatus_______-__ ial
ibushbaby= se. =—- ae sos ee ee Galago senegalensis zanzibaricus. 2.0
Commonipottoe2222 2-2 iene oe eee Perodicticus pottos2=====— 22s 0.1
Cebidae:
DoOurovucoulise eee he eee Aotus trivirgatus______________— 2.0
NMtiomonkeyse= 3. 2 Se Ea ee Callicebus cupreus___________-__ 1.0
Capuchin ee 222. 2a ae Cebus capucinus________________ 3.5
Weeping capuchin= 2s == aes Cebusoriscus= =.= ae 1.0
iWihite-tacedisaki-. 52 2a se eee wee Pithecia pithecia__-____--___ Os
Squirrel monkeys tees as eee ee Satin sciuneusae= ee OA
Spiderhmonkey= 222 a a ae AtcCles (cOU 10 ee 1.5
Black spider monkey__________-_-__. Ateles fusciceps== === ae 1.5
Woolly-monkey 2s sae es WG OUNTICR Spee eee eee ale aL
Callithricidae:
iPye2mysmMacmoset ase ae eee Cebuella pygmaea_____---_--__- 1.0
Cottontophmarmoset==) === Saguinus oedipus________-______ 1.0
Red-handed marmoset_____-_--___--~- SQQUNUSE NGS eee 0.1
Moustached tamarin_____-__-__-___- Saguinus mystaw___________-_-~ Bel
Cercopithecidae:
Toque, or bonnet macaque_____--__-- Macaca sinicas.-—--- 2-2 1.2
Philippine macaque_____--_-__--_--. Macaca philippinensis______-___ 1.0
Crab-eating macaque______________-. Mecca see 0.1
Rhesus monkeys a eee, Macaca mutatta-———__-__-—___ Bydl
Javan smacaquess.. 222 Macaca irus mordagr__-2- 2 oi
Formosan macaque______________--- Macaca cyclopis==—— aL, al
Red-faced macaque___-__-_-_------- MGCOCG' SPCCLOS02 =e ee 0.1
IBATDATY Jape 2s ee ed ee Macaca sylvanus___._.___________ 5.1
MOGOTLTINA CAC Ce aa ten aes eS eee MACUCE MINOT Sane e ee 0.1
Gray-cheeked mangabey__---_------ Cercocebus albigena_________-_-_ 0.1
Avile mancabeyn seen ee eee Cercocedus agilis2-__-__- ee 1.0
Golden-bellied mangabey__-_____---- Cercocebus chrysogaster________ 1.0
Red-crowned mangabey__--__-----_-~- Cercocebus torquatus___________ et
Sooty, mangabey. 222 oe ee ea Cercocebus fuliginosus_____-____ By di
Crested ‘mangahbeyses 2522 setae Cercocebus aterrimus____-______ 1.0
Black-crested mangabey__-_____-__-. Cercocebus aterrimus__.________ al
1D yey 8 Re a ee A ee a Mandrillus leucophaeus_________ 1.0
Oliveibaboon ==. See eee eee Papiovanuibige. 82 ee eee S12
Gelada. baboon==3 22-bit ewe = Theropithecus gelada_.__________ 7.6
Chaemarbaboon2{222 2222 2eac eee Papio..comatus== eee 1.0
Wervet. suenon 2 Site os_ Babee Cercopithecus aethiops__________ 1.0
Green quenone ee eS ea Cercopithecus aethiops__________ one,
Grivet guenon (color variant) _______ Cercopithecus aethiops__________ 0.1
Moustached monkey_____-__________ Cercopithecus cephus___________ iL, 4
Diana wmonkey==s2254—=-23- See Cercopithecus diana____-_______ 1.0
Rolowsay Monkeys se see oe ee Cercopithecus diana roloway__.__ 0.1
DeBraz7a/s suenone sae eee Cercopithecus neglectus___.______ 1.0

White-nosed guenon________________. Cercopithecus nictitans_________ 0.1
SECRETARY’S REPORT 115

Family and common name Scientific name Number
Cercopithecidae—Continued
Lesser white-nosed guenon___--___-_ Cercopithecus petaurista_____--- 120
Allen’s swamp monkey—.--~-------- Allenopithecus nigroviridis____-- ial
Spectacled, or Phayre’s, langur___-_-- Presbytts phayrei- 2 eee ri5(D)
Hanuman, or entellus monkey___---- Presoytis senleuliuse 0.1
Wrestedvangurs=o=. aS Se Presbytis cristatus222_* ess ZO
Pongidae:
White-handed gibbon_____-----__--- HAYLOUGLES LAT ae ee ileal
iWau-wau- gibbon Site Se Hylobates motoch 222 222=—_ === 0.1
Ey bride aibbonke 222 emies sisi ya Hylobates lar X H. sp---------- 0.5
Niamang gibbons s= ssa eee Symphalangus syndactylus_____- 1.0
Sumatran, orangutan -— 9 Pongo. DIGMACUS= 1.1
Bornean, orangutan’ ~—) 2} Sessa Pongo oygneis SS 0.1
Shimpanzeeresas == ne ee ee DEH ORI ea ee 3.2
owland gorillas! es woe ae eee Gorillagorillias == eee 2.1
EDENTATA
Myrmecophagidae:
Gamer antenbers os coe ee Myrmecophaga tridactyla_____-- 0.1
Bradypodidae:
awWwO-LOCdUS Othe 2 su ee Se - Choloepus didactylus__________- 3.4
Dasypodidae:
Nine-banded armadillo__-_-_------- Dasypus novemcinctus____------~ eal
RODENTIA
Sciuridae:
European red squirrel_________-__-- Sciurus vulgarigec2 ees 74,02
Crayesquirrel, albino==s 222s Sciurus carolinensis________—---— 2.0
Tassel-eared, or Abert’s squirrel____~ Sciurus advertise 1.0
Wester fox squirrel -=—- = = = SCUN 119 Cf === = === ee 1.0
rndian palm squirrel o===— === Funambulus palmarum____-_--- Ort
South African red squirrel__________ Parawverus’ pathiatus___— = ip
iri-colored) SGUItrel= === ee ee Catlosciurus” prevostiz——=_ == 0.1
Formosan tree squirrel____________- Callosciurus erythraeus____----- ala
Woodchuck, or groundhog__________- MGTIOCE NON GD Se eee 4.2
Riri (es (ye Cynomys ludovicianus___-------~ 15
California ground squirrel_________~_ Citellus beecheyt_____________._ 2. 2
Washington ground squirrel_______~_ Citellus washinytoni___________-_ aI |
Golden-mantled ground squirrel____ Citellus lateraligs.___.____.____--- 2.4
Hasterne chipmunk s=— 2222 22 2 RQMtasmstriatusee fe eae yal
Hastern chipmunk, albino__________ Tamias striatus 1.0
Mellow, pine chipmunk. 222222 Hutamias amoenus________-___- 0.1
Townsend’s chipmunk__________.=_- Eutamias townsendii________--- 1.0
Kastern flying squirrel__._.__.._______ Glaucomys volans_____________- 2A, 33
Heteromyidae:
KAN SAT OOMEAt= ae 2s = Slee ee es DIN OLOMYS Spe aa ee = 2.0
Castoridae: ,
12) OT cl ea a gr a a Castor” canadensise. = 3
Pedetidae:
Cape jumping hares: = 92-2 a. =) PederesriCODen sis ee eee 2.1
Cricetidae:
iW Aite-footed ‘mouse... _-_ Peromyscus sp_----------— po es 1.3

East African maned rat____________ Lophiomys ibeanus_____--_----- 2.0
116 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1963

Family and common name Scientific name Number
Cricetidae—Continued
IPine@nvOle 2. ==" sates Se eae ee Microtus pinetorum____________ 1.0
Gerbils ooo Sk ee ee ee. Gerbillus pyramidum______—___-— 0.1
Mat-taileds (gerbil ssa eee Pachyuromys duprasi___________ 3.8
Heyptian: gerbil ee ee Gerbillusidasyunis 0.1
Hairy-talled .ird==—2 ee eee Sekeetamys calurus__-__________ 0.1
Muridae:
Hey phanyspiny, MoOUSeSe a= eee Aicomys cahirinus. 22 ee 10. 14
Heypian Spiny, MOUSel 2 === =a Acomys dimidiatus__._-___-.___ 6. 10
Giant forest. rates.) 5s 25h eee Cricetomys gambianus ssp__----— 1.0
Slender-tailed cloud rat-_-__-_--_-~- Phloeomys cumingii____________ 1.0
Gliridae:
Garden dormouses eee Hliomys quercinusa. = 28 sees 0.1
Hystricidae:
WME? TOMO Cee Acanthion brachyura______--____ 1.0
ETI CANBDOLCU DING === as =a eee Hystriga cristata—_-==-=-=-—-- 2.4
Palawan poreupines 222 aa INECULUS pUMNilis=2 eee aal
Caviidae:
Patagonian CAVy 22 ao see ee Dolichotis patagonum___________ 3.6
Dasyproctidae:
Hairy-rumped agouti-______________ Dasyprocta prymnolopha________ 201.
Acoutl black phases 222222 ene Dasyprocta prymnolopha________ ileal
EAC OUCH pee ae a ene Myoprocta acouchy——___________ 1.0
Chinchillidae:
Mountainviscachaess.= 2a ae UGUETUT Se 0.1
CARNIVORA
Canidae:
1B) STC ay yh aa yy ea TN bl Canis familiaris dingo__________ ee
OY, OCC) ra acres CONTSRLG ETO Se 0.1
Commonejackalsa aa eee OUD QUIRGB aaa ial
UA BST OVEN QI 0) 9 pm ah yl A ts Canis lupus nubilus_____________ ik. 83
MEXaS Ved W Olt 2 see see ee eee Canis niger rufus_.______________ 0.1
PAT CEI Gch O Rie ee terre ee ae eee ee AlOne@? LAG Opus =. oc oe ee 1.0
HIG TING Cyne es eee Ie Rela ns le a Hee ae CNN CCUS ne CL a ee il, I
QTY FLO Kee tees Ae ee ee eee gene Urocyon cinereoargenteus_______ 12
RCC lO xa = see ee Be ae VAQHE DES OHO ELS SO 1.0
EA CCOOMAC OS a re one ee ee eee Nyctereutes procyonoides________ 1.1
Capeshunting td 0g == ae es LEY COON DUCTUS ee ee 1.1
Ursidae:
Spectacled: beare2—=os-2- 222222. 28 Tremarctos OTNatus== =e 1.0
Is hhenaleneiy eee Selenarctos thibetanus__________ 0.1
Japanese black bear=ii2= 2-2 Selenarctos thibetanus japoni-
CUS a a aS ee irae Rt 1.0
Korean be@at=2-2222 22 eS eee eee Selenarctos thibetanus wssuri-
GPO LSSS CA EY SRE if:
European brown bear__-___----___- UT 8USTOGClLOS= = eee ee ee 1.2
ranianebrown, DCA. === a= ee Ursus arctos syriacus_____- il, Tl
Griazliy ab Calta ae eee ea ee OU SUS Onn Dilise=aees =e eal
IBlaelkabe ate asa es eae  e eeaee eer eae Huarctos americanus__-------_--~ iG ak
ES OLA COT ee ee Thalarctos maritimus__________ 1.2
iy brig ANCAT A <2 ne ee eee Thalarctos maritimus xX Ursus
MiddendOnii menses eee 2.2
SECRETARY'S REPORT 117

Family and common name Scientific name Number
Ursidae—Continued
Malayanvsun pCa === ease. oe Helarcitos malayanus____-------~ 0. 2
Sloth bean =.= oe MURS USiINUS = ee ital
Procyonidae:
WACOMMISHIC 222s See ee Bassariscus astutus2_ 252,
PEP CCOOM a re a  arle E PROCYON LOLO Ta a= ee 14
Raccoon albinQos — ean. Be eee IPT OCU ONT OLO Te Oat
Raccoon, black, phases=—2*--==2s222— J ARON ONO 1.0
Womumundie — = eee ee ee ee SE NGS UGEIVOS LO ae ee ee 168?
eedecoabimundt 2. esa = see 2 eee NOQSUCNOSUG= 22 ee eee 1.0
Peruvian coatimundi_______________ Nasua nasua dorsalis___________- tl
HSS rn OU ee ee as eee POtos: Navusi se ee 251
TEE) EY a2 taal as Bassaricyon gabbi_________-___- 0
Mustelidae:
Wists here iw fas ee Martes americana 0.1
TRISH Gee ar eee Martes pennantizw 0.1
IBGiaiSheG Wana) buyin Hira barbara poliocephala_______ Thal
(GRISWDY aves eee eee irereenastne ee Galictis allamandt___-__________ 1.0
PHOT sewers ee ee CLOMID Sh OlIlS ea ae 1.0
WWOlVERIN@ tas Soe re ee ae GUL ORGULONLS CUS ea ere ere Ou
TRS RT | note enn a yee ne MEeUVOTGsCODENSis=— ee 1.0
AmicricHnpancer To Lei sors LOD CAO U Se ee 1.0
Golden-bellied ferret-badger__.______ Melogale moschata subsurantiaca 1.2
Gonmonltskunk Mephitis mepiitis.____— 2.0
California spotted skunk____________ Spilogale putorius phenar_____~_ 1.0
PRRBVGLIO EL OTP ee ee ees ee WAU CG CONAULCHS 1S ae 20
Viverridae:
(GOT Clyne ee eo ee ee ee Genctta genetta neumanni_______ 2.5
Genetablack:phase_—-: =.= 5 se eas= GenenlagCnett daa === a eae 1.0
Formosan spotted civet___________-- Vaverricula andical== =) es afeat
SAT Fee a se Sea ee PIAONOCOM, UNSGN =. eee 0.1
ACTICAN palm iCLy ete ee eee Nandinia binoviata=__ = Ss iigal
Formosan masked civet__.-~__=--___~ Paguma larvata taivana_____-__- 1.0
SMU OM epee ee Sk ee ee Arctictis binturong2=2222- =~ == 1.0
African gray mongoose____________— Herpestes ichneumon________ 0.1
ARricaniwater Clvetsta=4 =). es ATOD DUMMGINGSUS Se ae 1.4
African striped mongoose___________ Crossarchus fasciatus___________ Tb, il
(CHRTUING ) Ok eee ee eee eee ee CFOSSarchusesp ee ee ee 0.1
White-tailed mongoose______________ Ichneumia albicauda____________ 1.06
Black-footed mongoose______________ Bdcogalevsp: ets a ae ee Sh
Hyaenidae:
Siriped MNyend= === JEM OKO NOE 13a!
Felidae:
18°) C(O ics nae 5 nee i Pues eR pce aie, Sieg 1 BGT PEPER NU tag cs ee Demi tel 5 2M 1.1
Canadian’ lynx See Fe ee LUMO CON GLENS Sa 1.0
(CENTS Olea aa i a a ce Soka Et a Lyn@ caracal-caracat____________ 1.0
anew teen sere Se ee ee CUES CUCU S eae eer ee ere ial
ALESIS} CA teen Sees 5 ed Bs IES & CUISE IUCN a eee a bea
NSIGTE CET ct pepper eh eh ag pat Rea GUSTS CTU Oe ee 0. 2
HCODATO Cates ewok are eS I CLESMUCTIOMLCTUS 1G ae 1.0
SATU OG eee loa A CLERIC UT CL ee eens Neer 1.0
TEL Fe kr le CUS DURA ligr = ee 1.2

720—-018—64——_9
118 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1963

Family and common name Scientific name Number
Felidae—Continued
Jaguarondi===2=== Meee ae See ee Helis yagouaroundila 2 22 ee
IPumaecencnes=s23 sts a ee SS BPeU8) CONCOLOT sac ee oe
eopard,* 252i. = bats eee Panthera,p07 dis 34 7h
iBlackJleoparde=+. 2s eee Panthena pardus—==__— 1D
Dba OY peers nh cpr cet = Reade ee ee Panthera leOse2=-- = 2-2 -= ee 4.4
Bengal tigers=2-2-s2--4 290) Bees Panthera. tigris----- 22s ees zat
WhitesBengalitigers2+- Panthera tigris_._---.-_-_=--~— 0.1
PAE UAT eee oe PS AR ‘Panthera Oncea=-2-----— ee 1.0
Clouded -leopard:- =< 24222222 eae Neofeliia netulosa.-- aa 2.0
Snowsleopards== 2st eee UNCiG) UNG. ee es neal
Cheetah se ots ee ol eee Acinonyx jubata.__._--.. == ital
PINNIPEDIA
Otariidae:
California sea-lion=222 = Zalophus californianus________- es
Patagonian, sea-Hone===—==5—— Otaria flavescens=—=_ = 0.1
Phocidae:
LAT DOTY Sea kc t ero Sev ets (PROCUROTNNNG == eee ifal
TUBULIDENTATA
Orycteropodidae:
PAA ROY T Kies es ee a Orycteropus afer 1.0
PROBOSCIDEA
Elephantidae:
African elephant. == ==. s 2 ee Lozodonta africana____________ 0.1
Horest: elephants=2—" — === ease Loxodonta cyclotis_____________ 1.0
Indiankelephants2 ss. 22) eee Elephas magrimus________---_-_ 0. 2
PERISSODACTYLA
Equidae:
Mongolian wild horse__....-..---~-- Hquus przewalskiit_________.-._— 1.0
Grevy sizebraa2eo sae ee eee HQUUS GLEUYt a ee eee se
Grant's; zebrace 22 ae eee Haws, ourchelia ee oe
Burro; cOrTsGonkeyeeen = eee HQUUSOUSINW R= eee eee 1.0
Tapiridae:
Brazihanwtapirs eee eee TODAS) Cenrestiise a eee ae 1.1
Rhinocerotidae:
Indian one-horned rhinoceros_____-- Rhinoceros unicornis_____--_____ 1.0
African black rhinoceros___.---~-~- Diceros. vicormis= ee iat
White, or square-lipped, rhinoceros__ Ceratotherium simum_____---~_- algal
ARTIODACTYLA
Tayassuidae:
@ollared: peccary.22=]— 222. Soe TOYOSSU TAIGCU a eee ee 4.3
Hippopotamidae:
I pPOPOtAMUS 22 52——— = see Hippopotamus amphibius______- alyal
Pygmy hippopotamus____-.---__---- Choeropsis liberiensis__________- 1.4
Camelidae:
ihiGasthnt ei) Rao ae eee Camelus bactrianus__________--- 0.1
IV Ra hp cs ee a ee OMG sClGM tee eee 2.4
CEUTA CO ha ee a er Lama glama guanicoe______----- 1.1
PATI CAG pce cnn na eR em EQMG3DQCOS 2 ose a ae 1.1
SECRETARY’S REPORT

Dromiceidae:

Family and common name Soientific name
Cervidae:
Winite) tallow: deer=- = 2222 Dama. Camgen. 2 ae
ASG), ONS PR ee Ee eee Alwis apis. LoS Wy ni a eile gee
IRGC)! Gl ee ee eee ae Cervus Clapnius == eee
police COIS fae BS Ds Se ko eee Cervus ninpone— =
Here moavidis, Geers. aoa Hiaphurus davidianus__________
White-tailed, or Virginia, deer______ Odocoileus virginianus__.________
ANTIGISTO ANG.) ee Ee eee eee Cervus canadensis______________
HEOTESEV CATT DOU! =e a ee Rangifer caribou... =~
TEXSTb YO C2) id ee So SEA Ee erie eee Teen Rangifer tarandus______________
Giraffidae:
INTUTE TT Oe i a Girajffa camelopardalis__________
Misa riratree See Oe niet ee pace te Giraffa c. tippelskirchi__________
Bovidae:
SHEED Roney: 22) AR Senet Semrere et One mee See one Tragelaphus spekii_________.___
ENTIYOYTYy A bet 2A ed na ee Anoa depressicornis____________
SGT eee Ad he ee eee Sao ees eee Poephagus grunniens___________
es te cr er lg Bives gaurteen es eee
Cape Dutta loess 2 Meri tae a pow leh le BS YPUCOT US OOTP CN a gt
PAINT CA TUG DLS OM sre es et Yoni nes ah oa Bison: DtSOTE Baek, Subs ie
pring led wens = 220 ie ae ee Connochaetes taurinus__________
WOT CARE BAZ EH G2 wid eo sn een meee beet Gazella ‘dorcas=- = =
Nalparantel ope: 20 ees pe se Saige tatarica.. 2
RockyeMountain goats. 2 Eee Oreamnos americanus__________
1S Buecker Ags 0 Vag £2 0 ap ne Hemitragus jemlahicus_________
African pygmy goat 222 eae Capra hircugs. eee ee
Nepean eee a le es AS Capra t0ep ss oa ae ee
Aoudad, or Barbary sheep________-- Ammotragus lervia____________-_
a VGH GEp ae) ae SESE SET OVS CGT 223 Rete sha oi
Biz-hornisheep een Pe so FE Ovis' canadensis. 2a
BIRDS
SPHENISCIFORMES
Spheniscidae:
SINS speN enna 22 ie ee Aptenodytes patagonica_________
Adelie penguin 22 2 ee Pygoscetis adeliae______________
STRUTHIONIFORMES
Struthionidae:
OS ig (ea So OA Sse ee Struthio, camels es ae
RHEIFORMES
Rheidae:
TEVA Se ee ee ee aS On Rhea americana...
CASUARITFORMES
Casuariidae:
Double-wattled cassowary__________ Casuarius bicarunculatus_______

ET ees alah ts BS. Be RAT Dromiceius novaehollandiae____-

*On deposit at another zoo or sanctuary

*4
71
120 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1963

TINAMIFORMES
Family and common name Scientific name Number
Tinamidae:
Pileated. slnamovosos ese Crypturellus soui panamensis____ 1
PROCELLARIIFORMES
Diomedeidae:
Black-footed albatross___-----_._-__ Diomedea nignripes_—_ = ee 2
Phaethontidae:
Red-tailed tropicbird== Phaethon rubicauda_____---__ = 3
PELECANIFORMES
Pelecanidae;:
White pelican 222 eee eee Pelecanus erythrorhunchos______ 3
IBTOW Ne pelicans soe == ea ae aes Pelecanus occidentalis_________- 1
Dalmatian pelican2=2222.s———— IPClLECOTINSIChIS DUS === eee 2
Sulidae:
Ganiveies <2 EER eee STUCCO CS S71 0 eee eee 1
Phalacrocoracidae:
Double-crested cormorant_.----__~-- Phatlacrocoram auritus auritus___ 3
Phalacrocoragw auritus albocili-
Marallonseormorantes.= 22 s.— soe QUUS 82 Be Se SO a
Huropeanieormorant=2—— =. ae Phalacrocoraa.carb0= 6
CICONIIFORMES
Ardeidae:
Reddishjesnet=== 2. 22. See eee Dichromanassa rufescens rufes-
CONS). Sedat tes Bee 8
Snowyserrete.—. = Be eae lees EL OTCECG UII ee eee 3
Hasternjoreen heron]22 2-2 eee BUtorides Oirescens=— ee 2
oursiana, heron]. 2 ses ee Ses PEO RON HIE URI ODO pa 2
Black-crowned night heron_________ Nycticorax nycticorag__________ 12
Amenicantbittennes2 2) a2 eee eee Botaurus lentiginosus___________ 1
UM ReNE PORE REND Olea ea ey ee a I Tigrisoma tineatwmo__ 1
Balaenicipitidae:
PSY OVGYE) CVU fi ei se er eas Se ee CULCTICEDS iC 0 =e eee 1
Ciconiidae:
AINenical W0OG 1DiSese 2. aaa. se Myeteria americana____._---_____ 2
Huropean white storks == 2====——— OiCONCRCLCONT ae ee 4
Winiie=belidedsstor keene Sphenorhynchos abdimia____-___ 2
Open-billedistork2=_— es. nae ANGStOMUS, OSCILANS=- === es 1
Threskiornithidae:
Witte wabisens 22 ee ee eee CGO OUD ee ee 2
SGamletioi bi Sk ae ar aera ae ee Guarnganiverssas = eee 2
Black-ficedtibisa.- 2s ee PUCTIUStICUS: MELINOPISe a 1
Isley ovevnoleel yee ee Threskiornis melanocephala_____ il
White-faced glossy ibis._._______._.._. Plegadis falcinellus mevicéna____ 1
Mastern) SlOssysibiss- === eee Piegadis falcinellus falcinellus__ a
Phoenicopteridae:
Chileans famines sea eee ee Phoenicopterus chilensis_______- 1
Cubangiamingoe=ss ] == ae areas Phoenicopterus ruber______----- il
OldaWorldihamingo=s sas seas Phoenicopterus antiquorum____- al
SECRETARY’S REPORT £1

ANSERIFORMES

Family and common name Scientific name Number
Anhimidae:
Crested screamer: = a. 2 Chauna torquata.2 2 6
Anatidae:
WOSCOLON ATS WA ne = ee eee COSCOTOUG COSCO OUI ae 4
RPO OR WAR kes oe BE CYUgnus: O1OT no = ee 3
IBlack-neckedus wale =a eae = Cygnus melanocoriphus_________ 2
Mooer SWall. === == eee OUR CYGNUA LA a eee ee ee 4
Whistling s Wants 2a owe Pe ee Olor columbianus__.—-_-_ 11
Menmpeter. Swan. ---—=__=== OloraGuccinato; = 2,
Gas Wal ree ee eee re Pare ee CRENODIS OTe ee q
Hey OtiansPO0SCs = ee ee Alopochen aegyptiacus__________ 4
White-fronted goose_________----_-- ANS Cf OLD L MONS =n eee a 3
Indian bar-headed goose____--__---- AMSCTEANGICUWS= aa a ae eee 5
HIMPOrON. 2 OOSCL== =) oa. ea eae ANSCT CUNEO CUS Es aan =e eee 2
BES TUNERS OOS eee eee ee Anser COerulescens= 22 6
WESSETSNHOW: ZOOSC. 22 se oon soe Anser caerulescens caerulescens__ 2
Greater, snow 00se___--—---=--=- == Anser caerulescens atlanticus___ 5
RUOSSISIES OONC 2a nto a a ses ANSCR TO88tin seen ee eee 4
Nene, or Hawaiian goose___________ Branta sandvicensis______._____ 2
Red-breasted -goose=_=—-——. = BORE NUCOULS =e =e oe 4
ama AC OOSC ee eae ee Branta cConadensisa 22 26
Hesser Canada roose....-..-2-.2-— Branta, Conadensis=- = - =. - 5
Giant Canada Lo0ses. -. = Branta canadensis major________ 4
WHCMINE SS OOSEH = a ee Branta, CONDAEHS1g= =e 4
White-cheeked goose_______________ BUONO CANQLeENSi see 3
Canada goose X Lesser snow goose

(blue phase), hybrid. —- == Branta canadensis X Anser
caerulescens) == 1
Miulkvousstree duck... Dendrocygna bicolor__-____ if
uddyashelduck 22 = 2 ee Casarce’ ferruginee=_— = 2
WOO GNC Kosa Be ALCTSpONS OSes ee 104
Migndariny (UCK!— 222-2262 AGT ULETUCIUUL LO me en ee 1
indianveotton teals22. 2 ee Nettapus coromadelianus_______ *8
Pera tele UC Kee ee ee ee eee ANAS CCULC Re ern Ca Ota 4
ecreen-winsed teal. ANGSHOCRECCO RI ere. 2 Bae 1
Chesinut-breasted teal_- = AMOS ACUREO IVC (eee 1
CHG TEED Le sient pagan leptin tare iy ANGST SET ED CT ne ee ee 4
European) Wwidgeon. 2 ASUS TD CIELO D Gee 2
ener iC ka a eee ee eee Anas platyrhynchos____________ 60

Mallard duck X American pintail

CICK NY DTG sere eae een ee Anas platyrhynchos x Anas
OCCULT See eee ee ere il
Cie CKieee eee as AOS ETA TAD CS etn rn ee eee 8
Createriscaup duck=_---- ACY OC SNOT ne es 701
Messer SCaup, duck=-2 2220-2 ee Ans LRU sais ao ee ee 55
LEG Die ee ee Se eee Aythya americang—-— ilzé
mine-necked) duck. 2.568 wes AYthYG COUGIS2= 25 = een ee 18
ianynsback. duck. <5 oe Aythya valisineria._.-_..____.. 40
Rosy-billed pochard.-23— =.=.) Metopiana peposaca____________ 1

*On deposit at another zoo or sanctuary.
122 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1963

Family and common name Scientific name Number
Anatidae—Continued
Red-crested pochard____-___________ Nettarujina= = 2-2 eee 1
Builehead 2225-2 28s see ass ees Bucephala atbeola______________ il
American’ goldeneye= 222222 ae Bucephata clanguta—_______ = 5 if:
Baldpatess see Sse ae ee ae ee Mareca americana______-_------ 8
Hooded: “merganser:_===2 "22. 2225252 Lophodytes cucullatus__________ 1
FALCONIFORMES
Cathartidae:
Andean "condor. 2222 ees eee Valiur orypnus=—— = ee i
King) “vulture2—= 222503 eee Sarcoramphus papa____________ 1
Sagittariidae:
Secretarybird 22-2. ee Sagittarius serpentarius________ 2
Accipitridae:
Hooded vultures=_—- = Necrosyrtes monachus__________ 1
Gritron vultures ee GYUDS fuluuse see ee ee 1
Ruppellsevultunes=2=2222 22> ee GYDSEnUD NCU a ee 2
African yellow-billed kite__.___-_-_- MALUUS™ MGT ONS ae = 2 ee 2
Brahminy  skibetes. sees eee HQUGSTUT ANGUS ee 1
iplack-taccdehawksas= 2 es 2 a aes Leucopternis melanops___---_-__ 1
Red-winged hawk __-----.--------. Heterospizias meridionalis______ al
Red-tailed) hawikoe ee a eee Buteo jamaicensis_____________._ 1
Swainson) s awk) oe oe ee ee Bat EOS OUN SON a na 1
Mauduyt’s hawk eagle___________-_- Spizaetus ornatus__-_- = 1
Black-crested eagle________...--_-- Lophaetus occipitalis__.._.______ 1
Great black hawk === Ictinaetus malayensis___________ 1
Golden eagle____-_--__- sph EA LNs ha AQuila (Ghrysaetosa- = = 5
Imperial eagles==2= 2222s eae ALG UAL LCL CU eee ee 2
White-breasted sea eagle____------- Haliaee tus leucogaster_________ 1
Pallas'sveaglec. =e See eae ae Haliaeetus leucoryphus________- 1
Balakea | Oa aere re Cece sagen Sen Haliaeetus leucocephalus________ 9
VAT DY Cae 1m he fee oes ee ea hee ee HORDIG OGD Y) Ca ee 1
Guianan crested eagle______________ Morphnus guianensis___________ 1
Marntialeaglenisei 0 2b 0. tei Polemaetus bellicosus__________- 1
Batelenrnerelescos. eas ee oe Terathopius ecaudatus__________ if
WAaMIMeTLClOR aay wes ee es Gypacius barbatus______________ 1
Falconidae:
SDAREOW NAW eae esse ees eek MOLCOSDGEVCTINS Sa ee eee 4
DTC Ace ee Ra Ea See a ele eee Falco peregrinus anatum________ il
Melldeniseralcon etaas = aan eee Neohieraw cinereiceps________-__ 1
iRed-footed) falcon! 222 == eee Hateo wespertinus= 1
I OTEStista COM eee ee Micrastur semitorquatus________ 2
Chiman es Ole eee en ee (iis aeons es iat Milvago chimango__—_________-_ al
ANTI NaTEHS) KETREKeT Ga ee Polyborus cheriway—.___________ 2
White-throated caracara____________ Phalcoboenus albogularis________ 1
GALLIFORMES
Megapodiidae:
Brushsturkey2<2— =e. See Alecctura lathamin = ae 1
Cracidae:
Wattled curassow_---._-_______--_- OnavaglobulosG == SS aes 2
White-headed piping guan_________- Pipile cumanensis________---___ 1

iWrattled guan==2 222s eee Pipileispss to. tte te spin 1
SECRETARY’S REPORT

123

Family and common name Scientific name Number

Phasianidae:

Gambel:s quail: 22 = = aeest eS Lophortyr gambeli______--______ 2

BVA Oye CGI 2 oe ee SS Lophortyxr californica vallicola__ 3

Ares pheasant 2-24. eS AT GUSTANUS OTUUR ene ae Al

Golden pheasant== 2.22.9. ee Chrysolophus pictus ___________ 3

fteamuanr let owl. SC 2 Gallus gallug=-)— 2 = 3

Black-backed kaleege pheasant______ Gennaeus melanonotus__________ 2

SO RIRO RNA N G2 Gennaeus nycthemerus__________ 1

BeCALOW) oe ee ee POU CTAISUGtU Ss ee 6

Ring-necked pheasant______________ Phasianus cotchicus_______-_____ il

Ring-necked pheasant, albino________ Phasionius colchiczs— 2

Ring-necked pheasant X Green pheas- Phasianus colchicus X Phasianus 1

ant, hybrid. versicolor.

Bhutan, or grey peacock pheasant___ Polyplectron bicalcaratum_______ 1
Numididae:

Vulturine guineafow]_______________ Acryllium vulturinuwm_______---_ af

GRUIFORMES

Gruidae:

Siperiant Cranes ss ews twits dt ee GTUSTCUCOGETANUS= =a eae 1

MTrOpenn (Cranets sain y eke elo GUS OTUS 2 oe Oe ee 2

Wemnpoiselle: Grane. == Sate eee Set bees Anthropoides: virgo. S225 *s. =~ 4

SSR TSTAGS TEEN TN a eet En eo A Gris antigone= <=. 225 sank ees 1

African crowned crane.—.-—-..-----~ Balearica pavonina_____________ 5
Psophiidae:

“S EFPCER PAY OD) He i a a ee Psophia crepitans_______-__-___- 1
Rallidae:

G@uyenne wood rail. ~~ Aramides cajanea______________ 1

WTSI RS Eo a a ee GUUS MACOLG= === se eee al

replertaliinule = =) 4 22s ee Porphyrula martinica___________ 2
Turypygidae:

HMM TubeRM = hare a oe Pe De Burypyga helias—_— = 1
Cariamidae:

Cariama, or seriama——- Cariamarcristata=—— il
Otididae:

STIG OUSLAT Go eee ee Se UD OM OLVS ICON ae eee Be

SS EPEUESECTIN UN) CL TTEY a 0 (aN IR (a aaa Be ae eas Eupodotis senegalensis__________ 1

CHARADRIIFORMES

Jacanidae:

COMMON JACANA == S—e-n sg ee ek JQCONG 8PIN08GL a= 8 eee 2
Haematopodidae:

Mystercatcher. oss5 seks fees wens Haematopus ostralegus_____ — 1
Charadriidae:

Australian banded plover__________ Aoniter trivolor2 == ees 7A

Huropean: Japwing. 2208.2. se Vanetlus: vcanellus=- = 3

South American lapwing___________ Belonopterus cayennensis_______ +

Mrocodile. bird 2s: k55 A9le ee Pluvianis aegyptius___...____ 7
Recurvirostridae:

Black=necked Stil tes ee sl Himantopus mevicanus___.____- 1
Laridae:

mine=pilled onl see eee eee Larus delawarensis_____________ 3

LEGIT) Eq LS RSS ECs ee ie Se Lerus dominicanus.____________ 2
124 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1963

Family and common name Scientific name Number
Laridae—Continued
haughing ‘gull2. 22 eee ea LOOT US GUT CULO = eee ae 3
Herring gulla2 22 o8e eee ee eae GOTUSHOT CNL See 1
Great black-backed gull____________ LE OTUSSINOTANIS 2a aa ee al
Silver" gulls. 2a eee eS ees Larus novaehollandiae__________ 6
COLUMBIFORMES
Columbidae:
Band=-tatled splgeone sa ee ColimuovaiasGiat G22 222 =a 1
High-flying Budapest pigeon________ COLMUGAIIee af
Black-pilledupizeonses se Columba nigrirostris___________ il
Triangular spotted pigeon__________ Columba ouwinea. =e 2
Crownedvepizeontes sa as ee GOUTGEUICLOMIG === ee 1
Blue eroundsdOVem=s a= ae Claravis pretiose = 4
Rudd yecround G0Veee as =e Chaemepelia rufipennis_________ 1
Indian emerald-winged tree dove___ Chalcophaps indica___-_________ 5
Diam Onde Oye me eer Geopelia’ cunedta— a2 = al
Plain-breasted ground dove____---_- Columbigallina minuta_____---- 2
Croundsdovemes 22 eee ae Columbigallina passerina_____-- 1
hing=necked doves see eee Streptopelia decaocto___________ 5
Blue-headed ring dove__..__________ Streptopelia tranquebarica______ 2
White-winged'- dovelss. 222202222258 Zenaida asiatica________-____-- 1
Mourning 6Ne@S= 22 === ee ee ee Zenaidura macroura____________ 1
PSITTACIFORMES
Psittacidae:
Kea narnotees see ee ee ee IORI AOR ON a 2
iBanksianweockatoonses= === = Calyptorhynchus magnificus_____ 1
White COCKaLOOS == ee eee TCI GLOC QUO == ee ee il
Solomon Islands cockatoo_____-__-- Kakatoe QUCropses == ee 1
Sulphur-crested cockatoo______-___- TOA IAOE COUT 2
bare-cyedmCcockato0==seeeee= = a aae Kakatoe sanguinea-____—______ 3
Great red-crested cockatoo__________ Kakatoe moluccensis___________ 1
Leadbeater’s cockatoo_____________-_ Kakatoe leadbeateri____________ 6
Cockatiel erie Ce eee Nymphicus hollandicus_________ 5
Yellow-and-blue macaw ________-__- ENO COUR OS IO at 4
Red-and-blue macaw_______________ Air ON CHLOV ODT Oe 2
Red-blue-and-yellow macaw_________ ATO MIMNOCEO Sse sane ao ae eee 2
Mle era omacawes= oes So eee ae ATOR MNOnG CONGD==s = ane 2
Brown-throated conure_____________ Conurus aderuginosus____________ 8
Petz’s) parakeet... ee Aratinga canicularis___.._______ 2
Rusty-cheeked parrot_______________ ATTUNGG Pertinage=. =.= 2
Yellow-naped parrot..2 =~ ___- Amazona auropalliata__________ 2
NS Chis allots See as ree TAINO ZONOMUUSC) i= a 1
IBlve=tronted parrot. eee AMaAZOnNag Cestivg 2a eee 1
Red-trontedaparropss = aes ANOLON GRUOG1 == ee 1
Double yellow-headed parrot________ ATV AOZONGNOTOUTD 2 ee 4
AL TICANPY STAY AEE Ota ae eee Pitlacusrenithacus.— ee 4
Black-headed, or Nanday, parrot_.__. Nandayus nanday_____________- tf
ineolated parakects=s2 sau. nae se Bolborhynchus lineolatus_______ 5
White-winged parakeet_____________ Brotogeris versicolorus________-_ 1
Tovi sparakeets.. Se wie se Sh a ee Brotogeris jugularis____.._______ 1

*On deposit at snother zoo or sanctuary.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 125

Family and common name Scientific name Number
Psittacidae—Continued
Greater ring-necked parakeet________ Psitiacula eupatria_____—- 2
Rose-breasted parakeet_____________ Psitiacula alerandri_.____ = il
Moustached parakeet__._._________.__ Psittacula fascia al
Lesser ring-necked parakeet________ Psittacwia Kkrameri=—-- ae 2
Barrapand’s parakeet s— 5 an Polytelis swainsoni_——_—_. = === 1
GSuaker-parakeetes:) 05 25 tet) wer. Myionsttta snonach@ = een 7
Grass “pars keetn een ee oer 8 Melopsitiacus undulatus________ il
Red-faced lovebird_...______________ Agapornis pullaria ssp_________- a
Kosy-taced lovebird.—... Agapornis roseicollis___._.______ at
Black-headed caique, or seven-color
TOCELTET END) Fe asa ee Sa a ate ar A Pionites melanocephala_________ 2
Yellow-thighed caique______________ Pionites leicogaster=— 1
CUCULIFORMES
Musophagidae:
White-bellied go-away bird_________ Crinifer leucogaster______=_____ il
Plantain-eaters 22 oe OSU UCT itt OIL 8 ee eee 1
Cuculidae:
Ege eee eee ee ee ee . Hudynamys scolopacea__________ 1
eOsGrinmerse ets a2 ee ne ee — Geococcyn californianus________ 2
Coucal, or crow-pheasant___________ Centiropus Ssinensigees = eee 1
STRIGIFORMES
Tytonidae:
IBarntowitis2o 2-22. SAE Sawn! Eytovalhg see ee es eee al
Strigidae:
Nereccheowle 222245.) 9) ee ee Otusrasios 22 ee ee 3
Spectacled.owl- =... 222 96_ 2 ou Sen Pulsatrig perspicillaia_._..-——-—— il
Malay fishing owl. 2---=-- 9. Ketupatkevipua = eee il!
SONU OW) er Se aa eee INYCtCO;NY Clea == === es eee 4
LBS TWEERS O10 5,4 ee aa ee re SUD R UOT a ea aA ee Se 1
IB ULLOWINS OWI) sete eS ea) Speotyto cunicularia hypugaea__ 2
Nepal brown wood owl____-._______ Strix leptogrammica newarensis_ 1
CORACIIFORMES
Alcedinidae:
IKCO lh): a Doacelo gigas 16
Coraciidae:
hitae-hreasted roller===-=--- 2 === Corecias caudate --~-__ === 2
lieing) tS a eee Coracies benghalensis____.______ 2
Bucerotidae:
Concave-casqued hornbill___________ BALCCn Ose DicoT nis = eee na!
leo ly aver) 0) i) a ee eres Anthracoceros malabaricus______ al
Abyssinian ground hornbill_________ Bucorvus abyssinicus___________ 2,
Leadbeater’s ground hornbil)_______-_ Bucorvus leadbeateri________--- 1
Sereyehornbilt. teen ee Tockus tirostris. ee ae 1
Great black-casqued hornbill________ Certaogymna atrata________---- i
Crowned hornbill ss ee Tockus alboterminatus_________- al
Yellow-billed hornbill_..____._______ Tockus. flavirostrise. = = 1

*On deposit at another zoo or sanctuary.
126 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1963

PICIFORMES

Family and common name Scientific name Number
Capitonidae:
Asiatic great barbet-____--_-------- Megalaima vireng__-._--------- il
Toucan, barbet..22522-2--- = eee Semnornis ramphastinus___----- al
Ramphastidae:
Keel-billed toucan..._...--.-------~- Ramphastos culminatus_____---- 2
Sulphur-and-white-breasted toucan__ Ramphastos vitellinus__----~--- al
Razor-billed toucanet____._--__------- Pteroglossus casianotis_____--_- 2
PASSERIFORMES
Tyrannidae:
Kiskadee flycatcher__...--..----_-- Pitangus sulphuratus______----- 4
astern kinebird=.-2-— Tyrannus tyrannu3__--_-------- i
Alaudidae:
orned Mar kiero ee Eremophila alpestrig______----- 1
Corvidae:
Mappict 222 22028 sais 20 os SE eee Pica pica) 2 8o 22s eee Seer 1
Yellow-billed magpie____---_--__--- Pica nities il
Asiatic’ trees piessa aes aaa see we Orypsirina formosae_.___------- 1
Magpie lay 2 seea ssi 2 oes a ee oh Calocitta formosa________------ 1
MUTOPGCAN JAY 22 ees sae ee ee es Garrulus glandarius______------ 2
African white-necked crow__-------- Corvus alous\] es we See 2
Am ericaneCrow= sess ose ne) eee Corvus brachyrhynchos___------~ 1
NaVieNnS 2222 22h See eee Soo ee Corvus coraw principalis______-_- 2
Mn GTaANS CROW sete ee eee Corvus splendens___._._______---- 1
Formosan red-billed pie____-__----~-- Cissa caerulea== 2 ee 9
Occipitalebluempies-=- == -=25s2 52-2 Oissa occipitalis—_— 2 eee il
Hunting crowas-- ee Cissaichinensis= == at
TCT DY EAS aN es aid eal Xanthoura yncas_.________----- 1
Paridae:
Greattite 222 22 22 ee ee Partie majors. 20 2 2 ee ee 1
Timaliidae:
White-capped redstart______________ Chaimarrhornis leucocephalus___ 1
Red-eyed babbler._.._-----_--_-_-- Chrysomma sinense___..-_.---- 1
Selmitarsbabplers=ss) sos aa Pomatorhinus schisticeps______-_ i
White-crested laughing thrush______ Garrulaw bicolori sn 22 4
Black-headed sibia_._.___.___._______~~ Heterophasia capistrata__.______ 2
Silver-eared mesia_._._.__._________-- Mesia argentauris_______.____-__ 3
Peking opines eos sae ee Leiothrig luteus=_ ee 5
Pycnonotidae:
Red-eared bulbul___-________-_._-- Pycnonotus jocosws__________--_ 1
Black-headed bulbul_____________--_ Pycnonotus atriceps________-_-- 2
Red-vented) bulbule= ee Pyenonotus cafer. 22) 222s 4
White-cheeked bulbul__._-.+~-_+-+-- Pycnonotus leucogenys____----_~ 3
White-eared bulbul_____--_______-_- Pycnonotus leucotis_______.___-_- 1
Turdidae:
Robin. albino=——s= =e eee Sane Turdus migratorius_.___________ 1
European song thrush___._________- Turdus ericetorum=_—2 == ss 2
Blackbird. .— 2s ee as pa Turdus.Merulan- ee a ee 1
Clit) chat ==2 2. ee ee Thamnolaea cinnamomeiventris__ 1
Bombycillidae:
Wed arkwaxwang ee 2 os ae eee sen Bombycilla cedrorum____--..---~ al

ao
SECRETARY'S REPORT

127

Family and common name Scientific name Number
Sturnidae:
Rose-colored pastor__-.------------ Pastor -roseusssssus. 3 ASEAN eS 4 1
Porple: starlings Lamprocolius purpureus_.______ 3
Burchell’s long-tailed starling._----- Lamprotornis caudatus__________ 1
Amethyst starling= 22220 22 Sore Sess Oinnyricinclus leucogaster_______ 1
Tri-colored starling =o -—2=s=V Se LL Spreo superbues. Ul 2) 1
Jungle. mynah@ se ee eae eee Acridotheres tristigs.._..ctc....___ 1
ihesser, billymynahs= oss 22S Gracula religiosa indica________ 3
Greater Indian hill mynah___--___-- Gracula religiosa intermedia___. 2
Nectariniidae:
Waritbie sunbird= 22-22 eee eee Oinnyris venustus raceis___..____ 1
Scarlet-tufted malachite sunbird__-_ Nectarinia johnstoni____________ il
Beanrtitvl-sunbird = —- se Nectarinia pulchella____________ 1
Purple sunpirds =. os sen ene Nectarinia asiatica____________._ if
Zosteropidae:
Eee ye ee orem oh eT BD dee LO Zosterops palpebrosa____________ 2
Chloropseidae:
Blue-winged fruit-sucker___---._----~ Chloropsis hardwickei_________.. 2
Coerebidae:
Black-headed sugarbird_______------ Chlorophanes spiza___.__________ 2
Bananaquites- sso gs eae Lh Coereba flaveola______..-_._____ 1
Parulidae:
Kentucky warbler= 2-22) 228s s 2222 Oporornis formosus_____________ if
eG Star ee = ae nn Se ee Setophaga ruticilla........__-- a 1
OVENDirg eet eh ae eee ees 2 ae Seiurus aurocapillus________-____ 1
Ploceidae:
Red-naped widowbird____-----__----- Coliuspasser laticauda__________ 4
Gara. Gee ee A Diatropura procne______________ 1
IbaVAG WeAVel= ooo e onto as sees BlOCOUsmO GY O=Se 2 ese Fe ee 3
Vitelline masked weaver____-------~- Ploceus vitellinuss-- = 1
Redebishop weaver_2-o85 5222 ss Haplecles Otten ee. sue 1
iWhite-headed ‘nun! 2222. -=.-5—---.-— Lonchura maja.----..- 2220s 2
Indianksilverbill 2s 2 S008 ee up et Lonchura malabarica___________ 1
Bengalese= finches ss ee oe Lonchungispsss eee 3
Cut-throat weaver finch___________- Amadina fasciata_--.-__________ 1
Tavender finch. 2 Sw SoS Estrilda coerulescens___________ 1
Strawberry inchs — 22 ee Sees Hstrilda amandava_____________ 1
Common-waxbills2sn2u see Estrilda troglodytes____________ 1
YAEL Oye oi ah 1K) «RS dS PALI SAL ae 8 SA Bare ee Poephila castanotis____._________ 7
Gouldian=finch=s2s se _ ee eee Poephila gouldiae____-_-_______ 1
Icteridae:
Yellow-headed blackbird_______.__.._._ Xanthocephalus xanthocephalus_ 1
icerera cil ewe ass a2 eee Psomocolaz oryzivora___________ 2
Swainson’s grackle_________________ Holoquiscalus lugubris._______ __ i
GTOSsSy COW DIrd ss See ee ee Molothrus bonariensis___________ 2
Brown-headed cowbird______________ MOlOth Us Gher 2 ee 1
BaveCOW DIT 2. surely oneal MOLOERTUSIOR GUS See 1
Colombian red-eyed cowbird_________ Tangavius armenti__.__._________ 1
Red-winged blackbird______________ Agelaius phoeniceus____-_-___ ___ 2
Red-breasted marshbird_____________ Beistesmilitarnise. 2 eee 4
128 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1963

Family and common name Scientific name Number
Thraupidae:
Palme tan ae ere re ee Tanagrne palmarumns == = 1
Bliretanaeersse. =e See eee TT QUpts CONG = ee al
White-edged tanager._—--...--—~-=- TRrAUDIS) \WCUCODLCT = a = 1
Yellow-rumped tanager-------_----- Ramphocelus icteronotus___-----~ i
Passerini’s) tanacers ss) ee ee Ramphocelus passerinii___---_-- al
Maroon, or silver-beaked, tanager--_ Ramphocelus jacapa_-_--------- 2
Fringillidae:
"DropicalasccGennCh= = sae ss a a— a= Oryzoborus torridws______-_---- 2
ICGISTOS VGA kee ee eae en Oryzoborus crassirostris________- 1
Hveningerosheake= 2 ===- sss — = Hesperiphona vespertina___---~- 1
Black-throated cardinal_____----_--- POTOUNGULOT Sa ee eee 3
Gardinal 2. . tt tee Richmondena cardinalis________- 1
Huropean innet. 2.2 Acanthisicannaving222 222 ae 1
European goldfinch___________------ Carduelisycarduehs= == al
Greengiinehs =o. 222 ae fees ee CRLOTASMCHLOTLS =a ae eee 1
Messen yellows finches Sicalisuiiiteolg=2 == eee 1
Safiron finch == 22a... 8 ae Sicalismavco Ga 3
NWihiteslinedsinch===s2a2.. ss Spermophila lineola__________-- 4
Slate-colored junc022==— === JUNCOMNLYCTAUS a ee 1
iButt-throsted sal tators—=222- 2-2 == SGUCLOL NG Riniisea= =) aaa eee 1
Tawny-bellied seedeater_____-------- Sporophila minuta----—_ = 5
Songaspartow- =) 2-3 5seoe* Bho Sa aes Melospizasmclodig= aa oft
Diekcisselye =a a ae 2 he a ae SipiZQamerniCOnd= a = ee 3
White-crowned sparrow __---~-----~- Zonotrichia leucophrys.______-__ 2
Wellowhamimenrn 2222232 2e 2 eee Kim Ceri Za Cuninellg = se alt
Huropean bunting ess =e ees Em berizaicalondngs if
Jacarinighin che. 2a ss wees Sees ee Wolaciniqiacaniniz = ae 4
REPTILES
LORICATA
Alligatoridae:
(© Bifory arn ge se ed et tee Cannan sclerops= =e 4
Blacksica imams = 5 ee eee Melanosuchus, niger 7
Americansallizators sas es Alligator mississipiensis__.____—_ Leg)
Chinesevallicatons Sane sae Alligator sinensis_2__- = 2
Crocodilidae:
Broad-nosed crocodile______-____--. Osteolaemus tetraspis_____._____ Pa
ASETICAneCrOCOG1Le= = eee ee eae Crocodylus niloticus__..._______ 3
Narrow-nosed crocodile____________- Crocolylus cataphractus________ 1
Salt-water crocodile___.______...-.- Crocodylus porosus. 2 1
Americanicrocodiles]_ 2 eo -ees eles Crecodyins acnthiss = 1
Gavialidae:
Indiangeavial--ssseeee aoe eee Gavialis: gangeticuss2_ 222 1
CHELONIA
Chelydridae:
Sas y oparhaveg AUTH A eka a pn eee Chelydra serpentina______ === 13
Alligator snapping turtle__________- Macrochelys temminckii________- 1
Kinosternidae:
MUSK 2 bunt eta Sawer coe eee Sternotherus odoratus__________ 4
IAs Go CA WL Dao) ze a a Seen ee A dE at Kinosternon subrubrum_____----~ 5
SECRETARY’S REPORT 129

Family and common name Scientific name Number
Emydidae:
oxet unt Coe Se ae ee ee eee Terrapene: carolindziae=- === == 63
ihiree-toed) box, turtle. == Terrapene carolina triunguis__-- 2
WrnacewOx LUEte == =e ee Terrapene ornata ornata___----~- at
Mloridarbox turtle: =-—=—~ = ee Terrapene 0urizen ese 5
Mrraskura box tortles === ss =- Cyora amoomensis==—— == 2
Minmondback,) turtlessae2= = eee Malaclemys terrapin____-------- 6
MiamibUurtlel ses es Se eee Graptemys geographica______--- alt
MASSISSIppi map turtle!=——=—_— == s-— Graptemys kohni_.-----------_- 3
Barbours map turtle--—-- = Graptemys barbouri_______----- 4
eaimted tuntles—-= => 22 Chrysemys: picts 10
Western painted turtle______.___-__- Chrysemys picta belli_-__-_.----- 12
Southern painted turtle____-_--_---- Chrysemys dorsalis___---------- 1
Gamberland turtles. = Pseudemys troostii_______------ Us
South American red-lined turtle_____ Pseudemys scripta callirostris__- 2
Yellow-bellied turtle_.__-_-_-.----~- Pseudemys scripta scripta___-~- 18
Red-bellied! turtles: shen Pseudemus rebriventris_____---- 8
eed cared) tHPtle sa. S Pseudemys scripta elegans___--~ 33
SOuULheEn water turtles = — tee Pseudemys floridana__--------~-- 7
Florida red-beilied turtle_-____----- Pseudemys nelsoni____---------- 2
Central American turtle____..__-____ Pseudemys ornata____---------- 2
upamiwater turtles <5 .5- st. re Pseudemys decussata__._------- 1
ROC ERG OTE! ore ee Deirochelys reticularia_____---- 2
mpoticd, turtles 2 62h os ee Clemmys guttata_______-------- 2
GOSS) et) tg 3 ee Clemmys insculpta____--------- 5
iberman pond turtles. en ee Clemmys leprosa_..------------ 2
European water terrapin___________ Clemmys caspica rivulata__----- 13
fHuropean’ pond turtle.._..2---~.22s Himys Or viCularis== 2a 3
Blanding’s, or semi-box, turtle______ Emys blandingti_._-___-----=-=-- 3
PRECWONIA GUPTIO OS U8 eo ee oe suse Chinemys reevesii_____--------- 4
Testudinidae:
Duncan Tsland tortoise==—-2=]-—=-== Testudo ephippium_____-------- 2
Galapaeos! tOLLOise@s==—2==—==— see Testudo Vieinag 2s Se eee 2
Galapagos, tortoises 22 = 2 ee Testudo elephantopus_____------ 1
Giant Aldabra tortoise-.-----=-—---- Testudo elephantina____-------- 2
South American tortoise___-_------_- Testudo denticulata__.____-_--_ 5
hat LOLtOise. 2 ea eae eee Testudo: Clegans= =e 2
Mountain: torloise]— = eS Testud Cys aaa eee 2
Herniann:s) tortoises 2222s TEStudouRernMmannta- 22 ee al
Gopher tortoises 25. 22. e ea Gopherus polyphemus__----~---- 2
Texas gopher tortoise: =2==-—-=2= Gopherus berlandieri______----- 1
Pelomedusidae:
Miricaniwater Curtle= === = aaa as Pelusios sinuatus_______-_-=---- 2
African black mud turtle___-_------_ Pelusios subniger_____.-~------- 1
Amazon spotted turtle_____-_____--- Podocnemis unifilis___-__-------- 4
Chelydidae: .
Southern American side-necked
SULTS Lek ape ey Batrachemys nasuta_____------- 2;
Australian side-necked turtle________ Chelodina longicollis______.----- 3
Matameata turtles 25 2 222 = aes CGheys jmoore. 2
Small side-necked turtle_____------- Hydromedusa tectifera___-_----- 2
Large side-necked turtle__.___------- Phrynopé hilarttz.-=-=2=2.2+=... Us
130 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1963

Family and common name Scientific name Number

Chelydidae—Continued

Krefit’s turtle. - Emydura krefftti__.________.---- 3

Murray turtle2<---5s=205--52e2s% Envydura macquarrii____-----~-- 3

South American gibba turtle____-__~ Mesoclemmys gibba_------------ 2

Fiat-headed,turtle....-2.-2 2 Platemys platycephala___---.-_- 2
Trionychidae:

Southern soft-shelled turtle__.___-_- TY AOUUD TCR OU a sp a 4

Texas soft-shelled turtle____________ Triony@ emoryi____-_----------- 1

African soft-shelled turtle_________- Trionyg@ triunguis____---------- 2

SAURIA

Gekkonidae:

ROKAy = SECKO Bee ae Ae es Ce eee Gekiko* geckote ssi. Aw eae 21

Day SeCkoL sss heats Tae Re ee Phelsuma cepedianum——__-__--~- 2

Dayrzeckor sete a Se ee ‘Phelsuma spe ee 2
Iguanidae:

Commoneigtian gd ae ee eee Iguana iguana--—___.--.___----+ 2

Carolina*anoles 22s! ey sees Anolis carolinensis-—---.--_---_- 15

Texas*horned dizard.2 922-2 e es Phrynosoma cornutum______-_-- af

Crevice spiny-lizarde: = ee Sceloporus poinsetti___________- 2

Spiny-tailed izuands_ 2 eee Ctenosaura acanthura_______-_- 2
Agamidae:

Aramid wizard see eee Hoplurus savicola___________--- 1
Scincidae:

Mourning askin ks pee eens Egernia luctuosa_____----_----- 2

White's’ skink==s=. eens Aree Hoerniaahitet=-— 3

Greater five-lined skink_____________ Eumeces fasciatus____- SE a! 1

GreatyPlains| skinke ene Eumeces obsoletus__________--_- 2

Stumip=tanledsiskini ca see eee Tilique rugosa ee ee if

Malayantskink:-=2. Sy sneo ere Mabuya multifasciata_____- Ignis 2
Gerrhosauridae:

African plated lizard222 = see ZONOS CUS Spas ee 2

Madagascar plated lizard___________ Zonosaurus madagascariensis____ 2

Platedtizard=<ss22 4) ae So Gerrhosaurus major_____---~- Was i
Lacertidae:

Wuropean slizard2o2 set see Lacerta strigata trilineata_____- il

Huropean green lizard_____________ EOCEntG ITI dt aan oe 3

HUE OPER Ty ld Zain eens eee eine pee ds Lacerta erhardtit_________._--~- i

Huropean wall lizards 29 222s" Lacerta muraligo2 2-522 1
Teiidae:

Ameiva lizard. . 2 eke Mets eee) Ameiva ameiva praesignis______ 1

Nellow”’ tegue.2 Oe 28os oe a! Fae uss ee Tupinambis teguivin__________-- 2

Wihip-tailed lizards -se0nes lbw Cnemidophorus tigris_______---- 1

Petia Vi Zarda a ee a ey Cnemidophorus sp-------------- 1
Cordylidae:

South African spiny lizard__________ Cordylus vandami perkoensis___- 2
Varanidae:

Dy TST SOIT CONE eee ee Varanus dumerili_._______------ 2

Malayan) monitor) 282 irra Varanus salvator__--.-.-------- 1

Philippine-monitor22 2S Ase ed Varanus nuchalig_______-------- 2
Helodermatidae:

Mexican beaded lizard_____________ Heloderma horridum__--------- 3

Beaded lizard, black phase______.___ Heloderma horridum alvernensis— 1
SECRETARY’S REPORT {3

Family and common name Scientific name Number
Anguidae:
Glass lizard.i- =... 2eesee Sloss Ophisaurus ventralis______----_- 3
European glass lizard_-__-__-_-___---- Ophisaurus apodus____--------- 2
SERPENTES
Boidae:
AMA CONGR s==s. Se a Hunectes murinus____..____-_~— 1
@ookssptree oa. = = 2-2 =a eds Corallus enydris cooki__________ 4
nmerald tree boats =. 2a ee Coralius caoninis SS il
Sa mCOUSLTICLOR= == ee Constrictor constrictor_________ 4
Him Perors DORe = soe! Sale 2 se Constrictor imperator___________ 1
@uabanreround boas == ss Tropidophis melanura__________- 1
CIM OW: DORs. See ee a Hpicrates cenchria.——___________ 3
Gubanstree: bod... — 2 Epicrates angulifer_______.______ 3
NamdG nono ei ee EGY DACONA CHS a ree 3
leno) ee a ee BPUhon Teg s=2— ee 2
nNciane rock pythons = 222. Jee a See PYLON: MOTs Se ee 3
Pec ep MENON = 2.0 = 2 Wie ee Python reiiculatus——_ 4
PGMeAM DY CNON 222-2 ee Python 8€0@e@ a2 ee 1
Acrochordidae:
flephantatrunk snakes=-- =.=. Acrochordus javanicus__________ 1
Colubridae:
[Se STH (ee ae Lampropeltis getulus getulus____ 2
Speckled king snake______________- Lampropeltis getulus holbrooki__ 2
California king snake. —.-..-.-__.— Lampropeltis getulus californiae_ 1
Mlorida (kine snake:) = =. Lampropeltis getulus floridana__ 2
Soneran king snakes) 2s ae ae Lampropeltis getulus splendida__ al
SCR Tene) ee Lampropeltis triangulum dotiata_ il
WOU Citt) (a Lampropeltis triangulum_______ 1
iropieal kine snake 2-2-2222 Lampropeltis polyzonus_________ iL
CEPTE ETS ASCE ee Ee Se Thamnophis sirtalis sirtalis_____ 2
Garter snake, melanistic phase____- Thamnophis sirtalis___________— 4
RAD DOR SNA KEL 2 So ee Thamnophis sauritug__._________ al
Eastern hognosed snake____________ Heterodon platyrhinos__________ 1
Common water snake______________- INGOTS COON ae 2
Red-bellied water snake____________ Natriav erythrogaster____________ a
European grass snake______________ Natria natriv natriv__._________ 5
IBTAZOS water SHAKe= = 2-228 2 Nainio Larterts. 2-2 a 1
NVAICOTO SNA Kt soe 2 tls sees Shes 2S Natrin harteri paucimaculata___ 2
Diamondback water snake_________ Natriv rhombifera_____________ 4
PTTPENE SIA KOs sue ce ee Natriv septemvittata_._________ i
Brown water snake. 2 Natrig tawispilota_____________ at
Broad-banded water snake__________ Natrin: Conjiens 22 6
Blotched water snake______________ Natria transversa___.__- = 12
Yellow-bellied water snake_________ Natria flavigaster___.- 5
PISO MSNA K@ sso 2 eae oes sche te Drymarchon .couperi____________ 1
Western indigo snake________ i ae Drymarchon erebennus_____-__~ 1
Pilot black snake___._____...__.______. Hlaphe obsoleta obsoleta________ 2
Pilot black snake, albino_______- _._. Elaphe obsoleta obsoleta________ 1
ROOT MEST A KG ieee es _ Hlaphe obsoleta guttata_________ 1
Cormesnake, ‘albino... - = =, Elaphe obsoleta guttata_________ i
CH NamCNI CCG ea ene ie Sade! es Hlaphe oulpina — = 28 il
132 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1963

Family and common name Scientific name Number
Colubridae—Continued
Formosan striped rat snake_________ Hlaphe taenwwraoo 222 5
indheimer:s) snakesas2s- sesso seens Elaphe lindheimeri________-_-_- 2
Great=Plains rat snakese222222222=— LHF ONE. GLC uf
Chicken: snakes] 2-32 hee ee Elaphe quadrivittata__________- 1
Aesculapian: snake2=—22--2 5. =2 sees Elaphe longissimas=-—-- 4
Aesculapian -snake® 232222 = Elaphe longissima subgrisea___ 1
RainvoOwWA Snakes: See eo wee Abastor erythrogrammus_______ al
Formosan cat-eyed snake___________ Dinodon rufozonatum________-__ 4
Cat-evedesnaket2--. = —- see eee Leptodeira annulata____________ 1
IB Gkaara CCY= eens a eee Coluber constrictor constrictor___ i
HUunOpeaneracerees 2 — ssa s == eee Coluber jugularis caspius_______ 2
edGrrd Cerne nem ews te menen serene Masticophis flagellum frenatum__ 1
Hasternveoachwhip= 22.2. aa Masticophis flagellum__-_______ 1
Western coachwhipo = Masticophis flagellum testaceus_ 2
Ring-neckedimsnakes 222022 Ss ees. Diadophis punctatus edwardsii__ 1
Eastern worm snake_____-__.__-_-- Carphophis amoenus________-__ 1
DCIS DY AS SM AK Cte ere ore eer ee SCOnEniGmaek ayia ee 1
Greenswhip snakes oes ss. Dryophis prasinus___._._...._.__— al
Bull snake ace Sse ee ee IERUULODNSES Cj ee ee 2,
ionidaspinev snakes’. ee Pitniophis Mmugitusa. ee 1
Great Basin gopher snake__________ Pituophis catenifer deserticola__ 1
TEMES Hae W Es cs a a ee Simocephalus capensis__________ 1
MWiOlPISna Keun tao 8 2 oa ae eee Lycodon flavomaculatus________ al
@at-eyediesnakeso-- nee eee ees CUZ OOIPS ASR) ee 1
Green-headed tree snake___________- Leptophis mewicanus________-__ if!
IBrOnNZenINe SNAKCE 2 a ee ee Onyuelisvaenels=e eee 1
Elapidae:
Conalanakest 2. fo. oa eee eee MACTUTUSELENET Caer a ae il
Indianwcobras so. = 2. eae NGILO NGOs oe eee eee eee 1
CAN WAIN COLE ane ee INCH OU E HR ee 11
Kainosco brass eee ee eee Ophiophagus hannah________--_~ 2
Manv-band edaktaige. 22 seams Bungarus multicinctus_________- 4
Crotalidae:
Southern copperhead___________-__- Ancistrodon contortria contor-
UY nT a a ee eR rh Aap 5
Northern copperhead... Ancistrodon contortrir mokeson_ 2
Broad-banded copperhead_______--- Ancistrodon contortrix laticine-
tus 2 eee aft
Cottonmouth water moccasin_----~-- Ancistrodon piscivorus_________- 3
Western water moccasin__--------~-- Ancistroden leucostoma________- 9
Cantilteee seen see eae Ancistrodon bilineatus______---- 3
Hastern MmassAsaugca.-—-—-—- = Sistrurus catenaius catenatus___ 1
Pycimyaratvlesnakee= a= see == =a Sistrurus miliarius__—_____-___— 1
Green palmaviperse=-2—— == Trimeresurus gramineus_.__---- 1
Greenupalm viper. =)-—) Trimeresurus stejnegeri_________ af
Ma GH i ee ees ee ce ee ee eee TiTrAMenesuUnwselegansa==-- = 1
Eta pe eee ee ee Trimeresurus flavoviridis_____-- 2
Taiwansha buses a2 ke Trimeresurus okinavensis__-_--~ al
Western diamondback rattlesnake___ Crotalus atrog___-__-__--------- 8
Timbersattlesna kes == aaa eee Crotalus horniduss2 ee 4
Viperidae:
Puffiadderi. 2 ee eee Bitis arictanss eS eee al
SECRETARY’S REPORT

133

AMPHIBIANS
CAUDATA
Family and common name Scientific name Number
Cryptobranchidae:
Giant salamand eb) =2222 = =a Se Megalobatrachus japonicus____—- 2,
Amphiumidae:
Conzoree eas = S02 wee eee ANN DNIWMN@ Mean saa ee il
Ambystomatidae:
Spotted! salamanders —=- === =2-- = Ambystoma maculatum_____---- il
Salamandridae:
Japanese red-bellied newt__-__------ Diemictylus pyrrhogaster__-__-- 8
mea -spotted newt. ---—_--. == _= Diemictylus viridescens___----_- 14
iBroken-striped newt _=-==2220- 2 Diemictylus viridescens dorsalis_ 7
SALIENTIA
Bufonidae:
AUITORIGATIEL OD Oe eee ee ee Bufo terrestris americanus___-__ 1
MOWVIOMenLOd Gees es eee Bufo woodhousei fowleri________ 3
Blomberris tO] e= == e BS UETOMOUO TIVO CG be 2
Giantstoad so" 223 oan a eee BUOMMNGTUVUS aaa eae ee 6
WubaneloaG = se ene eee eee BS UfO Pellocepnaise. = = ae 6
Central American toad___-_-____--~-~ BUfOVtyphoniuss== === e ae 2,
Pelobatidae:
European spadefoot toad_____---_--- Pelobates fuscus_______-______-~ 8
Pipidae:
Spinnin: oC a a ee PUDGe Dip Can ao Sen = 12
Atrican clawed trog=) 222s XCNODUSTULED TS ae nen teen eens 3
Leptodactylidae:
Colombian horned frog_________-_--- Ceratophrys calcarata__________ 2
Hylidae:
Rad GiSseTroee— ee ee YL CLO an ae 1
Barking tree: frog. =. 20 UF OOR APOIO Se 1
Huropean tree frogs. 9 =. Se Soe DER UG EON OO) REG fa cs a oe il
Crayacreer trom. A 2 sts Sel ee Be LE ALOUCRStCOLO 1a a ee 2
Microhylidae:
Narrow-mouthed toad______________ Microhyla carolinensis__________ 2
Ranidae:
RIV CBE Of ees sree ea Rana heckscheri___________- creme 1
ASE CANED ULE LTO Sema ee RONG CASPCTS@2a = 2-5 oe ee 1
PATMerICAN EDU e tro 2 ee eee ee TONG CALESUCIANG =a ee 1
CCCRECTIBET OG = sa se Sere ee ht EC ONMOACLONTLATS eee i
eo pang Oe ye nn Oe es ee RONGesDUDLCNS= =. eee 25
FISHES
NEOCERATODONTOIDEI
Protopteridae:
M@rican: Jongfishis 2s. to fr eS Protopterus annectens__________ 2
Snake-headed fish. o-- 222 Polypterus palmas________-___- 1

720-018—64—__10
134 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1963

OSTARIOPHYSOIDEI
Family and common name Scientific name Number
Characidae:
rerntig soi" 2 — AO eer aie Serrasalmus niger______________ 1
Métynniss=22 43) Sipe eee Metynnis maculatus____________ 1
iBlackstetra a eee Gymnocorymbus ternetzi______- 1
Cyprinidae:
Zebra vdaniozas M2 sess eee Brachydanio: rerio----2222-- 3 = 4
Tioerpparpesa eee oe ee eee Barbus partipentazona_________ al
White cloud mountain fish__________ Tanichthys albonubes___________ 1
lectrophoridae:
Hlectrict eels la2 es Soe ee Hlectrophorus eltectricus________ 8
CYPRINODONTOIDEI
Poeciliidae:
Wlag-tailed) <uppye 2-8 eee Lebistes reticulatus____________ 10
GUD Dye eee eres Uo Rapic tes et Sts Lebistes reticultatus=___ 2 15
SF ACIS Ol Ceres ee ee ee Mollienesia latipinna__________~ 1
PIR yAOre OOM Ts tes eee eee Xiphophorus maculatus__.______ 5
PERCOMORPHOIDEI
Anabantidae:
Climbing. perch. 4 2 Anabas testudineus==— == 3
IKessine me cOuUraAmMiet seer eee Helistoma temmincki__________- 1
Centrarchidae:
Common bluegill=-=-=-- = eee Lepomis macrochirus________-_- il
Cichlidae:
iPencockscichliid== = ee Astronotus ocellatus__—____-____ 1
Egyptian mouthbreeder_____-------- Haplochromis muiticolor________ 1
African mouthbreeder_____-______--- Pelmatochromis belladorsalis___ 1
PAM Peli Sh as et ae ta eet Pterophylium eimekei_____------ 1!
Jacke Dempsey fish==222==22 =. Cichlasoma bdiocellatum_________ 3
Gobiidae:
Bumblebee fishes. 22222 = 2 we ee Brachygobius doriae_____-______ 1
Locariidae:
South American catfish___.__._____-- Plecostomus plecostomus______- 2
ARTHROPODS
DECAPODA
Cenobitidae:
Rand hermit crab. ees ae ee eee Coenobiia clypeatus____________ 23
ARANEIDA
Theridiidae:
Black-widow spider2——2)-22-—--— 2 Latrodectus mactans________-_- il
Aviculariidae:
RV eure ura ual ee ee HURUDCUNG Spies ee 3
ORTHOPTERA
Blattidae:
Tropical giant cockroach___-_-- —_-- Blabvberus gigantews 2 50
MOLLUSKS
PULMONATA
Planorbidae:
Pond sna ee oe ee Helisoma trivoWwis____________-_- 30
SECRETARY'S REPORT 135

REPORT OF THE VETERINARIAN

The National Zoological Park was without a veterinarian from
July 1, 1962, until May 6, 1963, when Dr. Clinton Gray was appointed.
During the interim, the director and the general curator, assisted by
Thomas Schneider as medical technologist, shared the responsibility
for the health of the animals. They were fortunate in having the
cooperation and assistance of men in various fields of clinical
investigation and medicine. Among these were: Dr. Leonard Marcus
and staff, of the Armed Forces Institute of Pathology; Dr. Clarence
Hartman and staff, of George Washington University; Dr. M. B.
Chitwood, Dr. A. McIntosh, and Dr. W. W. Becklund of the Beltsville
Parasitological Laboratory, Department of Agriculture; Dr. A. G.
Karlson, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minn.; Dr. F. R. Lucas, director
of the Livestock Sanitary Laboratory, Centreville, Md.; and Dr.
Anthony Morris of the National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Md.

In October, Tomoka, the baby gorilla, became ill with an intestinal
infection. Local pediatricians were called into consultation, but
when the animal did not respond to treatment he was taken to Chil-
dren’s Hospital and put in an animal research laboratory under the
care of Dr. Everett Lovrein, resident physician, and Dr. Robert FE.
Martin. Headkeeper Ralph Norris and senior keeper Bernard Gal-
Jagher stayed with the little ape 24 hours a day, and he made a speedy
recovery. Despite a serious prognosis—Shigellosis complicated by
dehydration and acidosis—Tomoka made a remarkable return to his
normal weight gain after this hospitalization.

Nikumba, the adult male gorilla, showed signs of having a cold
about the middle of June. Medication was given, and he appeared
to be recovering, when he was stricken with bilateral paralysis. As
of June 30, prognosis is impossible, but he is being treated by an
orthopedic surgeon, Dr. Henry Feffer, and a neurosurgeon, Dr. Hugo
V. Rizzoli, in consultation with Dr. Alf Nachemson, orthopedic sur-
geon of the University of Gothenburg, Sweden.

Specialists from George Washington University Medical School
tried to establish a suspected pregnancy in Ambika, one of the Indian
elephants, by means of electrocardiographic equipment. Electro-
cardiographs had been taken in the Portland (Oreg.) Zoo when their
elephants were pregnant. In the case of Ambika, however, no fetal
heartbeat could be detected, and she has now gone past the time for
giving birth since the last possible conception date.

The bharal or blue sheep (Pseudois nayaur) was inadvertently
omitted from the inventory printed in last year’s annual report. On
July 5, 1962, the last of the line, a female, died, and the post mortem
showed liver abscesses. The original pair of these beautiful animals
was brought to the Zoo in October 1937 by the National Geographic
136 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1963

Society-Smithsonian Institution Expedition to Netherlands East
Indies, having been secured from an animal dealer in Shanghai.
Seven young were born in the National Zoological Park between 1939
and 1945.

Following are the statistics for the mortality rates at the National
Zoological Park for the past fiscal year and a table of comparison
with the past 7 fiscal years:

Mortality, fiscal year 1963
Total mortality,
past 7 years

Cause Reptiles Birds | Mammals
No autopsy for sundry reasons !_______ 149 35 10 | 1957____549
Attrition (within 7-14 days after ar-

PAV AL) ee Seer A GI Ee A eR ae all 5) |) a aD)
iImpernalidiseases 4322 2 be ire yee ee 67 37 29 | 1959____472
Infectiousidiseasesi.22 225-32 5522 ie Pee | eee 5 4 | 1960__._532
IPATASILES sae eats = py bh ae nee Peat Di 2 1 SS Gi 7
eames ACCIGeN bs ae ee 5 96 21 | 1962___.584
Muth anagiae sa we OR k Rae ee SA a ee 2 Oo ae ae eres
Miscellaneous (stillborn, old age,

SHOCK) 02 oe! So Beers eae ie Aa 8 3 Teel eee ene psi Ls
Wirdeter mined seas ats eens eee 21 46 ZO te ee

RISC el eee ere ere eer toes ere ern Dil 247 i? | OG3ee22086

1 Reasons include preserving intact specimen for museum and research, progressed decomposition, insuf-
ficient remains in case of predators, ete.

VISITORS

Advanced planning for a National Zoological Park attendance sur-
vey began in August 1961 under the direction of Albert Mindlin,
statistician of the Management Office, District of Columbia. The
actual collection of data commenced on July 1, 1962, and was tabu-
lated for the following 12 months.

The primary purposes of the survey are to obtain objective estimates
of the total number of visitors during the fiscal year, the average num-
ber of visitors in the Park at any specific period during the year, and
the average length of time a visitor’s automobile remains within the
Zoo.

The procedure involved hand-punching IBM porto-punchcards by
specially trained and recruited employees on a statistically predeter-
mined basis at all entrances and exits of the Zoo. Sample interviews
of pedestrians and cars leaving at any gate were used as visitor deter-
mining factors.

The hand-punched-card data thus generated were mechanically con-
verted into computer-adapted punchcards and fed into an especially
SECRETARY'S REPORT 137

programmed IBM 1401 B computer of the Science Information Ex-
change of the Smithsonian Institution.

Although the entire project had not been completed at the end of
the year, projection of the data of the first 7 months forecasts a visitor
population in excess of 3,200,000 from July 1, 1962, to June 30, 1963.

Number of bus groups visiting the Zoo in fiscal year 1968

Locality Number of | Number in Locality Number of | Number in
groups groups groups groups
Alabamas 2-2... 41 D2 Seo SSO Ure eee 3 11713}
AIKaNS aS. 2 o 2. fe 5 liom |; Nebrasikear = s2e=—— 3 118
Golorados so 3 90 || New Hampshire_-- 7 257
Connecticut_______ 26 785 || New Jersey___.-_- 84 2, 851
Welaware ss. #8 78 2,197 || New Mexico__-_-_- 1] 279
District of Colum- News York==222-2- 318 9, 539
Digesese Sodan 2 409 15, 185 || North Carolina___-_ 223 10, 047
LD oye es aes Se 105 38 568th ODIO saa ee eo 26 847
POOR PINS 2 2 121 4 025. || Oklahoma=— 22-- == 2 55
MIN OIS= eee ee 2 15 501 || Pennsylvania______ 552 19, 689
frrdiangee 2 ee 4 186 |} Rhode Island____~- 1% 600
Nowase s2 26-25) 2)- 4 3 130 || South Carolina____ 60 2,195
Kansastoees) 2. 2 Fe 3 94 || South Dakota___-_- 1 38
Wentuekysee 2212! 23 765 || Tennessee_______- 148 4, 752
Wouisianay-25 22.2 2, HOP mexasens mae gate 22 124
Massachusetts_____ 11 AS Sy eV AG eA ae ee ee 1, 734 55, 429
Maine: = 52). oo. 8 334 || West Virginia___-- 153 4, 693
Maryland: 122 222 2, 260 64, 283 || Wisconsin._____-_- 2 115
Michigan! <2 = _ 22 8 424 |
Minnesota_____-__-_ 1 41 Rotalsa ss 6, 496 | 206, 444
Mississippi________ 4 128

About 2 p.m. each day the cars then parked in the Zoo are counted
and listed according to the State or country from which they come.
This is, of course, not a census of the cars coming to the Zoo but is
valuable in showing the percentage of attendance by States of people
in private automobiles. Many District of Columbia, Maryland, and
Virginia cars come to the Zoo to bring guests from other States. The
tabulation for fiscal year 1963 is as follows:

Percentage Percentage
lanvisande see sch a ee 31.4 Massachusetts 9252 20s 3-2 0.8
a Oe ee 21.5 Nouchs Carolinas. ae es 7
District of Columbia__________ 19/3 Ih Wiiiats: te Ste) eee 6
Pennsylvanian =. 4.4 Connecticut <2 22-22-22 ane .6
ING WAYOU Koa er ee 2.5 CAPO CMIAW = 2e = see ee eee .6
Worth’ Carolina_2- 2-22") 100 1.9 MennesseesVa_ Sek eset Le 5
COON Gy 22 RRS a By MS ed es 1.4 Michig ames 2s 28 sey eects 22 5
le AN CIG) Gs (25 a kad 1.4 Georgia’ 22. See 5
Ruestn Virginia ois. 1.3 ANS iit oe eases Sa ee ee .5
LTCOTENG TET, (es SI Ee EE er 1.0 BG OVO LES at; Ny eeere Rie CR eee ae .4
138 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1963

The remaining 8.2 percent came from other States, Canada, Canal
Zone, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Mexico, Newfoundland, Peru,
Puerto Rico, and Saipan.

On the days of even small attendance there are cars parked in the
Zoo from at least 15 States, the District of Columbia, and foreign
countries. On average days there are cars from approximately 22
States, the District of Columbia, and foreign countries; and during
the periods of greatest attendance the cars represent no less than 34
different States and countries.

PERSONNEL

Dr. Clinton W. Gray was appointed veterinarian on May 6, 1963.
Prior to his appointment at the Zoo, Dr. Gray was employed as vet-
erinarian by the Agency for International Development and spent
considerable time overseas.

Henry P. (Harry) Leech, who for more than 20 years had been
associated with his father, L. Gordon Leech, in the management of
the Zoo restaurant, died on June 26 at the age of 41. He was well
known to Zoo visitors, and particularly to the “Anteaters” who meet
in the fall to eat wild game at the restaurant. He will be greatly
missed by his many friends.

During the year eight employees retired. Pvt. Robert Ewell, ap-
pointed March 6, 1912, retired December 31, 1962. Most of his 50
years of service had been with the police force on night duty. Roy
Jennier, appointed October 18, 1929, was for many years in charge of
the reptile house. He was a member of the National Geographic-
Smithsonian Expedition to the East Indies in 1937. At the time of
his retirement, December 31, 1962, he was supervisory animal keeper
in the monkey house. James Derrow, who also retired on Decem-
ber 31, was maintenance general foreman and responsible for all
construction and repairs in the Zoo. He had been with the Park
more than 30 years since his appointment on July 6, 1931. Michael
Dubik, head supervisory gardener since July 31, 1956, retired May 24,
1963, because of ill health; Frank Mele, mason leader appointed July
94, 1947, retired August 18, 1962; Mirza Wilson, chief operating
engineer appointed June 19, 1950, retired April 27, 1963; Lizzie
McDaniel, custodial laborer since May 1, 1953, retired February 8,
1963; and Dave Rose, laborer, appointed March 2, 1949, retired April
30, 1963.

The director attended the annual meeting of the American Asso-
ciation of Zoological Parks and Aquariums in Kansas City, Mo., in
September and was voted president-elect for 1962-63. He also at-
tended the meeting of the International Union of Directors of Zo-
ological Gardens in San Diego, Calif., later that same month. On

SECRETARY'S REPORT 139

November 20 he attended the formal opening of the new zoo in
Phoenix, Ariz. On March 1, he traveled to Fort Worth, Tex., for the
board meeting of the American Association of Zoological Parks and
Aquariums. On March 31, accompanied by Richard Dimon, project
architect for the new construction at the National Zoological Park,
he left for a short study tour of European zoos.

J. Lear Grimmer, associate director, attended the meeting of the
American Association of Zoological Parks and Aquariums in Kansas
City, and Travis E. Fauntleroy, assistant to the director, attended the
midwinter conference of the same association at Fort Worth.

In 1963 there were 210 authorized positions, an increase of 5 posi-
tions over 1962: office of the director, 11; operations and maintenance
department, which includes the mechanical] division, police division,
grounds division, and services division, 122, an increase of 4 (1 me-
chanic, 1 hydraulic equipment operator, 1 tree maintenance worker,
and 1 laborer); animal department, 76, an increase of 1 (night
keeper) ; and the scientific research department, 1.

ANIMAL DEPARTMENT

In preparation for reconstruction work planned for the National
Zoological Park, several existing areas were made suitable to house
evacuated animals. The entire stock of the birdhouse was moved to
various outdoor enclosures and to the old antelope house, which had
been closed to the public for several years. Converting the antelope
house into a temporary birdhouse required the construction of one
large flight cage and the rewiring of some of the old antelope stalls.

A number of animals that were heretofore housed singly were care-
fully introduced to one another, and by keeping several together in one
cage, additional space was made available.

To utilize space further, the anima] department continued the pro-
gram begun last year of wintering tropical animals outdoors. A
“flight cage” which had originally been built for indoor use by gibbons
was rebuilt on the northeast side of the lion house. It was equipped
with cinderblock and concrete shelters with one heat lamp and soil-
cable floor heat in each shelter. A group of four young animals and
a fully adult breeding pair were moved into this outdoor enclosure in
August in order to give them sufficient time to become accustomed to
the gradual drop of temperatures in autumn. The female of the
adult pair gave birth to a baby in December, which she carefully
nursed, bringing it outdoors for at least 2 hours a day except during
bad weather.

Theoretically much less suited to withstand severe winter tem-
peratures outdoors was a pair of South American tapirs, transferred
to the so-called beaver pond late in summer. A shelter with tinfoil
140 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1963

insulation between two layers of boards was constructed, but no arti-
ficial heat was installed. With the onset of cold weather, deep straw
bedding was provided. Both tapirs were put on a diet of approxi-
mately eight fish a day in addition to their normal ration of fresh
vegetables and A-1 ration. Despite the fact that the pond froze
over completely for the better part of 4 months, both animals sur-
vived without any damage to the skin or feet. Neither animal ap-
peared to object to the snow on the ground, and their customary
summertime motion pattern was clearly indicated by footprints in
the snow.

Patagonian cavies, another unusual species, were also successfully
wintered. Although these animals were provided with a noninsu-
lated but well-built shelter, they preferred to make their own excava-
tions in frozen ground and seek shelter below the house provided.
Six young have been born in this enclosure since February.

A number of tropical birds, primarily psittacines, wintered out-
doors, provided only with minimal heated-perch shelters with infra-
red lamps.

Two female lion cubs born at the Zoo in March 1962 spent most of
the winter in a large, exposed, open-air cage with no protection other
than a continuously open indoor shelter which was rarely, if ever,
used during the daytime.

The total number of accessions for the year was 986. This includes
gifts, purchases, exchanges, deposits, births, and hatchings.

POLICE DIVISION

The most important activity of the police division was the creation
of a law enforcement school. Appointed as training officer, Lt. D. B.
Bell formulated plans for a comprehensive training program. Its
value was readily recognized and received official approval for its
implementation from the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.
The course encompassed ten 8-hour days of sessions, at the conclusion
of which an examination was given to participants. It was a highly
successful venture, and it is now a basic requirement of the National
Zoological Park police that all new officers must take and pass the
course.

Three members of the division, Lieutenant Wolfe, Sergeant Grubbs,
and Private Porter, were qualified as pistol instructors for the police
force by special agent William Little, of the Security Branch,
State Department, in September 1962. Fourteen visitors sent in
written commendations on the courtesy, kindness, and consideration
extended to the general public by the police. Through the efforts of
Lt. J. R. Wolfe, 24 certificates were awarded by the American Red
SECRETARY'S REPORT 141

Cross to employees of the National Zoological Park who have donated
a gallon or more of blood to the blood-donor program.

Six walkie-talkie sets were acquired to facilitate direct communica-
tion between headquarters and the officers on outside duty in the
Park. ‘Two sets have been assigned to the animal department and
have proved very useful.

The police, under the supervision of Private Adams, assisted Albert
Mindlin of the Management Office of the District of Columbia in
making the visitors’ survey, as noted elsewhere in this report.

In January 1963 the Federal Bureau of Investigation requested
from the division a monthly report on the number of arrests and
complaints, to be used by the FBI in its compilation of data on the
total crimes committed in the United States.

A total of 92 truant children were picked up in the Park, and
appropriate action was taken by the division. The police found 311
lost children and returned them to their parents or chaperones. Eight-
een pairs of eyeglasses and sunglasses, found and unclaimed, were
sent to the Society for the Prevention of Blindness, and nine bags
of clothing and miscellaneous articles, found and unclaimed, were
turned over to Goodwill Industries. During the year 9,776 visitors
stopped at the police station requesting various types of information.
The first-aid station, at police headquarters, treated 69 severe cases
and 705 minor cases.

The American Red Cross Blood Bank received 67 pints of blood
from Zoo employees during the year. Total donations are now well
over 700 pints.

MAINTENANCE, CONSTRUCTION, AND GROUNDS

The mechanical division has the responsibility for the maintenance
and repair of the buildings and facilities of the National Zoological
Park. This responsibility is met by the heating and ventilating sec-
tion, and by the building section which, in addition to continuing
maintenance, constructed numerous new shelters, paddocks, and cages
for the animals exhibited.

The renovations of the puma house and the main bear line were
completed. The interior dens at the puma house are now completely
rebuilt. Five partition walls at the bear line were rebuilt, using the
gunnite or sprayed concrete which proved so satisfactory during the
previous year.

A new exhibit for gibbons was constructed in the area adjacent to the
lion house. The cage, 12 by 40 feet, provides two separate enclosures,
each large enough to allow space for the gymnastics of these animal
aerialists.
142 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1963

Results of the maintenance program are most apparent in the reptile
building. The new paint in the visitor area and the rebuilding and
decorating of the cages, along with the contract work done as a safety
measure, have resulted in an orderly, well-kept building. Among the
improvements not readily apparent are the new electric panels which
provide uninterrupted service for the electric lighting as well as power
for the refrigeration and other commissary activities in the reptile-
house basement.

The sign program, now well underway, required the coordination of
the carpenter shop, paintshop, and metal shop to frame, paint, and
erect the attractive and informative signs on the various exhibits
throughout the Zoo.

The remodeling of the birdhouse and the construction of the new
east-west access road put an additional burden on the mechanical
division, as temporary shelters and enclosures had to be improvised for
the birds and animals dislocated by the new construction. A flight
cage was built in the old antelope house to provide a temporary home
for birds evacuated from the birdhouse. A shelter and enclosure
were provided for the dorcas gazelles, relocated because of the new
road. In addition, a new yard with heavy fencing was prepared for
the Cape buffalo.

The deep excavation required to maintain a suitable gradient for the
new perimeter road unearthed a myriad of sewers and waterlines
which had to be traced and relocated, thus adding to the already heavy
workload of the plumbing crew.

Many of the improvements made during the year were in the in-
terests of safety. In cooperation with the District of Columbia De-
partment of Buildings and Grounds, practically all the glass cage
fronts at the reptile house were replaced, as were also several large
panes of glass separating the visitors from the animals in the small-
mammal house.

The eagle cage, which is to remain in the remodeled birdhouse area,
was painted under a contract with a local rigging company.

The walkway from the fox line through the hollow up to the owl
and silver-gull cages was resurfaced, and road repairs were made.

The grounds department moved many plants from the birdhouse
area to the center of the Zoo, sodded several areas where there previ-
ously had been no grass, and enhanced the appearance of the Park by
the addition of fiower beds around the buildings. A number of plants
and shrubs were purchased, and donations of flowers and plants were
received from the District of Columbia Waterworks, the Botanical
Garden, Navy Hospital, Naval Ordnance, and the management of the
annual flower show.

SECRETARY'S REPORT 143

The building occupied by the grounds department was renovated to
clear walkways and to store tools and equipment so as to eliminate
trip hazards. Steel helmets, new ropes, and climbing equipment were
placed in service, and an additional treeman was hired. Low limbs
over bridle paths were cut, and dead limbs removed from 140 trees
over walks and along the main road. Forty trees in bad condition
were cut and removed. Large holes in lawns were filled in.

INFORMATION AND EDUCATION

After the planning, equipping, and staffing of a sign laboratory in
the basement of the elephant house, which was completed October 12,
1962, the department’s activities for the year were mainly concerned
with the writing, designing, producing, and mounting of new modern
animal identification labels for the Zoo. Durable outdoor labels are
printed photographically on sensitized anodized aluminum. Other
techniques of exhibits production successfully employed are silk-
screen prints and film transparencies for indoor labeling.

To date, five units of the Zoo have been completely relabeled—the
puma house, main bear line, short bear line, ring cages, and the ele-
phant house. The reptile house is being labeled. A total of 397 animal
identification labels and other supporting Zoo signs (such as large
maps of the Zoo, explanation of the new construction, building and
safety signs) were produced and mounted in the period from Octo-
ber 12, 1962, to June 30, 1963.

Additional department activities during the year included artwork,
charts, graphs, mapwork, a number of special projects, dissemination
of animal information by telephone and correspondence, library main-
tenance, and 18 special guided tours for groups of handicapped
children, visiting schools, and foreign guests.

On July 10, 1962, a group of 2,300 foreign exchange students visited
the Zoo; on May 12, 1963, 9,248 School Safety Patrol children, trans-
ported in 266 buses, came to the Zoo following their annual parade on
Constitution Avenue. A group of the animal keepers, on their day off,
entertained the underprivileged children from D.C. Junior Village,
taking them on a tour of the Zoo and giving them lunch in the cafeteria.
On May 24, 250 “Friends of the National Zoo” were given a guided
night tour of the Park.

The director gave two radio talks and three talks to local organiza-
tions. He appeared on television, once in Sarasota, Fla., in connection
with the proposed establishment of a zoo, and once on WTOP (Wash-
ington) with Dr. W. T. Roth, general curator. The associate director,
J. Lear Grimmer, addressed the University Club, Wilmington, Del.,
in connection with the development of a zoo in that city.
144 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1963

The September 1962 issue of Parks and Recreation carried an article
by Charles Thomas, senior keeper, on wintering tropical birds and
animals outdoors. J. Lear Grimmer’s account of his work with the
hoatzin in British Guiana appeared in the September issue of National
Geographic Magazine.

SAFETY SUBCOMMITTEE

The National Zoological Park safety subcommittee, consisting of
Lt. John R. Wolfe, chairman; Capt. C. E. Brink, police division;
FF. M. Dellar, administration office; Bert J. Barker, animal depart-
ment; Reily Straw, maintenance and construction; D. E. Schwartz-
beck, grounds department; and Mrs. W. M. Holden, secretary, held
monthly meetings to suggest, discuss, and make recommendations to
the director on safety improvements.

A self-survival course, given by the American Medical Association
and sponsored by the American Red Cross, was attended by Sergeants
Canter and Grubbs. Sergeants Canter and Kadlubowski attended a
trafic workshop, sponsored by the National Safety Council. Shotguns
were installed in locked gun cabinets with glass fronts, located in prin-
cipal buildings, and seven keepers were given instructions in the proper
handling of these guns in case of emergency.

Steps of some buildings were painted with black and yellow stripes
as a caution to the public. All buildings have been checked for fire
hazards and have exit lights installed at main exits.

Members of the subcommittee periodically inspect all buildings,
grounds, and equipment in the Park and remove or correct all minor
hazards affecting visitor or employee safety.

COOPERATION

At all times special efforts are made to maintain friendly contacts
with other Federal and State agencies, private concerns and individ-
uals, and scientific workers for mutual assistance. As a result, the
Zoo receives much help and advice and many valuable animals, and in
turn it furnishes information and, whenever possible, animals it does
not need.

Through the cooperation of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, and
Charles A. Milton, chief game warden, Maryland Game and Inland
Fish Commission, a number of waterfowl were obtained for the Zoo.
Division headkeeper W. Widman and keepers Bruce Williams and
Robert Williams were permitted to trap a number of wild ducks and
geese on Chesapeake Bay.

Special acknowledgment is due William Taback and John Pulaski,
in the office of the Dispatch Agent in New York City, and Stephen E.
Lato, Dispatch Agent in San Francisco, who are frequently called

SECRETARY'S REPORT 145

upon to clear shipments of animals coming from abroad, often at
great personal inconvenience—late at night, or on a weekend.

When it is necessary to quarantine animals coming into this country,
they are taken to the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s station im
Clifton, N.J. During the past year, Dr. H. A. Waters and Andy
Goodel, two of the officials stationed there, have been most cooperative
in keeping the National Zoological Park informed as to the well-
being of animals and birds being held there for quarantine.

Animals that die in the Zoo are offered to the U.S. National Mu-
seum. If the Museum does not need them, either as study specimens
or as exhibits, they are sent on request to research workers in other
institutions. Specialists at the Museum are always willing to be of
help in identifying rare specimens that are acquired by the Zoo.

The National Zoological Park cooperated with the National Capital
Parks and lent small animals to Park naturalists and to the Nature
Center in Rock Creek Park for demonstrations.

FINANCES

Funds for the operation of the National Zoological Park are appro-
priated annually under the District of Columbia Appropriation Act.
The operation and maintenance appropriation for the fiscal year 1963
totaled $1,470,200, which was $119,400 more than for the previous
year. The increase consisted of $48,300 to cover salary increases for
wage-board employees; $23,700 for within-grade salary advancements
for both general-schedule and wage-board employees; $18,000 to cover
costs of reallocations; $17,820 to establish five new positions for 75
percent of the year; $7,080 for the purchase of supplies and materials;
and $4,500 for the purchase of new equipment.

Of the total appropriation, 84.7 percent ($1,245,809) was used for
salaries and related personnel costs, and 15.3 percent ($224,391) for
the maintenance and operation of the Zoo. Included in the latter
figure were $74,000 for animal food; $19,000 for fuel for heating;
$26,680 for materials for building construction and repairs; $12,826
for electricity ; $18,725 for the purchase of animals; $6,255 for tele-
phone, postal, and telegraph services; and $7,460 for veterinarian
equipment and supplies. The balance of $64,445 in operational funds
was expended for other items, including freight, sundry supplies, uni-
forms, gasoline, road repairs, equipment replacement, and new equip-
ment. ‘

CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS

Money appropriated this year for new construction totaled
$1,227,000.

During the first part of the fiscal year the preparation of detailed
plans for the first phase of the capital improvement program was con-
146 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1963

tinued. These plans were submitted in final form in November. Two
separate bids were advertised and awarded.

The Edrow Engineering Co. was awarded the contract for the
renovation and modernization of the birdhouse and the construction
of a new walk-through flight cage. Work started on April 29, 1963.
As noted elsewhere, the birds had been evacuated prior to this date.
It is anticipated that the work will be completed in April 1964.

The Cherry Hill Sand & Gravel Co. was awarded the contract for
the relocation of the east-west access road. Work started on March
27,1963. The excavation and grading are now well underway, and it
is anticipated that the road will be ready for use in early fall.

National Capital Parks, Department of the Interior, is relocating
Beech Drive, as mentioned in last year’s report. This is being done
for the National Park Service by the Bureau of Public Roads. After
tunneling through more than 780 feet of solid rock under ““Adminis-
tration Hill,” the top half of the tunnel was completed May 24, 1963.

Plans for the second phase of the capital improvement program,
which will consist of enclosures for the hardy hoofed stock on the
present site of the buffalo and zebra pens a new entrance on Connecti-
cut Avenue, and deer paddocks on the hill behind the birdhouse, are
being drawn up by the architectural firm of Daniel, Mann, Johnson &
Mendenhall. Plans are also being made for the redevelopment of the
office area.

All redevelopment work is being done under the direction of the
District of Columbia Department of Buildingsand Grounds. Special
acknowledgment is due the director of that department and his able
staff.

Respectfully submitted.

Turopore H. Reep, Director.
Dr. Letonarp CARMICHAEL,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
Report on the Astrophysical Observatory

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the op-
erations of the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory for the fiscal
year ended June 30, 1963:

The Astrophysical Observatory includes two divisions: the division
of astrophysical research in Cambridge, Mass., for the study of solar
and other types of energy impinging on the earth; and the division
of radiation and organisms in Washington, for the investigation of
radiation as it relates directly or indirectly to biological problems.
Shops are maintained in Washington for work in metals, woods, and
optical electronics, and to prepare special equipment for both di-
visions; and a shop conducted in cooperation with the Harvard College
Observatory in Cambridge provides high-precision mechanical work.
Twelve satellite-tracking stations are in operation, in Florida, Hawaii,
and New Mexico in the United States and abroad in Argentina,
Australia, Curacao, India, Iran, Japan, Peru, South Africa, and
Spain.

DIVISION OF ASTROPHYSICAL RESEARCH

Research at the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory continues
to yield new knowledge and increased understanding of a broad range
of astrophysical phenomena.*

Concerning members of the solar system—planets, satellites, mete-
oroids, comets, etc.—the scientific staff have pursued many investiga-
tions. The effects of solar phenomena on these other members of the
system received particular attention, befitting the rapidly increasing
scientific interest in these topics and the increasing national interest
in space.

The sun itself deserves ever more intensive observation and analysis.
Observatory scientists have applied their talents to these studies. In-
struments carried on Orbiting Solar Observatories have become a
major source of solar data.

Beyond the solar system, the stars, galaxies, nebulae, and inter-
stellar matter present numerous research problems, many of which
members of the Observatory staff have studied. Instrumentation now

* Unless otherwise noted, research is supported from Federal funds appropriated to the
Smithsonian Institution. The Observatory, by support of the scientists, shares in the
support of all research. Support from outside sources is noted numerically where appro-
priate and detailed in footnotes 1-20 on p. 164.

147
148  § ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1963

being prepared for the Orbiting Astronomical Observatories is ex-
pected to yield new data not obtainable from ground observatories.
The use of electronic computers of great capacity and capability has
allowed consideration of detailed aspects of stellar theories.

A strong feature of the broad scope of the Observatory’s scientific
program is the ease with which a scientist investigating some particu-
lar topic may draw on information and techniques generated by others
pursuing different topics. Particularly gratifying were several cases
in which instrumentation developed for a specific project was adapted
to a quite different application. The many instances of cross-fertiliza-
tion of scientific disciplines occurring within the Observatory’s activ-
ities make subdivision of its program difficult. This, however, is a
small price to pay for the program’s increased scientific value.

Planetary sciences.—With the advent of intensive national and inter-
national space programs, interest in the planets has increased remark-
ably in both scientific and lay circles. Scientists, including those at
the Observatory, have been attracted by the research opportunities
offered by scientific spacecraft.

Studies of the earth were the first to benefit from artificial satellites
as a research tool. Scientists at SAO have been leaders in the utiliza-
tion of satellite data for many such investigations.

Three major areas of investigation are based on the precise satellite-
tracking data obtained by the network of Baker-Nunn cameras.1 The
first is the determination of the density of the earth’s atmosphere
as a function of position and time. These dependencies, in turn,
are used in detailed analyses of atmospheric phenomena and their
correlations with other geophysical and solar phenomena. The second
important area of investigation is directed initially toward the detailed
specification of the earth’s gravitational potential. This specifica-
tion of the geopotential is of basic importance in studies of the interior
of the earth. The third area is the determination of accurate geo-
metrical positions of the Baker-Nunn stations relative to one another.
Knowledge of these positions contributes strongly to an improved
geometrical figure of the earth.

Although these three areas of investigation have quite different
scientific objectives, they are nevertheless intimately related. Each
depends on identification and isolation of factors that influence the
accuracy with which a theoretical orbit may be made to fit the obser-
vational data. Basically, the analytical process consists of finding
the values of such parameters as atmospheric density, geopotential
coefficients, and station coordinates, which optimize the agreement
between theoretical and observed satellite positions. The effects of
these factors are interrelated in such a way that scientific progress

See footnotes on p. 164.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 149

in each of the three areas is best advanced by an iterative process
in which refinements of the parameters are accomplished simultane-
ously or cyclically for a number of satellites. This diverse program
is under the broad guidance of Dr. Fred L. Whipple, director of the
Observatory.

From 5 years of investigation since the first artificial satellite, we
now know much about the high atmosphere. The past year saw
Dr. Luigi G. Jacchia’s timely preparation of a survey, “Variations
in the Earth’s Upper Atmosphere as Revealed by Satellite Drag,” for
the Reviews of Modern Physics. 'The comprehensive content of this
review stands witness to the sensitivity and refinement of the tech-
niques developed and employed at SAO.

Analyses by Dr, Jacchia and Jack W. Slowey have established that—

(1) Both electromagnetic (extreme ultraviolet) and corpuscular radiation
from the sun contribute to the heating of the upper atmosphere.

(2) Most of the energy carried by these two forms of radiation is absorbed
at heights lower than 200 km; the atmosphere above this level is heated by
conduction from below.

(3) The greater heating in the sunlit hemisphere gives rise to a permanent
atmospheric “bulge,” at the center of which the temperature is 40 percent
higher than it is at the opposite point in the dark hemisphere. Because of
the earth’s rotation, this bulge travels around the globe at a latitude equal to
that of the subsolar point; its longitude is the one for which the local time
is 2 p.m.

(4) The temperature of the upper atmosphere can be correlated with the
decimetric (radio) solar flux, which exhibits variations with characteristic
cycles of 27 days (caused by the rotation of the sun) and of 11 years (caused
by the sunspot cycle). The temperature can be computed and instantaneous
density profiles derived from atmospheric models when the decimetrie solar
flux is known.

(5) The atmosphere of the earth is heated and expanded during magnetic
storms by a factor directly related to the geomagnetic planetary index ap:

(6) The semiannual effect in upper atmospheric densities is real. This shows
that the solar wind contributes substantially to atmospheric heating, even during
quiet periods.

During the past year larger quantities of precisely reduced tracking
data, particularly for satellites of quite different inclinations, have
become available from the Baker-Nunn system. Imre Izsak, Dr. Yo-
shihide Kozai, and their associates have used these enlarged data in
new determinations of the coefficients in an expansion of the gravi-
tational field of the earth in spherical harmonics.*

Mr. Izsak has given particular attention to determination of ccef-
ficients of higher-order tesseral and sectorial harmonics. The per-
turbation theory of these effects being well developed, the problem
actually consists of the construction of extensive computer programs
that would analyze the large number of observations available. Sev-

See footnotes on p. 164.
720—-018—64——_11
150 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1963

eral solutions have been obtained for the representation of the field
of gravity. These solutions are in reasonable agreement with results
obtained from the analysis of surface gravity data.

Other analyses of the geopotential are continuing. In Japan Dr.
Kozai is at present seeking to establish whether the coefficients in the
expansion of the earth’s potential have seasonal variations.

Using the representation of the geoid derived by Izsak, Kozai, and
their colleagues, Chi-Yuen Wang has found a strong correlation
between the distribution of heat flow and the undulations of the
geoid.1 It is reasonable to say at this time that the ups and downs
of the geoid may indicate cold and hot regions under the crust.

Two approaches to the determination of more accurate station coor-
dinates are being pursued at the Observatory. One of these recog-
nizes that the deviations between values observed from a station
and values predicted from theoretical calculations depend on errors in
the presumed station coordinates. Those coordinates that produce
minimum deviations are adopted as improved coordinates. Mr. Izsak
and Dr. George Veis are now effecting this procedure simultaneously
with improvements in the geopotential coeflicients.*

The second approach is purely geometrical. If two stations simul-
taneously observe a satellite, it is possible to calculate the direction
cosines of the line joining the stations. During the past year a deter-
mined effort by the Baker-Nunn stations produced a number of simul-
taneous observations. Some of these were photographs of the light
flashes from the ANNA geodetic satellite. Although we do not yet
have so many simultaneous observations as we would desire, analy-
sis by Dr. Veis, Jan Rolff, and Antanas Girnius have given reasonable
values in satisfactory agreement with those of the other approach.

For computation of datum shifts of large (continental) geodetic
systems,' Dr. Walter Kéhnlein has developed special ellipsoidal trans-
formations. ‘These transformations are required to adjust the large
system so that their relative configurations are in accord with the
determined station locations.

For full exploitation of these geodetic capabilities, a more extensive
network than the 12 Baker-Nunn stations is desirable. An inexpen-
sive satellite-tracking camera able to photograph many of the brighter
satellites has been designed and fabricated under the direction of
Dr. Veis and Robert W. Martin. This prototype camera is in experi-
mental operation in Athens, Greece.

Not only the orbit of an artificial satellite but also its motion about
its center of mass is affected by its environment. A theory developed
by Dr. Giuseppe Colombo has been confirmed with the observation

See footnotes on p. 164.
SECRETARY'S REPORT 151

of the changing in orientation of the spin axis of several satellites.
The variation of the angular velocity of the satellites has been success-
fully correlated with the variation of the component of the magnetic
field normal to the spin axis.

Dr. Richard H. Giese used optical observations (Baker-Nunn and
Moonwatch) to develop methods of attitude determination for cylin-
drical satellites with specular reflection. For diffuse reflecting cylin-
ders the formula for intensity as a function of arbitrary angles of
illumination and observation was derived and applied to numerical
computations for a tumbling cylinder.

Phenomena in the earth’s high atmosphere are being investigated
with several tools. As we have seen above, the atmospheric drag on
satellites has provided a sensitive measurement of density variations
above about 180 km. This altitude might be lowered if satellites of
very high density were launched. Dr. Charles Lundquist is examin-
ing the value of launching an ensemble of spherical satellites, some
with high densities, as a noninterference experiment on a development
flight of a large rocket vehicle.

At altitudes between 80 and 100 km, the Doppler shifts in radar
returns from meteor trails may be used to measure the velocity and
direction of winds in the lower ionosphere. A project to make such
measurements and to study wind relationships? to other ionospheric
phenomena has been initiated by Dr. Mario Grossi in conjunction
with the Harvard-SAO Radio Meteor Project.’

Laboratory studies of atomic collision processes* are being com-
bined with a study of relevant problems in atmospheric physics in
the work of Dr. Nathaniel P. Carleton and his associates, Dr. Charles
H. Dugan, C. Papaliolios, and Miss Marion L. Shaw. The greatest
effort has been applied to investigation of excitation of metastable
states in O., N2, and O by electron impact, and of the subsequent
reactions of these metastable states with other gases, including exci-
tation transfer and actual chemical reaction. Dr. Carleton, in collabo-
ration with L. R. Megill of the National Bureau of Standards
Boulder Laboratories, has used recent data on electron collisions to
study the problem of electron heating by electric fields in the iono-
sphere. The group is investigating, in particular, which features of
the airglow and aurora may be caused by electron-impact excitation
by the heated electrons. They conclude that the red lines of atomic
oxygen, 6300-6364 A, are almost certainly excited by this means in
low-latitude auroral forms, but that no other emission in the airglow
or aurora is so excited.

The atmospheres and surfaces of other planets are being studied.
Dr. Carl Sagan has made theoretical studies of the expected limb-

See footnotes on p. 164.
152 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1963

darkening in planetary atmospheres, both at infrared and at micro-
wave wavelengths, with particular reference to the atmosphere of
Venus. Preliminary results predict only a moderate microwave limb-
darkening from expected absorbers in the lower Cytherean atmos-
phere. The model of the Jovian red spot, which assumes it to be a
floating object, was examined and shown to be unlikely.

Dr. Sagan was a coexperimenter on the infrared radiometer of the
U.S. spacecraft Mariner IJ, The experimental results indicated dis-
tinct limb-darkening in the 10-micron region and no clear breaks in
the Cytherean cloud layer. Dr. Sagan is also an experimenter for an
infrared spectrometer designed for a forthcoming Mars fly-by mission.

Study of the rings of Saturn continues. Dr. Allan F. Cook and
Dr. Fred Franklin are undertaking a more accurate scattering theory
for the sunlight illuminating the rings and a more accurate solution
of the Boltzmann equation for the ring particles.5

A theoretical investigation of the formation of absorption bands in
a multiple scattering atmosphere was conducted by Dr. William M.
Irvine. His investigation of strongly asymmetric multiple scatter-
ing is continuing, with emphasis on the variation in limb-darkening
as a function of asymmetry factor and optical depth.

The existing theories of motion of the major planets are not satis-
factory from the modern point of view, especially not for the require-
ments of space travel. Their improvement, however, is hardly
conceivable without progress in computer technology. Mr. Izsak is
therefore considering the possibility of using digital computers for
the construction of analytical perturbation theories. As a first step,
a very efficient program has been developed for the computation of
Laplace coefficients and their derivatives. With cooperation from an
MIT team, a program has been written for the construction of symbolic
expressions, called the Newcomb operators. At present, a generaliza-
tion of these results is being investigated, together with their applica-
tion to the problem of close commensurabilities in celestial mechanics.

The orbits of the minor planets present problems which Dr. Don A.
Lautman is considering. An analysis of the distribution of the peri-
helia of the minor planets has been completed. Dr. Lautman and Dr.
Colombo have examined the small-amplitude librations of a particle
near the triangular point in the semirestricted three-body problem.
They are extending this research to an analysis of orbits of minor
planets whose periods are commensurate with that of Jupiter.

The origin of the solar system and the production of isotopes in
protoplanets are the areas Dr. Henri Mitler is studying. A com-
parison of theoretical results with observations may allow a choice

See footnotes on p. 164.
SECRETARY'S REPORT 153

among several possible alternative primitive compositions for a proto-
Earth.

Ezobiology.—Ultraviolet irradiations of possible simulated primi-
tive terrestrial environments, which Dr. Sagan performed in coopera-
tion with Dr. C. Ponnamperuma, exobiology division, Ames Research
Center, NASA, have produced nucleoside phosphates and other mole-
cules intimately involved in contemporary terrestrial biological proc-
esses. Such synthetic reactions had been predicted by Dr. Sagan in
1957.

Dr. Sagan made other studies cn methods for detection of extrater-
restrial life and on the frequency of possible advanced extraterrestrial
life forms. Using Mie theory and a computer program, he is continu-
ing a critical study of the panspermia hypothesis.

In an experimental program performed by Dr. Sagan in coopera-
tion with Dr. Stanley Scher at the University of California Space
Sciences Laboratory,® simulated Martian environments have been
inoculated with a variety of terrestrial soil types and assayed for the
survival of the contained terrestrial microorganisms. ‘The preliminary
results indicate that all samples of terrestrial soil tested have a popula-
tion of microorganisms that can probably survive on Mars. This
conclusion emphasizes the necessity for rigorous sterilization of Mars-
impacting space vehicles.

Lunar science.—The moon is now the object of intense investigation
by many scientists from all parts of the world. This interest is
stimulated, of course, by past and forthcoming lunar probes, orbiters,
softly landed instrumentation packages, and eventual manned
exploration.

The Astrophysical Observatory is pursuing several lunar investi-
gations which are closely related to its other programs and for which,
therefore, the Observatory is peculiarly well prepared. One such
topic is the determination of the moon’s gravitational potential from
analyses of the motion of bodies orbiting it. Attempts by the United
States to launch lunar orbiters have been unsuccessful to date, but
will undoubtedly meet eventual success. Dr. Kozai has completed an
approximate analytical study of the motion of an orbiter. He is pro-
ceeding with a program for numerically integrating the equations of
motion.

Drs. Lautman and Colombo have shown that radiation pressure
significantly changes the orbit of a “balloon” spacecraft and could
effect a lunar capture of an initially geocentric orbit.

The impacts of meteorites on the moon produce craters of all sizes,
depending upon the size and velocity of the incident body. The size
distribution of lunar craters has been analyzed by Dr. Gerald S.

See footnotes on p. 164.
154 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1963

Hawkins. The results of this study can be correlated with meteorite
size and velocity distributions from other investigations.

Meteoritic science—The solar system contains much meteoric
matter. The Observatory applies a vast range of techniques and
instrumentation in its broad meteoritic research program. Investi-
gations include the nature of meteoritic matter in the solar system,
the theory of meteors in the earth’s atmosphere, observation of meteors
by optical and radar instruments, mineralogical analyses of meteor-
ites, metallurgical analyses of meteorites, and finally observations of
artificial bodies simulating meteorites.

During the past year Dr. Whipple has made new calculations of
the frequencies of small bodies near the earth and their penetrating
powers on thin surfaces in space. The measurements made ina NASA
satellite have confirmed the general order of magnitude of the new
calculations, which have reduced the meteoritic hazard by some three
orders of magnitude since early calculations. In these and other
overall studies of meteoric matter in the solar system, Dr. Whipple
draws on specific results from the diverse meteoritic investigations
in which he cooperates as director of the Observatory.

Dr. Richard B. Southworth has formulated a convenient quantita-
tive description for the steady-state space distribution of particles
under the Poynting-Robertson effect. Using this description and
results from analyses of Comet Arend-Roland, he is studying genera-
tion of the zodiacal cloud by cometary dust.

Robert E. Briggs is now extending previous work on the space
distribution of interplanetary particles to include a study of velocity
distributions.

Research into the concentration of micrometeorites in the vicinity
of the earth continues. The many-pronged effort of Drs. Colombo
and Lautman consists of: (a) Evaluation of the amount of dust
placed into orbit around the earth as a result of meteors colliding
with the moon and ejecting material; (b) gravitational focusing of
interplanetary particles by the earth, the direct capture of inter-
planetary particles moving under the influence of the gravitational
fields of the sun and earth, and the Poynting-Robertson effect; and
(c) capture of particles by the combined effects of gravity, atmos-
pheric drag, and radiation pressure.

When particles from space plunge into the earth’s atmosphere,
they generate a trail of luminosity and ionization. Several scientists
of the Observatory continue to work on the physical theory of meteors.
Theoretical studies are being made by Drs. Cook, Hawkins, Richard
E. McCrosky, and Franco Verniani. Most of these studies are closely
linked with analyses of observational data.» © 7

See footnotes on p. 164.
SECRETARY'S REPORT 155

Dr. Carleton and his associates are conducting laboratory experi-
ments on ion-molecule and molecule-molecule collisions in the range
of 200-2,000 ev energy.* One application of this work is a calcula-
tion of the amount of excitation and ionization produced by micro-
meteorites too small to be observed individually on their entry into
the atmosphere. In that connection they have considered what limits
can be set on the rate of influx of such micrometeorites, concluding
that such effects are negligible.

Statistical analyses of precisely reduced photographic meteor data
from Super-Schmidt cameras are being made by Dr. Jacchia, Dr.
Verniani, and Mr. Briggs. Their aim is to publish the wealth of in-
formation, obtained through several years of meteor photography
and painstaking reductions, concerning the interaction between the
meteor body and the atmosphere. In particular, they can determine
the mass, luminous efficiency, and tensile strength of a meteor body
more accurately than has been possible before.

In study of the spectra of meteors,> Dr. Cook is working with Dr.
I. Halliday of the Dominion Observatory, Ottawa, and Dr. P. M.
Millman of the National Research Council of Canada. Currently a
quantitative spectral analysis of Perseid spectra is under way.

Work on daily motion of the radiant of the Quadrantid meteor
stream was begun. Dr. Frances Wright will continue this project
until all photographic film on hand has been measured, and the motion
of the radiant is determined. This study will yield further knowledge
of the nature of the Quadrantid meteor streams.

Dr. McCrosky has continued a cooperative research effort with
Harvard College Observatory, U.S. Air Force,’ MIT Lincoln Lab-
oratory,’ and NASA, in which various successful attempts have been
made to inject into the upper atmosphere, at meteoric velocities, bodies
of sufficient and known size to reproduce the meteor phenomena.

This research has led to improved values of the luminous efficiency
of ablating hypervelocity bodies entering the atmosphere and of the
masses and densities of meteoroids.

The Radio Meteor Project * is a joint enterprise of the Smithsonian
Astrophysical Observatory and Harvard University. The project has
operated a multistation radar system at Havana, Il., at a peak trans-
mitter power of 4 megawatts. Meteors have been detected down to a
limiting magnitude of +12 on the visual scale. Dr. Hawkins is the
scientist in charge of this project.

To determine the atmospheric trajectory of the meteoroid and its
orbit in interplanetary space, Dr. Hawkins and Dr. Southworth have
analyzed the radar echoes. Drs. Hawkins and Bertil-Anders Lindblad
have found that there is a definite difference in the populations of large

See footnotes on p. 164.
156 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1963

and small meteors.2 Between magnitudes +6 and +9 the average
velocity of meteors detected on the radar system has changed by 5
km sec-?. This is attributed to the smaller orbits shown by the fainter
meteors. The faint meteors show total fragmentation as they enter
the upper atmosphere of the earth. In general, each meteor disinte-
grates into several hundred fragments, which together act as a cloud
of independent particles.

The objective of the Photographic Meteorite Recovery Program,*
under the direction of Dr. McCrosky, is to photograph the trails of
extremely bright meteors so that the corresponding meteorite impacts
may be determined and a search instigated for the meteorites. In the
past year the project has completed the design of the station buildings,
the cameras, and the photoelectric and control systems; selected and
leased land at 16 sites in the Midwest; selected local station attendants
and their alternates at each site; completed 16 buildings to the point
where they are ready to receive cameras and begin operation; as-
sembled, in Lincoln, Nebr., a team of four field personnel to operate
the network and to recover freshly fallen meteorites; operated a proto-
type station at Havana, IIl., for 3 months; and initiated production on
all major components of the stations.

The program for measuring radioactivities in material from outer
space has continued on an expanded scale. In addition to tritium and
argon radioactivities, Dr. Edward L. Fireman and his associates are
now measuring carbon-14 and gamma-ray radioactivities from such
isotopes as aluminum-26, manganese-54, sodium-22, and cobalt.

During the past year Dr. Fireman and James C. DeFelice have
measured tritium, argon-37, and argon-89 in several meteorites, includ-
ing the recently fallen Peace River. The resultant data provide
comparative information on the production, intensity, and constancy
of cosmic rays in space during a period of minimal solar activity.
The absence of argon-39 in the Potter and Estacado meteorites indi-
cates that they fell more than 1,500 yearsago. The Estacado meteorite
has been erroneously associated with an 1882 fireball. The argon-39
and tritium contents of Farmington are similar to those of other
chondrites, but the aluminum-26 content of Farmington is a factor
of more than 50 lower than in other chondrites. The content of these
radioactivities permits the determination of the exposure age from
radioactive isotopes alone. The cosmic-ray exposure age of the Farm-
ington meteorite is between 7,000 and 25,000 years.

Studies of tritium concentrations in the metal phases of stony
meteorites and in iron meteorites have continued during the past year.
Dr. Fireman, Dr. David Tilles, and Mr. DeFelice plan further meas-
urements to test the tentative hypothesis that tritium is lost from

See footnotes on p. 164.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 157

kamacite and retained in taenite. Measurements of tritium in the
Sputnik IV fragment and studies by Dr. Tilles of tritium retention in
a proton-irradiated target have provided additional data on the reten-
tion and loss of tritium in iron and steel.

Dr. Tilles has nearly completed assembling the parts of the high-
sensitivity mass spectrometer ® for studies of noble gases in meteorites.
Anticipated research studies with the spectrometer will include meas-
urements of noble gas abundance and isotopic composition in separated
phases of meteorites.

Problems in the mineralogy and petrology of meteorites, with spe-
cial reference to their temperature-pressure history and age, are being
considered. In the course of these studies,!? Mrs. Ursula B. Marvin
discovered zircon, heretofore unknown in meteorites, in the Vaca
Muerta mesosiderite. The zircon, which is radioactive, is of special
significance in age determinations of any meteorite where it occurs.
As part of a long-term project in collaboration with Dr. Fireman,
Mrs. Marvin has separated mineral concentrates of high purity from
Indarch, a stony meteorite abnormally rich in xenon and containing
the rare minerals CaS and MgS. She will study the mineralogy and
petrology of this meteorite in detail. The radioisotope group will
make age determinations on the separated fractions and a bulk sample.

Initiating a program of study of the chemical compositions of micro-
structures in chondrites, Dr. John A. Wood used the electron micro-
probe in the University of Chicago Division of Geological Sciences
as an analytical tool. At present, the focus of the study is the grains
and particles of nickel-iron metal present in chondrites. The composi-
tions and compositional gradients in these are determined by the
thermal history of the chondrite containing them. This study should
hence yield information about the nature and thermal history of the
planet from which the chondrites were derived.

Dr. Wood has also made a detailed theoretical study of the prop-
erties of the most common class of meteorite, the chondrites, in an
attempt to understand the processes that operated to produce them.??
He also studied the thermal history of nickel-iron phases and their
compositional gradients in iron meteorites. This involved the use
of a digital computer to solve the diffusion equation of nickel in nickel-
iron alloys for various postulated cooling rates and thermal histories.2*
He found a thermal history that yielded the same nickel diffusion
profiles observed in iron meteorites. Preliminary results indicate
that the medium octahedrite iron meteorites originated in a small
planet, about 200 km in radius; that this object originally accreted
at a rate of ~0.5 cm per year; and that it originally contained a
short-lived radionuclide (~100 ppm of Al *¢ or the equivalent), which

See footnotes on p. 164.
158 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1963

in decaying provided the planet with a pulse of high temperature
followed by rapid cooling. Dr. Wood spent most of the past fiscal year
at the Enrico Fermi Institute for Nuclear Studies, University of
Chicago, working with Dr. Edward Anders on meteorite research.

Dr. F. Behn Riggs, Jr., completed his investigation * of the use of
an electron probe specially designed to use with very large meteorite
sections without enclosing the specimen in a vacuum chamber. Sev-
eral meteorites were studied with this instrument.

To facilitate interpretation of metallurgical features of meteorites
Dr. Matthias F. Comerford (in cooperation with Prof. H. H. Uhlig
of M.I.T.) and Joseph I. Goldstein (in cooperation with Prof. R. E.
Ogilvie of M.LT.) are pursuing separate investigations of diffusion
processes at the interface of two different specimens of nickel-iron
alloy. The dependence of the interdiffusion coefficients upon both
temperature and pressure is being measured. Pressures up to 50,000
atmospheres are being used in these experiments.

Dr. Wright and Dr. Paul W. Hodge are pursuing a project to
determine the amount and nature of extraterrestrial particles col-
lected by the earth. This investigation has been furthered through
collection, by diverse methods, of particles from a wide variety of
geographical locations. The collected particles were microscopically
examined and their chemical and physical properties determined. A
total of 761 particles of possible extraterrestrial origin have been
chemically analyzed with electron-probe techniques. The results are
proving useful in establishing the chemical criteria for cosmic origin.

Cometary science-——Comets have frequently been investigated by
Smithsonian Observatory scientists. A basic understanding of their
composition, structure, and resultant phenomena promises to clarify
important aspects of the origin of the solar system. The relationship
of comets to meteor showers and the response of comets to solar
activity are likewise important topics.

Currently, Dr. Whipple is directing his attention to the problem
of the cometary nucleus as evidenced in the brightness and deteriora-
tion of the periodic comets. Starting from a combination of meteor
and cometary studies he is performing calculations to ascertain more
exactly the lifetime of a major comet such as Encke’s, which has
contributed a great complex of Taurid meteors. He is seeking to
identify Comet Encke in ancient records in order to determine changes
in period and brightness levels in the ancient past—perhaps 2,500
years ago. This research employs studies of photographic meteor
orbits, theoretical calculations, and cooperation with historians.

Published photographs of Comet Arend-Roland, examined by Dr.
Richard B. Southworth, combined with computed particle trajectories,

See footnotes on p. 164.
SECRETARY'S REPORT 159

showed that the comet had seven tails. Each consisted of dust ejected
in accordance with Whipple’s theory describing this process. The
larger ejected particles collectively contain more mass than the small.

Using photographs made by the Baker-Nunn cameras, Daniel
Malaise * is obtaining measurements of cometary tail activity. This
inquiry bears on the interaction of the solar wind with the tails of
comets.

During the summer of 1962 Dr. Pol Swings reviewed the possibili-
ties for cometary research provided by the use of rocket vehicles and
spacecraft. Observations of infrared and ultraviolet frequencies from
orbiting observatories, measurements from a probe flight near a comet,
and release of appropriate chemicals from rockets all offer significant
opportunity for advancing cometary science.

Dr. Charles A. Whitney and Dr. Lundquist have initiated laboratory
studies of the properties of ices in vacuum to provide several basic
parameters for further theoretical descriptions of comets. Prelimi-
nary theoretical studies of the nature of comets have indicated the
need for several modifications of existing theories.

Solar observations.—A._ historic advance in solar observation is the
United States’ Orbiting Solar Observatory program. To further its
long-standing record of pioneering solar observations, SAO is playing
an active role in this program.

Dr. Giovanni Fazio was a coexperimenter on the first Orbiting Solar
Observatory, launched in March 1962. The experiment provided the
first view of a solar flare in the high-energy gamma ray (>100 Mev)
portion of the electromagnetic spectrum. Within the sensitivity of
the detector, there was no evidence for gamma radiation. Data re-
duction 7° is continuing, and theoretical calculations on the sun’s
production of gamma rays have been made.

Dr. Leo Goldberg is directing a Harvard University project 1” to
prepare instrumentation for the second Orbiting Solar Observatory,
scheduled to be Jaunched during the fall of 1963. The instrument is
designed both to make scans of the solar spectrum and to obtain mono-
chromatic solar images in the wavelength range 500-1500 A. Both
the prototype and the flight models of the satellite instrument have
been delivered for integration into the spacecraft. A considerable
number of the routine environmental tests have been passed.

Design work has already begun on an improved model of the sean-
ning spectrometer-spectroheliograph, which has been allocated space
on board the fourth Orbiting Solar Observatory. Design work is
also proceeding on a spectrometer that will operate in the short wave-
lengths from 100-600 A.¥8

See footnotes on p. 164.
160 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1963

Observations of magnetic fields and velocity fields in the solar
granulation were carried out by Dr. R. W. Noyes at the McMath Solar
Telescope at Kitt Peak National Observatory in Tucson during June
1963. The data are now being analyzed.

Dr. Fireman, Dr. Tilles, and Mr. DeFelice have continued measure-
ments of tritium concentrations in recovered satellites. Such measure-
ments made during the past year have pertained to a period of relative
solar quiescence. The apparent upper limit for trapped tritium
abundance was much lower in 1962 than it was following the No-
vember 1960 solar flares. The measurements to date suggest that these
large flares injected tritium into the trapped radiation belts with
apparent lifetimes of months. This first evidence of direct solar in-
jection of positive Van Allen particles is under continuing critical
examination.

It is clear that particles and electromagnetic radiation from the
sun produce many such diverse phenomena in the solar system. Their
interaction with the earth’s atmosphere results in large density varia-
tions which are manifest in variations of satellite orbits. These
radiations also influence cometary activity. The interpretation of
these far-reaching interrelated phenomena is particularly challenging
because of its very scope. The present period of minimum solar
activity has many advantages for research on these matters. The
Observatory is vigorously pursuing these topics, which will be in-
cluded in the U.S. program for the Year of the Quiet Sun.

Stellar observations.—The Observatory’s astrophysical interests ex-
tend beyond the investigations of the solar system. Using various
instruments, SAO acquires and analyzes observational data on stars,
galaxies, and interstellar matter in all forms.

Like solar observations, stellar observations stand to benefit greatly
from the advent of orbiting observatories. ‘The Observatory is privi-
leged to have responsibility for Project Celescope,!® one of the two
prime experiments on the first Orbiting Astronomical Observatory.
Dr. Whipple is project director, and Dr. Robert J. Davis is project
scientist. Dr. Grossi has supervised electronic aspects of the project.

The primary goal of Project Celescope is to obtain ultraviolet star
catalogs in each of four colors between 1,000 and 3,000 A. The wave-
length range requires that this observing program be carried out above
the earth’s atmosphere. Four separate telescopes equipped with
ultraviolet-sensitive television photometers will be used. The present
phase of the program is concerned primarily with procurement of
the necessary equipment. The experiment has required the develop-
ment of the following pioneering instrumentation and techniques:

See footnotes on p. 164.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 161

ultraviolet-sensitive television camera tubes, Schwarzschild telescope
systems, calibration lamps, a digital television photometric system, and
automatic identification and cataloging of stars.

The ultraviolet-sensitive television camera tubes required much
research and development. The Project has been working for 4 years
with Westinghouse Research Laboratories to procure these devices.
Problems solved during the past year include Westinghouse’s develop-
ment of a new target material that has increased the tube’s sensitivity
and its suitability as a stellar photometer. Laboratory measurements
of the spectral response of this tube were made by Dr. Om P. Rustgi.

The telescope system to be used with Celescope requires the produc-
tion of strongly aspheric optical surfaces mounted so as to survive the
mechanical environment of satellite launching, and to be insensitive
to large variations in temperature.

For calibration of Celescope equipment in orbit, it was necessary to
obtain two types of ultraviolet point sources. One, utilizing a low-
pressure mercury-vapor arc, radiates intensely at 2,537 A. The other,
utilizing a low-pressure xenon arc, radiates intensely at 1,470 A. The
latter lamp required considerable developmental work in order to meet
requirements for small size and power consumption, long life, and
high efficiency. Dr. Rustgi and Clifford Miles have made laboratory
tests of these sources.

The requirement to use a television system as a stellar photometer
posed problems of accuracy, reliability, linearity, and dynamic range
not encountered in the usual type of television data transmission. The
system, as developed by Electro-Mechanical Research, Inc., has proved
able to meet the performance requirements.

Finally, George Szabo, Mrs. Gail Wald, and Stephen Strom have
prepared an ultraviolet identification catalog and are preparing tech-
niques for automatic compilation and publication of the Celescope
observational material.

The accurate measurement of the number and direction of high-
energy gamma, rays from the universe is a difficult instrumentation
problem. The importance of the measurement, however, justifies
great effort toward its accomplishment. Dr. Fazio has completed a
theoretical study of the production of gamma rays by cosmic radiation
in our galaxy. Using the results of these calculations, he is planning
further gamma-ray astronomy instruments for future orbiting observ-
atories. A new type of detector for high-energy gamma rays, a mul-
tiplate spark chamber, is now being developed at the Observatory.

A program of spectroscopic observations of bright stars, which Dr.
Whitney initiated at the Agassiz Station of Harvard College Observ-
atory, will provide data for the theoretical work on the spectra of nor-
mal stars. Drs. Wright and Hodge have located Population II
162 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1963

Cepheids in the Large Magellanic Cloud, in red globular clusters. A
period-luminosity relation for these Cepheids has been established.
This research is helpful in determining the extragalactic distance
scale.

Six of the Baker-Nunn cameras have been used since 1960 to photo-
graph flare stars in conjunction with radio-frequency measurements of
their radio emissions, The cooperating radio observatories are Jod-
rell Bank Experimental Station in England and the Commonwealth
Scientific and Industrial Research Organization at Sydney, Australia.
Leonard Solomon devised the photographic procedures used. The
one major flare observed this year correlates in time with a major burst
detected in the radio spectrum at Sydney. If these combined obser-
vations are significantly correlated, as they appear to be, they consti-
tute the first observations of radio energy from “normal” stellar
objects. Many minor flares (from previous years) correlate with
small bursts observed at Jodrell Bank.

In collaboration with Prof. William Liller of Harvard, Dr. Gold-
berg has begun an observing program designed to search for evidence
of cyclic stellar activity similar to that connected with the solar sun-
spot cycle. They will conduct the search by monitoring the intensities
of the H and K emission lines of ionized calcium in the spectra of late-
type stars. They will look for both short-term changes, such as may
be produced by flares, and long-term cyclic variations.

A star catalog + of great value to many astronomical enterprises has
been completed under the direction of Dr. Vies, Mr. Solomon, and Mrs.
Katherine Haramundanis. Initiated in 1959 under the Satellite
Tracking Program, the SAO Star Catalog was conceived as the com-
pilation of a large number of fundamental and differential catalogs
to cover the sky in a standard coordinate system. The project used
about 40 catalogs, providing data on approximately a quarter of a
million stars. Preparation of the Star Catalog involved investigations
of the details of the coordinate system and derivation of proper mo-
tions of each catalog. Comparisons of several catalogs were also
made in sky areas where the catalogs used did not provide adequate
information, usually for proper motions. The complete catalog is
stored on magnetic tape, while the publication of a book form is prog-
ressing. A set of star charts is to be produced from the Catalog in
Lambert-conformal projection, probably at two different scales.

Stellar theory.—Theoretical studies of stellar atmospheres *° con-
tinued in several directions under Dr. Whitney’s supervision. Ex-
tensive calculations were performed concerning the structure of stellar
convection zones and the nature of the perturbations they produce in
stellar atmospheres. Investigations of the structure of shock fronts in

See footnotes on p. 164.
SECRETARY'S REPORT 163

atomic hydrogen have been extended; these represent a considerable
refinement of the earlier work. Dr. Angelo J. Skalafuris and Dr. Wolf-
gang Kalkofen worked with Dr. Whitney on the latter studies. Dr.
Owen Gingerich has examined some computational aspects of nongray
stellar atmosphere models. In this connection, he has investigated
several new opacity sources. Current work includes the addition of
electron-scattering and absorption-line profiles to the computer
program.

Dr. Max Krook has developed a perturbation-iterative procedure
for solving the structure equations for nongray stellar atmospheres.
He and Dr. Eugene H. Avrett have applied this method to a number
of cases and have found it to converge very rapidly.

Dr. Noyes has made theoretical investigation of velocity fields in
thesolar atmosphere. The purpose of this work is to explain the recent
observations of pronounced oscillatory motions in the solar atmos-
phere. Particular goals are to reproduce the well-determined pe-
riod of 300 seconds for the oscillation. The relevant equations, includ-
ing the effects of radiative damping, have been put in a form suitable
for numerical analysis on an IBM-7090 computer. Preliminary re-
sults indicate that rapid change in radiative flux into the atmosphere
induced by convection in the granulation, does indeed cause oscillatory
motions of the solar atmosphere with the observed properties.

In collaboration with Dr. Y. Ohman of the Stockholm Observatory,
Dr. Goldberg is carrying out a theoretical investigation of the scat-
tering of the Lyman-c« emission line by the high-speed electrons of the
solar corona. Profiles of the scattering emission line are being cal-
culated for various assumed models of the corona as a function of dis-
tance from the center of the solar disk.

The radiation pressure exerted on a nonstationary gaseous cloud by
a neighboring exciting star of high temperature has been considered
by Dr. Y. Hagihara.t He has employed quantum mechanical tech-
niques and the assumptions that the atmosphere and the ions in the
cloud are in systematic and random thermal] motions.

Summary.—During the past year we have once more witnessed the
ever-increasing recognition of astrophysical research as an essential
component of the scientific needs of the nation. A previously un-
heard-of situation now exists in which major national programs—
such as manned lunar exploration in this decade—depend on astro-
physical information for their successful execution.

The Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory is proud that for 73
years it has been generating and disseminating such knowledge. We
also derive satisfaction from our realization that the research pro-

See footnotes on p. 164.
164 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1963

grams of the Observatory have grown and continue to grow as the
appropriate Smithsonian Institution response to these requirements.

OTHER ACTIVITIES

On June 11, in ceremonies at the White House, Dr. Whipple re-
ceived the President’s Award for Distinguished Federal Civil Service.

Dr. Whipple and Drs. Fireman, Wood, and Tilles attended the
Gordon Research Conference at Tilton, N.H., in July 1962.

In August Dr. Avrett participated in the Third Colloquium on
the Theory of Stellar Atmospheres, sponsored by Commission 386 of
the International Astronomical Union, at Hailsham, England.

Dr. Colombo presented a paper at the Symposium on Gyrody-
namics, sponsored by the IUTAM, at Celerina, Switzerland.

In September Dr. Lundquist presented a paper at the 13th Inter-
national Astronautical Conference at Varna, Bulgaria.

1Supported by grant NsG 87/60 from the National Aeronautics and Space Adminis-
tration.

2Supported by contract 19(628)—3248 with the U.S. Air Force.

8 Supported by grants G20135 and GP388 from the National Science Foundation to
Harvard University and by grant NASr—158 from the National Aeronautics and Space Ad-
ministration to Harvard University.

4 Supported by contract 19(628)—2949 with the U.S. Air Force.

5 Supported by contract AF19(604)5196 between the U.S. Air Force and Harvard
University.

6 Supported by grant number NsG 126/61 from the National Aeronautics and Space
Administration to the University of California.

7™Supported by contract AF19(604)7400 sub 234 between Harvard University and MIT
TAncoln Laboratory.

8 Supported by grant NsG@ 291-62 from the National Aeronautics and Space Adminis-
tration.

® Supported by grant NsF 16067 from the National Science Foundation.

10Supported in part by grant NsG 282-63 from the National Aeronautics and Space
Administration to Dr. Clifford Frondel of Harvard University.

11 Supported by grant G 14298 from the National Science Foundation to the University
of Chicago.

22 Supported by contract AT(11-1) 382 between the Atomic Energy Commission and the
Enrico Fermi Institute for Nuclear Studies, University of Chicago.

18 Supported by contract AF'18(600)—1596 with the U.S. Air Force.

14 Research supported by grant G2777 from the National Science Foundation to the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology.

16 Research sponsored by fellowships from NASA, Fonds National de la Recherche Scien-
tifique, Belgium, and European Preparatory Commission for Space Research.

16 Supported by grant NAS5-3255 from the National Aeronautics and Space Adminis-
tration.

17 Supported by contract NASw184 between the National Aeronautics and Space Adminis-
tration and Harvard University.

18 Supported by grant NsG—438 from the National Aeronautics and Space Administra-
tion to Harvard University.

19 Supported by contract NAS5—1535 with the National Aeronautics and Space Adminis-
tration.

20 Research supported by grants G-16339 and GP940 from the National Science Founda-
tion.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 165

Dr. Carleton presented a paper at the annual Gaseous Electronics
Conference at Boulder, Colo., in October.

Dr. Fazio presented a paper at the 1962 International Symposium
on Space Phenomena and Measurements in Detroit.

In November Dr. Fireman presented a paper at the Radioactive
Dating Symposium in Athens, Greece. In December he attended
the American Association for the Advancement of Science meeting
in Philadelphia.

Dr. Tilles, Mrs. Marvin, and Mr. Slowey presented papers at the
American Geophysical Union meeting at Stanford University, Palo
Alto, Calif., in December.

In January Dr. Whipple delivered a lecture at the Ninth Annual
Astronautical Society Meeting in Los Angeles. He also attended
ceremonies at the Goddard Space Flight Center commemorating the
fifth anniversary of international tracking of space vehicles.

Drs. Carleton, Lundquist, and Mitler attended the meeting of the
American Physical Society in New York.

Drs. Lundquist, Fazio, and Jacchia attended the Goddard Scientific
Symposium on Satellites in Washington, D.C. Dr. Fazio presented
a paper at this meeting.

In April, Dr. Whipple took part in the Institute of Space Studies
Symposium on the Origin and Evolution of Atmospheres and Oceans,
held in New York City. He also presented a paper at the UGI meet-
ing in Washington.

Drs. Carleton, Fazio, Fireman, Jacchia, Tilles, and Whipple at-
tended the American Geophysical Union meeting in Washington.

Drs. Whipple, Jacchia, and Sagan presented papers at the COSPAR
meeting in Warsaw, Poland, in June. Dr. Sagan also attended the
12th International Astrophysical Colloquium in Liége, Belgium.

BUILDINGS AND EQUIPMENT

In October 1962 and June 1963 several divisions of the Observatory,
including those occupying space belonging to the IBM Corp. and to
the Harvard University Press, moved to a building on Alewife Brook
Parkway, about a mile from Observatory headquarters at the Har-
vard College Observatory. This move places all personnel in only
two locations, between which mail- and passenger-shuttle operates on
a regular schedule.

Also in October 1962 the IBM-7090 computer was taken over by,
and moved to, the Harvard Computing Laboratory, from which the
Observatory rents needed time.

720-018—64——12
166 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1963

PUBLICATIONS

The following papers by staff members of the Astrophysical Obser-
vatory appeared in various journals.

AvreTT, E. H., anp Kroox, M. The temperature distribution in a stellar atmos-
phere. Astrophys. Journ., vol. 137, pp. 874-881, 1963.

A rapidly convergent iterative procedure for the calculation of the
temperature-pressure relation in a stellar atmosphere. Journ. Quant.
Spectrose. Radiat. Transfer, vol. 3, pp. 107-113, 1963.

AvrettT, ). H., anp Lorsrr, R. A simple and accurate method for the evaluation
of the Milne integrals. Journ. Quant. Spectrosc. Radiat. Transfer, vol. 8, pp.
201-209, 1963.

Brzs, D. G.; CarLeton, N. P.; AND OLDENBERG, O. The half-life of the meta-
stable level A* of the nitrogen molecule. In Advances in Molecular Spec-
troscopy, pp. 197-200, Pergamon Press, Oxford, 1962.

Brices, R. E. Steady-state space distribution of meteoric particles under the
operation of the Poynting-Robertson effect. Astron. Journ., vol. 67, No. 10,
1962.

CARLETON, N. P. The relation of the recent atmospheric dust measurements of
Volz and Goody to the problem of meteoric influx. Journ. Atmos. Sci., vol. 19,
pp. 424-426, 1962.

See also Bills, Carleton, and Oldenberg.

CARLETON, N. P., AND MEGILL, L. R. Electron energy distribution in slightly
ionized air under the influence of electric and magnetic fields. Phys. Rev.,
vol. 126, pp. 2089-2099, 1962.

CARLETON, N.P., AND OLDENBERG, O. Lifetime of the lowest excited level of N.
Journ. Chem. Phys., vol. 36, pp. 3460-8463, 1962.

CARLETON, N. P., AND PAPLIOLIOS, C. Measured variation on the electronic transi-
tion moment of the Vegard-Kaplan bands in Ne. Journ. Quant. Spectrosc.
Radiat. Transfer, vol. 2, pp. 241-244, 1962.

CoLomso, G. The magnetic torque acting on artificial satellites. In Proceedings
of Conference on Gyrodynamics, I.U.T.A.M., Celerina, 1963.

See also Shapiro, Lautman, and Colombo.

COoLoMBo, G., AND LAUTMAN, D. A. On some singular orbits of an Earth-Moon
satellite with a high-area mass ratio (abstract). Astron. Journ., vol. 67, p.
5738, 1962.

Cotomso, G.; LautMAN, D. A.; AND Munrorp, C. On the libration orbits of
a particle near the triangular points on the semirestricted three-body
problem (abstract). Astron. Journ., vol. 68, pp. 159-162, 1963.

Cook, A. F. A proposed criterion for the mode of ablation of stone meteors.
Smithsonian Contr. Astrophys., vol. 4, pp. 131-136, 1963.

Cook, A. F.; Jaccuta, L. G,; AND McCrosky, R. EH. Luminous efficiency of iron
and stone meteors. Smithsonian Contr. Astrophys., vol. 7, pp. 209-220,
1963.

DeFeuice, J. See Tilles, Fireman, and DeFelice; Fireman, Fazio, and De-
Felice; Fireman, DeFelice, and Tilles.

DuTHieE, J. G.; Harner, E. M.; Kapion, M. F.; ann Fazio, G. G. Gamma rays
at high altitude. Phys. Rev. Letters, vol. 10, p. 364, 1963.

Doruie, J. G.; Harner, HB. M.; Kapton, M. F.; Fazio, G. G.; AnD SAVEDOFF, M. P.
Primary y-rays (abstract). Amer. Phys. Soe., series II, vol. 8, p. 7, 1963.

SECRETARY’S REPORT 167

Fazio, G. G.; Cook, C. J.; AND HAFNER, FE. M. High energy gamma ray astron-
omy. IEEE Transactions on Nuclear Science, vol. NS—-10, pp. 10-14, 1963.

Search for high-energy gamma-rays from the sun (abstract). Trans.
Amer. Geophys. Union, vol. 4, p. 88, 1963.

Fazio, G. G. See also Fireman, Fazio, and DeFelice; Duthie, Hafner, Kaplon,
and Fazio; Duthie, Hafner, Kaplon, Fazio, and Savedoff; Melissinos, Yaman-
ouchi, Fazio, Lindenbaum, and Yuan.

FIREMAN, Hi. L. Density of the solar flare plasma. Journ. Geophys. Res. vol.
67, p. 4890, 1962.

Tritium in meteorites and in recovered satellite material, In Tritium

in the Physical and Biological Sciences, vol. 1, p. 69, IAHA, Vienna, 1962.

See also Tilles, Fireman, and DeFelice.

FireMAN, E. L.; Fazio, G. G.; AND DreFetice, J. Argon 39, tritium, and alumi-
num 26 in the Farmington meteorite and its discordant exposure ages (ab-
Stract). Trans. Amer. Geophys. Union, vol. 44, p. 83, 1963.

FireEMAN, HE. L.; DEFELicr, J.; ANp TiLLEs, D. Tritium and radioactive argon
and xenon in meteorites and in recovered satellites, Jn Radioactive Dating,
vol. 1, p. 33, HABA, Athens, 1963.

GiEsE, R. H. Light scattering by small particles and models of interplanetary
matter derived from the zodiacal light. Space Sci. Rev., vol. 1, pp. 589-611,
1962.

GINGERICH, O., AND STAHLMAN, W. Planetary longitudes for years —2500 to
+2000. Univ. Wisconsin Press, 1962.

GincERIcH, O. Krook’s iterative procedure for the temperature distribution
in model stellar atmospheres (abstract). Astron. Journ., vol. 67, p. 272, 1962.

A spiral galaxy of astronomers. Sky and Tel., vol. 25, p. 132, 1963.

GotpgerG, L. Stellar and interstellar observations. Jn Space Age Astronomy,
pp. 203-212, Academic Press, New York, 1962.

The sun. Jn Hugh Odishaw, ed., The Challenges of Space, pp. 129-142,

University of Chicago Press, 1962.

The physics of the sun, its nature, structure and emission properties.

In Donald P. Legalley, ed., Space Science, pp. 88-112, John Wiley & Sons,

Ine., 1963.

Means of observations. Jn Thornton Page, ed., Stars and Galaxies,

pp. 1442, Prentice-Hall, Englewood Cliffs, N.J., 19€2.

The abundance of He® in the sun. Astrophys. Journ., vol. 136, No. 8,
1962.

GoLpsTEIN, J. I. Electron microanalysis of metallic meteorites. S.M. thesis,
MIT, Cambridge, Mass., 1962.

Hawkins, G. 8. Radar determination of meteor orbits. Astron. Journ., vol.
67, p. 241, 1962.

A study of tektites. NASA Research Report No. 14, 1962.

New theory of the universe. Science Digest, p. 40, 1962.

A study of tektites. Journ. Geophys. Res., vol. 68, p. 895, 1963.

Impacts on the Earth and Moon. Nature, vol. 197, p. 781, 1963.

. The initial diameter of meteor trails. Smithsonian Contr. Astrophys.,

vol. 7, p. 23, 1963. .

The Harvard Radio Meteor Project. Smithsonian Contr. Astrophys.,

vol. 7, p. 53, 1963.

See also Southworth and Hawkins.

Hawkins, G. S., anp Lazarus, D. M. Meteor ionization and the mass of
meteoroids. Smithsonian Contr. Astrophys., vol. 7, p. 221, 1963.

HH

168 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1963

HEMBREE, R. V.; LuNpQuiIsT, C. A.; AND THompson, A. W. Scientific results
from Juno-launched spacecraft. Jn H. Stuhlinger, F. I. Ordway III, J. C.
McCall, G. C. Bucher, ed., Astronautical Engineering and Science, p. 281,
McGraw-Hili Book Co., New York, 1963.

Hopce, P. W., AND WricHT, F. W. The space density of atmospheric dust in the
altitude range 50,000 to 90,000 feet. Smithsonian Contr. Astrophys., vol. 5,
p. 231, 1962.

Hopeéet, P. W. See also Wright and Hodge.

Izsak, I. G. The odd harmonic effect in the motion of the satellites 1960 Beta 2
and 1960 Iota 2. Proc. of the First International Symposium on the Use of
Artificial Satellites for Geodesy, p. 329, North-Holland Publ., Amsterdam,
1963.

On the critical inclination in satellite theory. Proc. of the First Inter-
national Symposium on the Use of Artificial Satellites for Geodesy, p. 117,
North-Holland Publ., Amsterdam, 1963.

JAaccuia, L. G. Comment on paper by D. G. Parkyn. Satellite 1958 52 Data
Analysis. Journ. Geophys. Res., vol. 67, p. 2989, 1962.

The determination of atmospheric drag on artificial satellites. Dy-

namics of Satellites, IUTAM Symposium, Paris, pp. 186-142, Springer-Ver-

lag, Berlin, 1968.

Electromagnetic and corpuscular heating of the upper atmosphere.

Space Research [1I, North-Holland Publ., Amsterdam, 1963.

Meteors, meteorites and comets; interrelations. In G. Kuiper and B.

Middlehurst, ed., The Solar System, vol. 4, p. 774, University of Chicago

Press, 1963.

Satellite studies of the upper atmosphere. Trans. Amer. Geophys.

Union, vol. 44, p. 436, 1963.

See also Cook, Jacchia, and McCrosky.

KALKOFEN, W. Relaxation of shock-heated hydrogen. Dissertation, Harvard
University, 1963.

Kozal, Y. Mean values of cosine function in an elliptic motion. Astron.
Journ., vol. 67, p. 311, 1962.

Second-order solution of artificial satellite theory without airdrag.

Astron. Journ., vol. 67, p. 446, 1962.

Secular perturbations of asteroids with high inclination and eccen-

tricity. Astron. Journ., vol. 67, pp. 591-598, 1962.

Numerical results on the gravitational potential of the earth. Proce.

of the First International Symposium on the Use of Artificial Satellites for

Geodesy, p. 305, North-Holland Publ., Amsterdam, 1963.

Potential of the earth derived from satellites motion. In M. Roy,
ed., Dynamics of Satellites, Springer-Verlag, Berlin, 1963.

Kroox, M. A perturbation method for non-gray stellar atmospheres. Astro-
phys. Journ., vol. 137, p. 863, 1963.

See also Avrett and Krook.

LAuTMAN, D. A. On the distribution of the perihelia of the asteroids (abstract).
AAS, 1963.

See also Shapiro, Lautman, and Colombo; Colombo and Lautman;
Columbo, Lautman, and Munford.

Logeser, R. See Avrett and Loeser.

LOVELL, B.; WHIPPLE, F. L.; AND SoLomon, L. Radio emission from flare stars.
Nature, vol. 198, pp. 228-230, 1963.

SECRETARY’S REPORT 169

LuwpquisT, C. A.; NAUMANN, R. J.; AND WEBER, A. H. Directional flux densities
and mirror point distributions of trapped particles from satellite 1958
Epsilon measurements. Journ. Geophys. Res., vol. 67, p. 4125, 1962.

Lunveuist, C. A. See also Hembree, Lundquist, and Thompson.

Marvin, U. B. Cristobalite in the carbo iron meteorite. Nature, vol. 196, pp.
634-635, 1962.

McCrosky, R. E., anD SoBERMAN, R. K. Research Note AFCRL-62-803, 1962.

Results from an artificial iron meteoroid at 10 km/sec. Smithsonian
Contr. Astrophys., vol. 7, p. 199, 1963.

McCrosky, R. E. See also Cook, Jacchia, and MecCrosky.

MELIssinos, A. C.; YAMANOUCHI, T.; Fazio, G. G.; LinpenBAuM, S. J.; AND
Yuan, L. C. L. «z-meson production in 2.9 Bey. p-p collisions. Phys. Rev.,
vol, 128, pp. 2873-2381, 1962.

MunrForp, C. See also Colombo, Lautman, and Munford.

NicAM, R. C. Secular decrease in the inclination of artificial satellites. AIAA
Journ., p. 1455, June, 1963.

PaPLio.ios, C. See also Carleton and Papliolios.

PONNAMPERUMA, C.; MARINER, R.; AND SaGAn, C. Formation of adenosine by
ultraviolet irradiation of a solution of adeneine and ribose. Nature, vol. 198,
p. 1199, 19683.

PONNAMPERUMA, C.; SAGAN, C.; AND MARINER, R. Ultraviolet synthesis of ade-
nosine triphosphate under simulated primitive earth conditions. Nature,
vol. 199, pp. 222-226, 1963.

Rices, B. F., Jk. Construction of a small valve for high vacuum. Rey. Sci.
Instr., vol. 33, p. 1114, 1962.

Simple aid to pulse-height selection with scanning X-ray spectrometers.

Rey. Sci. Instr., vol. 34, p. 312, 1963.

New design for a gas-flow proportional counter. Rev. Sci. Instr., vol.

34, pp. 392-395, 1963.

Preparation of bent-crystals for monochromatizing X-rays. Rev. Sci.
Instr., vol. 33, p. 875, 1962.

Sacan, C. Liége collog. highlights planetary physics (meeting review). Astro-
nautics, October, p. 78, 1962.

Direct contact among galactie civilizations by relativistic interstellar

spaceflight. Planetary and Space Sci., vol. 11, p. 485, 19638.

On the nature of the Jovian red spot. Jn Proe. 11th International

Astrophysical Colloq., Liége, p. 506, 1963.

Life beyond the earth, Voice of America Forum Lectures. Space Sci.

Series, 1963.

Venus. Int. Sci. and Tech. No. 15, March, pp. 86-94, 1963.

Prospects for lunar organic matter. Jn Proc. Conf. on Lunar Explor-
ation, Virginia Polytechnic Inst., ch. 17, 1963.

SaGan, C., AND Kettocc, W. W. Atmospherii Marsa i Veneri. Russian trans-
lation by V. I. Moroz of NAS-NRC Publication No. 944, 1961. Published
1962.

See also Ponnamperuma, Mariner, and Sagan; Ponnamperuma, Sagan,
and Mariner. :

SKALAFuURIS, A. J. Stability and structure of stellar shocks. Dissertation,
Brandeis University, Waltham, 1963.

Sapiro, I. I.; Laurman, D. A.; anp Cotompo, G. Capture of cosmic dust
into circumierrestrial orbits. Trans. Amer. Geophys. Union, vol. 44, p. 71,
1963.

170 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1963

Sotomon, L. See Lovell, Whipple, and Solomon.

SoutHwortH, R. B. Theoretical Fresnel patterns of radio meteors. Presented
at fall URSI meeting, Ottawa, 1962.

Deceleration of radio meteors (abstract). Astron. Journ., vol. 67,

p. 283, 1962.

Dust in Comet Arend-Roland. Astron. Journ., vol. 68, p. 293, 1963.

Dynamical evolution of the Perseids and Orionids. Smithsonian Contr.

Astrophys., vol. 7, p. 299, 1963.

On S. H. Dole’s paper, The gravitational concentration of particles
in space near the Earth. Planetary and Space Sci., vol. 11, p. 499, 1963.

SoutHworrtH, R. B., AnD HawxK1ns, G. S. Statistics of meteor streams. Smith-
sonian Contr. Astrophys., vol. 7, 261, 1963.

Strom, S. E. Variations in the law of interstellar reddening. Astron. Journ.,
vol. 68, p. 80, 1963.

TrtLeEs, D. Room temperature diffusion constant for hydrogen in proton-irradi-
ated steel. Nature, vol. 194, p. 1278, 1962.

Silicon isotopes in pegmatites and igneous rocks (abstract). Journ.

Geophys. Res., vol. 67, p. 1659, 1962.

Sputnik IV Symposium (review). Trans. Amer. Geophys. Union, vol.

44, p. 143, 1963.

See also Fireman, DeFelice, and Tilles.

Tries, D.; FIREMAN, EB. L.; AND DEFE.LIcE, J. Tritium in Discoverer satellites.
Journ. Geophys. Res., vol. 67, p. 1660, 1962.

Radioactivities in the metallic phase of the Harleton meteorite. Journ.

Geophys. Res., vol. 67, p. 8604, 1962.

H® and A®™ in a fragment of Sputnik IV. Trans. Amer. Geophys.

Union, vol. 43, p. 457, 1962.

A search for the geomagnetically trapped tritium in satellite material
flown June to September 1962. Trans. Amer. Geophys. Union, vol. 44, p.
90, 1963.

WHIPPLE, F. L. Dust and meteorites. Astronautics, vol. 7, pp. 40-42, 1962.

Meteoritic erosion in space (abstract). Astron. Journ., vol. 67, pp. 285-

286, 1962.

Meteoritic erosion in space. Smithsonian Contr. Astrophys., vol. 7, pp.

239-248, 1963.

On the structure of the cometary nucleus. In G. P. Kuiper, ed., The

Solar System, vol. IV, ch. 15, pp. 639-662, University of Chicago Press,

1963.

See also Lovell, Whipple, and Solomon.

WuHitneEy, C. A. Theoretical aspects of the W Virginis phenomena. Astron.
Journ., vol. 67, p. 286, 1962.

The duration of line-splitting in W Virginis. Astrophys. Journ., vol.

136, p. 674, 1962.

The filtering of spectrophotometric noise. Astrophys. Journ., vol. 137,
pp. 527-531, 1963.

Woop, J. A. Meteorites; physics and chemistry. /n G. P. Kuiper, and B. M.
Middlehurst, ed., The Solar System, vol. 4, ch. 12, University of Chicago
Press, 1968.

WricHT, F. W., AND Hoper, P. W. Space density of dust in the stratosphere.
Nature, vol. 195, p. 269, 1962.

See also Hodge and Wright.

SECRETARY’S REPORT £71

The Special Reports of the Astrophysical Observatory distribute
catalogs of satellite observations, orbital data, and preliminary results
of data analysis prior to journal publication. Numbers 99 through 126,
issued during the year, contain the following material:

No. 99, July 16, 1962.

No.

Chemical analysis of 643 particles collected by high-altitude aircraft and
balloons, by F. B. Riggs, Jr., F. W. Wright, and P. W. Hodge.

- 100, July 30, 1962.

Accurate drag determinations for eight artificial satellites; atmospheric
densities and temperatures, by L. G. Jacchia and J. Slowey.

- 101, July 31, 1962.

Numerical results from orbits, by Y. Kozai.

. 102 (P-5), August 27, 1962.

Catalog of precisely reduced observations: Satellite 1959 al for the entire
year 1960, prepared by J. MacDonald, K. Haramundanis, et al.

. 108, August 28, 1962.

Satellite orbital data: Satellite 1959 Eta (Vanguard III), Sept. 1, 1960-
Dee. 31, 1961, and Satellite 1960 «1 (Echo I), Jan. 1—Dee. 31, 1961, by B.
Miller, compiled by I. G. Izsak.

. 104 (P-6), September 10, 1962.

Catalog of precisely reduced observations: Satellite 1961 61 from launch
Feb. 16—June 30, 1961, prepared by J. MacDonald et al.

. 105, September 28, 1962.

The trajectory of tektites, by G. S. Hawkins and S. K. Rosenthal.

. 106 (P-7), November 1, 1962.

Catalog of precisely reduced observations: Satellite 1959 al from Jan. 1-
June 30, 1961; Satellite 1959 71 from Jan. 1-June 30, 1961, prepared by
P. Stern.

. 107, November 9, 1962.

On some singular orbits of an earth-moon satellite with a high area-mass
ratio, by G. Colombo and D. A. Lautman.

108, November 20, 1962.

On the libration orbits of a particle near the triangular point in the semi-
restricted three-body problem, by G. Colombo, D. A. Lautman, and
C. Munford.

. 109, December 21, 1962.

Re-entry and recovery of fragments of satellite 1960 «1, by C. A. Lundquist,
R. C. Vanderburgh, W. A. Munn, D. Tilles, E. L. Fireman, and J. DeFelice.

. 110, December 14, 1962.

Project Celescope, an astrophysical reconnaissance satellite, edited by R. J.
Davis.

. 111, December 15, 1962.

Possible contributions of space experiments to cometary physics, by P.
Swings.

. 112, January 21, 1963.

On the secular decrease in the inclination of artificial satellites, by R. C.
Nigam.
172 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1963

No.

No.

No.

No.

No.

113, January 23, 1963.

Satellite orbital data: Satellite 1958 Alpha, Apr. 1-July 1, 1962, by B. Miller;
Satellite 1959 al, Mar. 3i—June 30, 1962, by M. Gutierrez; Satellite 1959
Eta, Mar. 31—June 380, 1962, by M. Hall; Satellite 1959 11, Mar. 31—June 30,
1962, by M. Gutierrez; Satellite 1960 £1, Apr. 1-July 1, 1962, by M. Hall;
Satellite 1961 61, Mar. 31-June 30, 1962, J. Weingarten, compiled by I. G.
Izsak.

114 (C-31), January 28, 19638.

Catalogue of satellite observations: Satellites 1958 Alpha, 1959 a1, 1959 Eta,
and 1959 11 for Jan. 1-June 30, 1962, prepared by B. Miller.

115 (C-32), January 29, 1963.

Catalogue of satellite observations: Satellites 1960 :1, 1960 :2, and 1960 £1, for
Jan. 1—-June 30, 1962, prepared by B. Miller.

116 (C-33), January 30, 1963.

Catalogue of satellite observations: Satellites 1961 61, 1961 01, and 1961 02,
for Jan. 1—June 380, 1962; Satellite 1961 v1, Jan. 1—-Sept. 19, 1962; Satellite
1962 ¢1, Mar. 7, 1962; Satellite 1962 1, Apr. 8-May 16, 1962; Satellite
1962 .2, Apr. 8-May 4, 1962; Satellite 1962 y2, May 4-17, 1962; Satellite
1962 o1, Apr. 28-May 20, 1962; Satellite 1962 02, Apr. 28-May 4, 1962;
Satellite 1962 aal, June 20-Aug. 8, 1962, prepared by B. Miller.

117, February 11, 1963.

Satellite orbital data: Satellite 1958 Alpha, Jan. 1—Apr. 1, 1962, by B. Miller;
Satellite 1959 a1, Aug. 1, 1961—Mar. 31, 1962, by M. Gutierrez; Satellite
1959 Eta, Jan. 1-Apr. 1, 1962, by M. Hall; Satellite 1959 11, Jan. 1-Apr. 1,
1962, by B. Miller; Satellite 1960 11, Jan. 1-Apr. 30, 1962; Satellite 1960
£1, Jan. 1—-Apr. 1, 1962, by M. Hall; Satellite 1961 61, Jan. 1-Mar. 31, 1962,
by J. Weingarten ; compiled by I. G. Izsak.

. 118 (P-8), February 14, 19638.

Catalog of precisely reduced observations: Satellites 1959 «1, 1959 Eta and
1960 (2, July 1—Dec. 31, 1961, compiled by P. Stern.

. 119 (E-2), March 15, 1963.

Satellite orbital data: Satellite 1959 a1, Jan. 1, 1960—Dec. 31, 1961; Satellite
1959 «2, Apr. 6-Aug. 26, 1960; Satellite 1959 Eta, Jan. 1, 1960—Dec. 31,
1961 ; Satellite 1960 .2, Mar. 14—Dee. 31, 1961; Satellite 1961 51, Feb. 18—Dec.
31, 1961, by P. Stern ; compiled by I. G. Izsak.

. 120, March 18, 1963.

Satellite orbital data: Satellite 1958 Alpha, July 1-Sept. 30, 1962, by B.
Miller; Satellites 1959 «1, 1959 Eta, and 1959 11, July 1-Sept. 30, 1962,
by M. Gutierrez; Satellites 1960 £1 and 1961 51, July 1—-Sept. 30, 1962, by
J. Weingarten; Satellite 1960 1, May 1-Sept. 30, 1962; compiled by I. G.
Izsak.

. 121, April 1, 1963.

Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory program writeup (SCROGE), by
J. R. Cherniack and E. M. Gaposchkin.

. 122, April 2, 1963.

Combinations of least-squares approximations in the case of correlated
variables, by P. L. Kadakia.

. 123, April 30, 1963.

Precise aspects of terrestrial and celestial reference frames, by G. Veis.

. 124, May 27, 1963.

Notes on the design and operation of satellite tracking stations for geodetic
purposes, by the staff of the Smithsonian Institution Astrophysical
Observatory.
SECRETARY'S REPORT 173

No. 125, May 28, 1963.

An analysis of the atmospheric drag of the Exployer IX satellite from
precisely reduced photographic observations, by L. G. Jacchia and J.
Slowey.

No. 126, June 24, 1963.

Satellite orbital data: Satellite 1958 a, Oct. 1-Dec. 31, 1962, by B. Miller;
Satellites 1959 a1, 1959 7 and 1959 11, Oct. 1—Dec. 31, 1962, by M. Gutierrez;
Satellite 1960 y2, Apr. 13-May 30, 1960; Sept. 29-Oct. 28, 1962, by R. C.
Nigam; Satellites 1960 1, £1 and 1961 $1, Oct. 1—Dec. 31, 1962, by J. Wein-
garten; Satellite 1962 acl, July 10—-Dec. 31, 1962, by M. Gutierrez; Satel-
lites 1962 61, Oct. 27-Dec. 20, 1962 and 1960 Bul, Oct. 31—Dec. 31, 1962,
by J. Weingarten ; compiled by I. G. Izsak.

STAFF CHANGES

On July 22, 1962, Dr. Charles A. Lundquist joined the Observatory
as assistant director for science. Other scientists who joined the staff
during the year are physicists Dr. Eugene Avrett, Dr. Nathaniel P.
Carleton, Dr. Charles Dugan, Dr. Giovanni G. Fazio, Dr. Owen
Gingerich, Dr. William M. Irvine, Dr. Robert W. Noyes, Dr. Carl E.
Sagan, Dr. Franco Verniani, and Chi-Yuen Wang; astronomer Dr.
Gerald S. Hawkins; metallurgists Dr. Matthias Comerford and Joseph
Goldstein; geodesist Dr. Walter K6hnlein; and Daniel Malaise,
NASA-COPERS fellow. Jack Coffey was appointed personnel di-
rector, and Mare Malec was named contract specialist.

Resignations during the year included those of Thomas Noonan,
Dr. F. Behn Riggs, and Dr. Om P. Rustgi, physicists; G. Nielson,
administrative officer, Satellite Tracking Program; Dr. Pedro
Zadunaisky and Rajendra C. Nigam, astronomers.

Consultants at the Observatory during the year were Dr. Gustav
Bakos, Dr. Richard Giese, Dr. Yusuke Hagihara, Dr. Yoshihide
Kozai, Dr. Otto Struve, Dr. Pol Swings, Dr. H. C. Van de Hulst, and
Dr. George Veis.

On June 30, 1963, the Observatory employed 335 persons.

DIVISION OF RADIATION AND ORGANISMS

Prepared by W. H. Ktretn, Chief of the Division

The research program of the Division is concerned with the effects
of solar and ionizing radiation on biological systems, with emphasis
on developing systematic concepts of the metabolic mechanisms and
responses of living organisms as influenced and regulated by radia-
tion. Areas of concentrated effort include problems relating to the
regulation of metabolism by radiation, the determination of structure
and function of macromolecules involved in energy storage, the meas-
urement of seasonal changes in spectral distribution of total sky radia-
tion and the correlation of these changes with plant responses.
174 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1963

Plastids of flowering plants grown in the dark are converted to
functional chloroplasts in the light. The antibiotic chloramphenicol
partially inhibits light-dependent synthesis of whole leaf and chloro-
plast protein, and chloroplasts from chloramphenicol-treated leaves
lack the ability to catalyze light-dependent formation of TPNH
(reduced triphosphopyridine nucleotide) and ATP (adenosine tri-
phosphate) which are needed for photosynthetic carbon dioxide fixa-
tion. Thus, nonfunctional plastids lack a number of structural pro-
teins necessary for the generation of TPNH and ATP. Methods of
isolating chloroplasts active in photoproduction of TPNH and ATP
were examined. An unidentified inactivator was found in leaf homo-
genates. The presence of this inhibitor accounts for the previous
difficulties encountered in obtaining chloroplasts active in photopro-
duction of TPNH and ATP.

The proteins of functional chloroplasts from treated and untreated
leaves differ. Purified plastids from treated leaves contain a larger
fraction of protein that can be made water soluble. Immunological
analysis, however, shows that the soluble fraction from chloroplasts
of control leaves contains more protein components. Differences are
related to structural differences visualized with the electron micro-
scope.

Unlike flowering plants, many algae form chloroplast pigments in
the dark. However, differences in quantity and quality of light have
been reported to affect pigmentation and photosynthetic capacity.
A number of littoral diatom isolates were found to grow well in the
dark. Similar pelagic isolates are being sought. Methods of quanti-
tatively extracting chloroplast pigments are being developed to com-
pare differences in pigmentation between organisms grown in light
and dark.

Marine organisms are peculiarly suitable for fundamental investi-
gation of radiation responses, and a section was organized within the
division for marine biology research. The long-term aim of this
study is toward establishing an adequate understanding of the physi-
ology and biochemistry of the occurrence, behavior, and potential har-
vest of marine organisms.

In the sea, algae carry out the conversion of light energy to chemical
energy. Phosphorus compounds are involved and play an important
role in the determination of the bulk and growth rates of the algae.
A number of types of phosphorus compounds in algae have been
identified, quantitated, and used in structural studies. Metabolic
activities of these compounds have been determined by the rate of
incorporation of radioactive isotopes. Methylated ribose was demon-
strated as a component of nucleotides of RNA. (ribose nucleic acid)
SECRETARY’S REPORT £75

fraction. A number of sugars and neuraminic acids were demon-
strated to be bound to the RNA.

The morphological development of plastids in the presence of a
carbohydrate substrate has been demonstrated to be controlled by the
phytochrome pigment system which is photosensitive to red and far-
red radiant energy. Microscopic examinations of leaf preparations
show a red light-induced disappearance of starch from within young
etiolated plastids. This observation has been substantiated by bio-
chemical analysis which also indicated that starch degradation was
preceded by a similar loss in total soluble sugars. In addition, these
changes, which are appreciable in 6 hours and maximal in 12 hours fol-
lowing a 38-minute exposure to light, correlate with the pronounced
photomorphogenic leaf expansion. Studies of the kinetics of these
changes, of temperature sensitivity and energy requirements for in-
duction and reversal, have been completed as a necessary preliminary
to an intensive study of the enzyme systems involved.

Attempts to correlate physiological responses in a number of tissues
to reported in vivo measurements of phytochrome concentrations have
led to the conclusion that a simple one-pigment system appears to be
inadequate in explaining the observed results. A far-red dose re-
sponse curve was determined immediately after, and 114 hours after
red induction. The data show a significant increase in sensitivity to
far-red after 114 hours in both lettuce seed germination and bean hy-
pocotyl hook opening. It was also observed that complete reversal of
the induced response can be obtained with sufficiently large amounts
of far-red energy from 214 hours to 4% hours after induction for both
lettuce and bean. Further, there is significant reversal of the red
induction for at least a 10-hour period in both.

Experiments using Avena mesocotyl inhibition in which non-
inhibitory pretreatments of red irradiation were given 24 hours prior
to inhibitory red treatments did not produce any change in sensitivity.
The published in vivo measurements indicate that such pretreatments
should have significantly reduced the level of phytochrome so that the
sensitivity should have changed. Also, experiments in which red
treatments were divided into two doses separated by 4-hour dark inter-
vals, or given as one continuous dose, showed marked differences in
the sensitivity to far-red reversal. These data do not fit reasonably
with a single pigment system.

Many biological responses, such as flowering, pigment synthesis,
seed germination, stem elongation, and leaf expansion are controlled
by photochemical! reactions initiated by various portions of the visible
spectrum. In a program of study never previously undertaken any-
where, measurements of specific spectral regions of sun and sky radia-

~j~~-reCtr-- = Pevensey ose we Pasa ee 444044 UUNSEULL WHEL

where, measurements of specific spectral regions of sun and sky ride

~j~~-reCtr-- — Sy a |

where. measurements of snecific enectral reoions of sun and elev radia.
