ANNUAL

REPORT
The United States

National Museum

Annual Report for the Year Ended
June 30, 1962

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
Untrep States Natrona Museum,
Unprer Direcrion or THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,
Washington, D.C., August 15, 1962.

Sir: I have the honor to submit herewith a report upon the present
condition of the United States National Museum and upon the work
accomplished in its various departments during the fiscal year ended
June 30, 1962.

Very respectfully,
REMINGTON KELLoae,
Director, U.S. National Museum.
Dr. Leonard CARMICHAEL,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.

Ir
Contents

LEN ODUCT ONES WANS (i etaes mane eRe ee NVA ua ER Auta, cult he il
1 SE SSCUSUATDSSI EPS: 5 weaey tenes Mee aie Cee eos ag cate ia crTae Ma ae renin tie ag 11
ACCESSIONS ... 2 IR Rr EINES oh cE TORT a PEM OEM Hams Naar ae tn Mn ene Lee ene 30
CARE OF Clannmomione. Beene ae eI Rah sas MIN RANM TOU eae ees tee on eg ae gt 49
JUN WIDE ACCVAGIIO UN) GIN DY ROSA eg” Se 5 Wal oe Sma neve gis Sel os, 59
PATIO POLO Gee pee hoor Tet ta ey, Atk Area erice ia Gy al eo See ogee le 59
NOOO ERG si nae a ek Ma a hee a Oats eal why Baten SATA et ay 70
TBO UBM? 1g 2S faa See Te RN! alle eas sad oN ile Re Tepe Saget nds Ga 79
Geology 3. =. So ORME IS Cheon poe coe ones An Seis 82
Science and Tadmolony Stirring oe ee RET) ar cd ch CNN Bae tee 90
NTCUSPA CM Via muha CuUGESa ty atte mee Lae see he einamiten) Ase, Beesley egy 92
Civil History. . . By scuttle Myrrh: (Gee ret atin e nla ee tres rs cee 7 yma ae 94
Armed Forces ASO - ieee a Saeian Sahe sme, Cm Names oA ee Man aa etc Cee SRE Sat 98
PUBLICATIONS ... a a se tna ANS Agta tool yeah ga nk nee 102
DONORS TO THE NiGaonet Cloumncmnons Stee ha zs SARE Sytem AGO R cen nna NU 114

Tit
June 30, 1962

United States National Museum

Director: Remington Kellogg

Registrar: Helena M. Weiss

Museum or Natura History

Director: Albert C. Smith

Mabel A. Byrd, Administrative Officer
Department of Anthropology: T. Dale Stewart, head curator

ARCHEOLOGY: Waldo R. Wedel, cura-
tor
Clifford Evans, Jr., associate cura-
tor
Gus W. Van Beek, associate curator
ErHNoLogy: Saul H. Riesenberg, cu-
rator
Gordon D. Gibson, associate curator
Eugene I. Knez, associate curator

William H. Crocker, associate cura-
tor

Robert A. Elder, Jr., assistant cura-
tor

PHYSICAL ANTHROPOLOGY :

Stewart, acting curator

Marshall T. Newman, associate cu-
rator

T. Dale

.)

A. Joseph Andrews, exhibits specialist

Department of Zoology: Horton H. Hobbs, Jr., head curator

MAmMMAtLs: David H. Johnson, cura-
tor
Henry W. Setzer, associate curator
Charles O. Handley, Jr., associate
curator
Birps: Philip 8S. Humphrey, curator
REPTILES AND AMPHIBIANS: Doris
M. Cochran, curator
FisHes: Leonard P. Schultz, curator
Ernest A. Lachner, associate cura-
tor
William R. Taylor, associate cura-
tor
Insects: J. F. Gates Clarke, curator
Oscar L. Cartwright, associate cura-
tor
Ralph E. Crabill, Jr., associate cura-
tor

William D. Field, associate curator
Oliver 8S. Flint, Jr., associate cura-
tor
Donald R. Davis, associate curator
MARINE INVERTEBRATES: Fenner A.
Chace, Jr., curator
Thomas E. Bowman, associate cura-
tor
Charles E. Cutress, Jr., associate
eurator
Donald F. Squires, associate curator
Mo.titusks: Harald A. Rehder, cura-
tor
Joseph P. E. Morrison, associate cu-
rator
Joseph Rosewater, associate cura-
tor
Department of Botany: Jason R. Swallen, head curator

PHANEROGAMS: Lyman B. Smith, cu-
rator
Richard 8. Cowan, associate curator
Velva EH. Rudd, associate curator
John J. Wurdack, associate curator
Ferns: Conrad V. Morton, curator
Woops: William L. Stern, curator

Department of Geology: G.

MINERALOGY AND PETROLOGY: George
S. Switzer, curator

Edward P. Henderson, associate
curator

Paul HE. Desautels, associate cura-
tor

Roy 8. Clarke, Jr., chemist
INVERTEBRATE PALEONTOLOGY AND Pa-
LEOBOTANY: Richard S. Board-
man, curator

GRASSES: Jason R. Swallen, acting
curator

Thomas R. Soderstrom, associate
curator

CrYPTOGAMS: Mason HE. Hale, curator
Paul S. Conger, associate curator

Arthur Cooper, head curator

Porter M. Kier, associate curator

Richard Cifelli, associate curator

Erle G. Kauffman, associate cura-
tor

VERTEBRATE PALEONTOLOGY: C. Lewis

Gazin, curator

Nicholas Hotton III, associate cu-
rator

Franklin L. Pearce, exhibits spe-
cialist

Museum or History AND TECHNOLOGY

Director: Frank A. Taylor

Assistant Director: John C. Ewers

William E. Boyle, administrative officer

Department of Science and Technology: Robert P. Multhauf, head curator
Joseph E. Rudman. assistant curator

PHYSICAL SCIENCES: Lester C. Lewis,
acting curator
Walter F. Cannon, associate curator
MECHANICAL AND CIVIL ENGINEERING:
Silvio A. Bedini, curator; in charge
of Section of Tools
Wdwin A. Battison, associate cura-
tor, Sections of Light Machinery
and Horology
Robert M. Vogel, associate curator,
Sections of Heavy Machinery and
Civil Engineering
ELEcrriciry : Robert P. Multhauf, act-
ing curator

VI

TRANSPORTATION : Howard I. Chapelle,
curator; in charge of Section of
Marine Transportation

Kenneth M. Perry, associate curator

John H. White, Jr:, associate cura-
tor, Section of Land Transporta-
tion

Mepican SCIENCES: Sami K. Hamar-

neh, associate curator, in charge;

in charge of Section of Medical
and Dental History, and Pharma-
ceutical History and Health
Department of Arts and Manufactures: Philip W. Bishop, head curator

MANUFACTURES AND HkEAvy INDUS-
TRIES: Philip W. Bishop, acting
curator

Charles O. Houston, Ji., associate
curator

AGRICULTURE AND FOREST PRODUCTS:
Edward C. Kendall, associate cu-
rator in charge

TEXTILES: Mrs. Grace Rogers Cooper,
curator
CERAMICS AND GLASS: Paul V. Gard-
ner, curator
GRAPHIC ARTS: Jacob Kainen, curator
Fuller O. Griffith, associate curator
Hugene Ostroff, associate curator,
Section of Photography

Department of Civil History: Richard H. Howland, bead curator

Peter C. Welsh, associate curator ; Doris A. Esch, assistant curator
Ellen J. Finnegan, junior curator

PowmiticAL History: Wilcomb HE.
Washburn, curator
Mrs. Margaret Brown Klapthor, as-
sociate curator
Mrs. Anne W. Murray, assistant
curator
Herbert R. Collins, assistant cu-
rator
Keith E. Melder, assistant curator
CULTURAL History: C. Malcolm Wat-
kins, curator
Rodris C. Roth, associate curator
Mrs. Cynthia Adams Hoover, assist-
ant curator

John N. Pearce, assistant curator
Anthony W. Hathaway, assistant
curator
PHILATELY AND POSTAL HISTORY:
Richard H. Howland, acting cu-
rator
George T. Turner, associate curator
Francis J. McCall, associate curator
Carl H. Scheele, assistant curator
NuUMISMATICS: Vladimir Clain-Stefa-
nelli, curator
Mrs. Elvira Clain-Stefanelli, asso-
ciate curator

Department of Armed Forces History: Mendel L. Peterson, head curator

Mitirary History: Edgar M. Howell,
curator

Craddock R. Goins, Jr., associate
curator

NAvAL History: Philip K. Lunde-
berg, curator

Office of Exhibits: John E. Anglim, Chief

Benjamin W. Lawless, assistant chief

Bela §. Bory, production super-

visor

Julius Tretick, production super-
visor

Watson M. Perrygo, in charge of taxidermy

Vit
Honorary Smithsonian Fellows, Collaborators, Associates,
Custodians of Collections, and Honorary Curators

Anthropology

John M. Campbell, Archeology Frank M. Setzler, Anthropology
Glenn H. Cole, Archeology H. Morgan Smith, Archeology
Albert Jamme, Archeology Walter W. Taylor, Jr., Anthropology
Neil M. Judd, Anthropology William J. Tobin, Physical Anthro-
Herbert W. Krieger, Anthropology pology
Betty J. Meggers, Archeology

Zoology
Oliver L. Austin, Birds Allen Mcintosh, Mollusks
Doris H. Blake, Insects J. Percy Moore, Marine Invertebrates
J. Bruce Bredin, Biology Carl F. W. Muesebeck, Insects
Melbourne A. Carriker, Jr., Insects Waldo L. Schmitt, Marine Inverte-
Ailsa M. Clark, Marine Invertebrates brates
Herbert G. Deignan, Birds Benjamin Schwartz, Helminthology
Carl J. Drake, Insects Robert E. Snodgrass, Insects
Herbert Friedmann, Birds Thomas E. Snyder, Isoptera
Frank M. Hull, Insects Alexander Wetmore, Birds
Laurence Irving, Birds Mrs. Mildred Stratton Wilson, Cope-
William L. Jellison, Insects pod Crustacea

Botany
Chester R. Benjamin, Fungi Floyd A. McClure, Grasses
Agnes Chase, Grasses Kittie F. Parker, Phanerogams
Elisworth P. Killip, Phanerogams John A. Stevenson, Fungi
Emory C. Leonard, Phanerogams William N. Watkins, Woods

Geology
C. Wythe Cooke, Invertebrate Pale- Wendell P. Woodring, Invertebrate

ontology Paleontology

Waldemar T. Schaller, Mineralogy

Science and Technology

Derek J. Price

History
Mrs. Arthur M. Greenwood, Cultural Ivor Noél Hume, Cultural History
History Fred W. McKay, Numismatics
Elmer C. Herber, History
xhibits

William L. Brown, Taxidermy
VIII
Annual Report of
the Director

United States National Museum
et

Installation of the facing on the Museum of History
and Technology was nearing completion in June 1962
Buildings
Additions to the Museum of Natural History

Construction of the east wing and the air conditioning of the exist-
ing Natural History building was authorized by the Congress in the
act (Public Law 86-455) approved May 18, 1960, which appropriated
$13,500,000. The east wing addition was in an advanced stage of
construction at the end of the fiscal year. Plastering of the interior
had been completed. Except for miscellaneous cleaning and calking,
work on the exterior is finished.

An appropriation (Public Law 87-122) for the construction of the
west wing and completion of renovation of the Natural History build-
ing was approved by Congress on August 3, 1961. At the end of the
fiscal year, however, the contract for this construction and renovation
had not been awarded. The west wing when completed will provide
laboratories and workrooms as well as adequate storage space for the
collections of the department of botany, and the divisions of fishes,
reptiles and amphibians, marine invertebrates, and insects. Mills,
Petticord & Mills, of Washington, D.C., are the architects, and the
contract for construction when awarded will be supervised by the
General Services Administration.

Museum of History and Technology

During the year, construction of the building for the Museum of
History and Technology reached the stage where it was desirable to
place two of the largest museum objects in the exhibition galleries.
The large steam locomotive and tender presented by the Southern
Railway System was placed on the rails in the transportation hall and
the original Revolutionary War gundelo Philadelphia was hoisted
through a window to its place in a third-floor military history hall.

Details of the progress of construction are contained in the report
of the Joint Congressional Committee on Construction of a Building
for a Museum of History and Technology (Senate Report No. 1702,
87th Cong., 2d sess., July 10, 1962), as follows:

The Joint Congressional Committee on Construction of a Building for a

Museum of History and Technology for the Smithsonian Institution submits this
report on the progress of the planning and construction of the building.
4 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1962

The provisions of the act of June 28, 1955, authorized the construction of a
building for a Museum of History and Technology, established the Joint Con-
gressional Committee to advise the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Insti-
tution during the planning and construction of the building, and required that
the Joint Congressional Committee submit a report annually on the progress
of construction.

On May 19, 1961, the cornerstone of the building was laid with ceremonies at
which the Chief Justice, in his capacity as Chancellor of the Smithsonian
Institution, reviewed the history of the development of the Smithsonian Insti-
tution as shown in its older buildings; and Senator Anderson, chairman of the
Joint Committee and Regent of the Smithsonian Institution, spoke of the pur-
pose of the new Museum of History and Technology and of the close relationship
which exists between the Smithsonian Institution and the Congress of the
United States. The addresses fellow :

THE MAJOR BUILDINGS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Address by the Chief Justice of the United States, the Honorable Harl Warren, in his
Capacity as Chancellor of the Smithsonian Institution

As the cornerstone of this great new Smithsonian building is laid, it is ap-
propriate to review the history of the development of the Smithsonian Institution
as shown in its older buildings.

It was almost exactly 114 years ago—on May 1, 1847—that the cornerstone
of the first Smithsonian building was laid. Impressive ceremonies marked the
event. It was the occasion of a public holiday, and it is recorded that six or
seven thousand people watched the mile-long procession as it marched along F
Street to the White House and then down Pennsylvania Avenue and 12th Street
to the site. There [pointing in the direction of the old Smithsonian Institution
Building] it still stands, ivy-covered, and peaceful, still the headquarters and the
center of Smithsonian activity, still an impressive architectural landmark that
many of us who see it every day have grown to admire as a structure that lends
graciousness and a mellow antiquity to fast-changing Washington. It has long
been, also, a national symbol of science and learning. Work done in that build-
ing played a not unimportant role in launching our present Age of Science, and
significant research is still conducted within its walls.

The founder of the Institution, James Smithson, himself, was a distinguished
investigator in chemistry and metallurgy, and he planned that his institution
should broadly foster science and research. He stated his aims in 1826 when
he drew his famous will bequeathing his fortune to the United States of America,
“to found at Washington an establishment for the increase and diffusion of
knowledge among men.”

The original Smithsonian building was designed by the distinguished Ameri-
can architect, James Renwick, Jr., and erected under the watchful eye of the
Institution’s first Secretary, the world-famous physicist, Dr. Joseph Henry.
The erection of the structure, begun, as I have said, in 1847, was completed in
1855 although portions of it were occupied earlier. The mellow brown stone
was quarried nearby from the banks of the Chesapeake & Ohio Canal near
Seneca Creek, Md. The building was the first Romanesque, sometimes called
Norman, building to be erected in this country for nonecclesiastical uses. An
interesting book was written about it as exemplifying the daring modern
architecture of the day.

From the first partial opening of this first building, the Smithsonian has been
a great museum center. Through the efforts of Dr. Henry, and Dr. Spencer
Fullerton Baird, the second Secretary of the Institution, and their successors, the
INTRODUCTION 5

Smithsonian’s museum activitives and collections have become in some ways the
greatest in the world. The demand for exhibition and storage space increased
even in the early years as important material was presented to the Institution,
particularly as a result of the surveys and explorations of our western terri-
tories. It is interesting to remember that Smithsonian scientists went with the
survey parties of the great transcontinental railroads and sent back streams of
important specimens to the Institution. _

When, in November 1876, the Centennial Exposition at Philadelphia closed, 66
freight cars brought choice and valuable exhibits to the Smithsonian. But there
was no place to exhibit them. Quick action was necessary, and Congress ap-
propriated funds to erect the second Smithsonian building. This structure, now
called the Arts and Industries Building, is the capacious red brick structure just
east of the original Smithsonian Building. It was begun in 1879, and completed
in 1881, just in time to accommodate the inaugural reception and ball for Presi-
dent Garfield on March 4. This building marked another milestone in the devel-
cpment of the Smithsonian for it provided a place for all aspects of exhibits, but
especially those in engineering, crafts, industries, medicine, and American his-
tory. There is reason to believe that more visitors have come to this building
in its 80 years of existence than to any other museum structure in the world.

Another quarter of a century passed and a third building for the Smithsonian
came into being. On March 38, 1903, Congress provided funds for the erection
of the Natural History Building at a cost of $3,500,000. It may be noted that
this sum was a not inconsiderable percentage of the total national budget of
that year. The distinguished Samuel Pierpoint Langley was then Secretary
of the Institution but he did not live to see the building completed. Although
begun in 1903, the first portion of the building was not opened to the public
until March 17, 1910, and all structural work was not completed until June 1911.
This monumental building is classical in design. Its architects were Horn-
blower and Marshall of Washington. Its 10 acres of floor space have served
the Nation well for half a century, but its walls have long been bulging with
exhibits, and the storage of collections for which no display space can be found.

The next Smithsonian building was the beautiful Freer Gallery of Art which
was given to the Nation in 1906 by the Detroit industrialist, Charles Lang Freer.
Ground was broken on September 23, 1916, and the building was completed in
the spring of 1921, about 18 months after the death of Mr. Freer. It is in the
style of Florentine Renaissance palace architecture. The architect was Charles
A. Platt of New York. Few museums in the world are as rich in the art treas-
ures of both the Far East and the Near East as the Freer Gallery. For 40 years
now the building has proved to be a fitting repository for its priceless collections
and an appropriate place for the research of scholars in the field of Oriental and
Middle Eastern art.

The temporary steel hangar-like building on Independence Avenue south of
the Smithsonian Building, the Air and Space Building, was erected in 1917 during
World War I as a testing laboratory for Liberty engines. After the war it was
opened to the public to display a small portion of the aeronautical collections in
the custody of the National Air Museum of the Smithsonian.

Finally, in this chronology, comes the National Gallery of Art, a most notable
addition to the Smithsonian “campus.” It was opened just 20 years ago. The
building, designed by the architect, John Russell Pope, and erected at a cost of
over $15 million, was a gift to the Nation of the late Andrew W. Mellon. It is one
of the largest marble structures in the world and has more than half a million
square feet of floor space. It is a monumental, permanent adornment to our
Nation’s Capital, and is a mecca for art lovers from all over America and the
world.
6 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1962

As a background for today’s ceremony, we can see how, through the years,
Smithsonian buildings have grown to keep pace with the development of the
Nation. It is indeed a cause for rejoicing that these older buildings are now
to be supplemented by, but not replaced by, a new and most urgently needed
building, the cornerstone of which we are laying today. This new building
will make possible the proper preservation and display of great collections of the
treasures of the American people for the benefit of the countless millions of
visitors who will come here in the years ahead.

THE NEW MUSEUM OF HISTORY AND TECHNOLOGY

Address by Senator Clinton P. Anderson, Member of the Board of Regents of the Smith-
Ssonian Institution and Chairman of the Joint Congressional Committee on Construction
of a Building for a Museum of History and Technology for the Smithsonian Institution

The Chief Justice has given you a history of the Smithsonian buildings that
are antecedent to the one whose cornerstone we are laying today. I would
like to speak of the purpose that this new Museum of History and Technology is
destined to serve in the life of our Nation. And then I shall refer to the close
relationship that exists between the Smithsonian Institution and the Congress
of the United States.

The purpose of this magnificent Museum Building is to illustrate the culture
and technological development of our Nation from colonial times. It will place
before the millions who visit the Nation’s Capital each year a stimulating exposi-
tion that commemorates our heritage of freedom and the technology of our way
of life.

In the cornerstone we place the official documents that provide the legislative,
historical, and patriotic foundation upon which this museum shall stand. The
structure will enclose over 50 museum halls to be filled with treasures long in
the possession of the Smithsonian, illustrating our cultural, civil and political
history, the history of our armed forces, and the development of science, tech-
nology, engineering, and manufacture.

In the central hall will be displayed the original Star-Spangled Banner—the
very flag seen in the “rockets red glare’ while flying over Fort McHenry when
Francis Scott Key wrote the words of our national anthem. This shell-torn
flag is properly considered by many as the greatest single historical museum
exhibit in America.

Famous inventions and models from practically every field of our technology
will be shown—Whitney’s model of his cotton gin, Morse’s telegraph, Henry’s
electromagnet, Howe’s sewing machine, Hdison’s electric lamp, Duryea’s auto-
mobile, Bell’s telephone, Thompson's electric welder, Borden’s evaporator, Corliss’
steam engine, Sholes’ typewriter.

Historical treasures such as George Washington’s sword, uniform, and field
kit, Thomas Jefferson’s desk at which he drafted the Declaration of Independ-
ence, the wheel of the battleship M/aine, the printing press at which Franklin
worked, the coat worn by Jackson at the Battle of New Orleans—these are
representative of the objects to be exhibited.

On the first floor, entered directly from Constitution Avenue, over 5 million
visitors each year will find exhibits showing advances in pure science and their
application to engineering and industry.

On the second floor, entered directly from the Mall, visitors will see in a
chronological series of halls the tools, weapons, and clothing of our ancestors.
Complete rooms will show home interiors, furnishings, and objects of the
decorative arts of many periods. The original gowns of the First Ladies will be
East wing of Natural History building in February
1962. Work of finishing the interior was well under-
way by June.

displayed in rooms reconstructed of original woodwork and furnishings obtained
from White House renovations.

On the floor above will be the Armed Forces collection—weapons, flags,
uniforms, warship models, prints, maps—all presented in the perspective of
history. Also on this floor will be exhibits related to the arts, including musical
instruments, printing presses, photographic equipment, ceramics, and glass.
The Smithsonian’s notable collections of coins and stamps, its history of the
mails with original early letters and models of mail coaches, and its comprehen-
Sive history of money and illustrations of the significance of medallic art will
be of great interest.

The upper floors will be dedicated to the extensive reference collections num:
bering over 800,000 historical and technological objects. Here also will be
the workrooms for the expert staff engaged in the examination and documenta-
tion of the collections.

Six or more generations of Americans have come to study and be inspired
in the older Smithsonian buildings which the Chief Justice has described. But
for the first time in this new structure it will be possible to present tens of
thousands of objects in a graphic and vivid way to tell the story of the growth of
our country.
8 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1962

This great new building we are dedicating today promises to be a worthy home
for the national treasures I have mentioned, and a worthy monument to the
people who are cooperating to make it a meaningful and useful museum. Per-
haps there should be a word about the very special relationship that, from the
beginning, has existed between the Congress and the Institution.

In 1835, President Jackson told Congress of James Smithson’s gift, and asked
Congress to take the legislative action needed to accept it. From that moment,
Smithson’s bequest engaged the attention of and inspired a sense of responsibility
in the country’s leading men, whether in public or private life. John Quincy
Adams, then in the House of Representatives, and Jefferson Davis, then in the
Senate, appreciated the importance of the gift. They overcame the objections
of others and induced Congress to accept the bequest of $500,000—about 2 percent
of the entire national budget for the year 1835. Starting in that year—at a time
when the young country was opening up the West, and was flexing its economic
muscles—five successive Congresses debated how this sum should be used to
“inerease and diffuse knowledge.” <A university, a great astronomical observa-
tory, a national agricultural school, an institution “to promote science and the
useful arts, and to establish a national museum” were suggested.

Finally, in 1846, the 29th Congress hammered out the broad mission of the
Smithsonian and framed its basic organizational structure. The act which it
passed on August 10, 1846, became the charter of the Institution. It vested the
Smithsonian with the prestige and dignity of the United States Government by
making the President, Vice President, Chief Justice, and members of the Cabinet
the Smithsonian establishment. It gave the Institution a Board of Regents
which, like a college board of trustees, is the continuing body that guides its
policies.

The present Chancellor of this Board is the Chief Justice of the United States.
On the Board sit the Vice President of the United States, six Members of Congress,
and six distinguished citizens of the United States. Together they serve as
custodians of the establishment.

The first Board of Regents in 1846 chose as the first Secretary America’s great
scientist—Joseph Henry. A distinguished line of public servants has followed
him.

The very special relationship of the Smithsonian to the Government was spelled
out many years ago by a former Chancellor of the Smithsonian, Chief Justice
Taft. It is not, he said, “and has never been considered a government bureau.
It is a private Institution under the guardianship of the Government.”

“James Smithson,” said Joseph Henry, ‘was well aware that knowledge should
not be viewed as existing in isolated parts, but as a whole, each portion of which
throws light on all the other, and that the tendency of all is to improve the human
mind and give it new sources of power and enjoyment.”

James Smithson, distinguished scientist and benefactor of the people of the
United States, would surely look with pride upon this newest addition to the
museums of the Smithsonian Institution.

These years, as were those in which the Smithsonian was created, are times of
difficulty made more troublesome by the problems of expansion. No longer does
research center only on minerals, animals, and plants. Travel through space is
almost at hand; Mars and Venus will soon be on our visiting list. The split atom
and the rays of the sun may propel our vehicles through the constellations of
stars. We will need this museum.

In a superlative way, this new structure will further the exalted objective of its
founder that this Institution should serve America and the world through “the
increase and diffusion of knowledge among men.”
INTRODUCTION 9

DOCUMENTS PLACED IN CORNERSTONE

The contents of the document box in the cornerstone of the Museum of History
and Technology Building are as follows:

1. The act of Congress, approved August 10, 1846, establishing the Smithsonian
Institution.

2. The Smithsonian Institution, Smithsonian Publication 4145, 1959 edition.

3. The Annual Report of the Secretary and Financial Report of the Executive
Committee of the Board of Regents for 1960.

4. The Annual Report of the United States National Museum for 1960.

5. The act of Congress authorizing the construction of the Museum of History
and Technology (Public Law 106, 84th Cong.).

6. The acts of Congress appropriating funds for construction of the building
(Public Laws 219 and 573, 84th Cong.).

7. Names of the members of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion and of the Joint Congressional Committee on the Construction of
the Building.

8. Reports of the Joint Congressional Committee, April 16, 1958, and May 20,
1959.

9. Photographs of renderings of the building.

10. Photograph of construction operations, May 1, 1961.

11. Roster of the staff, Museum of History and Technology, including Office
of Exhibits, April 17, 1961.

12. Smithsonian Institution directory, August 1960.

Eat Tt, Seat,
PROGRESS ON CONSTRUCTION SINCE JUNE 1961

During the past year the structural concrete work has been completed ; all pre-
cast concrete panels were erected for the exterior walls; the roof has been made
sufficiently weathertight to permit work to continue through the winter; metallic
waterproofing was completed in the basement; and the pumping of ground water
was terminated. The marble facing has been substantially completed on all
walls from the second floor terrace to the top of the building and marble facing on
the first floor walls is continuing. Window frames were installed in most open-
ings and a number of windows have been glazed. Granite paving of the second
floor terrace has begun.

Most masonry interior partitions have been erected and stud partitions have
been framed throughout the exhibition floors. Terrazzo floors in the first and
second floor exhibition areas are substantially complete and terrazzo work
progresses on the third and fifth floors.

Permanent electrical connections have been made to tranformers and electrical
gear rooms and wiring is being installed in many parts of the building. The
cooling tower has been erected and work on the cooling tower machinery room is
well advanced. Installation of ducts, piping, and other mechanical work in-
cluding elevators and escalators has progressed concurrently with structural and
architectural work. A large freight elevator is expected to be in operation in
May 1962.

The building was reported to be 72 percent complete on April 24, 1962. With
the inclusion of materials on the site the percentage of completion of the contract
was estimated to be 75 percent.

The General Services Administration is charged by law with the
responsibility for the construction of the building. Officials of the

658794—_62—_2.
10 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1962

General Services Administration who have been very helpful in fur-
thering the work of construction include, among others, L. L. Hunter,
E. T. Van Vranken, Otis A. Waldrop, Clyde C. Key, Thomas A.
Reneau, and Raymond Eichorn. John E. Cudd, liaison architect,
has devoted increased attention to the Museum of History and Tech-
nology during the year and continues to provide sound architectural
judgment and advice.

Roy W. Johnson was named resident engineer in charge of supervi-
sion of construction. Arthur R. Eno, supervisory engineer, continued
to observe the progress of construction for the Smithsonian Institution
and solved many problems resulting from job conditions.

On June 23, 1962, C. J. White, partner of the firm of Steinmann,
Cain & White, died after a brief illness. Mr. White was associated
with the design and construction of the Museum of History and Tech-
nology from about June 15, 1957, to his death. He will be greatly
missed by his associates, as will his energy and intimate knowledge of
the work.

Funds Allotted

From the funds appropriated by the Congress to carry on the
operations of the Smithsonian Institution and its bureaus during the
fiscal year 1962, the sum of $4,176,000 was obligated by the United
States National Museum for the preservation, increase, and study of
the national collections of anthropological, zoological, botanical, and
geological materials, as well as materials illustrative of engineering,
technology, industry, graphic arts, and history (this amount includes
sums expended for the program of exhibits modernization).
Exhibits

During the year the opening of the hall of the cultures of the Pacific
and Asia marked the complete modernization of the 10th of the 15
large galleries on the first floor of the Museum of Natural History.
Preparation of exhibits for two other halls in this museum pro-
gressed in anticipation of their reopening before the end of the cal-
endar year 1962. Under the chairmanship of Museum Director Albert
C. Smith, the committee coordinating and supervising the modern-
ization of natural history exhibits reviewed the planning of six
additional halls in earlier stages of development and recommended
space assignments for the other fields of natural history included in
the modernization program. The design of the renovated halls in
this building was greatly aided by Richard S. Johnson, design branch
chief, and John H. Morrissey, Architectural Branch Chief of the
Architectural and Structural Division of the Public Buildings Serv-
ice, General Services Administration, and by Luther H. Flouton and
Pasquale Battestelli, design architects of that agency.

Exhibits chief John E. Anglim provided overall supervision to the
exhibits staff engaged in the design, production, and installation of
permanent exhibits in the entire museum, and directly supervised the
operation of the exhibits laboratory in the Natural History building.
Julius Tretick assisted in supervising the production and installation
of exhibits in the Natural History building.

Assistant Director John C. Ewers continued to coordinate the
activities of the curators and the exhibits staff engaged in planning
and preparing exhibits for the Museum of History and Technology.
During the year exhibits units were prepared which will be installed
in 16 of the galleries of the new museum. Some of these new ex-
hibits were placed on temporary exhibition in the Arts and Industries
building, but the majority of them were carefully packaged and stored
until the new Museum is ready to receive them. Particular emphasis
was given this year to the development of exhibits which will be in-
stalled next year in halls which will be open when the building is
opened to the public. Benjamin W. Lawless continued to supervise
the design and preparation of exhibits for the Museum of History and
Technology, ably assisted by Robert Widder in design, Bela S. Bory
in production, and Robert Klinger in the model shop. The staff of
this laboratory also prepared additional exhibits for the Adar and

11
12 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1962

Space building, while two large temporary exhibits held in the
Natural History building were designed and produced by members
of the exhibits group in that building. Joseph G. Weiner, with the
assistance of Constance Minkin and Edna Wright, continued the
editing of the curators’ drafts of exhibits scripts.

Anthropology

In the presence of ambassadors and other official representatives of
a number of Pacific and south and southeast Asian countries the
modernized hall of the cultures of the Pacific and Asia was formally
opened to the public on June 28, 1962. The Honorable D. H. Nucker,
Director of Insular Affairs, U.S. Department of the Interior,
delivered the principal address at the opening ceremonies.

This hall now contains more than 50 exhibits which depict aspects
of life, past and present, in the Pacific Islands, Australia, New Zea-
land, and the great arc of southern Asia from the Philippines to
Pakistan. The exhibits are designed to acquaint the visitor with the
complexity and sophistication of the many cultures represented.
These range from the stone age to the highly advanced cultures of
India, Pakistan, Malaya, and Indonesia, which have flourished for
centuries. The peoples of Hawaii and New Zealand are depicted as
they were when Europeans discovered them over a century ago.
Present-day life is represented in such exhibits as a Sindhi kitchen
scene in West Pakistan, a group of Cambodian village implements,
and shadow puppets from Malaya.

The colors in this hall are lively and yet harmonious. As the
visitor enters from the rotunda his attention is attracted by a large
stone head from Easter Island mounted in front of a lighted red back-
ground. Among the other spectacular items in the hall are a 614-foot
piece of stone money from Yap, several of the almost priceless royal
feather capes from Hawaii, and a life-sized Kathakali dancer repre-
senting a religious dance drama from South India. Interspersed
throughout the exhibits of cultural objects are life groups depicting
an Ifugao rice harvest in the Philippines, and domestic scenes among
the Maori of New Zealand and the Samoans. Some of the exhibits
display objects specially collected for the present installation, and they
include recent gifts from India, Malaya, and other countries. Others
show specimens from the Museum’s older and more unusual collections,
such as a variety of weapons and artifacts collected by the United
States Exploring Expedition of 1838-42. Students of primitive art
will find many pieces of esthetic importance in this exhibition.
EXHIBITS if)

MONUMENTAL STATUES were erected. by.

the Easter Istenders as memorials to

he ‘dead whose spirits—~when in-

Woked by the priests—were believed
canter the living.

Hundreds of these statues were

in rows atop raised stone

sums along the coast... These

ims, used until the mid—1 9th

served both os burial places

Sonétuaries where offering:

UE UNFINISHED — some
‘ others abandoned
work was to be

en the quorry ond

impleted statve
feighs more
ished statue,

es halted the quor-

Ipture. By 1840

e wos left standing
leum platforms, but
j on the hillsides.

This stone head, brought back from Easter Island in 1886 by paymaster
Thomson of the USS Mohawk, greets the visitor entering the new hall,

Cultures of the Pacific and Asia. It is 10 feet tall. (Other pictures on
pages 32 and 60-69.)

Curator of ethnology Saul H. Risenberg specified the exhibits on
the Pacific Islands, and associate curator Eugene I. Knez those on
south and southeast Asia. Exhibits designer Dorothy Guthrie pre-
pared the hall layout and graphic designs of the individual exhibits.
Because of the rapid cultural changes now taking place in all the areas
14 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1962

of the world represented in this hall, the curators expect to add to or
modify the exhibits frequently.

Contract construction in the adjacent hall, which will contain an
extension of the Asian exhibits and will also interpret the cultures
of Africa, was nearing completion at year’s end. Associate curators
Gordon D. Gibson and Eugene I. Knez have been collecting and
selecting specimens which will be installed in the hall during the
coming year. When this hal] is reopened, all four of the ethnological |
halls in the Museum will have been modernized.

Curator Waldo R. Wedel continued throughout the year to select
materials and to prepare scripts for the exhibits in the second of two
halls of North American archeology to be renovated. This hall will
include displays which interpret archeological methods and objectives,
early man in North America, and the archeological cultures of north-
eastern United States, the Middle Atlantic area, southeastern United
States, the Mississippi-Ohio area, the Great Plains, and southwestern
United States. Valuable aid in planning some of these exhibits was
provided by Raymond S. Baby, Ohio State Museum (Mississippi-
Ohio area); W. H. Sears, Florida State Museum (southeastern
United States) ; and associate curator Clifford Evans (archeological
methods and objectives). By the close of the year two-thirds of the
exhibits had been designed, and installation was proceeding.

The hall assigned to Old World archeology is being planned under
the scientific direction of associate curator Gus Van Beek. Follow-
ing his return from fieldwork, Dr. Van Beek and designer Rolland
O. Hower collaborated in working out the general layout of exhibits
in this hall, which will present the setting and distinguishing charac-
teristics of the prehistoric and historic cultures of the ancient Near
East and the Mediterranean World.

Head curator T. Dale Stewart and associate curator of physical
anthropology Marshall T. Newman are planning the subjects to be
interpreted in the new hall of physical anthropology. Its location
makes possible the presentation of early-man exhibits at the end of
the hall adjacent to the entrances to both the Old World and New
World archeology halls, while exhibits on man as a primate at the
other end will be near the primate exhibits in the hall of osteology.
Working with exhibits designer Joseph Shannon, the curators have
devised a system of flexible exhibits which will facilitate future
changes. At the close of the year nearly all the major decisions regard-
ing hall organization had been made.

In addition to their activities in the exhibits modernization pro-
eram, staff members of the department participated in the presenta-
tion of three temporary exhibitions. During September and October
1961 the division of ethnology collaborated with the division of
EXHIBITS 15

cultural history in honoring the Eighth Congress of the Interna-
tional Musicological Society by presenting a display of musical instru-
ments, among which were talking drums from the Congo, conch
trumpets from Polynesia, bells from China, a gong harmonium from
Thailand, and North American Indian rattles selected from the ethno-
logical collections. From November 1961 to March 1962 this division
collaborated with the division of military history in showing a selec-
tion of the weapons and armor from the Oliver La Gorce collection
received by the Museum during the past year. The National Geo-
graphic Society cooperated in presenting this exhibition. Finally,
in December 1961 and January 1962 the division offered a special
exhibition of 80 newly cleaned and restored oil paintings of American
Indians by the artist George Catlin, which was installed in the foyer
of the Natural History building.

Zoology

During the year curators in all divisions of this department, except
the division of insects, which has been assigned a separate hall to be
developed later in the program, were deeply involved in planning
three halls which are being completely renovated.

Dr. Fenner A. Chace, Jr., curator of marine invertebrates, contin-
ued to coordinate curatorial activity in the development of the hall
of oceanic life, including the field collecting of specimens for exhi-
bition, the specification of models, and the writing of detailed exhibit
scripts. In April Dr. Leonard P. Schultz, curator of fishes, and
John C. Widener, plastics expert, visited Vancouver, British Colum-
bia, to make molds of a large basking shark, weighing over 2 tons and
measuring 21 feet 6 inches in length, a 12-foot-wide manta ray, an
11-foot sturgeon, and an 8-foot sawfish. Through the generous aid
of the B. C. Packers, Ltd., at Steveston, British Columbia, these
large fishes were frozen and prepared for spraying with plastics.

Associate curator Donald F. Squires left Washington on May 2
for Noumea, New Caledonia, where he collected, prepared, and photo-
graphed the remaining materials required for the coral reef group.
He was assisted by Thomas G. Baker of the exhibits staff. Fresh
material for the sea snake group also is being obtained from the
Pacific.

Dr. Chace and associate curators Charles E. Cutress, Jr., and
Thomas E. Bowman wrote exhibits scripts and prepared specifications
for detailed models of marine invertebrates which are being created
by modelmakers. Mr. Cutress obtained from biological supply houses
and individual collectors frozen specimens and photographs for
use in preparing exhibits for this hall. He developed a method of
Freeze-moulding process: 11-foot white sturgeon Acipenser trans-
montanus, in plastic-lined box that will be filled with water so that fish
can assume normal waterborne position. After fish is frozen, ice is
chipped away so that it can be moulded in Fibreglas-reinforced plastic.
The two sections of the mould, bottom, are examined by curator Leonard
P. Schultz and exhibits specialist John C. Widener, who developed the
process.

EXHIBITS IZ

Cs id on : = Cm en

Preparing models of marine invertebrates for the hall of oceanic life.

quick freezing specimens in a cheesecloth “cocoon” so that they can
be shipped long distances in styrofoam containers, with dry ice,
without damage to fragile appendages. Curator of mollusks Harald
A. Rehder also provided basic data to modelmakers and gave scien-
tific guidance to exhibits personnel who are preparing models of
mollusks for display in this hall. Model preparation continued
throughout the year. Exhibits designers Gorman Bond and Morris
Pearson are designing individual display units.

Curator of fishes Leonard P. Schultz served as chairman of the
group of staff scientists who are collaborating with exhibits designer
Barbara Craig in the development of the new hall of cold-blooded
vertebrates. Other members of this planning group include curator
of reptiles Doris M. Cochran and associate curators of fishes Ernest
A. Lachner and William R. Taylor. They have prepared detailed
outlines of exhibits which will interpret the life activities, anatomical
adaptations, breeding behavior, distribution, evolutionary history, and
the variety of the different kinds of fishes, amphibians, and reptiles.
Habitat groups as well as topical exhibits will appear in this hall.
The hall was cleared of all old cases and the contractor began new
construction in it early in May 1962.
18 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1962

ae
Sethe

Botany-Exhibits Expedition recorded Kaieteur Falls, British Guiana, and
its surroundings on film and canvas for rain-forest group in the new
hall of plant life. Photographs will provide color data.

Under the chairmanship of curator of mammals David H. Johnson,
representatives of each of the vertebrate divisions cooperated with
exhibits designer Rolland O. Hower in planning the renovated hall
of osteology. This hall will present a large series of skeletons of
mammals, birds, reptiles, amphibians, and fishes, carefully selected
to demonstrate relationships, variations, specializations, and adapta-
tions. A systematic arrangement of the various groups will be re-
tained as far as possible, and a section of the hall will be devoted to
general topics such as the nature of bone and the interrelationships
of skeletal parts. Taxidermists have begun the preparation of ma-
terials for exhibition. At year’s end the hall was cleared in readiness
for the beginning of the construction of cases and other built-in fea-
tures of the modernized installation.

During the year “Martha,” last of the passenger pigeons, was placed
on exhibition in the bird hall. The temporary exhibit of mollusks in
the west hall of the second floor was removed to make way for reno-
vation activity in the cold-blooded vertebrate and osteology halls.
EXHIBITS: 19

Botany

Planning is now well advanced for a hall of plant life which even-
tually will be constructed in the large hall north of the rotunda in
the Natural History building.

In connection with these plans, a Smithsonian party of four spent
9 weeks early in 1962 in the interior of British Guiana, for the pur-
pose of obtaining specimens, data, and models for the construction of
a rain-forest group. It is proposed to use as the setting for this group
the spectacular gorge below Kaieteur Falls, on the Potaro River. In
this region the party made large collections of plant materials, took
2,500 Kodachrome pictures, and exposed 5,000 feet of color film, and
prepared many life-sized models which can be duplicated at will for
use in the life group. Sketches and paintings to be used as guides in
the exhibit, including a scale painting of the Falls, were also pre-
pared. The party, led by associate curator of phanerogams Richard
5. Cowan, included associate curator of grasses Thomas R. Soder-
strom, exhibits worker Reginald J. Sayre, and modelmaker Paul
Marchand.

Geology

Development of the hall of fossil reptiles was this department’s
major exhibition project during the year. This hall will interpret
the biological relationships among the reptiles through time. Ex-
hibits will emphasize the various ways reptiles met environmental
demands. By year’s end major contract construction in this hall was
completed, and six skeletons and four slabs of reptile footprints had
been partially or completely installed by the division staff. Five
additional specimens, two of them from the South African collection,
were prepared for exhibition, and the preparation of five more South
African fossils was in progress. The hall was designed by exhibits
designer Ann Karras under the scientific direction of associate curator
of vertebrate paleontology Nicholas Hotton IIT.

Additions have been planned or made to exhibits in three of the
department’s four halls which have been renovated. In the hall of the
age of mammals in North America, a Phocene diorama, prepared by
N. N. Deaton, was installed. The agate slab of Miocene mammal
remains and a slab of mammal footprints of Kocene age donated by
the Shell Oil Co. were installed by the division staff. J. H. Matternes
completed the large mural depicting an early Miocene assemblage,
and carried a similar mural of Oligocene life more than 50 percent
toward completion.

The addition of a large wall mural graphically depicting the great
magnitude of geologic time has been planned for the invertebrate
20 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1962

paleontology and paleobotany hall. Geologic time is perhaps the
most important unifying concept of this hall.

Many new and outstanding gems, such as a 300-carat blue star
sapphire from Burma, were added to the gem exhibit, and the quality
of the mineral exhibit was further upgraded by substituting 176
specimens for a like number already in the cases. On November 9,
1961, the Jubilee diamond—weighing 245.35 carats and the third larg-
est diamond in existence—was received on loan from its owner, Paul-
Louis Weiller, and placed on exhibition for a period of about 8
months.

Science and Technology

Exhibits for five halls of this department, to be installed in the
new Museum of History and Technology, were in production during
the year.

Twelve new exhibits on health education and the history of medi-
cine, pharmacy, and dentistry were installed in the gallery of medical
sciences in the Arts and Industries building. They illustrate child
health, the use of X-ray in medicine, hearing aids and the surgery of
the ear, inhalers, masks and machines used in anesthesia, the develop-
ment of the electrocardiograph, early pharmaceutical mortars and
pestles, and dental drilling. These free-standing units will be trans-
ferred to the new Museum of History and Technology. Associate
curator Sami IK. Hamarneh, who worked closely with the exhibits staff
in the design and production of these units, has also given technical
supervision to the restoration of an 1890-period drugstore, one of the
major exhibits in the new hall of pharmacy. Prior to his resignation,
curator John Blake completed specifications for a diorama depicting
an operation being performed in the amphitheater at the Pennsyl-
vania Hospital, Philadelphia, in 1804. It will be a feature in the
section of the new hall of medicine devoted to the history of surgery.

Curator Silvio A. Bedini has collaborated with designer Harry Hart
in planning and developing the hall of tools. Nearly half the
exhibits for this hall, begun in July 1961, were completed by the end
of the year. One of them reproduces a 13th-century stained-glass
panel, from the Cathedral of Chartres, depicting a turner at work.
Another will be an equipped pre-Civil War machine shop.

Exhibits were completed for the largest section of the hall of light
machinery—that devoted to the history of timekeeping. The dis-
plays for the phonograph section were ready for production. The
EXHIBITS 21

Exhibits designer Robert A. Widder and exhibits specialist Nadya
Kayaloff use a model to study placement of exhibits in a hall dealing
with the growth of the United States, in the Museum of History and
Technology.

reproduction of the De Dondi clock, earliest known mechanical clock
about which details have survived, will be one of the feature exhibits
in this hall, for which associate curator Edwin A. Battison has speci-
fied the contents and Barbara Bowes provided the graphic designs.
Production was continued on the exhibits for the hall of civil
engineering, and 42 units have thus far been completed, including 8
scale models illustrating the historic development of methods of soft-
ground and hard-rock tunneling in Europe and America. Designer
Harry Hart completed the graphic design of other exhibits in the
section of tunneling. Associate curator Robert M. Vogel continued
to prepare specifications for the models illustrating the history of
bridge construction, and he also wrote a detailed script for the
refrigeration section of the hall of heavy machinery, which will fea-
ture a number of demonstrations of the principally employed refrig-
eration cycles, as well as examples of refrigeration machinery.
22, U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1962

Under the scientific direction of head curator Robert P. Multhauf,
11 units in the section of the hall of physics and astronomy interpret-
ing early physical science were completed, and additional units in
both the classical and applied physics sections were prepared. By the
close of the year, designer Ronald Elbert had completed the graphic
design of the applied physics exhibits and was designing displays
for the section of astronomy.

Production of exhibits for the street railway section of the railroad
hall was completed and exhibits for the steam locomotive section of
this hall were being prepared at the end of the year. In December
1961 the 92-foot, 280-ton Pacific-type locomotive 7407, a gift of the
Southern Railway System, became the first exhibit to be installed in
the new building. Associate curator John H. White, Jr., completed
the writing of scripts on the subjects of rails, brakes, and couplers,
and he continued the specification of locomotive and car models for
this hall. The construction of a model portraying the elevated rail-
way of New York City was completed.

Three vehicles that are to be exhibited in the hall of autos and
coaches in the new Museum were restored. The Lawrence coach, gift
of Mrs. Richard Saltonstall, was placed on display in the Arts and
Industries building in May 1962. The Winton Bullet and the Haynes
automobiles were restored and returned to exhibition in the auto hall.

The program for construction of marine transportation exhibits
in the watercraft hall of the new museum continued under the direc-
tion of curator Howard I. Chapelle. Exhibits designer James
Mahoney completed a revision of the layout of free-standing exhibit
units. A prototype case, especially designed for the display of ship
models and equipped with a flexible system of adjustable mounting
supports, was received and was being tested at the end of the year.

Dr. Robert A. Chipman, consultant in the planning of the hall of
electricity, revised the scripts for the exhibits in wired communica-
tion and power, one of the three sections of this hall, and the graphic
design of exhibits in this section was substantially completed. At
year’s end Dr. Chipman was preparing detailed scripts for exhibits in
the section of radio communications. During the year an Edison
incandescent lamp collection, previously in storage, and a color tele-
vision set presented by the General Electric Research Laboratory were
placed on exhibition in the Arts and Industries building. Other
exhibits projects of the department during the year included the
installation of Renaissance instruments in the southwest gallery, and
the temporary exhibition of the newly acquired “Subway Engine”
model in the rotunda during the months of May and June 1962.
EXHIBITS Dp

Exhibits specialists Don Holst and Jamie Hitchcock prepare a unit
featuring elaborate animation devices for the hall of physics.

Arts and Manufactures

Completion of the new exhibits for the textile hall gallery in 1961
reduced exhibits activity in textiles to the making of a few adjust-
ments, the most important of which was a change in the mechanism
of the quilt case. Because of the unexpectedly heavy use of this
exhibit by the Museum’s visitors, it became necessary to replace the
dial-electronic system, used to select the quilt the viewer wishes to
see, with a much simpler mechanical system.

Associate curator of agriculture and wood products Edward C.
Kendall, in cooperation with exhibits designer Riddick Vann, devel-
oped a layout plan for the new forest products hall.

The greater number of the exhibits for the new hall of graphic arts
are now on exhibition or are in storage awaiting the completion of
the new building. However, additional prints and printing equip-
ment to be displayed in the graphic arts hall were acquired during
the year. The “Kelmscott Chaucer,” a beautiful and important book
printed by William Morris, was placed on permanent exhibition in
May. Housed in a specially designed case, this book is a gift of
24 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1962

the Honorable Clinton P. Anderson, a Regent of the Smithsonian
Institution.

Associate curator Eugene Ostroff is revising the script for the hall
of photography to include many new exhibits and to extend the possi-
bilities for visitor participation. He revised the existing photo-
graphic gallery exhibits to provide more information on specific
phases of photographic history.

Six special exhibits in graphic arts and three in photography were
shown during the year:

Grapuic Arts

Recent accessions 19 prints in various media J uly 1-September 30,
1961
Karly color illustrations in 19 prints from the collec- October 2-November 5,
periodicals tion 1961
Prints by James L. Wells 22 prints in various media November 6—January 7,
1962
Woodcuts and lithographs 21 prints January 8-February 28,
from the University of 1962
Wisconsin
American etchings from the 22 prints March 1—April 30, 1962
collection
The lithographs of Childe 42 prints May 1—May 31, 1962

Hassam (in collaboration
with the Smithsonian In-
stitution Traveling Ex-
hibition Service)
PHOTOGRAPHY

Carbro prints by Victor 45 color prints March 1-31, 1962
Keppler

Photographie interpreta- 48 black-and-white prints April 2-May 1, 1962
tions by Clarence J.

Laughlin

Architectural prints and 10 color transparencies May 2—June 12, 1962
color transparencies by 9 color prints
Ezra Stoller 9 black-and-white prints

Preparation of exhibits for the hall of ceramics was continued, and
by year’s end more than 30 percent of the units for this hall had been
produced. The designs for the ceramic fountain and decorative wall
grill for the hall were selected by a j ury from a group of designs sub-
mitted by students at the New York State College of Ceramics, Alfred,
N.Y. Production of exhibits for the hall of glass was initiated in the
laboratory in February. The stained-glass entrance panel for this
hall has been produced. The exhibits for these two halls were specified
by curator Paul V. Gardner and designed by Mrs. Dorothy Guthrie.

The detailed script for the hall of nuclear energy was substantially
completed. Many exhibits in this hall will be reconstructions of early
experiments, and much thought has been given to devising techniques
EXHIBITS 25

which will demonstrate phenomena in a manner which will make them
intelligible to the layman. The American Petroleum Institute ap-
pointed a special subcommittee to assist in the location of historical
material and in developing petroleum exhibits.

A large number of typical machines have been acquired for the hall
of general manufacturing, and research is being conducted prelimi-
nary to the drafting of exhibit script for this hall. Scripts for the
hall of iron and steel and the hall of mining are in preparation.

Civil History

All three of the halls of the division of political history were in
production during the year. Thirty-two units for the hall of Ameri-
can politics, planned by curator Wilcomb E. Washburn in cooperation
with exhibits designer Robert Widder, have been produced in the
laboratory. For the new First Ladies hall the Washington bedroom
restoration was completed and the preparation of the Washington
drawing room setting was well advanced. A diorama portraying
Dolly Madison removing furnishings from the White House during
the War of 1812 was completed. Eight of the mannequins in the First
Ladies hall were given facial make-up in natural flesh colors by
exhibits technician Dolores Gambino. Staff members and visitors to
the hall have found this treatment less distracting than was the pre-
vious presentation of mannequins without facial coloring. Forty-six
units for the hall of American costume have been produced, and a
majority of the mannequins for the hall have been received and fitted
with the costumes for which they were designed under the supervision
of assistant curator Anne W. Murray.

The division of political history installed small temporary exhibits
dealing with the political campaigns of 1840 and 1896, and an exhibi-
tion of commemorative objects associated with the three assassinated
Presidents. A special exhibition of the dollhouse used by Fanny
Hayes, the daughter of President Rutherford B. Hayes, when she lived
in the White House from 1877 to 1881, proved very attractive to Mu-
seum visitors. This exhibition was arranged with the cooperation of
Mr. and Mrs. Webb C. Hayes III and the Hayes Memorial Library of
Fremont, Ohio, which owns the dollhouse. A Women’s Rights ex-
hibition is being gradually developed to give representation to pre-
viously neglected periods of this movement and to reflect more
accurately its development in this country during the 19th and 20th
centuries.

Production of exhibits for the hall of everyday life in the American
past, planned by curator of cultural history C. Malcolm Watkins and
designed by exhibits chief John E. Anglim, was continued, and by

658794— 62

=
o

26 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1962

Opening of exhibit honoring 8th Congress of the International Musico-
logical Society was marked by a demonstration of the recently restored
Ruckers virginal of 1620 and Italian harpsichord of 1693.

year’s end one-third of the units for this large hall had been prepared
in the laboratory. Meanwhile, George H. Watson made marked prog-
ress in the restoration and trial erection of the series of period rooms
which will be displayed in this hall. An exceptional collection of
marked 17th- and 18th-century American pewter, lent by Dr. Joseph
H. Kler, and a New York repoussé silver two-handled bowl, made in
the early 18th century by Benjamin Wynkoop for Nicholas and Hil-
letje Roosevelt and lent by Mrs. Jack R. Hovey, were placed upon
exhibition in the existing hall of everyday life in early America in the
Natural History building.

Assistant curator Cynthia Adams Hoover prepared exhibit scripts
for the hall of musical instruments in the new building. In collabora-
tion with designer Joseph Shannon, she developed a very effective
special exhibition of rare and seldom exhibited musical instruments
from the Museum collections on the occasion of the Eighth Congress of
the International Musicological Society in September. On view
through October, this attractive display presented instruments asso-
ili wae

Early 17th-century virginal and chitarrone from Italy, one of 19 exhibits
prepared for the Congress of musicologists. North American Indian
instruments, below, are from Museum’s ethnological collections.

28 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1962

ciated with the traditional music of Europe and America, as well as
instruments from Asia, Africa, and Oceania. Employing another
dimension in exhibition, Mrs. Hoover in April directed a recital of
late Baroque music in the auditorium of the Natural History bulding
in which two restored harpsichords and an oboe and a one-keyed flute,
both of the 18th century, were demonstrated.

Associate curator Peter C. Welsh, with the invaluable cooperation
of Dr. Anthony N. B. Garvan, chairman of the Department of Ameri-
ean Civilization at the University of Pennsylvania, continued to work
closely with designer Robert Widder in planning the series of halls
which will interpret the growth of the United States. The design of
the hall devoted to the period 1750-1850, which will occupy an area
of 9,500 square feet in the new museum, was approved. Selections
from the Harry T. Peters America on Stone lithography collection
continued to circulate under the auspices of the Smithsonian Traveling
Exhibition Service.

Associate curators Francis J. McCall and George T. Turner and
assistant curator Car! H. Scheele wrote and revised exhibits scripts for
the new hall of philately and postal history. An introductory exhibit
and the series of 11 units illustrating the postal history of the Dis-
trict of Columbia were designed, and 4 types of cases, specially adapted
to the display of postal history materials, were constructed. The
cooperation of the British Crown Agents enabled the division to pre-
pare a special exhibition featuring new stamps issued by Seychelles,
Fiji, Tanganyika, Swaziland, and the Postal Centenary issue for the
West Indies. Also displayed were original drawings and design sub-
jects for these stamps, items seldom seen outside the British Isles and
of particular interest to philatelists. Another special exhibition pre-
sented stamps and covers which resulted from Project Mercury’s suc-
cessful orbital flight made by Col. John H. Glenn, a subject of timely
interest to the public.

In the numismatics hall a specially designed semiautomatic case
which can display an average of 800 coins was installed on an experi-
mental basis. Its 40 trays, each measuring 214 by 44 inches, are
suspended between continuous chain devices. By pushing either of
two electrical contacts imparting forward or backward motion to an
electrically driven system of gears, the visitor may examine any tray
in which he may be interested.

Armed Forces History

Curator of naval history Philip K. Lundeberg revised scripts for
the naval and Marine Corps exhibits to incorporate recently acces-
sioned specimens and to add graphic items to ship-model cases.
EXHIBITS 29

Associate curator Melvin H. Jackson prepared scripts for units on the
history of the U.S. Revenue Cutter Service, forerunner of the modern
Coast Guard, and planned exhibits to depict the development of other
Treasury Department maritime services, such as the Lighthouse Estab-
lishment, Life Saving Service, and Bureau of Marine Inspection, as
well as the modern role of the Coast Guard. Meanwhile, exhibits
designer Fred Craig continued the detailed graphic design of exhibits
for the Armed Forces halls and a number of these units were produced
in the exhibits laboratory.

Nearly half of the exhibits for the hall of ordnance were produced
during the year, including a series of displays on the development of
firearms which effectively combines selected specimens from the col-
lections with supporting graphics. These exhibits were specified by
associate curator Craddock R. Goins, Jr., and were designed by
exhibits designer John Brown.

Following the acquisition of the Continental gunboat Philadelphia,
Mr. Brown devised a layout for the exhibition of this large and impor-
tant specimen at the west end of the hall of ordnance in a position
where it can be viewed from a distance and will be meaningfully
integrated with the cther exhibits in this hall. Dr. Lundeberg wrote
scripts for the gundelo and closely related exhibits.

Curator of military history Edgar M. Howell worked on scripts
for the Armed Forces history exhibits and for exhibits relating to
the writing of the national anthem.

Important additions were made to the exhibits in the existing hall
of naval history. Highhght of the completely restored series of
World War I naval vessels was a strikingly camouflaged model of the
cruiser St. Louis. Prominent among new Civil War models were the
Union gunboat Carondelet, the Confederate ironclad Fredericksburg,
and the Confederate submarine 7. L. Hunley. A full-scale replica of
the Curtiss A-1, first aircraft purchased by the U.S. Navy, was placed
on exhibition with the cooperation of the National Air Museum.

A special exhibition of marine paintings and ship portraits by
John W. Schmidt was held in the rotunda of the Arts and Industries
building during December 1961 and January 1962. The division of
naval history also cooperated with the Naval Historical Foundation
in providing half models and other memorabilia for exhibits on naval
aviation and naval aspects of the Civil War, held in the Truxton
Decatur Museum. During the annual meeting of the Company of
Miltary Collectors and Historians, a special exhibition of rare naval
uniforms and flags of the Civil War period was presented.
Aceessions

During the fiscal year 1962

The national collections were increased during the past year by
$54,135 specimens. ‘These materials were distributed among the 8
departments as follows: anthropology, 13,556; zoology, 480,003; bot-
any, 32,236; geology, 115,387; science and technology, 2,363; arts and
manutactures, 3,155; civil history, 205,358; and Armed Forces his-
tory, 2,077. This total includes 193,231 stamps and 414,075 insects.
Most of the accessions were received as gifts from individuals or as
transfers from Government departments and agencies. A full list
of donors will be found on page 114.

Anthropology

Most of the new material received this year in the division of
archeology came by transfer from the River Basin Surveys, and con-
sisted of one lot of 11,334 artifacts, mainly of mid-19th century white
man’s manufacture, from the site of Fort Berthold, N. Dak. Also re-
ceived were the following important additions to the Latin American
collections : 24 pre-Spanish textiles from Peru, presented by the Inter-
national Business Machine Co.; a representative collection of 42 stone
and bone artifacts from the early cultures of the Lagoa Santa area in
Minas Gerais, Brazil, presented by H. V. Walter, of Belo Horizonte;
and a type collection of 290 pottery and stone artifacts from various
cultural levels on the islands at the mouth of the Amazon River, col-
lected and donated by Drs. Clifford Evans and Betty Meggers.

The division of ethnology received 292 ethnological objects as a gift
from the Government of India. Included in this generous donation is
a complete assemblage of dance costumes of the Kathakali religious
drama of South India, and textiles of unusual quality, representing a
wide range of techniques and designs, including gold and silver em-
broidery. Another fine ethnological collection, donated by the Fed-
eration of Malaya through its National Museum in Kuala Lumpur, in-
cludes native musical instruments and a large number of shadow-
theater puppets. Obtained from the Reverend Francis Lambrecht of
Baguio, Philippine Islands, and from Dr. Harold C. Conklin, of Co-
lumbia University, New York, are 51 cultural objects of the Ifugao,
one of the mountain peoples of the Philippines.

30
ACCEISSLONSS

31

SPECIMENS IN THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS MAY 31, 1962

DEPARTMENT OF ANTHROPOLOGY
Archeology .
Ethnology :
Physical Lsmbropalere ;
DEPARTMENT OF ZOOLOGY
Mammals.
Birds. ;
Reptiles and oaRabramns s
Fishes :
Insects . 5
Marine Invertebe ate
Mollusks .
Helminths
DEPARTMENT OF BOTAN |
Phanerogams
Ferns
Grasses .
Cryptogams.
Woods . :
DEPARTMENT OF Guovees :
Mineralogy and Petrology

Invertebrate Paleontology and Baleobocane ‘

Vertebrate Paleontology Linge eae ne
DEPARTMENT OF SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
Physical Sciences : :
Mechanical and Civil Baeineeume :

Electricity

Transportation

Medical Sciences se
DEPARTMENT OF ARTS AND Mian Gone :

Textiles :

Ceramics and Giles

Graphic Arts ;

Manufactures and Eloaey imduetnies 3

Agriculture and Forest Products .
DEPARTMENT OF Crvin History

Political History .

Cultural History

Philately and Postal Station

Numismatics
DEPARTMENT OF ARMED monene HinerOny ‘

Military History .

Naval History

Torat Museum CoLuuEcrTions

708, 967
183, 822
37, 729
293, 455
501, 681
153, 290
1, 720, 767
14, 769, 174
1, 845, 409
9, 741, 398
49, 576

1, 903, 582
Dil, DY
380, 482
459, 424
31, 263

401, 410
12, 582, 240
45, 828

3, 565

9, 910

4, 302
25, 176
27, 931
34, 155
15, 434
48, 896
33, 985
10, 193

44, 983
20, 161

9, 322, 091
129, 714
38, 546

8, 174

930, 518

29, 074, 750

3, 005, 978

13, 029, 478

70, 884

142, 663

9, 516, 949

99, 817, 940
SHADOW PUPPETS OF M

Shadow-theatre puppets,
above, and  Kathakali
dance costume, left, part of
large collections of ethno-
logical objects given by the
governments of Malaya
and India, respectively, for
the newly-opened hall of
the cultures of the Pacific
and Asia.

ACCESSIONS 33

For the first time the division of physical anthropology received a
good collection of prehistoric skeletal remains from the Panama Canal
Zone. The collection, assembled by Dr. Samuel K. Lothrop and do-
nated by the Peabody Museum, Harvard University, comes from the
Venado Beach site located at the Pacific end of the zone. A note-
worthy feature of this collection is the presence of a type of cranial
deformity heretofore known mainly from Mexico. The Southwestern
chapter of the Archeological Society of Maryland donated 15 pre-
historic Indian skeletons from the W. R. Winslow site along the Po-
tomac River in Montgomery County, Md. Dr. Dan Morse, of Peoria,
Ill., added two specimens from that State to the division’s outstanding
collection of skeletal evidence bearing on the history of tuberculosis
among the earlier American Indians.

Zoology

To the collection in the division of mammals, Bernard R. Feinstein,
of the Museum staff, contributed approximately 450 specimens from
Vietnam and Cambodia, collected in cooperation with the Army Medi-
cal Research and Development Command and the Bernice P. Bishop
Museum. The Smithsonian Institution-Alan Collins Expedition of
1961 contributed 163 mammals from previously unworked areas in
Libya and Chad, collected by Dr. Henry W. Setzer, who also collected
183 mammals in the Aden Protectorate and, with Gary L. Ranck, 110
mammals in Tripolitania. Continuing the same project, Mr. Ranck
added 758 additional specimens from Libya. From Panama and
the Canal Zone, about 750 mammals were sent to the Museum by
Vernon J. Tipton, C. M. Keenan, Carl M. Johnson, Pedro Galindo,
Conrad E. Yunker, and other contributors representing agencies co-
operating in the major project being conducted by Dr. Charles O.
Handley, Jr. Several accessions from localities in the eastern United
States include specimens collected by Kyle E. Barbehenn in Mary-
land and New York; by John T. Banks in Virginia; by Dr. Handley
in Virginia, Georgia, and Florida; by Richard and Daniel Peacock
in North Carolina and Virginia; by Daniel I. Rhymer in Virginia;
and by Merlin D. Tuttle in Tennessee. Specimens of outstanding
interest are 102 bats from Drotzky’s Cave and vicinity, Bechuana-
land Protectorate, presented by Mr. Laurence K. Marshall, and 5 rare
dolphins, Stenella microps, from the west coast of Mexico, received
from Dr. R. R. Whitney, of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, and
Dr. W. L. Klawe, of the Inter-American Tropical Tuna Commission.

In the division of birds a series of 583 bird skins, 27 skeletons, 3
alcohohe specimens, and 14 eggs were contributed by honorary re-
search associate Alexander Wetmore. From the Republic of Panama
34 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1962

Gorgas Memorial Laboratory, 100 bird skins were received, and by
transfer from the U.S. Department of the Interior, Fish and Wild-
life Service, 419 bird skins, 47 skeletons, 1 alcoholic specimen, and 10
egos were added to the national collections.

The division of reptiles and amphibians obtained 266 Colombian
frogs from Dr. Fred Medem, Instituto de Ciencias Naturales, Bogota,
Colombia. Added to our South American holdings were the gift
from Dr. Coleman J. Goin, of the University of Florida, of 116 Co-
lombian frogs; an exchange involving the receipt of 9 South American
frogs, including a cotype of a Colombian arrow-poison frog, from the
British Museum (Natural History); and a gift of 105 South Ameri-
can frogs from Dr. James R. Tamsitt, University of the Andes, Bo-
gota, Colombia. Mr. William L. Witt, of Arlington, contributed
158 reptiles and amphibians from Virginia. From the U.S. Naval
Medical Research Unit No. 2, were transferred 41 snakes from Taiwan,
adding to the excellent collection from that island.

A major contributor of fishes to the national collections is the U.S.
Fish and Wildlife Service. This cooperation in building up the
Smithsonian research collections should be credited to the following
individuals: Elbert H. Ahlstrom, W. W. Anderson, Harvey R. Bullis,
John R. Clark, Daniel M. Cohen, Eugene Cypert, George F. Ke'ly,
Craig Phillips, James G. Ragan, Donald W. Strasburg, and Paul J.
Struhsaker. Dr. Edward C. Raney and Dr. Bruce Coilette gave 2,500
fishes collected by the latter in Cuba, and Dr. Robert E. Kuntz and
Lt. W. H. Wells transferred 1,412 fishes collected at Taiwan by the
U.S. Naval Medical Research Unit No. 2. Through the efforts of
Drs. J. A. F. Garrick and Victor G. Springer, and with the coopera-
tion of many others throughout the world, 55 sharks, some 7 feet in
length, were added to the collection.

A total of 417,197 specimens in 310 separate transactions was added
to the collection in the division of insects. The largest and perhaps
most important accession received was the A. L. Melander collection
of Diptera, consisting of approximately 250,000 specimens, of which
an estimated 1,200 are types. Through Dr. Alfred Brauer, the noted
W. D. Funkhouser collection of Membracidae (Hemiptera) was re-
ceived from the University of Kentucky. There are 23,855 specimens
in this collection, including 247 holotypes. The Connecticut Agricul-
tural Experiment Station donated, through Dr. James B. Kring, 346
type specimens, including 130 holotypes. Most of these types are
Hymenoptera not previously represented in the national collections.
Dr. A. Earl Pritchard presented his collection of 12,142 Diptera.
N. L. H. Krauss has again made a substantial gift in donating 11,572
specimens principally from the Neotropical region. Col. Robert
Traub presented more than 10,000 mites from Malaya and Thailand.
ACCESSIONS 35

The Graham Heid collection of 2,243 specimens, chiefly Lycaenidae,
from Atlanta, Ga., was also obtained. The Boyce Thompson Institute
for Plant Research presented 7,966 miscellaneous insects through Dr.
Albert Hartzell; Oscar L. Cartwright donated 7,500 Scarabaeidae
from his personal collection; and Dr. C. M. Biezanko added 621
Brazilian insects. Dr. Nell B. Causey, University of Arkansas, do-
nated 415 centipedes, most of which were collected in the southern
United States. Among the Smithsonian and Department of Agricul-
ture staff members who have participated in building the national
collection are Dr, Paul D. Spangler, Mrs. Florence A. Ruhoff, Dr.
Ashley B. Gurney, Dr. Karl V. Krombein, William D. Field, Dr.
Wilhs W. Wirth, Dr. Curtis W. Sabrosky, Mrs. Doris H. Blake, and
Dr. Oliver S. Flint, Jr. Received by transfer from the Insect Iden-
tification and Parasite Introduction Research Branch, U.S. Depart-
ment of Agriculture, were 59,673 specimens retained in the course of
identifications made by the combined staffs.

Outstanding among the accessions of marine invertebrates were
1,461 identified copepod crustaceans, including 2 holotypes, 2 al-
lotypes, and 672 paratypes of 14 species donated by Dr. Arthur G.
Humes, of Boston University. Received from Mrs. Will Hutchins,
Washington, D.C., were 2,000 slides of bryozoans representing the
personal collection of her son, the late Dr. Louis W. Hutchins; from
Dr. Paul L. Hg, University of Washington, 22 specimens of 10 species
of notodelphyid copepod crustaceans; from the Carnegie Institution
of Washington, 1,800 lots of plankton from the cruises of the Car-
negie; and by transfer from the U.S. Navy Hydrographic Office
through Wilham H. Littlewood, 360 miscellaneous marine inverte-
brates collected in the Ross Sea by J. Q. Tierney aboard the U.S.S.
Staten Island during the U.S. Navy Deep Freeze Expedition of 1960—
61. <A gift of 208 amphipod crustaceans collected during a voyage
in the Okhotsk Sea of the training ship Hokusei Marw was made by
Dr. Sigeru Motoda, Hokkaido University. Collections made for the
Smithsonian include 1,165 miscellaneous marine invertebrates from
Puerto Rico by Dr. Thomas E. Bowman and 1,512 crayfishes from
Alabama, Georgia, North Carolina, Kentucky, and Tennessee by Dr.
Horton H. Hobbs, Jv.

Received by the division of mollusks from various sources were a
number of important collections of marine mollusks from areas in the
Indo-Pacific region poorly represented in our study collection. Pur-
chased through the Chamberlain Fund was a marine collection of
702 lots containing 2,165 specimens from the Kudat area, North
Borneo. Two collections of marine mollusks from the Seychelles,
totalmg 195 lots, 1,041 specimens, were received as gifts from
Mrs. Margot B. Banks and Mr. Barry Grogan. By exchange from
36 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1962

the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, 92 lots, 920 speci-
mens, of marine mollusks from Madagascar were received. The
holotypes of six species of nudibranchs were donated by the Marine
Laboratory of the University of Miami through Dr. Gilbert L. Voss.

Botany

The most significant accession of the year was received by the
division of woods, the collection of 4,637 wood specimens of Archie
F. Wilson, a business executive with a keen interest in woody plants,
and for many years research associate of the Chicago Natural History
Museum. ‘This accession constitutes a more critically chosen group of
specimens from a greater number of species than existed in the divi-
sion prior to 1960. The Division of Forest Products of the Australian
Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organization sent
in exchange 727 wood specimens from Netherlands New Guinea, the
first received by the Museum from that area. Important pollen slides
received were 309 from Duke University and 642 from the Pan Ameri-
can Petroleum Corp., Tulsa, Okla. Curator William L. Stern made
a collection of 136 wood samples of the highly endemic flora of the
Hawaiian Islands for the Museum.

The rest of the department accessions were received in relatively
small lots. From the Instituto de Botanica, Sao Paulo, Brazil, were
received for identification 737 plants collected in Brazil by George
Eiten, and from Harriet G. Barclay, 1,300 specimens she collected in
Colombia and Ecuador. Dr. Walter H. Hodge donated 1,204 speci-
mens of his collections from Dominica, British West Indies.

From the Gray Herbarium of Harvard University were received in
exchange 873 specimens, largely from North America. Also received
in exchange were 2,417 specimens of Indonesia from the Herbarium
Bogoriense, Bogor, Indonesia; 950 plants of New Guinea and Aus-
tralia from the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research
Organization, Canberra, Australia; 515 specimens collected in Alaska
by J. E. Cantlon from Michigan State University ; 8300 specimens from
Africa from the Istituto Botanico, Firenze, Italy; and 840 plants col-
lected by R. M. King in Mexico from the University of Texas.

Dr. Thomas R. Soderstrom collected 1,091 specimens, mostly
grasses, In Mexico; and Dr. Stern collected 1,423 specimens other than
woods in Oregon, Colorado, Hawaii, and the Florida Keys, for the
Museum. From the Geological Survey, Department of the Interior,
were transferred 593 specimens collected by Dr. F. R. Fosberg on the
Pacific Islands, and 766 specimens from Alaska collected by H. T.
Shacklette; from the Agricultural Research Service, U.S. Department
of Agriculture, 325 specimens of South Africa collected by H. S.
ACCESSIONS ou

Gentry and A. S. Barclay; and from the Forest Service, U.S. Depart-
ment of Agriculture, 415 specimens from Puerto Rico, collected by
E. L. Little.

An unusual gift of 22 watercolor paintings of plants of Panama
and Central America, made by Marie Louise Evans, was received from
her daughter, Mrs. Robert L. Smyth, of San Francisco, Calif.

Geology

Received in the division of mineralogy and petrology was a very
fine gem quality crystal of emerald weighing 176.66 carats from Muzo,
Colombia, donated by Fred C. Kennedy. Gifts of new mineral
species included: chambersite, Texas, given by Frank R. Beck; ortho-
pinakiolite, Sweden, from the Naturhistoriska Riksmuseets, Stock-
holm, Sweden; and ferriphengite, Japan, from the University of
Tokyo. Among the exchanges received were an extraordinary crystal
of kunzite (the lavender gem variety of spodumene) weighing 5 kilo-
grams and the following new species: birnessite, Massachusetts ; roose-
veltite, sigloite, and farallonite, Bolivia; kahlerite, Austria; yoshi-
muraite, Japan; cheralite, Malaya; sharpite and wyartite, Congo;
and fleischerite, South West Africa.

Transferred from the U.S. Geological Survey, in addition to a num-
ber of suites of rocks and ores from various localities, were type
specimens of the following newly-described species: gowerite, nobleite,
and sborgite, California; and neighborite, Utah.

Among approximately 359 specimens added by purchase from the
Roebling fund or by exchange were 2 groups of very large stibnite
crystals completely altered to stibiconite, Mexico; 4 fine amethyst
geodes, Brazil; a large single crystal of amethyst, Korea; 2 groups of
unusually large axinite crystals, Japan; and a collection of 40 very fine
wulfenite specimens from various localities in Arizona. <A very large
single crystal of danburite, Mexico, and a large tourmaline crystal
from Baja California were acquired by purchase through the Canfield
fund.

Received as gifts to the gem collection were a 423-carat sapphire,
one of the largest and finest in the world, from Mrs. John Logan (the
former Mrs. Rebecca Guggenheim) ; a large wine pourer carved in
white jade, formerly a part of the Vetlesen jade collection, from Mrs.
Mildred Taber Keally; and a female head sculptured in pink tourma-
line by Oskar J. W. Hansen, from Ray A. Graham. Gem specimens
acquired by purchase from the Chamberlain fund for the Isaac Lea
collection included a 45.9-carat sphalerite, Spain; a kornerupine, 21.58
carats, Ceylon; smoky quartz, Brazil, 1,695.5 carats; a 71.05-carat
brownish yellow spodumene, Madagascar; two scheelites, one weigh-
38 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1962

ing 87 carats, from California, and the other 7.35 carats, from Mexico;
and a fine kunzite from Brazil, 63.30 carats; and the Seamon bequest
of more than 1,000 fine quality minerals.

Outstanding gems received in exchange were a 287-carat peridot, a
330-carat blue star sapphire, and a ruby spinel weighing 36.10 carats,
all from Burma, and an aquamarine from Brazil, weighing 187 carats.

Obtained as gifts for the meteorite collection were four specimens
of the Murray, Ky., having a total weight of 163 grams, by Dyer
Observatory, Vanderbilt University; a piece of a new carbonaceous
chondrite from Belle, Tex., by Oscar Monnig, Fort Worth; and from
Mrs. Jay Law, Garland, Utah, a complete stone which fell on her
property. Fourteen meteorites were obtained by exchange with the
following institutions: Geological Survey of India; Committee on
Meteorites, Academy of Sciences, U.S.S.R.; Universitets Miner-
alogiske Museum, Copenhagen, Denmark; Geological Survey of South
Africa; and Victoria University, Wellington, New Zealand.

Through the Walcott fund was acquired an unusual collection of
fossil plants collected and prepared by Thomas J. Bones, Vancouver,
Wash., over a period of 20 years. It consists of Kocene seeds, nuts,
fruits, and wood from Oregon. The Walcott fund also made possible
fieldwork which yielded 10,000 Cretaceous mollusks and 500 Fora-
minifera samples, collected by associate curator Erle G. Kauffman
and Dr. Norman F. Sohl.

Donations from collectors outside the Museum accounted for the
following gifts: 1,500 Lower Paleozoic fossils, from areas including
Nova Scotia, Maine, Germany, and the Island of Gotland, from A. J.
Boucot, California Institute of Technology; 345 type specimens of
Foraminifera from California and the Mississippi Delta regions,
from Miss Frances L. Parker, Scripps Institution of Oceanography ;
175 type specimens of planktonic Foraminifera from the Caribbean
region, from Dr. Pedro J. Bermudez, Venezuela; 87 ostracod types
from the early Middle Ordovician of eastern United States and 146
types from the Gubic formation of northern Alaska, from Dr. F. M.
Swain, Jr., University of Minnesota; 300 specimens from the Ripley
formation, received from the Mid-South Earth Science Club of Ten-
nessee ; 350 specimens from the Devonian of the Spanish Sahara, from
the Pan American Hispano Oil Co.; and 332 Mesozoic specimens from
Saudi Arabia, from the Arabian American Oil Co.

Transfer of collections from the U.S. Geological Survey includes
the Hass collection of an estimated 40,000 conodonts, including sey-
eral hundred types; 168 Middle and Upper Devonian cephalopods
collected by Dr. Mackenzie Gordon in Morocco; an estimated 35,600

sryozoa from the Lower Paleozoic of New York, West Virginia,
Virginia, and ‘Tennessee, collected by curator Richard S. Boardman.
ACCESSIONS 39

The division of vertebrate paleontology accessioned a collection of
fossil mammal-like reptiles from the Karroo, Republic of South
Africa, representative of all levels of the Beaufort Series (Permo-
Triassic). This collection, made by associate curator Nicholas Hotton
III and James W. Kitching, of the Bernard Price Institute for
Paleontological Research, University of the Witwatersrand, Johan-
nesburg, helps document therapsid adaptive radiation, and shows the
strong trend toward mammalian organization for which these ani-
mals are noted. The therapsids illustrate an important phase in
vertebrate evolution heretofore unrepresented in the national collec-
tions. Worthy of mention also are the skulls of about 200 indi-
viduals of the Permian amphibian DPiplocaulus collected by Dr.
Sergius H. Mamay, of the U.S. Geological Survey, and Dr. Walter
W. Dalquest, of Midwestern University, in terrestrial deposits of the
Vale formation in Texas. Another outstanding addition to the collec-
tions is a 4-ton shipment of skeletal remains, almost all of the mam-
moth Mammuthus columbi, from a spring deposit on the ranch of
Charles I. Lamb near Littleton, Colo. These remains were collected
by a joint archeological-paleontological party under the supervision
of curators Waldo R. Wedel and C. Lewis Gazin, Particular mention
may be made of stratigraphically important accessions of Kocene and
Paleocene mammals from new localities in the Fossil, Wind River,
and Green River basins of Wyoming, and of early Oligocene mammal
jaws and teeth from Pipestone Springs in Jefferson County, Mont.,
collected by Dr. Gazin and exhibits specialist Franklin L. Pearce.

Science and Technology

The division of physical sciences received examples of the rotating
mirrors used by A. A. Michelson in his experiments in the determina-
tion of the velocity of light, from Mr. Preston Bassett and from
Mount Wilson and Palomar Observatories. Telescopes representing
the work of Alvan Clark & Sons and John Brashear were received
from Dr. Henry E. Paul. Two of the earliest extant examples of
photographs of the sun and moon, made by the pioneer scientist and
photographer, John W. Draper, were obtained from New York Uni-
versity. The geophysical collections acquired a group of 12 globes
painted to illustrate as many geophysical phenomena, from Prof.
Rhodes W. Fairbridge, of Columbia University. Gulf Research &
Development Co. contributed the pendulum apparatus for relative
gravity determination which was developed by them in 1929. A re-
peating circle of the type used in the 1830’s in the first geodetic sur-
veys in this country was received from John Kusner.

The division of mechanical and civil engineering acquired a repro-
40 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1962

Reconstruction of the De Dondi astronomical clock of 1364, an intricate
device that preceded by 200 years any comparable instrument.

duction of the celebrated clock of Giovanni de Dondi, constructed
from contemporary 14th-century manuscript descriptions. The origi-
nal clock, which disappeared from historical account over 400 years
ago, was built in Padua between 1348 and 1364. It is the earliest
mechanical clock of which details survive, but is in no way a primitive
clock. The calendar and astronomical dials surpass by a wide margin
any other known pre-Renaissance mechanism. The timekeeping col-
lection was further augmented by an astronomical clock with torsion
pendulum by the Aiuerican inventor, Aaron D. Crane. This was the
basis of the 400-day or anniversary clocks of modern times. Also
received was an experimental model of the caesium-beam atomic clock
developed at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1956 by
Dr. J. R. Zacharias.
Steam locomotive 1401 on its way from the railroad yard to its final
home in the Museum of History and Technology.

The collection of heavy machinery acquired a simple condensing
mill steam engine built in 1819 by Thomas Holloway, of Philadelphia.
This severely simple machine, the earliest stationary steam engine in
the collection, contrasts markedly with the refinement of the Matthias
Baldwin engine built in the same city only 10 years later. Also
added to this collection was a model of one of the Allis-Chalmers-
Westinghouse engine generators of the type built in 1904 to power
New York’s first subway. One of the most important acquisitions of
the section of tools was a multiple-spindle drill used from 1905 for
the production of cash-register frames, donated by the manufacturer,
the National Automatic Tool Co. Another important accession com-
prised a collection of tools, instruments, and documents representing
the pioneering experiments in the 1920’s of Prof. Orlan W. Boston, of
the University of Michigan, in the investigation of metal-cutting
processes.

The division of transportation received seven important builder’s
half models of west coast steamers and sailing vessels built by the
Dickie Yard in San Francisco, through the courtesy of the University
of California. Other models received were those of the Mis-

658794624
42 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1962

sissippi River stern-wheel steamer Greenbrier, the Chesapeake Bay
steamers Pocomoke and President Warfield, a Letter-of-Marque
schooner of 1815, the ferry boat Jersey, South Sea island trader
Tahiti, Alaskan trader Ownalaska, a Florida shrimp trawler, and a
North Carolina Sounds schooner. The latter two were received,
respectively, from the Diesel Engine Sales Co. and from W. C.
Matthews. The section of land transportation passed a landmark
with acquisition of a full-sized example of a modern steam locomo-
tive, Vo. 1401 of the Southern Railway System, which was generously
donated by that company. ‘Two important carriages were also added
to the collection, a landau of 1879, from Chauncey D. Stillman, and
a buckboard of 1890, from Edwin H. Arnold.

The division of electricity received from the University of Mich-
igan 11 examples of H. N. Williams’ work with the magnetron, a
high-frequency oscillator, dating from the 1930’s._ Obtained from the
Radio Corp. of America was a group of cathode ray tubes used in
the development of television. The color television system developed
by J. M. Lafferty, of the General Electric Research Laboratory, in
1951 was represented by a tube received from that company.

Individual items of importance added to the electrical collections
were printing telegraphs, received from the Western Union Telegraph
Co. and the Netherlands Postal Museum; a set of Pupin loading
coils arranged to stimulate the telephone circuit from New York
to Boston, from the Armstrong Memorial Research Foundation; the
Sorensen vacuum switch for power circuits, from Prof. R. W. Soren-
sen; and the radio sextant developed by the Collins Radio Co., trans-
ferred by the U.S. Department of the Navy.

The division of medical sciences acquired from the University of
Illinois the remarkable Edward H. Angle collection of dental instru-
ments and related material, and from Dr. Julius Lempert a collection
of otological instruments representing his well-known work in that

field.
Arts and¥Manufactures

Ten examples of buratto and drawn-work lace of the 16th through
19th century were presented by Miss Harriet Winslow to the division
of textiles. Also added to this collection were a group of beautiful
costume laces from Mrs. Beatrice E. Baker. A “Feathered Star”
quilt made by the wife of Gen. Mordecai Gist and presented by Mrs.
W. A. Pickens was also a noteworthy addition. Several interesting
examples of silk embroidery on wool, used for infant wear, were
received as a gift from Dr. and Mrs. Leonard Carmichael. A Jac-
quard coverlet, marked “U.S.A. 1829,” was a notable gift from Mrs.
James H. Macmillan. Three excellent needlepoint pictures, loaned
ACCESSIONS 43

several years ago, were bequeathed to the Museum by the late Miss
Crystal Palmer. ‘These fine examples were made by Miss Palmer’s
grandmother in the mid-19th century. Several 19th-century sewing
machines were added to the collections. One of the most interesting
was an 1859 West and Willson machine, a type not previously repre-
sented, from Mr. and Mrs. L. E. Isaacson.

A significant accession of the division of ceramics and glass is a
collection of 18th-century porcelain, donated by Dr. Hans Syz, of
Westport, Conn. Important pieces in this group include a Boettger
tankard of red stoneware, 1712-15; a Boettger white porcelain bowl
with applied decoration of rose buds and leaves, Ca. 1715; and a
Viennese porcelain trembleuse cup and saucer, Ca. 1730-385. To her
previous gift Mrs. W. A. Sutherland has added 25 pieces of porcelain,
including 2 rare Bow mugs, Ca. 1760, and an unusual Chelsea dish,
Ca. 1752.

The Honorable Clinton P. Anderson, a Regent of the Smithsonian
Institution, donated to the division of graphic arts a magnificent
example of printing, Zhe Works of Geoffrey Chaucer, printed in
1896. Known as the “Kelmscott Chaucer,” it is the handiwork of
William Morris, whose concern with fine craftsmanship resulted in
a revival of high standards in industrial design. Another important
accession 1s a lithograph, Divertissement d’Espagne, by the great
Spanish artist Francisco Goya, the gift of Mr. Albert H. Gordon, of
New York City. This rare and valuable print is one of a set of four
bullfight subjects that is considered the first great product of
lithography.

Among the important prints acquired were two separate states of
the lithograph /7 Tombe dans ?Abime by the French artist Odilon
Redon; three lithographs from Campaign Sketches by Winslow
Homer, the great American artist who documented the Civil War—A
Pass Time (Cavalry at Rest), Foraging, and The Baggage Train;
two color aquatints, /wggler and Ballerina, by Georges Rouault; five
rare lithographs by outstanding American contemporaries—Brown
Moons by Helen Frankenthaler, Poet 7 by Robert Motherwell, Last
Civil War Veteran by Larry Rivers, Speaker by Robert Goodnough,
and Coathanger by Jasper Johns; two chiaroscuro woodcuts, Zhe Vis-
itation after Annibale Carraceci and Statuette of Neptune after Gio-
vanni da Bologna, by John Baptist Jackson, the 18th-century master
of the color woodcut.

The section of photography received an important collection of
apparatus invented by Frederic Eugene Ives of Philadelphia, a pio-
neer in color photography. This group includes an Ives Lantern
Kromskop, made about 1890, the first practical device to use 3-color
separation positives for projecting full color on a screen; a group of
44 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1962

slides for this projector; an 1894 Ives photochromoscope Kromskop
stereo camera and viewer, and a large number of Kromogram slides
for use in the viewer. The Kromskop System offered a method for
taking color separation stereo pictures and viewing them in full color.
Among the fine examples of photographic equipment and prints
acquired by purchase was a Cinématographe, invented in 1895 by
Auguste and Louis Lumiere of France. This was one of the earliest
devices to take and project (perforated) motion picture film.

Of particular interest among the items received by the division of
manufactures and heavy industries are some of the first stampings
of aluminum made from the first commercial production of the Hall
process, presented by the Scovill Manufacturing Co. Another im-
portant acquisition is a Winsted machine; built prior to 1873, and in
active use at the American Brass Co. plant at Waterbury until 1961,
this machine is one of the earliest known. Dr. W. L. Libby donated
the experimental equipment used in his pioneer work to establish the
dates of archeological material by carbon-14 dating. The Catholic
University of America gave two of the first X-ray tubes to be made
in America. The section of iron and steel obtained the first steam
hammer erected in the United States, built by Nasmyth between 1851
and 1856, and in use at Taylor-Wharton Iron & Steel Co., High Ridge,
N.J., until 1935. The Bethlehem Steel Co. donated a section of the
Gray mill, the first wide-flange universal beam mill to be erected in
the United States. The United States Steel Corp. donated the pilot
model of a Lorig aliner, an important innovation which speeded up
the handling of strips of metal in continuous mills.

A water-powered sawmill, including the building, waterwheel,
shafting, and gearing, was acquired by the division of agriculture and
forest products. The mill, a fine representative of 18th- and 19th-
century sawmills, operated an up-and-down saw and moved a 30-foot-
log carriage against the saw. The New Holland Machine Co. gave
a small portable gasoline engine of the early 20th century used to drive
such machines as grinding mills and saws.

Civil History

Among the important accessions received in the division of political
history is the personal memorabilia of President and Mrs. Woodrow
Wilson. <A black satin dress, worn by Edith Bolling Wilson the first
time she dined at the White House, and a white silk dress she wore at
a diplomatic reception in 1916, her first appearance at a state occasion
at the White House after her marriage, were among the items received
from Mrs. Wilson’s estate through her personal secretary, Mrs. Mar-
garet C. Brown. Mrs. Joseph P. Kennedy donated a white silk gown
ACCESSIONS 45

decorated with gold and silver sequins worn by her when she was
presented at the Court of St. James’s when her husband was ambas-
sador to Great Britain. The dress was worn again in 1961 at the
Inaugural Ball of her son, President John F. Kennedy. Mr. Ralph
i. Becker, continuing his donations from his important campaign
collection, presented a painted banner bearing a portrait of Thomas
Jefferson, celebrating his victory in 1801. A silk campaign banner
carried by the “Downers Grove Plough Boys,” a Republican marching
club of 1860, was given by Elbert A. Rogers, Downers Grove, Il]. A
three-sided transparency, containing a portrait of Abraham Lincoln
and campaign mottoes of 1860, was donated by Mrs. Robert A. Hub-
bard, Walpole, N.H. Made of cloth and wrapped around a wooden
frame, the transparency, with torch inside, was carried on a pole in
political parades. Another significant donation, by Mrs. Elizabeth
Johnson Cristal, was the Adelaide Johnson collection. Adelaide
Johnson, a devoted feminist, is best known as the sculptress of the
Woman’s Rights movement. The robe worn by Charles Evans Hughes
as Chief Justice of the Supreme Court was received from the New
Canaan Historical Society through Miss Dorothy Cocks, New Canaan,
Conn.

Noteworthy donations to the collections of the division of cultural
history include two early 19th-century blown-glass whale oil lamps, a
17th-century brass cowvre-feu, and other domestic objects, from Pres-
ton R. Basset; a set of chamfered oak bedposts of a hitherto unidenti-
fied type of 17th-century Massachusetts bedstead, the gift of Virginia
Beets; five paintings, 19th-century American, by E. L. Henry and
Eastman Johnson, given by Mrs. Francis P. Garvan; and five diorite
door and marker stones with primitive carved designs and dates, from
the site of a mansion built by Lt. Gov. William Dummer of Massachu-
setts in Byfield in that State, donated by Mr. and Mrs. Stephen
Twaddell.

The division of philately and postal history received a specialized
collection of the famous La Guaira local stamps. These issues, au-
thorized by the Venezuelan Government, were prepared by Waterlow
& Sons for the mail carried by steamship between La Guaira, Puerto
Cabello, and St. Thomas beginning in 1864. Mr. L. W. Christenson
of Cleveland Heights, Ohio, gave a collection of the issues of Man-
chukuo and of the Ryukyu Islands, which include postal stationery,
booklets, covers, and a number of reference books. James A. Farley,
former Postmaster General, donated a number of new covers. Dr.
Joseph H. Kler, of New Brunswick, N.J., gave an initial portion of
his prize-winning topical collection of stamps pertaining to Rotary
International, and deposited the balance on loan. In eight albums are
mounted many full sheets, singles, blocks, and many covers bearing
46 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1962

appropriate cancels and cachets. Included also are several prelimi-
nary artists’ drawings, some printers’ proofs, and the Monaco color-
error essay.

Added to the numismatic collections were the original obverse and
reverse dies prepared in 1861 by Robert Lovett, Jr., of Philadelphia,
for the proposed striking by the Confederacy of a copper cent, an
issue which never materialized; the dies, two hubs made from the
original dies, and other material in connection with the restrike of the
Confederate cent in 1962 were received from Robert Bashlow, of
New York. <A rare 1916 pattern half dollar, a gift of Benjamin M.
Douglas, and a silver ingot put out by the Nevada Silver Co. in 1876,
a gift of Harvey Stack, of New York City, are also notable. <A col-
lection of 436 Polish gold, silver, and copper coins and medals was
donated by Christian Zabriskie, of New York. ‘This remarkable col-
lection was started in the 1870’s by the donor’s father, Andrew
Zabriskie, a noted U.S. numismatist. To his previous donations of
Russian coins and medals coming from the famous Grand Duke Mik-
hailovitch collection, Willis H. du Pont added another significant
group of 860 specimens, including many exceedingly rare pieces
issued during the reigns of Czar Ivan IIT and Czarina Elizabeth
(1740-62). An interesting group of Babylonian and Sumerian clay
tablets recording commercial transactions was given by I. Snyderman,
of New York. Mr. Pietro Giampaoli, chief engraver at the Rome
Mint and one of the foremost medal engravers in the world, donated
u select group of his own medals exemplifying various stages in his
artistic evolution. A modern silver medal of exceptional artistic
merit, issued by the Maison Carrée of Nimes in 1961, was given by
the Honorable Claiborne Pell, Senator from Rhode Island.

Armed Forces History

The division of military history received a unique 1842 pattern
musket and set of Ordnance Department inspectors’ verifying gauges,
presented by Mr. Wiliam H. Guthman. A rare 13-inch bomb fired
by the British fleet at the time of its attack on Alexandria in 1814
was received from the Department of the Army. The Victoria Cross
and associated service medals awarded Private John McGovern for
gallantry during the Indian Mutiny were received on long-term loan
from the Royal United Service Institution, through the courtesy of
Admiral Sir John Moore. <A rare cavalry saber made by John Potter
and formerly owned by Col. George Baylor, aide-de-camp to George
Washington, was received on loan from Mr. David N. Rust.

Significant among recent additions to the Museum’s extensive flag
collections is the 48-star national ensign that served as the official flag
ACCESSIONS AT

Fully rigged model of the
Continental frigate Ra-
leigh, which will become
part of the series of ex-
hibits on Armed Forces his-
tory in the new Museum.

of the 1960-61 Antarctic Expedition on its traverse from Byrd Sta-
tion to the South Pole, presented by Rear Adm. David M. Tyree
through Rear Adm. William Rea Furlong.

An important collection of objects recovered from Bermuda ship-
wreck sites dating from about 1621 to 1914 was added to the collections
through the fieldwork of head curator Mendel L. Peterson, in coopera-
tion with Mr. EK. B. Tucker and the Government of Bermuda.

A most important accession was acquired by the division of naval
history, the Continental gunboat Philadelphia. Oldest major Ameri-
can naval relic of the Revolutionary War, this vessel reached final
moorings early in December 1961, when it was moved into the new
Museum of History and Technology. <A shot-scarred survivor of
Benedict Arnold’s gallant flotilla that opposed superior British inva-
sion forces on Lake Champlain, this flat-bottomed gunboat was sunk
at the Battle of Valcour Island on October 11, 1776. For nearly 159
years the Philadelphia lay on the muddy bottom of Valcour Bay,
before she was located and raised intact in 1935 through the skillful
efforts of Col. Lorenzo F. Hagglund, of New York, who donated the
historic warship. Over 700 objects were recovered from the 54-foot
gunboat, including her entire main battery of 9- and 12-pound guns,
with their original carriages, as well as numerous other items of ship’s
equipage and the crew’s gear. Brought to Washington with the gen-
erous assistance of the U.S. Coast Guard and the U.S. Navy, the
oaken-hulled Philadelphia will shortly enter another episode in her
long career, that of transporting the Smithsonian Institution’s visi-
AS U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1962

Exhibits specialists Walter Lewis and Deborah Bretzfelder restoring
specimens of the early Spanish period for hall of everyday life in
America in new Museum of History and Technology.

tors vividly and intimately to that precise moment in the Nation’s
history when this shattered warship, having fired her last shot im
our struggle for independence, slid quietly beneath the waters of Lake
Champlain.

Notable among early 19th-century naval accessions is an oil painting
by Michel Félice Corn, depicting the engagement in 1812 between the
Constitution and the Java, donated by Mrs. Mabel P. Garvan. The
Department of the Navy has provided two early boarding pikes and
a pau of mid-century gangway headboards on indefinite loan. Valu-
able light on the emergence of the steam Navy and its Corps of
Kngineers is provided in the professional correspondence (1847-67)
of Chief Engineer James M. Adams, USN, donated by his great
grandson, James Adams Knowles. Submarine operations during the
Civil War are represented by a superb model of the Confederate sub-
mersible 7. ZL. Hunley, constructed and presented by Mr. Floyd D.
Houston, of New Suffolk, N.Y.
Care of Collections

SPECIMENS ACCESSIONED, IDENTIFIED AND DISTRIBUTED—
FISCAL YHAR 1962

Trans-
Accessions ferred to Trans- Lent for
(transac- educa- _ ferred to study to
tions) Exchanged tional other Gov- investigators
1962 Received with other  institu- ernment and other Specimens
Departments (New) on loan institutions tions, etc. agencies institutions identified
Anthropology . 93 0 a0 1 0 927 15, 442
WOOOR? 2 6 a6 198 BQO 77, tes 0 12 19, SI ily NA
Olam? 5 6 2% 414 5,190 21,930 1, 669 WD Di AO) 1B, BBB
Geology... . 368 555 ~~, 490 0 169 7,191 38, 056
Science and 316 3, 099 8 0 0 101 186
Technology.
Arts and Manu- 232 @6, 748 1 1 0 36 6, 522
factures.
Civil History. . 583 12, 244 119 1 0 71, 186 37, 347
Armed Forces 130 56 1 0 0 492 3, 238
History.
Total. . 2,934 34,702 30,820 1, 672 209 296, 222 140, 303
Anthropology

Chief exhibits specialist A. Joseph Andrews cleaned and repaired
about 400 specimens from the ethnological collections. Restorer
Henri G. Courtais was engaged to remounting, cleaning, and restor-
ing the last 108 of the 450 George Catlin paintings under the care
of the division of ethnology.

A new procedure was adopted during the year for the preservation
of ethnological materials subject to insect damage. A liquid fumigant
is now being placed in tin cups on the inside of the storage-case
doors and renewed semiannually. The insecticide used is a mixture
of carbon tetrachloride, ethylene dibromide, and ethylene dichloride.

Zoology

Receipt of large accessions, disturbances caused by construction
projects In various specimen-storage areas, preparations for the move
of the division into new quarters, and activities of the exhibition
program have all added greatly to the usual work of caring for the
mammal collection. The general rearrangement and merger of the

49
50 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1962

main collection of skins and skulls with that of the U.S. Fish and
Wildlife Service continued. Progress was made with the rodents and
work was initiated on the carnivores and ungulates. A part of the
osteological laboratory was completely renovated for the immediate
purpose of providing a place to prepare and restore skeletons for
the planned hall of comparative osteology, and ultimately, for pro-
viding improved expanded working space for regular osteological
preparations.

All specimens accessioned in the division of birds have been fum1-
gated, identified, and cataloged. Sixty-one new storage cases that
have been on order for several years have been installed and are now
in use. The taxidermy staff skinned and made up 67 birds and
mounted 5, prepared 28 eggs, and partially completed 6 skeletons.

An inventory of the snakes in the division of reptiles is approxi-
mately one-third complete, and three large tanks have been installed
in the Natural History building for the maintenance of some 50 large
sharks in the division of fishes.

As part of the general shifting of collections preparatory to oceupy-
ing space in the wings now under construction, th enational collec-
tion of insects was moved from the Natural History building to
temporary quarters on Lamont Street. This change, begun on April
2 and completed on May 25, involved moving 48 specialists and sub-
professional staff members, including those of the U.S. Department
of Agriculture stationed in the Museum, together with more than
400 tons of equipment. As a result, the staff has adequate space for
the first time in many years, and for the first time in more than 25
years it has been possible to achieve a satisfactory arrangement of
many components of the collections.

The transfer, labeling, and arrangement of the A. L. Melander
collection of Diptera has progressed significantly, so that 162,931
specimens, including 421 types of various sorts have been placed in
trays and standard insect cases. The residue of three collections of
Hemiptera (Ball, 2,472 specimens; Kirkaldy, 1,252 specimens; Mc-
Atee, 4,576 specimens) received many years ago have been completely
incorporated in the Museum series, as has the Lutz collection. Of
the Funkhouser collection of Membracidae, 9,320 specimens have
been labeled and 247 holotypes have been segregated. Summer in-
tern W. Donald Duckworth continued his rearrangement and refine-
ment of the Stenomidae (Lepidoptera) during the summer of 1961.
He now has identified to genus most of a mass of unworked miscel-
Janeous material, much of it undescribed. Restoration and identifiea-
tion of unnamed chilopods has progressed to the point that the
Museum probably now has the finest named collections of Geophilo-
morpha and Lithobiomorpha in the Western Hemisphere.
CARE OF COLLECTIONS 51

In the division of marine invertebrates, museum aide Elizabeth C.
Preston, assisted by summer intern Toni G. Sandler, completely re-
organized the invertebrate material mounted on slides. It is now
housed in new, metal slide cabinets and, for the first time in many
years, 1s readily accessible to visiting specialists. Associate curator
Donald F. Squires has devoted most of his attention to plans for the
reorganization of the collections of hard corals. Progress was made
toward completing the reorganization of the east Atlantic collection
of marine mollusks, and with the assistance of a temporary aide, the
reorganization of the western Atlantic collection is now half com-
pleted. The helminthological collections have been moved into new
quarters. The operation has permitted a better organization and ar-
rangement of these collections, and has uncovered much uncataloged
material that has been added to the study collection.

Botany

The lichen collections have been placed in printed genus folders.
Museum aide Edward A. Avery incorporated the large and important
Wilson collection of 4,637 wood specimens into the collections, and
2,500 specimens of wood collected in Sumatra under the auspices
of the late Harley H. Bartlett, of the University of Michigan, are
being arranged for incorporation. The latter will constitute an
important accession because each is associated with an herbarium
voucher, and many represent species not heretofore represented in the
wood collection.

The major activities in caring for the permanent collections and
the processing of new material are summarized in the following table:

1960-61 1961-62

Specimens and photographs mounted.......... 25,946 31, 030
SPECIMEN Sere peuiIre ve egies Or TE aly nhgoen Mohr ans 11,6938 11, 463
Specimens stamped and recorded ............. 33,462 16, 341
Specimens incorporated in herbarium or added to the

DSMINEAINCTONE  COMIECHOMNS 56446566654 0466406 056 98,442 27, 892

There are now 59,136 types in the segregated type herbarium, in-
cluding 41,170 phanerogams, 10,088 grasses, 3,482 ferns, and 4,396
cryptogams. This is an increase of 698 types during the year.

Geology

Most of the ore collection in the division of mineralogy and petrol-
ogy has been cleaned and rearranged, and a large number of specimens,
obtained by reducing the size of large massive ore specimens formerly
on exhibit, have been added. Described mineral specimens were
separated from the types and integrated into the general collection,
52 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1962

each being clearly marked and referenced in a card catalog if the
information has been published. Unpublished data are kept readily
available in an information file. The type mineral collection was
rearranged and checked against the index file, and, when necessary,
with the original reference. In the process several type specimens
were found in the general collection. The meteorite collection is in
good condition.

Plans for moving and the arrangement of collections of inverte-
brate paleontology and paleobotany in preparation for the move to
the new wing are now essentially complete.

In pursuance of the objective of publishing catalogs of the type
collections in the division, museum aide Louis R. Purnell, under
the direction of associate curator Erle G. Kauffman, has completely
reorganized the nautiloid cephalopod type collection, and museum
aide Frederick Collier has done likewise for the conodont types.

Museum aid James P. Ferrigno, under the direction of associate
curator Richard Cifelli, prepared and identified some representative
assemblages of planktonic and benthonic Foraminifera from samples
collected and under study by Dr. Cifelli. Thin sectioning of primary
types of type species is revealing many unused taxonomic features in
the walls of the Foraminifera that will certainly be of value in future
classifications. The Paleozoic mollusk collection was reorganized
alphabetically by museum aides Purnell and Henry A. Jones, under
the direction of Dr. Kauffman. The Renfro collection of Mesozoic
fossils was sorted both stratigraphically and biologically and much of
the newly collected material prepared for incorporation into the refer-
ence set.

The preparatorial staff in the division of vertebrate paleontology
has been occupied mostly with repair work of the African exhibit
material. These fossils are very well preserved, but are contained
in an extremely refractory matrix, most of the rock, including cement,
consisting of silica. The result is a special problem of preparation,
requiring great patience, judgment, and skill. It should be noted that,
with no prior experience in the peculiar difficulties of Karoo fossils, the
preparators are producing results entirely worthy of the excellent
quality of the collection.

Special mention is made of a technique being devised for the pres-
ervation of delicate Pleistocene material by exhibits specialist Frank-
lin L. Pearce. The major difficulties of working this material are its
large size and its tendency to spall and split. |The specimen is first
permitted to dry thoroughly at room temperature and humidity. Itis
then warmed through as evenly as possible by radiant heat from 300-
watt, self-reflecting spotlights, and impregnated with beeswax, which
is placed on the specimen in slices while it is under the lights. The
CARE OF COLLECTIONS 53

lights are placed about 12 inches above the specimen to avoid scorching
it; at this distance each light heats effectively an area of about 80
square inches. The wax is readily melted under these circumstances
and penetrates well into thoroughly warmed fossils; penetration can
be gauged by bubbling of the melted wax as air is displaced from
interstices in the bones. After bubbling has ceased, excess wax is
melted off the surface with a small propane torch, due care being taken
to avoid scorching, and the surface is rubbed down with coarse and
fine steel wool. Results to date are satisfactory; a mammoth tusk
treated in this way was sectioned without any breaking or chipping,
and showed that, although penetration was not complete, it was more
than adequate to maintain structural strength, prevent distortion, and
preserve the surface. Investigation of the technique continues.

Science and Technology

In the division of mechanical and civil engineering, museum aide
James D. Fisher cataloged and classified the collection of over 3,000
linen drawings of mining machinery designed by E. D Leavitt. <A
general improvement of records and storage procedures was under-
taken in the division of electricity. Museum technician Elliott N.
Sivowitch completed a survey of magnetos, motors, and generators, of
which there are about 160. Assistant curator Joseph E. Rudmann
completed a listing of specimens directly relating to Alexander
Graham Bell, sorted and filed by subject matter the Hammer collec-
tion of documents, and prepared a card file of portraits of scientists
and engineers.

In the division of medical sciences, museum technician George H.
Ford, Jr., worked on cleaning, marking, and preserving individual
specimens in the collection, and museum technician Everett A. Jackson
prepared an organized list of the dental collection.

Arts and Manufactures |

In the division of textiles museum aide Marjorie L. Fogle began re-
organizing the collections so that like items are stored together. The
use of silk crepeline, almost imperceptible when placed against a fabric
of suitable color, was initiated as the result of the attendance by
museum aide Doris M. Bowman of a lecture given by Dr. Renate
Jaques, of Germany, at the Cooper Union Museum in New York. Be-
cause of the strength and appearance of crepeline, it can be used to
reinforce and support fragile textiles without changing their appear-
ance. Hxperiments are being initiated to use this fabric in the storage-
exhibition frames so that fabrics mounted between two layers can be
viewed from front and back.
54 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1962

This town coach, gift of Mrs. Rich-
ard Saltonstall, was restored and
placed on exhibit. It was built in
1851 by Thomas Goddard of
Boston.

CARE OF COLLECTIONS 55

ii.

Scale model of Bethlehem metallurgical laboratory receives final
touches from exhibits specialist John Wink, who entirely overhauled
the exhibit.

The cataloging and accessioning of new objects in the division of
ceramics and glass, and recataloging and checking identification of
objects transferred from other divisions, are progressing satisfacto-
rily. Museum aide James W. Norwood has continued the task of
rematting prints in the division of graphic arts and placing them
in new storage units. In the section of photography associate curator
Eugene Ostroft identified unmarked specimens in the collection of
photographic equipment and cross-indexed them according to manu-
facture and design. In the division of manufacture and heavy in-
dustries, museum aides John C. Carter and Francis Gadson continued
a program of cleaning and renovating recent acquisitions and exist-
ing holdings. The collections of the division of agriculture and forest
products are in good condition, through the efforts of Museum aide
John M. Wingo.

Civil History
Most of the campaign collection of the division of political history

was centralized and arranged, and the manner of storing specimens
improved. Items in poor condition were sometimes protected by lam-
56 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1962

ination or by use of special protective covers or storage folders. For
campaign jewelry special felt-covered display boards were utilized.
The organization and preservation of the growing collection of Amer-
ican costume progressed. Assistant curator Anne W. Murray de-
vised a chemise-type garment to be mounted on a hanger to serve as a
support for skirts to be displayed on mannequins, such as those in
the present display of American costume. This type of support will
also be useful in storage to support the weight of the skirt or dress.

Rehabilitation of the musical instrument collections in the division
of cultural history was advanced under assistant curator Cynthia A.
Hoover. Restoration of a harpsichord made by Johann Daniel
Dulcken, of Antwerp, 1745, is the most recent of several completed
restorations of keyboard instruments in the Hugo Worch collection ;
such restoration permits the instruments to be played and their musi-
cal qualities to be demonstrated. The program provides also for a
long-range plan of partial restoration and stabilization of instru-
ments not capable of being returned to playing condition, and of
tuning and maintenance to assure the constant preservation of this
notable Smithsonian collection.

Through the cooperation of the Union Carbide Corporation, the
opportunity to test a new and promising method of protecting silver
coins and medals against corrosion was given the division of numisma-
tics. The product tested is a low-viscosity solution containing 7.5
percent silicone solids in a solvent system formulated primarily for
spray application. This product is or will be available shortly under
the name Y—2448 Silicone Silver Finish. The results were satisfac-
tory. Y—2448 may be used mainly for protecting bright, brillant
objects. Matt surfaces, especially of bronze medals and coins, should
not be coated using this or any other product currently available be-
cause of the resulting “wet” appearance. Experiments will be con-
ducted to overcome this drawback.

Armed Forces History

Museum specialist Donald E. Kloster and summer intern William F.
Navarre continued the rearrangement and recataloging of the ref-
erence collections of the division of military history. Under the di-
rection of curator Edgar M. Howell, and with the technical advice
of curator of textiles, Grace Rogers Cooper, the Star Spangled Ban-
ner was prepared for final installation in the rotunda of the new
Museum of History and Technology. To obviate the least possible
strain on the fibers of the flag and to insure hanging without puckers,
2-inch linen tapes, woven to the exact specifications of the present
linen backing, were carefully stitched to the reverse of the flag back-
ing on 12-inch centers. The flag will be hung from those tapes.
CARE OF COLLECTIONS 57

Among the half models restored for the division of naval history
were the sloop rie, brig Z’ruatwn, side-wheel frigate Hulton IT, side-
wheel steamer Waterwitch IT, screw steam sloop Princeton, steam
frigate Allegheny (with the Hunter wheel), steam sloop San Jacinto,
steam sloop-of-war Aearsarge, and the casemated Union ironclad Vew
Tronsides.

Under the direction of curator Philip K. Lundeberg, special meas-
ures were taken to insure safe delivery of the gunboat Philadelphia
from upstate New York during July 1961. This vessel’s entire oaken
hull and major fittings were impregnated with spray applications
of polyethylene glycol (83%) for basic preservation and to render
her more limber in transit. It is worthy of special mention that,
although submerged in fresh water for nearly 159 years, this historic
warship proved remarkably durable, notably in the area of her bot-
tom planking. Encased in a stout boat-shaped crate designed by
curator of transportation Howard I. Chapelle, the Philadelphia was
skidded overland half a mile to the shores of Lake Champlain,
ramped out to an awaiting barge, and towed through the Lake Cham-
plain-Hudson River Canal to Albany. Here the Coast Guard buoy
tender irebush expertly hoisted the 54-foot gunboat onto her main
well deck and proceeded via the intercoastal waterway to the nation’s
capital, where she temporarily found haven at the Naval Weapons
Plant.

On December 12, 1961, the Philadelphia was swung into the third
floor of the new Museum of History and Technology to await com-
pletion of her special exhibit hall.

Further applications of polyethylene glycol strengthened with a
suitable fungicide are contemplated for the completion of the gun-
boat’s preservation. Steps meanwhile had been taken under the direc-
tion of head curator Mendel L. Peterson, to preserve some 720
individual objects recovered with the gunboat. Museum aide John
P. Ellis applied a similar solution of the preservative to smaller
wooden items. Ferrous objects in the collection have been cleaned,
repaired, and coated either with hot wax or Krylon, depending on
surface condition.

Research continues on basic techniques to establish preservation
methods for dealing with badly corroded or heavily water-soaked
objects recovered from underwater sites. As in the past, a wide
variety of ferrous metal objects have been effectively stabilized in
electro-reduction baths containing 10 percent sodium hydroxide and
mossy zinc. Freshwater leaching baths have been maintained to de-
salt a variety of specimens.

A 16th century Spanish sword encrusted with a fragile layer of
calcareous sand was successfully embedded in a polyester alkyd styrene

658794625

58 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1962

The late Emilio Estrada, center, in helmet, inspecting excavations at
the Valdivia site on the coast of Ecuador.

block. Numerous pottery sherds collected from Spanish shipwreck
sites were cleaned, separated, and partially reconstructed. Experi-
ments were continued in an effort to perfect the treatment of old
water-soaked wooden objects, using alcohol dehydration techniques
and alum, and polyethylene glycol and Arigal W.P. impregnation.

Museum aides John L. Rawls and Harold W. Ellis continued restor-
ing and organizing specimens and graphic items by exhibit groups
for installation in the new Museum of History and ‘Technology.
Among the significant items restored were the fife rail of the Hartford,
the wheel of the Brooklyn, and several mid-19th century gangway
headboards.
Investigation and
Research

Museum of Natural History
Anthropology

At the Gordon Research Conference on the Chemistry, Physiology,
and Structure of Bones and Teeth, head curator T. Dale Stewart
read a paper on the last phase of human evolution before the sec-
tion on “Evolution of Bone as a Tissue.” In Austria he participated
in the Wenner-Gren Symposium No. 16, “Anthropology and the Con-
ditions of Individual and Social Freedom,” at Burg Wartenstein,
near Glognitz. One of 14 participants, Dr. Stewart’s contribution
dealt with the biolegical and medical conditions of human freedom.
From Austria he continued on to Zagreb, Yugoslavia, where he
examined in the Paleontological Museum of that city the skeletal
remains of the Krapina Neanderthals recovered in 1905.

In the course of the year Dr. Stewart completed four manuscripts
for publication: Neanderthal scapulae, with special attention to the
Shanidar Neanderthals of Iraq; Anterior femoral curvature, its util-
ity for race classification ; Comments on the reassessment of the Indian
Knoll skeletons; and Physical plasticity and adaptation [in Middle
American Indians]. In connection with the first of these studies, Dr.
Stewart was fortunate in being able to borrow from the Peabody
Museum, Harvard University, the original scapulae of one of the
Neanderthals (Skhil V) from Mount Carmel, Palestine (Israel). As
the year closed he was devoting most of his attention to the design of a
new exhibit hall of physical anthropology, the first time this subject
has been treated so extensively in the National Museum.

As time permitted, Dr. Stewart studied a collection of secondary
burials from the McLean site in North Carolina. The collection,
consisting of 265 specimens, all incomplete, multiple, and sometimes
burned, was made by Lt. Col. Howard MacCord, of Fort Bragg. The
importance of the collection is that 1t presents the first evidence from
the area of prehistoric burial practices.

Archeology.—For several weeks in summer of 1961, curator Waldo
RR. Wedel was engaged in field work near Littleton, Colo., investigat-

59
60 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1962

foe 2 ee

An exhibit in the new hall, Cultures of the Pacific and Asia. Traditional
activities of the old Maori of New Zealand include, left to right, wood
carving, tattooing, and flax beating. Cloaks such as those shown here
were made from flax.

ing the possibility of human associations with a late Pleistocene
fauna. ‘This project was already underway at the beginning of the
fiscal year under the supervision of museum aid George S. Metcalf.
Some 350 mammoth, camel, horse, bison, and other still unidentified
bones were collected from an ancient spring deposit for return to
Washington. No artifacts were found in unquestioned association
with the bones of extinct animals, but several flints from higher in
INVESTIGATIONS AND RESEARCH 61

The value of Yap stone money varies with the history, ownership, and
past use of the particular piece.

the strata offer strong indication that hunters were in the region
between 4,000 and 1,000 years ago. As the fiscal year ended Dr.
Wedel and Mr. Metcalf were again in the field at Littleton.

As the year opened associate curator Clifford Evans and honorary
research associate Betty Meggers were in Barranquilla, Colombia,
serving with Dr. James A. Ford of the American Museum of Natural
62 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1962

History as instructors in a unique working seminar on archeological
techniques for young, qualified Latin American archeologists.
Attending also were students from Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Guate-
mala, Mexico, Panama, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela. Organized
under the sponsorship of the Organization of American States, it was
also supported by the National Science Foundation.

During the following 3 months, Drs. Evans and Meggers, in col-
laboration with Sr. Emilio Estrada, Director of the Museo Arqueo-
logico “Victor Emilio Estrada” in Guayaquil, conducted archeological
research along the coast of Ecuador. This year the work was co-
sponsored by the Institute of Andean Research as Project J of its
coordinated research program “Interrelationships of New World
cultures.” Besides extending the work of previous seasons in the
Guayas Basin, the excavators began their first work in the Provinces
of Manabi and Esmeraldas, giving special attention to sites that
seemed to show cultural relationships with Meso-America. When
the recovered artifacts are studied it is expected that they will yield
the first reliable dates and other details of a large scale migration
between Meso-America and northern South America. Unfortunately,
the extremely fruitful collaboration over the past seven years between
Drs. Evans and Meggers and Sr. Emilio Estrada ended November
19 with Estrada’s untimely death.

The obsidian dating project, under Dr. Evans’ guidance, continued
actively until May, when research assistant Dr. Donavan Clark
resigned to enter private industry. A large amount of time during
the year was spent in studying obsidian composition with a view to
determining whether it exerted a limiting effect on surface hydration
and whether it could be used to identify the sources of archeological
specimens. Also, the hydration layers were measured in approxi-
mately 500 more specimens. Reports on all this work, es well as on
the dating method, are in process.

For more than 8 months between November and February, asso-
ciate curator Gus W. Van Beek directed an archeological reconnais-
sance in Wadi Hadhramaut, East Aden Protectorate, Arabia. Other
members of the expedition were: Dr. Glen H. Cole, paleoanthropolo-
gist of the University of Chicago; Dr. Albert Jamme, epigrapher of
the Catholic University of America, Washington, D.C.; and associate
curator Henry W. Setzer, mammalogist of this Museum. Records
were made of 110 prehistoric sites, some as early as the Upper Pale-
olithic Period, and of 50 pre-Islamic and Islamic sites. These records,
supported by the collections, should make clear that during much of
the interval between the Paleolithic Period and the 5th century B.C.
the area was occupied, a fact which has not been known heretofore.
The collections include more than 1,000 copies of pre-Islamic graffiti
INVESTIGATIONS AND RESEARCH 63

and inscriptions, made by Dr. Jamme, and the first good series of
mammals from this area, obtained by Dr. Setzer.

During the year museum aide George S. Metcalf received from
the Nebraska State Historical Society the stone, bone, and shell arti-
facts from a group of sites in central Nebraska excavated in 1939.
His analysis of this material enabled Mr. Metcalf to continue work
on a manuscript describing the archeological aspects of the sites.

Honorary collaborator John M. Campbell was in the Brooks Range
of Alaska during the first 2 months of the fiscal year seeking archeo-
logical evidence from which to reconstruct the movements of aborigi-
nal man in the peopling of the continent. Subsequently he made
progress on a manuscript dealing with his Alaskan work, “The arche-
ology of Anaktuvuk Pass: Nunamiut prehistory.”

Honorary research associate Neil M. Judd worked throughout the
year on part 3 of his archeological report, based on the field work in
Chaco Canyon, New Mexico, done earlier for the National Geographic
Society.

Ethnology.—Curator Saul H. Riesenberg, who otherwise was
largely occupied with exhibit responsibilities, late in the summer
attended the Tenth Pacific Science Congress, in Honolulu, where he
convened a symposium on ethnohistory in the Pacific.

After an absence of a year on an expedition principally to south-
west Africa and Bechuanaland, associate curator Gordon D. Gibson
returned to the Museum in July. Mainly he had been investigating
features of the economic life of the Herero and Himba, pastoral Bantu
tribes. The collections obtained from these tribes are unique so far
as the Himba are concerned and are among the best for the Herero.
On his return trip Dr. Gibson made stops in Southern Rhodesia,
Northern Rhodesia, Kenya, Ethiopia, and Egypt to make collections
and to investigate the possibilities of acquiring specimens for the new
African exhibits. After his return he continued his research on the
Southwestern Bantu, and prepared articles on the Herero and Berg-
dama for publication in an encyclopaedia.

When not directly engaged in exhibit work, associate curator
Eugene I. Knez spent much time throughout the year gathering eth-
nological materials for exhibit and research use from Pakistan,
India, Burma, Cambodia, Malaya, Taiwan, Korea, and Japan. In
addition Dr. Knez continued his research on Korean village tech-
nology.

Associate curator William H. Crocker, who joined the staff in
February, devoted time to the records of his previous field work.
Before coming to the Museum he had spent about 2 years among the
Canela, an isolated Indian tribe in eastern Brazil.
64 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1962

Sharks teeth arm weapons used in the Gilbert Islands. The armor is
made from cocoanut husk, the helmet, upper right, from porcupine-fish
skin. Ancient objects, below, from our 50th State, Hawaii, include
feather capes worn by royalty.

+00

belie
os AP
INVESTIGATIONS AND RESEARCH 65

ee
fee:
ie
ieee

Weapons and tools used by the nomadic aboriginal Australians.
Below: Most of the objects shown in this exhibit are still used in the
Marshalls, Carolines, and other islands of Micronesia.

66 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1962

The Hindu god Shiva and his con-
sort Parvati, a modern sculpture in
the traditional manner, and below,
Hindu temple window, probably
late 18th century, both from south
India, gift of the Indian Govern-
ment.

INVESTIGATIONS AND RESEARCH 67

In its objects and activities the Sindhi kitchen repeats a centuries-old

pattern.

Physical anthropology—During July and August, associate
curator Marshall T. Newman was in Peru carrying out the final
phase of a 5-year integrated physical-nutritional study on the Quechua
Indians of Vicos, an hacienda in the North Peruvian Sierra. Honor-
ary collaborator William J. Tobin, Washington crthopedic surgeon,
accompanied Dr. Newman and made orthopedic examinations of the
Vicos school boys. Local cooperation came from Dr. Carlos Collazos
Ch., director of Peru’s Institute of Nutrition, who made clinical
nutritional studies on the boys and whose staff studied the food intake
of families and the serum vitamin levels of the boys. In addition,
collections of saliva and blood were brought back to the States for
analysis. After four years of special feeding, the Vicos boys show
a mean 42 percent increase in weight increments that represent muscle
and bone increase rather than body fat. At all ages they show sig-
nificantly higher bone densities in comparison with the 1956 averages.

Dr. Newman, assisted by Dr. Francisco M. Salzano, of the Institute
of Natural Sciences, Porto Alegre, Brazil, compiled the annual an-
notated bibliography on physical anthropology in Latin America for
the Handbook of Latin American Studies, published by the Library
of Congress. For the Smithsonian’s information leaflet series he pre-
68 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1962

ARMS AND ARMOR
@@F INDIA AND PAK

4

ay

Objects from the John Oliver La Gorce collection are included in this
display of weapons from the Mogul period.

pared an illustrated account of “Early man: the story of human an-
cestry.” This subject is one of those most frequently requested by
students.

Anthropological aide Lucile E. Hoyme spent about three months
early in the year revising and expanding a manuscript on “Human
skeletal remains from the Tollifero (Ha6) and Clarksville (Me14)
sites, John H. Kerr Reservoir Basin, Virginia.” In the course of this
work she reexamined about 80 cataloged skeletons and the records
of 45 others that had been discarded. Also, she X-rayed various
pathological bones from 21 skeletons in order to obtain a more accu-
rate diagnosis of the diseases present.

Research by visiting investigators.—The collections and other
resources of the department of anthropology were used in furthering
their research by the following visitors, among others:
INVESTIGATIONS AND RESEARCH 69

Gong chime is one of the important instruments of a Thailand percussion
ensemble.

Archeology: Frank Boos, Detroit, Mich.; Edward Danson, Museum of North-
ern Arizona; Gary Vescelius, Cornell University; Mahmud el-Amin, University
of Baghdad; Carlos Angulo, Instituto Colombiano de Antropologia; Ignacio
Bernal, Instituto Nacional de Antropologia e Hisoria; Ripley Bullen, Florida
State Museum ; Katherine Capes, Royal Ontario Museum; Carl Chapman, Univer-
sity of Missouri; Ray L. Cleveland, Oriental Seminary of Johns Hopkins Univer-
sity; Eusebio Davalos Hurtado, Instituto Nacional de Antropologia e Historia ;
Robert Heine-Geldern, Institut fiir Volkerkunde; C. G. Holland, University of
Virginia ; Alister Hughes and Marion Priest, St. Georges, Grenada ; Alex Krieger,
University of Washington; Jorge Lines, University of Costa Rica; Richard Mac-
Neish, National Museum of Canada; Shozo Masuda, University of Tokyo; Alfred
Metraux, UNESCO; Wendell Phillips, Hawaii; Faisal Seirafi, Department of
Antiquities and Museums in North Syria; Carlyle Smith, University of Kansas;
Nathalie F. Woodbury, Arizona State Museum.
70 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1962

Ethnology: Doo Hyun Lee, Seoul National Museum, Korea; Chi-Lu Huang,
Chinese Minister of Education, Formosa; Nai-Wei Chang, Bureau for Interna-
tional Cultural Relations, Formosa; Jung Whan Kim, Seoul, Korea; Ethel Jane
Bunting, Karachi, Pakistan; Saviteri Ahuja, Washington, D.C.; Swami Nitya-
swarupananda, The Rama Krishna Mission Institute of Culture, Calcutta, India ;
Wayne Suttles, University of British Columbia, Vancouver; Carl Schmitz, Basle
Museum, Switzerland; Robert Textor, Harvard University; Harold Conklin,
Columbia University ; John Cool, Washington, D.C.; E. B. Sayles, Arizona State
Museum; Paul H. Ezell, San Diego State College; Viola Garfield, University of
Washington ; Peter Goethals, University of Virginia; Cvetko Rihtman, Muzicka
Akademija, Sarajevo, Yugoslavia; Klaus P. Wachsmann, Wellcome Historical
Medical Museum, London, England; William R. Bascom, Robert H. Lowie
Museum of Anthropology.

Physical Anthropology: A. A. Abbie, University of Adelaide, Australia;
J. Lawrence Angel, Daniel Baugh Institute of Anatomy; Paul Baker, Pennsyl-
yania State University; William M. Bass, University of Kansas; Dr. and Mrs.
Ripley Bullen, Florida State Museum; Drexel Cochran, USAF, ADTIC, Mont-
gomery, Alabama; H. F. Cumerma, Baltimore, Md.; Paul Dastian, University
of Maryland; M. 8S. Goldstein, National Institute of Mental Health, Bethesda,
Md.; Janet Hartle, Howard University; H. T. E. Hertzberg, Aero-Space Medi-
cal Research Laboratories, Wright-Patterson AFB, Ohio; Ellis R. Kerley, Wash-
ington, D.C.; Frank Kiel, Armed Forces Institute of Pathology ; W. M. Krogman,
Philadelphia Center for Research in Child Growth; William S. Laughlin, Uni-
versity of Wisconsin; Elliot Liebow, Washington, D.C.; G. A. Matson, Min-
neapolis War Memorial Blood Bank; Hasmukh J. Mehta, New York Medical
College; Juan R. Munizaga, University of Chile; Karin Nelson, National In-
stitute of Mental Health; Russell W. Newman, ARIEM—-QM R and EH Center,
Natick, Mass.; Lawrence Oschinsky, National Museum of Canada; D. F. Roberts,
Laboratory of Physical Anthropology, Oxford, Hngland; William L. Straus,
Jr., Johns Hopkins Medical School; Norman Walensky, George Washington
University Medical School; Cyril H. Wecht, Baltimore, Md.

Zoology

On February 1 Dr. Horton H. Hobbs, Jr., assumed the position of
head curator. Since he came to the Museum, three publications deal-
ing with crayfishes and their epizootic ostracods have appeared, and
two short manuscripts have been submitted for publication. He is
presently engaged in the preparation of a check-list of North Ameri-
can crayfishes.

Mammals.—Curator David H. Johnson continued to work on mam-
mals from southeastern Asia and the Pacific Ocean areas. In March
he was able to study special groups of Asiatic mammals in the Chicago
Natural History Museum and the American Museum of Natural
History. In December, he took part in a symposium of the Society
of Systematic Zoology on the biogeography of the Philippine Islands,
and he also completed a report on a collection of mammals from

Nepal.
INVESTIGATIONS AND RESEARCH Wl

Associate curator Henry W. Setzer continued his study of mam-
mals from Egypt and the Sudan obtained by U.S. Naval Medical
Research Unit No. 3 under the direction of Dr. Harry Hoogstraal.
Most of Dr. Setzer’s time was devoted to organizing and conducting
fieldwork in Africa and the Middle East as part of a program sup-
ported by the Army Research and Development Command, Office of
the Surgeon General. In October, accompanied by research assistant
Gary L. Ranck, he initiated a project of collecting in Libya. In No-
vember and December, collections were made in Tripolitania and
around Tarim and Taribih in Kathiri State. In late December Dr.
Setzer returned to Washington; however, Mr. Ranck continued to
collect in Libya, principally in Fezzan Province. Preparation for a
similar project in the Malagasy Republic, under the same sponsor-
ship, 1s now in progress.

Associate curator Charles O. Handley, Jr., concentrated on two
continuing research projects, one on the mammals of Panama and
the other on the mammals of the southeastern United States. He also
identified a large collection of Venezuelan mammals for the Uni-
versidad Central de Venezuela. In November he studied specimens
of the rare pigmy sperm whale /ogia in six different research centers
in North Carolina and South Carolina, Georgia, and Florida. Field-
work by Dr. Handley in the southeastern states included two weeks
with exhibits specialist Daniel I. Rhymer as assistant in the Clinch
Mountain area of southwestern Virginia and a week in cooperation
with Edwin V. Komarek in western Florida. Early in 1962 Dr.
Handley, assisted by exhibits specialist Francis M. Greenwell, devoted
thirteen weeks to collecting mammals in the highest elevations on the
Azuero Peninsula, the highest parts of the Cerro Punta-Boquete Trail
in Chiriqui Province, and a group of smal] islands, including Escudo
de Veraguas, off the northwestern coast of Panama.

Birds.—Curator Herbert G. Deignan participated in a symposium,
“Biogeography of the Tropical Pacific,” at the Tenth Pacific Science
Congress in Honolulu. For the virological and parasitological reports
he supplied identifications of the birds obtained by the U.S. Naval
Medical Research Unit No. 2 in Formosa. The typescript for the
subfamilies Timaliinae, Paradoxornithinae, and Orthonychinae to ap-
pear in Peters’ “Check-list of birds of the world” was brought up to
date and will soon go to press. His “Check-list of the birds of Thai-
land,” which will appear in a Bulletin of the United States National
Museum, is in page proof.

Dr. Alexander Wetmore, honorary research associate and former
Secretary of the Smithsonian, continued his field studies in Panama
from January to April, and has spent several days studying Pana-
manian birds in the Museum of Comparative Zoology and the Ameri-
(2 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1962

can Museum of Natural History. He has completed three manuscripts
dealing with modern tropical American birds and with fossil species,
mainly of Pleistocene age.

Bernard R. Feinstein, museum aide collecting with an expedition
jointly conducted by the Bernice P. Bishop Museum of Honolulu and
the Medical Research and Development Command, Department of
the Army, added a large number of specimens to the national
collections.

Several staff changes took place during the year. Mr. Deignan
resigned on January 31, 1962. He is continuing his association with
the Museum as a member of an expedition to Madagascar. Dr. Philip
S. Humphrey was appointed curator of birds June 1, 1962, and Dr.
Oliver L. Austin, who has succeeded the late Wendell Taber as chair-
man of the Bent Life Histories Committee, was appointed honorary
research associate of the Smithsonian Institution, as was Mr. Deignan.

Reptiles and Amphibians.—Curator Doris M. Cochran has con-
tinued her studies on the frogs of Colombia, and her manuscript is
nearing completion. Her beautifully illustrated book on the living
amphibians of the world was published in June 1961.

Fishes.—Curator Leonard P. Schultz published a “Revision of the
marine silver hatchetfishes (family Sternoptychidae)” in the Pro-
ceedings of the U.S. National Museum. An article by Schultz, Gil-
bert, and Springer, with the title, “Shark attacks: worldwide records
through 1960 show when and where predaceous sharks are likely to
attack man,” appeared in “Science.” Four additional manuscripts
have been completed: “The silver hatchetfishes, family Sternop-
tychidae, of the Western Atlantic”; “Attacks by sharks as related to
the activities of man”; with J. A. F. Garrick, “A guide to the kinds
of dangerous sharks of the world”; and with Marilyn Malin, “Docu-
mented list of shark attacks for the world.” Research in progress
includes further studies on sharks and a new frogfish, family
Antennariidae.

In connection with a research program directed by Dr. Schultz, his
associate J. A. F. Garrick has about half completed a revision of the
carcharhinid sharks of the Indo-Pacific, his associate Victor G.
Springer expects to complete his revision of the sharks related to
the genus Scoliodon, and his associate Carter R. Gilbert is completing
his revision of the hammerhead sharks, genus Sphyrna. ‘These revi-
sions represent the first attempt to study the relationships of the
sharks in the Indian, Pacific, and Atlantic Oceans. Mrs. Marilyn
Malin, research secretary, has aided in the preparation of the docu-
mented file of shark attacks of the world. This file now contains
1,032 cases.
INVESTIGATIONS AND RESEARCH 73

Associate curator Ernest A. Lachner has completed the family
Echeneidae for “Fishes of the Marshall and Marianas Islands,” and
is continuing work toward the nearly completed revisions of the fami-
hes Gobiidae, Eleotridae, and Taenioididae. Other research projects
under way are revisions of the families Echeneidae, A pogonidae, and
Mullidae.

Associate curator William R. Taylor is completing his large mono-
graph, “A revision of the North American catfishes, genus Voturus,
with an analysis of the higher groups in the family Ictaluridae,”
which is well advanced, except for the addition of new species dis-
covered in recent years. Also, under way is a paper on “The marine
catfishes of the Western North Atlantic.”

Insects.—Curator J. F. Gates Clarke, after attending the Tenth
Pacific Science Congress, proceeded to Tahiti in September. The
objective of his expedition was the island of Rapa which, because of
adverse circumstances, was not reached. On Tahiti and Huahine a
small collection of insects and other arthropods was obtained. In
the material acquired were about 40 species of Microlepidoptera,
most of which are undescribed and not previously represented in
the national collection.

Publication of Dr. Clarke’s series on the Meyrick types of Micro-
lepidoptera has been delayed, although last year galley proof was cor-
rected for vol. 4. All but about 30 plates and corresponding text of
vol. 5 are now complete, but the photos for the remaining plates are
still needed. Progress on the Neotropical Microlepidoptera project
has been moderate. Two small papers were completed and have been
published, and a third is nearing completion.

Associate curator Oscar L. Cartwright has continued his study of
the genus A taenius (Scarabaeidae) of the Western Hemisphere. Con-
currently, a study of the Scarabaeidae of Micronesia is being
conducted.

Associate curator Ralph E. Crabill, Jr., continued his work on
chilopods in European museums from June through mid-September.
Collections in London, Hamburg, and Munich were studied. Dr.
Crabill’s investigations, usually involving poorly known types, proved
most fruitful in the resolution of many long-standing problems in
systematics. This visit to European museums also provided the op-
portunity to become acquainted with many species and genera not
represented in American museums. Most of February was spent in
the Museum of Comparative Zoology, Harvard University, for the
purpose of continuing studies on important holdings of Chilopoda.

Associate curator Donald R. Davis, a new staff member and a
specialist in Microlepidoptera, has completed additions and changes
to his exhaustive study of the Psychidae (bag-worms), the subject of

6

658794— 62
74 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1962

his doctoral dissertation, and the revision is now ready for publi-
cation. Dr. Davis is also engaged in a study of the Gracilariidae of
the Nearctic Region. This group constitutes the principal family of
leaf-mining Lepidoptera, containing as many species with this spe-
cialized habit of feeding as all other Lepidoptera combined. It is
estimated that there are no less than 240 species, contained in 18
genera, in North America north of Mexico. Eventually this study
will be extended to include the fauna of the Neotropical Region and
correlated with similar work being done in Japan and South Africa;
thus a more comprehensive understanding of the systematics and
evolution of this interesting family will be obtained.

Associate curator William D. Field is continuing his long term
study of the Lycaenidae and is also working on the genus Ceramidia,
a group of moths destructive to bananas. He completed his study of
the moths of the genus ?habdatomis (Lithosunae), and in June con-
ducted field investigations in Maine.

Associate curator Oliver S. Flint, Jr., has continued his investiga-
tion of the immature forms of Trichoptera (caddis flies) and several
papers on the subject have resulted. The immature forms are being
associated with adults, and a classification, based on the different
stages, 1s gradually being developed. In connection with his research,
Dr. Flint made many local field trips, collected in Puerto Rico, and
stucied type specimens at the Museum of Comparative Zoology.

Dr. Alexey Diakonoff, Rijksmuseum van Naturlijke Historie, Lei-
den, Holland, is studying Philippine and Asiatic Microlepidoptera
in the national collection. This study has, for the first time, revealed
something in the composition of the Philippine fauna, from which
area the only collection of Microlepidoptera is that belonging to the
U.S. National Museum, a condition that indicates how little is known
of the islands. Included in this study will be the several hundred
specimens collected in Okinawa by Colonel S$. S. Nicolay, USMC, the
only collection known from that island.

Dr. Karlis A. Princis, Zoological Institute, University of Lund,
Sweden, continued his studies in the Museum collections of Blattoidea
(cockroaches) from Japan through the Philippine Islands. He ex-
pects to complete this project during the coming year.

Marine Invertebrates.—Curator Fenner A. Chace, Jr., completed
a study of the nonbrachyuran decapod crustaceans of Clipperton
Island, including a tentative zoogeographical analysis of a portion of
the fauna of that isolated coral island. He also made some progress on
a redescription, begun by the late Belle A. Stevens, of the rare bathy-
pelagic shrimp Votostomus japonicus. In addition, Dr. Chace devoted
considerable time to editing translations of two important Russian
works: O. Paulson’s “Studies on Crustacea of the Red Sea” and VY.
INVESTIGATIONS AND RESEARCH 75

V. Makarov’s volume on the Anomura in the “The fauna of the
US:S.R.”

Associate curator Thomas E. Bowman finished the preparation of
two manuscripts dealing with the description of a new harpacticoid
copepod crustacean from Florida and a review of the Chesapeake
Bay species of the copepod genus Acartia. He also advanced three

r

4 7 ih
bie

Guide ropes mark 3-foot segments of coral reef being collected off
New Caledonia for new hall of oceanic life. After a 10- by 24-foot
portion, weighing in all about 5 tons, had been photographed, it was
chopped off and transported 15 miles back to land, where the pieces
were cleaned, dried, and packed. The sea snake seen swimming in
center of picture is poisonous.

other projects: A study of the distribution, and causes thereof, of
the calanoid copepods found off the southeastern coast of the United
States; a review, with Juan G. Gonzalez, of the little-known inshore
planktonic copepods of southwestern Puerto Rico; and the descrip-
tion of a new cave isopod crustacean from eastern Cuba.

Associate curator Charles EK. Cutress, Jr., worked on his reports
on the sea anemones of Port Phillips Bay, Australia, and on the sea
anemones collected by the Chatham Islands Expedition of 1954.

Associate curator Frederick M. Bayer resigned December 12, 1961,
76 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1962

to join the staff of the Institute of Marine Science, University of
Miami.

Associate curator Donald F. Squires, who joined the staff in Decem-
ber, completed two studies: one concerns a scleractinian coral faunule
from Cape Rodney, New Zealand, which revealed the remains of
Tertiary corals similar to Recent deep-water species but associated
with shallow-water organisms; the other describes the sequence of
corals at the mouth of the Rewa River, Viti Levu, Fiji. Dr. Squires
has also nearly finished two other manuscripts on fossil and hving
rhizangid corals from Argentina and on the Scleractinia collected by
the Chatham Islands Expedition of 1954, and has made considerable
progress on a monographic study of the evolution and systematics of
extant and Tertiary scleractinian corals of the family Micrabaciidae.

Dr. Waldo L. Schmitt, honorary research associate, corrected proof
on the revised Crustacea and Lobster sections of the Encyclopaedia
Britannica; he did considerable preliminary work on a proposed revi-
sion of the section on Crustaceans in the “Smithsonian scientific series,”
and undertook a monographic revision of the American commensal
crabs of the family Pinnotheridae.

Mrs. Mildred S. Wilson, honorary research associate, completed
another manuscript in the series on North American harpacticoid
copepod crustaceans, and has nearly finished one on the occurrence
of a glacial marine relict species of calanoid copepod in a Rocky Moun-
tain lake, far out of its previously known range. ‘The latter is one of
several manuscripts in preparation on records of brackish-water and
marine genera of calanoids in landlocked bodies of water. These
studies represent an extension of continuing research on a monograph
of the freshwater calanoid copepods.

John C. Yaldwyn, now curator of Crustacea at the Australian
Museum in Sydney, worked on the pasiphaeid shrimps in the national
collections durimg a temporary appointment under the program to
promote knowledge of the marine fauna of the Central Pacific. Under
that same program Mrs. Beatrice L. Burch devoted the entire year
to negotiations with specialists in all parts of the world regarding
the identification of our unidentified backlog of Pacific material and
to preparing such material for shipment. She also engaged in pre-
liminary studies for a revision of the galatheid decapod crustaceans
of the Pacific.

The program to increase our knowledge of the marine fauna of the
central Pacific region, aided by contracts with the Office of Naval
Research and the Atomic Energy Commission, has placed an even
greater burden than usual on collaborating specialists throughout the
world, whose assistance the Museum acknowledges with gratitude.
This year, 45 shipments containing more than 59,869 specimens have
been sent to the following 28 specialists :
INVESTIGATIONS

J. Laurens Barnard: amphipod crus-
taceans.

Brian P. Boden:
ceans.

W. L. Bousfield: amphipod crustaceans.

H. Yale Dawson: algae.

Ralph W. Dexter: fairy shrimps.

Bonnie Eldred: shrimps.

John 8. Garth: crabs.

Robert Given: cumacean crustaceans.

Janet Haig: porcellanid crabs.

Willard D. Hartman: sponges.

Joel W. Hedgpeth: sea spiders.

Dora P. Henry: barnacles.

L. B. Holthuis: decapod crustaceans.

euphausiid crusta-

AND RESEARCH ei

Frank J. Maturo: bryozoans.

Marvin C. Myer: leeches.

Hric Mills: amphipod crustaceans.

J. Percy Moore: leeches.

Marian H. Pettibone:
worms.

Tune Sakai: crabs.

George A. Schultz: isopod crustaceans.

Harrison R. Steeves, IIL: isopod crus-
taceans.

A. C. Stephen: sipunculid and echiurid
worms.

W. Stephenson: crabs.

Lowell P. Thomas: brittle stars.

W. Vervoort: hydroids.

polychaete

Alan G. Lewis: copepod crustaceans. Fred C. Ziesenhenne: echinoderms.

Raymond B. Manning: mantis shrimps.

Mollusks.—Curator Harald A. Rehder devoted considerable study
to the marine mollusks of the Indo-Pacific region, particularly the
Polynesian area. He spent most of July and August in Honolulu
studying the mollusk collections at the Bernice P. Bishop Musevm and
attending the Tenth Pacific Science Congress. During the year he
revised and submitted for publication a paper on the marine mollusks
of certain islands off the coast of Venezuela, and made considerable
progress on his monograph of the family Harpidae, continuing as well
his work on the Indo-Pacific members of the family Tellinidae.

Associate curator Joseph P. E. Morrison initiated a study of
the brackish water mollusks of New Caledonia, based largely on
material gathered by him in 1960-61. In addition, he continued his
work on the families Hydrobiidae, Mactridae (brackish water
species), and Ellobiidae.

Associate curator Joseph Rosewater put the final touches on his
monograph of the family Pinnidae as represented in the Indo-Pacific
area, and this paper was published in September. He also continued
his work on the families Tridacnidae and Littorinidae of the Indo-
Pacific and spent some ten days at the Bernice P. Bishop Museum
studying representatives of these families.

Research by visiting investigators——Among visiting scientists
who studied the zoology research colletcions during the year were:

Mammals: Sydney Anderson, New York, N.Y.; J. Kenneth Doutt, Pittsburgh,
Pa.; A. Fain, Antwerp, Belgium; Bryan P. Glass, Stillwater, Okla.; E. Raymond
Hall, Lawrence, Kans.; Hans HE. Kaiser, New York, N.Y.; Karl F. Koopman.
New York, N.Y.; BE. V. Komarek, Thomasville, Ga.; Adam Krzanowski, Pulawy,
Poland; Kenneth I. Lange, Washington, D.C.; Lim Boo Liat, Kuala Lumpur,
Malaya; Eustorgio Mendez, Gorgas Memorial Laboratory, Canal Zone; Joseph
C. Moore, Chicago, Ill.; R. E. Mumford, Lafayette, Ind.; M. Nadchatram, Kuala

Lumpur, Malaya; Felix Pifano C., Caracas, Venezuela; Robert Rausch,
78 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1962

Anchorage, Alaska; Ernst Schwarz, Bethesda, Ma.; Robert M. Stecher, Cleve-
land, Ohio; Howard E. Uible, Washington, D.C.; Gary S. Vescelius, Brena, Lima,
Peru; B. J. Wilks, Durham, N.C.; and Phillip M. Youngman Ottawa, Canada.

Birds: M. H. Moynihan, Canal Zone Biological Area, Canal Zone; Pierce
Brodkorb, University of Florida; Eugene Hisenmann and James P. Chapin,
American Museum of Natural History; Robert C. Stein, Cornell University;
L. L. Snyder, Royal Ontario Museum; Ralph S. Palmer, New York State
Museum; Kenneth HE. Stager, Los Angeles County Museum; Austin L. Rand,
Chicago Natural History Museum; David W. Johnston, Wake Forest College;
Oliver L. Austin, Jr., Florida State Museum; Arthur Singer, Jericho, L.1., N.Y.;
Lawrence H. Walkinshaw, Battle Creek, Mich.; A..W. Schorger, University of
Wisconsin; Kenneth C. Parkes, Carnegie Museum; Robert K. Selander, Univer-
sity of Texas; Harrison B. Tordoff, University of Michigan; Richard C. Banks,
University of California ; and Oscar T. Owre, University of Miami.

Reptiles and amphibians: H. G. Dowling, New York Zoological Society ;
C. J. Goin, University of Florida; A. E. Leviton, Califernia Academy of Sciences ;
W. G. Lynn, Catholic University; E. Mendez, Gorgas Memorial Laboratory,
Panama; and J. R. Tamsitt, University of the Andes, Bogota, Colombia.

Fishes: Tokiharu Abe, University of Tokyo, Japan; Shelton P. Anplegate,
University of Illinois; James E. Bohlke, Academy of Natural Sciences of
Philadelphia; William M. Clay, University of Louisville; C. E. Dawson, Gulf
Coast Research Laboratory; Donald L. Frizzell, Missouri School of Mines;
Alfred W. Ebeling, Yale University; Robert H. Gibbs, Jr., Boston University ;
William Gosline, University of Hawaii; Carl L. Hubbs and Richard H. Rosen-
blatt, Scripps Institution of Oceanography ; Leslie W. Knapp, Laurence T. Penny,
and William J. Richards, Cornell University; Giles W. Mead, Museum of Com-
parative Zoology, Harvard University; E. B. Middleton, Thomas Savage, and
Frank J. Schwartz, University of Maryland; John H. Randall and Helen Randall,
University of Puerto Rico; William G. Reeder, University of Wisconsin; John
W. Reintjes, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service Biological Laboratory, Beaufort,
N.C.; Tyson Roberts, Stanford University; C. Richard Robins, Marine Labora-
tory, University of Miami; Donn E. Rosen, American Museum of Natural
History ; Robert D. Ross, Virginia Polytechnic Institute; F. A. Santos, Univer-
sity of the Philippines; Donaid C. Scott, University of Georgia; Gerald R.
Smith, University of Michigan; William A. Smoker, Ake Bay Biological
Laboratory, Alaska; Otto R. Trantz, New York University ; Yoshitaka Tsutsui,
Osaka Museum of Natural History, Japan; Capt. Wayne EH. Williams, Langley
Air Force Base; John Wintersteen, University of California, Los Angeles; and
Loren P. Woods, Chicago Natural History Museum.

Insects: Gordon F. Bennett, Ontario Research Foundation, Toronto, Canada ;
Thomas Borgmeier, Jocarepagua, Brazil; H. Janetschek, University of Inns-
bruck, Austria; Leonard A. Kelton, H. BE. Milliron, and Lois K. Smith, Canada
Department of Agriculture, Ottawa; José Liebermann, Instituto Nacional de
Tecnologia Agropecuaria, Buenos Aires, Argentina; Carl H. Lindroth, Zoological
Institute, University of Lund, Sweden; D. C. M. Manson, Department of Agri-
culture, Levin, New Zealand; O. W. Richards, Imperial College of Science and
Technology, University of London, England; H. R. Wong, Forestry Laboratory,
Winnipeg, Canada; and T. E. Woodward, University of Queensland, Australia.

Marine invertebrates: Frederick M. Bayer, Marine Laboratory, University of
Miami; Patricia R. Bergquist, University of Aukland, New Zealand; H. Bosch-
ma, Rijksmuseum van Natuurlijke Historie, Leiden, Netherlands; Carl M.
Boyd, Scripps Institution of Oceanography; Elisabeth Deichmann and Isabel
INVESTIGATIONS AND RESEARCH 79

Perez Farfante, Museum of Comparative Zoology, Harvard University; Frank
Fabricius, Princeton University; George D. Grice, Jr., and Makoto Omori,
Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution; Gordon Gunter, Gulf Coast Research
Laboratory; Dieter Hantschmann and Charlotte P. Mangum, Yale University ;
Walter J. Harman, Louisiana State University; R. Harrison, and J. T. Penney,
University of South Carolina; C. W. Hart, Jr., Academy of Natural Sciences of
Philadelphia ; Brian A. Hazlett, University of Maryland; Paul L. Illg, University
of Washington; Hugo A. James, University of Bridgeport; Charles F. Lytle,
Tulane University ; Max R. Matteson, University of Illinois; Francisco Namenzo,
University of the Philippines; Marian H. Pettibone, University of New Hamp-
shire; Arnold Ross, U.S. Army; Phillip Sandberg, Louisiana State University ;
R. Serene, Djakarta, Indonesia; John R. Thompson, U.S. Fish and Wildlife
Service; and Austin B. Williams, Institute of Fisheries Research, University of
North Carolina.

Mollusks: R. Tucker Abbott and Virginia Orr, Academy of Natural Sciences
of Philadelphia ; Kenneth J. Boss and Ruth D. Turner, Museum of Comparative
Zoology, Harvard University; Mr. and Mrs. Crawford N. Cate, Los Angeles,
Calif.; Willis G. Hewatt, Texas Christian University; Bengt Hubendick, Natur-
historiska Museet, Goteborg, Sweden; James H. McLean, Stanford University ;
Donald F. McMichael, Australian Museum, Sydney; William H. Old, Jr., Ameri-
can Museum of Natural History; A. W. B. Powell, Auckland Institute and Mu-
seum, Auckland; Dr. and Mrs. Francis A. Smith, St. Petersburg, Fla.; Gilbert L.
Voss, Marine Laboratory, University of Miami; Mrs. Germaine L. Warmke, In-
stitute of Marine Biology, University of Puerto Rico; and Norman EH. Weisbord,
Florida State University.

Botany

Phanerogams.—Curator Lyman B. Smith continued his studies in
the Bromeliaceae and in the flora of southern Brazil.

Associate curator EK. C. Leonard retired in January 1962, and was
appointed honorary research associate. He continued the preparation
of a Flora of Hispaniola and treatments of the Acanthaceae.

Associate curator Velva E. Rudd completed a revision of the genus
Dussia as a necessary step in finishing studies of Ormosia. In this
connection she visited Trinidad, Venezuela, and Panama, for special
collecting and study in the principal herbaria. Dr. Rudd continued
preparation of a floristic treatment of the papilionoid legumes of
Mexico, and at the same time began to assemble data for a paper on
the Leguminosae of the Yucatan Peninsula.

Associate curator Richard S. Cowan has concentrated his research
efforts on a monograph of Swartzia in the hope of completion this
year; illustrations have been prepared for 29 taxa of the genus. In-
cidental to his work on exhibits, Dr. Cowan made a large collection of
flowering plants in British Guiana.

Associate curator John J. Wurdack completed several papers on
the Melastomataceae, notably one on Guayana Highland collections
describing 48 new taxa. In April he left for 8 months of botanical
SO U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1962

exploration in northern Peru, an area rich in local endemics often
known from sparsely collected materials.

Dr. José Cuatrecasas, research associate, continued the preparation
of a revision of Colombian Compositae of approximately 800 species.
As part of this work, he collected some 2,500 specimens in ‘Trinidad,
Venezuela, Colombia, and Costa Rica.

Dr. Kittie F. Parker, honorary research associate, furthered her
studies of western and Mexican Compositae.

Grasses.—Head curator Jason R. Swallen continued his studies of
the grasses of southern Brazil. One short paper was published de-
scribing a new species of Panicum, and a review of the book “The grass
cover of Africa” was prepared on request.

Associate curator Thomas R. Soderstrom took part in two field trips
within the past year, spending 2 months in the autumn collecting in
southwestern Mexico, and later accompanying the botany exhibits ex-
pedition to British Guiana, where he made collections in the Kaieteur
Plateau region. He completed a paper for publication on the taxo-
nomic significance of isccitric acid in species of Crassulaceae and other
families. Recently he began a revision of the genus Laszacis.

Mrs. Agnes Chase, honorary research associate, continued her work
on the catalogs of grass genera and species. The species index was
completed and will be published during the coming year.

Dr. F. A. McClure, honorary research associate, continued his stud-
ies on the redefinition of the genera of the Bambusoideae, with major
attention given to the integration of type material, photographs, and
supporting specimens of bamboos belonging to genera of the Western
Hemisphere. A semifinal draft of a manuscript dealing with the 12
known genera of the Western Hemisphere was completed. Specimens
and information elucidating other genera are being derived from
living plants of 35 species, representing 13 genera, now under local
cultivation. Five species, four of them types of genera, were in
flower (two in fruit) in May of this year.

Ferns.—Curator Conrad V. Morton finished a paper on some of
the West Indian species of the large genus 7helypteris and also wrote
an article giving his views on the subgeneric and sectional classifica-
tion of this genus. He continued with the study of the 8,000 photo-
graphs of fern types that were taken in Europe in 1954, and began
writing a series of observations on them. A new treatment of the
genus Smilax (Liliaceae) in Mexico was completed and submitted for
publication. An account of the small genus 7’7ichantha (Gesneria-
ceae) was completed. Eight of the 12 species included in the genus
were found to be undescribed. During December and January he
studied types of South American species of So/anwm (Solanaceae) in
INVESTIGATIONS AND RESEARCH Sl

the herbaria in Paris, Geneva, Munich, and London, and took about
750 photographs of types and other interesting specimens.

Cryptogams.—Curator Mason E. Hale, Jr., continued work on a
monographic revision of the genus Parmelia. Considerable progress
was made with the help of a research assistant, Dr. Syo Kurokawa,
who joined Dr. Hale in May 1961. Large collections received from
Africa during the year have been chemically tested and identified and
several hundred remaining type specimens were borrowed and studied.
A study of the family Graphidaceae in Mexico in collaboration with
Michael Wirth, a former research assistant, was completed and a
manuscript prepared. Trips to study herbarium material and arrange
loans were made to Duke University, Harvard University, and 12
major herbaria and museums in Europe.

Associate curator Paul S. Conger continued examination of ma-
terials from the British-Australian-New Zealand Antarctic Expedi-
tion and from Chincoteague Bay, with the expectation of preparing
reports on these. A large collection of freshwater and brackish dia-
toms from Singapore was examined. Monographic studies of Gram-
matophora were also carried forward.

Assistant curator Robert R. Ireland took leave of absence during
the summer to study at the University of Michigan Biological Station.
While there, he collected extensively, and before leaving the Smith-
sonian staff in December in order to resume graduate studies, he was
able to curate and identify most of his specimens.

Woods.—Curator William L. Stern during the summer of 1961
made collections of wood specimens with associated herbarium
voucher specimens in the Hawatian Islands, largely on the island of
KKauai. He also collected specimens in the Cascade Mountains and
Coast Ranges of Oregon, and in the Rocky Mountains of Colorado.
Studies conducted in collaboration with Dr. A. C. Smith, Director of
the Museum of Natural History, leading to the generic placement of
two sterile type specimens of Fijian plants, were completed. The
study points up the potential of anatomical studies in establishing
plant relationships, and the inadvisability of describing new species
from sterile specimens, a custom fortunately out of favor. Dr. Stern
has recently completed an investigation of the wood structure of the
genus Capparis im conjunction with his studies of the woods and flor:
of the Florida Keys. With Dr. Eyde he has initiated a study of the
petrified forests of the Tonosi-Santiago basin in Panama.

Dr. Richard H. Eyde, research assistant, is continuing his studies
on the morphology and relationships of the Nyssaceae. Edward S.
Ayensu, research assistant, and a graduate student at George Wash-
ington University, has commenced an investigation of the stem struc-
ture of woody Passifloraceae.
82 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1962

Research by visiting investigators.—Dr. Helia Bravo H., Mexico
City, came in August to spend about a month studying the cacti of
Mexico. Dr. Faustino Miranda, Universidad de México, has been
working since September on the trees of Mexico. Robert M. King
has been working on his own collections made in Mexico last year.
Mrs. EK. R. Faithorn continued her work on diatoms with Mr. Conger,
and John L. Stone made frequent visits to study the cryptogamic
collections. Mrs. Charlotte Reeder, New Haven, Conn., spent sev-
eral weeks at the herbarium working on problems of Mexican grasses.
Dr. Tetsuo Koyama, University of Tokyo, spent some time on the
preparation of an account of the grasses of Okinawa.

In addition to the staff members of various Government agencies
who used the facilities of the National Herbarium, there were almost
1,400 visitors seeking information on a variety of subjects. Among
them were:

M. Acosta-Solis, Quito, Ecuador; Ramon Ferreyra, San Marcos University.
Lima, Peru; A. T. Hunziker, University of Cordoba, Argentina ; José J. Jiménez,
Santiago, Dominican Republic; Eric Hultén, Stockholm, Sweden; N. A. Qazill-
bach, University of Peshawar, Pakistan; Dr. and Mrs. Teuvo Ahti, University
of Helsinki, Finland; Aino Henssen, Freiburg, Germany; Klaus Mosbach, Lund,
Sweden; Gerardo Budowski, Turrialba, Costa Rica; Ernst C. Abbe, University
of Minnesota; Elso Barghoorn, Edith Scamman, Dr. and Mrs. Rolla M. Tryon,
Otto Solbrig, and I. Mackenzie Lamb, Harvard University; Donald W. Engel-
hardt, Tulsa, Okla.; David J. Rogers, New York Botanical Garden; Aaron J.
Sharp, University of Tennessee; Theodore Delevoryas, University of Illinois;
Robert T. Clausen, Cornell University; A. Murray Evans, R. R. Stewart, and
Rogers MceVaugh, University of Michigan; Mrs. M. F. Ashley Giauque, Univer-
sity of California; Richard Hauke, University of Rhode Island; Edgar T. Wher-
ry, University of Pennsylvania; Lincoln Constance, University of Califernia,
Berkeley; J. A. Duke, Missouri Botanical Garden; Carl Epling and Henry J.
Thompson, University of California, Los Angeles; C. L. Lundell, Texas Re-
search Foundation; Grady L. Webster, Purdue University; Louis O. Williams,
Chicago Natural History Museum; Paul Burkholder, Columbia University ;
George Butterfield, Chicago; Albert Collier, Galveston Marine Laboratory ;
Eugene Cronin, Chesapeake Biological Station, Solomons, Md.; Henry Curry,
Richmond, Va.; W. J. Gilbert, Albion College; Margaret Green, Candler, N.C. ;
Karen Horne, Fairhope, Ala.; William Hutchinson, Amherst, Mass.; Walter
Kenyon, Hamline University; Herbert McCullough, Howard College, Birming-
ham, Ala.; Paul Redfearn, Southwest Missouri State College, Springfield, Mo. ;
Fr. Conan Taylor, Fort Wayne, Ind.; J. W. Thomson, University of Wisconsin ;
Richard Williams, Sapelo Island Laboratory, Ga.

Geology

Mineralogy and petrology.—Curator George S. Switzer com-
pleted the annual review of the diamond industry and continued a
long-term research project on the sulfate and related minerals. In
May he visited Paris, France, examining mineral collections at the
INVESTIGATIONS AND RESEARCH 838

This meteorite landed May 30, 1961, on the property of J. J. Carver,
near Harleton, Texas, and its fall was observed by his son. The
striations on the surface of the stone, which weighed 18 Ibs. 7 ozs.,
are flight markings due to heating in the atmosphere. The uncon-
taminated stone was obtained by the Museum in cooperation with a
group of interested institutions, and they are now engaged in the study
of short-lived radioactive isotopes and other aspects of the meteorite.
84 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1962

School of Mines and Natural History Museum, and arranging for
the acquisition of several outstanding specimens by exchange.

Associate curator Paul E. Desautels continued work on a long-
term research project on the lead oxychloride minerals from Laurium,
Greece, and finished a series of 119 drawings of quartz crystals to
illustrate volume 3 of the seventh edition of “Dana’s System of
Mineralogy,” by Clifford Frondel (John Wiley and Sons).

Roy S. Clarke, Jr., chemist, gave increased attention during the
year to the problem of meteorite analysis. ‘This is being done as a
preliminary step in developing the division’s chemical laboratory
within the next few years into a leading source of descriptive data
on meteorites. The approach being taken is to conduct chemical
studies of specific meteorites along with a critical study of available
methods. Analytical work on the Clovis, N. Mex., meteorite was
completed, and studies of the Harleton, Tex., meteorite were brought
near completion. Hus tektite studies were continued.

Associate curator Edward P. Henderson completed a preliminary
study of the distribution of hexahedrites which shows that these
meteorites are not scattered at random, but that a large percentage
of them are grouped in several specific areas. A comparative study
of several stony meteorites from Saudi Arabia is being made to estab-
lish whether they are related or unrelated. These specimens, which
were found scattered over a large area, were presented by the Arabian
American Oil Company. Descriptions of the Clovis, N. Mex., stony
meteorite, the seventh largest known, and of the Harleton, Tex., chon-
drite are being completed. The microhardness of tektites is being
measured to see if there are any hardness differences that can be
correlated with structure.

Professor Paul Ramdohr, of the University of Heidelberg, while
working at the Geophysical Laboratory of Carnegie Institute, prepared
and studied an extensive series of polished sections of stony meteorites,
largely of Museum specimens. These sections are to be photographed,
the date on each recorded in an album with the pictures, and the sec-
tions housed with the division’s meteorite collection. The sections
will be available for study by qualified investigators and any addi-
tional data will be added to the albums. In this way these albums
should become a valuable reference library on meteorites.

Invertebrate paleontology and paleobotany.—Head curator G.
Arthur Cooper continued his researches on the Permian brachiopods
of the Glass Mountains in collaboration with Dr. Richard E. Grant, of
the U.S. Geological Survey. The specific descriptions of more than
500 species have been finished, and the pages of manuscript prepared
total 3,200. It is anticipated that this part of the work will be com-
pleted by the end of the year.
INVESTIGATIONS AND RESEARCH 85

Drs. Cooper and Grant made a collecting trip, extending into July
1961, to Texas and New Mexico. The Permian Word formation was
sampled at 20 localities in the Glass Mountains. Other localities
were visited to extend and supplement the Glass Mountain brachiopod
studies.

Curator Richard S. Boardman continued work on the revision of
the genera of Paleozoic trepostomatous bryozoans. A manuscript is
near completion on the homotrypid genera. He made two collecting
trips totaling three months to the Arbuckle Mountains of southern
Oklahoma to collect Bryozoa from the Simpson group of lower Middle
Ordovician age. The fauna is largely unstudied and has the advan-
tage of starting with the earliest known bryozoans in this country and
continuing through a long period of time. This sequence should reveal
much evolutionary history and the origins of several genera. The
faunas are abundantly represented throughout and will support many
detailed population studies. Approximately 700 thin sections have
been prepared and sorted generically, but an estimated 3,000 will be
needed to complete the study.

Associate curator Richard Cifelli completed a study of the internal
structure and morphology of Ammonia beccarii (Linné). Dissection
and thin-section techniques were used to study internal structures
and to describe growth characteristics and variation of this common,
although poorly understood species. Two wall structures found in the
single species had previously been used as distinguishing superfamily
characters in foraminiferal classification. Progress has been made by
Dr. Cifelli in investigations of the Foraminifera of the Stockade
Beaver shale (Upper Jurassic) from the Western Interior of the
United States. Jurassic Foraminifera of the United States are
poorly known and descriptions are badly needed.

Dr. Cifelli spent 214 weeks in April on an oceanographic cruise of
the Woods Hole research vessel Chain as part of a continuing study of
seasonal variation of pelagic Foraminifera. Twenty-four samples,
representing every degree of latitude between Woods Hole and the
Caribbean, were taken in plankton hauls. The samples included
specimens from such waters as the North Atlantic slope, the Gulf
Stream, Sargasso Sea, and Achilles Current.

Associate curator Porter M. Kier submitted for publication in
December a monograph on the cassiduloid echinoids. In August Dr.
Kier completed a study of Paleozoic echinoids of Belgium. The
paper places in synonymy many species of the Belgian fauna. Exten-
sive cleaning of the specimens exposed certain features not previously
mentioned in the species descriptions.

In November and December Dr. Kier made extensive collections
of fossil echinoids in Florida, obtaining more than 2,000 specimens
86 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1962

from the Tamiami and Caloosahatchee formations. Population
studies of the echinoid fauna of the Caloosahatchee limestone and
descriptions of new species therein have been undertaken by Dr.
Kier. With the aid of the limited aqualung equipment available, Dr.
Kier extended his investigations from fossil to living echinoids, initi-
ating a study of the ecology of sea urchins and sand dollars. From
this study it is hoped that it will be possible to estimate past environ-
ments from fossil echinoids. Very little is known about the ecology
and function of many structures of echinoderms.

With associate curator Erle G. Kauffman, Dr. Kier in February
collected Mesozoic and Tertiary fossils in Saudi Arabia, on a trip
arranged by the Arabian American Oil Company. Three weeks
were spent in the little-known central region of Saudi Arabia and
large collections of brachiopods, mollusks, and echinoids representing
previously undescribed faunas were obtained. The collection of
Mesozoic macrofossils is the largest in the world from this area. A
stop was made at the Cairo Desert Institute, where collections were
examined and possible collecting trips to important Egyptian localities
were cliscussed with staff members of that Institute.

Dr. Kauffman completed several projects in the past year: a study
of fossil oysters of the middle and upper Turonian of the gulf coast
and western interior; a paper in collaboration with Dr. J. A. Dorr,
Jr., dealing with an unusual sedimentary structure, rippled toroids,
once thought to be of organic origin; and a description of a late
Wisconsin Biota from Huerfano Park, Colo., in collaboration with
David McCulloch, of the U.S. Geological Survey. At the present
time Dr. Kauffman is making a study of the zonation of the Coloradoan
sediments in the western interior on the basis of the peleeypod
Tnoceramus. 'The study will determine the usefulness of the genus
in regional stratigraphic zonation. He is also completing a popula-
tion study of inoceramid pelecypods from the Fort Hays limestone
member of the Niobrara formation.

Dr. Kauffman spent 6 weeks in August collecting from the Upper
Cretaceous of the western interior, accompanied by Dr. Norman Sohl,
of the U.S. Geological Survey. Such classic localities as the Coal-
ville section were re-collected in detail for further biostratigraphiec
studies. Drs. Kauffman and Sohl also spent several days collecting at
Maryland Cretaceous localities as part of a continuing restudy of the
stratigraphy with hopes to establish better biostratigraphic control
in the area.

Museum aide Henry B. Roberts published a study of Upper Cre-
taceous decapod crustaceans of New Jersey and Delaware. He also
submitted for publication by the U.S. Geological Survey a manuscript
dealing with decapod crustacea from the Marshall Islands. Mr. Rob-
INVESTIGATIONS AND RESEARCH 87

erts has under study a new genus and several new species of fossil crab
from the Upper Cretaceous of Nigeria and the southeastern United
States. Evaluation of the systematic position of other genera is
included in this project. In another study he is reevaluating two
fossil crab species. The library research and photographing of speci-
mens has been completed for both studies and preparation of manu-
scripts 1s under way.

Mammals of the lower Miocene, a mural in the hall of fossil mammals,
as reconstructed by artist Jay H. Matternes on the basis of fossils from
the Harrison formation of western Nebraska. Plant life, determined
from fossil leaves, seeds, and pollen of the period, includes willow,
cottonwood, hackberry, aromatic sumac, cattail and a carpet of short
grass of the genus Aristida.

Vertebrate paleontology.—Curator C. Lewis Gazin completed his
study of the early Eocene mammalian faunas of the Wasatch forma-
tion in southwestern Wyoming, involving Knight faunas of the Fossil,
Green River, and Washakie Basins and the later Wasatchian faunas
of the New Fork and Cathedral Bluffs tongues. Approximately 58
genera and 105 species of fossil mammals were involved, and about 20
percent of these were primates, rounding out his earlier study of the
middle and later Hocene members of the order.

The discovery of early Eocene mammals in the Almy formation
during the field season this year, demonstrating that the age of these
88 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1962

beds in the type area is not Paleocene, resulted in a joint report in
which the curator was joined by Dr. Joshua I. Tracey and Dr. Steven
S. Oriel, of the U.S. Geological Survey. The report is to be published
by the American Association of Petroleum Geologists.

The curator is currently involved in a morphological study of the
condylarthran genus J/eniscotherium and, in connection with this,
for comparisons with other Eocene and Paleocene condylarths he
visited museums and other institutions in many parts of the United
States. From February to May Dr. Gazin made a trip to Central
and South America to investigate reported occurrences of Pleistocene
Mammalia in Guatemala and Nicaragua and to study early Tertiary
mammals, particularly those related to condylarths, in the museums
of Buenas Aires, La Plata, and Rio de Janeiro.

Fieldwork by Dr: Ghatin, assisted by Franklin ip Pearce, chief of
the laboratory of vertebrate paleontology, during the summer of 1961
included visits to the quarrying operations Ibi carried on jointly
by this division and the division of archeology, south of Littleton,
Colo., where, in addition to artifacts, abundant remains of mammoth
were being recovered. The bulk of the curator’s field season, how-
ever, was devoted to the search for early Tertiary mammals in Colo-
rado, Wyoming, and Montana. Collections were made from a new
locality for Paleocene mammals in the western part of the Wind
River Basin, as well as from early and late Eocene and early Oligocene
localities previously known elsewhere in this basin. New localities
were also visited for early Kocene mammals discovered by Henry W.
Roehler, of the Mountain Fuel and Supply Company, Rock Springs,
Wyo., around the Rock Springs uplift, and for late Paleocene and
early Eocene in the Fossil and Green River Basins of Wyoming,
stratigraphically important to the current work of the U.S. Geological
Survey. Of the localities visited in Montana, only the famous early
Oligocene occurrence at Pipestone Springs was productive.

Associate curator Nicholas Hotton III spent from February
through July 1961 in South Africa, collecting fossil therapsid reptiles
and studying deposition of the Beaufort series sediments in the Kar-
roo, and studying fossil collections at Johannesburg, Capetown, and
Bloemfontein. The enthusiastic help and generous sharing of infor-
mation and knowledge of the country on the part of South African
paleontologists were instrumental in the success of this undertaking.
He was especially indebted to Dr. A. S. Brink, for general good of-
fices, and to James W. Kitching, for the unstinted effort and special
knowledge that he brought to the field work. They are members of

the professional staff of the Bernard Price Institute for Palaeontolog-
ical Research, University of the Witwatersrand, Johannesburg. Dr.
Hotton also spent some pleasant and profitable time in dhe field
INVESTIGATIONS AND RESEARCH 89

through the cooperation of Dr. A. W. Crompton, Director of the
South African Museum, Capetown.

After returning from South Africa Dr. Hotton proceeded with
evaluation of results of the trip and overseeing a beginning of prepa-
raration of specimens. Besides the research potential of the collec-
tion itself, the trip provided an insight into problems of Permo-
Triassic deposition in the Southern Hemisphere. <A preliminary
report on this subject was prepared in collaboration with Mr. Kitching
for presentation by the latter at a symposium on the Karroo fauna
in Capetown, July 1962. Potential of the collection has not yet been
fully evaluated; initial results suggest a comprehensive study of
cranial morphology of herbivorous therapsids (anomodonts), com-
parative analysis of the middle ear of all the therapsids, and study of
a growth series of the aquatic anomodont Lystrosaurus. This work
will be tied in where appropriate with continuing study of Beaufort
deposition, which it is expected will provide information on paleo-
ecology and adaptive trends of the reptiles.

Research by visiting investigators.—Among those who worked
in the geology laboratories or collections during the year were:

Mineralogy and petrology: Paul D. Lowman, Jr., National Aeronautics and
Space Administration; Alvin J. Cohen, Mellon Institute; Hans Adler, U.S.
Atomic Energy Commission; A. D. Maynes, California Institute of Technology ;
and HE. T. C. Chao and Mary E. Mrose, both of the U.S. Geological Survey.

Invertebrate paleontology: W. M. Furnish, University of Iowa; R. C. Moore,
University of Kansas; Norman D. Newell, American Museum of Natural His-
tory ; Roger L. Batten, University of Wisconsin; Harry B. Whittington, Museum
of Comparative Zoology ; Thomas W. Amsden, Oklahoma State Survey ; Rousseau
H. Flower, New Mexico Bureau of Mines; Keith J. Rigby, Bringham Young
University ; Alberto M. Simonetta, Instituto di Zoologia dell’ Universita, Firenze,
Italy; W. G. Heaslip, Syracuse University; Olgerts L. Karklins, University of
Minnesota; W. D. Ian Rolfe, Harvard University; Mohamed Farouk, Cairo,
Hgypt: Kiyoshi Osous, Tohoku University of Japan; Charles W. Collinson and
Alan J. Scott, Illinois Geological Survey; Willi Ziegler, Geol. Inst., Marburg,
Germany; T. G. Gibson, Princeton University; M. LeCompte, Université de
Louvain, Belgium; Martin F. Glaessner, University of Adelaide, Australia;
Alwyn Williams, Queen’s University, Belfast, Ireland; and F. E. Eames and
W. H. Blow, British Petroleum Company of Sunbury-on-Thames, England.

Vertebrate paleontology: Shelton P. Applegate, Arkansas State College; Walter
Auffenberg, University of Colorado; David Bardack, University of Kansas;
Craig C. Black, Carnegie Museum; Barnum Brown, Malcolm McKenna, Giles
T. MacIntyre, and Bobb Schaeffer, American Museum of Natural History;
Mary R. Dawson, National Science Foundation; Wann Langston, Jr., National
Museum of Canada; Farouk Mohamed, University of Cairo; Tor @rvig, Natur-
historiska Riksmuseum, Sweden; John H. Ostrom, Peabody Museum at Yale
University; Alfred S. Romer, Museum of Comparative Zoology; Holmes A.
Semken, Jr., University of Michigan; and Leigh Van Valen, Columbia University.

90 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1962
Museum of History and Technology

Science and Technology

Physical Sciences.—Dr. Robert P. Multhauf, head curator of the
department, is engaged in research on the early history of chemistry.
Associate curator Walter F. Cannon is researching in England on
the scientific community in England, 1820-1860, and curator Lester
C. Lewis is studying both the history of the spectrophotometer and
the “schools” of experimentation in molecular beams. Drs. Lewis
and Cannon joined the staff in February 1962.

Mechanical and civil engineering.—Most research effort in the
division was directed toward exhibits for the new Museum of History
and Technology. For those dealing with refrigeration, in the hall of
heavy machinery, the concept of heat removal and the various ways
in which it can be effected by mechanical means will be comprehen-
sively explored and demonstrated, both historically and scientifically.

Associate curator Robert M. Vogel visited a number of technical
museums in Great Britain and Europe during the past year; during
the trip he located several important items needed for exhibit in the
hall of machinery. His manuscript of a monograph on the Baltimore
civil engineer Wendel Bollman and another on tunnel engineering,
were submitted for publication. Work on several other projects was
advanced, notably an account of the treatment of the history of civil
engineering in European technical museums.

In the section of light machinery and horology associate curator
Edwin A. Battison prepared a study on thread cutting machines, and
made a substantial number of additions to the cross-indexed list of
American clock and watch makers.

Curator Silvio A. Bedini, who joined the staff in November 1961,
completed his study of the Borghesi clock, a unique astronomical
clock recently acquired by the Institution. He also submitted for
publication a paper on early New England instrument makers. This
study features a number of surveyors’ compasses produced in wood
in the period from the American Revolution to the War of 1812, one
of which is in the Museum’s collections. He also has in preparation
a study on Thomas Jefferson as a clock designer. Considerable re-
search is being done for exhibits in the new hall of tools; that for the
exhibit on gears and gear-cutting, one of the last to be undertaken,
has been completed.

The engineering reminiscences of George Escol Sellers was sub-
mitted for publication by former curator Eugene S. Ferguson, who

annotated and edited the manuscript. Mr. Ferguson returned to
INVESTIGATIONS AND RESEARCH QO]

teaching in June 1961, accepting a professorship of engineering at
Iowa State University.

Transportation.—A. great deal of research is being done to pro-
duce plans for exhibit models. In this respect, valuable material on
the construction of American vessels of the period 1740-1830 has been
obtained from the records of American-built ships in the British Navy,
particularly in the Public Records Office in London.

Publication of manuscripts on the bark canoes of the North Amer-
ican Indians and on arctic skin boats, by curator Howard I. Chapelle,
is In process, and these two manuscripts, to be combined in one volume,
are expected to be in print late this fiscal year. His paper on Fulton’s
steam battery, the first steam man of war, was presented for
publication.

Revision and editing of the book-size manuscript “The Cincinnati
locomotive builders” occupied most of associate curator John H.
White’s time. However, he has devoted some time to papers on the
locomotive Janus, The Cheviot narrow gauge, and to other projects.
A survey history of the automobile was completed for Compton’s
Encyclopedia.

Don H. Berkebile, exhibits specialist, submitted for publication
his paper on the 1893 Duryea automobile, and has continued his
research on the development of carriages and freight wagons.

Electricity——In the absence of a curator of electricity, head
curator Multhauf and division consultants made visits during the year
to study the Lincoln collection at Brattleboro, Vt., the General Elec-
tric collection of meters at Schenectady, N.Y., a collection of electrical
instruments at M.I.T., and the Wingard collection at Rock Island, Il.

Medical sciences.—Associate curator Sami K. Hamarneh con-
tinued his research on medical and pharmaceutical history in the
Islamic period. He also compiled a bibliography on medicine and
pharmacy in Medieval Islam and gave a lecture on “Tenth-century
medical development in Islam and its impact on the west,” at the
Islamic Center, of Washington, D.C.

Research by visiting investigators.—Arthur Frazier visited the
division of physical sciences in connection with his study of the his-
tory of hydraulic current measurement; Edmund A. Bowles, of In-
ternational Business Machines Corporation, New York City, and
Dr. F. B. Silsbee, of the National Bureau of Standards, also visited
us concerning plans for museums by these organizations. Frank G.
G. Carr, Director of The National Maritime Museum, Greenwich,
England, visited the division of transportation last October on a
tour of American marine museums. Mr. Carr discussed with the
staff problems and techniques of exhibition in large national museums.
Among visitors in the section of land transportation were Lord and
92 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1962

Lady Montagu of the Montagu Motor Museum, Beaulieu, Hampshire,
England. Visits also were made by Alfred Waldis, Director of the
Swiss Transport Museum in Lucerne, and Dr. John P. Roberts, Di-
rector of The National Museum of Transport in St. Louis, Mo. Infor-
mation, illustrations, and other assistance was given to the National
Park Service, National Geographic Society, the National Museum
of Transport, St. Louis, Mo., The Adirondack Museum, Blue Moun-
tain Lake, N.Y., as well as to many individual scholars, including
Professors David Tyler and William Pierce, John D. Heath, and
Kenneth Durant.

Other visitors to the department of science and technology who
made use of the collections either to advance their research projects
or to gather information were:

Preston R. Bassett, Ridgefield, Conn.; William Bassett, University of Roches-
ter; J. K. Schofield, West Hartford, Conn.; George P. Valluzzo, Danbury, Conn. ;
Father Daniel Hunter and Father William Stenger, Dominican House of Studies,
Washington, D.C.; George W. Taylor, President, Prime Mover Control Museum
Association; S. W. Newell, Vice President, Union Diesel Engine Company:
L. W. Sagle, Baltimore, Md.; John Roberts, President, National Museum of
Transport, St. Louis, Mo.; Orlan W. Boston, University of Michigan; Albert
Henderson, Asbury Park, N.J.; Terry Mitchell, Director of Advertising, Frick
Company, Pa.; Henry Hope Reed, Architectural Historian, New York; August
M. Fritsen, Aarle-Rixtel, Holland; W. B. Stephens, Alameda, Calif.; Gail Brente,
Brantford, Ont.; Col. Ephrim Varges, Caracas, Venezuela; Carl Sedan, Detroit,
Mich.; R. Walter Prendel, Braintree, Mass.; Capt. A. W. Slaydon, Naval Ob-
servatory, Washington, D.C.; F. R. Shawn, Pharrtex, Mexico; Willi Hartner,
University of Frankfort, Germany; M. A. Bowman, Utrecht, Netherlands; L. H.
Van Der Tweel, Amsterdam, Netherlands; J. P. Savary, New York and Switzer-
land; and W. R. Morrow, University of Maryland.

Arts and Manufactures

T extiles.—Curator Grace Rogers Cooper completed a short his-
tory of quilting for the Encyclopaedia Britannica. As textile subject
adviser to the Encyclopaedia, she also wrote short biographies of
John Kay, the inventor of the flying shuttle, and of James Hargreaves,
inventor of the spinning jenny, in addition to editing a number of
articles on such subjects as textiles, embroidery, cotton manufacture,
textile printing, and machine-made lace. Mrs. Cooper continued her
research on textile machines and completed her manuscript on the
history of the sewing machine, which will be submitted for publication.

Technician Milton Eisler continued his work in the textile labora-
tory, adopting and refining procedures for the safe removal of soil
from natural fibers. Successful results have been achieved with un-
dyed cottons and linens. Only a few silk fabrics have been processed
and the results have been rather unsatisfactory. More research is re-
INVESTIGATIONS AND RESEARCH 93

quired concerning the dyes used and successful methods of retaining
these during the soil-removal operation.

Museum aide Doris Bowman initiated a detailed study of embroi-
dered silk shawls. The research has included a preliminary study of
both hand and machine techniques. Miss Bowman is also continuing
her study of 16th-century Italian pre-laces, including drawn-work,
Buratto, and related techniques.

Ceramics and glass.—Curator Paul V. Gardner is engaged on a
biography of Frederick Carder, founder of the Steuben Glass Works,
and has carried his research into Mr. Carder’s early life and training
in England, which he visited during the year.

Michael C. Gast, museum technician, has begun work on a graphic
index to visual forms and a precise vocabulary for the description of
ceramic and glass objets d’art.

Graphic arts.—Curator Jacob Kainen’s monograph on John Bap-
tist Jackson was published as Bulletin 222 of the U.S. National Mu-
seum. Jackson was an English artist who pioneered in color printing
from wood blocks in the first half of the 18th century, and this book
provides the first extended study of the artist’s life, career, and
achievements. It catalogs and illustrates all his work, reassesses the
traditions of the woodcut and the color print, which were considered
inferior art forms until the present century, and establishes Jackson
as the hitherto unacknowledged ancestor of the color woodcut in
Europe. The book also traces his importance as a pioneer in the re-
production of paintings, and as an influence on the development of
wallpaper printing. Kainen also continued his study of the Dutch
painter and engraver Hendrick Goltzius (1558-1617). This study
will examine Goltzius’ art and his technical methods, both of which
had a critical influence on later painters and engravers.

A. study by associate curator Fuller O. Griffith of the hthographs
produced by the American artist Childe Hassam was published dur-
ing the year. It includes the first comprehensive illustrated cata-
log of the lithographs of this well-known painter and etcher.

Associate curator Eugene Ostroff restudied the collection of photo-
graphic equipment, identifying unmarked specimens and cross-index-
ing them according to design and manufacturer. In cooperation with
Mr. Marchal Landgren, of Washington, D.C., he has also been investi-
gating the life and the recently acquired work of George Collins Cox,
an almost forgotten photographer who was active in the late 19th
century.

Manufactures and heavy industries.—Head curator Philip W.
Bishop consulted the laboratories of several petroleum companies in
Oklahoma to study methods of presenting petroleum techniques, the
Argonne National Laboratory to plan a reproduction of Fermi’s CP—1
94 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1962

reactor, and the Brookhaven National Laboratory in connection with
neutrino research. An article for Le Cahier of the Centre de Docu-
mentation d’Histoire des Techniques, Paris, has been completed.
This describes the “documentary” resources of the Smithsonian Insti-
tution for the guidance of the international student of the history of
techniques. Other scholarly research has had to be deferred in favor
of the more immediate requirements of the exhibits program.

Associate curator Charles O. Houston, Jr., continued his work on
a chronology of innovations in the coal industry. He has made visits
to the coal regions of western New Jersey, eastern Pennsylvania,
Kentucky, Virginia, and West Virginia, as well as to the Hagley
Museum in Wilmington.

Agriculture and forest products.—In September associate cura-
tor Edward C. Kendall visited Cornell University to investigate cer-
tain aspects of agricultural history. At the Daniel Parrish Witter
Agricultural Museum, in Syracuse, which he also visited, he found a
wheeled plow of a type rare in this country though common in
Europe. Heretofore he has known of only two, one in the division’s
collection and one other at the Farmers’ Museum at Cooperstown,
N.Y., both of which came from the same farm and appear to date from
the second half of the 18th century. The Syracuse specimen, which
lacks the two-wheeled truck, probably dates from the same period.

Research by visiting investigators.—Among the many outside
investigators using the collections of the department during the past
year were:

Natalie Rothstein, Victoria and Albert Museum, London; John L. Nevinson,
England; G. Ellis Bureaw and staff, Commercial Museum, Philadelphia; Mrs.
Alice Steiner, Cornell University; Paul Henline, Department of Health, Eduea-
tion, and Welfare, Cincinnati, Ohio; and Gale Fields, Archival Restoration
Associates, Philadelphia.

R. L. Stehle, Washington, D.C.; August Clapper, printer for Colonial Wil-
liamsburg; William J. Langenheim, Holden, Mass.; Harold HE. Edgerton, Massa-
chusetts Institute of Technology; Louis Sipley, Director of the American
Museum of Photography; H. J. Aschenborn, State Library, Pretoria, Union of
South Africa; Abdelaziz Gorgi, Tunisia; Mr. Prinet, Bibliotheque Nationale,
Paris; Bjorn Ochsner, Royal Library, Copenhagen; Niels and Lars Jacobsen,
also of Copenhagen; Jerzy Toeplitz, Director of the Institute of Art, Polish
Academy of Science, Warsaw; Douglas Arnold, London, writer for the Federa-
tion of British Industries and the British Journal of Photography; and Fritz
Gruber, Director, Photokina, Cologne.

Civil History
Head curator Richard H. Howland continued his research on

Renwick, the architect of the Smithsonian Institution. Much of his
time was devoted to studying problems concerning the renovation of
INVESTIGATIONS AND RESEARCH 95

the Old Patent Office Building for partial use as the National Portrait
Gallery. In January he undertook further research for the National
Portrait Gallery in London, Edinburgh, and Amsterdam.

Peter C. Welsh, associate curator, completed and submitted for
publication a manuscript on the history of the tanning industry en-
titled “The forgotten craft: a brief history of tanning to 1850.” Mr.
Welsh is continuing his long-range research on American hand tools
and mechanical furniture based largely on the United States Patent
Office records.

Assistant curator Doris Ann Esch has begun an investigation of
the navigational and surveying instruments used on the United States
Exploring Expedition, 1838-1842, based on the manuscripts and jour-
nals from the Expedition in the naval records branch of the National
Archives and the scientific instruments in the Museum collection.

Junior curator Ellen Joy Finnegan has begun an investigation of
Major Jack Downing in political caricature, based on the Downing
Gazette and the Harry T. Peters America On Stone Lithography
Collection. She is assisting Mr. Welsh in the preparation of an arti-
cle on “Four 18th-century tanners: their wills and inventories.”

Political history.—Curator Wilcomb E. Washburn continued re-
search into various aspects of American history. His paper on the
effect of Bacon’s rebellion on government in England and Virginia
has been published. At the invitation of the American Association
of Museums, Dr. Washburn accompanied a group of twenty foreign
museum officials on a portion of their tour of museums in six mid-
western states in May 1961, and participated with them in the annual
meeting of the Association in Detroit. Utilizing information gained
on the tour, he wrote an article, “Scholarship and the museum,” which
appeared in the October 1961, issue of Musewm News. He also pre-
sented a paper on “The meaning of ‘discovery’ in the fifteenth and six-
teenth centuries” at the first annual meeting of the Society for the
History of Discoveries, in Washington, D.C., in December 1961.

Mrs. Margaret Brown Klapthor, associate curator, continued her
research on furnishings of the White House and on White House
china. <As advisor to the curatorial staff at the White House, she
assisted in the identification of many of the pieces of White House
furniture in storage. She assisted newspaper reporters, magazine
writers, and authors of books with their inquiries on the White
House, and also assisted the research staff of CBS News with the
historical background for its documentary program, “A tour of the
White House with Mrs. John F. Kennedy.” Two sets of the loan
lecture prepared by Mrs. Klapthor on the First Ladies dresses have
been in continuous circulation to all parts of the United States, and
they are scheduled for months in advance.
96 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1962

Keith EK. Melder, assistant curator, carried on research in several
fields, including the woman’s rights movement, American education
in the 19th century, the development of American political cam-
paign techniques, and the pattern of 19th-century social reform. A
brief biographical sketch of Miss Betsey M. Cowles, an Ohio educator
and social reformer (1810-1876), was completed for a biographical
dictionary of notable American women, to be published by Radcliffe
College.

Assistant curator Anne W. Murray gave professional advice con-
cerning the restoration of several dresses to be shown at the James
Monroe Memorial Foundation in Fredericksburg, Va., and assistant
curator Herbert R. Collins lectured on the history of three Virginia
counties to the Virginia Genealogical Society in Richmond, Va.

Cultural history.—Curator C. Malcolm Watkins continued his
study of colonial earthenwares found in historic sites, revisiting the
National Park Service collection at Jamestown as well as collections
in Plymouth, Mass., and has obtained further data on the 18th-century
pottery of Yorktown, Va. He inaugurated a 3-year project of com-
piling original probate inventories, newspaper advertisements and
references, excerpts from diaries and account books, and other docu-
ments. In this he is being assisted by museum technician Sigrid
Westfall.

Associate curator Rodris Roth submitted for publication an exhaus-
tive study of 18th- and early 19th-century floor coverings, and is
now working on the documentation of fireplace equipment used during
the same period. These investigations were furthered by visits to
English and American museums during the summer and autumn.

In the section of musical instruments assistant curator Cynthia
Adams Hoover has initiated a study of American musical instruments
makers, the first part of which is concerned with pianos of Alpheus
Babcock, an early 19th-century piano-forte maker of Boston. She is
also pursuing the complete cataloging and documenting of the musical
instruments collection, in which she has had the consultative advice
of William R. Dowd, of Cambridge, Mass., Frank T. Hubbard, of
Waltham, Mass., and Hugh Gough, of New York City, all specialists
in harpsichords and other keyboard instruments; Miss Mary Rasmus-
sen, of Durham, N.H., editor of Brass Quarterly, and a specialist in
brass instruments; and Josef Marx, of New York City, an oboist and
historian of woodwind instruments.

Assistant curator John N. Pearce, in collaboration with the Mary-
land Archaeological Society, has begun excavations of the early 19th-
century Morgan stoneware kiln site in Baltimore, as an adjunct of his
previous study of early Baltimore potters and their wares. In
collaboration with architectural consultant Robert L. Raley and con-
INVESTIGATIONS AND RESEARCH 97

tractor George H. Watson, Mr. Pearce has arrived at detailed plans
for an authentic restoration of the interior of an early 18th-century
Delaware log house to be reconstructed inside the new museum.

Assistant curator Anthony W. Hathaway is studying the history of
the basset horn in addition to furthering his studies at Catholic
University in music and art.

The report by research associate Ivor Noél Hume on his excavations
at Rosewell, in Gloucester County, Va., was published by the Mu-
seum. He has completed an archeological report on excavations he
conducted at Tutter’s Neck, James City County, Va., and it has been
accepted for publication.

Philately and postal history.—Associate curator George T. Tur-
ner continued working on the long-range project of compiling an
encyclopedia of the U.S. Revenue stamp issues. He devoted time to
study further the multiple-reliefs used to produce the 1-cent and 2-cent
express revenue plates of 1862. His discovery of a Confederate
stamp plate required investigation of its history, a comparison with
similar plates, and identification. An article concerning this find
is being prepared for publication.

Associate curator Francis J. McCall continued investigating the
Hawaiian Missionary correspondence at Houghton Library, Harvard
University. He also furthered work on assembling pictures of the
subjects used for U.S. stamps. His studies on these stamps formed
the basis of several articles which were published in the Bureau
Specialist. Further, Mr. McCall acted as adviser to the Internal
Revenue Service in connection with the forthcoming commemorative
stamp being issued for this Agency. He served as one of three judges
in the competition conducted by the Fish and Wildlife Service, De-
partment of the Interior, to determine the design of the 1963 Hunting
Permit stamp.

Museum technician Theodore Ruhoff continued a compilation of
all color names and terms used in the stamp catalogues published here
and abroad. An eventual guide is contemplated that will correlate
the color descriptions as an aid to philatelists.

Numismatics.—Curator Vladimir Clain-Stefanelli prepared a de-
tailed report about the hall of monetary history and medallic art at
the Smithsonian Institution, describing the scope of the numismatic
exhibits, to be published in the forthcoming issue of J/usewm
(UNESCO, Paris). He also did research for a history of the
national numismatic collections. Rewarding was a survey of the
medallic portraits of James Smithson; it led to the identification of
the artist who modeled the original Smithson medal and to the uncoy-
ery of new material in connection with the work of Edward Stabler,
98 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1962

die sinker of Sandy Spring, Md., on Smithson’s portrait appearing
on the first seal of the Smithsonian Institution.

Associate curator Elvira Clain-Stefanelli completed during the
past year her “Survey of the history of an ancient science: numis-
matics.” In preparation by Mrs. Stefanelli is a select numismatic
bibhography. With over 2,500 titles arranged by topics and com-
pleted with an index of authors, it is intended as an up-to-date essen-
tial reference. Her “Russian gold coins of the nineteenth and twenti-
eth centuries,” a complete study of the Russian output of gold and
platinum coins since 1800, is in publication in the Vumismatie Curcu-
lar,in London. During a trip to Europe in fall of 1961, Mrs. Stefa-
nelli studied in various museums and private collections the coin mate-
rial pertaining to the history of the ancient Greek city Messana; the
projected monograph on this subject will give a complete numismatic
history of this ancient Greek settlement in Sicily. In June 1962 she
was chosen as permanent delegate in the United States to the Fédéra-
tion Internationale des Editeurs de Médailles.

Armed Forces History

Head curator Mendel L. Peterson continued his research on the
marking and decoration of muzzle-loading guns and on projects con-
nected with the underwater exploration program. Substantial prog-
ress was made on a preliminary report on the first project.

Military history.—Curator Edgar M. Howell, in conjunction with
Colonel J. Duncan Campbell, completed their investigation of War of
1812 cantonment sites at Sackets Harbor, N.Y. A number of out-
standing recoveries were made and comprehensive plans are under
way for similar work next year. Mr. Howell and museum specialist
Donald E. Kloster together initiated work on a descriptive catalog
of U.S. Army uniforms in the national collections. Mr. Kloster
continued his study on the American usage of and changes in the
floral motif “Rosemaling” as brought to the United States by Nor-
wegian immigrants. Mr. Howell and Mr. Kloster continued work on
methods of preserving silk flags.

Crated Revolutionary War gunboat Philadelphia being hoisted to third
floor of Museum of History and Technology, where it will be displayed
in hall of ordnance. The Philadelphia was designated a gondola by
Benedict Arnold in his report on the Battle of Valcour Island, during
which the craft was sunk (see p. 47).
’ Petr re

4444 2

100 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1962

Associate curator Craddock R. Goins, Jr., is completing a mono-
graph on the development of the breech-loading rifle by John H.
Hall, 1811-1831. In connection with his work on the hall of ord-
nance in the Museum of History and Technology, he made consider-
able progress on a catalog of the arms collection. He also completed
a series of articles for the L'ncyclopaedia of Firearms, to be published
by Rainbird, McLean, Ltd., London, in the fall of 1962.

Naval history.—The receipt of the Continental gondola Philadel-
phia launched a research project by curator Philip K. Lundeberg,
centering on that object. In company with contractor Mr. James
B. Richardson of Cambridge, Md., Dr. Lundeberg proceeded to
Essex, N.Y., early in June 1961, to effect preliminary preservation
measures as the gunboat was crated. While supervising this delicate
operation and the gunboat’s initial movement to Albany, Dr.
Lundeberg familiarized himself with the topography, historic sites,
and museum resources of the Lake Champlain area as the necessary
basis for a monograph now being prepared on the Philadelphia and
the Northern Campaign of 1776. It is interesting to note that sub-
sequent research has revealed a rich variety of graphic materials
illustrating the Battle of Valcour Island, which must be regarded as
one of the decisive naval engagements of the American Revolution.

Dr. Lundeberg continued preparation of an annotated catalog of
U.S. warship models in the collections, which now form the most ae-
curate and complete series in existence. He also continued his study
on the evolution of German submarine strategy, preparing a paper on
the German naval critique of the U-boat campaign against Allied mer-
chant shipping, 1915-18, for presentation at a forthcoming historical
meeting. In March 1961, a British edition was released of the Nimitz-
Potter volume on the naval history of World War II, The Great Sea
War, in which Dr. Lundeberg’s chapter on the Battle of the Atlantic
appears. It is understood that further foreign editions will be
printed in France, Spain, West Germany, and Mexico.

In the course of developing several exhibits depicting the history
of the U.S. Coast Guard and its historical antecedents, associate
curator Melvin H. Jackson carried out extensive research on the
origins and functions of the original Revenue Cutter Service and the
distinctive equipment that subsequently typified the old “Revenue
Marine,” the Lighthouse Establishment, and the Life Saving Service.
For the hall of ordnance he completed research on a 10-inch gun turret
model and a diorama of the sinking of the Albemarle. Mr. Jackson
published an article “The consular privateers, 1793-94,” in American
Neptune, April 1962. In addition he made substantial progress on his
continued study of the Caribbean and the involvement of the United
States in its maritime history. Research was continued on a paper on
INVESTIGATIONS AND RESEARCH 101

John Cabot’s landfall in North America, to be presented at the annual
meeting of the Society for the History of American Discoverers.
Research by visiting investigators.—Charles F. Romanus, of the
Office of the Chief of Military History, Department of the Army, per-
formed extensive research in connection with the uniform collection.
Assistance was provided throughout the year to other Government
and private agencies, among whom were the Heraldic Branch, Office
of Quartermaster General, Department of the Army; Historical Di-
vision and Technical Intelligence Branch, Office of Chief of Ordnance,
Department of the Army; Prints Division and General Reference
Service, Library of Congress; Civil War and Early Wars Branch,
National Archives; Naval History Division and Bureau of Ships,
Department of the Navy; Naval Historical Foundation; and the
National Geographic Society. Also assisted were authors, artists,
graduate students, and model builders engaged in naval research.

658794—62—_8
Publications

The scientific publications of the United States National Museum
continued under the editorship of John S. Lea.

In addition to the annual report, the Museum issued publications
based on research in the national collections. Of these, 5 whole vol-
umes and 10 papers as parts of 2 additional volumes were in the
Bulletin series, 12 publications were in the Proceedings series, and 5
were in the Contributions from the National Herbarium.

At the close of the year, 12 proceedings papers and the following
bulletins were in press:

82, vol. 1, part 5. A monograph of the existing crinoids, the Comatulids,
suborders Oligophreata and Macrophreata, by Austin Hobart Clark and
Ailsa McGown Clark.

226. Checklist of the birds of Thailand, by Herbert G. Deignan.

227, part 1. Marine Polychaete worms of the New England region: 1. Families
Aphroditidae through Trochochaetidae, by Marian H. Pettibone.

228. Contributions from the Museum of History and Technology: Papers 19-380,
by members of the staff and others.
Paper 29. The development of electrical technology in the 19th century:
2. The telegraph and the telephone, by W. James King.
Paper 30. The development of electrical technology in the 19th century:
3. The early are light and generator, by W. James King.
229. Contributions from the Museum of History and Technology: Papers 31-34,
on numismatics, by members of the staff.
Paper 32. Survey of the history of an ancient science—Numismatics, by
Hlvira Clain-Stefanelli.
Paper 33. Italian coin engravers since 1800, by Elvira Clain-Stefanelli.
230. The bark canoes and skin boats of North America, by Howard I. Chapelle
and Edwin Tappan Adney.

231. Contributions from the Museum of History and Technology: Papers 35- =
on cultural history, by members of the staff.

Paper —. Presentation silver in the U.S. National Museum, by Margaret
Klapthor.
233. Host relations of the parasitic cowbirds, by Herbert Friedmann.

234. Cephalopods of the Philippine Islands, by Gilbert L. Voss.

236. Free-living copepoda from Ifaluk Atoll in the Caroline Islands, with notes
on related species, by W. Vervoort.

237, part 1. Life histories of North American cardinals, grosbeaks, buntings,
finches, sparrows, towhees, and allies, by Arthur Cleveland Bent, Oliver L.
Austin, Wendell Taber, and collaborators.

102
PUBLICATIONS 103

Publications reported by the staff, including honorary members,
totaled 186. These, listed on pages 105 to 118, were distributed as
follows:

Publi- Publi-
Department cations | Department cations
Anthropology ..........-.-. 29) (Civil History) 23 6 3 6 ee os 19
VAQOCEDZ 0 G06, c101061a 0 000.000 62) Arts and Manufactures...... 9
ES OLAMVAr mom cinentonoliicins folio) eifiote 35 |Armed Forces History....... 5
Geologie sas cls sues wae Son say fates 8
Science and Technology ...... 19 "ROCA SS crass euioerusiaents > 186

Publications of the United States National Museum
July 1961 through June 1962

REPORT

The United States National Museum annual report for the year ended June 30,
1961. Pp. viii--188, illustr., January 25, 1962.

BULLETINS

216, part 3. Ichneumon-flies of America north of Mexico: 3. Subfamily
Gelinae, Tribe Mesostenini, by Henry and Marjorie Townes. Pp. viii+602,
400 figs., March 13, 1962.
222. John Baptist Jackson: 18th-century master of the color woodcut, by Jacob
Kainen. Pp. xii+183, illustr. 101 (12 in color), June 1, 1962.
224, Robber flies of the world: The genera of the family Asilidae, by Frank M.
Hull. Pp., part 1, x +480, pt. 2, v-+-4381-907, June 25, 1962.
225. Contributions from the Museum of History and Technology: Papers 12-18,
by members of the staff and others.
Paper 17. The effect of Bacon’s Rebellion on Government in England and
Virginia, by Wilcomb EH. Washburn. Pp. 135-152, 8 figs., February 16,
1962.
Paper 18. Excavations at Rosewell in Gloucester County, Virginia, 1957-
1959, by Ivor Noé] Hume. Pp. 153-229, 38 figs., May 24, 1962.
228. Contributions from the Museum of History and Technology: Papers 19-30,
by members of the staff and others.
Paper 21. The pioneer steamship Savannah: A study for a scale model, by
Howard I. Chapelle. Pp. 61-80, 9 figs., September 15, 1961.
Paper 22. Drawings and pharmacy in al-Zahraiwi’s 10th-century surgical
treatise, by Sami Hamarneh. Pp. 81-94, 21 figs., October 10, 1961.
Paper 23. The introduction of self-registering meteorological instruments,
by Robert P. Multhauf. Pp. 95-116, 16 figs., September 6, 1961.
Paper 24. Introduction of the locomotive safety truck, by John H. White.
Pp. 117-131, 12 figs., September 5, 1961.
Paper 25. The migrations of an American boat type, by Howard I.
Chapelle. Pp. 133-154, 20 figs., November 6, 1961.
Paper 26. Holcomb, Fitz, and Peate: Three 19th-century American tele-
scope makers, with introduction by Robert P. Multhauf. Pp. 155-184.
15 figs., January 15, 1962.
Paper 27. Kinematics of mechanisms from the time of Watt, by Eugene S.
Ferguson. Pp. 185-230, 46 figs., February 14, 1962.
104 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1962

Paper 28. The development of electrical technology in the 19th century:
1. The electrochemical cell and the electromagnet, by W. James King.
Pp. 231-271, 71 figs., January 15, 1962.
232. The lithographs of Childe Hassam, a catalog, by Fuller Griffith. Pp.
vii+ 66, 45 figs., June 29, 1962.

CONTRIBUTIONS FROM THE NATIONAL HERBARIUM

FRoM VOLUME 35

Part 3. Origins of the flora of southern Brazil, by Lyman B. Smith. Pp.
vili+-215-249, 42 figs., 4 pls., March 19, 1962.

Part 4. A synopsis of the American Velloziaceae, by Lyman B. Smith. Pp.
251-292, 12 pls., March 19, 1962.

Part 5. Synopsis of the South American species of Vismia (Guttiferae), by
Joseph Ewan. Pp. 293-877, 7 pls., June 5, 1962.

FRoM VOLUME 36

Part 2. Marine algae from the tropical Atlantic Ocean: V. Algae from the Lesser
Antilles, by William Randolph Taylor. Pp. 43-62, 4 pls., January 31,
1962.

FRoM VOLUME 37

Part 1. Studies of Pacific island plants, XVII: The genus Geniostoma
(Loganiaceae) in the New Hebrides, Fiji, Samoa, and Tonga, by Albert
C. Smith and Benjamin C. Stone. Pp. 1-41, 3 pls., January 5, 1962.

PROCEEDINGS

From VOLUME 112

Title page, table of contents, and index. Pp. i—vii, 651-677, February 14, 1962.

No. 3449. Revision of the marine silver hatchetfishes (family Sternoptychidae),
by Leonard P. Schultz. Pp. 587-649, 26 figs., September 7, 1961.

From VoLuME 113

No. 3453. Notes on Australian flies of the family Conopidae, by Sidney Camras.
Pp. 61-76, August 1, 1961.

No. 3454. New and previously known millipeds of Panama, by H. F. Loomis.
Pp. 77-123, 8 figs., August 16, 1961.

No. 3455. New genera and new species of lacebugs from the Hastern Hemisphere
(Hemiptera: Tingidae), by Carl J. Drake and Florence A. Ruhoff. Pp.
125-1838, 24 figs., August 1, 1961.

No. 3456. The weevil genus Smicronysx in America north of Mexico (Coleoptera:
Curculionidae), by Donald M. Anderson. Pp. 185-872, 157 figs., 1 pl., May
31, 1962.

No. 3457. Neotropical microlepidoptera, I and II, by J. ¥. Gates Clarke. Pp.
373-888, 9 figs., April 30, 1962.

No. 3458. Two new species of Parastenocaris (Copepoda: Harpacticoidea) from
Santa Catarina, Brazil, by Hans Jakobi and Jayme de Loyola e Silva. Pp.
389-397, 2 figs., June 5, 1962.

No. 3460. Water-striders of the subgenus Stridulivelia from Mexico, Central
America, and the West Indies (Hemiptera: Veliidae), by Carl J. Drake
and Arnold 8. Menke. Pp. 413-419, 3 pls., June 19, 1962.

No. 3462. New and little-known species of South and Central American land
snails (Bulimulidae), by Juan José Parodiz. Pp. 429-456, 2 pls., June 4,
1962.

No. 34638. Gorgonolaureus, a new genus of ascothoracid barnacle endoparasitic
in Octocorallia, by Huzio Utinomi. Pp. 457-464, 9 figs., June 19, 1962.
PUBLICATIONS

105

No. 3464. Larvae of the caddis fly genus Rhyacophila in eastern North America
(Trichoptera: Rhyacophilidae), by Oliver S. Flint, Jr. Pp. 465-493, 11 figs.,

May 31, 1962.

Publications by Members of the Staff
of the
United States National Museum

July 1961 through June 1962

Allard, H. A., and Leonard, Emery C.| Blake, John B. Dental history and the

List of vascular plants of the north-
ern Triassic area of Virginia. Cas-
tanea, vol. 27, pp. 1-56, 1 fig., March
1962.

Anderson, Donald M. The weevil genus
Smicronyz in America north of Mex-
ico (Coleoptera: Curculionidae).
Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., vol. 113, No.
3456, pp. 185-872, 157 figs., 1 pl., 1962.

Battison, Edwin A. Movement of de
Dondi clock is amazingly complicated.
Amer. Horologist and Jeweler, vol. 29,
No. 5, pp. 40-41, 3 figs., May 1962.

Bayer, Frederick M. The _ shallow-
water Octocorallia of the West Indian
region. Studies on the fauna of Cu-
racao and other Caribbean Islands,
The Hague, vol. 12, No. 55, 373 pp.,
101 figs., 28 pls., 1961.

Bedini, Silvio A. Agent for the Arch-
duke: Another chapter in the story
of Johann Philipp Treffler, clock-
maker of Augsburg. Physis, anno 3,
Fase. 2, pp. 187-158, 2 figs., 1961.

The optical workshop equipment

of Guiseppe Campani. Journ. Hist. of

Medicine and Allied Sciences, vol. 16,

No. 1, pp. 18-88, 6 figs., 1961.

The compartmented cylindrical
clepsydra. Technology and Culture,
vol. 3, No. 2, pp. 115-141, 31 figs.,
Spring 1962.

Bishop, P. W. Book review of Robert
S. Woodbury’s History of the Milling
Machine, Technology Press, Cam-
bridge, 1960. Isis, vol. 52, No. 170,
p. 610, 1961.

Smithsonian Institution. Journ.
Amer. College of Dentists, vol. 28, pp.
122-127, June 1961.

A note on the Morton dressing
earriage. Trans. Studies College of
Physicians of Philadelphia, ser. 4,
vol. 29, No. 3, January 1962.

Bcéhlke, James E., and Springer, Vic-
tor G. A review of the Atlantic spe-
cies of the clinid fish genus Starksia.
Proce. Acad. Nat. Sci. Philadelphia,
vol, 113, No. 8, pp. 29-60, 15 figs.,
September 28, 1961.

Bowman, Thomas E. The copepod ge-
nus Acartia in Chesapeake Bay.
Chesapeake Science, vol. 2, Nos. 3 and
4, pp. 206-207, December 1961.

Tisbe monozota, a new harpacti-

coid copepod from Florida. Proce.

Biol. Soc. Washington, vol. 75, pp.

125-132, 23 figs., March 30, 1962.

(See Kabata, Z.)

Cannon, Walter F. John Herschel and
the idea of science. Journ. Hist.
Ideas, vol. 22, No. 2, pp. 215-239,
April-June 1961.

The impact of uniformitarian-

ism. Proc. Amer. Philos. Soc., vol.

105, No. 3, June 1961.

The bases of Darwin’s achieve-
ment: A _ revaluation. Victorian
Studies 5, 1961.

Carriker, M. A., Jr. Studies in Neotrop-
ical Mallophaga, XII (Part 5): Lice
of the Tinamous. Rey. Brasileira de
Biologia, vol. 21, No. 2, pp. 205-216,
14 figs., August 1961.

106

Chace, Fenner A., Jr.
Conrad)

Chapelle, Howard I. The pioneer
steamship Savannah: A study for a
scale model. U.S. Nat. Mus. Bull.
228, Contr. Mus. Hist. Techn., Paper
21, pp. 61-80, 9 figs., 1961.

The migrations of an American
boat type. U.S. Nat. Mus. Bull. 228,
Contr. Mus. Hist. Techn., Paper 25,
pp. 133-154, 20 figs., 1961.

Cifelli, Richard. Globigerina incompta,
a new species of pelagic Foraminifera
from the North Atlantic. Contr. from
the Cushman Foundation for Foram-
iniferal Research, vol. 12, part 3,
pp. 83-86, pl. 4, 1960.

Clarke, J. F. Gates. Neotropical Mi-
crolepidoptera, I. The genus Homoe-
oprepes Walsingham (Lepidoptera:
Blastodacnidae). II. A new genus
and species of clear-wing moth in-
jurious to fig in Colombia (Lepidop-
tera: Aegeriidae). Proc. U.S. Nat.
Mus., vol. 113, No. 3457, pp. 373-388,
9 figs., April 1962.

New species of Microlepidoptera
from Japan. Ent. News, vol. 73, No.
4, pp. 91-102, 10 figs., April 1962.

Clarke, Roy S., Jr., and Carron, Max-
well K. Comparison of tektite speci-
mens from Empire, Georgia, and
Martha’s Vineyard, Massachusetts.
Smithsonian Misc. Coll., vol. 143, No.
4, pp. 1-18, 6 pls., 1961.

——and Henderson, E. P. Georgia
tektites and related glasses. Georgia
Mineral Newsletter, vol. 14, No. 4, pp.
99-119, Winter 1961.

Cochran, Doris M. Living amphibians
of the world. Doubleday and Co.,
pp. 1-199, illus., June 16, 1961.

Cooper, Grace Rogers. Lace and em-
broidered handkerchiefs. Spinning
Wheel, vol. 18, No. 2, p. 24, 6 pls.,
February 1962.

Cowan, Richard S. Two new species of
Rutaceae from Brazil. Bol. Mus.
Nac., Rio de Janeiro, No. 27, pp. 1-4,
May 1961.

Studies in tropical American

Leguminosae—V. Bol. Soc. Venezo-

(See Limbaugh,

.

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1962

lana Ciene. Nat., vol. 22, pp. 279-287,
3 pls., December 1961.

Crabill, Ralph E., Jr. On the true na-
ture of Azygethidae. Psyche, vol. 67,
No. 3, pp. 76-79, April 1961.

Concerning the identities of

Nannocrig and Sogona, with pertinent

morphological notes. Ent. Soc. Wash-

ington, vol. 63, No. 2, pp. 125-135,

June 1961.

Concerning the family Neogeo-
philidae. Ent. News, vol. 82, No. 6,
pp. 155-159, June 1961 ; No. 7, pp. 177-
190, July 1961.

——. A new appraisal of Afrotaenia.
Senckenbergiana Biologica, vol. 42,
Nos. 5-6, pp. 501-555, December 1961.

A new Cruzobius from Mexico.
Ent. News, vol. 75, pp. 188-135, March
1962.

Cuatrecasas, José. Burseraceae Bra-
Siliae novae. Bol. Mus. Paraense
Emilio Goeldi, Nov. Ser. Bot., No. 11,
pp. 1-11, March 1961.

——. Notas sobre Astereas Andinas.
Ciencia, vol. 21, pp. 21-82, 4 figs.,
April 10, 1961.

Studies on Andean Compositae

VY. Proce. Biol. Soc. Washington, vol.

74, pp. 7-28, 3 figs., May 19, 1961.

A new Burseraceae from Santa

Catarina. Sellowia, vol. 18, pp. 261—

263, 1 fig., December 1961.

Studies in South American

plants VI. Brittonia, vol. 14, pp. 50-

57, 4 figs., January 1962.

and Aristeguieta, L. Una nueva
especie de Hrigeron de Venezuela y
Colombia. Bol. Soe. Venezolana
Ciene. Nat., vol. 22, Nos. 98 and 99,
pp. 5-7, 1 fig. May 1961.

Cutress, Charles E., Jr. Habrosanthus
bathamae, n. gen., n. sp. (Actiniaria:
Sagartiidae) from New Zealand.
Trans. Roy. Soc. New Zealand, vol. 1,
No. 6, pp. 95-101, 3 figs., 1 pl., July 7,
1961.

Drake, Carl J. New species and taxo-
nomic changes in the Tingidae (He-
miptera: Tingidae). Journ. Kansas
Ent. Soc., vol. 34, No. 3, pp. 145-151,
July 1961.

—— and Menke, Arnold S.

PUBLICATIONS

New genera and new species of
lacebugs from the Eastern Hemi-
sphere (Hemiptera: Tingidae). Proc.
U.S. Nat. Mus., vol. 113, No. 3455, pp.
125-1838, 24 figs., August 1961.
Synonymic changes and four new
species of Tingidae (Hemiptera).
Bull. So. California Acad. Sci., vol.
60, No. 3, pp. 156-164, January 1962.
Synonymic data and two new
genera of shore-bugs (Hemiptera:
Saldidae). Proc. Biol. Soc. Washing-
ton, vol. 75, pp. 115-124, 4 figs., March
1962.

Water-
striders of the subgenus Stridulivelia
from Mexico, Central America, and
the West Indies (Hemiptera: Veli-
idae). Proce. U.S. Nat. Mus., vol. 113,
No. 3460, pp. 413-419, 3 pls., June
1962.

— and Mohanasundarum, M. New

Tingidae from South India (Hemip-
tera). Great Basin Naturalist, vol.
21, No. 4, pp. 108-118, 3 figs., December
1961.

—— and Namet, J. Raymond. The

Mauritian gall tingid (Hemiptera).
Mauritius Institute Bull., vol. 5, No.
6, pp. 228-224, 1 fig., December 1961.

— and Ruhoff, Florence A. The ge-

nus Hpimizia Kirkaldy (Hemiptera:
Tingidae). Trans. Roy. Soc. New
Zealand, Zoology, vol. 1, No. 1, pp.
1-6, 2 pls., June 1961.

Estrada, Emilio, and Meggers, Betty J.
A complex of traits of probable trans-
pacific origin on the coast of Ecuador.
Amer. Anthrop., vol. 63, No. 5, part 1,
pp. 918-939, 1961.

——, Meggers Betty J., and Evans, Clif-
ford. Possible transpacific contact on
the coast of Ecuador. Science, vol.
135, No. 3501, pp. 871-872, February 2,
1962.

Evans, Clifford, and Meggers, Betty J.
Archaeology: South America (except
Colombia and Venezuela). Handbook
of Latin American Studies, No. 23
(1960), Univ. Florida Press, pp. 24-37,
1961.

(See Estrada, Emilio)

——. (See Harner, Michael J.)

ieee

Flint, Oliver S., Jr.

Gazin, C. Lewis.

107

(See Meggers, Betty J.)

Ewers, John C. Approaches to Ethno-

history. Ethnohistory, vol. 8, No. 3,
pp. 262-270, 1 text fig., Summer 1961.
The American Indian in current
books. Natural History, pp. 4, 6-9,
November 1961.

The land was theirs. Saturday
Review, pp. 15-16, December 16, 1961.
Mothers of the Mixed-Bloods.
Hl Palacio, vol. 69, No. 1, pp. 20-29,
Spring 1962.

Ferguson, Eugene S. Kinematics of

mechanisms from the time of Watt.
U.S. Nat. Mus. Bull. 228, Contr. Mus.
Hist. Techn., Paper 27, pp. 185-230,
46 figs., February 14, 1962.
Contributions to bibliography in
the history of technology (Part I).
Technology and Culture, vol. III, No.
1, pp. 73-84, Winter, 1962.

The presumed
larva of Himalopsyche phryganea
(Ross) (Trichoptera: Rhyacophili-
dae). Pan-Pacific Ent., vol. 37, pp.
199-202, 6 figs., 1962.

——. Antillean species of Hydropsyche

(Trichoptera). Bull. Brooklyn Ent.
Soe., vol. 57, pp. 22-27, 7 figs., 1962.
Larvae of the caddis fiy genus
Rhyacophila in eastern North Amer-
ica (Trichoptera: Rhyacophilidae).
Proe. U.S. Nat. Mus., vol. 113, No.
3464, pp. 465-498, 11 figs., May 1962.

Garrick, J. A. F. Carcharhinus Blain-

ville, 1816 (Class Chondrichthes, Or-
der Selachii) ; proposed designation
of Carcharias melanopterus Quoy and
Gaimard as type species under the
plenary powers. Bull. Zool. Nomen-
celature, vol. 19, No. 2, pp. 100-102,
March 1962.

——. Reasons in favor of retaining the

generic name Carcharhinus Blain-
ville, and a proposal for identifying
its type species as the Indo-Pacific
black-tipped shark, C. melanopterus.
Proce. Biol. Soe. Washington, vol. 75,
pp. 89-96, March 30, 1962.

Occurrences of Pale-
ocene Mammalia in Tertiary basins
of Wyoming. Wyoming Geol. Assoc.
Guidebook Symposium on late Creta-
108

ceous rocks, 16th Ann. Field Conf.,

Green River, Washakie, Wind River,

and Powder River Basins, pp. 47-52,

1 fig., 1961.

New sciuravid rodents from the

lower Eocene Knight formation of

western Wyoming. Proc. Biol. Soc.

Washington, vol. 74, pp. 193-194, 1961.

A further study of the lower
Hocene mammalian faunas of south-
western Wyoming. Smithsonian
Misc. Coll., vol. 144, No. 1, pp. 1-98,
pls. 1-14, 1962.

Gibson, Gordon D. Bridewealth and
other forms of exchange among the
Herero. In Paul J. Bohannan and
George Dalton, eds., Markets in
Africa, Northwestern Univ. Press,
1962.

Gilbert, Perry W.
Leonard P.)

Griffith, Fuller O. The lithographs of
Childe Hassam, a catalog. U.S. Nat.
Mus. Bull. 232, pp. vii+66, 43 illus.,
1962.

Hale, Mason E., Jr. The typification of
Parmelia perlata (Huds.) Ach. Brit-
tonia, vol. 13, No. 4, pp. 361-867, 1961.

Lichen handbook. A guide to
the lichens of eastern North America.
Smithsonian Inst., Publ. 4434, 178 pp.,
20 pls., 58 figs., 1961.

Hamarneh, Sami K. Drawings and
pharmacy in al-Zahrawi’s 10th-cen-
tury surgical treatise. U.S. Nat.
Mus. Bull. 228, Contr. Mus. Hist.
Techn., Paper 22, pp. 81-94, 21 figs.,
1961.

(See Schultz,

For the collector, facts and
artifacts. Pharmacy in History, vol.
6, Nos. 3 and 4, pp. 48-50, 1961.
Sabur’s abridged formulary, the
first of its kind in Islam. Sudhoffs
Archiy fiir Geschichte der Medizin
und der Naturwissenschaften, vol. 45,
No. 3, pp. 247-260, 1961.

Thirteenth century physician in-
terprets connection between arteries
and veins. Sudhoffs Archiv fur
Geschichte der Medizin und der
Naturwissenschaften, vol. 46, No. 1,
pp. 17-26, 1962.

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1962

Chemical therapy in 10th-cen-

tury Arabic medicine. Amer. Journ.

Pharm. Educ., vol. 26, No. 1, pp. 12-

18, 1962.

The rise of professional phar-
macy inIslam. Medical Hist., vol. 6,
No. 1, pp. 59-66, 1962.

Harner, Michael J., and Evans, Clifford.
Ethnology: South America. Hand-
book of Latin American Studies, No.
23 (1960), Univ. Florida Press, pp.
42-57, 1961.

Hart, C. W., Jr., and Hobbs, Horton H.,
Jr. Hight new troglobitic ostracods
of the genus Hntocythere (Crustacea,
Ostracoda) from the eastern United
States. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila-
delphia, vol. 118, No. 8, pp. 173-185,
32 figs., November 24, 1961.

Henderson, E. P. (See Clarke, Roy S.,
Jr.)

Hobbs, Horton H., Jr. Notes on the
affinities of the members of the
Blandingii Section of the crayfish
genus Procambarus (Decapoda, As-
tacidae). Tulane Studies in Zoology,
vol. 9, No. 5, pp. 2738-293, 72 figs.,
April 16, 1962.

—and Hobbs, H. H., III. A new
crayfish of the genus Cambarus from
Georgia (Decapoda, Astacidae).
Proce. Biol. Soc. Washington, vol. 75,
pp. 41-46, 10 figs., March 30, 1962.

and Walton, Margaret. Addi-

tional new ostracods from the Hiwas-
see drainage system in Georgia,

North Carolina, and ‘Tennessee.

Trans. Amer. Micr. Soc., vol. 80, No.

4, pp. 379-884, 8 figs., October 1961.

(See Hart, C. W., Jr.)

Hetton, Nicholas III. Activities of the
Division of Vertebrate Paleontology.
Soe. Vert. Paleont. News Bull. No. 68,
pp. 14-16, October 1961; No. 64, pp.
16-17, February 1962; No. 65, p. 8,
June 1962.

Houston, C. O., Jr. Review of Black
Rock: Mining folklore of the Penn-
sylvania Dutch, by George Korson
(Baltimore, 1960). Technology and
Culture, vol. 2, No. 4, pp. 408-409,
1961.

PUBLICATIONS

Howell, Edgar M. Uniform regulations
for the Army of the United States,
1861. Illustrated with contemporary
War Department photographs. Smith-
sonian Inst., Publ. 4467, 61 pp., 38
illus., 1961.

Right dress; military cap and
belt plates. Antiques, vol. 80, pp. 40-
42, July 1961.

Hull, Frank M. Robber flies of the
world: The genera of the family Asil-
idae. U.S. Nat. Mus. Bull. 224, pp.,
part i, x+480, part 2, v-+431-907,
June 25, 1962.

Hume, Ivor Noél. Excavations at Rose-
well in Gloucester County, Virginia,
1957-1959. U.S. Nat. Mus. Bull. 225,
Contr. Mus. Hist. Techn., Paper 18,
pp. 158-229, 38 figs., 1962.

Ireland, R. R. Additions to the moss
flora of the Shenandoah National
Park, Virginia. The Bryologist, vol.
64, No. 1, pp. 66-70, 1961.

Jackson, Melvin H. The consular priv-
ateers; an account of French priva-
teering in American waters, April to
August 1793. The Amer. Neptune,
pp. 81-98, April 1962.

Kabata, Z., and Bowman, Thomas E.
Revision of Tvracheliastes grandis
Wilson, 1915 (Copepoda, Lernaeo-
podidae). Crustaceana, vol. 3, part
2, pp. 120-126, 4 figs., December 1961.

Kainen, Jacob. John Baptist Jackson:
18th-century master of the color
woodcut. U.S. Nat. Mus. Bull. 222,
xii+183 pp., 101 illus. (12 in color),
1962.

King, W. James. The development of
electrical technology in the 19th cen-
tury: 1. The electrochemical cell and
the electromagnet. U.S. Nat. Mus.
Bull. 228, Contr. Mus. Hist. Techn.,
Paper 28, pp. 231-271, 71 figs., Janu-
ary 15, 1962.

Leonard, Emery C. Acanthaceae Amer-
icanae novae vel criticae II. Seven
new species from Colombia and some
additional notes. Wrightia, vol. 2, pp.
142-157, 7 figs., May 1961.

(See Allard, H. A.)

Limbaugh, Conrad, Pederson, Harry,
and Chace, Fenner A., Jr. Shrimps

109

that clean fishes. Bull. Mar. Sci. Gulf
and Caribbean, vol. 11, No. 2, pp. 237-
257, 9 figs., June 1961.

Lundeberg, Philip K. The battle of the
Atlantic. In E. B. Potter and C. W.
Nimitz, eds., The Great Sea War,
Harrap, London, ch, 3, pp. 69-101,

. 1962.

McCall, Francis J. Fort Sumter com-
memorative issue. Bureau Specialist,
vol. 32, No. 9, pp. 220-221, September
1961.

——. Kansas statehood centennial

commemorative issue. Bureau Spe-

cialist, vol. 32, No. 10, pp. 252-253,

October 1961.

11-cent ordinary stamp. Bureau

Specialist, vol. 32, No. 11, pp. 286-

287, November 1961.

13-cent international airmail

stamp. Bureau Specialist, vol. 32, No.

12, pp. 306-307, December 1961.

George W. Norris commemora-

tive issue. Bureau Specialist, vol. 33,

No. 2, pp. 35, 40-41, February 1962.

Naval aviation commemorative

issue. Bureau Specialist, vol. 33, No.

3, pp. 68, 68-69, March 1962.

Workmen’s compensation law

commemorative issue. Bureau Spe-

cialist, vol. 33, No. 4, pp. 95, 102-104,

April 1962.

Frederic Remington centennial
commemorative issue. Bureau Spe-
cialist, vol. 33, No. 6, pp. 155, 162-163,
165, June 1962.

Meggers, Betty J. Field testing of cul-
tural law: A reply to Morris Opler.
Southwestern Journ. Anthrop., vol.
17, No. 4, pp. 353-854, Winter 1961.

—— and Evans, Clifford. An experi-
mental formulation of horizon styles
in the tropical forest area of South
America. In Essays in PreColumbian
Art and Archaeology, by Samuel K.
Lothrop and others, Harvard Univ.
Press, pp. 372-388, 1961.

(See Hstrada, Emilio)

(See Evans, Clifford)

Metcalf, George S. Archeology: West-
ern Hemisphere. In The Americana
Ann., New York, pp. 41-42, 1962.

110

Morrison, Joseph P. E. Collecting Mel-
anopsis in New Caledonia (abstract).
Amer. Malacological Union Ann. Rep.
for 1961, Bull. 28, pl. 18, December 1,
1961.

Morton, C. VY. Pteridophyta. Jn T. H.
Kearney and R. H. Peebles, Arizona
Flora, Suppl., pp. 1085-1037, 1960.

Some forms of Polypodium cali-

fornicum. Amer. Fern Journ., vol. 51,

No. 2, pp. 73-75, June 1961.

Another genus of ferns new to

the United States. Amer. Fern

Journ., vol. 51, No. 2, pp. 81-88, June

1961.

Another name change for the
Florida fern known as Dryopteris
setigera. Amer. Fern Journ., vol. 52,
No. 1, pp. 27-29, April 1962.

Muesebeck, Carl F. W. A new Opius
and two new species of Microctonos
(Hymenoptera: Braconidae). Bull.
Brooklyn Ent. Soc., vol. 56, No. 3, pp.
57-61, June 1961.

Multhauf, Robert P. The introduction
of self-registering meteorological in-
struments. U.S. Nat. Mus. Bull. 228,
Contr. Mus. Hist. Techn., Paper 23,
pp. 95-116, 16 figs., 1961.

Holcomb, Fitz, and Peate: Three
19th-century American telescope
makers, with introduction by Robert
P. Multhauf. U.S. Nat. Mus. Bull.
228, Contr. Mus. Hist. Techn., Paper
26, pp. 155-184, 15 figs., 1962.

Murray, Anne W. A short history of
the apron. Antiques, vol. 80, No. 3,
pp. 244-247, September 1961.

Newman, Marshall T. A study of In-
dian skeletal material from Clarke
and Mobile Counties, Alabama. Ala-
bama Mus. Nat. Hist., Mus. Paper 36,
pp. 237-257, 1960 (received in 1961).

Biological adaptation of man to

his environment: Heat, cold, altitude,

and nutrition. Ann. New York Acad.

Sci., vol. 91, article 3, pp. 617-638,

1961.

Eeology and nutritional stress in
man. Amer. Anthrop., vol. 64, No. 1,
part 1, pp. 22-38, 1962.

Evolutionary changes in body
size and head form in American In-

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1962

dians. Amer. Anthrop., vol. 64, No.
2, pp. 237-257, 1962.

—— and Salzano, Francisco. Physical
anthropology. Handbook of Latin
American Studies, No. 28 (1960),
Univ. Florida Press, pp. 72-81, 1961.

Pearce, John N. Light in New England,
1630. Winterthur Newsletter, vol. 7,
No. 6, p. 8, August 15, 1961.

A fat life in Colonial Pennsyl-

vania. Winterthur Newsletter, vol. 7,

No. 8, p. 18, October 30, 1961.

New York’s two-handled paneled

silver bowls. Antiques, vol. 80, No. 4,

pp. 341-845, October 1961.

More data on silver sugar boxes.

Winterthur Newsletter, vol. 8, No. 3,

p. 14, March 26, 1962.

Ceramic mugs in Philadelphia
inns, 1783. Winterthur Newsletter,
vol. 8, No. 4, pp. 3-4, April 28, 1962.

Peterson, Mendel L. Cut coin in the
United States. The Numismatist, vol.
75, No. 3, pp. 582-585, May 1962.

Rehder, Harald A. Obituary: Paul
Bartsch. Journ. Conchology, vol. 25,
No. 1, pp. 41-48, portrait, July 1961.

Comments on the proposal to

place the generic name Gari Schu-

macher, 1817, on the official list un-
emended. Z.N. (S.) 1461. Bull. Zool.

Nomenclature, vol. 18, part 5, pp. 297—

298, November 10, 1961.

The status of Nucella Roding.

Nautilus, vol. 75, No. 3, pp. 109-111,

pl. 10, figs. 14, January 1962.

The Pleistocene mollusks of
Grand Cayman Island, with notes on
the geology of the island. Journ.
Paleont., vol. 36, No. 3, pp. 583-585,
June 1962.

Roberts, Henry B. Crustacea in the
Cretaceous fossils of New Jersey.
New Jersey Geol. Surv., Bull. 61, pp.
163-191, pls. 8-87, 4 figs., 1962.

Rosewater, Joseph. The family Pinni-
dae in the Indo-Pacific. Indo-Pacific
Mollusea, Philadelphia, vol. 1, No. 4,
pp. 175-226, 37 pls., September 1961.

Comments on the proposal to

place the generic name Gari Schu-

macher, 1817, on the official list un-
emended. Z.N. (S.) 1461. Bull. Zool.

PUBLICATIONS

Nomenclature, vol. 18, part 5, p. 303,

November 1961.

Preliminary observations on the
nervous system of some Pleuroceridae
(abstract). Amer. Malacological
Union Ann. Rep. for 1961, Bull. 28,
pp. 10-11, December 1961.

Ruhoff, Florence A. (See Drake, Carl
J.)

Scheele, Carl H.
T.)

Schuitz, Leonard P. Revision of the
marine silver hatchetfishes (family
Sternoptychidae). Proc. U.S. Nat.
Mus., vol. 112, No. 3449, pp. 587-649,
26 figs., September 7, 1961.

——, Gilbert, Perry W., and Springer,
Stewart. Shark attacks: Worldwide
records through 1960 show when and
where predaceous sharks are likely to
attack man. Science, vol. 134, No.
3472, pp. 87-88, July 14, 1961.

—— and Hubbs, Carl L. Early nomen-
clatural history of the nominal cypri-
nid genus Oregonichithys and of the
blennioid, Pholis schultzi, fishes of
western North America. Copeia, No.
4, pp. 477-478, 1 fig., December 22,
1961.

Setzer, Henry W. The jirds (Mam-
malia; Rodentia) of Egypt. Journ.
Hgyptian Public Health Assoc., vol.
36, No. 3, pp. 81-92, July 5, 1961.

The canids (Mammalia) of
Egypt. Journ. Egyptian Public
Health Agssoc., vol. 36, No. 3, pp. 113-
118, July 5, 1961.

Smith, A. C., and Stone, Benjamin C.
Studies of Pacific island plants,
XVII: The genus Geniostoma (Loga-
niaceae) in the New Hebrides, Fiji,
Samoa, and Tonga. Contr. U.S. Nat.
Herb., vol. 37, part 1, pp. 1-41, 3 pls.,
January 1962.

Smith, Lyman B. Uma nova Bromelia
do estado do Amazonas. Bol. Mus.
Paraense Emilio Goeldi, No. 12, pp.
1-3, 1 pl., 1961.

Introductory notes on brome-

liads. Louisiana Soe. Hortic. Re-

search Bull., No. 6, pp. 2, 6-18, 10 pls.,

1961.

(See Turner, George

111

Hechtia marnier-lapostollei.
Bromel. Soc. Bull., vol. 11, No. 4, pp.
58-59, 3 figs., July 1961.

— —. Notes on Bromeliaceae, XVII.
Phytologia, vol. 8, No. 1, pp. 1-138, 1 pl.,
September 1961.

Are they bromeliads? Bromel.

Soe. Bull., vol. 11, No. 6, pp. 92-938, 2

figs., November 1961.

A new Brazilian Begonia. In}.

Yale Dawson, The Machris Brazilian

Expedition, Contr. Sci. Los Angeles

County Mus., No. 47, pp. 1-2, 1 fig.,

December 21, 1961.

Spigelia dusenii, nova espécie do

Parana. Sellowia, No. 13, pp. 203-

204, 1 pl., December 1961.

Notes on Bromeliaceae, XVIII.

Phytologia, vol. 8, No. 5, pp. 217-230,

2 pls., February 1962.

Origins of the flora of southern

Brazil. Contr. U.S. Nat. Herb., vol.

35, part 3, pp. iii-+-215—249, 42 figs., 4

pls., March 19, 1962.

A synopsis of the American

Velloziaceae. Contr. U.S. Nat. Herb.,

vol. 35, part 4, pp. 251-292, 12 pls.,

March 19, 1962.

Another Foster Orthophytum.

Bromel. Soc. Bull., vol. 12, No. 2, pp.

32-38, 1 fig., March 1962.

and Schubert, Bernice G. Bego-
niaceae. In P. C. Standley and L. O.
Williams, Flora of Guatemala.
Fieldiana: Bot., vol. 24, part 7, No. 1,
pp. 157-185, 12 figs., November 13,
1961.

Snodgrass, R. E. Animal societies,
from slime molds to man. Ann. Rep.
Smithsonian Institution for 1960, pp.
425-445, 1961.

The caterpillar and the butterfly.

Smithsonian Mise. Coll., vol. 143, No.

6, 51 pp., 17 figs., November 1961.

Insect metamorphosis and ret-
romorphosis. Trans. Amer, Ent. Soc.,
vol. 87, No. 4, pp. 273-280, December
1961.

Snyder, Thomas E. Supplement to the
annotated, subject-heading bibliogra-
phy of termites 1955-1960. Smith-
sonian Misc. Coll., vol. 143, No. 3, 137
pp., December 1961.

et

——, Termite research around the
world. Pest Control, vol. 30, No. 2,
pp. 48, 50, photo author, February
1962.

Springer, Victor G. Notes on and addi-
tions to the fish fauna of the Tampa
Bay area in Florida. Copeia, No. 4,
pp. 480-482, September 22, 1961.

and McErlean, Andrew J. Tag-
ging of great barracuda, Sphyraena
barracuda (Walbaum). Trans.
Amer. Fish. Soc., vol. 90, No. 4, pp.
497-500, 1961.

— and McErlean, Andrew J. Spawn-
ing seasons and growth of the Code
Goby, Gobiosoma robustum (Pisces:
Gobiidae), in the Tampa Bay area.
Tulane Studies Zool., vol. 9, No. 2, pp.
87-98, 1961.

— and McErlean, Andrew J. A study
of the behavior of some tagged south
Florida coral reef fishes. Amer.
Midl. Nat., vol. 67, No. 2, pp. 386-397,
April 1962. ;

(See Bohlke, James E.)

(See Schultz, Leonard P.)

Stern, William L. Teak. Encyclopae-
dia Britannica, vol. 21, pp. 867-868,
1961.

Xylem. Jn Peter Gray, ed., The
Encyclopedia of the Biological Sci-
ences, pp. 1077-1078, 1961.

Stewart, T. D. A neglected primitive
feature of the Swanscombe skull.
Homenaje a Pablo Martinéz del Rio,
Mexico, pp. 207-217, 1961.

Crania from Lost City, southern
Nevada (Lake Mead National Recre-
ational Area). Anthrop. Papers, Ne-
vada State Mus., No. 5, Appendix A,
pp. 71-76, 6 pls., 1961.

——. British-American racial herit-
age. Art Museum folder, Louisiana
State Univ., 1962.

Anterior femoral curvature: Its
utility for race identification. Hu-
man Biol., vol. 34, No. 1, pp. 49-62,
1962.

Stone, Benjamin C. (See Smith, A. C.)

Swallen, Jason R. Gramineae. In
T. H. Kearney and R. H. Peebles,
Arizona Flora, Suppl., pp. 1039-1042,
1960 (received in 1961).

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1962

——. A new species of Panicum from
New Jersey. Rhodora, vol. 63, No.
752, pp. 235-236, 1961.

Switzer, George. Thirty-sixth annual
report on the diamond industry, 1960.
Jewelers’ Circular-Keystone, Vol. 131,
53 pp., 1961.

Townes, Henry and Marjorie. Ichneu-
mon-flies of America north of Mexico:
3. Subfamily Gelinae, Tribe Mesoste-
nini. U.S. Nat. Mus. Bull. 216, part
3, Dp. viii+-602, figs. 400, March 18,
1962.

Turner, George T., and Scheele, Carl H.
(Compilers) Sloane’s Column, a com-
pilation by subjects. Bureau Issues
Assoc., Ine., West Somerville, Mass.,
467 pp., 1961.

Van Beek, Gus W. Samaria, City of.
Harper’s Bible Dictionary, 7th ed.,
pp. 637-638, 1961.

—and Jamme, Albert. The South-
Arabian clay stamp from Bethel
again. Bull. Amer. Schools of Ori-
ental Res., No. 163, pp. 15-18, Octo-
ber 1961.

Washburn, Wilcomb E. Scholarship
and the museum. Museum News,
vol. 40, No. 2, pp. 16-19, October 1961.

The effect of Bacon’s Rebellion
on government in Hngland and Vir-
ginia. U.S. Nat. Mus. Bull. 225,
Contr. Mus. Hist. Techn., Paper 17,
pp. 185-152, 8 figs., 1962.

Wedel, Waldo R. Some aspects of hu-
man ecology in the Central Plains.
In Studies in Human Ecology, edited
by George A. Theodorson, pp. 451-
461, 1961. (Reprinted from Amer.
Anthrop., vol. 55, pp. 499-514, 1961).

Prehistoric man on the Great

Plains. Univ. Oklahoma Press, 355

pp., 28 pls., 25 figs., 1961.

Contributions and losses in sal-

vage archeology. In Symposium on

Salvage Archeology, edited by John

M. Corbett, pp. 17-22, 1961.

Plains archeology: 1935-1960.
Amer. Antiq., vol. 27, No. 1, pp. 24-82,
1961.

——,. Some archeological problems in
the Great Plains. Great Plains
Journ., vol. 1, No. 1, pp. 6-19, 1961.
PUBLICATIONS 113

Welsh, Peter C. The lithograph: A subspecies of the ivory-billed wood-
mirror of Victorian taste. Antiques, hewer from Mexico. Proc. Biol. Soc.
vol. 80, No. 3, pp. 240-243, September] Washington, vol. 75, pp. 57-60, 1961.

1961. White, John H. Introduction of the
Wetmore, Alexander. Systematic notes locomotive safety truck. U.S. Nat

pues Ered ya Ueno une Of E ans Pe Ball) 228) Contr Mus, Hist,
ama. Smithsonian Mise. Coll., vol.
145, No. 1, 14 pp., 1962. Techn., Paper 24, pp. 117-131, 12 figs.,
Notes on fossil and subfossil| September 5, 1961.
birds. Smithsonian Mise. Coll., vol.| Wurdack, Jokn J. Certamen Melasto-
145, No. 2, 17 pp., 1962. mataceis VII. Phytologia, vol. 8,
—and Parkes, Kenneth C. A new No. 4, pp. 165-175, January 1962.

Donors to the National Collections

(Hacept when otherwise indicated, the specimens were presented by individ-
ual donors or were transferred by the Bureaus of the Government in accordance

with law.)

Abbott, Dr. Charles C. (address un-
known): 5 archeological items from
Burlington and Somerset Cos., N.J.
(241561).

Abbott, Dr. R. Tucker (See Academy
of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia)

Aberdeen, University of, Aberdeen,
Scotland: (Through Prof. R. V. Jones)
erystal of lead fluoride (287999, ex-
change).

Abonnenc, Dr. E., Dakar, Senegal:
465 miscellaneous insects and slides
from Africa (238141, 238142).

Academy of Natural Sciences of Phil-
adelphia, Philadelphia, Pa.: (Through
Dr. R. Tucker Abbott) 926 marine mol-
lusks, mostly from Madagascar and
British Honduras (239609, 241024, ex-
changes); (through Dr. James E.
Bohlke) 4 fresh-water fishes from Can-
ada (2388897) ; (through Dr. Horace G.
Richards, Jr.) 117 mollusks, paratypes,
from the Pliocene of Florida from the
Fargo-Locklin collection (240811).

Academy of Sciences of the U.S.S.R.,
Moscow, U.S.S.R.: Committee on Mete-
orites: (Through Dr. E. L. Krinov)
2 iron meteorites from the U.S.S.R.
(235287, exchange). Zoological Insti-
tute: (Through Dr. A. P. Andriashev)
16 fishes from Russia (237397).

Adams, Mrs. Helen (See Shook, Mrs.
Richard)

Adams, Mrs. Margaret, Washington,
D.C.: 2 19th-century U.S. postal cards
(239313).

Adler, Alex J. (See Wyeth Labora-
tories, Inc.)

Agricultural and Mechanical College
of Texas, College Station, Tex.:
(Through Byung Lee) 9 plankton spec-
imens (240796).

114

Agricultural Research Couneil,
Slough, Bucks, England: (Through
G. E. Woodroffe) 12 beetles from Eng-
land (240266).

Agriculture, U.S. Department of,
Washington, D.C.: Agricultural Re-
search Service: 1,721 phanerogams, 177
grasses, 25 ferns, and 12 isopods from
worldwide localities (237110, 237502,
237738, 239307, 240088, 240979, 240982,
241167, 241170) ; 318 phanerogams and
7 grasses from South Africa collected
by H. S. Gentry and A. S. Barclay
(237298) ; (through Dr. Rex W. Allen)
21 fresh-water snails from Arizona and
New Mexico (240202); (through Dr.
William H. Anderson) 240 land and
fresh-water snails and a crayfish from
worldwide localities (232069, 232396,
232672, 2328389, 2338144, 233229, 233644,
233899, 234081, 234319, 234701, 235107,
235357) ; 68 mollusks from various lo-
calities (234841) ; 59,673 miscellaneous
insects, worldwide (241871) ; (through
Dr. K. EH. Frick) 16 fruit flies from Cal-
ifornia (240738); (through Dr. Fred-
erick Meyer) 2 ferns and 17 phanero-
gams from Hurope and the Virgin

Islands (2883882, 241259, 241419,
241567) ; (through Dr. Paul W. Oman)
18 land snails from El Salvador,
Georgia, and Virginia 231346) ;

(through Dr. Reece I. Sailer) 42 land
snails from the Dominican Republic,
Honduras, Iran, Italy, and Mexico
(281526, 231646); (through Dr. Ber-
nice G. Schubert) 912 phanerogams, 4
ferns, and grass (241261); (through
Dr. Willis W. Wirth) 200 copepods
(237703). Forest Service: 245 phaner-
ogams, 70 grasses, and 2 ferns mostly
from western U.S. (236593, 2403802,
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

241656) ; 415 phanerogams from Puerto
Rico, collected by Dr. Elbert L. Little,
Jr., June-August 1950 (238729);
(through Dr. Hibert L. Little, Jr.) 53
phanerogams (238381). Soil Conser-
vation Service: 2 grasses from New
Mexico (238548). (See also Smithson-
ian Institution)

Ahlstrom, Dr. Elbert H. (See In-
terior, U.S. Department of the)

Akazaki, Masato (See Kyoto Univer-
sity)

Alberta, University of, Hdmonton,
Alberta, Canada: (Through Prof. R. EH.
Folinsbee) specimen of the Bruderheim
meteorite, 122 grams (236868).

Albuquerque, Daley, Rio de Janeiro,
Brazil: 120 flies from Nearctic and Neo-
tropical regions (237178, exchange).

Albuquerque, Mrs. Isolda Rocha e
Silva, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil: 12 cock-
roaches, including 6 paratypes, from
South America (238124).

Alexander County Coronerx’s Office,
Cairo, Ill.: (Through Herbert N. Henck-
ell) adult female skeleton (234543).

Alger, Louisa R., Cambridge, Mass.:
13 costume and textile items, 19th cen-
tury (239090).

Algor, John R., Arlington, Va.: Fossil
starfish from the Ordovician of Ohio
(239109).

Alicata, Dr. J. E. (See Hawaii, Uni-
versity of)

Alio, Mr. and Mrs. Constantin G.,
Philadelphia, Pa.: Gears, shafts, and
timbers from an 18th-century gristmill
(240078).

Allan, Greever (See Post Office De-
partment)

Allan, Walter (See Anaconda-Amer-
ican Brass Co.)

Allan Hancock Foundation, Los An-
geles, Calif.: (Through Dr. Olga Hart-
man) 10 marine mollusks from the
deeper bottoms of Santa Catalina can-
yon (239153).

Allen, Aubrey D., Washington, D.C.:
Wooden figurine from the Admiralty
Islands (238118).

Allen, Dr. Harry W., Moorestown,
N.J.: 2 wasps, paratypes, from the West
Indies (237312).

115

Allen, Letha S., Baltimore, Md.: 8
lots of marine shells and 265 land,
fresh-water, and marine mollusks from
Canada (2387206, 238645).

Allen, Dr. Rex W. (See Agriculture,
U.S. Department of)

Altschuler, Zalman S., Washington,
D.C.: 11 echinoids from the Eocene of
Florida (241569, exchange).

Amadon, Dr. Dean (See American
Museum of Natural History)

Amelinckx, Dr. S., Mol Donk, Bel-
gium: 138 minerals from Katanga
(239659, exchange).

American Express Co., Ine., New
York, N.Y.: (Through P. T. Messer) 8
financial documents from various coun-
tries (241681); (through Norman F.
Page) 44 American Express Company
travelers checks (241820); (through
O. Thome) 23 forms in current use by
donor in connection with banking trans-
actions (241559).

American Museum of Natural His-
tory, New York, N.Y.: (Through Dr.
Dean Amadon) 2 birds (237545, ex-
change) ; (through Dr. William K. Em-
erson) 1538 marine and fresh-water
mollusks from worldwide localities
(240005, 240782, exchanges) ; (through
Dr. Richard G. Van Gelder) 2 paratypes
of a squirrel from Burma (232942, ex-
change).

American Society of Gem Counsel-
lors, Boston, Mass.: (Through Meyer
Brown) Lady Elgin watch (238493).

Ames Shovel and Tool Co., North
Easton, Mass.: (Through Richard
Harte) 3 coal shovels (239011).

Amos, Howard, Kokomo, Ind.:
(Through Maj. C. C. Fisher) precan-
celed stamp from Canton Island, Phoe-
nix Islands (238483).

Amram, Mrs. Hortense, Washington,
D.C.: U.S. Army Signal Corps uniform
and Certificate of Identity used by
donor during World War I (240316).

Amundson, Carolyn, Washington,
D.C.: Cover bearing postage stamps of
the Republic of Indonesia, canceled at
various towns on the occasion of the
first voyage of the SS Hope (240119).
116

(See also Blaisdell,
Crook)
Anaconda-American Brass Co., Wa-

Mrs. Florence

terbury, Conn.: (Through Walter
Allan) Winsted transfer press
(241801).

Anderson, Hon. Clinton P., Washing-
ton, D.C.: Book, The Works of Geoffrey
Chaucer (2411385).

Anderson, Dr. Lewis (See Duke Uni-
versity)

Anderson, Prof. Marlowe G., Univer-
sity Park, N. Mex.: 3 slides, types, of a
trematode worm (236341).

Anderson, Dr. William H.
eulture, U.S. Department of)

Anderson, William W. (See Interior,
U.S. Department of the)

Andrews, Dr. E. Wyllys, Yucatéin,
Mexico: (Through Dr. Carl L. Hubbs)
shrimp (237631).

Andrews, Mrs. Marietta M., Washing-
ton, D.C. : Glass cigar holder and 8 glass
goblets (241788).

Andriashev, Dr. A. P. (See Academy
of Sciences of the U.S.S.R.)

Annecke, D. P., Pretoria, South Afri-
ea: 55 chalcid flies from South Africa
(240736, exchange).

Anonymous: Award medal from Italy,
Cuban ten-peso note issued by the Cas-
tro government, 7 scrapbooks and a peg
lamp, and a diamond and ruby bracelet
(236549, 237183, 239141, 239147).

Appalachian Sulphides, Inc., Jeffer-
son, N.C.: 2 apophyllites and 2 copper
ores from Knob Mine, Jefferson, N.C.
(240231).

Applegate, Dr. Shelton P., State Col-
lege, Ark.: Fossil bird bone from the
Upper Cretaceous, Mooreville forma-
tion, Greene Co., Ala. (241865).

Arabian American Oil Co., New York,
N.Y.: 4 specimens of impactite material
from Saudi Arabia collected by Virgil BE.
Barnes and Donald A. Holm (236579) ;
(through 8S. D. Bowers) 117 echinoids
from the Jurassic and Cretaceous of
Saudi Arabia and 215 invertebrate fos-
sils from Arabia (236571, 236578).

Arbuckle, Mr. and Mrs. Golburn,
Washington, D.C.: 10 items believed to

(See Agri-

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1962

have belonged to Comdr. Theodore Gibbs
Dewey (240318).

Archeological Society of Maryland:
Southwestern Chapter, Baltimore, Md.:
(Through William A. Tidwell) 14 In-
dian skeletal remains from the W. R.
Winslow site, Montgomery Co., Md.
(241162).

Architect of the Capitol, Washington,
D.C.: (Through J. George Stewart)
Westinghouse D.C. motor and a Cutler-
Hammer control box (239360).

Aristeguieta, Dr. Leandro (See Min-
isterio de Agricultura y Cria)

Arizona, University of, Tucson, Ariz. :
(Through Dr. Joseph Bequaert) 3
wasps from Kuré Island (240048) ;
(through Dr. Jane Gray) 64 microscope
slides of pollen (237222, exchange) ;
(through Mrs. Therese V. Murchison)
voltaite from United Verde Mine, Je-
rome, Ariz. (236846, exchange).

Arizona State College, Flagstaff,
Ariz.: 2 phanerogams (237303).

Arizona State University, Tempe,
Ariz.: (Through Dr. Carl R. Zimmer)
general radio wave analyzer (239384).

Arkansas Polytechnic College, Rus-
sellville, Ark.: (Through Dr. Dwight M.
Moore) 2 ferns from Arkansas (240403,
240980).

Arkwright, Hon. George A., Brook-
lyn, N.Y.: Deed signed by Peter Stuyve-
sant, 1656 (237080).

Arnold, Edwin H., Washington, D.C.:
Buckboard, ca. 1890 (239766).

Arnold, Mrs. John R., Chevy Chase,
Md.: 6 Japanese and 3 Chinese copper
eoins of the 20th century (237893).

Arnow, Theodore, Santurce, Puerto
Rico: 25 gorgonians (237505).

Ashley, Alex McC. (See Howgate,
Ida)

Aslaksen, Capt. Carl I., Bethesda,
Md.: 5 marine mollusks from Australia
and Florida (241271).

Association of American Railroads,
Washington, D.C.: (Through H. L.
Eddy) 40 volumes of ship, streetcar,
and railroad drawings and photographs
(241913).
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Athearn, H. D., Cleveland, Tenn.:
1,010 fresh-water mollusks from south-
eastern U.S. (239290).

Atkins, Mrs. Harriett Ann, and
Mower, Mrs. Martha Rebecca (ad-
dresses unknown) : (Through B. Wood-
ruff Weaver and Frank Klapthor) 4
mason jars and equipment for making
shot gun shells, 19th century (240633).

Atlantic Union Coilege, South Lan-
easter, Mass.: (Through Dr. David G.
Kissinger) 2 paratypes of weevils from
North America (241328, exchange).

Atomic Energy Commission, Wash-
ington, D.C.: (Through Brigham Young
University) 327 grasshoppers and re-
lated insects from Nevada (2381386) ;
(through Watson Fenimore) 18 objects
from Kapingamarangi, Caroline Islands
(237062) ; (through Dr. Glenn T. Sea-
borg) 3 exhibits on fusion and parity
(235799) .

Auburn University, Auburn, Ala.: 31
phanerogams from Alabama (233878) ;
(through Samuel B. Jones, Jr.) 42 ferns
from Alabama (237735).

Auckland Institute and Museum,
Auckland, New Zealand: 48 phanero-
gams and 2 ferns from New Zealand
(240092, exchange).

Austin Peay State College, Clarks-
ville, Tenn.: (Through Dr. Haskell C.
Phillips) 386 lichens from Tennessee
collected by Dr. Phillips (234235).

Australia, Government of: Animal
Industry Branch, Alice Springs, North-
ern Territory: (Through Dr. G. Chip-
pendale) 93 phanerogams, 5 grasses,
and a fern from the Northern Territory,
Australia (240662). Australian Mu-
seum: (Through Dr. Brian Daily) 204
tektites from Australia (2353862, ex-
change). Botanic Gardens: 194 phaner-
ogams, 36 grasses, 60 ferns, and 2 cryp-
togams from Australia (236586, 236788,

38065, 238728, exchanges). Botanic
Museum and Herbarium: 12 grasses
from Australia (240951, gift-exchange).
Commonwealth Scientific and Indus-
trial Research Organization: [87
phanerogams, 89 grasses, 70 ferns, and
4 cryptogams from Australia and New
Guinea (237299, 239004, exchanges) ;

658794—62——_9

117

(through Dr. H. H. Dadswell and H. D.
Ingle) 445 wood specimens from Neth-
erlands New Guinea (232831, ex-
change); (through Dr. R. D. Hoog-
land) 2 microscope slides of wood
(237220, exchange). Depariment of
Mines, Adelaide, South Australia:
(Through Dr. Nell H. Ludbrook) 30
brachiopods from the Tertiary of South
Australia (239751, exchange).

Ayrahami, Levi, Jerusalem, Israel: 2
gold and 2 silver coins commemorating
the centennial of Theodor Herzl, 1860-
1904 (237895).

Axelrod, Dr. Herbert R., Jersey City,
N.J.: Holotype of a fish from Brazil
(240277).

Ayensu, Edward W., Sekondi, Ghana:
23 microscope slides of wood (236640).

Ayers, Mrs. Samuel Henry, Washing-
ton, D.C.: (Through Mrs. Edward HB.
Ginn) miniature portrait of Mrs. Grover
Cleveland (2369388).

Ayre, Katie May, Washington, D.C.:
% costume accessories of the 18th and
19th centuries (237919).

Ayres, John E., Sarasota, Fla.: 3
brachiopods from the Tertiary and
Miocene of DeSoto Lakes, Fla. (241763).

B & B Supplies, Fort Worth, Tex.:
(Through Token and Medal Society)
Coin Collectors of America medal, 1962
(241733).

Bacescu, Dr. M.
tional de Istoria Naturala
Antipa” )

Back, Dr. Frank (See Zoomar, Inc.)

Bagchi, Dr. T. C. (See India, Govern-
ment of)

Baghdad, University of, Abu Ghraib,
Iraq: 2 grasses from Iraq (240694).

Bailey, Dr. Reeve M. (See Michigan,
University of)

Bailey, Prof. Stanley F., Davis, Calif. :
Thrip from California (239172). (See
also California, University of)

Baker, Dr. Arthur A. (See Interior,
U.S. Department of the)

Baker, Mrs. Beatrice E. Wilson,
Washington, D.C.: 9 costume acces-
sories of the 19th and 20th centuries, 7
hand-made laces, and 40 German 1000-
mark notes, 1910 (236885, 237585).

(See Museul Na-
“Grigore
118

Baker, Dr. C. L. (See Southwestern
at Memphis)

Baker, Maj. Donald B., Aberdeen
Proving Ground, Md.: 2 wasps from
Maryland (238148).

Baker, Dr. E. W. (See Manson, D.C.)

Balch, Robert F., Appleton, Wis.: 6
fresh-water mollusks from Tennessee
(235145).

Baldwin-Lima-Hamilton Corp., Lima,
Ohio: (Through Henry Barnhardt and
P. BE. Perey) collection of drawings
from the Lima Locomotive Works
(239717).

Baldwin, Wayne J. (See California,
University of)

Baloch, Dr. N. A., Hyderabad, Paki-
stan: 23 items of clothing, jewelry, and
rugs from Pakistan (240629).

Baltars, Eduards, Baltimore, Md.: 55
phanerogams and grass from Maryland
(233927, 2397382).

Baltimore, City of, Baltimore, Md.:
(Through Laurence B. Daley) 1,790 to-
bacco and recordation tax stamps
(241182).

Bandy, Mark, Wickenburg, Ariz.: 39
clays and phosphates from various lo-
ealities (240235, exchange).

Banerjii, P. B. (See India, Govern-
ment of)

Banfill, Brig. Gen. Charles Y., Wash-
ington, D.C.: Korean A-frame ‘“Seo-
kago,’”’ collected by donor (198368).

Banks, Donald J., Athens, Ga.: 4
grasses from Florida (241255).

Banks, John T., Norfolk, Va. : 58 mam-
mals from Virginia (241579).

Banks, Mrs. Margot Blaisdell, Miami,
Fla.: (Through Marine Laboratory,
The) 940 marine mollusks from the
Seychelles (239914).

Banno, Dr. Shohei (See Tokyo, Uni-
versity of)

Barbehenn, Dr. Kyle R., Agana,
Guam: 324 shrews, 2 blindsnakes, and
1 vial of myriapods from worldwide lo-
ealities collected by Dr. Barbehenn
(237081, 241766).

Barbour, Thomas R., East Peoria, 11. :
4 pyrites replacing snails from near
Farmington, Knox Co., Ill. (236922).

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM

ANNUAL REPORT, 1962

Barclay, Dr. Harriet G., Tulsa, Okla. :
1,050 phanerogams and 250 grasses from
Bolivia, Colombia, Ecuador, and Peru
(235849).

Barnard, Dr. Keppel H. (See South
Africa, Republic of)

Barneby, Rupert C., Greenport, L.I.,
N.Y.: 13 phanerogams from western
U.S. collected by donor (238378).

Barnes, Col. Theodore, Miami Beach,
Fla.: (Through B. Wocdruff Weaver)
miniature portrait of Abraham Lincoln
by Francis B. Carpenter (223416) ;
(through Mr. and Mrs. B. Woodruff
Weaver) U.S. Army dress coat, mess
jacket, and 2 officer’s shoulder knots
(239339).

Barnett, R. D. (See Great Britain,
Government of)

Barnhardt, Henry (See Baldwin-
Lima-Hamilton Corp.)

Barr, Dr. Thomas C., Jr., Lexington,
Ky. : 30 beetles from North Carolina and
Tennessee (236417, 240056) ; 36 beetles,
including 30 paratypes, from North
America (241719, exchange). (See also
Kuehne, Dr. Robert A.)

Barr, Dr. W. F., Moscow, Idaho: 6
moths and 8 carrot beetles from Idaho
(240057, 241174).

Barrow, Dr. Terence (See Dominion
Museum)

Bartlett, Mrs. Cornelia Comegys (See
Brunschwig, Mrs. Zelina Comegys)

Barto, Mr. and Mrs. Wellington F.,
Arlington, Va.: Woman’s silk mantle
and muff of the period 1900 (237855).

Barton, &. Hank, Falls Church, Va.: 5
bills from Kwantung Province, China,
1918 (238469).

Bashlow, Robert, New York, N.Y.:
Obverse and reverse dies of the Con-
federate cent made in 1861 by Robert
Lovett, 2 hubs, 8 transfer dies, and 20
trial and reguiar impressions (241781).

Bassett, Preston R. Ridgefield,
Conn.: 2 blown glass sperm-oil lamps,
earthenware batter pitcher, 17th-cen-
tury Mnglish repoussé brass “curfew,” a
wooden featherbed smoother, and a
surveyor’s kit (236805, 238706).

Batchelor Fund, Charles and Ros-
anna, Smithsonian Institution: 6,829
DONORS TO THE

mint airmail and used stamps, and a
philatelic cover bearing 4-cent postage
stamps of Newfoundland (241108,
241110, 241305).

Batra, L. R., Lawrence, Kans.: 5
moths from North America (241501).

Battison, Edwin A., Washington,
D.C.: Tuft’s steam gage, 1857, and a
clockmaker’s turn (238488, 241186).

Bauer, Mrs. Grenelle Hunter, Palo
Alto, Calif.: Piece of black woolen flan-
nel (237601).

Beach, Mrs. Howard (See Gwynn,
Mrs. Charles A.)

Beaman, Dr. John H., East Lansing,
Mich.: Phanerogam, isotype (236931).

Beck, Dr. D. Hiden, Provo, Utah: 366
beetles from the Nevada test site
(241482). (See also Brigham Young
University )

Beck, Frank R., Salvador, Bahia, Bra-
zil; Chambersite from Chambers Co.,
Tex. (241266).

Becker, Millard, Haines Falls, N.Y.:
Wood-boring device (241805).

Becker, Ralph E., Washington, D.C.:
Jefferson campaign banner, ca. 1800
(225014) ; Martin Van Buren campaign
banner of 1836 (233476) ; picture frame
(238992) ; ceramie Admiral Dewey hu-
midor, medal, and a pitcher commem-
orating the Battle of Manila Bay, 1898
(239340) ; 838 commemorative medals,
Miniature canteen, and a Civil War
identification tag, Massachusetts Mili-
tia Commission (239758).

Becker, Ralph E., and Breokhart,
Smith W., Washington, D.C.: Bust of
Dwight D. Hisenhower by Nison Tregor
(240312).

Becklake, J. T., Pretoria, Republic of
South Africa: (Through Wallace B.
McFarland) 3 medals struck in 1961
commemorating the establishment of
the Republic of South Africa (240098).

Bedini, Silvio, Washington, D.C.: Ba-
rometer, ca. 1850 (240912).

Beelar, Barbara, Arlington, Va.: Doll,
ea. 1895, with clothing and playthings
(237229).

Beets, Virginia, Alexandria, Va.: 4
oak posts of an early colonial bed
(240070).

NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

119

Bell, Flora, Washington, D.C.:
(Through Mrs. Martin T. Wiegand) 29
fashion magazines containing color
fashion plates, 19th century (241320).

Bell, J. M. (See Post Office Depart-
ment)

Bell, Mrs. Mae W. (See Rocky Mount
Children’s Museum)

Bell, Dr. William C., Austin, Tex.:
150 invertebrate fossils from the De-
vonian of Turkey (239117).

Belton, Robert R., Washington, D.C.:
1,041 phanerogams, 77 grasses, 23 ferns,
and 15 eryptogams from Oregon
(286688).

Benedict, Mrs. E. L., Portland, Oreg.:
2 international exhibition and conyven-
tion badges (237589).

Benesh, Bernard, Burrville, Tenn.:
35 searab beetles from Arizona
(239327).

Benfer, Norton, Washington, D.C.:
36 objects related to pharmacy and
agricultural chemistry (238503).

Benjamin, Dr. James D., Berlin,
N.Y.: 180 miscellaneous U.S. Navy
Medical Corps uniforms and insignia,
ca. World War II (239058).

Benninghoff, Dr. William S.
Michigan, University of)

Ben-Tuvia, Dr. Adam (See Israel,
State of)

Bequaert, Dr. Joseph (See Arizona,
University of)

Berg, Dr. C. O., Ithaca, N.Y.: 23 flies
from Australia and Central America
(238144, 240067).

Berkebile, Donald H., Washington,
D.C.: Prohibition Party badge and a
Civil War haversack (237886, 241427).

Berlinsky, Anthony R. (See Com-
merce, U.S. Department of)

Bermuda Government Aquarium and
Museum, Flatts, Bermuda: (Through
Louis 8. Mowbray) 3 spiny lobsters and
a secyllarid (237525).

Bermudez, Dr. Pedro J., Caracas,
Venezuela: (Through Ruth Todd) 175
planktonic Foraminifera, including 27
holotypes and 5 paratypes, from the
Caribbean region (237567).

Berner, Leo D., Jr. (See Scripps In-
stitution of Oceanography)

(See
120

Berolatti, L. J. (See Linde Company)

Berry, Frederick H. (See Interior,
U.S. Department of the)

Berry, Dr. S. Stillman, Redlands,
Calif.: 8 marine mollusks from Peru
and Baja California, Mexico (239289).

Berwick, Mrs. Clara W., Norwood,
Mass.: 6 Persian rugs (226168, 239933).

Bethlehem Steel Co., Bethlehem, Pa.:
(Through William H. Jess) sections of
the mill roller table taken from the
original Grey Mill installation, 1907-08
(238249).

Betts, Mrs. Edward C., Washington,
D.C.: Silk duster, 2 fans, and a Suffrage
badge of the early 20th century
(241032).

Betz, Esther, Ann Arbor, Mich.: 2
wreaths (237595).

Biaggi, Dr. Virgilio, Jr. (See Puerto
Rico, University of)

Bibber, Richard A., Hampton, N.H.:
2 muscovites from New Hampshire
(236491).

Bick, Mario J. A., New York, N.Y.:
Thumb piano and a gourd resonator
from the Lungu tribe, Tanganyika
(239279).

Biezanko, Dr. Ceslau M., Pelotas,
Brazil: 748 miscellaneous insects from
Brazil (288699, 241289, 241509).

Bigelow, Dr. Henry B. (See Harvard
University )

Bingham, Mrs. Millicent Todd, Wash-
ington, D.C.: Drinking cup and 12-piece
bedroom set, including pottery bowl,
pitcher, slop jar, and smaller related
pieces (238000).

Bingham, Mrs. Walter VanDyke,
Washington, D.C.: 7 costume items of
the 19th century (238836).

Binsley, Mrs. Paul N., Youngstown,
Ohio: (Through Token and Medal
Society) bronze medal struck in 1953
commemorating the Ohio Sesquicenten-
nial (241438).

Biology Unit of the American Topical
Association, Fredonia, N.Y.: (Through
Willard F. Stanley) 374 stamps depict-
ing biological subjects (241735).

Bishop, Dr. Philip W., Washington,
D.C.: 3 covers bearing miscellaneous
foreign stamps (240343).

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1962

Bishop Museum, Bernice P., Hono-
lulu, Hawaii: 21 shells from the Port
Stanley area, Falkland Islands, and 2
phanerogams from Hawaii (229725,
239295) ; (through Dr. T. C. Maa) 4
wasps from Solomon Islands and South-
east Asia (237401, exchange).

Blair, Charles S., Birmingham, Ala.:
White oak-wood roller and historical
photograph (236941).

Blaisdell, Mrs. Florence Crook (de-
ceased) : (Through Carolyn Amundson)
pair of gold slippers of the period 1928
(236308).

Blake, Mrs. Doris H., Arlington, Va.:
330 miscellaneous beetles (240064).

Blane, F. L., Sacramento, Calif.:
Paratype of a fruit fly from California
(234530, exchange).

Biancett, Esther, Washington, D.C.:
5 picture post cards bearing U.S. and
foreign postage stamps, an envelope
bearing postage meter impression, and
a first-day cover (240338).

Blanchard, Ruth EK. (See Smithsonian
Institution)

Blanton, Dr. F. S., Gainesville, Fla.:
7 robber flies, including a holotype, from
the Neotropic (238679).

Bliss, Mrs. Donald, Washington,
D.C.: 8 pieces of electrical equipment,
an Hdison phonograph, and a Hersey
water meter (238754).

Blum, Dr. Murray S., Baton Rouge,
La.: 500 ants from Africa (238671).

Blum, William F., Lake Ronkonkoma,
N.Y.: 8 wooden models of U.S. stage
coaches of the 19th century (285486).

Boardman, Dr. Richard S. (See In-
terior, U.S. Department of the)

Bode, Mrs. Sarah, Chicago, Ill.: 16
19th-century linens (2387127).

Bohart, Dr. Richard M. (See Cali-
fornia, University of)

Bohike, Dr. James E. (See Academy
of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia)

Bolling, N. L., Manassas, Va.: Dato-
lite from Bull Run Quarry, Loudoun
Co., Va. (288101).

Booth, William H., Yucea Valley,
Calif.: Gray walkingstick from Cali-
fornia (237415).
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Borgmeier, Rey. Thomas, Jacare-
pagua, Brazil: 44 humpbacked flies, in-
cluding 30 new species, from South
America (237154).

Borro, Dr. Primitovo, Havana, Cuba:
7 specimens of a Recent brachiopod
from Cuba (236570).

Borst, Prof. Lyle B. (See New York
University)

Bosch, Harry K., Baltimore, Md.:
Bottle (241784).

Bostitch Co., East Greenwich, R.I.:
(Through HE. G. Gardner) paper sta-
pling machine (241806).

Boston, Prof. Orlan W., Ann Arbor,
Mich.: 7 machinability dynamometers
(288758) ; 23 glass slides of Mark IV
mines, ca. World War I (240317).

Boston University, Boston, Mass.:
(Through Dr. Robert H. Gibbs, Jr.)
1,192 marine invertebrates (234760) ; 7
fishes from off New Jersey (239713).

Bostwick, Dr. David A. (See Oregon
State University)

Botanical Museum and Herbarium of
the State University, Utrecht, Nether-
lands: 380 phanerogams and grass
(238268, 238829).

Botanische Staatssammlung, Munich,
Germany: 160 lichens (240295, ex-
change).

Botanischer Garten und Museum,
Berlin-Dahlem, Germany : 514 phanero-
gams, 29 grasses, 26 ferns, and 1 ecryp-
togram (2391838, exchange); (through
Dr. D. H. Meyer) 5 ferns from Hurope
(241420, exchange).

Boutéek, Dr. Z.
seum )

Boucot, Dr. Arthur J., Pasadena,
Calif.: 1,500 invertebrate fossils from
various localities (238979).

Boudreaux, Dr. H. B., Baton Rouge,
La.: 21 plant lice from Louisiana
(241291).

Bourgeois, Wilma E., Phoenix, Ariz. :
Bells from the campaigns of 1956 and
1960 (235859).

Bousfield, Dr. E. L. (See Canada,
Government of)

Boutin, Pete, New York, N.Y.: Cover
bearing contemporary Russian stamps
(239919).

(See National Mu-

121

Bowers, S. D. (See Arabian American
Oil Co.)

Bowles, Edmund (See International
Business Machines Corp.)

Boyce Thompson Institute for Plant
Research, Inc., Yonkers, N.Y.:
(Through Dr. Albert Hartzell) 7,966
miscellaneous insects, worldwide
(241502).

Boyd, Mrs. F. C. C., New York, N.Y.:
Book autographed by Button Gwinnett,
for deposit in the F. C. C. Boyd Me-
morial collection (237550).

Bradford, Faith, Washington, D.C.:
8 brooches and a cross pendant worn
by donor’s family during the 19th cen-
tury, and a porcelain pitcher depicting
poem in handwriting of donor’s mother
(238581, 240743).

Bradshaw, John Jr., Arlington, Va.:
14 snakes from Virginia (239385).

Bradt, L. D. (See Olin Mathieson
Chemical Corp.)

Branch, Mrs. Nina (See Florida State
Board of Health)

Brandt, John H., San Francisco,
Calif.: 4 birds (240284).

Braun, Dr. Annette F., Cincinnati,
Ohio: Small moth from California
(237311).

Brennan, Dr. James (See Jones, Hlea-
nor K.)

Brent, Mrs. Sarah S. (See Swiss,
KE. W.)

Bretz, Norton Lee, Jersey Shore, Pa.:
2 marecasite concretions in shale from
Antrim Co., Mich. (239489).

Breuer, Joseph P. (See Game and
Fish Commission )

Brewer, Mrs. David G. (See Vos,
Mrs. Bert J.)

Briceno-Maaz, Dr. T., Barcelona,
Venezuela: Beetle larvae, grasshopper,
fish, and 2 reptiles from Venezuela
(239890).

Briggs, Dr. M. H. (See Victoria Uni-
versity of Wellington)

Brigham Young University, Provo,
Utah: (Through Dr. D. Elden Beck)
247 ants from the Nevada test site
(238430). (See also Atomic Energy
Commission )
122

Brinas, Amado R. (See Central Bank
of the Philippines)

Briner, Capt. Charles E. (See De-
fense, U.S. Department of)
Briskman, Nathan S.

muller, John P. V.)

Bristow, Andrew Mercer, Towson,
Md.: 2 Japanese Kendo fencing cos-
tumes (240656).

British Columbia, University of,
Vaneouver, Canada: (Through Dr. I.
McT. Cowan) 9 gastropods from the
eastern Pacific (239248) ; (through Dr.
R. F. Seagel) 25 algae (237221, ex-
change).

British Guiana Forest Department,
Georgetown: (Through George Phil-
lips) 191 wood specimens from British
Guiana (235339, exchange).

Brodie, Prof. Allan G. (See Illinois,
University of)

Brookhart, Smith W.
Ralph E.)

Brooks, C. F., Bluefield, W. Va.: 2 oil
wick type hand lamps (234932).

Brooks, Herbert J., Alexandria, Va.:
Beaded belt from the Winnebago In-
dians, about 1900 (238120).

Brower, Dr. A. E. (See Maine For-
est Service)

Brown, Dr. Harry E., Columbia, Mo.:
Wasp from Indiana (241507).
Brown, Mrs. Margaret C.

son, Mrs. Woodrow)

Brown, Meyer (See American Society
of Gem Counsellors)

Brown, Ron G., Panania, N.S.W.,
Australia: 3 cabochons from Australia
(240234).

Brown, Dr. William A., Jr., and Chan-
nel, Mrs. Warren, Portsmouth, Va.,
Conger, Clement E., and Conger, Mrs.
Hallie Ramsay, Alexandria, Va., Lang-
don, Mrs. John, and Reese, Katharine
M., Providence, R.I., Ramsay, Dennis,
Cheyenne, Wyo., Ramsay, Douglas Tay-
lor, Rocky Mount, N.C., and Talliaferro,
Harriotte, Rock Springs, Wyo.: Collec-
tion of Ramsay family heirlooms and
documents (220760).

Brown & Sharpe Mfg. Co., Provi-
dence, R.I.: 3 Brown & Sharpe gear
cutters (238760).

(See Hein-

(See Becker,

(See Wil-

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1962

Bruce, George A. (See International
Import Co.)

Bruce, James A. (See Defense, U.S.
Department of)

Bruijning, Dr. C. F. A.
torium yoor Parasitologie)

Bruns, Franklin R., Jr.. Washington,
D.C.: 48 special presentation books of
U.S. stamps, 1960-61, White House cere-
monial program, 593 miscellaneous U.S.
and foreign philatelic covers, 4 phila-
telie cigarette cards, United Nations
souvenir folder containing stamps, and
13 Post Office presentation albums, some
containing stamps (238482, 2388485,
239188, 240126, 240820).

Brunschwig, Mrs. Zelina Comegys,
Peardon, Mrs. Celeste Comegys, Bart-
lett, Mrs. Cornelia Comegys, New York,
N.Y.: Portrait of B. B. Comegys and
copy of A Tour Round My Library and
Some other papers by B. B. Comegys,
given in memory of their father, Dr.
Joseph P. Comegys (241777).

Bryan, Albert V., Jr. (See Rotch-
ford, Miriam Blanche)

Bryan, Dr. D. E.
State University)

Buchwald, Dr. Vagn (See Mineral-
ogisk Museum )

Buck, Paul, Cache, Okla.: 6 phanero-
gams from Oklahoma, collected by donor
(237733).

Bugbee, Dr. R. E., Meadville, Pa.: 20
chalcid flies from the U.S. (240672).

Bullard, Mrs. Robert Lee, La Jolla,
Calif.: General Bullard’s 3-star flag
(238616).

Bullis, Harvey R., Jr. (See Interior,
U.S. Department of the)

Bullock, Dr. Dillman S., El Vergel,
Angol, Chile: 100 pupal skins of a gall
midge (240049).

Bullock, John R., Vancouver, B.C.,
Canada: “Aquatic” type microscope
(237089).

Bunting, Mrs. Ethel Jane, Washing-
ton, D.C.: Set of 4 dancing figures, 2
school slates, and sample of fuller’s
earth from Pakistan (240188) ; Kash-
mir shawl from India (241714).

(See Labora-

(See Oklahoma
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Burch, John Q., Los Angeles, Calif.:
4 pelecypods from the Philippines
(237940).

Burch, Mr. and Mrs. John Q., Los
Angeles, Calif.: 7 mollusks, including a
paratype, from Baja California and
Mazatlan, Mexico, (238984, 241481).

Burdette, Mr. and Mrs. John S., Ar-
lington, Va.: 166 pieces of pressed and
blown glass of the 19th century
(240637).

Burgess, Dr. C. M., Honolulu, Ha-
waii: 20 marine mollusks from Hawaii
and Jamaica (240916, exchange) ;
(through William #. Old, Jr.) mollusk
from Hawaii (240998).

Burgess, James V., Jr.
Ventilation Systems, Inc.)

Burjorjee, Dinshaw M., Washing-
ton, D.C.: Ten rupee note issued in
Burma during the Japanese occupation
(240081).

Burkart, Dr. Arturo
de Botanica Darwinion)

Burks, Dr. Barnard D., Washington,
D.C.: 17 miscellaneous foreign covers
and 3 picture post cards bearing post-
age stamps (240117).

Burleigh, Theodore C., Winchester,
Mass.: (Through Dr. Thomas R. P.
Gibb, Jr.) 4 Weston and Deprez et
Carpentier electrical meters (239315).

Burlinson, Mrs. Maurice A., Tucson,
Ariz.: 9 Otis family scrapbooks of
donor’s family, and a copy of The Story
of Winnetka (236830) ; woman’s dress
of 1913 and suit of 1914 (237723).

Burnett, Harry C. (See Florida,
State of)

Burns, Dr. William C., Madison, Wis. :
Holotype and paratype of a new species
of trematode worm (237289).

Burt, James G., Oxford, Pa.: Wood
(239181).

Burton, Ernest R., Middlebury, Vt.:
Man’s evening suit of the period 1910
(239612).

Bushnell, J. Paul, Vernon, Vt.: Router
and a jigsaw given in memory of donor’s
father, J. H. Bushnell (238215).

Buss, Dr. Keen (See Pennsylvania
Fish Commission)

(See Mine

(See Instituto

123

Butcher, Henry P., Volean, Panama:
Phanerogam from Panama (236192).
Butler, Brig. Gen. Benjamin J., Fort
Chaffee, Ark.: (Through Sidney Haas)
6 distinctive insignia currently used in
the 100th Infantry Division of the U.S.
Army (241877).
Buzzell, Richard G.
ent Fire Arms Co.)
Byers, Dr. George W., Lawrence,
Kans.: Moth from Kansas (241272).

(See Colt Pat-

Byrd, Dr. Elon E., Athens, Ga.:
2 helminth worms, including type
(235726).

Byrne, Mrs. Henry H., Washington,
D.C.: 2 adzes and a 3-tined hoe
(2391386).

C.B.S. Laboratories, Stamford, Conn. :
(Through Dr. Peter G. Goldmark) Co-
lumbia long playing record, 1945
(238284).

C. J. Langenfelder & Son, Inc.: Bal-
timore, Md.: (Through Ralph C. Ham-
mer) sample of diatomaceous earth
(289645).

Cairo University, Cairo, Egypt:
(Through Prof. A. Hifny Saber) 3
phanerogams (241023).

California, State of, Sacramento,
Calif.: Department of Fish and Game:
(Through William Heubach) 8 copepods
(238615). Division of Mines and Ge-
ology: 15 minerals from California
(240048, exchange).

California, University of, Berkeley
Campus: 119 algae (237301, exchange) ;
158 phanerogams, 2 grasses, and 33 ferns
mostly from the Andes (239642, ex-
change) ; 82 phanerogams and 25 ferns
(287475, 240296, gift-exchanges); 21
phanerogams, 3 grasses, and 19 ferns
(287561, 288547, 289357); (through
Paul C. Hutchison) 4 phanerogams and
59 ferns (236720) ; 37 phanerogams and
385 ferns (240861, gift-exchange) ;
(through William A. Newman) 10 bar-
nacles (237618) ; (through Prof. H. A.
Schade) 10 ship half-models (235876) ;
(through Isabelle Tavares) 164 erypto-
gams from California (241651, ex-
change). Davis Campus: 10 grasses
from California (205678, 2394382) ;
(through Prof. Stanley F. Bailey) 2
124

thrips from California (241345, ex-
change) ; (through Dr. Richard M. Bo-
hart) 18 wasps from California
(239918). El Centro Campus: (Through
Vincent D. Roth) 44 isopods (235186).
Livermore Campus: (Through Dr. Her-
bert W. Newkirk) artificial bromellite
(241269). Los Angeles Campus:
(Through Wayne J. Baldwin and Dr.
John Stephens) 49 fishes, including 3
holotypes and 46 paratypes (240696, ex-
change) ; (through Drs. Boyd W. Walk-
er and Victor G. Springer) fish, holo-
type, from Clipperton Island collected
by W. J. Baldwin (237814). Riverside
Campus: (Through Dr. P. H. Timber-
lake) bee from North America. (236962).
Santa Barbara Campus: (Through Dr.
Demarest Davenport) sea anemone
(237689) ; (through Dr. C. H. Muller)
15 phanerogams (237030).

California Academy of Sciences, San
Francisco, Calif.; (Through Hugh B.
Leech) 12 beetles, including paratype,

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM

mostly from North America (2414380,
241503).

California Department of Fish and
Game, Terminal Island, Calif.:
(Through Earl E. Ebert) 10 gorgonians
(236425).

California Institute of Technology,
Pasadena, Calif.: (Through Prof. R. W.
Sorensen and C. G. Suits) Millikan and
Sorensen electronic vacuum switch, 1923
(240481).

California Standard Co., Edmonton,
Alberta, Canada: (Through Dr. Alfred
Lenz) 90 brachiopods and 45 ostracodes
from the Silurian of southern North-
west Territories (234214).

Cambridge, Sgt. Philip, Cardiff,
Wales: 460 marine and land mollusks
from the eastern Atlantic (203841) ;
150 fossil invertebrates from the Paleo-
zoic, Mesozoic, and Tertiary of Great
Britain, also 34 mollusks from British
Isles (237568, 2388438, exchanges).

Cambridge, University of, Cambridge,
England: 3 phanerogams from New
Guinea, including type (236712, ex-
change).

Cameron, Dr. E. N. (See Wisconsin,
University of)

ANNUAL REPORT, 1962

Camicia, N. T. (See Island Creek Coal
Co.)

Campau, D. E., Billings, Mont.: 10
Foraminifera from the Upper Paleozoic
of Michigan (238116).

Campbell, Robert H. (deceased) :
(Through Herbert R. Collins) 4 men’s
shirts, sleeve cuff, and 3 pairs of men’s
lace shoes, 1925-35 (241358).

Campbell, W. C., Setauket, N.Y.: Plate
bearing likeness of President John F.
Kennedy (236612).

Campbell, William C., Chicago, IIL:
Commercially-sized coal samples
(236944).

Campos, Dr. Luciano, La Cruz, Chile:
8 flies from Chile (238123).

Canada, Government of: Department
of Agriculture: 191 phanerogams, 4
grasses, and 18 ferns from Alaska
(239005, exchange); (through W. J.
Cody) 16 bamboos (241859) ; (through
Dr. J. F. McAlpine) 7 flies, paratypes,
from Arizona, California, and Texas
(238695) ; (through C. D. F. Miller)
paratype of a chalcid fly from North
America (239628, exchange) ; (through
Dr. E. G. Munroe) 2 moths from Aus-
tralia (241298); (through Dr. G. E.
Shewell) 4 picture-wing flies, paratypes,
from the U.S. (240060) ; (through Dr.
J. R. Vockeroth) 15 flies from Canada,
England, and North Carolina, including
holotype, allotype, and 2 paratypes
(238657, 238687). National Museum of
Canada: (Through Dr. BH. L. Bousfield)
gorgonian (2387680); (through Dr.
Arthur H. Clarke, Jr.) 1,160 fresh-water
and marine mollusks from Canada and
the U.S. (239288, exchange).

Canal Zone Biological Area, Balboa,
Canal Zone: 1,148 phanerogams, 73
grasses, and 70 ferns (237563).

Cancio, Leopoldo, Washington, D.C.:
1-peso piece issued in Argentina com-
memorating the 150th Anniversary of
Independence (241304).

Canfield Fund, Smithsonian Institu-
tion: 6 minerals from worldwide locali-
ties (236625, 236626, 237164, 237393).

Capitol Medals, High Point, N.C.:
(Through Token and Medal Society)
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

bronze and silver medal dedicated to
the State of Florida (241730).

Caplin, Mortimer M. (See Treasury,
U.S. Department of the)

Carey, I. W. (See Carey, Mrs. Marian
E.)

Carey, Mrs. Marian E. (deceased) :
(Through I. W. Carey) French Broché
shawl (241727).

Caribbean Marine Biological Insti-
tute, Curacao, N. A.: (Through Dr. P. J.
Roos) 2 sponges, 52 gorgonians, and 12
antipatharians (238877).

Carl, Mrs. G. C., Victoria, B.C., Can-
ada: Amphipod (239539). (See also
Provincial Museum)

Carmichael, Dr. Leonard, Washing-
ton, D.C.: Tennis racket, 19th century
(239342).

Carmichael, Dr. and Mrs. Leonard,
Washington, D.C.: Baby cap and shirt,
ca. 1860, 2 children’s petticoats, and a
printed cotton comforter, 1887 (237233,
238998).

Carnegie Institution of Washington,
D.C.: (Through Dr. M. A. Tuve) 1,800
plankton specimens (237787).

Carnegie Museum, Pittsburgh, Pa.:
8 tokens from the Richmond-Petersburg
turnpike and a communion token from
the First Reformed Presbyterian
Church in Pennsylvania (239653).

Carpenter, Maj. and Mrs. Walter N.,
Springfield, Va.: 66 marine mollusks
from the Maldives and the Seychelles
(239752) .

Carper, Mrs. Carol Eve, College Park,
Md.: Wad cutter and base, powder
measure, and commercial shot bag
(240186).

Carter, Mr. and Mrs. Edward P.,
Hyattsville, Md.: Silk dress and shawl
of 1861 (239037).

Carter, Ruth N., Boston, Mass.: 2
blotters of the First National Bank of
Boston depicting philatelic scenes
(287234).

Carter, Mrs. Ruth Rammling, Wash-
ington, D.C.: Wedding dress worn in
1895 (236889).

Cartwright, O. L., Washington, D.C.:
7,500 scarab beetles, worldwide
(241434).

125

Casanova, Richard (See Paleontologi-
eal Research Laboratory )

Casper, Beth Kirkpatrick, Pico Ri-
vera, Calif.: Tufted counterpane
(242078).

Cassola, Dr. Fabio, Rome, Italy: 258
scarab beetles from Europe (239949,
exchange).

Cate, Mr. and Mrs. Crawford N., Los
Angeles, Calif.: 2 marine mollusks, in-
cluding paratype, from the Philippines
(238059, 238644).

Cathelic University of America,
Washington, D.C.: (Through Rev.
Msgr. William J. McDonald) 2 X-ray
tubes (240640).

Catts, E. Paul, Berkeley, Calif.: 31
rodent bot flies from California
(241668).

Caudill, Mrs. Judd F., Louisville, Ky. :
Safety cap, lunch pail, and set of ref-
erence books on mining in memory of
donor’s husband (237120).

Causey, Dr. Nell B., Fayetteville,
Ark.: 418 centipedes from Canada,
Mexico, and the U.S. (238680, 241100).

Cazier, Dr. Mont A., Portal, Ariz.: 10
scarab and chrysomelid beetles from
Arizona (241667).

Central Bank of the Philippines,
Manila, Philippines: (Through Amado
R. Brifias) 5 coins and 7 notes issued
by the Central Bank of the Philippines

(241512).
Central Intelligence Agency, Wash-
ington, D.C.: (Through Allen W.

Dulles) 14 Central Intelligence Agency
medallions and ribbons (239191).

Central Marine Fisheries Research
Institute, Mandapam Camp, Ramnad
District, South India: (Through Dr.
S. Jones) 4 snake mackerels from
India (239779).

Central Public Library (See Whiting,
Almond C.)

Centre Technique Forestier Tropical,
Nogent-sur-Marne (Seine), France:
(Through M. D. Normand) 147 wood
specimens (236441, exchange).

Cervigén M., Fernando (See Estacion
de Investigaciones Marinas de Mar-
garita)
126

Chace, Dr. E. P. (See Natural His-
tory Museum)

Chamberlain Fund, Frances Lea,
Smithsonian Institution: 2,165 marine
mollusks from North Borneo, also a
bag of beach sand (234957); 18 gems
and minerals, worldwide (237163,
238971, 239029, 240240, 240539, 240989).

Chambersburg Engineering Co.,
Chambersburg, Pa.: (Through Eugene
©. Clark, Jr.) model of a steam drop
hammer (240677).

Chandler, Mrs. E. W., Jackson, Mich. :
Card bearing Charles Guiteau’s signa-
ture (236611).

Channel, Mrs. Warren (See Brown,
Dr. William A., Jr.)

Chapin, Dr. Edward A., West Med-
way, Mass.: 42 ferns from Maryland
and Virginia (241452).

Chapman, Dr. H. J. (See Underwater
Research Unit)

Chas. Pfizer & Co., Inc., New York,
N.Y.: (Through Alexander C. Finlay)
68 samples and pieces of equipment
used in early experiments for produc-
tion of antibiotics (2389425).

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM

Chase, Mrs. Agnes, Washington,
D.C.: 38 miscellaneous grasses
(237111).

Chase, Mr. and Mrs. Russell C.,
Lutherville, Md.: 1840 campaign ban-
ner, Harrison and Tyler (238189).

Chavez, Humberto (See Instituto Tec-
nologico de Veracruz)

Chen, S. F., New York, N.Y.: 42
fresh-water mollusks from Ethiopia
(231150).

Chermette, A., Paris, France: Vil-
liaumite from French Guinea (234583,
exchange).

Chicago, University of, Chicago, Il:
12 phanerogams from Bolivia (237737) ;
(through D. J. Fisher) morinite from
the Hugo Mine, Keystone, 8S. Dak.
(236567).

Chicago Historical Society, Chicago,
Ill.: (Through Margaret Scriven) orig-
inal contract with Horatio Hill for ear-
rying U.S. mail on Route 159, Nov. 15,
1832 (236793).

Chicago Natural History Museum,
Chicago, Ill.: 250 phanerograms, 3

ANNUAL REPORT, 1962

grasses, and 18 ferns from Central
America (212958, 213495, 238831,
239359, 240810) ; 18 prints of phanero-
gams, types, 612 phanerogams, 20
grasses, and 33 ferns from Mexico
(239297, 240617, 240978) ; (through E.
J. Olsen) fibrous magnetite and crocido-
lite from Canada (238356, exchange).
(See also Defense, U.S. Department
of)

Chicage Pneumatic Tool Co., New
York, N.Y.: (Through G. J. Coffey)
Little Giant and DC Permissible coal
drills (241893).

Chicago Transit Authority, Chicago,
Tll.: (Through H. L. Polland) 222 Chi-
cago streetcar and cable railway draw-
ings (240154).

Childress, Mrs. John, Steamboat
Springs, Colo.: Hair wreath in frame
(237674).

Chippendale, Dr. G. (See Australia,
Government of)

Choppin, Sam (See Menke, Henry)

Christ, Dr. Edwin A., Vermillion,
S. Dak.: 300 French precancel stamps
(237839) .

Christenson, L. W., Cleveland
Heights, Ohio: 16,990 postage stamps,
philatelic items, postal stationery, and
371 presentation albums of Japan, Man-
chukuo, and Ryukyu Islands (238748,
241106).

Christie, Lansdall K., New York,
N.Y.: Miniature model of the Constitu-
tion (237711).

Cifre, Joseph S., Coral Gables, Fla.:
Thompson projection mechanism, 1896
(238786).

Clain-Stefanelli, Mrs. Elvira, Wash-
ington, D.C.: 11 ancient Greek silver
and 35 Greek and Roman bronze coins
(239916).

Clain-Stefanelli, Dr. Vladimir, Wash-
ington, D.C.: 9 Spanish financial docu-
ments and other numismatie material
and 25 miscellaneous foreign covers
bearing postage stamps and meter im-
pressions (240097, 240331).

Clark, Donovan, Washington, D.C.:
Male Indian skull and lower jaw with
extreme pathology from the Castro
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Mound, Santa Clara Co. Calif.
(238622).

Clark, Mrs. Ernest O., Martinsburg,
W. Va.: Eastern milk snake (238582).

Clark, Eugene C., Jr. (See Chambers-
burg Hngineering Co.)

Clark, George J. (See Reading An-
thracite Co.)

Clark, John R. (See Interior, U.S.
Department of the)

Clark, S. J., Washington, D.C.: Blick-
ensderfer #8 typewriter (238761).

Clarke, Arthur C., Colombo, Ceylon:
Cluster of approximately 1,000 silver
rupees of 1702 (239761).

Clarke, Dr. Arthur H., Jr. (See Can-
ada, Government of)

Clarke, Dr. J. F. Gates, Washington,
D.C.: 5 eastern oysters from Belling-
ham, Whatcom Co., Wash., 94 moths
from Maryland and Virginia, and a

spittoon attributed to S. Bell and Sons

of Strasburg, Va.,- ca. 1882-1900
(238982, 241274, 241487).

Clay, Dr. Theresa (See Parsons,
Margaret)

Clements, D. Thomas (See United
Nations Postal Administration)

Clench, Dr. William J. (See Harvard
University )

Clingerman, Blaine C., Great Caca-
pon, W. Va.: Trilobite from Oriskany
sandstone of West Virginia (239105).

Closs, Dr. Darcey, Porto Alegre, Bra-
zil: (Through Ruth Todd) 158 Recent
Foraminifera on slides from some
beach faunas of Brazil (237499).

Cloud, Dr. Preston E., Jr. (See In-
terior, U.S. Department of the)

Cobb, Mrs. Josephine, Arlington, Va.:
Washington cameo brooch, 1932 Wash-
ington Bicentennial pin, a Red Cross
blood donor pin, and a shell pin
(237888).

Cobb & Drew, Inc., Plymouth, Mass.:
(Through Roy McLean) machine for
making double-pointed tacks or staples
(237600).

Cochran, Dr. Doris M., Washington,
D.C.: 385 miscellaneous U.S. war service
covers, 3 unused obsolete ‘‘penalty”’ en-
velopes, 28 unused \V-Mail forms; alli-
gator valise, ca. 1890; 2 pairs of spec-

127

tacles with cases, pair of goggles, and
a medicine case with 8 medicine bottles
(236651, 239140, 241744).

Cocks, Dorothy (See New Canaan
Historical Society)

Coddington, Mrs. William B., Gene-
seo, N.Y.: 34star U.S. flag (237388).

‘Cody, W. J. (See Canada, Govern-
ment of)

Coffey, G. J. (See Chicago Pneumatic
Tool Co.)

Coffin, Mrs. Philip Owen, Hamilton,
Mass.: 44 pieces of French porcelain,
ca. 1855-59 (239149, 241792).

Cohen, Dr. Alvin (See Mellon Insti-
tute)

Cohen, Dr. Daniel M. (See Interior,
U.S. Department of the)

Coin and Currency Institute, Inc,
New York, N.Y.: (Through Token and
Medal Society) 7 commemorative
bronze medals (241439).

Coin Galleries, New York, N.Y.:
Facsimiles of the Confederate dime and
cent and a Spanish-American pillar-
dollar, 1771 (239651).

Coin World, Sidney, Ohio: (Through
Token and Medal Society) bronze and
silverized medals commemorating the
centennial of the War Between the
States (241782).

Coker, Dr. R. E., Mayaguez, Puerto
Rico: 288 specimens of plankton and
copepods (215655).

Colburn Memorial Mineral Museum,
Asheville, N.C.: (Through Mrs. Ida Lee
Wilson) tourmaline from North Caro-
lina (286397, exchange).

Colby, Susan, Washington, D.C.: Air-
mail cover of Panama (240336).

Cole, Harry C., Crestline, Ohio:
Horse-drawn one-row planter (237951).

Cole, Mary G., Merrimac, Mass.:
2 early Massachusetts documents
(240311).

Colegio de Post-Graduados, Cha-
pingo, México: (Through Prof. Fran-
cisco Pacheco) 38 miscellaneous scarab
beetles from Mexico (239784).

Colegio “La Salle,” Cochabamba,
Bolivia: (Through Dr. H. Adolfo
Jiménez) 39 phanerogams and 6 ferns
from Bolivia (228419).
128

Coleman, Dr. P. J.
Australia, University of)

Colless, Dr. Donald H., Canberra,
Australia : 6 flies, including 4 paratypes
and 2 morphotypes, from Australia
(2868382).

Collette, Dr. Bruce B. (See Cornell
University, and McGaha, Dr. Young
John)

Collins, Alan (See Smithsonian In-
stitution-Alan Collins Expedition to

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM

(See Western

Libya)

Collins, Herbert R. (See Campbell,
Robert H.)

Collins, J. A. (See Smithsonian In-
stitution)

Colonial Coin Co., New York, N.Y.:
Replicas of doubloon and pillar dollar
struck in 1736 and 1760 (241514).

Colorade, University of, Boulder,
Colo.: (Through Dr. Clarence J. Mc-
Coy, Jr.) 5 land snails from Colorado
(240278); (through Dr. William A.
Weber) 7 lichens from Arizona and
New Mexico (224427, 240759); 28
lichens (2338032, gift-exchange); 71
cryptogams and 72 lichens (238733,
241498, exchanges).

Colt Patent Fire Arms Co., Hartford,
Conn.: (Through Richard G. Buzzell)
slotting machine (238715).

Columbia University, New York,
N.Y.: (Through Prof. Jan Schilt)
geodetic transit and a telescope eyepiece
(236206).

Commerce, U.S. Department of,
Washington, D.0.: Bureau of the
Census: (Through Anthony R. Berlin-
sky) polar planimeter (241591). Coast
and Geodetic Survey: (Through Rear
Adm. H. Arnold Karo) 100 algae with
attached Foraminifera, Bryozoa, pele-
cypods, and brachiopods, dredged from
the west coast of Florida (234521) ;
(through Dr. Victor Lenzen) 2 pen-
dulums (239028); (through Comdr.
William HE. Randall) 9 pieces of Multi-
plex photographic equipment (241808) ;
(through Dr. Harris B. Stuart) 38
marine mollusks from off the Florida
Keys (233960). Maritime Administra-
tion: 3 marine mechanical clocks
(241748); (through M. ©. Doty)

ANNUAL REPORT, 1962

model of hull section, N.S. Savannah
(241892). Patent Office: Model of
Fleming two-wheeled scraper, 1880
(237905) ; model of Ball drag scraper,
1879 (237906). Weather Bureau:
(Through Christas Harmantas) 18 sci-
entific instruments (240347) ; (through
Robert Wright) meteorological base
map (288497).

Comstock, Dr. John A., Del Mar,
Calif.: 2.moths from Samoa (241481).

Conant, Dr. Kenneth J., Chevy Chase,
Md.: Anonymous denier struck in the
Abbey of Cluny in France during the
12th or early 138th century (239348).

Conant, Roger (See Tinkle, Dr. Don-
ald W.)

Conger, Clement E. (See Brown, Dr.
William A., Jr.)

Conger, Mrs. Hallie Ramsay (See
Brown, Dr. William A., Jr.)

Conkin, Dr. James E., Louisville, Ky.:
32 arenaceous Foraminifera, including
a holotype, from the Mississippian of
the Coldwater shale of southern pen-
insula, Michigan (240992).

Conklin, L. H., New York, N.Y.: Beryl
from the U.S.S.R. (238569, exchange).

Conley, William F., Knoxville, Tenn. :
Old stone gold-crushing mill (237761).

Connecticut Agricultural Experiment
Station, New Haven, Conn.: (Through
Dr. James B. Kring) 346 miscellaneous
insects, types, from the U.S. (241284).

Conover, J. T., Woods Hole, Mass.:
301 ferns from Okinawa (239299).

Conover, Dr. Robert J. (See Woods
Hole Oceanographic Institution)

Conrad, Pearson, Lyndos, Isle of
Rhodes, Greece: 102 Recent shells from
the Tertiary of the Isle of Rhodes
(237225).

Coons, Wg. Comdr. D. O., Rockville,
Md.: 12 Canadian coins issued in 1960
and 1961 (240323).

Cooper, Dr. Byron N. (See Virginia
Polytechnic Institute)

Cooper, Dr. G. Arthur, Washington,
D.C.: 24 Recent brachiopods from
Japan (238977).

Cooper, S. L., Washington, D.C. : Book
of Briggs’ patent embroidery transfers
of the late 19th century (237316).
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Copeland, T. P., Johnson City, Tenn. :
3,981  spring-tails from Tennessee
(241297).

Copley Coin Co., Inc., Boston, Mass. :
(Through Maurice M. Gould) restrike
of the Massachusetts pattern half-
penny, 1776 (241511).

Cordry, Mrs. Dorothy Mann (See
Hitchcock, Frank H.)

Core, Harold A. (See New York State
University College of Forestry)

Corkum, Kenneth C., Grand Isle, La. :
Holotype and paratype of a trematode
worm from a fish (236929).

Corn, Mrs. Lawrence H., Annandale,
Va.: 2 dresses for child of the period
1906-08 (236252).

Corn States Laboratories, Inc., Oma-
ha, Nebr.: (Through Dr. L. T. Jessen)
13 veterinary antibiotics (241118).

Cornell University, Ithaca, N.Y.:
(Through Dr. Edward C. Raney) 14
percid fishes from South Carolina
(237514, exchange) ; (through Drs. Hd-
ward C. Raney and Bruce B. Collette)
2,500 fishes, fresh-water and marine,
collected in Cuba by Dr. Collette, and
96 marine invertebrates (237614, ex-
change). Bailey Hortorium: (Through
Dr. H. E. Moore, Jr.) 3 photographs of
phanerogams (238726, exchange).

Cornman, Dr. Ivor, Washington, D.C.:
Painting of Theodore Roosevelt, Cad-
well engraving of Abraham Lincoln, and
an embroidered Biblical scene of Mary
and Thomas at the tomb of Jesus
(238748).

Corothie, Harry (See University de
los Andes)

Correll, Dr. Donovan S. (See Texas
Research Foundation)

Coscaron, Dr. Sixto, Buenos Aires,
Argentina : 21 flies from South and Cen-
tral America (288005, exchange).

Cosminsky, Philip, Falls Church, Va.:
7 minerals from Little Rock, Ark.
(236559, exchange).

Costlow, Dr. John D., Jr. (See Duke
University )

Council of the Borough of Bideford,
Bideford, North Devon, England: 2 kiln
wasters of sgraffito pottery and 2 frag-
ments of glazed tiles (236782).

129

Covel, Mr. and Mrs. Thomas E.,
Washington, D.C.: 2 Victorian marble
mantelpieces (241781).

Cowan, Dr. I. McT. (See British Co-
lumbia, University of)

Cowgill, Mrs. A. Hubert (See Cowgill,
Mrs. Alice)

Cowgill, Mrs. Alice (deceased) :
(Through Mrs. A. Hubert Cowgill) over-
shot coverlet of the early 19th century
(239413).

Crabill, Dr. Ralph E., Jr.. Washing-
ton, D.C.: 171 miscellaneous insects
from Missouri (238682).

Cramer, Dr. Howard R., Atlanta, Ga.:
2 blastoids, including topotype, from
Mississippi (237307). (See also Hmory
University)

Crane, Prof. H. P.
University of)

Crawford, Earl Frazier (See Hadz-
sits, George Depue)

Crawford, Mrs. Earl Frazier (See
Hadzsits, George Depue)

Crawley, W. D., Washington, D.C.:
Fish from South Carolina (237363).

Cristal, Mrs. Elizabeth Johnson, Man-
chester, N.H.: 38 pieces of sculpture,
small collection of clothing items and 7
miscellaneous objects associated with
donor’s aunt, Mrs. Adelaide Johnson
(241839).

Crofoot, H. K., Moravia, N.Y.: 12
fractional Scrip issues of the Civil War
period (238164).

Crosby, J. P. (See Lapointe Machine
Tool Co.)

Cross, Dr. Frank B. (See Kansas,
University of)

Crosskey, R. W., London, S.W., Eng-
land: 9 blackflies from Africa (238125).

Croston, John, Silver Spring, Md.:
Cobaltite from Agaunico Mine, Ontario,
Canada (240238).

Crown Agents, Washington, D.C.:
(Through A. J. E. Davis) 300 mint
postage stamps of the British Common-
wealth (239925).

Cruickshank, Allan D., Rockledge,
Fla.: Seaside sparrow (237973).

Cuatrecasas, Dr. José, Washington,
D.C.: phanerogams from Venezuela
(239643).

(See Michigan,
130

Cuello, Dr. Juan, Montevideo, Uru-
guay: 2 birds from Uruguay (237577).

Cumbie, Dr. Billy G., Lubbock, Tex.:
225 microscope slides of wood (239182).

Cummins, Mrs. Joe, Washington,
D.C.: Footed basketry jar (2386913).

Cuomo, Mr. and Mrs. Anthony, Wash-
ington, D.C.: Pottery jar from Iran
(238966) .

Cureton, Forrest E., II, Stockton,
Calif.: 2 glaucophane specimens from
San Benito Co., Calif., and 7 tunnel-
lites from Boron, Calif. (236845, 237615,
exchanges).

Currie, Richard R., Johannesburg, S.
Africa: 4 crabs and a crab claw, also
2 scorpions (235516).

Curry, Henry L., III, Charlottesville,
Va.: Microscope slide of marine dia-
toms from Nassau, Bahamas (241168).

Curry, R., Jr., Frackville, Pa.: Block
of 4 U.S. stamps (Scott #1031A) pre-
canceled Frackville, Pa. (236656).

Curtin, Capt. Thomas J. (See De-
fense, U.S. Department of)

Curtiss-Wright Corp., Washington,
D.C.: (Through W. W. Heckard) 2 cyl-
inder head castings (236951).

Cushman, Rebecca Waddell, Ashe-
ville, N.C.: Sampler made by Sarah
Bailey in 1889 (288996).

Custis, Eleanor, Washington, D.C.:
50 items of costume material of the
early 20th century (238834).

Cutter, Albert R., Santa Barbara,
Calif.: 2 citrines from Brazil (241265).

Cypert, Eugene (See Interior, U.S.
Department of the)

Czechoslovak Academy of Sciences,
Brno, Czechoslovakia: (Through Dr. Ir.
J. Pelikan) 25 thrips from Czecho-
slovakia (239938, exchange).

Dadswell, Dr. H. E. (See Australia,
Government of)

Daily, Dr. Brian (See Australia, Gov-
ernment of)

Daley, Laurence B. (See Baltimore,
City of)

Dalquest, Dr. Walter W. (See Inte-
rior, U.S. Department of the)

Daly, Prof. H. V., Berkeley, Calif.: 2
chalcid flies (240265).

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1962

Dare, Lt. Col. Beatrice M., Spokane,
Wash.: 15 U.S. Army distinctive in-
signia (241300).

Darling, Thomas, Jr., Washington,
D.C.: 2 phanerogams from Florida and
3 ferns from Maryland and New York
(238724, 239300).

Davenport, Dr. Demarest (See Cali-
fornia, University of)

Davey, Walter C., Harlow, Essex,
England: 20 lots of pottery sherds ex-
cavated from 17th-century kiln sites in
neighborhood of Harlow (2386785).

Davidsen, J. V., Coral Gables, Fla.:
McKinley campaign badge (239971).

Davidson, Jesse T. (See Piedmont

Label Co.)

Davies, Donna M., Key West, Fla.:
American JIndian silver bracelet
(224740).

Davies, Mrs. John Anthony, Dicker-
son, Md.: 110 fresh-water mollusks from
Canada (239286).

Davis, A. J. E. (See Crown Agents)

Davis, Mrs. Brooks, Tucson, Ariz. :
5 minerals from Mexico (236558).

Davis, Dr. C. C., Cleveland, Ohio: 10
chalcid egg-parasites from the U.S.
(240667).

Davis, C. J. (See Hawaii Department
of Agriculture)

Davis, Mrs. Elizabeth, Tampa, Fla.:
Wool sampler of the 19th century
(239390).

Davis, Frank, Latrobe, Pa.: Safety
lamp (241799).

Davis, Harry T. (See North Carolina
State Museum)

Davis, Robert, Athens, Ga.: 3 slides
of mites, including holotype and para-
types, from North America (238659).

Dawson, C. E., Ocean Springs, Miss.:
118 fishes from the Persian Gulf
(237160). (See also Florida State
Board of Conservation and Gulf Coast
Research Laboratory)

DeBach, Dr. Paul, Riverside, Calif. :
4 chaleid flies, cotypes, from Japan
(240984).

de Beaumont, Dr. J.
Zoologique)

DeButts, Harry A.
Railway System)

(See Musée

(See Southern
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Defense, U.S. Department of: De-
partment of the Air Force: 70 U.S. Air
Force uniforms and insignia (241426) ;
(through Capt. Thomas J. Curtin) 5
rodents from Turkey (235778, 237868) ;
(through Maj. T. H. Poe) 3 snakes from
Turkey collected by Maj. Poe (236684) ;
(through Lt. Eldon L. Reeves) burrow-
ing lizard from Morocco (236908) ;
(through Maj. Gen. William S. Stone)
57 U.S. Air Force Cadet uniforms and
accessories (240134). U.S. Air Forces
in Hurope: (Through Maj. John M.
Geary) 2,900 land and fresh-water
snails from France, Italy, Libya, Mo-
rocco, and Turkey, also 1 lot of land
isopod crustaceans and an insect from
Morocco (228206). Department of the
Army: 18 ceramic tool tips, tool holders,
steel shaft, and steel chips, grenade
launcher, and a bazooka of World War
II (286800, 239662, 240904) ; (through
Col. Robert E. McCabe) 65 postage
stamps, postal cards, and letter sheets of
the Ryukyu Islands (236810) ; (through
Maj. Vernon J. Tipton) 517 mammals
from Panama (287215); (through Lt.
Col. Robert Traub) 10,000 laelaptid
mites from Borneo, Malaya, and Thai-
land (2386779). Army Medical Re-
search Unit: (Through Dr. H. Elliott
McClure) 883 miscellaneous insects, 6
leeches, and 2 isopods from Malaya
(240987). Army Ordnance: U.S. 75 mm
projectile fuze from collection found at
Regensburg and Hillerslieben, Ger-
many, after World War II (241581).
Ballistic Research Laboratories: 5
tourmaline erystals from Madagascar

(237570). Hngineer Research and De-
velopment Laboratories: Bomb shell
(240314).

Department of the Navy: 281 tur-
bine blades (236804); (through Capt.
Charles H. Briner) 35 surplus Naval
items from Belleview Annex, Wash.,
D.C. (236599) ; (through Rear Adm.
EK. M. Eller) CXAM-—1 radar set used
by the Navy during the 1940’s (241176).
Hydrographic Office: (Through James
A. Bruce) seasnake from the strait be-
tween the Gulf of Omar and the Persian
Gulf, 10 copepods, and 17 deep-sea fishes

131

and a squid collected on a cruise of
the USS Rehoboth (286551, 239675,
240866) ; (through William Gladfelter)
260 fishes from the Straits of Malacca,
aquatie insects, 24 mollusks, and
crustacea (240867) ; (through Dr. Ken-
neth W. Kaye) fish from Bandar
Shahpur, Iran (237226) ; (through Wil-
liam H. Littlewood) 3860 marine in-
vertebrates collected on Operation-
Deepfreeze V, 148 mollusks, 1 lot of
brachiopods, 2 lots of Foraminifera, 3
lots of rocks, and algae (226935) ;
(through Phillip Seelinger) 96 copepods
(219428) ; (through Robert B. Starr)
331 marine invertebrates, 7 lots of
mollusks, 1 lot of brachiopods, and a lot
of Foraminifera from the western
Arctie collected with Deep Freeze IV
material, 1958 (287690). Naval Medi-
cal Research Units: (Through Chi-
cago Natural History Museum) 202
mammals from NAMRUB, Cairo, Egypt
(241577) ; (through Dr. Robert HE.
Kuntz) 10 crabs and a grackle from
Hast Pakistan (236431, 236631,
238409) ; (through Dr. Robert HE. Kuntz
and Lt. W. H. Wells) 1,249 miscellane-
ous fishes from Taiwan (237042).

Naval Observatory: (Through Capt.
A. W. Slayden) 3 clocks (240411).
Naval Weapons Plant: 34 pieces of
optical equipment, 11 push broaches,
depth gage micrometer and a drilling
jig, and 17 tools (287036, 237903,
241187, 241589) ; Office of the Chief of
Naval Operations: (Through Rear Adm.
H. M. Hiller, Dr. D. O. McCoy, and EH. H.
Schuster) radio sextant AN/SAN-1
(229051). Office of Naval Research:
(Through Dr. Harry Hoogstraal) 2
ticks, holotype and allotype, from the
Belgian Congo (238694). Preventive
Medicine Unit: (Through Comdr. Leslie
W. Teller) 15 land snails from Italy
(239426).

Degener, Dr. Otto, Waialua, Oahu,
Hawaii: 3138 phanerogams, 16 grasses,
386 ferns, 3 cryptogams, and a blenny
from Hawaii (235795, 236580, 238787,
241654).

DeGurse, John, Jr. (See Smithsonian
Institution)
132

Deichmann, Dr. Elisabeth (See Har-
vard University)

Deignan, Herbert G., Geneva, Switz-
erland: Eagle from Korea and 14 mis-
cellaneous birds from Thailand (236629,
240282).

Deischer, Prof. Claude K. (See Penn-
sylvania, University of)

Deitsch, Peter H. (See Turner, John
B.)

Dekle, Dr. George W., Gainesville,
Fla.: Leech (213385).

Delaware, State of, Dover, Del.:
Board of Game and Fish Commission-
ers: (Through Dr. Jay L. Harmic) skull
of a coyote from Maryland (235724).

Delaware County Historical Society,
Manchester, Iowa: (Through Homer C.
Platt) sterling silver “Uncle Sam” ses-
quicentennial commemorative medal
bearing serial No. 1 (238899).

Delchamps, C. E., Miami, Fia.: 3 ferns
from Costa Rica and Florida (237730,
239352).

Delhi, University of, Delhi, India:
(Through Dr. T. R. Seshadri) 14 lichens
from India (233881).

Del Noce, Aldo, New York, N.Y.: 25-
percent share of a block of four 2-cent
“Lake Shade’ Panama Pacific Expo-
sition issue, 1913 (2401380).

Del Ponte, Dr. Eduardo (See Instituto
Nacional de Microbiologia)

Demaree, Delzie, Hot Springs, Ark.:
18 fresh-water mussels from Arkansas
and 46 phanerogams (237972, 241263).

de Moor, P. P. (See Transvaal
Museum)

Denman, Mrs. Richard W., Arlington,
Va.: Gouldian finch (241717).

Dennison, Dr. D. M. (See Michigan,
University of)

DePauw University, Greencastle,
Ind.: (Through Dr. Winona H. Welch)
18 ferns from Panama (240695).

Derby, Charles H. P., Rahway, N.J.:
12 dolls, 1 shrine, and a stand with dolls
and phallic symbol (236770).

des Abbayes, Prof. H. (See Université
de Rennes)

Deutsche Bundesbank, Frankfurt,
Germany: 2 20-DM notes issued by

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM

ANNUAL REPORT, 1962

donor, 1961, and 2 100-mark notes issued
by the Federal Republic of Germany in
1962 (239349, 241177).

Devore, Mrs. Daniel B. (deceased) :
(Through George H. Hamilton, Jr. and
L. W. Holbrook) 6 costume items of the
late 19th and early 20th centuries
(236476).

Dewey, Hon. Charles S., Washington,
D.C.: Japanese embroidery of the late
19th century (236974).

DeWitt, Mrs. Donald S. (See Spald-
ing, Francis O.)

Dews, Julie N., Frederick, Md.: Re-
struck T. Hobron token of Hawaii
(236614).

Dexter, Dr. Ralph W., Kent, Ohio: 7
barnacles and a cumacean (232350).

Dick, Mrs. Myvanwy (See Harvard
University )

Dickinson, John A., Bethesda, Md.:
Silver spatula from near Anchorage,
Alaska (241757).

Dickinson, Mrs. John A., Bethesda,
Md.: 7 items of costume accessories of
the late 19th century, 3 Tlinkit Indian
objects, and a certificate of enlistment
of 1856 (235872, 238119, 240903).

Diesel Engine Sales, Inc., St. Augus-
tine, Fla.;: (Through L. C. Ringhaver)
model of shrimp trawler George R.
(240155).

Dillard, Mrs. Rosalie R. (See Rubin-
ton, Col. Samuel)

Director-General of Posts (See Mon-
aco, Government of)

District of Columbia Public Schools,
Dunbar High School, Washington, D.C.:
(Through Stephen Hopkins) model of
an engine, boiler, and generator
(240638).

Dockrill, Arthur (See Michigan, Uni-
versity of)

Dodson, Calaway H., St. Louis, Mo.:
18 miscellaneous insects from Ecuador
(241922).

Dominion Museum, Wellington, New

Zealand: (Through Dr. Terence Bar-
row) 13 Maori items (240034, ex-
change).

Donal, J. S., Jr. (See Radio Corpora-
tion of America)
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Donnelly, Dr. Thomas, Houston, Tex. :
Paratype of a dragonfly from Texas
(241299).

Donner, William, New York, N.Y.: 4
drachmas of Masgsalia, Gaul, struck in
the style characteristic for the 1st
century, B.C. (239650).

Dosse, Mr. and Mrs. Adolph F., Fon-
tana, Calif.;: 62 minerals from various
localities (237835, exchange).

Doster, Alexis, Washington, D.C.:
Ladder-back chair (236786).

Doty, M. C. (See Commerce, U.S. De-
partment of)

Doty, Dr. Maxwell S., Honolulu, Ha-
waii: 76 cryptogams (237732).

Doughty, Kenneth, Willis Wharf,
Va.: Mammoth tooth from Pleistocene
of Virginia collected by donor (236925).

Douglas, B. M., Washington, D.C.:
U.S. pattern half-dollar, 1916, and 2
notes of Campo Bello and La Vache
Island (237132, 241178).

Douglas, Fred L., Washington, D.C.:
Otter from Florida (239330).

Douglas, Thomas C. (See Mettler In-
strument Corp.)

Dove, Sheriff William C., Malta,
Mont.: Indian skeleton from Montana
(241253).

Drake, Dr. Carl J., Washington, D.C. :
22 miscellaneous foreign covers, picture
post card, postal card, a foreign official
free frank, 6 spittle bugs, including 2
allotypes and 4 paratypes, from south-
western U.S. (240342, 241669).

Dreisbach, R. R., Midland, Mich.: 8
Spider wasps from Hurope (238656, ex-
change).

Dreyfus-Barney, Mrs. Laura, Wash-
ington, D.C. : 2 Victorian chairs, ca. 1868
(238991).

Dubilier, William, New Rochelle,
N.Y.: Photoelectric cell designed by Dr.
Falkenthal (240292).

Duc, Nguyen Phu (See Viet Nam, Em-
bassy of)

Dugand, Dr. Armando, Barranquilla,
Colombia: 180 phanerogams and 6
grasses from Colombia (236701).

Duggan, Mrs. W. S., Everett, Wash.:
57 marine and land mollusks from

658794—62——_10

133

Washington, also 4 brachiopods (240398,
240965).

Duke, Dr. James (See Missouri Bo-
tanical Garden)

Duke University, Durham, N.C.:
(Through Dr. Lewis Anderson) 98 bry-
ophytes (238732, exchange) ; (through
Dr. D. A. Livingstone) 309 microscope
slides of pollen (238727, exchange).
Marine Laboratory: (Through Dr. John
D. Costlow, Jr.) 2 crabs (240206).

Dulies, Allen W. (See Central Intelli-
gence Agency )

Duncanson, Isabelle F., New Iberia,
La.: 6 silver tablespoons (240449).

Dunn, Mrs. Arthur Wallace, Wash-
ington, D.C.: 11 U.S. and foreign medals
and an insignia, and 24 vermeil dessert
forks and spoons presented in memory
of Mrs. Fredric Duncan McKenney
(238468, 238990).

Dunn, Mr. and Mrs. Arthur Wallace,
Jr.. Washington, D.0.: Silver tea-set
made in China ca. 1890, given in mem-
ory of Lillian Lash and Arthur Wallace
Dunn (241778).

du Pont, Willis H., Wilmington, Del.:
860 Russian coins and medals (240108).

Dutro, Dr. J. T. (See Interior, U.S.
Department of the)

Dyar, Dr. Edna (address unknown) :
(Through Mrs. Elizabeth L. Wahren-
brock) Windsor rocking chair (239294).

Dye, Dr. Daniel Sheets, Colora, Md.:
9 butterflies from China (2389129).

BE. Leitz, Ine, New York, N.Y.:
(Through William Mann) Leica M3
camera with summilux lens and light
meter (238385).

E. Weyhe, Inc. (See Gordon, Albert
H.)

East African Marine Fisheries Re-
search Organization, Zanzibar, Africa:
(Through Dr. J. F. C. Morgans) 5 fishes
from Africa (228670, exchange).

Eastern Kentucky State College,
Richmond, Ky.: (Through Prof. T. A.
Hutto) 2 ferns from Kentucky
(240015).

Eastop, Dr. V. F. (See Great Britain,
Government of)

Ebeling, Dr. Alfred W.
University )

(See Yale
134 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM

Eberlein, G. Donald (See Interior,
U.S. Department of the)

Ebert, Earl EH. (See California De-
partment of Fish and Game)

Eckard, W. W. (See Curtiss-Wright
Corp.)

Eckstrom, C. W. (See Eli Lilly and
Co.)

Eddy, H. L. (See Association of Amer-
ican Railroads)

Edelstein, Sidney, New York, N.Y.: 4
chemical samples (241195).

Edmunds, Dr. George F., Jr., Salt
Lake City, Utah: 185 may flies from
Utah (238822).

Edmunds, Malcolm, Oxford, Eng-
land: 3 marine mollusks from Port
Royal, Jamaica (241773).

Edson, Merritt A., Jr.. Washington,
D.C.: Copy book marked ‘Admiral
Graves Rent Book, 1797” containing a
handwritten copy of “A Treatise of
Naval Evolutions,” and a builder’s block
model sailing yacht (241887, 241912).

Edwards, John M., Shadyside, Md.:
Long-tailed shrew from Maryland
(236636).

Edwards, Mrs. Julia B., Washington,
D.C.: Powder horn (241448).

Edwards, Mrs. Llewellyn N., Glen
Echo, Md.: 2 prints of bridges and 12
maps engraved by John Cary between
1799 and 1811 (239364, 241898).

Edwards, Dr. R. L., Woods Hole,
Mass.: Holotype and allotype of 2 bird
lice from South Carolina (240268).

Edwards, Col. William Waller, Wash-
ington, D.C.: Basket from Montezuma
Co., Colo. (288967).

Ehrmann, Martin L., Beverly Hills,
Calif.: Andalusite and 4 staurolites
from Brazil (238105, 240245).

Kichner, L. C., Clifton, N.J.: Collec-
tion of hand and knurling tools, 19th
century (236803, 240908).

Hinhorn, Nathan R. (See Library of
Congress and Library of Congress
Stamp Club)

Eklund, Dr. Carl R., Bethesda, Md.:
3 bird skins from Greenland (240283).

El-Chichini, Saad (See United Arab
Republic, Government of)

ANNUAL REPORT, 1962

Elder, Robert A., Jr.. Washington,
D.C.: 280 phanerogams and 26 ferns
from Wisconsin collected by donor
(236590) .

Elgert, Gerald G., Baltimore, Md. : 121
reptiles and amphibians from Maryland,
North Carolina, and West Virginia col-
lected by donor (237018).

Eli Lilly and Co., Indianapolis, Ind. :
(Through C. W. Eckstrom) 12 display
packages of Iletin and antibiotic prod-
ucts (238465, 241449).

Eller, Rear Adm. E. M. (See Defense,
U.S. Department of)

Ellicott, Mrs. John, Alexandria, Va.:
Evening grosbeak (240739).

Elliott, James W. (See Taylor &
Taylor, Printers)

Ellis, Earl L. (See Post Office Depart-
ment)

Ellis, Mrs. Sidney W., Washington,
D.C.: Colin Kennedy receiver and
amplifier with speaker (239316).

Emerson, Dr. William K. (See Ameri-
can Museum of Natural History)

Emielity, Joseph G. (See Milwaukee
Public Museum)

Emory University, Atlanta, Ga.:
(Through Prof. Howard R. Cramer)
230 invertebrate fossils and plants from
the Paleozoic of Georgia (239283).

Endrédi, Dr. Sebs, G6d61l6, Hungary:
195 scarab beetles from Africa and
Europe (240052, exchange). (See also
Naturwissenschaftliches Museum)

Engelhardt, Dr. Donald W. (See Pan
American Petroleum Corp.)

Engelhardt, Dr. Wolfgang, Munich,
Germany: 7 paratypes of centipedes
from Africa, Asia, Europe, and South
America (239722, exchange).

Engineering Societies Library, New
York, N.Y.: Color lithograph of west
view of Britannia Tubular and Menai
Suspension Bridges (240551) ; (through
Ralph H. Phelps) surveyor’s demicircle
(241593).

English, John T., West Memphis,
Tenn.: 33 siderite concretions from
Memphis, Tenn. (239504).

Enright, J. T., La Jolla, Calif.: 31
polychaete worms, 8 cumaceans, and 298
amphipods (288251).
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Entomological Institute, Sapporo,
Japan: 10 small moths from Japan
(237010, gift-exchange).

Enzer, Milton M. (See Yale & Towne
Manufacturing Co.)

Erdman, Donald S., Lajas, Puerto
Rico: (Through Dr. John EH. Randall)
fish from Puerto Rico (239474).

Eresch, Mrs. J. C., Beloit, Kans.: 6
political campaign badges presented in
memory of donor’s husband (239186).

Erwin, Mrs. Henry P., Warrenton,
Va.: Congressional armchair (240555).

Escuela Agricola Panamericana,
Tegucigalpa, Honduras: 50 grasses
from Honduras (238832) ; (through Sr.
Antonio Molina) 80 ferns from Hon-
duras (240013).

Estacion de Investigaciones Marinas
de Margarita, Punta de Piedras, Nueva
Esparta, Venezuela: (Through Fer-
nando Cervig6n M.) 10 fishes from Mar-
garita Island, off Venezuela (236808).

Evans, Dr. Clifford, Jr., and Meggers,
Dr. Betty J., Washington, D.C.: 290
archeological specimens from Marajé,
Mexiana, and Caviana Islands
(241855). (See also Porras G., Padre
Pedro I., and Walter, H. V.)

Evans, Dr. Howard E., Cambridge,
Mass.: 3 wasps, holotype and allotype,
from Mexico (239126, 240053). (See
also Harvard University )

Evans, Mrs. Joshua, Jr., Washington,
D.C.: 22 American and American In-
dian objects (2386918).

Kvans, William, Washington, D.C.: 7
moths, including paratype, from Cali-
fornia (240054).

Everitt, Dean W. L. (See Illinois,
University of)

Ewen, Dr. A. B., Saskatoon, Sas-
katchewan, Canada: 100 midges, in-
cluding paratypes of 8 new species,
from Canada, Hurope, and South
America (238669).

Eyerdam, Walter J., Seattle, Wash.:
10 marine mollusks from Easter Island,
also 12 caddis-fly larvae (239546).

Fairchild, Dr. G. B., Balboa Heights,
Canal Zone: 20 horseflies from the Neo-
tropical region (240678).

135

Falconi, Mrs. Eunice, Roswell, N.
Mex. : Early memorabilia from Amateur
Radio Station W5ZA (238755).

Fallen, Lenore, Falls Church, Va.:
“Pineapple” applique quilt of the mid-
19th century (237884).

Fantastic Gardens,

Miami, Fla.:

-(Through Mrs. R. G. Wilson) 2 eculti-

vated ferns (240394).

Farley, Hon. James A., New York,
N.Y.: 87 first-day covers, First Official
Missile Mail cover, and unused post ecard
of Israel (240112).

Farr, Thomas H., Kingston, Jamaica,
B.W.I. : 12 beetles, including 3 holotypes
and 6 paratypes, from Jamaica
(238239). (See also Institute of
Jamaica)

Farret-Jentink, Th., Owen Sound, On-
tario, Canada: 31 marine mollusks from
Fiji and South Africa (213327).

Fast, Ralph R. (See Kiln Club of
Washington)

Faure, Dr. J. C. (See South Africa,
Republic of)

Feeney, Walter B., Irvington, N.J.: 3
first-flight covers, Cristobal, Canal Zone
to Mollendo, Peru (239312).

Fehlmann, H. A. (See Stanford Uni-
versity)

Felch, Lauren L., Boston, Mass.:
Medal commemorating Napoleon’s stay
at Sch6nbrunn and the victory at Wer-
tingen, 1805 (239646).

Fellows Gear Shaper Co., Springfield,
Vt.: (Through Henry B. Flinn) 7 gears
(241906).

Fenimore, Watson (See Atomic En-
ergy Commission)

Fennell, Chester M., San Francisco,
Calif. : Sea eagle, bean goose, and a pied
wagtail (236665).

Ferlet, L. M., Jr.. San Antonio, Tex.:
58 medusae (235531).

Ferreyra, Dr. Ram6én (See Museo de
Historia Natural “Javier Prado’’)

Field, Clark, Tulsa, Okla.: Cherokee
basket (241754).

Field, W. S. (See Koehler Manufac-
turing Co.)

Filer’s, Redlands, Calif.: 2 kossma-
tites from Yugoslavia (241267), ex-
change).
136

Finch, Prof. James K., New York,
N.Y.: 45 prints of prominent engineers
(241841).

Finks, Dr. Robert M., Flushing, N.Y.:
20 invertebrate fossils from the Ordo-
vician of eastern New York (240365,
exchange).

Finlay, Alexander C.
Pfizer & Co., Inc.)

Finnie, Mrs. Haldeman (See Spald-
ing, Francis O.)

Fireman, Dr. E. L. (See Smithsonian
Institution)

First Manassas Corp. Arlington,
Va.: (Through Col. H. D. Kehm) brass
medal commemorating the re-enactment
of the first battles of Manassas
(240682).

First New Haven National Bank,
New Haven, Conn.: (Through William
F. Hasse, Jr.) steel engraving plate
of the City Bank of New Haven, ca.
1855 (239915).

Fish-Schurman Corp. (See JENA
Glaswerk Schott & Gen.)

Fisher, Maj. C. C. (See Amos, How-
ard, Raymond, G. J., Schultz, Hlizabeth

(See Chas.

J., Sherwood, Delbert, and Smiley,
Hugh L.)

Fisher, D. J. (See Chicago, University
of )

FitzGerald, J. Warren, Dallas, Tex.:
289 miscellaneous beetles (287760).

Fleming, Hartley G., Pittsburgh, Pa.:
Pair of beaded Ojibwa moccasins from
Bear Island, Ontario, Canada (239121).

Flewwellin, W. A., Arlington, Calif. :
Boulet indicator (236509).

Flinn, Henry B. (See Fellows Gear
Shaper Co.)

Flint, Dr. O. S., Washington, D.C.:
1,050 caddis flies and stone flies from
east North America (241678).

Florence, University of, Florence,
Italy: (Through Prof. Alberto M.
Simonetta) 18 skeletons, skulls of Ital-
ian mammals, and 25 birds (2416386, ex-
change).

Florida, State of, Department of Ag-
riculture, Winter Haven, Fla.:
(Through Harry C. Burnett) lichen
(240793) ; (through Dr. R. E. Wood-

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1962

ruff) 145 scarab beetles from Florida
(238692).

Florida, University of, Gainesville,
Fla.: 92 phanerogams, 3 grasses, and
7 ferns from Florida (2387219, gift-ex-
change); grass from Florida and 3
sheets of cultivated phanerogams from
Florida (236937, 241169).

Florida State Board of Conservation,
St. Petersburg, Fla.: (Through C. B.
Dawson) 2 fishes (238896) ; (through
Dr. Robert F. Hutton) isopod and 1,001
copepods (230052) ; (through Andrew J.
McHErlean) 2 sharks from off the west
coast of Florida (237094); (through
Andrew J. McErlean and Dr. Victor G.
Springer) fish from the lower west
coast of Florida (236253).

Florida State Board of Health, Vero
Beach, Fla.: 5 midges, including 3 holo-
types and 2 paratypes, from Florida
(238137) ; (through Mrs. Nina Branch)
20 flies from North America (240664).

Florida State University, Tallahassee,
Fla.: 242 phanerogams, 34 grasses, 9
eryptogams, and 1 fern from Florida
(237300, 238871, 240303, exchanges) ;
(through Dr. Harry W. Wells) 3 fishes
from North Carolina (239817).

Flower, Dr. Rousseau H., Socorro, N.
Mex.: 32 corals and 10 slides of corals
from the Ordovician of New Mexico and
Texas, and 10 brachiopods from the
Lower Ordovician of Logan Canyon,
Utah (238118, 238633).

Floyd, Mrs. J. L., Corpus Christi, Tex. :
(Through Arnon L. Mehring) 11 marine
gastropods from Corpus Christi, Tex.
(2386438).

Fluke, Kathi, Wormleysburg,
Horseshoe crab (239777).

Fobes, Edwin L., Omaha, Nebr.: Ma-
rine mollusk from New Caledonia
(236892, exchange).

Folinsbee, Prof. R. E. (See Alberta,
University of)

Follmann, Dr. Gerhard (See Univer-
sidad de Chile)

Foote, Dr. B. A., Kent, Ohio: Fly,
paratype, from Idaho (240787).

Forattini, Dr. Oswaldo P., Sio Paulo,
Brazil: 19 mosquitoes, cotypes, from
Brazil (240986).

Pa.:
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Forbes, Audrey, Washington, D.OC.:
Cacheted first-day cover bearing the
United Nations International Monetary
Fund stamps (236794).

Ford, George H., Jr., Washington,
D.C. : 21 laboratory test tubes (240684).

Ford, John J., Jr., Rockville Centre,
L.I., N.Y.: Petition concerning the for-
mation of the Republican Unit Bank
Note Co. and the “Unit System” of en-
graving as a preventive method against
counterfeiting written by Waterman
Lilly Ormsby in 1870 (240325).

Ford, Dr. T. D., Leicester, England : 2
casts from the Pre-Cambrian of Charn-
wood Forest (238634).

Ford Instrument Co., Long Island
City, N.Y.: (Through S. H. McAloney)
ball and dise integrator (239018).

Forest Department, Sandakan, North
Borneo: (Through Dr. W. Meijer) 178
wood samples (235608, exchange).

Forrest, Mrs. Leon, Washington,
D.C.: Silk hat of 1860 (240505).

Forsell, M. J., Seattle, Wash.: 568
aphids from Washington State
(239867).

Fort Ligonier Memorial Foundation,
Ligonier, Pa.: (Through Jacob Grimm)
pair of shoes and bayonet frog exca-
vated from site of Fort Ligonier
(241428).

Fosberg, Dr. F. R., Falls Church, Va.:
19 shrimps and 66 ferns from the Ryu-
kyu Islands (235588, 238730). (See also
Interior, U.S. Department of)

Fouarge, Dr. Joseph (See Laboratoire
Forestier de l’Etat)

Fowle, Haywood, Miami, Fla.: Lot of
tile fragments, 19th century, salvaged
from Andros Island, Bahamas, B.W.I.
(239142).

Fox, Dr. Irving, San Juan, Puerto
Rico: 5 land snails from Santurce,
Puerto Rico (2393829).

Franclemont, Dr. John, Ithaca, N.Y.:
11 scorpions and centipedes from the
U.S. (239912).

Franke & Heidecke, Braunschweig,
West Germany: (Through Mrs. Marga-
rete Wolf) 8 items of Rollei photo-
graphic equipment (241890).

Franklin Institute, Philadelphia, Pa. :

137

(Through Mrs. Robert N. Yarnall) oil
engine, lathe, milling machine, and re-
production of a reaper (236710).
Frederick, Doris (See Friederich,
Roberto)
Fredrich, Leon A., Portland, Oreg.:

3  black-footed albatross skeletons
(237575).
Freedman, Isaac, Brooklyn, N.Y.:

Fife, (241780).

Freie Universitit Berlin, SBerlin-
Dahlem, Germany: Geologisch-Paliéion-
tologisches Institut: (Through Dr.
Walter G. Kuhne) 10 slides of grapto-
lites from the Ordovician of Germany
and 4 trilobites from the Mississippian
of Belgium (229775, exchange).

French, Mrs. Carl C., Winchester,
Mass.: Painted buckskin pouch from
Chiricahua Apache Chief Rattlesnake
during the war of 1886 (241758).

Frey, Dr. Richard (See Museum Zoo-
logicum Universitatis)

Frick, Dr. K. HE. (See Agriculture,
U.S. Department of)

Frick Company, Waynesboro, Pa.:
(Through Terry Mitchell) time clock
and model of a cotton gin manufactured
before 1884 (234522, 239135).

Fried, Dr. Bernard, Atlanta, Ga.: 11
fresh-water gastropods from Georgia
(241728).

Fried, Leon A., Washington, D.C.:
Embroidered shawl, 1927 (241728).

Friederich, Roberto (deceased) :
(Through Doris Frederick) 90 land
mollusks from Cuba (241774).

Friedman, Gerald M. (See Pan Ameri-
can Petroleum Corp.)

Friedmann, Dr. Herbert, Los An-
geles, Calif.: 3 aluminum coins of 5, 2,
and 1 francs from New Caledonia
(237582).

Frittz, Mrs. Pauline G., Asbury Park,
N.J.: Mexican painted lacquered tray
(236914).

Frolander, Dr. Herbert F., Corvallis,
Oreg.: 103 copepods (230309).

Frondel, Dr. Clifford (See Harvard
University )

Fruhauf, Aline, Cheyy Chase, Md.:
Woodcut, “Spider Woman,” by donor
(241103).
138

Fry, Mrs. C. Luther, Rochester, N.Y.:
Crystal cross, 19th century, formerly as-
sociated with the Benjamin B. Comegys
family (241401).

Frye, Andrew W., Woodstock, Va.:
Shovel plow (240816).

Fuld, Dr. George, Baltimore, Md.: 7
commemorative medals issued by the
Educoin Co. in 1961 (241815).

Fuller, Robert S., Grand Cayman Is-
land, B.W.I.: 62 marine mollusks from
the Pleistocene of Grand Cayman Is-
land, B.W.I. (282765).

Fuller & d’Albert, Inc., Washington,
D.C.: (Through John F. Mennehan)
collection of photographic equipment
(241810).

Fiilép, Dr. Jozsef (See Magyar Allami
Foldtani Intézet)

Furlong, Col. Charles Wellington,
Scituate, Mass.: Uniform and acces-
sories worn by donor when a member of
the Military Intelligence Division Re-
serve, ca. 1931-40 (237598).

Furlong, William Rea (See Tyree,
Adm. David M.)

Gabinete Numismatico de Catalufia,
Barcelona, Spain: (Through Don Pedro
Vegué Lligona) proof on 18th-century
paper from the original plate for print-
ing 250 pesos stock certificates of the
“Real Companhia de Comercio’ from
Barcelona (241513).

Gabrielson, Dr. O. (See Naturhistor-
iska Riksmuseet)

Gallagher, Buell G., New York, N.Y.:
Medal struck in honor of Dr. Arthur
Kornberg (237673).

Gallagher, Philip F. (See Pan Amer-
ican Union)

Game and Fish Commission, Rock-
port, Tex.: 8 shrimps (234762) ;
(through Joseph P. Breuer) 185 marine
invertebrates (282488); (through Dr.
Edward J. Pullen) 1 lot of hydroids and
leech on a shrimp (235690).

Garber, Clark M., Butler,
Bronze medal (238965).

Gardner, E. G. (See Bostitch Co.)

Garrett, Dr. F. O., Jr., North Little
Rock, Ark.: 2 electric eye booklet panes
showing plate numbers and 2 strips of 5

Ohio:

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1962

3-cent Liberty coils showing plate
numbers (238484).

Garvan, Dr. Anthony N. B., Spring
House, Pa.: Awl, screwdriver, bow-pole
lathe, and 6 emergency notes issued in
the Philippines during World War II
(286802, 241828).

Garvan, Mrs. Francis P., New York,
N.Y.: 6 oil paintings (239503).

Gasch, Manning, McLean, Va.: 16
gage, double-barrel shotgun, ca. 1850-70,
papers, photographs, and other memo-
rabilia of Matilda C. and James Steven-
son (240140).

Gasch, Oliver, Washington, D.C.:
Photomicrographic camera, microscope,
and objectives (241811).

Geary, Maj. John M. (See Defense,
U.S. Department of)

Geiser, Mrs. Mary (See Zack, Henry)

General Electric Co., Schenectady,
N.Y.: (Through C. H. Lansing) 7.5 KV
transformer (237349); (through Dr.
Glen A. Slack) synthetic FesO., 10
grams (239266); (through C. G. Suits
and J. M. Lafferty) color television
picture tube (241116).

Geological Institute, Tokyo, Japan:
(Through Prof. Takeo Watanabe) 5
minerals from Japan (240044, ex-
change).

Geologisches Institut der Universitat
K6ln, Cologne, Germany: (Through Dr.
Ulrich Jux) 68 invertebrate fossils from
the Mesozoic and 8 casts of rare brachio-
pods from the Devonian of Germany
(239633, exchange).

Geolosko-paleontoloski Institut, Lju-
bljana, Jugoslavia: (Through Dr. An-
ton Ramovs) 10 brachiopods from the
Permian of Jugoslavia (237309, ex-
change).

George, Gordon B., Shrewsbury,
Mass.: Alarm shelf clock (239670).

George Eastman House, Rochester,
N.Y.: (Through Beaumont Newhall)
replica of Edison kinetoscope (237366,
exchange). ;

Georgetown University, Washington,
D.C.: (Through Father Bernard Mce-
Connell) Mainka seismograph, ca. 1907
(240152).
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Georgia, University of, Athens, Ga.:
Grass from Florida (240620) ; (through
Charles A. Salotti) 12 minerals from
Cotopaxi, Colo. (286560) ; gahnite from
Cotopaxi Mine, Fremont Co., Colo.
(235542, exchange).

Gerecke, Mrs. Julia M., Rock Hill,
Mo.: Cover bearing 2d. blue postage
stamp of Great Britain, Jan. 14, 1841
(241180).

Gerrard, George, Yuma, Ariz.: Tetra-
hedrite from Cole Mine, Bisbee, Ariz.
(240089).

Getty, W. P. (See Jones & Laughlin
Steel Corp.)

Getz, Dr. Derothy, Honolulu, Hawaii:
112 marine mollusks from the Indo-
Pacific and New Zealand (234258,
238983).

Giampaoli, Pietro, Rome, Italy: 7
bronze medals and 2 plaster models of
medals (240107).

Gibb, Dr. Thomas R. P., Jr. (See Bur-
leigh, Theodore C. )

Gibbs, Dr. Robert H., Jr. (See Boston
University)

Gier, Dr. L. J. (See William Jewell
College)

Giesecke & Devrient, Munich, Ger-
many: 35 documents of value and se-
curity printings (241516).

Gilbert, Cass, Jr.. New York, N.Y.:
Collection of project progress photo-
graphs of works designed by donor’s
father (239827).

Gillis, Mrs. Elizabeth (See Gillis
Family )
Gillis Family, Washington, D.C.:

(Through Mrs. Elizabeth Gillis) hand-
netted bolero of the 19th century
(238739).

Ginn, Mrs. Edward E., Springfield,
Va.: Silver spoon of the early 19th cen-
tury (2388712). (See also Ayers, Mrs.
Samuel Henry)

Ginzton, Dr. E. L.
University)

Gladfelter, William (See Defense,
U.S. Department of)

Glaessner, Dr. Martin F., and Wade,
Dr. Mary, Adelaide, South Australia:
(Through Ruth Todd) 5 slides contain-
ing 19 paratypes of Foraminifera from

(See Stanford

139

the Hocene and lower Miocene of South
Australia (238978).

Glenn, Murray O., Henry, Ill.: 4
small moths from North America
(238130, 240665).

Glover, Charles C., Jr.. Washington,
D.C.: 4 U.S. gold dollars and a silver
shilling struck 1555 by Philip and Mary
of Hngland (237131).

Godfrey, Harry T., Broomall, Pa.:
Model of surgical ward dressing car-
riage made by donor’s father (241312).

Goff, F. W. (address unknown) ;
(Through Sidney D. Haas) 35 World
War II distinctive insignia (241582).

Goin, Dr. Coleman J., Gainesville,
Fla. : 166 frogs from Colombia (241354).

Goldmark, Dr. Peter C. (See C. B. S.
Laboratories)

Goncalves, C. R., Rio de Janeiro, Bra-
zil: 55 fruit flies from Brazil (241573).

Goodman, William E. (See Goodman
Manufacturing Co.)

Goodman Manufacturing Co., Chi-
eago, Ill.: (Through William BE. Good-
man) Guy’s dropper pit lamp, auto-lite
lamp, a carbide container, and 28 Be-
nard mining prints (240547, 241798).

Geodpasture, Dr. Katherine A., Nash-
ville, Tenn.: Parasitic nematode from a
red-tailed hawk (235277).

Gerdon, Albert H., New York, N.Y.:
(Through E. Weyhe, Inc.) lithograph,
Divertissement D’Hspagne, by Frances-
co Goya (239336).

Gordon, Prof. W. A., Mayaguez, Puer-
to Rico: 19 Foraminifera from the Mio-
cene of Lajas Valley, Puerto Rico and
2 fossil portunid crabs from the Ter-
tiary of Puerto Rico (237742, 240257).
(See also Puerto Rico, University of)

Gore, Charlies M., Bristol, Tenn.—Va.:
22 items of costume, a bedspread, and
a newspaper, Chicago Evening Journal,
May 1, 1865 (237394, 237878).

Gore, Mrs. Helen Hayward, Bristol,
Tenn.: Gold and jet ring of Mrs. Abra-
ham Lincoln (236524).

Goreau, Dr. Thomas, Mona, Kings-
ton, Jamaica: Antipatharian, gorgo-
nian, and 8 corals (235500).

Gorgas Memorial Laboratory, Pan-
ama, Republic of Panama: 100 bird
140

skins from Panama (239236) ; (through
Dr. Carl M. Johnson) 22 mammals from
Panama (241722); (through Dr. Phyl-
lis T. Johnson) 38 female lice from
Europe (236780, exchange) ; 5 vials of
bird lice from Panama (238688).

Gould, Maurice M. (See Copley Coin
Co., Inc.)

Goulding, Mrs. Claire S. (See Schley,
Mr. and Mrs. H. P.)

Gozmany, Dr. L., Budapest, Hun-
gary: 5 small moths, including a para-
type, from Hungary (236742, ex-
change).

Graetzer, Ruth, Washington, D.C.:
Ancestor figurine from Easter Island
(238969).

Graf, A. B., Rutherford, N.J.: Culti-
vated fern (238509).

Graham, Dr. David C. (deceased) :
5 Lolo artifacts and 2 Tibetan lama
artifacts collected by Dr. Graham about
1928 (286916).

Graham, Ray A., Shadwell, Va.: Fe-
male head carved in tourmaline by Os-
kar J. W. Hansen (232793).

Grandison, Alice G. C. (See Great
Britain, Government of)

Grant, George C. (See Virginia Fish-
eries Laboratory)

Graves, Prof. R. C., Flint, Mich.: 26
scarab beetles from Alabama, Louisi-
ana, and Mississippi (241075).

Gray, Dr. Jane (See Arizona, Uni-
versity of)

Graybill, Pollitt, Dover, Ky.: Horse-
drawn tobacco transplanter (239063).

Great Britain, Government of: Brit-
ish Museum (Natural History): 60
phanerogams and 4 grasses from South
America (238380, exchange) ; (through
R. D. Barnett) cast impression from
the cylinder seal of Darius, King of
Persia (238481); (through Dr. V. F.
EKastop) 4 aphids from England
(241869, exchange); (through Alice
G. C. Grandison) 9 frogs from South
America (239553, exchange) ; (through
Dr. David J. Lewis) 28 black flies from
Venezuela (241292, exchange). Royal
Botanic Gardens: 464 miscellaneous
grasses, 151 duplicate herbarium speci-
mens, and 16 photographs (236790,

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1962

239006, 240091, 240621, 240983);
(through Dr. George Taylor) 36 phan-
erogams and 8 grasses (224827, ex-
change).

Greco, Simeon, Ridgefield, Conn.: Oil
painting, “Primitive Armories,’ by
donor (241429).

Greely, John C., Chevy Chase, Md.:
286 miscellaneous U.S. and foreign coy-
ers from the General Greely correspond-
ence (236654).

Green, John B., Jr., Richmond, Va.:
2 invertebrate fossils from the Miocene
of Virginia (235774).

Green, Richard T., Jackson, Wyo.:
4 pelecypods from the Upper Cretaceous
of Lander, Wyo. (234930).

Greene, Horace, Villa Park, Ill:
Shale containing shells replaced by py-
rite from a coal mine near Farmington,
Tll. (2387754).

Greene, Jerry, Washington, D.C.:
Cacheted cover commemorating Presi-
dent Kennedy’s visit aboard the U.S.S.
Enterprise, April 14, 1962, with ship
cancellation (241901).

Greene, Karl W., Honolulu, Hawaii:
Black coral (237506).

Greene, Nathan D. (See North Caro-
lina State College)

Greene, Sidney (See Judson L. Thom-
son Mfg. Co.)

Greenwell, Francis M., Washington,
D.C.: Crayfish, fish, 6 frogs, and a
snake from Wlorida (236455, 237313,
237682).

Gressitt, Dr. J. L., Honolulu, Hawaii:
74 beetles from China (241775, ex-
change).

Grice, Dr. George D., Woods Hole,
Mass.: 3 copepods, types, and 2 slides
(2313802). (See also Woods Hole
Oceanographic Institution )

Grieder, H. P. (See U.S. Rubber Co.)

Griesbach, John, Wheaton, Md.: 3
opals from Rockville Crushed Stone
Quarry, Montgomery Co., Md. (241421).

Griffin, David F., Chicago, Ill.: 167
precanceled stamps (237418).

Griffith, Fuller, Washington, D.C.:
Baxter oil print of Britannia and
Menai bridges, 1850 (241741).
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Griffith, Mrs. H. C., Arlington, Va.:
Japanese Go-Momme Gin silver piece,
Meiwa, 1765 (2871380).

Griffith, John D., Ann Arbor, Mich.:
Sulfur with celestite from Scofield,
Mineral Co., Mich. (239557, exchange).

Griffiths, Austin, Jr. (See Los Ange-
les State and County Arboretum)

Griffiths, Dr. Henry J., St. Paul,
Minn.: 19 fresh-water snails from Cass
Co., Minn. (237526).

Grigore, Julius, Detroit, Mich.: 4,082
miscellaneous U.S. and foreign postage
stamps and covers (236646).

Grim, James K., Hyattsville, Md.:
(Through John C. Lingebach) fish from
the Chesapeake Bay (240814).

Grimm, Jacob (See Fort Ligonier
Memorial Foundation)

Grinnell, Russell, Jr.
Neck Yacht & Vessel Corp.)

Grogan, Barry, Fairfax, Va.: 101
marine mollusks from the Seychelles
(238647).

Gross, Daniel J., Bellaire, Ohio: 7
minerals from Flint Ridge, Ohio
(286555).

Groves, Mrs. Mildred L., Bethesda,
Md.: Uniform coat of the Washington
Light Infantry, ca. 1880 (239660).

Grundset, Dr. E. O. (See Southern
Missionary College)

Guenther, Carlton A. Baltimore,
Md.: Bottle corker, cork puller, and 2
pairs of boot stretchers (239849).

Gulf Coast Research Laboratory,
Ocean Springs, Miss.: (Through C. B.
Dawson) 620 marine invertebrates,
holotype of a fish, 2 isopods, 9 amphi-
pods, and 2 caprellids (229185), 234866,
237786).

Gulf Research and Development Co.,
Pittsburgh, Pa.: (Through Blaine B.
Wescott) Gulf gravity pendulum appa-
ratus, 1929 (241314).

Gunawardane, Dr. K. (See Medical
Research Institute)

Gunter, Dr. Gordon, Ocean Springs,
Miss.: 6 shrimps (236428).

Gurney, Dr. Ashley B., Washington,
D.C.: 865 miscellaneous insects from
the District of Columbia, Maryland,

(See Rocky

141
New Jersey, and Virginia (237581,
238685).

Gustafson, Mrs. Emma M. (de-
ceased) : (Through George W. Gustaf-
son) gold brooch set with a diamond
(240402).

Gustafson, George W. (See Gustaf-
son, Mrs. Hmma M.)

Gustavson, Selma, Washington, D.C.:
Carved wooden doll in costume of 1840

(235873).
Guthman, William H., Westport,
Conn.: U.S. Pattern Musket, Model

1842 (239262).

Guy, Cornély, Guadaloupe, F.W.1.:
222 fresh-water snails from the French
West Indies (239237).

Gwynn, Mrs. Charles A., Syracuse,
N.Y.: (Through Mrs. Howard Beach)
doll with wax head, ca. 1870 (241782).

Haaf, Dr. E. (See Museum G. Frey)

Haake, Dr. Friedhelm W., Kiel, Ger-
many: 11 slides containing 49 Recent
Foraminifera from the German Sea
(240995).

Haas, Mrs. J. W., Aldan, Delaware
Co., Pa.: 2 pairs of spectacles (237139).

Haas, Jerry, Lexington, Ky.: U.S.
Army 100th Infantry Division shoulder
sleeve insignia (241663).

Haas, Sidney D., Lexington, Ky.: 10
distinctive insignia of World War II
(241872). (See also Butler, Brig. Gen.
Benjamin J.; Goff, KF. W.; Littman, Lt.
Col. A. A.; and Rafferty, Maj. J.)

Hadzsits, George Depue, and Craw-
ford, Earl Frazier, Families of, Merion
Station, Pa.: (Through Mrs. Earl Fraz-
ier Crawford) mantel clock and angel
carving from the Comegys Library
(236386).

Hagglund, Lorenzo F., Estate of:
Continental gundelo Philadelphia and
718 relics recovered from gunboat
(229338, bequest).

Hahn, Mrs. Frances C., Vancouver,
Wash.: 4 mother-of-pearl satin glass
pieces and a pottery jar (237826).

Hale, Irene, Tulsa, Okla.: Chinese
rug (2389238).

Hamelly, Henry, Grove City, Pa.: 23
first-day covers of the U.S., Canada,
and the United Nations (239920).
142

Hamilton, Col. Charles S., Washing-
ton, D.C.: 1,187 mint and used postage
stamps of Mexico, including complete
sheets (240740).

Hamilton, George E., Jr. (See Devore,
Mrs. Daniel B.)

Hamilton, Mrs. George E., Jr., Wash-
ington, D.C.: 2 mantles, 1889 (236477).

Hamilton Watch Co., Lancaster, Pa.:
2 Hamilton electric watch movements
encased in plastic block (2413811).

Hammer, Ralph C. (See C. J. Langen-
felder & Son, Inc.)

Hammer, Dr. U. Theodore (See
Saskatchewan, University of)

Hammerslough, Philip, West Hart-
ford, Conn.: Silver mug by R. H. L.
Villard of the early 19th century
(238711).

Hanahan, Jack, Belmont, N.C.: 7 gems
and minerals from North Carolina and
Utah (236448, 240243, 240928, ex-
changes).

Hanlon, Moira, Silver Spring, Md.: 49
ecoleoptera and heteroptera from Mary-
land (239131).

Hardin-Simmons University, Abilene,
Tex.: (Through William F. Mahler) 3
lichens from Canada (2408638).

Hardy, Dr. D. Elmo, Honolulu, Ha-
waii: 107 flies from Hawaii and Japan
(238129).

Hardy, Jerry David, Baltimore, Md.:
24 reptiles and amphibians from Brit-
ish Guiana and Trinidad (240514).

Hare, Dr. Lulu I. Waters, Washing-
ton, D.C.: Jacquard coverlet of the 19th
century (237232).

Harlow, Thompson, Hartford, Conn.:
Case & Green lithograph of ‘The Battle
of New Orleans, 1815” (241874).

Harmantas, Christas (See Commerce,
U.S. Department of)

Harmie, Dr. Jay L. (See Delaware,
State of)

Harold, Mrs. John C., Silver Spring,
Md.: Sampler of 1860, child’s embroid-
ered dress, child’s chemise, and bead-
embroidered cuff (237128).

Harper, Dr. Francis, Chapel Hill,
N.C.: 35 lichens from Ungava (241258).

Harrigan, Frederick (See Joy Man-
ufacturing Co.)

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1962

Harris, W. F., Upminster, Essex, Eng-
land: Pound note issued by the Bank of
England (237892).

Harrises, Dr. Antonio E., Hatties-

burg, Miss.: 10 slides of trematode
worms, cotypes, from Mississippi
(240480).

Harrison, G. Charter, Jr.. White-
water, Wis.: Air gun believed to have
been used on Lewis and Clark expedi-
tion (236744).

Harsch, R. H., Hollywood, Md.: 3
meter impressions and a _ permit
(237965).

Hart, Arch D., Woods Hole, Mass.:
13 amphipods (233592).

Harte, Richard (See Ames Shovel
and Tool Co.)

Hartman, Dr. Olga (See Allan Han-
cock Foundation)

Hartzell, Dr. Albert (See Boyce
Thompson Institute for Plant Research,
Ine.)

Harvard University, Cambridge,

Mass.: Botanical Museum: 7 phanero-
gams (239483). Farlow Herbarium: 8
lichens from St. Helena Island (228945,
exchange). Geological Museum:
(Through Dr. Clifford Frondel) 11 min-
erals from various localities (241099,
exchange). Gray Herbarium: 567 ferns
collected in Costa Rica by Edith Scam-
man and in Peru by Dr. and Mrs. Rolla
M. Tryon, Jr., also 725 phanerogams,
98 grasses, and 50 ferns (226329, 236789,
exchanges). Museum of Comparative
Zoology: (Through Dr. Henry B. Bige-
low and Mrs. Myvanwy Dick) 8 fishes,
holotypes, collected by the U.S. Fish and
Wildlife Service (237939, exchange) ;
(through Dr. William J. Clench) 2384
fresh-water snails from Alabama and
Georgia; also 6,638 miscellaneous mol-
lusks (238880, 239288, 241678, ex-
changes); (through Dr. Hlisabeth
Deichmann) 2 invertebrate fossils from
the Indian Ocean and the Atlantic off
Cuba (236572); (through Dr. Howard
EH. Evans) 2 paratypes of wasps from
North America (289640) ; (through Dr.
Giles W. Mead) 11 illustrations of
skates and an eel (239780); (through
Dr. Raymond Paynter, Jr.) bird from
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Costa Rica (2883824, exchange). Pea-
body Museum of Archaeology and
Hthnology: (Through Dr. Samuel K.
Lothrop) 70 skeletons from Venado
Beach, Canal Zone, Panama (240808).

Harvey, Dr. O. L. (See Leopold, Alice
K.)

Harwood, Dr. Paul D., Ashland, Ohio:
52 fruit flies from North America
(240068).

Hasse, William F., Jr.. New Haven,
Conn.: 2 U.S. stampless covers of 1835
(240111). (See also First New Haven
National Bank)

Hatschbach, Dr. Gert, Parana, Bra-
zil: 882 phanerogams, 42 grasses, and
56 ferns from Brazil (285276, 236200,
236719, 237297, 237946, 238583, 239712,
239868, 241034, 241381).

Hatten, Charles W. (See Pan Ameri-
can Hispano Oil Co.)

Haverlin, Carl, New York, N.Y.:
“Wide Awake lantern” from the Lin-
coln campaign of 1860 (240719).

Haverschmidt, Dr. F., Paramaribo,
Dutch Guiana: 45 skulls of mammals
from Surinam (229593).

Hawaii, University of, Honolulu, Ha-
waii: (Through Dr. J. H. Alicata) 15
land snails from Tahiti (237612) ;
(through Dr. Sidney C. Hsiao) 3 amphi-
pods (238780); (through Dr. Alan
Lewis) 15 parasitic isopods (2387359).

Hawaii Department of Agriculture
and Conservation, Honolulu: (Through
©. J. Davis) 32 flies from Hawaii
(241571); (through Lyman Nichols)
wild boar from Hawaii (240758).

Hawkes, Robert B., Moscow, Idaho:
5 moths from Idaho (241173).

Hayes, Elsie, Franklin, N.C.: High
School diploma (237230).

Haynes, Kenneth D., Woodstock,
N.H.: Clay “T.D.” pipe and a razor
bearing the portrait of George Wash-
ington (240967).

Hazlett, B. A., College Park, Md.: 60
shrimps (235176).

Health, Education, and Welfare, U.S.
Department of, Washington, D.C.: Food
and Drug Administration: (Through
Robert Thompson) 25 fishes and 16 color
slides of commercial fishes from Cam-

143

peche Bank, Mexico (240446). Na-
tional Institutes of Health: (Through
Dr. Conrad EH. Yunker) 108 bats from
Panama (237118). Public Health
Service: (Through Dr. W. J. Jellison)
2 larvae of bot fly from sheep from Mon-
tana (238696) ; (through Dr. Conrad H.

Yunker) 471 lice from Panama
(238691). Rocky Mountain Labora-
tory: (Through Dr. Glen M. Kohls) 16
ticks, all paratypes, from Chile
(240061). (See also Smithsonian In-
stitution )

Healy, Mrs. Charles, Princeton, N.J.:
Glass custard dish, 2 buttons, a badge,
and an official program of Notification
Day Exercises at Clarksburg, W. Va.,
relating to donor’s father’s campaign
for Presidency (238744, 240906).

Healy, Dr. Mark F., Bethesda, Md.:
5 items associated with Col. Hlmer
Elisworth and the capture of Alex-
andria during the Civil War (240139).

Hebert, Brother Ephrem, Covington,
La.: 124 phanerogams from Louisiana
(287784) .

Heidelberg, University of, Heidel-
berg, Germany: (Through Prof. Paul
Ramdohr) specimen of the Kandahar,
Afghanistan meteorite (241866).

Heinmuller, John P. V., Estate of:
(Through Nathan §. Briskman) collec-
tion of 7,013 stamps (231790, bequest).

Heller, Carl Benno, MHeidenheim,
Brenz, Germany: 265 invertebrate fos-
sils from the Paleozoic and Mesozoic of
Germany (233356, exchange).

Heller, Dr. R. L. (See Minnesota, Uni-
versity of)

Helmcke, Dr. J. G., Berlin-Dahlem,
Germany: 4 recent brachiopods col-
lected by the Valdivia Expedition
(241158, exchange).

Henbest, Dr. Lloyd G., Washington,
D.C. : 7 photographic prints, a book, and
a film magazine (241725). (See also
Interior, U.S. Department of the)

Henckell, Herbert N. (See Alexander
County Coroner’s Office)

Henderson, E. P., Washington, D.C.:
Slice of Bonita Springs, Fla., meteorite
(237806).
144

Henderson, William A., Jr., Stamford,
Conn.: Chabazite from Newton, Conn.
(236774).

Heraldic Art, Cleveland, Ohio: Silver
medal commemorating the Kansas
statehood centennial, 1961 (238472).

Herbarium Bogoriense, Bogor, Indo-
nesia: 1,064 phanerogams, 4 ferns, and

grass from Indonesia (239593, ex-
change).
Herbarium Bradeanum, Rio de

Janeiro, Brazil: 115 grasses from
Brazil (235670).

Hermann, Dr. Frederick J., Adelphi,
Md.: 1,265 mosses from Hurope and the
U.S. (241492).

Hesky, Dr. M. G., Tel Aviv, Jaffa,
Israel: Presentation folder containing
14 mint stamps of Israel (236796).

Hess, Max, Allentown, Pa.: Water
pitcher from the Lehigh Valley Rail-
road (239071).

Hesselschwerdt, Prof. A. L., Jr. (See
Massachusetts Institute of Technology)

Heubach, William (See California,
State of)

Hewlett, Mrs. J. Monree, Washing-
ton, D.C.: Roman Republican denarius
struck by the moneyer lL. Plautius
Plancus in 47 B.C. (237891).

Hightower, Col. J. M., Alexandria,
Va.: 2 Japanese dolls (236912).

Higinbotham, George R. (See Moun-
taineer Coal Co.)

Hill, John A. (See Myers, W. T.)

Hill, Dr. K. G. (See Science Museum)

Hill, Mrs. Malcolm Westcott, Alex-
andria, Va.: 46 items of costume mate-
rial, household furnishings, and textiles
of the 19th century (235870).

Hill, Mr. and Mrs. Peter, Washington,
D.C.: Tape loom, probably early 18th
century (240632).

Hitchcock, Frank H., Estate of:
(Through Mrs. Hleanor M. Olson, Mrs.
Dorothy Mann Cordry, and Frederick
M. Mann, Jr.) silver trophy mailed as
first parcel-post package to the Honor-
able Frank H. Hitchcock, Jan. 1, 1913
(239311).

Hixenbaugh, Mrs. W. A., Cocoa Beach,
Fla.: Indian bust (240002).

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1962

Ho, Ju-Shey (See National Taiwan
University)

Hobbs, Dr. Horton H., Jr., Washing-
ton, D.C.: 3 crayfish, types (236498).

Hobson, Lilian Paget, Elmira, N.Y.:
Moiré dress of the late 19th century
(239206).

Hodge, Dr. Walter H., Chevy Chase,
Md.: 1,204 phanerogams from Dominica,
British West Indies (240532).

Hodges, Capt. Hugh L., Jr., Falls
Church, Va.: Officer’s frock coat and
jacket worn by donor during the Civil
War (240137).

Hoff, Dr. C. Clayton, Albuquerque,
N. Mex.: 244 pseudoscorpions from the
U.S., including 2 holotypes, 2 allotypes,
and 6 paratypes (2381389).

Hoffman, Eunice L., Bethesda, Md.:
Dress with matching purse, fan, and
mesh bag of 1911 (241081).

Hoffman, Dr. Richard L., Blacksburg,
Va.: 178 centipedes, millipedes, and
harvestmen, including a holotype and
3 paratypes, from Hurope and the U.S.
(238674, 239911, 241287).

Holbrook, L. W. (See Devore, Mrs.
Daniel B.)

Holsinger, John R., Alexandria, Va.:
8 isopods and 1 amphipod (230763,
233000).

Holst, Donald W., Washington, D.C.:
Safe conduct pass of World War II
(241425).

Holt, Alfred H. (See Spalding, Fran-
cis O.)

Holt, Donald R. (See Spalding, Fran-
cis O.)

Holt, Jeannette, R. (See Spalding,
Francis O.)

Holt, McPherson
Francis O.)

Holthuis, Dr. L. B., Leiden, Nether-
lands: Isopod, 112 amphipods, and 6
horseshoe crabs (230237, 235125,
236395).

Holtzclaw, Henry J. (See Treasury,
U.S. Department of the)

Homan, B. H., New York, N.Y.: 1,025
La Guaira stamps (240340).

Hong Kong, University of, Hong
Kong: Museum of Chinese Art and Ar-

(See Spalding,
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

cheology: (Through Mary Tregear) 26
archeological items from Hong Kong
(241858).

Hood, James R., N. Chattanooga,
Tenn.: 84 land snails from Texas and
49 marine gastropods from Solomon Is-
land and the Bismarck Archipelago
(210183, 210197).

Hoogiand, Dr. R. D. (See Australia,
Government of)

Hoogstraal, Dr. Harry (See Defense,
U.S. Department of)

Hopfinger, John, Brewster, Wash.:
36 butterflies from Washington (238703,
exchange).

Hopkins, Stephen (See District of
Columbia Public Schools)

Hosea, Mrs. Harold R., Chevy Chase,
Md.: Embroidered fabric sample, 17th
century (241442).

Hoskins, Donald M. (See Pennsyl-
vania Geological Survey)

Hotchkiss, Grosvenor (See Western
Union Telegraph Co.)

Hotchkiss, Mrs. Stewart R., Redlands,
Calif.: 58 items of costume, 1789-1890
(238320).

Houston, Dr. Charles O., Jr., Wash-
ington, D.C.: 11 Japanese notes issued
for the Philippines; war ration book,
shoe purchase certificate, a gasoline
purchase permit issued by the U.S., port-
folio containing 34 pictorial prints, and
19 items from northern Philippines
(287894, 238735, 241251).

Houston, Floyd D., New Suffolk, L.I.,
N.Y.: Model of Confederate submarine
torpedo boat, H. L. Hunley, constructed
by donor (241878).

Howard, E. A., Washington, D.C.:
Television set (237350).

Howard, Mrs. Faye B., Pacific
Palisades, Calif.: 18 marine mollusks
from Baja California, Mexico (233165).

Howard, Hugh (address unknown) :
42 meteorites (237753).

Howard, Col. John K., and Robins,
Dr. C. Richard, Miami, Fla.: Spearfish
from off the coast of Punta S. Raineri,
Sicily (238204).

Howard, T. Brooke (See Rotchford,
Miriam Blanche)

Howe, Alice H., Arlington, Va.: Upper

145

molar of dog from the Miocene of
Chesapeake Beach, Md. (236923).

Howgate, Ida (deceased) : (Through
Alex McC. Ashley) pair of blue vases
with handles (241790, bequest).

Howland, David, Falls Church, Va.:
2 apophyllites from Arlington Quarry,
Loudoun Co., Va. (239267).

Howland, Dr. Richard H., Washing-
ton, D.C.: Silver sipper, ca. 1800; bill
for sale of hardware, ca. 1750; stere-
optican views; roach trap; and a corn
seraper (237035) ; man’s hat stretcher
of 1885 (2387082) ; knife owned by Hon.
Charles Sumner, Cleveland and Thur-
man campaign cap, and 2 items from the
1957 Inaugural Ball (237596); medal
commemorating Centennial of American
Independence, 1776-1876 (239008) ; 188
miscellaneous U.S. and foreign covers
bearing stamps and meter impressions
(240128). (See also Watkins, C.
Malcolm)

Hoynes, G. S., Seattle, Wash.: Silici-
fied fern stem from the Tertiary of
Hugene, Oreg. (238115).

Hoyte, Dr. H. M. D., Brisbane, Austra-
lia; Slide of a blood parasite, cotype,
from cattle of Australia (239786).

Hsiao, Dr. Sidney C. (See Hawaii,
University of)

Hubbard, Mrs. Robert A., Philadel-
phia, Pa.: Lincoln transparency prob-
ably from the 1860 campaign (238747).

Hubbs, Dr. Carl L. (See Andrews, Dr.
HE. Wyilys, and Seripps Institution of
Oceanography)

Hubricht, Leslie, Atlanta, Ga.: 3 land
mollusks, 4 salamanders, and 2 lots of
invertebrates from Alabama and
Georgia, also 10 isopods and a cray-
fish (237188, 237989).

Hudson, Lawrence S., East Setauket,
N.Y.: Plate bearing likeness of Mrs.
Jacqueline Kennedy (236613).

Hudson, R. H., Coventry, England: 3
microscope slides of wood (234966, ex-
change).

Huff, C. W., Jr., Richmond, Va.: 7
fossils from the Miocene of Virginia
(238060).

Huff, Clay G., Bethesda, Md.: 2 phan-
erogams from South Carolina (237739).
146

Huggins, Dr. Ernest J. (See Self, Dr.
J. Teague)

Hughes, Mrs. Gerald, Denver, Colo.:
25 Colonial, Continental, and State bank
notes and 128 U.S. and foreign gold, sil-
ver, and copper coins (239346).

Hughes, Mrs. Helen, Washington,
D.C.: Big brown bat from the District
of Columbia (240069).

Hulings, Dr. Neil (See Texas Chris-
tian University)

Hultén, Dr. Eric, Stockholm, Sweden:
957 phanerogams, 107 grasses, and 38
ferns from Alaska collected by donor
(240977).

Humes, Pr. Arthur G., Boston, Mass. :
1,461 copepods (237804).

Humiston, Lee E., China Lake, Calif. :
9 pieces of naturally-etched obsidian
from Coso Hot Springs, Inyo Co., Calif.
(241659).

Hungerford, Dr. H. B. (See Kansas,
University of)

Hunt, Joe, Washington, D.C.: Metal
scale model of a trailer truck used to
haul mail (241840).

Hunt, William, Valley Forge, Pa.:
Ajoite from New Cornelia Mine, Ajo,
Ariz. (238107, exchange).

Hunter, Dr. Preston E., Athens, Ga.:
7 mites, including paratypes, allotype,
and 2 holotypes, from North America
(229916).

Hiirlimann, Dr. Hans, Basle, Switzer-
land: 18 phanerogams from Tonga
(237564). (See also Smithsonian In-
stitution)

Hutchins, Mrs. Will, Washington,
D.C. : 2,000 slides of bryozoans (237783).

Hutchinson, Helen, Bethel, Del.:
(Through Saral Teilhet) 2 sashes from

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM

the “Woman Suffrage movement’
(240195).

Hutchison, Paul C. (See California,
University of)

Huttleston, Dr. Donald G. (See Long-
wood Gardens)

Hutto, Prof. T. A. (See Eastern Ken-
tucky State College)

Hutton, Dr. Robert F. (See Florida
State Board of Conservation)

Huyck, Edmund Niles (See Preserve,
The)

ANNUAL REPORT, 1962

Idaho, University of, Moscow, Idaho:
Grass from Idaho collected by Prof.
William H. Baker (238719).

Illg, Dr. Paul L., Seattle, Wash.: 22
eopepods (230919).

Illinois, University ef, Urbana, IIl.:
(Through Dean W. L. Everitt) Kerst
betatron (233629) ; (through Dr. G. Ne-
ville Jones) 4,637 woods comprising the
Archie F. Wilson wood collection
(234802, exchange). College of Den-
tistry: (Through Prof. Allan G. Brodie)
271 items comprising the Edward H.
Angle collection and personal memo-
rabilia (238391).

IHinois State Museum, Springfield,
Mll.: Grass from Illinois (238720).

Imperial College of Tropical Agricul-
ture, Port-of-Spain, Trinidad, B.W.L.:
(Through Dr. W. D. Richardson) 37
phanerogams, 3 grasses, and 1 fern
(237944, exchange).

India, Government of: Forest Re-
search Institute: (Through K. Ramesh
Rao) 92 wood specimens from India
(236678, exchange). Geological Sur-
vey: (Through P. B. Banerjii) 8 mete-
orites from India (238567, exchange).
Ministry of Scientific Research and
Cultural Affairs: 292 ethnological speci-
mens from India (240189). Indian In-
stitute of Technology: (Through Dr.
T. OC. Bagchi) 5 Foraminifera from the
Eocene of Garo Hills, Assam (235490,
exchange).

Ingersoli-Rand Co., New York, N.Y.:
(Through M. L. McCormack) 6 rare
mining machines (241802).

Ingle, H. D. (See Australia, Govern-
ment of)

Ingraham, Edward, Bristol, Conn.: 7
watches (236660).

Institut de Parasitologie, Strasbourg,
France: (Through Dr. Michel Kremer)
40 sand flies from France (238875, ex-
change).

Institut Franeais d’Afrique Noire,
Dakar, Sénégal, Africa: (Through Dr.
I. Marche-Marchad) marine mollusk
from West Africa (239497).

Institut Royal des Sciences Natur-
elles de Belgique, Brussels, Belgium:
(Through Dr. Paul Sartenaer) 7 brachi-
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

opods from the Devonian of New York
(240260) ; (through Dr. R. Van Tassel)
ecrandallite from Blaton, Belgium
(234423, exchange).

Institute of Ethnology, Nankang, Tai-
pei, Taiwan, China: (Through Prof.
Shun-sheng Ling) 36 musical instru-
ments (236758, exchange).

Institute of Jamaica, Kingston, Ja-
maica: (Through Thomas H. Farr) 24
beetles, including paratypes, from Ja-
maica (238820, 241675). Science Mu-
seum: 187 phanerogams and 16 ferns
from the Lesser Antilles and Jamaica
(2373851, exchange).

Institute of Marine Science, Port Ar-
ansas, Tex.: (Through Frank J. Little,
Jr.) 4sponges (238784).

Instituto Agrondmico do Estado,
Campinas, Sao Paulo, Brazil: Grass
from Brazil (240730).

Instituto Agrondémico do Norte, Be-
lém, Para, Brazil: (Through Dr. J. M.
Pires) 60 phanerogams from Brazil
(238775).

Instituto Agronémico do Sul, Pelotas,
Brazil: (Through Dr. José da Costa
Sacco) 8 phanerogams (203813).

Instituto de Biologia, Mexico, D. F.:
Phanerogam from Mexico (238718).

Instituto de Botanica, Sao Paulo,
Brazil: 971 phanerogams, 137 grasses,
59 ferns, and 14 woods mostly from
Brazil (236806, 237945, 241861).

Instituto de Botanica Agricola, Bue-
nos Aires, Argentina: Grass and 4
phanerogams (237625).

Instituto de Botanica Darwinion, San
Isidro, Argentina: 27 phanerogams and
3 ferns (240298, exchange) ; (through
Dr. Arturo Burkart) phanerogam
(237948, exchange).

Instituto de Ciencias Naturales, Bo-
gota, Colombia: 79 phanerogams from
Colombia (240297, exchange) ; 8 phan-
erogams from Colombia (240599) ;
(through Maria Teresa Murillo) 4ferns
from Colombia (237108, 238379).

Instituto de Histéria Natural, Curi-
tiba, Parané, Brazil: 176 phanerogams,
5 grasses, and a fern from Brazil
(235671, 239847).

Instituto Nacional de Investigaciones

147

Forestales, Coyoacin, Mexico, D. F.:

(Through Ing. Jestiis Vazquez Soto) 2
plants, wood, and a phanerogam

(240887, exchange).

Instituto Nacional de Microbiolcgia,
Buenos Aires, Argentina: (Through Dr.
Eduardo Del Ponte) 146 mosquitoes
from Argentina (237977, exchange).

Instituto Oswaldo Cruz, Rio de Ja-
neiro, Guanabara, Brazil: 126 phanero-
gams and 4 grasses from Brazil (235171,
240619).

Instituto Tecnologico de Veracruz,
Veracruz, Mexico: (Through Humberto
Chavez) 2 fishes, paratypes, from
Mexico (239485).

Inter-American Tropical Tuna Com-
mission, La Jolla, Calif.: (Through Dr.
W. L. Klawe) 2 shrimps, marine mol-
lusks, and spinner porpoise (236432,
238646, 239953) .

Inter-Governmental Philatelic Corp.,
New York, N.Y.: 30 mint postage stamps
of Ghana and Nigeria (239918) ;
(through Manfred R. Lehmann) 48
Hammarskjold stamps of Surinam
(240125).

Interior, U.S. Department of the,
Washington, D.C.: Bureau of Mines:
(Through Dr. Lester G. Morrell) 2 fos-
sil woods from Antarctica (237224) ;
(through William Rachunis) mining
drill (240082) ; (through Dr. Earle P.
Shoub) coal and photomicrographs of
coal sections (236948). Fish and Wild-
life Service: 25 phanerogams from
Mexico and the U.S. and 2 grasses from
Texas (286591, 289002); 4 bird skins
from Oregon (237865, exchange) ;
(through Dr. Hilbert H. Ahlstrom) 229
fishes from the Pacific (238948) ;
(through William W. Anderson) 5 eels,
including 2 holotypes and 3 paratypes,
from western Atlantic, 6 fishes collected
by the Silver Bay, and paratypes of a
fish from the Gulf of Mexico (222278,
237867, 240844); (through Frederick
H. Berry) 22 amphipods (236480) ;
(through Harvey R. Bullis, Jr.) 2
fishes, including type and paratype of
a new species, collected by the Silver
Bay (236188); (through Harvey R.
Bullis, Jr., and Dr. Daniel M. Cohen)
148

5,126 fishes, including 4,868 larval
forms, and 1,016 crustaceans (236241) ;
(through John R. Clark and Dr. Victor
G. Springer) 6 fishes, including 5 sharks
and a Remora from New Jersey
(237497); (through Dr. Daniel M.
Cohen) 20 amphipods, 8 fishes, and 2
mollusks (286450, 237578); (through
Eugene Cypert) 3 frogs, 1 lizard, and
fishes from Okefenokee Swamp, Ware
Co., Ga. (288946) ; (through George F.
Kelly and Dr. Daniel M. Cohen) 8 bery-
eoid fishes (238410) ; (through Hugene
Kridler) purple finch from Oregon
(241047, exchange); (through Mrs.
Roxie C. Laybourne) 419 birds skins,
47 skeletons, 1 alcoholic, and 10 eggs
(241918); (through Dr. Richard H.
Manville) 269 mammals (241856) ;
(through Dr. Ernest D. McRae) 7
shrimps (237508) ; (through Arthur S.
Merrill) lot of hydroids and 34 marine
mollusks from off Maryland and
Georgia (237916, 238288); (through
R. T. Mitchell) type, allotype, and 6
paratypes of flies from Maryland
(241290) ; (through Clarence F.
Pautzke) die proof and 30 Migratory
Bird Hunting stamps (237340) ;
(through James G. Ragan) 13 fishes
from the northwestern Gulf of Mexico
(240503); (through Dr. Albert EK.
Sparks) 164 sea anemones (234238) ;
(through Dr. Donald W. Strasburg) 9
fishes from the Marshall Islands
(238201) ; (through Dr. Paul J. Struh-
saker) part of egg mass in gelatinous
veil, 5 sharks from off northern Flor-
ida, and 6 marine invertebrates
(235591, 236182) ; (through Dr. James
EK. Sykes) 2 sponge crabs (221253) ;
(through Michio Takata) 7 sharks
from Hawaii (239444); (through Nor-
man Tebble) 144 polychaete and 3
chaetognath worms (237663) ; (through
Carl F. Wall) 9 electric eels from the
Amazon River, Brazil (240276) ;
(through Dr. R. R. Whitney) 4 por-
poises (239292); (through Dr. Roland
L. Wigley) 8 marine mollusks from
Georges Bank, off Massachusetts, and 5
copepods (2165038, 230716). Geological
Survey: 952 phanerogams, 61 grasses,

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1962

and 72 ferns from Alaska collected by
Dr. Hansford T. Shacklette; fossil
turtle from Bearpaw Mountains, Mont.;
22 fossil corals, holotypes and para-
types from northern Maine and the
Lower Devonian of New York, 276
phanerogams, 28 grasses, 15 ferns, and
a eryptogam from Pacific Islands ecol-
lected by Dr. &. R. Fosberg; and 3
minerals from Inyo Co., Calif. (286755,
238866, 239113, 239184, 240249) ;
(through Dr. Arthur A. Baker) 9 echi-
noids from Colorado and New Mexico,
56 marine invertebrates from western
Tennessee, 118 ammonites, types, from
Alaska, 7 chiton plates, 50 invertebrate
fossils from Montana, and 95 Foraminif-
era, including types, from the Tertiary
of Georgia and various Paleozoic locali-
ties (236927, 239110, 239781) ; (through
Dr. Richard S. Boardman) 35,600 bryo-
zoans and stromatoporoids from New
York State, West Virginia, and the
Middle Ordovician of Tennessee and
southern Virginia collected by Dr.
Boardman, 1952-58 (237744) ; (through
Dr. Preston HE. Cloud, Jr.) 28 miscellane-
ous fishes from Gilbert Islands, also a
sponge, coral, and a_ brachiopod
(241349) ; (through Dr. J. T. Dutro)
approximately 40,000 conodonts, includ-
ing types (239108); (through G. Don-
ald Eberlein) 12 brachiopods from the
inland waterways of southeastern
Alaska (241864); (through Dr. F. R.
Fosberg) 273 phanerogams and 46
ferns from Melanesia collected by Dr.
Fosberg (236592); (through Lloyd G.
Henbest) 186 thin sections and 156
samples of Foraminifera from the
Paleozoic of various localities (237660,
237740, 237743) ; (through Dr. Sergius
H. Mamay) 2 counterparts of holotype
of a fossil crustacean from the Per-
mian of Texas and an insect from the
Pennsylvanian of Williams Co., Ga.
(237116, 240732) ; (through Dr. Sergius
Mamay, Dr. Walter W. Dalquest, and
Walcott Fund) fossil amphibian ma-
terial from Texas (241862); (through
Dr. ©. W. Merriam) 168 cephalopods,
mostly goniatites, from the Middle and
Upper Devonian of Moroceo (239441) ;
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

(through Robert B. Neuman) 26 euryp-
terid remains from Keefer sandstone,
Maryland, and 2 fossil worm trails
from Grand Pitch formation, Maine
(236926, 240256) ; (through Dr. Thomas
B. Nolan) neighborite from the Eocene
Green River formation, South Ourey,
Utah (238531); (through Dr. W. A.
Oliver) 12 fossil algae from Montana
(235717) ; (through Dr. A. R. Palmer)
141 invertebrate fossils from various
localities (240259) ; (through Dr. Reu-
ben J. Ross, Jr.) 12 fossil arthropods
from Nevada and 42 crustaceans from
the Ordovician of Idaho (240253,
241570); (through W. J. Sando) 53
corals from the Mississippian of Mon-
tana and Utah (239111); (through
James M. Schopf) 4 fossil plants from
Mt. Glossopteris, Antarctica (240255) ;
(through Dr. Brian J. Skinner) wurtz-
ite and 2 fluorites from Bohemia and
Colorado (240038) ; (through Dr. I. G.
Sohn) 7 slides containing ostracode
types (239114); (through Drs. F. M.
Swain, Jr., and I. G. Sohn) 146 ostra-
codes from the Pleistocene of Northern
Alaska, and 10 slides of ostracode types
(240537); (through Ruth Todd) 36
samples of raw materials containing
Foraminifera from various localities
(239235, 240766) ; (through Dr. Frank
C. Whitmore, Jr.) 2 fossil fish teeth
from the Cretacecus of Montana, an in-
complete fish in slab from Horse Creek
Valley, Hureka Co., Nev., 3 specimens of
vertebrate fossils from the Miocene of
Maryland, skeletal remains of a rhinoc-
eros from the Pleistocene of Kuzuf for-
mation, Japan, and tibia of a bison
from the Pleistocene of Glennallen,
Alaska (236924, 238110, 241657, 241658,
241660) ; (through Dr. Hillis L. Yochel-
son) 100 mollusks from Portersville
formation, Portersville, Ohio, 25 inver-
tebrate fossils from the Ordovician of
Thailand, 62 invertebrate fossils, topo-
types, with 9 plaster casts, and 5
sponges (237115, 237117, 239112);
(through Dr. Sergius H. Mamay, Dr.
Walter W. Dalquest, and Walcott
Fund) fossil amphibian material from
Texas (241862). National Park Serv-

658794— 62 11

149

ice: Diamond ring (289229) ; (through
Newell EF. Joyner) mining surveyor’s
tape (241450, exchange).

International Business Machines
Corp. New York, N.Y.: (Through
Edmund Bowles) documents, manu-
scripts, and letters pertaining to elec-
tricity from the Hammer collection,
also phonograph records, medals, and
radium sample (2388525); (through
T. D. Jones) 24 pieces of Peruvian tex-
tiles (288623); (through Chris Van
Groesbeck) 4 photomicrographic prints
by Dr. Roman Vishniac (241888).

International Import Co. Forest
Park, Ga.: (Through George A. Bruce)
quartz cabochon from Brazil (240045).

International Silver Co., Meriden,
Conn.: (Through EH. 8. Wilson) clip-
ping press, rolling mill, group of tools
and parts, and an engine-turning ma-
chine (239319).

Isaacson, Mr. and Mrs. L. E., Pitts-
ford, N.Y.: Treadle sewing machine,
19th century (241094).

Isham, Lawrence B., Washington,
D.C.: 4 U.S. meter impressions, and 4
foreign covers bearing postage stamps
and meter impressions (240337).

Ishida, Capt. Suteo (See Suiko Kai
Association)

Ishpeming Rock & Mineral Club,
Ishpeming, Mich.: (Through Mrs. C. R.
Markert) kona dolomite from Michigan
(235852).

Island Creek Coal Co., Holden, W.
Va.: (Through N. T. Camicia) quartz
erystals, trip lamp, 2 track adzes, needle
for shooting black powder in coal mines,
and a fossil plant (239768).

Islas S., Dr. F., Mexico, D. F.: 10
scarab beetles from Mexico (240675).

Israel, State of, Haifa, Israel, Sea
Fisheries Research Station: (Through
Dr. Adam Ben-Tuvia) 6 sharks from
the Red Sea and the Mediterranean Sea
(236318, exchange).

Istituto Botanico, Firenze, Italy : 160
phanerogams and 140 grasses from
Africa (239644, exchange).

Italy, Government of: Italian Mint:
2 silver 500-lire pieces struck in com-
memoration of the centenary of Italian
150

unification, 1961, and 4 medals pro-
duced by the Italian Mint (2389347,
240099).

Jackson,
Thomas)

Jackson, Thomas and Daniel, Wash-
ington, D.C.: Engine order telegraph
from the U.S.8S. Wichita, World War II
(241886).

Jacob, C. Albert, Jr., Chestertown,
N.Y.: 3 cardboard tokens issued during
the Civil War by Mathews and Bros. of
New York (237588).

Jacobs, Madelyn E., Washington,
D.C.: 545 miscellaneous mint and used
foreign postage stamps (240741, 241111,
241183).

Jacobson, Morris K., Rockaway
Beach, N.Y.: 12 marine mollusks from
New York (238981).

Jago, John B., San Francisco, Calif.:
10 minerals (237750, exchange).

James, Dr. Maurice T., Pullman,
Wash.: 7 soldier flies from the Pacific
regions and Mexico, and a small moth
from North America (238145, 239124).

Janin, Andre Charles, Washington,
D.C.: Model of engine and boiler, ca.
1902 (287908).

Japan, Government of: Forest Exper-
iment Station: (Through Syoji Sudo)
125 wood specimens (236957, exchange).

Jardim Botanico do Rio de Janeiro,
Brazil: (Through Dr. Dardano de A.
Lima) 385 phanerogams (237254, ex-
change).

Jardim e Museu Agricola do Ultra-
mar, Belém-Lisboa, Portugal: (Through
Dr. J. D. Sampaio d’Orey) 6 wood speci-
mens (236738, exchange).

Jeffrey Manufacturing Co., Columbus,
Ohio: 2 original Jeffrey cutters
(237319).

Jellison, Dr. W. J. (See Health, Hdu-
cation, and Welfare, U.S. Department
of)

JENA’ Glaswerk Schott & Gen.,
Mainz, Germany: (Through TJFish-
Schurman Corp.) 3 interference filters
and a block of optical glass (240150).

Jenkins, Nettie R., San Diego, Calif. :
Double-woven jacquard coverlet
(239334).

Daniel (See Jackson,

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1962

Jennings, A., Fiji Islands: 14 marine
mollusks from Nadi Bay, Viti Levu,
Fiji Islands (241376).

Jensen, David E. (See Ward’s Nat-
ural Science Establishment, Inc.)

Jess, William H. (See Bethlehem
Steel Co.)

Jessen, Dr. L. T. (See Corn States
Laboratories, Inc.)

Jiménez, Dr. H. Adolfo (See Colegio
“La Salle’)

Jiménez, Dr. José de Js., Santiago
de Los Caballeros, Dominican Repub-
lic: 99 phanerogams, 10 grasses, and
1 fern from the Dominican Republic
(237566, 239185, 240731).

John Patrick & Son, Berkeley, Calif. :
2 minerals from the Union of South
Africa and Japan (237483, exchange).

Johns Hopkins University, Balti-
more, Md.: (Through Richard S. Peter-
son) 6 mammals from St. Paul Island,
Alaska (241720).

Johnsen, Carl A., Denver, Colo.: 33
miscellaneous mint and used postage
stamps of Denver (239009).

Johnson, Dr. Carl M. (See Gorgas
Memorial Laboratory)

Johnson, Dr. David H., Washington,
D.C. : 120 mammals, 3 reptiles and am-
phibians from Canada and the U.S.
(238580, 241510).

Johnson, Adm. Jesse G., Norfolk, Va.:
4 panes reprinted from a plate of the
altered 2-cent Confederate States of
America stamp (239929).

Johnson, Norman EF.
haeuser Co.)

Johnson, Dr. Phyllis T., Balboa
Heights, Canal Zone: 19 fleas from
Panama (238689). (See also Gorgas
Memorial Laboratory)

Johnson, Sarah C., Silver Spring,
Md.: Cobbler’s iron jacks with stands
(241804).

Johnson, T. E. (See Northern West
Virginia Coal Assoc.)

Jon Weber Manufactory, Cleveland,
Ohio: Political dice games (235767).

Jones, Eleanor K., and Brennan, Dr.
James, Hamilton, Mont.: 27 ticks, para-
types, from Panama (238653).

(See Weyer-
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Jones, Dr. G. Neville (See Illinois,
University of)

Jones, Mrs. Harvy L. M., Washing-
ton, D.C.: Sofa-bed (2388370).

Jones, Dr. Joseph, Jr., Raleigh, N.C.:
Holotype and paratype of mites from
southeastern U.S. (241572).

Jones, R. H., Mt. Savage, Md.: Cross-
section of one of the original rails
drawn at the Mt. Savage mills
(236947).

Jones, Prof. R. V. (See Aberdeen,
University of)

Jones, Dr. S. (See Central Marine
Fisheries Research Institute)

Jones, Samuel B., Jr. (See Auburn
University )

Jones, T. D. (See International Busi-
ness Machines Corp.)

Jones, Hon. Walter B., Montgomery,
Ala.: 3 Confederate General staff and
Field Officer’s buttons (240028).

Jones & Laughlin Steel Corp., Pitts-
burgh, Pa.: (Through W. P. Getty) 4
nails from the Roman Site at Inchtut-
hil, Scotland (241726).

Jordan, Hashemite Kingdom of, Am-
man, Jordan: Cast of South Arabian
clay stamp from Beitin, Jordan
(238964).

Jordan, Mrs. Syd C., Memphis, Tenn. :
92 mollusks from the Upper Cretaceous
of Ripley formation, McNairy Co., Tenn.
(240993).

Joslin, Edmund J., Berlin, Mass.: 52
artifacts relating to rural free delivery
service (236649).

Josselson, Joseph, New York, N.Y.:
Free frank cover from Mexican Consu-
late, Kansas City, Mo. (239655).

Joy Manufacturing Co., Claremont,
N.H., and Pittsburgh, Pa.: (Through
Frederick Harrigan) Sullivan drill
(239010) ; (through J. D. A. Morrow)
Troller axial flow propeller section
(239332).

Joyner, Newell F. (See Interior, U.S.
Department of the)

Judson L. Thomson Mfg. Co., Wal-
tham, Mass.: (Through Sidney Greene)
bifurcated rivet attaching machine and
small trunk (240083).

151

Julius Roehrs Co., East Rutherford,
N.J.: Cultivated fern (235520).

Jux, Dr. Ulrich (See Geologisches In-
stitut der Universitit Koln)

Kabata, Dr. Z. (See Marine Labora-
tory)

Kaicher, Mrs. John J., Tampa, Fla.:
47 marine mollusks from Florida
(224296, exchange); 16 marine mol-
lusks from the Philippines and Nether-
lands New Guinea (228205).

Kainen, Jacob, Washington, D.C.:
Etching, A Village, by Marco Ricci and
a line engraving, Venus and Cupid Re-
ceiving Gifts, by Jan Muller and A. B.
Spranger ; print of Tickhill castle, York-
shire; 3 etchings and a chiaroscuro
print of the 16th, 17th, and 18th cen-
turies (2387231, 239365, 240075).

Kamp, J. W., Redding, Calif.: 3 ice
bugs from California (241295).

Kanehira, Dr. Keiichiro (See Tokyo,
University of)

Kansas, University of, Lawrence,
Kans.: (Through Dr. Frank B. Cross)
10 fishes, paratypes, from Arkansas
(238947) ; (through Dr. H. B. Hunger-
ford) 2 water striders, paratypes, from
Asia (233914, exchange) ; (through Dr.
C. D. Michener) 9 bees, paratypes, from
South America (238088).

Kansas State University, Manhattan,
Kans.: (Through Dr. C. L. Kramer) 2
lichens from Mexico (228831).

Kanturek, Joseph B., Flushing, N.Y.:
2 souvenir sheetlets with first-day can-
cellations of U.S. Sun Yat-Sen com-
memorative stamp and U.S. 8-cent reg-
ular Pershing stamp (240114).

Kaplan, Mrs. Leonard (See Rubinton,
Col. Samuel)

Kardos, Ervin, Los Angeles, Calif. :
48 chiggers, including 2 holotypes and
30 paratypes, from the Far Hast
(238668).

Karo, Rear Adm. H. Arnold (See
Commerce, U.S. Department of)

Karp, Louis R., Louisville, Ky. : Silver
and 2 bronze medals issued by the Ken-
tucky State Numismatie Association
commemorating the Civil War centen-
nial and the State of Kentucky
(240907).
152

Kaye, Dr. Kenneth W. (See Defense,
U.S. Department of)

Keally, Mrs. Mildred Taber, New
York, N.Y.: Jade wine pourer (239404).

Kee, James, Cambridge, Mass.: 5 fos-
sil echinoids from the Silurian of Ten-
nessee (237118).

Keezell, Lt. Nathaniel H., Jr., Wright-
Patterson A. EF. Base, Ohio: 29 Air
Force Academy uniforms and acces-

sories worn by donor from 1955-59
(239759).

Kehm, Col. H. D. (See First Manassas
Corp.)

Keith, Bernard, Detroit, Mich.: 750
invertebrate fossils from the Devonian
of Northeastern Ohio (2373808).

Kelleher, James F. (See Post Office
Department)

Kellen, Dr. W. R., Fresno, Calif.: 211
biting midges, including holotypes, allo-
types, and paratypes, from California
and Samoa (238138, 238146).

Kellogg, Dr. Remington, Washington,
D.C.: 54 miscellaneous used foreign
postage stamps and covers (240129).

Kelly, George F. (See Interior, U.S.
Department of the)

Kelly, Kenneth L., Bethesda, Md.: 45
textile and costume items, including
wedding clothing from 1906 (241348).

Kemble, Mrs. Caroline H., Claremont,
Calif.: Quaker dress and bonnet and
ehild’s dress of the 19th century
(2387083) .

Kempf, Father Walter W., Sio Paulo,
Brazil: 64 ants from South America
(240066, exchange).

Kennedy, Fred C., Rochester, Minn.:
Emerald crystal from Muzo, Colombia,
176.66 carats (240658).

Kennedy, Harry D., Bishop, Calif.:
37 caddis-fly larvae from California
(240813).

Kennedy, President John F., Wash-
ington, D.C.: Leopard skin from Nigeria
(237016).

Kennedy, Mrs. Joseph P., New York,
N.Y.: Dress worn by Mrs. Joseph Ken-
nedy when she was presented at Court
when her husband was Ambassador to
Great Britain and again at the Inaugu-

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1962

ral Ball of her son, President John F.
Kennedy (286610).

Kentucky, University of, Lexington,
Ky.: 28,855 treehoppers comprising the
W. D. Funkhauser collection (237824).

Kessel, Dr. Edward L., San Francisco,
Calif. : 1,000 biting midges from Canada
(238702).

Kestner, Floyd B., Washington, D.C.:
4 pieces of photographic equipment
(240291).

Keur, Dr. Dorothy (See Keur, Dr.
John)

Keur, Drs. John and Dorothy, New
York, N.Y.: 77 archeological items from
the Netherlands Antilles (240033).

Kidwell, V., Silver Spring, Md.: Fish
fronr off Point Lookout, Md. (239480).

Kieffer, Joseph (See Scheller, Irving)

Kiln Club of Washington, The, Wash-
ington, D.C.: 12 bowls, 4 bottles, vase,
jug, sculpture, tureen, ceramic cat,
chess set (241794) ; (through Ralph R.
Fast) stoneware plate designed and
produced by Toshika Takaezu (239333).

Kimble Glass Co., Vineland, N.J.:
(Through J. J. Moran) 6 reproductions
of 17th-century glassware (230796).

King, Marian, Washington, D.C.: Pair
of slippers and portions of a wedding
dress of about 1900 (238835).

King, Mrs. Milton W. (See Sanders,
Siegfried )

King, Robert M. (See Texas, Univer-
sity of)

Kinghorne, Mrs. Edna, Washington,
D.C.: 4 valentines and a portion of a
newspaper of the 19th century (237274).

Kingslake, Dr. R., Rochester, N.Y.: 5
Hastman Kodak lenses mounted in shut-
ters (238988).

Kinzer, Dr. G. D., Washington, D.C.:
81 miscellaneous insects from Montana
(238182).

Kisch, Dr. Bruno, Brooklyn, N.Y.: 8
weights (239022).

Kiser, Dr. James V. L., McLean, Va:.
4 mollusks from Michelmas Reef, North
Queensland, Australia (240549).

Kissinger, Dr. David G. (See Atlantic
Union College)

Klapthor, Frank (See Atkins, Mrs.
Harriet Ann)
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Klawe, Dr. W. L. (See Inter-American
Tropical Tuna Commission and Scripps
Institution of Oceanography)

Klein, Mrs. Allen J., Dallas, Tex.:
Child’s water fountain, Swiss pewter
Brunkessi (236783).

Klein, George, Vincennes, Ind.: 3 U.S.
precanceled stamps bearing the “Cin-
cinnati, Oiho” error (236795).

Kler, Dr. Joseph H., New Brunswick,
N.J.: 634 Rotary International com-
memorative postage stamps (237518).

Kling Photo Corp., New York, N.Y.:
(Through Kurt W. Luhn) Minox trans-
parent camera and a display case with
complete exploded Minox camera as-
sembly (241889).

Klinger, Robert L., Washington, D.C.:
2 political bombs (238745).

Klots, Dr. Alexander B., New York,
N.Y.: 2 small moths from North Amer-
ica (238122).

Knez, Dr. Eugene I., Washington,
D.C.: Coral poi pounder from Saipan
and a pottery head (236917, 239907).

Knobloch, Prof. Irving (See Michigan
State University)

Knowles, James Adams, Jr., Balti-
more, Md.: 98 letters and documents
that belonged to donor’s great grand-
father, ca. 1847-67, 2 certificates of
appointment as First and Second Asst.
Engineer, ca. 1851-53 (240141).

Knowlton, Dr. George F., Logan,
Utah: 46 aphids, including 11 holotypes,
2 cotypes, and 17 paratypes from the
U.S., and 2 scarab beetles from Utah
(238648, 238704, 240273, 240735).

Knull, Dr. J. N., Columbus, Ohio: 46
scarab beetles from southwestern U.S.
(240843).

Kobayashi, Dr. Teiichi (See Tokyo,
University of)

Kocher, Mrs. Eric, Amman, Jordan:
57 miscellaneous insects from Jordan
(238677).

Koehler Manufacturing Co., Marl-
boro, Mass.: (Through W. S. Field) 18
safety lamps (236603).

Kohls, Dr. Glen M. (See Health, Edu-
eation, and Welfare, U.S. Department
of)

Komarek, E. V., Thomasville, Ga.: 55

153

mammals from eastern Canada and 13
loaves of Indian bread from southwest-
ern U.S. (241764).

Kooken, Olive, Union City, N.J.: 35
costumes of Minnie Maddern Fiske,
paintings, posters, and photographs of
Mrs. Fiske (234377).

-Kopp, Dr. Otto C. (See Oak Ridge Na-
tional Laboratory)

Kosinsky, Anna M. (deceased) :
(Through Riggs National Bank) frame
containing 4 medals of award and in-
signia in connection with the Napoleonic
Wars, 1813-15 (236283, bequest).

Kovanda, Jerry J. (See Paillard In-
corporated).

Koyama, Dr. Tetsuo (See Tokyo, Uni-
versity of)

Krader, Mrs. Lawrence, Washington,
D.C.: Bohemian bagpipe (239348).

Kramer, Dr. C. L. (See Kansas State
University )

Kramer, Dr. J. P., Washington, D.C.:
206 miscellaneous insects from Morocco
(241870).

Krantz, Dr. G. W., Corvallis, Oreg.: 2
slides of mites, holotypes, from Central
America and Oregon (241576).

Kraus, Dr. Otto (See Senckenber-
gische Naturforschende Gesellschaft)

Krauss, N. L. H., Honolulu, Hawaii:
42 phanerogams, 11,564 miscellaneous
insects from Central and South Amer-
ica, and 7 leafminers and a para-
sitic wasp from Brazil (236589, 238651,
239216, 240275, 241655).

Kremer, Dr. Michel, Strasbourg,
France: 50 slides of biting midges from
Africa and France (241776, exchange).
(See also Institut de Parasitologie)

Kridler, Eugene (See Interior, U.S.
Department of the)

Kring, Dr. James B. (See Connecticut
Agricultural Experiment Station)

Krinoy, Dr. E. L. (See Academy of
Sciences of the U.S.S.R.)

Krishna, Dr. Kumar, Chicago, Ill.: 13
termites, paratypes or morphotypes,
from Hl Salvador, Mexico, and Trinidad
(238650).

Krombein, Dr. Karl V., Washington,
D.C.: 286 wasps and flies, including
holotype, from various localities, and 45
154

miscellaneous insects from North Caro-
lina, Virginia, and West Virginia
(237580, 241276, 241504, 241718).

Krombein, Dr. Louis H., Derby, N.Y.:
11 invertebrate fossils from the Middle
Devonian of Erie Co., N.Y. (2389234).

Kruta, Dr. T. (See Moravian Museum
V Brné)

Kubisch, Fritz, Culver City, Calif.: 6
phanerogams from Mexico (236596).

Kuehne, Dr. Robert A., and Barr, Dr.
Thomas C., Jr., Lexington, Ky.: 9 eray-
fishes (241020).

Kuhne, Dr. Walter G. (See Freie Uni-
versitat Berlin)

Kuntz, Dr. Robert E. (See Defense,
U.S. Department of)

Kurcezewski, Frank, Ithaca, N.Y.: 2
wasps from North America (241506).

Kyoto University, Kyoto, Japan:
(Through Dr. M. Tagawa) 288 ferns
from Japan (241418, 241564, ex-
changes). Misaki Marine Biological
Institution: (Through Masato Aka-
zaki) 12 miscellaneous fishes from
Japan (237534, exchange).

Kyte, David J., and Lafayette, Louis,
St. Clair Shores, Mich.: 5 fluorites from
Ohio (238104). (See also Lafayette,
Louis)

Kyushu University, Fukuoka, Japan:
(Through Prof. Keizo Yasumatsu) 8
ants and bethylid wasps from Japan
(288658) .

Laboratoire Forestier de ?Etat, Gem-
bloux, Belgium: (Through Dr. Joseph
Fouarge) 106 wood specimens (236854,
exchange).

Laboratorium voor Parasitologie, Lei-
den, Netherlands: (Through Dr. C. F. A.
Bruijning) 2 fresh-water mollusks from
Surinam (232789).

Ladd, Dr. Harry S. (See Matschak,
Mrs. Gertraud, and National Academy
of Sciences)

Ladden, John J. (See O. S. Walker
Co., Inc.)

Lafaurie, Prof. Jean, Paris, France:
7 assignats issued by the French Na-
tional Assembly during the French
Revolution (239647).

Lafayette, Louis, and Kyte, David J.,
St. Clair Shores, Mich.: Fluorite from

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1962

Paulding Co., Ohio (238975). (See also
Kyte, David J.)

Lafferty, J. M. (See General Electric
Co.)

Laffoon, Dr. Jean L., Ames, Iowa: 45
flies, holotypes and allotypes, from
North America (239281).

Laird, Dr. Marshall, Quebec, Canada:
Slide of protozoans, 5 marine inverte-
brates, and 2 blood parasites of fish,
types, from St. Andrews, New Bruns-
wick, Canada (236424, 237296, 238222).

Laird, Dr. R. W. (See West Virginia
University)

Lake, Robert W., Newark, Del.: 16
midges from North America (239125).

Lakshman, Mrs. Jaya, Orissa, India:
Pipe base and stem, and a mouthpiece
from India (241755).

Lambers, Dr. D. Hille Ris, Bennekom,
Netherlands: 15 plant lice from Asia,
Europe, and North America (241288).

Lambert, Benjamin, Woodstock, Va.:
Fiddle bow broadcast seeder (240745).

LaMont, Robert E., Arlington, Va.:
trunk (240680).

Land, Mrs. Shirley W., Great Neck,
N.Y.: Spring planishing hammer and
block (237599).

Landis, C. E., Newburgh, N.Y.:
Chauncey Jerome shelf clock (236664).

Lane, Dr. John, SA0 Paulo, Brazil: 14
fungus gnats and 7 biting flies from the
Neotropics (238700, 240063).

Lane, Mrs. Nathanial T. (See Spald-
ing, Francis O.)

Lang, Dr. Karl (See Naturhistoriska
Riksmuseet)

Langdon, Mrs. John (See Brown, Dr.
William A., Jr.)

Lansing, C. H. (See General Electric
Co.)

Lapointe Machine Tool Co., Hudson,
Mass.: (Through J. P. Crosby) 4
broaches and broached pieces (236801).

Larder, Walter, Jr., Canandaigua,
N.Y.: 60 German Army items, including
insignia and equipment, wooden shoes,
and currency (241873).

Law, Mrs. Jay, Garland, Utah: Indi-
vidual of the Garland, Utah, meteorite
(237930).

Law, Lewis F. (See Palmer, Crystal)
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Lawry, Eda J., Friendship, Maine:
Half-model of Morse seiner Kennebec
(241911).

Laybourne, Mrs. Roxie C. (See In-
terior, U.S. Department of the)

Leach, Bernard Howell, St. Ives,
Cornwall, England: Stoneware bottle
(241793).

League of Women Voters of the
United States, Washington, D.C.:
(Through Saral Teilhet) menu and pro-
gram from the “Suffrage Luncheon of
the Empire State Campaign committee”
(286605). (See also Monohon, Mrs.
Paul, and Morrisson, Mrs. James W.)

Leanza, Dr. Armando F., Buenos
Aires, Argentina: 5 brachiopods from
the Tertiary of Santa Cruz Province,
Argentina (237578).

Learnard, R. A., Washington, D.C.:
12 skeletons and a skin of exotic game
birds (239809).

Leatherman, Mrs. Sylvia B., South El
Monte, Calif.: 6 ferns (237562).

Lee, Byung (See Agricultural and
Mechanical College of Texas)

Leech, Hugh B. (See California
Academy of Sciences)

Legum, Mrs. Leslie, Baltimore, Md.:
2 oyster plates with the design of the
state service used during the Ruther-
ford B. Hayes administration (240133).

Lehman, Rey. Thomas H., Newton,
Mass.: 48 crabs from the Miocene of
Gay Head, Mass. (238114).

Lehmann, Manfred R. (See Inter-
Governmental Philatelic Corp.)

Lemaire, Dr. Robert J., Grand Island,
Nebr.: 125 phanerogams, 36 grasses, 1
fern from Louisiana (233164). ©

Lempert, Dr. Julius, New York, N.Y.:
Collection of personal memorabilia, in-
struments, and anatomical preparations
(227302) .

Lenz, Dr. Alfred (See California
Standard Co.)

Lenzen, Dr. Victor (See Commerce,
U.S. Department of)

Leonard, E. C., Washington, D.C.:
400 phanerogams from Washington,
D.C. (289003).

Leopold, Alice K.:

(address un-

155

known): (Through Dr. O. L. Harvey)
5 philatelic items (239187).

Leuschner, R. H., Gardena, Calif.: 2
moths from California (238670).

Levi-Castillo, Dr. Roberto, Quayaquil,
HKeuador: 564 slides of mosquitoes from
South America (238697).

Lewis, A. M., Silver Spring, Md.:
Ilmenite in epidote from Broad Run,
Loudoun Co., Va., and an echinoid from
Pennsylvania (237571, 238632).

Lewis, Dr. Alan (See Hawaii, Univer-
sity of)

Lewis, Col. B. R., Vista, Calif.: 2
pieces from an 18th-century Regal or-
gan (236679).

Lewis, Dr. David J. (See Great Brit-
ain, Government of)

Lewis, Mrs. Elizabeth, Washington,
D.C.: Marlin Model 1894 rifle (237341).

Lewis, Mrs. F. M., Washington, D.C.:
Premo folding plate camera, Kodak
Autographic No. 3-A folding camera,
and 26 costume and textile items, 18th
and 20th centuries (241724, 241895).

Lewis, Dr. John B. (See McGill Uni-
versity )

Lewis, Lady, Washington, D.C.: 3-
piece mantel garniture (236601).

Lewis, Dr. Thomas H., Bethesda, Md.:
8 phanerogams from Mexico (225420).

Lewis, Dr. Waiter H. (See Stephen
ff. Austin State College)

Libby, Dr. W. F., Los Angeles, Calif. :
Discovery sample for radiocarbon in na-
ture, radiocarbon dating sample, and
first low-level counter (238501).

Library of Congress, Washington,
D.C.: Color lithograph of The Bridge
at St. Lowis, 1874 (240142) ; portrait of
George Washington (240681) ; U.S. Post
Office Department presentation folder
containing a complete sheet of fifty
4-cent Nursing commemorative stamps
(240683) ; 1,483 miscellaneous philatelic
covers and other memorabilia from the
Mangum, Ewing, and Toner correspond-
ence (241740) ; (through Nathan R. Hin-
horn) folder containing portrait of
Ignace Jan Paderewski bearing 2 U.S.
Paderewski postage stamps canceled
Nov. 6, 1960 (236940) ; (through Dr. L.
Quincy Mumford) 375 philatelic covers
156

extracted from the Boardman, Moore,
McKinley, and Harrison papers; 489
miscellaneous U.S. and foreign covers
bearing postage stamps, and 357 coins,
mostly German emergency World War I
issues (286797, 238751, 241683). Stamp
Club: (Through Nathan R. Einhorn)
205 miscellaneous used foreign postage
stamps (238749).

Light House Board, Washington,
D.C.: 2 prints of lighthouses (239366).

Lima, Dr. Dardano de A. (See Jardim
Botanico do Rio de Janeiro)

Lin, Dr. Shu-yen, Tegucigalpa, Hon-
duras: 8 fishes from El Salvador
(239778).

Linde Company, New York, N.Y.:
(Through L. J. Berolatti) 4 welded rail
samples (240153).

Lindquist, Harry L., New York, N.Y.:
2,316 U.S., foreign, United Nations,
Europa, and miscellaneous covers and
presentation folders (237896, 240121).

Lindner, Mrs. E. O., Dunedin, Fla.:
2 brackish-water mollusks from Flor-
ida (239854).

Lindroth, Dr. Carl H., Lund, Sweden:
Carabid beetle, paratype, from New-
foundland (238655).

Ling, Prof. Shun-sheng (See Institute
of Ethnology)

Lingebach, John C. (See Grim, James
K.)

Little, Dr. Elbert L., Jr. (See Agri-
culture, U.S. Department of)

Little, Frank J., Jr. (See Institute of
Marine Science)

Little, Mrs. William H., Minneapolis,
Minn.: Paymaster epaulets, metal box,
and a sword knot, 19th century
(240753).

Littlewood, William H. (See Defense,
U.S. Department of)

Littman, Lt. Col. A. A. (address un-
known) : (Through Sidney D. Haas) 16
World War II distinctive insignia
(241584).

Livingstone, Dr. D. A. (See Duke Uni-
versity)

Lligonia, Don Pedro Vegué (See Ga-
binete Numismftico de Catalufia)

Lloyd, Reginald J., Bideford, North
Devon, England: 4 sgraffito-decorated

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1962

kiln wasters of the 17th century sal-
vaged from trench in Bideford (236781).

Lockwood, Mrs. Charles A. Monte
Sereno, Calif.: 5 Spanish and British
insignia (239661).

Lodge, Mrs. John E., Washington,
D.C.: 4 pieces of Bohemian glass, 10
pieces of Sevres porcelain, and 8 pieces
of Worcester porcelain (241796).

Leeb, Dr. Waiter M., Mercer Island,
Wash.: 4 obsolete stock certificates
issued by the Missouri, Kansas, and
Texas Railway Co., and a U.S.S.R.
handbill concerning a Government Bond
issue (241834).

Loeblich, Dr. Alfred R., Jr., La Habra,
Calif.: 2 slides containing Recent
Foraminifera, neotypes, from the Ital-
ian coast (241715).

Logan, Belle E., Washington, D.C.:
2 philatelic covers (288750).

Logan, Mrs. John, Washington, D.C.:
Sapphire, 423 carats (234559).

Longwood Gardens, Kennett Square,
Pa.: 8 cultivated ferns (2386332) ;
(through Dr. Donald G. Huttleston) 14
phanerogams (235269, 237031).

Los Angeles County Museum, Los
Angeles, Calif.: (Through Dr. Lloyd M.
Martin) 6 butterflies and moths from
Arizona and California (238649).

Los Angeles State and County Ar-
boretum, Arcadia, Calif.: (Through
Austin Griffiths, Jr.) 6 phanerogams
(236934).

Lothrop, Dr. Samuel K. (See Harvard
University)

Louisiana State University, Baton
Rouge, La.: (Through Dr. George H.
Lowery, Jr.) yellow rail (240004, ex-
change).

Louisville, University of, Louisville,
Ky.: (Through Jack A. Seilheimer) 3
algae (284514).

Loupekine, Pref. I. S.
College, Nairobi)

Loveridge, Arthur, St. Helena Island,
South Atlantic: 834 marine inverte
brates and a “stump” lobster (234002,
235689).

Lowder, Thomas, Altus, Okla.:
millipedes from Oklahoma (236459).

(See Royal

12
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Lowery, Dr. George H., Jr. (See
Louisiana State University)

Ludbrook, Dr. Nell H. (See Australia,
Government of)

Ludwig, Edward J., Ii], Elkton, Md.:
Gong, 2 letter carrier cap badges, and
brass Post Office window plate reading
“stamps” (236600, 237837).

Luhn, Kurt W. (See Kling Photo
Corp.)

Lundeberg, Dr. Philip K., Annapolis,
Md.: Naval service dress uniform and
U.S. Navy helmet, ca. World War II
(237597, 239190).

Lundell, Dr. C. L. (See Texas Re-
search Foundation)

Lurton, Sallie Evans, Washington,
D.C. : Infant’s slip and small girl’s dress
of the turn of the 19th century
(237489) .

Lyman, Frank, Dozier, Ala.: 12 ma-
rine snails from Skagit Co., Wash.
(236877).

Lyon, Paul L., Woodland Hills, Calif. :
Bust of Hlias Howe and sewing ma-
chine (236888).

Lyon, Prof. Robert J., Los Angeles,
Calif.: 100 chalcid flies from Califor-
nia (240985).

Maa, Dr. T. C. (See Bishop Museum,
Bernice P.)

MacDougall, T., Tehuantepec, Oaxaca,
Mexico: 3 phanerogams from Mexico
(240597).

Mackenzie, Roy J., Cranston, R.I.:
Screwdriver, 1882 (238756).

Mackerras, Dr. I. M., Canberra, Aus-
tralia: 36 flies from Australia and
India, including a paratype (229753,
236520, 240264).

MacMaster, D. M. (See Museum of
Science and Industries)

MacMillan, Mrs. James H., Washing-
ton, D.C.: Double-woven jacquard cov-
erlet (237317).

Maffi, Dr. Mario, Brazzaville, Repub-
lie of the Congo: 2 mosquitoes from
Africa (238654).

Magee, Mrs. Richard, Austin, Nev.:
Lot of potsherds from Nevada (236772).

Magruder, Mrs. John K., Washing-
ton, D.C.: Hitchcock spinet (241783).

Maguire, Dr. Bassett, New York,

157

N.Y.: Wood sample (236637). (See
also New York Botanical Garden)

Magyar Allami Foéldtani Intézet,
Budapest, Hungary: (Through Dr.
Jozsef Fiilép) 3 fossil echinoids from
the Senonian of Bakony (236576).

Mahler, William F. (See Hardin-
Simmons University)

Mahood, Robert P.
Speleological Club)

Maier, Mrs. Lilian T. (deceased) ;
(Through Mrs. Harry A. Woodworth)
Hisemann radio (240146, exchange).

Maine Forest Service, Augusta,
Maine: (Through Dr. A. EH. Brower) 28
moths from Maine (240055).

Malaya, Federation of: (Through
Haji A. Mubin Sheppard) 14 musical
instruments, 14 shadow play figures,
and a top (2419385). Forest Depari-
ment: 181 phanerogams from Malaya
(240090, exchange).

Malkin, Stuart J., East Orange, N.J.:
20 United Nations covers (241181).

Mamay, Dr. Sergius H. (See Interior,
U.S. Department of the)

Mangor, Elovius (See Norway, Gov-
ernment of)

Mann, Frederick M., Jr. (See Hitch-
cock, Frank H.)

Mann, William (See E. Leitz, Inc.)

Mann, Mrs. William M., Washington,
D.C.: 173 archeological and ethnologi-
cal items from various localities; also 8
mollusks (241759).

Manning, Raymond B., Miami, Fla.:
2 stomatopods (241042). (See also
Miami, University of)

Manson, D. C., Levin, New Zealand:
(Through Dr. E. W. Baker) 2 scarab
beetles from New Zealand (240269).

Manville, Dr. Richard H. (See Inte-
rior, U.S. Department of the)

Marche-Marchad, Dr. I. (See Insti-
tut Francais d’Afrique Noire)

Marcus, Prof. Ernesto, Sio Paulo,
Brazil: Flatworm (235668).

Marcy, Donald E., Youngstown, Ohio:
Parasitic helminth worm from heart of
a frog (235219).

Marden, Luis, Washington,
Crab from Tahiti (236992).

(See Potomac

D.C.:
158

Marine Biological Laboratory, Tri-
vandrum, India: (Through Dr. N.
Krishna Pillai) 4 copepods (237548, ex-
change).

Marine Laboratory, Aberdeen, Scot-
land: (Through Dr. Z. Kabata) 58
parasitic copepods (239785, exchange).

Marine Laboratory, The (See Banks,
Mrs. Margot Blaisdell)

Markert, Mrs. C. R. (See Ishpeming
Rock & Mineral Club)

Marnier-Lapostolle, Julien, Paris,
France: 5 phanerogams (236587,
236594).

Marshall, Byron C., Hot Springs Na-
tional Park, Ark.: 20 land snails, 6
pearly fresh-water mussels, and 26
nematode worms and 6 leeches from a
red-eared turtle from Arkansas (238425,
238442, 238529, 240595).

Marshall, Dr. J. T., Jr. (See National
Academy of Sciences)

Marshall, Laurence K., Cambridge,
Mass.: 102 bats from Bechuanaland
(240173).

Martin, Kermit, Bryson City, Ga.: 4
corundum specimens from Mason Mines,
Macon Co., N.C. (238635).

Martin, Dr. Lloyd M. (See Los An-
geles County Museum)

Martin L. Ehrman Co., Beverly Hills,
Calif.: 10 gems and minerals from Bra-
zil and Burma (236010, 287424, 239442,
239517, exchanges); 7 minerals from
Brazil (240037).

Martinez, Mr. and Mrs. J. A., Sr.,
Long Beach, Calif.: Silk wedding dress
of 1904 (240205).

Maryland, University of, College
Park, Md.: (Through Dr. Howard
H. Winn) spiny lobster (237620).

Natural Resources Institute: (Through
Dr. Frank J. Schwartz) 49 cope-
pods (238839). School of Medicine:
(Through Dr. Charles L. Wisseman,
Jr.) 4 small mammals from Pakistan
(240901).

Marzolf, G. Richard (See Michigan,
University of)

Mason, Lou, Naples, Fla.: 11 marine
mollusks from Florida (240203).

Massachusetts, University of, Am-
herst, Mass.: (Through Dr. M. HB.

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1962

Smith) 3 holotypes of brown lacewings
from western North America (240900).

Massachusetts Institute of Technol-
ogy, Cambridge, Mass.: (Through Prof.
A. L. Hesselschwerdt, Jr.) Carré ice
machine, ca. 1870 (241904).

Massingiil, Alvin Roderick, Houston,
Tex.: .32 caliber Colt revolver (235902).

Massmann, William H. (See Virginia
Fisheries Laboratory)

Masson, Mary G., Washington, D.C.:
2 petticoats of the 19th century
(239084).

Matschak, Mrs. Gertraud, Wiirttem-
berg, Germany: (Through Dr. Harry
S. Ladd) block of fossil millipedes
from the upper Miocene of Germany
(237747).

Matthews, Mary Pearce, Washington,
D.C. : 56 miscellaneous U.S. and foreign
philatelic covers and postage stamps
(236647).

Maxwell, Mrs. Russell L., Washing-
ton, D.C.: Doll of about 1820 (237119).

McAlister, Frances, Clemson, §.C.: 2
flat bugs from South Carolina (240623).

McAloney, S. H. (See Ford Instru-
ment Co.)

McAlpine, Dr. J. F.
Government of)

McArthur, Mrs. W. E., Jacksonville,
Fla.: 4 phanerogams and 2 ferns
(236190, 240600).

McCabe, Henry J.
Boiler Corp.)

McCabe, Co!. Robert E. (See Defense,
U.S. Department of)

McCabe Boiler Corp., Newark, N.J.:
(Through Henry J. McCabe) Hilles &
Jones radial drill of the late 19th cen-
tury (288019).

McCall, D., South Boston, Mass. : 280
miscellaneous U.S. precancel stamps
(236655).

McCall, Francis J., Washington, D.C.:
G1 miscellaneous U.S. and foreign
philatelie items and a 1459 cover of
Venetian Merchant Guild from Flor-
ence to Venice (240131, 2417389).

McCall, Johnson V. (See National
Association of Watch and Clock Col-
lectors)

(See Canada,

(See McCabe
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

McCarthy, Mrs. Eileen (See Smith-
sonian Institution)

McClure, Dr. H. Elliott, Kuala Lum-
pur, Malaya: 3 birds (240550). (See
also Defense, U.S. Department of)

McConnell, Father Bernard
Georgetown University)

McConnell, Dr. Rosemary H., Lon-
don, Hngland: 387 miscellaneous fishes
from British Guiana (241201).

McCormack, M. L. (See Ingersoll-
Rand Co.)

McCormick-Goodhart, Leander, Alex-
andria, Va.: 278 plaster casts of Ad-
miral Vernon medals (238470).

McCoy, Dr. Clarence J., Jr.
Colorado, University of)

McCoy, Dr. D. O. (See Defense, U.S.
Department of)

McCullough, Dr. Herbert A., Bir-
mingham, Ala.: 18 lichens from Ala-
bama (241494).

McDermott, Frank A., Wilmington,
Del.: 5 fireflies, paratypes and holo-
type, from Argentina and Missouri, 7
Coleoptera from India and South Amer-
ica, and 158 miscellaneous insects from
Chile and India (238134, 240676,
241293).

MeDonald, Rev. Msgr. William J.
(See Catholic University of America)

McDowell, J. C., Cannonsburg, Pa.:
Miniature steam engine, ca. 1800
(237077).

MecErlean, Andrew J. (See Florida
State Board of Conservation)

McEwen, Mrs. Jack A., Megargel,
Tex.: Dorsal vertebra of a fossil am-
phibian from the lower Permian of
Texas (238168).

McFarland, Wallace B. (See Beck-
lake, J. T.)

McFarlin, Ray H., Chapmanville,
W. Va.: Miner’s lamp (233426).

McGaha, Dr. Young John, University,
Miss. : (Through Dr. Bruce B. Collette)
23 fresh-water fishes from Mississippi
(237419).

McGahey, Mrs. Charles N., Washing-
ton, D.C.: Purse with frame used by
donor’s great aunt at Lafayette’s ball
and 3 books of the late 19th century
(237889).

(See

(See

159

McGarry, M/Sgt. George, Quantico,
Va.: Labor Classification Form (Wake-
10) with “Training Candidates Evalua-
tion Record” printed in Japanese on re-
verse side (237900).

McGill University, Montreal, Canada:
Bellairs Research Institute: (Through
Dr. John B. Lewis) 36 marine inverte-
brates, and 4 sea anemones (237653,
238094). Macdonald College: (Through
Dr. Larry S. Roberts) 14 copepods
(239240).

McGinnis, Robert H., Manset, Maine:
Howard and Davis banjo clock
(240494).

McGowan, Dr. John A. (See Scripps
Institution of Oceanography)

McHenry, G. Ruth, Savannah, Ga.:
22 items of costume and needlework of
the 19th and 20th centuries (238478,
241104).

McKeena, Boston Fear, Denton, Md.:
Wedding invitation to the marriage of
President and Mrs. Woodrow Wilson’s
daughter, 1913, and a Maryland State
ticket for 1860 (241308, 241899).

McKinley, Thomas W., Clearwater,
Fla.: 3 bird skins, 6 spiders, and 2 cen-
tipedes from Haiti (237576, 238663).

McLean, Roy (See Cobb & Drew, Inc.)

McNairn, S., Monroe, Mich.: 6 sul-
phur specimens from Maybee, Mich.,
and analcite cast from Ontario, Canada
(288639).

McPherson, George (See U.S. Steel
Corp.)

McRae, Dr. Ernest D. (See Interior,
U.S. Department of the)

McSorley, Charles H., Jr., Closter,
N.J.: “Centennial Presidential Game”
(2401382).

Mead, Dr. Giles W. (See Harvard
University )

Means, Carroll Alton, Woodbridge,
Conn.: 3 turnpike tokens, ca. 1800, and
a reproduction of the first Christmas
eard, 1848 (2373821).

Medal of the Month Club, Sioux Falls,
S. Dak.: (Through Token and Medal
Society) 15 nickel-silver commemora-
tive medals issued by donor from
January 1961—March 1962 (241902).
160

Medallion Distributors, Inc. Pen-
field, N.Y.: (Through Token and Medal
Society) silver medallion commemorat-
ing the “Uncle Sam” Sesquicentennial
1962 (241734).

Medical Research Institute, Colombo,
Ceylon: (Through Dr. K. Gunawar-
dane) 15 scarab beetles from Ceylon
(239641).

Meese, Norman S., Kensington, Md.:
15 marine mollusks from Saipan, Mari-
anas (239285).

Meggers, Dr. Betty J. (See Evans, Dr.
Clifford, Jr., and Walter, H. V.)

Mehra, Dr. P. C., Memphis, Tenn.: 5
used postage stamps of India (239154).

Mehring, Dr. Arnon L., Hyattsville,
Md.: 11 marine mollusks from Texas
and 4 land snails from northern Idaho
(284126, 240548). (See also Floyd,
Mrs. J. L.)

Mehta, Dhirubhai, Bombay, India: 20
Inint stamps and 18 first-day and first
flight covers of India (235666, 240328).

Meijer, Dr. W. (See Forest Depart-
ment and North Borneo, Colony of)

Melbourne, University of, Victoria,
Australia: (Through Mrs. S. L.
Thrower) 18 iichens from Australia
(287102).

Melburn, M. C., Victoria, B.C., Can-
ada: 10 lichens from Vancouver Island
(233217, 237537).

Mellon Institute, Pittsburgh, Pa.:
(Through Dr. Alvin Cohen) 42.5-
gram moldavite from Habri, Bohemia
(236302, exchange).

Melscn, William, Baltimore, Md.:
Lamprophyllite with eudialite, and na-
trolite from Montana (240237, 240251).

Menke, Henry, Houston, Tex., and
Choppin, Sam (address unknown):
(Through Dr. Edward Norbeck) 36
potsherds and a vessel (239908).

Mennehan, John F. (See Fuller &
d’ Albert, Ine.)

Merriam, C. W. (See Interior, U.S.
Department of the)

Merrill, Arthur S. (See Interior, U.S.
Department of the)

Merrill, Mrs. H. A., Washington, D.C. :
2 wolf rugs (238369).

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1962

Messer, P. T. (See American Express
Co., Inc.)

Messina, Mr. and Mrs. Pete Paul,
Mitchellville, Md.: Recording horn
(238480) .

Mettler Instrument Corp., Princeton,
N.J.: (Through Thomas C. Douglas)
Mettier B-5 laboratory scale (238818).

Meuse, R. F., Punta Gorda, Fla. : 1837
U.S. large cent (239995).

Meyer, Dr. D. E. (See Botanischer
Garten und Museum)

Meyer, Dr. Frederick G. (See Agri-
culture, U.S. Department of)

Miami, University of, Miami, Fla.:
(Through Raymond B. Manning)
stomatopod crustacean and 15 corals
(229955, 236449) ; (through Donald R.
Moore) 385 tanaids and an amphipod
(238021) ; (through Anthony J. Pro-
venzano, Jr.) hermit crab (236422);
(through Dr. C. Richard Robins) 13
sharks from off Florida (238052) ;
(through Jeff Strumpf) 18 copepods
(237491); (through Dr. Gilbert L.
Voss) 6 nudibranch mollusks, holo-
types, from Florida (238289).

Michener, Dr. C. D. (See Kansas,
University of)

Michigan, University of, Ann Arbor,
Mich.: 370 phanerogams, 6 grasses, and
8 ferns from Alaska, Canada, and
Mexico (236598, 239296, exchanges) ;
(through Dr. Reeve M. Bailey) 3 fishes
from Michigan (230907, exchange) ;
(through Dr. William §. Benninghoff)
25 microscope slides of pollen (240728,
exchange); (through Dr. D. M. Den-
nison and Prof. H. P. Crane) 11 Wil-
liams’ magnetron tubes (240147);
(through Arthur Dockrill) 10 scientific

instruments (2389024); (through G.
Richard Marzolf) 56 amphipods
(238888); (through Dr. Robert R.

Miller) 44 fishes, including paratopo-
types and topotypes, from Mexico
(2363888, exchange); (through Prof.
Richard HE. Townsend) 11 pieces of
chemical apparatus (239025) ; (through
Prof. W. H. Wagner, Jr.) fern from
Arkansas (241166, exchange).

Michigan State University, Hast
Lansing, Mich.: Grass from Mexico
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

(237238) ; 4837 phanerogams, 55 grasses,
and 23 ferns from Alaska (241262, ex-
change) ; (through Prof. Irving Knob-
loch) fern (2387851).

Mick, Mrs. Ada C., Merchantville,
N.J.: 16 items of costume material of
the 19th and 20th centuries (236454).

Mick, Charles A., Collingswood, N.J.:
Spanish Naval flag from Spanish-
American War period (241881).

Mielke, Russell (See Smithsonian
Institution )
Miles, Mrs. Arnold, Washington,

D.C.: Political umbrella, wood clamp,
18 political campaign items associated
with Governor Nelson A. Rockefeller,
whetstone holder, letter of 1827, and
bandanna of 1876 (286648, 241307).

Miles, Mrs. Jack C., Colfax, Calif.:
Double woven coverlet, 1847 (237217).

Miller, C. D. F. (See Canada, Govern-
ment of)

Miller, Harry C., Rochester, N.Y.: 7
locks (237603).

Miller, Harry F., Oceanside, Calif. :
Tourmaline from Hl Alamo, Baja Cali-
fornia, Mexico (236568).

Miller, Mahlon, New York, N.Y.: 1
lot of chrysoberyl pebbles from the Cen-
tral African Republie (240246).

Miller, Ralph, York, Pa.: Early
Indian ax head, Cherokee pottery pipe
bowl, and Crow Indian doll’s saddle bag
and needle case (236773, 236915).

Miller, Dr. Robert R. (See Michigan,
University of)

Mills, Mrs. H. N., Clearwater, Fla.:
Pair of satin slippers of 1874 and 4
pieces of silver (236761).

Milwaukee Public Museum, Milwau-
kee, Wis.: (Through Joseph G. Emiel-
ity) amazonite from Tigerton, Shawno
Co., Wis. (236775).

Mine Safety Appliances Co., Pitts-
burgh, Pa.: (Through J. T. Ryan, Jr.)
118 safety and illuminating mining
lamps and safety and rescue equipment
(240639).

Mine Ventilation Systems, Inc., Mad-
ison, W. Va.: (Through James V.
Burgess, Jr.) barricade kit (240087).

Mineralogisk Museum, Copenhagen,
Denmark: (Through Drs. Sole Munck

161

and Vagn Buchwald) 2 meteorites from
Cape York and ‘Thule, Greenland
(232400, exchange).

Ministerio de Agricultura y Cria,
Caracas, Venezuela: Instituto Botan-
ico: 5 phanerogams from Venezuela
(236583, exchange) ; 170 phanerogams
mostly from Venezuela (238247, 239040,
240527, 240726); 2 phanerogams from
Venezuela (2393538, gift-exchange) ;
(through Dr. Leandro Aristeguieta) 67
phanerogams and 3 ferns (232767,
235699) ; (through Dr. Julian A. Steyer-
mark) 28 phanerogams from Venezuela
(240200, 240858, 241203).

Minnesota, University of, Duluth,
Minn.: (Through Dr. R. L. Heller) algal
chert from the Pre-Cambrian, Wuter-
prise Mine, Minn. (287748).

Minter, Mrs. Judith, Kingskerswell,
North Devon, England: 6 pottery sherds
excavated from various English sites of
the 16th and 17th centuries (236784).

Miranda, Dr. Faustino, México, D.F.:
222 phanerogams from Mexico collected
mostly by donor (288731, 2389308,
240661).

Miranda-Ribeiro, Dr. Paulo de (See
Universidade do Brazil)

Mississippi State College, State Col-
lege, Miss.: (Through Dr. Ernest E.
Russell) 119 fossil echinoids from the
Upper Cretaceous of Mississippi
(287574, exchange).

Missouri Botanical Garden, St. Louis,
Mo.: 167 phanerogams, 16 ferns, 1
eryptogam, and 29 weeds from various
localities (233586, 236335, 236336,
236935, 238276, 240692, 241860) ;
(through Dr. James Duke) 24 woods
(237029).

Mitchell, John F., Golconda, Ill.: 3
sea shells from Florida (221090).

Mitchell, R. T. (See Interior, U.S.
Department of the)

Mitchell, Terry (See Frick Company)

Mizelle, Dr. John D., Sacramento,
Calif.: Holotype of a trematode worm
from California (240018).

Modjeski & Masters, Engs., Harris-
burg, Pa.: Bngraving of bridge over the
Schuylkill River, 1805 (239368).
162

Mohammad, Murad-B.M., Beaufort,
N.C.: 12 barnacles (235497).

Molina, Sr. Antonio (See Escuela
Agricola Panamericana)

Monaco, Government of, Principaute
de Monaco: (Through Director-General
of Posts) 44 mint postage stamps of
Monaco (240122).

Moncure, Mrs. Powhatan, Jr., Arling-
ton, Va.: 6 items of women’s clothing
of the 19th and 20th centuries (241360).

Monnig, Oscar E., Fort Worth, Tex.:
Specimen of the Bells, Grayson Co.,
Tex., meteorite and magnetic particles
(2389440).

Monohon, Mrs. Paul, Providence, R.I.:
(Through League of Women Voters of
the United States) broadside announc-
ing a mass meeting, Oct. 8, 1920
(238027).

Montana State College, Bozeman,
Mont.: 2 grasses from Montana
(238377) ; (through Gertrude Prescott)
Chippendale mirror frame (2373822) ;
(through Dr. George A. Schultz) 8 iso-
pods (239402).

Montignani, Mrs. William C. St.
Petersburg, Fla.: 2 memorial rings of
1821 and 1824 (240957).

Montreal Botanical Garden, Montreal,
Canada: 6 phanerogams (236595,
239301).

Mooney, Blanche, Brooklyn, N.Y.: 9
foreign covers bearing postage stamps
(240115).

Moore, Donald R.
versity of)

(See Miami, Uni-

Moore, Dr. Dwight M. (See Arkansas
Polytechnic College)

Moore, Dr. H. E., Jr. (See Cornell
University)

Moore, Dr. Thomas E., Ann Arbor,
Mich.: 6 plant lice from eastern U.S.
(221218).

Moran, J. J. (See Kimble Glass Co.)

Moravian Museum Y. Brne, Brno,
Czechoslovakia: (Through Dr. MT.
Kruta) 105 minerals from Moravia
(236896, exchange).

Morgan, Mrs. Herbert (See Weinig,
Louis J.)

Morgan, Raymond J., Scranton, Pa.:
Miner’s respirator (236948).

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1962

Morgans, Dr. J. F. C. (See East Af-
rican Marine Fisheries Research Or-
ganization)

Morley, Dr. Sylvanus G. (See Mo-
sonyi, Dr. Emilio)

Morrell, Dr. Lester G. (See Interior,
U.S. Department of the)

Morrisson, Mrs. James W., Groton,
Conn.: (Through League of Women
Voters of the United States) Woman’s
Suffrage cape (239344).

Morrow, J. D. A. (See Joy Manufac-
turing Co.)

Morse, Dr. Dan, Peoria, Ili.: Miscel-
laneous lot of bones and 2 pathological
skeletons from Fulton Co., Ill. (241252).

Morse, H. H., Fort Worth, Tex.: 3
shatter cone specimens from Sierra
Madera Mountains, Pecos Co., Tex.
(239905).

Morton, C. V., Washington, D.C.: 4
phanerogams, 3 ferns, and 5 eryptogams
(238717).

Mosonyi, Dr. Emilio: (Through Dr.
Sylvanus G. Morley and M. A. Otero,
Jr.) carved granite “Palma” stone 1928
(213025).

Motoda, Dr. Sigeru, Hakodate, Hok-
kaido, Japan: 208 amphipods (235496).

Meotry, Theodore J., Clearwater, Fla.:
2 marine mollusks from Florida
(237793).

Mountaineer Coal Co., Monongah, W.
Va.: (Through George R. Higinbotham)
coal mining references photo albums
(240294).

Mowbray, Louis S. (See Bermuda
Government Aquarium and Museum)

Mower, Mrs. Martha Rebecca (See
Atkins, Mrs. Harriet Ann)

Mueller, Mrs. Hazel, Miami, Fla.:
Phanerogam (236588).

Muesebeck, Dr. Carl F. W., Washing-
ton, D.C.: 8 picture post cards, 20
miscellaneous foreign covers bearing
postage stamps, and a _ registration
coupon (240344).

Muller, Dr. C. H. (See California,
University of)

Miller, Dr. F. P., Rostock, Germany:
13 aphids from Germany (239130).

Miiller, Dr. Klaus J. (See Technischen
Universitit Berlin)
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Multhauf, Dr. Robert P., Washington,
D.C.: Pump calculator, 19th century
(237346).

Muma, Dr. Martin, Lake Alfred, Fla.:
19 slides representing 13 species of mites
from Florida (238684).

Mumford, Dr. L. Quincy (See Library
of Congress)

Mumford, Dr. Russell E., Lafayette,

Ind.: 43 mammals from Indiana
(241771).

Munck, Dr. Sole (See Mineralogisk
Museum)

Munroe, Dr. E. G. (See Canada, Goy-
ernment of)

Murbarger, Nell, Costa Mesa, Calif. :
4 marine mollusks from the Gulf of
Campeche, Mexico (240495).

Murchie, Dr. William R., Flint,
Mich.: 5 earthworms (236997).

Murchison, Mrs. Therese V.
Arizona, University of )

Murillo, Maria Teresa (See Instituto
de Ciencias Naturales)

Murray, Mrs. Anne, Washington,
D.C.: 6 U.S. and foreign covers bear-
ing stamps and a wrapper bearing for-
eign postage stamps (239924).

Murray, Hamilton, La Paz, Baja Cal-
ifornia, Mexico: Marble bust of Alex-
ander Hamilton (235208).

Musée Zoologique, Lausanne, Swit-
zeriand: (Through Dr. J. de Beau-
mont) insect from Hurope (236522, ex-
change).

Museo de Histeria Natural “Javier
Prado,” Lima, Peru: 14 phanerogams
from Peru (237462); 3 phanerogams
(237559, exchange); (through Dr.
Ramon Ferreyra) 2 phanerogams from
Peru (238376).

Museo Zoologico de “la Specola,”
Florence, Italy : 25 birds skeletons from
Albania and Italy (237494, exchange).

Museu Nacional, Rio de Janeiro,
Brazil: 41 phanerogams, 71 crytogams,
and 11 grasses from Brazil (235274,
2386202) ; 16 ferns from Brazil collected
by EF. Segadas-Vianna (236410).

Museu Paraense “Emilio Goeldi,”
Belém, Brazil: 104 phanerogams and 6
grasses from Brazil (236537, 238613).

(See

163

Museul National de Istoria Naturala
“Grigore Antipa,” Bucharest, Rumania:
(Through Dr. M. Bacescu) 5 mysids
(2333838, exchange).

Museum G. Frey, Munich, Germany:
(Through Dr. E. Haaf) 4 weevils, para-
types, from South America (222382,
exchange).

Museum National d’Histoire Natu-
relle, Paris, France: 4 phanerogams
(237032).

Museum of Science and Industries,
Chicago, Ill.: (Through D. M. Mac-
Master) Nasmyth steam hammer, 1851-—
56 (239078).

Museum Zoologicum Universitatis,
Helsinki, Finland: (Through Dr. Rich-
ard Frey) 6 flies, worldwide (238393,
exchange).

Musselwhite, Susan M., Arlington,
Va.: Perfume bottle with silver top of
the late 19th century (235871).

Miitter Museum, Philadelphia, Pa.:
(Through Mrs. Hilla N. Wade) 20
American Medical Association badges
(240685) .

Myer, Mrs. J. Edson, Milford, Pa.:
6 Eskimo and Pima baskets, 10 Samoan
and Marshall Island fans, and a pottery
lamp (240976).

Myers, W. T., Birmingham, Ala.:
(Through John A. Hill) end-dump mine
car (239173).

Nah], Dr. Perham C., Evanston, Ill.:
5 sections of a collection of first flight
airmail covers of the U.S. (239449).

Nakahara, Dr. Waro, Tokyo, Japan:
277 caddis flies from Japan (240602).

Nakamura, Hikaru, Setagaya-ku,
Tokyo, Japan: 48 miscellaneous beetles
from Japan (2367382, exchange).

Namegata, Tomitaro, Chiba-ken,
Japan: 44 ferns from Japan (2388090,
exchange).

Nathan, David, New York, N.Y.:
Compur shutter (240293).

National Academy of Sciences, Wash-
ington, D.C.: National Research Coun-
cil: (Through Dr. Harry S. Ladd) 4
basalt samples cored in Mohole Project
(236267) ; (through Dr. J. T. Marshall,
Jr.) 17 bird, 3 reptile, and 2 mammal
skeletons from Ponape Island (238121).
164

National Aeronautics and Space Ad-
ministration Grant, Smithsonian In-
stitution: Natural glass from Peru and
tektite from Annam (2392638, 240893).

National Association of Watch and
Clock Collectors, Washington, D.C.:
(Through Johnson VY. McCall) shelf
clock (236661).

National Cash Register Ce., Dayton,
Ohio: National cash register, cash reg-
ister side frame, and Natco multiple
spindle drilling machine (238759).

National Herbarium, Pretoria, South
Africa: 6 grasses from South Africa
collected by B. de Winter (237558).

National Museum, Manila, Republic
of the Philippines: 580 phanerogams,
17 grasses, 22 ferns, 11 cryptogams, and
4 woods from the Philippines (240098,
241653, exchanges).

National Museum, Prague, Czecho-
slovakia: (Through Dr. Z. Boucek) 79
ehaleid flies from Europe (238131,
240050, exchanges).

National Science Foundation, Wash-
ington, D.C.: 8 lots of tektites from
Viet Nam (238641).

National Taiwan University, Taipei,
Taiwan, China: 2 stem sections of
chrysanthemum-flower wood from Tai-

wan (240809, exchange); (through
Ju-Shey Ho) 6 parasitic copepods
(236457).

Natural History Museum, San Diego,
Calif.: (Through Dr. H. P. Chace) alga,
19 crustaceans, and 40 marine mollusks
from California and the west coast of
Mexico (238778, 239284).

Naturhistoriska Riksmuseet, Stock-
holm, Sweden: 19 phanerogams
(2351384) ; 180 phanerogams, 4 grasses,
and 16 ferns from Peru (240981, ex-
change); (through Dr. O. Gabrielson)
orthopinakiolite from Langban, Sweden
(239250) ; (through Dr. Karl Lang) 9
paratypes of 2 species of copepods
(240606, exchange).

Naturwissenschaftliches Museum,
Budapest, Hungary: (Through Dr.
Seb6 Endrédi) 196 scarab bettles, world-
Wide (239937, exchange).

Nebraska, State of, Lincoln, Nebr.:

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1962

(Through Dr. William F. Rapp, Jr.)
bat from Nebraska (237991).

Needham, Richard M., Lancaster,
Ohio: Cachet cover bearing first-day
cancellation of the Kansas stamp
(240123).

Netherlands, Government of, The
Hague: Netherlands Postal and Tele-
communications Service: 12 mint post-
age stamps of the Netherlands (239654).
Netherlands Postal Museum: (Through
Dr. R. EH. J. Weber) Hughes printing
telegraph (238390).

Neuman, Dr. Robert B. (See Interior,
U.S. Department of the)

New Canaan Historical Society, New
Canaan, Conn.: (Through Dorothy
Cocks) dog harness used during the
Byrd Antarctic Expedition and the
Judicial robe of Charles Evans Hughes
(2899382).

New England, University of, Armi-
dale, N.S.W., Australia: (Through Dr.
J. W. Pickett) 6 corals from the Lower
Carboniferous of New South Wales
(236578, exchange).

Newhall, Beaumont
EHastman House)

New Hampshire, University of, Dur-
ham, N.H.: (Through Dr. Marian H.
Pettibone) 5 annelid worms and 6 sea
anemones (237504, 238069).

New Holland Machine Co., New Hol-
land, Pa.: Portable gasoline engine
(240546).

Newkirk, Dr. Herbert W. (See Cali-
fornia, University of)

Newman, William A. (See California,
University of)

Newton, John G., Winston-Salem,
N.C.: Hydrocoral (2393896).

Newton, Thomas W., Washington,
D.C.: Brick, 18th century (239293).

New York Botanical Garden, New
York, N.Y.: 27 cultivated ferns, 62
phanerogams, and 2 grasses from Brazil,
Missouri and Nevada (233585, 234495,
236195, 236721, 240533) ; (through Dr.
Bassett Maguire) 6 phanerogams
(239592) ; (through L. P. Politi) 20 cul-
tivated ferns (240201).

New York State University College
of Forestry, Syracuse, N.Y.: (Through

(See George
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Harold A. Core) 41 wood specimens
from Africa, Chile, and Germany and
80 microscope slides of wood (237223,
240307, exchanges).

New York University, New York,
N.Y.: (Through Prof. Lyle B. Borst) 2
glass plate photographs of the solar
spectrum and 2 of observatory scenes
(240151).

New Zealand, Bank of, Wellington,
New Zealand: 12 documents of value in
use at the Bank of New Zealand
(241827).

New Zealand, Government of: For-
est Research Institute, Rotorua: 78
wood specimens from New Zealand
(240305, exchange).

Nichols, Lyman (See Hawaii Depart-
ment of Agriculture and Conservation)

Nickelson, Alden L., Friday Harbor,
Wash.: 14 amphipods (235700).

Nicolay, Col. S. S., Carlisle Barracks,
Pa.: 445 miscellaneous small moths
from Cherry Point, N.C. (238675) ; 13
butterflies from North America (240271,
exchange).

Nikon Incorporated, New York, N.Y.:
(Through Len Silverman) Nikon F
cutaway camera with Nikkor S lens
(238475).

Nisbet, William, Pawtucket,
One-inch scale (236799).

Nogan, Donald, New Brunswick,
N.J.: 89 slides, including 20 of primary
types, of Foraminifera from Maryland
and Virginia (240812).

Nolan, Dr. Thomas B. (See Interior,
U.S. Department of the)

Norbeck, Dr. Edward (See Menke,
Henry)

Norman, Mrs. Edith G., Indianapolis,
Ind.: Cap, neckerchief, jumper, and
trousers worn by Seaman William B.
Norman, April 16, 1945 (239783).

Normand, M. D. (See Centre Tech-
nique Forestier Tropical)

North Borneo, Colony of: Forest De-
partment: (Through Dr. W. Meijer) 73
wood specimens from North Borneo
(239610, exchange).

North Carolina State College, Ra-
leigh, N.C.: 5 phanerograms (237736) ;
(through Nathan D. Greene) 2 fresh-

658794—62——_12

1215S

165

water mollusks from North Carolina
(240860).

North Carolina State Museum, Ra-
leigh, N.C.: (Through Harry T. Davis)
bird (238592, exchange).

North Dakota State University,
Fargo, N. Dak.: 71 phanerogams and
17 grasses from North Dakota (238553,
gift-exchange).

Northern West Virginia Coal Assoc.,
Fairmont, W. Va.: (Through T. HB.
Johnson) mule harness with wooden
hames (236604).

Norton, Mrs. John O. A., Union City,
Mich.: 2 scrapbooks (240905).

Norway, Government of: Norwegian
Hmbassy: (Through Hlovius Mangor)
9 mint postage stamps, of which 2 are
in honor of Roald Amundsen, and a mint
letter sheet of Norway (238551, 239211).

Norweb, Mrs. R. Henry, Cleveland,
Ohio: 127 Canadian tokens and a proof
maundy set struck in the name of Queen
Elizabeth II, 1960 (236615, 236616).

O. S. Walker Co., Inc., Worcester,
Mass.: (Through John J. Ladden) mag-
netic chuck (236950).

Oak Ridge National Laboratory, Oak
Ridge, Tenn.: (Through Dr. Otto C.
Kopp) synthetic iron analog of pollucite
(236959, exchange).

Obarrio, Dr. Juan, Panama City, Pan-
ama: 2 shrimps (236994).

Oboler, Arch, Studio City, Calif.: 3
minerals from Brazil and Chile (238100,
240242, exchanges).

Oklahoma State University, Still-
water, Okla.: 11 grasses and 4 phanero-
gams from Mexico (239083, 239304) ;
(through Dr. D. H. Bryan) 4 grass
thrips from Oklahoma (240062, ex-
change).

Old, William E., Jr. (See Burgess,
Dr. C. M.)

Olin Mathieson Chemical Corp., Salt-
ville, Va.: (Through L. D. Bradt) 2
salk kettles (235910).

Oliver, Dr. W. A. (See Interior, U.S.
Department of the)

Olrog, Claés C., Tucuman, Argentina:
Bird skeleton (239325).

Olsen, E. J. (See Chicago Natural
History Museum)
166

Olson, Mrs. Eleanor M. (See Hitch-
cock, Frank H.)

Olson, Comdr. Paul (See Treasury,
U.S. Department of the)

Oman, Dr. Paul W., San Francisco,
Calif.: 373 miscellaneous insects from
India (238686). (See also Agriculture,
U.S. Department of)

Oregon State University, Corvallis,
Oreg. : 348 phanerogams, 82 grasses, and
15 ferns mostly from Oregon (2387302,
239000, exchanges) ; (through Dr. Da-
vid A. Bostwick) 32 brachiopods from
the Permian of Oregon (240784) ;
(through Dr. J. N. Shaw) 7 fresh-water
snails from Oregon (237941).

O’Rorke, Thomas R. Esmeraldas
Province, Ecuador: Head of a pottery
figurine from Ecuador (239906).

Ortiz C., Dr. Ignacio, Caracas, Vene-
zuela: 2 mosquitoes from Venezuela
(238661).

Otero, M. A., Jr. (See Mosonyi, Dr.
Hmilio)

Ottawa, University of, Ottawa, Can-
ada: (Through Dr. V. D. Vladykov) fish
from off St. Augustine, Fla. (237182).

Oulu, University of, Oulu, Finland:
128 phanerogams, 17 grasses, and 6
ferns from Finland (236986, exchange).

Owrey, Addie Z., Tampa, Fla.: 2
19th-century samplers (236421).

Oxford, University of, Oxford, Eng-
land: 32 phanerogams (236337).

Oxford University Exploration Club,
Oxford, England: 8 phanerogams from
Hcuador (236581).

Oxstern, J.. Van Nuys, Calif.: Dar-
ling, Brown & Sharpe drill gage, 1892
(241842).

Pacheco, Prof. Francisco (See Colegio
de Post-Graduados)

Pade, Mrs. Agda E., Denver, Colo.:
89 used and 51 mint postage stamps of
Denmark (239656, 2401138).

Page, Norman F. (See American Px-
press Co., Inc.)

Paillard Incorporated, New York,
N.Y.: (Through Jerry J. Kovanda)
Hasselblad Cutaway camera with Zeiss-
Planar lens (237043).

Paine, Robert T., III, La Jolla, Calif. :
100 specimens of a modern brachiopod

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1962

from Florida and 25 brachiopods from
Puertecitos, Baja California (236574,
241762).

Pakistan, Government of: Zoological
Survey Department: (Through Dr. A. R.
Ranjha) 73 marine mollusks from west-
ern Pakistan (221977).

Pal, Dr. Niranjan, Calcutta, India:
Fern from India (238165).

Paleontological Research Laboratory,
Statesville, N.C.: (Through Richard
Casanova) 842 echinoids from the Ter-
tiary of the Caribbean region and 300
invertebrate fossils from the Paleozoic
and Mesozoic of Hurope and the Island
of Timor (231242, 239107, exchanges).

Palmer, Dr. A. R. (See Interior, U.S.
Department of the)

Palmer, Crystal (deceased) :
(Through Lewis F. Law) 38 tapestries,
a bronze medal of 1856, and a letter
confirming the entry of Jane Loucks’
prize winning needlework (238291,
bequest).

Palmer, Herbert B., Lowell, Vt., and
Palmer, J. Winsor (address unknown) :
3 shawls of the 19th century and 4 silver
spoons (241518).

Palmer, J. Winsor (See Palmer, Her-
bert B.)

Pan American Hispano Oil Co., Ma-
drid, Spain: (Through Charles W.
Hatten) 350 invertebrate fossils from
the Devonian of the Spanish Sahara
(287527).

Pan American Petroleum Corp,
Tulsa, Okla.: (Through Dr. Donald W.
Engelhardt) 642 microscope slides of
pollen (240727, exchange); (through
Gerald M. Friedman) 2 minnesotaites
from Minnesota (240244).

Pan American Union, Washington,
D.C.: (Through Philip F. Gallagher)
200 Argentine and Costa Rica mint and
used stamps (239251, exchange).

Parfin, Sophy I., Meriden, Conn.: 215
miscellaneous insects from Connecticut
and Minnesota (238652).

Parker, Frances L. (See Seripps In-
stitution of Oceanography)

Parks, G. Hapgood, Hartford, Conn.:
Reamer used for enlarging previously
bored holes in wheel hubs (2406385).
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Parks, Mrs. Lillian Rogers, Washing-
ton, D.C.: 4 dresses and a mirror that
belonged to Mrs. Calvin Coolidge, a
sandalwood fan owned by President
Wilson’s daughter, and a chiffon fan
owned by Mrs. William H. Taft
(234873).

Parsons, Dr. and Mrs. John W., Bal-
timore, Md.: 2 mollusks, a new species
from Aruba, N.W.I. (238331).

Parsons, Margaret, Lucas, Ohio:
(Through Dr. Theresa Clay) 2 lice,
holotype and allotype, from eastern U.S.
(240051).

Paternoster, Alfredo, Rome, Italy : 13
bank and traveler’s checks issued by
various Italian banks (239649).

Paterson, Peter W., East Paterson,
N.J.: Spangolite from Mex-Tex Mine,

Socorro Co. N. Mex. (240373, ex-
change).
Patrick, John, Berkeley, Calif.:

Adamite from ‘Tsumeb, Southwest
Africa (238108).

Paul, Dr. Lee W., Los Angeles, Calif. :
2 fossil wood specimens containing
teredo borings from the Tertiary of
Washington (239232).

Pautzke, Clarence F. (See Interior,
U.S. Department of the)

Paval, Philip, Hollywood, Calif.: 5
artistic medals (237287).

Pavlovsky, Academician E. N., Lenin-
grad, U.S.S.R.: 2 U.S.S.R. bronze
medals commemorating the 150th an-
niversary of the publication of Jean
Baptiste Lamarck’s Philosophie Zoo-
logique, and commemorating Charles
Darwin and the centenary of the pub-
lication of his work, The Origin of
Species (236856, 237284).

Paynter, Dr. Raymond, Jr. (See Har-
vard University)

Peacock, Daniel (See Peacock, Rich-
ard)

Peacock, Richard and Daniel, Fair-
fax, Va.: 53 mammals from North Car-
olina and Virginia (241770).

Pearce, Mrs. John (See White House,
The)

Peardon, Mrs. Celeste Comegys (See
Brunschwig, Mrs. Zelina Comegys)

167

Pelikan, Dr. Ir. J. (See Czechoslovak
Academy of Sciences)

Pell, Hon. Claiborne, Washington,
D.C.: Medal of the City of Nimes
(287866) .

Pell Fund, Alfred Duane, Smithso-
nian Institution: Ceramic vase and a
stoneware bottle (241786, 241787).

Penman, Penelope, Falls Church, Va. :
Hafted stone ax from Australia
(240657).

Pennington, Richard, Montreal, Can-
ada: 5 color wood engravings by Leigh-
ton Brothers (238476).

Pennsylvania, University of, Phila-
delphia, Pa. (Through Prof. Claude K.
Deischer) Spoerhase analytical balance
(239021).

Pennsylvania Fish Commission, Belle-
fonte, Pa.: (Through Drs. Keen Buss
and Frank J. Schwartz) 2 fishes from
Pennsylvania (238986).

Pennsylvania Geological Survey,
Harrisburg, Pa.: (Through Donald M.
Hoskins) 20 slides and 2 matrix speci-
mens, including types, of a new species
of ostracode from the Silurian of the
Bloomsburg formation, Pennsylvania
and adjacent states (241270).

Pennsylvania Railroad, Philadelphia,
Pa.: Photograph of bridge at Rockville,
Pa., 1896 (240143).

Pennsylvania State University, Uni-
versity Park, Pa.: Grass (241417).

Percy, P. E. (See Baldwin-Lima-
Hamilton Corp.)

Perkins, Dr. Bob F., Houston, Tex.:
39 invertebrate fossils from the upper
Eagle shale, Upper Cretaceous of Texas
(241760).

Perot, T. Morris, III (See Perot Malt-
ing Co.)

Perot Malting Co., Philadelphia, Pa.:
(Through T. Morris Perot, III) Hollo-
way steam engine, 1819 (239089).

Perry, Kenneth M., Falls Church, Va.:
Natural lodestone from the 1914 World’s
Fair (240818).

Perugino, Michael (See Yale Univer-
sity)

Petersen, Mr. and Mrs. Raymond L.,
Annandale, Va.: Thomsonite from
168

Arlington Quarry, Loudoun Co., Va.
(240041).

Peterson, Dr. B. V., Guelph, Ontario,
Canada: 26 black flies, paratypes, from
North America (238126) ; 7 black flies

from North America (239940, ex-
change).
Peterson, Mendel L., Washington,

D.C.: 5 medals commemorating events
dating from 1739-1890 (238746, 239664,
240541) ; condor coin (236608) ; 6 Brit-
ish tokens of the 18th century depicting
various textile industries (238479) ; 8
trade tokens and 2 hair bracelets of the
18th and 19th centuries (236602,
237650) ; Monitor penny of Civil War
era, 1863 (239189); 12 cowrie shells
from an underwater shipwreck site
west of Bermuda, 1960 (239754) ; lead
trial striking of a medal showing Presi-
dent Grant by Anthony Paquet, 1869
(240326) ; 43 miscellaneous naval offi-
cer’s uniforms, insignia, and naval life-
saving equipment of World War II, and
9 additional items dealing with lifesav-
ing equipment (240542) ; model for the
saving of lives at sea and a Carnegie
Hero Fund medal (241682).

Peterson, Richard S. (See Johns
Hopkins University )

Pettibone, Dr. Marian H.
Hampshire, University of)

Petz, Richard A., Alexandria, Va.:
Willcox and Gibbs sewing machine of
the late 18th century (240081).

Peus, Prof. Dr. F. (See Zoologisches
Museum)

Phelan, Sgt. Thomas F., MacDill,
A.¥.B., Fla.: 300 echinoids from the
Tertiary of Florida (240540).

Phelps, R. J., Madison, Wis. : 71 black
flies from Wisconsin (240668).

Phelps, Ralph H. (See Engineering
Societies Library)

Philatelic Fund, Smithsonian Institu-
tion: Philatelic cover bearing U.S.
postal history markings (241109).

Philip, Dr. C. B., Hamilton, Mont.:
2 horseflies from North America
(240670).

Phillips, Craig, Washington, D.C.: 3
fishes from Bimini (240221).

(See New

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1962

Phillips, George (See British Guiana
Forest Department)

Phillips, Dr. Haskell C. (See Austin
Peay State College)

Piccione, Omero, Rome, Italy: Medal
portraying Professor Hmilio Betti
(241836).

Pickens, Mrs. Ruth Gist (See Smith,
Harriet Gist)

Pickett, Dr. J. W. (See New England,
University of)

Piedmont Label Co., Bedford, Va.:
(Through Jesse T. Davidson) Fuchs &
Lang hand lithograph press, 6 litho-
graph stones, hand roller, and 182 ex-
amples of early label printing (237315).

Pierce, Dr. W. Dwight, Los Angeles,
Calif.: 2 leafhoppers, paratypes, from
Mexico and 120 weevils, including types,
from western U.S. (239127, 239128).

Pillai, Dr. N. Krishna (See Marine
Biological Laboratory)

Pilous, Zdenék, Hostinne, Czechoslo-
vakia : 150 mosses from Czechoslovakia
(240306, exchange).

Pires, Dr. J. M. (See Instituto Agron-
dmico do Norte)

Plant, Mrs. O. H., Alexandria, Va.: 2
sewing boxes, 19th century, 2 pieces of
Brussels carpeting, 1871, and a silk
apron, ca. 1850 (239134).

Plant, Sidney F., Boynton Beach,
Fla.: Bookmark commemorating the
100th anniversary of the birth of George
Washington (236607).

Plath, Walter, Sr., Dunnville, Ontario,
Canada: 646 beetles from Europe and
90 Coleoptera and 41 Lepidoptera from
Hurope (238127, 238662, 240267).

Platt, Homer C., Manchester, Iowa:
“Uncle Sam” sesquicentennial bronze
medal and silver and bronze medals
issued in 1962 commemorating the U.S.
achievements in the exploration of
space (240821, 241517, 241903). (See
also Delaware County Historical So-
ciety)

Pocock, Dorothy, Barbados, BW.I.:
16 shrimps (235532, 236429).

Poe, Maj. T. H. (See Defense, U.S.
Department of)

Poland, Government of, Warsaw:
(Through Przedsiebiorstwo BHksportu)
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

387 mint stamps of Poland (2403839).
Academy of Sciences: Bronze medal
commemorating the 150th birthday of
Julius Slowacki, Polish poet (235515).

Politi, L. P. (See New York Botanical
Garden)

Polland, H. L. (See Chicago Transit
Authority)

Porras G., Padre Pedro I., Quito, Hc-
uador: (Through Dr. Clifford Hvans)
fish from Heuador (239486).

Post Office Department, Washington,
D.C.: (Through Greever Allan) 3,213
miscellaneous foreign postage stamps,
mint stamps, souvenir sheets, meter
impressions, and items of postal sta-
tionery per U.P.U. Bulls. (2363824,
237291, 238017, 238906, 240493) ;
(through J. M. Bell) 120 U.S. mint
postage stamps (236970); (through
Earl L. Ellis) 2 notebooks containing
historical facts and data leading to the
development of metered mail, with 8
metered envelopes, and 28 first-day
eovers of the official public test of the
mailomat (241738) ; (through James F.
Kelleher) 3 old letters relating to U.S.
Post Office operations, 1827-86 (236652).

Potomac Speleological Club, Falls
Chureh, Va.: (Through Robert P.
Mahood) 2 crickets and a spider from
a cave in West Virginia (238673).

Potter, Dr. Charles J. (See Rochester
& Pittsburgh Coal Co.)

Potts, Mrs. Margaret T., Washington,

D.C.:  Silk-chiffon dress of 1913
(235604).

Pough, Dr. Frederick, New York,
N.Y.: Hureaulite from Portugal

(240241, exchange).

Powell, Mrs. Edward Burr, Washing-
ton, D..C: Broché shawl of the 19th
century and a porcelain pipe (238997).

Pratt, Dr. Harry D., Atlanta, Ga.: 5
mosquitoes and lice, including holotype
and allotype (238667, exchange).

Pratt, Prof. Ivan, Corvallis, Oreg.: 3
slides, holotype and paratypes, of hel-
minth worms (237086).

Prescott, Gertrude (See Montana,
University of) i

Preserve, The, Rensselaerville, N.Y.:
(Through Edmund Niles Huyck) 244

169

caddis flies and damsel flies from New
York State (240262).

Price, John W., Lancaster, Pa.: 2
starfish from the Paleozoic and Ordo-
vician of Swatara Gap, Pa. (237661,
exchange).

Price, Mrs. Maybelle K., Annapolis,
Md.: Jacquard coverlet and Indian
cashmere shawl (240289).

Princeton University, Princeton,
N.J.: (Through Prof. Henry D. Smyth)
Maniac computer (220575).

Pritchard, Dr. A. Earl, Oklahoma
City, Okla. : 10,128 robber flies and 2,014
gall midges from the U.S. (239046).

Proprietors of Locks & Canals,
Lowell, Mass. : Colored lithograph, 1876
(240345).

Prosser, Mrs. John A. (See Spalding,
Francis O.)

Provenzano, Anthony J., Jr.
Miami, University of)

Provincial Museum, Victoria, B.C.,

(See

Canada: (Through Mrs. G. C. Carl)
amphipod (239465).
Pruett, Mrs. John W., Moscow,

Idaho: Fern from Idaho (241172).

Przedsiebiorstwo Eksportu (See Po-
land, Government of)

Puerto Rico, University of, Maya-
guez, Puerto Rico: (Through Dr. Vir-
gilio Biaggi, Jr.) 3 birds (240281) ;
(through Prof. W. A. Gordon) 18 echi-
noids from the Tertiary of Puerto Rico
(238008, exchange) ; (through John EH.
Randall) 9 sea anemones and 14 amphi-
pods (239549, 239676) ; (through Mrs.
Germaine L. Warmke) 388 marine mol-
lusks from Puerto Rico (2389291).

Pullen, Dr. Edward J. (See Game and
Fish Commission)

Purdue University, Lafayette, Ind.:
55 phanerogams from Cuba and Ja-
maica (241260, exchange).

Quate, Dr. L. W., Honolulu, Hawaii:
5 scarab beetles from Malaya (240624).

Queen’s College, Georgetown, British
Guiana: (Through Dr. J. R. Ram-
sammy) 21 mollusks and 12 marine in-
vertebrates (222224).

Quinlan, James L., Jr., Falls City,
Tex.: 9 centipedes from Texas (238665,
238693).
170

Rachunis, William (See Interior, U.S.
Department of the)

Radford, David E., Chapel Hill, N.C.:
8 pierid butterflies from North America
(240666) .

Radio Corporation of America, Prince-
ton, N.J.: (Through J. 8. Donal, Jr.)
television equipment and tubes
(236304).

Rafferty, Maj. J. (address unknown) :
(Through Sidney D. Haas) 4 World
War II distinctive insignia (241588).

Ragan, James G. (See Interior, U.S.
Department of the)

Raley, Robert, Newark, Del.: 1 lot of
architectural elements, including a pan-
eled wall and a casement window sash
from the Murray House in Massachu-
setts, and an iron casement sash of the
17th century (240071).

Ramdohr, Prof. Paul (See Heidel-
berg, University of)

Ramovs, Dr. Anton (See Geolo&ko-
paleontoloski-Institut)

Ramsammy, Dr. J. R.
College)

Ramsay, Dennis
William A., Jr.)

Ramsay, Douglas Taylor (See Brown,
Dr. William A., Jr.)

Ramsden Brothers, Ghanzi, Bechu-
analand: Miniature bow and 21 arrows
in quiver (240627).

Randall, Dr. John E., Miami, Fla.:
Embryo of a shark, antipatharian, and
8 specimens of stomach contents, and
shark teeth from off Lameshur, St.
John, Virgin Islands (286385, 236448,
237181). (See also Erdman, Donald S.,
and Puerto Rico, University of)

Randall, Comdr. William E.
Commerce, U.S. Department of)

Raney, Dr. Edward C. (See Cornell
University )

Ranjha, Dr. A. R.
Government of)

Rao, K. Ramesh
ment of)

Rapp, Dr. William F., Jr., Lincoln,
Nebr.: Eastern gray tree frog from
Peru, Nemaha Co., Nebr., also a cray-
fish (240528, 240915). (See also Ne-
braska, State of)

(See Queen’s

(See Brown, Dr.

(See

(See Pakistan,

(See India, Govern-

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1962

Rappleye, Dr. Robert, College Park,
Md.: 4 sponges (288316).

Rasetti, Dr. Franco, Baltimore, Md.:
250 mollusks from the Triassic of the
Italian Alps and 400 trilobites from the
Middle Cambrian of Quebec (239106,
240036).

Rawls, John L., Washington, D.C.:
Tin-type of President James Buchanan
(236606).

Raymond, G. J., Houston, Tex.:
(Through Maj. C. C. Fisher) cover bear-
ing 2 precanceled stamps from Canton
Island, Phoenix group (238480).

Raymond, Mrs. Wayte, New York,
N.Y.: 560 modern coins of the world
(240100).

Reading Anthracite Co., Pottsville,
Pa.: (Through George J. Clark) an-
thracite coal samples (239331).

Reed, Dr. Clyde F., Baltimore, Md.:
16 ferns, phanerogams, grass, and 154
mosses from various localities (239298,
239302, 239303, 2393855, 240094, 241493).

Reed, Dr. George, Chicago, Ill.: 4
tektites from Viet Nam and a piece of
the Santa Rosalia, Baja California,
Mexico meteorite (238972, exchange).

Reed, Dr. T. H. (See Smithsonian
Institution)

Reese, Katharine M., Providence,
R.I.: 36 pieces of silver, silver-plated
sugar bowl, 2 early 19th-century framed
engraved pictures, and a fragmentary
Confederate flag (241779). (See also
Brown, Dr. William A., Jr.)

Reese, Dr. William D. (See South-
western Louisiana, University of)

Reeves, Lt. Eldon L. (See Defense,
U.S. Department of)

Reifsnider, Bertha, Hudson, Ohio: 13
pieces of jewelry, Masonic books, and
papers (238097).

Reilly, Edward L., Washington, D.C.:
Washington Institute of Technology
sonde-track (239017).

Reinert, Frederick F., Essex, Mass.:
Cheese press probably of the 18th cen-
tury (238709).

Reinert, Mrs. Frederick F., Essex,
Mass.: Moccasins and chaps that be-
longed to Geronimo, also a newspaper
clipping and a photograph (237728).
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Reinhard, Prof. H. J., College Station,
Tex.: 4 flies from Ohio and Texas
(241575, exchange).

Reinicker, Mrs. Douglas, Haston, Pa.:
(Through Saral Teilhet) 18 items re-
lated to the Woman Suffrage movement
(2388995).

Reining, Mrs. Priscilla C., Washing-
ton, D.C.: Painted barkcloth from Tan-
ganyika (241249).

Reish, Dr. Donald J., Long Beach,
Calif.: 14 polychaete worms, including
7 paratypes (236423).

Reppart, Cioyde A., Hancock, Md.:
15 crinoids from the Oriskany sand-
stone (239115).

Republic of Guinée, Government of,
Conakry : First-day cover bearing Refu-
gee Year stamps overprinted for 1961
(240109).

Reynard, Dr. George B., Riverton,
N.J.: Bird (240280).

Reynolds, John A., Arcadia, Fla.: 6
balanid barnacles from the Miocene of
Florida (241068).

Reynoldson, Mrs. LeRoy A., Wash-
ington, D.C.: Silk dress of 1880
(241462).

Reznek, Paul, Beltsville, Md.: Pack-
age of “beauty spots” manufactured by
Johnson & Johnson (237605).

Rhode Island, University of, King-
ston, R.J.: (Through Dr. Donald J.
Zinn) 19 amphipods (224602).

Rhodes University, Grahamstown,
South Africa: (Through Prof. J. L. B.
Smith) 2 fishes from Africa (232706,
exchange).

Rhymer, Daniel I., Washington, D.C.:
3 mammals (241769).

Ricci, Alfeo, Rio Marina Isola d’EHlba,
Italy: 37 minerals from various locali-
ties in Italy (284005).

Rice, Richard L., Hillsboro, Oreg.:
Opal in nodule from Oregon and agate
slab from New Mexico (237447, ex-
change); 2 slabs of palm wood
(237755).

Rice, Robert E.
Department of)

Richards, Dr. Horace G., Jr. (See
Academy of Natural Sciences of Phila-
delphia)

(See State, U.S.

171

Richards, Dr. W. R., Ottawa, Canada:
3 aphids from North America (241508).

Richardson, Dr. Annie L., Urbana,
Ill.: 50 phanerogams from Louisiana
collected by donor (237729).

Richardson, Douglas (See Richard-
son, Raj)

Richardson, Raj and Douglas, Falls
Church, Va.: 62 beetles, cockroaches,
crickets, lace bugs, dragon flies, and flies
from Uganda, Africa (241433).

Richardson, Dr. W.D. (See Imperial
College of Tropical Agriculture)

Richmond, Vice Adm. A. C. (See
Treasury, U.S. Department of the)

Ricker, Dr. P. L., Washington, D.C.:
146 phanerogams from California
(147321).

Riddle, George E., Spokane, Wash.:
Fossil wood from Fish Lake, Spokane
Co., Wash. (240591).

Riddle, William C., Memphis, Tenn. :
3 mollusks from the Cretaceous, Ripley
formation at Coon Creek, McNairy Co.,
Tenn. (238163) ; 500 mollusks from the
Upper Cretaceous of Coon Creek, Tenn.
(239570, exchange).

Riesenberg, Dr. Saul H., Washington,
D.C.: Pottery lamp from the Caroline
Islands (240626).

Riggs National Bank (See Kosin-
sky, Anna M.)

Rijksherbarium, Leiden, Nether-
lands: Photograph of a phanerogam,
type (240300, exchange).

Ring, Bernard, Brooklyn, N.Y.: 3
American First-Day Cover Society en-

velopes with Convention postmark
(239756).

Ringhaver, L. C. (See Diesel Engine
Sales, Inc.)

Richter, Dr. P. O., Corvallis, Oreg.: 2
searab beetles from North America
(238676).

Rivers, William, Baltimore, Md.: 6
minerals from Colorado and Wyoming
(236562) .

Roberts, Mrs. Alfred, Baltimore, Md. :
Table and cover and a lantern with 12
slides (239594).

Roberts, Dr. F. H. H., Jr. (See Rubey,
Dr. William H.)
172

Roberts, Dr. Larry S.
University )

Robertson, Dr. Robert, Philadelphia,

a.: 8 zoanthids and 11 sea anemones
(286998, 238526).

Robins, Dr. C. Richard (See Howard,
Col. John K., and Miami, University of)

Robinson, Dr. D. M. (See University
Museum)

Robinson, F. E., Summit, N.J.: Oil
painting of the “Culebra Cut” by EH. J.
Read, 1914 (238870).

Ruepinson, Tt. E, SUMMIT, N.J.: VIL
painting of the “Culebra Cut” by EH. J.

Read, 1914 (238870).
Rubinson, T. HE, SUMMIT, N.J.: Ul

painting of the “Culebra Cut” by EH. J.

Read, 1914 (238870).
Rubinson, T. HE, SUMMIT, N.J.: Ul

painting of the “Culebra Cut” by EH. J.

Read, 1914 (238870).
Rubinson, T. HE, SUMMIT, N.J.: Ul

painting of the “Culebra Cut” by EH. J.

Read, 1914 (238870).
Rubinson, T. HE, SUMMIT, N.J.: Ul

painting of the “Culebra Cut” by EH. J.

Read, 1914 (238870).
Rubinson, T. HE, SUMMIT, N.J.: Ul

painting of the “Culebra Cut” by EH. J.

Read, 1914 (238870).
Rubinson, tT. H., SUMMIT, N.J.: ULL

painting of the “Culebra Cut” by EH. J.

Read, 1914 (238870).
Rubinson, tT. H., SUMMIT, N.J.: ULL

painting of the “Culebra Cut” by EH. J.

Read, 1914 (238870).
Rubinson, tT. H., SUMMIT, N.J.: ULL

painting of the “Culebra Cut” by EH. J.

Read, 1914 (238870).
Rubinson, tT. H., SUMMIT, N.J.: ULL

painting of the “Culebra Cut” by EH. J.

Read, 1914 (238870).
Rubinson, tT. H., SUMMIT, N.J.: ULL

painting of the “Culebra Cut” by EH. J.

Read, 1914 (238870).
Rubinson, tT. H., SUMMIT, N.J.: ULL

painting of the “Culebra Cut” by EH. J.

Read, 1914 (238870).
Rubinson, tT. H., SUMMIT, N.J.: ULL

painting of the “Culebra Cut” by EH. J.

Read, 1914 (238870).
Rubinson, T. HE, SUMMIT, N.J.: Ul

painting of the “Culebra Cut” by EH. J.

Read, 1914 (238870).
Rubinson, T. HE, SUMMIT, N.J.: Ul

painting of the “Culebra Cut” by EH. J.

Read, 1914 (238870).
Rubinson, T. HE, SUMMIT, N.J.: Ul

painting of the “Culebra Cut” by EH. J.

Read, 1914 (238870).
Robinson, bt. EE, Summit,

U.S.

(See McGill

N.dJ.s Ull

NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1962

beryl from Brazil, 64.10 carats
(240894) ; apatite from Burma, 14.65
carats (241168) ; lot of diamond crys-
tals (241264).

Rogers, Dr. David J., New York, N.Y.:
2 wood samples and a photograph
(237108, 237109).

Rogers, Thomas, Toronto, Canada:
Stereo camera, ca. 1901, slide viewer, 8
slides, and a printing frame for making
positives (239674).

Rohde, Dr. K., Munster/Westfalen,
Sliuucs, auu @ Pirmuuiis Craluc tut maniugs
positives (239674).

Rohde, Dr. K., Munster/Westfalen,
Sliuucs, auu @ Pirmuuiis Craluc tut maniugs
positives (239674).

Rohde, Dr. K., Munster/Westfalen,
Sliuucs, auu @ Pirmuuiis Craluc tut maniugs
positives (239674).

Rohde, Dr. K., Munster/Westfalen,
Sliuucs, auu @ Pirmuuiis Craluc tut maniugs
positives (239674).

Rohde, Dr. K., Munster/Westfalen,
Sliuucs, auu @ Pirmuuiis Craluc tut maniugs
positives (239674).

Rohde, Dr. K., Munster/Westfalen,
Sliuucs, auu @ Pirmuuiis Craluc tut maniugs
positives (239674).

Rohde, Dr. K., Munster/Westfalen,
Sliuucs, auu @ Pirmuuiis Craluc tut maniugs
positives (239674).

Rohde, Dr. K., Munster/Westfalen,
Sliuucs, auu @ Pirmuuiis Craluc tut maniugs
positives (239674).

Rohde, Dr. K., Munster/Westfalen,
Sliuucs, auu @ Pirmuuiis Craluc tut maniugs
positives (239674).

Rohde, Dr. K., Munster/Westfalen,
Sliuucs, auu @ Pirmuuiis Craluc tut maniugs
positives (239674).

Rohde, Dr. K., Munster/Westfalen,
Sliuucs, auu @ Pirmuuiis Craluc tut maniugs
positives (239674).

Rohde, Dr. K., Munster/Westfalen,
Sliuucs, auu @ Pirmuuiis Craluc tut maniugs
positives (239674).

Rohde, Dr. K., Munster/Westfalen,
Sliuucs, auu @ Pirmuuiis Craluc tut maniugs
positives (239674).

Rohde, Dr. K., Munster/Westfalen,
Sliuucs, auu @ Pirmuuiis Craluc tut maniugs
positives (239674).

Rohde, Dr. K., Munster/Westfalen,
Sliuucs, auu @ Pirmuuiis Craluc tut maniugs
positives (239674).

Rohde, Dr. K., Munster/Westfalen,
Sliuucs, auu @ Pirmuuiis Craluc tut maniugs
positives (239674).

Rohde, Dr. K., Munster/Westfalen,

Sliuce, anu RAMA me HS Tialiuc Lui waning
