T tesa
> "I Pen
ieee Ee

Rg ed

Pees?

‘4

hy

5

iv

: . . J

I

SS

——
—
a
——
—.
=

— | so ~
1
5 a SS

~._-.----——>
net

NE

ANNUAL REPORI

OF THE

BOARD OF REGENTS

oF ‘THE

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,

SHOWING

THE OPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES, AND CONDITION
OF THE INSTITUTION

FOR ‘THE

YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1897.

fearey Outs

Was: NATIONAL MUSEUM.
Bart itay

WASHINGTON :
GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE.

LOO i
AN ACT PROVIDING FOR THE PUBLIC PRINTING AND BINDING, AND THE
DISTRIBUTION OF PUBLIC DOCUMENTS.

Approved January 12, 1895.

“Of the Report of the Smithsonian Institution, ten thousand copies; one thousand
copies for the Senate, two thousand for the House, five thousand for distribution by
the Smithsonian Institution, and two thousand for distribution by the National
Museum.”’

II
A MEMORIAL

OF

GEORGE BROWN GOODE,

TOGETHER WITH

A SELECTION OF HIS PAPERS

ON

MUSEUMS

AND ON THE

HISTORY OF SCIENCE IN AMERICA.

WASHINGTON :
GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE.

LOO1:
.

ENR OD UC ELON.

The influence of Doctor George Brown Goode on the growth and
character of the United States National Museum was profound, and it
extended to museum development in all parts of the world. It is
desirable that an account of his life and services should appear, together
with reprints of his valuable papers on American science and public
museums, as well as several on related subjects that have never been
published, in this portion of the Smithsonian report devoted to the work
of the National Museum. Most of these papers appeared originally in
publications not easily accessible to students, and all reprints have long
since been distributed.

GEORGE BROWN GOODE.

Every student of nature the world over has profited by the work of
Doctor Goode. Everyone interested in the advancement of science and
in the development of museums as the graphic representatives of history
and science has been and will be encouraged and assisted because he lived
aud worked. Every person can emulate his example of right living and
honest service with gain individually and as a member of the community
and of the body politic, and every Virginian can point with pride to the
fact that Doctor Goode’s ancestors were from that historic State.

Personally I knew him as the man of science, the museum adminis-
trator, the patriot, the valued adviser, and the loyal friend. ‘Two years
have passed since his death, and I feel the personal and public loss more
and more. No one has come to take his place in many of the fields of
his activity. Science, and particularly Government scientific institutions,
will long miss the wholesome influence that he exerted on the minds of
scientific and public men. But all that could be said by me has been
spoken by those whose tributes follow. We loved the man, and we cherish
his memory in secret thought and honor it in the written words of this
memorial volume.

CHARLES D. WALCOTT.
"
: uw n ‘As 7 i a 1

Ld

ae" ie 4 ;
7 = _
| | ee -
& ¥ -<ann? oF
: 7 i- “%

; Po :
ae / Tutor bobs Canine

.
a - may
‘
e . —
—_ —_
=) » -
i — 12.
<P 4.
eo <<]
a
_ ;
| ; :
,
-
“
=
i -

.
CONTENTS.

MEMORIAL MEETING.

AGERE G) Ale eee ct Se ahaa cliahaie gig aa "+ cally « via'Setvapaig a cle ale si ealdiididea'iesd ewtete sie
HEeeIsCo) SEAT YLT CY ctswavel a cipecos(eheles cbepavonsiser cucatah stata sucysvaite) <.susile els (sy usre "sits, ose) scores ollavebohiec deca etere ed
Introductory remarks. By Gardiner Greene Hubbard......................
Opening, Address, ~ By Samitiel Pierpont Langley. ... 0225. 4iccinwe desea cess

Goode as a historian and citizen. By William Lyne Wilson ................
(Goode as a. naturalist: By Henry Fairfield Osborn... 2... .sies.. oes cca cee
Goode’s activities in relation to American science. By William Healey Dall.
NecOMbONS ANG Iescaves Of SyMpAlhy 6 sc. ba. ia boat hae aoe es Chala d eee wae

Memoir of George Brown Goode. By Samuel Pierpont Langley ............

PAPERS BY GEORGE BROWN GOODE.

Museum-History and Museums of History .........0.. 0.00.00 ce cece eee ee eee
The Genesis of the United States National Museum .................0.00 00:
ie Lemeiples of Museum Administration 0262.06: os vee wee dee eee ss
BInITom Vit Seritra SrOCatie UIE eercre eo tara eteue oat ccayeiie rsva) a ahanes stele eunaiaial a ofa? oteiete ehoncers, cere
The Origin of the National Scientific and Educational Institutions of the

NOISES CAL CS ee cpr e mtctaves ere calc tpcates a eas ceciss readalceg Gee Saco saythai wala, Shel sites Seager nl eta eye
ihe, Besinnings of Natural History in America... . 0.0... cece k dee caves cee ies
sitepberiininos Of AMeriCan SCICNCE. 0). 6. sec cee et aGae velba wase en ssa eet
The First National Scientific Congress (Washington, April, 1844) and its Con-

nection with the Organization of the American Association ...............

The Published Writings of George Brown Goode. By Randolph Ityd Geare.

VII

Page.

sow
aAIernn ff W

WwW nN
os)

33)

479
a
aoe

in

ey

my

ke

ta
SL

4 - a eh « Fags “erdlie E*

eS
| @ -;

; = ai od om a v te
: We re
ae = te per se
i Sr |
nk
An ag ae ©

a
- :
—
‘ id ‘
t = ’ J
= ‘i , a
? 7 7 :
: at
J 7 y
a8
th
e” 4
F
.
7 ‘
a
a
- 7

TO:

Did.

2s

13.

14.

Lee

16.

7;

18.

19.
20.

LIST OF PLATES.

Facing page.
FRONTISPIECE. George Brown Goode (1857-1896), assistant secretary of the

Smithsonian Institution. From a photograph by T. W. Smillie........
John James Abert (1787-1863), chief of U. S. Topographical Engineers.
Pronmasstechenoravine by |. Ce Butte. cision 6 os co ss scee Be ee's oa ode aes
Louis Agassiz (1807-1873), naturalist. From a steelengraving ofa painting.

. John James Audubon (1780-1851), naturalist. From a photograph of a

MiGs ra Oy | a) AOtSOOr sca aweceedes ecient cecae aceadhedscasee ae’
Don Felix d’Azara (1746-1811), naturalist. From an engraving by Lizars.
Alexander Dallas Bache (1806-1867), superintendent U. S. Coast Survey.

COM PHOLOM KA UIOL ae At EVIO «oso. 5 asin cum ao4ie/a-0'6i47a $5 0 wie aoaiaiwle a ere he
Spencer Fullerton Baird (1823-1887), secretary of the Smithsonian Insti-

fLuOnwaeE tom a-phetostapl. py I Wo Smillie... sl .ckae ce dase ss oes
Joel Barlow (1754-1812), author of the Columbiad. From an engraving

byes ult ot a painting by Robert Pultots. ste. iss eee seieec ces
Frederick Augustus Porter Barnard (1809-1889), president of Columbia

College, New York. Froman engraving by E. G. Williams and Brother.
John Gross Barnard (1815-1882), army engineer. From an engraving by

ANSI B OURO UR) 0 8 (Cele ee ee i
Benjamin Smith Barton (1766-1815), physician and naturalist. From an

Sr emt Te OOCCCIL Sak ep nacre earn uivomaeAeoauin ae ancien neue beuied sc
William Bartram (1739-1823), botanist. From an engraving by T. B.

Neth Of mi pamiuins by iC, W, Peale cc. ts ctw cticinetentrcncin 1 Re Welemew os
Nathaniel Bowditch (1773-1824), mathematician. From an engraving by

J. Gross of a drawing by J. B. Longacre of the bust by Frazee ..........
Mathew Carey (1760-1839), author. From an engraving by Samuel Sar-

tain or apaintine by Jolin Neadle oo. si. scan ees sicss oa cease oa aidleee «
Samuel de Champlain (1567-1635), French explorer. From an engraving

by J. A, O’ Neill of a painting by Hamel of the Moncornet portrait...
Pierre Francois Xavier de Charlevoix (1682-1761), French explorer. From

ee Cee Watton Lig ivi. Oe) INCI. sss « «wine e'dipinis @amuaithe mca gid asain antesend sie 6
De Witt Clinton (1769-1828), chief promoter of the Erie Canal. From an

engraving by A. B. Durand of a painting by Ingham...................
George Hammell Cook (1818-188q), state geologist of New Jersey. From

SRP OS Teil. tnt sh ais canta o's. bd aly scores aeecay Renesas Cae ewiale shee tapes BE.
Darius Nash Couch (1822-1897), army explorer. From an engraving by

ee CoP ULELCTOL AL PMOLOPTa pl ci... 5.c cnsyeie ser ola Sys Gidderecua He Reise sls vate eo Sas
Charles Patrick Daly (1816-1899), geographer. From a photograph.....
James Dwight Dana (1813-1895), geologist. From an engraving by

Tem Veet Liat epithe. i a.oF cai ate din oles oatals a/tale acc eusie aieiets suels dus" 0.2 wale wa ao

I1O

114

118

t The illustrations that accompany this volume are arranged alphabetically.

IX
List of Plates.

Facing page.

x
21. Charles Henry Davis (1807-1877), naval explorer. From an engraving
by A. H, Ritchie 5... 20's ssc es aetaeteinss nye sells rin wlejel ental) tale ieh-) aee
22. Edwin Hamilton Davis (1811-1888), ethnologist. From a copy of a
photograph «oj. 25 see's ote 0 oe oem cimle goin, @ wlnielsieletsiole et ictal telo aie ae ene
23. John William Draper (1811-1882), physicist. From an engraving by
George BH. Perine: oo. 2.055 Seine lercles vislstn soba \elnlole 10) eialel cis ale)>)=hepnteer eee
24. Peter Stephen Duponceau (1760-1844), philologist. From a lithograph. .
25. Timothy Dwight (1752-1817), president of Yale College. From an
engraving by Freeman. 2. .j:0 cfc sicicie sc sie ast ele «ale © ele ele «ete
26. James Buchanan Eads (1820-1887), civil engineer. From an engraving
By 2Ae ER, RAG yo cc es oleae cevene 5 eek orevet tet eee ere eee ee ee
27. Amos Eaton (1776-1842), botanist. From an engraving by A. H. Ritchie.
28. Andrew Ellicott (1758-1820), ostronomer and civil engineer. From a
photograph’ of a painting. 45. sta. han. ce 6 wales oe eee elec ees
29. George William Featherstonhaugh (1780-1866), explorer and geologist.
Hrom: a plotog rap le ss en cheracte cher ferclkere sletetsisterey Meter he eine ites
30. William Ferrell (1817-1891), meteorologist. From a photograph .......
31. John Reinhold (1729-1798) and John George (1754-1794) Forster, natu-
ralists, roman engravine by Di Berger 5.2. 4.404 eener hee eerie
32. Benjamin Franklin (1706-1790), scientist. From an etching by Albert
Rosenthal of the painting by C. Wy Peale oj- fen n-y-o se eee eee
33. John Charles Frémont (1813-1890), army explorer. From an engraving
by: a. Kuishtiet va photography is 2 sc yee ce hreemecienieme or ere reer
34. George Gibbs (1815-1873), ethnologist. From a photograph............
35. James Melville Gilliss (1811-1865), astronomer. From a photograph....
36. Augustus Addison Gould (1805-1866), conchologist. From an engraving
by Wright Smitha 2 oct 2iccc kotsteale cisintsiethciotercts' cic n1e's-= meee eee
37. Asa Gray (1810-1888), botanist. From a wood engraving by G. Kruell..
38. Jacob Green (1790-1841), chemist. From an engraving by J. Sartain of

. Arnold Guyot (1807-1884), geographer. From a photograph
. Stephen Hales (1677-1761), botanist. From a steel engraving
. Charles Frederic Hartt (1840-1878), naturalist and explorer. From a

a painting iby iy Bridsportynrc a..eiie cine ceteris Ae eh ieee

wood cut engraving of a photograph

. Ferdinand Rudolph Hassler (1770-1843), first superintendent of the U.S.

Coast Survey. From a photograph of a painting

. Isaac Israel Hayes (1832-1881), Arctic explorer. From an engraving by

Jackman

|. Joseph Henry (1799-1878), first secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. .

Edward Hitchcock (1793-1864), geologist. From a photograph of a

painting 2 Fass. wei cle slits vee eiake ao ctor to cls Sey tee areas enna th eens
Iyben Norton Horsford (1818-1893), chemist. From an engraving.......
David Hosack (1769-1835), botanist. From an engraving by A. B. Durand

of a painting by Thomas Sully

. Andrew Atkinson Humphreys (1810-1883), army engineer. From an

David Humphreys (1752-1818), poet and diplomatist. From an engraving

by G. Parker of a painting by Gilbert Stilartsi...5- 0. eee ae
Elisha Kent Kane (1820-1857), Arctic explorer. From an engraving by
T. B. Welch of a daguerreotype portrait by Brady.......-...........-.

. Benjamin Henry Latrobe (1767-1820), civilengineer. From a lithograph.

Isaac Lea (1792-1886), conchologist. From an etching by S. J. Ferris....

146
List of Plates.

XI

Facing page.

. Meriwether Lewis (1774-1809), explorer. From an engraving by Strick-

Levit Cl NNER Re SR ye (ota eee te Che tans acto cc sone eiror athe adne Seana ane Lise

54. James Harvey Linsley (1787-1843), naturalist. From a steel engraving. .
55. Stephen Harriman Long (1784-1864), army explorer. From an engraving
Dyk es DULtTe OL a. daguerreotype portttait. <ic.is is. e. dene cess teu eae
56. William Maclure (1763-1840), geologist. From an engraving of a painting
DiyaenomasiSullya a cc erseisciers ie & stoe aiciaja ot sGieis'e)s «4,41 aig)steee oe feyaum aiecc 005s 3s
57. Matthew Fontaine Maury (1806-1873), geographer. From an engraving
yg GcOLe cer pl erime, Mercia trelcelcreie kel .© a1a.cle ee vistefnetots Some e e syeunsiet sues
58. Francois André Michaux (1770-1855), botanist. From an engraving by
Feb. Hall o1a painting by Rembrandt Peale»... -..<.<n0csee5 cesses
59. Ormsby MacKnight Mitchel (1809-1862), astronomer. From an engraving
Vee ELens seats tao mee to crs Ws asad teen ee tah Se labia eed ou 4
60. Samuel Latham Mitchill (1764-1831), ‘‘ Nestor of American Science.”’
From an engraving of a painting by H. Inman........................
61. Samuel George Morton (1799-1851), physician, From an engraving.....
62. Albert James Myer (1827-1880), chief signal officer, U. S. A. From an

emer. day. Wala mRIVMICCAY vrs ces oe ca ic.d. sce dad ewe es wile disistewa 08 «

. John Strong Newberry (1822-1892), geologist. From a photograph......
. Eliphalet Nott (1773-1866), president of Union College. From an engray-

ime by Asoo. Durand of a panting by Ames sc .scia sa leweeste Vienies os

. Thomas Nuttall (1786-1559), naturalist. From an engraving by Thom-

. Denison Olmsted (1791-1859), physicist. From an engraving by A. H.

Rete 1 PE PRE eee raed asain Vetale se ieiitkey nictevehstaieeio: cis rareaenrokaale facie

. John Grubb Parke (1827-1900), army explorer. From an engraving by

r Nem Peco tlt Cape meee caer irreie ect cen etek nie teh ania h PARES EOS Bink

. Charles Willson Peale (1741-1827), artist. From a painting by himself. .
. Rembrandt Peale (1778-1860), artist. From a painting by Thomas Sully.
. Benjamin Peirce (1809-1880), mathematician. From a photograph ......
. Timothy Pickering (1745-1829), statesman. From an engraving by T. B.

Welchvoracpainting by Gilbert Gtuart. .. <.cc6. ca sauce cd Sse ee faa es

. Zebulon Montgomery Pike (1779-1813), army explorer. From an engrav-

BUC Natl. * % oc acd cre ce ee ee oars Se Seok vg todo gS aceha (ed Se whale are aes

. Joel Roberts Poinsett (1779-1851), statesman, From an engraving by

Epis O TL ACS shy ce actrees ara ere No als Sivie eave eine e aod ese sate a diBbole dias so ghehe pmerclh onde

. Joseph Priestley (1773-1804), chemist. From an engraving by W. Holl of

pes tials, UVeterk OeUare.2 ccs «tena aeis-a.<ia alee ara Gene Aim vod oe ow alsa Sh

. Samuel Purchas (1577-1628), author of ‘‘ Purchas, his pilgrimage.’? From

Bimeme ravine y ait, Ri COOK. 250.20. cia daoes tueade saad oie seule we aGids

. Constantine Samuel Rafinesque (1784-1842), naturalist. Irom a wood

Cut reproductionof a;steel engorTavin’... cess wets s ess eacesntesveseex

. William C. Redfield (1789-1857), meteorologist. From an engraving by

. Charles Valentine Riley (1843-1895), entomologist. From a photograph.
. David Rittenhouse (1732-1796),astronomer. From an engraving by J. B.

Longacre ofa painting by C."W. Peale. .25 282 scend bee evs ese vanes seee¥s

. John Rodgers (1812-1882), naval explorer. From an engraving by A. H.

TRIALS SH KE 5 bine, a See SOO A Sie A a a AM 2

. Henry Darwin Rogers (1808-1866), geologist. From an engraving by

ea See Enttl LOCSOT ee. i lateral cuca totais ciate ane chaciccd sks eyateus we ange’ a six elevd da bua ado avi

. William Barton Rogers (1804-1882), founder of Massachusetts Institute of

Technology. From an engraving by H. W. Smith....................

278
282

286
290
294
298

302
5 2:30

83.

List of Plates.

= Facing page.

Thomas Say (1787-1834), naturalist. From an engraving by Hoppner
Meyer of a painting by Wood .......... 2. eesee cence eee eee eee ewe eee

. Henry Rowe Schoolcraft (1793-1864), naturalist and explorer. From an

engraving by Tlman-and: Sons josie oc Soo = Gee a lake io aie siehel= oieelel

. Pietro Angelo Secchi (1818-1878), astronomer. From a wood cut......
. Benjamin Silliman (1779-1864), chemist. From a mezzotint by P. N.

Midoatlaveacsosonppoccoundeccopdoduc so onoaoooSoomoaddmoOD booDe DSC

87. Sir Hans Sloane (1660-1752), founder of British Museum. From a steel

ENETAVING: (2's <<< cjeielersre ae s)clale + sieleye ossicles c/n Hl= =) ie efectos Sieh tar

88. James Edward Smith (1759-1828), botanical writer. From a photograph

OF Atl CU STAVIN Soo oc potveterapniele iri steiiolastnvere = ele sare eyelet nets eters eee tote

89. John Smith (1579-1632), English explorer. From an engraving .......

90. Jakob Steendam (1616-1662), poet and naturalist. From a lithograph of

a Steel CN STAVING:..cissies oes eso |= odie eke ete cverarcterere es bein de oe syackore Ns eT tneene

gt. Isaac Ingalls Stevens (1818-1862), army explorer. From an engraving

jo) oC wEHONC Nera aceonoboO Ode Kobb OD CODEC DOOM boo Rood KoUEdToDO DCS

g2. Isaiah Thomas (1749-1831), founder of the Antiquarian Society in

Worcester, Mass. From an engraving by J.R.Smith................

93. Benjamin Thompson, Count Rumford (1753-1814), chemist and physi-

cist. <Eromian engraving by 1 Mien aoa cfae ealaleira le rele er eioets

94. John Torrey (1796-1873), botanist. From a lithograph......:.........

95. John Tradescant (1608-1662), traveler and naturalist. From a reproduc-

tiomof ati Old en gra VINE 2 51 si ehcte: «occ «1% alee sere. cnercreeoyoralerttens wiatee a renee

96. Gerard Troost (1776-1850), mineralogist and geologist. From a steel

CH OLAVING 6/5 owes ard: a vin woe Sale bi iste gis Dis’ el g's Sim cha clave es Star ebookers meer aie

97. William Petit Trowbridge (1828-1892), civil and mechanical engineer.

Prom a photog rapa. caisiecc sie es) «oisrersoreless 2) os a> @/arsyote es eke eine eees eee ee

98. Stephen Van Rensselaer (1765-1839), founder of the Van Rensselaer

Polytechnic Institute. From an engraving by G. Parker of a minia-

ture by'C, RrasSer cette crserenais cis cute onne el acts icles ene ere meeps Trecho acres

gg. Garcilaso de la Vega (1539-1616), Peruvian historian. From an early

engraving by Carona. ¢2:.3% <<s.:c'sseconie auisietnt ieeisteree ooh ear eee

100, Benjamin Waterhouse (1754-1846), physician. From an engraving by
Rs RE OVE 7 evaiel er slorsto ta eicveve ofe evs cches=/Syaiele.« niche aie peieialedaial atelencwe erie te tere

tor. Francis Wayland (1796-1865), president of Brown University. From an
engraving: Dy J! C.sBUEtRe oct sons, are cjase's sieseiotwrs eiahepeie: oe Crete eateaetyt near een

102, David Ames Wells (1828-1898), political economist. From an engraving
by He W..Smaitha. oo ec ccacivcrersts <loa's ws: bsetaiels crea eI eee ee eee ae

103. William Dwight Whitney (1827-1894), philologist. From an engraving
by J.:Cs Butite merc: aiscscsei-tee ate stare istercis we hia ieNern. chs aie tactota abet ne ee

104. Charles Wilkes (1798-1877), naval explorer. From an engraving by
Ay Hi. Ritchie 1355. 7.).55 siste-ccarare-ojs ale e/oters) « 51a, sve otsteuetele tele oie eine eee eet

105. Hugh Williamson (1735-1819), promoter of scientific enterprises. From
an etching by Albert Rosenthal of a painting by J. Trumbull .........

106. Alexander Wilson (1766-1813), ornithologist. From an old engraving. .
107. Caspar Wistar (1761-1818), professor of anatomy. From an engraving
by J.B Longacre of a'painting by. BOtise...) esas shi cence

108. Jeffries Wyman (1814-1874), comparative anatomist. From an engrav-
ing by LS. Pundersom. <)..saz ae sass ccrsleverl estes aii inte te eee eee

109. Edward Livingston Youmans (1821-1887), founder of Popular Science

Monthly. Brom an engraving by C-Schlechty..ccci sem erie eeneietaee

398

4o2
406

410
414

418
422

426
430
434

438
442

446
450

454

458
462
466
470
474
478
482

486
490

494
498

500
iti) [x jk

OF THE

MEETING HELD IN COMMEMORATION OF THE LIFE AND
SERVICES
OF
GEORGE BROWN GOODE,

Assistant Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, in charge of the
United States National Museum.

MEMORIAL EXERCISES.

On Saturday evening, February 13, 1897, a meeting was held in the
lecture room of the United States National Museum to commemorate the
life and services of George Brown Goode. Over four hundred persons
were assembled, representing the seven scientific societies, the patriotic
and historical societies, of Washington, the American Philosophical
Society, and the American Society of Naturalists.

The programme was as follows;

MEMORIAL MEETING.

You ARE invited to attend a Memorial Meeting, under the auspices
‘ of the Joint Commission of the Scientific Societies, and in co-operation
with the Patriotic and Historical Societies, of Washington, to commem-
orate the life and services of

GEORGE Brown Goopk, LL. D.,

Assistant Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, in charge of the
United States National Museum.
The meeting will be held in the Lecture Room of the National Museum,
Saturday evening, February 13,, 1897, at 8 o’clock.
Washington, February 6, 1897.
PROGRAMME.
Introductory remarks by the President of the Jot Commission,
HON. GARDINER G. HUBBARD

Address by the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution,

DRE Ss se) WANGLEY,

Goode as a Historian and Citizen,

Hon. WitiiAm L. WILSON

Goode as a Naturalist,

ProF. HENRY F. OSBORN

Goode’s Activities in Relation to American Science

PROF. WILLA Ee DALrT
INTRODUCTORY REMARKS.

By GARDINER GREENE HUBBARD,
President of the Joint Commission of the Scientific Societies.

This day was selected as the day to pay tribute to Doctor G. Brown
Goode, as it is his natal day. On my return to Boston from the maritime
provinces last summer, I heard with deep regret of the death, a few days
before, of Doctor George Brown Goode. ‘To me he had been a friend;
to me his death was a deep personal loss and sorrow. ‘To him I have
turned for counsel, for advice, for sympathy, and his response was
prompt, earnest, and cordial. Do I not express the feeling of all who
knew him? Never was there a truer and more intelligent counselor, a
more sympathetic friend, a more ready helper, a more kindly nature.

None knew him but to love him,
None named him but to praise.

It was at Twin Oaks, one of the last Sundays in June, that he spent
the last morning with us. He walked with us through the grounds’
twining ways, pointing out the beauties of the flowers, which he was so
quick to see, and showing a knowledge of the habits and needs of every
tree and shrub. He passed through the grounds to the library and
looked over a portfolio of recent Japanese prints. He showed a perfect
familiarity with them, selecting the good, rejecting the poor, and know-
ing the value of each. With books he was equally familiar, and more
than once suggested some rare book that I should like to obtain. Books
were his friends and companions. His reading was extensive and varied.
He knew my pedigree better than I, and corrected mistakes that I had
made in preparing my genealogy for the Society of Colonial Wars, in
which organization he was deeply interested. His mind was versatile,
his interests widespread, his tastes refined, his judgment correct. He
was a true lover of nature, of art, of beauty everywhere. He heralded
to us the first coming of the birds, he knew their notes, and welcomed
the opening of the spring blossoms. He was alive to every bit of earth
andsky. With all the pressure of numerous and varied cares and respon-
sibilities, he lent a ready ear, a helping hand, to all who asked his aid.
He would read and correct a manuscript for a friend, conduct another

5
6 Memortal of George Brown Goode.

through the Museum and open to him its treasures, or prepare a scheme
for an exposition at Chicago or Atlanta. Into the work of the Museum
he threw his whole heart and life. He knew it in all its strength
and weakness, its deficiencies, its wealth, its possibilities, and therefore
believed in its glorious future. He knew it in all its different depart-
ments—in its minute details. He welcomed every new object that was
brought into the Museum and directed its disposition. He refused the
appointment of Commissioner of Fisheries and remained in charge of the
Museum at a smaller salary, because he felt his services were more needed
there. He was urged last summer to go to the Seal Islands, a trip he
would gladly have taken, but he was reluctant to leave his work. He
remained to die at his post. ,

Others will speak of him in his public relations; others can estimate
his scientific attainments and the debt of gratitude the Museum owes to
his faithful and skillful administration; others will weave and lay upon
his tomb wreaths and garlands. I bring but a few violets, the expres-
sion of my personal love and esteem. He was a friend whom I loved
and whom I miss from my daily life.
OPENING ADDRESS.

By SAMUEL PIERPONT LANGLEY,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.

While I am aware that it is only fitting that I should say something
here about one I knew so well as the late Doctor Goode, I feel the occa-
sion a trying one, for he was so dear a friend that my very nearness and
sense of a special bereavement must be a sufficient excuse for asking
your indulgence, since I can not speak of him even yet without pain,
and I must say but little.

Here are some who knew him still longer than I, and many who can
estimate him more justly in all his scientific work, and to those who can
perform this task so much better, I leave it. I will only try to speak,
however briefly,. from a personal point of view, and chiefly of those
moral qualities in which our friendship grew, and of some things apart
from his scientific life which this near friendship showed me.

As I first remember him it seems to me, looking back in the light of
more recent knowledge, that it was these moral qualities which I first
appreciated, and that if there was one which more than another formed the
basis of his character it was sincerity—a sincerity which was the ground
of a trust and confidence such as could be instinctively given, even
from the first, only to an absolutely loyal and truthful nature. In him
duplicity of motive even, seemed hardly possible, for, though he was in
a good sense, worldly wise, he walked by a single inner light, and this
made his road clear even when he was going over obscure ways, and
made him often a safer guide than such wisdom alone would have done.
He was, I repeat, aman whom you first trusted instinctively, but also one
in whom every added knowledge explained and justified this confidence.

This sincerity, which pervaded the whole character, was united with
an unselfishness so deep-seated that it was not conscious of itself, and
was, perhaps, not always recognized by others. It is asubject of regret
to me, now it is too late, that I seem myself to have thus taken it too
much as a matter of course in the past, at times like one I remember,
when, as I afterwards learned, he was suffering from wretched health,
which he concealed so successfully while devoting himself to my help,
that I had no suspicion till long after of the effort this must have cost

7
8 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

him. He lived not for himself, but for others and for his work. There
was no occasion when he could not find time for any call to aid, and the
Museum was something to which he was willing to give of his own
slender means.

Connected with this was an absence of any wish to personally domi-
nate others or to force his own personal ways upon them. It is pleas-
antest to live our own life if we can, and with him every associate and
subordinate had a moral liberty that is not always enjoyed, for apart from
his official duties, he obtruded himself upon no one with advice, and his
private opinion was to be sought, not proffered.

His insight into character was notable, and:it was perhaps due as
much as anything to a power of sympathy that produced a gentleness in
his private judgment of others, which reminded one of the saying, that if
we could comprehend everything we could pardon everything. He com-
prehended and he pardoned.

Associate this tolerance of those weaknesses in others, even which he
did not share, with the confidence he inspired and with this clear insight,
and we have some idea of the moral qualities which tempered the
authority he exercised in his administrative work, and which were the
underlying causes of his administrative excellence. I do not know
whether a power of reading character is more intuitive or acquired; at
any rate without it men may be governed, but not in harmony, and must
be driven rather than led. Doctor Goode was in this sense a leader,
quite apart from his scientific competence. Every member of the force
he controlled, not only among his scientific associates, but down to the
humblest employees of the Museum, was an individual to him, with
traits of character which were his own and not another’s, and which were
recognized in all dealings. And in this I think he was peculiar, for I
have known no man who seemed to possess this sympathetic insight in
such a degree; and certainly it was one of the sources of his strength.

I shall have given, however, a wrong idea of him if I leave anyone
under the impression that this sympathy led to weakness of rule. He
knew how to say ‘‘no,’’ and said it as often as any other, and would
reprehend where occasion called, in terms the plainest and most uncom-
promising a man could use, speaking so when he thought it necessary,
even to those whose association was voluntary, but who somehow were
not alienated, as they would have been by such censure from another.
‘He often refused me what I most wanted,” said one of his staff to me,
“Dut Inever went to sleep without having in my own mind forgiven him.”

I have spoken of some of the moral qualities which made all rely upon
him, and which were the foundation of his ability to deal with men. T'o
them was joined that scientific knowledge without which he could not
have been a Museum administrator, but even with this knowledge he
could not have been what he was, except from the fact that he loved the
Museum and its administration above every other pursuit, even, I think,
Memorval Meeting. 9

above his own special branch of biological science. He was a man of
the widest interests I have ever known, so that whatever he was speak-
ing of at any moment, seemed to be the thing he knew best. It was
often hard to say, then, what love predominated; but I think that he had,
on the whole, no pleasure greater than that in his Museum administra-
tion, and that, apart from his family interests and joys, this was the
deepest love of all. He refused advantageous offers to leave it, though I
ought to gratefully add here, that his knowledge of my reliance upon
lim and his unselfish desire to aid me, were also among his determining
motives in remaining. ‘They were natural ones in such a man.

What were the results of this devotion may be comprehensively seen
in the statement that in the year in which he was first enrolled among
the officers of the Museum the entries of collections numbered less than
200,000, and the staff, including honorary collaborators and all subordi-
nates, thirteen persons, and by comparing these early conditions with
what they became under his subsequent management.

Professor Baird at the first was an active manager, but from the time
that he became Secretary of the Institution he devolved more and more
of the Museum duties on Doctor Goode, who for nine years preceding
his death was practically in entire charge of it. It is strictly within the
truth then to say that the changes which have taken place in the Museum
in that time are more his work than any other man’s, and when we find
that the number of persons employed has grown from thirteen to over
two hundred, and the number of specimens from 200,000 to over
3,000,000, and consider that what the Museum now is, its scheme and
arrangement, with almost all which make it distinctive; are chiefly
Doctor Goode’s, we have some of the evidence of his administrative
capacity. He was fitted to rule and administer both men and things,
and the Museum under his management was, as someone has called it,
‘“A house full of ideas and a nursery of living thought.’’

Perhaps no one can be a ‘“‘naturalist,’’ in the larger sense, without
being directly a lover of Nature and of all natural sights and sounds.
One of his family says:

He taught us all the forest trees, their fruits and flowers in season, and to know
them when bare of leaves by their shapes; all the wayside shrubs, and even the flow-
ers of the weeds; all the wild birds and their notes, and the insects. His ideal of an
old age was to have a little place of his own ina mild climate, surrounded by his
books for rainy days, and friends who cared for plain living and high thinking, with
a chance to help someone poorer than he.

He was a loving and quick observer, and in these simple natural joys
his studies were his recreations, and were closely connected with his
literary pursuits.

I have spoken of his varied interests and the singular fullness of his
knowledge in fields apart from biologic research. He was a genealogist
of professional completeness and exactitude, and a historian, and of him in
10 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

these capacities alone, a biography might be written; but his well-founded
claim to be considered a literary man as well as a man of science, rests as
much on the excellent English style; clear, direct, unpretentious, in which
he has treated these subjects, as on his love of literature in general. I
pass them, however, with this inadequate mention, from my incompetence
to deal with him as a genealogist, and because his aspect as a historian
will be presented by another; but while I could only partly follow him
in his genealogical studies, we had together, among other common tastes,
that love of general literature just spoken of, and I, who have been a
widely discursive reader, have never met a mind in touch with more far-
away and disconnected points than his, nor one of more breadth and
variety of reading, outside of the range of its own specialty. ‘This read-
ing was also, however, associated with a love of everything which could
illustrate his special science on this literary side. The extent of this
illustration is well shown by the wealth and aptness of quotation in the
chapter headings of his American Fishes, his Game Fishes of North
America, and the like, and in his knowledge of everything thus
remotely connected with his ichthyologic researches, from St. Anthony’s
Sermon to Fishes, to the Literature of Fish Cookery, while in one of his
earliest papers, written at nineteen, his fondness for Isaac Walton and
his familiarity with him, are evident. He hada love for everything to do
with books, such as specimens of printing and binding, and for etchings
and engravings, and he was an omnivorous reader, but he read to collect,
and oftenest in connection with the enjoyment of his outdoor life and all
natural things. One of these unpublished collections, The Music of
Nature, contains literally thousands of illustrated poems or passages
from his favorite poets.

These were his recreations, and among these little excursions into
literature, ‘‘the most pathetic, and yet in some respects the most con-
solatory,’’ says his literary executor, ‘‘seems to have been suggested
by an article on the literary advantages of weak health, for with this
thought in mind he had collected from various sources accounts of literary
work done in feeble health, which he brought together under the title
Mens Sana in Corpore /zsano.’’

Still another collection was of poems relating to music, of which he was
an enthusiastic lover. He sang and played well, but this I only learned
after his death, for it was characteristic of his utter absence of display, that
during our nine years’ intimacy he never let me know that he had such
accomplishments; though that he had a large acquaintance with musical
instruments I was, of course, aware from the collections he had made.

We must think of him with added sympathy, when we know that he
lost the robust health he once enjoyed, at that early time during his first
connection with the Museum, when he gave himself with such uncalcu-
lating devotion to his work as to overtask every energy and permanently
impair his strength. It was only imperfectly restored when his excessive
Memorial Meeting. Lr

labors in connection with the Centennial Exposition brought on another
attack, and this condition was renewed at times through my acquaintance
with him. When we see what he has done, we must remember, with now
useless regret, under what conditions all this was accomplished.

I have scarcely alluded to his family life, for of his home we are not to
speak here, further than to say that he was eminently a domestic man,
finding the highest joys that life brought him with his family and children.
Of those who hear me to-night most knew him personally, and will bear
me witness, from his daily life, that he was a man one felt to be pure in
heart as he was clean of speech, always sociable, always considerate of
his associates, a most suggestive and helpful man; an eminently unselfish
man—may I not now say that he was what we then did not recognize, in
his simplicity, a gveat man?

It isa proof [says one who knew him] of the unconsciousness and unobstrusive-
ness which chracterized Doctor Goode in all his associations and efforts that, until
his death came, few, if any, even of his intimate friends, realized the degree to
which he had become necessary to them. All acknoweledged his ability, relied on
his sincerity, knew how loyally he served every cause he undertook. ‘The news of
his death showed them for the first time what an element of strength he was in the
work and ambitions of each of them. With a sudden shock they saw that their
futures would have less of opportunity, less of enthusiasm and meaning, now that
he was gone.

He has gone; and on the road where we are all going, there has not
preceded us a man who lived more for others, a truer man, a more loyal
friend.
Puy =

Pi, i - y 7
a = “s 7 LAs
ere mn OW Be oe
ieee ase eel “ey a
ae ie a i 7

ae pe! at a: Aen Panne ifs Pun vf et ; na ;
Sh te ae “Db - a i inst iki ae oe Staal
= hy fee 2S ety . : 7 er raat he a ey i ae i ok

‘ Ls - ;
See re tn
ie - 7 | : a Sone alt, es ie} , oy “np peat Ak: Ee . :
a
> ie a My 7 Pai = a Hi, Sed iy 5 Bait a Bes afl | ‘te

rs
: i th: x
7 - 7 a : ; i Tan pares: is")
= May. C5 ieee eel inna wee iy ro
a Ra rey) i we ic % Did « oy : an aren Rey Ton al ‘ee

7 _

t

| 7 : : 7 - ve ~ ‘ 3 oe :
7 Pe a Rt Te
2 7 iF, : ih) oats ee rr fe ee | , ay " oi ‘rE. J «© We et
aay, 7 Le -_ ba caer ue o 4 a, OW av (' carn vi i : 2
ue nee § Oe ? “0 on _ a) _ a ° ‘sf
ee : an iF eh : es ' : ae 7 * rey os ii oe iv \
: — re iy A Soles Ba r Gil : oe . gee a vt ove
. ae dati RU ek os a, wae ;
~ as : sy . 7 J a
_ are —— 7 > an 7 4 b = Pet ee 7 Pia. =>
a a ~~ 7 ee ONE aes eS See ee -
a o a 7 - = tae * - 7
aa e Pees a "
y Ba an id Cy» tah ‘a - a a . 7 —
Lo > iy a 1 mi wry ci Wain Oe sed rip ‘ shee wy ten te v2 :
- 7 | = A - 7 eae ay 7 a — oe -
: : ; : 7 mie : =) niaaafes! tus: = ae >
7 tee an - 7 a
: _ ee ae 7 _ :
Vee er
7 “_ 7 — = ——- _
=4 _ _
- a a
: = , 5 3
sa = = J 7 Rs
i) _ 7 -
> a 7 =F
ae’. =" :
_ - a
’ 7 ~ a
oo ae
_ ‘ ; : i]
= 7 a : i : ~s
, -
= 7 ~ is 7
OS a a
ey « - a
ai a pelle _
_ ur a &
7 ; - 8 7 ny 7 -
: ? 7 a" 1) :
a - =, 7 =
a ele ~ (ae
7 ae a a o a : = y
7 H 7 - ;
it = = = : ne. ; Ae
t - ae 7 \ 7 7 -_
7 al = > <q ’ ~~
7 = _ ,
i 7 7
a a -
_ . a fee
GOODE AS A HISTORIAN AND CITIZEN.

By WILLIAM LYNE WILSON,
Postmaster-General of the United States.

It has been most appropriately assigned to those who saw, and were
privileged to see, more of Doctor Goode than myself, in his domestic life
and in daily official intercourse, to speak of his virtues and his most
charming and lofty traits as a man; and to speak of him in his chosen
field of science must be assigned to those who do not, like myself, stand
outside of the pale of scientific attainment. The somewhat humbler part
is mine to speak of Doctor Goode in those relations in life in which he
was probably less known and less thought of than as a man of science or
in other fields of his distinguished attainment.

The German professor, of whom it is related that on his deathbed he
mourned the waste of his life work in expending his energies on the
entire Greek language instead of concentrating them on the dative case,
gives a ludicrous and extreme illustration of that necessity for division
of labor and of specialization which all men recognize in this age of
ours. In the field of intellectual, as in that of mechanical, occupation,
the ‘‘jack-of-all-trades’’ is master of none; and while the rule for the
intellectual man and for the great student must always be to endeavor
to know everything of something and something of everything—at least
of everything connected with that something—it is becoming more and
more difficult in the compass of human life and human attainment to
live up to that rule.

Doctor Goode was honored in his own country and in other countries
as an eminent man of science, and deservedly so honored, and his lasting
fame must rest upon his solid and substantial contributions to science
and the advancement of human knowledge, on his eminent success as an
administrator of scientific organizations, and on that work which all his
life shows to have been most congenial to him—the bringing of science
down to the interest and instruction of the people.

He was a richly endowed man, first with that capacity and that
resistless bent toward the work in which he attained his great distinction
that made it a perennial delight to him; but he was scarcely less richly

13
14 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

endowed in his more unpretending and large human sympathies, and it
was this latter that distinguished him as a citizen and a historian.

It has been said time and again, with more or less truth, of the great
English universities, and possibly of similar great schools in our own
country, that they tend to make a caste, and that men who come out
from them find themselves separated from the great mass of their fellow-
citizens, out of sympathy with the thought, the action, and the daily life
of the generation in which they move. ‘This certainly could never be
said of Doctor Goode. As a citizen he was full of patriotic American
enthusiasm. He understood, as all must understand who look with
seriousness upon the great problems that confront a free people and who
measure the difficulties of those problems—he understood that at least
one preparation for the discharge of the duties of American citizenship
was the general education of the people, and so he advocated as far as
possible bringing within the reach of all the people not only the oppor-
tunities but the attractions and the incitements to intellectual living.
It was one of his favorite ideas that there should be in every town,
and even in the villages of the country, at least some sort of a library,
at least some sort of a reading room, at least some sort of a museum,
to quicken and generate the intellectual life of that community, and
possibly to stimulate men to the high career which he and others like
him have been stimulated to from such beginnings.

But Doctor Goode knew also that mere education—literary or scien-
tific—whatever it might do for the individual, however much of power
or distinction it might give to him, and however much of personal enjoy-
ment and luxury it might bring to him, is not the only thing required to
make an American citizen, and I am satisfied that the work which he
did in the field of American history was connected, closely connected,
with this general idea. It is not only that we have free institutions in
this country, it is not only that we have universal education, at least
within the reach of the people of this country; we have as our chief reli-
ance for success in the future, as it has been our chief safety in the past,
the rich political heritage of hundreds of years’ training in these institu-

tions, and Doctor Goode, with the quick and warm sympathies of the
man and of the historian, seems to have felt that he could do no greater
service to the people of his day and generation and to his country than
in the most attractive and concrete way (if I may so express it) to lead
the young men of this country to the study of the history of the past—
to the deeds and the writings of the great men to whom we owe the
foundation and the perpetuation of our institutions. "This was probably
somewhat the result of his personal sympathies, feeling that what
influenced him would influence others, and it was a wise and proper
conclusion.

The study of the past, the study of the lives of those who have been
eminent and useful men in the past, is a potent influence on high, intel-
Memortal Meeting. eas

ligent, patriotic effort in the present. The xoblesse oblige of a patriotic
and substantial ancestry, not only for the individual but for the country
itself, is a power whose influence we can scarcely exaggerate. I have
thought, as I have visited the great universities of Kngland and seen in
their common halls, where once a day the students meet to partake of
one meal at least in common, as upon their walls I have seen in living
canvas the portraits of the great men of their special colleges—of Isaac
Barron, Thomas Babington Macaulay, and all the English bishops at
Trinity—and each exhibiting groups of those who have risen to useful-
ness and done great deeds in literature, in science, in public life, in war,
or in any of the elements and fields of English greatness, that there was
a mute appeal to every Englishman from those walls to be worthy of his
country and of his college.

It must have been something of this idea that induced the old Roman
to place in the entrance to his house the efiigies of every member of his
family who had borne a high office in the state. As his son came in and
out of that house, he passed between effigies, as lifelike as Roman art
could make them, of every member of that family who had held a high
office, or magistracy, in the Roman commonwealth. He was stimulated
to patriotism by the examples of his fathers—of those who had led
armies, of those who had extended the limits of the empire, of those
who had triumphed on returning from foreign fields of conquest and vic-
tory, of those whose names were revered in the annals of his country—

and so it must have been, consciously or unconsciously, some feeling of
this kind that seems almost from Doctor Goode’s youth to have led him
into the field of genealogical inquiry and study, led him into the field of
historic study, grouping his studies, as he seems to have done, around
great and inspiring characters.

Perhaps no family in this country has had so perfect a book, so com-
plete a study of all of its branches, as Doctor Goode gave to the family
whose name he bore in that book entitled Virginia Cousins, and it is
especially gratifying to me to know that Virginia history, so much
neglected, was perhaps the favorite field of Doctor Goode’s study and
investigation. He was a student of the writings of Washington, and
gathered all the material he could find about that great Virginian. He
was a student of the writings of Jefferson; he was a student of the lives
of other distinguished men of that old Commonwealth, and I am told
that he had in contemplation the publication of a book to be called
Virginia Worthies, in which doubtless he would have tried to give
the proper standing to that minor and second class of Virginia’s great
men of whom the country at large knows so much less to-day than it
ought to know.

Not only, however, in the study of the men and the history of the
Commonwealth from which in one line of his ancestry he was sprung
was Doctor Goode a student. He was a student of American history at
16 Memortal of George Brown Goode.

large. He was one of the Council of the American Historical Associa-
tion, and it was particularly through his efforts that the connection
between that association and the Smithsonian Institution was brought
about. He was one of the organizers here but a few months ago of the
Southern History Association, and took great interest in the work that
is projected by it. He was connected with the great organizations, the
Sons of the American Revolution and the Sons of the Revolution, presi-
dent of the first and vice-president of the other, and not as a mere office-
holder, not as a mere member, but as a zealous, enthusiastic, intelligent
worker.

But Doctor Goode was not only a historian in this respect and in
this peculiar way. He was also a historian of science, and he seems here
likewise to have followed the same general idea of grouping scientific
history—the history of scientific progress—around the particular men
and individuals connected with that progress.

Iam assured by those who are more capable of speaking authoritatively
on such a subject than I am, that in certain papers of his, partly pub-
lished, and partly as yet unpublished, he has given us the most interest-
ing and instructive history yet produced of the progress of science in the
United States; so that it is not attributing to Doctor Goode a novel and
undeserved character to speak of him to-night as a historian. Had his
life been spared, in his peculiar way, in his own personal and attractive
manner, he would doubtless have made most substantial contributions to
the study of American history, and I can not doubt, as I have already
said, that in doing this he was impelled by the patriotic idea that he was
helping to build up a strong American intelligent citizenship in the
country he loved so well.
GOODE AS A NATURALIST.

By HENRY FAIRFIELD OSBORN,
DaCosta Professor of Zoology, Columbia University.

The designation ‘‘naturalist’’ was one which Goode richly earned and
which he held most dear, and our deep sorrow is that his activity as a
naturalist extended only over a quarter of a century. We are cheered
by the thought that he was a man of whom no adverse word can ever be
spoken either in science or in character. We think of both at this time,
because in him the man and the profession were inseparable and con-
stantly interacting. His scientific virtues were of the order rare as the
Christian virtues, and we can not thoroughly understand his scientific
career unless we understand him as a man. Errors of judgment, mis-
leading tenets, and adherence to false hypotheses among some of the
most gifted of our professional ancestors have arisen as often from defect
of principle and from personal prejudices as from defect of knowledge.
We see in our friend, on the other hand, that the high standard of scien-
tific achievement was constantly parallel with and very largely the out-
growth of a high standard of personal character and motive.

In brief, the work of the true naturalist is ever lighted by the four
lamps, of love, of truth, of breadth, and of appreciation, and all of these
shone brightly upon the path of Goode. His love of nature was inborn,
predetermining his career, and so far surpassing his self-interest we fear
it is only too true that he sacrificed his life for the diffusion of natural
truth. So far as I know, he never entered a scientific controversy and
was never under temptation to warp or deflect facts to support an
hypothesis; yet he was incapable of tampering with truth under any
circumstances which might have arisen. His presidential address of 1887
before the Biological Society of Washington showed him as scrupulous not
to overestimate as he was eager not to underestimate the existing status
of American science. While largely cultivated by wide experience in
contact with nature and men, his breadth of view was certainly innate.
If Goode had a fault, it was that his interests were too numerous and his
sympathies too broad. He displayed not only a warm appreciation of
those around him and an enthusiasm for contemporary research, but an
exceptional sense of the close bonds between the present and the past—

2 at

NAT MUS 97, PT 2
18 Memorral of George Brown Goode.

as seen in his admiration for the pioneers of American science and his
repeated vindication of their services. This passion for history led to an
important phase of his literary work. His fine addresses, The Begin-
nings of Natural History in America (1886), The Beginnings of Amer-
ican Science (1887), The Literary Labors of Benjamin Franklin (1890),
The Origin of the National Scientific and Educational Institutions
of the United States (1890), and An Account of the Smithsonian
Institution (1895), sprang from the same instinct which prompted
him to compile the valuable bibliographies of Baird, of Girard, of Lea,
and of Sclater, and to undertake the remarkable genealogy of his own
family entitled Virginia Cousins. ‘The time between 1887 and 1895
which he devoted to these subjects caused some of his fellow-naturalists
anxiety; yet I fancy this work was largely sought by him for diversion
and rest, just as Michael Foster tells us that philosophy and controversy
served as recreation to Huxley, at a time when overwork had given hima
passing distaste for morphology.

His trend of life guided by these four beacon lights was swayed by
two countercurrents—first, his strong impulses as an original investiga-
tor, and, second, his convictions as to the duty of spreading the knowl-
edge of nature. These currents moved him alternately. The most
superficial view of his career shows that his whole environment fostered
his public spirit and made difficult and at times impossible the retirement
so essential to studies in nature.

Goode’s practical and public achievements for natural history there-
fore do him even more honor than his writings, because from June, 1870,
when he graduated from Wesleyan University, to September, 1896,
administrative service became paramount, and he was free to devote only
the odd intervals of his time to research. Our great gain in the national
institutions he has advanced is our corresponding loss in ichthyology and
the kindred branches of zoology.

Soode’s successful work in the natural history courses at Wesleyan
led at graduation to a place in the college museum, where in 1870 he at
once showed his great talent for systematic arrangement. In further
preparation for zoology, he went to Harvard, and for a few months came
under the genial influence of Louis Agassiz. But the turning point in
his life came in 1872, when, working as a volunteer upon the United
States Fish Commission, at Eastport, he met Spencer F. Baird. The
kind of simple but irresistible force which Abraham Lincoln exerted
among statesmen Baird seems to have exerted among naturalists. He
at once noted young Goode’s fine qualities, adopted him, and rapidly
came to be the master spirit in his scientific life. Goode delighted to
work with a man so full of all that constitutes true greatness. He fre-
quently spoke of Baird as his master, and intimate friends say that he
never showed quite the same buoyant spirit after Baird’s death—he felt
the loss so keenly. Baird took Goode to Washington in the winter of
1872 and practically determined his career, for he promoted him rapidly
Memorial Meeting. 19

through every grade of the Fish Commission and Museum service. It
is hard to realize now the intensely rapid and eager development of our
national scientific institutions in those years.

No doubt Baird’s mantle fell fittingly upon Goode’s shoulders, and he
had all but the magnificent physique of his master to qualify him for
this heavy burden. His talents and methods were of a different order.
Both men enjoyed universal adiniration, respect, and even love, but
Baird drove men before him with quiet force while Goode drew men
after him. Lacking the self-confidence of Baird, Goode was rather per-
suasive than insistent. His success of administration also came partly
from an instinctive knowledge of human nature and his large faculty of
putting himself in other men’s shoes. He sought out the often latent
best qualities of the men around him and developed them. When things
were out of joint and did not move his way, he waited with infinite
patience for the slow operation of time and common sense to set them
right. He was singularly considerate of opinion. Not ‘‘I think,’’ but
“‘Don’t you think,’’ was his way of entering a discussion. I am
reminded of the gentleness of my teacher, Francis Balfour, when one
of his students carelessly destroyed a rare and valuable preparation, as I
learn from one of Goode’s associates that under similar provocation,
without a word of reproof, he stooped over to repair the damage himself.
He was fertile of original ideas and suggestions, full of invention and of
new expedients, studying the best models at home and abroad, but never
bound by any traditions of system or of classification. He showed these
qualities in a marked degree in the remarkable fisheries exhibit which
he conceived and executed for Berlin in 1879, and continued to show
them in his rapid development of the scope as well as of the detail of a
great museum. ‘To all his work also he brought a refined artistic taste,
shown in his methods of printing and labeling, as well as in his encour-
agement of the artistic, and, therefore, the truthful and realistic develop-
ment of taxidermy in the arrangement of natural groups of animals. ‘To
crown all, like Baird, he entered into the largest conception of the wide-
reaching responsibilities of his office under the Government, fully realiz-
ing that he was not at the head of a university or of a metropolitan
museum, but of the Museum of a great nation. Every reasonable request
from another institution met a prompt response. I well recall Goode’s
last visit to the Anierican Museum in New York, and his hearty approval
of the work there, especially his remark, ‘‘I am glad to see these things
being done so well in this country.’’ Not the advancement of Washing-
ton science but of American science was his dominating idea.

In fact, every act and every word of Goode’s breathed the scientific
creed which he published in 1888:

The greatest danger to science is, perhaps, the fact that all who have studied at all
within the last quarter of a century have studied its rudiments and feel competent

to employ its methods and its language and to form judgments on the merits of cur-
rent work. . . . Inthe meantime the professional men of science, the scholars,
20 Memortal of George Brown Goode.

and the investigators seem to me to be strangely indifferent to the questions as to
how the public at large is to be made familiar with the resultsof their labors. . . .
It may be that the use of the word naturalist is to become an anachronism, and that
we are all destined to become generically biologists and specifically morphologists,
histologists, embryologists, physiologists.

I can but believe, however, that it is the duty of every scientific scholar, however
minute his specialty, to resist in himself, and in the professional circles which sur-
round him, the tendency toward narrowing technicality in thought and sympathy,
and above all in the education of nouprofessional students. . . .

Ican not resist the feeling that American men of science are in a large degree
responsible if their fellow-citizens are not fully awake to the claims of scientific
endeavor in their midst.

I am not in sympathy with those who feel that their dignity is lowered when their
investigations lead toward improvement in the physical condition of mankind, but
I feel that the highest function of science is to minister to their mental and moral
welfare. Here in the United States, more than in any other country, it is necessary
that sound, accurate knowledge and a scientific manner of thought should exist
among the people, and the man of science is becoming, more than ever, the natural
custodian of the treasured knowledge of the world. ‘To him, above all others, falls
the duty of organizing and maintaining the institutions for the diffusion of knowl-
edge, many of which have been spoken of in these addresses—the schools, the
museums, the expositions, the societies, the periodicals. To him, more than to any
other American, should be made familiar the words of President Washington in his
farewell address to the American people:

‘Promote, then, as an object of primary importance, institutions for the general
diffusion of knowledge. In proportion as the structure of a government gives force
to public opinions it should be enlightened.”’

As a naturalist Goode did not close any of the windows opening out
intonature. His breadth of spirit in public affairs displayed itself equally
in his methods of field and sea work and in the variety of his observa-
tions and writings. While fishes became his chief interest, he knew all
the Eastern species of birds after identifying and arranging the collection
in his college museum. He loved plants, and in the latter years of his
life took great pleasure in the culture of the old-fashioned garden around
his house. He was not wedded to his desk, to dry bones, nor to alcoholic
jars. His sea studies and travels ranged as early as 1872 from the Ber-
mudas to Eastport on the Bay of Fundy; to Casco Bay in 1873, to Noank,
on Long Island Sound, in 1874. Here he conceived a great Index
Bibliography of American Ichthyology, a work which he did not live
to complete, and here he met his future colleague, Bean, who describes
him as ‘‘a young man with plump cheeks and a small moustache.”’
During the following two years his assistant curatorship at the National
Museum confined him, but in 1877 he was studying the fisheries off
Halifax, and in 1879 at Provincetown. ‘The work of the fishery census
was starting up in earnest, and Goode was busy planning and getting
together his men. Special agents were sent out, to every part of the
coast and to the Great Lakes, to gather information. Goode worked at it
himself on Cape Cod, and manifested the same enthusiasm as in every
other piece of work he took up. He interested himself in getting together
Memorial Meeting. 2X

a collection representing the methods of the fisheries and the habits of
the fishermen. Neglecting neither the most trivial nor important objects,
branching out into every collateral matter, he showed his grasp both of
principles and of details.

His literary bent and facility of written expression showed itself before
his graduation at Wesleyan in the College Argus, which contains seven
brief papers, including his first scientific article, prophetically entitled
Our Museum. He contributed to the American Naturalist in 1871 a
note upon The Billfish in Fresh Water, and in 1872 A Sea Bird Inland.
He published and presented before the American Association in 1873 his.
first paper of importance, entitled Do Snakes Swallow Their Young?
These studies of real merit foreshadow two marked features of his later
work—first, his recognition of the importance of distribution, which cul-
minated in the preparation of his unfinished memoir upon the Geographi-
cal Distribution of Deep Sea Fishes; second, his close observance of the
habits of animals, which was of marked usefulness in his subsequent Fish
Commission service and treatises upon fish-culture. His Catalogue of
the Fishes of the Bermudas, from his visit in 1872, indicates how early in
life he had thought out a thoroughly philosophical method of studying a
local fauna: ‘‘In working up my notes,’’ he says, ‘‘I have endeavored
to supplement previous descriptions by (1) descriptions of the colors of
the fishes while living, (2) notes on size and proportions, (3) observa-
tions on habits, (4) hints in reference to the origin and meaning of their
popular names, (5) notes upon modes of capture and economic-value.’’
He increased the number of recorded species from seven to seventy-five,
and gave a careful analysis of their probable geographical derivation.

Many of his briefer papers deal directly with the biological problems
which attracted his interest, especially among reptiles and fishes, touch-
ing such questions as migration, coloring, albinism, mimicry, parasitism,
feeding and breedig habits, and the relation of forest protection to the
protection of fishes.

It is difficult to classify the papers, long and short, which we find rap-
idly succeeding each other in the valuable bibliography prepared by Doctor
Adler and Mr. Geare. Of his 193 independent papers, 21 are biological,
g treat of reptiles and amphibians, 38 are devoted to the structure, life
habits, and distribution of the fishes, in addition to 15 purely systematic
contributions upon the fishes. Among the former are his large memoirs
upon the Menhaden, his shorter treatises upon the Trunk Fishes, the
Pampanos, the Sword Fishes, and the Eel. ‘The work of the Fish Com-
mission is described, and published at home and abroad, in 30 reports and
popular papers. The special branch of Fisheries Exhibits is treated in
8 papers, and of fish-culture in 12 papers. Besides his 14 reports as
Director of the National Museum he published, between 1881 and 1896,
13 papers developing the theory and practice of museum administra-
tion, leading up to his very notable articles, Museums of the Future,
22 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

Museum History and Museums of History in 1889, and his invalu-
able memoir upon Museum Administration in 1895. His labors and
writings placed him in the lead of museum experts in this country and
upon the level of the distinguished leader of museum development in
England, Sir William Flower. The closing sentence of his address before
the English Museums Association must be quoted. ‘‘The degree of civ-
ilization to which any nation, city, or province has attained is best shown
by the character of its public museums and the liberality with which they
are maintained.’’

His popular works include the Game Fishes of the United States, pub-
lished in 1879, a book written in charming literary style, besides innu-
merable short articles in the Chautauquan, Forest and Stream, and
Science. In 1888 appeared his American Fishes: A Popular Treatise
upon the Game and Food Fishes of North America, with special refer-
ence to habits and methods of capture. These writings give us a further
insight not only into the two sides of Goode’s scientific nature, the theo-
retical and the practical, but into his artistic and poetical sentiment and
into the wide extent of his reading. Besides the long list enumerated
above, he published 51 joint ichthyological papers with G. Brown, W. O.
Atwater, R. E. Earll, A. Howard Clark, Joseph W. Collins, Newton P.
Scudder, but his main collaborateur was Tarleton H. Bean. Under their
names appear 35 papers, but, chief of all, the Oceanic Ichthyology, a
Treatise on the Deep Sea and Pelagic Fishes of the World, based chiefly
upon the collections made by steamers Blake, Albatross, and Fish Hawk
in the Northwestern Atlantic.

In 1877 Goode saw his first deep-sea fish drawn fresh from the bottom,
and experienced a sensation which he thus describes in the preface of his
monograph:

The studies which have led to the writing of this book were begun in the summer
of 1877, when the first deep-sea fishes were caught by American nets on the coast of
North America. ‘This took place in the Gulf of Maine, 44 miles east of Cape Ann,
on the 19th of August, when from the side of the United States Fish Commission
steamer Speedwell the trawlnet was cast in 160 fathoms of water. ‘The writers were
both standing by the mouth of the net when, as the seamen lifted the end of the bag,
two strange forms fell out on the deck. A single glance was enough to tell us that
they were new to our fauna, and probably unknown to science. ‘They seemed like
visitors from another world, and none of the strange forms which have since passed
through our laboratory have brought half as much interest and enthusiasm.
Macrurus bairdii and Lycodes verrillii were simply new species of well-known
deep-dwelling genera, and have since been found to be very abundant on the conti-
neutal slope, but they were among the first fruits of that great harvest in the field
of oceanic ichthyology which we have had the pleasure to garner in the fifteen years
which have passed since that happy and eventful morning. It seems incredible that
American naturalists should not then have known that a few miles away there was a

fauna as unlike that of our coast as could be found in the Indian Ocean or the seas
of China... .

In one of the latest of his 45 contributions to the Bulletins of the
United States National Museum is the description of the discovery of the
Memorial Meeting. 23

new deep-sea Chimeeroid, for which, true to his appreciation of the past,
he proposed the name //arriotta, in memory of Thomas Harriott, the
earliest English naturalist in America.

The quaint, old-fashioned style of some of Goode’s essays gives us an
insight into his historic sense and his reversion to the ideas and principles
of his Virginia ancestors. Seldom have we known the loyal conservative
spirit, of reverence for old institutions, fealty to independence of socie-
ties, combined with such a grandly progressive spirit in the cooperation
of the Government with the state, and of one country with another in
the promotion of science.

Again, what impresses us most is Goode as the apostle of scientific
knowledge. A conviction of his mission in life breathes forth from his
earliest papers in the College Argus to his final appeal in Science for the
‘“Admission of American students to the French universities.’’

One of his intimate friends writes:

Sometimes we talked of more far-reaching matters, and in such discussions I often
took a position I had no faith in, hoping to draw him out. I remember once we fell
to talking of the province of science, and for the sake of argument I took the position
that most scientific work was merely a form of intellectual amusement, and benefited
no one. He became quite earnest in his protest against that view, and asserted his
belief that the majority of scientific men were working toward the improvement of
things and that it was the destiny of science to be the salvation of the world. At
another time he unfolded the idea that man through science was approaching step
by step nearer the Infinite Ruler of the Universe, and that it was only through these
activities that he could hope to reach his proper destiny; that every amelioration of
life, every improvement in manners, every change in theological tenets was a token
of man’s unfolding through the working of intellectual forces.

Our lasting regret must be that Goode’s life terminated just as he had
richly earned the right to retire from the scientific service of his country—
from your service and mine, my friends—to devote himself more exclu-
sively to his own researches.

As early as 1880, during the Herculean task of entering the new
National Museum building, Goode remarked to one of his friends, ‘‘ We
have had pretty hard scrambling—I think we will take a rest presently ’’—
but, alas! the rest days never came. One duty after another fell heavily
upon his too-willing shoulders. All must have observed in later years a
certain quiet melancholy which marked his overwork, and conscious
inability to cope with all that his ambitious and resourceful spirit
prompted. None the less he showed a continuous and rapid intellectual
development during the last ten years of his life, and it was evident that
his powers were constantly expanding, and that his brightest and most
productive days were to come in his projected independent and joint
researches. As before noted, his Geographical Distribution of Deep Sea
Fishes was nearly completed, the charts having been exhibited before
the Biological Society, and a mass of voluminous notes and valuable
observations are ready to show that the distribution of deep-sea fishes is
far from being so general as has been supposed, and that there are certain
24 Memortal of George Brown Goode.

well-defined thalassic faunal regions. Another projected work for which
extensive materials were collected was upon the Fishes of America, in
which Doctor Theodore Gill was to have cooperated.

Goode was always encouraged by his supreme faith in the reward of
honest intellectual labor, and it is pleasant to recall now that he took the
keenest satisfaction in the completion and publication of the Oceanic
Ichthyology, which revived in him all his old natural-history spirit. He
regarded it as his chief life work, and once observed to his fellow-writer,
Tarleton Bean, ‘‘It will be our monument,’’ little foreseeing that so scon
after its publication he would be gone and that his friends and admirers
all over the world would share this very thought in receiving the fine
monograph a few weeks after his sudden and unexpected death.

Our friend has gone to his fathers. As a public-spirited naturalist he
leaves us the tender memory and the noble example, which helps us
and will help many coming men into the higher conception of duty in
the service and promotion of the truth. We can not forget his smile nor
his arm passing through the arm of his friend. Thinking little of him-
self and highly of others, faithful to his duties and loyal to his friends,
full of good cheer and hopefulness—it is hard for us to close up the ranks
and march on without him.
GOODE’S ACTIVITIES IN RELATION TO AMERICAN SCIENCE.

By WILLIAM HEALEY DALL,
Paleontologist, United States Geological Survey.

Most persons unacquainted with the interior working of our executive
bureaus have an impression that they are the creation of law, in the sense
in which the term ‘‘creation’’ was formerly used to describe the coming
into being of some part of the material universe. Perhaps this impres-
sion is seldom definitely formulated, but, nevertheless, it is common to
hear arguments from intelligent people, bent on ameliorating govern-
ment, which tacitly assume that an act of Congress by some inherent
magic will accomplish that which they desire. It is a truism that whole
schemes of social reorganization are built on no better foundation, and
thousands of earnest reformers work, suffer, and even die for theories
erected on this hypothesis.

Whatever of truth there may be in the application of this idea to the
purely business offices of the Government, where finance, commerce,
invention, or transportation are provided for, nothing could be more mis-
taken than its application to the scientific bureaus. For each and every
one of them the world is indebted to some individual. In the majority
of cases the man came with his purpose before the law was thought of,
and his devotion to his self-imposed mission, his persistence, and his
energy were the inciting causes of some lines in an appropriation bill,
with all its potentialities, the seed of the present organization. Some-
times the sower, given the opportunity to dig and water, was spared to
reap the first fruits of the harvest. On other occasions worthy suc-
cessors arose, bore the burden and heat of the day, and carried out the
plans to final triumph. Thus, to Hassler and Bache we owe the Coast

ce

Survey, which has spread the fame of American achievements in geodetic
science through every civilized community; to Hayden, King, and
Powell are due the organization and success of the Geological Survey of
the United States; to the initiative of Smithson and guiding hand of
Henry we owe the Smithsonian Institution; the Fish Commission was
the embodied work of Baird; and to Baird and Goode’s untiring labors
we are indebted for the National Museum. ‘There remain very few per-
sons with intimate personal knowledge of the unwritten history of the

25
26 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

gradual development of the Museum. ‘To Professor Henry American
science owes a debt which is but seldom realized and can hardly be exag-
gerated. It is difficult for anyone, even with the printed records before
him, to form an adequate idea of the conditions under which the Smith-
sonian Institution grew to its present stature, nor what unceasing vigi-
lance was required of its head to avoid the pitfalls which everywhere
beset its path in adolescence. Opinions, emphatic and divergent, were
abundant, in and out of Congress, as to the policy and methods deemed
desirable for the Institution. Men would have used the fund for a great
library, museum of art, or university. The original act by which it was
constituted was a compromise, leaving a door open for the advocates of
either opinion to modify the policy of the Institution should the time
come when any particular view could command a majority in the gov-
erning board. Professor Henry was determined that the ‘‘increase and
diffusion of knowledge among men’’ in the highest and broadest sense
of the words should be the object to be attained, and that nothing local
or special should absorb the funds or the energies of the Institution.
Such things as could and would be done by other agencies were not to
be attempted by the Smithsonian, but rather the things worth doing,
which, except for the aid given by the Institution, could not get done at
all. ‘Those branches of activity prescribed by the act creating the Insti-
tution, but which tended to outgrow a strict subordination and absorb
undue proportions of the income, were rigorously pruned and sternly
repressed. It seems strange to recall a time when free speech did not
exist in the capital of the nation, yet it is within my memory when so
great was the irritability of the proslavery element in Washington that
Professor Henry, with an eye single to the welfare of his beloved Insti-
tution, felt it necessary to warn foreign men of science invited to work or
lecture here that certain topics must not be touched upon, directly or
indirectly. Professor Henry knew that the resources of the Smithsonian
could not support a great museum or a great library and still carry out
the promotion of science in the wider sense, which was his ideal aim.
He wished for a national museum and a national library, but only at
national expense. He approved of the far-reaching explorations and
collections which the genius of Professor Baird initiated and by untiring
labors promoted, but he did not wish the enormous mass of material thus
brought together to be a charge upon the slender funds of the Institu-
tion. His policy was to distribute to other institutions of learning,
museums, and colleges, as soon as worked up, everything except a typical
series of the specimens, thus at once promoting research at other points
and economizing space and the expenses of preservation. Arrangements
were made with naturalists all over the country by which material in
their special lines of research was shipped to them as soon as received,
to remain indefinitely, until reported upon. ‘The same policy led to
placing in the Corcoran Gallery of Art such objects of art spared by the
Memorial Meeting. a7

great fire of 1865 as that establishment could utilize ; and to the deposit
in the Library of Congress of the great collection of scientific books and
periodicals, which was rapidly outgrowing all the limits set by his pru-
dence. In his determination that nothing should be permitted to divert
the progress of the Institution from the lines laid down for it, Professor
Henry thought no labor too great, no personal supervision too minute,
no just economy too paltry. Who shall say that his lofty purposes and
unceasing struggles have not been justified by his success?

Meanwhile Baird’s ambitions and endeavors were leading toward the
establishment of a national museum in fact, if not in name. Multitu-
dinous expeditions were set on foot for Pacific railway routes, military
surveys, the coast survey, the routes for an Isthmian canal, the explora-
tion of the Hudson Bay territory, Lower California, and Alaska. From
each and all of these a stream of the most precious material for study
flowed toward the Smithsonian Institution. The natural sciences all over
the world were enriched by the countercurrent of published researches
which poured from those Elizabethan towers. A bevy of students, poor
in purse, but rich in enthusiasm, in energy and devotion, found shelter
there. From time to time, as opportunities came, they sallied forth, one
by one, to the ends of the earth, bent on enriching the collection and
advancing science, in which they usually succeeded.

How difficult in such a case to hold the balance true! To preserve for
study what was needed and yet not to exceed the limits imposed by cir-
cumstances. To be loyal and true in spirit, as well as in the letter, to
the policy of the chief, and yet to hold securely for the future that which
the future would need. Yet this task, so perplexing and so difficult,
was successfully performed by Baird. He had for Henry an affectionate
loyalty and veneration asstrong in its way as his devotion to biological
research, and which supplied a never-failing and most elevating example
to the younger men about him. ,

The establishment of the Fish Commission with its separate income
partly available for research somewhat ameliorated the situation. The
establishment of a national museum, as urged by Baird and Henry,
became a more familiar idea to Congress and the country. With the
Centennial Exposition of 1876, came an opportunity of which Baird
was not slow to take advantage. He determined that the exhibition
made by the United States should bear testimony to what the Museum
could do both in the way of material and in its presentation. ‘The
Government made a loan of several millions to the Exposition, which
no one then supposed would ever be repaid. Members of the appro-
priations committee felt quite safe in half jokingly assuring Professor
Baird that if the money ever was repaid an appropriation for a National
Museum building should not be withheld. The entire staff of the
Museum, including several unpaid volunteers, with Goode at their head,
gave all their energies for nearly a year to make the Government and
28 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

especially the Museum exhibit a success, feeling that the future of the
Museum was really at stake. Individuals all over the country were called
upon to assist by advice or material in their special lines. ‘Thousands of
letters were written and thousands of exhibits gathered. Here Goode
had his first training in the artsof exposition, in which he finally became
the acknowledged master. Many were the discussions as to system, selec-
tion of exhibits, cases, labels, and methods in general. It was indeed a
liberal education to those engaged in the work. No test could have been
contrived which would better have revealed the strength or weakness, on
certain sides, of all engaged in it. Men of whom much was expected
failed utterly. Others developed unexpected capacity.and talent. The
result was a glorious success, acknowledged by all beholders.

After a certain time the Government loan was repaid, and at last the
unofficial promises of members of Congress were kept. A sum, pitiably
small if compared with the money devoted by most civilized nations to
housing their national museums, was appropriated, and, by a lucky chance,
an unparalleled depression in the iron trade enabled contracts to be made
to the great advantage of the Government. A building without any archi-
tectural pretensions, but giving light and floor space at a lower cost than
in any other permanent structure of equal size ever erected by the United
States, was finally put up, a new organization effected, and at last the
National Museum possessed a local habitation anda name. ‘The direction
of its activities, under the supervision of Professor Baird, was placed in
Goode’s hands, and his career asa Museum administrator officially began.

It may be thought that the preceding remarks have included very little
about Goode and a great deal about other matters. Thisis true; but no
account of the man and his activities would be adequate which omitted a
delineation of the struggles, fears, and hopes of which, in his position, he
was the natural heir. A great institution is not created; it is built up.
With the mortar of its foundations is mixed the blood and sweat of the
builders. Something of the very soul of its architect springs with its
pinnacles toward the heavens. ‘The capacity for administration may be
inborn, the professional knowledge must be earned. These truths are
singularly ignored, even by those who should know better. In fact our
people, even those who have much advanced the cause of education, and
those who have won repute in the fields of politics or business, have not
wholly shaken off the provincial notion that a museum is a sort of toy
which an intelligent window-dresser might be competent to manage.
The realization of the fact that museum administration is a profession, as
arduous as that of medicine or law, seems to be confined almost entirely
to those who have actually been devoting their lives to it. That in the
case of a national museum, as a sort of general clearing house of
national activities in science, and the chief arena of international scientific
reciprocity, still wider knowledge of men and their work, a still broader
mental horizon, and infinite tact and patience are urgently required, is
still less appreciated.
Memorial Meeting. 29

It is true that every administrator must learn and grow with the
progress of his work; but that the work should be put into the hands of
total inexperience, as is frequently suggested, is like insisting that all
our genealogies should be traced from Adam and Eve.

The relations which Goode bore to the scientific activity of the country
and less directly to that of the world are best understood through a sketch
of Museum administration in the concrete. We may begin with condi-
tions in such an institution itself.

It is hardly true, as I have heard it somewhat broadly stated by one of
the uninitiated, that ‘‘scientific men are all cranks,’’ though this estimate
is by no means without its supporters. Yet it can not be denied that there
is something out of the common and, to the average citizen, peculiar
in the mental constitution which leads to the adoption of a profession
which offers no pecuniary reward at all adequate to the required exertion ;
which, in this country at least, extends little hope of discrimination from
quacks and charlatans adept at attracting public notice; in which the
modest prizes are few and far between, promotion problematical; where
the worker must congratulate himself if he is able to support and educate
his family without actual privation, and must find his reward, if at all,
in the consciousness of work well done and the esteem of a few contempo-
rary toilers. Such a mental constitution, I repeat, does have in it some-
thing different from that of the ordinary mind and something which the
average man finds difficult to reconcile with his idea of common sense.
Only the other day I heard of a conscientious guardian of an orphan with
a small competence, who refused to allow the boy to follow his natural
bent and become a naturalist, on the ground that it would be a dereliction
of duty if the guardian permitted his ward to enter upon a career in which
the rewards are so few and financial success so doubtful.

Those in whom the bent is so strong as to defy all obstacles not infre-
quently are somewhat one-sided people. ‘They feel, as they ought to
feel, that their own specialty is the most important of the many domains
of science. Since they have not hesitated at any sacrifice to devote them-
selves to it, it is not unnatural that they should feel that from colaborers
in science, support, encouragement, and a sufficient allotment from the
common fund are justly due. Ina great museum this common fund or
income is never sufficient to meet all demands. ‘The director must be
more than human who can apportion disappointment without exciting
disapproval. Yet in the midst of annual expressions of regret I never
heard Goode’s justice or kindly feeling questioned.

It sometimes happens, as a scientist is human, that the weaknesses or
faults of our common humanity find a lodgment with him, possibly even
to the point where a love of science seems the only thread withholding
him from utter shipwreck. The kindly and generous nature of Professor
Baird, joined toa certain practical shrewdness, enabled him to utilize and
succor, from time to time, such waifs, putting them where the redeeming
virtue might exert its wholesome influence and the broken soul might
30 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

feel the comfort, in hours of remorse, that, after all, its life had not been
wholly wasted. Baird’s example was not forgotten by his pupil.

Lest engrossment in a specialty breed indifference to progress in com-
mon, it is of the highest importance that the leader in a band of workers
shall use every opportunity of emphasizing their joint responsibility to
science and to the public, for whose entertainment and instruction the
museum is supported by public funds. This duty Goode never forgot,
and by example and precept he continually stimulated each and every
one to his best efforts.

The experiments in methods of preservation and exhibition, by which
the best results are reached, are of interest and value to the whole scien-
tific community. It often happens that only through a long series of
failures, all more or less costly, is success at last attained. Were each
museum, private or public, obliged to run the whole gamut of experi-
ment, the losses would be irreparable and the cost enormous. In this
direction, as did Baird in his time, Goode developed a particular genius,
and his successes placed him early in his career in the very front rank,
if not at the virtual head, of all Museum experts. ‘The results of this
work were placed freely at the disposition of all interested, and nearly all
museums in this country and many abroad have materially profited by
the skill and ingenuity thus displayed. It is highly probable, so modest
was the originator, that few of those whose work is thus assisted have
any definite idea of the source from which the facilities came.

Looking beyond the Museum itself and considering its external rela-
tions, we find that naturalists and anthropologists all over the country are
in the habit of appealing to the Director or staff of the National Museum
for scientific information, advice, or needed assistance in all sorts of
directions. In many cases the question is not simple, but one requiring
the utmost consideration and delicacy.

‘The needs or requests of different institutions or persons are not infre-
quently conflicting, and the decision may be far-reaching. The compe-
tition between different workers or institutions in the same field is
liable, unless treated with great tact, to rouse antagonisms. Small
societies sometimes inadvisedly identify themselves with the opinions or
theories of some individual member, and if the latter prove contestable
the amount of human nature which may be displayed is astonishing. It
has happened that such an organization, in a fit of pique, has showered
abusive pamphlets over the inhabited universe. Rival candidates for
coveted posts resort to the most ingenious methods for securing indorse-
ment contrary to the rules of the institution. Occasions arise when
advice is sought with seriousness and given with anxiety, as a matter of
duty. In short, it is required of the head of the Museum to have a gen-
eral knowledge of the character, responsibility, and reliability of all the
professional and most of the amateur scientific workers of the country
and of the character and interrelations of all the more or less scientific
Memorial Meeting. at

societies, not only for the use and benefit of the outsiders, but for the
safety and protection of the Museum itself. While no one could exceed
Professor Baird in the breadth and accuracy of his information on such
topics, yet the traditions he handed down and Goode’s own wide knowl-
edge of the younger generation gave him satisfactory qualifications of
this most necessary and special kind.

Leaving the ostensibly scientific, not the least embarrassing duty the
head of the Museum has to perform is the answering of letters from the
people at large. Here the variety ranges from the intelligent seeker for
an explanation of some observed phenomenon, to the fraudulent scheme
of some rascal for securing books or specimens by false pretenses. ‘The
most ignorant are often the most confident in their own explanation of
something which has temporarily puzzled them ; nevertheless they seek
official sanction and approval. Cranks write letters in blue ink, the
nouns filled in with red. So and so announces that the Apollonian
Library, upon whose letter head he writes, is desirous of a full set of the
publications and, being the only library in a large region round about,
should undoubtedly receive them; and signs himself librarian. It is
known to the initiated that the signer is himself the Apollonian Library
and its only reader. Ill-spelled letters tell of natural curiosities, mar-
velous to behold, sometimes for sale, sometimes to be freely donated. It
would be a great mistake to suppose that these letters may be treated
with scorn, or ignored. It has often happened that the layman in his
blindness has stumbled upon something good. At any rate he is one of
the great American people whose taxes support the Museum, and is enti-
tled to courtesy and illumination if it can be furnished. At all events,
it will be clear to you that special knowledge, tact, and kindliness will
not be superfluous in the treatment of the daily mass of correspondence.

I have tried to throw a little light on the difficulties and problems our
dear friend met and solved so well. Iilustrations might be greatly mul-
tiplied did time permit. What has been said, I trust, is enough to show
that no ordinary man could have done this work (and much else) and
yet have left behind him no antagonisms, no memories of failure, no
hint of insufficiency, associated with his name. He is remembered as
one never weary of welldoing; who reached the heights, though ever
aiming higher; whose example stimulated and whose history will prove
a lasting inspiration.
yen he
oe Tear ey
i)
RESOLUTIONS AND MESSAGES OF SYMPATHY.

On the completion of the reading of the formal addresses, General
Orlando B. Willcox, U.S. A., representing the Society of the Sons of the
American Revolution of the District of Columbia, offered the following
resolutions, which were seconded by Rear-Admiral James A. Greer,
U. S. N., representing the Society of the Sons of the Revolution, and
adopted by a rising vote:

We, the associates and friends of the late George Brown Goode in the scientific,
patriotic, and historical societies of the city of Washington, being met together to
commemorate his life and service, do recognize:

That in his death the world has lost a great man of true moral worth, unusual
breadth of intellect, profound human sympathy, unswerving loyalty to his duty, and
devotion to his family and his friends.

That America has been deprived of a most patriotic, public-spirited, and loyal
citizen, American science of its first historian, and American history of an original
investigator.

That universal science has lost one of its foremost ichthyologists and a man broadly
learned in the entire field of natural history.

That the scientific service of the United States Government, the societies to which
he belonged, and all the institutions in America for the promotion of knowledge
have lost in him an ever faithful and willing cooperator.

Resolved, That this minute be communicated to the societies of which Doctor
Goode was a member and a copy be sent to his family, to whom the persons here
assembled extend their sincere sympathy.

RESOLUTIONS ADOPTED IN THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

By the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution:

Whereas the assistant secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, Doctor G. Brown
Goode, died on September 6, 1896,

Resolved, That the Board of Regents wish to here record their sense of the devotion
to duty which in the late Doctor Goode came before any consideration of personal
advancement, or even before the care of his own health, and of their recognition
that his high administrative ability and wide knowledge were devoted unselfishly
to the service of the Institution, with results whose value they can not too highly
acknowledge; and they desire to express their feeling of the loss that the Institution,
the National Museum, and the cause of science has sustained in his untimely death.

Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions be suitably engrossed and transmitted
to the family of Doctor Goode.

NAT MUS 97, PT 2 a 33
34 Memorval of George Brown Goode.

By the employees of the National Museum:

Whereas, in the untimely death of Doctor G. Brown Goode the scientific world
and the American people have suffered an immeasurable Joss—we, his assistants,
collaborators, and friends, knew and esteemed him as an investigator of signal hon-
esty and ability, as an earnest and efficient administrator whose willing aid and
forbearance endeared him to all, as a man of pure motives and stainless life, and as
a faithful friend and mentor—therefore,

Resolved, That in Doctor Goode’s death we have lost a leader and companion
whose teachings will always be in our minds and whose memory will forever live in
our hearts.

Resolved, That we extend our heartfelt sympathy to the stricken family in this
our common sorrow.

RESOLUTIONS ADOPTED BY THE OFFICERS OF THE FIELD COLUMBIAN MUSEUM.

At a meeting of the director and curators of the Field Columbian
Museum, Chicago, Illinois, the following preamble and resolutions were
adopted:

Whereas, We have learned with great sorrow of the death of the distinguished
scholar and scientist, Doctor George Brown Goode, Director of the National Museum;
be it therefore, in grateful tribute to his memory,

Resolved, That we recognize, as the world has already recognized, the conspicuous
abilities displayed by him in the particular field of science in which he chose to labor,
but still more fully we appreciate the fact that in the broader field of museum organ-
ization and management, a work which he had reduced to science, he stood without
a peer. Not less admirable, as a feature of his career, is the enviable position always
held by him as an adviser and helper among his associates, scientific, official, and
personal. His strong, helpful hand was ever extended.

Resolved, That we mourn his loss not only on account of these attainments and
qualities, but also as a man of broad sympathies and tender heart, upright cheerful
character, and honest, virtuous life.

Resolved, That our sincere sympathies are hereby extended to the members of his
bereaved family in the hour of their affliction, and that a copy of these resolutions
be transmitted to them in token thereof.

F. J. V. SKIFF,
Director.
Wm. H. HOLMES,
Curator, Department of Anthropology.
C. F. MILLSPAUGH,
Curator, Department of Botany.
O. C. FARRINGTON,
Curator, Department of Geology.
H. W. NICHOLS,
Curator, Department of Economic Geology.
CHARLES B. Cory,
Curator, Department of Ornithology.
S. A. SIMMS,
Assistant Curator, in Charge of Industrial Arts.
KE. Ll. BURCHARD,
Recorder and Librarian.
Memorial Meeting. 35

RESOLUTIONS ADOPTED BY THE NEW YORK ACADEMY OF SCIENCES.

At a meeting of the biological section of the New York Academy of
Sciences held October 12, 1896, the following resolution, introduced by
Professor Henry F. Osborn and seconded by Mr. William T. Hornaday,
was unanimously adopted by a rising vote:

Resolved, That the members of the biological section of the New York Academy of
Sciences desire to express their deep sense of loss in the death of Professor G. Brown
Goode, of the United States National Museum. In common with all naturalists in
this country, we have admired his intelligent and highly successful administration
of the National Museum, as well as his prompt and ready response to the requests
and needs of similar institutions throughout the country.

In face of the arduous and exacting duties of his directorship, he has held a lead-
ing position among American zoologists, and we are indebted to him for a series of
invaluable investigations, especially upon the fishes.

Those of us who had the good fortune to know Professor Goode personally, recall
his singular charm of character, his genial interest in the work of others, his true
scientific spirit. We have thus lost one of our ablest fellow-workers and one of the
truest and best of men.

JoHN G. CuRtTIS, Chairman.
CHARLES LL. BRistro., Secretary.

CIRCULAR ORDER OF THE UNITED STATES COMMISSIONER OF FISH AND FISHERIES.

UNITED STATES COMMISSION OF FISH AND FISHERIES,

Washington, D. C., September 8, 1896.
[Circular Order No. 139.]

It becomes my painful duty to announce to the employees of the United States
Commission of Fish and Fisheries the death in this city, on the 6th instant, of Doctor
George Brown Goode, Assistant Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, and at one
time United States Commissioner of Fish and Fisheries. Although his official con-
nection, strictly speaking, has always been with the former establishment, Doctor
Goode is best known for his researches and publications on the fishes and fisheries
of the United States, on which subjects he came to be recognized as the leading
authority. He first joined in the investigations of the Fish Commission on the
Atlantic coast in 1872 as a volunteer, and in that capacity continued to participate
in its scientific work up to the time of Professor Baird’s death in 1887. He was
appointed to succeed the latter as Fish Commissioner, but relinquished that position
after a few months, upon the passage of the act giving it an independent status.
Doctor Goode had charge of the Fishery Division of the Tenth Census, and was also
the United States Commissioner to the Fishery Expositions at Berlin and London.
He has been one of the most fruitful and valued contributors to the reports and bul-
letins of the Fish Commission, and in his death the fishing interests of the country
have sustained a severe loss.

J. J. BRicE, Commissioner.

EXTRACTS FROM PROCEEDINGS OF ASSOCIATIONS.

[From a report of the proceedings of the Seventh Annual General Meeting of the Museums Asso-
ciation held in Glasgow July 21 to 25, 1896. ]

At the meeting of the Association held in Newcastle last year was read a contribu-
tion from Doctor G. Brown Goode on The principles of Museum Administration ;
and afterwards the author sent a reprint of the paper to each member of the Associa-
36 Memorval of George Brown Goode.

tion. To most members he was already known by his contributions to museum
literature in the Reports of the National Museum of the United States, and other pub-
lications; but a more personal feeling of intimacy was engendered by the direct
communication of his thoughts to the Association at Newcastle. It was therefore
with a feeling of the deepest regret the news of his untimely death was received.
Doctor Goode died in Washington on 6th of September at the age of forty-five
years. His early death is a great loss, not only to the United States Museum, but to
museums in general, for he took a deep and active interest in all things affecting
their development and well-being.

[From the proceedings of the Thirtieth Annual Convention, American Institute of Architects, 1896. ]

Of the corresponding members the institute loses Professor G. Brown Goode, the
well-known Assistant Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution and Curator of the
National Museum, who brought out of a chaos of inaccessible treasures the orderly,
well-arranged, enjoyable, and instructive collection which makes the Smithsonian
Institution take rank with the finest museums in the world.

MESSAGES OF SYMPATHY.

From among a large number of letters received since the death of Mr.
Goode, appreciating his great services and offering consolation at his
death, the following few extracts are made.

Sir William H. Flower, director of the British Museum, said:

I should like to take part in any tribute to the memory of a man I admired so
much and was in such sympathy with as Brown Goode.

Professor Enrico H. Giglioli, of Florence, on October 3, 1896, spoke
of Mr. Goode as one of the men he loved and esteemed most:

I feel so crushed [he said] by this terrible blow that I hardly know what I am
writing. . . . Hewasso full of energy and work it is hard to believe that he is
now no more. ‘To youallat the National Museum the loss must be immense, but to
many abroad it is a great and much felt sorrow. To science in America not alone,
but in the civilized world, his loss is indeed irreparable and will be felt for years.

The Honorable William Wirt Henry, of the Virginia Historical Society,
wrote:

It is a source of great satisfaction to me that I knew Doctor Goode personally and
was privileged to be associated with him in his work in the patriotic and historical
societies with which he was connected. No one could know him without being
impressed with his learning and modesty and the sterling qualities of the man. I
feel that his death is a loss which will be felt in every path in which he walked, and
will be mourned by every votary of science.

M. Henri de Varigny, of Paris, wrote to Secretary Langley:

I have received the card which notified [me of] the sad news of the death of that
excellent and most distinguished man, G. Brown Goode. I was already acquainted
with the fact, and had published a few lines of obituary notice in the Revue Scien-
tifique, but I have not adequately expressed the feeling of true sorrow I experience
when I remember that he is no more, and that his writing, activity, and energetic
kindness have ceased to be. He was very kind and obliging to me, and I shall keep
a warm remembrance of him. Your loss is a great one.
Memortal Meeting. 37

Mr. Valdemar Knudsen, of Honolulu, Hawaii, wrote:

The card announcing the death of George Brown Goode, LL. D., has just been
received, and my full sympathy for his loss to your institution and to mankind in
general is hereby humbly tendered.

Doctor Karl Mobius, of Berlin, wrote, under date of January 26, 1897:

The unexpected death of Mr. George Brown Goode has deeply affected me. We
were in agreeable communication, to the advantage of our museums. We have lost
in him a distinguished promoter of our scientific efforts.

Professor Alfonso L. Herrera, of the National Museum in Mexico,
wrote:

I have received the notice of the lamented death of George Brown Goode, LL. D.,
and after thanking you for this mark of attention, I offer my most sincere condo-
lence, and on my part I deplore the loss sustained by science, the National Museum,
the Smithsonian Institution, and all persons who, like myself, had the good fortune
to receive consideration from the deceased. I shall never forget his kindness and
courtesy.

Mr. John Crawford, of Managua, Nicaragua, wrote:

On my return here from an excursion among the mountains I learned with much
surprise and great regret of the death of Doctor G. Brown Goode, On many occa-
sions he was very patient and kind to me, and no doubt was so to many other natu-
ralists who, like myself, are far from museums and the advantages of daily conferring
with and receiving instruction from scientists. I esteemed him highly, and had
hoped that he would live many years in good health, and in physical and mental
vigor continue and enjoy his useful life.

Mr. Julius Neumann, of the Chinese Custom Service, Shasi, China, on
March 15, 1897, wrote:

It was with extreme regret that I have just received your card of the 16th of
November last announcing the death of Professor G. Brown Goode, and I write this
note to condole with you on the loss your great Institution and science at large
have to deplore.

I had the pleasure of meeting the deceased first in London in 1883, and then in
the following year in New Orleans, and ever since we had kept up friendly relations.
I shall always fondly cherish his memory.

The Honorable John Boyd Thacher, of Albany, New York, wrote:

My personal knowledge of Professor Brown Goode began in 1890, when he gave
his advice and counsel to the World’s Columbian Commission in classifying the
various objects into proper departments for exhibition, and more particularly in
advising and establishing an adequate method in passing judgment upon the exhibits.
In these matters I can testify to his ability and consummate skill. It was purely
voluntary service he rendered, and I at once formed—and have since maintained—a
profound sense of his goodness to those who were officially charged with work for
which he knew we were most imperfectly equipped, and to whom he gave not only
suggestions but detailed and elaborate and finished plans. It is the glory of the
modern scientist and scholar that he subordinates himself to the accomplishment of
public work. Our friend never asked to be identified personally with the accom-
plished thing. It was enough for him to know that some good was done and not
that the world should know that it was done by him. ‘The utter absence of selfish-
ness in any life is worthy of recording in brass or in marble or in formulated words.

38 Memorial of George Brown Gooae.

Doctor Alfred Dugés, of Guanajuato, Mexico, expressed his profound
FESTetS.

Doctor Leon Vaillant, professor of the Museum of Natural History in
Paris, said that the ichthyological world has experienced a great loss.

Doctor J. B. de Lacerda, director of the National Museum in Rio de
Janeiro, and Baron C. R. Osten-Sacken, tendered their sympathy.

Doctor H. von Ihering, of San Paulo, Brazil, spoke of the loss the
National Museum suffered in its administrative and scientific interests.

Doctor R. Schone, director-general of the Royal Museums in Berlin,
expressed his sincere regret at the death of this worthy scholar and extends
his sympathy.

Professor Pietro Pavesi, director of the Zoological Museum of the Uni-
versity of Pavia, offered his condolence. A similar message was received
from the Museum Francisco-Carolinum in Linz.
MEMOIR OF GEORGE BROWN GOODE, 1851-1806.

BY

SAMUEL PIERKPONT LANGLEY,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution,

: " o i he a +. ae

: -— = U = 7
i i" 1 2 ’ 1 at on < v =
i ait Dy et
i - F : ine . Se, ' ree a” : | 7
fi a : : ‘al fn ne Rit a, } ot Tit
‘i P . , a.4' LPs - Ve io A? « bots tA

a7

MEMOIR OF GEORGE BROWN GOODE, i8si-i8096.

By SAMUEL PIERPONT LANGLEY,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.

George Brown Goode was born at New Albany, Indiana, on February
13, 1851, and died at his home in Washington on September 6, 1896,
after a life of forty-five years, than which few human lives have ever
been better filled.

In those years he won the warm affection of a wide circle of friends
and the trust and confidence of a multitude of subordinates in the position
to which his own abilities had carried him. He interested himself and
interested others in ever-widening circles of research, and such varied
work that it seemed to those who knew what he was doing, incompre-
hensible that one man could accomplish so much in one single life; and
when this came to an end, its cessation was like the loss of a part of them-
selves to those who knew him best, by whom he is remembered with an
affection which men rarely gain from one another.

He was the son of Francis Collier Goode and Sarah Woodruff Crane.
The Goode family trace their ancestry in this country to John Goode, of
Whitby, who settled in Virginia prior to 1661.”

While still settled in Virginia, many members of the Goode family

went to the South and West to do pioneer work in building up villages
and towns on what was then the outskirt of civilization.
' Doctor Goode’s father, Francis Collier Goode, was born in Waynes-
ville, Ohio, and was a merchant in Ohio and Indiana. In 1857 he retired
from business, removing to Amenia, New York; subsequently to Mid-
dletown, Connecticut, and later to Arlington, Florida, and occasionally
spent winters in the Bermudas, Tennessee, North Carolina, Virginia,
and Washington City.

‘Read before the National Academy of Sciences, April 21, 1897.

? The history of this family has been carefully traced by Doctor Goode in Virginia
Cousins: A Study of the Ancestry and Posterity of John Goode, of Whitby, a Vir-
ginia Colonist of the Seventeenth Century, with notes upon related families, a key
to southern genealogy and a history of the English surname Gode, Goad, Goode, or
Good from 1148 to 1887, by G. Brown Goode, with a preface by R. A. Brock, Secre-
tary of the Virginia and Southern Historical Societies. Richmond, Virginia, J. W.
Randolph & English, MDCCCLXXXVII.

41
42 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

His mother, Sarah Woodruff Crane, was a descendant of Jasper Crane,
who came to New England during the first ten years of the first settle-
ment, and was one of the pioneers of Newark, New Jersey.

Doctor Goode was thus of sturdy American parentage on both sides,
numbering among his ancestors the founders of the Virginia, Massachu-
setts, Connecticut, and New Jersey colonies. ‘The family was singularly
free from foreign mixture, not 1o per cent of the marriages among the
numerous descendants having been with persons whose ancestors came
to America later than 1725.

He passed his early childhood in Cincinnati and his later childhood
and early youth in Amenia, New York, where he was prepared for col-
lege by private tutors. His father was a man of studious habits and
not devoid of an interest in science. He had assembled in his library a
set of the Smithsonian Reports, which young Goode read as a boy. It
was through these volumes that he was first attracted to science and to
the Smithsonian Institution, his boyish ambition being to become con-
nected with it and to study under Professor Baird.

He entered Wesleyan University at Middletown, Connecticut, in 1866,
and was graduated in 1870. Although scarcely more than fifteen when
he entered college and a little over nineteen years of age at the time of
his graduation, being the youngest member of the class, his work in the
studies of the natural history group was so satisfactory as to attract the
favorable notice of his teachers. ‘The years at Middletown foreshadowed
the strong love for nature, the museum interest, ability in classification,
and even the literary talent, which were the distinguishing features of
all Doctor Goode’s later career.

When he went to college, his father removed to Middletown and became
a neighbor to Orange Judd, the pioneer of agricultural journalism in this
country and closely identified with the advancement of scienttfic agricul-
ture. ‘There sprang up between the daughter of Mr. Judd and young
Goode a friendship which ripened into love and resulted in their
marriage, of which I speak here because Doctor Goode himself felt that
the friendship with Mr. Judd, thus brought about through his daughter,
had the largest share in determining his future career. The two young
people had similar tastes in natural history and outdoor life. As early
as 1869 Doctor Goode commenced to record in the College Argus and
the College Review his outdoor rambles. He was at this time a young
man of stout frame and vigorous health, engaging in all of the athletic
sports known to’college students of that day.

In 1870he entered Harvard University as a post-graduate student under
Professor Louis Agassiz, whose genial influence he glowingly describes
in his youthful letters.

Mr. Judd had presented to Wesleyan University a building known as
the Orange Judd Hall of Natural Science. This building wasin progress

Memorr of George Brown Goode. 43

of erection during Mr. Goode’s student years and was dedicated in the
commencement week of 1871.

Before that time [says Professor Rice] the natural history collections of Wesleyan
University were scattered in several buildings, very imperfectly labeled and arranged,
and most inaccessible to students or visitors. The spacious rooms in Judd Hall first
gave the opportunity to arrange and display these collections in such manner as to
give them the dignity of a museum.

The work which Doctor Goode had done while a student under Pro-
fessor Agassiz caused an invitation to be extended to him to undertake
the arrangement of this collection, and in.1871, when but a little over
twenty, he was given the title of Curator of the Museum, and undertook
the installation of the collections. It was in this work that he “‘ first
showed that genius for museum administration which he was destined
afterwards to display in the larger field.’’ He retained his official con-
nection with Middletown until 1877, although the greater part of these
years was spent either in Washington or in the field. During a portion
of this time, although absent from Middletown, he received a salary
from Wesleyan University, and was allowed in exchange to send to the
Museum duplicates of natural history specimens in the Smithsonian
Institution, as well as the duplicates of the collections which he made.
He always retained a strong feeling of affection for his alma mater, and
founded the Goode prize, intended to stimulate an interest in biologic
studies. He was one of the editors of the 1873 and 1883 editions of the
Alumni Record of Wesleyan University, and received the honorary
degree of Doctor of Laws from that institution in 1893.

Doctor Goode’s mother died in his infancy, and he found in his father’s
second wife an affectionate and sympathetic helper, who was a strong
believer in the possibility of his future scientific career. To her he owed
his introduction to Professor Baird, whom he first saw at Eastport, Maine,
in 1872, and this meeting was the turning point of his professional life.
Through it he not only got the larger opportunities for natural history
work afforded by the Fish Commission and the Smithsonian Institution,
but Professor Baird singled him out almost from the first as his chief
pupil, his intimate friend, his confidential adviser, and his assistant in
all the natural history work in which he was engaged. ‘The splendid
advantages which Professor Baird accorded his young friend were repaid
by an intense devotion.

Mr. Goode said once that he could lay down his life for such a man,
and indeed he almost did so, for his originally robust health was impaired
by this devotion to Professor Baird’s service, particularly at the Centen-
nial Exposition of 1876, which he left invalided, and the effects of his
overwork in which left him a weaker man through his after life. ‘The
death of Professor Baird in 1887 affected him so deeply that it was not
until 1895 that he was once heard to say that he had but just recovered
from the loss.
44 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

He became in 1872 a volunteer in the United States Fish Commission,
the year after the organization of that Bureau, and he continued this
work, making collections in 1872 at Eastport, Maine, in 1873 in Casco
Bay, and in 1874 at Noank, on Long Island Sound. The years from
1872 to 1878 show collections of fishes made by him at the points named,
as well as in Bermuda, Florida, Connecticut, and other places. Nearly
twenty papers and articles relating to the Fish Commission and to fish-
eries appeared from his pen during the first four years of this voluntary
association with the Fish Commission. He was interested not only in
the scientific side of ichthyological work, but devoted great attention to
the economic side. It was in 1877 that he found his first specimen of a
deep-sea fish and laid the foundation of the studies which culminated in
the splendid memoir on Oceanic Ichthyology by himself and Doctor
Bean. During these years with Professor Baird he became experienced
in all the work of the Fish Commission, and upon his death was appointed
Commissioner of Fisheries by the President. The position up to this
time had been an honorary one, but Mr, Goode informed President
Cleveland that the work had grown to such an extent that it was not
possible for any person who was actively engaged in the Smithsonian
Institution or elsewhere to continue it. President Cleveland urged him
several times to permanently accept the position of Commissioner of Fish-
eries, and the Committee on Appropriations of Congress had provided a
salary which was larger than the one which Mr. Goode was receiving or
ever did receive, but he resolutely declined, asserting that his life’s ambi-
tion had been to become associated with the Smithsonian Institution;
that his heart was in the Museum, and that he could not give it up. As
related to his work in the Fish Commission, the facts may be mentioned
that in 1877 he was employed by the Department of State on statistical
work in connection with the Halifax Commission, and in 1879 and 1880
he was in charge of the Fisheries Division of the Tenth Census. His
administrative abilities were strongly brought out in the organization of
this work. Professor Henry F. Osborn describes his method as follows:

Special agents were sent out, to every part of the coast and to the Great Lakes, to
gather information. Goode worked at it himself on Cape Cod, and manifested the
same enthusiasm as in every other piece of work he took up. He interested himself
in getting together a collection representing the methods of the fisheries and the
habits of the fishermen. Neglecting neither the most trivial nor important objects,
branching out into every collateral matter, he showed his grasp both of principles
and of details.

He was United States commissioner to the Internationale Fischerei
Ausstellung in 1880 at Berlin and to the International Fisheries Exposi-
tion held at London in 1883. From circular order No. 139, issued by
Commander J. J. Brice, United States Commissioner of Fish and Fish-
eries, I extract the following sentences:

Doctor Goode is best known for his researches and publications on the fishes and
fisheries of the United States, on which subjects he came to be recognized as the
Memovrr of George Brown Goode. 45

leading authority. . . . He has been one of the most fruitful and valued con-
tributors to the reports and bulletins of the Fish Commission, and in his death the
fishing interests of the country have sustained a severe loss.

As I have before said, his connection with the Smithsonian Institution
followed shortly after the acquaintance with Professor Baird, who invited
him to spend the winter of 1873 in Washington for the purpose of arrang-
ing the ichthyological specimens and with the understanding that as a
payment for this service he was to be allowed to select duplicates for the
museum at Middletown. At that time he had the title of Assistant Cura-
tor, which was later changed to Curator, and although the relations to
Middletown continued, the ties with the Institution were becoming stronger
and stronger. He now met Professor Henry for the first time, and became
one of the small coterie of Smithsonian men who at that time lived in the
Smithsonian building and formed a part of the hospitable household which
Professor Henry maintained. In these early days the staff was an
extremely small one, being only thirteen persons, including honorary
collaborators and subordinates. Doctor Goode threw himself into this
work with uncalculating devotion. Professor Baird’s duties were becom-
ing more and more numerous, and after he became Secretary of the Insti-
tution Doctor Goode took the Museum work upon his willing shoulders.
In 1881, when the new Museum building was completed and the United
States National Museum really organized, Mr. Goode, then thirty years
of age, was made Assistant Director. In that year he prepared a circular,
known as Circular No. 1 of the National Museum, which set forth a
scheme of administration for the Museum so comprehensive in its scope,
so exact in its details, so practical in its ideas that it is with but few
modifications still the guide for the Museum staff. On January 12, 1887,
Professor Baird, whose health was then failing, appointed Mr. Goode as
Assistant Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution in charge of the National
Museum, and from that time until his death he had the fullest charge of
the entire administration of the Museum.

It is hard to say whether Mr. Goode was best known as a museum
director or a naturalist. I, of course, had more occasion to see his work
from the administrative side. It would be impossible to understand his
success in this field without thinking of the character of the man, and
here I may repeat what I have said elsewhere, that if there was one
quality more than another which formed the basis of his character it was
sincerity—a sincerity which was the ground of a trust and confidence
such as could be instinctively given even from the first only to an
absolutely loyal and truthful nature.

I do not know whether a power of reading character is more intuitive
or acquired, but at any rate without it men may be governed, but not in
harmony, and must be driven rather than led. Doctor Goode was in
this sense a leader, quite apart from his scientific competence. Every
member of the force he controlled, not only among his scientific asso-

46 Memortal of George Brown Goode.

ciates, but down to the humblest employees of the Museum, was an indi-
vidual to him, with traits of character which were his own and not
another’s, and which were recognized in all dealings, and in this I think
he was peculiar, for I have known no man who seemed to possess this
sympathetic insight in such a degree, and certainly it was one of the
sources of his strength.

I shall have given, however, a wrong idea of him if I leave anyone
under the impression that this sympathy led to weakness of rule. He
knew how to say ‘‘no,’’ and said it as often as any other, and would rep-
rehend, where occasion called, in terms the plainest and most uncompro-
mising a man could use, speaking so when he thought it necessary, even
to those whose association was voluntary, but who somehow were not
alienated as they would have been by such censure from another. ‘‘He
often refused me what I most wanted,’’ said one of his staff to me; ‘‘ but
I never went to sleep without having in my own mind forgiven him.’’

I have spoken of some of the moral qualities which made all rely upon
him and which were the foundation of his ability to deal with men. To
them was joined that scientific knowledge without which he could not
have been a museum administrator; but even with this knowledge he
could not have been what he was, except from the fact that he loved the
Museum and its administration above every other pursuit, even, I think,
above his own special branch of biological science. He was perhaps a
man of the widest interests I have ever known, so that whatever he
was speaking of at any moment seemed to be the thing he knew best.
It was often hard to say, then, what love predominated; but I think
that he had, on the whole, no pleasure greater than that in his Museum
administration, and that, apart from his family interests and joys, this
was the deepest love of all. He refused advantageous offers to leave it,
though I ought to gratefully add here, that his knowledge of my reliance
upon him and his unselfish desire to aid me were also among his deter-
mining motives in remaining. ‘They were natural ones in such a man.

What were the results of this devotion may be comprehensively seén
in the statement that in the year in which he was first enrolled among
the officers of the Museum, the entries of collections numbered less than
200,000, and the staff, including honorary collaborators and all subordi-
nates, thirteen persons, and by comparing these early conditions with
what they became under his subsequent management.

Professor Baird at the first was an active manager, but from the time
that he became Secretary of the Institution he devolved more and more
of the Museum duties on Doctor Goode, who for nine years preceding
his death was practically in entire charge of it. It is strictly within the
truth, then, to say that the changes which have taken place in the Museum
in that time are more his work than any other man’s, and when we find
that the number of persons employed has grown from thirteen to over
two hundred, and the number of specimens from 200,000 to over 3,000,000,

4
Memoir of George Brown Goode. 47

and consider that what the Museum now is, its scheme and arrangement,
with almost all which make it distinctive, are chiefly Doctor Goode’s, we
have some of the evidence of his administrative capacity. He was fitted
to rule and administer both men and things, and the Museum under his
management was, as some one has called it, ‘‘ A house full of ideas and
a nursery of living thought.’’

His success of administration [says Professor Osborn] also came partly from an
instinctive knowledge of human nature. . . . He sought out the often latent best
qualities of the men around him and developed them. When things were out of
joint and did not move his way, he waited with infinite patience for the slow opera-
tion of time and common sense to set them right. He was singularly considerate of
opinion, . . . fertile of original ideasand suggestions, full of invention and of new
expedients, studying the best models at home and abroad, but never bound by any
traditions of system or of classification. . . . To all his work also he brought
a refined artistic taste, shown in his methods of printing and labeling, as well as in
his encouragement of the artistic, and, therefore, the truthful and realistic develop-
ment of taxidermy in the arrangement of natural groups of animals. To crown all,
like Baird, he entered into the largest conception of the wide-reaching responsibili-
ties of his office under the Government, fully realizing that he was not at the
head of a university or of a metropolitan museum, but of the Museum of a great nation.
Every reasonable request from another institution met a prompt response. :
Not the advancement of Washington science, but of American science, was his
dominating idea.

There was no subject in connection with the administration of the
Museum to which he did not at some time or other give his personal
attention. He had a quick eye for color and for form, understood the art
of decorating and case building, and had besides a special knowledge of
subjects so widely remote from his own biologic interests that it isa
question whether a new species or a new musical instrument gave him
the greater pleasure. So fully could I rely on his judgment in all things,
that even in matters not connected with the Museum I frequently sought
the benefit of his advice, and this was sure to be sound, whether it related
to the typography or paper of a new volume of the publications, or to
some weighty question of policy. It is difficult to single out from among
the manifold matters relating to the Institution proper which were con-
fided to him one single thing. I can not, however, but recall the fact that
he seemed to me, both because of the soundness of his judgment and the
wide domain of science with which he was acquainted, the fittest person
to place in charge of the Hodgkins award made two years ago. To this
entire work, from the time of Mr. Hodgkins’s gift down to the closing
of the award, Mr. Goode gave unremitting and zealous attention, having
served as chairman both of the preliminary committee and the committee
on award.

The field of natural history, of antiquities, of art, of books, is so vast
that a mere assemblage of objects, of books, of prints, of engravings, 1s
not in itself significant. Collecting is an art which many essay but few
attain. Mr. Goode was eminently a collector. As early as 1872 we find
48 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

him collecting the fishes of the Bermudas, which he worked up in a cata-
logue, giving in each case, in addition to characteristics previously noted,
descriptions of the colors of the fishes while living, notes on the size and
proportions, observations of habits, hints in reference to the origin and
meaning of their popular names, and notes upon modes of capture of
economic value. The same careful methods of collection he followed in
the subsequent expeditions which he undertook in the field. It was not
alone in natural history, however, that this talent for collecting displayed
itself. Every possible sort of specimen or information which was at
hand he collected. He would bring back from every exposition which
he attended methodical collections, frequently of materials overlooked by
others. Every visit to a foreign country resulted in the bringing back
of a collection, not of miscellaneous objects, but of a series which could
themselves be placed on exhibition. ‘These might be musical instru-
ments, ecclesiastical art, early printed books, medals, or ivories, and the
same taste and discrimination and good judgment were displayed in their
selection. He collected, however, not only objects, but also words and
ideas. From the assembling of the common names of plants and animals
in America there grew a large collection of Americanisms, probably larger
than any single collection published. Portraits of scientific men, portraits
of Washington and Jefferson, autographs, Confederate imprints, Ameri-
cana, American scientific text-books—these are but a few of the fields
in which Doctor Goode collected.

He was a naturalist in the broadest sense of that word, following in
the footsteps of Agassiz and Baird.

He had [says Doctor Gill] acquaintance with several classes of the animal king-
dom, and especially with the vertebrates. He even published several minor contri-
butions on herpetology, the voices of crustaceans, and other subjects. . . . The
flowering plants also enlisted much of his attention, and his excursions into the fields
and woods were enlivened by a knowledge of the objects he met with.

The designation naturalist [says Professor Osborn] was one which Goode richly
earned and which he held most dear, and our deep sorrow is that his activity as nat-
uralist extended only over a quarter of acentury. . . . Asa naturalist Goode did
not close any of the windows opening out into nature. His breadth of spirit in public
affairs displayed itself equally in his methods of field and sea work and in the variety
of his observations and writings. While fishes became his chief interest, he knew
all the Eastern species of birds after identifying and arranging the collection in his
college museum. He loved plants, and in the later years of his life took great
pleasure in the culture of the old-fashioned garden around his house. . . . Many
of his briefer papers deal directly with the biological problems which attracted his
interest, especially among reptiles and fishes, touching such questions as migration,
coloring, albinism, mimicry, parasitism, feeding and breeding habits, the relation of
forest protection to the protection of fishes.

Perhaps no one can be a ‘‘naturalist’’ in the larger sense without
being directly a lover of Nature and of all natural sights and sounds.
One of his family says:

He taught us all the forest trees, their fruits and flowers in season, and to know
them when bare of leaves by their shapes; all the wayside shrubs, and even the
Memotr of George Brown Goode. 49

flowers of the weeds; all the wild birds and their notes, and the insects. His ideal
of an old age was to have a little place of his own in a mild climate, surrounded by
his books for rainy days, and friends who cared for plain living and high thinking,
with a chance to help someone poorer than he.

He was a loving and quick observer, and in these simple, natural joys,
his studies were his recreations, and were closely connected with his
literary pursuits.

He was of course first and foremost an ichthyologist, and this through
no lack of sympathy with the larger field, but because of the recognition
of the fact that the larger field could not be successfully covered by
one man.

His adherence to this subject as a specialty was undoubtedly deter-
mined by his long and intimate connection with the Fish Commission
during the period of greatest advancement in methods of deep-sea explo-
ration, the rich collections of fishes derived from that source being placed at
his command. The novelties of structure and environment presented by
this material, ever increasing as the work progressed, proved an attraction
too strong to be resisted, even in the face of his varied official duties,
and caused him to become distinctively a student of the marine forms.

His observations were not confined to any single branch of the subject,
but were given the widest latitude that his time permitted. He was the
discoverer of many new and strange species and an acknowledged authority
on classification; but he took perhaps the greatest interest in questions
regarding the geographical and bathymetrical distribution of fishes, a
field in which his opportunities for investigation had been unexcelled.
The color of fishes had also been a favorite study with him, and he had
paid attention to many points in their morphology and in the functions
of special organs. He was especially well versed in the literature of
ichthyology from the earliest times, and after Professor Baird, was the
most eminent exponent in this country of the benefits to be secured
to the practical fisheries through the application of scientific teachings.

Doctor Gill, in reviewing his scientific career, said:

A Catalogue of the Fishes of the Bermudas,' published in 1876, furnished addi-
tional evidence of knowledge of the literature of his subject and ability to use it to
advantage in the discussion of mooted questions, and it also evinced his power of
observation.

In the same year, 1876, appeared another work which, to a still greater degree,
rendered manifest those same mental characteristics. The work was only a cata-
logue, but perhaps from no other publication can some intellectual qualities be so
readily and correctly gauged by a competent judge as an elaborate catalogue. Powers
of analysis and synthesis, and the ability to weigh the relative values of the material
at hand, may make a ‘‘mere catalogue’ a valuable epitome of a collection and of a
science. Such a production was the Classification of the Collection to illustrate the

ims

‘Catalogue of the Fishes of the Bermudas. Based chiefly on the collections of the
United States National Museum. Washington: Government Printing Office, 1876
(8°, pp. (2) 1-82, Bulletin United States National Museum, No. 5).

NAT MUS 97, PT 2 4
50 Memortal of George Brown Goode.

Animal Resources of the United States,t a work of 126 pages; three years later this
catalogue served as the basis for and was elaborated and expanded into a large Cata-
logue of the Collection to illustrate the Animal Resources and the Fisheries of the
United States,? a volume of 351 pages. These catalogues were for the tentative and
adopted arrangement of material exhibited by the Smithsonian Institution and the
United States Fish Commission at the International Exhibition, 1876.

It was the ability that was manifested in these catalogues and the work incidental
to their preparation that especially arrested the attention of Professor Baird and
marked the author as one well adapted for the direction of a great museum. For
signal success in such direction special qualifications are requisite. Only some of
them are a mind well trained in analytical as well as synthetic methods, an artistic
sense, critical ability, and multifarious knowledge, but above all the knowledge of
men and how to deal with them. Perhaps no one has ever combined in more har-
monious proportions, such qualifications than G. Brown Goode. In him the National
Museum of the United States and the world at large have lost one of the greatest of
museum administrators.

As a naturalist, the attention of Doctor Goode was especially directed to and even
concentrated on the fishes. His memoirs, contributed mostly to the Proceedings of
the United States National Museum, were numerous and chiefly descriptive of new
species. (For many of these he had, as a collaborator Doctor Tarleton Bean, then
the curator of fishes of the United States National Museum.) Some of the memoirs,
however, dealt with special groups, as the Menhaden (1879), Ostraciontidee (1880),
Carangidze (1881), the Swordfishes (1881), and the Kel (1882). His monograph of
the Menhaden (4revoortia tyrannus) contributed originally to the Report of the
United States Commissioner of Fisheries3 and then published as a separate work 4—
a large volume of nearly 550 pages and with 30 plates—is a model of critical treat-
ment of information collected from all quarters. But his most important contribu-
tions were published as official Government reports and were the results of investiga-
tions especially undertaken for such reports. Especially noteworthy were the
volumes comprising the results of the census of 188o.

The 1880 census was planned and carried out on an unusual scale. For the fish-
eries the United States Commission of Fish and Fisheries cooperated and Doctor
Goode had general charge of the entire work. The assistants and special agents

‘International Exhibition, 1876. Board in behalf of United States Executive
Departments. Classification of the Collection to illustrate the Animal Resources of
the United States. A list of substances derived from the animal kingdom, with
synopsis of the useful and injurious animals and a classification of the methods
of capture and utilization. Washington: Government Printing Office. 1876. (8°
pp. 126, a Second edition with supplemcntary title as Bulletin No. 6, United States
National Museum).

*International Exhibition, 1876. Catalogue of the Collection to illustrate the
Animal Resources and the Fisheries of the United States, exhibited at Philadelphia
in 1876 by the Smithsonian Institution and the United States Fish Commission, and
forming a part of the United States National Museum. Washington: Government
Printing Office. 1879. (8°, pp. 351. (1)—Bulletin United States National Museum,
No. 14).

3The Natural and Economical History of the American Menhaden. In Report
United States Commission of Fish and Fisheries, Part v, 1879, Appendix A, pp. I-529,
pls. I-xxxI (xxx canceled), pp. 194-267 by Professor W. O. Atwater.

4American Fisheries. A History of the Menhaden by G. Brown Goode, with an
account of the Agricultural Uses of Fish by W. O. Atwater. .-. . And an intro-
duction, bringing the subject down to date. Thirty plates. New York: Orange
Judd Company, 1880, (8° pp. x (i), II-XII, 1-529 (1); 31 pls., pl. 30 canceled).
Memoir of George Brown Goode. 51

were consequently selected with judgment and the results were very valuable.
The huge mass of statistics was digested and condensed in seven large quarto
volumes representing five sections separately devoted to special branches of the
subject.*

Doctor Goode’s cares were mainly concentrated on the first section, treating of
the Natural History of Aquatic Animals, which was discussed in over 900 pages of
text and illustrated by 277 plates. This work was by far the most complete survey
of the economical fishes of the country that had ever appeared and has since been
the most prized; it led to another.

After the appearance of the census volumes, Doctor Goode was urged to prepare a
work for popular use. His consent to do so was followed by a volume, entitled
American Fishes, A Popular Treatise upon the Game and Food Fishes of North
America,? published by the Standard Book Company of New York. Inasmuch as
none of the previous popular works on the American fishes had emanated from men
of scientific eminence, it scarcely need be added that the new work had no rival in
the field, so far as accurate information and details of habits were involved.

A short time previously Doctor Goode had also prepared the text to accompany a
series of twenty large folio colored portraits by an eminent artist, Mr. S. A. Kil-
bourne, of the principal Game Fishes of the United States.3

Never had investigations of the deep sea been conducted with such assiduity and
skill as during the last two decades. The chief honors of the explorations were
carried off by the British and American governments. As the fishes obtained
by the vessels of the United States Fish Commission were brought in, they were
examined by Doctor Goode (generally in company with Doctor Bean) and duly
described. At length Doctors Goode and Bean combined together data respecting
all the known forms occurring in the abysmal depths of the ocean and also those
of the open sea, and published a résumé of the entire subject in two large volumes
entitled Oceanic Ichthyology.4

This was a fitting crown to the work on which they had been engaged so long
and the actual publication only preceded Doctor Goode’s death by a few weeks.

But the published volumes did not represent all the work of Doctor Goode on the
abyssalian fishes. He had almost completed an elaborate memoir on the distribu-

t The Fisheries and Fishery Industry of the United States. Prepared through the
cooperation of the Commissioner of Fisheries and the Superintendent of the Tenth
Census. By George Brown Goode, Assistant Director of the United States National
Museum, and a staff of associates. Washington: Government Printing Office, 1884
(-1887, 5 sections in 7 volumes). Section I, Natural History of Aquatic Animals,
was mainly prepared by Doctor Goode.

2American Fishes. A Popular Treatise upon the Game and Food Fishes of North
America, with especial reference to habits and methods of capture,. By G. Brown
Goode. With numerous illustrations. New York; Standard Book Company. 1888.
(8°, xv1-- 496 pp., colored frontispiece. )

3Game Fishes of the United States. By S. A. Kilbourne. Text by G. Brown Goode.
New York: Published by Charles Scribner’s Sons. 1879-1881. (Folio, 46 pp., 20
plates and map.—published in ten parts, each with 2 plates, lithographs in water
color, and four page folio of text. )

4Smithsonian Institution. United States National Museum. Special Bulletin.
Oceanic Ichthyology. A Treatise on the Deep-sea and Pelagic Fishes of the World,
based chiefly upon the collections made by the steamers Blake, Albatross, and Fish
Hawk in the Northwestern Atlantic, with an atlas containing 417 figures, by George
Brown Goode, Ph. D., LL. D., and Tarleton H. Bean, M. D., M.S. Washington:
Government Printing Office. 1895. 2vols., 4°; I, xxxv -}+ 26*, 553 pp.; II, xxiii + 26*
pp., 123 pls.
52 Memortal of George Brown Goode.

tion of those fishes, and, contrary to the conclusions of former laborers in the same
field, had recognized for them a number of different faunal areas. It is to be hoped
that this may yet be given to the world.

Morphological and descriptive ichthyology were not cultivated to the exclusion
of what is regarded as more practical features. In connection with his official
duties as an officer of the United States Fish Commission he studied the subject of
pisciculture in all its details. Among his many contributions to the subject are one
on The First Decade of the United States Commission, its plan of work and accom-
plished results, scientific and economical (1880), another treating of the Epochs in
the History of Fish Culture (1881), and two encyclopedic articles—The Fisheries of
the World (1882), and the one entitled Pisciculture, in the Encyclopedia Britannica
(1885 ).

The great work of his life, Oceanic Ichthyology [says Doctor Jordan], was, how-
ever, written during the period of his directorship of the National Museum, and it
was published but a month before his death. Almost simultaneously with this were
other important publications of the National Museum, which were his also in a
sense, for they would never have been undertaken except for his urgent wish and
encouragement. If a personal word may be pardoned, The Fishes of North and
Middle America, which closely followed Oceanic Ichthyology, would never have
been written except for my friend’s repeated insistence and generous help.

The first recorded scientific paper of Doctor Goode is a notet On the Occurrence of
the Bill-fish in fresh Water in the Connecticut River. The next is a critical discus-
sion of the answers to the question Do Snakes Swallow their Young? In this paper
he shows that there is good reason to believe that in certain viviparous snakes, the
young seek refuge inthe stomach of the mother when frightened, and that they
come out unharmed when the reason for their retreat has passed.

The first of the many technical and descriptive papers on fishes was the Catalogue
of the Fishes of the Bermudas,’ published in 1876. This is a model record of field
observations and is one of the best of local catalogues. Doctor Goode retained his
interest in this outpost of the great West Indian fauna, and from time to time
recorded the various additions made to his first Bermudan catalogue.

After this followed a large number of papers on fishes, chiefly descriptions of
species or monographs of groups. The descriptive papers were nearly all written in
association with his excellent friend, Doctor Tarleton H. Bean, then Curator of Fishes
in the National Museum.

In monographic work Doctor Goode took the deepest interest, and he delighted
especially in the collection of historic data concerning groups of species. The
quaint or poetical features of such work were never overlooked by him. Notable
among these monographs are those of the Menhaden, the Trunk-fishes, and the Sword-
fishes.

The economic side of science also interested him more and more. ‘That scientific
knowledge could add to human wealth or comfort was no reproach in his eyes. In
his notable monograph of the Menhaden the economic value as food or manure of
this plebeian fish received the careful attention which he had given to the problems
of pure science.

Doctor Goode’s power in organizing and coordinating practical investigations was
shown in his monumental work4 on the American Fisheries for the Tenth Census

American Naturalist, V, p. 487.

* Bulletin No. 5, United States National Museum.

3The Natural and Economical History of the American Menhaden. In Report of
United States Commission of Fish and Fisheries, Part 5. Washington, 1879.

4The Fisheries and Fishery Industry of the United States. Prepared through the
cooperation of the Commissioner of Fisheries and the Superintendent of the Tenth
Census, Washington, 1884.
Memoir of George Brown Goode. 53

in 1880. The preparation of the record of the fisheries and associated aquatic indus-
tries was placed in his hands by Francis A. Walker, Superintendent of the Census.
Under Doctor Goode’s direction skilled investigators were sent to every part of the
coast and inland waters of the country.

His American Fishes, a popular treatise upon the game and food fishes
of North America, published in 1888, is deserving of a special mention
both because of the charming literary style in which it is written as well
as its scientific accuracy and excellence. The wealth and aptness of the
chapter headings of this book show that Mr. Goode’s wide reading was
associated with everything which could illustrate his science on the
literary side. He had a knowledge of everything even remotely con-
nected with his ichthyological researches, from St. Anthony’s Sermon
to Fishes, to the literature of fish cookery, while in one of his earliest
papers, written at nineteen, his fondness for Isaac Walton and _ his
familiarity with him are evident.

While never claiming the title of anthropologist, he was yet a close
student of the anthropological and ethnological work in this country and
abroad, and it is not too much to say that no professional anthropologist
had a higher ideal of what his science might come to be or exercised a
more discriminating criticism on its present methods and conditions than
did Doctor Goode. He was, moreover, not only interested in the bio-
logical problems of the anthropologist, but in technology and the history
of art. The history of human invention and archzeology were equally in
his mind, and his suggestiveness in each of these fields could be attested
by all of the anthropologists with whom he came in contact.

It would be difficult [says Professor Mason] to find among those who are pro-
fessional anthropologists a man who had a more exalted idea of what this science
ought to be. There is not, perhaps, another distinguished scholar who has endeay-

ored to collect into one great anthropological scheme all of the knowledge of all
men in all ages of the world and in all stages of culture.

Doctor Goode was peculiarly related to the management of expositions
and did more than any other person in America to engraft upon them
museum ideas and widen their scope from the merely commercial and
industrial to the educational and scientific.

His first experience in this field was in 1876, at the Centennial Exhi-
bition held in Philadelphia. Professor Baird was in charge of the exhibits
of the Smithsonian Institution and Fish Commission, and being much
occupied at the time with other matters, the greater part of the installa-
tion and other work connected with the exhibit was placed under the
immediate supervision of Mr. Goode. The work done by the Smithso-
nian and Government departments at this exhibition was pioneer work,
it being the first international exhibition in which the United States Gov-
ernment was engaged. It is not too much to say that the arrangement
of the Smithsonian exhibit at Philadelphia was the model on which all
subsequent exhibits of the kind were based, and that the classification,
the installation, and the arrangement have had a lasting influence on
54 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

exhibition work everywhere. But every administrative activity of this
sort was sure to result in some literary product, so that we find in 1876
Mr. Goode published A Classification of the Collections to illustrate the
Animal Resources of the United States: A list of substances derived
from the animal kingdom, with synopsis of the useful and injurious ani-
mals, and a classification of the methods of capture and utilization. This
work was afterwards published in an enlarged form as a bulletin of the
National Museum.

His services as commissioner for the United States Government at the
Fisheries Exhibition of Berlin in 1880 and London in 1883 have already
been alluded to. ‘These, too, resulted in several articles in German and in
a bulletin of the Museum, while several addresses and papers delivered
at the Conferences of the International Fisheries Exhibition in London
were published in the papers of the conferences, and full reports were
made by Doctor Goode on his return to this country and published at
the Government Printing Office.

He was the representative of the Smithsonian Institution at all the
subsequent exhibitions held in this country—Louisville, 1884; New
Orleans, 1885; Cincinnati, 1888; Chicago, 1893, and Atlanta, 1895—
serving also as a commissioner and for a time acting Commissioner-Gen-
eral to the Columbian Exposition held at Madrid in 1892.

The exhibits made under his direction were never repetitions. Each
one contained new material never shown before, and exhibited the prog-
ress of the Institution and Museum, as well as the advances made in
the arts of taxidermy, installation, and labeling. Mr. Goode, too,
always bore in mind the local interest, and endeavored to show speci-
mens and materials which would be instructive to persons residing in the
neighborhood of the place at which the exposition was held. ‘Thus at
Cincinnati objects were prominent which related to the Ohio Valley, for
Madrid he prepared an exhibit to illustrate the conditions of human and
animal life in America at the time of the Spanish discovery, whilst at
Atlanta especial stress was laid on showing the fauna, flora, archeeology,
and mineral resources of the South Atlantic States. He prepared the
report on the Madrid Exposition, and at the request of the Governfnent
Commission drew up a provisional classification for the Chicago Exposi-
tion, which, while not formally accepted, was used throughout in the
official classification, many pages being copied without a change. For
the Chicago, as well as the Atlanta Exposition, he prepared a carefully
written catalogue, and for the latter an excellently condensed sketch of
the Smithsonian Institution.

Nowhere were Mr. Goode’s administrative talents more strongly
shown than in an exhibition. The plans of the floor space, the cases,
the specimens were all carefully arranged in advance. Boxes were
especially made of lumber which could be utilized for cases or platforms.
Cases were marked, and not very long before the opening of the exposi-
Memotr of George Brown Goode. 55

tion the entire mass would be deposited on the bare space assigned to
the Smithsonian exhibit. Usually other exhibitors had their material
half arranged by this time, and the fear was expressed by sympathetic
bystanders that the Smithsonian would not be ready. ‘The cases would
be unpacked and the specimens put in them in whatever position they
happened to stand, and up to the last day all would seem to be in con-
fusion; but Doctor Goode knew his resources and his men as a general
knows his army. Suddenly all detailed work would come to an end,
and in the course of a few hours, as if by magic, the entire exhibit would
be put in place. He had a pardonable pride in this sort of generalship,
for whether at Chicago or Atlanta it had never failed him, and it earned
the highest encomiums at Berlin, London, and Madrid.

Doctor Goode’s services at these various expositions were recognized
by diplomas and medals, and from the Spanish Government he received
the order of Isabella the Catholic, with the grade of commander.

I have already spoken of Mr. Goode’s administrative qualities as shown
in his management of the National Museum; but his contributions to
museum administration and the history of museums were not confined to
his own work. From all parts of America and even as far distant as
Australia his opinion was sought with regard to the plans for museum
buildings as well as on minor matters of installation. All requests for
such information and advice were fully answered in minute detail.

It was into his papers on museums that some of his best thoughts went,
and it was there that we find epigrammatic statements which are con-
stantly quoted by all interested in the matter.

The first paper by him on this subject appeared in the College Argus,
March 22,1871. It was entitled Our Museum, and was a description of
the collectionin Judd Hall. This article indicated plainly the museum
instinct, for it was largely intended to make known the deficiencies in
the collection, and pointed out how students and professors could make
these good on their summer excursions. He also published a guide to
this museum.

In 1888 he read before the American Historical Association a paper
entitled Museum History and Museums of History. Here he traced
the growth of the museum idea from the beginning down to the present
time, repeating his now oft-quoted phrase, ‘‘An efficient educational
museum may be described as a collection of instructive labels, each illus-
trated by a well-selected specimen.’’ Atlases of ethnological portraits
and works like those of Audubon he described as ‘‘not books, but
museum specimens, masquerading in the dress of books.’’

Even more forcible was a lecture delivered before the Brooklyn Insti-
tute in 1889, entitled Museums of the Future. ‘‘The museum of the
past,’’ he wrote, ‘‘must be set aside, reconstructed, transformed from a
cemetery of bric-a-brac into a nursery of living thoughts.’?’ . . . ‘‘The
people’s museum should be much more than a house full of specimens
56 Memortal of George Brown Goode.

in glass cases. It should be a house full of ideas, arranged with the
strictest attention to system.’”’ . . . ‘‘A finished museum is a dead
museum, and a dead museum is a useless museum.’’

Most noteworthy, however, was his paper contributed to the Museums
Association of Great Britain in 1895, entitled The Principles of Museum
Administration. This was a carefully prepared codification of ‘‘the
accepted principles of museum administration,’’ which Mr. Goode hoped
would ‘‘be the cause of much critical discussion.’’ "The ideas were
presented in the form of aphorisms and were exceptionally clear cut,
ending with the assertion that ‘‘the degree of civilization to which any
nation, city, or province has attained is best shown by the character of
its public museums and the liberality with which they are maintained.”’

This paper was warmly welcomed by museum experts, many of
whom testified by their letters the interest they had in the clear pre-
sentation of the principles which should guide the museum administrator.
At the 1896 meeting of the same association Mr. Bather said: ‘‘ When I
read the magnificently exhaustive address by Doctor G. Brown Goode,
published in our last report, it was manifest that all the ideas I had ever
had were anticipated in that masterly production ;’’ whilst an obituary
note in the same volume says, ‘‘ His early death is a great loss, not only
to the United States Museum, but to museums in general, for he took a
deep and active interest in all things affecting their development and
well-being.” :

The Manchester Guardian, September 20, 1896, says:

He was a recognized authority on all matters affecting museum administration,
and in this capacity he last year wrote a paper on the principles of museum manage-
ment and economy, which was brought before the annual congress of the Museums
Association at Newcastle, and has since attracted much attention as an admirable
exposition of the general theory of administration applicable to museum work in all
its branches. It is of interest to note that Doctor Goode’s definition of a museum is
an institution for the preservation of those objects which best illustrate the phenom-
ena of nature and the works of man, and the utilization of these for the increase of
knowledge and for the culture and enlightenment of the people. In this spirit
Doctor Goode worked, and he not only achieved much in his own country, but was

also ever ready to cordially cooperate with foreign kindred institutions, especially
those in England, for the advancement of museum work as a means of education.

These activities would have been sufficient for an ordinary man, but in
addition he was the historian of American science.

In 1886 he delivered, as president of the Biological Society of Wash-
ington, an address entitled The Beginnings of Natural History in Amer-
ica, tracing it from Thomas Harriott, who came to this country in 1585,
reciting the scientific labors of Captain John Smith, John Ray, Thomas
Jefferson, and a host of others. ‘The spirit which actuated this address
is well illustrated in the following paragraph:

It seems to me unfortunate, therefore, that we should allow the value of the labors

of our predecessors to be depreciated, or to refer to the naturalists of the last century
as belonging to the unscientific or the archaic period. It has been frequently said
Memoir of George Brown Goode. Cy;

by naturalists that there was no science in America until after the beginning of the
present century. This is, in one sense, true, in another, very false. There were
then, it is certain, many men equal in capacity, in culture, in enthusiasm, to the
naturalists of to-day, who were giving careful attention to the study of precisely the
same phenomena of nature. The misfortune of the men of science of 1785 was that
they had three generations fewer of scientific predecessors than have we.

This address he followed up by a second, entitled The Beginnings of
American Science. The Third Century, delivered in 1887, also before the
Biological Society. He divided the period from 1782 to 1888 into three
periods, which he called after the names of Jefferson, Silliman, and
Agassiz.

Continuing along this same line, he contributed to the American His-
torical Association, in *890, a paper on The Origin of the National Scien-
tific and Educational Institutions of the United States.

The material contained in these various papers was summed up in an
unpublished work entitled What has been done for Science in America,
1492-1892, which illustrates in an interesting way the development of
Doctor Goode’s mind, for in this study as much attention is given to
astronomy, physics, and even comparative philology as is paid to natural
history. Parallel with this work may be mentioned a collection of por-
traits of almost every scientific man of importance mentioned in any of
these four essays. Besides these, he wrote an article in the Science
News, 1878, entitled The earliest American Naturalist, Thomas
Harriott.

He was greatly interested in American history, a close student of the
writings of the fathers—more especially of Washington and Jefferson—
and an enthusiastic investigator of Virginia history, for which he had
assembled a great mass of original material. He was especially interested
in the study of institutional history, which he thought approximated
most nearly to the scientific method. It is more than likely that this
interest grew out of his studies in genealogy, the most splendid result of
which is his Virginia Cousins, though a great mass of material, still
unpublished, attests the fact that these genealogical collections were
intended to cover the South and to serve as a contribution to Southern
history. He relates in the prologue to his Virginia Cousins that his
interest in the Goode family tree was awakened in him by his father at
the age of twelve.

The significance of genealogical studies for American listory he recog-
nizes in the following words: ‘‘’The time is coming when the sociologist
and the historian will make an extensive use of the facts so laboriously
gathered and systematically classified by genealogists, and it is probable
that this can be better done in the United States than elsewhere;’’ and
again, ‘‘One of the elements of satisfaction in genealogical study legiti-
mately arises from the success of our attempts to establish personal rela-
tions with past ages and to be able to people our minds with the images
of our forefathers as they lived two, three, four hundred years ago.”’
58 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

But there was a scientific interest which attached to this work, as well
as an historical one, for Doctor Goode was a strong believer in heredity,
and he was profoundly impressed with the idea that man’s capabilities
and tendencies were to be explained by the characteristics of the men
and women whose blood flowed through their veins.

This idea, too, is brought out strongly in his biographical work,
nowhere more strongly than in his biographies of Henry, Baird, and
Langley (almost the last work he ever did) for the Smithsonian Memo-
rial Volume, and it is carefully worked out in an elaborate plan of a
biography of Professor Baird, which would probably have been the next
literary work he would have undertaken had his life been spared.

He was greatly interested in bibliography, his methods in this work
being most exact. He published bibliographies of Spencer Fullerton
Baird, Charles Girard, Philip Lutley Sclater, and had under way bibli-
ographies of Theodore Gill and David Starr Jordan.

A gigantic work in the same line [says Dr. Gill] had been projected by him and
most of the materials collected; it was no less than a complete bibliography of
Ichthyology, including the names of all genera and species published as new. In
no way may Ichthyology, at least, more feel the loss of Goode than in the loss of
the complete bibliography.

Mr. Goode was a student of the history of the scientific societies, and
was himself deeply interested in their welfare. In all the Washington
scientific societies he was an active member, serving as president both of
the Biological Society and the Philosophical Society, before which he
delivered notable addresses on the history of American science. He
also belonged to the Anthropological and Geographic societies of Wash-
ington and stoutly maintained the traditions of all these. He was elected
a member of the National Academy of Sciences in 1888, was for many
years a member of the Association for the Advancement of Science, being
elected vice-president of the zoological section last summer, a few days
before his death. He was a member of the American Philosophical
Society, of the American Society of Naturalists, and a Fellow of the
American Academy of Arts and Sciences, and among foreign societies he
had been honored by election to the Société des Amis des Sciences Nat-
urelles de Moscou, Société Zodlogique de France, Zoological Society of
London, and the Société Scientifique du Chile.

He seemed to regard historical and patriotic societies with an equal
interest, being a member of the council of the American Historical
Association and a member of the Virginia Historical Society, and the
Columbian Historical Society of Washington, and of the newly formed
Southern Historical Society. His work in connection with the hereditary
and patriotic societies was so especially near to him as to demand an
unusual mention. He was one of the organizers of the Sons of the
American Revolution of the District of Columbia, holding the offices of
vice-president-general and registrar-general in the national society, and at
Memoir of George Brown Goode. 59

the time of his death of president in the local society. He stimulated
this society to issue historical publications, and saw a number through the
press himself. A society known as the Sons of the Revolution having
been founded with somewhat similar aims, Mr. Goode joined this organi-
zation with the avowed purpose of bringing them together. In this society
he held the office of vice-president. He was lieutenant-governor of the
Society of Colonial Wars of the District of Columbia. He gave constant
advice to the Daughters of the American Revolution during the period
of their organization, and was instrumental in having the State of Massa-
chusetts present, as a home for the Daughters of the American Revolu-
tion. in Georgia, its building at the Atlanta Exposition, which was a copy
of the old Craigie house in Cambridge, once occupied by Washington
as his headquarters, and later the residence of Longfellow. The success
of this effort gave him special pleasure, for he regarded it as one of the
means for promoting friendliness between the people of New England
and the people of the South.

Although these numerous duties and activities would seem to have been
more than enough for any single man, Mr. Goode did not stop here.
Every scientific activity of the Government had at some time or other
the advantage of his wise counsel and his active cooperation. His public
duties outside of the Smithsonian in connection with the Department of
State, the Fish Commission, the census, and the various expositions
abroad at which he represented his Government I have already alluded
to; but he was possessed of a higher order of patriotism which even
this service did not satisfy. Mr. William L. Wilson, Regent of the
Smithsonian Institution, lately Postmaster-General of the United States,
and president of Washington and Lee University, says:

He was a richly endowed man, first, with that capacity and that resistless bent
toward the work in which he attained his great distinction that made it a perennial
delight to him; but he was scarcely less richly endowed in his more unpretending
and large human sympathies, and it was this latter that distinguished him as a
citizen and a historian.

As a citizen he was full of patriotic American enthusiasm. He understood, as all
must understand who look with seriousness upon the great problems that confront a
free people and who measure the difficulties of those problems—he understood that
at least one preparation for the discharge of the duties of American citizenship was
the general education of the people, and so he advocated as far as possible bringing
within the reach of all the people not only the opportunities but the attractions
and the incitements to intellectual living.

Doctor Goode, with the quick and warm sympathies of the man and of the histo-
rian, seems to have felt that he could do no greater service to the people of his day
and generation and to his country than in the most attractive and concrete way, if I
may so express it, to lead the young men of this country to the study of the history

of the past, to the deeds and the writings of the great men to whom we owe the
foundation and the perpetuation of our institutions.

He was greatly interested in the establishment of a national university,
and in 1891 read a paper in Philadelphia, afterwards printed in the
bo Memorial of George Brown Goode.

magazine Lend a Hand, edited by Edward Everett Hale, entitled Wash-
ington’s University the Nation’s Debt of Honor. In this article he
computed that the bequest of Washington to the United States for a
national university would, at compound interest, amount, in 1892, to
$4,100,000, and he proposed that the National Government should
restore this sum as the nucleus of the endowment for the National
University. He acted as secretary of the executive committee, of which
the Chief Justice was chairman, which was laboring to this end, and
spared no effort to bring it to a successful conclusion.

Another project in which he was interested and for which he labored
was a movement to fully open French universities to American students.
His interest was excited in this movement because he thought that
American science was becoming one-sided, owing to the fact that all of
the students who went abroad visited German universities. Of the
American cominittee, which, in cooperation with the French committee,
had this matter in charge, Doctor Goode was the secretary, and he had
the satisfaction of seeing this project brought to a successful issue before
his death.

He had a strong interest in literature, and wrote in an excellent Eng-
lish style—clear, direct, and unpretentious. I have never met a mind in
touch with more far-away and disconnected points than his, nor one of
the same breadth and variety of writing, outside of the range of his own
specialty. He had fine zesthetic tastes and derived keen enjoyment from
everything that was beautiful in nature or in art. He knew all natural
sights and sounds, and recognized the note of every bird. He knew
good pictures and good prints, was familiar with all the processes of
graphic arts, and a good judge of them, both on the technical and the
artistic side. He loved a beautifully printed book and an artistic bind-
ing. All these tastes he utilized in the publications which he wrote or
edited. The work which he had in hand at the time of his death and to
which he devoted so much loving care, the History of the First Half
Century of the Smithsonian Institution, he aimed to make the expression
of all these tastes. ‘To no writing which he ever did, did he bring a
higher literary expression than to the pages which he prepared for this
book. He was at infinite trouble in discussing such matters as the form
of the page, the style of the type, the quality of the paper, the initial
letters, the headlines and illustrations, and the binding, and when he
discussed any of these points with the expert craftsmen his knowledge
of the details was as full as their own.

In spite of ill health and suffering, his overwrought nervous system,
and his occasional severe mental depression, he never allowed himself to
take a cynical view of human nature. He was a man who loved his
fellow-men, and to whom that love was repaid with a warmth to a degree
rare in this day. He made all other men’s concerns his own. He sent
notes and suggestions to hundreds of scientific men, whose work profited
Memotr of George Brown Goode. 61

thereby, and in the large circle of friends he had, scarcely one did not at
one time or other come to Mr. Goode for advice and sympathy upon his
own private affairs. He was an intensely loyal American patriot, ever
careful that nothing should be said or done that should in anyway reflect
upon his country. He was especially devoted to Virginia and never hap-
pier than when he could spend a few days on her soil, looking over a
historic house or copying some of the records which he hoped to turn to
advantage in his historical studies.

‘* He is remembered,’’ says Doctor Dall, ‘‘as one never weary of well-
doing; who reached the heights, though ever aiming higher; whose
example stimulated and whose history will prove a lasting inspiration.”’

‘“As a public-spirited naturalist,’’ says Professor Osborn, ‘‘he leaves us
the tender memory and the noble example, which helps us and will help
many coming men into the higher conception of duty in the service and
promotion of the truth. Wecan not forget his smile nor his arm passing
through the arm of his friend.’’

I have never known a more perfectly sincere and loyal character than
Doctor Goode’s, or a man who, with better judgment of other men or
greater ability in molding their purposes to his own, used these powers
to such uniformly disinterested ends, so that he could maintain the dis-
cipline of a great establishment like the National Museum while still
retaining the personal affection of every subordinate.

I have scarcely alluded to his family life, for of his home we are not
to speak here, further than to say that he was eminently a domestic
man, finding the highest joys that life brought him with his family and
children.

He has gone; and on the road where we are all going there has not
preceded us a man who lived more for others, a truer man, a more loyal
friend.
is
ae Ao oe
- Mi Dirt.
2 i i. 7} ON
ugkce 7a

: iran. 4 8t3

eee B te

Diu rl ny “ bias”

i) - “a 7 7
o = : ui aay nee ie ahh
a aie i ; !
> x re ae roa he a 7 oe - i Ay pas : Soe
7 “ ° : r ha : fe
7 oa ee 5 4 A) . " ie 1 hecus hi ho
= eS h
- Lars = 94
a Ae a) Oe. " ery artic es
> _ by
= - i] >» iJ , ri
; i - a cal eee ‘pe ;
- s
," ah a) oe p ioe Fal Ase ta —_
toe " " my 4 a othr |
7 A ~—
- i 7
’ i =
| . , ror Va AY tO ee WE) ‘-
< ee oo ina! é i -
on - A o f i.
1 a x 4,
a 1 - a r
i) A 7 7 ar te) ray :
i
7 y ee
: c a
7 t sn
— : ¢ A 7 : a ‘os _
- i ‘y
ast iis i ay oe ’ a "
- Ly oa .
: k ete *
i ‘i - ; 1% tiniae
- : 7 - -
7 as ~ i a1 af Jy.
f d 7 a
- ; yy 2
¢ tS hes nah “I j He
oe H p je
re ,
‘ : 7
4 7 ,
+ ie
. 7 t n i
’ - . a | e-
- : : 4
aad i e 1 ~
= . ’ '
- 7 = 1 .
7 ~
= 1 o ~= a ®
eg) Fs o
ui] S
j
rs 6
UJ
f A '
=» Y a 6 r
+ ‘ =
i 2
7 7 eT
: - 4
7 o
5 - 7
J 3 oy a,
: = r ; ' af : o*%
: le na i. ae
; a es
j : on Ws a. =) tom ro
%, Ls = 7 ve ‘A
is -
: P Se
: > > a Ws
aa ah, eet
-— MUSEUM-HISTORY AND MUSEUMS OF HISTORY,

BY

GEORGE BROWN GOODE,

Assistant Secretary, Smithsonian Institution, in charge
of the U.S. National Museum.

63
MUSEUM-HISTORY AND MUSEUMS OF HISTORY’

By GEORGE BROWN GOODE,

Assistant Secretary, Smithsonian Institution, in charge of the U.S. National
Museum,

The true significance of the word museum may perhaps best be
brought to our apprehension by an allusion to the ages which preceded
its origin—when our ancestors, hundreds of generations removed, were
in the midst of those great migrations which peopled Europe with races
originally seated farther to the east.

It has been well said that the story of early Greece is the first chapter
in the history of the political and intellectual life of Europe.

To the history of Greece let us go for the origin of the museum idea,
which in its present form seems to have found its only congenial home
among the European offshoots of the Indo-Germanic division of the
world’s inhabitants.

Museums, in the language of ancient Greece, were the homes of the
muses. The first were in the groves of Parnassus and Helicon, and later
they were temples in various parts of Hellas. Soon, however, the mean-
ing of the word changed, and it was used to describe a place of study, or
aschool. Athenzeus described Athens in the second century as “‘the
museum of Greece,’’ and the name of museum was definitely applied to
that portion of the palace of Alexandria which was set apart for the study
of the sciences, and which contained the famous Alexandrian library.
The museum of Alexandria was a great university, the abiding place of
men of science and letters, who were divided into many companies or
colleges, and for whose support a handsome revenue was allotted.

The Alexandrian museum was destroyed in the days of Caesar and
Aurelian, and the term museum, as applied to a great public institution,
dropped out of use from the fourth to the seventeenth century. The
disappearance of a word is an indication that the idea for which it stood
has also fallen into disfavor; and such, indeed, was the fact. ‘The his-
tory of museum and library run in parallel lines. It is not until the
development of the arts and sciences has taken place, until an extensive

1A paper read before the American Historical Association, in Washington City,
December 26-28, 1888.

NAT MUS 97, PT 2

2 65
66 Memortal of George Brown Goode.

written literature has grown up, and a distinct literary and scientific
class has been developed, that it is possible for the modern library and
museum to come into existence. ‘The museum of the present is more dis-
similar to its old-time representative than is our library to its prototype.

There were in the remote past galleries of pictures and sculpture, as
well as so-called museums. Public collections of paintings and statuary
were founded in Greece and Rome at a very early day. ‘There was a
gallery of paintings (Pinacotheca) in one of the marble halls of the pro-
pyleum at Athens, and in Rome there were lavish public displays of
works of art. M. Dezobry, in his Rome in the Time of Augustus, has
described this phase of Latin civilization in the first century before
Christ:

For many years [remarks one of his characters] the taste for paintings has been
extending in a most extraordinary manner. In former times they were only to be
found in the temples, where they were placed less for purposes of ornament than
as an act of homage to the gods; now they are everywhere, not only in temples, in
private houses, and in public halls, but also on outside walls, exposed freely to air
and sunlight. Rome is one great picture gallery; the Forum of Augustus is gor-
geous with paintings, and they may be seen also in the Forum of Ceesar, in the
Roman Forum, under the peristyles of many of the temples, and especially in the
porticos used for public promenades, some of which are literally filled with them.
Thus everybody is enabled to enjoy them, and to enjoy them at all hours of the
day.

The public men of Rome, at a later period in its history, were no less
mindful of the claims of art. They believed that the metropolis of a great
nation should be adorned with all the best products of civilization. We
are told by Pliny that when Cezesar was dictator, he purchased, for 300,000
deniers, two Greek paintings, which he caused to be publicly displayed,
and that Agrippa placed many costly works of art in a hall which he built
and bequeathed to the Roman people. Constantine gathered together in
Constantinople the paintings and sculptures of the great masters, so that
the city, before its destruction, became a great museum, like Rome.

The taste for works of art was generally prevalent throughout the
whole Mediterranean region in the days of the ancient civilizations, and
there is abundant reason to believe that there were prototypes of the
modern museum in Persia, Assyria, Babylonia, and Egypt, as well as in
Rome. Collections in natural history also undoubtedly existed, though
we have no positive descriptions of them. Natural curiosities, of course,
found their way into the private collections of monarchs, and were doubt-
less also in use for study among the savants in the Alexandrian museum.
Aristotle, in the fourth century before Christ, had, it is said, an enormous
grant of money for use in his scientific researches, and Alexander the
Great, his patron, ‘‘took care to send to him a great variety of zoological
specimens, collected in the countries which he had subdued,’’ and also
‘placed at his disposal several thousand persons, who were occupied
in hunting, fishing, and making the observations which were necessary
for completing his History of Animals.’? If human nature has not
PLATE 1.

Part Il.

Report of U. S. National Museum, 1897,

vA A ee Be
es
riage 7 '

Museum-History and Museums of History. 67

changed more than we suppose, Aristotle must have had a great museum
of natural history.

When the Roman capital was removed to Byzantium, the arts and
letters of Europe began to decline. The Church was unpropitious, and
the invasions of the northern barbarians destroyed everything. In 476,
with the close of the Western Empire, began a period of intellectual
torpidity which was to last for a thousand years.

It was in Bagdad and Cordova that science and letters were next to be
revived, and Africa was to surpass Europe in the extent of its libraries.
In the Periplus, or Voyage of Hanno, occurs the following passage
in regard to specimens of Gorillas, or ‘‘ Gorgones:’’

Pursuing them, we were not able to take the men (males); they all escaped, being
able to climb the precipices, and defended themselves with pieces of rock. But three
women (females), who bit and scratched those who led them, were not willing to
follow. However, having killed them, we flayed them, and conveyed the skins to
Carthage; for we did not sail any further, as provisions began to fail.!

With the Renaissance came a period of new life for collectors. The
churches of southern Europe became art galleries, and monarchs and
noblemen and ecclesiastical dignitaries collected books, manuscripts,
sculptures, pottery, and gems, forming the beginning of collections
which have since grown into public museums. Some of these collec-
tions doubtless had their first beginnings in the midst of the dark ages,
within the walls of feudal castles, or the larger monasteries, but their
number was small, and they must have consisted chiefly of those objects
so nearly akin to literature as especially to command the attention of
bookish men.

As soon as it became the fashion for the powerful and the wealthy to
possess collections, the scope of their collections began to extend, and
objects were gathered on account of their rarity or grotesqueness, as well
as for their beauty or instructiveness. Flourens, in his Life and Works
of Blumenbach, remarks: ‘‘The old Germany, with its old chateaux,
seemed to pay no homage to science; still the lords of these ancient and
noble mansions had long since made it a business, and almost a point of
honor, to form with care what were called cabinets of curiosities.’’

To the apothecary of old, with his shop crowded with the curious
substances used in the medical practice of his day, the museum owes
some of its elements, just as the modern botanic garden owes its earliest
history to the ‘‘physic garden,’’ which in its time was an outgrowth

of the apothecary’s garden of simples. "The apothecary in Romeo and
Juliet —
In whose needy shop a tortoise hung,
An alligator stuff’d, and other skins
Of eel-shaped fishes, —

was the precursor of the modern museum keeper. In the hostelries and
taverns, the gathering places of the people in the sixteenth and seven-

‘Owen, Transactions, Zoological Society of London, V, p. 266, footnote.
68 Memortai of George Brown Goode.

teenth centuries, there grew up little museums of curiosities from foreign
lands, while in the great fairs were always exhibited sundry gatherings
of strange and entertaining objects.

At the middle of the last century there appear to have been several
such collections of curiosities in Britain.

In Artedi’s ichthyological works there are numerous references to
places where he had seen American fishes, especially at Spring Garden
(later known as the Vauxhall Garden, a famous place of resort), and at
the Nag’s Head, and the White Bear, and the Green Dragon in
Stepney, in those days a famous hostelry in London. He speaks also of
collections at the houses of Mr. Lillia and in that of Master Saltero (the
barber-virtuoso, described by Bulwer in his Devereux), in Chelsea
and at Stratford, and also in the collection of Seba, in Amsterdam, and
in that of Hans Sloane.

With the exception of ‘‘¢he monk or Angel-fish, Anglis, alias Mermaid-
jish,” probably a species of Sguzatina, which he saw at the Nag’s Head,
all the fishes in these London collections belonged to the order Plectog-
nathi.

Josselyn, in his Two Voyages to New England (1638-1673), after
telling us how a Piscataway colonist had the fortune to killa Pilhannaw —
the king of the birds of prey—continues, ‘‘ How he disposed of her I
know not, but had he taken her alive and sent her over into England,
neither Bartholomew or Sturbridge Fair could have produced such
another sight.”’

Shakespeare’s mirror strongly reflects the spirit of the day. When
Trinculo, cast ashore upon a lonesome island, catches a glimpse of Caliban,
he exclaims :

What have we here? A man ora fish? Dead or alive? A fish: he smells like a
fish; a very ancient and fish-like smell. . . . astrange fish! Were I in England
now, (as once I was), and had but this fish painted, not a holiday fool there but would
give a piece of silver; there would this monster make a man; any strange beast there

makes a man: when they will not give a doit to relieve a lame beggar, they will lay
out ten to see a dead Indian.

The idea of a great national museum of science and art was first worked
out by Lord Bacon in his New Atlantis, a philosophical romance pub-
lished at the close of the seventeenth century. ‘The first scientific
museum actually founded was that begun at Oxford in 1667, by Elias
Ashmole, still known as the Ashmolean Museum, composed chiefly of
natural history specimens collected by the botanists Tradescant, father
and son, in Virginia, and in the north of Africa. Soon after, in 1753,
the British Museum was established by act of Parliament, inspired by
the will of Sir Hans Sloane, who, dying in 1749, left to the nation his
invaluable collection of books, manuscripts, and curiosities.’

?The collections of Sloane, who was one of the early scientific explorers of
America, were like those of the Tradescants, contained many New World speci-
Report of U. S. National Museum, 1897. Part ll. PLATE 2

Louis AGASSIZ.
Museum-Flistory and Museums of Frstory. 69

Many of the great national museums of Europe had their origin in the
private collections of monarchs. France claims the honor of having been
the first to change a royal into a national museum, when, in 1789, the
Louvre came into the possession of a republican government. It is very
clear, however, that democratic England, by its action in 1753, stands
several decades in advance—its act, moreover, being one of deliberate
founding rather than a species of conquest.

The first chapter in the history of American museums is short. In
colonial days there were none. In the early years of the Republic, the
establishment of such institutions by city, State, or Federal Government
would not have been considered a legitimate act. When the General
Government came into the possession of extensive collections as the result
of the Wilkes Exploring Expedition in 1842, they were placed in charge
of a private organization, the National Institution, and later, together

mens, and the British Museum as well as the Ashmolean was built around a nucleus
of American material. Indeed, we can not doubt that interest in American explora-
tion had largely to do with the development of natural history museums.

In those days all Europe was anxious to hear of the wonders of the new-found con-
tinent, and to see the strange objects which explorers might be able to bring back
with them, and monarchs sought eagerly to secure novelties in the shape of animals
and plants.

Columbus was charged by Queen Isabella to collect birds, and it is recorded that
he took back to Spain the skins of several kinds of animals. Even to this day may
be seen in the old collegiate church in Siena a votive offering placed there nearly
four centuries ago by the discoverer of America. It consists of the armor worn by
him when he first stepped upon the soil of the New World and the rostrum of a
swordfish killed on the American coast.

The state papers of Great Britain contain many entries of interest in this connec-
tion. King James I was an enthusiastic collector. December 15, 1609, Lord South-
ampton wrote to Lord Salisbury that he had told the King about Virginia squirrels
brought into England which were said to fly. The King very earnestly asked
if none were provided for him—whether Salisbury had none for him—and said he
was sure Salisbury would get him one. ‘The writer apologizes for troubling Lord
Salisbury, ‘‘but,’’ continued he, ‘‘ you know so well how he [the King] is affected
to such toys.”’

Charles I appears to have been equally curious in such matters. In 1637 he sent
John Tradescant the younger to Virginia ‘‘to gather all rarities of flowers, plants,
and shells.”’

In 1625 we find Tradescant writing to one Nicholas that it is the Duke of Buck-
ingham’s pleasure that he should deal with all merchants from all places, but espe-
cially from Virginia, Bermuda, Newfoundland, Guinea, the Amazons, and the East
Indies, for all manner of rare beasts, fowls and birds, shells and shining stones, etc.

In the Domestic Correspondence of Charles I, in another place, July, 1625, is a
‘Note of things desired from Guinea, for which letters are to be written to the mer-
chants of the Guinea Company.’’? Among other items referred to are ‘‘an elephant’s
head, with the teeth very large; a river horse’s head; strange sorts of fowls; birds’
and fishes’ skins; great flying and sucking fishes; all sorts of serpents; dried fruits,
shining stones, ete.’’ Still farther on is a note of one Jeremy Blackman’s charge—
in all, £20—for transporting four deer from Virginia, including corn and a place
made of wood for them to lie in.
70 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

with other similar materials, in that of a corporation, the Smithsonian
Institution, which was for a long period of years obliged to pay largely
for their care out of its income from a private endowment. It was not
until 1876, however, that the existence of a National Museum, as such,
was definitely recognized in the proceedings of Congress, and its financial
support fully provided for.

In early days, however, our principal cities had each a public museum,
founded and supported by private enterprise. The earliest general col-
lection was that formed at Norwalk, Connecticut, prior to the Revolution,
by a man named Arnold, described as ‘‘a curious collection of American
birds and insects.’? This it was which first awakened the interest of
President Adams in the natural sciences. He visited it several times as
he traveled from Boston to Philadelphia, and his interest culminated in
the foundation of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.’ In 1790
Doctor Hosack brought to America from Europe the first cabinet of min-
erals ever seen on this continent.

The earliest public establishment, however, was the Philadelphia
Museum, established by Charles Willson Peale in 1785, which had for a
nucleus a stuffed paddlefish and the bones of a mammoth, and which
was for a time housed in the building of the American Philosophical
Society. In 1800 it was full of popular attractions.

There were a mammoth’s tooth from the Ohio, and a woman’s shoe from Canton;
nests of the kind used to make soup of, and a Chinese fan six feet long; bits of asbestus,
belts of wampum, stuffed birds and feathers from the Friendly Islands, scalps, toma-
hawks, and long lines of portraits of great men of the Revolutionary war. To visit
the museum, to wander through the rooms, play upon the organ, examine the rude
electrical machine, and have a profile drawn by the physiognomitian, were pleasures
from which no stranger to the city ever refrained.

Doctor Hare’s oxyhydrogen blowpipe was shown in this museum by
Mr. Rubens Peale as early as 1810.

The Baltimore Museum was managed by Rembrandt Peale, and was in
existence as early as 1815 and as late as 1830.

Earlier efforts were made, however, in Philadelphia. Doctor Chovet,
of that city, had a collection of wax anatomical models made by him in
Europe, and Professor John Morgan, of the University of Pennsylvania,
who learned his methods from the Hunters in London and Sué in Paris,
was also forming such a collection before the Revolution.

' This collection [we are told] was sold to Sir Ashton Lever, in whose apart-
ments in London Mr. Adams saw it again, and felt a new regret at our imperfect
knowledge of the productions of the three kingdoms of nature in our land. In
France his visits to the museums and other establishments, with the inquiries of
Academicians and other men of science and letters respecting this country, and their
encomiums on the Philosophical Society of Philadelphia, suggested to him the idea
of engaging his native State to do something in the same good but neglected cause. —
Kirtland, Mem. American Academy of Sciences, Boston, I, xxii.
Report of U.S. National Museum, 1897. Part II. PLATE 3.

JOHN JAMES AUDUBON.
=

ha e
mse oy ee
_ _

Museum-Fhstory and Museums of History. ip

The Columbian Museum and Turrell’s Museum, in Boston, are spoken
of in the annals of the day, and there was a small collection in the attic
of the statehouse in Hartford.

The Western Museum, in Cincinnati, was founded about 1815 by
‘Robert Best, M. D., afterwards of Lexington, Kentucky, who seems to
have been a capable collector, and who contributed matter to Godman’s
American Natural History. In 1818 a society styled the Western
Museum Society was organized among the citizens, which, though
scarcely a scientific organization, seems to have taken a somewhat liberal
and public-spirited view of what a museum should be. With the estab-
lishment of the Academy of Natural Sciences in Philadelphia in 1812,
and the New York Lyceum of Natural History, the history of American
scientific museums had its true beginning.

The intellectual life of America is so closely allied to that of England
that the revival of interest in museums and in popular education at the
middle of the present century is especially significant to us. The great
exhibition of 1851 was one of the most striking features of the industrial
revolution in England, that great transformation which, following closely
upon the introduction of railroads, turned England feudal and agricul-
tural into England democratic and commercial.

The great exhibition marked an epoch in the intellectual progress of
English-speaking people. ‘‘The great exhibition,’’ writes a popular
novelist, and a social philosopher as well, ‘‘did one great service for
country people. It taught them how easy it is to get to London, and
what a mine of wealth, especially for after memory and purposes of con-
versation, exists in that great place.’’

Under the wise administration of the South Kensington staff, a great
system of educational museums has been developed all through the
United Kingdom.

Our own Centennial Exhibition in 1876 was almost as great a revela-
tion to the people of the United States. The thoughts of the country
were opened to many things before undreamed of. One thing we may
regret—that we have no such widespread system of museums as that
which has developed in the motherland with South Kensington as its
administrative center. England has had nearly forty years, however, and
we but thirteen, since our exhibition. May we not hope that within a
like period of time, and before the year 1914, the United States may have
attained the position which England now occupies, at least in the respects
of popular interest and substantial governmental support? ‘There are
now over one hundred and fifty public museums in the United Kingdom,
all active and useful.

The museum systems of Great Britain are, it seems to me, much closer
to the ideal which America should follow, than are those of either France
or Germany. ‘They are designed more thoughtfully to meet the needs of
72 Memorral of George Brown Goode.

the people, and are more intimately intertwined with the policy of national
popular education.

Sir Henry Cole, the working founder of the Department of Science and
Art, speaking of the purpose of the museums under his care, said to the
people of Birmingham in 1874:

If you wish your schools of science and art to be effective, your health, the air,
and your food to be wholesome, your life to be long, your manufactures to improve,
your trade to increase, and your people to be civilized, you must have museums of
science and art to illustrate the principles of life, health, nature, science, art, and
beauty.

Again, in words as applicable to Americans of to-day as to Britons in
1874, said he:

A thorough education and a knowledge of science and art are vital to the nation,
and to the place it holds at present in the civilized world. Science and art are the
lifeblood of successful production. All civilized nations are running a race with us,
and our national decline will date from the period when we go to sleep over the
work of education, science, and art. What has been done is at the mere threshold
of the work yet to be done.

The people’s museum should be much more than a house full of speci-
mens in glass cases. It should be a house full of ideas, arranged with
the strictest attention to system. I once tried to express this thought
by saying: ‘‘An efficient educational museum may be described as a col-
lection of instructive labels, each illustrated by a well-selected specimen.’’

The museum, let me add, should be more than a collection of speci-
mens, well arranged and well labeled. Like the library, it should be
under the constant supervision of one or more men, well informed, schol-
arly, and withal practical, and fitted by tastes and training to aid in the
educational work. I should not organize the museums primarily for the
use of people in their larval or school-going stage of existence. The
public school-teacher, with the illustrated text-books, diagrams, and other
appliances, has in these days a professional outfit which is usually quite
sufficient to enable him to teach his pupils.

School days last at the most only from four to fifteen years, and they
end, with the majority of mankind, before their minds have reached the
stage of growth most favorable for the reception and assimilation of the
best and most useful thought. Why should we be crammed in the time
of infancy and kept in a state of mental starvation during the period
which follows, from maturity to old age—a state which is disheartening
and unnatural all the more because of the intellectual tastes which have
been stimulated and partially formed by school life?

The museum idea is much broader than it was fifty or even twenty-
five years ago. ‘The museum of to-day is no longer a chance assemblage
of curiosities, but rather a series of objects selected with reference to
their value to investigators, or their possibilities for public enlightenment.
The museum of the future may be made one of the chief agencies of the
higher civilization.
Museum-Ffistory and Museums of Flistory. 73

I hope that the time will come when every town shall have both its
public museum and its public library, each with a staff of competent men,
mutually helpful, and contributing largely to the intellectual life of the
community.

The museum of the future in this democratic land should be adapted
to the needs of the mechanic, the factory operator, the day laborer, the
salesman, and the clerk, as much as to those of the professional man and
the man of leisure. It is proper that there be laboratories and profes-
sional libraries for the development of the experts who are to organize,
arrange, and explain the museums.

It is proper that laboratories be utilized to the fullest extent for the
credit of the institution to which they belong. No museum can do good
and be respected which does not each year give additional proofs of its
claims to be considered a center of learning. On the other hand, the
public have a right to ask that much shall be done directly in their
interest. They will gladly allow the museum officer to use part of his
time in study and experiment. ‘They will take pride in the possession
by the museum of tens of thousands of specimens, interesting only to
the specialist, hidden away perpetually from public view, but necessary
for proper scientific research. They are the foundations of the intellect-
ual superstructure which gives to the institution its proper standing.

Still, no pains must be spared in the presentation of the material in
the exhibition halls. The specimens must be prepared in the most care-
ful and artistic manner, and arranged attractively in well-designed cases
and behind the clearest of glass. Each object must bear a label giving
its name and history so fully that all the probable questions of the visitor
are answered in advance. Books of reference must be kept in convenient
places. Colors of walls, cases, and labels must be restful and quiet, and
comfortable seats must be everywhere accessible, for the task of the
museum visitor is a weary one at best.

All intellectual work may be divided into two classes, the one tending
toward the increase of knowledge, the other toward its diffusion; the one
toward investigation and discovery, the other toward the education of the
people and the application of known facts to promoting their material
welfare. ‘The efforts of learned men and of institutions of learning are
sometimes applied solely to one of these departments of effort—sometimes
to both—and it is generally admitted, by the most advanced teachers,
that, for their students as well as for themselves, the happiest results are
reached by carrying on investigation and instruction simultaneously.
Still more is this true of institutions of learning. The college which
imparts only second-hand knowledge to its students belongs to a period
in the history of education which is fast being left behind.

The museum must, in order to perform its proper functions, contribute
to the advancement of learning through the increase as well as through
the diffusion of knowledge.
74 Memortal of George Brown Goode.

We speak of ‘‘educational’? museums and of the ‘‘educational”’
method of installation so frequently that there may be danger of incon-
sistency in the use of the term. An educational museum, as it is usually
spoken of, is one in which an attempt is made to teach the unprofessional
visitor of an institution for popular education by means of labeled col-
lections, and it may be, also, by popular lectures. A college museum,
although used as an aid to advanced instruction, is not an ‘‘ educational
museum’? in the ordinary sense, nor does a museum of research, like the
Museum of Comparative Zoology at Cambridge, Massachusetts, belong to
this class, although, to a limited extent, it attempts and performs popular
educational work in addition to its other functions.

In the National Museum in Washington the collections are divided
into two great classes: The exhibition series, which constitutes the educa-
tional portion of the Museum, and is exposed to public view, with all
possible accessories for public entertainment and instruction; and the
study series, which is kept in the scientific laboratories, and is rarely
examined except by professional investigators.

In every properly conducted museum the collections must, from the
very beginning, divide themselves into these two classes, and, in planning
for its administration, provision should be made not only for the exhibi-
tion of objects in glass cases, but for the preservation of large collections
not available for exhibition, to be used for the studies of a very limited
number of specialists. Lord Bacon, who, as we have noticed, was the
first to whom occurred the idea of a great museum of science and art,
complains thus, centuries ago, in his book, On the Advancement of
Learning, that up to that time the means for intellectual progress had
been used exclusively for ‘‘amusement’’ and ‘‘teaching,’’ and not for
the ‘‘augmentation of science.”’

The boundary line between the library and the museum is neither
straight nor plain. ‘The former, if its scope be rightly indicated by its
name, is, primarily, a place for books. The latter is a depository for
objects of every kind, books not excepted. The British Museum, with
its libraries, its pictures, its archaeological galleries, its anthropological,
geological, botanical, and zoological collections, is an example of the
most comprehensive interpretation of the term. Professor Huxley has
described the museum as ‘‘a consultative library of objects.’’ ‘This defi-
nition is suggestive but unsatisfactory. It relates only to the contents of
the museum as distinguished from those of the library, and makes no
reference to the differences in the methods of their administration.

The treasures of the library must be examined one at a time, and by
one person at a time. Their use requires long-continued attention, and
their removal from their proper places in the system of arrangement.
Those of the museums are displayed to public view in groups, in sys-
tematic sequence, so that.they have a collective as well as an individual
significance. Furthermore, much of their meaning may be read at a

”)
PLATE 4.

Part Il.

Report of U. S. National Museum, 1897.

DON FELIX D’AZARA.
Museum-Ffistory and Museums of [listory. 75

glance. The museum cultivates the powers of observation, and the casual
visitor even makes discoveries for himself, and, under the guidance of
the labels, forms his own impressions. In the library one studies the
impressions of others.

The library is most useful to the educated; the museum to educated
and uneducated alike, to the masses as well as to the few, and is a powerful
stimulant to intellectual activity in either class.

The influence of the museum upon a community is not so deep as that of
the library, but extends toa much larger number of people. The National
Museum in Washington has 300,000 visitors a year, each of whom carries
away a certain number of new thoughts.

The two ideas may be carried out, side by side, in the same building,
and, if need be, under the same management, not only without antag-
onism, but with advantage. That the proximity of a good library is
absolutely essential to the influence of a museum, will be admitted by
everyone. I am confident, also, that a museum wisely organized and
properly arranged is certain to benefit the library near which it stands in
many ways, and more positively than through its power to stimulate
interest in books, and thus to increase the general popularity of the library
and to enlarge its endowment.

Many books and valuable ones would be required in this best kind of
museum work, but it is not intended to enter into competition with the
library. When necessary, volumes might be duplicated. It is very often
the case, however, that books are more useful and safer in the museum
than on the library shelves, for in the museum they may be seen daily by
thousands, while in the library their very existence is forgotten by all
except their custodian.

Audubon’s Birds of North America is a book which everyone has
heard of and which every one wants to see at least once in his lifetime. In
a library, it probably is not examined by ten persons in a year. Ina
museum, if the volume were exposed to view in a glass case, a few of the
most striking plates detached, framed, and hung upon the wall near at
hand, it will teach a lesson to every passer-by.

The library may be called upon for aid by the museum in many direc-
tions. Pictures are often better than specimens to illustrate certain ideas.
The races of man and their distribution can only be shown by pictures
and maps. Atlases of ethnological portraits and maps are out of place in
a library if there is a museum nearby in which they can be displayed.
They are not even members of the class described by Lamb as ‘‘ books
which are not books.’’ ‘They are not books, but museum specimens,
masquerading in the dress of books.

In selecting courses for the development of a museum, it may be useful
to consider what are the fields open to museum work. As a matter of
convenience, museums are commonly classed in two groups—those of
science and those of art—and in Great Britain the great national system
76 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

is mainly under the control of The Science and Art Department of the
Committee of Council on Education.

This classification is not entirely satisfactory, since it is based upon
methods of arrangement rather than upon the nature of the objects to be
arranged, and since it leaves in a middle territory (only partially. occu-
pied by the English museum men of either department) a great mass
of museum material, of the greatest moment, both in regard to its inter-
est and its adaptability for purposes of public instruction.

On the other side stand the natural history collections, undoubtedly
best to be administered by the geologist, botanist, and zoologist. On
the other side are the fine-art collections, best to be arranged, from an
esthetic standpoint, by artists. Between is a territory which no English
word can adequately describe—which the Germans call Culturgeschichte—
the natural history of civilization, of man and his ideas and achieve-
ments. ‘The museums of science and art have not yet learned how to
partition this territory.

An exact classification of museums is not at present practicable, nor
will it be until there has been some redistribution of the collections
which they contain. It may be instructive, however, to pass in review
the principal museums of the world, indicating briefly their chief char-
acteristics.

Every great nation has its museum of natural history. ‘The natural
history department of the British Museum, recently removed from the
heart of London to palatial quarters in South Kensington, is probably
the most extensive, with its three great divisions, zoological, botanical,
and geological. :

The historian and the naturalist have met upon common ground in
the field of anthropology. ‘The anthropologist is, in most cases, historian
as well as naturalist; while the historian of to-day is always in some
degree an anthropologist, and makes use of many of the methods at one
time peculiar to the natural sciences. ‘The museum is no less essential
to the study of anthropology than to that of natural history. The library
formerly afforded to the historian all necessary opportunities for work.
It would seem from the wording of the new charter of the American
Historical Association that its members consider a museum to be one of
its legitimate agencies.

Your secretary has invited me to say something about the possibilities
of utilizing museum methods for the promotion of historical studies.
This I do with much hesitation, and I hope that my remarks may be
considered as suggestions rather than as expressions of definite opinion.
The art of museum administration is still in its infancy, and no attempt
has yet been made to apply it systematically to the development of a
museum of history. Experiment is as yet the museum administrator’s
only guide, and he often finds his most cherished plans thoroughly
impracticable. ‘That museums can ever be made as useful to history as

qq
Museum-Fitstory and Museums of [1tstory. 77

they are to physical science, their most enthusiastic friend dares not
hope. ‘The two departments of science are too unlike.

The historian studies events and their causes; the naturalist studies
objects and the forces. by which their existence is determined. ‘The
naturalist may assemble in a museum objects from every quarter of the
globe and from every period of the earth’s history. Much of his work
is devoted to the observation of finished structure, and for this purpose
his specimens are at all times ready. When, however, he finds it neces-
sary to study his subject in other aspects, he may have recourse to the phys-
ical, chemical, and physiological laboratories, the zoological and botanical
gardens, and aquaria, which should form a part of every perfect museum
system. Here, almost at will, the phenomena of nature may be scruti-
nized and confirmed by repeated observation, while studies impractica-
ble in the nursery may usually be made by members of its staff, who
carry its appliances with them to the seashore or to distant lands.

The requirements of the historian are very different. Nevertheless, I
am confident that the museum may be made in his handsa most potent
instrumentality for the promotion of historical studies. Its value is per-
haps less fully realized than it would be were it not that so many of
its functions are performed by the library. In the library may be found
descriptive catalogues of all the great museums, and books by the
hundred, copiously illustrated with pictures of the objects preserved in
museums. A person trained to use books may by their aid reap the
advantage of many museums without the necessity of a visit to one.

The exhibition series would be proportionately larger in an historical
than in a natural-history museum. The study series of a historical
museum would mostly be arranged in the form of a library, except in
some special departments, such as numismatics, and when a library is
near might be entirely dispensed with.

The adoption of museum methods would be of advantage to the his-
torian in still another way, by encouraging the preservation of historical
material not at present sought for by librarians, and by inducing present
owners of such material to place it on exhibition in public museums.

Although there is not in existence a general museum of history
arranged on the comprehensive plan adopted by natural-history museums,
there are still many historical collections of limited scope, which are all
that could be asked, and more.

The value to the historian of archaeological collections, historic and
prehistoric, has long been understood. ‘The museums of London, Paris,
Berlin, and Rome need no comment. In Cambridge, New York, and
Washington are immiense collections of the remains of man in America
in the pre-Columbian period—collections which are yearly growing in
significance, as they are made the subject of investigation, and there is
an immense amount of material of this kind in the hands of institutions
and private collectors in all parts of the United States.
78 _ Memorial of George Brown Goode.

The museum at Naples shows, sc far as a museum can, the history of
Pompeii at one period. The museum of St. Germain, near Paris, exhibits
the history of France in the time of the Gauls and of the Roman occupa-
tion. In Switzerland, especially at Neuchatel, the history of the inhab-
itants of the Lake Dwellings is shown.

American ethnological museums are preserving with care the memorials
of the vanishing race of red men. ‘The George Catlin Indian Gallery,
which is installed in the room in which this society is now meeting, is
valuable beyond the possibility of appraisement, in that it is the sole
record of the physical characters, the costumes, and the ceremonies of
several tribes long extinct.

Other countries recently settled by Europeans are preserving the
memorials of the aboriginal races, notably the colonies in Australia and
New Zealand. Japan is striving to preserve in its Government museum
examples of the fast-disappearing memorials of feudal days.

Ethnographic museums are especially numerous and fine in the
northern part of Europe. ‘They were proposed more than half a century
ago, by the French geographer, Jomard, and the idea was first carried
into effect about 1840, on the establishment of the Danish Ethnographical
Museum, which long remained the best in Europe. Within the past
twenty years there is an extraordinary activity in this direction.

In Germany, besides the chief museum in Berlin, considerable ethno-
graphical collections have been founded in Hamburgand Munich. Aus-
tria hasin Vienna two for ethnography, the Court Museum (Hof-Museum),
and the Oriental (Orientalisches Museum). Holland has reorganized
the National Ethnographical Museum (Ryks Ethnographisch Museum)
in Leyden, and there are smaller collections in Amsterdam, Rotterdam,
and The Hague. France has founded the Trocadero (Musée de Tro-
cadero). In Italy there is the important Prehistoric and Ethnographic
Museum (Museo preistorico ed ethnografico) in Rome, as well as the col-
lection of the Propaganda, and there are museums in Florence and Venice.

Ethnographical museums have also been founded in Christiania and
Stockholm, the latter of which will include the rich material collection
by Doctor Stolpe on the voyage of the frigate Vanadzs around the world.

In England there is less attention to the subject, the Christy collection
in the British Museum being the only one specially devoted to ethnog-
raphy, unless we include also the local Blackmore Museum at Salisbury.

In the United States the principal establishment arranged on the
ethnographic plan is the Peabody Museum of Archzeology in Cambridge,
and there are important smaller collections in the American Museum of
Natural History in New York and the Peabody Academy of Sciences at
Salem. |

The ethnological collections in Washington are classified on a double
system, in one of its features corresponding to that of the European, in
the other like the famous Pitt-Rivers collection at Oxford, arranged to
Museum-ffistory and Museums of Fiistory. 79

show the evolution of culture and civilization without regard to race.
This broader plan admits much material excluded by the advocates of
ethnographic museums, who devote their attention almost exclusively to
the primitive or non-European peoples.

In close relation to the ethnographic museums are those which are
devoted to some special field of human thought and interest. Most
remarkable among these probably is the Musée Guimet, recently
removed from Lyons to Paris, which is intended to illustrate the history
of religious ceremonial among all races of men.

Other good examples of this class are some of those in Paris, such as
the Musée de Marine, which shows not only the development of the
merchant and naval marines of the country, but also, by trophies and
other historical souvenirs, the history of the naval battles of the nation.

The Musée d’Artillerie does for war, but less thoroughly, what the
Marine Museum does in its own department, and there are similar
museums in other countries. :

Historical museums are manifold in character, and of necessity local in
interest. Some relate to the history of provinces or cities. One of the
oldest and best of these is the Markisch Provinzial Museum in Berlin.
Many historical societies have collections of this character.

There are museums which illustrate the history of particular towns,
events, and individuals. ‘The museum of the city of Paris, in the Hotel
des Invalides, is one of these. ‘The museum of the Hohenzollerns, in
Berlin, contains interesting mementos of the reigning family of Ger-
many. ‘The cathedrals of southern Europe, and St. Paul’s, in London,
are in some degrees national or civic museums. The Galileo Museum
in Florence, the Shakespeare Museum at Stratford, are good examples
of the museums devoted to the memory of representative men and the
Monastery of St. Mark, in Florence, does as much as could be expected
of any museum for the life of Savonarola. ‘The Soane Museum in Lon-
don, the Thorvaldsen Museum in Copenhagen, are similar in purpose
and result, but they are rather biographical than historical. There are
also others which illustrate the history of a race, as the Bavarian National
Museum in Nuremberg.

The study of civilization or the history of culture and of the develop-
ments of the various arts and industries have brought into being special
collections which are exceedingly significant and useful. Doctor Klemm
and General Pitt-Rivers, in England, were pioneers in the founding of
collections of this kind, and their work is permanently preserved in the
Museum fur Volkerkunde, in Leipzig and at the University of Oxford.

Nearly every museum which admits ethnological material is doing
something in this direction. There are a number of beginnings of this
sort in this very building.

The best of the art museums are historically arranged and show
admirably the development of the pictorial and plastic arts—somie, like
80 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

that in Venice, for a particular school; some that of a country, some that
of different countries side by side.

The art museum, it need scarcely be said, contains, more than any
other, the materials which I should like to see utilized in the historical
museum.

Incidentally or by direct intention, a large collection of local paintings,
such as those in Venice or Florence, brings vividly into mind the occur-
rences of many periods of history, not only historical topography—the
architecture, the utensils, weapons, and other appurtenances of domestic,
military, ecclesiastical, and governmental routine—but the men and
women who made the history, the lowest as well as the most powerful,
and the very performers of the deeds themselves, the faces bearing the
impress of the passions by which they were moved.

These things are intelligible to those who are trained to observe them. —
T’o others they convey but half the lesson they might, or mayhap only a
very small part indeed.

The historical museums now in existence contain, as a rule, chance
accumulations, like too many natural-history museums of the present,
like allin the past. I donot mean any disrespect by the word chance, but
simply that, though the managers are willing to expend large sums for
any specimens which please them, many most instructive ones have been
excluded by some artificial limitation. The National Portrait Gallery in
London is an instance. Many illustrious men are not represented upon
its walls solely because no contemporary pictures of theirs, reaching a
certain ideal standard of merit, are in existence.

So, also, the collection of musical instruments at South Kensington,
which admits no specimen which is devoid of artistic suggestions— ~
thus barring out the rude and primitive forms which would give added
interest to all. “The naturalist’s axiom, ‘‘any specimen is better than
no specimen,’ should be borne in mind in the formation of historical
museums, if not rigidly enforced.

Another source of weakness in all museums is one to which attention
has already been directed, namely, that they have resigned, without a
struggle, to the library material invaluable for the completion of their
exhibition series. Pictures are quite as available for museum work as
specimens, and it is unwise to leave so many finely illustrated books, lost
to sight and memory, on the shelves of the libraries.

That libraries can do good work through the adoption of museum
methods has been clearly shown in the British Museum in the exceed-
ingly instructive collections which have of late years been exhibited by
its librarians, to illustrate such subjects as the lives of Luther and Michael
Angelo, and by their permanent display of pictures and documents refer-
ring to the history of London.

The Dyce-Forster collection of autograph documents, letters, and
manuscripts is also, in its own way, suggestive. Every large library has

Report of U. S. National Museum, 1897. Part Il. PLatTe 5.

ALEXANDER DALLAS BACHE.
eediditon ie

Museum-Ffistory and Museums of History. 81

done something of this kindin its own way. It remains for some student
of history to work out upon a generous plan, and with plenty of exhibi-
tion space at his command, the resources which are already in the posses-
sion of some great treasure-house like the British Museum.

What the limitations of historical museums are to be it is impossible
at present to predict. In museum administration experience is the only
safe guide. In the scientific museum many things have been tried, and
many things are known to be possible. In the historical museum most
of this experimental administration still remains to be performed. ‘The
principal object of this communication is to call attention to the general
direction in which experiment should be made.

The only safe course to be pursued in the development of plans in any
untried department of museum work is to follow the advice which the
Apostle Paul proffered to the Thessalonians:

‘* Prove all things; hold fast that which is good !’’

NAT MUS 97, PT 2 6

THE GENESIS OF THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM

BY

GEORGE BROWN GOODE,

Assistant Secretary, Smithsonian Institution, in charge
of the U.S. National Museum.

THE GENESIS OF THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM

By GEORGE BROWN GOODE,

Assistant Secretary, Smithsonian Institution, in charge of the U. S. National
Museum,

When, in 1826, James Smithson bequeathed his estate to the United
States of America ‘‘to found at Washington, under the name of the
Smithsonian Institution, an establishment for the increase and diffusion
of knowledge among men,’’ he placed at the disposal of our nation two
valuable collections—one of books and one of minerals.

In the schedule of Smithson’s personal effects, as brought to America
in 1838, occurs the following entry :

Two large boxes filled with specimens of minerals and manuscript treatises,

apparently in the testator’s handwriting, on various philosophical subjects, particu-
larly chemistry and mineralogy. Eight cases and one trunk filled with the like.

This collection and the books and pamphlets mentioned in the same
schedule formed the beginnings, respectively, of the Smithsonian library
and the Smithsonian museum. ‘The minerals constituted, so far as the
writer has been able to learn, the first scientific cabinet owned by the
Government of the United States. Their destruction in the Smithsonian
fire of 1865 was a serious loss. Our only knowledge of their character
is derived from the report of a committee of the National Institution,
which in 1841 reported upon it as follows :*

Among the effects of the late Mr. Smithson, is a Cabinet which, so far as it has
been examined, proves to consist of a choice and beautiful collection of Minerals,
comprising, probably, eight or ten thousand specimens. ‘The specimens, though
generally small, are extremely perfect, and constitute a very complete Geological
and Mineralogical series ¢ embracing the finest varieties of crystallization ; rendered
more valuable by accompanying figures and descriptions by Mr. Smithson, and in

*Proceedings of the National Institution, July, 1841, 2d Bull., p. 95. Francis
Markoe, jr., secretary of the National Institution, in a letter written to the Amer-
ican Philosophical Society in 1841, described as a part of this cabinet ‘‘a superb
collection, and very large, of precious stones and exquisite crystallized minerals

decidedly the richest and rarest collection in the country.”’

For a catalogue in general terms see Alfred Hunter, Popular Catalogue of the
Extraordinary Curiosities in the National Institute, etc., published in 1855, and
William J. Rhees, Account of the Smithsonian Institution, etc., 1859.

; 85
86 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

his own hand-writing. ‘The cabinet also contains a valuable suite of meteoric
stones, which appear to be specimens of most of the meteorites which have fallen
in Europe during several centuries.

This report was made in July, 1841, at the time when, by order of the
Secretary of the United States Treasury, the minerals, books, manu-
scripts, and other articles forming part of the Smithson bequest, were
deposited in the custody of the National Institution, where they remained
until 1858.

A room had been planned for their reception in the Smithsonian edi-
fice, which was to be made fireproof," but if this was ever constructed it
was not occupied, and the collections having been displayed for some
years in the Regents’ room, were destroyed by fire January 24, 1865.

The National Institution was for nearly eighteen years the official
custodian of these and other museum materials belonging to the nation.
This organization, ten years before the Smithsonian Institution was pre-
pared to receive any collections whatever, fourteen years before its build-
ings were ready for the exhibition of museum objects, and in after years,
until its charter expired by limitation in 1862, held many objects whose
proper place was in the National Museum. Indeed, the retention of
many historical objects in the Patent Office hall until 1883, was an evi-
dence of a lingering uncertainty as to the proper location of responsibility
for the care of the national collections.

In order to understand the genesis of the National Museum of the
United States, it seems necessary to examine the history of this society,
at one time so enterprising and influential.

The National Institution for the Promotion of Science, organized in
Washington, May 15, 1840, was for some years the most prominent
exponent of the idea of a national museum.’ ‘The establishment of this
society was doubtless to a very great degree due to the stimulating and
inspiring effects upon public opinion of the Smithson bequest. The
germs of the idea which it represented seem, however, to have been
existing in Washington at a much earlier period, for in 1816, or before,
a similar society had been organized in the capital under the name of
The Columbian Institute for the Promotion of Arts and Sciences.?

The Columbian Institute received on May 20, 1818, a charter from
Congress which expired in 1838, after which its members ‘‘ were invited

‘Report of the building committee to December 1, 1847, in Report of the Board

2 The National Institution was organized at the seat of Government on the 15th of
May, 1840, by the adoption of a Constitution and the declaration of the objects of
the Institution; which are to promote Science and the Useful Arts, and to establish
a National Museum of Natural History, etc.—Proceedings of the National Insti-
tution, 1841, 1st Bull., p. 3.

3Before 1816 an organization known as The Metropolitan Society was in existence
in Washington, and the Columbian Institute was an outgrowth of it or replaced it.
The United States Military Philosophical Society met in Washington and New York
as early as 1805.
Report of U. S. National Museum, 1897. Part Il. PLATE 6.

SPENCER FULLERTON BAIRD.
i
we
iyebete

po %
ee ts

es

The Genests of the United States National Museum. 87

to become members of the National Institution, and to deposit in its
Cabinet their effects, books, and papers.’? '

This invitation was accepted July 17, 1841,*in a letter from Asbury
Dickins, secretary, and although no record of any transfer is to be found
in the Bulletin of the National Institution, I have before me a letter
from Messrs. John J. Abert, A. O. Dayton, and F. A. Markoe, com-
mittee of that society, addressed to the Secretaries of the War and Navy
Departments, January 1, 1842, in which, among the other collections in
their custody, they mention ‘‘the books, minerals, and works of art
belonging to the late Columbian Institute,’’ and also the ‘‘ books, papers,
and proceedings of the late American Historical Society,’’? an organiza-
tion to which also the National Institution stood in the position of an
heir.

To Doctor Edward Cutbush is due the preservation of the only state-
ment extant of the objects of the Columbian Institute, embodied ap-
parently in its constitution, and quoted as follows in his address as its
president, delivered January 11, 1817, in Congress Hall, Washington: 3

To collect, cultivate, and distribute the various vegetable productions of this and
other countries, whether medicinal or esculent, or for the promotion of arts and
manfactures. ;

To collect and examine the various mineral productions and natural curiosities of
the United States, and to give publicity to every discovery that the institute may
have been enabled to make.

To obtain information respecting the mineral waters of the United States, their
locality, analysis, and utility, together with such topographical remarks as may aid
valetudinarians.

To invite communications on agricultural subjects, on the management of stock,
their diseases, and the remedies.

To form a topographical and statistical history of the different districts of the
United States, noticing particularly the number and extent of streams, how far navi-
gable, the agricultural products, the imports and exports, the value of lands, the
climate, the state of the thermometer and barometer, the diseases which prevail in
the different seasons, the state of the arts and manufactures, and any other informa-
tion which may be deemed of general utility.

To publish annually, or whenever the Institution shall have become possessed of
a sufficient stock of important information, such communications as may be of public
utility, and to give the earliest information in the public papers of all discoveries
that may have been made by or communicated to the Institute.

t Proceedings of the National Institution, July 12, 1841, 2d Bull., p. 94.

2Idem., p. 113.

3Cutbush, Edward. An address | delivered before the | Columbian Institute, | for
the Promotion of Arts and Sciences, | at the City of Washington, | on the 11th Janu-
ary, 1817. | | By Edward Cutbush, M. D., | Hon. Member of the Philadelphia
Medical and Chemical Societies; | Corresponding Member of the Linnean Society
of Philadelphia; | and President of the Institute. | | Published by the request
of the Columbian Institute, | | Washington. | Printed by Gales & Seaton. | Six
parts | 1817. 8vo., pp. I-29.

A copy of this rare pamphlet is in the library of the Surgeon-General’s Office, as
well as a nearly complete series of the publications of the two brothers Cutbush.

88 Memortal of George Brown Goode.

A remark significant in this connection may be found in a letter
written by Edward Cutbush, M. D., dated Geneva, New York, January 20,
1842, accepting his election to corresponding membership in the National
Institution. After thanking the institution ‘‘for this memento of their
friendship and recognition of past services in the cause which has been
so honorably revived at the seat of Government,’’ he continued thus: ‘‘I
most sincerely hope that all the objects which engaged the attention of
Thomas Law, Esq.,? and myself, in 1816, in establishing the Columbian
Institute will ow meet the approbation and support of the Government,
and of the scientific men of the District of Columbia.’’ *

™Proceedings of the National Institution, 1842, 2d Bull., p. 156.

?Thomas Law was a member of an English family of talent and influence. His
father, Edmund Law, D. D., born in Cartmel, Lancashire, in 1703, educated at St.
John’s College, Cambridge, was author of several theological and philosophical works,
and in 1769 became Bishop of Carlisle, holding this office till his death in 1787. Of
his younger brothers, one was Bishop of Elphin, another, George Henry Law, D. D.,
(1761-1845) was Bishop of Chester, 1812, and later, 1824, of Bath and Wells. [Bio-
graphical Sketch in Gentleman’s Magazine, 1845, Pt. 2, p. 529.] His elder brother,
Edward Law—Lord Ellenborough—( 1750-1818) was an eminent lawyer, principal
counsel for Warren Hastings in the great impeachment trial before the House of
Lords, Attorney-General and Lord Chief Justice of the King’s Bench,and was father
of Edward Law, Earl of Ellenborough (1790-1871), Governor-General of India.

Thomas Law was born in 1756, and in 1773, at the age of seventeen, entered the
service of the British East India Company in Bengal, and was rapidly promoted,
becoming member of the revenue board of Hugli before he was twenty-one, later
judge of Poonah, and in 1783 collector, judge, and magistrate of Behar, a province
with more than 2,000,000 inhabitants, an office which he administered for six years
with great success, afterwards, at the request of Lord Cornwallis, the Governor-Gen-
eral, then engaged in his campaign against Tippoo Saib, serving for two years on the
revenue board at Calcutta. In 1791, his health having failed, he sailed for England,
where he remained until 1793, the year of his removal to America,

While in India he was the friend and associate of Lord Cornwallis, Lord Tergue-
nett, and Sir William Jones, and was the-author of what was known as the Mocur-
rery system and permanent settlement, a great legislative reform, the accomplishment
of which was the principal feature of Cornwallis’s administration, which the board
of control of the East India Company described as ‘‘forming a new epoch in Hin-
dostan, from which, they predict, will be derived security and permanent prosperity,
and consider it as an important and most beneficial change to 50,000,000 of people,
and full of beneficial consequences.”’

William Duane, the editor of the Philadelphia Aurora, who had known Mr. Law
in India, wrote thus concerning him in 1815:

‘“We have known Mr. Law now more than thirty years. We knew him when he
was inferior to no man in eminence and in power, the third or fourth in degree in a
great empire; and this was at a time, too, when, by his own generous efforts, pursued
with zeal and talent that commanded general admiration and esteem, he brought
about a revolution, the influence of which now extends to one hundred and twenty
millions of people, as great in its moral and political influences as the extinction of
the feudal system. In Hindostan, under the Mogul government, the tenure of land
was in the Empire and reverted upon the demise of the holder. The afflictions pro-
duced by such a system can not be conceived by those who have not been eye-wit-
nesses of them. Upon the death of a zuinndar, or landholder, where polygamy

Pee
The Genesis of the United States National Museum. 89

The idea of a subsidy from the General Government seems to have
been prominent in the minds of the founders of the Columbian Institute.
In the closing portion of the same address Doctor Cutbush naively
remarked as follows:

I can not refrain from indulging in the pleasing hope that the members of our
National Government, to whom has been confided the guardianship of the District
of Columbia, will extend their fostering care to this establishment, and that a part
of the public grounds, reserved for national purposes, may be vested in the Colum-
bian Institute. I would also, with due deference, suggest that a small pecuniary
aid would enable the Institute at an earlier period to extend its benefits to all parts
of the United States, and to render an essential service to the nation by perpetuating
an establishment worthy of the metropolis bearing the name of our illustrious Wash-
ington, where at some future period the youth of our country will repair to complete
their education at the national seminary, to which the Botanical Garden and Miner-
alogical Cabinet would be important appendages.

prevails and the children and females are numerous, the death of the head of the
family, where no provision has been otherwise made, can not be wellimagined. Mr.
Law, who held the government of a rich and populous province under the Bengal
administration, proposed what has been called the Mocurrery system, that is to
make the land personal property and not to revert to the sovereign. This plan, pur-
sued through several years of zeal and devotion to humanity, he accomplished. The
Norman conquest, the revolution in England in 1688, were great events, and they
mark epochs in history and are treated as such, while Mr. Law’s revolution without
bloodshed eventually changed the whole moral and social condition of Hindostan,
settled estates in persons and as personal property, and put an end to all the calami-
ties which were consequent of the old system; yet the event is scarcely heard of;
perhaps there are not three men in this country who ever heard of it yet.’’

In a letter written to Law by Marquis Cornwallis in 1796, he said: ‘‘We labored
together for the security of person and property to the subjects of the British Gov-
ernment in Asia,’’ and referred to ‘‘that plan of which I shall ever with gratitude
acknowledge you as the founder.”’

Another reform suggested by Mr. Law was in connection with the commercial
relations of India with England. Concerning this Mr. Law writes, in 1824:

““The augmented wealth and prosperity of many of the natives of India since I
quitted Bengal is evinced by commercial events and improvements, some of which
have fulfilled my anticipations, when I proposed to the company, and was urgent
with them, to throw open and enlarge new branches of trade originally in India.
Cotton and sugar are now imported thence into England, and British manufactures
have been exported to pay for these new and rich Asiatic cargoes, and this to an
amount that in 1815 was estimated at £870,177. Five years afterwards, in 1819, the
value of such manufactures exported to India exceeded three millions sterling.”

One of the results of this Indian reform was doubtless the abolition at so early a
day of negro slavery in the British West Indies.

Another of his reforms was that effected when at an early age he was governor of
Behar, and which was perhaps his chief popular title to the appellation of ‘‘ Father
of the People.’’ The capital of Behar is as much venerated by the Hindus as Mecca
by the Mohammedans. Pilgrims annually resort to it from all parts of India. ‘These
pilgrims had been oppressed by heavy taxes ever since the establishment of the
Mohammedan Government—taxes imposed according to the apparent dignity of the
pilgrims, which was rated by the number of their animals, and the palanquins, horses,
or elephants which accompanied them. When Mr. Law became collector the exac-
tions were so onerous that many Hindus were deterred from fulfilling their religious

go Memorial of George Brown Goode.

Cutbush’s address before the Columbian Institute, nearly three-
quarters of a century ago, is well worthy of study at the present time.
It is full of enlightened patriotism and of hopeful prophecy for the United
States and for Washington. ‘‘Where genius and talent are respected,
rewarded, and promoted,’’ wrote he, ‘‘the arts and sciences will flourish
and the wealth and power of the nation increase.’’

The wisdom of such men as Cutbush opened the way for the organi-
zation of the National Institution, which in its turn, as we shall see, had

usages, but through his efforts the taxes were diminished to a moderate sum, a
greater number of pilgrims would pay it, and, while the demands of the revenue
were fulfilled, ‘‘ purposes of humanity were forwarded and the pious feelings of the
natives were gratified.’’ [Law’s ‘‘Reply,”’ p. 7.]

Mr. Law’s removal from England was due in part to an act of injustice on the part
of the East India Company, which resulted in considerable financial loss to himself,
and in part to his ‘‘decided disapprobation of an impolitic and exhausting war that
the administration was then carrying on against France.”’

He conceived a great admiration for the character of Washington, and when he
knew of the efforts being made to establish a national capital, he became anxious to
identify himself with its growth from the very beginning.

He invested all of his property in houses and lots in Washington, and for forty
years was one of the most zealous and enlightened citizens.

S. L. Knapp (Ignatius Loyola Robertson, LL.D.) wrote of him in 1830 in his
Sketches of Public Characters :

‘‘He purchased largely of the soil, built on an extensive scale, suggested ten thou-
sand plans for the improvement of the city and for the prosperity of the nation; but
the slow, doubtful, and often strange course of Congress came not only in his way,
but in the way of all those deeply interested in the welfare of the city; and he has
spent the days of his maturity and wisdom in unavailing efforts for the improvement
of it. It is happy for him, however, that he has lived to see the dawn of a better
day for Washington, and, if he can not stay here long to enjoy it, he will rejoice in
the hopes of his friends and descendants.”’

Among the enterprises in which he participated at an early day was the erection
of the great building south of the Capitol which has for so many years borne the
inscription ‘‘ Law House.”’ .

Three sons, born in India, accompanied Mr. Law to America, one of whom, Mr.
John Law, a lawyer in Washington, died before 1824, and all before 1834.

Mr. Law married, as second wife, Miss Custis, daughter of George Washington
Parke Custis, the stepson and adopted son of Washington, thus allying himself by
family ties with the man whom he so much revered.

Mr. Law was a zealous advocate of a national paper currency and published a
book on currency.

He also wrote poetry and contributed to general literature.

He was one of the leaders in the intellectual life of the infant capital, and not-
withstanding his personal eccentricities was universally respected. As one of the
founders of the first learned society in Washington, he is worthy of our veneration ;
and since he has been ignored by the biographical dictionaries this notice of his life
has been written.

He died in 1834.

Reference to Mr. Law’s character and career may be found in an obituary in the
National Intelligencer, 1834, quoted in the New England Magazine, September, 1834,
in Sketches of Public Characters, by ‘‘Ignatius Loyola Robertson”’ (S. L. Knapp) in
Report of U. S. National Musetim, 1897. Part Il. PLATE 7.

JOEL BARLOw.
0 , fy
ony ‘
0 a
oa

The Genests of the United States National Museum. gI

an important influence toward shaping the course of the Smithsonian
Institution.

Indeed, the germ of the Smithsonian idea may be found in Cutbush’s
address—and his spirit was kindred to that of Henry and his associates,
who worked under more favorable conditions thirty years later.’

the biographical sketch of William Winston Seaton, by his daughter, and in Faux's

Memorable Days in America, the review of which in No, 68 of the Quarterly Review

evoked Mr. Law’s ‘‘Reply,’’ which contains much autobiographical matter.

The following are titles of some of Mr. Law’s publications, for the verbal accuracy
of which no responsibility is taken, since they are usually given second-hand:

1792. LAW, THOMAS. Sketch of some late arrangements and a review of the rising
resources of Bengal. London, 1792. 8°. Lib. Congress.

1794. LAw, THomas. ‘‘On Bengal,’’ etc. Perhaps another ed. of* that printed in
1792. Quoted by Allibone.

1806. [LAw, THomAS.] Ballston Spring. [A poem.] New York, 1806. Boston
Ath.

1820. Law, THoMAS. Remarks on the report of the Secretary of the Treasury,
March 1, 1819. Wilmington, 1820. 8°. Boston Ath.

1824. LAw, THOMAS. A reply to certain insinuations, published as an article in the
sixty-eighth number of the Quarterly Review. Washington, 1827. 8°. pp.
1-27. (1.) Lib. Cong. Refers to a libelous article; a review of Faux’s
Memorable Days in America.

1827. Law, THomas (and others). Report of the proceedings of the committee
appointed in Washington in 1824 to present a memorial to Congress, pray-
ing for the establishment of a national currency. Washington: Way &
Gideon. 1824. 8°. 4opp. Lib. Cong.; Boston Ath.

1825. Law, THomas. Address before the Columbian Institute. Washington, 1825.
8°. Boston Ath.

1826. Law, THomMAsS. Considerations tending to render the policy questionable of
plans for liquidating, within the next four years, of the 6 per cent stocks
of the United States. Washington: S.A. Elliott. 1826. 8°. pp. 22. Lib.
Cong.; Boston Ath.

1827. LAw, THOMAS. Propositions-for creating means for commencing the Chesa-
peake and Ohio Canal, with report of committee thereon. [Washington,
1827?] 1 folio sheet. Lib. Cong.

1828. Law, THomas. Address to the Columbian Institute on a moneyed system.
Washington, 1828. 8°. Lib. Cong.; Boston Ath.

1830. LAw, THomas. Address to the Columbian Institute on the question, ‘‘ What
ought to be the circulating medium of a nation?’’ Washington, 1830. 8°.
Lib. Cong.; Boston Ath.

1833. LAW, THOMAS. Synopsis of a plan for a national currency. Washington,
1833. 8°. Lib. Cong.

'The two brothers James and Edward Cutbush were among the most active of the
popular teachers and promoters of science and education at the beginning of the
present century, and it would be unjust to allow their names to drop out of the his-
tory of American science.

Both were physicians, both teachers of chemistry, both enthusiastic in the work
of founding schools and learned societies. They were born, certainly in Pennsyl-
vania, probably Philadelphia, somewhere between the years 1750and 1770. Edward
entered the medical department of the University of Pennsylvania in 1790 and
graduated in 1794, and his brother James at about the same time or a little later.
James Cutbush at the beginning of the century, and for a few years subsequent,
92 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

The National Institution began its career at a time when the country
was chafing under the irritation of the delays of Congress in organizing

was engaged in delivering courses of chemical lectures in Philadelphia, presumably
for the benefit of medical students.

He appears to have enlisted as a volunteer in a Pennsylvania regiment at the
beginning of the war of 1812, and at its close, on the 12th of August, 1814, was
appointed assistant apothecary-general in the Regular Army of the United States,
which position he held until 1820, when he was appointed post surgeon and chief
medical officer of the Military Academy at West Point. In November, 1821, he was
made assistant surgeon and acting professor of chemistry and mineralogy in the
Academy, in which capacity he served until his death, which occurred on December
D5 yelO23:

His most important work, A System of Pyrotechny (8vo., Philadelphia, 1825, i-xliv,
1-612), was published in Philadelphia after his death by his widow, aided by a sub-
scription from the cadets of the Military Academy.

Another work, entitled The Philosophy of Experimental Chemistry, in two vol-
umes (Philadelphia, 1813, 12mo., (1) pp. xii, 1-356 (2) i-viii, 1-339), appears to have
been the earliest general work or text-book on chemistry written in America,
although Benjamin Rush had printed a syllabus of his lectures which gave him the
title to be considered ‘‘the father of chemistry in America,’’ and James Cutbush
himself had, as early as 1807 or 1808, prepared an Epitome of Chemistry, for the use
of St. John’s College, in which he was a teacher, of the publication of which, how-
ever, I have found no record.

In 1812 he delivered an Oration on Education (Philadelphia, 1812, 8vo., pp.1-50),
before the Society for the Promotion of a Rational System of Education, of which
he was vice-president --an enlightened and eloquent address full of historical infor-
mation. He also published in 1808 a book called The Useful Cabinet, a treatise
‘‘On hydrostatics and specific gravity,’’ and also certain papers in the American
Journal of Science.

Besides holding a corresponding membership in the Columbian Institute at Wash-
ington, which was founded by his brother, he was president of the Columbian Chem-
ical Society and member of the Linnzean and Agricultural societies of Philadelphia.
Rafinesque, enumerating in 1817 those of the American scientific men whom he con-
sidered entitled to rank as philosophers, mentions the name of Cutbush along with
his own and those of Jefferson, Clinton, Vaughan, Bentley, Winthrop, Patterson,
Williamson, Griscom, Wood, Dupont, Woodward, Rush, Mitchill, Ramsay, and
Priestley.

Edward Cutbush, after his graduation at the Philadelphia Medical School in 1794,
became attached to the militia of Pennsylvania, first as hospital surgeon and subse-
quently as surgeon-general. On the 24th of June, 1799, he was appointed a surgeon
in the United States Navy, in which capacity he served until June 20, 1829, when he
resigned. Inthe years 1816 and 1817 he appears to have been stationed in Wash-
ington, and at this time participated in the foundation of the Columbian Institute
for the Promotion of Science. I can find no record of his whereabouts after 1829
until 1835, when he was a resident of Geneva, New York, and participated in the
establishment of the medical institute of Geneva College, in which he became pro-
fessor of chemistry. On the occasion of its formal opening, on February 10, 1835,
he delivered a discourse ‘‘On the history and methods of medical instruction”’
(Geneva, 1835, 8vo., pp. I-24). In 1842 he appears to have been still at Geneva, and
at this time was probably a man seventy or eighty years of age. His Washington
address and his Geneva address appear to be his only literary remains, with the
exception of a book which was published in Philadelphia in 1808 entitled Observa-
tions on the Means of Preserving the Health of Soldiers and Sailors, etc. (Phila-
delphia, 1808, Svo., pp. i-xvi, I-316, I-14).
The Genests of the United States National Museum. 93

the institution of learning provided by Smithson, whose legacy had for
some years been deposited in the Treasury. '

It has already been suggested that the National Institution owed its
origin to the influence of the Smithson bequest. Indeed, it may not be
altogether impossible that it was founded with special reference to some
plan looking toward securing the control of this bequest. ‘

Although less than fifty years have gone by, I can not learn that any
of those who were active members at the time of its organization are
still living, and unfortunately no one seems to have left any written record
of the secret history of this very significant movement.

It seems possible, however, to read between the lines, in the official
publications of the society and the utterances of its friends, and thereby
to acquire a certain additional insight into their meaning.

With this in mind, it is instructive to review briefly the history of the
discussions which preceded the final organization of the Smithsonian
Institution—not with reference to its entire policy, for this has already
been well done by others, but in connection with its relations to the
national institution, and the custodianship of the National Museum.

In 1835, as we have seen, the fact was first made known that Smithson,
who had died in Genoa, six years earlier, had bequeathed the reversion
of his whole estate to the United States of America ‘‘to found at Wash-
ington, under the name of the Smithsonian Institution, an establishment
for the increase and diffusion of knowledge among men.’’

The bequest was communicated to Congress by the President on the
17th of December, and was accepted by Congress by an act approved
July 1, 1836, pledging ‘‘the faith of the United States’’ to the due appli-
cation of the fund to the purposes of the bequest.

On the ist of September, 1838, the proceeds of the estate, amounting
to $508,318.46, was paid into the United States Mint, and shortly after
the convening of Congress in that year, in a message dated December 6,
President Van Buren informed both Houses that the amount received
having been invested, he deemed it proper to invite the attention of Con-
gress to the obligation devolving upon the United States to fulfill the
object of the bequest.

Hight sessions of Congress passed by before any definite plan of organ-
ization was decided upon, and suggestions from all parts of the country
were liberally forthcoming. Strange to say, nearly every suggestion, no

* Smithson had died in 1829, but the legacy did not become available until after
the death of his nephew, the residuary legatee, in 1835, after which, in September
of that year, the Government of the United States was first apprised of the fact of
the existence of such a bequest. The legacy was brought to New York in August,
1838, but no definite action was taken concerning its application until eight years
later, when on August 10, 1846, the act of Congress establishing the Smithsonian
Institution was passed. The Regents held their first meeting September 7, 1846,
and elected a secretary, who accepted the trust on December 7, and entered upon
his duties two weeks later.
94 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

matter how humble its source, seems to have had its weight in the delib-
erations, and almost every one was embodied in one or more of the provi-
sions of the numerous bills brought up for the consideration of Congress.

In 1836, when this matter first came to the notice of the Senate, it
seems to have been the generally accepted opinion of those who took part
in the discussion that the intention of the testator was the establishing
of a university.

In this direction, too, was the tendency of the advice of those ‘‘ persons
versed in science and in matters relating to public education,’’ to whom
in July, 1838, the Secretary of State addressed letters, asking advice as
to the most advantageous mode of applying the proceeds of the bequest.”

Of these, three favored a school of high grade. President Wayland,
an institution which should occupy ‘‘the space between the close of a
collegiate education and a professional school ;’’ Doctor Cooper, ‘‘an insti-
tution of the character of an university;’’ President Chapin, ‘‘an institu-
tion for liberal and professional purposes and for the promotion of original
nvestigations—to carry scholars through a range of studies much above
those of the ordinary collegiate course.’’

Horatio Hubbell, of Philadelphia, also, in a letter to President Van
Buren, urged a university on the German plan, with numerous professor-
ships, chiefly scientific, and Professor Dunglison, of the University of
Virginia, in two very favorable letters in the Southern Literary Messen-
ger (under the signature ‘‘4’’), proposed the foundation of ‘‘a central
school of natural science,’’ to be supplemented in time by a botanical
garden, an observatory, a zoological institute, or analogous means (includ-
ing, doubtless, in his mind, museum collections), for prosecuting in a
proper way the great sciences of astronomy and general physiology—‘‘a
school where natural philosophy, chemistry, geology, mineralogy, phi-
losophy, and all other sciences could be effectually taught
which, so far from clashing with others, would aid them

a school
which, although
it might be helped by a gift of funds from the nation, could neverthe-
less go into operation without them—which, under a wise management,
could be speedily brought to yield results of the utmost practical import-
ance, and fulfill to the very letter the wishes of the testator.’’?

Mr. Rush objected to a school of any kind, and proposed a plan which
more nearly than any other of the early ones corresponded with that
which was finally adopted. In a shadowy way he outlined a system of
scientific correspondence, of lectureships, of general cooperation with the
scientific efforts of the Government, of a liberal system of publication,

‘These are the names of the persons thus addressed :

The Hon. John Quincy Adams, Senatot and ex-President ; Thomas Cooper, M. D.,
Columbia, South Carolina; Hon, Richard Rush, Sydenham, near Philadelphia, Penn-
sylvania; Professor Francis Wayland, President of Brown University, Providence,
Rhode Island ; Hon. Albert Gallatin, Rev. Stephen Olin, Philip Lindsley, and others.

Southern Literary Messenger, V, 1838, p. 828; VI, 1840, p. 25, and also Rhees,
Documents, pp. 864-890. .
Report of U. S. National Museum, 1897. Part Il. PLaTE 8.

The Genests of the United States National Museum. 95

and even of collections of geological, zoological, botanical, ethnological,
and economical objects.

The fifth response was from the venerable Senator and ex-President,
John Quincy Adams, who, from 1835, when he was appointed chairman
of the select committee of the House to report upon the Smithson
bequest, appears to have taken a deep interest in its fate, and to have
felt personally responsible for its judicious administration. In his letters
to the Secretary of State, October 8 and 11, 1838, he brought forward
with great vigor the proposal that the first use to be made of the fund
was the establishment of a great national astronomical observatory, and
in January, 1839, as chairman of the House committee, acting jointly
with a similar committee from the Senate, he reported a bill (House bill
1161, Senate bill 293) providing for the establishment of an observatory
fully equipped, with provision for the publication of its observations, and
the annual composition and publication of a nautical almanac.

The bill, which was evidently a minority report of the joint committee,
was reinforced by two sets of resolutions, proposed by Mr. Adams in the
House, one reported from the committee January 26, providing—

That the first appropriation from the interest, or income, of the Smithsonian fund,
ought to be for the erection and establishment, at the city of Washington, of an
astronomical observatory, provided with the best and most approved instruments
and books for the continual observation, calculation and recording of the remark-
able phenomena of the heavens; for the periodical publication of the observations

thus made; and of a nautical almanac for the use of the mariners of the United
States and of all other navigating nations,

The second, reported February 6, recited the opinion—

That the education of the children of these United States is a duty of solemn
and indispensable obligation incumbent upon their parents and guardians, not for
the increase and diffusion of knowledge among men, but to qualify them for the
enjoyment of their rights, and the performance of their duties throughout life [and
therefore |

That no part of the Smithsonian fund ought to be applied to the education of the
children or youth of the United States, nor to any school, college, university, or
institute of education.

The latter resolutions were evidently intended as a counterpoise to the .
view still held by many members of the Senate, which was brought for-
ward by the speech of Senator Asher Robbins, of Rhode Island, January
10, 1839, in which he urged ‘‘that this institution should make one of a
number of colleges to constitute a university to be established here, and
to be endowed in a manner worthy of this great nation and their immense
resources.’

On the 18th of February Senator Robbins produced an antidote to Mr.
Adam’s anti-university resolution in the following:

1. Resolved, That it is the duty of the United States, they having accepted the

trust under the will of Mr, Smithson, of London, to execute that trust dona fide
according to the true intent and meaning of the testator.
96 Memortal of George Brown Goode.

2. Resolved, That the trust being to found an institution in the city of Washington
for the increase and diffusion of knowledge among men, the kind of institution
which will have the effect intended and described, in the most eminent degree, will
be the kind of institution which ought, in good faith to be adopted, as being most in
accordance with the true intent and meaning of the testator.

3. Fesolved, That all experience having shown scientific and literary institutions
to be by far, the most effectual means to the end of increasing and diffusing knowl-
edge among men, the Smithsonian Institution should be a scientific and literary
institution, formed upon a model the best calculated to make those means the most
effectual to that end.

4. Resolved, 'That to apply said trust fund to the erection and support of an obsery-
atory, would not be to fulfill doxa fide the intention of the testator, nor would
it comport with the dignity of the United States to owe such an establishment to
foreign eleemosynary means.

Neither of the bills was received with favor, and the T'wenty-fifth Con-
gress came to an end without any decision having been reached. Senator
Robbins retired from public life at this time, and the university idea was
not subsequently brought prominently forward. During this session,
however, various petitions were received. One was from Professor
Walter R. Johnson, urging the foundation, advocating the claims of ‘‘an
institution for researches in practical science.’’’

Another was from Charles Lewis Fleischmann, of the United States
Patent Office, proposing the establishment of an institution for the
promotion of agriculture, with experimental farms of 1,360 acres, manu-
factories, mills, and workshops, a considerable staff of teachers and
instructors, and one hundred students at the commencement.’

The Kentucky State Agricultural Society petitioned for the endowment
of an agricultural school or college out of the legacy, and the Superin-
tendent of the Coast Survey, Mr. Hassler, was urging the foundation of
an astronomical school.

In the meantime public interest was becoming awakened. ‘The matter
was agitated in the newspapers and reviews, petitions were coming in
from individuals, urging speedy action, and the corporation of the city
of Washington, through their mayor, Peter Force, presented a vigorously
worded memorial to Congress.

Early in the first session of the Twenty-sixth Congress, 1839-1841,
Mr. Adams again brought up the Smithson bequest, introducing again
his bill for the establishment of a national observatory and reenforcing it
by his famous report of 18404 and a speech of considerable length, supple-
mented by an elaborate statement from the astronomer royal of Great
Britain concerning the observatories at Greenwich and elsewhere.

‘Presented to the House of Representatives, May, 21, 1838.—See Rhees, Documents,
pp. 171-186.

?Reported to the House of Representatives January 9, 1839.—See Rhees, Docu-
ments, pp. 186-198.

3Rhees, Documents, pp. 200, 201.

4First session, House of Representatives Report No. 277. Smithson bequest. (To
accompany amendatory bill H.R. No.1.) May 5, 1840. Washington: Blair & Ross,
printers. Svo., p. 155.
The Genests of the United States Nattonat Museum. 97

-Mr. Adams seems to have been alone in his advocacy of the observatory
and his bill and report produced no results.

It was just at this time that the National Institution was organized on
the 15th of May, 1840, by the adoption of a constitution and a declaration
of its objects, ‘‘which are to promote science and the useful arts, and to
establish a national museum of natural history, etc.’’

The constitution of this society in its first form was somewhat meager,
but as printed on the cover of the second bulletin of proceedings is
decidedly prophetic of the future act of incorporation of the Smithsonian
Institution,

Its plan, however, was conceived in a broad and liberal spirit, its
membership was a strong one, including at the beginning about ninety
representative men of Washington, Members of Congress, scientific men,
clergymen, and prominent citizens, and as many more corresponding
members, among whom were all the leading men of the country. Among
its principal officers were the Secretary of War, the Secretary of the Navy,
ex-President Adams, the Chief of Engineers of the Army, and other
prominent officials. ‘The meetings were well attended, the membership
was enthusiastic, gifts of books and specimens began to flow in, and the
prospects of the society looked very bright.

In his discourse * on the objects and importance of the National Insti1-
tution, delivered January 5, 1841, its president, Mr. Poinsett, referred
pointedly to the Smithson bequest, saying that it offered a favorable
occasion for carrying into effect all the important objects connected with
a national institution, such as that just being organized in Washington,
enabling the ‘‘Government to afford all necessary protection to the pro-
motion of science and the useful arts* without the exercise of any
doubtful power, etc.’’

Soon after this, in February, Senators Linn and Preston, both members
of the National Institution, proposed new bills for the organization of the
Smithsonian Institution, at the same time reporting a bill to incorporate
the National Institution for the Promotion of Science.

By these bills the entire management of the Smithsonian fund was to
be intrusted to the National Institution. Its officers, a superintendent
and six professors, were to be nominated by that society, which was also
to prescribe their duties. Provision was made for joint occupancy by the
two institutions of buildings to be erected at the cost of the Smithson
bequest, and finally it was required—

That all collections of works of art and of natural history, owned by the United

States, not otherwise assigned (or all works of art, and all books relating thereto,
and all collections and curiosities belonging to the United States, in the possession of

‘Discourse on the Objects and Importance of the National Institution for the Pro-
motion of Science, established at Washington, 1840, delivered at the first anni-
versary. Washington, 1841, p. 49.

? The avowed objects of the National Institution,

NAT MUS 97, PT 2 7

98 Memortal of George Brown Goode.

any of the Executive Departments, and not necessarily connected with the duties
thereof) shall be deposited in said buildings (or shall be transferred to said institu-
tion, to be there preserved and arranged).

In these bills, drawn up in 1840, may be found the germ of the National
Museum idea, even to the extent of a proposition for an appropriation
from the National Treasury, to be expended under the direction of the
cfficers of the National Institution, the president and directors of which
were the prototypes of the Smithsonian Chancellor and Regents for pur-
poses connected with the administration of the collections such as it was
not deemed proper to pay for out of the Smithsonian fund.*

The object of the National Institution was the promotion of science
and the useful arts, but the principal agency chosen for accomplishing
this object was a national museum of natural history, etc.

This was stated clearly in its declaration of objects at the time of its
organization in 1840, as well as in its constitution.?

The sections relating to the Museum in the proposed act of incorpora-
tion of the Institution of 1841 corresponded precisely to Articles XIV
and XVI of the constitution of the society, except that the provision
for the appointment of curators by the Institution is omitted.

It was evidently the intention that the Board of Managers should
control the national collections by virtue of the authority vested in them
in their proposed control of the Smithsonian Institution.

The act to incorporate the National Institution did not receive the
approval of Congress until 1842,° when new proposals for the organiza-

tAnd for the transportation and arrangement of the same, the sum of $5,000 is
hereby appropriated out of the Treasury of the United States, to be expended under
the direction of the president and directors of the National Institution. (Senate
bill, No. 245, Twenty-sixth Congress, 1839-1841, section No. 4.)

2 Constitution, May,1840, January,1841 :

ARTICLE XIV. The resident and corre-
sponding members shall exert themselves
to procure specimens of natural history,
etc., and the said specimens shall be
placed in the Cabinet under the superin-
tendence of a Board of Curators to be
appointed by the Directors. All such
specimens, etc., unless deposited sfe-
cially, shall remain in the Cabinet, and in
case of the dissolution of this Institution,
shall become the property of the United
States.

Constitution, February, 1842:

ARTICLE XIV. The Institution shall
have power to appoint Curators and
others for the preservation and arrange-
ment of its collections. The resident
and corresponding members shall exert
themselves to procure specimens of nat-
ural history, etc.; and the said specimens
shall be placed in the Cabinet under the
superintendence of a Curator or Curators.
All such specimens, etc., unless deposited
specially, shall remain in the Cabinet,
and, in case of a dissolution of the Insti-
tution, shall become the property of the
United States.

ARTICLE XVI. The various collections
of the Institution shall be placed in the
apartments which may be designated for
that purpose by a majority of the Direct-
ors.

3Senator Preston, April 11, 1842, reintroduced his bill of the previous year.
Report of U. S. National Museum, 1897. Part Il PLATE 9.

fo

*
|

JOHN Gross BARNARD.
The Genesis of the United States National Museum. 99

tion of the Smithsonian Institution were brought forward, very similar
in many respects to those which had developed within the National
Institution. :

The idea of a national museum to be administered in connection with
the Smithsonian organization had been suggested by no one in the five
years of discussion which preceded the organization of the National
Institution.

It is true that there had been plans proposed, especially those of
Dunglison and Rush, which might have led up to the development of
a museum, but the value of the museum as an educational agency and
as an aid to research was not understood in those days. In its former
aspect, it needed the teachings of the great exhibitions from 1851 to 1876,
in the latter the vivifying influence of the Darwinian scientific renais-
sance of 1859.

The subject of the Smithsonian legacy and its proper disposition was
henceforth one of those most frequently discussed by the founders of
the National Institution, and for years it was the opinion of many
influential men that this society should be made the custodian of the
Smithson fund, and that the interests of the two establishments should
be united.

A suggestive indication of the sentiment of the officers of the Insti-
tution is found in the letter of the committee of management to the
Secretaries of War and the Navy in 1842, in which they remark that
the object of the National Institution is ‘‘to increase and diffuse knowl-
edge among men’’—making prominent the words of the Smithsonian
bequest instead of the official definition of the objects of their own
society, and deliberately indicating the fact of quotation, by the custom-
ary symbols.

The influence of this society was strongly and continuously present in
Congress, for the six years which followed its organization, until the
Smithsonian act was finally framed, and it seems very appropriate to try
to ascertain whose was the master mind which not only prevailed in
finally ingrafting the development of the National Museum upon the
Smithsonian project, but which directly or indirectly led to the forma-
tion of the various features of organization which have become such
characteristic elements in the Smithsonian plan.

The controlling mind was evidently that of Joel R. Poinsett, of South
Carolina, who was Secretary of the Navy in 1840, and at whose house
the society was organized, by eight persons, among whom were, of course,
Mr. Poinsett, Colonel Abert, Mr. Markoe, and Colonel Totten. Mr.
Poinsett was senior director, under the first plan of organization, and
occupied the chair at every meeting until, under the amended constitu-
tion, he was elected its first president in 1841. ‘The amendment to the
constitution was doubtless made in order to retain his official leadership,
for he became director ex officio while Secretary of the Navy. With the
100 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

close of Van Buren’s Administration he became a private citizen, but the
constitution was amended before his retirement from the Cabinet, and
the position of presiding officer was never proffered to his successor.

Although, from this time on, absent from the city, he was retained in
the presidency and reelected in 1841, the vice-president of the society,
Colonel Peter Force, continually presiding in his absence.

Although the society elected its officers annually, Mr. Poinsett told
Mr. Adams soon after his election that he should for two years come to
Washington to preside over the National Institution for the Promotion
of Science. He was in fact reelected to the presidency at every annual
meeting until that of 1845, when, having declined candidacy, Senator
Levi Woodbury was chosen president and Mr. Poinsett was unanimously
elected an honorary member of the Institution.

From this period the decline of the society’s prosperity was marked.
It is more probable, however, that Mr. Poinsett’s lack of interest was a
result of the weakness of the society than that the weakness resulted
from his lack of interest.

Perhaps, however, if Mr. Poinsett had been a resident of Washington
rather than of South Carolina during the four years of his presidency,
the result would have been different.

That Mr. Poinsett, as early as 1838, was thinking seriously about the
disposition of the Smithsonian bequest is evident from an entry in the
diary of John Quincy Adams, under date of December 8.1. Mr, Adams
was evidently suspicious, and believed that Mr. Poinsett did not give him
his entire confidence. In April, 1839, he talked to him again, and in
1841 he wrote again in his diary: ‘‘ April 14. Mr. Poinsett called upon
me and now fully disclosed his project, which is to place the investment
and disposal of the Smithsonian funds under the management of the
American Institution for the Promotion of Literature and Science.*

He said he had at present no other occupation on hand, and w onl
be willing to devote two years entirely to organizing this establishment
and getting it into full operation.’’

‘““T know not,’’ continued the aged statesman, ‘‘that it could be
accomplished more effectively, and think I must acquiesce in this arrange-
ment and endeavor to carry it through.’’ .

Since the bills of Messrs. Linn and Preston had been already for two
months before the Senate, it seems strange that Mr. Adams should have
looked upon Mr. Poinsett’s communication as a revelation—still more
so when it is remembered how clearly he had expressed himself in his
Discourse in January.?

* Extracts from the Memoirs of John Quincy Adams, Rhees, Documents, p. 769.

? Evidently meaning the National Institution.

3Mr. Poinsett was not only the first to publicly suggest the union of the Smith-
sonian with the National Institution, but was constant in his advocacy of the project.
(See remarks, March 8, 1841, Proceedings of the National Institution, 2d BullL., p. 69,
The Genests of the United States Nationat Museum. IOI

Poinsett, when elected to the presidency of the National Institution,
was a man sixty-two years of age, who had lived an eventful life, full of
opportunities for observing the institutions of Europe, Asia, and South
America. His culture was broad and sympathetic, and he was, perhaps,
better fitted than any of the public men of his time to appreciate the
necessity of organizing our public institutions on the most liberal and
comprehensive plan.

In his interviews with those who advocated the establishment of an
observatory as the first result of the Smithsonian legacy, he showed
full appreciation of the value of such an institution, but seems to have
kept before his own mind a much more comprehensive ideal.

Poinsett was the first to suggest the idea of a great national museum
at the capital of the nation.

In his address upon The Objects and Importance of the National
Institution for the Promotion of Science, delivered at the first anni-
versary meeting of the society, January 4, 1841, he advocated boldly the
formation of a national museum as one of the most important features
of a central establishment at the seat of Government, such as is main-
tained in every country in Europe for the advantage of those who culti-
vated the arts and sciences.

To one who reads this address it will become evident that it was
Poinsett who put in words the definition of the objects of the National
Institution—to promote science and the useful arts, and to establish a
national museum of natural history.

The following is an extract from this address:

The lovers of science, literature, and the fine arts, residing in the District, fe!t
sensibly the absence of those resources which are found elsewhere, and are necessary
for the attainment of knowledge. They were mortified to perceive that the great
advantages possessed by the public authorities at Washington were neglected, and

and letter, February 7, 1842, Idem., p.157.) Doctor Peter S. Duponceau, president
of the American Philosophical Society, in a letter to the Institution in November,
1840, remarked: ‘‘ Congress can not find a better opportunity to execute the will of
that beneficent testator than by laying hold of your institution, and making it its
own.’’ (Idem., Ist Bull., p. 12.) The Hon. Virgil Maxcy, chargé d’affaires at Bel-
gium, wrote in December, 1840, that in his opinion no better use could be made of
the bequest than ‘‘to place it under the direction of a Society organized for the
carrying into effect identical views with those contemplated by the philanthropical
and philosophical testator.’’ (Idem., p. 46.)

See in this connection letters from Richard Rush, on the Smithsonian bequest
Proceedings of the National Institution (2d Bull., 1842, pp. 201-204); from Peter S.
Duponceau, on the Smithsonian bequest (Idem., 204-208) ; from Hon. Virgil Maxcy,
chargé d’affaires of the United States to Belgium (1st Bulletin, pp. 46, 47);
Opening Address by John Tyler, President of the United States, patron of the
National Institute (3d Bulletin, pp. 437, 438); letter from the Hon. Levi Woodbury,
United States Senate (Idem., pp. 451-453); Smithsonian bequest, by the Hon.
Richard Rush (Idem., pp. 455-460); address of Hon. Mr. Preston, of the United
States Senate (Idem., p. 236); letter of John Pickering, of Boston, September 1,
1841 (2d Bull., pp. 107, 110).
102 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

that, at the seat of Government of this great nation, there existed fewer means than
in any other city of the Union of prosecuting those studies, which, while they
impart dignity and enjoyment to existence, lead to the most useful practical results.
They believed it to be their duty to arouse the attention of Government to these
deficiencies, and, at all events, to address themselves to the task of supplying them,
as far as could be done by their individual and combined exertions. For these pur-
poses they have formed an association and applied themselves to collect specimens
of geology and mineralogy, and other objects of natural history, and, for the short
period of its existence, the efforts of the Institution have been eminently successful.

They have entered into correspondence with other learned societies, and have been
encouraged to proceed by their approbation, and profited by their generous coopera-
tion. They have invited the assistance of their fellow-citizens in the most distant
States and Territories, and hope, by their aid, to collect documents and facts illus-
trative of the early history of our country, specimens of its geology and of its min-
eral and vegetable productions, and, if not to preserve the animals and plants
themselves, which are passing away before the progress of settlement and cultiva-
tion, at least to perpetuate their forms, and the memory of their existence. ‘They
hope to be able to illustrate these subjects and others connected with them by a
series of gratuitous lectures, and entertain a confident expectation that numbers,
whose duties compel them annually to assemble here, will view with interest collec-
tions of the natural productions of America, drawn from every State and Territory
in the Union, and, becoming sensible of their utility, will contribute on their return
to swell their amount, and to spread throughout the country a taste for literary and
scientific pursuits.

In another place in the discourses of Mr. Poinsett, we find avowals of
plans and ambitious aspirations for the future of the National Museum
which would satisfy the most ambitious of its supporters of to-day. He
spoke thus :

Specimens of natural history are rapidly accumulating. The exploring expedition
has already sent home a large collection, which remains packed away in boxes in a
room belonging to the Philadelphia Museum, generously loaned by the company for
that purpose; and we may anticipate from the ability and well-known zeal of the
naturalists who accompanied it by order of Government that the squadron itself,
shortly expected, will return richly freighted with objects of natural history. I can
not believe that after all the labor, pains, and expense incurred in procuring them,
these specimens are not to be brought to Washington, to be arranged and exhibited
here. A geological survey of the Territory of lowa was made a few months since, by
order of the Government, and numerous valuable specimens collected by Mr. Owen.
Mr. Nicolet has brought with him interesting collections made in the country he
visited, and Doctor King, of Missouri, lately sent to the lead region on business con-
nected with the ordnance office, while there collected specimens of minerals which
are likewise destined for Washington. The ordnance officers who have lately returned
from Europe, have brought with them numerous specimens of the iron ores used in
the foundries there, and measures have been taken to procure, as objects of compari-
son, those of the United States.

Several individuals have transmitted donations to the Institution, while others have
deposited their collections with us, from a desire to have them preserved, and, at the
same time, to benefit science. We have reason to believe that this will be extensively
done as soon as the Institution is firmly established. There are many of our country-
men who, like Sir Hans Sloane, the founder of the British Museum, look forward with
regret to the sale and dispersion of their collections, made at great cost and pains,
and desiring to have them preserved entire, would deposit them with an institution
which will be as stable as the Government that protects it.
Report of U. S. National Museum, 1897. Part II PLATE 10

BENJAMIN SMITH BARTON.
The Genests of the United States National Museum. 103

In every country in Europe, those who cultivate the arts and sciences enjoy the
advantage of finding in each capital a central establishment, such as we propose.

In London, the Royal Museum, which was commenced by the enlightened liber-
ality of an individual, and subsequently enriched by similar bequests, and now
liberally patronized by Government, possesses all that is necessary to protect and
encourage literature, science, and the arts.

The Society for the Promotion of Science and the Useful Arts in Dublin, having
an extensive museum of natural history, a botanic garden, and school of design,
fulfills effectually the objects of its institution, and justifies the very liberal patronage
of the British Government. There students in every branch of science find the means
of improvement, and some of the most accomplished artists in England have been
instructed in this school.

In this country, we are best acquainted with the museum, botanical and zoological
gardens, and liberal course of instruction at the Jardin des Plantes, in Paris, where
strangers resort, from every quarter of the world, to consult the collections and iisten
to lectures, which are open to all who choose to attend them. These courses of lec-
tures are delivered by the ablest and most eloquent men in France, on every branch
of science. In the summer botany is taught in a garden abounding in all the vege-
table productions of the world; zoology in the midst of specimens of every known
animal, and other branches of natural history, with the advantage of extensive
collections, which are augmenting daily by an enlightened and active system of
exchanges; chemistry and technology are illustrated by well-conducted experiments
and admirably adapted apparatus, and every branch of natural philosophy taught
with clearness and precision, and explained by the most ample means of illustration.
These lectures are attended by students who have completed their academic course,
and by men of science who seek to increase their knowledge.

There can be no doubt that a national institution, such as we contemplate, having
at its command an observatory, a museum containing collections of all the produc-
tions of nature, a botanic and zoological garden, and the necessary apparatus for
illustrating every branch of physical science, would attract together men of learning
and students from every part of our country, would open new avenues of intelligence
throughout the whole of its vast extent, and would contribute largely to disseminate
among the people the truths of nature and the light of science.

A fortunate concurrence of circumstances offers a favorable occasion to carry all these
important objects into immediate effect. A liberaland enlightened Englishman, fore-
seeing the benefits which would result to science throughout the world, by its success-
ful cultivation in the vast and extensive field offered by these States and Territories,
with enlarged views and praiseworthy philanthropy has bequeathed a fund to be
employed for the sacred purposes of increasing and diffusing knowledge among
men. This bequest will enable the Government to afford all necessary protection to
the promotion of science and the useful arts, without the exercise of any doubtful
power, by the application of the annual interest of this fund to the establishment of
an observatory, the erection of suitable buildings to contain the collections, and for
lecture rooms, the purchase of books and instruments, and the salaries of professors
and curators.

Poinsett’s enthusiasm was contagious, and his arguments, based as
they evidently were upon careful observations and judicious reasoning,
aud inspired by hopeful patriotism, brought him many sympathizers.
Among these the Hon. Levi Woodbury, who had been a member of the
saine Cabinet with Mr. Poinsett, and subsequently was in the Senate,
Senator W. C. Preston, one of the directors of the Institution, Senator R.
J. Walker, of Mississippi, Senator L. F. Linn, of Missouri, corresponding
104 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

members, appear to have been especially friendly to the plans of Mr. Poin-
sett, and on various occasions promoted the interests of the National
Institution on the floor of the Senate from 1841 to 1846.

In June, 1842, Mr. Poinsett was again in Washington, and on the 11th
presided at a meeting at the home of Mr. Francis Markoe for the purpose
of connecting the organizations of the National Institution with that of
the Smithsonian Institution.

Mr. Preston [wrote John Quincy Adams] has introduced into the Senate a bill for
combining together these two institutions, and now stated to the meeting his views
on the subject, embracing an appropriation of $20,000, and the occupation by law of
a large portion of the Patent Office building for the preservation and arrangement
of the objects of curiosity collected by the exploring expedition under Lieutenant
Wilkes, now daily expected home; and he called on me to say how far my purposes
may be concurrent with these suggestions.

I said I had the warmest disposition to favor them, and thought there was but one
difficulty in the way, which might perhaps be surmounted. I had believed that the
whole burden and the whole honor of the Smithsonian Institution should be exclu-
sively confined to itself, and not entangled or commingled with any national estab-
lishment requiring appropriations of public money. I exposed the principles upon
which all my movements relating to the Smithsonian bequest have been founded, as
well as the bills which at four successive Congresses I have reported, first for
obtaining the money, and then for disposing of the fund.

At the motion of Mr. Walker, of Mississippi, the president, Poinsett, was author-
ized to appoint a committee of five members of the Institute, to confer with Mr.
Preston and me upon the means of connecting the Smithsonian Institution with
the National Institute.

Nothing seems to have resulted from these deliberations.

On the 13th of June, at a stated meeting of the National Institution,
Senator Preston was present, and delivered, as the records inform us, ‘‘an
eloquent speech, in which he descanted at length on the history and labors
of the Institute, what it had done, and what it-proposed to do, its capac-
ity to be eminently useful to the country and Congress, the advantage of
uniting the Smithsonian Institution with it, etc., and appealed to Con-
gress, and to the liberal citizens of the United States, to come forward in
aid of a glorious cause, and in accomplishment of the great national
objects which the Institute has in view.’’*

Senator Preston’s bill for the union of the two institutions came to
naught.”

During this session, however, the act to incorporate the National Insti-
tute, as it was henceforth to be called, passed in a much modified form,
and was approved July 27, 1842, and the society now seems to have felt

‘Proceedings of the National Institute, 3d Bull., 1845, p. 236. A copy was
requested for publication (Idem., p. 241), but I can not learn that it was ever put
in type.

2 It was laid upon the table July 18, 1842, and never again taken up.

3See Charter of Incorporation, Constitution, and By-Laws in Appendix to this
report, and in Proceedings of the National Institute, 3d Bull., pp. 388-392. See also
‘Bill to incorporate the National Institution,’’ etc., reported by Senator Preston
The Genesis of the United States National Museum. 105

‘much more secure in its project of retaining the control of the National
Museum, and either of gaining eventually the management of the Smith-
son fund or of obtaining an appropriation from Congress.

Senator Woodbury,‘ in commenting upon the form of the charter,
remarked that—

Care was taken originally to make the Institute different from all other chartered
bodies, even in this District, so as to elevate it above every motive of personal gain,
dedicating its labors exclusively to objects of a public character, and vesting all the
property possessed for this purpose in the Government itself; and thus, by rendering
it zational in substance, as well as name, to obviate any constitutional objection
which might arise against measures in its behalf.

The change of the name from Institution to Institute seems to have
been made in deference to a suggestion by Doctor Duponceau in a letter
written April, 1842, in which he said:

I have seen with great pleasure the bill brought into the Senate by the Hon. Mr.
Preston. It fully coincides with the views that I have expressed. The object, in
my opinion, is, to preserve the superiority of the National Institution over the Smith-
sonian, and that of the Government over both.

I would beg leave to suggest, whether it would not be advisable to make some
small alteration in the name of the National Institution, so that it should not bear
exactly the same name with the Smithsonian, but one expressive of some degree of
superiority. I would recommend, for instance, that of Institute, which appears to
me more dignified than that of institution, which is equally applicable to a school or
college as to a great national establishment for the promotion of science. My idea
would be to call the national establishment the ‘‘ National Institute for the Promo-
tion of Science,’’ and the subordinate one the ‘‘Smithsonian Institution,’’ without
more.

No appropyiation came, however, and the charter and changed name
failed to make the society more prosperous.

At a meeting June 20,* 1842, a resolution was passed appointing a com-
mittee to solicit private contributions of money and property.

At another meeting, August 8, 1842, a report’ was made by this com-
mittee in which they proposed to institute an annual scientific conven-
tion at Washington, during the session of Congress, and under the

(S. No. 258), February 17, 1841, in Rhees, Documents, pp. 239-341. See also Memorial
of the Officers of the National Institution for the Promotion of Science, January 21,
1842 (House Doc. No. 59, IT'wenty-seventh Congress, second session, IT), submitting
draft of a bill of incorporation,

™See remarks of Senator Woodbury in full, Proceedings of the National Institute,
3d Bull., pp. 336, 337.

* Evidently not June 13, though so stated in one portion of minutes. See Pro-
ceedings of the National Institute, 3d Bull., pp. 236, 241, 335.

3The committee appointed to devise and execute such measures as should be
deemed expedient to obtain contributions and other aid to the Institute would make
an informal report.

They propose making an appeal to the public, by disseminating an account of the
Institute, its past efforts, its condition, and its prospects, and an exhibition of the
many reasons why it should be sustained and encouraged by the citizens of the
United States. In their judgment the best means of doing this will be the publica-
106 Memorral of George Brown Goode.

auspices of the Institution, and also recommended an extensive system
of exchange of specimens for the benefit of the museum.

At the meeting of September 12, 1842, Mr. Poinsett, the president,
proposed a series of resolutions* intended to put the recommendation of
the report into effect. :

All of these resolutions and reports were issued in the form of circulars
(October 15, 1842, and February 24, 1843), but the appeals ‘‘to the lib-
erality and public spirit cf our countrymen’’ were without avail.

Consequently a special meeting of the board of management was held
December 23, 1843, at the office of the Secretary of State. ‘That the
society was regarded at that time as one of national importance is shown
by the presence at the meeting of Mr. Upshur, the Secretary of State,
who took an active part in the proceedings; the Hon. John Quincy
Adams, who presided; Senator Levi Woodbury, late Secretary of the
Treasury, who agreed to represent the meeting in Congress; the Hon.
J. R. Ingersoll, who acted as secretary, and who wrote out in his pream-
ble to the minutes of the meeting a forcible statement of the needs of the
society; the Hon. C. J. Ingersoll, Senator R. J. Walker, besides Colonel
Peter Force, Colonel Abert, Colonel Totten, Lieutenant Maury, and the
officers of the society.

The issue of this meeting was the decision ‘‘ to memorialize Congress
on the subject of the condition and wants of the Institute.”’

tion of the remarks addressed to the Institute by the Hon. Mr. Preston, Senator from
South Carolina, on the evening of the 13th of June last.

They also propose to address circulars to prominent individuals in the different
States, inviting their cooperation, particularly in receiving and transmitting con-
tributions.

They recommend that the Institute authorize the president and secretaries to
sanction their circulars by their official signatures.

They propose that a meeting of the learned men of our country, distinguished for
their attainments in the different sciences, particularly in those termed physical,
should be held annually at the seat of the General Government, at some early period
of the session of Congress, under the auspices of the Institute, to communicate the
results of their inquiries, to compare their observations, and to promote the general
interests of science. It has seemed to the committee that this Institute affords an
opportunity, which ought not to be neglected, of concentrating the genius and
learning of our country at a common center, from which the beams of intelligence
will radiate to gladden and bless the land.

They recommend that, in addition to the powers already conferred, the committee
be authorized to make arrangements for such a meeting, at a day as early as may be
found practicable, and to invite the attendance of those who may desire to partici-
pate in its proceedings.

They think that a system of exchanges of mineral and geological specimens, and
perhaps of other articles, with the private and public collections in different parts of
the Union, may be established with reciprocal advantage; and that the museum of
this Institute may, by these and other means, be enabled in time to exhibit the
various treasures of our different soils; and they would suggest the appointment of
a committee to whom this subject should be given specially in charge. (Proceed-
ings of the National Institute, 3d Bull., p. 335.)

‘Proceedings of the National Institute, 3d Bull., p. 336.
Report of U. S. National Museum, 1897. Part II. PLaTe 11.

Sa es

AOS
sep eat» A swan “Em
prertrie: 18 SN Sarenernaa

pyar: - a “ERE

The Genesis of the United States National Museum. r7

The memorial was presented in due course of time, and in June, 1844,
Senator Choate presented a report upon the character and uses of the
Institute, recommending that its property should be vested in the United
States and an appropriation made for its benefit.

I have not been able to find a copy of this memorial, but since it was
evidently prepared by Mr. J. R. Ingersoll‘ it is safe to assume that the
grounds for asking aid were essentially those named in his ‘‘ preamble’’
read to the society December 28, 1843.”

In the meantime, on the occasion of the first annual meeting of the
National Institute (under its new name and in its capacity as a corpora-
tion), in April, 1844, the meeting of the friends of science, including,
besides all the members and patrons of the National Institute, the mem-
bers of the American Philosophical Society and of the Association of
American Geologists and Naturalists (the predecessor of the American
Association for the Advancement of Science), had been held in Wash-
ington. ‘The occasion was a brilliantly successful one. The President
of the United States presided at the first meeting and some prominent
public men at each of the others.

The National Institute received its full share of encomium. President
Tyler lauded it highly, held out the hope that the Government would
‘“continue to it a fostering care,’’ and expressed in a general way the
hope that it should be identified with the future National Museum and
the future Smithsonian Institution.

‘““Where can the Government find,’’ said he, ‘‘a safer depository for
the fruits of its expeditions, fitted out to explore distant and unknown
regions, than the National Institute? What can it better do for the
‘increase and diffusion of knowledge among men’ than by patronizing
and sustaining this magnificent undertaking ?’’

Senator Walker, of Mississippi, one of the directors of the Institute,
delivered a very appreciative introductory address on the present con-

”)

dition and history of American science, ending with an appeal to scien-
tific men to come forward and unite withthe people in sustaining and
advancing the National Institute.

Senator Woodbury, in a letter to the secretary of the Institution,
expressed himself strongly in favor of making the society the agent of
the Government in the matter of caring for collections, patents, and
copyrights, and also in the execution of the Smithson trust.

John Quincy Adams closed his address in these words:

I avail myself of this occasion to express my regret that, having taken an humble
part in the establishment of this Institution from its first foundation, under the
auspices of Mr. Poinsett, I have been able to contribute so little to its promotion

"At the meeting of May, 1844, the Hon. Joseph R. Ingersoll offered remarks upon
the pecuniary embarrassments of the Institute, and expressed a hope that Congress
would furnish the required aid. (Proceedings of the National Institute, 3d Bull.,
Pp. 359- )

? Proceedings of the National Institute, 3d Bull., p. 332.
108 Memortal of George Brown Goode.

and advantage, and to add my heartfelt satisfaction at the prosperity which, by the
untiring exertions and fervid zeal of its executive officers, it has attained. I believe
it eminently deserving of the fostering care and liberal patronage of the Congress of
the United States, and could anticipate no happier close to my public life than to
contribute, by my voice and by my vote, to record the sanction of the nation’s
munificence to sustain the National Institute devoted to the cause of science.

The Hon. Richard Rush, in a paper on The Smithsonian Bequest,
submitted to this meeting, urged that the Smithsonian fund should be
‘“engrafted upon the National Institute,’’ and submitted an elaborate
argument in favor of his proposal.

It was a gala week for the National Institution. The meeting was in
every respect a success, and there was every reason to believe that Con-
gress would share in the general enthusiasm and take the society under
its patronage.

In the circular of invitation dated March 5, 1844, the objects of the
meeting as a means of strengthening the position of the society had been
boldly stated, and the committee did not hesitate to say that ‘‘ should
the meeting prove as successful as the hopes of the managers in relation
to it are ardent, they will expect, hereafter to welcome all who may visit
the Association, in apartments peculiar to itself, stored with the objects
of its honest pride and worthy of the distinguished visitors.’’

Such a paper signed by such influential names as those of John C.
Spencer, Secretary of the Treasury, R. J. Walker, W. C. Rives, Rufus
Choate, of the Senate, J. R. Ingersoll and W. C. Preston, of the House of
Representatives, A. D. Bache, Superintendent of the Coast Survey, and
Abbot Lawrence, of Boston, was surely a powerful campaign document.

None the less weighty was the ‘‘Memorial of the Friends of Science
who attended the April meeting of the National Institute,’’ signed by
nearly forty representative scientific men and college presidents from all
parts of the United States, speaking in terms of high commendation of
the National Institute, and particularly of the extent and value of its
museum material, and expressing the hope ‘‘that the enlightened and
intelligent members of Congress will distinguish the present session by
the necessary appropriation of funds to an object so truly national and
so truly republican.”’

This indorsement of the museum work of the Institute is very cordial
and comprehensive, and very significant; is indicative of a decided growth
in public opinion in regard to museums—a growth largely due in the first
instance to the suggestions and later to the fostering care of Mr. Poinsett
and his society, the National Institute.

The hopes of the promoters of the Institute were doomed to disappoint-
ment. Congress adjourned without making any provision for its needs.

On the 12th of July a new scheme was proposed for collecting money
from private sources by the efforts of trustworthy agents, and in December
a committee was appointed to again memorialize Congress."

‘Proceedings of the National Institute, 3d Bull., p. 375.
The Genesis of the United States National Museum. 109

The movement had received its deathblow, however. ‘The failure of
the tremendous effort of April, 1844, disheartened all its friends. At the
next annual meeting Mr. Poinsett declined reelection to the presidency.
The society’s publications were discontinued, and even the annual address
of Senator Woodbury, solicited for publication by the society, seems to
have remained in manuscript unprinted.

No more meetings were held, no more bulletins printed, the magnifi-
cent list of 350 resident and 1,250 corresponding members began to grow
shorter. An effort was made to revive it in 1847, and a meager report
was made once afterward by the corresponding secretary. In 1855 it was
brought into existence for a time as a local scientific society, and issued
a new series of proceedings." Its glory departed, however, with the first
annual meeting in 1844, and the attention of Congress was directed toward
the organization of the Smithsonian Institution.

The influence of the National Institute upon the history of science in
the United States, and particularly in educating public opinion and the
judgment of Congress toan application of the proper means of disposing
of the Smithsonian legacy, can not well be overestimated.

If the Smithsonian had been organized before the National Institute
had exerted its influences, it would have been a school, an observatory,
or an agricultural experiment station.

In 1846, however, the country was prepared to expect it to be a general
agency for the advancement of scientific interests of all kinds—as catho-
lic, as unselfish, as universal as the National Institute.

The National Institute, after nearly five years of activity, suddenly
ceased to be a center of public interest. The struggle over the Smith-
sonian bequest, however, still continued. During the T'wenty-seventh
Congress, 1841-1843, the Senate did nothing. "The House of Represent-
atives appointed a select committee on the subject, and Mr. Adams as
its chairman reported a new bill, providing still more thoroughly for
the erection of an observatory and the publication of a nautical almanac
to be called the Smithsonian Almanac. Petitions continued to come
in, some urging action and asking for the establishment of prizes for
scientific essays, another for the establishment of an agricultural school
and farm in the District of Columbia. ‘The National Institute had
perhaps fallen somewhat into disfavor with Congress—or, it may be, had
become so prominent as to awaken feelings of opposition.

The Twenty-eighth Congress (1843-1845) brought their deliberations
more nearly to an issue.

The astronomical observatory bill (H. R. 418, T'wenty-eighth Congress )
was again presented by Mr. Adams, but not acted upon. In the Senate,
both in the first and second sessions, a bill for the Smithsonian Institu-

‘Professor Henry was for a time an officer [vice president], and endeavored to have
its name changed to Metropolitan Institute.
IIO Memorial of George Brown Goode.

tion was reported, June 6, 1844, by the Committee on the Library, through
Senator Tappan, which, before it was finally brought to a vote, was brought
into a form somewhat resembling that which finally was adopted. It pro-
vided, however, for the appointment of various professors and lecturers
for a school of agricultural and mechanical arts, as well as for experimental
gardens, a library of science and economics, and a museum.

The museum clause of this bill was much the same as that finally agreed
to, and contained a provision that the natural-history objects and geolog-
ical and mineralogical specimens belonging to the United States, “‘in
whosesoever custody the same may be,’’ should be transferred to the
custody of the board of managers of the Smithsonian Institution.

This was evidently worded with the purpose of withdrawing from the
possession of the National Institution the various collections, including
those which had belonged to Smithson, which had fallen into the hands
of that society between 1840 and 1845. Indeed, the National Institution
seems to have already become the object of some distrust and prejudice.
A proposition that two of the seven ‘‘managers’’ not ex-officio members
of the board should be selected from the membership of the National Insti-
tution caused a vigorous debate in the Senate, in the course of which at
least two Senators objected strongly to placing the administration of the
Smithsonian Institution, even to so slight a degree as this, in the hands
of a private corporation.

The act finally passed the Senate, but was not acted on by the House.

In connection with Mr. Tappan’s bill, in January, 1845, Senator Choate,
of Massachusetts, first appeared in advocacy of the establishment of a
great library, and delivered his famous oration upon the influence of
books. ‘The amendment at that time proposed, together with the amend-
ments urged by Mr. George P. Marsh, in connection with the Owen-Hough
bill, brought forward in the following session, had a great influence upon
the final adjustment of the plan of administration.*

To the Twenty-ninth Congress (1845-1847) belongs the honor of finally
formulating the act of incorporation by which the Smithsonian Institution
was established.

This was done through Robert Dale Owen, of Indiana, who reported
the bill nearly in its final form. John Quincy Adams was a member of
the select committee to whom it was referred, together with Mr. Owen,
chairman, Mr. Jenkins, Mr. George P. Marsh, Mr. Alexander D. Sims,
Mr. Jefferson Davis, and Mr. Wilmot.

Mr. Adams was now for the first time willing to omit his advocacy of
a Smithsonian Astronomical Observatory, the Naval Observatory having
now been organized, and being, as Mr. Owen remarked, ‘at least equal
in everything but the experience of its observers to the Royal Observa-
tory at Greenwich.’’

It is not my purpose to describe the growth of the Smithsonian plan

*See report of Hon. James Meacham, 1854, pp. 10-12.
PLATE 12.

Part Il.

Ha

Report of U. S. Nationa! Museum, 189

ive.

=

The Genests of the United States National Museum. 1

of organization, except in its bearings upon the development of the .
museum idea.

In the bill proposed by Robert Dale Owen in 1846 the National Insti-
tute was recognized to the extent of placing two of its members on the
Board of Managers, an arrangement which was continued in the Board of
Regents in the Hough bill which finally passed.

An amendment to the Owen bill, proposed by Joseph R. Ingersoll,
and passed, and which, had it not been superseded in the Hough bill,
would have given the National Institute a strong and perhaps permanent
hold upon the national collections, read as follows:

Src. 5. And be it further enacted, That, in proportion as suitable arrangements
can be made for their reception, all objects of art and of foreign and curious research,
and all objects of natural history, plants, and geological and mineralogical specimens
belonging or hereafter to belong to the United States, which may be in the city of
Washington, in whosesoever custody the same may be, shall be delivered to such
persons as may be authorized by the Board of Managers to receive them, and shall
be arranged in such order, and so classed, as best to facilitate the examination and
study of them, in the buildings so as aforesaid to be erected for the institution; and
the managers of said institution shall afterwards, as new specimens in natural history,
geology, or mineralogy may be obtained for the museum of the institution, by
exchanges of duplicate specimens belonging to the institution (which they are
hereby authorized to make), or by donation, which they may receive, or otherwise,
cause such new specimens to be also appropriately classed and arranged. And the
minerals, books, manuscripts, and other property of James Smithson, which have
been received by the Government of the United States, and are now placed in the
Department of State, shall be removed to said institution, and shall be preserved
separate and apart from the other property of the institution.

Src. 6. And be it further enacted, That the managers of said institution shall
appoint a Superintendent, whose duty it shall be to take charge of the ground,
buildings, and property belonging to the institution, and carefully preserve the same
from injury; and such Superintendent shall be the Secretary of the Board of Man-
agers, and shall, under their direction, make a fair and accurate record of all their
proceedings, to be preserved in said institution; and the said Superintendent shall
also discharge the duties of librarian and of keeper of the museum, and may, with
the consent of the Board of Managers, employ assistants; and the said managers
shall appoint a professor of agriculture, horticulture, and rural economy; and the
said professor may hire, from time to time, so many gardeners, practical agriculturists,
and laborers as may be necessary to cultivate the ground and maintain a botanical
garden; and he shall make, under the supervision of the board of management, such
experiments as may be of general utility throughout the United States, to determine
the utility and advantage of new modes and instruments of culture, to determine
whether new fruits, plants, and vegetables may be cultivated to advantage in the
United States; and the said officers shall receive for their services such sum as may
be allowed by the Board of Managers, to be paid semiannually on the first day of
January and July; and the said officers, and all other officers of the institution, shall
be removable by the Board of Managers, whenever, in their judgment, the interests
of the institution require any of the said officers to be changed.

In the Hough bill there was an attempt of another kind to weld
together the fate of the Smithsonian Museum and the National Cabinet

of Curiosities, by giving to the Board of Regents the authority to erect
a building by the side of the Patent Office, so as to form a wing of that
ig Memorial of George Brown Goode.

structure, and to connect it with the hall then containing the National
Cabinet, so as to constitute that hall in whole or in part the depository
of the cabinet of the institution.

This was discretionary, however, with the Regents, who fortunately
did not look upon the plan with favor.

Reference has been made to the marked similarity between the plans
of organization of the National and Smithsonian institutions. In addi-
tion to the feature of museum custody, which has already been discussed,
there were others no less significant.

The National Institution, like the Smithsonian Institution, had a
superior board of officers, composed of the President of the United States
and the members of his Cabinet. It had alsoa board of directors, which
included in its membership delegates from the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives, corresponding in function to the Smithsonian Board of
Regents. In other respects, still more markedly than in the constitution
of its governing board, the Smithsonian seems to have been organized
with the plan of the National Institution in view. ‘The objects, as defined
in the Congressional act of establishment (sections 5 and 6), correspond
very closely to those announced in the early publications of the National
Institution.

The Institution at its foundation divided its members into eight classes,
as follows:

I. Astronomy, Geography, and Natural Philosophy;
II. Natural History;
III. Geology and Mineralogy;
IV. Chemistry;
V. The Application of Science to the Useful Arts;
VI. Agriculture; :
VII. American History and Antiquities;

VIII. Literature and Fine Arts;
and in all these classes, except the fourth, made plans for the collection
of museum material. Ethnography was grouped by Mr. Poinsett with
geography, with which he states that it is ‘‘intimately connected, and
indeed forming a part of it until it was lately erected into a separate
science.”

It is worthy of remark that the term ‘‘manager,’’* to designate a
member of the governing board, was employed in every bill, except in

«The term regent was undoubtedly suggested by the organization of the University
of the State of New York, a term peculiar to Mr. Hough, the mover of the substi-
tute, who was a Representative from that State and who in all probability had been
one of the board of regents of that university.

The Hon. W. J. Hough was the first Secretary of the Institution. Having been
elected to that office September 7, 1846, he served until the election of Professor
Henry, on December 3. Mr. B. B. French was elected assistant secretary, and
appears to have served until the election of C. C. Jewett, and at a meeting of the
board in December submitted a report for the Secretary.
The Genests of the United States National Museum. 113

the substitute which was proposed only a few hours before the final
action, and that when the election of the first Secretary was held, Francis
Markoe, jr., who had been for six years Secretary of the National Insti-
tution and was more than anyone else perhaps identified with its inter-
ests, received four votes against seven cast for Professor Henry. Doctor
Charles Pickering, the Curator of the National Institution, also received
one vote.
The term ‘‘curator,’’ as applied to an officer in charge of the national
collections, then came into use for the first time.

ce >”)

THE NATIONAL CABINET OF CURIOSITIES.

The formation of a ‘‘national museum’’ was one of the professed
objects of Poinsett and his associates in the National Institution, but it
does not appear that they ever dignified with that name their collections,
which were usually modestly referred to as constituting the ‘‘cabinet’’?
of the Institution, both in the constitution and in the proceedings of the
society.

In the Hough bill for the organization of the Smithsonian Institution
in 1846, the collection in the Patent Office was officially designated as the
National Cabinet of Curiosities, a name which, though never in general
use, is very appropriate and convenient for use in designating t ie assem-
blage of miscellaneous objects for a time exhibited in the Patent Office
building,

From 1847 to 1851, however, there was no use of the term National
Museum, the collections of natural history which were accumulating
under the care of Professor Baird constituting for the time being the
‘Museum of the Smithsonian Institution.’’

The National Cabinet of Curiosities, carrying with it a certain official
atmosphere, as well as an annual appropriation, was, however, one of the
parents of the greater establishment yet to come. Of its marriage with
the Smithsonian Museum, the National Museum of the United States was
the offspring.

The Smithsonian cabinet of minerals and meteorites was, as we have
seen, the first scientific collection which sie to the United States,
coming into the custody of Mr. Rush in Jane, 38.

*In 1790 a law was passed a Carer ‘to promote thie progress of science and
the useful arts by securing for limited times to authors and inventors the exclusive
right to their respective writings and discoveries.’’ [Sec. vir, par. vm. ]

In this was gathered a collection of models, which was sometimes by courtesy
called ‘The American Museum of Arts,’? but which had no title to the name either
by law or by courtesy. This was destroyed by fire December 15, 1836.

In “An act to promote the progress of the useful arts, etc.,’? approved July 4, 1836,
provision was made for the preservation and display, under the charge of the Com-
missioner of Patents, not only of models, but of ‘‘specimens of compositions and of
fabrics and other manufactures and works of art.’’? [Sec.xx.]

8

NAT MUS 97, PT 2
II4 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

Of all the expeditions sent out by the Government, none previous to
the Wilkes exploring expedition, sent out in 1838, was instructed to
bring back collections of natural history.

In the earliest days of our Republic the cabinet of the American Philo-
sophical Society of Philadelphia was doubtless the official museum, and
this was enriched by the efforts of the only naturalist President, Thomas
Jefferson.

The first exploring expedition, that of Lewis and Clarke in 1803, was
sent out by Jefferson, who twenty-three years before, in 1780, began to
agitate the question of exploring the unknown West, and who at that
time offered to raise 1,000 guineas for the purpose from private sources.
Lewis and Clarke returned in 1806, bringing with them some valuable
scientific material, zoological and ethnological. Some of the animals
appear to have found their way to Peale’s Philadelphia Museum. God-
man in his American Natural History mentions a sable which had been
obtained from this source and was to be seen there in 1823. I have
been told that within a few years Indian garments and weapons brought
back by this party were to be seen in St. Louis. Pike’s expedition, in
1805, the second of the exploring enterprises, yielded little in the way of
scientific material. Whatever there was went undoubtedly to the Phila-
delphia Museum, and in 1808 there were still on exhibition at that place
two grizzly bears, which as cubs had been brought by Major Pike from
the region of the Rio del Norte and presented by him to President Jeffer-
son, who gave them to Mr. Peale for his museum. Other specimens
appear to have found shelter in the University of Virginia, where two
sets of antlers brought back by Captain Lewis are still preserved.

In 1820 a third expedition was sent by the General Government to
explore the Northwestern Territory, especially the region around the
Great Lakes and the sources of the Mississippi. This was under charge
of General Lewis Cass, at that time governor of Michigan ‘Territory.
Henry R. Schoolcraft accompanied this expedition as mineralogist, and
Captain D. B. Douglass, United States Army, as topographical engineer,
and both of these sent home considerable collections reported upon by
the specialists of the day, most of whom were at that time concentrated
in Philadelphia.

The fourth and fifth expeditions were those under Major Long, in the
far West; the first, or Rocky Mountain, exploration in 1819-20; the
second, to the sources of the St. Peter’s in 1823. In the first expedition
Major Long was accompanied by Edwin James as botanist and geologist,
who also wrote the narrative published in 1823. The second expedition
was accompanied by William H. Keating, professor of mineralogy and
chemistry in the University of Pennsylvania, who was its geologist and
historiographer. Say was the zoologist of both explorations, and the
results of his labors went to the Philadelphia Museum.
Report of U. S. National Museum, 1897. Part Il. PLATE 13.

The Genesis of the United States National Museum. II5

The sixth Government expedition was that by G. W. Featherston-
haugh, in 1834-35, to explore the geology of the elevated country
beween the Missouri and Red rivers and the Wisconsin Territories. I
have found no record of the disposition of his collections, but it is not
improbable that he may have carried them with him to England.

The seventh expedition was that under Lieutenant Wilkes, already
referred to as having been sent out in 1838, under the direction of Presi-
dent Van Buren, who seems to have intrusted the plans very largely to
Mr. Poinsett, who was the first to urge the formation of a national
museum, and to whom was doubtless due the insertion of the clause
instructing the officers to preserve and bring back collections in natural
history, a precaution which might easily have been overlooked, since the
expedition was organized professedly in the interests of the American
whale fishery.

It was, perhaps, the fact that there was no suitable depository for
collections at the seat of Government that stimulated Mr. Poinsett to
immediate action in 1840, when he founded the National Institution, the
arrival of these collections from the Pacific being at that time expected.

The purpose of Mr. Poinsett’s efforts is shown clearly in his first anni-
versary address:

There are many of our countrymen [says he] who, like Sir Hans Sloane, the
founder of the British Museum, look forward with regret to the sale and dispersion
of their collections, and desiring to have them preserved entire, would deposit them
with an institution which will be as stable as the Government that protects it. For
these purposes, and especially if it [the National Institution] be intrusted, as we
hope it will be, with the specimens of natural history collected by the exploring
squadron, it will be necessary that measures should be early adopted to have erected
on a suitable site a plain, fireproof building, where the increasing and valuable collec-
tions may be displayed, and be examined by the scientific inquirer. We cherish the
hope that they will form the foundation of a National Museum, and contribute to
spread the light of science over our land.

The exploring expedition [he continued] has already sent home a large collec-
tion, which remains packed away in boxes in a room belonging to the Philadelphia
Museum, generously loaned by the company for that purpose; and we may antici-
pate from the ability and well-known zeal of the naturalists who accompanied it,
that the squadron itself, shortly expected, will return richly freighted with objects
of natural history. I can not believe that, after all the labor, pains, and expense

incurred in procuring them, these specimens are not to be brought to Washington
to be arranged and exhibited here.’’!

Mr. Poinsett was at this time still Secretary of War, and had the
power to effect at least the beginning of what he desired to see done,
and one of his last official acts was to persuade his colleague, James K.
Paulding, the Secretary of the Navy, to order these collectioris forwarded
from Philadelphia.

In February the Institution was informed ‘‘that about one hundred
and fifty boxes, the results, as far as have been received, of the Explor-

* Discourse on the Objects and Importance of the National Institution, 1841, p. 50.

116 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

ing Squadron’s exertions, containing a variety of interesting objects of -
Natural History, and destined for the cabinet of the Institution, have
been shipped at Philadelphia, and are expected as soon as the navigation
opens."

Here, again, Mr. Poinsett’s prompt action told in the interest of the
future national museum. If he had waited till the navigation opened
he would have been obliged to treat with the Secretary of the Navy.

The entirely unorganized condition of affairs in Washington and the
lack of experience in museum administration is shown by the fact that
Mr. W. McGuigan, curator of the Philadelphia Museum Company, thought
it necessary to write the following amusing cautionary letter, which was
printed in the bulletin of the Institution:

It would be unadvisable to break open the cases containing the articles collected
by the South Sea Exploring Expedition, until such period as they are intended to be
prepared for exhibition. ‘The immense quantity of arsenic, and corrosive sublimate
necessary for their preservation requires imperatively that very great caution should
be observed, and that the handling and arrangements should be under either the
immediate inspection or personal attention of one fully adequate to all the details
connected with this subject.

In the hands of inexperienced persons death might be the result.

W. McGUIGAN.
PHILADELPHIA, February 6, 1842.

Still another step was taken on March 3, 1841, the day before the final
adjournment, which I am also disposed to attribute to the forethought
and interest of Mr. Poinsett, which was the appropriation by Congress
of $5,000 ‘‘for defraying the expenses of transporting to the city of
Washington and of arranging the collections made by the exploring
expedition.”’

The committee, consisting of Colonel Abert, Mr. Markoe, Mr. Dayton,
and Doctor King, appointed under a resolution passed at the stated meet-
ing of the National Institution on the 13th December, 1841, which is
in the following words :

Resolved, That a committee of four members be appointed by the Chair to
examine the subject of Exchanges, to propose a plan for that purpose, and to report
fully thereon to the Institution for its further consideration and action, beg leave, in
pursuance of the directions of the said resolution, to report—

That the duty devolved on the committee by the resolution, is, First, to examine the
subject of exchanges; second, to propose a plan of exchanges; and, third, to report
thereon to the Institution. In reference to the first point, viz: ‘‘the examination of
the subject,’’ the committee state that they have examined the subject, and that the
result has been a full conviction of mind that a system of exchanges is of very great
importance in the accomplishment of one of the primary objects for which the
National Institution has been declared to be formed, viz: ‘‘the establishment of a
national museum of natural history,’’ etc. Exchanges enter essentially into the
plan of every society constituted as the National Institution, and haying like objects
in view; and no occasion has been omitted to acquaint societies and individuals,
whose correspondence has been sought by or offered to the National Institution, that

* Proceedings of the National Institution, Ist Bull., p. 48.

The Genests of the United States National Museum. i

a system of general exchanges would be entered upon as soon as the Institution
should be able to mature a plan for that purpose. Under this assurance, and inde-
pendently of it also, it should be added, valuable collections of various kinds have
already been received by the Institution, which is thus already placed in a position
which makes it incumbent on us to redeem the pledge that has been given. The
committee consider it superfluous to dwell upon the advantages of exchanges; but
they wish the members to know that for this object they have already in hands the
most abundant materials—materials which are increasing and will continue to
increase every day. ‘These materials consist of contributions made by members, by
individuals who are not members, by societies and institutions at home and abroad,
and by foreign governments, as well as of those accessions that have been made by
the Exploring Expedition, which has already sent home an inexhaustible quantity
and variety of duplicates. It is well known to the Institution that the collections
received from all these sources are equally and absolutely the property of the Goy-
ernment, and that therefore the permission of the Government is indispensable to
enable the Institution to part with the duplicates derived from all these sources.
This permission, it is believed, will be cheerfully accorded. At the same time the
committee, for obvious reasons, do not think it proper to ask the Government to
allow the Institution to part with any of the duplicates of the Exploring Expedition,
until the squadron, shall have returned.

In reference to the second point, viz; a plan of exchanges, the committee do not
feel called upon or competent to enter into details. These must be left in a good
degree to those whom the Institution may see fit to charge with the execution of the
plan, in which of course they will be governed by the practice of other institutions,
and by such regulations as it may become expedient to adopt from time to time to
suit our own convenience and peculiar circumstances. Here, however, on the
threshold of the plan which the committee mean to propose, they regard it of con-
sequence to suggest for the sanction of the Institution, that in exchanges of all kinds,
the natural productions of our country shall first and always have a decided prefer-
ence. A great and leading design of the National Institution is to explore and
develop our own resources, and to study and describe the natural history of the
United States. To this end our exertions must principally be directed. It should
be the pride of all connected with or interested in a National Institution to see every
State in the Union fully represented in a National Cabinet, established at the seat of
Government. This method, while it recommends itself to us and our interests, is
calculated to extend benefits and encouragement to the societies and naturalists of
our own country, who will thus have a central depository, from which they may
enlarge and vary their own collections; and thus, also, in due time, the duplicates
of the Exploring Expedition may, with the greatest advantage, be diffused through-
out the land, thereby fulfilling, in the amplest manner, the intentions of those who
projected, and justifying the liberality of the Government which sanctioned that
noble project.

With these preliminary remarks, and under the restrictions which are embraced in
them, the committee recommend—

First. That a system of exchanges be entered upon without delay.

Second. That the Curator and assistants be directed, for this purpose, to separate
alf duplicates, except those from the Exploring Expedition; and that they select and
label such specimens as are to be sent to individuals or societies.

Third. That the first step taken be to discharge the obligations of exchange
already incurred by the Institution.

Fourth. That a committee be appointed, to whom the Curator shall submit all sets
of specimens thus set aside for any given exchanges, who shall decide upon the
equivalency, before said specimens shall be boxed up and sent off.
118 Memorral of George Brown Goode.

Fifth. That in all cases of difficulty which may arise, reference must be made to the
President or Vice-President of the Institution for decision, who will, if they conceive
it necessary, submit the question to the Institution.

Sixth. That a book be kept by the Curator, subject at all times to the inspection of
the committee, in which must be noted the contents of each box or package; lists of
the articles for which they are the equivalents; the name and place of the society or
individual to whom one set is to be sent, and from whom the other has been received.

In what the committee have now submitted, they conceive that they have done all
that it was possible or necessary to do at present, in reference to the third point of the
resolution, viz: ‘‘reporting fully on the subject ;’’ although they are perfectly sensi-
ble that in their report they have presented the subject in the most general manner,
believing that experience and practice alone will enable the Institution gradually to
settle upon a complete system. The committee beg leave to add, that the present
report is not to be regarded as final, but that it is submitted, with all due deference
to the Institution, to use the concluding words of the resolution, ‘‘for its further
consideration and action.”’

Shortly after this, on March 8, in order to provide for the reception
of these collections, Doctor Henry King* was elected curator of the
National Institution, the first in Washington to bear an official title
which has since been the designation of a goodly number of worthy
workers in science.

The curator, although an elective officer of the Institution, received
his pay from the Congressional appropriation already referred to, an
arrangement not unlike that which prevails to this day in the National
Museum, where the officers, chosen by the Smithsonian Institution, are
paid by the General Government.

The collections arrived some time in March, and in response to its
request Mr. Badger, the newly made Secretary of the Navy, placed them
under the care of the National Institution, and in April, as we learn
from the unpublished letters of the curator, the taxidermists were
preparing about fifteen bird skins a day, a rate of speed which quite
explains the atrocious condition of the preparations which have come
down to us from those days of the infancy of the National Museum.
In May additional collections, brought by the ship Suzanne to New
York and thence transshipped by the schooner /a/estine, were received
in Washington.

A new danger now threatened the integrity of the collections, which
was that the curator found many of the boxes ‘‘marked in such a

"Henry King, M. D., was a geologist and mining expert who had been a resident
of Missouri, who had lately been employed in an exploration of the lead mines of
the West, and who at this time was employed by the War Department in Washing-
ton. He was the author of a manual of Directions for making Collections in Natu-
ral History, published in 1840 by the Institution, the first part of a long series of
pamphlets of scientific instructors, printed at the capital. [1840. King, Henry.
Directions for making Collections in Natural History. Prepared for the National
Institution for the Promotion of Science; by H. King, M. D. Washington. Printed
by Gales & Seaton. 1840. 8vo., pp. I-24.]

Doctor King was elected curator March 8, 1841, and held the office until September
12, 1842, when he was succeeded by Doctor Charles Pickering.
Report of U. S. National Museum, 1897. Part Il PLaTe 14.

SAMUEL DE CHAMPLAIN.
The Genests of the United States National Museum. 119

manner as to indicate that they belong to and are claimed by private
persons,’’ these constituting a large part of the whole.

Here, again, Mr. Poinsett had foreseen and provided against the
danger, having instructed the curator, on a previous occasion, to pay no
attention to private marks on collections received from a Government
expedition.

The question was submitted to the Secretary of the Navy, who at once
replied that, in his opinion, ‘‘all specimens collected by officers attached
to the expedition belonged solely to the United States.”’

In April, 1841, the collections and library of the Institution were
installed in the new Patent Office building, where they remained until
removed to the Smithsonian, in 1857.

Extensive plans were made for a system of international exchange,
and a committee formulated the policy of the society in an elaborate
report.

Another Government collection soon came in consisting of the min-
erals and geological specimens gathered by David Dale Owen, during his
survey under the direction of the United States General Land Office,
also a collection of ‘‘Indian portraits and curiosities,’’ transferred by
the Secretary of War, and the Smithson cabinet, books and minerals,
deposited by the Secretary of the Treasury, and a bill was passed by
Congress, less important by reason of the appropriation of $500, which
it makes, than from the fact that it justifies the Secretaries of War
and of the Navy in transferring collections in their possession to the
Institution.

On the tst of January, 1842, a letter was written by a committee of
the National Institution to the Secretaries of War and the Navy.

In February, 1842, another important paper was presented to the
Institution by the same committee—important as marking the beginning
of the system of exchanges and distribution of duplicates which had for
nearly forty years been so important a feature of the work of the
National Institution."

With the exception of the papers already alluded to, which had refer-
ence to the relation of the society to the Government and to the Smith-
sonian bequest, the bulletin of proceedings from this time on contained
little more than the record of the receipt of donations of specimens and
of letters asking information or proffering advice. The society retained
the control of the exploring expedition collections, and in June, 1842,
Lieutenant Wilkes having returned to Washington, he, at three succes-
sive meetings of the Institute, gave a history of his voyage and its
results. He was at first subjected to some opposition, and until after a
court-martial, held in New York in August, seems to have been disposed
to say very cet He, however, wrote, under date of July 16, va a

*This is printed in Note A from “Hie mausee pe report in the archives - the

National Museum.
120 Memorral of George Brown Goode.

letter’ to Senator Preston, in which he indignantly protested against
the manner in which his officers and men had been received on their
return.

When he was restored to favor and influence, he at once took steps to
gain control of the collections made by his squadron, provisionally under
the charge of the National Institution, with results to be studied later.

‘This letter, now in the archives of the Museum and never published, is of so much
interest historically, that after the lapse of nearly fifty years it is printed, in the cer-
tainty that its harsh significance has all vanished.

WASHINGTON City, 76th July, 7872.

My DEAR SiR: Agreeably to your desire, I hasten to give you the information rela-
tive to the remaining duties of the Expedition, and that are absolutely necessary to
carry out the intention of Congress in passing the Act authorizing the Expedition,
viz, ‘‘for the promotion of the great interests of Commerce and Navigation, and to
extend the bounds of science and promote the acquisition of knowledge.”’

For the accomplishment of these great objects, there was required persons to attend
to the different departments of science, and the following was the organization which
I proposed, and was adopted by the Government, and the most economical one that
could have been arranged to carry out the great views intended, and that the accom-
modations of the vessels would permit, viz:

The Departments of Astronomy, Hydrography, Magnetism, Meteorology, and
Physics, including the Experiments with the Invariable Pendulum, was confided
to myself with the officers under my command as assistants, besides the above I
was charged with the History or Narrative of the Voyage.

This at once greatly reduced the Scientific Corps which had been organized, viz,
from 23 tog. I felt the Navy was justly entitled to all these departments, embraced
as they were within the limits, or scope of the profession, and that they ought not to
be attached to such an undertaking, to act as the ‘‘hewers of wood and drawers of
water,’’ as was the case in its original organization.

Charles Pickering and Titian R. Peale, naturalists; Horatio Hale, philologist; James
D. Dana, geologist; William Rich, botanist; William Brackenridge, horticulturist
and assistant botanist; Joseph Drayton and Alfred Agate, artists; J. P. Couthouy,
conchologist, who was with the Expedition until the end of November, 1839, after
which period his duties were divided among the rest and successfully performed.
These formed the nine; to these was added a mechanic for the repair of instruments
and their proper preservation.

In all the above departments much remains to be done; indeed, I view the services
of the above gentlemen as necessary now, and even more so than at any other period
of the cruise, nor can their services be dispensed with, or the work concentrated,
without great loss to the Expedition, and the reputation of the country. For my own
departments I require the services of Mr. Stewart, who was a clerk in the Expedition,
but whom I have made hydrographical draughtsman, and some few of the officers,
who have been my principal assistants. Mr. Stewart will be enabled also to assist
me in my copying, etc. He is one of my own scholars and is now engaged in the
duties assigned him.

I truly regret that anything should have occurred to dampen the ardor of those
who are attached to the Expedition, and absolutely necessary to the bringing out the
results. ‘Theardor that has been felt during the cruise has been all-important to our
success, and has been in every way encouraged by me, and I did hope that it would
have been kept alive until all had been accomplished. The reputation of our country
is at stake, and if what has been attempted and succeeded in, is not now finished
The Genesvs of the United States National Museum. C2e

In September, 1842, Doctor Charles Pickering became curator. He
had been a member of the Wilkes exploring expedition and was occu-
pied during his connection almost entirely in the work of unpacking and
arranging its collections.

from any motive of economy, or derangement of the organization all will be ruined,
and we shall become the laughingstock of Europe, and all the praise that has been
lavished on our Government for its noble undertaking prove but ‘‘satire in
disguise.”’

What will be the reputation of those who have had the ordering of things since its
return, on their becoming known on the other side of the waters? For the reception
of myself I can easily account; but that of the officers and crews is truly unaccount-
able, particularly the want of any expression of thanks from the Department to the
latter on their discharge; it was felt by every officer and remarked by every man.
On minor duties I have been gratified by it formerly, and I have with pleasure seen
its effects upon many of the men that formed a part of the crews of this Expedition
when on other service with me; I have urged it all in my power, but without effect ;
every day develops some new opposition to the Expedition. I am aware you think I
want cause for this opinion; perhaps I am mistaken, but I can not but feel myself
bound up in it; indeed it would be strange if I was not, and I must say it is heartsick-
ening to me to hear those who have shared its dangers and troubles complaining of
a want of attention and courtesy, and exhibiting the unceremonious discharges from
their duties, with little or no prospect of consummating the labors in which they
have been engaged for the last four years, and before they have even seen their fami-
lies. Some are suffering under sickness contracted from their exposure in the sery-
ice of their country. They are now suddenly cut off and destitute of support for
themselves and families. These facts are well known. Such treatment is without
precedent in the service of this, or any other country.

Contrast our Expedition with those of the French and English engaged in the same
service, and at the same time, honor and rewards are heaped on all at and before
their return. Examine our results, compare them with theirs, contrast us in every
way with them you please, or with Expeditions that have gone before us, and then
ask if we have not reason to feel mortified.

Do not misunderstand me. I ask nothing for myself at present, and will not as
long as this mist hanging over me exists, but which any fair and candid examina-
tions into my actions and conduct would have long since dissipated ; neither do T ask
impossibilities or undeserved praise; no greater punishment can be inflicted on the
head of one who receives it. But I would ask: Is it not fully apparent and placed
beyond cant that the men of the Expedition have done their duty, and did deserve
the thanks of the Department before they were disbanded? It was openly com-
plained of when they were paid off.

I have greatly to complain of the course the Department has pursued towards
niyself, but I forbear to touch on this subject at present.

In conclusion, my dear sir, I beg you will excuse this long letter and its tone.
Whenever these subjects are brought to my mind I feel it acutely. All I do hope is
that, for the credit of the Expedition, the honor and reputation of the country, you
will not lose sight of what ought to be done. Fully confident I am that there is no
subject in which the reputation of our country is so much at stake as the develop-
ment of the results of the Exploring Expedition and on which its conduct will be
so closely scrutinized abroad. I have the honor to be, with great respect,

Yours, most truly,
CHARLES WILKES.

Hon. Wn. C. Preston, Senator, U. S.. Washington.
122 Memortal of George Brown Goode.

In the meantime, in February, 1842, Doctor J. P. Couthouy, one of
the naturalists of the expedition, having been detached from duty by
Captain Wilkes, was employed by the committee of the Institution to
aid in the work upon their collections, and in September Mr. W. D.
Brackenridge, horticulturist of the expedition, was also taken upon the
Museum staff and given charge of the plants,’ and a little later Professor
James D. Dana seems to have been given charge of the arrangement of
the geological and mineralogical collections, not only of the exploring
expedition, but of the Institution cabinet, including the Smithson, Owen,
Locke, and Totten collections, and Horatio Hale was performing a simi-
lar work upon the ethnographical collections of the Institution, which he
reported upon as ‘‘chiefly from the exploring expedition.’’

The force at this time engaged upon the national collections, under
the direction of the National Institution, consisted of Doctor Charles
Pickering, principal curator; J. P. Couthouy, J. D. Dana, Horatio Hale,
and W. D. Brackenridge, curators and assistants, and J. K. Townsend
and John Varden, assistants. "Thomas Nuttall, the well-known botanist,
had in 1841 been engaged upon the herbarium, but had now gone away.

Here, then, in 1842, we find a strong Museum force at work on the
collections, a force fully as effective thirty years later, in 1873, when the
writer first became acquainted with the operations of the Smithsonian
Institution.

The report prepared by them at the end of the year 1842 was essen-
tially the second official report upon the national collections, and since it
has never been published, it is printed in Note B, at the end of this
memoir.

At the meeting of September 12 a resolution was passed in these words:

Resolved, That a committee be appointed to wait upon the Secretary of the Navy,
and upon the joint committee of the Library of Congress, and to proffer to them the
cooperation of the Institute in carrying into effect the intentions of the law lately
passed by Congress, for the arrangement and preservation of the collections made by
the Exploring Squadron, and for the publication of the results of that Expedition ;

and that this committee be authorized to act in the name and behalf of the Institute
in all matters relating to this subject.

In reply to the letter transmitting this resolution, the following letter
was received:
NAvy DEPARTMENT, September 17, 1872.
Str: I have received your letter of the 15th instant, transmitting a copy of the
resolutions of the National Institute passed on the 12th instant, in relation to the
arrangement and preservation of the collections made by the exploring squadron,

and informing me that Doctor C. Pickering had been unanimously elected curator of
the Institute.

‘Mr. Brackenridge, on the return of the expedition in 1842, brought the live plants
and seeds to Washington, and there being no place for their reception hired a green-
house and cared for them, apparently on his own responsibility, for several months.
Eventually they were provided for at the Botanic Garden about 1859, after having
been for many years kept in greenhouses in the rear of the Patent Office.
Report of U. S. National Museum, 1897. Part Il. PLATE 15.

PIERRE FRANCOIS XAVIER DE CHARLEVOIX,
The Genests of the United States National Museum. £23

I shall be happy to receive the suggestions of the committee as to the proper course
of proceeding.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,

A. P. UPSHUR.
GARRETT R. BARRY, Esq.,

Recording Secretary National Institute, Washington.

In the meantime a change in the status of the Government collections
had been effected by the passage of an act of Congress, August 27, 1842,
providing for the publication, under the supervision of the Joint Library
Committee, of an account of the discovery made by the exploring expe-
dition, the third section of which was as follows:

That until other provisions be made by law for the safe-keeping and arrangement
of such objects of natural history as may be in the possession of the Government,
the same shall be deposited and arranged in the upper room of the Patent Office,
under the care of such persons as may be appointed by the Joint Committee of the
Library.

By act of August 4, 1842 (Stat. V., 501), the sum of $20,000 had
already been appropriated for the transportation, preservation, and
arrangement of these collections.

In the charter of the National Institute, passed a month before, there
was a provision that all trusts ‘‘are vested and confirmed to the said
corporation,’* and the supporters of the Institute were disposed to urge
that this was applicable to the collections of the ‘‘exploring squadron,”’
at that time in the custody of the Institution. The question did not
come up in a troublesome way at this time, for the Library Committee,
at that time unfriendly, simply confirmed the choice of curator made by
the National Institute, and appointed Doctor Pickering to the position,
Doctor Pickering being thenceforth subject to the Congressional com-
mittee, and only by courtesy acting for the National Institute.

Trouble was brewing, however, for it was evident that the links bind-
ing together the interests of the National Institute and the exploring
expedition were not very tenacious. There was in fact no legal authority
for the agency of supervision which the Institution was now exercising,
the whole being the outgrowth of a very informal understanding be-
tween two or three successive Secretaries of the Navy and a committee
of the Institution ‘‘appointed to correspond with the Departments of
Government.’’ *

This committee, composed of two of the most active directors and the
corresponding secretary, soon began to perform the functions of a gen-
eral executive committee—no doubt with the sanction of the society, but
without direct authority.

The recent acts of Congress had taken the control of the collections
away from the Navy Department, by whose act alone they had been placed
in charge of the Institute. The committee of the Institute still believed
itself responsible in an advisory way for the disbursement of the appro-

™Proceedings of the National Institution, 2d Bull., p. 71.
124 Memorval of George Brown Goode.

priation, but soon found expeditions in progress of which they had
no knowledge. ‘The committee filed a protest with Mr. Poinsett, their
president, who seems to have at once taken steps to secure the only
possible relief from the embarrassment—that of special legislation.

The following bill was accordingly introduced in the Senate by the
Hon. Robert J. Walker:

A BILL, for the preservation of the collections of natural curiosities furnished by the exploring
squadron, and from other sources.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of
America in Congress assembled, ‘That the board of management of the National
Institute be, and is hereby, invested with the custody of the specimens of natural
history, and other curiosities, which have been received, or which may have been
received, or which may hereafter be received, from the exploring squadron, and
from other sources, with authority to make all necessary arrangements to preserve
and exhibit the same, to regulate the number and compensation of persons employed
on said duty, and to superintend the disbursements relating thereto.

And be it further enacted, That the said board is hereby authorized to exchange
any of the duplicates of said collections with other institutions, or with State authori-
ties, or with individuals.

At the request of Senator Walker two of the members of the commit-
tee had drawn up a statement of the relations which they deemed it
desirable to have established between the Institution and the General
Government in respect to the national collections. ‘This statement was
submitted by Senator Walker, not as an official document emanating
from the Institute, but with the heading ‘‘ Remarks submitted by Mr.
Markoe and Colonel Abert to the Hon. Mr. Walker.’’ This was cer-
tainly an unfortunate form of introduction to Congress, and the oppo-
nents of the National Institute made the most of it. The bill with the
accompanying statement was referred to the Joint Committee on the
Library, and on the 28th of February was made the subject of a report
presented by Senator Tappan," in which he ridiculed the idea of placing
the results of a great Government expedition in the hands of a “‘private
corporation,’’ and advised members of the National Institute to disabuse
themselves of the idea that regular appropriations would ever be made
for its benefit. ‘‘’The case presents,’’ he remarked, ‘‘two officers of the
Government, one the head of a bureau, the other a clerk in one of the
public offices, who ask as a matter of right that they should have the
supervision of a very important literary and scientific work, the publica-
tion of which Congress has thought proper to intrust to one of its regular
committees.’? The recommendation of the committee was that the
responsibility of this work remain in the hands of the Joint Committee
on the Library, where it had originally been placed by law. Senator
Tappan’s attack was evidently based upon a partial misunderstanding of
the views of the members of the National Institute, who simply asked
the custody of the collections and the authority to supervise their arrange-
ment. Colonel Abert and Mr. Markoe were indignant at the injustice,

"Senate Document 233, see note D to this paper.
The Genests of the United States Nationat Museum. 125

and addressed to Senator Walker a letter in further explanation of their
views.

This letter, with the comments upon it by Senator Walker and Sena-
tor Preston, is printed in a note appended to this memoir,' accompanied
by a hitherto-unpublished letter from Senator Woodbridge, of Michigan,
who, as a member of the committee, was able to explain the real signifi-

cance of its action.
All of these papers are given in a pamphlet’ published at the time,

which is, however, now exceedingly rare and almost forgotten.

The versions of the papers here given are for the most part from the
originals or verified copies in the archives of the National Museum.

Senator T'appan’s speech and the subsequent action of Congress did
much to undermine the foundation of the Institute, which was evidently
scarcely solid enough to sustain the structure which it had been proposed
to rear upon them.

After this it was inevitable that there should arise conflicts of authority,
and they were not slow in coming.

It is possible that they were precipitated by Captain Wilkes, who
naturally may have felt some irritation at the manner in which the con-
trol of the collections made by his expedition were taken out of his control,
while he himself was for a time under charges.

The Commissioner of Patents, too, seems to have been irritated by the
occupation of a hall in the Patent Office controlled by alien authority.

In July, 1843, Doctor Pickering resigned his curatorship, and the
Library Committee, now hostile and acting in the spirit of their report,
made use of the authority vested in them by the act of August 26, 1842,
and appointed to the custodianship of the Government collections the
Commissioner of Patents, Mr. Ellsworth, and in August placed Captain
Wilkes in special charge of the gatherings of the exploring expedition.

The action of the committee does not appear to have been known to
the officers of the Institute except by rumor, but they were left to find
out the change of policy by an unpleasant series of experiences.

The first serious friction was in connection with Captain Wilkes. Its
character is shown by the following correspondence, which is here printed
on account of the new light it throws upon the condition of the National
Cabinet of Curiosities in the years 1843-44 and upon the otherwise inex-
plicable circumstances which led to the collapse of the National Institute
shortly afterwards :

LETTER FROM COLONEL ABERT TO CAPTAIN WILKES, SEPTEMBER 5, 1843.

DEAR SIR: Reports of a painful character, involved in the questions of the
inclosed letter, have reached the ears of many of us, and I have been urged as chair-
man of the committee having charge of these matters to bring them before the

mINote-H; 1,1, Tit, TV:

2 1843. [Abert, John J., and Francis Markoe, jr.] Reply | of | Colonel Abert and
Mr. Markoe | to the | Hon. Mr. Tappan | of the | United States Senate. Wash-
ington, —, Wm. Q. Force, printer. | 1843. | 8 vo. pp. 1-18.

126 Memortal of George Brown Goode.

Directors. But I refused, on the ground that I would not be the medium of bringing
forward misunderstood or exaggerated facts, for discussion or action, preferring the
course of the inclosed letter, as it will procure the desired information from the best
authority and under its true aspect. It seems to me that the Institute is the last
which should receive unkindness from anyone whose fame is connected with
the results of the exploring squadron, for without the interference of the Institute
where would these results have been; and without its future care what will become
of them, for what other body in whose care they can be placed has a permanent
domicile at Washington.

J. J. ABERT.
Capt. WILKES.

LETTER FROM COLONEL ABERT TO CAPTAIN WILKES, SEPTEMBER 5, 1843.

Str: It is contemplated soon to have a meeting of the Directors of the National
Institute, at which matters of much interest to the Institute will be brought up.
Understanding that you have been placed in charge of the room in which both
Institute and ex. [ploring] expedition curiosities are deposited, and anxious that at
our meeting the Directors should be fully and correctly informed, allow us to beg of
you the favor of an early answer to the following queries:

1. Have directions been given to remove the property of the Institute and that
under its care, except exploring expedition specimens, from the room in which they
now are or from the cases in which they have been deposited, or are such directions
contemplated?

2. Are the persons employed at the room and paid by the U. S. prohibited from
bestowing any attention upon any other than ex. [ploring] exp. [edition] specimens,
from opening the boxes of presents sent to the Institute, cleaning, arranging, and
attending to the same?

3. Will any of the persons employed at the room and paid by the U. S. be allowed
to bestow any of their time and talents upon the preservation and arrangement of
the collections, except those of the ex. [ploring] squadron?

4. Can the Institute count with sufficient certainty upon the services of any person
so employed so as to invest him or them as curators or assistants with the requisite
authority from the Institute?

You will readily perceive the importance of these questions to the Institute, and
how eminently they invoke the security and preservation of the valuable and extensive
collection under its care ; you will, therefore I hope, pardon us in the request of an

early answer.
Ji. J. ABERaS
Capt. CHARLES WILKES,

U.S. Navy, Washington.

LETTER FROM CAPTAIN WILKES TO COLONEL ABERT, SEPTEMBER 16, 1843.

WASHINGTON City, 16 Sept., 7843.

My DEar Sir: Your friendly letter was received on my return to the city after a
short absence, which will account for your not having an earlier reply.

I can not acknowledge any right in a committee of the Nat. [ional] Ins. [titute]
to call upon me for any explanations whatever relative to my official duties or
actions, particularly when such a call is based upon (as you inform me) ‘‘ painful
reports’? of which I have no knowledge and little regard, and can not help express-
ing my astonishment that any members of a scientific society should have given
credence to them, to have authorized an action on the part of one of their com-
mittees before they had ascertained that they were true.
Report of U. S. National Museum, 1897. Part |

PLATE 16.

; - The Genests of the United States National Museum. 127

I can not but admire your course in refusing to act, or be the medium of bringing
them forward for discussion or action before an appeal was made to the best authority.
I therefore feel much pleasure in answering the questions as coming from yourself,
and do it particularly with a view that you may communicate it to any of the gentle-
mien, your associates, who may have been instrumental in getting up and giving cur-
rency to the reports which you inform me are in circulation.

ist. The law places the collections of the United States Exploring Expedition in
the upper hall of the Patent Office building and under the care of the Joint Library
Committee of Congress for the purpose of arranging the whole for description, publi-
cation, and exhibition. The Library Com[mitt]ee have appointed me to superintend
them to this end. In pursuance of my duties the whole is undergoing arrangement.
When I took charge on the rst of August a few specimens and articles were pointed
out to me as belonging to the Nat[ional] Inst[itute]; those have not been disturbed
further than became necessary in the arrangements, and an equal care has been
bestowed upon them that others have received.

2d. All the persons employed and paid by the Government are required to devote
themselves entirely to the Government work; when there is no longer employment
for them, or they do not give satisfaction, they will be discharged. It is believed
that their time is now fully employed, and that their duties require all their time
and talents to be devoted to the collection of the Expedition in order to perform
them to the satisfaction of the Library Committee and myself. They are under the
same system as if employed elsewhere by the Government. From this it follows
that their time and services for which the Gov[ernmen]t pays can not be devoted
to or divided with any incorporated association.

Although believing that the above embraces an answer te all the enquiries made
of me I will go further and assure you that there is every disposition on the part of
the Library Com[mitt]ee of Congress and myself to have the few things belonging to
the Nat[ional] Inst[itute] that are now in the hall taken care of, and due notice will
be given to the Institute should the little room they occupy be required for collection
of the Exp[loring] Exp[e]d[ition], which it is now confidently believed will entirely
fill the hall when they are fully arranged. I will now close with a few words respect-
ing the last clause of your letter relative to my feeling any ‘‘unkindness’’ towards
the Nat[ional] Inst[itute]. It is rather improbable that any unkindness or hostility
should exist on my part considering that the labour of the Expedition, combined
with the exertion of your gifted president (Mr. Poinsett), were the origin of it, and
that in all probability it may one day become the depository of the large and valuable
collection of the Exp[lorin]g Expedition, therefore I can not but feel deeply inter-
ested in its welfare—everything compatible with the performance of my public duties
will always be done to accommodate and assist its rise and progress.

Believe me, with great respect, your obt. svt.,
CHARLES WILKES.

Col. J. J. ABERT,

U.S. Corps Top. Engrs.

LETTER FROM COLONEL ABERT TO CAPTAIN WILKES, SEPTEMBER, 15343.

DEAR SiR: Your letter has been duly received. As well for our own justification
and for your satisfaction, I will go into some length in a reply.

Abstractly speaking, there may be no right in the Institute to enquire into the
course of your official action, but if under any circumstances this action be hazard-
ous to the property of the Institute, or to that deposited and placed under its care,
there can be no doubt, I think, that the Institute has a right to enquire if such be
the case and why.
128 Memortal of George Brown Goode.

You can, if you choose, give us a very short reply—that what you have done was
in the execution of your official duties, for which you can account only to your offi-
cial superiors. Yet, nevertheless, the Institute would have the right to make the
enquiry and to expect an answer of some kind. But allow me to call your attention
to the reflection that it is in your civil relation of an agent of the Library Committee
in which you are now temporarily acting, and it is only in that capacity that any
accountability can attach to you, or that any was supposed by the committee of the
Institute to exist.

As an officer of the Navy you can not now be acting; your course is not by virtue
of your commission or rank in the Navy, or orders from your constitutional or legal
superiors, or of any duties connected with your profession. No official responsibility
can exist between Capt. Wilkes, of the Navy, and the Library Committee, or official
penalties be incurred by a neglect of its directions. Your position, if I understand
it correctly, is by virtue of the authority in the Library Committee to place the col-
lection under the care of such persons as they may appoint. The executive or the
constitutional superior of the Army, as well as Navy, were it to assign you to a
ship to-morrow, you would have to go and abandon the care assigned to you by the
Library Committee, which shows, I think, that it is not the official relations of the
offices which are involved in your present position. Dr. King once had the place,
then Dr. Pickering, to whom you succeeded. Both of these gentlemen were civilians,
and as you succeeded them in your present place it is clear, I think, that it is not in
any official relation which Capt. Wilkes can claim, or to which he can be assigned,
that he is now acting, but in the civil relation of a person appointed by the Joint
Library Committee to take charge of matters the publication of which has been
made a duty of that committee. I make these explanations of our views that you
may feel relieved from the supposition that we had the most remote idea of encroach-
ing upon your official rights, for which I assure you, as well as for your well-estab-
lished professional abilities, we all entertain the greatest respect.

The specimens of the Exploring Squadron are to be deposited and arranged in the
upper room of the Patent Office. This, however, does not, we think, give the exclu-
sive possession of that room for that purpose unless such exclusive possession be
necessary. Whether it be or not, I am willing to admit, is the right of the Library
Committee to decide, and if they so decide others must give way. ‘The sign lately
put over the door would seem to indicate that such decision was in contemplation.
The Institute has also possession of part of that room, of the eastern half, by direc-
tion of the Secretary of State, under whose care the whole building was then placed.
The Institute has property there of great amount and, in our judgment, of great
value, and if it has to move its property, by virtue of a decision by the Library Com-
mittee, the courtesy of notice from the agent of that committee is not, I think, too
much to expect, and our right to enquire if we shall have to move should be viewed
as a duty on our part as the curator of so much property. I assure you the enquiry
was made with these impressions only. Your assurance that notice will be given if
we should have to move leaves us satisfied in this respect.

All that belongs to the Exploring Squadron is under the care of the Library Com-
mittee or itsagent. But the Institute is a legal body, regularly chartered with defined
rights over its property, gifts, and deposits. (See law of 27 July, 1842.) Now, what
is this property? Gifts and deposits from members, from foreign governments, from
distinguished foreigners, from our diplomatic agents, from foreign societies, from
domestic societies, from departments of our own Government, from our own citizens.
In a word, all the property in the room, except that of the Exploring Squadron and
that of the Patent Office, which (Institute) property, unless I am very much mis-
taken, far exceeds the impression you have of it, and judging from some remark
about the few things of the Institute.

Now, this property requires care, watching, and cleaning.
The Genesis of the United States National Museum. 129

I have at this time in my office twenty-four cases of the most valuable specimens
sent from Asia and Mexico to the Institute which we have not sent up, because we
were informed they would probably not be received, and would certainly not be
allowed to be opened and exhibited, as some 60 boxes or more of Institute specimens
are now in the room unopened and unattended to. Surely it was proper that such
matters should be inquired into if only for the future government of the course of
the Institute. We can not be without anxiety for our valuable collection nor
unmindful of our obligations to preserve it.

I feel satisfied you will see with me only matter of lamentation in such a state of
things. Science and national pride must bitterly regret any seeming necessity for it.

All the labor, all the contributions, from whatever branch of service, civil, diplo-
matic, navy, military, are for the scientific reputation of our common country, and
a hearty union of all is necessary to form a good collection. Deprive it of the charm
of being National, deprive it of that halo of interest with which the name National
has already covered it, and it will soon cease to increase, will be no longer worthy
of a thought, and will rapidly degenerate to the insignificance of a local collection.

Such are at least my views, and such were also the views which brought the
National Institute into existence, when about eight of us had our first meetings at
Mr. Poinsett’s. We then digested a scheme in which we thought all persons could
unite, because it was National; which all parties could befriend, because it was
National; to which all conditions and branches of service could contribute, because
it was National; to which the Government might extend its patronizing hand, because
it was National, because it aided and elevated the National character, and because
it would furnish a broad platform of National feeling, upon which all parties, all
sects, all conditions of life could, on principles cherished by all, meet and unite in
erecting a temple to National fame. And how charmingly have we gone on; look
at our great accumulations for so short a time, and yet it is all but a good beginning;
look at the feeling which exists throughout our country and throughout the world
in our favor, evidenced by contributions and letters from all quarters, and then ask
the question whether to aid or to embarrass a design so glorious and so free from
objections will give the most individual fame?

But we must know our condition, and what we have to depend upon. It is essen-
tial that we should, and you, as the agent of the Library Committee, are the only
person from whom we can obtain the desired information. Therefore, of necessity,
we had to address ourselves to you, and if I understand your answer correctly it is:
That you do not consider yourself at liberty to allow any of the persons receiving
pay from the United States to give any of their time or attention to the affairs of the
Institute, to overhaul or arrange or look after its specimens.

Both of your predecessors, Dr, King and Dr. Pickering, were also, with the appro-
bation of the executive, Curators to the Institute, and gave some attention to its
affairs. We did not, of course, expect that you would take a similar trouble upon
yourself, and one question in my previous letter was to ascertain if you would allow
any of those under you to attend to the Institute collection and property. I under-
stand you also as thinking this beyond your power. Under these circumstances the
Institute must act, and promptly, or its valuable collection will be injured. The
board of management will soon meet and the matter will be brought before them.

If in anything I have misunderstood you, I beg that you will not delay to correct
me, for be assured that I have no desire to put anyone in the wrong, and least of all
the eminent commander of the Exploring Expedition.

were

Soon afterwards a more serious conflict of authority began—this time

with the Commissioner of Patents, who was actually the official guar-

dian, not only of a portion of the collections, but of the hall in which
NAT MUS 97, PT 2 9

ZO Memorial of George Brown Goode.

the entire cabinets, both of the society and the Government, were
lodged.

The correspondence referred to in Mr. Ellsworth’s first letter evidently
related to the great mass of native copper of the Ontonagon (still a
prominent feature in the National Museum), which the Secretary of
War had placed in the custody of the Institute at its meeting in Octo-
ber previous. Mr. Ellsworth was evidently bent upon dislodging the
National Institute from the Patent Office. To effect this he pursued the
not altogether ingenuous course of belittling the Institute, its work, and
the extent of its cabinet, and laying claim to the official possession of
more important collections of models, fabrics, manufactures, which, in
accordance with the act of 1836, reorganizing the Patent Office, he
designates as the ‘‘ National Gallery,’’ a name which he also applied to
the great hall in which all the collections were deposited.

The Commissioner of Patents was evidently legally in the right, and
the Institute found itself bereft not only of its command of Government
collections, but also of its hall.

The correspondence is here printed.

LETTER FROM ‘THE COMMISSIONER OF PATENTS TO THE SECRETARY OF WAR,
DECEMBER 7, 1842.
PATENT OFFICE,
Washington, December 7th, 1872.

Str: I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of a letter from the Secretary of
War of the 2d inst., communicating the information that my letter to his Depart-
ment of rst inst. had been referred to a committee of the National Institute for
answer.

Permit me to enclose a copy of the correspondence with said committee. I have
ventured to say in my reply that I did not believe their letter to myself had met
your approval.

The Hon. Sec’y will imagine my surprise at the letter of the committee when he
is informed that the Commissioner of Patents has the custody of the Patent Office
building; that he holds a special appointment under the Joint Committee of the
Library to take charge of all the property of Government mentioned in the act of |
August 26, 1842, and more especially as the National Institute has omitted to appoint
a Curator to protect the other articles received from the War and Navy Departments,
or even their own effects in this building since July last, and hence the care has
devolved upon myself as an act of courtesy if not of duty.

Under these circumstances, and having interested myself in the exhibition of the
copper rock at the seat of Government, I offered to take charge of it, under the
direction of the Secretary of War, if he desired it.

The disappointment expressed by many members of Congress at not finding this
beautiful specimen in the National Gallery prompted me, at the date of my letter,
to make, as I hoped, a respectful offer to the Hon. Secretary of my services. Nor
would I have replied to the committee had I not supposed that silence might seem
to adinit that I had been guilty of great presumption.

Let me add that I am a member of the Institute and cherish its welfare.

T remain, with highest respect, your’s, obediently
y g ’ By; ) y,

H. lL. ELLSWORTH.
Hon. J. M. PORTER,

Secy. of War.
Report of U, S. National Museum 189

PLATE 17,

The Genests of the United States National Museum, 131

LETTER FROM COLONEL ABERT TO THE COMMISSIONER OF PATENTS,
DECEMBER 5, 1843.
WASHINGTON, Dec. 5, 7843.

Str: The honorable Secretary of War has referred to the committee of the
National Institute your letter of the Ist inst.

Being uninformed by any law or regulation of the existence of a ‘‘ National Gal-
lery’’ or of any other collection under your care than the Models of the Patent
Office, you will pardon me if I do not fully appreciate the views or reasoning of
your letter,

At one period, by order of the Executive, the upper room of the Patent Office
was made the place of deposit for the effects of the ‘‘ National Institute,’’ a society
known to our laws and regularly chartered by Congress. This room thus became
the Hall of the Institute. In this room the Institute has deposited the collections
from the exploring squadron, and those from all other sources which were placed
under its care by order of the Executive. But from a supposed necessity, Congress
vested the care of the deposit from the exploring squadron for the purpose of pre-
paring an account of it, in such person as the Joint Library Committee should
appoint. This committee appointed Capt. Wilkes, of the Navy, for that purpose,
who is now exercising the functions of his office, and who may with propriety be
considered as in the regular official possession of the room.

In all this one sees nothing of the Patent Office or of any ‘‘ National Gallery’’ or
of any charge direct or indirect of the Patent Office over the deposits referred to.
If therefore by ‘‘ National Gallery”’ is intended to designate the room in which are
now placed the deposits of the Institute and of the exploring squadron, it is not a
room over which the head of the Patent Office can exercise control,

By alaw of the 20th July, 1840, the Secretaries of the War and Navy Departments
were placed in charge of the specimens of Natural History, received and to be
received by them, and funds were appropriated for their preservation. These officers
have deposited such articles as were then in their possession, and such as have since
been received in the care of the National Institute, as that law and the practice
under it are considered as prescribing the course on these subjects, and in the 2d
section of the law of July 27, 1842, all these deposits and the principle upon which
they were made were confirmed and legalized. When therefore the copper rock
arrived, to which your letter refers, the honorable Secretary of War, in conformity
of law and usage, placed it under the care of the National Institute.

As it was understood to be rather an inconvenience to Capt. Wilkes from the
want of space to receive any more articles of the Institute in the Hall under his care,
and as the Institute has at present no Curator there, those boxes and articles which
have come to hand within the last few months have been temporarily deposited
elsewhere, and among others the copper rock. The Committee of the Institute which
received this rock had it deposited in the War Office yard, where it is accessible
without impediment to all who are disposed to examine it, and where it is under the
efficient protection of the guard of the War and Navy Departinent buildings.

Very respectfully, your obt. svt.,
J. J. ABERT,
: Ch. Com, Nat. Inst.

H. L. ELLSwor Tu, Esqr.,

Commr. of Patents, Washington.
132 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

LETTER FROM THE COMMISSIONER OF PATENTS TO COLONEL ABERT,
DECEMBER 7, 1843.

PATENT OFFICE, December 7, 1843.

Str: I have to acknowledge the receipt of yours of the 5th inst.

The Hon. Sec’y of War has, it seems, referred to the Chairman of the Commit-
tee of the National Institute the answer of my letter to his Department, offering
to receive for exhibition at the National Gallery the ‘‘ copper rock.”’

I can not withhold my surprise or the expression of my regret that the committee
of the Institute on the reference of my letter deemed it necessary to declare their
unwillingness to recognize any such place as the ‘‘ National Gallery’? under my care
and to question the right of the Commissioner of Patents to the use of the large Hall
in the Patent Office building, and still more at /hezv claim of right to use that Hall
when their accommodations were only enjoyed at the convenience of the Commis-
sioner of Patents. To this unexpected reply to my letter I can not believe the Hon.
Secretary of War has given his approval. 2

Permit me to refer the Committee to the Act of July,’36, reorganizing the Patent
Office. ‘The first section gives the Commissioner of Patents the care of the models
of Patents, records, books, &c., &c.

The 20th section establishes a ‘‘ National Gallery,’’ in which the Commissioner of
Patents is bound to exhibit not only models but fabrics, manufactures, &c.

To carry out the design of this law cases have been erected at great expense and
many articles collected, while additions are daily made.

It is true that the National Institute did seek to obtain the entire control of the
large room in the Patent Office. A refusal was given because the Patent Office
building was by law placed under the care of the Commissioner of Patents and
because the room was needed, at least in part, by the office.

The law of August 26th, ’42, to which you refer, simply enacts:

‘That until other provisions be made by law for the safe keeping and arrange-
ment of such objects of natural history as may be in possession of Government, the
same shall be deposited and arranged in the upper room of the Patent Office under
the care of such person as may be appointed by the Joint Committee of the Library.”’
The act evidently did not contemplate the exclusive control of the room, but a super-
vision of the articles entrusted to the care of said Library Committee.

This Committee on advisement with the War and Navy Department appointed
Dr. C. Pickering, who enjoyed the use of the Hall in common with the, Patent
Office in a manner I had supposed entirely satisfactory to all concerned.

To relieve this Bureau from care and responsibility I proposed to the Hon. Secre-
tary of State to transfer to Dr. Pickering the custody of the archives, jewels, etc.,
received from the Department, but the Secretary declined, observing the Commiis-
sioner of Patents was a branch of the State Department, and he could not consent
to place the articles confided to him under care of a corporation or a stranger over
whom he had no control.

In July last Dr. Pickering resigned his trust. The Joint Committee of the Library,
upon whom alone devolved the right of filling the vacancy, entirely unexpectedly to
myself, conferred the appointment on the Commissioner of Patents. Of course the
Comunissioner of Patents has now by law the custody of the large Hall, which in all
official correspondence has been called the ‘‘ National Gallery.”

I will remark that the Hon. Secretary of State expressed a wish in the letter giv-
ing directions as to the large Hall that the National Institute might be permitted to
occupy any ‘‘empty cases’? so long as this could be done without inconvenience to
the Patent Office. In this request I most heartily acquiesced, and have permitted
the Institute to enjoy from time to time a very considerable portion of the upper and
lower stories. And while the Commissioner of Patents has the sole custody of the
The Genests of the United States National Museum. £33

building, the Institute may be assured that the articles deposited by them will receive
the same care and watchfulness as those belonging to the Patent Office or those
received from the Government.

It has given me pleasure to try to accommodate all parties, hoping that Congress
would make further provisions as appeared to be necessary. The time has now
arrived when the wants of the Patent Office imperiously require more of the large
Hall, and it remains for the National Legislature to determine who shall be accom-
modated when there is not room for all.

I regret your correspondence has compelled me to say thus much in defense of the
position I have the honor to hold.

Yours, respectfully,
H. L. ELLSwWortH.

Col. J. J. ABERT,

Chn. Com. Nat. Inst.

Still another blow was in reserve. Statements were made in public to
the effect that the collections of the Institute were of very trifling value,
and one which appears to have been printed, though I can gain no infor-
mation as to its nature, made certain charges in connection with the por-
traits in the possession of the Institute, intended to show that the Institute
was ‘‘unworthy of the patronage of the Government.’’

This happened apparently during the great meeting of the friends of
the Institute in April, 1844, evidently with the intention of counteracting
any effect which the assemblage might produce upon Congress.

Mr. George P. Marsh, M. C., at this time (April 4) addressed a letter
to the corresponding secretary of the Institute, stating that its memorial
had been referred to him as a member of the Library Committee of Con-
gress, and asking for information to enable him to meet objections made
by persons unfriendly to the Institution. The information given in the
following letter in fact constitutes a third report upon the national col-
lection, a little more than a year subsequent to the date of those already
quoted:

LETTER FROM MESSRS. MARKOE AND ABERT TO THE HON. GEORGE P. MARSH,
APRIL, 8, 1844.
TAC? ‘7, “7 SL

To Mr. Marsu, H. Reps. NS eae

DEAR Sir: Your letter of the 4 inst. has been received. It found me occupied by
numerous & pressing engagements, and left so short a space of time for reply that I
have been compelled to call for aid upon a friend, Col. Abert, with whom I was for a
long time associated a member of an important committee of the Institute, whose
business it was to understand its affairs.

It is to be deplored that there are persons so unfriendly to the Institute, as to state
‘‘ that its collections are of very trifling extent and value, and that for this and other
reasons not necessary now to be specified, the Institute is unworthy the patronage
of the Government.’’ Some consolation, however, is derived from the assurance,
that you do not entertain these opinions, and from the opportunity which is now
offered of correcting at least one of these erroneous opinions the only one that has
been presented with sufficient distinctness to be met, namely, that which refers to
the extent and value of the Institute’s collections. We should have rejoiced if ‘‘ the
other reasons’’ had been as candidly and specifically made, so that they might be as
134 Memortal of George Brown Goode. '

promptly and explicitly met. We seize this occasion to assure you of our readiness,
our anxious desire, to meet any unfounded report or misrepresentation which may
have led to the assertion, that the Institute is unworthy the patronage of the Gov-
ernment. We are the more anxious as the assertion seems to have grown out of
other considerations than the supposed trifling extent and value of the collections of
the Institute.

The property of the Institute is of two kinds: That which it owns, the result of
donations & purchases, and that which it holds by Deposit. The latter kind, by our
Charter cannot be withdrawn, even by depositors, till after due notice has been
given. The statement which follows, made by Col. Abert & wh. embraces a very
inadequate description of the property, embraces gifts, purchases & deposits is taken
from the records of the Institute, and it may be verified at any time by reference to the
records, an attentive examination of wh. would show that the property of the Insti-
tute is of immense value, & of great American as well as general interest; & that it
is increasing every day in a wonderful manner—a perusal of the two Bulletins of
the proceedings of the Institute wh. have been published will give you the details
for two years of these accumulated & accumulating materials, & the unpublished
Records wh. go back for two years will supply the rest—Mr. Markoe begs leave to
add that the MS. matter wh. accompanied the memorial to Congress, & wh. has
happily been placed in your hands, embraces a very condensed view, wh. he pre-
pared with great care & toil of all the contributions, donations & deposits which
have been made to the Inst. since its foundation in May 1840, up to March 1844, &
of the names of the contributors, donors, & depositors. For a refutation of such
misstatements we refer you to these exact details, & sincerely hope that Congress
will publish them for its own information as wellas for the information of the world
& as an act of justice to the Institute.

The collections referred to are in the great hall of the Patent office, at the Treas-
ury, War & State Depts., at Col. Abert’s office & at the house of the Secretary of the
Inst. Besides wh. letters have lately been rec’d. announcing the approach of great
quantities of boxes of books, specimens of natural history, & other miscellaneous
presents, from for. Govts. Ministers & Consuls of the U. S., from officers of the
Army & Navy, & from many Societies & individuals both at home & abroad.

In conclusion, while we invite scrutiny in any shape, we take the liberty of sug-
gesting our earnest & anxious wish to meet a committee wh. whenever appointed
will find us prepared to explain the character & merits of the Inst. & effectually to
defeat unfounded & irresponsible surmises.

With true regards, Yr. obt. humble svts.
FRANCIS MARKOE, jr.

Joaloe ABER:

Imperfect & hasty statement of the collections & specimens, being either the
absolute property of the Institute, or specially deposited under its care. It is
believed, that the greater part of these, will eventually become the property of the
Institute; many of them having already become so.

Minerals—ist. About 6000 miscellaneous specimens from all quarters.

2d. A complete collection of about 10,000 specimens.

3d. In addition there are about 190 boxes or collections, not examined or opened.
They are spoken of as ‘‘boxes’’ or ‘“‘collections,’’ because the donors used these
terms in their letters presenting them and they are accordingly so entered upon the
Journals of the Institute.

4th. There are also 4 boxes of splendid minerals of Mexico, presented by His
Exc. Mr. Tonsel the Minister of War & Marines of Mexico, and one box Mex.
Antiquities.

Fossils.—Upwards of 30 boxes and seven or 8 thousand miscellaneous specimens
& casts of rare fossils.
Report of U.S. National Museum, 1897. Part Il. PLATE 18.

The Genests of the United States National Museum, 135

Birds.—tst, 1368 separate specimens; 2d. nine large boxes, one of which contains
27 dozen skins of rare birds from Brazil.

OQuadrupeds.—Between 4 and 500 specimens. Insects 74100 specimens, and more
than a dozen boxes besides not opened. Most of these in a deplorable condition for
want of funds to preserve & arrange them.

Shells. —1638 specimens, & more than 20 boxes and one barrel.

An immense number of fishes, reptiles mollusca, et cetera. One donor, Lt. Ged-
ney, U. S. N., gave upwards of 600 specimens & a large & rare collection of reptiles,
fishes &c. which composed a part of the munificent gift of Prince Momfanoi, of
Spain.

Coins, medals & medallions, antique & modern, embracing very many extremely
rare & valuable series, gold, silver & copper &c. Ist. 573 specimens; 2d. seven boxes.

Maps and atlasses in great numbers; books & pamphlets, between 4 & 5000, many
very rare, sent by the Russian, French, Belgian, Brazilian & other governments, &
from Societies in various countries. About rooo engravings, many extremely choice,
by the first Artists in the world, and several large boxes of books & engravings not
opened.

Specimens of woods, marbles, domestic manufactures, fossil teeth, megatherium
bones, Ancient vases & vessels, electrotype pictures, mosaics, Egyptian & South Sea
idols, large collections of human quadruped & bird crania, antique masks, rare col-
lection of Indian dresses &c., daguerreotype pictures, corals & coralines, large col-
lection of dried plants from all parts of the world. Specimens of art implements
&c., and an infinite diversity of contributions of every description too complicated
& various to enumerate. ‘

The Columbian Institute’s collection consisting of a large number of books, works
of art, specimens of Nat. Hist., all which are now the property of the Nat. Insti-
tute. Models of monuments, & of works of art etc. etc. Several hundred Indian
Portraits, and other paintings, many very rare & valuable & some the production of
the best masters.

Skeletons, Antlers, Horns, Teeth, Bones & casts of various quadrupeds & other
animals.

Indian Musical & other Instruments & implements & Lithographic portraits &
drawings in great numbers.

Large collection of objects of Natural History, idols, fabrics, antique works of art
&c, from Egypt and Africa, many of great curiosity & rarity, from various persons, &c.

Collection of Statuary, busts & casts.

Large collection of trilobites & rare fossils.

Dr. Franklin’s printing press.

A collection of Bedouine war instruments, & a variety of oriental curiosities.

A series of fine Electrotype medals, embracing the British & French Sovereigns,
from William the Conqueror to Victoria, and from Pharamond to Louis Philippe.

It is scarcely possible, in reply to your note wh. calls for an immediate answer to
enumerate further, but we don’t depend on so scant a list, given in terms necessarily
somewhat vague. We call special attention to the minute & exact detail given in
the abstract of the proceedings of the Inst. prepared by Mr. Markoe, & wh. accom-
panies the memorial to Congress, where every thing will be found exhibited &
described. We believe that if the collections of the Inst. are not already as great in
value as those brought home by the Exploring Expedition, they will become far
more so in a very short time. In American interest the Institute’s collections far
transcend the other.

In answer, apparently to a subsequent inquiry from Mr. Marsh, as to
the amount of the subsidy desired by the Institute, the following sched-
ule seems to have been prepared. There is nothing, however, to indicate
136 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

that it was ever submitted to Congress. It is of interest as showing the
state of expenditures contemplated for the National Museum nearly half
a century ago:

[Memorandum in Colonel Abert’s hand.]

DEAR S1R: In answer to your inquiry of this morning as to the probable amount
and the division of it which will be requisite to preserve and arrange the various
articles of natural history belonging to the National Institute, I have the honor to
submit the following views to your consideration :

One taxidermist, who should also bea scientific ornithologist and well versed

in natural history.generally,, per yeataes > fae -u)e0 tee ae ee $1, 400
Oneassistant 5 ci..2.6%.., fr wo cele inene aiareraetelsiane A/a & Meee he will tele sue etettera Keene 600
One entomologist, who should also be capable of arranging and naming the

LOptiliay ses soe dee tse vee ea dee Uelces cp ak ae oe by alee Castes cee ee I, 200
One assistant <2 sia; os sisaecgetne is evekordag aooteuesd More oes cheese eee eue oh Neen oe gee 600
One miimeralogisthg o.45 fy ciss sieve = woes vale os, Sadetelb gest ettenae tally evel echt een eae eer I, 000
ONE ASSIStANE &. i Rae caste rs w ansae eleaae Re a ence aie Sarai ise nae a Ceneoe ete eae eee 500
One person in special charge of the articles, to watch over them, exhibit

them. etc. who should also beta tmechaniey sri cece ere ete ere 600
Two laborers—these should be men of some intelligence and some ability

in using tools, fr per, day Tor edel .. 0... kal ute wisi eal ote ete eee EONS 730
Tools, implements, preserving liquors and ingredients, apparatus cases, and

elde( Sen ib: ubUdch are Gna Mn Mio GRO Gap eS Onan oO ome ONES bon comoue a 2, 500
Freight, postage, stationery, and other contingencies..............--+-++-. I, 200
Arrearages due for freight, postage, printing, Cte). \2-c see...) (peer I, 500

II, 830

Hon. Mr. MARSH, May 18, 1844,
Flouse of Representatives.

Notwithstanding the extraordinary efforts at this time made and the
favorable report of Senator Choate, Congress adjourned in the spring of
1844 without making any provision for the care of the collections of the
Institute.

Another effort was made in 1845. Senator Levi Woodbury, president
of the Institute, in the annual address delivered by him on January
15 in the Hall of the House of Representatives, made a most impressive
appeal to Congress. After urging prompt action in the matter of the
Smithson trust—‘‘a trust so sacred and imperative that a longer delay to
execute it might prove not a little derogatory to our national honor ’’—
he continued:

Should the plan for this not be speedily matured, including the use of the Institute
or its officers, then a grant at once of enough to defray the expenses attendant on
the good preservation and collection of the public materials in our charge seems
indispensable, and is believed also to be free from every doubt connected either with
expediency or the Constitution, as many of the collections now belong to the Goy-
ernment and all of them are vested in it when the charter expires, and may be forth-
with if desirable. What small sum then is granted for this object by the Govern-
ment is granted for taking care of its own property, the title of which is public, the
one public, the whole end and aim public; and that act of duty done, we hope, by
the further help of our own contributions, with those of liberal friends of science

The Genests of the United States National Museum. 37

elsewhere, by the continued and generous assistance of the officers of the Army
and Navy, of our foreign ministers and consuls, as well as the members of Congress
and many in private life, I think it may be safely said we hope to advance still
farther and faster, till we render the Institute, in many respects, worthy its unri-
valed position and the growing country to which it belongs.*

This was followed up by a mennorial to Congress, which, having never
before been published, is here presented,* and which was favorably acted
upon by the Library Committee, who adopted the report submitted by
Senator Choate concerning the similar memorial of 1844. No action was,
however, taken.

Still another appeal was made? to the Twenty-ninth Congress, which
was presented to the Senate by Lewis Cass, and to the House of Repre-
sentatives by John Quincy Adams. This, too, was fruitless.

In 1846 also, as we have seen, Mr. Ingersoll, always a faithful friend
of the society, endeavored to establish a connection between it and the
Smithsonian Institution in the administration of a National Museum, but
the effort failed at the last moment, and the Regents of the Institution
were not inclined to take advantage of the privilege of putting this
building as a wing to the Patent Office, as they might have done.

In the organization of the Smithsonian Institution the National Instt-
tute was practically left out of account and the hopes of many years
were blasted. What was still more discouraging was that power had been
given to the new corporation to take possession of all Government collec-
tions in the custody of the Institute, on the possession of which its chief
claim to a subsidy was founded, and in connection with which a consid-
erable debt had been contracted,‘ as is indicated by Mr. Rush’s letter of
July, 1846.

In the ‘‘ Notice to the members of the National Institute ’’ which served
as an introduction to its fourth bulletin, dated November 25, 1846, a
pitiful statement of the condition of the society is given:

More than a thousand boxes, barrels, trunks, etc., embracing collections of value,
variety, and rarity in literature, in the arts, and in natural history, remain on hand
unopened—the liberal contributions of members at home and abroad—of Govern-
ments, of learned and scientific societies and institutions of foreign countries and
of our own—and of munificent friends and patrons in every part of the world. For

the preservation, reception, and display of these, the Institute has neither funds nor
a suitable depository.s

This was a fatal condition of affairs, for the formation of a museum
was the one object which, out of the many specified, seemed to have

finally absorbed the energies and the limited income of the National
Institute.

* Annual address, pp. 33, 34. 2 Note E. 3 Note F.

4 Colonel Abert estimated the amount in 1844 at $1,500 and it was now doubtless
greater.

5 Proceedings of the National Institute, qth Bull., p. 481.
138 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

It had evidently been the belief of itschief promoters that if a museum
under the patronage of the Government and under the control of their
society could be firmly established in Washington, all the other ends
sought by them would follow in necessary sequence.

In accordance with this policy circulars had been sent out to the offi-
cers of the Army at distant ports asking their aid and pointing out the
manner in which they might be useful in carrying out the objects of the
Institution, ‘‘and others to the governors of States and to the diplomatic
and consular representatives of the United States in foreign countries,
announcing that they had been made corresponding members, and invit-
ing their aid in the promotion of the objects of the Institution,’’ and to
each member of Congress, with a request that he bring specimens of the
natural productions of his district on his return to Washington."

WASHINGTON, February 9, 1847.

Str: The National Institution for the Promotion of Science and the Useful Arts,
established at the seat of Government, is desirous of procuring specimens of the
natural productions of every portion of the United States, and for that purpose
respectfully asks your aid and cooperation. The district you represent doubtless
possesses many important minerals and vegetable productions, which might prove
of great value to the arts if they were generally made known. Specimens of such
productions being brought to Washington will not only advance the objects of the
Institution, but will prove advantageous to the country whence they come. They
will be described by the scientific members of the Institution, and their uses and
advantages pointed out, and the specimens exhibited to the public in its museum.

You are respectfully requested to bring with you, on your return, such specimens
as you may collect during the ensuing recess. Even a single specimen from each
member will be of great advantage to the Institution, and be thankfully received as
a tribute to science.

We have the honor to be, sir, you most obedient servants,

jj: *RESEOrINSsEwns
J. K. PAULDING,
Directors.
To the Hon.

The assumption by a society of the important duty of organizing and
conducting a national museum would seem at the present time somwhat
strange, but it should be remembered that from the beginning it was
announced that all the collections made were the property of the General
Government, and that in the incorporation of the society by Congress all
the property of the corporation at the time of the expiration of its charter,
limited to twenty years, should belong to and devolve upon the United
States. Still more important a factor in the influence of the society was
the character of its membership, which included most of the leading men
in political, scientific, and literary circles, and had upon its list of officers
and directors such names as that of John Tyler, President of the United
States, and his Cabinet, an ex-Secretary of War, two leading Senators,

‘Circular letter to members of Congress,
Report of U. S. National Museum, 1897. Part Il. PLaTE 19.

CHARLES PATRICK DALY.
The Genests of the United States National Museum. 139

Levi Woodbury, Peter Force, Colonel J. J. Abert, Colonel J. G. Totten,
and Lieutenant M. F. Maury, Rufus Choate, Abbott Lawrence, and
A. D. Bache. Our Government functions were less centralized at that
time, and the policy of allowing more scope to private effort in public
matters was similar in this instance at least to that which prevails in
Great Britain at the present time. It was not to have been expected,
however, that its authority should have remained long unquestioned,
and in the end its lot was that which very frequently befalls those who
out of disinterestedness undertake, unasked, to forward the interest of
others. Thus, as Rush aptly put it, the merit of the Institute was
turned to its misfortune, and its ‘‘voluntary zeal’’ was thought totally
unworthy of recognition.

The various invitations to members of Congress, army aud navy
officers, consuls, and citizens to collect and send in materials had, how-
ever, begun to bring in great quantities of material, and the inability
to care for these properly was the cause of the appeals for Government
aid, which, as time went on, grew more frequent and urgent till 1846,
when discouragement took the place of anticipation, and the society
fell into a condition of inactivity and apathy.

The real cause of the decline of the National Institute was simple
enough. Failing to secure grants of money from Congress, the society
was overwhelmed by the deluge of museum materials which, in response
to its enthusiastic and widely circulated appeals, came to it from all
quarters of the world. The annual receipts from the assessment of
members were insufficient to pay for the care of the collections, and
although by virtue of the long term of its charter the collections were
kept together until 1861, there was little science and little energy mani-
fested in this administration.

In the archives of the National Museum there are a number of unpub-
lished papers which are of value as constituting a partial history of the
collections during this period, and some of which appear to be worthy
of permanent preservation are here presented.

One of them possesses a melancholy interest of its own. It is a list
of the active members of the National Institute in arrears for dues up
to December 12, 1843. ‘The delinquents were 168 in number, including
nearly one-half of the names on the membership roll, and the total
arrearage amounted to $1,300. No wonder that the managers were
discouraged, for this sum represented a like deficit in the assets of the
society, its only income being derived from membership fees.

From this time on, as we have already seen, the society languished.
In 1848 its cabinet was almost the only evidence of its existence. At
that time, however, an effort was made to resuscitate it, which seems
to have been partially successful. The coming in of a new Adminis-
tration was in some degree beneficial, the President, Taylor, having
140 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

accepted the position of patron of the society, and some members of the
Cabinet proving to be friendly.

About this time the society seems to have regained its control of the hall
in the Patent Office, an apartment which now came to be known properly
as The National Institute—a name which it retained until the hall was
finally dismantled.

A visitor to Washington at the time of the inauguration of Taylor,
in 1849, has left a record of his impressions of the capital city—at that
time still very crude and unfinished. ‘‘ All that meets the gaze in Wash-
ington, except the Capitol and the Departments, seems temporary,’’ he
wrote. ‘‘The city appears like.the site of an encampment, as if it were
more adapted for a bivouac than a home,’’ and then he goes on to
describe some of the principal characteristics of the city:

In the National Institution, like nearly all of our scientific and literary establish-
ments, as yet in embryo, sea quadrupeds from the Arctic zone, birds of rare plumage,
the coat in which Jackson fought at New Orleans, the rifle of an Indian chief, plants,
fossils, shells and corals, mummies, trophies, busts, and relics, typify inadequately
natural science and bold adventure. . . . The foundation of the long-delayed mon-
ument to him of whom it has been so admirably said that ‘‘ Providence made him
childless that his country might call him father,’’? the slowly rising walls of the
Smithsonian Institution, the vacant panels of the rotunda, the sculptured deformi-
ties on the eastern front of the Capitol, and the very coin, freshly minted from Cali-
fornia gold, awaken that painful sense of the incomplete, or that almost perplexing
consciousness of the new, the progressive, and the unattained which is peculiar to
our country.’

President T'aylor placed in the custody of the Institute the Washing-
ton relics, and some other hopeful things occurred. The members gained
courage and proceeded to revise its constitution and by-laws, to vote to
print a quarto volume annually to be entitled ‘‘ The Transactions of the
National Institute,’’? and to memorialize Congress for financial aid, and
to offer its services to the Government ‘‘as a referee in matters which
involve scientific knowledge and investigation.”’

In 1850, at the request of the Secretary of State, the Institute under-
took the appointment of the ‘‘Central Authority,’’ a committee of
21 members to pass upon articles proposed to be sent to the World’s
Fair of 1851 in London.

The needs of the Institute in 1850, as summed up in the Secretary’s
report, were not extravagant—a medium of publication, a curator and
librarian, who were to be paid sufficient salaries to enable them to give
a considerable portion of their time to the work, new bindings for the
books, and more room for library and meetings.*

11849. ‘Tuckerman, H.T. The Inauguration. The Southern Literary Messenger,
XV, pp. 236-240. Richmond, April, 1849.

2'This series was never begun.

3None of these, however, were realized, save for a short time the publication of
Proceedings in octavo in 1855-1857.
The Genesis of the United States National Museum., 141

At this time there were twenty-seven paying members of the society,
and its income was less than $150 yearly.*

Mr. C. F. Stansbury, the Secretary of the Institute, acted as its agent
for the World’s Fair, and obtained there some specimens for its museum,
and in 1856 others were received from the New York Exhibition.

It would appear from the records of this time that there was still a
Gallery of Curiosities in the Patent Office not in the custody of the
National Institute.*

In 1854 the Commissioner of Patents, for many years vested with a
measure of authority by the Library Committee, was given by Congress *
the administration of the collections and authorized to employ keepers,
and a trifling appropriation was made, to be expended under the Depart-
ment of the Interior—an arrangement which continued for three subse-
quent years.

In 1857, the Smithsonian Institution having definitely accepted the
responsibility of caring for the national collections, all the articles depos-
ited with the National Institute were removed. In addition to these
there were numerous objects directly under the control of the National
Institute which the officers would not permit to be removed. There was
evidently still a lingering hope that Congress would make provision for
the care of the collections. In this same year, 1858, another memorial
was sent to Congress, asking for an appropriation for preserving the
collections of objects of natural history intrusted to their care. This was
unfavorably reported upon by the Senate committee (see Bibliography,
under Brown) and in the House was referred to the Committee on the
District of Columbia, whose report showed that ‘‘the collections are now
in the Smithsonian Institution.’’ 4

*The following letter will serve to explain the nature of the ties by which a part
at least of the members were held to the organization:

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, January 5, 7852.

My DEAR Sir: I beg leave through you to thank the members of the National
Institute for the honor they conferred upon me by my election as one of the vice-
presidents, and to request that I may not be considered a candidate for reelection.

I shall continue to be a member and hold myself responsible for my portion of the
debt unavoidably incurred by the executive committee. It is my opinion that under
its present organization the Institution can not advance the cause of American
science, and that it may be productive of much evil.

I remain, very truly, your friend and servant,
JOSEPH HENRY.

PETER FORCE, Esq.

P. S.—I think it would be best to appoint a committee to inquire into the state of
the Institution, and to advise as to what is to be done, and how the debts which have
been incurred are to be paid. ' J. o.

2 Proceedings of the National Institute, new series, I, pp. 47, 48.
3Act of August 4, Statutes, X, 552.
4+Rhees, Documents, p. 653.
I42 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

Some of these Were, 11S “tiritey ibutethere was still a miscellaneous
collection, including many valuable objects, in the hall of the Patent

Office, and known as “‘the National Institute.’? Of these a catalogue -

was published by Alfred Hunter in 1859."

They were afterwards placed in some old cases in a passageway in the
Patent Office, and many valuable specimens and books were destroyed or
stolen, there being no one responsible for their safety.?

Professor Baird told the writer that the books and specimens were placed
on top of some file cases in a basement corridor, near an outer door, and
that a person with a cane could at any time dislodge an armful and carry
them away without impediment,

In 1861, shortly before the charter finally expired by limitation, the
birds and insects were almost completely destroyed and the library reduced
to broken sets of periodicals and transactions. Such as they were, they
were delivered by the Secretary of the Interior to the Smithsonian Insti-
tution. 3

This was the end of the National Institute and its efforts to found a
national museum, the end of the National Cabinet of Curiosities, and of
the National Gallery, except so far as it continued in the possession of the
Washington relics and the F ranklin press, exhibited in one of the halls
of the Patent Office,

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION AND THE NATIONAL CABINET OF CURIOSITIES.

After ten years of discussion, a bill to incorporate the Smithsonian
Institution received the approval of Congress and the President. ‘The
charter, in its final form, does not appear to have represented fairly the
views of any one party, except that which favored the library and inci-
dentally the museum. Several special provisions, not from our present
point of view harmonious with the spirit of Smithson’s bequest, were
eliminated, and the act as finally passed, while broad enough to admit
upon the foundation almost any work for intellectual advancement, was
fortunately expressed in such general terms as to allow a_large share of
liberty to the trustees or regents.

The Smithsonian Institution has had upon its governing board many
of the noblest and wisest of the men of the nation, and the Regents, to
whom, during the first four years of its corporate existence, the decision
of its policy and its future tendencies was intrusted, were chosen from
among the very best of those at that time in public life.

*Hunter’s Bibliography,

*It is said that some enlightened Commissioner of Patents, in power between
1850 and 1860, was annoyed by the presence of a collection of fossil vertebrates in
one of the rooms in his building, and without consulting anyone sent them to a
bone mill in Georgetown, where they were transformed into commercial fertilizers—
once for thought, they now became food for the farmers’ crops.

*Suithsonian Report, 1862, p. 16,
Report of U. S. National Museum, 1897 Part Il. PLATE 20.

The Genests of the United States National Museum. 143

Among them were George M. Dallas, the first chancellor, at that time
Vice-President of the United States; Chief Justice Taney; Rufus
Choate, of Massachusetts; Robert Dale Owen, of Indiana; George P.
Marsh, of Vermont; Lewis Cass, of Michigan; Jefferson Davis, of Mis-
sissippi; James A. Pearce, of Montana; James M. Mason and William
Winston Seaton, of Virginia; John McPherson Berrien, of Georgia;
William C. Preston, of South Carolina; William J. Hough, of New York;
Alexander Dallas Bache, Superintendent of the Coast Survey, and Gen-
eral Joseph G. Totten.

The Regents soon realized that in order to carry out efficiently the
trust which had devolved upon them, it would be necessary to decide
upon a definite course of policy, and to settle for themselves the inter-
pretation of certain of the provisions in the act of incorporation.

A committee was appointed at once to digest a plan to carry out the
provisions of the ‘‘Act to establish the Smithsonian Institution,’’ and on
January 25, 1847, this report was made, signed by Robert Dale Owen,
Henry W. Hilliard, Rufus Choate, and Alexander Dallas Bache, after
having made a preliminary report December 1, which was recominitted
to the committee December 21.

These dates are mentioned in order to afford opportunity for the remark
that in the interval between December 1 and December 21, Professor
Joseph Henry had been elected to and accepted the secretaryship of the
Institution, and that previous to his election he had submitted to the
Regents a sketch of a proposed plan of organization, which appears to
have been acceptable to the majority of the Board, and that in this sketch
were printed opinions which had from that time on a most powerful, and
in time a controlling, influence upon the policy of the Institution.’

The election of Professor Henry was in accordance with the view held
by the Regents, and expressed in the report of the committee, and even
more forcibly in the resolutions of the Board, that the Secretary must of
necessity become the chief executive officer of the Institution, and ‘‘ that
upon the choice of this single officer, more probably than on any one
other act of the Board, will depend the future good name and success
and usefulness of the Smithsonian Institution.’’?

‘At a meeting of the Joint Committee on Public Buildings and Grounds in Febru-
ary, 1865, Professor Henry said: ‘‘I have been from the first, now eighteen years, the
secretary or executive officer of the Smithsonian Institution. . . . Before my elec-
tion I was requested by one of the Regents to give a sketch of what, in accordance
with the will of Smithson, I considered should be the plan of organization, and after
due consideration of the subject there was not the least shadow of a doubt in my mind
that the intention of the donor was to found a cosmopolitan institution, the effects of
which should not be confined to one city, or even to one country, but should be
extended to the whole civilized world.’”? (Rep. Com., No. 129, Thirty-eighth Con-
gress, second session. )

? Report of the Organization Committee of the Smithsonian Institution, etc. Wash-
ington, 1847, pp. 18, 19. [Rhees, Documents, p. 941. ]
144 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

The choice of Professor Henry was by no means the unanimous act of
the Regents, and since in respect to personal qualifications he undoubtedly
fulfilled the requirements of the resolution passed by the Board previous
to the election of a Secretary, it is clear that some of the Regents did not
look with favor upon his plan of organization.

Of the 12 votes cast at the election December 3, 1846, 7 were in favor
of Professor Henry, and 5 for persons who had been officers of the old
National Institute, and closely associated with its policy.

A bare majority—for the change of one vote would have made a tie—
then placed itself on the side of the Henry policy. In its report the
committee on organization speaks plainly of ‘‘two great conflicting opin-
ions’? in the Board, for the harmonizing of which the ‘‘compromise’’ so
often referred to during the struggle of the following six years.

One party was in favor of devoting the larger part of the income to
the library and museum.

The other party favored rather the publication of scientific memoirs,
grants for the promotion of original researches, and the maintenance of
a lecture System: *

The ‘‘compromise’’ consisted in the division of the annual income into
two nearly equal parts, to be applied to the two classes of expenditures,
$15,000 to library and museum and the remainder ($15,910) to publica-
tion, research, and lectures.’

On one subject, however, the Regents seem to have been unanimous,
and to have given their opinion in the following resolution:

Resolved, That it is the intention of the act of Congress and in accordance with
the design of Mr. Smithson, as expressed in his will, that one of the principal modes
of executing the act and the trust is the accumulation of collections of specimens and
objects of natural history and of elegant art, and the gradual formation of a library
of valuable works pertaining to all departments of human knowledge, to the end that
a copious storehouse of materials of science, literature, and art, may be provided,
which shall excite and diffuse the love of learning among men, and shall assist the

original investigations and efforts of those who may devote themselves to the pursuit
of any branch of knowledge.4

The great building which, by the terms of this charter, the Smith-
sonian Regents were requested to erect and pay for was to be ‘‘ of suff-
cient size and with suitable rooms or halls for the reception and arrange-
ment upon a liberal scale of objects of natural history, including a

«To the library and museum party belonged, without doubt, Senator Choate, Mr.
Owen, and probably Mr. Rush and General Totten, who were both devoted to the
interests of the National Institute. Mr. Bache was, I suppose, the leader of the
opposition.

?Report of Committee on Organization, p. 21. [Documents, p. 942. ]

3In this resolution for the first time the term ‘‘natural history’’ is given its proper
scope, as including not only zoology and botany, but geology, mineralogy, and eth-
nology, although in the report of the committee a distinction seems to have been
made, probably for the purpose of better definition.

4Report of Committee on Organization, p. 20. [Documents, p. 942. ]
The Genests of the United States National Museum. 145

geological and mineralogical cabinet, a chemical laboratory, a library, a
gallery of art, and the necessary lecture rooms;’’ and this was coupled
with the accompanying provision, that, ‘‘in proportion as suitable
arrangements can be made for their reception,’’ all objects suitable for a
museum or gallery of art which the United States at any time might
possess shall be delivered to the Regents and shall be arranged in the
building.

The national collections then existing and those afterwards to accumu-
late were thus transferred to the governing board of the Smithsonian
Institution as a contribution from the United States to the resources of
the Institution, and were evidently intended in a certain way to counter-
balance the gift of James Smithson for the same purpose.

The intention of Congress is evident, and the law was almost manda-
tory incharacter. There was one phrase in the law, however, which gave
opportunity for adjustment of terms.

The provision that the delivery of these objects should take place ‘‘in
proportion as suitable arrangements could be made for their reception,’’
was, it may be, intended to give the Institution time for careful and
thorough preparation. -This placed no limit upon the time for completing
the buildings, and indeed gave to the Board of Regents the right to indi-
cate the time when ‘‘suitable arrangements’’ could be made.

It was undoubtedly the wish of the members of the Twenty-ninth Con-
gress that the expense and responsibility of organizing and maintaining
a national museum should be transferred forever to the Smithsonian Insti-
tution, and it was quite far from their intention that the public Treasury
should ever be called upon for aid.

Not only the National Museum, the National Library, and a national
chemical laboratory were thus assigned, but also the expense of keeping
up the previously neglected public park in which the Smithsonian build-
ings were to be erected. It was only by accident that a national observa-
tory and an institution corresponding to the present Department of
Agriculture were not added to the burden.

That was the day of small beginnings. ‘The theory of our form of
government had not been settled in the minds of our public men, and
every new project brought up for discussion in Congress became the sub-
ject of long and tortuous discussions. There were Congressmen who ten
years after the acceptance of the Smithson legacy were in favor of return-
ing the money to England to be given to any one who could legally take
it, while Andrew Johnson, of Tennessee, in 1845, endeavored to over-
throw what had already been established and to substitute a ‘‘ Washington
University for the benefit of the indigent children of the District of Colum-
bia, in memory of and out of respect to George Washington, the Father
of his Country.’’*

)

™Rhees, Documents, p. 489.

NALAMUS 97), PL 2 IO
146 Memorval of George Brown Goode.

The will of the Twenty-ninth Congress was not necessarily that of
the Thirtieth. Mr. Hilliard, of Alabama, made a bold and successful
stroke for the independence of the Board of Regents, and defeated a
motion to appoint a regular Congressional committee to supervise and
report upon their proceedings. This was a step toward securing the
recognition of the right of the Regents to interpret for themselves the
true meaning of the charter.

The next Congress was still less disposed to exercise a minute system
of control, and the Regents, through Senator Jefferson Davis, boldly
asserted that it was ‘‘improper for Congress to interfere with the adminis-
tration of a fund which it has confided to a Board of Regents not entirely
formed of members of Congress and not responsible to it.’’*

The attitude of Professor Henry from the beginning to the end of the
thirty-one years of his secretaryship was singularly independent and out-
spoken. Having before his election submitted to the Board of Regents
a plan of organization which met with their approbation, he was elected
with the understanding that he was to carry this plan into effect.

He was from the beginning in a certain way the authorized interpreter
of the Smithsonian bequest, and, as everyone knows who has studied
the history of the Institution, his earnest and steadfast policy and the
wonderful clearness and force with which he explained his views, sup-
ported by his scientific eminence and his grandeur of character, gave
him a wonderful influence with the successive bodies of men who acted
as regents.

His influence from the very start was on the side of publication and
original research and in opposition to constant expenditure of what in
time he began to designate as “‘local objects.’’

His attitude toward museum and library, especially the former, was at
first a noncommital one. He proceeded slowly, evidently not from lack
of courage, but with the methods of a man of science, studying the
results of different courses of policy, and, when he expressed an opinion,
speaking from the standpoint of experience.

The history of the National Institution and its fate, hopelessly involved
and crushed to death by the weight of the collections and books which
had been given or lent to it, was constantly brought to his mind, for
the Institution was expected to take up this burden, with the prospect
of unlimited additions to its weight, and to bear it alone and perhaps
forever.

To him, and to the Regents also, it must have been evident that this
burden once assumed, the fate of the Smithsonian Institution would
eventually be similar to that of the National Institute.

More directly threatening was the evil of the immediate absorption of
a large part of the income, to the detriment of the plans which seemed
to him more likely to accomplish the wishes of the Institution.

*Rhees, Documents, p. 509.
Report of U. S. National Museum, 1897. Part Il PLATE 21.

CHARLES HENRY DAVIS.
aA
pa

w

The Genests of the United States National Museum. 147

The wisdom of Professor Henry’s policy has been almost universally
conceded, and the success with which for thirty-one years he directed
the resources of the Institution toward the increase and diffusion of
knowledge compels the admiration of everyone who studies the history
of his life in connection with that of the Institution, and had done so
for many years before his death.

It is now evident that but for his conservative policy the history of the
Institution would have been comparatively insignificant.

In the light of subsequent events, it is safe to assert that in all proba-
bility had the Smithsonian Institution taken charge of the ‘‘ National
Museum’’ in the manner proposed in 1846, the result would have been
even more detrimental to the Museum than to the Institution.

It did not seem so at the time, however, and for ten years the course
of the Institution was under the subject of criticism of a very serious
kind.

It is of course not essential to review at length the discussions which
took place within the first ten years between the officers of the Institu-
tion, in the meetings of the Regents, in Congress, and in the public
journals as to the authority of the Board of Regents and the Secretary to
deviate from a strict interpretation of the act of incorporation, which was
presumed to embody the will of Congress. There was a party who was
of the opinion that a large part of the income should be devoted to the
accumulation of a great general library and who fought boldly in defense
of this project. The conflict culminated in 1856 with the dismissal of
the librarian by Professor Henry, a Congressional investigation, and the
resignation of two of the most active Regents. The Board upheld the
Secretary, and successfully maintained, both in House and Senate, the
position that they as trustees of the Smithson bequest were not amenable
to the advice or instructions of Congress and were’the only authorities
qualified to interpret the meaning of the act of incorporation and the
intention of Smithson, the founder.

The immediate cause of this final outbreak was the repeal, in 1855, of
the resolution passed in 1846 dividing the income of the Institution into
two nearly equal parts for two specific objects, the advocates of a great
library being of the opinion that the spirit of this resolution had not been
regarded.

The resignation of Senator Choate and Mr. Meacham and the unquali-
fied indorsement of the Secretary by the other members of the Board
greatly strengthened his position and enabled him to cope more success-
fully with the question of the admission of the Government museum to
the Smithsonian buildings, for the transfer provided for in 1846 had not
up to 1856 been definitely arranged for.

The history of the treatment of this matter is very important, since it
leads up to the origin of the present relationship existing between the
Government, the National Museum, and the Smithsonian Institution.
148 Memorval of George Brown Goode.

The delay in the completion of the Smithsonian buildings afforded to
the Regents an opportunity for a gradual development of the plan of
organization. Until the building should have been furnished the resolu-
tion giving half of the income to library and museum was not obligatory,
nor was it possible for the custody of the Government museum to be
finally transferred.

The corner stone was laid May 1, 1847, but the work was in progress
until 1855. ‘The delay was evidently intentional, for in [September 27]
1848 Professor Henry, in an exposition of Smithson’s bequest before
the New Jersey Historical Society, spoke as follows:

He regretted that in order to make provision for the accommodation of the Museum
of the Exploring Expedition, as directed by the act of Congress, so large an amount
of money was required for the erection of the buildings. The evil, however, which
would result from this is in a measure obviated by the plan proposed by Professor
Bache, and adopted by the Regents, viz, that of deferring the time of completing the
building, so that it might be erected in considerable part by means of the interest
of $240,000, which had accrued in interest on the original fund, previous to the
year 1846."

As early as 1847 Professor Henry seems to have entertained the hope
of escape from the full acceptance of the terms of the charter, for in his
first plans, as finally submitted to the Regents, he expressed the hope
‘that in due time other means may be found of establishing and support-
ing a general collection of objects of nature and art at the seat of the
general government, with funds not derived from the Smithsonian
IDEGtIESE: 2 «

In the report for the year 1849, presented in 1850, Professor Henry
gave the result of his later observations and reflections, and for the first
time took his stand in opposition to the transfer, advancing the theory
that it was not obligatory on the Regents to take charge of the Govern-
ment collections. He wrote:

This law evidently gives to the Smithsonian Institution the museum in the Patent
Office, the conservatory of plants, and all specimens of nature and art to be found
in the several offices and departments of the Government. The act, however, can
not be construed as rendering it obligatory on the Regents to take charge of these
articles, if, in their opinion, it is not for the best interests of the Institution that they
should do so. Though one of the reasons urged upon the Regents for the immedi-
ate erection of so large a building was the necessity of providing accommodation for
this museum, I have been, from the first, of the opinion that it was inexpedient to
accept it.

This museum was collected at the expense of the Government, and should be pre-
served as a memento of the science and energy of our Navy, and as a means of
illustrating and verifying the magnificent volumes which comprise the history of
that expedition. If the Regents accept this museum, it must be merged in the
Smithsonian collections. It could not be the intention of Congress that an Institu-
tion founded by the liberality of a foreigner, and to which he has affixed his own
name, should be charged with the keeping of a separate museum, the property of

*Henry, Smithson’s Bequest, p. 8.
2Second Report for 1847, p.184 [reprinted as First Report in Report for 1853,
p. 139]; Rhees, Documents, p. 958.
The Genests of the United States National iluseum. 149

the United States. Besides this, the extensive museum of the Patent Office would
immediately fill the space allotted for collections of this kind in the Smithsonian
edifice, and in a short time another appropriation would be required for the erection
of another building. Moreover, all the objects of interest of this collection have
been described and figured in the volumes of the expedition, and the small portion
of our funds which can be devoted to a museum may be better employed in collect-
ing new objects, such as have not yet been studied, than in preserving those from
which the harvest of discovery has already been fully gathered.

The answer made to some of these objections has usually been, that the Govern-
ment would grant an annual appropriation for the support of the museum of the
Exploring Expedition. But this would be equally objectionable; since it would
annually bring the Institution before Congress as a supplicant for Government
patronage, and ultimately subject it to political influence and control.

After an experience of three years, I am fully convinced that the true policy of the.
Institution is to ask nothing from Congress except the safe-keeping of its funds, to
mingle its operations as little as possible with those of the General Government, and
to adhere in all cases to its own distinct organization, while it cooperates with other
institutions in the way of promoting knowledge; and on the other hand, that it is
desirable that Congress should place as few restrictions on the Institution as possi-
ble consistent with a judicious expenditure of the income, and that this be judged
of by a proper estimate of the results produced.

The Regents and their Secretary were in harmony.

In the Senate, April 15, 1850, the discussion of the bill for the com-
pletion of the Patent Office building elicited the following statement from
Senator Jefferson Davis:

What the wants of the Patent Office are now is one thing, and what those wants
will be in a few years is another, and an entirely different thing. Not only from the
report of the last Commissioner of Patents, but from inspection, if anyone choose to
make it, and see the condition of things in that department, I think it may be denied
that there is room enough in the present building for the wants of the department.
If I understand the report of the present Commissioner of Patents or the Secretary
of the Interior, the argument against the want of further room by the Patent Depart-
ment is based upon the supposition that all which now belongs to the National Insti-
tute, all connected with the exploring expedition which now fills the museum of the
Patent Office, is to be transferred to the Smithsonian Institution. ‘That seems to be
the basis of the conclusion. Now, sir, I wish to state to the Senate that Congress
has no power to impose upon that Institution the duty of taking charge of this col-
lection of the exploring expedition—we may infer from their act—nor did they ever
intend todo so. ‘They gave to that Institution the right to take all such curiosities
brought home by the exploring expedition, as might be desired for that Institution,
and I will inform the Senate that it is not the intention of the present Board of
Regents of the Smithsonian Institution to take charge of the museum of the Patent
Office, and the room appropriated to these curiosities will be required hereafter as
now."

By its action in directing at this time the enlargement of the Patent
Office, Congress appears to have accepted the ideas of Senator Davis, or,
as Professor Henry expressed it, ‘‘concurred in the opinions expressed
in the Senate by the Hon. Jefferson Davis, that it was a gift which ought

not to be pressed upon the Institution.’’?

*Rhees, Documents, p. 505.
?The National Museum, although the designation proposed in Mr. Ingersoll’s
amendment to the Owen bill for the Smithsonian Institution was never legally sanc-
150 Memortal of George Brown Goode.

In his report for 1851, Professor Henry, sure of his position, spoke
still more boldly. ‘‘It is to be regretted,’’ said he, ‘‘ that Congress did
not leave the entire choice of the plan of organization to those who were
to be intrusted with the management of the bequest.’’

These plain words were called forth by the fact that the building was
still unfinished, and that a large additional appropriation from the fund
was required to make it ready for occupation.

It is worth while to remember that his previous impressions of museums,
or at least of recent years, had doubtless been founded upon the cabinet
in the National Institute, which, before Professor Henry came to Wash-
ington, had become completely torpid. Its collections, housed in a hall
not under its control, belonged to it only in name. ‘The miscellaneous
assemblage of specimens in the hall of the Patent Office had been well
described in the Smithsonian charter by the name ‘‘ National Cabinet of
Curiosities,’’ for it did not deserve to be called a museum.

Professor Henry evidently had that in mind in protesting against ‘‘a
promiscuous collection,’’ but for the first time explains that he does not
underrate ‘‘the (scientific) importance of collections in themselves.’’

The following quotation will show, however, that he was not so averse
to the museum idea as he had formerly been, although very doubtful as
to the advisability of accepting aid from Congress:

The museum is to consist, according to the law of Congress, and the terms of the
compromise, of ‘‘objects of art, of foreign and curious research, and of natural his-
tory, of plants and geological and mineralogical specimens.’’ It would, however,
be unwise in the Institution to attempt the formation of full collections of all these
objects, or, in other words, to form an establishment similar to that of the British
Museum. The whole income devoted to this object would be entirely inadequate.
The portion of the main building appropriated to the museum consists of a single
room, two hundred feet long by fifty feet wide. This space may be entirely filled in
the course of three years, without the purchase of a single article, if the means be
adopted which present themselves at the seat of government for making collections.
But when this space is filled, the accumulation of specimens must cease, or an addi-
tion be made to the building, which, to harmonize with the present edifice, would
involve a large expenditure. The question then arises, from what source is this
money to be obtained? It can not be derived from the annual income of the capital,
for this would cripple the more important operations. It may be said that Congress
will furnish the means; but this is relying on a very uncertain source, and the policy
of applying to Congress for any aid is doubtful.

Having said this much, it was easy to continue by expressing the opinion
that the Regents had been in error in supposing it necessary to put up a
building for the reception of the great museum of the exploring expedition
presented by Congress.

tioned, was understood to be under the charge of the Smithsonian from the time of
its incorporation. ‘The museum clauses of the charter were so understood by the
first Regents and by Professor Henry, who, in his first programme of organization, in
1847, wrote: ‘‘When the building is completed, and when, in accordance with the
act of Congress, the charge of the National Museum is given to the Smithsonian
Institution, other assistants will be required.”’
PLATE 292.

Report of U. S. National Museum

EDWIN HAMILTON Davis.
caete ieee es

Pe
mc. i Ons fe
; He ws
a ee :

2 (=
4) i —
7
'
: -
’
’
<5
ye
'
’
"
5
'
5?
The Genesis of the United States National Museum. 152

The next year made some change in the viewsof Professor Henry. ‘The
presence of his new assistant secretary, Professor Baird, and the evidence
of the collection that was now growing up under his own eyes, that
museums may be made important agencies for scientific discovery, had
perhaps increased his personal interest in such matters.

And again:

Though the formation of a general collection is neither within the means nor
province of the Institution, it is an object which ought to engage the attention of
Congress. A general museum appears to be a necessary establishment at the seat
of government of every civilized nation. . . . Indeed the government has already
formed the nucleus of such a museum in the collections now in the Patent Office.

An establishment of this kind can only be supported by government; and thé
proposition ought never to be encouraged of putting this duty on the limited, though
liberal bequest of a foreigner.

The Smithsonian Institution will readily take the supervision of an establishment
of this kind, and give plans for its organization and arrangement, provided it be
requested to do so, and the means for effecting the object be liberally supplied.

In the report for the year 1852 Professor Henry definitely stated that
the Regents had concluded that it was not advisable to take charge of the
great museum of the exploring expedition,” and also expressed the hopeful
opinion that “‘there can be but little doubt, that in due time, ample pro-
vision will be made for a library and museum at the capital of this Union
worthy of a Government whose perpetuity depends upon the virtue and
intelligence of the people.’’ *

In the report for the year 1853, presented January 14—March 11, 1854,
another step toward the transfer of the museum is chronicled. ‘The Secre-
tary wrote:

I have been informed by the Commissioner of Patents that the space now occu-
pied in the building of the Patent Office by the National Museum, issimperatively
required for the display of models; and he suggests that a part or the whole of the
Smithsonian building shall be purchased for the deposit of this collection. If Con-
gress will entirely relieve the Smithsonian fund from the expense of collecting and
maintaining a museum, a large portion of the present building would be unneces-
sary, and the proposition to purchase a part or the whole of it might properly be
entertained. The Smithsonian Institution, if required, would take the supervision
of a government museum, and would turn over to it all the specimens collected
after they had been examined and described. The importance of a collection at the
seat of government to illustrate the physical geography, natural history, and eth-
nology of the United States, can not be too highly estimated. But the support of
such a collection ought not to be a burthen upon the Smithsonian fund.4

The year 1854 was the stirring one in the history of the Institution,
and little was done toward the transfer of the museum. ‘The great lower
hall, having been completed, was lying idle. The Smithsonian collec-
tions were rapidly increasing under the management of Professor Baird,

‘Report for 1851, p. 25. [Reprinted in Report for 1853, p. 227.]
2Sixth Annual Report, p. 252.

3Idem, p. 253.

4Highth Annual Report, p. II,
152 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

of whose work in this direction more will be said later, and a considera-
ble number of Government collections had come directly into the custody
of the Institution—in bulk and value more extensive than those in the
Patent Office, those of the exploring expedition excepted.

In this year, too, the custody of the Patent Office collection was
transferred to the Commissioner of Patents, and an appropriation made
for their support.

In 1855, in his report, presented March 1, 1856, the Secretary said:

The lower story of the main building consists of one large hall to be appropriated
to a museum or library. It is at present unoccupied, but will be brought into use

as soon as the means are provided for furnishing it with proper cases for containing
the objects to which it may be appropriated.?

In another place he expressed the hope that Congress would in due
time relieve the Institution from the support of the building, and ulti-
mately appropriate the greater part of it to a national museum.?

This was the first time that the term National Museum was publicly
used by Professor Henry or in the reports of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion—a significant fact, and one which shows a step in the progress of
the museum idea and a revival of the plan promoted by the National
Institute from 1840 to 1846.

The fact that the Smithsonian museum, in itself, could now claim to
be the best general collection of natural history so far as North America
was concerned probably stimulated the Secretary’s enthusiasm, for he
announced the fact in the report with evident pride.

In March, 1856, the subject of the removal of the collections from the
Patent Office was presented to the Regents by the Secretary, but the
minutes contain no record of their decision.

In the Secretary’s report for 1856, presented to the Regents January
26-28, 1857, the matter came up again for remark, and Professor Henry,
as was his custom, spoke of the obstacles to the progress of the Institu-
tion caused by the restriction of the charter, and recurring to the museum,
said:

The adverse effects of the early and consequently imperfect legislation ought,
therefore, as far as possible, to be obviated; and this could readily be done, if Con-
gress would relieve the Institution from the care of a large collection of specimens
principally belonging to the government, and purchase the building to be used asa
depository of all the objects of natural history and the fine arts belonging to the
nation. If this were done, a few rooms would be sufficient for transacting the busi-
ness of the Institution, and a large portion of the income would be free to be applied
to the more immediate objects of the bequest. Indeed, it would be a gain to science
could the Institution give away the building for no other consideration than that of
being relieved from the costly charge of the collections; and, for the present, it may
be well to adopt the plan suggested in a late report of the Commissioner of Patents,
namely, to remove the museum of the Exploring Expedition, which now fills a large

and valuable room in the Patent Office, wanted for the exhibition of models, to the
spacious hall of the Institution, at present unoccupied, and to continue under the

‘Smithsonian Report, 1855, p. 15. “Idem, p. 16.
The Genests of the United States National Museum. 153

direction of the Regents, the appropriation now annually made for the preservation
and display of the collections,

Although the Regents, a few years ago, declined to accept this museum as a gift,
yet, since experience has shown that the building will ultimately be filled with
objects of natural history belonging to the general government, which, for the
good of science, it will be necessary to preserve, it may be a question whether, in con-
sideration of this fact, it would not be well to offer the use of the large room imme-
diately for a national museum, of which the Smithsonian Institution would be the
mere curator, and the expense of maintaining which should be paid by the general
government. Thecost of keeping the museum of the Exploring Expedition, now in
the Patent Office, including heating, pay of watchmen, etc., is about $5,000, and if
the plan proposed is adopted, the Institution and the Patent Office will both be ben-
efited. The burden which is now thrown on the Institution, of preserving the
specimens which have been collected by the different expeditions instituted by
government during the last ten years, will be at least in part removed, and the
Patent Office will acquire the occupancy of one of the largest rooms in its building
for the legitimate purposes of its establishment. It is believed that the benefit from
this plan is so obvious that no objection to it would be made in Congress, and that
it would meet the approbation of the public generally.'

I can find no record in the minutes of the Regents, but have been
informed by Mr. W. J. Rhees, of the Smithsonian Institution, that an
urgent request for the use of the hall was made by the Commissioner of
Patents and the Secretary of the Interior, and that the Board decided to
grant this request on the condition that Congress should appropriate
money for the construction of the cases and the transfer of the collec-
tions, and that the Secretary of the Interior should provide for the expenses
of the care of the collections after their transfer in the same manner as
before.

The question of the legality of the transfer of the collections was sub-
mitted by the Secretary of the Interior to the Attorney-General, by whom
it was held that the provision in the eighth section of the act of August
4, 1854 (10 Stats., 572), placing the collections under the control of the
Commissioner of Patents, and authorizing the employment by him of
keepers therefor, was designed to be temporary only, and that the act
establishing the Smithsonian Institution, as well as that making the
appropriation in 1857, were to be regarded as indicating the purpose of
Congress respecting permanent provision for these collections.’

The appropriation of 1857, referred to by the Attorney-General, was
one giving $15,000 for the construction of cases and $2,o00 for the
removal of the collections. (March 3, 1857; 11 Stats., 219.)

In commenting upon this action, Professor Henry, in his report for
1857, remarked:

At the last session of Congress an appropriation was made for the construction

and erection of cases to receive the collections of the United States Exploring Expe-
dition and others in Washington, and also for the transfer and arrangement of the

*Smithsonian Report, 1856, pp. 21, 22.
? Letter of Hon. William F. Vilas, Secretary of the Interior, to the Secretary of the
Smithsonian Institution.
154 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

specimens, This appropriation was granted in accordance with the recommendation
of the late Secretary of the Interior and the Commissioner of Patents, in order that
the large room in the Patent Office occupied by the museum might be used for the
more legitimate purposes of that establishment. We presume that the other part of
the recommendation will also be carried out, namely, that the annual appropriation
be continued which has heretofore been made for the care of this portion of the Gov-
ernment property. While, on the one hand, no appropriation should be made which
would serve to lessen the distinctive character of Smithson’s bequest, on the other it
is evident that the government should not impose any burdens upon the Institution
which would impair its usefulness or divert its funds from their legitimate purpose.*

In 1853, by the act of June 2 (11 Stats., 301), an appropriation of
$4,000, ‘‘ for the preservation of the collection of the exploring and sur-
veying expeditions of the Government,’’ was made as a contingent
expense in the office of the Secretary of the Interior.

The management of this appropriation and of all which followed it
from year to year was always placed entirely in the hands of the Secre-
tary of the Smithsonian Institution.

In the report for 1858 Professor Henry gave the following concise his-
tory of the relations of the Smithsonian Institution to the national col-
lections :

It will be recollected that by the law of Congress incorporating this Institution
‘fall objects of art and of foreign and curious research, and all objects of natural
history, plants, and geological and mineralogical specimens belonging to or hereafter
to belong to the United States which may be in the city of Washington, in whoseso-
ever custody the same may be, shall be delivered to such persons as may be author-
ized by the Board of Regents to receive them.”’

The law thus giving to the Smithsonian Institution all specimens illustrative of
nature and art to be found in the several offices and departments of government was
not construed as rendering it obligatory on the Regents to accept these objects if
they considered it expedient todo so. Inasmuch, then, as this collection was neither
essential to the plan of organization nor directly subservient to the comprehensive
purpose of the donor in regard to a world-wide benefit, it was the ultimate decision
of a majority of the Board that it ought not to be accepted and that no part of the
donation ought to be expended in the care of property belonging to the government
of the United States.

Previous to the discussion of this question it had been assumed that the Regents
were under an obligation to take charge of the museum, and, on this account prin-
cipally, a large and expensive building had been thought necessary. After it was
settled, however, that the Regents were not bound to accept this trust, the work of
construction was carried on more slowly, with a view at once to secure certain
advantages to the building itself, and to increase the principal by funding the interest
of the money which would be absorbed by its completion.

In the meantime a very large amount of specimens of natural history had accumu-
lated at the Institution from numerous exploring parties sent out by the general
government; and as these collections had been made under the direction of the
Institution, and their preservation was of the highest importance to the natural
history of the country, it was finally concluded that if Congress would make an
appropriation for the transfer and new arrangement of the articles then in the Patent
Office, and continue the annual appropriation previously made for their care and

* Smithsonian Report, 1857, p. 14.
PLATE 23.

oan! Bit
Ritetitinit ts

NY Ua

oN

SS
BIEN
AAR

Part Il.
JOHN WILLIAM DRAPER.

Report of U. S. National Museum. 1897.
The Genests of the United States National Museum. 155

exhibition while in charge of the Commissioner of Patents, the Institution would,
under these conditions, become the curator of the national collections. ‘This propo-
sition was agreed to by the government, and the contemplated transfer has accord-
ingly been made.

It is believed that this arrangement will be mutually beneficial to the Patent Office
and the Institution, since the former will be relieved from a duty scarcely compatible
with the design of its establishment, and will gain possession of one of the largest
rooms in the city for the exhibition of a class of models to which the public have not
previously had ready access; while the Smithsonian Institution will be able to pre-
sent to the strangers who visit Washington a greater number of objects of interest,
and appropriate that portion of the large building not required for its own most
important operations to a useful purpose.

The cost of keeping the collections at the Patent Office, including fuel, was about
$4,000 annually, but the Regents might with justice have asked for an additional
amount sufficient to pay the interest on the cost of that portion of the edifice occu-
pied by the museum. It was, however, thought more prudent to restrict the appli-
cation to the sum above mentioned, and to request that the appropriation might be
continued under the charge of the Secretary of the Interior, thus obviating the
necessity of an annual application to Congress by the Institution itself.

The cases at present required for the accommodation of the collections have been
constructed at a cost within the appropriation made for that purpose; and the Insti-
tution is indebted to Hon. J. Thompson, Secretary of the Interior, and Hon. J. Holt,
Commissioner of Patents, for the use of glass sash and shelving no longer needed
in the room which formerly contained the museum in the Patent Office, but which
have been applied to good purpose in supplying deficiencies in the Smithsonian
building. The Regents are also indebted to Thomas U. Walter, esq., architect of the
United States Capitol extension, for the beautiful design of the cases, and to Edward
Clark, esq., architect of the Interior Department, for the inspection of the work dur-
ing its progress and the examination of the accounts presented by the contractor.

In order to increase the capacity of the large room appropriated to the collection,
the cases have been arranged in two stories, forming a series of alcoves, and a gal-
lery on each side. By the adoption of this plan space can be provided for double
the number of specimens which were exhibited at the Patent Office.

A considerable portion of the collections has been arranged, and a taxidermist
employed to repair the specimens of zoology which have been damaged, and to pre-
pare for exhibition others which have not previously been mounted. ‘he museum
will soon be an object of continued and increasing interest to the inhabitants of the
city and to strangers who visit the capital of the United States.

An assent to the arrangement above stated for taking charge of the government
collections is by no means inconsistent with the regret expressed in previous reports
that the law of Congress directed provision to be made from the Smithsonian fund for
a public museum and library. It must be evident to any one who attentively studies
the past history of the operations of the Institution that the interest of the money
expended on the building intended for this purpose would have been much more
efficiently applied in the development and publication of new truths. But, in all
cases where many views are to be consulted, the question is not merely what ough
to be, but what caw be accomplished. From the first there has existed a clear con-
ception of the means by which the idea of the donor could be best realized, and the
aim of the majority of the Regents has constantly been to approximate, as nearly as
the restrictions of Congress would allow, to the plan originally proposed. ‘The policy
has been invariably the same, and the present reputation and generally acknowledged
success of the Institution are the result of this undeviating course."

‘Smithsonian Report, 1858, pp. 13-16.

156 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

The portion of the Smithsonian income which can be devoted to a museum, and
the $4,000 per annum appropriated by Congress, would not together be sufficient to
establish and sustain a general collection of specimens of the natural history of the
world. It will, therefore, be the policy of the Institution, unless other means are pro-
vided, to confine the collections principally to illustrations of the products of the
North American continent. For this purpose efforts have been made, principally
through the various exploring expeditions, to obtain a large number of specimens
of all the species of the different kingdoms of nature found in North America; and
at this time the collection under charge of the Institution is more extensive in num-
ber and variety than any other which has ever before been made relative to this por-
tion of the globe. It is not in accordance with the general organization of the
Institution to form a museum of single specimens, interesting only for their rareness,
but to collect a large number of specimens of each species, particularly of such as
have not been described, and to distribute these among the several naturalists who
may have the industry, ability, and the desire to study them; the primary object of
the Institution, namely, the increase of the existing sum of knowledge in this case,
as in all others, being kept prominently in view.

The Institution has now become the curator of the collections of natural history
and ethnology of the government, and by law is empowered, as it appears to me, to
make the same disposition of the materials contained in these collections as it does
of those procured at its own expense; the design will be to render the specimens
in the greatest degree serviceable to the advance of knowledge. The museum now
consists of the following collections, of which, according to Professor Baird, about
one-fifth were brought from the Patent Office:

First, those of the naval expeditions; second, those of the United States geological
surveys; third, those of the boundary surveys; fourth, those of surveys for railroad
routes to the Pacific; fifth, of miscellaneous expeditions under the War and Navy
Departments; sixth, those of miscellaneous collections presented or deposited by socie-
ties and individuals; and, lastly, of an extensive series of the results of explorations
prosecuted by the Institution itself. By far the greater portion of the whole has been
made under the stimulus and immediate direction of the Smithsonian Institution. A
number of the special collections are still in the hands of those to whom they were
intrusted for scientific investigation and description. The arrangement of the cases
and the disposition of the articles intended for public exhibition has been a subject
requiring considerable thought and experiment. It was not only desirable to obtain
the largest amount of space for the accommodation of the articles, but, also, to arrange
the whole so as to harmonize with the architectural embellishment of the large hall
and thus to produce a proper zesthetical effect.?

In 1859, the Guide Book, unofficial yet issued by an official of the staff,
was published with the words ‘‘ Guide to the Smithsonian Institution
and National Museum’’ on its cover, and about this time the words
‘“National Museum of the United States’’ were painted over the door of
the exhibition hall.

Congress did not, however, give legal sanction to the use of this name
until nearly twenty years later, when providing for the erection of the
new building to receive the collections given to the Smithsonian Institu-
tion at the close of the Centennial of 1876.

WASHINGTON, February, T8or.

Smithsonian Report, 1858, pp. 40, 41.
The Genesis of the United States National Museum. 157

NOTE A.
JANUARY I, 1842.
To the Honorable J. C. SPENCER and
The Honorable A. P. UPSHUR.

GENTLEMEN: The undersigned, a committee on behalf of the National Institution
for the promotion of science, have the honor to submit to your consideration the
following facts and remarks.

In a law of the 20th July, 1841, there is a provision in these words: ‘‘ For the pur-
pose of enabling the Secretaries of the War and Navy Departments to place in a state
of safe preservation the specimens of natural history which are now deposited in
their respective offices, or which may be brought there resulting from surveys of the
unexplored regions of our own country, or from the exploring expedition now in
the South Seas, by the authority and at the expense of the United States or other-
wise, a sum not to exceed five hundred dollars.”’

And in a law of March 3, 1841, there is another appropriation ‘‘ for defraying the
expense of transporting to the City of Washington and of arranging the collections
made by the Exploring expedition, five thousand dollars.’’

These laws are considered as having determined the principles which should
govern in such cases.

First, that the expenditures should be made under the direction of the Secretaries
of the War and the Navy Departments, and

Second, that the collections should be brought to Washington and be arranged
there:

In the discharge of these duties, the Secretaries of the two Departments named,
directed the collections referred to, to be delivered to the care of the National Insti-
tution, for the purpose of being arranged under its supervision.

On these accounts, as well as because of your position of Directors of the Institu-
tion, we have now the honor of addressing you.

The first appropriation of $500 was expended under the personal superintendence
of the Secretary of War, he approving all accounts. The second, under that of the
Secretary of the Navy. But in the course of the business this duty assumed the
following form:

The society appointed a committee to supervise the arranging of the collections.
It was the duty of this committee to suggest the expenditures and employments
which it considered necessary, to examine into the accounts, and if it found the
same to be correct, to recommend them to the approval of the Secretary. Under
this system the appropriations have been expended, and the Institution is now with-
out further means.

It is proper to remark that the entire collections of the Institution, as well in books
as in specimens of natural history and of the arts, and as well those deposited by
the Government, as those given by individuals and other Institutions and from for-
eign governments, will in the end belong to the United States, there being a pro-
vision to that effect in the constitution of the Institution. The whole can, therefore,
with propriety be considered as public property.

With this brief exposition we shall now lay before you the state of the affairs of
the Institution in reference to the collections, deposits, gifts, and expenditures.

The entire collection is deposited in the upper rooms of the Patent Office; it con-
sists of—

Donations from foreign governments.

Donations from other institutions, foreign and domestic.

Donations from ministers and consuls abroad, and from officers of our army and
navy.
158 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

Donations from individuals and from members of the Institution.

The Iowa collection of mineralogical and geological specimens, made by R. D.
Owen, Esq., under the direction of the Treasury Department.

The collection of mineralogical and geological specimens which had been in
deposit in the Bureau of the Corps of Topographical Engineers.

The collection of portraits of distinguished Indians, and the collection of Indian
curiosities which had been on deposit in the War Department.

The minerals, books, papers, and personal effects of the Smithsonian bequest.

The two shipments which have been received from the Exploring Squadron, con-
sisting of minerals, specimens of natural history, works of art, implements of war,
and curiosities.

‘The books, minerals, and works of art belonging to the late Columbian Institute.

The books, papers, and proceedings of the late American Historical Society.

Cabinets and specimens, deposited by members in trust, for public use.

It can not be said that these materials are now arranged. The space which has
been appropriated to the temporary use of the Institution—the eastern half of the
upper room of the Patent Office—is entirely insufficient for such a purpose, as well
as the means and time which have been devoted to them. But as more just concep-
tions in those respects, as well as the value of the collections, will be derived from
an exhibition in detail of the latter, it will now be laid before you.

About 1,000 volumes of books and numbers of pamphlets.

About 50 maps and charts.

About 500 castings in plaster, medals, and seals.

Ten pieces of statuary, marble, or plaster.

One hundred and sixty-eight paintings.

About 1,600 bird skins, of which rather more than 4oo have been cleaned, stuffed,
and mounted, and deposited in cases, but which yet require eyes and to have labels
properly written and affixed. They also require to be scientifically arranged, the
first labor being necessarily limited to the preparing of the skins and putting them
under the protection of cases. It may be proper to remark that to clean, stuff, and
put in position six bird skins a day, is the greatest result from the labors of an expert
and experienced taxidermist, and that so much can be done only with skins in good
order and of moderate-sized birds. Much less is the most that can be done with skins
that have been twisted and for a long time closely packed, or with skins of large
birds or of quadrupeds, a single skin of a large bird often requiring from one to
two days.

About 160 skins of quadrupeds, about 50 of which have been stuffed, set up, and
put in cases.

About 200 glass jars have been filled with mollusca, fishes, and reptiles, but these
yet require to be divided into more jars and to be arranged, classified, and named ;
and there yet remains 2 barrels and 10 kegs of wet and soft specimens, which have
not been opened, except to replenish, when necessary, the preservative material.

There are about 50,000 botanical specimens, embracing many that are extremely
rare and entirely new. An able botanist, Mr. Nuttall, who has had the examination
of this collection, pronounced it equal, if not superior, to any in the world, of the
kind and from the same regions. He was for a short time employed to aid in the
arranging of the specimens, and assigned them to orders and genera, but they yet
require the greater labor of specific distinctions.

There are about 3,000 specimens of insects, the greater part of which have been
arranged in genera, but yet require the further and more laborious arrangement into
species. A large collection of insects, said to be one of the finest of Europe, has
lately arrived in New York, to be placed in deposit in the Institution for the benefit
of the public. It is from that well-known and eminent naturalist, C. F. Castleneau,
Esq., a member of the Institution. We have also notice of a collection of minerals
being on its way from the School of Mines of Paris, as a present to the Institution.
Report of U. S. National Museum, 1897, Part Il. PLATE 24.

The Genesis of the United States National Museum. 159

There are probably several hundred thousand shells, constituting a mass of from 320
to 40 bushels, all valuable and many of them very rare, entirely new, and extremely
beautiful. With these nothing has yet been done but to open the boxes and clean a
few of them. Many conchologists have pronounced this the finest collection in the
United States. It will require much labor and time to arrange it.

About 500 coralines have been cleaned and partially arranged. About 300 starfish,
echini, radiati, etc., have received a like attention ; also, about 100 sponges and about
2,000 crustacea. And there are yet many more specimens of these, several hundred,
which have not been examined.

About 50 fish skins. These are yet in the same condition as when received.

About 7,000 specimens of minerals are placed under the protection of cases, but
require a great amount of labor to arrange and label. There are also upwards of 50
boxes of mineralogical and geological specimens which have not been opened.

Accessions are daily made to the collections of the Institution in the form of dona-
tions, and we are now looking with some anxiety for additional shipments from the
Exploring Squadron. Nor can it be doubted that when the Squadron returns, it will
be freighted in value and number of specimens equal to all it may have sent home
during its long and interesting voyage.

Already the specimens which have been placed in cases, nearly fill the space, one-
half of the upper room of the Patent Office, which the liberality of the Secretary of
State assigned temporarily to the use of the Institution; but these specimens are of
necessity in a crowded state of imperfect arrangement. And the specimens now on
hand, when put up and properly displayed, will fill the whole of the room. We
already, therefore, and with much reason, anticipate being straitened for space.

The occupation of our present place is also merely temporary. ‘The room willina
few years be required for the purposes for which it was erected. This consideration
necessarily affects the character of the labors of the Institution in reference to the
collection, which can not fail to partake of the character of its occupation of the
room, and in consequence its labors are limited to such as are necessary and prelim-
inary to a permanent and scientific arrangement.

The same consideration has influenced the employment which has been authorized.
The conimittee to which this matter was intrusted by the Institution, did not feel
authorized to recommend to the department having charge of the appropriation any
system which should involve the Government in a liability for one day beyond the
enduring of the appropriation.

The appropriation has become exhausted, but the persons employed have contin-
ued their labors under the hope that the great work upon which they have been
engaged and which has progressed with such flattering activity, will not now be
abandoned. ‘These persons are:

H. King, Esq., Curator of the Institution, who has the general care of the collections
which have been intrusted to the Institution, and who is held responsible to the
Institution for their safekeeping. His particular attention has been devoted to the
minerals, mollusca, echini, radiati, spongia, and crustacea, and to the construction
of the cases, procuring of the glassware, and other requisite materials. His compen-
sation was fixed at first at $3 per day, but afterwards, in consequence of his being
at much expense for trips he had to make to Philadelphia, New York, and Boston,
and being liable to such trips in the execution of his duties, it was raised to $5 per
day.

I. R. Townsend, Esq., taxidermist. His duty is to dress, stuff, prepare, and ar-
range the skins. His compensation is $3 per day.

Mr. Nuttall, who was employed on the botanical specimens at $3 per day. He is
not at present in employ, having other engagements.

One assistant, Mr. Pollard, at $1.50 per day.

One other assistant, who is also a good mechanic and arranger, Mr. Vardin, at
$1.50 per day.
160 Memortal of George Brown Goode.

One messenger and laborer, at $1 per day.

The occasional employ of laborers and mechanics.

All of the appropriations not required for these employments have been expended
for cases, glassware, and other necessary contingencies to such an establishment,
the accounts and vouchers for which have been duly rendered.

As before remarked, these arrangements are but temporary, nor are they com-
mensurate to the mass of labor which has to be done, or to the just expectations
which are entertained in reference to it. More force must be employed and more
varied talent than the means appropriated have enabled the Institution to command.
With the experience which has been acquired, the committee will, if desired, under
the correcting hand of the Institution, submit to your consideration their views in
reference to the expenditure of any future appropriation.

The funds of the Institution are of two kinds.

First, the amount derived from the annual tax upon members.

Second, the amounts appropriated by Congress.

The first is necessarily small, from the few members liable to the tax, and the
amount of it, for each, $5 per annum; and it is expended for rare and necessary
books, necessary printing, cases, and other contingencies.

The second has as yet been no more than $5,500, and has been expended in the
manner and for the purposes before indicated. Weare now, however, without means,
and were it not that the individuals employed continue at the labor in the hope that
the government will continue its patronage to its own property, the work of prepa-
ration and arrangement would be suspended, as the most the Institution could do
from its own funds, would be to employ some one to take care of the collection.

The object of the Institution is to ‘‘ increase and to diffuse knowledge among men.’’
Its time and whatever talent it possesses are faithfully devoted to it. But its mem-
bers have occupations, private and public, which can not be neglected, and they
have not the wealth for voluntary contributions. We are therefore obliged to look
to the Government for aid in funds. In other countries, where, although public
spirit may not be, individual wealth is so much greater, no institution of the kind
has ever succeeded without government patronage. How much more necessary, .
then, is such patronage with us. And the more justifiable and necessary will this
patronage appear, when the reflection is made, that the greater part of the property
under our care already belongs to the government, and that all donations, collec-
tions, and purchases by the funds of the Institution, must by our constitution event-
ually take the same course. The Institution is but a curator for the government,
voluntarily bestowing its time and talents to objects which can not fail to increase
national fame, to elevate national character, and to promote the design of the great
philanthropist to ‘increase and to diffuse knowledge among men.”’

We therefore respectfully but confidently address you as Directors of the Institution
and as heads of the Departments under which former appropriations were expended
and solicit your efforts to obtain further government aid.

There are two points to which we are anxious to draw your particular attention.
One is an appropriation from Congress for preparing and arranging the government
collection; the other for additional space. The first is absolutely necessary, for as
before remarked, former appropriations are exhausted, and the work must be aban-
doned, if more is not granted. We consider that about $20,000 is required for the
active and correct prosecution of the work during the year 1842. More labor must
be applied, and more varied talent be employed; and we believe it will not be
expected that these requisites are to be obtained without a proper consideration.
The committee pledge themselves to a faithful superintendence of the expenditures,
and to a faithful account of it.

The second is equally necessary. We want space properly to exhibit the speci-
mens. We acknowledge that our occupation of the half of the room assigned to the
The Genests of the United States National Museum. 161

Institution is but temporary, and that we must look forward to the period when the
whole room will be required for other purposes; and while our occupation is of this
character, we are also, and everyone must be, impressed with the conviction that
our arrangements can not assume that scientific and permanent character which will
be their ultimate condition. Our present labors must therefore be preliminary to a
permanent and scientific arrangement, labors, however, not lost as they would be
necessarily under any circumstances. But to execute these properly more space
is required, and also the uncontrolled occupation of the whole room. ‘This space is
the more necessary from the very preliminary character of present labors, as the
room has to be’a workshop as well as an exhibition room. We make this request
from a thorough conviction of its necessity, and from the belief that if granted
it would not incommode the Patent Office. And to prevent misapprehension, we
will take this opportunity to state that from the superintendent of that office, the
Institution has received those accommodations and facilities which might justly be
anticipated from a gentleman of his known urbanity and intelligence.

JES Ics ABER

A. O. DAYTON,

FRANCIS MARKOF, Jr.,
Commtttee.

NOTE, By
REPORT UPON THE MATERIALS IN THE INSTITUTE.

By Doctor PICKERING, Doctor DANA, Doctor HALE, and Mr. BRACKENRIDGE.

On the 12th of September last I received the charge of the collections of the
National Institute; and the Hall was soon after placed at my disposal by an order from
the State Department. My time has since been chiefly occupied in general plans of
arrangement and accommodation, in reviewing the collections of the Exploring Expe-
dition that had been already opened, opening those recently received and ticketing
and taking an account of them. The larger portion has now been gone through
with, and deposited in the allotted cases, but not yet rendered intelligible by means
of labeling and arrangement. I should expect, however, some branches of the zoo-
logical collections, not yet unpacked, and a portion of the botanical yet to arrive. I
am not prepared at present to make a full report on the proceeds of the Exploring
Expedition, but have only to offer a few remarks relating generally to the objects
under my charge.

The interior arrangement of the Hall is not altogether such as I should have origi-
nally recommended; but the cases being already completed, it remainsonly to conform
to the plan, as far as practicable. By lining the walls with cases, there will be suffi-
cient accommodation for the present collections of the Institute, including those of
the Exploring Expedition, and the specimens of American manufactures already
within the walls. At the same time there is no provision for future increase in any
department, much less for any new objects that may be contemplated. There is no
room for a geological series of the United States, for a library, a gallery of the fine
arts, etc.

The persons at present employed are:

Mr. Varden, having the immediate supervision of the Hall and fixtures.

Mr. Dana, having charge of mineralogy and geology, and also of corals and crus-
tacea,

Mr. Brackenridge, having charge of the greenhouse and all botanical collections.

Messrs. Townsend and Pollard, taxidermists, also having charge of the ornitho-
logical department.

NAT MUS 97, PT 2

nea
162 Memorval of George Brown Goode.

Mr. Falconer, carpenter; constantly occupied, ete.

Mr. Campbell, messenger and general assistant.

All have thus far given entire satisfact.on.

I am not aware that any increase of force is necessary. There is, however, one
Department on which, from the destructible nature of the objects, we are unable to
bestow the requisite attention. I allude to that of entomology. We have on deposit
the extensive and valuable collection of Count Castleneau, and should be ashamed
to allow it to perish in our hands. The collections, too, of the Expedition, though
not so extensive as was perhaps expected of us, and in part lost with the Peacock,
yet it is believed, include materials that in competent hands, might be the means of
eliciting facts worth preservation; and having a wider bearing than may be supposed
by those who have not duly weighed the relationship of the different parts of crea-
tion. - Our gatherings in this branch derive a further consequence from our being
able to connect them with the vegetable products of the widely separated islets of
the mid-ocean and other unfrequented regions it has been our rare fortune to visit.

The collections in conchology have only in part been opened (viz, up to the time
of our leaving the Fiji Islands), and no portion properly arranged and exhibited;
neither at the present moment can any space be allotted for this purpose. When
fully displayed, it is believed that those interested in this branch of science will not
be disappointed as to their extent and value.

For the ornithological department, and the dried skins of other animals, I must
refer to the accompanying list; promising, however, that there are besides many
interesting specimens in osteology, both of man and the inferior animals.

Of specimens in spirits brought by the Expedition, we number 208 jars, containing
insects and minor objects in zoology, not less in all, than 4,000 different species; and
895 envelopes of larger specimens. ‘These last include about goo different species of
fishes and 200 of reptiles, making a total of 5,100 species in spirits, exclusive of the
Crustacea noted by Mr. Dana.

For the botanical department I must refer to the accompanying extract froma
report by Mr. Brackenridge. I inclose also reports on the drawings made during the
cruise of the Ex[ploring] Squadron, by Mr. Drayton and Agate; on the mineralogical
and geological collections, from Mr. Dana; and a paper on the philological depart-
ment, I obtained from Mr. Hale, who happened accidentally to be in town. As Mr.
Hale has not enumerated the collections in this latter branch, I will here specify
them more particularly. The Institute now possesses, exclusive of—

Thirty-six volumes and pamphlets, and a large bundle of newspaper files; histor-
ical documents, all printed at Lima and Chile, which may not properly come under
this head.

Grammar of the Quichua language, which is still the vernacular in the mining
towns of the Peruvian Andes.

Ten tracts in the language of the Society Islands, printed in part at Tahiti.

Eleven tracts in the Samoan language, from the Mission Press at those islands.

Printed. specimens also of the Fiji and New Zealand languages, including New
Zealand Testament.

Sixty-three volumes and pamphlets in the language of the Sandwich Islands,
including the entire translation of the Bible, printed at those islands by the Amer-
ican Mission Press; accompanied also with specimens of engraving by native artists,
one of which in particular, viz, a general map of the islands, would do no discredit
to the state of the arts at home.

A Japanese book (apparently a religious work) and other writings, believed to be
entirely unique in this country.

The original Tagala grammar, printed two centuries ago at the Philippines, and
giving an account of that alphabet, now extinct ; the more interesting, as this is one
of the most remote points to which the invention of letters appears to have pene-
trated—before, at least, the modern improvements in navigation,
Report of U. S. National Museum, 1897. Part Il. PLATE 25.

TIMOTHY DWIGHT.
+ = a :
- ot 4 - Dis Cad oa = a 1 oe
au ae iy Coane? e. p i” is oP) Soo ~ tn

Pa oe Pe Se et eo Sane eee
7 1s 7 ae
“ht
7
,

1
a
0
‘
te
'
The Genests of the United States National Museum. 163

Nineteen volumes of Malay manuscripts; in all probability the finest collection in
existence.

Eleven volumes of Bugis manuscripts. (A note says: ‘‘The only font of Bugis
type in existence belongs to the American board of Missions at Singapore.”’?) The
Bugis are very proud of their literature, and are now the most prominent people in
the East Indian Archipelago; for the peculiar geographical features of that vast
region would seem to preclude the division into nations, which obtains in other parts
of the globe.

A Bali grammar. (What follows is derived from other sources than the Expedi-
tion. )

Leaves from a Bali book, presented by Mr. Thomas H. Gillis.

A Siamese book.

Several slabs of hieroglyphics from Central America, by Mr. Rupel, United States
consul, La Guayra.

Coptic books, by Mr. [George R.] Gliddon, late consul at Cairo, and

Egyptian antiquities and hieroglyphics, by the same; which are specially worthy
of notice, and give a juster idea of the style of the works of that wonderful people
than could be acquired from plates. Some of these fragments have long been wanted
in this country, and will be looked at with the more interest as the extraordinary
and authentic annals disclosed by them become more generally known.

I will not now enter into an account of the implements, arts, and manufactures of
the various people we have visited. We flatter ourselves, however, that these will
prove not the least important part of the collections. I will refer now only to the
interest with which we should look upon some such relics of the tribes who once
inhabited our Eastern waters; whose race has disappeared ere its history was written.
When posterity shall demand of the present generation, as men of intelligence, some
account of these people, what will be forthcoming? It is generally to be feared only
that which is written in imperishable stone—a few stone hatchets and arrowheads.

With regard to our Western tribes, better things are to be hoped for, although
they have already lost some of their arts and native ingenuity from intercourse with
civilized man. The collection of implements, already within the walls, is quite
respectable, and the extensive series of their portraits from the War Department may
well deserve the term of a National Monument.

Some national depository has long been wanted where individuals could place,
under the care of Government, any object they may happen to possess, in nature or
art, that is rare or instructive, calculated to improve and elevate the mind, or fur-
nish materials for new deductions.

The same observations would apply to a national library. Individuals would
hardly think of making donations to the Congressional Library; neither would for-
eign societies. Yet two of the finest libraries of our country—indeed, so far as their
sphere extends, I would term them of a higher grade than the rest—have been got
together exclusively by donations. I would not by any means be understood to
undervalue the Congressional Library, and the very judicious selections that have
been made for it of late years. But shall we always be content with the love of
mere England, herself by no means in the first rank in every branch of knowledge?
We look in vain in any part of our country for a full assemblage of French, German,
Italian, Swedish, Danish, Spanish, Portuguese, Oriental, or hardly classical literature.

I have omitted to mention that the property of the Institute is at present very
much exposed to depredation. From 6 to 9 a. m., and also after 5 p. m., the Hall is
left entirely unguarded, and might be entered with the utmost ease. I would pro-
pose that a day watch be set over the Hall and building, as about other public edifices.

Respectfully submitted.

CHARLES PICKERING, :
Curator of the National Institute.
WASHINGTON, November 22, 1842.
164 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

BOTANICAL DEPARTMENT.

Among the various branches of science which it is the object of the National Insti-
tute to encourage, disseminate, and exhibit for the benefit and improvement of man-
kind, perhaps none claims its attention so much as botany. By the study of this
science we learn the uses of trees, shrubs, and plants, whether medicinal, nutritious
as food, or useful in the arts. The beneficial effects its study produces on society,
or on those who pursue it, by softening down the asperities of our nature, and lead-
ing the mind to contemplate objects of a higher order than the mere gratification
of ordinary amusements—which appears to have been the view taken of it by all
civilized nations.

The National Institute through the Ex[ploring] Expedition, possesses one of the
most extensive and varied botanical collections, from the numerous places which
the Expedition touched at, that is yet known to have been accumulated during ang
voyage of similar character. This collection has not yet been arranged or set up
according to any particular system, whereby it can be referred to conveniently, but
rests in the Institute in mass. Whenever a set of specimens of the whole is classified
and arranged systematically, there will still remain a great number of duplicates to
dispose of to institutions of a similar character, either in exchange or otherwise, as
the Institute may think fit.

There is also another point connected with botany to which the scientific world
has of late years turned their attention, viz, the geographical distribution of plants
over the surface of the globe; also the altitude or the heights at which certain tribes
appear anddisappear. On this point the collection could furnish the best information,
as many of the specimens were found at a height of 16,000 feet above the level of the
ocean. ‘The herbarium it is proposed to put up in neat bands and arranged in cases
after the manner of a library.

The Institute has also come into possession of a collection of rare and highly inter-
esting living plants, brought home also by the Expedition, which has since received
several additions in return for seeds distributed from the same source; also a few
donations of other plants from various quarters. For their preservation, a green-
house, 50 feet long, and partitioned into two apartments, has been erected on the lot
behind the Patent Office. The number of species in cultivation amounts to 500, and
with duplicates of the same, there are about 1,100 plants in pots, over and above
those now coming up from seeds. As it is expected that donations will frequently
be made, and as the plants we now have will be increasing in size, the present house
by another year will hardly suffice to contain them. The propriety also of having
a lot of ground fenced in where these plants could be set out during the summer
months, and which could also be used for the raising of ornamental trees, shrubs,
and other hardy plants, which may come into the possession of the Institute, is
strongly urged. The meagerness of our parterres and shrubberies evidently shows
that additions are wanting for ornamental gardening.

It would also be a receptacle for proving all samples of fruits, flowers, and escu-
lents that may from time to time be presented to the Institute, there being, so far as
I am aware, no public establishment of the kind in existence in the Union. Officers
of our Navy and consuls residing in foreign countries might do a great deal in intro-
ducing fruits, vegetables, and flowers; and whenever it is known that such an estab-
lishment exists, there is every reason to anticipate donations, where the country in
general is to be benefited by such an enlightened and commendable scheme. A
nucleus once formed, with a gradual accumulation of stock, and a steady persever-
ance in its support and furtherance, we might, at some not very distant day, vie with
the most celebrated establishments of the same kind in Europe. The progress of the
benefit to be expected must be, like the undertaking, slow but sure, and the effects
will soon become evident to every enlightened citizen,
The Genesis of the United States National Museum. 165

The following is a list of plants, or number of species in the herbarium, collected
at the various places visited by the Expedition:

WMadeinamererem ate pcr. sore: 300 | Low Coral Islands (in all) ....... 27
Cape de Verde Islands “.......... 60 | Sandwich Islands... ..2...6-..0s% 883
IB iazAl ten Teenie slo Selg Sls ete 950) }| OLE SON COUN fn o ac ater = stale o oe I, 218
Patagonia (Rio Negro) ....-.-..... R50.) CalfOrnidc ea. aec 52 e eran 9 atct 519
Merraiael PUCIO............505. 7-03. es) &:h 06 6: eee ae oe a a 381
Chile and Chilean Andes......... AMZ TMA POLE .ciec wierh te Shree ees Oss od 9: So
Peru and Peruvian Andes........ Seoul eMandanaoe.. veers: cae. se 6 Osten a= 102
TTBOURG) Ss et Pee oe 2OSuMebul USlandS 4a are ce uns estates 58
Samoa, or Navigator Islands...... AG VeMangst Tslandsscsis sia. 5 bau wmieiale So
Me wablolandss . i.e. s eae ade 78.) @ape of Good Hopes. da: 4: assests 330
INewseZealand.ccs .. 32st cat teres Be be ERCleMe ct aii ve Me, a ceases 20
Lord Auckland Island ........... 50

PRGHCALAIU rity crue cs vie sen 236 Total number of species. ... 9, 674
etip Pelagids 4 tind. Are ay x'eas ds 786

The number of seeds brought and sent home by the Expedition amounted to 684
species, the most of which have been sent all over the country. Several cases of live
plants were also sent home, of the existence of which there are no traces. The live
plants brought home by the squadron amounted to 254 species, and these now form
part of the greenhouse collection,

Wo. D. BRACKENRIDGE.
NOVEMBER, 1842.

REPORT OF MR. DANA.

The inadequacy of the space in the Hall of the Patent Office at present allotted for
the departments of geology and mineralogy, becomes daily more obvious, as the
extent of our collections is better known. ‘The spacious hall is a noble one for the
purpose to which it is devoted; but so many distinct sciences claim a share of the
room, that only a small area can be set apart for any one of them. ‘The collections
of the Exploring Expedition swell out beyond our expectations, and when fully
arranged there will be room for little else.

The packages of mineral and geological specimens already opened occupy three of
the cases in the Hall, and there are yet seven or eight boxes untouched. These
Expedition collections include suites of specimens from the following countries
and islands:

1. Brazil, illustrating especially the deposits of gold and gems in the great mining
district of Minas Geraes; also the structure of the country about Rio Janeiro.

2. Rio Negro, Patagonia, where the extensive pampas of La Plata, and the Ter-
tiary deposits upon which they rest, afforded us a series of interesting specimens,
exhibiting the character of these great prairies of the south, and the salt lakes that
abound over them.

3. Orange Bay, Terra del Fuego, where terminates the great chain of the Andes.
A species of fossil and the nature of the rock deposits, appear to afford sufficient
evidence of the similar and consentaneous origin of this portion of the chain with
the Andes of Chile and Peru.

4. Chile and the Chilean Andes. The mountains were twice ascended by parties
from the Expedition, and specimens obtained, in addition to the rocks of the coast,
and ores from copper mines.

5. Lima and the Peruvian Andes, affording us gold and silver ores. The summit
of the Andes was passed by a party of officers, and among their collections is a
fossil Ammonite, a large extinct species of shell, obtained at a height of 16,000 feet.
166 Memortal of George Brown Goode.

6. Oregon. The collections illustrate the rock formations of Northwest America,
including the l#gnite or coal deposits of the Cowlitz and Fraser River, the sand-
stones and clay slide occurring at intervals from Puget Sound into California, afford-
ing numerous organic remains of shells, echini, fish, etc., and the granites, basaltic
rocks, limestones, ores, etc., of the Territory.

7. Upper California.

8. The Sandwich Islands. A region of volcanoes of various ages from the great
gulf of Lua Pele, where lakes of liquid fire still boil, tothe lofty mountains of the
western islands of the group, which in the lapse of time have been so shattered by
convulsions and worn by an abrading sea, rains, and running water, that no distinct
trace remains of the vent or vents that ejected the successive layers of basaltic rock.
On account of this difference of age in the several parts of the group, we have not
only complete collections of modern lavas, but others illustrating the operations of
these fires for ages back. ‘The late eruption of June, 1841, is well illustrated by
numerous specimens from its lavas or scoria, and from the sand hills and new beach
formed as the lavas entered the sea. ‘The tops of the high mountains of Hawaii,
each about 14,000 feet in elevation, have also contributed to the collections, through
the exertion of the officers of the Vizcennes, who were long engaged in explorations
on this island.

g. Navigator or Samoan Islands, a region of ancient basaltic mountains and extinct
craters, some of whose twisted lavas and scoria seemed to be of quite recent origin.

10. Society Islands, of similar structure, but with fewer evidences of modern vol-
canic action.

11. Fiji Islands, also basaltic and containing some boiling springs.

12. New Zealand, combining the craters, active and extinct, boiling springs, and
volcanic products of the other Polynesian islands, with granite rocks, sandstones,
and shales, and deposits of coal.

13. New Holland, the collections from the coal region, including the fossil vege-
tation, and from the subjacent rocks which abound in organic remains, is probably
the most extensive that ever left the country.

14. Philippine Islands, a region of granite and talcose rocks, sandstone, shales, and
limestone, with mines of gold, copper, lead, and coal, besides containing one of the
largest active volcanoes of the East Indies, and many extinct craters, boiling
springs, etc.

15. Sooloo Sea, a region of numberless extinct craters or volcanic mountains and
abounding in coral reefs.

16. Singapore.

17. Cape of Good Hope.

18. St. Helena.

19. Cape Verde.

20. Island of Madeira, mostly consisting of basaltic rocks, tufas, or lavas, and
remarkable for the grandeur of its mountain scenery, and the richness of its vegeta-
tion.

21. The South Shetlands, which afforded large masses of sal ammoniac.

22. Rocks and earth from the Antarctic land, taken from icebergs in its vicinity—
principally granite, basalt, and a red, compact, quartz rock or sandstone.

To these should be added the collections from numerous coral islands, which include
not only specimens of dead coral rock, the material of the islands, but also various
living corals now growing about their shores. We leave the corals for the present,
as they require separate remark.

The above will give some idea of the interest that attaches to the Expedition
collection.

Besides the three cases in the Hall, to which I have alluded, two others are all
that, with due regard to the other departments, can be set apart for the sciences of
geology and mineralogy. ‘There are already large collections of minerals waiting to
Report of U. S. National Museum, 1897. Part Il. PLATE 26.

The Genesis of the United States National Museum. 167

be arranged, to which Colonel Totten has generously added his entire cabinet.=The
extensive collection which accompanied the Smithsonian bequest has been often
noticed, and we pass it by without further remark at present than to testify to the
beauty and interest of its specimens. In addition, there are 27 boxes from the Iowa
Territory, enclosing specimens from the lead and copper mines, and others elucidating
its general geological structure, collected by the able geologist of that region, Mr.
D. D. Owen. A fine suite of Ohio fossils has been received from Mr. Locke, of Cin-
cinnati, comprising numerous species of trilobites. A rare collection of bones of
mammoth size, the remains of a megatherium, an extinct animal, was lately obtained
at Skiddaway Isle, Georgia,and_ y the liberty of Doctor Screven, of Savannah, are now
in the Hall. Other packages have been received from M. C. Buck, William A, Irvin,
Robert Brown, Captain R. Latimore, D. A. Buckley, of Jacksonville, Illinois; Fr.
Markoe, jr., of Washington; J. M. Allen, of Albany; M. Strong, of Vermont; Martin
Johnston, Mr. Ziegler, Joseph Willett, of Maryland; J. I. Greenough, Professor U.
Parsons, Mr. Mecklin, of Maryland; G. R. Gliddon, consul in Egypt; W. I. Ames,
of New Jersey; Doctor J. H. Caustin, C. D. Barton, of New York City; William M.
Mitchell, of Virginia; Doctor Lewis Sayinsch, and O. Root, esq., of Syracuse, New
York. Specimens are constantly arriving, and now, after the late circulars issued
by the several Departments of Government to our military and naval officers and
consuls, they may be expected in still greater numbers.

After arranging the expedition specimens, there will be one case anda part of
another for all the mineral collection, the Iowa geological specimens, and the many
others in our possession. With the exception of the minerals, for which there is
scant room, the whole must remain closed.

The importance of these sciences, and the interest of the country in its mineral
resources, make it desirable that some plan like the following should be adopted,
and as soon as may be carried into execution: There should be a complete collection
of minerals, systematically arranged, comprising specimens from all countries, and
illustrating fully every branch of the science. For geology—in the collections of
which are included rock specimens, fossils, soils, and whatever may illustrate the
formation of our globe, the changes in its progress, its present condition, and min-
eral or agricultural resources—I would suggest that, in addition to cases for foreign
geology, there be a special case set aside for each State in the Union, to contain
specimens of all its productions, mineralogical and geological. This plan car-
ried out, a single walk through the Hall would convey the information of years of
travel; the mineral wealth of each State would be open for inspection, and the
nature of their productions and their comparative value might at once be read off.
Those interested in coal explorations would find here the series of rocks which, in
other States or regions, are associated with this mineral and indicate its presence ; and
near by those rocks also which by some resemblance have so often led to fruitless
explorations; the true and the false might be readily compared, and, with the definite
information contained, treatises on this subject, before scarcely intelligible, could be
read with profit. ‘he same with the ores of iron, copper, lead, gold, silver, etc., and
the various materials used in building, soils, ete.

Such an arrangement, embracing within its plan every part of our country, will
enlist exertions as widely extended; and we may confidently believe that the titles
New York, Pennsylvania, Virginia, etc., inscribed on the respective cases, would not
long stand over empty shelves. Indeed, for some States, a second and a third case
might soon be required. ‘The Iowa case could now be filled and a commencement
might be made with the case for New York, also that for Ohio, Virginia, Maryland,
Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, and New Jersey. As geological surveys are in progress
in many States, or have been completed, there will be little difficulty in general in
obtaining complete suites for the National Institute. The corals in the Hall, with few
exceptions, were received from the Exploring Expedition. The collection is exten-
sive and possesses peculiar interest inasmuch as the species are mostly from seas that
168 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

have seldom contributed to the cabinets of this or any country. The various cruises
of the vessels among the numerous Pacific islands afforded unusual opportunities for
the collection and examination of these singular forms of animal life, and much that
is novel has been brought to light with regard to the structure of coral islands, the
growth of corals, the nature and forms of the animals that deposit them (of which
a large collection of drawings has been made), besides discovering many new species
and correcting some errors in former descriptions. The number of species brought
home is not less than 250, and if to this be added the smaller corallines it will
amount to above 350, besides 50 species of still inferior grade of organization, the
sponges. The corals now occupy two cases, which are barely sufficient to receive
them. A separate case of West India corals might soon be filled, as we may expect
large collections through the exertions of the officers of the Navy cruising in those
seas. It would be quite important that these productions from the opposite sides of
our globe, the East and West Indies, be kept separate.

The beauty of these collections is sufficient of itself, as is believed, to engage the
attention and more than a passing glance or hasty word of admiration. But their
interest is greatly enhanced when it is considered that thousands of square miles of
land have been added to our globe by the labors of the minute coral builder, and
that seas have been studded with islands that otherwise would have remained a waste
of waters.

Before closing this communication I may add a word on the crustacea in the Hall,
which department fell into my hands in the expedition and comes under my charge
also at the Institute. The collection now arranged includes about 650 species, nearly
all of which are from the Exploring Expedition. ‘The whole number of species col-
lected and examined during our cruise is not far from 1,000, more than half as many
as the whole number known. Of these, 500 and upwards, have been figured ; and not
less than 450 out of the 500 are new species, besides many others in the collection not
yet particularly examined. About 250 species are oceanic and belong to genera of
which not over 30 species are known, affording, as is thus seen, a great number of
novelties to be brought out in the publications of the Expedition. The most of these
oceanic species are microscopic, generally less than a tenth of an inch in length.
Although so minute, they sometimes swarm in such numbers as to give a red tinge
to the ocean over large areas. While at Valparaiso, the sea for miles to the south-
ward appeared as if tinged with blood, owing to the myriads of these minute crus-
tacea. Some species are so transparent that, under the microscope, all the processes
of vital action, the motion of every wheel in the complex organization of animal
life is open to view, exhibiting many novel facts, curious and important to the
physiologist.

The arrangement of the Expedition specimens may be completed in the space that
we now occupy, but the addition of such American and foreign specimens as will
gradually collect around this nucleus will finally extend the collection over double
its present area.

Very respectfully,
JAMES D. DANA.
NOVEMBER, 1842.

DEPARTMENT OF PHILOLOGY AND ETHNOGRAPHY.

One of the sciences which have of late years attracted an increasing attention, and
one which from its subject would seem to claim a peculiar regard, is what may be
termed the Natural History of the Human Race, or, as some have named it, anthro-
pology. It divides itself naturally into various branches, possessing distinct names
of interest, and requiring different methods of study. One of them, and that, perhaps,
to which the Institute will be able to contribute most largely, treats of the manners
The Genests of the United States National Museum. 169

and customs of the various nations and tribes of mankind, as indicating the char-
acter and the grade of civilization which is to be ascribed to them. Travelers in
Egypt inform us that, from the representations of objects and views pictured on the
monuments of that country, one may obtain a clear and probably accurate idea of
the mode of life of the ancient inhabitants, and can thence form a better conception
of their national characteristics than from all the works of historians. ‘The natives
of most countries, particularly those less advanced in civilization, possess no mon-
uments of this kind, which may be copied or transported into our midst, like those
of Egypt. But one may have the very implements and manufactures which those
pictures would represent, the canoe and net of the fisherman, the bow and javelin
of the hunter, the spear and club, the helmet and buckler with which the warrior
went out to meet his enemy; we may have the clothing, the domestic utensils, the orna-
ments for the dance—in short, enough to show the state of the arts, the daily habits,
and the ideas of comfort and prosperity existing among particular people. Among
the collections of the Exploring Expedition deposited with the Institute will be
found nearly all the articles of native manufacture in use among two tribes of dis-
tinct race, the New Hollanders and the Fijians; those of the former number about
a dozen, while the latter yield several hundreds. A single glance at the two collec-
tions will give a clearer idea of the wide difference existing between these tribes
than any description.

In tracing the migrations of a people and the connections of distant branches, the
comparison of arts and social habits may, if pursued with caution, be an important
guide. A person knowing nothing of our language or history, who should visit the
United States, after having traveled in Europe, would have little doubt from which
country of the latter our ancestors proceeded. ‘The islands of the Pacific are peo-
pled by two distinct races, the one having a yellowish brown complexion, with
flowing hair; the other a dusky skin, frizzled or wooly hair, and features approach-
ing the African type. There is not in the climate or nature of the islands which
they respectively inhabit any reason why their habits and mental characteristics
should differ. Yet we find that the art of pottery and the use of the bow are
common to all the islanders of the latter or dark-skinned race, without exception,
while they are entirely unknown to the former, except where they have been ac-
quired in late times from the other. We must, therefore, presume that these arts were
brought by the dusky tribes who possess them from the original seat whence they
have emigrated. These observations will show that the articles of this description
preserved by the Institute are not to be regarded merely as amusing toys or as objects
of idle curiosity, but possess an important scientific value.

Another department of this study relates to the physical varieties of the human
race. In stature, in complexion, in the nature of the hair, and the shape of the cra-
nium the differences that prevail between various tribes are very striking. Some
have supposed it possible to classify all these varieties under these principal divi-
sions or races, while others have believed them to be so numerous and to fade into
one another by such insensible gradations as to set all classification at defiance.
Still there can be no doubt that every distinct people possesses a peculiar cast of
countenance and style of complexion and feature, what is commonly called a
national physiognomy, and that separate tribes and nations, descended from the same
stock, preserve in their physical characteristics the traces of their common origin.

Knowing, as we do, that the influence of climate and manner of life is powerful in
modifying the constitution and personal appearance of those subjected to it, a ques-
tion of the highest importance arises as to the extent to which this modifying power
may be effective. Some have supposed that all the peculiarities which distinguish
the varieties of mankind have had their origin in this influence of climate and
social habits, while others have considered the power much more limited, and main-
tain that these peculiarities have existed unchanged as they were originally stamped
170 Memortal of George Brown Goode.

on the progenitors of the different races. These opposite views are supported at the
present day by writers of the highest authority, and as the question is evidently one
to be settled not by reasoning so much as by observation, every fact bearing on this
point merits to be recorded. The Institute possesses a small collection of crania,
obtained by the Exp[loring] Expedition, which will afford some useful results, and
the series of Indian portraits due to the War Department may be considered, in
this respect, invaluable.

A third division of this study is comparative philology or the science of languages.
Speech has been called the first and highest development of human reason; it is
also the clue by which we trace more evenly than by any other means, the affiliation
of tribes and the relationship which exists between different nations. By the com-
parison of languages we can prove that nearly all the nations of Europe—whether
of Celtic, or Latin, or German, or Sclavonic origin—are not only closely allied one to
another, but belong to the same stock with the inhabitants of Persia and Hindustan.
By the same means we ascertain that a race of Malay origin has peopled all the
islands of Polynesia. Modern philologists have discovered that the natives of Amer-
ica, from the arctic sea to Cape Horn, speak languages which, though dissimilar in
words, possess a striking grammatical resemblance—like different metals cast in the
same mould.

In the pursuit of this interesting study, the importance of obtaining vocabularies
of the languages spoken by secluded or newly discovered tribes is easily seen.
Manuscript works in language of which little is known are also of great value for
the investigation of their grammatical structures, and the collection of East Indian
manuscripts brought home by the Exploring Expedition may be signaled as possess-
ing unusual interest. The Institute is not less indebted to Mr. Stephens for the
monumental slabs from Central America, covered with those remarkable hieroglyph-
ics, which are now awaiting the appearance of some new Champollin to unfold
their mysterious purport.

In search of these departments of ethnographical science, all persons whose pur-
suits bring them in eontact with many varieties of one kind, and in particular the
officers of the navy in foreign stations, have an opportunity, by obtaining and trans-
mitting articles of native workmanship—crania or mummies of particular tribes, and
vocabularies or manuscripts of languages little known—to add materials to the gen-
eral stock, which may hereafter be of invaluable service to the scientific investigator.

H. HALE.
NOVEMBER, 1842.

OUTLINES OF THE ETHNOGRAPHICAL COLLECTIONS, CHIEFLY
FROM THE EXPLORING EXPEDITION.

NEW HOLLAND.

Buckles, or small narrow shields.

Boomerangs, the singular missile, often described.
Waddies or clubs.

The throwing stick, adjutant for throwing javelins.
Beads or wampum, made of the stem of a grass, etc.

FIJI ISLANDS.

War clubs of various patterns, and the small war clubs used as a missile.
Bows and arrows, slings.

Spears, both for war and fishing.

Wooden idols, oracles, headdress of priest, sacred cava cup, ete.

Wigs, combs, turbans, etc.
Report of U.S. National Museum, 1897, P

art

PLATE 27,

at

The Genests of the United States National Museum. r7E

Pateras or cava bowls, dishes, ete.

Matting, and baskets of various patterns.

Pottery—water vessels and for cooking.

Musical instruments, consisting of Pandean pipes, nose flutes, war conch, and
drum.

Mosquito nets, fans, fly brushes, wooden pillows.

Stone adzes.

Fishing nets and lines, cordage, etc.

Dresses for females, of various and some brilliant colors.

Armlets and necklaces in great variety, neck ornaments, headbands.

Tapa, or cloth, also cf great variety of patterns in the stained figures.

SAMOA ISLANDS AND TONGATABU.

These islands, in common with the other Polynesians, have evidently derived their
arts mostly from the Fijis. Their implements as we recede become less numerous,
with often much diversity in the model. I note only—

Arrows for catching pigeons, of the Samoa Islands.

Models of the single canoe.

Models, large, double Tonga canoe, used for distant sea voyages.

Rasps of shark’s skin, for working wood, common to many Polynesian islands.

TAREE.

We obtained very few things at Tahiti, where native implements are becoming
rare. We saw no weapons of the original stamps.

SANDWICH ISLANDS.

The same remarks apply in a good measure to this group. Native ingenuity dis-
appears when brought in contact with civilized man, and with a knowledge of
money the bark-beaten cloth of the South Seas gives place to calico at 10 cents a
yard. We obtain here, however, more extensive collections. I mention only—

The large calabashes, used as baskets to carry burdens, and found so convenient
by all travelers.

Tapa, in imitation of European patterns.

Models of canoe. i

Feather ornaments—the yellow is the favorite color here.,

MARQUESAS ISLANDS.

Specimens of the ingenious carving of these islanders, procured many years ago,
were presented by Mr, Demester.

LOW OR POMOTEE ARCHIPELAGO.

These lonely coral reefs present attractions only for this amphibious race of
people. Implements of the same pattern with other Polynesian, but much ruder.
There is no longer any stone for hatchets, and a piece of shell is substituted, while
a crooked root serves for a handle. There is no bark suitable for making cloth or
tapa, and their clothing consists exclusively of matting.

PENRHYNS ISLAND.

The same remarks will apply to Penrhyns Island, with its wild and impetuous
inhabitants; but, being covered with cocoanut trees, it is much more populous, and
the implements obtained show neater workmanship.
72 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

NEW ZEALAND.

Still Polynesian, but much variation in the style of their manufactures and orna-
mental carving. Their cloaks, made of New Zealand flax, a beautiful article.

Neck ornaments of green-colored stone or jade. ‘The thin, slender club, or wooden
sword (used with both hands), almost their only weapon prior to the introduction of
firearms, etc. ‘

KINGSMILI, ISLANDS.

A remarkable change in most things from the Polynesians. Long-pronged spears
set with sharks’ teeth ; as likewise swords of different lengths. Woven coats of mail
and cuirasses for protection. A porcupine fish for a cap. Natural fishhooks of
crooked roots, etc. A very large and interesting collection of the implements of
these coral islands was lost in the Peacock.

EAST INDIES.
Models of Malay proas.
Krisses or seymetars, spears and shield, battle-axes, musical instruments.

TERRA DEL FUEGO.

The collection is nearly complete, though the articles are so few in number.

Bows and arrows, the latter; singularly enough, the most beautiful we have met
with—flint head.

Bone-headed fish spears, likewise bearing a strong analogy to those of our northern
Indians.

Seal-skin quivers, slings, paddles, and necklaces.

PERU.

Our collection of antiquities is quite respectable ; pottery, cloth, nets, plastering,
etc., from the ancient graves. I must also particularize the headdress of ‘‘the last
of the Incas,’’ presented by Mr. Sweetzer.

OREGON AND NORTHWESTERN COAST.

Our collections here were full.

Paddles, models of canoes, etc., some of former ornamented with different colors.

Carved combs, the conical, woven, and painted hat {the same pattern is used
throughout East India).

Bows and arrows, the heads of bone, flint, and now iron; almost their only weapon,
except now knives.

Various grotesque wooden masks.

Dice, made of beaver’s teeth, wooden decoy-duck.

Model of cradle showing the mode of flattening the cranium, for which the Chi-
nooks are so famous.

Model of fastening a child to a board and carrying on horseback.

Pipes of wood and bone, imitating steamboat, houses, and other fashions of civi-
lization.

Stone pipes, representing grotesque figures of original pattern.

Carved stone saucers, some well worthy the attention of those who think genius
only the offspring of civilization.

Ornaments of dentalium shells; snowshoes.

Blankets and belts, of native weaving.

Feather blankets.

Cloaks of vegetable fiber ; much after the New Zealand pattern.

Leather or buckskin dresses, moccasins, belts, etc.

Beautiful membrane cloaks, and baidare (covered skin canoes) of farther north.
The Genesis of the United States Nattonat Museum. 173

CALIFORNIA.

A race of different origin is seen in the different style of manufactures, ornaments,
and woven baskets for carrying water and cooking; others richly ornamented with
feathers, plumes, ear ornaments, beadwork.

Bows and arrows of the usual American pattern ; war spears headed with bone.

Feather dress for a sort of priest or devil.

The arrow-proof cuirass and hemispherical cap of the Shasta Indians.

C. PICKERING.

NOVEMBER, 1842.

REPORT UPON THE DRAWINGS MADE BY MESSRS. DRAYTON AND
AGATE.

Through the labors of the artists, Messrs. Drayton and Agate, in connection with
the literary and scientific duties of the other officers, the journals of the Expedition
are of two kinds—the written and the pictorial, and, although the former is neces-
sarily the more complete, yet the latter in consequence of the industry of those gen-
tlemen and the large number and faithfulness of the sketches made, would of itself
give a very thorough account of the islands and races we have seen; and in many
respects far more detailed and satisfactory descriptions than is possible with the pen.
The scenery of the islands, their mountains and forests, their villages, with interior
and exterior views of the huts or houses of both chiefs and common people, spirit
houses or temples, war implements, fortifications, household utensils, tools, canoes,
the natives sitting in council, dressed and painted for war, the domestic scenes of the
villages, costumes, tattooing, modes of cooking, eating, drinking cava, taking and
curing fish, swimming, gambling, and other amusements, war dances, club dances,
jugglery, and numerous other particulars illustrating the modes of life, habits, and
customs of the various tribes inhabiting the islands or countries visited, have been
sketched with fidelity. Indeed, nothing escaped their pencil when time was allowed,
and the series of sketches when finished—for many were necessarily left in outline—
will be more instructive and interesting than the highest literary abilities could
render the journal of the voyage. One picture by Mr. Agate, representing a temple
on a newly discovered island, and the cocoanut grove about it, containing on one
side, three or four half-naked savages starting in affright from an officer who is just
beginning to puff a cigar, and is pouring the volumes of smoke from his mouth, the
impression of such a scene can not be conveyed in words, nor the idea it gives of the
ignorance and superstition of the savage. The portraits are numerous, and are
not merely general sketches, but accurate likenesses of particular individuals—so
faithful, indeed, although but the work of a few minutes in the hands of our skillful
artists, that the natives would cry out with surprise the name of the individual when
a sketch was shown them.

Besides historical and ethnographical drawings, the sketches of objects in natural
history are very numerous; and they embrace all departments of natural science,
including some geological sketches. The variety and beauty of marine animals in
the coral seas of the Pacific are beyond description. Like birds in our forests, fish
of rich colors and strange forms sport among the coral groves; and various mollusca—
animals low in the scale of organization—cover the bottom with living flowers. A
new world of beings is here opened to an inhabitant of our cold climate, and many
of these productions are so unlike the ordinary forms of life that, but for our eyes,
we could scarcely believe in their existence. Many of them are among the most
brilliant and beautiful objects drawn and colored by Mr, Drayton. Among the geo-
logical sketches by Mr. Drayton the representations of the great crater of Lua Pele,
especially the night scenes of its boiling lakes of lava, are highly valuable. There is
probably no volcano in the world where the processes of volcanic action are more
174 Memortal of George Brown Goode.

laid open to view, and on this account these sketches are very unlike the ordinary
pictures of a burning mountain, and far more interesting to the geologists. Scarcely
less interesting than these volcanic scenes are the views taken among the Andes of
Peru and Chile.

The following list gives more particularly the number of drawings in the several
departments. The whole number of distinct objects or scenes delineated is 2,100.
Of these 200 are portraits, 180 plants, 75 reptiles, 260 fish, 850 mollusca, and over 500
landscapes and historical sketches. The drawings of crustacea, corals, birds, and
quadrupeds were mostly by the naturalists in charge of these departments, and are
not here enumerated.

The sketches, to which we have referred, have been made in the following differ-
ent regions, and they have been the more or less complete according to the length
of time spent at these places. It should be observed that the several groups of
islands in the Pacific, although not far distant from one another, have each marked
peculiarities in the physiognomy, dress, domestic manners, etc., of their inhabitants.

(1) Madeira, (2) Cape Verde, (3) Rio de Janeiro, (4) Rio Negro, Patagonia, (5) Terra
del Fuego, (6) Chile, (7) Peru, (8) several islands of the Low Archipelago, (9) Society
Islands, (10) Navigator Islands, (11) New Zealand, (12) New Holland, (13) Tonga-
tabu, (14) Fiji Islands, (15) Kingsmill Islands, (16) Sandwich Islands, (17) Oregon
Territory, (18) Philippine Islands, (19) Sooloo Sea, (20) Singapore, (21) Cape Town,
(22) St. Helena; besides some small scattered islands in the Pacific unnoticed in
this enumeration. Of these places, the pictorial account of the Fiji and Sandwich
islands and Oregon Territory is the most full.

The drawings, as has been remarked, are not finished. To complete them on the
spot would have been impracticable where so many things equally important were
demanding immediate attention, and had it been attempted the sketches could not
have exceeded one-fourth their present number. ‘They are so far complete, however,
that they might in a short time be finished up by the artists.

In addition to sketching, Mr. Drayton has written down the music of the natives
at many of the islands, and the note or tones which the different nations employ in
speaking.

On nearing land the artists were besides employed in drawing headlands, and of
them there are nearly 500 in addition to the other sketches.

DRIED PREPARATIONS IN NATIONAL INSTITUTE, NOVEMBER 18,1842.

Catalogue showing the number of birds, quadrupeds, reptiles, fishes, etc., prepared
in the rooms of the National Institute.

Speci-
mens,
Birds fromthe exploring expedition: (co siig. cic ecy scutes ita seis eke 471
Birds from South America and other foreign parts................+....- 86
Birds presetited by the Jardim di Rot, Paris. tee clei cteis cis) nieys 6 1s eeseeree 87
Birds of North America ere oct feats siereele rete ake eicee eave ol oicre ei peters 276
— 920
Quadrupeds from the exploring expedition. ...0..05.......5..-.0ce02255 26
Quadrupeds from United States and other parts......................-- 49
ari 75
Reptiles from the exploring expedition, etc...........-.++-++ eee e eee ees 66
Fishes from the exploring expedition, etc...........-.--+....---seeeeee 48
— ‘114
I, 109

There remain probably 300 bird skins to be set up, brought by the exploring
expedition, and about 20 quadrupeds, some of large size. This is exclusive of an
immense number of duplicate specimens.

Ctr
Report of U.S. National Museum, 1897. Part Il PLATE 28.

ANDREW ELLICOTT.
eS a core

The Genests of the United States National Museum. L775

NOTE C.

REMARKS SUBMITTED TO THE HONORABLE MR. WALKER BY MR.
MARKOE AND COLONEL ABERT.

In conformity with the desire you expressed, that we should put on paper the
substance of our conversation with you on certain matters connected with the Insti-
tute, we submit the following to your consideration :

There are several points which, to our experience and reflections, are essential to
the prosperity of the Institute, and to the great objects for which it was chartered.
These are:

Ist, That the Institute should be the organ of the Government in the arrangement
and preservation of the collections, and in the supervision of the appropriations
which the Government may make for those purposes.

2d, That the Institute should have the power of disposing of all duplicates by
a system of exchanges with other institutes, or with States, or with individuals.

As all the Government collections are placed under the care of the Institute, and
as all the collections which have been made, or will hereafter be made by the Insti-
tute, must, by its charter, eventually become the property of the Government, the
necessity of a harmonious and intimate intercourse between the Institute and the
Government seems, to our judgment, self-evident. This idea is clearly maintained
in the charter of the Institute, which makes the six heads of the different Govern-
ment Departments, six of its Directors.

But the nominal charge which the Institute now has, of the collections, amounts to
nothing, and the same may be said of the very slight and extremely indirect influ-
ence which it has been allowed to exercise over the Government expenditures for
the preservation and arrangement of the collections. At present there are three
controlling or operating powers over these subjects: First, the Library Committee
of Congress; second, the Navy Department; and third, the Institute; but of this
last, its influence is so slight, if it can be said to have any, that it would be too
much to say it is either felt or acknowledged. Such a divided state of control can
not fail to operate injuriously upon persons employed and upon their duties, as it
is difficult to say who is their head, who shall direct or superintend their operations,
or who shall decide upon the propriety of expenditures, and to whom they are
accountable.

It is clear, to our judgment, that the desired and necessary control can not well
be exercised by the Library Committee. This committee can not be considered as
present, upon an average, for more than six months of each year; and when present
the legislative functions of its members must occupy each the greater part of their time
and minds.’ It is equally clear that these powers can not be well exercised by the
Navy Department. In addition tc its other various and highly important duties,
there is no kindred occupation in any of its interesting functions which would give
to it the means of judging of the proper occupation of the persons employed upon
the collections, or of the propriety or appropriateness of any expenditure which may
be made; nor can it devote the time requisite to superintend either occupations or
expenditures. Under such circumstances surprise should not be created if disap-
pointment were to be experienced in reference to anticipated results from Govern-
ment patronage. The Institute, as before remarked, possessing neither influence
or authority, can exercise no control; and although it may, as a consequence, be
free from ey it can not, in our pupa be erenipt from serious anxieties,

*This committee also expires on the 4th of every other March, med in consequence
it can exercise no control, either directly or indirectly, until after the election of a
new committee at the ensuing December session of Congress.
176 Memortal of George Brown Goode.

nor from that moral responsibility which the country already attaches to it from its
charter and from a general impression of the power it is supposed to possess. And
yet it seems to us that the Institute is the most suitable agent for such purposes. It
is always present; the very intuition of its organization was to promote matters of
science, to arrange and preserve specimens of natural history, and to advise on sub-
jects connected therewith. It ought to be supposed that the Institute possesses
among its members competent knowledge for such duties, and that it has all the
devotion and zeal and exclusiveness of feeling which the well-being of matters of
science requires. During the period when the Institute exercised more influence
than now, its vigilant vice-president was daily in his rooms, and for hours, advising
and directing, to the great benefit of its management and to the prevention of many
an injudicious expenditure.

In addition to these considerations, the organization of the Institute renders it
peculiarly deserving of the confidence of Government, as it can offer, as an agent for
government property and government expenditures, a board of its own officers.

The officers of the Institute consist of a president, vice-president, two secretaries,
one treasurer, and twelve directors. Six of these twelve directors are the heads of
Government Departments, namely, the Secretary of State, the Secretary of the
Treasury, the Secretary of War, the Secretary of the Navy, the Attorney-General,
and the Postmaster-General. These are directors e+ officio, and constitute the
Departments through which all Government expenditures aremade, Six others are
elected by the Institute from among its members. These six at present are the
Hon. Mr. Woodbury, the Hon. Mr. Preston, Mr. Dayton, Fourth Auditor; Commo-
dore Warrington, of the Navy; Colonel Totten, of the Corps of Engineers, and
Colonel Abert, of the Corps of Topographical Engineers."

These are the whole of those who are recognized by the charter as ‘‘ Officers of the
Institute,’’ and constitute, by the charter, ‘‘a board of management for the fiscal
concerns of the Institute.”’

The whole board consists of seventeen, five of which are the officers named, six are
the heads of the Government Departments, ev officio directors, and six are elected
annually from the body of members. Now, as it is hardly within the verge of pos-
sibility that the president, vice-president, secretaries, and treasurer of the Institute
will be filled by any other than men of known fitness and good character, so is it
impossible that eleven (adding the six ex officio directors), a majority of the board,
can fail to deserve the fullest confidence of the Government. ‘Then if we look to the
six elected directors and reflect for a moment upon the palpable and decided inter-
ests of the Institute, and upon the vocations of its members, it is a probability so
remote that it may be considered an impossibility that a great majority of this
board of management can ever be other than persons deserving of confidence, holding
important public places and in the employ of Government.

Now, then, if the Government were to place the control of its collections and of
the appropriations for arranging and preserving them under this ‘‘board of manage-
ment,’’ it would be placing its property and funds where all its other property and
funds are placed, namely, under its own officers and under accustomed and long-
established responsibilities. But these officers are also officers of the Institute ; there-
fore, to place this property under that board would also be to place it under the
Institute.

"Since this paper was written a new election of directors has taken place, namely,
on the 25th January, 1843, when the Honorable Mr. Walker was chosen in the place
of the Honorable Mr. Preston, who could no longer attend, and Commodore Maury,
of the Navy, was chosen in the place of Commodore Warrington, who was unwilling
to serve.
The Genests of the United States National Museum. r77

Upon this plan the Institute would be made to fulfill the objects of its organiza-
tion, the most appropriate organ would be selected by the Government, and the
Government would, in the persons of its own officers, retain its just control over
its own property.

If it should be said that this board of management can be controlled by directors
of the Institute, the answer is easy. It would be worse than idle for the Institute
to come in conflict with the Government or hazard a loss of its confidence, and it is
not fair to suppose, against all experience, that the small portion of common sense
necessary to avoid such a consequence would not be possessed by the Institute or
that it would be unmindful of its own palpable interests.

Moreover, if this board of management should be required to lay a statement of
its proceedings annually before Congress, it would be held to the established respon-
sibility of the different Government Departments, and be subject, like those, to have
its course and conduct investigated and corrected.

Such a plan would also preserve that union between the Government and the Insti-
tute collections so desirable and so essential to the prosperity of both.

It has been intimated to us that there was a desire to separate these and to form
a distinction between the Exploring Squadron and the Institute collections. A course
more fatal to the prosperity of both collections and to the great objects for which
the Institute was chartered, could not well have been imagined.

All the collections in the care of the Institute, from whatever sources received, are
either now the property of the Government or must, by our charter, eventually be-
come so. They are the results of various donations from foreign ministers and con-
suls abroad ; from foreign institutions and foreign governments; donations from
domestic institutions and from citizens of our own country; donations from officers
of our Army and Navy, the results of the official circulars from the War and Navy
Departments; and deposits from individuals and from the different departments at
Washington. Let the opinion once get abroad that contributions from these various
sources are not to receive from the protecting hand of the Government that atten-
tion which their preservation and arrangement require; let it once be supposed
that all these are to be neglected and those only of the Exploring Squadron to be cared
for, and the consequence will soon be felt by the degenerating of the collection from
‘a great and increasing storehouse of all that our own and other countries can
furnish, to that of a small museum, forever limited to the results of the Exploring
Squadron.

Far be it from our intention, by these remarks, to undervalue the collection from
the Squadron. We are too sensible of its excellence and too conscious of the aid it
has been to the Institute to entertain any such idea, and we fully and most highly
appreciate the intelligent labor and industry of its collectors. But its specimens
neither exhaust our admiration or our wants, nor render us insensible to the highly
valuable and continually increasing supplies from other sources, nor relieve us from
the conviction that upon other sources we must principally rely, if our desire be to
extend the collection to a point worthy of the national character or of comparison
with similar institutions in other countries.

In justice to the Institute it should also be borne in mind that but for its efforts
these very specimens from the Exploring Squadron would have been scattered, we
know not where; and but for those efforts the scientific describer might have searched
in vain for a specimen upon which to found a description or to prove a discovery.
It is to the Institute, chiefly, that those who gathered these specimens are indebted
for the present collected results of their great industry and intelligence.

Second. The next matter which we desire to bring to your notice is the right of
disposing of duplicate specimens. Our efforts to exchange have been paralyzed for
the want of this right. The Institute is now seriously indebted to foreign govern-

NAT MUS 97, PT 2 12
178 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

ments, to foreign and domestic institutions, and to individuals, on the principle of
exchanges, because the Institute has not the right to dispose of specimens, although
its cases are loaded with duplicates. The collections of the Government being placed
in the Institute on deposit, the committee upon exchanges have not felt themselves
at liberty to use a specimen. We have heard with extreme regret that it is con-
templated to give all duplicates back to the collectors. Such a course, in our opinion,
would be ruinous in the extreme, as it would destroy one of the great means of
increasing the collection by a system of exchanges. And as these collectors were
amply paid for their labors, we can see no reason for such a course in justice or
equity. Nor can we believe that such a course is desired by the scientific corps of
the Expedition, for, while other men of science are daily making collections, at their
own expense, and sending them to the Institute, many as presents, some in expecta-
tation of exchanges, it would place the gentlemen of this corps low in the scale of con-
tributors to science if, after having been so long and so liberally paid for their labors,
they should yet desire the result of these labors to be given back tothem. Moreover,
we have understood that by far the greater number of these specimens were actually
bought by the collectors from funds furnished by the United States. We can see,
therefore, no reason whatever that they should be returned unless the Government
is disposed to abandon all idea of forming an enlarged scientific and interesting
National Museum.

From our remarks, then, it will appear that, in our judgment, there are serious
defects in the present condition of affairs which require to be remedied: one, in the
absence of a responsible and adequate supervision of the arrangement and preserva-
tion of the collections and of the persons and expenditures in reference thereto; the
other, in the absence of authority to dispose of duplicates. These defects can be
properly remedied only by legislative provision.

We desire it to be distinctly understood that our reasoning has no reference to the
publication of the results of the voyage, but is limited solely to the preservation,
arrangement, and exhibition of the collections. We think, however, that the Insti-
tute might also be able to give acceptable opinions, even in reference to the publica-
tion—its form and style of execution. But as there is an anxiety to possess this power
by others, and as it is already placed elsewhere, we do not seek to interfere with it,
not doubting that in all its parts it will equal similar publications by other govern-
ments, and justify the anticipations which are now entertained of it by the learned
world.

Having thus expressed our general views on these several subjects, we will con-
clude by an effort to condense them ina manner that will admit of their being incor-
porated in a law.

‘This law should, in our opinion, contain provisions investing—

First. The board of managers of the National Institute with the custody of all the
Government collections which have been received or which may hereafter be received
from the Exploring Squadron or other sources, with authority to make all necessary
arrangements to preserve or exhibit the same, to regulate, under the supervision of
the President of the United States, the number and compensations of persons employed
on said duties, and to superintend the public disbursements in relation thereto.

Second, ‘To authorize the said board to exchange any of the duplicates of said col-
lections with other institutions, or with State collections, or with individuals; and
to require the board annually to lay before the President of the United States, to be
by him laid before Congress, a full account of their proceedings under this law.

Third. ‘To direct the said board to furnish to the persons who shall be employed in
thewriting or publication of the voyage and discoveries of the Exploring Squadron
all desired facilities."

* Copied from original draft of Colonel Abert.
Report of U. S. National Museum, 1897. Part Il PLATE 29

GEORGE WILLIAM FEATHERSTONHAUGH.
a
in we

Tene a 2 <: Ae ce cy) ee mr | 7
F a aa a M Trea »  - f poe 7.

wy ¢ 7

ie
e351
by

:
4 ' S a
c : Mee

J,

.
. oa.
; ’
i ” ‘

7 7
i ae _
a
!
,
’
a
'
ate
‘
Peis
7 a)
i] ast '
; a hi 1) i)
t
i
.
The Genests of the United States National Museum. 179

NOTE D.
WASHINGTON, March ro, 7843.
Hon. ROBERT J. WALKER,
United States Senator.

DEAR SIR: We beg leave to call your attention to Senate Document No. 233, of
the 28th ultimo, being a report made by the Hon. Mr. Tappan, as from the Joint
Committee of Congress on the Library, to which had been referred ‘‘A bill for the
preservation of the collection of natural curiosities furnished by the Exploring Squad-
ron, and from other sources,’’ together with ‘‘remarks submitted by Mr. Markoe and
Colonel Abert.’’

The ‘‘remarks’’ to which the ‘“‘ report’’ refers were made, as you will recollect,
and, as is distinctly stated in the first paragraph of them, at your request, were intended
to satisfy your mind of the propriety of the measure we wished you to befriend, and
were addressed to you not only as the well-known friend and advocate of the Insti-
tute, but also as the chairman of one of its important committees, and as a director
and consequently member of the board of management. ‘They passed into the
hands of the committee, of which Mr. Tappan is a member, without any desire on
our part, and without our knowledge (certainly, however, with no unwillingness
that they should be read by the whole world), and, under these circumstances, we
respectfully submit to you whether the attack upon us by the Hon. Senator has not
been as unprovoked as a referenceto our remarks will prove it to have been unmerited.

We can not suppose, as Mr. Tappan supposes, that you had not read our ‘‘ remarks”?
before you laid them before the Library Committee ; and therefore take it for granted
that you did not perceive the ‘‘direct insult’? to the committee which is so palpable
to Mr. Tappan, or you would not have consented to be the medium through which
the insult was conveyed. On the contrary, we have every reason to suppose that
you had made yourself perfectly acquainted with the character and scope of our
‘‘remarks’’—remarks hastily put together, and meant to afford hints and memoranda
for your consideration and use, to illustrate the necessity or advantage of the
measure recommended. ‘They were certainly not intended or calculated to give
offense in any quarter. We will therefore occupy your time by pointing to two para-
graphs only of the “ report’? which we quote in answer to two serious allegations
made against us by the Hon. Senator. You will judge whether they have any just
foundation.

Mr. Tappan says: ‘‘The case presents two officers of the Govermment, one at the
head of a bureau, the other a clerk in one of the public offices, who ask as a matter
of right that they should have the supervision of a very important literary and scien-
tific work, the publication of which Congress has thought proper to intrust to one
of its regular committees.”’

We must deny that any such case is presented, or that it can be even inferred from
our ‘‘remarks.’’ Our ‘‘remarks’’ on this subject were as follows: ‘‘ We desire it to
be distinctly understood that our reasoning has no reference to the publication of the
results of the voyage, but is limited solely to the preservation, arrangement, and
exhibition of the collections. We think, however, that the Institute might be able
to give acceptable opinions even in reference to the publication, its form, and style
of execution. But as there is an anxiety to possess this power by others, and as it
is already placed elsewhere, we do not seek to interfere with it, not doubting that in
all its parts it will equal similar publications by other governments, and justify the
anticipations that are now entertained of it by the learned world.”’

You are well aware that there are appropriations of two distinct characters in
respect to the Exploring Squadron and the publication of its results (the Hon. Mr.
Tappan does not appear to be aware of this, in our judgment, to have kept this dis-
tinction in his mind): One for the publication of the history of the voyage, the
180 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

narrative and scientific descriptions; the other, for the preparation, preservation, and
exhibition of the collections. It is the latter one that we have ever manifested a
desire to see placed under the control of the Institute, which it appears to us isa
most suitable agent for such purposes, and the more particularly as these collections
had been placed by the Executive under its care.

The other allegation against us by Mr. Tappan is, in our opinion, equally incor-
rect. He says: ‘‘ But the great point with Messrs. Abert and Markoe seems to be to
get hold of the appropriations made by Congress to enable the committee to execute
the law.’’

The law to which Mr. Tappan refers relates to the publication of the proceedings
of the Expedition; the remarks made by us relate to a system for the preservation
and exhibition of the collections.

Our remarks on this head were: ‘‘That the Institute should be the organ of the
Government in the arrangement and preservation of its collections, and in the super-
vision of the appropriations which the Government may make for those purposes.”’
We speak of the Institute, of which we are merely members, and of the ‘‘ board of
management,’’ of which we are but two out of seventeen. ‘To this ‘‘ board of man-
agement’’ we think the power appropriately belongs, and in its hands we hope yet
to see placed the management of whatever relates to the arrangement, preservation,
and exhibition of the collections. It is clear to us that no better arrangement could
be made with the superintendence of the publication, and in the appropriation which
belongs to it (duties assigned to the Library Committee by law) we have not ex-
pressed a desire to interfere, and forbear, as we have forborne, to make any remarks

upon them—except to express the natural hope that the wishes and opinions of the
naturalists themselves will be consulted and their opinions be allowed a proper
weight.

Our ‘‘remarks”’ in continuation of the above quotation were: ‘‘ The organization
of the Institute renders it peculiarly deserving of the confidence of the Government,
as it can offer as an agent for Government property and Government expenditures a
board of its own officers.”’

““The officers of the Institute consist of a president, vice-president, two secre-
taries, one treasurer, and twelve directors. Six of these twelve directors are the
heads of the Government departments, namely, the Secretary of State, the Secretary
of the Treasury, the Secretary of War, the Secretary of the Navy, the Attorney-
General, and the Postmaster-General. ‘These are directors, e% officio, and constitute
the departments through which all Government expenditures are made. Six others
are elected by the Institute, from among its members. These six at present are
the Hon. Mr. Woodbury, the Hon. Mr. Preston, Mr. Dayton, Fourth Auditor; Com-
modore Warrington, Colonel Totten, of the Corps of Engineers, and Colonel Abert,
of the Corps of Topographical Engineers.”’

‘““These are the whole of those who are recognized by the charter as ‘ officers of
the Institute,’ and constitute by the charter ‘a board of management of the fiscal
concerns of the Institute.’ ”’

The quotations speak for themselves, and we will trouble you with but few more
remarks. Mr. Tappan, in the beginning of his report, most truly says that ‘‘The
remarks of Messrs. Markoe and Abert are not to be considered as the act of the
National Institute.’’ The ‘‘remarks’’ neither purport nor pretend to be the act of
the Institute. And moreover we beg leave further to say that neither are Messrs.
Abert and Markoe the ‘‘board of management for the fiscal concerns of the Insti-
tute,’? under the supervision of which they suggested the expediency of placing the
appropriations which Government might make for the arrangement and preservation
of its collections.

It also seems to have given offense to the honorable gentleman that we should
have proposed in our remarks ‘‘to furnish to the persons who shall be employed in
The Genests of the United States National Museum. 181

the writing or publication of the voyage and discoveries of the exploring squadron
all desired facilities.’’ We really are at a loss to perceive the offensive matter in
this sentence. It has no allusion to the Library Committee, for they were neither to
write nor to publish. The law invested them with power to enter into contract for
the publication, and each member of the scientific corps of the squadron would, we
presume, be required to furnish the narrative of his observations. The persons
therefore employed in the ‘‘ writing or publication of the voyage’’ were these scien-
tific men and the contractors. If furnished with all desired facilities it would be
all they ought to have, all they could want, and if furnished by the Institute there
would be some agent responsible for the specimens and interested in seeing that
they were returned after being taken out of the building by either the describer, the
engraver, or the publisher. The Library Committee expired on the 4th of March,
and there will be no committee until after a new election by the next Congress. We
believe the committee can not appoint an agent to have a longer existence than
itself; hence, appeared in our judgment the propriety that the Institute should be
invested with the care of the collection,

Had the Hon. Senator published our ‘‘remarks’’ with his ‘‘report,’’? as was due
in all fairness, this letter would have been unnecessary, for the ‘‘remarks’’ contain,
in our opinion, ample refutation of the errors of the ‘‘report.’? We deem it wholly
unnecessary, also, to point out to you other inconsistencies and mistakes into which
the Hon. Senator has fallen, and which have been, on his motion, published in his
“‘report’’ to the Senate.

We rather limit ourselves, in conclusion, to soliciting your advice as to the best
mode of correcting the erroneous impressions which the language of the Senator is
calculated to make upon the public.

We remain, dear sir, with great esteem and respect, your most obedient servants.

LETTER FROM THE HON. MR. PRESTON TO COLONEL ABERT AND MR.
MARKOE.,

COLUMBIA, SOUTH CAROLINA, April, 1843.

My DEAR Str: Having had ample occasion to witness the devotion which you and
Colonel Abert have manifested to the National Institute, you may imagine the sur-
prise and mortification with which I have seen the total misconception of your
motives and conduct in regard to it in Mr. Tappan’s report to the Senate. ‘To the
unwearied and enthusiastic exertions of yourselves and a few other gentlemen, ani-
mated, as it seemed to me, by nothing but a pure love of science, that institution
was mainly indebted for its origin and the eminent success which has attended it
from the beginning. I can say with entire certainty that my own interest in it was
stimulated and sustained by you, and that I was continually made ashamed of how
little I felt and how little I did, while I saw the unabated zeal and unrecompensed
labour which you bestowed upon it. While I wished well to the Institute from a con-
viction that it would promote the advancement of science, you and he particularly
devoted yourselves to it with that deep enthusiasm which a more intimate knowledge
can alone excite, and upon which all scientific projects must depend for their success.
Men in public station or the munificent rich may contribute the means, but the vital
principle of all such institutions is found in the hearts of those who are willing to
work night and day, and whose labour is a labour of love. I was deeply impressed
that the Institute had found in you and Colonel Abert precisely such agents, and my
high hopes of its ultimate success arose from the fact that it had found such. I by
no means mean to say that there are not associated with you other gentlemen equally
impelled by as earnest and disinterested motives, but this I will say, that a vast deal
of the labour was thrown upon you two, and that, to my mind, the discretion and
182 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

wisdom of the Institute was evinced in the selection of such agents. I speak of
Colonel Abert and yourself especially because you and he are made the subject of a
most unmerited attack.

It is with great pleasure that I bear this testimony in your behalf. If I had been
in the Senate when the report was made I think I would have been able to satisfy
Mr. Tappan of the mistake into which he had fallen, but at all events I would have
put upon record my opinion of the purity of purpose and the wisdom of the plans
which have characterized the conduct of Colonel Abert and yourself throughout.

I am entirely satisfied that if the government collection derived from the explor-
ing expedition, or from any other source, be not to a great extent subject to the
control of a scientific association, or of men animated by a philosophic spirit, which
spirit alone brings them to the task, it will not increase and will be dilapidated.
Our government is peculiarly incapable of a proper superintendence of scientific
institutes. In the first place, it may be said that it has no constitutional power, and
if it had, the tenure of office is so liable to change, that in a department so removed
from interests of intense excitement, negligence and decay would soon creep in. It
therefore seems to me from the beginning that accessions to science, incidentally
made, like the collections of the exploring expedition, should be deposited for
arrangement, preservation, and exhibition with such a society as the National Insti-
tute, the government retaining the property while the Institute has the use of it, or
rather while the Institute makes it useful to the public. Without some such
arrangement the Government will find that its valuable specimens will be lost or
moulder away in forgotten boxes, or become a mere mass of rubbish.

I am persuaded that Mr. Tappan, upon such explanations as you and other gentle-
men in Washington can give him, will perceive the injustice of his remarks. He has
an earnest love of science and literal learning of all sorts, and without some obvious
misconception can not fail to sympathize and cooperate with gentlemen who with
such singleness of purpose and such broad intelligence as yourself and others of our
friends of the Institute have at heart the same objects with himself.

I am, my dear sir, your obedient servant,
Wo. C. PRESTON.
FRANCIS MARKOE, jr., Esq.

SPRINGWELLS (NEAR DETROIT), J/ay 78, 7843.
Cols a ABERT:

DEAR SiR: I have read with much interest, but not without some pain, the pam-
phlet you had the goodness to send to me. I regret that anything should have oc-
curred unpleasant to you, and especially in any matter in which the Library Commit-
tee should have participated. I do not remember the day when ‘‘the remarks’”’ of
yourself and Mr. Markoe were submitted in the Senate by Mr. Walker and referred;
but my impression is that by reason of accident or delay in some of the officers of
the Senate they did not reach the committee until more than a week.after they were
referred; and when taken up in committee the session had approached very nearly
its termination. I do not remember whether, when so taken up, they were read 77
extenso, but the ‘bill’? which accompanied them was read and its principle dis-
cussed. The committee was, I believe, unanimous in its opinion that it was not
expedient to pass the bill—if at any time, certainly not until the Library Committee
should have fully executed and terminated the trust committed to it by law. Very
much inconvenience and embarrassment had already grown out of a confliction of
an alleged power of control and direction, especially in relation to the ‘‘specimens
of natural history,’ etc., collected, and in respect to which it has been made the
duty of the Library Committee to cause to be prepared the appropriate publications.

Great responsibility must grow out of the execution of those powers, for a wide
discretion must of necessity be exercised. Without expressing any opinion as to
Report of U.S. National Museum, 1897. Part Il. PLATE 30

WILLIAM FERREL.
The Genesis of the United States National Museum. 183

what disposition should finally—and after the powers of the Committee in the matter
shall have ceased—be made of those rare, rich, and beautiful materials, it remained
the undiyided opinion of the members of the Comittee, I believe, that while those
powers and correlative duties existed it was necessary that those materials should
continue in the entire control of the Committee.

This conclusion being come to, the whole subject of the bill, ‘‘remarks,’’ etc.,
was comunitted to Mr. Tappan, as a subcommittee, with directions to prepare and
make report accordingly.

After this last measure was adopted in Committee I believe the Committee did not
meet again; but it was certainly understood that Mr. Tappan should report to the
Senate this result.

With respect to the doubt which had been raised as to whether all the powers
of the Library Committee continued after the 3d of March, I hazard nothing, I
believe, in saying that in analogy to the case of certain officers of Congress, those
powers were believed by the Committee (on which, as you are aware, there were
some professional gentlemen of very high standing) to continue during the recess,
and it was in corroboration of that opinion asserted that always since the foundation
of the Government the same construction had been put upon the Constitution and
the powers of Congress. In conformity with that view I have been required, as
chairman of the Joint Committee, to draw, in the name of that Committee, upon the
funds subject to its order, for sums of money for books, salaries, compensations,
etc., since the close of its last session. How else could the law be executed or
justice done?

I trouble you with this long detail, my dear sir, because of the personal esteem
and respect which, I beg leave to say, I entertain for you individually, and because
I very sincerely regret that anything should have occurred in this matter tending to
wound your feelings or to give you pain.

As chairman of that most highly respected Committee, whose proceedings have
been the subject of comment, it may perhaps be esteemed indelicate in me to have
made this exposition without its previous sanction. Please, therefore, consider this
letter as intended for yourself alone.

I remain, with sincere respect, yours,
WM. WOODBRIDGE.

NOTE E.

JANUARY 21, 1845.
Str: I have the honor of transmitting to you the memorial of the National Insti-
tute, drawn up in pursuance of a resolution of the Institute, of the roth of December.
And in further obedience to the resolution I have to request that you will do the
Institute the favor of presenting the memorial to the consideration of the Senate and
House of Representatives.
The papers herewith, and which constitute the memorial, are:
(1) The memorial as directed by the resolution.
(2) The resolution under which the committee acted.
(3) The memorial of the scientific men at their meeting in Washington during
last April.
(4) The memorial of the Institute, of March, 1844.
J. J. ABERT.
Honorable Mr. WOODBRIDGE,
United States Senate.
Honorable J. O. ADAMS,
flouse of Representatives.
184 Memortal of George Brown Goode.

1G
MEMORIAL OF THE NATIONAL INSTITUTE.

To the Honorable the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of
America in Congress assembled :

The undersigned, a committee appointed forthe purpose of preparing a memorial
on behalf of the National Institute, to be accompanied by copies of memorials which
were presented to your Honorable body during the last session, beg leave to submit
to your consideration the annexed copies of said memorials and to invoke the friendly
views of your Honorable body to the prayer therein contained.

An examination of the character of the by-laws and of the proceedings of the
National Institute will show that among the principal objects of its organization are
those of forming at the seat of the General Government an extensive museum of the
natural history of our country in all branches, and affording every possible facility
for the development of mind in its devotion to the sciences and the useful arts.
But the experience of a few years of our existence has satisfied the Institute that
individual means are inadequate to meet the expenses involved in the exhibition
and preservation of its already extensive and continually increasing collections, and
for paying the transportation charges of valuable donations daily arriving from all
parts of the world.

These collections, valuable and extensive as they are, have been obtained com-
paratively without cost, and will evidently go without cost to the United States,
as by the conditions of our charter the Institute, in reference to all its collections, is
in reality a trustee for the United States.

Its position and national character have enlisted the most enthusiastic feeling in
its favor from the institutions and the enlightened men of all countries, evinced and
daily evincing itself by presents of the most valuable literary works and by dona-
tions of specimens of natural history and the fine arts. It is to preserve and exhibit
these and to pay for their transportation, which exceed our ability and for which,
on behalf of the National Institute, we solicit the aid of your Honorable body on the
grounds of our position in the District of Columbia, of the national character of our
organization and action, and the consideration that all the property and collections
of the Institute must by our charter eventually become the property and collections
of the Government.

The Institute will readily acquiesce to any restrictions and safeguard with which
your Honorable body think proper to protect any aid that may be granted, only
begging leave to call the attention of your Honorable body to the safeguard already
established in our charter, which makes the six heads of the principal Departments
of the Government directors of the ex officio of the board of managers of the
Institute.

J. J. ABER’, Chairman,

J. T. SULLIVAN,

T. SEWALL, M. D.,

M. THomas, M. D.,

W. W. SEATON,

J. C. BRENT,
Committee.

JANUARY 21, 1845.
TL

At a meeting of the National Institute, held December 9, 1844, the corresponding
secretary (Mr. Markoe) offered the following resolution, which was, on motion, unani-
mously adopted:

Resolved, That a committee of six persons be appointed by the Chair to prepare
a memorial to Congress in behalf of the National Institute, to be accompanied by a
copy of the memorials which were presented at the last session; and that the com-
The Genests of the United States National Museum. 185

mittee request the Hon. Levi Woodbury to present it to the Senate, and the Hon.
John Quincy Adams to present it to the House of Representatives, at the present
session.

Whereupon, the Chair appointed the following gentlemen to constitute the com-
mittee: Colonel J. J. Abert, John TI. Sullivan, Doctor Sewall, Doctor Thomas. Messrs.
Seaton, and J. C. Brent."

1 ae

MEMORIAL OF THE FRIENDS OF SCIENCE WHO ATTENDED THE APRIL
MEETING OF THE NATIONAL INSTITUTE.

To the Congress of the United States.—The respectful memorial of the friends of
Science, assembled at the City of Washington, from various parts of the Union:

The undersigned have come together at the capital of the United States, at the call
of the National Institute for the Promotion of Science, with the purpose of commu-
nicating to each other the facts and reasonings in science which each one’s research
might have suggested, and of interchanging views and opinions in regard to the
progress of science in our country.

While engrossed in this delightful and most profitable communion, we have had
an opportunity to observe the results of the efforts made by the members of the
National Institute for the advancement of science. Founded only four years since,
they have already brought together valuable collections in natural history and in
the arts. Connecting themselves with the Government, through the heads of Depart-
ments, who, by virtue of their offices, are directors of the Institute, they have vol-
untarily imposed restraints upon the operations of the Institute, which will preserve
its national character and prevent its being tributary to any local or sectional pur-
pose. By making the Institute merely a trustee for the United States of the prop-
erty which it possesses, and may hereafter acquire, they have proved that no sordid
or interested views guided them in framing their constitution. The zeal and indus-
try shown in making collections, the disinterestedness in the disposition of them,
would seem to deserve from the Government of the Republic approval and encour-
agement. The value of the property already collected, although the existence of
the Institute has been so short, is very great. And yet it has no building for the
convenient exhibition of its treasures, or even for their safe keeping. And if articles
of so much interest and value have already been collected, what may not be expected
from the army, the navy, and friends of science generally, in the long reach of years
to come, if a suitable place can be provided for their preservation and exhibition,

Sut how are the means of providing such a building to be obtained? If attained at
all for such a purpose by voluntary contributions, it could only be in the midst of
large and flourishing communities. Local feelings of interest or pride can not be
transferred, and it is not to be expected that the means to arrange, display, preserve,
and augment these collections can be procured by voluntary contributions of indi-
viduals in the District of Columbia, or that they can be procured out of the District.
There is no civilized nation, however narrow its policy in other respects, which does
not exhibit some measure of interest in promoting the advancement of human know]l-
edge. In most countries science receives direct encouragement, and many Govern-
ments have vied with each other in their efforts to advance this cause. The Govern-
ment of a country emulous to consider itself among the first of enlightened nations,
we trust, will not refuse to aid in securing to its capital the benefits of the labors of
the National Institute. We cordially unite with the resident members of the Insti-
tute in asking an appropriation in its behalf from Congress. Our only fear is that
in thus requesting aid for the keeping of what in fact is the property of the Govern-
ment, we may be considered as asking a boon far below that which the country calls
for, and that we ought to urge upon the National Legislature a liberal and plenteous

*Proceedings of the National Institute, 3d Bull., p. 375.
186 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

enaowment for a National Institute; and we are only withheld from doing so by con-
siderations growing out of the present financial condition of the Government. But
that which we ask is so entirely within the means of Congress, and the urgency of
its application to preserve what has been accumulated, with so much labor and
expense, is so great, that we can not but hope the enlightened and intelligent mem-
bers of Congress will distinguish the present session by the necessary appropriation
of funds to an object so truly national and so truly republican.!
ELIPHALET Notr, President Union College, Schenectady.
BENJAMIN F. BuTLER, New York.
A. H. Everert, President Jefferson College, Louisiana.
JAMES TALLMADGE, President University of New York, and
President American Institute, New York.
JoHN W. DRAPER, Professor Chemistry, University of New York.
W. W. Martuer, Professor Natural Sciences, Ohio University,
Athens, Ohio.
I, R. Wiiwiams, Professor Natural Philosophy and Chemistry,
Jefferson College.
C. Gint, Professor Mathematics, St. Paul’s College, Flushing,
New York.
JoHn W. Dunpsar, M. D., Professor, University Maryland.
W. A. Norton, Professor Mathematics and Natural Philosophy,
Delaware College, Easton, Pennsylvania.
JoHN W. YEoMANS, President Lafayette College, Pennsylvania.
JoHN W. Locke, Professor Chemistry, Medical College, Ohio.
HENRY R. SCHOOLCRAFT, Delegate New York Historical Society.
W. R. Assorr, President Georgetown Library Association.
GRAFTON TYLER, M. D., Georgetown, District of Columbia.
RICHARD §. McCurnon, Professor Mathematics and Natural
Philosophy, Jefferson College, Maryland.
JoHN Excar, Montgomery County, Maryland
FRANCIS J. GruND, Philadelphia.
A. D. CHALONER, M. D., Philadelphia.
S. C. DonaLtpson, Baltimore, Maryland.
JAMES CURLEY, Professor, Georgetown College.
ALEXIS CASWELL, Professor, Brown University, Rhode Island.
JAMES P. Espy.
EpwARD A. Cook, ew York.
A. TaLcorr, Connecticut.
WM. STRICKLAND, Philadelphia.
BENJAMIN HALLOWELL, Maryland.
HeEcror HumpHREyS, President St. John’s College, Annapolis,
Maryland.
GEORGE TucKER, Professor, University of Virginia.
JAMES PRENTISS, Vew York.
RICHARD PETERS, Philadelphia.
R. M. Parrerson, Philadelphia.
SAMUEL Hazarv, Philadelphia.
Eias Loomis, Professor, Western Reserve College, Ohio.
CHARLES D. CLEVELAND, Philadelphia.
SAMUEL F. B. Morsst, Vew York.
RICHARD RusH, Philadelphia.
Epwarp Hrrcencock, Professor, Amherst College, Massachusetts.
WASHINGTON, D. C., April, 7844.

* Proceedings of the National Institute, 3d Bull., p. 386.
Report of U. S. National Museum, 1897. Part Il. PLATE 31.

JOHN REINHOLD AND JOHN GEORGE FORSTER.
The Genests of the United States National Museum. 187

IV.
MEMORIAL OF THE NATIONAL INSTITUTE.

To the Honorable the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of
America:

The memorial and petition of the ‘‘ National Institute for the Promotion of Science
and the Arts,’’ respectfully represent :

That its members have been induced, by a high sense of the duty to the body whose
interests they represent, as well as to the great objects which it was the design of its
creation to promote, to submit to the consideration of your honorable bodies, a state-
ment of the origin and progress, of the past and present condition, and of the wants
and exigencies of the Institute.

The Congress of the Union, after a full investigation of the subject, after duly
estimating the value and importance of the design of its founders, and the means which
it contemplated to employ in the accomplishment of those ends, deemed them so far
entitled to its countenance and favor as to grant to the Institute a charter of incor-
poration. Some pecuniary aid incidentally followed, and it was made the custodier
of much valuable property belonging to the Government. This charter, whose date
is recent, naturally afforded the hope of national protection, thus inspiring every-
where confidence the moment it was seen, by the acts of Government, that confidence
was felt at home.

Under these auspices, the National Institute began its career. Many of the most
distinguished and illustrious individuals in the nation afforded it their aid and
encouragement,

Its active members were chiefly composed of officers of Government and citizens
of Washington, who, occupied in their own private concerns, neither men of wealth
nor mere scholars, proposed to give a portion of their leisure to promote objects in
which they had no other or ulterior motives and interest than such as were common
to the nation, and, perhaps, to the whole human family.

These individuals have, so far, advanced with a success which they could have little
anticipated, and they now approach the legislature of the Union, and the nation at
large, with the fruits of their labors in their hands, spreading before those whose
interests they have undertaken to advance, the results which in so brief a space of time
they have accomplished, asking that their deeds should be examined and compared
with their promises, and if they have performed their duty faithfully, and discharged
the trusts confided to them honorably, zealously, and successfully, that they may be
encouraged by the only reward they have ever sought, viz, the means of enlarging
and giving additional efficiency to their patriotic efforts and purposes. They appear
before your honorable bodies to render an account of their stewardship, and they
solicit an examination of their proceedings.

In urging this matter upon Congress, it is not the design of your memorialists to
present a formal argument to establish, either the constitutional authority of your
honorable bodies to confer upon the National Institute that pecuniary aid which
they so urgently need, or the expediency of so applying any portion of the public
patronage. They believe that Congress is fully competent to the ascertainment and
decision of all questions of this character. While, therefore, your memorialists
abstain from entering into any discussion of constitutional questions, submitting,
with the most respectful deference, to the judgment of your honorable bodies, they
feel that they are, in no manner, trenching upon this ground, in exhibiting fully and
distinctly those facts and circumstances which will furnish the general data upon
which Congress is to decide.

The National Institute is composed of private individuals, with no other bond of
connection than ¢heir common labors as trustees of certain property for the public
and the Government—a common feeling of interest in promoting scientific and useful
188 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

information, and the bond of union bestowed upon them by Congress in their charter
of incorporation. In effecting the designs of their association, they have established
an extensive correspondence with influential and useful men, men of experience, of
letters, and of distinguished scientific attainments, not only throughout the Union,
but throughout the world. In every part of Europe and of the American continent, .
in Asia, and in Africa, we find generous and enthusiastic friends and corresponding
members; foreign Governments have evinced their interest by valuable contribu-
tions, and many of the most distinguished Institutions and Societies abroad are cor-
respondents and contributors. An aggregate amount of munificence, zeal, learning,
and adventitious advantage is thus possessed by the Institute, which has already
yielded substantial results, and holds out assurances of the richest fruits. In further
illustration of the advantages which are here imperfectly sketched, we submit for
the examination of your honorable bodies,a communication lately received from
Paris, with accompanying documents and transactions, exhibiting, in a remarkable
manner and degree, evidences of interest and good will toward Congress, toward
the States, and toward the Institute on the part of the Government and people of
France.

Through this widespread instrumentality, the Institute has labored to form an
extensive library and museum, or collection of objects of natural history, a reper-
torium of facts and contributions to science, documents illustrating history in gen-
eral, but in an emphatic manner that of our own continent, and specimens of the
fine arts, of mechanic ingenuity, valuable productions of the vegetable kingdom,
and materials illustrating the moral and social condition of nations generally, but
in a more especial manner of our own. From every quarter of the globe valuable
and various contributions have been transmitted to us.. The gallant officers of our
army and navy; the diplomatic and consular representatives of the Government
abroad, the men of learning and science everywhere, have entered with the most
praiseworthy zeal in the cause, and vied with each other in the number and value of
their contributions.

The collection thus made is not designed for, or appropriated to, the exclusive use
of the Institute, or of any particular class of individuals. It is opened gratuitously
and daily to the inspection and for the benefit of all. Without cost, the student of
natural history may here find ample means of improvement in that department of
science to which his attention has been directed; without cost, the geologist and
mineralogist are furnished with abundant materials for prosecuting their researches;
the curious may indulge their predilections, while the man of science is enabled to
peruse the valuable contributions from learned societies and individuals throughout
the world.

In addition to these materials, thus accumulated by the labors of the Institute
itself, the convenience of the Government has made it the depository and guardian
of numerous articles of its own property, which are thus exhibited to the public eye
without trouble to the ordinary officers in the various Departments, and without the
consequent abstraction of their time from more peculiar and appropriate duties.
The interesting collections of Indian portraits and curiosities formerly deposited in
the War Department; the objects of curiosity and various donations to the Govern-
ment or to distinguished citizens from foreign countries, once in the State Depart-
ment, are here shown to the public in connection with much other public property.

The articles arising from these, and from various other sources which it would be
tedious to enumerate, already in the custody of the Institute, are of great value,
and they are increasing with rapidity, and accumulating to an indefinite extent.

The real owners of these treasures are the Government and the nation. The indi-
vidual members of the Institute contemplated no interest or property in them, beside
their trust for the public, beyond what is enjoyed by every citizen in the land, or,
indeed, every stranger who may feel disposed to use them as a means of indulging a
The Genests of the United States National Museum. 189

liberal curiosity or gratifying his love of science. Such of the articles as at any
time belonged to the Government, remain its absolute and exclusive property. They
are simply intrusted to the Institute for safe-keeping and public exhibition, and
may be withdrawn whenever it shall suit the wishes of the owners to dispose of
them in any other manner. The donations by individuals and public bodies to the
Institute are substantially in the same predicament. So long as this corporate asso-
ciation exists, it has the charge, custody, and control of it, as trustee for the Govy-
ernment; but upon the dissolution of the Institute, the entire mass becomes equally,
as the other branch of the collection, the absolute and exclusive property of the
nation. In the meantime, the members wish for no private interest in the collec-
tion, and if the present charter be not susceptible of the construction, that the whole
beneficial interest of all the articles is now, as well as at its close, in the Govern-
ment, they are anxious to have an amendment made to accompany the appropria-
tion asked for, which shall, at once, regulate the property in that way. For the
Institute has depended on the Government heretofore, and must continue to rely on
it, not only for many of the most valuable articles in its possession, but for a place
to deposit them and a place for their meetings, as well as for some of the means to
defray the incidental expenses of opening, putting up, and preserving their collec-
tions. In short, all the property belongs to the Government. The guardians of it,
under the charter, are chiefly the officers of the Government. The custody of such
property was heretofore at the public expense. And that such sums should still be
expended by Congress as would pay for the freight and other expenditures connected
with it, would be the exercise of no other power than such as has been exercised by
the Government every year since its organization.

The individuals who compose the Institute, have, by their pecuniary contributions
and specific donations, largely aided in augmenting the value of this property, in
arranging it so as to render it available, and in defraying the expenses necessarily
attending the execution of the important and responsible trusts confided to them.
They have thus created, enlarged, and rendered practically useful, the property of
the Government and of the nation, Their means of usefulness, their capacity to
extend the benefits of the museum, are limited only by their capacity to meet their
daily expenses.

Not only are the Government and the nation the absolute owners of much of the
property of the Institute, and the beneficiary owners of the residue, but they are also
the exclusive recipients of the advantage to result from the entire enterprise. At
this period of the world, and in this enlightened age, it is not necessary to present
an argument to establish a truth which all history inculcates, that the highest glory
of a nation, the purest and most durable happiness of a commonwealth, rest most
upon a moral and intellectual advancement.

If, in the legitimate execution of those powers which by the Constitution are vested
in your honorable bodies, collateral results should follow, by which science and lit-
erature shall be fostered and encouraged among your constituents, and diffused more
widely through our Union, such consequences will not, we presume, furnish grounds
of objection to the rightful exercise of power in the breast of any individual. It is
believed that few are disposed to controvert the lawfulness, while a still smaller
number will deny the expediency, of the appropriations heretofore made by Congress
to the literary and benevolent associations of this district and city. None can doubt
the lawfulness of those provisions which have been, from time to time, made for the
protection of the property of the nation, and its adequate security and care by the
erection of suitable buildings for its accommodation, and furnishing proper compen-
sation to the officers or agents of the Government charged with its preservation and
improvement.

All the Institute asks of Congress, then, is an appropriation of a sum sufficient to
discharge the arrears of expense heretofore incurred, and due by the Institute. An
190 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

annual appropriation for the necessary purposes of the Association, and the continu-
ance of the indulgence hitherto granted, of the use of convenient rooms for preserv-
ing the property and holding the ordinary meetings.

Annexed to this memorial are various documents, of which the following is a list:

1. Charter of incorporation.

2. Constitution and by-laws.

3. Abstract of proceedings, comprising the contributions, donations, and deposits
made to the cabinet and library of the Institution since its foundation, with the
names of the contributors, donors, and depositors.

4. List of officers, and honorary, resident, paying corresponding, and correspond-
ing members, and of the societies, institutions, etc., at home and abroad, in corre-
spondence with the National Institute."

PETER Forck, Vice-President,
FRANCIS MARKOE, Jr., Corresponding Secretary,
JoHN K. TOWNSEND, Recording Secretary,
GEORGE W. RIGGS, Jr., 7veasurer,
JOHN C. SPENCER,
JOHN NELSON,
WILLIAM WILKINS,
C. A. WICKLIFFE,
Directors, ex officio, on the part of the Government.
LEVI WoopBuRY,
R. J. WALKER,
J. J. ABERT,
JosEPH G. TOTTEN,
A. O. DayTOon,
M. F. MAurY,
Directors on the part of the National Institute.
WASHINGTON CiTy, JJarch 18, 1844.

NOTE F.
MEMORIAL TO CONGRESS.

The following appeal was made to Congress at its late session (first session of
Twenty-ninth Congress) in favor of the National Institute, and was presented to the
Senate by the Hon. Lewis Cass and to the House of Representatives by the Hon.
John Quincy Adams:

To the Senate and House of Representatives in Congress assembled :

The undersigned would respectfully petition that the memorials? heretofore pre-
sented to your honorable bodies in behalf of the National Institute may again be
taken into consideration and the prayers therein be granted.

In addition to the reasons before set forth in their favor, the undersigned would
beg leave to state what they most sincerely deplore—the increasing difficulties of the
Institute. It is becoming entirely impracticable, by mere private contributions and |
taxes, to pay the large incidental expenses attendant on the collection and preserva-
tion of so much valuable property connected with the aavancement of science, litera-
ture, and the arts. The Institute asks and has asked nothing for the private emolu-

* Proceedings of the National Institute, 3d Bull., p. 383.
2 Copies of these memorials will be found at pp. 383 and 386 of the Third Bulletin
of the Proceedings of the National Institute, which accompanies this memorial.
PLATE 32.

tl.

Par

Report of U. S. National Museum, 1897.

ANKLIN.

BENJAMIN FR
The Genests of the United States National Museum. IQI

ment of its members. It merely seeks means to secure the property coming into its
custody from time to time so that it may not be injured or lost, and so that it may
be exhibited and used by the public, as it is dedicated to the public, and the title to
it is intended to be in the Government.

For want of pecuniary means all our collections, whether in possession or increas-
ing by new additions weekly, are in jeopardy; and unless Congress interfere to save
what is so public in its character, and so peculiarly under its guardianship as is the
encouragement of matters of this kind within this District, subject to its exclusive
legislation, the prospect is that the operations of the Institute must of necessity
cease and the property be abandoned.

Deprecating, as we do, an event so unfortunate for the cause of science and the
arts, not only here, but from here in some degree over the whole Union, and not a
little disreputable to our character abroad, the undersigned would earnestly pray
that Congress, at an early date, may avert the calamity by taking steps to aid effi-
ciently in preserving this important public property ; and the more especially do we
ask this, when, for various reasons, it can be done at moderate expense and in entire
conformity to the provisions of the Constitution.

The undersigned respectfully refer to the documents annexed, which exhibit the
character of the Institute and the course of its proceedings.

LEVI Wooppsury, President,
PETER ForCE, Vice-President,
FRANCIS MARKOER, Jr., Corresponding Secretary,
G. W. RIGGS, Jr., 7veasurer,
ROBERT J. WALKER, Secretary of the Treasury,
J. J. ABERT, Topographical Engineers,
J. G. Torren, Lngineer Corps,
M. F. Maury, U.S. Navy,
A. O. Dayton, Fourth Auditor,
Directors.
WASHINGTON, December 16, 1845.

LIST OF DOCUMENTS ACCOMPANYING THE ABOVE MEMORIAL,

First Bulletin of the Proceedings of the National Institution for the Promotion of
Science, established at Washington, 1840: Washington, 1841.

Second Bulletin, etc., March, 1841, to February, 1842: Washington, 1842.

Third Bulletin, etc., February, 1842, to February, 1845; also proceedings of the
meeting of April, 1844: Washington, 1845.
a Ty)
uit
Bn
i?)
va
7 j
‘
‘
+
+
r

we AL

tan A POP.
“a ‘Geet RP ear oy

.

ow

Sate Tio " vom i prs ‘hea
us SCE wt Saks Herre ek fon par a eae at
- a us ‘> a ag! = pe ws ~
Loire Aa “a 435 e ae oie ee he ad ety
: a er re ae
Tete i i Ty eh are eee ane Bu ¢
ioe Po d ¥ y
= “wry , La orf
ey ri ‘ oD“ t ” Mer sh) marin ng
oir == .
1 ® - ’
- 9
7 : i
i i *2.))
eth3
: F
Fs = ,
5) @ a0 8 ’
af . Re
n
a » ,
1 i eee a {
chs "patil A =a rf
he nas.
. rT } S wv Ae
mT > a pale
7 A iM
te,
me
Va Pe
ca Burs ee ae TIONS bP aee
at wa Daw . a
tas in ; :
Cis ta NS AY, A eA Fie
oe ‘ ; J
e
7 a a rc Md .
7.7% “5 4 vy ® bed Pe ie / re :
PY erent fy I er aes
= i
“si
, veo
c bythe - ae
+
ye tte bE ee nna
et i 4 Py et
i
’ ke aig
2
y
a
’ >
«
ry
.
y ‘
1
4

role ih ae
fos Pasta: ‘¢

: ates s

z iss

THE PRINCIPLES OF MUSEUM ADMINISTRATION.

BY

GEORGE BROWN GOODE,
Assistant Secretary, Smithsonian Institution, in charge
of the U.S. National Museum,

NAT MUS 97, PT 2

13 193
THE PRINCIPLES OF MUSEUM ADMINISTRATION.

By GEORGE BROWN GOODE,

Assistant Secretary, Smithsonian Institution, in charge of the United States National
Museum ; Member, National Academy of Sciences; America Philosophical So-
ciety ; American Society of Naturalists ; Fellow, American Academy of Arts and
Sciences ; Corresponding Member, American Institute of Architects ; Société des
Amis des Sciences Naturelles, Moscow ; Société Zoologique, France; Zoological
Society of London,

ANALYSIS.

Introduction.
I. The museum and its relationships.
II. The resposibilities and requirements of museums.
Ill. The five cardinal necessities in museum administration.
IV. The classification of museums.
V. The uses of specimens and collections.
VI. The preservation and preparation of museum materials.
VII. The art of installation.
VIII. Records, catalogues, and specimen labels.
IX. Exhibition labels and their functions.
X. Guides and lecturers; handbooks and reference books.
XI. The future of museum work.

INTRODUCTION.

In an article on The use and abuse of museums, written nearly
fifteen years ago by Professor William Stanley Jevons, it was stated that
there was not at that time in the English language a treatise analyzing
the purposes and kinds of museums and discussing the general principles
of their management and economy. It is somewhat surprising that the
lack then made so evident has not since been supplied and that there is
not at the present day such a treatise in the English or any other lan-
guage. Many important papers have in the interval been printed in
regard to particular classes of museums and special branches of museum
work. Notable among these have been the addresses by Sir William H.
Flower on the uses and conduct of natural-history museums. Among
the especially significant general papers which had previously been

* Reprinted from the Annual Report of the Museums Association, 1895.

195
196 Memortal of George Brown Goode.

printed were Edward Forbes’s suggestive essay on The educational
uses of museums, dated 1853, and the still earlier one by Edward
Edwards on The maintenance and management of public galleries and
museums, printed in 1840.

No one, however, has as yet attempted, even in a preliminary way, to
formulate a general theory of administration applicable to museum work
in all its branches except Professor Jevons, who in the paper already
referred to presented in an exceedingly suggestive manner the ideas
which should underlie such a theory.

It is still true, however, as it was when Professor Jevons wrote in 1881,
that there is not in existence ‘‘a treatise analyzing the purposes and
kinds of museums and discussing the general principles of their manage-
ment and economy.’’ With this fact in mind, I have ventured to
attempt the preparation of such a treatise, and to bring together in one
systematic sequence the principles which I believe to underlie the policy
of the wisest and most experienced of modern museum administrators.

My ideas are presented in a somewhat dogmatic manner, often in the
form of aphorisms, and possibly many of them may sound like truisms to
the experienced museum administrator.

I have no doubt that my purpose in preparing this paper will be at
once understood by the members of the Museums Association,

I have had two objects in view:

It has been my desire, in the first place, to begin the codification or
the accepted principles of museum administration, hoping that the out-
line which is here presented may serve as the foundation for a complete
statement of those principles, such as can only be prepared by the coopera-
tion of many minds. With this in view, it is hoped that the paper may
be the cause of much critical discussion. of

My other purpose has been to set forth the aims and ambitions of
modern museum practice in such a manner that they shall be intelligible
to the persons who are responsible for the establishment of museums, and
the conduct of other public institutions founded for similar purposes, in
order to evoke more fully their sympathy and cooperation.

Museums of art and history, as well as those of science, are discussed
in this paper, since the same general principles appear to be applicable
to all.

The theses proposed are as follows:

I—THE MUSEUM AND ITS RELATIONSHIPS.
A.—THE MUSEUM DEFINED.

1. A museum is an institution for the preservation of those objects
which best illustrate the phenomena of nature and the works of man,
and the utilization of these for the increase of knowledge and for the
tulture and enlightenment of the people.
Report of U. S. National Museum, 1€ PLATE 33.

=A a i
a

i : '
= ' 7
fi
7 n 7
,? 1
1
‘
'
i
i
'
it a
7 n
7 Do
1
‘ :
on ‘
P) | :
' 7 :
7 n
A J he
: - . —
!
i vfs i
Luty 5
'
t a“
a6 ‘
: 0
'
—
: '
y

The Principles of Museum Administration. 197

B.—THE RELATION OF THE MUSEUM TO OTHER INSTITUTIONS OF
LEARNING.

1. The museum in its effort for the increase and diffusion of knowl-
edge aids, and is aided by, the university and college, the learned society,
and the public library.

2. The special function of the museum is to preserve and utilize
objects of nature and works of art and industry; that of the library to
guard the records of human thought and activity; that of the learned
society to discuss facts and theories; that of the school to educate the
individual, while all meet together on common ground in the custodian-
ship of learning and in extending the boundaries of knowledge.

3. The care and utilization of material objects being the peculiar duty
of the museum, it should not enter the field of other institutions of
learning, except to such a degree as may be found absolutely necessary
in connection with its own work.

COMMENT.—For example, its library should contain only such books as are
necessary for use within its own walls. Its publications should be solely those
which are (directly or indirectly) the outgrowth of its own activities. Its teaching
work should be such as can not be performed by other institutions.

On the other hand, schools may advantageously limit their cabinets in accord-
ance with the needs of their lecture rooms and laboratories, and the library and the

learned society should not enter the field of the museum, except in localities where
museum agencies are not provided.

C.—THE RELATION OF THE MUSEUM TO THE EXPOSITION.

1. The museum differs from the exposition or fair both in aims and
in method.

2. The exposition or exhibition and fair are primarily for the promo-
tion of industry and commerce; the museum for the advancement of
learning.

3. Of the former, the principal object is to make known the names of
the exhibitors for their own professional or financial advantage; in the
latter, the name of the exhibitor is incidental, the thing chiefly in mind
being the lesson taught by the exhibit.

4. Into the work of the former enters the element of competition
coupled with a system of awards by diplomas or medals; in the latter,
the element of competition does not appear.

5. The educational results of expositions, though undeniably impor-
tant, are chiefly incidental, and not at all proportionate to the prodigal
expenditure of energy and money which are inseparable from every great
exposition.

D.—MUSEUM FEATURES ADOPTED IN EXPOSITIONS

1. Museum methods have been in part adopted by many expositions,
in some instances to attract visitors, in others because it has been desired
198 Memorval of George Brown Goode.

to utilize the occasion to give museum lessons to multitudes to whom
museums are not accessible.

2. Those expositions which have been most successful from an educa-
tional standpoint have been the ones which have most fully availed them-
selves of museum methods, notably the London Exhibition of 1851 and
the Paris Exposition of 1889.

3. Special or limited exhibitions have a relatively greater educational
value, owing to the fact that it is possible in these to apply more fully
the methods of the museum. ‘The four expositions held in London in
the last decade—fisheries, health, inventions, and colonial—are good
illustrations.

_ 4. The annual exhibitions of the academies of art are allied to the
exposition rather than to the museum.

5. Many so-called ‘‘museums’’ are really ‘‘ permanent exhibitions,’’
and many a great collection of pictures can only be suitably designated
by the name ‘‘ picture gallery.”’

EH.—TEMPORARY MUSEUMS.

1. There are many exhibitions which are administered in accordance
with museum principles, and which are really temporary museums. ‘To
this class belong the best of the loan exhibitions, and also special exhibits
made by public institutions, like the Luther ‘‘ Memorial Exhibition’’ of
1894, the material for which was derived chiefly from the library of the
British Museum, and similar exhibitions subsequently held under the
same auspices.

F.—MUSEUM METHODS IN OTHER INSTITUTIONS—'‘‘ MUSEUM
EXTENSION.’’

1. The Zoological Park, the Botanical Garden, and the Aquarium are
essentially museums, and the principles of museum administration are
entirely applicable to them.

2. An herbarium in its usual form corresponds to the study series ina
museum, and is capable of expansion to the full scope of the general
museum.

3. Certain churches and ecclesiastical edifices as well as antiquities in
place, when they have been pronounced ‘‘ public monuments,’’ are sub-
ject to the principles of museum administration.

4. Many cities, like Rome, Naples, Milan, and Florence, by reason of
the number of buildings, architectural features, sculpture, and other
objects in the streets and squares, together with the historical houses
duly labeled by tablets, have become practically great museums and these
various objects are administered much in the manner of museums.
Indeed, the number of ‘‘ public monuments’’ in Italy is so great that the
whole country might properly be described as a museum of art and his-
The Principles of Museum Administration. 199

tory. A government commission for the preservation of the monuments
of history and art regulates the contents of every church, monastery, and
public edifice, the architectural features of private buildings, and even
private collections, to the extent of requiring that nothing shall be
removed from the country without governmental sanction. Each Italian
town is thus made a museum, and in Rome the site of the Forum and
the adjacent structures has been set aside as an outdoor museum under
the name of the Passegiata Archeologica. Similar Government control
of public monuments and works of art exists in Greece and Egypt and
in a lesser degree in the Ottoman Empire, and for more than half a cen-
tury there has been a commission of historic monuments in France which
has not only efficiently protected the national antiquities, but has pub-
lished an exceedingly important series of descriptive monographs con-
cerning them.

D—LTHE RESPONSIBILITIES AND REQUIREMENTS OF
MUSEUMS.

A.—THE RELATION OF THE MUSEUM TO THE COMMUNITY.

1. The museum supplies a need which is felt by every intelligent com-
munity and which can not be supplied by any other agency. ‘The
museum does not exist except among highly enlightened peoples, and
attains its highest development only in great centers of civilization.

2. The museum is more closely in touch with the masses than the
university and learned society, and quite as much so as the public library,
while even more than the last, it is a recent outgrowth of modern ten-
dencies of thought. Therefore—

3. The public museum is a necessity in every highly civilized com-
munity.

B.—THE MUTUAL RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE COMMUNITY AND THE
MUSEUM.

1. The museums in the midst of a community perform certain functions
which are essential to its welfare, and hence arise mutual responsibilities
between the community and the museum administrator.

2. The museum administrator must maintain his work with the high-
est possible degree of efficiency in order to retain the confidence of the
community.

3. The community should provide adequate means for the support of
the museum. *

4. A failure on the part of one leads inevitably to a failure on the part
of the other.

™See Chapter III, p. 202.
200 Memorial of George Brown Goode.
C.—THE SPECIFIC RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE MUSEUM.

1. The museum should be held responsible for special services, chiefly
as follows:
a. For the advancement of learning.

To aid learned men in the work of extending the boundaries of
knowledge, by affording them the use of material for investigation, —
laboratories, and appliances.

To stimulate original research in connection with its own collec-
tions, and to promote the publications of the results.

b. For record.

To preserve for future comparative and critical study the material
upon which studies have been made in the past, or which may con-
firm, correct, or modify the results of such studies. Such materials
serve to perpetuate the names and identifications used by investiga-
tors in their publications, and thus authenticated, are useful as a
basis for future investigation in connection with new material.
Specimens which thus vouch for the work of investigators are called
types. Besides types, museums retain for purposes of record many
specimens which, though not having been used in investigation, are
landmarks for past stages in the history of man and nature.

c. Asan adjunct to the class room and the lecture room.

‘To aid the teacher either of elementary, secondary, technological,
or higher knowledge in expounding to his pupils the principles of
Art, Nature, and History, and to be used by advanced or professional
students in practical laboratory or studio work.

To furnish to the advanced or professional student, materials and
opportunity for laboratory training.

ad. To impart special information.

To aid the occasional inquirer, be he a laboring man, schoolboy,
journalist, public speaker, or savant, to obtain, without cost, exact
information upon any subject related to the specialties of the insti-
tution; serving thus as a ‘‘ bureau of information.’’

e. Lor the culture of the public.

To serve the needs of the general public, through the display of
attractive exhibition series, well planned, complete, and thoroughly
labeled; and thus stimulate and broaden the mind of those who are
not engaged in scholarly research, and to draw them to the public
library and the lecture room. In this respect the effect of the
museum is somewhat analogous to that of travel in distant regions.

2. A museum to be useful and reputable must be constantly engaged
in aggressive work, either in education or investigation, or in both.

3. A museum which is not aggressive in policy and constantly improv-
ing can not retain in its service a competent staff, and will surely fall
into decay.
1897. Part PLATE 34.

Report of U. S. National Museum, 1€

GEORGE GIBBS
The Principles of Museum Administration. 201

4. A finished museum is a dead museum, and a dead museum is a
useless museum.

5. Many so-called ‘‘museums’’ are little more than storehouses filled
with the materials of which museums are made.

D.—THE RESPONSIBILITY OF MUSEUMS TO EACH OTHER.

1. There can be no occasion for envious rivalry between museums,
even when they are in the same city. Every good museum strengthens
its neighbors, and the success of the one tends to the popularity and
public support of the others.

2. A system of cooperation between museums is seemingly possible
by means of which much duplication of work and much expenditure of
money may be avoided.

3. The first and most important field for mutual understanding is in
regard to specialization of plan. If museums in the same town, prov-
ince, or nation, would divide the field of work so that each should be
recognized as having the first rights in one or more specialties, rivalry
would be converted into friendly association, and the interests of science
and education better served.

4. An important outcome of such a system of cooperation might be
the transfer of entire groups of specimens from one museum to another.
This would greatly facilitate the work of specialization referred to, and
at the same time relieve each museum of the responsibility of maintain-
ing collections which are not germane to its real purpose. Such transfers
have occasionally been made in the past, and there are few museums
which might not benefit individually, in a large degree, by a sweeping
application of this principle. If its effect on the attractiveness and
interest of any local or national group of museums be taken into account,
as no one can doubt that the result would be exceedingly beneficial.

5. Another field for cooperation is in joint expenditure of effort and
money upon labels and catalogues, and in the economical purchase of
supplies and material.

CoMMENT.—In the United States, for instance, the iron molds for specimen jars
used for terra-cotta mounting tablets, and the dies used in rolling the metal guid-
ing strips for supporting the drawers in specimen cabinets, which have been made
at considerable expense for the National Museum, are placed without cost at the
disposition of other museums; drawings and specifications for the construction of

cases, and many other results of experiment in this Museum are placed at the serv-
ice of all others.

6. Still another would lie in the cooperative employment of expert
curators and preparators, it being thus practicable to pay larger salaries
and secure better men.

CoMMENT.—The curator of graphic arts in the United States National Museum

is the custodian of the collection of engravings in the Boston Museum of Fine Arts,
giving part of his time to each institution—an arrangement advantageous to both.
202 Memorval of George Brown Goode.

IIl—THE FIVE CARDINAL NECESSITIES IN MUSEUM
ADMINISTRATION.

A museum can not be established and creditably maintained without
adequate provision in five directions:

(a) A stable organization and adequate means of support.

(6) A definite plan, wisely framed in accordance with the opportuni-
ties of the institution and the needs of the community for whose benefit
it is to be maintained.

(c) Material to work upon—good collections or facilities for creating
them.

(d) Men to do the work—a staff of competent curators.

(e) A place to work in—a suitable building.

(f/f) Appliances to work with—proper accessories, installation mate-
rials, tools, and mechanical assistance.

A.—STABILITY OF ORGANIZATION.

1. The only absolute assurance of permanence for a museum lies either
in governmental protection, or in a connection with some endowed
institution of learning, or in special organization with ample endowments.

2. The cabinets of unendowed societies, or those gathered and sup-
ported by the efforts of individuals, must inevitably in time be dispersed
or destroyed.

B.—DEFINITENESS OF PLAN.

1. No two museums can be or ought to beexactlyalike. Each should
be devoted to oneor morespecial subjects, and should select those subjects
not only with reference to opportunity and the needs of the community,
but also with regard to the specialties of other museums in the same
region with a view to cooperation.

2. Itis the duty of every museum to be preeminent in at least one
specialty, be this specialty never so limited.

3. The specialties or departments of any museum may be few or many,
but it is important that its plan should be positively defined and limited,
since lack of purpose in museum work leads in a most conspicuous way
to a waste of effort and to partial or complete failure.

4. It will undoubtedly be found desirable for certain museums, founded
for local uses, to specialize mainly in the direction of popular education.
If they can not also provide for a certain amount of scholarly endeavor
in connection with the other advantages, it would be of the utmost
importance that they should be associated (by a system of cooperation )
with some institution which is in the position of being a center of original
work.

5. The general character of a museum should be clearly determined at
its very inception. Specialization and division of labor are essential for
institutions as wellas forindividuals. Itisonly a great national museum
The Principles of Museum Administration. 203

which can hope to include all departments, and which can with safety
encourage growth in every direction.

6. Small museums, it is needless to say, can not attempt specialization
in the same degree as large ones, but the principles just enunciated should
be constantly kept in view, even by the least of them.

C.—COLLECTIONS.

The sources of collections are the following: (a) by gift; (4) by
purchase; (c) by exchange; (@) by collecting and exploration; (e) by
construction; (/) through deposit or temporary loan.

a. By gift.

Acquisition by gift is a most important source, but very uncertain.
If a museum has a plan to which it intends to adhere, a large propor-
tion of the gifts offered-to it will be unavailable; while on the other
hand only a small proportion of the desiderata will ever be thus
obtained. A museum may properly, by the offer of a large and com-
plete collection illustrating a subject outside of its plan, be induced to
expand its scope. In the case of a large benefaction of this kind,
necessitating extensive changes in installation, there will always be
careful consideration of the result. It should be borne in mind,
however, that the random, thoughtless acceptance of proffered gifts,
which, insignificant in itself, but in the course of a few years by no
means insignificant in the consumption of space and money for their
care, may modify the plan of a museum in a most radical manner. It
requires quite as much judgment and mental effort on the part of a
museum officer to keep out unsuitable objects as to bring in those _
which are desirable.

b. By purchase.

Acquisition by purchase is often the only means of obtaining
desirable objects, particularly so in the case of art museums, least
so in natural history museums. Money is especially necessary for
the filling of gaps in series obtained by gift or otherwise.

c. By exchange.

Acquisition by exchange is especially advantageous, since it ena-
bles a museum to dispose of unavailable duplicate material. When
exchanges are made with well-conducted museums, there is the addi-
tional advantage that the materials thus obtained have been studied
and identified by expert authorities. Little is gained by conducting
exchanges in a commercial spirit and insisting on too exact valua-
tions and balancing of equivalents, especially when the parties to the
exchange are public institutions. Large museums in dealing with
small ones may often advantageously give largely and receive com-
paratively little in return, since they not only become disembarrassed
of useless duplicates not desired by institutions of equal rank, but
204

d.

f

Memortal of George Brown Goode.

they are also building up sister institutions which may in time afford
them much more substantial aid. Exchanges with private collectors
may well be carried on in the same spirit, since the collector is thus
encouraged to gather more material, in the midst of which unex-
pected treasures may come to light, and is also aided to build up a
private collection which in time will probably fall into the hands of
some public museum.
By collecting and exploration.

For all museums save those of art this is usually the most profit-

able and satisfactory, since by gathering fresh material in unexplored

fields new facts are discovered, science is enriched, and the reputa-
tion of the institution improved. Furthermore, material is obtained
in such large quantities that there always remains much in the way
of duplicate specimens valuable for exchange. A museum which
carries its activities into unexplored fields secures for itself material
which will always be unique and unobtainable by others, and thus
makes itself a center of interest for the entire world.

The smallest museum can enrich its collections and make contri-
butions to enlarge others by modest explorations under its own
walls; it can do much by simply encouraging the people in the adja-
cent region to save what they accidentally encounter in the course
of their daily pursuits. Explorations of this kind are preeminently
the function of the local and provincial museum.

. By construction.

Any museum may do much to enrich its exhibition series by the
construction of models and the making of drawings and maps and
by making copies of important objects in its own collections to secure
material to be used in exchange. Even small museums may do this,
for extensive workshops are not necessary. A specialist himself
devoid of mechanical skill may accomplish marvelous things with
the aid of a patient mechanic.

Through deposit and temporary loan.

Possessors of private collections will often lend them for purposes
of exhibition or study, if assured that they will be properly cared
for. Such loan collections often become permanent gifts. Single
specimens, or small groups of objects, still more frequently are
offered on deposit, and such deposits when within the province of
the museum should be encouraged.

COMMENT.—In the United States National Museum small deposits are received
for short periods, but large collections, involving trouble and expense in installa-

tion,

only with the understanding that they shall not be removed within a certain

pericd—never less than two years.

Ze

Collections which are incumbered by conditions as to manner of dis-

position and installation are usually sources of serious embarrassment.
It is especially undesirable to accept either as a gift or asa loan any
Report of U. S. National Museum, 1897, Part Il PLATE 35.

James MELVILLE GILLISS.
The Principles of Museum Administration. 205

unimportant collection with the pledge that it shall be kept intact and
installed as a unit. The acceptance of any collection, no matter how
important, incumbered by conditions, is a serious matter, since no one
can foresee how much these conditions may interfere with the future
development of the museum.

3. Gifts, deposits, and cooperation of all kinds may be greatly encour-
aged by liberal acknowledgment upon labels and in public reports. ‘This
is but simple justice to the generosity of the benefactor. It is also a legit-
imate way to gratify a natural and praiseworthy sentiment ; for a collec-
tion, to the accumulation of which a man has devoted a lifetime, becomes
so connected with his personality that it is but natural that he should
wish his name to be permanently associated with it. If acknowledgment
of this kind is made upon the individual label of each specimen, this will
usually fully satisfy the desire of the donor that the individuality of his
gift should be preserved—an arrangement much more satisfactory than
one requiring that the objects shall be kept together and treated as a unit
for installation.

Gifts and deposits may also be encouraged by the fact that the build-
ings are fireproof, the cases so built as to afford perfect protection, and
the scheme of installation dignified and attractive. Collections of great
value may to advantage be afforded accommodations of a specially sump-
tuous character, and such protection, in case of priceless objects, as is
afforded by special electric attachments.

4. Notwithstanding what has been said about the importance of special-
ization, it is often necessary for a museum to accept collections of objects
not at all germane to its plan. ‘This is particularly so in provincial
museums, when valuable private cabinets are offered as gifts. It may be
impolitic for an institution to refuse such an offer, and it is much less dis-
astrous to receive a special collection to be installed as a unit than to
accept numerous promiscuous gifts. In time, in all probability, a collec-
tion of this kind can be transferred to the custody of some other institu-
tion in the same town, and the museum which has housed it in the mean-
time has deserved well of the community by preserving for it a valuable
possession,

5. Since the plan and character of a museum is largely determined for
all time by the nature of the collections which fall first into its possession,
at the time of its organization, the authorities temporarily in charge of
such an institution at the time of organization should be exceedingly
careful in accepting materials which are to serve as a nucleus for its future
growth.

COMMEN’T.—It is not unusual for boards of trustees, having erected a building, to
proceed at once to partially fill it with showy material before the staff has been
appointed or a plan considered. This can only be characterized as ‘ pernicious
activity,’’ which is certain to result in more harm than good, A plan having béen

determined upon and a director selected, the collections may be developed at much
less expenditure and with any degree of rapidity which may be desired.
206 Memorial of George Brown Goode.
D.—MUSEUM O#FICERS.

A museum without intelligent, progressive, and well-trained cura-
tors is as ineffective as a school without teachers, a library without
librarians, or a learned society without a working membership of learned
men.

2. Museum administration has become one of the learned professions,
and success in this field can only be attained as the result of years of
study and of experience in a well-organized museum. Intelligence, a
liberal education, administrative ability, enthusiasm, and that special
endowment which may be called “‘ the museum sense,’’ are prerequisite
qualifications.

Each member of a museum staff should become an authority in some
special field of research, and should have time for investigation and
opportunity to publish its results.

3. A museum which employs untrained curators must expect to pay
the cost of their education in delays, experimental failures, and waste of
materials.

4. Noinvestment is more profitable to a museum than that in its salary
fund, for only when this is liberal may the services of a permanent staff
of men of established reputation be secured.

Around the nucleus of such a staff will naturally grow up a corps of
volunteer assistants, whose work, properly assisted and directed, will be
of infinite value.

5. ‘‘Collaborators’’ or ‘‘associates,’’ as well as curators, may be placed
upon the staff of a large museum, the sole duty of the former being to
carry on investigations, to publish, and, if need be, to lecture.

6. Volunteers may be advantageously employed either as curators and
custodians or collaborators. Such cooperation is especially desirable
and practicable when a museum is situated in the same town with a col-
lege or university, or in a national capital where there are scientific
bureaus connected with the government. Professors in a university or
scientific experts in the government service often find it of great advan-
tage to have free access to the facilities afforded by a museum, and are
usually able to render useful service in return. Younger men in the same
establishments may be employed as volunteer aids, either in the museum
or in the field.

7. No man is fitted to be a museum officer who is disposed to repel
students or inquirers or to place obstacles in the way of access to the
material under his charge.

8. A museum officer or employee should, for obvious reasons, never be
the possessor of a private collection.

g. The museum which carries on explorations in the field as a part of
its regular work has great advantages over other institutions in holding
men of ability upon its staff and in securing the most satisfactory results
from their activities. No work is more exhausting to body and mind
The Principles of Museum Admanistration. 207

than the care of collections, and nowhere are enthusiasm and abundant
vitality more essential. Every museum must constantly obtain new
material through exploration, and it is better that this exploration should
be done by the men who are to study the collections and arrange them
than that this should be placed in the hands of others. The necessity
of exploration from another point of view has already been spoken of."

10. Ina large museum staff it is almost essential that certain persons
should give their attention chiefly to administrative and financial matters,
thus leaving their associates free from occupation of this description.
The business affairs of a museum can not be conducted with too great
promptness and precision. It is desirable, however, that the administra-
tive officers of a museum should be men who comprehend the meaning of
museum work and are in sympathy with its highest aims, and that its
business affairs and scientific work should be controlled by the same
executive head.

E.—MUSEUM BUILDINGS.

1. The museum building should be absolutely fireproof and substan-
tially constructed; the architecture simple, dignified, and appropriate—
a structure worthy of the treasures to be placed within.

2. Above all things the interior should be well lighted and ventilated,
dry, and protected from dust. The halls should be well proportioned ;
the decoration simple and restful to the eye. No decorative features
should be permitted which tend to draw attention from the collections or
reduce the floor or wall spaces.

3. While the museum building should be planned with reference to
the character of the collections it is to contain, the fact that unexpected
development or rapid growth in some one direction may necessitate the
rearrangement and reassignment of halls to different departments should
always be borne in mind.

4. Since no two museums can be alike, there can be no general uni-
formity in their buildings. It is manifestly undesirable then that a board
of trustees should erect a building for a museum before its character is
decided upon or its staff appointed ; or that the opinion of the architect
of a museum building should be allowed to overweigh the judgment of
the experts who are responsible for its utilization after completion.
Museum architecture affords no exception to the principle that an edifice
should be perfectly adapted to the purpose for which it isdesigned. No
architectural effect which lessens the usefulness of the building can be
pleasing to an intelligent public.

F.—ACCESSORIES TO MUSEUM WORK.

1. A well-equipped museum requires as accessories to its work—
(a) A reference library, for the use of staff, students, and visitors.

*See Chapter III C., I, d., p. 204.
208 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

(6) Laboratories for the classification of material, for the storage of
the study series, and for the use of students and investigators.

(c) Workshops for preparation, mounting, and repair of specimens, and
-for the making and adjustment of mounts and cases, and storage rooms
for material not yet available. (A printing press is an essential feature. )

(d) An assembly hall for public lectures, society meetings, and special
exhibitions.

(e) A bulletin or other official publication to preserve the history of
its activities, to maintain its standing among similar institutions, to serve
as a means of communication with correspondents, and to exchange for
specimens and books for the library.

2. In addition to local accessories, the opportunity for exploration and
field work are equally essential, not only because of considerations con-
nected with the efficiency of the staff already referred to,‘ but in behalf
of the general welfare of the institution. Other things being equal,
exploration can be carried on more advantageously by the museum than
by any other institution of learning, and there is no other field of
research which it can pursue to better advantage.

1V.—THE CLASSIFICATION, OF MUSEUMS:

Museums may best be classified in two ways—by the character of their
contents, and by the purposes for which they are founded.

Under the first category they may be grouped as follows:

(a) Art museums; (2) historical museums; (c) anthropological mu-
seums; (d@) natural history museums; (¢) technological or industrial
museums; (/) commercial museums.

Under the second category they may be classed as:

(g) National museums; (4) local, provincial, or city museums; (7)
college and school museums; (/) professional or class museums; (#)
private museums or cabinets.

CoMMENT.—In the reference to special museums in this chapter, nothing has
been further from my idea than to catalogue existing museums. Many of the most
important are not even referred to by name. I have spoken only of those which

are especially familiar to myself, and which seem to be the best illustration of the
idea in connection with which they are named.

A.-—ART MUSEUMS.

1. The museum of art is a depository for the esthetic products of
man’s creative genius, such as paintings, sculptures, architecture (so far
as it can be shown by models, drawings, and structural fragments), and
specimens of the illustrative arts (such as engravings), and illustrations
of the application of art to decorative uses.

See Chapter III. d., p. 204.
PLATE 36.

Report of U. S. National Museum, 1897. Part Il.

if

ahh ea slug A 7 Zs Fe >
a

Ht!

The Principles of Museum Administration. 209

2. The greater art collections illustrate, in a manner peculiarly their
own, not only the successive phases in the intellectual progress of the
civilized races of man, their sentiments, passions, and morals, but also
their, habits and custonis, their dress, implements, and the minor acces-
sories of their culture often not otherwise recorded.

3. Museums of art, wherever they may be situated, have a certain
general similarity to each other in purpose, contents, and method of man-
agement. Those which most fully represent the art of the communities
to which they belong, other things being equal, are the most useful and
famous.

CoMMEN’T.—Since Cosmo de’ Medici founded in Florence, at the beginning of the
sixteenth century, the Museum of the Uffizi—perhaps the oldest museum of art now
in existence—every great city in the civilized world has become the seat of a museum
or gallery of art. Besides the great general collections of art, there are special
museums devoted to the work of single masters, such as the Thorwaldsen Museum
in Copenhagen, and the one at Brussels containing only the works of the eccentric
painter, Wiertz; the Donatello Museum in the Bargello at Florence, and the Michael
Angelo collections in its Academy of Fine Arts and in the Casa Buonarrotti.

4. The distinction between art museum and a gallery of art is a valid
one. It depends upon the system of administration and the character of
the officers who control it.

CoMMENT.—The scientific tendencies of modern thought have permeated every
department of human activity, even influencing the artist. Many art galleries are
now called museums, and the assumption of the name usually tends toward the adop-
tion in some degree of a scientific method of installation. The Cluny Museum in Paris
is, notwithstanding its name, simply a gallery of curious objects. Its contents are
arranged primarily with reference to their effect. The old monastery in which they
are placed, affords a magnificent example of the interior decorative art of the Mid-
dle Ages.

The Cluny Museum is a most fascinating and instructive place. I would not have
it otherwise than itis, but it willalways be unique, the sole representative of its kind.
The features which render it attractive would be ruinous to any museum, It is,
more than any other that I know, a collection from the standpoint of the artist.
The same material, in the hands of a Klemm or Pitt-Rivers, arranged to show the
history of human thought, would, however, be much more interesting, and, if the
work were judiciously done, would lose none of its cesthetic allurements.

Another collection of the same general character as the one just described is the
Soane Museum in London. Another, the famous collection of crown jewels and
metal work in the Green Vaults at Dresden, a counterpart of which may be cited in
the collection in the Tower of London. ‘The Museum of the Hohenzollerns in Berlin
and the Museum of the City of Paris are of necessity unique. Such collections can
not be created. They grow in obedience to the action of natural law, just as a tree
or a sponge may grow.

The city which is in possession of such an heirloom is blessed just as is the
possessor of an historic surname, or he who inherits the cumulative genius of gene-
rations of gifted forefathers. The possession of one or a score of such shrines does
not, however, free any community from the obligation to form a museum for pur-
poses of education and scientific research,

14

NAT MUS 97, PT 2
210 Memortal of George Brown Goode.

B.—HISTORICAL MUSEUMS.

1. The museum of history preserves those material objects which are
associated with events in the history of individuals, nations, or races, or
which illustrate their condition at different periods in their national life.

2. Every museum of art and every archeological museum is also a
museum of history, since it contains portraits of historical personages,
pictures of historical events, and delineations of customs, costumes,
architecture, and race characteristics.

COMMENT.— Historical museums are manifold in character, and usually of local
interest. Some relate to the histories of provinces and cities. One of the oldest
and best of these is the Provincial Museum of the Mark of Brandenburg in Berlin.
Of the same class are the Museum of the City of Paris in the Hotel Canavelet, and
the museums of the city of Brussels and the city of Antwerp.

Others illustrate the early history of a race or country, such as the Musée Gallo-
Romain at St. Germain, the Romano-German Museum at Mainz, the Etruscan
museums at Florence and Bologna, the Ghizeh Museum near Cairo, the Acropolis
Museum at Athens, and the museums at Constantinople.

Such institutions as the Bavarian National Museum at Nuremberg and the German
National Museum in Munich have to do with later periods of history, and there are
throughout Europe numerous collections of armor, furniture, costumes, and archi-
tectural and other objects, illustrating the life and arts of the Middle Ages and the
later periods, which are even more significant from the standpoint of the historian
than from that of the artist. Important among these are the Royal Irish Academy
at Dublin, and the Musée des Thermes—the Cluny Museum—in Paris.

Many of the cathedrals of Europe are essentially either civic or national muse-
ums, and such edifices as Saint Paul’s and Westminster Abbey belong preeminently
to the latter class.

There are biographical museums, either devoted to single men, like the Galileo,
Dante, and Buonarrotti museums in Florence, or the Goethe Museum in Weimar,
and the Beethoven Museum in Bonn; to the great men of a nation, as the National
Portrait Gallery of Great Britain, the German Valhalla at Ratisbon, etc.; or to great
men of a special profession, such as the Gallery of Artists in the Pitti Museum of
Florence.

In this connection would come also collections of autographs and manuscripts
(like the Dyce-Forster Collection at South Kensington), and collections of personal
relics.

Midway between the museum of history and that of biography stands the dynas-
tic or family museum, such as the Museum of the Hohenzollerns in Berlin, and
that section of the Kunsthistorisches Museum in Vienna which illustrates the his-
tory of the Hapsburgs. The Musée Historique de Versailles is similar in its aims.

C.—ANTHROPOLOGICAL MUSEUMS.

1. The museum of anthropology includes such objects as illustrate
the natural history of man, his classification in races and tribes, his geo-
graphical distribution, past and present, and the origin, history, and
methods of his arts, industries, customs, and opinions, aii among
primitive and semicivilized peoples.

2. Museums of anthropology and history meet on common ground in
the field of archzeology. In practice, historic archzeology is usually
The Principles of Museum Administration, 7B i

assigned to the latter, and prehistoric archaeology to the former. ‘This
is partly because historical museums, which are usually national in scope
and unsupported on documentary evidence, treat the prehistoric races as
extralimital; partly because prehistoric material is studied to best advan-
tage through the natural history methods in use among anthropologists
but not among historical students.

CoMMENT.—Ethnographic museums were proposed half a century ago by the
French geographer, Jomard, and the idea was first carried into effect about 184o in
the establishment of the Danish Ethnographical Museum. In Germany, there are
anthropological museums in Berlin, Dresden, and Munich, and the Museum fiir
Volkerkunde in Leipzig; in Austria, the Court and the Oriental museums in Vienna;
in Holland, the Ethnographichal Museum in Leyden, and smaller ones in Amsterdam,
Rotterdam, and at The Hague; in France, the Trocadero; in Italy, the important
Prehistoric and Ethnographic museums in Rome and Florence; in Spain, the Philip-
pine Collections in the Museo de Ultramar in Madrid; and in Hawaii, the Bernice
Pauahi Bishop Museum at Honolulu.

In England less attention has been given to the subject than elsewhere in Europe,
the Christy Collection in the British Museum, the Pitt-Rivers Collection at Oxford,
and the Blackmore Museum at Salisbury being the most important ones specially
devoted to ethnography. In the United States, the Peabody Museum of Archzeology
in Cambridge, the collections in the Peabody Academy of Sciences at Salem, and
the American Museum of Natural History in New York are arranged ethnographic-
ally, while the ethnological collections in the National Museum in Washington are
classified on a double system—one with regard to race, the other, like the Pitt-Rivers
Collection, intended to show the evolution or development of culture and civilization
without regard to race. This broader plan admits much material excluded by the
advocates of ethnographic museums, who devote their attention almost exclusively
to the primitive or non-European peoples.

Closely related to the ethnographic museum are others devoted to some special
field, such as the Musée Guimet in Paris, which is intended to illustrate the history
of religious ceremonial among all races of men—a field also occupied by one depart-
ment of the National Museum in Washington. Other good examples of this class
are some of those in Paris, such as the Musée de Marine, which shows not only the
development of the merchant and naval marines of the country, but also, by trophies
and other historical souvenirs, the history of the naval battles of the nation, and the
Musée d’Artillerie, which has a rival in Madrid.

Of musical museums, perhaps the most important are Clapisson’s Musée Instru-
mental, in Paris; that in Brussels, and that in the National Museum at Washington.
The collection of musical instruments at South Kensington has had its contents
selected chiefly with reference to their suggestiveness in decorative art.

The Theatrical Museum at the Académie Frangais in Paris, the Museum of Jour-
nalism at Antwerp, the Museums of Pedagogy in Paris and St. Petersburg, are pro-
fessional rather than scientific or educational, as are also the Museum of Practical
Fish Culture at South Kensington, the Monetary Museum at the Paris Mint, the
Museums of Hygiene in London and Washington, and the United States Army
Medical Museum.

The value of archzeological collections, both historic and prehistoric, has long been
understood. The museums of London, Paris, Berlin, Copenhagen, and Rome need
no comment. In the Peabody Museum in Cambridge, the American Museum in
New York, the Museum of the University of Pennsylvania, and the National Museum
in Washington, are immense collections of the remains of prehistoric man in
America,

212 Memortal of George Brown Goode.

3. There are many objects now in the custody of art museums, which
would be more appropriately placed if in the museums of anthropology
or history.

CoMMEN’T.—There are special collections on the boundary line between art and
ethnology, the manner of best installation for which has scarcely yet been deter-
mined. The Louvre admits within its walls a museum of ship models. South
Kensington includes musical instruments, and many other objects equally appro-
priate in an ethnological collection. Other art museums take up art and armor,
selected costumes, shoes, and articles of household use. Such objects, like por-
celains, laces, medals, and metal work, appeal to the art museum administrator
through their decorations and graceful forms. For their uses he cares presumably
nothing. Asa consequence of this feeling, only articles of artistic excellence have
been saved, and much has gone to destruction which would be of the utmost import-
ance to those who are now studying the history of human thought in the past.

On the other hand, there is much in art museums which might to much better
purpose be delivered to the ethnologist for use in his exhibition cases. There is
also much which the art museum, tied as it often is to traditionary methods of
installation, might learn from the scientific museums.

Many of the arrangements in the European art collections are calculated to send
cold shivers down the back of a sensitive visitor. The defects of these arrange-
ments have been well described by a German critic, W. Burger. ‘‘Our museums,”’’
he writes, ‘‘are the veritable graveyards of art in which have been heaped up, with
a tumulous-like promiscuousness, the remains which have been carried thither. A
Venus is placed side by side with a Madonna, a satyr next toa saint. Luther isin
close proximity to a pope, a painting of a lady’s chamber next to that of a church.
Pieces executed for churches, palaces, city halls, for a particular edifice to teach
some moral or historic truth, designed for some especial light, for some well-studied
surrounding, all are hung pellmell upon the walls of some noncommittal gallery—
a kind of posthumous asylum, where a people, no longer capable of producing works
of art, come to admire this magnificent gallery of débris.”’

D.—NATURAL HISTORY MUSEUMS.

1. The museum of natural history is the depository for objects which
illustrate the forces and phenomena of nature—the named units included
within the three kingdoms, animal, vegetable, and mineral—and whatever
illustrates their origin in time (or phylogeny), their individual origin,
development, growth, function, structure, and geographical distribution—
past and present; also their relation to each other, and their influence
upon the structure of the earth and phenomena observed upon it.

2. Museums of natural history and anthropology meet on common
ground in man. In practice, the former usually treats of man in his
relations to other animals, the latter of man in his relations to other men.

CoMMEN’T.—In most national capitals there are general museums in which col-
lections representing the three kingdoms of nature are included in one group.
Among the oldest and most prominent types of this class are the British Museum
of Natural History in South Kensington, and the Musée d’ Histoire Naturelle in Paris,
and there are numerous others in the great cities of both hemispheres.

Among specialized natural history collections, a good type is the Museum of Com-
parative Zoology in Cambridge, Massachusetts, founded by Agassiz to illustrate the
history of creation, as far as the present state of knowledge reveals that history,
which was, in 1887, pronounced by Alfred Russell Wallace to be far in advance of
Report of U. S. National Museum, 1897. Part II PATE 37.

The Principles of Museum Administration. 212

similar institutions in Europe, whether as regards the general public, the private
student, or the specialist.

Next in order after the zoological sections of the museums in London and Paris,
stands those of the Imperial Cabinet in Vienna; those in Berlin, Leyden, Copen-
hagen, Christiania, Brussels, and Florence, and the La Plata Museum in Argentina,
so rich in paleontological material.

The best type of the botanical museum is perhaps the Royal Garden at Kew, with
its colossal herbarium and its special museum of economic botany, both standing in
the midst of great botanic gardens. The Royal Botanical Museum in Berlin and
the herbaria of the Imperial Botanical Garden in St. Petersburg are other examples.

Of specialized geological museums, the Imperial Cabinet in Vienna is a good
type. The Museum of Practical Geology in London, founded to exhibit the collec-
tions of the survey of the United Kingdom, and also in order to show the applica-
tions of geology to the useful processes of life, is another type of the same class.
The department of economic geology in the Field Columbian Museum of Chicago—
an outgrowth of the exposition of 1893—represents this idea in the New World.

Besides the great special museums, there are the museums of local natural history,
intended to show the natural history of a special region, or it may be to illustrate its
resources in some restricted branch.

The Royal Museum of Vertebrates in Florence, devoted to the vertebrate fauna
of Italy, is a type of this class, and many local museums are so prominent in some
special field (such as ornithology or entomology) that their other activities attract
little attention.

E.—TECHNOLOGICAL OR INDUSTRIAL MUSEUMS.

1. The museum of technology or industrial museum is devoted to the

industrial arts and manufactures, including :

(1) Materials and their sources.

(2) Tools and machinery.

(3) Methods and processes.

(4) Products and results.

(5) Waste products and undeveloped resources.

The interests here treated are thus classified :

(1) Primary or exploitative industries (as agriculture, mining, or the

fisheries ).

(2) Secondary or elaborative industries (as the textile industries, the

ceramic industries ).

(3) Auxiliary industries (as transportation).

(4) Technical professions (as engineering, war, medicine, engraving).

The final product of one industry (primary or secondary) may become

a material or tool in another art industry or handicraft.

2. Technological museums come in contact with others as follows:
With the natural history museum in respect to primary materials;
With the anthropological museum in the matter of tools and processes,

especially if historical and retrospective collections are undertaken;
With the art museum in regard to certain products in which a high
degree of zesthetic merit has been attained;
With the commercial museum in respect to all products and materials
used in commerce and manufactures.
214 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

3. There is no such thing in existence to-day as a general technological
museum, conducted upon a liberal plan and doing useful educational
work. The possibility of establishing such a museum remains to be demon-
strated. Attempts have been made at the close of various international
expositions, but without success.

4. It is possible that experience may show that museum work in this
field can best be done in connection with museums of natural history and
anthropology, organizing sections of economic zoology in connection with
zoological museums, economic geology and botany, respectively with the
general botanical and geological collections. In this way, at least the
natural products and the crude materials could be disposed of to advan-
tage, and the manufactured products, tools, and processes, on the other
hand, could be shown by the museums of anthropology and art, and in
connection with the mechanical or patent museums; though, after all, a
factory in actual operation is the best place to study most modern indus-
tries. The constantly changing interests of commerce, dependent upon
changing fashions and the caprice of markets, might safely be left to the
exposition and fair, or, if need be, cared for by commercial organizations.
In the city of Philadelphia, for instance, there is a most permanent exhi-
bition of objects and materials used in the construction and ornamenta-
tion of houses, kept by the Building Trades’ Association.

F.—COMMERCIAL MUSEUMS.

1. The commercial museum has to do with the salable crude material
and manufactured articles; with markets, means of commercial distribu-
tion, prices, and the demand and supply of trade.

2. It may properly be connected with the technological museum, but
for the fact that its purposes are likely to be more akin to those of the
exposition or fair, involving a frequent renewal of exhibits in connection
with commercial changes, and often certain features of competitive
advertising or display on the part of private exhibitors.

3. The function of this class of museums is twofold:

(a) To exhibit to home producers the character and location of foreign
markets.

(6) To exhibit to foreign buyers the location and products of the
home producer.

4. Although the usefulness of the commercial museum has not yet
been fully demonstrated, it is conceivable that it might be of great
service, could it be made the medium of wide international communica-
tion, and the means of a comprehensive system of exchange, through
which the collections should be kept up to date and indicate the condi-
tion of the various markets of the world.

Essential to the success of such a museum would probably be a bureau
of information, through which practical knowledge concerning prices,
shipment, and the quality of products, might be obtained by manufac-
The Principles of Museum Administration. 215

turers and other interested persons, and samples distributed for use in
experiment and comparison.

CoMMEN?T.—Examples of commercial museums may be found in the Musée de
Melle at Ghent; that of the Chamber of Commerce at Liege, founded in 1888, and
the Ottoman Commercial Museum, established in 1890, at Constantinople. These
are too recent, however, to afford many lessons.

G.—NATIONAL MUSEUMS.

1. National museums contain the treasures belonging to national
governments and are legitimate successors of those treasure houses of
monarchs, princes, and ecclesiastical establishments which, until within
the last two centuries, were the sole representatives of the museum idea.
Every great nation now has a museum, or a group of museums, more
or less liberally supported, and intimately connected with the educa-
tional undertakings of the government; often, when there are several
great cities under one government, each has its own system of museums,
and these form the national system.

2. In most countries of continental Europe the collections of the
national universities form a part of the national museum system and
are exceedingly efficient when thus administered.

3. National museums have opportunities which are not often shared
by those under state control, and their responsibilities are correspond-
ingly great. They should occupy specially those fields which are not
provided for in the other museums of the country in which they exist,
and should not only refrain from competition with these museums but
afford to them unreserved cooperation.

COMMENT.—The principal purpose of a national museum must be, as Jevons has
well said, ‘‘the advancement of knowledge and the preservation of specimens of
works of art which hand down the history of the nation and the world.’’ In other
words, to serve as museums of record and research. It is by no means impossible,
however, for them to render excellent service as educational museums, and quite
independent of other considerations, they can rarely afford to sacrifice the material
advantages gained from engaging in educational work.

A serious obstacle to success in this direction is the vast amount of material which
they all possess, and the lack of space in which to admit it. This difficulty may be
partly overcome by a liberal assignment of objects to that portion of the study series
which is not on exhibition.

A national museum may not, it is true, advantageously attempt to install its sep-
arate departments in such manner as to produce the unity of effect possible in small
specialized museums. ‘This, however, is due to the fact that they are obliged to
classify their material more strictly, for the attractiveness of a specialized museum
grows largely from the fact that many illustrative objects are introduced into the
exhibition series which are not strictly in place. The extreme attractiveness of fish-
ery exhibitions, for instance, grows from the fact that so many interesting objects
only incidentally connected with the fisheries may be introduced as a setting for the
objects directly related to the fisheries.

A result of the same kind is obtained in the Museum of Practical Geology in
London, where a selected series of products of all the arts deriving their material
from the mineral kingdom—glass, pottery, gems, metal work, and many similar
216 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

groups—are brought in, legitimately increasing the attractiveness of the museum to
the visitor and its instructiveness to the student.

Though the great general museum can not vie in this respect with the local
museum, it has a certain advantage of another kind in its very wealth of material,
for the display of vast collections, assembled from all parts of the earth and covering
it may be acres of floor space, strictly classified and arranged so as to show mutual
relationships, affords in itself the most impressive lesson. While in smaller museums
the study of individual objects may be easier, in those of the other kind there is a
better opportunity for the study of great general relationships.

3 H.—LOCAL, PROVINCIAL, OR CITY MUSEUMS.

1. To museums of this class belongs the duty of preserving all that
which is characteristic of the region or city in which they are located.
Every State or province should have an institution of this kind to care
for material illustrating its own geology, zoology, botany, and archzeology.
Every city should have an historical collection for memorials of events in
its history and that of its representative men.

2. It is legitimate and desirable that local and municipal museums
should also enter upon general museum work of a scientific and educa-
tional character. They may form collections of a general character in
order that their visitors may see and study the unfamiliar products of
foreign lands, as well as those of local interest. For museums of this
class, models, casts, copies, and pictures of objects not actually obtainable
may be used.

3. It is often advantageous in small communities for the museum and
public library to be combined under one roof and one management.

I.—COLLEGE AND SCHOOL MUSEUMS.

1. Museums of this class are intended for the use of teachers in connec-
tion with their class room and laboratory instruction and to reenforce the
library in the no less important work which it performs for the student.

2. It need scarcely be said that it is impracticable for the smaller teach-
ing museums connected with schools and colleges to carry out the thorough
specialization which is attainable in large institutions. A small collection,
however scanty and imperfect it may be, is of great value, not only for
study purposes in connection with some school or college and for exhibi-
tion to the local public of a small town, but also as a nucleus for future
development.

3. The college or school museum often becomes the local or city museum
for the locality in whichit is situated, and what has been said about museums
of the latter class then becomes applicable to the college museum.

J.—-PROFESSIONAL OR CLASS MUSEUMS.

1. Professional museums are those formed specially for the use of groups
of specialists and for the education of specialists. Here belong medical,

Report of U. S. National Museum, 1897. Part II PLATE 38.

=.

The Principles of Museum Administration. 227

surgical, and pathological museums; military and naval museums; mechan-
ical museums (such as those connected with patent offices and the Conserva-
tory of Arts and Manufactures in Paris); museums for special arts (like
the Textile Museum connected with the Gobelin establishment, the
Museum of Porcelains in Sévres, the Museum of Mosaics in Florence),
and certain scientific museumis like that of the Geological Survey of Great
Britain—the Museum of Practical Geology—the Museo Psicologico in
Florence, founded by Mantegazza, and many others.

2. Such institutions, usually under the control of a society, school,
or specialized bureau, although they may allow inspection by the public,
do not necessarily undertake general educational work, but may with
propriety consult first, in all matters relating to administration and
display, the interests of the class for which they are formed.

= K.—PRIVATE MUSEUMS OR CABINETS.

1. Such collections undertake work in only one portion of the museum
field—that of fostering scientific and historical studies—and so long as
they are fruitful in this direction, the manner in which they are adminis-
tered concerns only the persons by whom they are controlled. It is well
that there should be many museums of this kind, and that those who work
in them should not be encouraged to dissipate their energies in attempt-
ing to do too much of the work which belongs to institutions of other
classes and for which they should be held responsible. ‘These are, to all
intents and purposes, scientific laboratories.

2. The private collector is of the greatest service to the public museum.
He can, by the use of private wealth or individual freedom, do many
things which the officers of a public museum can not,

3. The private cabinet is the school in which the museum administra-
tor forms the tastes and receives the preliminary training which fits him
for his profession. ‘There is much truth in the remark of Jevons that the
best museum is that which a person forms for himself. If everyone
could do this, there would be no need for public museums; but since they
can not, the person who has formed a private collection ought to be able
to manage one for the use of the public, since he, better than anyone else,
is able, in considering the needs of the museum visitor, to keep in mind
that saying which is so useful a guide in museum practice, ‘‘ Put yourself
in his place.”’

4. Private collectors should be encouraged for educational reasons also,
for it has been frequently remarked that the men who have had in youth
the training afforded by forming a collection have derived therefrom great
advantage over others, even though they subsequently pursued commerce
or the learned professions.
218 Memortal of George Brown Goode.

V.—_THE USES OF SPECIMENS AND COLLECTIONS.
A.—THE USES OF SPECIMENS.

1. Specimens are like the types in a printing office. They may be
sorted in the cases in convenient order, so as to be accessible when
needed, and may be used to make intelligible almost any train of thought
or series of ideas, each being available to hundreds of different relation-
ships.

2. A museum is rarely justified in exhibiting all its materials; as well

might a publishing house insist upon using every piece of type in its -

possession in the printing of each book which it issues.

3. An exhibition series, when properly installed and labeled, is usually
most effective when limited in extent.

4. Such a series should not only be limited in extent, but also selected
and arranged as to produce a certain unity of effect.

COMMENT’T.—This principle has been stated by Jevons, who writes: ‘‘There may
be many specimens exhibited, but they ought to have some degree of relation that
they may conduce to the same general mental impression. It is in this way that the
Thorwaldsen Museum at Copenhagen exercises a peculiarly impressive effect upon
the multitude of all classes of Danes and Swedes who visit it. ‘This museum con-
tains ina single building almost the whole works of this great sculptor, Thorwaldsen,
together with all the engravings and pictures having reference to the same. Very
numerous though the statues and bas-reliefs are, there is naturally a unity of style
in them, and the visitor as he progresses is gradually educated to an appreciation of
the works. In somewhat the same way we may explain the ineffaceable effect which
certain other foreign galleries produce upon the traveller, especially those of the
Vatican. ‘This is not due simply to the excellence of any particular works of art, for
in the Louvre or the British Museum we may see antique sculptures of equal excel-
lence, but in the principal Vatican galleries we are not distracted by objects belong-
ing to every place and time. The genius of the classical age spreads around us, and
we leave one manifestation of it but to drink in a deeper impression from the next.’’

The Museo delle Belle Arti in Sienna, the collections in the Monastery of San
Marco in Florence, the Musée Gallo-Romain at St. Germain near Paris, the Museo
Borbonico in Naples, the Musée des Thermes in the Hotel de Cluny, the German
National Museum in Nuremberg, the Museo de Ultramar in Madrid, the Museum
of Practical Geology in London, all have been successful in maintaining this unity of
effect.

A noteworthy example of a museum of limited scope in which unity of effect is
sacrificed is the Musée Guimet in Paris, although notwithstanding this effect it
is one of the most interesting and beautiful small museums in the world. In this
instance it is evidently due to the fact that the original purpose of the museum—
which was to illustrate the comparative history of religions—has been modified by
the admission of extensive collections illustrating the arts of the Orient, and that
these are not separated in their installation from the religious collections.

Great national museums are usually so hampered in the matter of space that they
are not able to attain to such unity, and perhaps it is not equally important in these
great establishments in which popular education is only one of several purposes,

5. Single or unrelated specimens, though valuable or interesting, are
in themselves of little moment in comparison with series of much less
precious objects which unite to teach some lesson to the student or visitor.

see,
The Principles of Museum Administration. 219

6. Specimens are often most useful when placed in a reserve or study
series, to be used by special students or to be exchanged, or given to
other museums.

7. Advancement in a museum is effected, not only by accession and
enlargement, but by the constant substitution of better specimens for
study and exhibition, by improvements in methods of display and labeling,
and by publishing contributions to knowledge based upon the collections.

B.—THE STUDY SERIES.

1. The effectiveness of a museum as an agency for the increase of
knowledge and for higher education depends upon the maintenance of a
study series, the administration of which should be upon a plan quite
different from that employed for the exhibition series.

2. While it may be desirable to exhibit publicly many large or inde-
structible objects belonging to the study series, this series should be as a
rule permanently arranged in laboratories and storerooms not accessible
to the general public.

3. The study series is the storehouse from which the exhibition series
is replaced or extended, and from which the needs of other museums
may be supplied.

4. Objects of the following classes should never be placed in the
exhibition series :

(a) Those which are unique or very rare, and liable to destruction from
exposure to light and dust.

(6) Those which are the types of descriptions, except when large and
indestructible.

(c) Those belonging to series which are often required for purposes of
comparison by students.

5. In collecting materials for the study series, the needs of the future
as well as those of the present should be kept in view. Specimens in
this series should therefore be acquired in quantities sufficiently large to
meet the needs of students hereafter. While nothing of value should
be lost, it is questionable, however, whether material should be sought
in large quantity when there is no indication that it will soon be needed.

6. The fact that an object is common now is no indication that it will
remain so, and the abundance of any kind of objects in a given locality,
is often good evidence that it is rare in most other parts of the world.

7. Specimens in the study series, though hidden from sight, should be
the object of care as solicitous as that bestowed upon the exhibition
series, and should be available upon demand, like the books in the stack
rooms of a library.

C.—THE EXHIBITION SERIES.

1. The ‘‘ People’s museum’’ is that portion of a museum which is
on public exhibition; the ‘‘Student’s museum’’ that which is devoted
220 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

to laboratories and lecture rooms. ‘The ‘‘ People’s museum’’ should
be much more than a hall full of specimens in glass cases. It should
be a hall full of ideas, arranged with the strictest attention to system.

2. The ideas which a museum is intended to teach can only be con-
veyed by means of labels.

As I have said in a previous paper:

An efficient educational museum may be described as a collection of
instructive labels, each illustrated by a well-selected specimen.

3. The effectiveness of a museum for the use of the public at large
depends chiefly upon the following considerations:

(a) There should be a careful selection and effective arrangement of
the specimens exhibited (which implies the exclusion of many objects in
themselves attractive and interesting).

(6) The specimens for exhibition must be chosen solely with refer-
ence to the lesson they can teach, singly or in combination.

(c) A small exhibition series, complete within its own limits, system-
atically arranged, fully labeled, and effectively displayed, is far more use-
ful than a vast collection exhibited without reference to its teaching
power.

(d) ‘To complete a series any specimen is better than none.

(e) A copy, model, or picture of a good thing is often more useful
than an actual specimen of a poor one.

(f) A picture or model may often be shown to advantage in place of
a minute or unintelligible object.

(g) Books, manuscripts, pictures, maps, etc., become specimens when
treated in the museum method.

(h) There should be a thorough system of labels, written in simple lan-
guage, supplemented by pictures, diagrams, maps, and books of reference.

(z) Cases, labels, colors of backgrounds, aisles, and all the practical
details of arrangement, however minute, should be considered with the
comfort and physical ease of the visitor in mind, since the use of a
museum is at best necessarily attended by fatigue of eyes and of body,
which may be greatly lessened by the adoption of proper devices.

(7) Installation ideals can not be too lofty.

D.—CUMBERSOME AND SUPERFLUOUS MATERIALS IN COLLECTIONS.

1. There are few objects which may not be used in museum work. It
does not follow, however, that any one museum should attempt to include
such objects. There are many which in the present stage of museum
practice may be entirely neglected. If any museum were to be extended
to the limits of its possibilities, a dictionary might be made to serve as
an alphabetical index to its contents.

2. One of the chief perils to a museum is the possession of vast
collections.

3. Not the least important duty of the curator is to prevent the acces-
sion of undesirable material.

Report of U. S. National Museum,

1897.

Part Il.

PLATE

39.
The Principles of Museum Administration. 221

4. Material not germane to the plan of a museum should be exchanged
or given to the other museums which have uses for it. What is expensive
and unprofitable to on2 may be of the greatest value to another.

E.—SYNOPTICAL AND SPECIAL COLLECTIONS WITHIN MUSEUMS.

1. Synoptical or dictionary collections are advantageous in museums of
every class. Their purpose is to teach some special lesson by means of a
_small or complete series of specimens, arranged, labeled and provided
with all possible illustrative accessories.

A synoptical series with a full complement of descriptive labels forms
for any science an elementary manual, the labels, forming the text, the
specimens the illustrations.

CoMMENT.—A collection of this kind in a natural history museum may either
illustrate the principles of classification and phylogeny, those of geographical distri-
bution, or may deal with the problems of comparative morphology. One of the best
of the latter classes is that in the great central hall of the British Museum of Natural
History, while an excellent type of the second class is the Museum of Comparative
Zoology, and of the first, that developed under the direction of Mr. Higgins in the
Liverpool Museum.

Collections illustrating systems of crystallization and scales of hardness and color
are found in many mineralogical cabinets.

“Many of the best school museums are practically synoptical collections, and this
and nothing more is what they should always aim at.

2. In some collections there is a similar separation of certain objects
with a less definite purpose, as, for instance, in the well-known Tribuna
in the Uffizi Gallery in Florence. In many art museums there is a similar
effort to bring together their most valuable and famous possessions in one
central hall.

3. There is no limit to the possibilities in the way of developing special
collections, and such collections, with judicious treatment, do more than
anything else to add to the attractiveness and individuality of a museum.

The collections of British birds in attitudes of life, mounted in the
midst of their natural surroundings, at South Kensington, is one of the
most striking and memorable features in that museum. A similar collec-
tion in the Museum of the University of Pisa, formed early in this cen-
tury by Paolo Savi, though on a smaller scale, is no less prominent a
feature of that smaller museum. ‘There are several special halls in the
Museum at Naples, especially that containing the collection of burnt
manuscripts from the buried city, which are unique. Numerous other
examples might readily be cited.

F.—LOAN COLLECTIONS AND ITINERATING MUSEUMS.

1. Large museums may greatly increase their educational effectiveness
by lending special collections, well labeled and arranged, to towns not
provided with museum facilities, and by replacing these from time to time
with others. This has been done with success by the department of
science and art in Great Britain, and it has resulted not only in a
222 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

great improvement in the provincial museums throughout the United
Kingdom, but in the establishment of many new ones.
COMMENT.—This system appears to have grown out of the suggestion made more

than half a century ago by George Rennie and others to the committee on arts and
manufactures appointed by the House of Commons.

2. In the United States the same thing has been attempted in requiring
the National Museum, as well as the several Departments of the Govern-
ment at Washington, to exhibit in the great expositions which have been
held from time to time in the principal cities. ‘This method is much more
costly than that employed in Great Britain, and it will scarcely be claimed
that it is equally effective.

VI.—THE PRESERVATION AND PREPARATION OF
MUSEUM MATERIALS.

A.—CONSERVATISM AND TRUTHFULNESS IN THE HANDLING OF MUSEUM
MATERIALS.

1. It is not only essential that the full history, locality, original appear-
ance, etc., of each specimen should be fully recorded, but that the speci-
men itself should be preserved from mutilation, distortion, and all other
harm. Carelessness is the unpardonable sin in a museum worker, and
the officers in charge of valuable collections should be held to a strict
accountability and if need be placed under bond, not only for the safety,
but for the proper treatment of the treasures in their care. Preparators
and taxidermists should be kept under the strictest surveillance.

B.—REPAIRS AND RESTORATION OF SPECIMENS.

1. Repairs are legitimate when necessary for the safety or permanent
preservation of objects, for keeping together the parts of objects which
have been broken, but in the interests of truth and science the fact that
an object thus repaired should never be disguised.

2. ‘This principle applies to natural history specimens, to archzeological
objects, and to works of art as well.

3. Restoration, or the replacing of missing parts, is rarely defensible
when in the process of restoration any portion of the original object is
covered up. Restorations made in such manner that the part restored
is not at once distinguishable are unpardonable. If it is necessary to
restore missing parts, the restorations should be made upon a cast or
model, and not upon the original.

COMMENT.—This principle has reference to hypothetical restorations. It is quite
permissible to restore upon the original specimens, in natural history collections,

where there are in existence similar specimens from which further guidance may be
obtained.

C:—- CORTES:

1. Copies are available under certain limitations. Sculptures, coins,
metal work, many ethnographical objects, architectural models, and

The Principles of Museum Administration. 223

many products of the decorative and industrial art may be reproduced
easily and inexpensively, and the copying of pictures though more diffi-
cult is still practicable. In natural history, as has already been said, only
fossils can advantageously be reproduced by copies.

2. A copy of an important object is always more desirable for educa-
tional use than an original of minor significance.

D.—MODELS.

1. Models may also be used to represent objects which are unattain-
able, or from their magnitude or minuteness' unavailable. Models may
also be used to replace alcoholic preparations, or in the place of pictures,
when the latter are less effective. Aquatic invertebrates, fishes, reptiles,
cetaceans, figures showing the races of mankind and abnormal and nor-
mal developments of the human body, and almost everything in the field
of anatomy, osteology, and embryology can be shown admirably by the
use of models.

E;—PICTURES

1. Pictures are often better than specimens to illustrate certain ideas.
The races of man and their distribution, for instance, can only be shown
by pictures and maps.

E> BOOKS.

1. Certain kinds of books are more useful and safer in the museum
than on the library shelves, for in the museum they may be seen daily by
thousands, while in the library their very existence is forgotten by all
except their custodian. Books such as Audubon’s Birds of North Amer-
ica, Gould’s Humming Birds, and Owen Jones’s Alhambra, are a few
among the numerous works of which everyone has heard and which
everyone wants to see once in his lifetime. In a library they are proba-
bly not examined by ten persons in a year; in a museum the volumes
exposed to view in a glass case, and a few of the most striking plates
attractively framed and hung upon the wall near at hand, teach a lesson
to every visitor.

G:

THE MOUNTING OF ANIMALS.

1. Taxidermy is allied to sculpture, and should be governed by the
same canons of synthesis and repose. ‘The attitudes of nature should be
preserved, but action should be avoided except in the case of groups
mounted in the midst of natural accessories, and even then action should
never be violent. In mounting specimens to be arranged in the syste-
matic series the attitudes should always be simple and in some degree
conventional and uniform.

side, to give an idea of the scale of enlargements,
224 Memorial of George Brown Goode.
H.—TYPES AND UNIQUES.

1. These should always be marked in some conspicuous and unmistak-
able manner, and if not placed in special cases so labeled that their
value may be understood by all. *

The safety of types should be provided for by special rules, and it is
doubtful whether they should ever be allowed to leave the building in
which they are deposited.

2. In zoology, botany, or mineralogy a type is a specimen which has
been described in giving a new specific name. Besides types of new
species there are equally valuable specimens which have served as the
foundation of critical revisions or monographs of groups, which are
equally deserving of special protection. Specimens which have been
figured in standard works are subject to similar treatment.

I.—DUPLICATES:

1. A duplicate, from the museum standpoint, is simply a superfluous
specimen. A collection may possess scores of specimens at first view
seemingly precisely identical, and yet not be able to spare one of them.
Specimens can never be separated as duplicates until after the collection
to which they belong has been exhaustively studied and the results of
the study published. Even then there is danger in parting with them.

ComMMEN’. —The practice in the United States National Museum is to reserve from
the material upon which a given memoir has been based enough to render it pos-
sible to rewrite the memoir from the beginning if every copy should be destroyed.

2. In great museums of research it is necessary and practicable to pre-
serve extensive series of specimens, representing every possible variation
and a great number of localities. In smaller museums this can not be
done, except, it may be, in special fields, and the lesser museums can
usually throw a much larger proportion of specimens into the duplicate
series.

3. The use of duplicates is for exchange and distribution. Their
value when thus dispersed depends upon the most accurate identification
and labeling, based upon comparisons with the reserve collection from
which they are taken.

VIL—THE ART OF INSTALLATION.
A.—INSTALLATION METHODS.

1. The arrangement and mounting of collections for exhibition, com-
monly known as their ‘‘installation,’’ is an art worthy of serious atten-
tion on the part of every museum officer. ‘This art is allied to certain
branches of architecture, especially that of interior decoration, but the

‘In addition to the usual label a wafer or painted spot of bright color—red or
green—greatly aids in making a type conspicuous.
PLATE 40.

ll

rt

Pa

Report of U.S. National Museum, 1897.

S

STEPHEN HALE
The Principles of Museum Administration. 225

services of an architect are not always to be had, and the man who is
responsible for the arrangement of the halls and cases in a museum should
be able to do this work effectively. Ifa collection is to be exhibited at
all, it should be done well, and I have little sympathy with my judicious
friend who protested against the writing of this chapter on the ground
that such ‘‘considerations of upholstery’’ are beneath the dignity of an
institution of learning.

The success of installation, like that of every art, depends largely upon
attention to minute details. Insignificant as they may seem, the slight-
est of these is as worthy of consideration as that which seems to be the
greatest.

2. Installation work has to do with two matters: (@) The arrangement
of halls, and of cases and other objects with relation to the halls, light,
and general effect. (6) The construction and fitting of cases and the
arrangement of objects and labels within the cases. The form and
arrangement of labels is also intimately connected with installation, but
this will hereafter be discussed under the head of ‘‘ Labels.’’ *

B.—THE ARRANGEMENT OF HALIS.

Among the essential features of effective arrangement of floor space
are the following:

1. An arrangement in each hall, and especially in that which is first
entered, which shall convey to the visitor an impression of the character
and aims of the museum, and at the same time give an impression of
repose, dignity, and beauty. The impression which the mind receives
immediately after the first door has been passed is always the strongest
and most lasting.

2. A single entrance and one consecutive line of progress through the
halls is most advantageous, both to administrator and visitor, and should
be duly considered.

3. If the main or circulation aisles be wide and uninterrupted, and
there are occasional broad spaces in front of important exhibits, the pas-
sages between the cases may be very narrow, provided the cases are built
with this view.

4. The exhibits should be so arranged that their general features may
be apprehended in a rapid stroll through the halls, while those wishing
to study a special subject minutely may find the extended collections in
close proximity to the landmark exhibits intended for the casual visitor.
A striking exhibit at the end of a wide aisle may be used to draw visitors
to a particular portion of the hall.

5. In the interest of good light and general effect the lower cases and
objects should be placed nearest the main aisles and the center of the
hall, while tall cases should be farthest from the eye.

*See Chapter IX, A, 1-6, p. 229; D. 3, p. 234.
NAT MUS 97, PT 2 15

226 Memortal of George Brown Goode.

6. In large halls a system of alcoves with liberal aisles, or a double,

triple, or quadruple system of circulation aisles, may be used to advantage.

7. Transverse aisles are usually objectionable; when used a wide, open
area near the center of the hall is advantageous. ‘This may be enlarged
so as to surround some striking and symmetrical pedestal exhibit. (A
formal case should never interrupt the course of an aisle.) Very wide
aisles may often be advantageously divided by symmetrical and graceful
pedestal exhibits, by which the current of visitors is parted.

8. Objects too large to take their proper place in the cases may be
and used decoratively on the walls or |

)

declared ‘‘out of classification,’
pedestals, with cross-reference labels.

g. A small label, map, or diagram at the eye level is as conspicuous as ©

an immense one hung high on the walls. Such accessories should only
be made large when needed for decorative uses and treated in a decora-
tive manner.

10. These principles apply also to exposition installation, in which,
however, an ‘‘open system’? of installation is needed, with twice or thrice
the floor space for the same material that is required in ordinary museum
installation.

C.—CASES AND THEIR ARRANGEMENT.

1. The function of a case or pedestal is to protect the exhibit and —
to display it to the best advantage. Its character should be deter- —

mined not only by its intended use, but by the position in which it is to
stand, the form of adjacent cases, direction and amount of light, ete.
Cases should therefore be built only as need arises. "They should be
planned so that they can be used with advantage in halls that have light
from overhead as well as from the sides. This precaution will simplify
the problem of lighting at night.

2. Cases should not attract attention either by their austerity of design
or workmanship, but should be simply appropriate and pleasing, well
locked, dust-tight, and nearly air-tight. The frames should be as light
and inconspicuous as possible. ‘Transverse bars across an exhibited object
are unpardonable. Glass should be as large, clear, and good as possible,
for economy in glass is rarely true economy.

3. The space above the 6-foot line is rarely of use, while for small
objects nothing is gained by display below a height of 30 inches. Large
objects may be shelved at 10 or 12 inches from the floor. Where the
aisles are very wide lower shelving for small objects is possible, but it is
more economical to shelve high, narrow the minor aisles, and use the
lower parts of the cases for storage closets.

4. A system of interchangeable units in drawers and mounts, as well
as in cases, is of the highest importance, as facilitating the transfer of
cases from hall to hall and saving cost in manufacture. ‘This should
include not only the exhibition cases, but those in the storage series as
well.

The Principles of Museum Administration. 227

5. Mobility is even more necessary. All floor cases and pedestals
should have fixed rollers or roller trucks so that they may be moved with
their contents, and all fixed cases should be built with screws so as to be
readily moved from hall to hall.

6. Cases which permit a fixed installation and a recombination of units
without a rehandling of specimens are economical and in many depart-
ments indispensable. Possibility of interchange of units between the
exhibition and storage systems of cases is indispensable.

7. For the interior of cases the prime need is that the system of shelv-
ing should be as flexible as possible, and that the inside colors should be
restful to the eye and no lighter in color than the necessity of illumina-
tion may require.

8. The mountings for individual specimens should not attract the eye
either by beauty or ugliness, but should support and set off the specimens,
and by their uniformity and propriety add to the appearance of system
and order in the exhibits.

g. The inscription should be so attached that it can not be removed or
effaced, and, when possible, engraved or painted upon the object itself.
When a mark of this kind is not possible, a ticket or label, preferably the
latter, should be attached in the most prominent manner. Even whena
ticket is used at least the catalogue number should be inscribed upon
the specimen, if this can be done without injuring it. ‘These require-
ments do not apply so much to large and heavy objects permanently
installed in an exhibition series as to those kept, even temporarily, in a
study or storage series. Fragile objects, or those which can not receive
a permanent mark, should be kept in type receptacles of glass or other
material, upon which should be placed the inscription. Even when
preparations are thus kept in jars or boxes they should, when possible,
have some ticket attached to them bearing the same number as the recep-
tacle in which they are placed, so that if specimens are taken out they
shall not be put back in the wrong receptacle.

CoMMENT.—In the United States National Museum, each alcoholic preparation is

marked with a ticket of block tin, on which the catalogue number is stamped, the
same number being engraved with a diamond upon the glass jar in which it belongs.

10. A specimen may consist of a single object, or of a large number of
similar objects from one source. For instance, a collection of engravings
in one portfolio; a collection of similar kinds of stone implements from
one excavation; a number of animals or plants of one species from the
same locality.

For lack of a better term, the material included in a museum catalogue
number, whether a single specimen or many, is called a ‘‘lot.’’ ‘This
term is chiefly employed in museum statistics.

11. Explorers and collectors in the field should keep their records by
catalogue and label, in accordance with the principles laid down for
museums. Their work thus gains immensely in definiteness and value,
228 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

and their temporary labels, catalogue numbers, and registers are easily
brought into relation with those of the permanent museum series.  Pri-
vate collectors, no matter how small their field of activity, are in duty
bound to follow the same methods of record.

12. The principles crudely stated above may require modification, but
the fundamental ideas are applicable to collections of every kind, public
and private; and the owner of any interesting object, be it picture, manu-
script, decorative object, or heirloom, should be urged to label his
possessions for the benefit and protection of posterity.

13. What is inscribed upon the specimen is properly a ‘‘ mark;’’ what
is attached to it upon a card or its equivalent is properly a “‘label.”’
The term ‘‘ etiquette,’’ used in France, Germany, and upon the Continent
generally is equivalent to our ‘‘label.’’? But neither the term ‘‘etiquette’”’
nor its equivalent ‘‘ ticket,’’ though the last is allowable in the same sense
as ‘‘label,’’ is often used by those who speak English.

In practice it is convenient to speak of the inscription which serves to
identify an individual specimen, whether inscribed upon it or attached to
it, as its ‘“‘label.’’ ‘Thus the individual or ‘‘ specimen label’’ should be
clearly distinguished from the ‘‘ exhibition label,’’ which has quite a
different function and which ought to have a more distinctive name.

VIII—RECORDS, CATALOGUES, AND SPECIMEN
LABELS.

A.—MUSEUM RECORDS.

1. The value of a collection depends in the, highest degree upon the
accuracy and fullness of the records of the history of the objects which
it contains.

2. A museum specimen without a history is practically without value,
and had much better be destroyed than preserved.

CoMMEN’.—There will be many legitimate exceptions to this rule, but it can do

no harm to state it forcibly, since the museum curator is more likely to err on the
side of saving too much.

B.—CATALOGUES OR REGISTERS.

1. A museum catalogue is a numerical list or register in which each
specimen is recorded, under a separate number, in connection with which
are entered all the facts known in regard to its history.

2. The catalogue should be supplemented by a file case, in which
should be preserved notes, letters, or papers relating to each specimen
classified under the catalogue number.

3. The numerical register may advantageously be supplemented by
card catalogues systematically arranged.

4. Ina large museum, or one of a varied character, it is desirable that
there should be separate catalogues or registers for the several depart-
ments, each with a separate series of numbers.

—-
Report of U. S. National Museum, 1897. Part Il. PLATE 41.

CHARLES FREDERIC HARTT.
The Principles of Museum Administration. 229

5. When a museum has a system of departmental catalogues, there
should be a general catalogue, or accession book, in which ‘‘accessions”’
are entered in the order of their reception. The term ‘‘ accession”? is
used to describe the material received at one time, from one source,
whether it be a single specimen or a shipload.

In connection with the accession book should be filed, under the ‘‘acces-
sion numbers,’’ all invoices and correspondence relating to the special
accession.

In each departmental catalogue a separate column should be provided
in which the accession number should be recorded. A large number of
specimens in many departments may fall under one accession number.

6. There is much advantage in printing the catalogues of a museum.
When a collection is sufficiently rich in material to afford the opportunity
for a scientific revision and classification of the science which it illustrates,
the advantage is very great indeed, as is demonstrated by what the Brit-
ish Museum has accomplished.

7. When great general catalogues are not practicable, much advantage
is gained by printing catalogues of special collections, however small they
may be, provided that each is complete in its own field. A report or
memoir upon a special collection may be made to serve the purpose of a
special catalogue.

When printed catalogues can be well illustrated, their usefulness is
increased many fold, since by this means the treasures of one museum
are made available for study and comparison in every other museum, as
well as by the multitudes who have not the opportunity to see the museums
in person.

8. Catalogues are the keys to the treasure vaults of a museum.

C.—SPECIMEN LABELS OR TICKETS.

1. The inscription which is inseparably affixed to each individual speci-
men is the most essential part of the museum record; for this not only
establishes the identity of the specimen, but serves to show to what
museum it belongs. Registers and other records may burn, but the indi-
vidual label will remain as long as the specimen itself, to give to it authen-
ticity and significance.

2. The inscription should not only refer definitely to the register by
means of the catalogue number, but should, if possible, contain a state-
ment of locality, and the name of the collector or maker.

IxX.—EXAMIBITION LABELS AND THEIR FUNCTIONS.
A.—THE PURPOSE OF THE EXHIBITION LABEL.

1. The exhibition label is the principal means by which the treasures
in a museum are made intelligible to the public, the guide, the lecturer,
and the published handbook, though each in a limited field more effec-
230 Memortal of George Brown Goode.

tive, being absolutely powerless when the needs of the great majority of
students and visitors are concerned.

2. The labels describing the specimens in a collection are intended to
take the place of the curator of the collection when it is impossible for
him personally to exhibit the objects and explain their meaning. When
collections were small and visitors few, the curator or owner of a cabinet
was accustomed to conduct visitors in person among the cases, to take
the specimens in his hand, to tell their names and where they came from,
to indicate features of special interest, and to answer questions. ‘This
was in some respects an ideal way when the curator was a man of wide
knowledge and so much of an enthusiast that he took pleasure in talking
without limit. The method was not without defects, however, since the
lecturer (for such he was in fact) selected for exhibition a limited num-
ber of objects which interested him, or which he supposed might interest
the visitors, and gave the latter no chance for selection. Furthermore,
the arrangement could not be such as to convey a sequence of ideas, such
as a selected and well-labeled series of specimens can do, and the spoken
descriptions, being as a rule full of unfamiliar words, were not remem-
bered. The printed label may be read over again and again, and is often
copied into the visitor’s notebook. Again, under the old system, exam-
ining a collection was looked upon rather in the light of amusement than
study, and what might have been possible in the way of instruction was
rarely attempted.

In these days, when the curator attempts verbal instruction, it is by
means of a lecture in the museum lecture hall, or, if a floor lecture,
among the cases, surrounded by hundreds or scores of auditors, who may
either take notes or find the substance of the lecture in a syllabus or
printed text-book prepared by the lecturer.

Where one museum visitor listens to the museum lectures, tens of thou-
sands pass through the halls without a guide. They must depend
entirely upon the labels for information; for guide books, if such have
been printed, are rarely bought, still more rarely used in the presence of
specimens, and though often taken home with the intention of studying
them, are only in the rarest instances ever opened after leaving the
museum.

3. The function of a label, then, is a most important one, since it is
practically only through the aid of the labels that visitors derive any
benefit whatever from a visit toa museum. ‘Therefore a label should
answer all the questions which are likely to arise in the mind of the
persons examining the object to which it is attached. ,

4. The office of the descriptive label may be stated as follows:

(a) ‘The label must tell the name of the object; its exact and technical
name always, and if there be one, its common name.

(6) It must call attention to the features which it is important for the
visitor to notice.

The Principles of Museum Administration. 225

(c) It must explain its meaning and its relations to the other objects
in the same series. If it is a natural history specimen it should explain
its geographical distribution, which, if possible, should be plotted on a
small map, forming a part of the label, and mentioning peculiarities of
structure or habit.

If it is an ethnological object, its uses and construction should be
explained, its materials named, if they are not obvious, and supplemen-
tary information given by means of pictures; and where pictures are
better than words, these may be attached.

(d) The exact locality, date of collection, and source of the specimen
exhibited, should be mentioned.

(e) For the convenience of visitors it is well, in many cases, to give
the dimensions or weight of the specimen.

5. The label may be made to convey much information in addition to
that which is printed upon it by means of maps, pictures, and diagrams,
which may be placed by its side to reenforce its teachings, and also by
cross references to other specimens in the museum, or to books on the
museum reading tables, or in its library.

6. Exact references from the label to the specimen which it explains
may be effected by a system of reference numbers, such as are used to
bring a diagram into relation with descriptive text.

Colors inay be applied to portions of a specimen, in order to make the
label system more intelligible; as, for instance, when it is desired to com-
pare similar parts in a series of specimens placed side by side, the same
color in each signifying homology.

And ‘‘pointers’’ may be used upon the specimens to indicate the locali-
ties of small objects, or especially noteworthy features referred to on the
label.

CoMMENT.—The late Professor Moseley was one of the first to adopt these methods,
in the Oxford Museum. ‘The system of showing homologies by color was used in
the Milan Museum as early as 1878, and has been very effectively used by Mr. F. A.
Lucas in the United States National Museum.

B.—THE ART OF LABEL WRITING.

1. The preparation of labels is one of the most difficult tasks of the
museum man. The selection of the descriptive matter to be printed
requires the best of judgment and the widest and most accurate infor-
mation; while to determine the form and size of the different labels in a
series, and to secure the best typographic effect, is equally difficult, and
requires abilities of quite a different order.

2. A label may contain a vast amount of exact and valuable informa-
tion, and yet by reason of faulty literary and typographic arrangement,
have as little significance and value as a piece of blank paper.

3. Before a specialist is prepared to label a collection he must be a
complete master of the subject which the collection is intended to illus-
trate. After he has written the series of labels, if the collection is com-
232 Memorral of George Brown Goode.

plete he will have the material under control which would enable him to
write a very complete book of reference upon the subject.

4. No task is more exacting than this form of fvéczs writing. Not
only is it impossible to conceal lack of perfect knowledge, but the infor-
mation must be conveyed in a terse, concise, and definite phraseology,
such as is not demanded by any other class of writing, unless it may be
the preparation of definitions for a dictionary. He who writes definitions
for a dictionary, however, has usually the advantage of having before
him numerous other definitions of the same term which he needs only to
collate and rearrange.

5. A good descriptive label should do something more than impart
information. It must be so phrased as to excite the interest of the per-
son who is examining the specimen to which it is attached; to call his
attention to the points which it is most important that he should observe;
to give him the information which he most needs while looking at the
specimen, and to refer him to the books by means of which he can, if so
disposed, learn all that is known upon the subject illustrated.

6. The art of label writing is in its infancy, and there are doubtless
possibilities of educational results through the agency of labels and speci-
mens which are not as yet at all understood. It is clear, however, that
the advice of the old cook in regard to making soup applies equally well
to a good label; that ‘‘its merit depends much more on what you leave
out than on what you put in.’’ ‘The value of this method of instruction
is perhaps better understood by the most advanced writers of school text-
books and dictionaries than even by the average museum worker.

COMMENT.—In Doctor Edward Eggleston’s new School History of the United
States engravings, portraits, pictures of historical localities, costumes, and archee--
ological objects, are interspersed through the text, and each of these has a label of
the museum type surrounded by rules and separated from the text, with which it
has usually only general relationship. ‘The originals which are thus illustrated, if
brought together, would make an admirable museum of American history, and the
book itself could hardly be improved uponas a handbook tosuch a collection. The
modern illustrated dictionary owes much of its success to the adoption of museum
methods, due perhaps to the fact that so many men familiar with museum methods
have been engaged upon the preparation of the latest American publication of this
kind, the Century Dictionary, and the more recently published Standard Dictionary.
These works thus impart instruction by methods very similar to those in use in
museums, except that they are much at a disadvantage by reason of their alphabetical
arrangement. ‘This is, of course, one respect in which the museum exhibition case
has the advantage over the lecturer who can only present one subject at a time, or
over the writer of books who is prevented by the size of his pages from bringing a
large number of ideas into view at once. ‘This difficulty has been in part overcome
by the editor of the Standard Dictionary, in the great plates where are shown in one
case all the principal varieties of precious stones; in another plate all the races of
the domesticated dog; in another, the badges of orders of chivalry. Even this,
however, is far from reaching the possibility possessed by the museum, with its
broad expanses of exhibition cases, of showing a large number of objects so arranged
as to explain their mutual relationship, and so labeled as to explain the method of
arrangement.
Report of U. S. National Museum, 1897. Part ll. PLATE 42.

The Principles of Museum Administration. 233

C.— FORM AND SIZE OF LABELS.

1. The size and typography of the label are of the greatest importance.
The best written label may be ruined by the printer. Not only must the
letters be large enough to be legible from the customary point of view,
but the type must be pleasing in form and so arranged as to lead the
eye of the reader with pleasure from one line to another, and so broken
into paragraphs as to separate from each other the topics discussed.

Furthermore, a system of subordinate sizes of type is essential, so that
the most important facts shall first meet the eye. In many of the labels
printed for the National Museum type of four or five different sizes is
used, the largest giving the name of the object, the next size the name
of the locality and donor, the next its distribution, and so on, much in
the order of importance of the topics already proposed, while the least
essential illustrated matter at the bottomof the label is placed in the
smallest type. The theory is that the largest type should give the in-
formation desired by the greatest number of visitors (by everyone); the
next size, that needed by those who are studying the collection in a more
leisurely way, and so on.

Too much can not be said of the necessity of breaking the descriptive
matter into short paragraphs, which should never be more than half a
square in length.

COMMENT. —Where a label of great width is printed, it is believed that it is better
to arrange the matter in two columns, rather than to weary the eye by following

back and fro across the card. Labels, as a rule, seem to be most satisfactory when
nearly square, or with the height less than the width.

2. Much attention should be given to the selection of type and color
for labels, it having been found that labels printed on white cardboard
become dirty or turn yellow, besides being dazzling and hard to read.
Many tints of cardboard, which would otherwise be available, can not be
used because of their tendency to fade, objectionable in itself and doubly
objectionable when it becomes necessary to put a fresh bright label by
the side of one which has become soiled in use.

COMMENT.—Alimost every sample of colored cardboard which has been tried in
the United States National Museum has faded after a time. The most satisfactory
has been one of greenish gray. This is temporarily in use in the geological and
mineralogical collections, where a light gray color for the interior of the cases and
shelves seems preferable, and also in the collection of birds, which is installed, by
preference, in a somewhat dark apartment. The standard label board, however, is a
heavy rough-faced manila. The color, being that natural to this fiber, is unchange-
able. ‘There is no fading, little tendency to become dirty, and the soft, rich, brownish-
yellow tone sets off admirably the heavy black lines of the antique-faced type which
is used, and harmonizes well with the buffs and maroons which are favorite colors for
case interiors. Cartridge paper in any tint of gray or light brown is an admirable
material for labels, especially large ones. It must, however, be glued to a tablet. If
this is made of dark wood with a bevel retreating from the edge of the label, forming
a dark border, the effect is very pleasing. Labels thus prepared and mounted upon
metal rods are used by the National Museum for general-classification labels in the
interior of cases.
234 Memorial of George Brown Goode.
D.—CLASSIFICATION LABELS.

1. In addition to the labels of individual objects there are ‘‘classifica-
tion labels,’’ which serve the same purpose as the volume, chapter, section,
and paragraph headings in a printed work.

For the smaller groups these are placed inside of the case; for the larger
ones outside, often serving as ‘‘case labels.’’

2. The relationship of the objects in a series to each other may usually
be indicated by the size of the labels, which should be uniform for objects
of the same general character in the same case. Whena deviation from
this rule is necessary, if the size of the type remain the same, more space
may be obtained, either by slight widening or slight lengthening; but in
the same series it should be always lengthened or always widened.
Classification labels which are placed unattached among the specimens
increase in size with the importance of the grade of that case.

3. There are limits to the possibilities of making labels speak by their
size. An object at the top of a case or on a pedestal or in a case by
itself is always regarded as “‘ out of classification,’’ and its label arranged
solely with reference to its appearance or utility in the place where it is
to stand. It is necessary to vary the size somewhat in the same series,
when, as in a long case of mammals, a small species and a large one are
placed side by side. Here, for zesthetic reasons, the rule is usually set
aside.

COMMENT.—It is the plan in the United States National Museum to have a large
label, glazed and framed, at the top of each case or in front of each panel. These
are printed on black or maroon paper in gold or silver letters. The labels in gold or
black are printed from large wooden type and are used to indicate the general system
of classification of the cases upon the floor. When it is desired to use outside labels,
glazed and framed, which are not in this general classification series, we print with

heavy-faced type in black upon manila or cartridge paper, since the black upon yel-
low is more legible with comparatively small type than the gold upon black.

X.—GUIDES AND LECTURERS; HANDBOOKS AND
REFERENCE BOOKS:

A.—GUIDES' AND THCTURERS.

1. In the days when museums were small and visitors few it was
possible, as has already been said, for a curator of a collection personally
to conduct the visitors and to explain to them the collections; but this
can no longer be done under the changed conditions. The label and the
handbook have forever replaced the guide, for an unintelligent leader
can effect nothing but harm.

2. A modification of the guide system is still practicable under certain
circumstances, as when a party of persons interested in some special sub-
ject are conducted through a portion of a museum by a teacher or some
member of the museum staff who serves in this capacity. This is the
floor-lecture system, which, however, to be efficient must be coupled with
The Principles of Museum Administration. 235

some method of excluding the general public from the alcove in which
the party is for the time engaged.

3. Formal lectures in the lecture hall of the museum, illustrated by
specimens withdrawn from the cases, are exceedingly useful, although
they reach but a limited number of persons. Such lectures are most
useful when in courses and devoted to a special topic; still better when
they are addressed toa particular class in the comimunity, as, for instance,
the teachers in public schools.

COMMEN’.—The courses carried on at the American Museum of Natural History
in connection with the normal-school system of the State of New York are an
example.

4. In university towns the use of the lecture room and the illustrative
resources of the museum may to good advantage be placed at the disposal
of the professors and their classes.

5. A member of the staff may sometimes do good service by inviting a
group of visitors to his laboratory, in order to explain, with the use of
specimens and reference books, some special point upon which they seek
information.

B.—HANDBOOKS AND GUIDEBOOKS.

1. The handbook and guidebook supplement the label system, and
used in connection with labels render still more unnecessary the services
of a guide. .

2. The guidebook, properly speaking, is a brief manual in which the
plan of the museum and the general character of its contents are described.
It should have diagrams of buildings, showing the location of the various
halls and their uses, and diagrams when necessary of the halls, showing
the system of arrangement. ‘The guidebook, in short, is a general label
for the museum asa whole. Since guidebooks are usually kept as souve-
nirs, they should contain a certain amount of descriptive and historical
matter, and pictures of the building and of some of its most notable
treasures.

3. The handbook relates to a portion of the museum, either a depart-
ment or a special collection within the department, and should present
the information conveyed by the exhibition labels belonging to the branch
to which it relates.

When a collection has been well labeled, a complete handbook may be
made simply by combining the labels in proper order and printing them.
If the collection is complete and well selected, the handbook describing
it becomes an encyclopeedic manual of the subject illustrated.

Printed catalogues, such as have already been referred to, often fulfill
the function of handbooks, though usually too technical for that purpose.

The catalogue should be technical and exhaustive and adapted for the
use of the professional student. When it relates to a large collection,
and especially when illustrated, it is too large to be convenient for
general use.
236 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

A handbook is usually intended for the use of the public and should be
what its name signifies—a volume which may be carried in the hand by
the visitor or general student.

The handbook also serves to remind the visitor of what he has seen,
and enable him to review the teachings of the museum after he has left
it. It supplements and to some extent replaces the visitor’s personal
notebook.

4. The handbook and guidebook should never replace the descriptive
label attached to each exhibited object. The practice not uncommon in
art galleries and expositions of designating objects by number and describ-
ing them only in the guidebook does not seem judicious, although in
temporary exhibitions it can not always be avoided. It is a relic of
the days when it was thought legitimate by this means to force every
visitor to buy a catalogue, and thus contribute to the revenues of the
establishment.

C=—-READING “LABLES:

tr. A certain number of bibliographies, dictionaries, and standard
works of reference, directing visitors to the literature of the subject,
should be placed in each hall, each table being devoted to the subject
illustrated by the collections in the midst of which it stands. ‘These
books may, for safety, be fastened to a reading desk or table.

2. It is often advantageous to displav books within the exhibition cases,
with the specimens, to teach visitors what books they should use in carry-
ing on the studies suggested by their visit to the museum.

Dip ULB RARY:

1. Every well-appointed museum should have a good reference library,
which should include the principal books of reference in regard to the
various specialties with which it is concerned, and especially the great
illustrated works relating to other museums which can not be displayed
in the exhibition halls. This library should be freely accessible to vis-
itors and provided with comfortable furniture and facilities for taking
notes.

2. The museum library should, if possible, be so situated as to form
one of the features of the museum, and the doors so arranged that vis-
itors can look in without disturbing those who are reading. ‘The effective-
ness of such an arrangement will be appreciated by all who have visited
the Musée Guimet in Paris, or the Museo di Ultramar in Madrid:

3. In addition to the general reference library, special collections of
books may advantageously be developed in connection with the several
departments of a museum. So long as these are judiciously limited in
scope, they can not well be too extensive, since a technical library is
always more useful when it is more directly under the influence of a spe-
cialist, than when administered as a part of a great general library by
Report of U.S. National Museum, 1897. PLATE 43.

The Principles of Museum Administration. 237

professional librarians. In a library of this kind, much material not
usually of much service elsewhere—pamphlets, cuttings, pictures, technical
manuscripts, ete.—will accumulate and be kept under control.

COMMEN’T.—In the United States National Museum, there are a considerable num-
ber of sectional libraries, shelved in proximity to the collections to which they relate,
and under the direct care of the curators. These are all under control, by means of a
card catalogue, kept in the central library, where works of general interest are
retained, and may be recalled at any moment by the museum librarian,

xAL—THE FUTURE OF MUSEUM WORK.
a.—THE GROWTH OF THE MUSEUM IDEA.

1. There can be no doubt that the importance of the museum as an
agency for the increase and diffusion of knowledge will be recognized so
long as interest in science and education continues toexist. The predic-
tion of Professor Jevons, in 1881, that the increase in the number of muse-
eums of some sort or other must be almost coextensive with the progress
of real popular education, is already being realized. Numerous local
museums have been organized within the past fifteen years in the midst
of new communities. Special museums of new kinds are developing in
the old centers, and every university, college, and school is organizing or
extending its cabinet. The success of the Museums Association in Great
Britain is another evidence of the growing popularity of the museum idea,
and similar organizations must of necessity soon be formed in every civilized
nation.

2. With this increase of interest there has been a corresponding improve-
ment in museum administration. More men of ability and originality are
engaging in this work, and the results are manifest in all its branches.

The museum recluse, a type which had many representatives in past
years, among them nota few eminent specialists, is becoming much less
common, and this change is not to be regretted. "The general use of
specimens in class-room instruction and still more, the introduction of
laboratory work in higher institutions, has brought an army of teachers
intc direct relations with museum administration, and much support and
improvement has resulted.

3. Museum administration having become a profession, the feeling is
growing more and more general that it is one in which talents of a high
order can be utilized. It is essential to the future development of the
museum that the best men should be secured for this kind of work, and
to this end it is important that a lofty professional standard should be
established.

B.—PUBLIC APPRECIATION OF THE MATERIAL VALUE OF COLLECTIONS.

t. The museum of nature or art is one of the most valuable material
possessions of a nation or a city. It is, as has well been said, ‘‘ the peo-
238 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

ple’s vested fund.’’ It brings not only world-wide reputation, but many
visitors and consequent commercial advantage. What Alpine scenery is
to Switzerland, museums are to many neighboring nations. Some one
has written that the Venus of Melos has brought more wealth to Paris
than the Queen of Sheba brought to King Solomon, and that but for the
possession of their collections (which are intrinsically so much treasure)
Rome and Florence would be impoverished towns.

This is thoroughly understood by the rulers of modern Italy. We are
told that the first act of Garibaldi, after he had entered Naples in 1860,
was to proclaim the city of Pompeii the property of the nation, and to
increase the appropriation for excavations, so that these might be carried
on with greater activity. ‘‘ He appreciated the fact that a nation which
owns a gold mine ought to work it, and that Pompeii could be made for
Naples and for Italy a source of wealth more productive than the gold
mines of Sacramento.’’ If capital is an accumulation of labor, as econo-
mists say, works of art, which are the result of the highest type of labor,
must be capital of the most productive character. A country which has
rich museums attracts to itself the money of travelers, even though it
may have no other source of wealth. If, besides, the populace is made
to understand the interest which is possessed by their treasures of art,
they are inspired with the desire to produce others of the same kind;
and so, labor increasing capital, there is infinite possibility for the growth
of national societies devoted to the formation of museums, to their main-
tenance, and to the education of the people by this means.

Suggestive in this same connection was the remark of Sir William
Flower to the effect that the largest museum yet erected, with all its
internal fittings, ‘‘ has not cost so much asa single fully-equipped line of
battle ship, which in a few years may be either at the bottom of the sea
or so obsolete in construction as to be worth no more than the material
of which it is made.”’

=

CoMMEN’T.—This principle was well stated more than half a century ago by
Henry Edwards in his treatise on the Administrative economy of the fine arts in
England, as follows: In addition to the broad principle that the public funds
can never be better employed than in the establishment of institutions tending at
once to refine the feeling and to improve the industry of the whole population,
there is the subordinate, but yet important, ground of inducing and enabling private
persons greatly to benefit the public by contributing toward the same end. No
country [he continues] has more cause to be proud of that munificent spirit of
liberality which leads private individuals to present or bequeath to the community
valuable collections which it has been the labor of their lives to form; but to give
due effect to this liberality and to make that effect permanent, it is necessary that
the State step in and contribute its sanction and its assistance; and in many cases
the very munificence of spirit which has formed an immense collection and given
birth to the wish to make it national has, by its own excess, made that wish power-
less without the active aid of the legislature. The actual cost, and still more the
inherent value, of the collections of Sloane, Elgin, and Angerstein made them in
reality gifts to the nation, although they could never have been acquired (without

Ss
The Principles of Muscum Administration. 239

gross injustice to the descendants of the large-ininded collectors) had not Parlia-
ment made certain pecuniary advances on account of them. While but for the
foundation of the British Museum and of the National Gallery, the collections of
Cracherode and Holwell Carr, of Beaumont, of Sir Joseph Banks, and of King George
III would have continued in the hands of individuals,

C.—PUBLIC APPRECIATION OF THE HIGHER FUNCTION OF MUSEUMS.

t. Museums, libraries, reading rooms, and parks have been referred
and no better term

b}

to by some wise person as ‘‘ passionless reformers,’
can be employed to describe one of the most important of their uses.

CoMMENT.—The appreciation of the utility of museums to the great public lies
at the foundation of what is known as ‘‘the modern museum idea.’’ No one has
written more eloquently of the moral influence of museums than Mr. Ruskin, and
whatever may be thought of the manner in which he has carried his idea into prac-
tice in his workingmen’s museum, near Sheffield, his influence has undoubtedly
done-much to stimulate the development of the ‘‘people’s museum.’’ ‘The same
spirit inspired Sir Henry Cole when he said to the people of Birmingham in 1894:
“Tf you wish your schools of science and art to-be effective, your health, your air,
and your food to be wholesome, your life to be long, and your manufactures to

ce

improve, your trade to increase, and your people to be civilized, you must have
museums of science and art to illustrate the principles of life, wealth, nature,
science, art, and beauty.”’

And I never shall forget the words of the late Sir Philip Cunliffe Owen, who said
to me some years ago: ‘‘ We educate our working people in the public schools, give
them a love for refined and beautiful objects, and stimulate them in a desire for
information. They leave school, go into the pursuits of town life, and have no
means provided for the gratification of the tastes they have been forced to acquire.
It is as much the duty of the Government to provide them with museums and
libraries for their higher education as it is to establish schools for their primary
instruction.”

2. The development of the modern museum idea is due to Great Britain
in much greater degree than toany other nation, and the movement dates
from the period of the great exhibition of 1851, which is recognized upon
the western side of the Atlantic as marking an epoch in the intellectual
progress of English-speaking peoples. The munificence with which the
national museums of Great Britain have been supported, and the liberal-
minded manner in which they have been utilized in the cause of popular
education and for the promotion of the highest intellectual ideals, has
been and still is a source of inspiration to all in America who are laboring
for similar results.

3. The future of the museum, as of all similar public institutions, is
inseparably associated with the continuance of modern civilization, by
means of which those sources of enjoyment which were formerly accessi-
ble to the rich only, are now, more and more, placed in the possession
and ownership of all the people (an adaption of what Jevons has called
“the principle of the multiplication of utility’’), with the result that
objects which were formerly accessible only to the wealthy, and seen by
240 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

a very small number of people each year, are now held in common owner-
ship and enjoyed by hundreds of thousands.

In this connection the maintenance of museums should be especially
favored, because these, more than any other public agency, are invita-
tions to the wealthy owners of private treasures to give them in perpetuity
to the public.

4. If it be possible to sum up in a single sentence the principles which
have been discussed in the present paper, this sentence would be phrased
in these words: The degree of civilization to which any nation, city,
or province has attained is best shown by the character of its public
museums and the liberality with which they are maintained.
Report of U. S. National Museum, 1897. Part II PLATE 44.

JOSEPH HENRY.
f La

a rn ae

pati on 7c 1 A
— rat Lees 2

; & ;

=. a : - “1 = at ae A .
| _ - +e -* ? ~)

7: - ox ° ¥
= ae

- * ie Ware
‘ = fi
he - 8 - ig”
THE MUSEUMS OF THE FUTURE.
BY

GEORGE BROWN GOODE,

Assistant Secretary, Smithsonian Institution, in charge
of the U.S. National Museum.

NAT MUS 907, PT 2 16 241
THE MUSEUMS OF THE FUTURE?

By GEORGE BROWN GOODE,

Assistant Secretary, Smithsonian Institution, tn charge of the U.S. National
Museum,

There is an Oriental saying that the distance between ear and eye is
small, but the difference between hearing and seeing very great.

More terse and not less forcible is our own proverb, ‘‘’To see is to
know,’’ which expresses a growing tendency in the human mind.

In this busy, critical, and skeptical age each man is seeking to know
all things, and life is too short for many words. ‘The eye is used more
and more, the ear less and less, and in the use of the eye, descriptive
writing 1s set aside for pictures, and pictures in their turn are replaced
by actual objects. In the schoolroom the diagram, the blackboard, and
the object lesson, unknown thirty years ago, are universally employed.
The public lecturer uses the stereopticon to reenforce his words, the
editor illustrates his journals and magazines with engravings a hundred-
fold more numerous and elaborate than his predecessor thought needful,
and the merchant and manufacturer recommend their wares by means of
vivid pictographs. The local fair of old has grown into the great expo-
sition, often international and always under some governmental patron-
age, and thousands of such have taken place within forty years, from
Japan to Tasmania, and from Norway to Brazil.

Amid such tendencies, the museum, it would seem, should find con-
genial place, for it is the most powerful and useful auxiliary of all sys-
tems of teaching by means of object lessons.

The work of organizing museums has not kept pace with the times.
The United States is far behind the spirit of its own people, and less
progressive than England, Germany, France, Italy, or Japan. We have,
it is true, two or three centers of great activity in museum work, but
there have been few new ones established within twenty years, and many
of the old ones are ina state of torpor. This can not long continue.
The museum of the past must be set aside, reconstructed, transformed
from a cemetery of bric-a-brac into a nursery of living thoughts. The
museum of the future must stand side by side with the library and the

'A lecture delivered before the Brooklyn Institute, February 28, 1889.

243
244 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

laboratory, as a part of the teaching equipment of the college and uni-
versity, and in the great cities cooperate with the public library as one
of the principal agencies for the enlightenment of the people.

The true significance of the word museum may best be appreciated
through an allusion to the ages which preceded its origin—when our
ancestors, hundreds of generations removed, were in the midst of those
great migrations which peopled Europe with races originally seated i1
central Asia.

It has been well said that the early history of Greece is the first chap-
ter in the political and intellectual life of Europe. ‘To the history of
Greece let us go for the origin of the museum idea, which, in its present
form, seems to have found its only congenial home among the European
offshoots of the great Indo-Germanic or Aryan division of the world’s
inhabitants. Long centuries before the invention of written languages
there lived along the borders of northern Greece, upon the slopes of
Mount Olympus and Helicon, a people whom the later Greeks called
‘“Thracians,’’ a half-mythical race, whose language even has perished.
They survived in memory, we are told, as a race of bards, associated
with that peculiar legendary poetry of pre-Homeric date, in which the
powers of nature were first definitely personified. This poetry belonged,
presumably, to an age when the ancestors of the Greeks had left their
Indo-European home, but had not yet taken full possession of the lands
which were afterwards Hellenic. The spirits of nature sang to their sen-
sitive souls with the voice of brook and tree and bird, and each agency
or form which their senses perceived was personified in connection with
a system of worship. ‘There were spirits in every forest or mountain,
but in Thrace alone dwelt the Muses-—the spirits who know and who
remember, who are the guardians of all wisdom, and who impart to their
disciples the knowledge and the skill to write.

Museums, in the language of Ancient Greece, were the homes of the
Muses. ‘The first were in the groves of Parnassus and Helicon, and later
they were temples in various parts of Helles. Soon, however, the mean-
ing of the word changed, and it was used to describe a place of study, or
a school. Athenzeus, in the second century, described Athens as ‘‘the
museum of Greece,’’ and the name was applied to that portion of the
palace of Alexandria which was set apart for the study of the sciences
and which contained the famous Alexandrian library. The museum of
Alexandria was a great unversity, the abiding place of men of science
and letters, who were divided into many companies or colleges, for the
support of each of which a handsome revenue was allotted.

The Alexandrian museum was burned in the days of Cesar and
Aurelian, and the term museum, as applied to a great public institution,
dropped out of use from the fourth to the seventeenth century. The
disappearance of a word is an indication that the idea for which it stood
had also fallen into disfavor, and such, indeed, was the fact.
Report of U. S. National Museum, 1897.

Part Il.

PLATE

EDWARD HITCHCOCK.

45.
The Museums of the Future. 245

The history of museum and library runs in parallel lines. It is not
until the development of the arts and sciences has taken place, until an
extensive written literature has grown up, and a distinct literary and
scientific class has been developed, that it is possible for the modern
library and museum to come into existence. The museum of the pres-
ent is more unlike its old-time representative than is our library unlike
its prototype.

There were, in the remote past, galleries of pictures and sculpture as
well as museums, so called. Public collections of paintings and statuary
were founded in Greece and Rome at a very early day. ‘There was a
gallery of paintings (Pinacotheca) in one of the marble halls of the
Propyleeum at Athens, and in Rome there was a lavish public display of
works of art.

M. Dezobry, in his brilliant work upon ‘‘ Rome in the time of Augus-
tus’’ (Rome au siecle d@ Auguste), described this phase of the Latin civili-
zation in the first century before Christ.

‘‘Ror many years,’’ remarks one of his characters, ‘‘the taste for
paintings has been extending in a most extraordinary manner. In for-
mer times they were only to be found in the temples, where they were
placed, less for purposes of ornament than asan act of homage to the
gods; now they are everywhere, not only in temples, in private houses,
and in public halls, but also on outside walls, exposed freely to air and
sunlight. Rome is one great picture gallery; the Forum of Augustus is
gorgeous with paintings, and they may be seen also in the Forum of
Ceesar, 11 the Roman Forum, under the peristyles of many of the tem-
ples, and especially in the porticos used for public promenades, some of
which are literally filled with them. Thus everybody is enabled to enjoy
them, and to enjoy them at all hours of the day.’’

The public men of Rome at a later period in its history were no less
mindful of the claims of art. They believed that the metropolis of a
great nation should be adorned with all the best products of civilization.
We are told by Pliny that when Czesar was dictator, he purchased for
300,000 deniers two Greek paintings, which he caused to be publicly
displayed, and that Agrippa placed many costly works of art in a hall
which he built and bequeathed to the Roman people. Constantine
gathered together in Constantinople the paintings and sculptures of the
great masters, so that the city before its destruction became a great
imuseun like Rome.

The taste for works of art was in the days of the ancient civilizations
generally prevalent throughout the whole Mediterranean region, and
there is abundant reason to believe that there were prototypes of the
modern museum in Persia, Assyria, Babylonia, and Egypt, as well as
in Rome.

Collections in natural history also undoubtedly existed, though we
have no positive descriptions of them. Natural curiosities, of course,
246 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

found their way into the private collections of monarchs, and were
doubtless als6 in use for study among the savants in the Alexandrian
museums. Aristotle, in the fourth century before Christ, had, it is said,
an enormous grant of money for use in his scientific researches, and
Alexander the Great, his patron, ‘‘took care to send to him a great
variety of zoological specimens, collected in the countries which he had
subdued,’’ and also ‘‘ placed at his disposal several thousand persons,
who were occupied in hunting, fishing, and making the observations
which were necessary for completing his History of Animals.” If
human nature has not changed more than we suppose, Aristotle must
have had a great museum of natural history.

When the Roman capital was removed to Byzantium, the arts and
letters of Europe began to decline. ‘The church was unpropitious, and
the invasions of the northern barbarians destroyed everything. In 476,
with the close of the Western Empire, began a period of intellectual tor-
pidity which was to last for a thousand years. It was in Bagdad and
Cordova that science and letters were next to be revived, and Africa was
to surpass Europe in the exhibit of its libraries.

With the renaissance came a period of new life for collectors. "The
churches of southern Europe becanre art galleries, and monarchs and
noblemen and ecclesiastical dignitaries collected books, manuscripts,
sculptures, pottery, and gems, forming the beginnings of collections
which have since grown into public museums. Some of these collec-
tions doubtless had their first beginnings in the midst of the Dark Ages
within the walls of feudal castles or the larger monasteries, but their
number was small, and they must have consisted chiefly of those objects
so nearly akin to literature as especially to command the attention of
bookish men.

The idea of a great national museum of science and art was first worked
out by Lord Bacon in his New Atlantis, a philosophical romance, pub-
lished at the close of the seventeenth century.

The first scientific museum actually founded was that begun at Oxford,
in 1677, by Elias Ashmole, still known as the Ashmolean Museum, com-
posed chiefly of natural-history specimens, collected by the botanists
Tradescant, father and son, in Virginia and in the north of Africa.
Soon after, in 1753, the British Museum was established by act of
Parliament, inspired by the will of Sir Hans Sloane, who, dying in 1749,
left to the nation his invaluable collection of books, manuscripts, and
curiosities.

Many of the great national museums of Europe had their origin in the
private collections of monarchs. France claims the honor of having been
the first to change a royal into a national museum when, in 1789, the
Louvre came into the possession of a republican government.

It is very clear, however, that democratic England stands several dec-
ades in advance—its act, moreover, being one of deliberate founding
The Museums of the Future. 247

rather than a species of conquest. A century before this, when Charles I
was beheaded by order of Parliament, his magnificent private collec-
tion was dispersed. What a blessing it would be to England to-day
if the idea of founding a national museum had been suggested to the
Cromwellians. The intellectual life of America is so closely bound to
that of England, that the revival of interest in museums and in popular
education at the middle of the present century is especially significant
to us.

The great exhibition of 1851 was one of the most striking features of
the industrial revolution in England, that great transformation which,
following closely upon the introduction of railroads, turned England,
feudal and agricultural, into England democratic and commercial. This
exhibition marked an epoch in the intellectual progress of English-
speaking peoples. ‘‘The great exhibition,’’ writes a popular novel-
ist—a social philosopher as well—‘‘did one great service for country
people: It taught them how easy it is to get to London, and what a
mine of wealth, especially for after-memory and purposes of conversa-
tion, exists in that great place.’’

Our own Centennial Exhibition in 1876 was almost as great a revela-
tion to the people of the United States. The thoughts of the country
were opened to many things before undreamed of. One thing we may
regret, that we have no such widespread system of museums as that
which has developed in the motherland, with South Kensington as its
administrative center.

Under the wise administration of the South Kensington staff, an out-
growth of the events of 1851, a great system of educational museums
has been developed all through the United Kingdonr. <A similar exten-
sion of public museums in this country would be quite in harmony with
the spirit of the times, as shown in the present efforts toward university
extensions.

England has had nearly forty years in which to develop these ten-
dencies and we but thirteen since our exhibition. May we not hope
that within a like period of time and before the year 1914 the United
States may have attained the position which England now occupies, at
least in the respect of popular interest and substantial governmental
support.

There are now over one hundred and fifty public museums in the
United Kingdom, all active and useful. ‘The museum systems of Great
Britain are, it seems to me, much closer to the ideal which America
should follow than are those of either France or Germany. ‘They are
designed more thoughtfully to meet the needs of the people, and are
more intimately intertwined with the policy of national, popular educa-
tion. Sir Henry Cole, the founder of the ‘‘department of science and
art,’’ speaking of the purpose of the museum under his care, said to
the people of Birmingham in 1874: ‘‘ If you wish your schools of science
248 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

and art to be effective, your health, the air, and your food to be whole-
some, your life to be long, your manufactures to improve, your trade
to increase, and your people to be civilized, you must have museums
of science and art, to illustrate the principles of life, health, nature,
science, art, and beauty.’’

Again, in words as applicable to America of to-day as to Britain
in’ 1874, said he: ‘‘A thorough education and a knowledge of science
and art are vital to the nation and to the place it holds at present in the
civilized world. Science and art are the lifeblood of successful produc-
tion. All civilized nations are running a race with us, and our national
decline will date from the period when we go to sleep over the work of
education, science, andart. What has been done is at the mere threshold
of the work yet to be done.”’

The museums of the future in this democratic land should be adapted
to the needs of the mechanic, the factory operator, the day laborer, the
salesman, and the clerk, as much as to those of the professional man and
the man of leisure. It is proper that there be laboratories and profes-
sional libraries for the development of the experts who are to organize,
arrange, and explain the museums. It is proper that the laboratories be
utilized to the fullest extent for the credit of the institution to which
they belong. No museum can grow and be respected which does not
each year give additional proofs of its claims to be considered a center of
learning.

On the other hand, the public have a right to ask that much shall be
done directly in their interest. They will gladly allow the museum
officer to use part of his time in study and experiment. ‘They will take
pride in the possession by the museum of tens of thousands of specimens,
interesting only to the specialists, hidden away perpetually from public
view, but necessary for purpose of scientific research. ‘These are founda-
tions of the intellectual superstructure which gives the institution its
standing.

Still, no pains must be spared in the presentation of the material in the
exhibition halls. The specimens must be prepared in the most careful
and artistic manner, and arranged attractively in well-designed cases
and behind the clearest of glass. Each object must bear a label, giving
its name and history so fully that all the probable questions of the visitor
are answered in advance. Books of reference must be kept in convenient
places. Colors of walls, cases, and labels must be restful and quiet, and
comfortable seats should be everywhere accessible, for the task of the
museum visitor is a weary one at best.

In short, the public museum is, first of all, for the benefit of the pub-
lic. When the officers are few in number, each must of necessity devote
a considerable portion of his time to the public halls. When the staff
becomes larger, it is possible by specialization of work to arrange that
certain men may devote their time uninterruptedly to laboratory work,
Report of U. S. National Museum

1897

Part Il.

PLATE

46.
iio
=
ae
1
=ah
+
a
a
+
8
+
i.
oe

ts
- '
ss - 7
: ems -
-
t
7 ’
5h /
-
-
of
1
: 7
ot
=
=
=
>
-
a

- -
7 ¢ y oe

ae _
a op Pr 2 _

;
3

Ul ay - i _
a "|
wv

74
'
> ' a?
'
+’
r.
- {
a
>
1.
+
]
, _ Lc
= ‘
'
a
we
ru
i

oe
~~
cog
:

See
: “ -
othe
A a ae
eon vie pe ae

- De Any

a)
¥
The Museums of the Future. 249

while others are engaged in the increase of the collections and their
installation.

I hope and firmly believe that every American community with inhab-
itants to the number of five thousand or more will within the next
half century have a public hbrary, under the management of a trained
librarian. Be it ever so small, its influence upon the people would be
of untold value. One of the saddest things in this life is to realize
that in the death of the elder members of a community so much that is
precious in the way of knowledge and experience is lost to the world.
It is through the agency of books that mankind benefits by the toil of
past generations and is able to avoid their errors.

In these days, when printing is cheap and authors are countless, that
which is good and true in human thought is in danger of being entirely
overlooked. ‘The daily papers, and above all the overgrown and uncanny
Sunday papers, are like weeds in a garden, whose rank leaves not only
consume the resources of the soil but hide from view the more modest
and more useful plants of slower growth.

Most suggestive may we find an essay on Capital and Culture in
America, which recently appeared in one of the English reviews. ‘The
author, a well-known Anglo-American astronomer, boldly asserts that

Year by year it becomes clearer that, despite the large absolute increase in the
number of men and women of culture in America, the nation is deteriorating in
regard to culture. Among five hundred towns where formerly courses of varied
entertainments worthy of civilized communities—concerts, readings, lectures on
artistic, literary, and scientific subjects, etc.—were successfully arranged season
after season, scarcely fifty now feel justified in continuing their efforts in the cause
of culture, knowing that the community will no longer support them. Scientific,
literary, and artistic societies, formerly flourishing, are now dying, or dead in many
cities which have in the meantime increased in wealth and population.

He instances Chicago as typical of an important portion of America,
and cites evidences of decided deterioration within sixteen years.

The people’s museum should be much more than a house full of speci-
mens in glass cases. It should be a house full of ideas, arranged with
the strictest attention to system.

I once tried to express this thought by saying, ‘“‘An efficient educa-
tional museum may be described as a collection of instructive labels, each
illustrated by a well-selected specimen.”’

The museum, let me add, should be more than a collection of speci-
mens well arranged and well labeled. Like the library, it should be under
the constant supervision of one or more men well informed, scholarly,
and withal practical, and fitted by tastes and training to aid in the edu-
cational work.

I should not organize the museum primarily for the use of the people
in their larval or school-going stage of existence. The public-school
teacher, with the illustrated text-book, diagrams, and other appliances,
is in these days a professional outfit which is usually quite sufficient to
250 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

enable him to teach his pupils. School days last, at the most, only from
five to fifteen years, and they end with the majority of mankind before
their minds have reached the stage of growth most favorable for the
reception and assimilation of the best and most useful thought. Why
should we be crammed in the times of infancy and kept in a state of
mental starvation during the period which follows, from maturity to old
age, a state which is disheartening and unnatural, all the more because
of the intellectual tastes which have been stimulated and partially
formed by school life.

The boundary line between the library and the museum is neither
straight nor plain. ‘The former, if its scope be rightly indicated by its
name, is primarily a place for books. The latter is a depository for
objects of every kind, books not excepted.

The British Museum, with its libraries, its pictures, its archeeological
galleries, its anthropological, geological, botanical, and zoological col-
lections, is an example of the most comprehensive interpretation of the
term.

Professor Huxley has described the museum as ‘‘a consultative library
of objects.’’ This definition is suggestive but unsatisfactory. It relates
only to the contents of the museum, as distinguished from those of the
library, and makes no reference to the differences in the methods of their
administration. ‘The treasures of the library must be examined one at
a time and by one person at a time; their use requires long-continued
attention and their removal from their proper places in the system of
arrangement. ‘Those of the museum are displayed to public view, in
groups, in systematic sequence, so that they have a collective as well as
an individual significance. Furthermore, much of their meaning may
be read at a glance.

The museum cultivates the powers of observation, and the casual
visitor even makes discoveries for himself and under the guidance of
the labels forms his own impressions. In the library one studies the
impressions of others. ‘The library is most useful to the educated, the
museum to educated and uneducated alike, to the masses as well as to
the few, and is a powerful stimulant to intellectual activity in either
class. The influence of the museum upon a community is not so deep
as that of the library, but extends to a much larger number of people.

The National Museum has 300,000 visitors a year, each of whom car-
ries away a certain number of new thoughts.

‘The two ideas may be carried out, side by side, in the same building,
and if need be under the same management, not only without antago-
nism, but with advantage.

That the proximity of a good library is absolutely essential to the
usefulness of a museum will be admitted by everyone.

I am confident also that a museum, wisely organized and properly
arranged, is certain to benefit the library near which it stands in many

=
The Museums of the Future. 251

ways through its power to stimulate interest in books, thus increasing
the general popularity of the library and enlarging its endowment.

Many books, and valuable ones, would be required in the first kind
of museum work, but it is not intended to enter into competition with
the library. (When necessary, volumes could be duplicated.) It is
very often the case, however, that books are more useful and safer in the
museum than on the library shelves, for in the museum they may be seen
daily by thousands, while in the library their very existence is forgotten
by all except their custodian.

Audubon’s Birds of North America is a book which everyone has
heard of and which everyone wants to see at least once in his lifetime.
In a library, it probably is not examined by ten persons in a year; ina
museum, the volumes exposed to view in a glass case, a few of the most
striking plates attractively framed and hung upon the wall near at hand,
it teaches a lesson to every passer-by.

The library may be called upon for aid by the museum in many direc-
tions. Pictures are often better than specimens to illustrate certain ideas.
The races of man and their distribution can only be shown by pictures
and maps. Atlases of ethnological portraits and maps are out of place in
a library if there is a museum near by in which they can be displayed.
They are not even members of the class described by Lamb as ‘* books
which are not books.’’ They are not books, but museum specimens mas-
querading in the dress of books.

There is another kind of depository which, though in external features
so similar to the museum, and often confused with it in name as well as
in thought, is really very unlike it. Thisisthe art gallery. The scien-
tific tendencies of modern thought have permeated every department of
human activity, even influencing the artist. Many art galleries are now
called museums, and the assumption of the name usually tends toward
the adoption in some degree of a scientific method of installation. ‘The
difference between a museum anda gallery is solely one of method of
management. The Musée des Thermes—the Cluny Museum—in Paris
is, notwithstanding its name, simply a gallery of curious objects. Its
contents are arranged primarily with reference to their effect. The old
monastery in which they are placed affords a magnificent example of
the interior decorative art of the Middle Ages.

The Cluny Museum is a most fascinating and instructive place. I
would not have it otherwise than it is, but it will always be unique, the
sole representative of its kind. ‘The features which render it attractive

gould be ruinous to any museum. It is, more than any other that I
know, acollection arranged from the standpoint of the artist. The same
material, in the hands of a Klemm or a Pitt-Rivers, arranged to show
the history of human thought, would, however, be much more interest-
ing, and, if the work were judiciously done, would lose none of its
zesthetic allurements.
252 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

Another collection of the same general character as the one just
described is the Soane Museum in London. Another, the famous col-
lection of crown jewels and metal work in the Green Vaults at Dresden,
a counterpart of which may be cited in the collection in the Tower of
London. ‘The Museum of the Hohenzollerns in Berlin and the Museum
of the City of Paris are of necessity unique. Such collections can not
be created. ‘They grow in obedience to the action of natural law, just
as a tree or a Sponge may grow.

The city which is in the possession of such an heirloom is blessed just
as is the possessor of a historic surname or he who inherits the cumu-
lative genius of generations of gifted forefathers. The possession of one
or a score of such shrines does not, however, free any community from
the obligation to form a museum for purposes of education and scientific
research.

The founding of a public museum in a city like Brooklyn is a work
whose importance can scarcely be overestimated. The founders of in-
stitutions of this character do not often realize how much they are doing
for the future. Opportunity such as that which is now open to the
members of the Brooklyn Institute occur only once in the lifetime of a
nation. It is by no means improbable that the persons now in this room
have it in their power to decide whether, in the future intellectual prog-
ress of this nation, Brooklyn is to lead or to follow far in the rear.

Many of my hearers are doubtless familiar with that densely popu-
lated wilderness, the east end of London, twice as large as Brooklyn,
yet with scarce an intellectual oasis in its midst. Who can say how dif-
ferent might have been its condition to-day if Walter Besant’s apostolic
labors had begun a century sooner, and if the People’s Palace, that won-
derful materialization of a poet’s dream, had been for three generations
brightening the lives of the citizens of the Lower Hamlets and Hackney?

Libraries and museums do not necessarily spring up where they are
needed. Our governments, Federal, State, and municipal, are not ‘‘ pa-
ternal’’ in spirit. ‘They are less so even in practical working than in
England, where, notwithstanding the theory that all should be left to
private effort, the Government, under the leadership of the late Prince
Consort and of the Prince of Wales, has done wonderful things for all
the provincial cities, as well as for London, in the encouragement of
libraries, museums, art, and industrial education.

However much the state may help, the private individual must lead,
organize, and prepare the way. ‘‘It is universally admitted,’’ said the
Marquis of Lansdowne in 1847, ‘‘that governments are the worst of cul-
tivators, the worst of manufacturers, the worst of traders,’’ and Sir
Robert Peel said in similar strain that ‘‘the action of government is
torpid at best.’’

In beginning a museum the endowment is of course the most essential
thing, especially in a great city like Brooklyn, which has a high ideal of
what is due to the intelligence of its populace and to the civic dignity.

Re

por

PLATE 47.

satilipet!
" fies) ery :
nt
a.

i

rai
io

The Museums of the Future. 253

Unremunerated service in museum administration, though it may be
enthusiastically offered and conscientiously performed, will in the end
fail to be satisfactory. Still more is it impossible for a respectable
museum to grow up without liberal expenditure for the acquisition of
collections and their installation.

Good administration is not to be had for nothing. As to the qualifica-
tion of a museum administrator, whether it be for a museum of science
or a museum of art, it is perhaps superfluous to say that he should be the
very best obtainable, a man of ability, enthusiasm, and, withal, of experi-
ence; for the administration of museums and exhibitions has become of
late years a profession, and careful study of methods of administration is
indispensable. If the new administrator has not had experience he must
needs gain it at the expense of the establishment which employes him—
an expense of which delay, waste, and needless experiment form consid-
erable elements.

No investment is more profitable to a museum than that in the salary
fund. Around a nucleus of men of established reputation and adminis-
trative tact will naturally grow up a staff of volunteer assistants whose
work, assisted and directed in the best channels, will be of infinite value.

The sinews and brains of the organism being first provided, the
development of its body still remains. ‘The outer covering, the dress,
can wait. It is much better to hire buildings for temporary use, or to
build rude fireproof sheds, than to put up a permanent museum building
before at least a provisional idea of its personnel and contents has been
acquired.

As has been already said, a museum must spend money in the acquisition
of collections, and a great deal of money. ‘The British Museum has
already cost the nation for establishment and maintenance not far from
$30,000,000. Up to 1882 over $1,500,000 had been expended in purchase
of objects for the art collections at South Kensington alone.

Such expenditures are usually good investments of national funds,
however. In 1882, after about twenty-five years of experience, the
buildings and contents of the South Kensington Museum had cost the
nation about $5,000,000, but competent authorities were satisfied that
an auction on the premises could not bring less than $100,000,000. For
every dollar spent, however, gifts will come in to the value of many dollars.
In this connection it may not be amiss to quote the words of one of the
most experienced of English museum administrators (presumably Sir
Philip Cunliffe Owen) when asked many years ago whether Americans
might not develop great public institutions on the plan of those at
Kensington:

Let them plant the thing [he said], and it can’t help growing, and most likely
beyond their powers—as it has been almost beyond ours—to keep up with it. What
is wanted first of all is one or two good good brains, with the means of erecting a
good building on a piece of ground considerably larger than is required for that
building. Where there have been secnred substantial, luminous galleries for exhi-
254 Memortal of George Brown Goode.

bition, in a fireproof building, and these are known to be carefully guarded by night
and day, there can be no need to wait long for treasures to flow into it. Above all,
let your men take care of the interior and not set out wasting their strength and
money on external grandeur and decoration. The inward built up rightly, the out-
ward will be added in due season.*

Much will, of course, be given to any museum which has the con-
fidence of the public—much that is of great value, and much that is
useless.

The Trojans of old distrusted the Greeks when they came bearing
gifts. The museum administrator must be on his guard against every
one who proffers gifts. An unconditional donation may be usually
accepted without hesitation, but a gift coupled with conditions is, except
in very extraordinary cases, far from a benefaction.

A donor demands that his collection shall be exhibited as a whole, and
kept separate from all others. When his collection is monographic in
character and very complete, it is sometimes desirable to accept it on
such conditions. As arule, however, it is best to try to induce the
donor to allow his collections to be merged in the general series—each
object being separately and distinctively labeled. I would not be under-
stood to say that the gift of collections is not, under careful manage-
ment, a most beneficial source of increase to a public collection. I
simply wish to call attention to the fact that a museum which accepts
without reserve gifts of every description, and fails to reenforce these
gifts by extensive and judicious purchasing, is certain to develop in an
unsystematical and ill-balanced way. .

Furthermore, unless a museum be supported by liberal and constantly
increasing grants from some State or municipal treasury, it will ulti-
mately become suffocated. It is essential that every museum, whether
of science or art, should from the start make provision for laboratories
and storage galleries as well as for exhibition halls.

All intellectual work may be divided into two classes, the one tending
toward the increase of knowledge, the other toward its diffusion—the
one toward investigation and discovery, the other toward the education of
the people and the application of known facts to promoting their material
welfare. ‘The efforts of learned men are sometimes applied solely to one
of these departments of effort, sometimes to both, and it is generally
admitted by the most advanced teachers that, for their students as well as

for themselves, the happiest results are reached by investigation and
instruction simultaneously. Still more is this true of institutions of
learning. ‘The college which imparts only secondhand knowledge to its
students belongs to a stage of civilization which is fast being left behind.
The museum likewise must, in order to perform its proper functions,
contribute to the advancement of learning through the increase as well
as through the diffusion of knowledge.

‘Conway, Travels in South Kensington, p. 26.

The Museums of the Future. 255

We speak of educational museums and of the educational method of
installation so frequently that there may be danger of inconsistency in
the use of the term. An educational museum, as it is usually spoken
of, is one in which an attempt is made to teach the unprofessional visitor—
an institution for popular education by means of labeled collections, and
it may be also by popular lectures. A college museum, although used
as an aid to advanced instruction, is not an ‘‘educational museum ’’ in
the ordinary sense; nor does a museum of research, like the Museum of
Comparative Zoology in Cambridge, Massachusetts, belong to this class,
although to a limited extent it attempts and performs popular educa-
tional work in addition to its other functions.

In the National Museum in Washington the collections are divided
into two great classes—the exhibition series, which constitutes the
educational portion of the Museum, and is exposed to public view with
all possible accessions for public entertainment and instruction, and the
study series, which is kept in the scientific laboratories, and is scarcely
examined except by professional investigators.

In every properly conducted museum the collections must from the
very beginning divide themselves into these two classes, and in planning
for its administration provision should be made not only for the exhibi-
tion of objects in glass cases, but for the preservation of large collections
not available for exhibition, to be used for the studies of a very limited
number of specialists.

Lord Bacon, who, as we have noticed, was the first to whom occurred
the idea of a great museum of science and art, complained three cen-
turies ago, in his book On the Advancement of Learning, that up to
that time the means for intellectual progress had been used exclusively
for ‘‘amusement’’ and ‘‘teaching,’’ and not for the ‘‘augmentation of
science.”’

It will undoubtedly be found desirable for certain museums, founded
for local effect, to specialize mainly in the direction of popular education.
If they can not also provide for a certain amount of scholarly endeavor
in connection with the other advantages, it would be of the utmost
importance that they should be assorted by a system of administrative
cooperation with some institution which is in the position of being a
center of original work.

The general character of museums should be clearly determined at its
very inception. Specialization and division of labor are essential for
institutions as well as for individuals. It is only a great national museum
which can hope to include all departments and which can with safety
encourage growth in every direction.

A city museum, even in a great metropolis like Brooklyn, should,
if possible, select certain special lines of activity and pursue them with
the intention of excelling. If there are already beginnings in many
directions, it is equally necessary to decide which lines of development
256 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

are to be favored in preference to all others. Many museums fail to
make this choice at the start, and instead of steering toward some defi-
nite point, drift hither and thither, and, it may be, are foundered in
mid-ocean.

There is no reason why the museum of the Brooklyn Institute may not
in time attain to world-wide fame and attract students and visitors from
afar. It would be wise, perhaps, in shaping its policy to remember that
in the twin city of New York are two admirable museums which may be
met more advantageously in cooperation than in rivalry. Brooklyn may
appropriately have its own museum of art and its museum of natural
history, but they should avoid the repetition of collections already so near
at hand.

In selecting courses for the development of a museum, it may be useful
to consider what are the fields open to museum work.

As a matter of convenience museums are commonly classed in two
groups—those of science and those of art, and in Great Britain the great
national system is mainly under the control of The Science and Art
Department of the Committee of Council on Education.

The classification is not entirely satisfactory, since it is based upon
methods of arrangement, rather than upon the nature of the objects
to be arranged, and since it leaves a middle territory (only partially occu-
pied by the English museum men of either department), a great mass of
museum material of the greatest moment both in regard to its interest
and its adaptability for purposes of public instruction.

On the one side stand the natural history collections, undoubtedly best
to be administrated by the geologist, botanist, and zoologist. On the
other side are the fine art collections, best tobe arranged from an zesthetic
standpoint, by artists. Between is a territory which no English word
can adequately describe—which the Germans call Cudturgeschichte—the
natural history of cult, or civilization, of man and his ideas and achieve-
ments. ‘The museums of science and art have not yet learned how to
partition this territory. An exact classification of museums is not at
present practicable, nor will it be until there has been some redistribu-
tion of the collections which they contain. It may be instructive, how-
ever, to pass in review the principal museums of the world, indicating
briefly their chief characteristics.

Every great nation has its museum of nature. ‘The natural history
department of the British Museum, recently removed from the heart of
London to palatial quarters in South Kensington, is probably the most
extensive—with its three great divisions, zoological, botanical, and geolog-
ical. ‘The Musée d’ Histoire Naturelle, in the garden of plants in Paris,
founded in 1795, with its galleries of anatomy, anthropology, zoology,
botany, mineralogy, and geology, is one of the most extensive, but far
less potent in science now than in the days of Cuvier, Iamarck, St.
Hilaire, Jussieu, and Brongniart. In Washington, again, there is a

—
Report of U. S. National Museum, 1897. Part Il. PLATE 48

ANDREW ATKINSON HUMPHREYS.
The Museums of the Future. oan

National Museum with anthropological, zoological, botanical, mineral-
ogical, and geological collections in one organization, together with a
large additional department of arts and industries, or technology.

Passing to specialized natural history collections, perhaps the most
noteworthy are those devoted to zoology, and chief among them that
in our own American Cambridge. The Museum of Comparative Zool-
ogy, founded by the Agassizes ‘‘to illustrate the history of creation,
as far as the present state of knowledge reveals that history,’’ was in
1887 pronounced by the English naturalist, Alfred Russell Wallace, ‘‘ to
be far in advance of similar institutions in Europe as an educational
institution, whether as regards the general public, the private student,
or the specialist.’’

Next to Cambridge, after the zoological section of the museums of
London and Paris, stands the collections in the Imperial Cabinet in
Vienna, and those of the zoological museums in Berlin, Leyden, Copen-
hagen, and Christiania.

Among botanical museums, that in the Royal Gardens at Kew, near
London, is preeminent, with its colossal herbarium, containing the finest
collection in the world, and its special museum of economic botany,
founded in 1847, both standing in the midst of a collection of living
plants. There is also in Berlin the Royal Botanical Museum, founded
in 1818 as the Royal Herbarium; in St. Petersburg, the Herbaria of the
Imperial Botanical Garden.

Among the geological and mineralogical collections the mineral cabinet
in Vienna, arranged in the imperial castle, is among the first.

The Museum of Practical Geology in London, which is attached to
the Geological Survey of the United Kingdom, was founded in 1837, to
exhibit the collections of the survey, in order to ‘‘show the applications
of geology to the useful purposes of life.’’ Like every other healthy
museum, it soon had investigations in progress in connection with its
educational work, and many very important discoveries have been made
in its laboratories. It stands in the very first rank of museums for po; -
ular instruction, the arrangement of the exhibition halls being most
admirable. Of museums of anatomy there are thirty of considerable
magnitude, all of which have grown up in connection with schools of
medicine and surgery, except the magnificent Army Medical Museum in
Washington.

The Medical Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons in London is
probably first in importance. The collections of St. Thomas’s, Guy’s,
St. George’s, and other hospitals are very rich in anatomical and patho-
logical specimens. The oldest public anatomical museum in London is
that of St. Bartholomew’s.

Paris, Edinburgh, and Dublin have large anatomical and materia
medica collections. Asa rule, the medical museums of Kurope are con-
nected with universities. Doctor Billings, curator of the Army Medical

NAT MUS 97, PT 2 IPF

258 Memortal of George Brown Goode.

Museum in Washington, has traced accurately the growth of medical
collections both at home and abroad, and from his address upon med-
ical museums, as president of the Congress of American Physicians and
Surgeons, delivered in 1888, the facts here stated relating to this class
of museums have been gathered. ‘The Army Medical Museum appar-
ently owes its establishment to Doctor William A. Hammond, in 1862.
The museum contained in 1888 more than 15,000 specimens, besides
those contained in the microscopical department. ‘‘An ideal medical
museum,’’ says Doctor Billings, ‘‘should be very complete in the depart-
ment of preventive medicine or hygiene. It is a wide field, covering, as
it does, air, water, food, clothing, habitations, geology, meteorology, occu-
pations, etc., in their relations to the production or prevention of disease,
and thus far has had little place in medical museums, being taken up as
a specialty in the half dozen museums of hygiene which now exist.”’

William Hunter formed the great Glasgow collection between the years
1770 and 1800, and John Hunter, in 1787, opened the famous Hunterian
Museum in London, bought by the English Government soon after (1799),
and now known as the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons.

Paris is proud of the two collections at the School of Medicine, the
Musée Orfila and the Musée Dupuytren, devoted, the one to normal, the
other to pathological anatomy.

Ethnographic museums are especially numerous and fine in the north-
ern part of continental Europe. "They were proposed more than half a

‘century ago by the French geographer Jomard, and the idea was first
carried into effect about 1840 in the establishment of the Danish Ethno-
graphical Museum, which long remained the best in Europe. Within
the past twenty years there has been an extraordinary activity in this
direction.

In Germany, besides the museums in Berlin, Dresden, and Leipsic,
econsiderable collections have been founded in Hamburg and Munich.
Austria has in Vienna two for ethnography, the Court Museum (Hof-
Museum ) and the Oriental (Orientalisches) Museum. Holland has reor-
ganized the National Ethnographical Museum (Rijks Ethnographisch
Museum) in Leyden, and there are smaller collections in Amsterdam,
Rotterdam, and The Hague. France has founded the Trocadero (Musée
de Trocadéro). In Italy there is the important Prehistoric and Ethno-
graphic Museum (Museo prehistorico ed ethnografico) in Rome, as well
as the collection of the Propaganda, and there are museums in Florence
and Venice.

Ethnographical museums have also been founded in Christiania and
Stockholm, the latter of which will include the rich material collection
by Doctor Stolpe on the voyage of the frigate Vanadzs around the world.
In England there is less attention to the subject—the Christy collection
in the British Museum being the only one specially devoted to ethnog-

raphy, unless we include also the local Blackmore Museum in Salisbury.

The Museums of the Future. 259

In the United States the principal establishments arranged on the
ethnographic plan are the Peabody Museum of Archeology in Cam-
bridge and the collections in the Peabody Academy of Sciences in Salem,
and the American Museum of Natural History in New York.

The ethnological collections in Washington are classified on a double
system; in one of its features corresponding to that of the Kuropean; in
the other, like the famous Pitt-Rivers collection at Oxford, arranged to
show the evolution of culture and civilization without regard to race.
This broader plan admits much material excluded by the advocates of
ethnographic museums, who devote their attention almost exclusively to
the primitive or non-European peoples.

In close relation to the ethnographic museums are those which are
devoted to some special field of human thought and interest. Most
remarkable among these, perhaps, is the Musée Guimet, recently re-
moved from Lyons to Paris, which is intended to illustrate the history
of religious ceremonial among all races of men. Other good examples
of this class are some of those in Paris, such as the Musée de Marine,
which shows not only the development of the merchant and naval marines
of the country, but also, by trophies and other historical souvenirs, the
history of the naval battles of the nation. ‘The Musée d’Artillerie does
for war, but less thoroughly, what the Marine Museum does in its own
department, and there are similar museums in other countries. Of musi-
cal museums, perhaps, the most important is the Musée Instrumental
founded by Clapisson, attached to the Conservatory of Music in Paris.
There is a magnificent collection of musical instruments at South Ken-
sington, but its contents are selected in reference to their suggestiveness
in decorative art. There are also large collections in the National
Museum in Washington and in the Conservatory of Music in Boston,
and the Metropolitan Museum in New York has recently been given a
very full collection by Mrs. John Crosby Brown, of that city.

There is a Theatrical Museum at the Académie Francaise in Paris, a
Museum of Journalism in Antwerp, a Museum of Pedagogy in Paris,
which has its counterpart in South Kensington. ‘These are professional,
rather than scientific or educational, as are perhaps also the Museum of
Practical Fish Culture at South Kensington and the Museums of Hy-
giene in London and Washington.

Archeological collections are of two classes, those of prehistoric and
historic archeology. The former are usually absorbed by the ethno-
graphic museums, the latter by the art museums. ‘The value to the his-
torian of archzeological collections, both historic and prehistoric, has long
been understood. ‘The museums of London, Paris, Berlin, and Rome
need no comment. In Cambridge, New York, and Washington are
immense collections of the remains of man in America in the pre-Colum-
bian period, collections which are yearly growing in significance, as they
are made the subject of investigation, and there is an immense amount of
260 Memortal of George Brown Goode.

material of this kind in the hands of institutions and private collectors
in all parts of the United States.

The museum at Naples shows, so far as a museum can, the history of
Pompeii at one period. ‘The museum of St. Germain, near Paris, ex-
hibits the history of France in the time of the Gauls and of the Roman
occupation. In Switzerland, especially at Neuchatel, the history of the
inhabitants of the Lake Dwellings is shown. ‘The Assyrian and Egyp-
tian galleries in the British Museums are museums of themselves.

Historical museums are manifold in character, and of necessity local
in interest. Some relate to the history of provinces or cities. One
of the oldest and best of these is the Markisch Provinzial Museum in
Berlin; another is the museum of the city of Paris, recently opened in
the Hotel Canaveral. Many historical societies have collections of this
character. Some historical museums relate toa dynasty, as the Museum
of the Hohenzollerns in Berlin.

The cathedrals of southern Europe, and St. Paul’s, in London, are in
some degrees national or civic museums. ‘The Galileo Museum in Flor-
ence, the Shakespeare Museum at Stratford, are good examples of the
museums devoted to the memory of representative men, and the Mon-
astery of St. Mark, in Florence, does as much as could be expected of
any museum for the life of Savonarola. ‘The Soane Museum in London,
the Thorvaldsen Museum in Copenhagen, are similar in purpose and
result, but they are rather biographical than historical. There are also
others which illustrate the history of a race, as the Bavarian National
Museum in Nuremberg.

The museums of fine art are the most costly and precious of all, since
they contain the masterpieces of the world’s greatest painters and sculp-
tors. In Rome, Florence, Venice, Naples, Bologna, Parma, Milan,
Turin, Modena, Padua, Ferrara, Brescia, Sienna, and Pisa; in Munich,
Berlin, Dresden, Vienna, and Prague; in Paris, and many provincial
cities of France; in London, St. Petersburg, Madrid, Copenhagen, Brus-
sels, Antwerp, and The Hague, are great collections, whose names are
familiar to us all, each the depository of priceless treasures of art. Many
of these are remarkable only for their pictures and statuary, and might
with equal right be called picture galleries; others abound in the minor
products of artists, and are museums in the broader sense.

Chief among them is the Louvre, in Paris, with its treasures worth a
voyage many times around the world to see; the Vatican, in Rome, with
its three halls of antique sculptures, its Etruscans, Hgyptian, Pagan, and
Christian museums, its Byzantine gallery and its collection of medals; the
Naples Museum (Musée di Studii) with its marvelous Pompeiian series;
the Uffizi Museum in Florence, overflowing with paintings and sculptures,
ancient and modern, drawings, engraved gems, enamels, ivories, tapes-
tries, medals, and works of decorative art of every description.

PLATE 49.

art II.

P

7

Report of U. S. National Museum, 189

SONNE
Skoss
RSS

‘
s'
4.
tA

So
PNR

ae
SS

l a 7
j : 7
i { - 4
0
7 a
7 7 7
3 : P 7
1 i ; ; oe
ire : i ay a
ie z -
i i WR “eC Ura
4 od rein Peete Da a 7
' us e
yhooh ; s = J
mh ay 2 i j
ie ‘ i a fn ‘
ii a fet
wee wy ‘ &! ,
a imp 4 :
} ms
: he they ; :
: =n ;
‘ eH :
1 Xt ety ot
as : re F
Tae '
ee | : . r
- i .
om * 5
10 ; 5
j ox ee a
‘ - ? ear, a 1
co
2 Joa, '
: i :
*
: f
Se : le
i : 7
: .
'
‘
'
‘
i
an uy
can Ss ; Eran
t a: ry

a

é ;
fl ac

The Museums of the Future. 201

There are special collections on the boundary line between art and
ethnology, the manner of best installation for which has scarcely yet
been determined. ‘The Louvre admits within its walls a museum of
ship models (Musée de Marine). South Kensington includes musical
instruments, and many other objects equally appropriate in an ethno-
logical collection. Other art museums take up arms and armor, selected
costumes, shoes, and articles of household use. Such objects, like por-
celains, laces, medals, and metal work, appeal to the art museum admin-
istrator through their decorations and graceful forms. For their uses he
cares presumably nothing. As a consequence of this feeling only arti-
cles of artistic excellence have been saved, and much has gone to destruc-
tion which would be of the utmost importance fo those who are now
studying the history of human thought in the past.

On the other hand, there is much in art museums which might to much
better purpose be delivered to the ethnologist for use in his exhibition
cases. ‘There is also much which the art museums, tied as they often
are to traditionary methods-of installation, might learn from the scien-
tific museums. ,

Many of the arrangements in the European art collections are calcu-
lated to send cold shivers down the back of a sensitive visitor. The
defects of these arrangements have been well described by a German
critic, W. Burger.

Our museums [he writes] are the veritable graveyards of arts, in which have
been heaped up, with a tumulous-like promiscuousness, the remains which have
been carried thither. A Venus is placed side by side with a Madonna, a satyr next
toa saint. Jther is in close proximity to a Pope, a painting of a lady’s chamber
next to that of a church. Pieces executed for churches, palaces, city halls, for a
particular edifice, to teach some moral or historical truth, designed for some especial
light, for some well-studied surrounding, all are hung pellimell upon the walls of
some noncommital gallery

a kind of posthumous asyluin, where a people, no
longer capable of producing works of art, come to admire this magnificent gallery
of débris.

When a museum building has been provided, and the nucleus of a col-
lection and an administrative staff are at hand, the work of museum-
building begins, and this work, it is to be hoped, will not soon reach an
end. A finished museum is a dead museum, and a dead museum is a
useless museum. One thing should be kept prominently in mind by any
organization which intends to found and maintain a museum, that the
work will never be finished; that when the collections cease to grow,
they begin to decay. A friend relating an experience in South Kensing-
ton, said: ‘‘I applied to a man who sells photographs of such edifices for
pictures of the main building. He had none. ‘What, no photographs
of the South Kensington Museum!’ I exclaimed, with some impatience.
‘Why, sir,’ replied the man mildly, ‘ you see the museum doesn’t stand
still long enough to be photographed.’ And so indeed it seems,’’ con-
262 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

tinued Mr. Conway, ‘‘and this constant erection of new buildings and of
new decorations on those already erected, is the physiognomical expres-
sion of the new intellectual and zesthetic epoch which called the institu-
tion into existence, and is through it gradually climbing to results which
no man can foresee.’’

My prayer for the museums of the United States and for all other
similar agencies of enlightenment is this—that they may never cease to
increase.

THE ORIGIN OF THE NATIONAL SCIENTIFIC AND EDUCA-
TIONAL INSTITUTIONS OF THE UNITED STATES.

BY

GEORGE BROWN GOODE,

Assistant Secretary, Smithsonian Institution, tn charge
of the U.S. National Museum.

THE ORIGIN OF THE NATIONAL SCIENTIFIC AND EDUCA-
TIONAL INSTITUTIONS OF THE UNITED STATES. '

By GEORGE BROWN GOODE,

Assistant Secretary, Smithsonian Institution, in charge of the U.S. National
Museum,

_ “arly in the seventeenth century,’’ we are told, ‘‘the great Mr. Boyle,
Bishop Wilkins, and several other learned men proposed to leave Eng-
land and establish a society for promoting knowledge in the new colony
[of Connecticut], of which Mr. Winthrop,’ their intimate friend and asso-
ciate, was appointed governor.’’

‘Such men,’’ wrote the historian, ‘‘were too valuable to lose from
Great Britain, and Charles the Second having taken them under his pro-
tection in 1661, the society was there established, and received the title
of The Royal Society of London.’’ *

For more than a hundred years this society was for our country what
it still is for the British colonies throughout the world—a central and
national scientific organization. All Americans eminent in science were
on its list of Fellows, among them Cotton Mather, the three Winthrops,
Bowdoin, and Paul Dudley, in New England; Franklin, Rittenhouse, and
Morgan, in Pennsylvania; Banister, Clayton, Mitchell, and Byrd, in Vir-
ginia; and Garden and Williamson in the Carolinas, while in its Philo-
sophical Transactions were published the only. records of American
research.‘

‘A paper presented before the American Historical Society at the meeting held in
Washington in 1889, and revised and corrected by the author to July 15, 1890.

2John Winthrop, F. R. S. [1606-1676], elected governor of Connecticut in 1657.

3John Eliot, Biographical Dictionary of Eminent Characters in New England.
Boston, 1809.

4The first meetings of the body of men afterwards organized as the Royal Society
appear to have taken place during the Revolution and in the time of Cromwell; and
as early as 1645, we are told by Wallace, weekly meetings were held of ‘‘divers
worthy persons inquisitive into natural philosophy and other parts of human learn-
ing, and particularly of what has been called the new philosophy, or experimental
philosophy,’’ and it is more than probable that this assembly of philosophers was
identical with the Invisible College, of which Boyle spoke in sundry letters writ-
ten in 1646 and 1647. These meetings continued to be held, sometimes at the Bull-

265
266 Memortal of George Brown Goode.

\

It was not until long after the middle of the last century that any scien-
tific society was permanently established in North America, although
serious but fruitless efforts were made in this direction as early as 1743,
when Benjamin Franklin issued his circular entitled A proposal for pro-
moting useful knowledge among the British plantations in America, in
which it was urged ‘‘that a society should be formed of vz7fuosz or ingeni-
ous men residing in the several colonies, to be called The American Philo-
sophical Society.”’

There is still in existence, in the possession of the Philosphical Society
in Philadelphia, a most interesting letter from Franklin to Governor Cad-
wallader Colden, of New York, in which he tells of the steps which had
already been taken for the formation of a scientific society in Philadelphia,
and of the means by which he hoped to make it of great importance to
the colonies.

Our forefathers were not yet prepared for the society, nor for the Amer-
ican Philosophical Miscellany which Franklin proposed to issue, either
monthly or quarterly. There is no reason to believe that the society ever
did anything of importance. Franklin’s own attention was soon directed
exclusively to his electrical researches, and his society languished and
died.

Some twenty years later, in 1766, a new organization was attempted
under the title of The American Society held at Philadelphia for Pro-
moting Useful Knowledge.* Franklin, although absent in England,
was elected its president, and the association entered upon a very prom-
ising career.

In the meantime the few surviving members of the first American
Philosophical Society formed, under the old name, an organization
which in many particulars was so unlike that proposed in 1743 that it
might almost be regarded as new rather than a revival. Its membership
included many of the most influential and wealthy colonists,-and the
spirited manner in which it organized a plan for the observation of the
transit of Venus in 1769 gave it at once a respectable standing at home
and abroad.

In 1769, after negotiations which occupied nearly a year, the two
societies were united,? and The American Philosophical Society held at
Philadelphia for Promoting Useful Knowledge has from that time until

Head Tavern, in Cheapside, but more frequently at Gresham College, until 1660,
when the first record book of this society was opened. Among the first entries is a
reference to a design then entertained ‘‘of founding a college for the promoting of
physico-mathematicall experimentall learning.’? Doctor Wilkins was appointed
chairman of the society, and shortly after, the King, Charles II, having become a
member, its regular meeting place was appointed to be in Gresham College.

«This name was adopted in 1768 to replace that first adopted in 1766, which was
The American Society for Promoting and Propagating Useful Knowledge, held in
Philadelphia.

2 Some insight into the scientific politics of the time may be gained by reading the
following extract from a letter addressed to Franklin by Doctor Thomas Bond, June

PLaTe 50.

ynal Museum, 1897.

ite

Report of U. S. Na

National Scientific and Educational Institutions. 267

now maintained an honorable position among the scientific organizations
of the world.

The society at once began the publication of a volume of memoirs,
which appeared in 1771 under the name of The American Philosophical
‘Transactions. *

From 1773 to 1779 its operations were often interrupted. In the min-
utes of the meeting for December, 1774, appears the following remarkable
note in the handwriting of Doctor Benjamin Rush, one of the secretaries,
soon after to be one of the signers of the Declaration of Independence:

The act of the British Parliament for shutting up the port of Boston, for altering
the charters, and for the more impartial administration of justice in the Province
of Massachusetts Bay, together with a bill for establishing Popery and arbitrary
power in Quebec, having alarmed the whole of the American colony, the members
of the American Philosophical Society, partaking with their countrymen in the
distress and labors brought upon their country, were obliged to discontinue their
meetings for some months until a mode of opposition to the said acts of Parliament

was established, which we hope may restore the former harmony and maintain a
perpetual union between Great Britain and the Americas.

This entry is especially interesting because it emphasizes the fact that
among the members of this infant scientific society were many of the
men who were most active in the organization of the Republic, and who,
under the stress of the times, abandoned the quiet pursuits of science
and devoted themselves to the national interests which were just coming
into being. |

Franklin was president from its organization until his death, in 1790.
He was at the same time president of the Commonwealth of Pennsyl-
vania and a member of the Constitutional Convention, and the eminence
of its leader probably secured for the body greater prestige than would
otherwise have been attainable. "The society, in fact, soon assumed
national importance, for, during the last decade of the century and for

7, 1769: I long meditated a revival of our American Philosophical Society, and at
length thought I saw my way clear in doing it; but the old party leaven split us for
a time. We are now united, and with your presence may make a figure; but till
that happy event I fear much will not be done. The assembly have countenanced
and encouraged us generously and kindly; and we are much obliged to you for your
care in procuring the telescope which was used in the late observations of the transit
of Venus.

*A copy of the finished volume of the Transactions was presented to each member
of the Pennsylvania assembly, accompanied by an address as follows: As the vari-
ous societies which have of late years been instituted in Europe have confessedly
contributed much to the more general propagation of knowledge and useful arts, it
is hoped it will give satisfaction to the members of the honorable house to find that
the province which they represent can boast of the first society and the first publi-
cation of a yolume of Transactions for the advancement of the useful knowledge of
this side of the Atlantic—a volume which is wholly American in composition, print-
ing, and paper, and which, we flatter ourselves, may not be thought altogether
unworthy of the attention of men of letters in the most improved parts of the
world.
268 Memortal of George Brown Goode.

many years after, Philadelphia was the metropolis of American science
and literature.

Directly after the Revolution a similar institution was established in
Boston, the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, which was incor-
porated by the legislature of Massachusetts in 1780, and published its
first memoirs in 1785. ‘This, like the Philadelphia society, owed its
origin to the efforts of a great statesman. We find the whole history in
the memoirs of John Adams, a man who believed, with Washington, that
scientific institutions are the best and most lasting protection of a popular
government.

In a memorandum written in 1809 Mr. Adams gave his recollections
of the circumstances which led to his deep and lasting interest in scien-
tific foundations :

In traveling from Boston to Philadelphia, in 1774-75-76-77, I had several times
amused myself at Norwalk, in Connecticut, with the very curious collection of birds
and insects of American production made by Mr. Arnold;* a collection which he
afterwards sold to Governor Tryon, who sold it to Sir Ashton Lever, in whose apart-
ments in London I afterwards viewed it again. This collection was so singular a
thing that it made a deep impression upon me, and I could not but consider it a
reproach to my country that so little was known, even to herself, of her natural
history.

When I was in Europe, in the years 1778-79 in the commission to the King of
France, with Doctor Franklin and Mr. Arthur Lee, I had opportunities to see the
King’s collection and many others, which increased my wishes that nature might
be examined and studied in my own country as it was in others.

In France, among the academicians and other men of science and letters, I was
frequently entertained with inquiries concerning the Philosophical Society of Phila-
delphia, and with eulogiums on the wisdom of that institution, and encomiums on
some publications in their transactions. ‘These conversations suggested to me the
idea of such an establishment in Boston, where I knew there was as much love of
science, and as many gentlemen who were capable of pursuing it, as in any other
city of its size.

In 1779 I returned to Boston on the French frigate Za Sensible, with the Chevalier
de la Tuzerne and M. Marbois.?- The corporation of Harvard College gave a public
dinner in honor of the French ambassador and his suite, and did me the honor of an
invitation to dine with them. At table in the Philosophy Chamber, I chanced to sit
next to Doctor Cooper.3 I entertained him during the whole of the time we were

‘Some local antiquary may make an interesting contribution to the literature of
American museum work by looking up the history of this collection.

? The Chevalier Anne César de la Luzerne [1741-1821] was French minister to the
United States from 1779 to 1783, afterwards minister to England. M. Francois de
Barbé Marbois [1745-1837] was his secretary of legation, and after the return of his
chief to France, was chargé d’affaires until 1785.. For many interesting facts, not
elsewhere accessible, concerning the career of these men in the United States, and
their acquaintance with Adams, see John Durand’s admirable New Materials for a
History of the American Revolution. New York: Henry Holt & Co., 1889. 12mo,
pp. 1-vi, 1-310.

3Rey. Samuel Cooper, D. D. [1725-1783], aneminent patriot, long pastor of Brattle
Street Church, in Boston, and a leading member of the corporation of Harvard. He
was the first vice-president of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.

The first president of the academy was James Bowdoin, afterwards governor of

————
National Scientific and Educational Institutions. 269

together with an account of Arnold's collections, the collection I had seen in Europe,
the compliments I had heard in France upon the Philosophical Society of Phila-
delphia, and concluded with proposing that the future legislature of Massachusetts
should institute an Academy of Arts and Sciences.

The doctor at first hesitated; thought it would be difficult to find members who
would attend to it; but the principal objection was that it would injure Harvard
College by setting up a rival to it that might draw the attention and affections of the
public in some degree from it. To this I answered, first, that there were certainly
men of learning enough that might compose a society sufficiently numerous; and
secondly, that instead of being a rival to the university it would be an honor and an
advantage to it. That the president and principal professors would, no doubt, be
always members of it; and the meetings might be ordered, wholly or in part, at the
college and in that room. ‘The doctor at length appeared better satisfied, and I
entreated him to propagate the idea and the plan as far and as soon as his discretion
would justify. The doctor did accordingly diffuse the project so judiciously and
effectually that the first legislature under the new constitution adopted and estab-
lished it by law. Afterwards, when attending the convention for forming the con-
stitution, I mentioned the subject to several of the members, and when I was
appointed by the subcommittee to make a draft of a project of a constitution to be
laid before the convention, my mind and heart was so full of this subject that I
inserted the provision for the encouragement of literature in chapter 5, section 2.
I was, somewhat apprehensive that criticism and objections would be made to the
section, and particularly that the ‘

”

natural history’’ and the ‘‘good humor’? would

be stricken out; but the whole was received very kindly, and passed the convention
) J DA

unanimously, without amendment.*

Massachusetts, and the friend of Washington and Franklin, and a member of the
Royal Society. He held the presidency from 1780 until his death in 1790. His
descendant, the Hon. Robert C. Winthrop, was chosen to deliver the oration at the
centennial anniversary of the organization of the society.

‘The provision in the State constitution of which Mr. Adams speaks, was the
following:

The encouragement of literature, etc. Wisdom and knowledge, as well as virtue
diffused generally among the body of the people, being necessary for the preservation
of their rights and liberties, and as these depend on spreading the opportunities and
advantages of education in the various parts of the country, and among the different
orders of the people, it shall be the duty of legislators and magistrates in all future
periods of the Commonwealth, to cherish the interests of literature and the sciences,
and all seminaries of them, especially the university at Cambridge, public schools,
and grammar schools in the towns, to encourage private societies and public insti-
tutions, rewards and immunities for the promotion of agriculture, arts, sciences,
commerce, trades, manufactures, anda natural history of the country; tocountenance
and inculcate the principles of humanity and general benevolence, public and private
charity, industry and frugality, honesty and punctuality in their dealings, sincerity,
good humor, and all social affections and generous sentiments among the people.

This feature of the constitution of Massachusetts, [writes Mr. Adams’s biog-
rapher,] is peculiar, and in one sense original with Mr. Adams. The recognition
of the obligation of a State to promote a higher and more extended policy than is
embraced in the protection of the temporal interests and political rights of the indi-
vidual, however understood among enlightened minds, had not at that time been
formally made a part of the organic law. Those clauses since inserted in other State
constitutions, which, with more or less of fullness, acknowledged the same principle,
are all manifestly taken from this source.

:
270 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

The two societies are still institutions of national importance, not only
because of a time-honored record and useful work, but on account of
important general trusts under their control. Although all their meet-
imgs are held in the cities where they were founded, their membership is
not localized, and to bea Member of the American Philosophical Society
or a Fellow of the American Academy, is an honor highly appreciated
by every American scientific man.

The Philosophical Society (founded before the separation of the colo-
nies) copied the Royal Society of Great Britain in its corporate name, as
well as in that of its transactions, and in its ideals and methods of work
took it for a model.

The American Academy, on the other hand, had its origin “‘at a time
when Britain was regarded as an inveterate enemy and France as a gen-
erous patron,’’* and its founders have placed upon record the statement
that it was their intention “‘to give it the air of France rather than that
of England, and to follow the Royal Academy rather than the Royal
Society.’’? And so in Boston the academy published Memoirs, while
conservative Philadelphia continued to issue Philosophical Transactions.

In time, however, the prejudice against the motherland became less
intense, and the academy in Boston followed the general tendency of
American scientific workers, which has always been more closely parallel
with that of England than that of continental Europe, contrasting
strongly with the disposition of modern educational administrators to
build after German models.

It would have been strange indeed if the deep-seated sympathy with
France which our forefathers cherished had not led to still other attempts
to establish organizations after the model of the French Academy of
Sciences. The most ambitious of these was in connection with the
Academy of Arts and Sciences of the United States of America, whose
central seat was to have been in Richmond, Virginia, and whose plan
was brought to America in 1788 by the Chevalier Quesnay de Beaure-
paire. This project, we are told, had been submitted to the King of France
and to the Royal Academy of Science, and had received an unqualified
indorsement signed by many eminent men, among others by Lavoisier
and Condorcet, as well as a similar paper from the Royal Academy of
Paintings and Sculpture signed by Vernet and others. A large sum was
subscribed by the wealthy planters of Virginia and by the citizens of
Richmond, a building was erected, and one professor, Doctor Jean
Rouelle, was appointed, who was also commissioned mineralogist in
chief and instructed to make natural-history collections in America and
Europe.

The population of Virginia, it proved, was far too scattered and rural
to give any chance of success for a project which in its nature was only

* Letter of Manasseh Cutler to Doctor Jonathan Stokes, August 17, 1785.
2Idem.
> Te ’
: eae lay

National Scientific and Educational Institutions. 271

practicable in a commercial and intellectual metropolis, and the academy
died almost -before it was born.

‘“Quesnay’s scheme was not altogether chimerical,’’ writes H. B.
Adams, ‘“‘but in the year 1788 France was in no position, financial or
social, to push her educational system in Virginia. ‘The year Quesnay’s
suggestive little tract was published was the year before the French
Revolution, in which political maelstrom everything in France went
down. . . . If circumstances had favored it, the Academy of the United
States of America, established at Richmond, would have become the cen-
ter of higher education not only for Virginia, but for the whole South,
and possibly for a large part of the North, if the academy had been
extended, as proposed, to the cities of Baltimore, Philadelphia, and New
York. Supported by French capital, to which in large measure we owe
the success of our Revolutionary war, strengthened by French prestige,
by liberal scientific and artistic associations with Paris, then the intel-
lectual capital of the world, the academy at Richmond might have
become an educational stronghold, comparable in some degree to the
Jesuit influence in Canada, which has proved more lasting than French
dominion, more impregnable than the fortress of Quebec.’? *

A scientific society was organized at Williamsburg during the Revolu-
tion, but in those trying times it failed for lack of attention on the part
of its founders.

‘Copies of Quesnay’s pamphlet are preserved in the Virginia State library at
Richmond and in the Andrew D. White Historical library of Cornell University,
as well as in a certain private library in Baltimore. A full account of this enterprise
may be found in Herbert B. Adams’s Thomas Jefferson and the University of Vir-
ginia, pp. 21-30, and other records occur in Mordecai’s Richmond in By-gone Days
(2d edition, pp. 198-208) and in Goode’s Virginia Cousins, p. 57.

The building erected for the Academy of Sciences was the meeting place of the
convention of patriots and statesmen who ratified in 1788 the Constitution of the
United States, and subsequently was the principal theater of the city of Richmond.

The academy grounds, [writes R. A. Brock,] included the square bounded by
Broad and Marshall and Eleventh and Twelfth streets, on the lower portion of which
stood the Monumental Church and the medical college. The academy stood mid-
way in the square fronting Broad street. L’Académie des Etats-Unis de Amérique
was an attempt, growing out of the French alliance with the United States, to plant
in Richmond a kind of French academy of the arts and sciences, with branch acad-
emies in Baltimore, Philadelphia, and New York. ‘The institution was to be at once
national and international. It was to be affiliated with the royal societies of Lon-
don, Paris, Brussels, and other learned bodies in Europe. It was to be composed of
a president, vice-president, six counsellors, a treasurer-general, a secretary, and a
recorder, an agent for taking European subscriptions, French professors, masters,
artists in chief attached to the academy, 25 resident and 175 nonresident associates,
selected from the best talent of the Old World and the New. ‘The academy proposed
to publish yearly, from its own press in Paris, an almanac. ‘The academy was to
show its zeal for science by communicating to France and other European countries
a knowledge of the natural products of North America, ‘The museums and cabinets
of the Old World were to be enriched by the specimens of the flora and fauna of a
272 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

Our forefathers in colonial times had their national universities beyond
the sea, and all of the young colonists, who were able to do so, went to
Oxford or Cambridge for their classical degrees, and to Edinburgh and Lon-
don for training in medicine, for admission to the bar, or for clerical
orders. Local colleges seemed as unnecessary as did local scientific
societies.

Many attempts were made to establish local societies before final results
were accomplished, and the beginnings of the national college system had
a similar history.

In 1619 the Virginia Company of England made a grant of 10,000
acres of land for ‘‘the foundation of a seminary of learning for the Eng-
lish in Virginia,’ and in the same year the bishops of England, at the
suggestion of the King, raised the sum of 41,500 for the encouragement
of Indian education in connection with the same foundation. A begin-
ning was made toward the occupation of the land, and George Thorpe, a
man of high standing in England, came out to be superintendent of the
university, but he and 340 other colonists (including all the tenants of
the university ) were destroyed by the Indians in the massacre of 1622.

The story of this undertaking is told by Professor H. B. Adams in the
History of the College of William and Mary, in which also is given an
account of the Academia Virginiensis et Oxoniensis, which was to have
been founded on an island in the Susquehanna River, granted in 1624
for the founding and maintenance of a university, but was suspended on

country as yet undiscovered by men of science. The promoter of this brilliant
scheme was the Chevalier Alexander Maria Quesnay de Beaurepaire, grandson of the
famous French philosopher and economist, Doctor Quesnay, who was the court
physician of Louis XV. Chevalier Quesnay had served as a captain in Virginia, in
1777-78, in the war of the Revolution. The idea of founding the academy was sug-
gested to him in 1778 by John Page, of Rosewell, then lieutenant governor of
Virginia, and himself devoted to scientific investigation. Quesnay succeeded in
raising by subscription the sum of 60,000 francs, the subscribers in Virginia embracing
nearly 100 prominent names. The corner stone of the building, which was of wood,
was laid with Masonic ceremonies July 8, 1786. Having founded and organized this
academy under the most distinguished auspices, Quesnay returned to Paris and suc-
ceeded in enlisting in support of his plan many learned and distinguished men of
France and England. ‘The French revolution, however, put an end to the scheme.
The academy building was early converted into a theater, which was destroyed by
fire, but a new theater was erected in the rear of the old. This new building was
also destroyed by fire on the night of December 26, 1811, when 72 persons perished
in the flames. ‘The Monumental church commemorates the disaster, and its portico
covers the tomb and ashes of most of its victims. A valuable sketch of Quesnay’s
enlightened projection, chiefly drawn from his curious Mémoire concernant I’ Aca-
démie des Sciences et Beaux-Arts des Etats-Unis d’Amérique, établie 4 Richmond,
was published in The Academy, December, 1887, II, No. 9, pp. 403, 412, by Doctor
Herbert B. Adams, of Johns Hopkins University. A copy of Quesnay’s rare
Mémoire is in the library of the State of Virginia. Quesnay complains bitterly
that all his letters relating to his service in the American Army had been stolen from
a pigeonhole in Governor Henry’s desk and his promotion thus prevented,
National Scientific and Educational Institutions. 273

account of the death of its projector, and of King James I, and the fall
of the Virginia Company.

Soon after, in 1636, came the foundation of Harvard, then in 1660
William and Mary, Yale in 1701, the College of New Jersey in 1746, the
University of Pennsylvania in 1751, Columbia in 1754, Brown in 1764,
Dartmouth in 1769, the University of Maryland in 1784, that of North
Carolina in 1789-1795, that of Vermont in 1791, and Bowdoin (the col-
lege of Maine) in 1794.

When Washington became President, one hundred years ago, there
were no scientific foundations within this Republic save the American
Academy in Boston; and, in the American Philosophical Society, Bar-
tram’s Botanic Garden, the private observatory of Rittenhouse, and
Peale’s Natural History Museum, Philadelphia.

Washington’s own inclinations were all favorable to the progress of
science; and Franklin, who would have been Vice-President but tor his
age and weakness, Adams, the Vice-President, and Jefferson, Secretary
of State, were all in thorough sympathy with the desire of their chief to
‘‘promote as objects of primary importance institutions for the general
diffusion of knowledge.’’ All of them were fellows of the American
Philosophical Society, and the President took much interest in its pro-
ceedings. The records of the society show that he nominated for foreign
membership the Earl of Buchan, president of the Society of Scottish
Antiquaries, and Doctor James Anderson.

Washington’s mind was scientific in its tendencies, and his letters to
the English agriculturists (Young, Sinclair, and Anderson) show him
to have been aclose student of physical geography and climatology. He
sent out with his own hand, while President, a circular letter to the best
informed farmers in New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Maryland,
and Virginia, and having received a considerable number of answers, pre-
pared a report on the resources of the Middle Atlantic States, which was
the first of the kind written in America, and was a worthy beginning of
the great library of agricultural science which has since emanated from
our Government press.

In a letter to Arthur Young, dated December 5, 1791, he manifested
great interest in the Hessian fly, an insect making frightful ravages in
the wheat fields of the Middle States, and so much dreaded in Great
Britain that the importation of wheat from America was prohibited.‘ It
was very possibly by his request that a committee of the Philosophical
Society prepared and printed an elaborate and exhaustive report, and
since its chairman was Washington’s Secretary of State, it was practically

‘In an article recently published by Professor C. V. Riley, he sustains the popular
belief and tradition that Cecidomya was introduced about the time of the Revolution,
and probably by Hessian troops. He gives interesting details concerning the work
of the committee of the American Philosophical Society, and a review of recent
controversies upon this subject. See Canadian Entomologist, XX, p. 121.

NAT MUS 97, PT 2 18

274 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

a governmental affair, the precursor of subsequent entomological com-
missions, and of our Department of Economic Entomology.’

The interest of Washington in the founding of a national university,
as manifested in the provisions of his last will and testament, are familiar
to all, and I have been interested to learn that his thoughts were earnestly
fixed upon this great project during all the years of the Revolutionary
war. It is an inspiring thought that, during the long and doubtful strug-
gle for independence, the leader of the American arms was looking forward
to the return of peace, in anticipation of an opportunity to found in a
central part of the rising empire an institution for the completing of the
education of youths from all parts thereof, where they might at the same
time be enabled to free themselves in a proper degree from local preju-
dices and jealousies.

Samuel Blodget, in his Economica, relates the history of the beginning
of a national university.

As the most minute circumstances are sometimes interesting for their relation to
great events [he wrote], we relate the first we ever heard of a national university:
it was in the camp at Cambridge, in October 1775, when major William Blodget
went to the quarters of general Washington, to complain of the ruinous state of the
colleges, from the conduct of the militia quartered therein. The writer of this being
in company with his friend and relation, and hearing general Greene join in lament-
ing the then ruinous state of the eldest seminary of Massachusetts, observed, merely
to console the company of friends, that to make amends for these injuries, after our
war, he hoped, we should erect a noble national university, at which the youth of all
the world might be proud to receive instruction. What was thus pleasantly said,
Washington immediately replied to, with that inimitably expressive and truly
interesting look for which he was sometimes so remarkable: ‘‘ Young man you are a
prophet! inspired to speak what I feel confident will one day be realized.’’ We then
detailed to the company his impressions, that all North America would one day become
united; he said, that a colonel Byrd,? of Virginia, he believed, was the first man who
had pointed out the best central seat [for the capital city], zea to the present spot,
or about the falls of the Potomack. General Washington further said, that a Mr.
Evans3 had expressed the same ‘opinion, with many other gentlemen, who from a

: Before the organization of the Department of Agriculture, another step in eco-
nomic entomology was taken by the General Government in the publication of an
official document on silk worms:

1828. | Mease, James. | 20th Congress, | 18th Session | [Doc. No. 226] Ho. of
Reps. | Silk-worms. | | Letter | from | James Mease, | transmitting a treatise
on the rearing of silk-worms, | by Mr. De Hozze, of Munich, | with plates, etc., ete.

| February 2, 1828.—Read and referred to the Committee on Agriculture.
| | Washington: | Printed by Gales and Seaton | 1828. | 8°. pp. 1-108.

? Probably the third William Byrd [1728-1777], the son of the author of Westover

Papers. He was colonel of the Second Virginia Regiment in 1756, and perhaps was
in camp with Washington on the present site of the capital, when he became so deeply
impressed with the eligibility of the site for a national city.

3Perhaps Lewis Evans, the geographer, who in 1749 published a map of the central
colonies, including Virginia. Professor Winsor tells me that there are copies of this
map in the possession of Harvard University, in the library of the Pennsylvania
Historical Society, and one in the Faden collection in the Library of Congress.
Professor Josiah D. Whitney says that the legend on it, ‘‘ All great storms begin to
leeward,’’ is, so far as he knows, the first expression of that scientific opinion.

PLATE 52.

Part Il.

Report of U. S. National Museum, 1897.

National Scientific and I:ducational Institutions. 275

cursory view of a chart of North America, received this natural and truly correct
impression. The look of general Washington, the energy of his mind, his noble
and irresistible eloquence, all conspired, so far to impress ‘he writer with these sub-
jects, that if ever he should unfortunately become insane, it z7// be from his anxiety
for the federal city and NATIONAL UNIVERSITY."

In another part of the same book Mr. Blodget describes a conversation
with Washington, which took place after the site of the capital had been
decided upon, in which the President ‘‘ stated his opinion, that there were
four or five thousand inhabitants in the city of Washington, and until
congress were comfortably accommodated, it might be premature to com-
mence a seminary. * * * He did not wish to see the work commenced
until the city was prepared for it; but he added, that he hoped he had
not omitted to take such measures as would at all events secure the entire
object in time, even if its merits should not draw forth from every quarter
the aid it would be found to deserve,’’ alluding, of course, to the provi-
sions in his own will. ‘‘He then,’’ continues Blodget, ‘‘ talked again
and again, on Mr. Turgot’s and Doctor Price’s calculations of the effect
of compound interest, at which, ashe was well versed in figures, he
could acquit himself in a masterly manner.’’*

Concerning the fate of the Potomac Company, a portion of whose stock
was destined by Washington as a nucleus for the endowment of a univer-
sity, itis not necessary now to speak. ‘The value of the bequest was at the
time placed at £5,000 sterling, and it was computed by Blodget that had
Congress kept faith with Washington, as well as did the legislature of
Virginia in regard to the endowment of Washington College, his dona-
tion at compound interest would in twelve years (1815) have grown to
$50,000, and in twenty-four years (1827) to $100,000, an endowment
sufficient to establish one of the colleges in the proposed university.

Madison, when a member of the Constitutional Convention in 1787,
probably acting in harmony with the wishes of Washington, proposed
as among the powers proper to be added to those of the General Legis-
lature, the following:

To establish a university.

To encourage, by premiums and provisions, the advancement of useful knowl-
t . . “
edge and the discussion of science.3

That he never lost his interest in the university idea is shown by his
vigorous appeal while President, in his message of December, 1810, in
which he urged the importance of an institution at the capital which
would ‘‘contribute not less to strengthen the foundations than to adorn
the structure of our system of government.’’

Quite in accord with the spirit of Madison’s message was a letter in
the Pennsylvania Gazette of 1788,‘ in which it was argued that the new
form of government proposed by the framers of the Constitution could
not succeed in a republic, unless the people were prepared for it by an

™ Economica, p. 22. 3 Madison Papers, I, pp. 354, 577-
*Idem,, Appendix, p. ix. 4See Appendix A.
270 Memortal of George Brown Goode.

education adapted to the new and peculiar situation of the country, the
most essential, instrument for which should be a Federal university.
Indeed, the tone of this article, to which my attention has recently been
directed by President Welling, was so harmonious with that of the pre-
vious and subsequent utterances of Madison as to suggest the idea that
he, at that time a resident of Philadelphia, may have been its author.
It is more probable, however, that the writer was Benjamin Rush, who
in 1787 issued an Address to the people of the United States,* which
began with the remark that there is nothing more common than to con-
found the terms of American Revolution with those of the late Ameri-
can war. ,

‘The American war is over,’’ he said, ‘‘ but this is far from being the
case with the American Revolution. On the contrary, nothing but the
first act of the great drama is closed. It remains yet to establish and
perfect our new forms of government, and to prepare the principles,
morals, and manners of our citizens for these forms of government after
they are established and brought to perfection.

And then he went on to propose a plan for a national university, of
the broadest scope, with post-graduate scholarships, a corps of traveling
correspondents, or fellows, in connection with the consular service, and
an educated civil service, organized in connection with the university
work.

In Economica, the work just quoted, printed in 1806, the first work
on political economy written in America, Blodget referred to the national
university project as an accepted idea, held in temporary abeyance by
legislative delays. :

Blodget urged upon Congress various projects which he thought to
be of national importance, and among the first of these was To erect,
or at least to point out, the place for the statue of 1783, and either to
direct or permit the colleges of the university formed by Washington
to commence around this statue after the manner of the Timoleonteon
of Syracuse.?

d)2

™See Appendix B.

* The Society of Sons of the American Revolution, recently organized, and com-
posed of descendants of Revolutionary soldiers and patriots, has for one of its
objects ‘‘to carry out Washington’s injunction ‘to promote as objects of primary
importance institutions for the diffusion of knowledge,’ and thus to create an
enlightened public opinion.”’

>1806 Blodget, Samuel, jr., Economica: | A Statistical Manwtal | for the | United

States: of GAmerica.)|(=="|2-.- aaa The legislature ought to make the people
happy | Aristotle on government |= |.......... ‘* Felix qui potuit rerum cognos-
cere causas”’ | City of Washington: | Printed for the author. | = | 1806, 128
i-vili, I—202 i—xiv.

The certificate of copyright is in this form:

Be it remembered that * * * Samuel Blodget, junior, hath deposited in this
office, the title of a book the right whereof he claims as author, but for the benefit in
trust for the free education fund of the university founded by George Washington
in his last will, ete.
National Scientific and Educational Institutions. 277

In intimate connection, with his plan for a university was that of
Washington for a military academy at West Point. He had found dur-
ing the Revolution a great want of engineers, and this want caused
Congress to accept the services of numerous French engineers to aid our
country in its struggle for independence.

At the close of the Revolution, Washington lost no time in commend-
ing to Virginia the improvement of the Potomac and James rivers, the
junction by canal of Chesapeake Bay and Albemarle Sound of North
Carolina. He soon after proceeded to New York to see the plans of
General Schuyler to unite the Mohawk with the waters of Lake Ontario,
and to Massachusetts to see the plans of the Merrimac Navigation
Company. |

It was the want of educated engineers for work of this kind that
induced Generals Washington, Lee, and Huntington and Colonel Pick-
ering, in the year 1783, to select West Point as a suitable site for a mili-
tary academy, and at that place such an institution was essayed, under
the law of Congress, in 1794. But from the destruction of the build-
ing and its contained books and apparatus by fire, the academy was sus-
‘pended until the year r801, when Mr. Jefferson renewed the action of
the law, and the following year, 1802, a United States Corps of Engi-
neers and Military Academy was organized by law and established at
West Point, with General Jonathan Williams, the nephew of Franklin
and one of the vice-presidents of the Philosophical Society, at its head,
and the United States Military Philosophical Society was established
with the whole Engineer Corps of the Army for a nucleus.

This society had for its object ‘‘the collecting and disseminating of
military science.’’ Its membership during the ten years of its existence
included most of the leading men in the country, civilians as well as
officers in the Army and Navy. Meetings were held in New York and
Washington, as well as in West Point, and it seems to have been the
first national scientific society.’

The Patent Office also began under Washington, the first American
patent system having been founded by act of Congress April 10, 1790.

On the 8th of January, 1790, President Washington entered the Sen-
ate Chamber, where both Houses of Congress were assembled, and
addressed them on the state of the new nation. In the speech of a few
minutes, which thus constituted the first annual message to Congress,

See - a.
*At least three fascicles of Extracts from the minutes of the United States Mili-
tary Society were printed—one for the stated meeting, October 6, 1806 [4°, 14 pp.];
one for an occasional meeting at Washington, January 30, 1808 [4°, pp. 1-23 (1)];
and one for an occasional meeting at New York, December 28, 1809 [4°, pp. I-22].
The manuscript records, in four volumes, are said to be in the possession of the
New York Historical Society.

I am indebted to Colonel John M. Wilson, United States Army, Superintendent of
the Military Academy, and to Generai J. C. Kelton, United States Army, for court-
eous and valuable replies to my letters of inquiry.

278 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

about a third of the space was given to the promotion of intellectual
objects—science, literature, and arts. The following expression may
perhaps be regarded as the practical origination of our patent system:

I can not forbear intimating to you the expediency of giving effectual encourage-

ment, as well to the introduction of new and useful inventions from abroad, as to
the exertions of skill and genius in producing them at home.

This, of course, was in direct pursuance of the constitutional enact-
ment, bethought and inserted toward the closing days of the convention
in September, 1787, empowering Congress with such authority. Each
House, the Senate on the 11th and the Representatives on the 12th, sent
a cordial response to the President’s address, reciting the particulars of
his discourse, and promising, especially to his suggestions for encourage-
ment of science and arts, ‘‘such early attention as their respective
importance requires-’’ and the lower House proceeded rapidly with the
work. January 15 it was resolved that the various measures indicated
by the President should be referred to select committees, respectively,
and on the 25th such a committee was formed to consider the encourage-
ment of the useful arts. It consisted of Edanus Burke, of South Carolina,

a justice of the supreme court of that State, and native of Ireland; Ben-

jamin Huntington, of Connecticut, and Lambert Cadawalader, of New
Jersey. On the 16th of February Mr. Burke reported his bill, which
passed to its second reading the following day. It was copiously discussed
and amended in Committee of the Whole, particularly March 4, when
‘‘the clause which gives a party a right to appeal to a jury froma decision
of referees, it was moved should be struck out.’’ After a good deal of
pointed and profitable remark as to the true sphere and function of juries
the motion for striking out was carried.

The next day, March 5, the bill was ordered to be engrossed, and on
the 1oth, after third reading, it passed and was carried to the Senate.
Here, in a few days, it was referred to a committee of which Charles
Carroll, of Maryland, was chairman, and reported back the 29th of
March, where it passed, with twelve amendments, on the 30th. On
the 8th of April it went forward with the signatures of Speaker and Vice-
President to the President, who approved it April 10, 1790.’ The first
patent was granted on the 31st of the following July to Samuel Hopkins,
of Vermont, for making pot and pearl ashes; and two more during that
year.”

Thomas Jefferson, Secretary of State at this period, under which
Department especially the patent system grew up for more than half its
first century, took so keen an interest in its aim and workings, and gave
such searching personal attention to the issue of the several patents, that
he has been quite naturally reputed as the father of our Patent Office, and

‘Statutes at Large, I, pp. 109-112.
? Among the treasures of the National Museum is a patent dated 1796, signed by
Washington as President and Pickering as Secretary of State.

beer’ A> el es le
PLATE 53.

Report of U.S. National Museum,

“f

ee

MERIWETHER LEwis.
National Scientific and Educational Institutions. 279

it seems to have been supposed that the bill itself creating it proceeded
from his own suggestion. But by a comparison of dates this appears
hardly possible. Jefferson returned from Europe to Norfolk and Monti-
cello toward the end of 1789, his mind deeply occupied with the stirring
movements of revolution abroad. During the winter months he was
debating whether he should accept the charge of the State Department,
offered him by Washington; making his way by slow stages from Vir-
ginia to New York; receiving innumerable ovations; paying his last visit
to the dying Franklin, and he only reached the seat of government
March 21, when the legislative work on this act was practically finished.
More than to any other individual, probably, the American patent system
looks for its origin to the Father of the Country.’

Jefferson took great pride in it, and gave personal consideration to
every application that was made for patents during the years between 1790
and 1793, while the power of revision and rejection granted by that act
remained in force. It is a matter of tradition, handed down to us from
generation to generation, that when an application for a patent was
made he would summon Mr. Henry Knox, of Massachusetts, who was
Secretary of War, and Mr. Edmund Randolph, of Virginia, who was
Attorney-General, these officials being designated by the act, with the
Secretary of State, a tribunal to examine and grant patents; and that
these three distinguished officials would examine the application critic-
ally, scrutinizing each point of the specification and claims carefully and
vigorously. The result of this examination was that, during the first
year, a majority of the applications failed to pass the ordeal, and only three
patents were granted. Every step in the issuing of a patent was taken
with great care and caution, Mr. Jefferson thinking always to impress
upon the minds of his officers and the public that it was a matter of no
ordinary importance.

The subsequent history of the office is very interesting, especially
since it contains a record of Mr. Jefferson’s vigorous opposition to the
change effected by the act of 1793, which, he held, by a promiscuous
granting of exclusive privileges would lead to the creation of monopoly
in the arts and industries, and was against the theory of a popular gov-
ernment, and would be pernicious in its effects.

In 1812 a building was put up for the accommodation of the office,
but this was destroyed in 1836, and with it most of the records which
would be necessary for a proper understanding of the early history of
American invention.

In the Patent Office building, and with it destroyed, there was gath-
ered a collection of models, which was sometimes by courtesy called the
American Museum of Art, and which afforded a precedent for the
larger collection of models and natural products, which remained under

* The foregoing paragraphs concerning the history of the Patent Office were kindly
supplied by Mr. Edward Farquhar, for many years its assistant librarian.
280 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

the custody of the Commissioner of Patents until 1858, when it was
transferred to the Smithsonian Institution, and became a part of the
present National Museum.

In 1836 the patent system was reorganized, and most of the methods
at present in use were put in operation.. As it now stands, it is one of
the most perfect and effective in the world, and the Patent Office, judged
by the character of the work it performs, although, perhaps, not strictly
to be classed among the scientific institutions, is nevertheless entitled
to such a place by reason of its large and admirable corps of trained
scientific experts serving on the staff of examiners.*

The Administration of John Adams, beginning in 1797, was short and
turbulent. Political strife prevented him from making any impression
upon our scientific history; but it requires iio research to discern the
attitude of the man who founded the American Academy and who drew
up the articles for the encouragement of literature and science in the
constitution of Massachusetts.

Jefferson, as Vice-President, taking little part in the affairs of the
Administration, was at liberty to cultivate the sciences. When he came
to Philadelphia to be inaugurated Vice-President, he brought with him
a collection of the fossilized bones of some large quadruped, and the
manuscript of a memoir upon them, which he read before the American
Philosophical Society, of which he had been elected president the pre-
ceding year.

‘The spectacle of an American statesman coming to take part asa
central figure in the greatest political ceremony of our country and
bringing with him an original contribution to science is certainly,’’ as
Luther has said, ‘‘one we shall not soon see repeated.’’ ”

In 1801 began the Administration most memorable in the history of
American science. ‘The President of the United States was, during the
eight years of his office, president of the:American Philosophical Society
as well, and was in touch with all the intellectual activities of the period.
He wrote to a correspondent, ‘‘ Nature intended me for the tranquil
pursuits of science by rendering them my supreme delight; and to
another he said, ‘‘ Your first letter gives me information in the line of
natural history, and the second promises political news; the first is my
passion, the last is my duty, and therefore both desirable.’’

‘“At times of the fiercest party conflict,’’ says Luther, ‘‘ when less
happily constituted minds would scarcely have been able to attend to

"See Official Gazette, United States Patent Office, XII, No. 15, Tuesday, October
9, 1577; also articles in Appleton’s and Johnson’s Cyclopeedias.

The history of the Patent Office has never been written; a full account of its
work and of its influence upon the progress of American invention is greatly to be
desired.

* See Jefferson, A Memoir on the Discovery of Certain Bones of a Quadruped, of
the Clawed kind, in the Western Part of Virginia, in the American Philosophical
Transactions, IV, p. 246 (March 10, 1797); also F. B. Luther, Jefferson as a Natu-
ralist, in the Magazine of American History, April, 1885, pp. 379-390.
Nattonal Scientific and Educational Institutions. 231

the routine duties of lle, we find him yielding to that subtle native
force which all through life was constantly drawing him away from
politics to science.”’

Thus, during these exciting weeks in February, r801, when Congress
was vainly trying to untangle the difficulties arising from the tie vote
between Jefferson and Burr, when every politician at the capital was
busy with schemes and counterschemes, this man, whose political fate
was balanced on a razor’s edge, was corresponding with Doctor Wistar
in regard to some bones of the mammoth which he had just procured
from Shawangunk, in New York. Again, in 1808, when the excitement
over the Embargo was highest, and when every day brought fresh
denunciations of him and his policy, he was carrying on his geological
studies in the White House itself. Under his direction upward of 300
specimens of fossil bones had been brought from the famous Big Bone
Lick and spread in one of the large unfinished rooms of the Presidential
Mansion. Doctor Wistar was asked to come to Philadelphia and select
such as were needed to complete the collection of the Philosophical
Society. The exploration of the lick was made at the private expense
of Jefferson through the agency of General William Clarke, the western
explorer, and this may fairly be regarded as the beginning of American
governmental work in paleontology.

His scientific tendencies led to much criticism, of which the well-
known lines by William Cullen Bryant, in The Embargo, afford a
very mild example.’ He cast all calumny aside with the remark ‘‘ that
he who had nothing to conceal from the press had nothing to fear from
it,’? and calmly went on his way. ‘The senior members of his Cabinet
were James Madison, a man of the most enlightened sympathy with sci-
ence, and Gallatin, one of the earliest American philologists; while one of
his strongest supporters in Congress was Samuel Latham Mitchill, a
mighty promoter of scientific interests in his native State, whom Adams
wittily describes as ‘‘chemist, botanist, naturalist, physician, and _poli-
ticlan, who supported the Republican party because Jefferson was its
leader, and Jefferson because he was a philosopher.’’

During this administration the project for a great national institution
of learning was revived by Joel Barlow. In 1800, when Barlow was the
American minister in Paris, he said in a letter to Senator Baldwin :

I have been writing a long letter to Jefferson on quite another subject. . . . Itis
about learned societies, universities, public instruction, and the advantages you now
have for doing something great and good if you will take it up on proper principles.
If you will put me at the head of the Institution there proposed, and give it that

* Go, wretch, resign the Presidential chair;
Disclose thy secret measures, foul or fair.
Go, search with curious eyes for hornéd frogs
’Mid the wild wastes of Louisianian bogs,
Or where the Ohio rolls his turbid stream
Dig for huge bones, thy glory and thy theme.
282 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

support which you ought to do, you can’t imagine what a garden it would make of the
United States: I have great projects, and only want the time and means for carrying
them into effect.!

M. Dupont de Nemours was also corresponding with Jefferson upon
the same subject, and his work, Sur Education Nationale dans les
Etats-Unis, published in Paris in 1800, was written at his request.”

Barlow returned to the American States in 1805, and almost his first
public act after his arrival, we are told, was to issue a prospectus in which
he forcibly and eloquently depicted the necessity and advantages of a
national scientific institution.

This was to consist of a central university at or near the seat of gov-
ernment, and, as far as might seem practicable or advisable, other uni-
versities, colleges, and schools of education, either in Washington or in
other parts of the United States, together with printing presses for the
use of the institution, laboratories, libraries, and apparatus for the sci-
ences and the arts, and gardens for botany and agricultural experiments.

The institution was to encourage science by all means in its power, by
correspondence, by premiums and by scholarships, and to publish school-
books at cost of printing.

The Military and Naval Academies, the Mint, and the Patent Office
were to be corinected with the university, and there was also to be a gen-
eral depository of the results of scientific research and of the discoveries
by voyages and travels, actually the equivalent of a national museum.

‘In short,’’ wrote Barlow, ‘“‘no rudiment of knowledge should be
below its attention, no height of improvement above its ambition, no
corner of an empire beyond its vigilant activity for collecting and diffus-
ing information.’’ 3

The editor of the National Intelligencer, the organ of the Administra-
tion in 1806, commented favorably upon the plan of Barlow.

This gentleman [he wrote], whose mind has been enlarged by extensive observa-
tion, by contemplating man under almost every variety of aspect in which he appears,
and whose sentiments have been characterized by an uniformly zealous devotion to
liberty, has most justly embraced the opinion that the duration as well as perfection
of republicanism in this country will depend upon the prevalence of correct informa-
tion, itself dependent upon the education of the great body of the people. Having

raised himself, as we understand, to a state of pecuniary independence, he has
returned to his native country, with a determination of devoting his whole attention

"Todd, Life and Letters of Joel Barlow, p. 208.

* Adams, Jefferson and the University of Virginia, p. 49 e/ seq.

3See text of prospectus in Appendix C to this paper, or in National Intelligencer,
Washington, 1806, August 1 and November 24. The original publication, of which
there is a copy in the Congressional Library, recently brought to my notice by Mr.
Spofford, is a pamphlet, anonymously published, with the date of Washington, 24th
January, 1806.

Prospectus | of a | National Institution, | to be
States | = | Washington City: | Printed by Samuel H. Smith |
I-44.

established | in the | United
| 1806— 8°, pp.

Report of U. S. National Museum, 1897. Part ||. PLATE 54,

National Scientific and F-ducational Institutions. 283

and labors to those objects which are best calculated to improve its state of society,
its science, literature, and education. The disinterested exertions of such a man
merit the national attention.*

Barlow’s prospectus, we are told, was circulated throughout the country,
and met with so favorable a response that in 1806 he drew up a bill for
the incorporation of the institution, which Mr. Logan, of Philadelphia,
introduced in the Senate, which passed to a second reading, was referred
to a committee which never reported, and so was lost.

-Barlow’s National Institution resembled more closely the House of
Salomon in The New Atlantis of Bacon than it did the eminently prac-
tical university project of Washington. It would be interesting to know
to what extent President Jefferson was in sympathy with Barlow. The
mind which a few years later directed the organization of the Univer-
sity of Virginia could scarcely have approved all the features of the
Kalorama plan. He was undoubtedly at this time anxious that a national
university should be founded, as is shown by his messages to Congress in
1806 and 1808,” though it is probable that he wished it to be erected in
some convenient part of Virginia, rather than in the city of Washington.
The project for transplanting to America the faculty of the College of
Geneva, which, but for the opposition of Washington, would probably have
been attempted in 1794, had reference rather to the formation of a State
university, national in influence, than to a central Federal institution. °

Although Barlow’s plan was, in its details, much too elaborate for the
times, the fundamental ideas were exceedingly attractive, and led to very
important and far-reaching results.

Barlow expected, of course, that his institution should be established
and maintained at Government cost. This was soon found to be imprac-
ticable, and those who were interested in the intellectual advancement of
the capital soon had recourse to the idea of beginning the work at private
expense, relying upon Government aid for its future advancement.

Barlow’s classmate, Josiah Meigs, his friend and neighbor Mhomas
Law, aided by Edward Cutbush, Judge Cranch, and other citizens of
Washington, proceeded forthwith to attempt that which the politicians
dared not.

The essential features of Barlow’s plan were:

(1) The advancement of knowledge by associations of scientific men ;
and

(2) The dissemination of its rudiments by the instruction of youth.‘

To meet the first of these requirements they organized the Columbian
Institute for the Promotion of Arts and Sciences, in 1819; and for the sec-
ond, the Columbian College, incorporated in 1821. Most of the promi-
nent members of the Columbian Institute were also among the friends

* National Intellingencer, November 24, 1806.
* Henry Adams, History of the United States, 1805-1809, I, pp. 346, 347; II, p. 365.
3Idem., pp. 45, 46.

4The Old Bachelor, by William Wirt, p. 186.
284 Memortal of George Brown Goode.

and supporters of the college. Doctor Josiah Meigs, the friend and class-
mate of Barlow, the president of the institute from 1819 to 1821, was an
incorporator and a member of the first faculty of the college.*

Doctor Edward Cutbush, the founder of the Columbian Institute, was
also a professor, as well as Doctor Thomas Sewall, Doctor Alexander
McWilliams, and Judge William Cranch, and in publications made at the
time these men distinctly proposed to realize the aspirations of Wash-
ington for the creation of a great national university at the seat of the
Federal Government. It was in this cause President Monroe gave to the
Columbian College his public support as President of the United States.
At a later day, when an hour of need overtook the college, John Quincy
Adams became one of its saving benefactors.’

The donation of $25,000 made to the Columbian College in 1832 was preceded bya
report from the Committee in House of Representatives on the District of Columbia.

That report may be found in Reports of committees, first session Twenty-second
Congress (1831-32), III, Report No. 334.

After reciting the early history of the college the report proceeds as follows:

Few institutions present as strong claims to the patronage of Government, as that,
in behalf of which the forementioned memorial has been presented. [The report is
made in answer to a memorial of the president and trustees of the college, asking
Congress to make a donation to the college ‘from the sale of public lots or from such
other sou-ce as Congress may think proper to direct.’] Its location near the seat of
Government, its salubrious middle climate, and other advantages, and the commend-
able efforts of its present trustees and professors to sustain it, justly entitle it to
public benificence.

‘IT am indebted to Doctor James C. Welling, president of the Columbia University,
for much important information concerning this and other matters discussed in the
present paper.

2 James C. Welling, The Columbian University, Washington, 1889, p. I. The fol-
lowing letter, written by President Monroe in 1821, indicates that the public men
of the day were not unwilling that the institution should be regarded as one of

national scope :
WASHINGTON, March 28, 1821.

Str: I avail myself of this mode of assuring you of my earnest desire that the
college which was incorporated by an act of Congress at the last session, by the title
of The Columbian College in the District of Columbia, may accomplish all the use-
ful purposes for which it was established; and I add, with great satisfaction, that
there is good reason to believe that the hopes of those who have so patriotically con-
tributed to advance it to its present stage will not be disappointed.

Its commencement will be under circumstances very favorable to its success.
The act of incorporation is well digested, looks to the proper objects, and grants the
powers well adapted to their attainment. The establishment of the institution
within the Federal District, in the presence of Congress, and of all the departments
of the Government, will secure to the young men who may be educated in it many
important advantages; among which, the opportunity which it will afford them of
hearing the debates in Congress, and in the Supreme Court, on important subjects,

x * X

must be obvious to all.

With these peculiar advantages, this institution, if it receives hereafter the proper
encouragement, cannot fail to be eminently useful to the nation, Under this im-
pression, I trust that such encouragement will not be withheld from it.

Iam, sir, with great respect, your very obedient servant,
JAMES MONROE.

Natwonal Scientific and Educational Institutions. 285

The Columbian Institute was granted the use of rooms in the Capitol
building under the present Congressional Library Hall, which became a
center of the scientific and literary interests of Washington, and its
annual meetings were held in the Hall of the House of Representatives,
where Southard, Clay, Everett, Meigs, and Adams delivered addresses
upon matters of science and political economy to large assemblages of
public men. In 1819, Josiah Meigs, its president, writing to Doctor
Daniel Drake, of Cincinnati, said:

I have little doubt that this Congress will, before they rise, give the Institute a few
acres of ground for our building and for a Botanic Garden. Mr. Barlow made
great efforts to obtain this object eight or ten years ago—he could do nothing—but
prejudices which ¢hev were of the denszty of a thunder cloud are now as fenuous as
the tail of a Comet.'

The supreme legislative power of the United States over persons and property
within the District of Columbia, is unquestioned. Congress has repeatedly made
grants of portions of the public lands to seminaries of learning situated within the
limits of States and Territories, where such lands lie. The constitution having thus
confided to the care of the National Legislature, the rights and interests of the
people of the District of Columbia, and Congress having made liberal donations
out of the national domain to promote the great cause of education in all the other
districts within which the General Government has exclusive jurisdiction, it would
seem to be cruel injustice to refuse the small boon now recommended. ‘These con-
siderations, induce the hope that the proposed donation will be exempt from all
opposition, not founded in doubts of the just claim to patronage of the institution
for the benefit of which it is designed. And these claims, it is fully believed, will
stand the test of the severest scrutiny.

The report from which the above extracts are taken was made February 27, 1832
(to accompany House bill No. 422), by Mr. Thomas, of Maryland (on behalf of
the Committee on the District of Columbia), in answer to memorial of the trustees
and the president of the Columbian College.

On the ground granted by Congress, a botanical garden was established
by the society in 1822 or 1823 with the cooperation of the State Depart-
ment and the consular service. In 1829 the society applied to Congress
for pecuniary aid, which was not granted.’

The Columbian University was also an applicant for Government aid,
which it received to the amount of $25,000 in 1832, on the ground that

* Life of Josiah Meigs, p. 102.

2 The original members of the Columbian Institute were: Hon. John Quincy
Adams; Colonel George Bomford, U. S. A.; Doctor John A. Brereton, U. S. A.;
Doctor Edward Cutbush, U. S. N.; Asbury Dickins, esq.; Joseph Gales, jr., esq.;
Doctor Henry Huntt; Thomas Taw, esq.; Edmund Law, esq.; Doctor George W.
May; Alexander McWilliams, esq.; William Winston Seaton, esq.; Samuel H.
Smith, esq.; William Thornton, esq.; Hon. Roger C. Weightman.

Among the later members were Doctor Joseph Lovell, U. S. A.; Colonel Isaac
Roberdeau; Doctor Thomas Sewell; Judge William Cranch; Hon. Henry Clay; Hon.
John McLean; Hon. Richard Rush; Hon. S. L. Southard; Hon. William Wirt;
Doctor W. 5. W. Ruschenberger, U. S. N.; Hon. J. M. Berrien; Hon. John C. Calhonn;
Rey. Obadiah B. Brown, and Rey. William Staughton.

The minutes of the Columbian Institute are not to be found. The treasurer’s book
is in the National Museum.
286 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

it was an institution of national importance, organized by private indi-
viduals to do work legitimately within the domain of governmental
responsibilities. *

The Columbian College received nearly one-third of its original endow-
ment from the Government of the United States. Of the remainder,
perhaps one-half was contributed by men like President Adams, whose
sole interest in it was a patriotic one.

During Jackson’s Presidency all ideas of centralization, even in scientific
matters, appear to have fallen into disfavor, and the Columbian Institute
and the Columbian College were forced to abandon their hopes for gov-
ernmental aid. The institute languished and dropped out of existence,
while the college, under the fostering care of a church organization (which
finally dropped it in 1846), and through the beneficence of individuals,
one of whom, a citizen of Washington, gave it property to the value of
$200,000, has grown to be a university in name and scope, and is included

‘among the thirteen ‘‘ foundations comprising groups of related faculties,
colleges, or schools,’’ enumerated in the Report of the Commissioner of
Education for 1886-87.

* This appropriation was made on the strength of a report by Senator Barbour, of
Virginia, chairman of the Committee on the District of Columbia, in which, after
alluding to the long-recognized ‘‘ utility of a central literary establishment ’”’ and to
the failures of the recommendations of Washington and Madison, he gave a brief
history of the enterprise, which was as follows:

At length a few enterprising and patriotic individuals attempted to achieve, by
voluntary donations, that which it had been supposed could be effected only by the
power of Congress.

Their efforts were crowned with distinguished success. One individual in par-
ticular, the Rev. Luther Rice, with an unwearied industry and an unyielding perse-
verance which prompted him to traverse every part of the Union in pursuit of aid to
this beneficent object, contributed principally to that success.

The funds thus acquired were faithfully and judiciously applied to the object.
* * * Application was made to Congress for an act of incorporation, which passed
February 9, 1821. This, however, was all the aid which Congress dispensed.

The accompanying document shows that there have been expended on this insti-
tution $80,000, $50,000 only have been procured; and, as a consequence, the institu-
tion is embarrassed with a debt to the amount of $30,000. * * * Under these
circumstances, the individuals who have thus generously devoted themselves to the
promotion of this establishment, and who have disinterestedly pledged their inde-
pendence upon the success of the college, present themselves to Congress, with a
view to obtain their protection by a small pecuniary grant. * * *

The committee, in reviewing the peculiar circumstances which characterize the
origin of this establishment, its progress, and the great benefits it promises to society,
are of opinion that the application is reasonable. It cannot be doubted, had such
an establishment grown up, under similar circumstances, in either of the states, it
would receive the helping hand of its Legislature. Congress stands in the same
relation to this establishment, from its exclusive power of legislation within the
District.

Report of Mr. Barbour, from the Committee on the District of Columbia, to whom
was referred the memorial of the trustees of the Columbian College. April 19, 1824.
Senate, Eighteenth Congress, first session (67). pp. 80-83

PLATE 55.

Part II.

Report of U. S. National Museum, 1897.

Natwonal Screntific and Educational Institutions. 287

Although it has not since 1832 made any claims for Government aid,
nor assumed to be in any way a ward of the nation, its early history is
significant, on account of its connection with the project for a national
university, which has been for more than a century before the people.
The Government has since established in Washington City the National
Deaf-Mute College, which it still maintains, and the Howard University,
intended primarily for the freedman but open to all.

The founders of the Columbian Institute and the Columbian University
were building better than they knew, for they were not only advancing
knowledge in their own day and generation, but they were educating
public opinion for a great opportunity, which soon came in the form of a
gift to the nation from beyond the sea in the form of the Smithson
bequest. ,

The story of the Smithsonian Institution isaremarkable one. Smith-
son was a graduate of the University of Oxford, a fellow of the Royal
Society, a chemist and mineralogist of well-recognized position. The
friend and associate of many of the leading scientific men of England, he
found it advisable, for reasons connected with his family history, to pass
most of his life upon the Continent. A man of ample fortune, he asso-
ciated with men of similar tastes, and died in 1820, leaving in trust to the
United States property now amounting in value to nearly three-quarters
of a million of dollars to establish at the national capital ‘‘an institution
for the increase and diffusion of knowledge among men.’’ No one has
been able to explain why he did this. He had, so far as we know, no
friend or correspondent in the United States, and had made known to no
one his intention of establishing an institution of learning in the New
World.’

It is more than probable, however, that he knew Barlow when Ameri-
can minister in Paris, ‘and that the prospectus of the National Institution
or the treatise by Dupont de Nemours may have attracted his attention.
He was aware of the failure of the attempts to obtain national support at
the start for scientific uses, and conceived the idea of founding, with his
own means, an organization which should, he foresaw, grow into national
importance. Anyone who will take the pains to compare the criticisms
and objections to Barlow’s project, as set forth in Wirt’s essay in The
Old Bachelor,’ with those which were urged in Congress and the public
press in opposition to the acceptance of the Smithson bequest thirty years
later, can not fail to be greatly impressed by the similarity of tone and
argument.

* The only suggestion which has ever been offered is that by Mr. W. J. Rhees, in

his history of James Smithson and his Bequest, in which he calls attention to the fact

that in the library of Smithson was a copy of Travels through North America, pub-

lished in 1807 by Isaac Weld, secretary of the Royal Society, in which he describes

the city of Washington, and refers to it prophetically as likely some time to betome

the intellectual and political center of one of the greatest nations of the world.
?The Old Bachelor, p, 171. Baltimore: F. Lucas, jr. Small 8vo, pp. 1-235.
288 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

The Smithsonian Institution, with its dependencies and affiliations, cor-
responds perhaps more closely at the present time to Barlow’s National
Institution than any organization existing elsewhere in the world. The
names of its three secretaries—Henry, the physicist (in office from 1846
to 1878); Baird, the naturalist (Assistant Secretary from 1850 to 1878,
Secretary, 1878-1887); and Langley, the astronomer, suggest in a few
words the main features of its history.

Recurring to Jefferson’s presidency, it should be noted that its most
important scientific features were the inception of the system of scientific
surveys of the public domain, and the organization of the Coast Survey.
The first was most peculiarly Jefferson’s own, and was the outcome of
more than twenty years of earnest endeavor.

The apathy of the British Government in colonial times in the matter
of explorations of the American continent is inexplicable. Halley, the
philosopher and mathematician, was in charge of a fruitless expedition in
1699; and Ellis, in 1746, explored Hudson Bay under Government
auspices, searching for a northwest passage.

The first inland exploring expedition under Government auspices seems
to have been that of Governor Spotswood, of Virginia, who in 1724, accom-
panied by a party of young colonists, made an excursion to the summit
of the Blue Ridge for the purpose of ascertaining what lay beyond.

Nothing else was done in colonial days, although it would appear that
Jefferson, and doubtless others as well as he, had in mind the importance
of exploring the great Northwest. In the recently published life of Mat-
thew Fontaine Maury, the story 1s told of his grandfather, the Rev. James
Maury, an Episcopal clergyman and instructor of youth in Walker par-
ish, Albemarle County, Virginia, who numbered among his pupils three
boys who afterwards became Presidents of the United States and five

a
serene old man who gave the week to contemplative thought and to his
school, and Sunday to the service of the sanctuary. In 1756 he was
already dazzled by the rising glory of the newcountry. He was intensely
interested inthe great Northwest. The Missouri wasa myth at that time.
Cox had ascended the Mississippi to the falls of St. Anthony, and reported
the existence of such a stream, but all beyond was shrouded in mystery.

signers of the Declaration of Independence. He was a quiet thinker

‘But see,’’ said the aged clergyman, pointing with trembling finger and eager eye
to the map of the North American Continent—“‘ see, there must be a large river in that
direction: mountains are there, and beyond them there must be a stream to corre-
spond with the vast river on this side of the chain.’’ And by a process of reasoning
based on physical geography, he pointed out to his pupils (Thomas Jefferson among
them) the exi.tence and line of the river as accurately as Le Verrier did the place
of Neptune in the firmament, and predicted that a great highway to the West would
some day be opened in this direction. *

It-would appear that Jefferson never forgot the suggestion of his ven-
erable teacher. While minister of the United States in Paris, in 1785, he

"Life of Matthew Fontaine Maury,’’ by Mrs. D. F. M. Corbin, London, 1888, p. 6.

National Scientific and Educational Institutions. 259

became acquainted with John Ledyard, of Connecticut, a man of genius,
of some science, and of fearless courage and enterprise, who had accom-
panied Captain Cook on his voyage to the Pacific. ‘‘ [suggested to him,’’
writes Jefferson, ‘‘the enterprise of exploring the western part of our con-
tinent by passing through St. Petersburg to Kamchatka, and procuring
a passage thence in some of the Russian vessels to Nootka Sound, whence
he might make his way across the continent to the United States.’’ He
proceeded to within 200 miles of Kamchatka, and was there obliged to
take up his winter quarters, and when preparing in the spring to resume
his journey, he was arrested by an officer of the Empress of Russia, and
carried back in a closed carriage to Poland. ‘‘Thus,’’ says Jefferson,
“failed the first attempt to explore the western part of our northern
continent.’’

In a letter to Bishop Madison, dated Paris, July 19, 1788, Jefferson
tells the story of Ledyard’s failure, and of his departure on an expedition
up the Nile. ‘‘He promises me,’’ continues Jefferson, ‘‘if he escapes
through his journey, he will go to Kentucky and endeavor to penetrate
westwardly to the South Sea.’’ Ledyard died in Africa.

The proposed expedition of Ledyard, though undertaken at the instance
of the American minister in Paris, can scarcely be regarded as a govern-
mental effort. It is of interest, however, as leading up to the second
attempt, which also was inspired and placed on foot by Jefferson.

In 1792, [writes Jefferson,] I proposed to the American Philosophical Society,
that we should set on foot a subscription to engage some competent person to explore
those regions in the opposite direction—that is, by ascending the Missouri, crossing
the Stony Mountains, and descending the nearest fiver to the Pacific."

Captain Meriwether Lewis, being then stationed at Charlottesville on the recruit-
ing service, warmly solicited me to obtain for him the execution of that object. I
told him that it was proposed that the person engaged should be attended by a single
companion only, to avoid exciting alarm among the Indians. ‘This did not deter
him, but Mr. André Michaux, a professed botanist, author of the Flora Boreali-
Americana, and of the Histoire des Chénes de l’Amérique, offering his services,
they were accepted. He received his instructions, and when he had reached Ken-
tucky in the prosecution of his journey he was overtaken by an order from the
minister of France, then at Philadelphia, to relinquish the expedition and to pursue
elsewhere the botanical inquiries on which he was employed by the Government,
and thus failed the second attempt to explore that region.”

‘Jefferson does not mention in this connection the well-known fact that he himself
became personally responsible for raising the sum of 1,000 guineas from private
sources to secure the sending out of this expedition.

?The late Doctor Asa Gray, in a letter written to me shortly before his death,
remarks: ‘‘I have reason to think that Michaux suggested to Jefferson the expedi-
tion which the latter was active in sending over to the Pacific. I wonder if he put
off Michaux for the sake of having it in American hands.”’

I think it is sufficiently evident from what has been written, that the project had
been considered by Jefferson long before Michaux came into America. A statement
parallel to that of Jefferson is found in the brief biography of Michaux prefixed by
Professor C. S. Sargent, to his reprint of the Journal of André Michaux, published

NAT MUS 97, PT 2 19

290 Memorval of George Brown Goode.

It is related by Jefferson, in his Memoranda of Conversations, that
Judge Breckenridge, of Kentucky, told him in 1800, that Michaux was
not only a botanical agent of the French, but a political emissary, and
that he held a commission as commissary for an expedition against the
Spaniards, planned by Genet, in connection with a plot to gain posses-
sion of the eastern Mississippi Valley for France."

In 1803, [continues Jefferson,] the act of establishing trading houses with the
Indian tribes being about to expire, some modifications of it were recommended

to Congress by a confidential message of January 18, and an extension of its views to
the Indians on the Missouri. In order to prepare the way, the message proposed

in the Proceedings of the American Philosophical Society, XXVI, No. 129, p. 4:
The French government was anxious at this time to introduce into the royal planta-
tions the most valuable trees of eastern North America, and Michaux was selected
for this undertaking. He was instructed to explore the territory of the United
States, to gather seeds of trees, shrubs, and other plants, and to establish a nursery near
New York for their reception, and afterwards to send them to France, where they
were to be planted in the Park of Rambouillet. He was directed also to send game
birds from America with a view to their introduction into the plantations of Ameri-
can trees. Michaux, accompanied by his son, then fifteen years old, arrived in New
York in October, 1785. Here, during two years, he made his principal residence,
establishing a nursery, of which all trace has now disappeared, and making a num-
ber of short botanical journeys into New Jersey, Pennsylvania, and Maryland.
The fruits of these preliminary explorations, including twelve boxes of seeds, five
thousand seedling trees, and a number of live partridges, were sent to Paris at the
end of the first year.

Michaux’s first visit to South Carolina was made in September, 1787. He found
Charleston a more suitable place for his nurseries, and made that city his headquar-
ters during the rest of his stay in America.

Michaux’s journeys in this country after his establishment in Charleston are
detailed in the Journal [printed in the place already referred to]. They cover the
territory of North America from Hudson’s Bay to the Indian river in Florida, and from
the Bahama islands to the banks of the Mississippi river. His ambition to carry
out his instructions was equaled only by his courage aud industry. The history of
botanical exploration records no greater display of fortitude and enthusiam in the
pursuit of knowledge, than Michaux showed in his journey to the headwaters of
the Savannah river in December, 1788, when his zeal was rewarded by the discovery
of Shortia or in the return from his visit to Hudson’s Bay. ‘The hardship of his last
journey even did not satisfy his cravings for adventure and discovery; and shortly
after his return he laid before the American Philosophical Society a proposition to
explore the unknown region which extended beyond the Missouri. His proposition
was well received. The sum of five thousand dollars was raised by subscription to
meet the expenses of the journey; all arrangements were made and he was about to
start when he was called upon by the Minister of the French Republic, lately arrived
in New York, to proceed to Kentucky, to execute some business growing out of the
relations between France and Spain with regard to the transfer of Louisiana.

It was this suggestion of Michaux, no doubt, [says Sargent in concluding this
reference, ] which led Mr. Jefferson, who had regarded it with great favor, to send a
few years later the first transcontinental expedition to the shores of the Pacific.

Professor Sargent, like Doctor Gray, has evidently not been in possession of the his-
tory of Jefferson’s early interest in this matter.

‘Jefferson’s Writings, ed. T. J. Randolph, IV, pp. 513, 514.
Report of U. S. National Museum, 1897. Part Il. PLATE 56.

National Scientific and Educational Institutions. 201

sending an exploring party to trace the Missouri to its source, to cross the highlands,
and follow the best water communication which offered itself from thence to the
Pacific Ocean. Congress approved the proposition and voted a sum of money for
carrying it into execution. Captain Lewis, who had then been near two years with
me as private secretary, immediately renewed his solicitation to have the direction
of the party.

In his life of Lewis, prefixed to the history of the expedition, Jefferson
gives in full an account of Lewis’s preparation for the expedition, includ-
ing his instruction in astronomical observation by Andrew Ellicott, and
also a full text of the instructions, signed by him, addressed to Lewis and
his associate, Captain William Clarke. Captain Lewis left Washington
on the 5th of July, 1803, and proceeded to Pittsburg. Delays of prepa-
ration, difficulties of navigation down the Ohio, and other obstructions
retarded his arrival at Cahoki until the season was so far advanced that
he was obliged to wait until the ice should break up in the beginning of
spring. His mission accomplished, he returned to St. Louis on the 23d
of September, 1806.

Never, [says Jefferson,] did a similar event excite more joy through the United
States. The humblest of its citizens had taken a lively interest in the issue of the
journey, and looked forward with impatience for the information it wonld furnish.
The anxiety, too, for the safety of the corps had been kept in a state of excitement
by lugubrious rumors circulated from time to time on uncertain authorities, and
uncontradicted by letters or other direct information, from the time they had left

the Mandan towns on their ascent up the river in April of the preceding year, 1805,
until their actual return to St. Louis.

The second expedition toward the West was also sent out during Jef-
ferson’s Administration, being that under the command of General Zebu-
lon M. Pike, who was sent to explore the sources of the Mississippi River
and the western parts of Louisiana, continuing as far west as Pikes Peak,
the name of which still remains as a memorial of this enterprise.’

The expedition of Lewis and Clarke was followed in due course and in
rapid succession by others, some geographical, some geological, some for
special researches, and some more comprehensive in character.

To those who are in the least degree familiar with the history of
American exploration the names of Long, Cass and Schoolcraft, Bonne-
ville, Nicollet, Frémont, Sitgreaves, Wizlizenus, Foster and Whitney,
Owen, Stansbury, Abert, Marcy, Stevens, Gunnison, Beckwith, Whipple,
Williamson, Parke, Pope, Emory, Bartlett, Bryan, Magraw, Johnston,
Campbell, Warren, Twining, Ives, Beale, Simpson, Lander, McClellan,
Mullan, Raynolds, Heap, Jones, Ruffner, Ludlow, Maguire, Macomb,
and Stone will bring up the memory of much adventurous exploration

‘It isa matter of history that Alexander Wilson, the ornithologist, was anxious
to be appointed the naturalist of Pike’s expedition, and Jefferson has been warmly
abused for not gratifying his desire. It should be borne in mind that at this time
Wilson was a man whose reputation had not yet been achieved, and also that it is
quite possible that in those days, as in the present, the projectors of such enterprises
were often hindered by lack of financial opportunity.
292 Memortal of George Brown Goode.

and a vast amount of good scientific work; while to mention Hayden,
Wheeler, King, and Powell is to leave the field of history and to call up
the early stages of the development of that magnificent organization, the
United States Geological Survey, which is still in the beginning of its
career of usefulness.*

The history of the Coast Survey began with the earliest years of the
century. It has been thought by some that the idea originated with
Albert Gallatin, and by others that it was due to Professor Robert Pat-
terson,’? while Hassler, whose name is so intimately associated with its
early history, seems to have supposed that it was suggested by his own
advent, in 1805, bringing with him from Switzerland a collection of math-
ematical books and instruments.

Passing by the question as to who was the originator of the idea, with
the simple remark that it is doubtful whether such an enterprise should
not have for rene y ears been in the minds of many Americans, it may be

z The onied mee rotaerenl Survey was Soe Niarches 3, 1879, and Clarence
King was appointed its first director. Major J. W. Powell, his successor, was ap-
pointed March 18, 188t.

2The committee of twenty, appointed in 1857 by the American Association for the
Advancement of Science t>» report upon the history and progress of the Coast Sur-
vey, made the following statement :

It is believed that the honor of first suggesting a geodetic survey of the Ameri-
can coast, is due to the elder Professor Patterson, of Philadelphia; who, as early as
the year 1806, availed himself of his intimacy with the President, Mr. Jefferson, and
the gentlemen who formed his cabinet, to impress them with the feasibility and
policy of the measure. (Report on the History and Progress of the American
Coast Survey up to the year 1858, by the Committee of Twenty, appointed by the
Association for the Advancement of Science, at the Montreal meeting, August, 1857
(pp. I-126), p. 23.)

3] arrived in this country in October, 1805, having relinquished my public sta-
tion in my native country, Switzerland, foreseeing the turn of political events which
have since come to pass, and from a taste for a rural life with completely different
views and means quite sufficient for them, but which I have failed to claim. Hav-
ing arrived in Philadelphia, the late Professor Patterson, Mr. Garnet, of New Bruns-
wick, and several other gentlemen, on seeing the books, mathematical instruments,
etc., I had brought with me for my private enjoyment, were so kind as to show me
some attention. I had occasion to show them, in conversation, by the scientific
publications of Europe, that I had been engaged in an extensive survey of Switzer-
land, which was interrupted by the revolution. Professor Patterson sent to Presi-
dent Jefferson an account of my former life, which I furnished at his request; and
Mr. Clay, the Representative to Congress from Philadelphia, before setting off for
Congress, in 1806, asked me if I should be willing to take a survey of the coast, to
which I assented. (Letter published in the New York American, probably in Feb-
ruary, 1827. Principal Documents Relating to the Survey of the Coast of the United
States since 1816, published by F. R. Hassler, Superintendent of the Survey. New
York: William Van Norton, printer, 1834, Octavo, pp. 1-180, 1-111: folding map.
Second Volume of the Principal Documents Relating to the Survey of the Coast of
the United States, from October, 1834, to November, 1835. Published by F. R.
Hassler, Superintendent of the Survey. New York: William Van Norton, printer,
1835. Octavo, pp. 1-156, I-III (1).)

Ee
National Scientific and Educational Institutions. 293

said that, without doubt, the early organization of the survey was due
to the scientific wisdom and political foresight of Jefferson, who realized
that within a few years the country would be involved in a war with
Great Britain, and that a thorough knowledge of the coast was essential,
not only to the prosperity of the nation in time of peace, but still more
to its safety in case of invasion. At that time the only charts available
for our mariners were those in The Atlantic Neptune of Colonel Des
Barres, and the old hydrographic charts issued by the Dutch, French, and
English Governments. Jefferson realized that American seamen were
less familiar with many portions of their own coast than were the Euro-
pean navigators, and he appreciated fully the importance of having a
knowledge of this kind far more accurate than that which was possessed
by any foreigner. ‘‘ With the clear and bold perception which always
distinguishes men of genius when they are trusted in times of danger
with the destiny of nations, the President recommended the survey of
the home coast with all the aid of the more recent discoveries in science ;’’
and in his annual message to Congress, in the year 1807, proposed the
establishment of a national survey, for the purpose of making a complete
chart of the coast with the adjacent shoals and soundings.

In response to this recommendation, Congress made an appropriation
of $50,000 for the purpose of carrying out the provision of the follow-
ing law:

AN ACT to provide for surveying the Coasts of the United States.

Be it enacted, etc., That the President of the United States shall be, and he is
hereby, authorized and requested to cause a survey to be taken of the coasts of the
United States, in which shall be designated the islands and shoals, with the roads or
places of anchorage, within twenty leagues of any part of the shores of the United
States; and also the respective courses and distances between the principal capes,
or head lands, together with such other matters as he may deem proper for complet-
ing an accurate chart of every part of the coasts within the extent aforesaid. (Act of
February 10, 1807. )

By the direction of the President, Albert Gallatin, Secretary of the
Treasury, addressed a circular letter to American men of science, request-
ing their opinion as to the character of the plan to be adopted.

In the circular of the Secretary of the Treasury, the work to be per-
formed was defined as consisting of three distinct parts, as follows:

(1) The ascertainment by a series of astronomical observations of the position of
a few remarkable points on the coast, and some of the light-houses placed on the
principal capes, or at the entrance of the principal harbors, appear to be the most
eligible places for that purpose, as being objects particularly interesting to naviga-
tors, visible at a great distance, and generally erected on spots on which similar
buildings will be continued so long as navigation exists.

(2) A trigonometrical survey of the coast between those points of which the posi-
tions shall have been astronomically ascertained; in the execution of which survey,
the position of every distinguishable permanent object should be carefully desig-
nated; and temporary beacons be erected at proper distances on those parts of the
coast on which such objects are really to be found.
294 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

(3) A nautical survey of the shoals and soundings of the coast, of which the trig-
onometrical survey of the coast itself, and the ascertained position of the light-houses,
and other distinguishable objects, would be the basis; and which would therefore
depend but little on any astronomical observations made on board the vessels
employed on that part of the work.

This circular letter was submitted to thirteen scientific men, and in
response thirteen plans were received at the Treasury Department. A
commission, composed of the experts from whom answers had been
received, was formed. ‘They met at Professor Patterson’s, in Philadelphia,
and the plan which they finally selected was then proposed by Ferdinand
Rudolph Hassler, at that time, and for several years thereafter, professor
in the Military Academy at West Point.

Nothing was done to secure definitely the execution of this plan until
1811, when Hassler was sent to Europe to procure the necessary instru-
ments and standards of measure for the proposed work. He was detained
as an alien in London during the entire war with England, and until
1815, when he returned to the United States, having, as a matter of
course, far exceeded the limits of his appropriation, with a large claim
against the Government for indemnification."

I have been unable to ascertain the exact date of the appointment of
Hassler as the Superintendent of the Coast Survey, although it was
thoroughly understood at the time of the acceptance of his plan in 1807
that it was to be carried out under his direction.

It was not until August, 1816, that the contract was signed with the
Government which authorized Hassler: to proceed with his work. In
1817 a beginning was made in the bay and harbor of New York, but
Congress failed to provide for its continuance, and it was soon suspended,
and in 1818, before the Superintendent had the opportunity to publish a
report upon the results of his last year’s labor, Congress, on the plea
“that the little progress hitherto made in the work had caused general
dissatisfaction,’’ ordered its discontinuance by repealing the law under
which the Superintendent had been appointed, and providing that no one
should be employed in the survey of the coast except officers of the Army
and Navy. ‘This was practically a discontinuance of the work, because
there was no one in America but Hassler who was capable of directing it.

‘An interesting reminiscence of his career in this period is contained in the diary
of John Quincy Adams for July, 1815, where there is described an interview by him-
self, with Mr. Gallatin, at that time United States minister in London, in which the
latter spoke of Hassler, who had just left them.

‘That is a man of very great merit. He was sent by the Government to Europe
to procure the instruments for the general survey of our coast, but he has outrun his
time and his funds, and his instruments cost eight hundred pounds sterling more than
was appropriated for them; and he is embarrassed now about getting back to America.
I have engaged Messrs. Baring to advance the money for the instruments, and he is
to go for his own expenses upon his own credit. He has procured an excellent
set of instruments.’’ Adams’s Memoirs, IIT, p. 248.

The circulars elicited by Hassler’s plan are printed in the Transactions of the
American Philosophical Society for 1812, II.

ee ee ee ee

ee
Report of U. S. National Museum, 1897. Part II. PLATE 57.

MATTHEW FONTAINE Maury.
National Scientific and Educational Institutions. 295

Immediately after being thus legislated out of office he was appointed
one of the astronomers to represent the United States in the settlement
of the Canadian boundary.

From 1819 to 1832 attempts were made at various times by the Navy
Department to survey several portions of the coast. A few detached sur-
veys were made, but no general systematic work was attempted, and the
result was not on the whole creditable. In 1828 the Hon. S. L. Southard,
of New Jersey, at that time Secretary of the Navy, in response to resolu-
tions of inquiry from the House of Representatives, admitted that the
charts produced by the Navy were unreliable and unnecessarily expen-
sive, and declaring also that the plan which had been employed was
desultory and unproductive, recommended that the provisions of the law
of 1807 should be resumed.

In 1832 Congress passed an act reorganizing the surveys on the old

plan.

AN ACT to carry into effect the act to provide for a survey of the Coasts of the United States.

[Src. 1.] Be tt enacted, etc., That for carrying into effect the act entitled “An act
to provide for surveying the coasts of the United States,’’ approved on the roth day of
February, 1807, there shall be, and hereby is, appropriated a sum not exceeding
twenty thousand dollars, to be paid out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise
appropriated ; and the said act is hereby revived, and shall be deemed to provide
for the survey of the coasts of Florida in the same manner as if the same had been
named therein.

[SEc. 2.] That the President of the United States be, and he is hereby, authorized,
in and about the execution of the said act, to use all maps, charts, books, instruments,
and apparatus, which now or hereafter may belong to the United States, and employ
all persons in the land and naval service of the United States, and such astronomers
and other persons as he shall deem proper.

Hassler was now again appointed Superintendent of the Coast Survey,
and held his position until his death in 1843, the work for a short time,
at first, being assigned to the Treasury Department, and in 1834 trans-
ferred to the Navy Department, and in 1836 again retransferred to the
Treasury, where it has since remained, its status being finally definitely
settled by act of Congress passed in 1843, shortly before the appointment
of Alexander Dallas Bache, as the successor of the first Superintendent of
the Survey.

At the time of Hassler’s death the survey had been extended from New
York, where it was begun, eastward to Point Judith, and southward to
Cape Henlopen.

It should be mentioned that in 1825, during the period of the suspen-
sion of activity, Hassler presented to the American Philosophical Society
a memoir on the subject of the survey, which contained a full account of
the plan which he had adopted, a description of his instruments, and a
history of what had been accomplished up to 1817. ‘‘ This memoir,’’
wrote Professor Henry in 1845, ‘‘ was received with much favor by com-
296 Memortal of George Brown Goode.

petent judges abroad, and the commendation bestowed upon it was of no
little importance in the wakening of sentiments of national pride, which
had considerable influence in assisting the passage of the act authorizing
the renewal of the survey in 1832.’

With the appointment of Bache as Superintendent in 1843, the Survey
entered upon a new period of prosperity, the discussion of which is not
within the province of this paper, andl it seems appropriate to close this
notice of the origin and early history of the organization by quoting from
the first report of his successor an estimate of the value of Hassler’s
services.

The coast survey [wrote Bache] owes its present form, and perhaps its existence,
to the zeal and scientific ability of the late superintendent, who devoted the energies
of a life to it; and who, but for its interruption at a periol when he was in the
prime of manhood, and its suspension for nearly fifteen years, might have seen its
completion. The difficult task of creating resources of practical science for carrying
on such a work upon a suitable scale, required no common zeal and perseverence for
its accomplishment, especially at a time (1807) when our country was far from having
attained her present position in scientific acquirement, and when public opinion was
hardly sufficiently enlightened to see the full advantages of thoroughness in executing
the work. For his successful struggle against great difficulties, his adopted country
will, no doubt, honor his memory as the pioneer of a useful national undertaking."

The history of the Coast Survey under the successive superintendent-
ships of Bache [1843-1867], Peirce [1867-1874], Patterson [1874-1881],
and Hilgard [1881-1887], would make a volume in itself. Under its
present Director, Professor Mendenhall, it is growing into renewed vigor
and efficiency.

The Coast Survey was the last of the great scientific enterprises begun
in Jefferson’s Administration. If the Sage of Monticello were now
living, what delight he would feel in the manifold scientific activities of
the nation. ‘The enlightened policy of our Government in regard to
scientific and educational institutions is doubtless to a considerable degree
due to his abiding influence.

Nowhere in all the long course of Mr. Jefferson’s great career [writes Henry
Adams] did he appear to better advantage than when in his message of 1806 he
held out to the country and the world that view of his ultimate hopes and aspira-
tions for natural development, which was, as he then trusted, to be his last bequest
to mankind. Having now reached the moment when he must formally announce to
Congress that the great end of relieving the nation from debt was at length within
reach, and with it the duty of establishing true republican government was fulfilled,
he paused to ask what use was to be made of the splendid future thus displayed
before them. Should they do away with the taxes? Should they apply them to the
building up of armies and navies? Both relief from taxation and the means of
defence might be sufficiently obtained without exhausting their resources, and still
the great interests of humanity might be secured. ‘These great interests were
economical and moral; to supply the one, a system of internal improvement should
be created commensurate with the magnitude of the country; ‘‘ by these operations
new channels of communication will be opened between the States, the lines of

*Report of Alexander Dallas Bache, Superintendent of the Coast Survey.

National Screntific and Fetucational Institutions. 297

separation will disappear, their interests will be identified, and their union cemented
by new and indissoluble ties.’’ ‘To provide for the other, the higher education should
be placed among the objects of public care; ‘‘a public institution can alone supply
those sciences which, though rarely called for, are yet necessary to complete the
circle, all the parts of which contribute to the improvement of the country and
some of them to its preservation.’’ A national university and a national system of
internal improvement were an essential part, and indeed the realization and fruit, of
the republican theories which Mr. Jefferson and his associates put in practice as their
ideal of government. *

Madison’s Administration, which began in 1809, though friendly to
science, was not characterized by any remarkable advances (except that
the Coast Survey was actually organized for work under Hassler, after
his return from Europe, in 1816). ‘The war of 1812 and the unsettled
state of public affairs were not propitious to the growth of learned
institutions.

Monroe became Chief Magistrate in 1817. He, like Madison, was a
friend and follower of Jefferson, and in the atmosphere of national pros-
perity scientific work began to prosper, and there was a great accession
of popular interest, and State geological surveys began to come into
existence. Schoolcraft and Long led Government expeditions into the
West; the American Geological Society and the American Journal of
Science were founded.

The city of Washington began to have intellectual interests, and
public-spirited men organized the Columbian Institute and the Colum-
bian University.

Monroe was not actually acquainted with science, but was in hearty
sympathy with it. When he visited New York, in 1817, he visited the
New York Institution, and was received as an honorary member of the
Literary and Philosophical Society, and in his reply to the address of
Governor Clinton, its president, he remarked that ‘‘the honor, glory,
and prosperity of the country were intimately connected witk its literature
and science, and that the promotion of knowledge would always be an
object of his attention and solicitude.’’

tAdams’s Life of Gallatin, pp. 349, 350. Henry Adams in this admirable biog-
raphy has shown that Gallatin was one of Jefferson’s strongest supporters in plans
for the public enlightenment, and that he had an ambition of his own for the edu-
cation of all citizens, without distinction of classes.

I had another favorite object in view [Gallatin writes], in which I have failed.
My wish was to devote what may remain of life to the establishment, in this immense
and fast-growing city [New York], of a general system of rational and practical
education fitted for all and gratuitously opened to all. For it appeared to me
impossible to preserve our democratic institutions and the right of universal suffrage
unless we could raise the standard of general education and the mind of the laboring
classes nearer to a level with those born under more favorable circumstances. I
became accordingly the president of the council of a new university, originally
established on the most liberal principles. But finding that the object was no longer
the same, that a certain portion of the clergy had obtained the control, and that
their object, though laudable, was special and quite distinct from mine, I resigned
at the end of one year rather than to struggle, probably in vain, for what was nearly
unattainable. Life of Gallatin, p. 648.
2958 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

The most important new enterprise was in the direction of organizing
a national meteorological service.

The first move was made by Josiah Meigs, who was in 1814 appointed
Commissioner of the General Land Office. With the exception of
Franklin,’ he was perhaps the earliest scientific meteorologist in America,
having, while living in the Bermudas from 1789 to 1794, made a series
of observations which he communicated to the Royal Society.’

In 1817, or before he began to advocate Congressional action for the
establishment of meteorological registers in connection with the Land
Office, writing to Doctor Daniel Drake, in 1817, he said:

If my plan be adopted, and the Registers be furnished with the requisite Instru-
ments for 7emperature, Pressure, Rain, Wind, etc., . . . Wwe may ina course of
years know more than we shall be able to know on any other plan (p. 82).

Without some system of this kind, our Country may be occupied for ages, and We

the people of the United States be as ignorant on this subject as the A7zckapoos now
are, who have occupied a part of it for ages past (p. 82).

In 1817 he also issued a circular to the registrars of the land offices of
the several States calling upon them to take regularly certain observations
and make monthly official reports upon all meteorological phenomena.

In 1819 a cooperative movement was begun under the direction of
Doctor Joseph Lovell, Surgeon-General of the Army, in connection with
the medical officers at the principal military posts, by whom reports were
made at the end of each month upon the temperature, pressure, and
moisture of the air, the amount of rain, the direction and force of the
wind, the appearance of the sky, and other phenomena.

‘The Land Office circular was a remarkable one, and led to the extensive
system of Patent Office observations, the results of which, published in
connection with those of the War Department and the Smithsonian in
1859, formed the foundation of scientific meteorology in the United States.

In 1839 a most admirable paper by the French geologist, J. N. Nicollet,
an Essay on Meteorological Observations, was published under the direc-
tion of the Bureau of Topographical Engineers. Some years later the
lake system of meteorological observations was established by the Engi-
neer Department, under the direction of Captain (afterwards General)
George G. Meade. ‘This included a line of stations extending from the
western part of Lake Superior to the eastern part of Lake Ontario.

In 1835 a system of observations had been established under the direc-
tion of the board of regents of the University of the State of New York,

the points of observation being at the academies of the State; and in 1837

the legislature of Pennsylvania made an ADCO D arog of $4,000 for instru-

™See Reni umin iene s Weteorslonieal Imaginations and Conjectures, in the
Memoirs of the Literary and Philosophical Society of Mansfield.

Communications made at Passy (France), in 1784, and reported in the Pennsyl-
vania Packet (in Congressional Library) of July 18, 1786.

*Life of Josiah Meigs, p. 27.

a ae

See
Report of U. S. National Museum, 189 Part Il. PLATE 58.

National Scentific and Educational Institutions. 299

ments for use in meteorological observations, which were continued until
about 1847. ‘Those of New York were kept up until 1865 or later.

In the meantime the idea of the preannouncement of storms by tele-
graph was suggested in 1847 by W. C Redfield, the discoverer of the
law of storms, while Lieutenant Maury, from 1851 onward, and especially
at the International Meteorological Conference (held at his instance in
Belgium in 1853), was promoting the establishment of a system of agri-
cultural meteorology for farmers and of daily weather reports by tele-
graph."

In February, 1855, Leverrier obtained the sanction of the Emperor of
France for the creation of an extensive organization for the purpose of
distributing weather intelligence, though it was not till 1860 that he felt
justified in making his work international.* In 1861 and in 1862 a similar
organization was begun in Hngland, under Admiral Fitzroy, which was
extended a little later to India.

In the meantime all the essential features for the prediction of meteoro-
logical phenomena were in existence in the Smithsonian Institution as
early as 1856, having grown up as the result of an extensive series of
tabulations of observations recorded by volunteer observers in all parts
of the country.

The following historical notes on weather telegraphy, prepared by Pro-
fessor Cleveland Abbe in 1871,* give a@summary of the progress of this
work:

However frequently the idea may have been suggested of utilizing our knowledge
by the employment of the electric telegraph, it is to Professor Henry and his assist-
ants in the Smithsonian Institution that the credit is due of having first actually
realized this suggestion.

The practical utilization of the results of scientific study is well known to have
been in general greatly furthered by the labors of this noble Institution, and from
the very beginning Professor Henry has successfully advocated the feasibility of tele-
graphic storm warnings. ‘The agitation of this subject in the United States during the
years 1830-1855, may be safely presumed to have stimulated the subsequent action of
the European meteorologists. It will be interesting to trace the gradual realization
of the earlier suggestions of Redfield and Loomis, in the following extracts from the
annual Smithsonian Reports of the respective years:

1847. The extended lines of telegraph will furnish a ready means of warning the
more northern and eastern observers to be on the watch for the first appearance of
an advancing storm.

1848. As a part of the system of meteorology, it is proposed to employ, as far as
our funds will permit, the magnetic telegraph in the investigation of atmospherical
phenomena. . . . The advantage to agriculture and commerce to be derived
from a knowledge of the approach of a storm by means of the telegraph, has been
frequently referred to of late in the public journals; and this we think is a subject
deserving the attention of the Government.

* Maury’s Life, p. 77.
2 Scott, Storm Warnings, London, 1883.
3American Journal of Science, July, 1871.
300 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

1849. Successful applications have been made to the presidents of a number of

telegraph lines to allow us at a certain period of the day the use of the wires for the
transmission of meteorological intelligence. . . . as soon as they [certain
instructions, etc.] are completed, the transmission of observations will commence.
[It was contemplated to constitute the telegraph operators the observers. ]

1850. This map [an outline wall map] is intended to be used for presenting the
successive phases of the sky over the whole country at different points of time, as
far as reported.

1851. Since the date of the last report the system particularly intended to inves-
tigate the nature of American storms immediately under the care of the Institution,
has been continued and improved.

The system of weather reports thus inaugurated continued in regular operation
until 1861, when the disturbed condition of the country rendered impossible its
further continuance. Meanwhile, however, the study of these daily morning reports
had led to such a knowledge of the progress of our storms, that in the Report for
1857, Professor Henry writes:

1857. We are indebted to the National Telegraph Line for a series of observa-
tions from New Orleans to New York and as far westward as Cincinnati, which have
been published in the Evening Star of this city.

We hope in the course of another year to make such an arrangement with the
telegraph lines as to be able to give warnings on the eastern coast of the approach
of storms, since the investigations which have been made at the Institution fully
indicate the fact that as a general rule the storms of our latitude pursue a definite
course.

It would seem, therefore, that nothing but the disturbances of the late war pre-
vented our having had ten years ago a valuable system of practical storm warnings.
Even before peace had been proclaimed, Professor Henry sought to revive the sys-
tematic daily weather reports, and in August, 1864, at the meeting of the North
American Telegraph Association (see their published Report of Proceedings ), a paper
was presented by Professor Baird, on behalf of the Smithsonian Institution, request-
ing the privilege of the use of the telegraph lines, and more especially in order to
enable Professor Henry ‘‘to resume and extend the Weather Bulletin, and to give
warning of important atmospheric changes to our seaboard.’’ In response to this
communication it was resolved, ‘‘ That this Association recommend Fades
to pass free of charge, . . . brief meteorological reports, . . . for the use
and benefit of the Institution.’’

On the communication of this generous response, preparations were at once made
for the laborious undertaking, and the inauguration of the enterprise was fixed for
the year 1865. In January of that year, however, occurred the disastrous fire which
so seriously embarrassed the labors of the Smithsonian Institution for several follow-
ing years: it became necessary to indefinitely postpone this meteorological work,
which indeed had through its whole history been carried on with most limited
financial means, and was quite dependent upon the liberal cooperation of the differ-
ent telegraph companies,

It will thus be seen that without material aid from the Government, but through
the enlightened policy of the telegraph companies, and with the assistance of the
munificent bequest of James Smithson, ‘‘for the increase and diffusion of knowl-
edge,’’ the Smithsonian Institution, first in the world, organized a comprehensive
system of telegraphic meteorology, and has thus given first to Europe and Asia,
and now to the United States, that most beneficent national application of modern
science, the Storm Warnings.

Inthe report of the Smithsonian Institution for 1858 it is stated:

An object of much interest at the Smithsonian building is a daily exhibition on
a large map of the condition of the weather over a considerable portion of the

a
National Sctentific and Educational [nstitutions. 301

United States. ‘The reports are received about ten o'clock in the morning, and the
changes on the maps are made by temporarily attaching to the several stations pieces
of card of different colors to denote different conditions of the weather as to clear-
ness, cloudiness, rain, or snow. ‘This map is not only of interest to visitors in exhib-
iting the kind of weather which their friends at a distance are experiencing, but is
also of importance in determining at a glance the probable changes which may
soon be expected.*

In a still earlier report Professor Henry said:

We are indebted to the National Telegraph line for a series of observations from
New Orleans to New York, and as far westward as Cincinnati, Ohio, which have
been published in the ‘‘ Evening Star,”’ of this city. These reports have excited much
interest, and could they be extended farther north, and more generally to the west-
ward, they would furnish important information as to the approach of storms. We
hope in the course of another year to make such an arrangement with the telegraph
lines as to be able to give warning on the eastern coast of the approach of storms,
since the investigations which have been made at the Institution fully indicate the
fact that as a general rule the storms of our latitude pursue a definite course.’

In 1868, Cleveland Abbe, then director of the Cincinnati Observatory,
revived the Smithsonian idea of meteorological forecasts, and suggested
to the Cincinnati Chamber of Commerce that Cincinnati should be made
the headquarters of meteorological observation for the United States, ‘for
the purpose of collecting and comparing telegraphic weather reports from
all parts of the land and making deductions therefrom.’’ His proposals
were favorably received, and he began, September 1, 1869, to issue the
Weather Bulletin of the Cincinnati Observatory, which he continued
until, in January, 1871, he was summoned to Washington to assist in
organizing the national meteorological service, with which he has ever
since been identified.

The Smithsonian meteorological system continued its functions until
it was finally consigned to the custody of the Chief Signal Officer of the
Army. Like all the efforts of this Institution, this work was in the direc-
tion of supplementing and harmonizing the work of all others, and atten-
tion was especially devoted to preparing and distributing blank forms in
this direction, calculating and publishing extensive papers for systema-
tizing observations, introducing standard instruments, collecting all public
documents, printed matter, and manuscript records bearing on the meteor-
ology of the American Continent, submitting these materials for scien-
tific discussion, and publishing their results. The Smithsonian work was,
during its whole existence, under the immediate personal direction of
Professor Henry, assisted by Professor Arnold Guyot, who, in 1850, pre-
pared and published an exhaustive series of directions for meteorological
observations, intended for the first-class observers cooperating with the
Smithsonian Institution.

‘Thirteenth Annual Report of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, p. 32.
(1858. )

=’ Twelfth Annual Report of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, 1857,
p. 26; also Twentieth Annual Report of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion, 1865, pp. 54-57.
302 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

The seeds planted by the army in 1819 began to bear perfect fruit fifty
years later, when, by act of Congress, in 1870, the Secretary of War was
authorized to carry into effect a scheme for ‘‘ giving notice by telegraph
and signals of the approach and force of storms,’’ and the organization
of a meteorological bureau adequate to the investigation of American
storms, and their preannouncement along the Northern lakes and the
seacoast was, under the auspices of the War Department, intrusted to the
Chief Signal Officer of the Army, Brigadier-General Albert J. Myer, and
a division, created in his office, was designated as the Division of tele-
grams and reports for the benefit of commerce.

By a subsequent act of Congress, approved June 10, 1872, the Signal
Service was charged with the duty of providing such stations, signals,
and reports as might be found necessary for extending its research in the
interest of agriculture. In 1873, the work of the bureau of the division
having been eminently successful, and its successes having been recog-
nized abroad as well as in this country, Congress, by a further act,
authorized the establishment of signal-service stations at the light-houses
and life-saving stations on the lake seacoasts, and made provision for
connecting them with telegraph lines or cables, ‘‘ to be constructed, main-
tained, and worked under the direction of a chief signal officer of the
Army, or the Secretary of War and the Secretary of the Treasury,’’ and
in this year also was begun the publication of a monthly Weather
Review, summarizing in a popular way all its data showing the result
of its investigations, as well as presenting these in graphic weather
charts.

In 1874 the entire system of Smithsonian weather observation in all
parts of the United States was transferred by Professor Henry to the
Signal Service. A few months previously, at the proposal of the Chief
Signal Officer, in the International Congress of Meteorologists convened
at Vienna, the system of world-wide cooperative simultaneous weather
observations, since then so extensively developed, was inaugurated, and
began to contribute its data to the Signal Office records. It is unneces-
sary to trace further the history of the beginning of the meteorological
work of the Signal Service, but I doubt not that everyone at all familiar
with its subsequent history, under the leadership of Generals Hazen and
Greely, will agree with the opinion of Judge Daly, the president of the
American Geographical Society, when he said that ‘‘nothing in the
nature of scientific investigation by the National Government has proved
so acceptable to the people, or has been so productive in so short a time
of such important results, as the establishment of the Signal Service
DUreau aL

The sixth President, John Quincy Adams, a man of culture broad and
deep, found the presidency of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences

"1883, History of the United States Signal Service, with catalogue of its exhibit as
the International Fisheries Exhibition. Tondon, 1883; Washington City, 1883;
octavo, pp. I-28.
Report of U. S. National Museum, 1897. Part Il. PLATE 59.

National Scientific and Educational Institutions. 303

so congenial to his tastes and sympathies that he did not hesitate to say
that he prized it more highly than the chief magistracy of the nation.
He considered his most important achievement to be the Report on
Weights and Measures, prepared for Congress in 1818, and was justly
proud of it, for it was a very admirable piece of scientific work, and is
still considered the most important treatise on the subject ever written.

John Quincy Adams revived Washington’s national university project,
and made battle valiantly for an astronomical observatory.

In his first message to Congress afterwards, he said:

Among the first, perhaps the very first, instrument for the improvement of the
condition of men is knowledge, and to the acquisition of much of the knowledge
adapted to the wants, the comforts, and enjoyments of human life public institu-
tions and seminaries of learning are essential. So convinced of this was the first of
my predecessors in this office, now first in the memory, as, living, he was first in the
hearts, of our country, that once and again in his addresses to the Congresses with
whom he cooperated in the public service he earnestly recommended the establish-
ment of seminaries of learning, to prepare for all the emergencies of peace and war—
a national university and a military academy. With respect to the latter, had he
lived to the present day, in turning his eyes to the institution at West Point he
would have enjoyed the gratification of his most earnest wishes; but in surveying
the city which has been honored with his name he would haye seen the spot of earth
which he had destined and bequeathed to the use and benefit of his country as the
site for an university still bare and barren.*

And again:

Connected with the establishment of an university, or separate from it, might be
undertaken the erection of an astronomical observatory, with provision for the sup-

t John Quincy Adamis, in his diary for November, 1825, describes an interview with
his Cabinet, and the discussion which followed the reading of his message before it
was finally revised for sending to Congress.

‘*Mr. Clay wished to have the recommendations of a National University
struck out . . . The University, Mr. Clay said, was entirely hopeless, and he
thought there was something in the constitutional objection to it. . . . Icon-
curred entirely in the opinion that no projects absolutely impracticable ought to be
recommended; but I would look to a practicability of a longer range than a simple
session of Congress. General Washington had recommended the Military Academy
more than ten years before it was obtained. The plant may come late, though the
seed should be sown early. And I had not recommended a University—I had referred
to Washington’s recommendations, and observed they had not been carried into
effect.”

Such opinions as these of Mr. Clay were evidently very much at variance with
those of John Quincy Adams and of his illustrious father, whose action in the con-
stitutional convention of Massachusetts has already been referred to, and at variance
as well, it would seem, with the opinion of the early Republicans, as with those of
the Federalists. The views of Washington and Madison, as well as those of Jeffer-
son and Barlow, on these subjects have already been referred to.

Mr. Adams, in commenting upon an address delivered by Edward Everett before
the Columbian Institute, January 16, 1830, remarks:
I regretted to hear . . . a seeming admission that the power of giving

encouragement to literature and science was much greater at least in the State
Governments than in that of the Union. Memoirs of John Quincey Adams VIII, p. 171.
304 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

port of an astronomer, to be in constant attendance of observation upon the phe-
nomena of the heavens, and for the periodical publications of his observations. It
is with no feeling of pride as an American that the remark may be made that on
the comparatively small territorial surface of Europe there are existing upward of
130 of these light-houses of the skies, while throughout the whole American hemi-
sphere there is not one. If we reflect a moment upon the discoveries which in the
last four centuries have been made in the physical constitution of the universe by
the means of these buildings and of observers stationed in them, shall we doubt of
their usefulness to every nation? And while scarcely a year passes over our heads
without bringing some new astronomical discovery to light, which we must fain
receive at second hand from Europe, are we not cutting ourselves off from the means
of returning light for light while we have neither observatory nor observer upon
our half of the globe and the earth revolves in perpetual darkness to our unsearch-
ing eyes? 5

This appeal was received with shouts of ridicule; and the proposal
‘‘to establish a light-house in the skies’’ became a common byword
which has scarcely yet ceased to be familiar. So strong was public feel-
ing that, in the year 1832, in reviving an act for the continuance of the
survey of the coast, Congress made a proviso, that ‘‘nothing in the act
should be construed to authorize the construction or maintenance of a
permanent astronomical observatory.*

Nothing daunted, Mr. Adams continued the struggle, and while a
member of the House of Representatives, after his presidential term had
expired, he battled for the observatory continually and furiously. An
oration delivered by him in Cincinnati in 1843, closed with these words:

Is there one tower erected to enable the keen-eyed observer of the heavenly vault
to watch from night to night through the circling year the movement of the
starry heavens and their unnumbered worlds? Took around you; look from the St.
John to the Sabine; look from the mouth of the Neversink to the mouth of the
Columbia, and you will find not one! or if one, not of our creation.

A correspondent of the London Athenzeum, writing from Boston in
May, 1840, spoke at length of the dearth of observatories in the United
States, and of the efforts of John Quincy Adams to form a national
astronomical establishment in connection with the Smithson bequest.
The letter is of great interest as showing the state of opinion on scientific
matters in America just half a century ago.

Boston, Jay, 7870.
One of the prominent subjects of discussion among our savauvs . . . is the
establishment of Odservatories of a character suitable to our standing as a civilized
nation, and still more to our exigencies as a practical, and especially as a commercial
community. I verily believe that the yearly damage and destruction along our coast,

‘It is interesting to know that in 1827, Mr. James Courtenay, of Charleston, pub-
lished a pamphlet, an urgent plea for the establishment of a naval observatory. I
aim indebted to Mr. William A. Courtenay for the opportunity to examine this rare
tract, which has the following title:

1827. Courtenay, James. An | Inquiry | into | the Propriety | of | establishing |
a | National Observatory. |= | By James Courtenay, | of Charleston, South Caro-
lina | = | — | Charleston, Printed by W. Riley, 125 Church street | —| 1827. 8°
pp. I-24.
National Scientific and Educational Institutions. 305

for want of the securities which such institutions would supply, out-balances, beyond
comparison, all it would cost to establish and maintain them in every principal city
of the land. It is partly a sort of electioneering economy which leaves things thus,
and which has heretofore refused or neglected to fit out Exploring Expeditions; to
accumulate natiowal treasures of art and science, and facilities for their prosecution ;
and generally to pursue a system of ‘‘in-breeding and cherishing,’’ as Milton has
it, ‘“‘in a great people, the seeds of virtue and public civility;’’—excepting always
what is done for the diffusion of elementary popular education. ‘This education, to
be sure, and this diffusion of it, we are taught to regard as necessaries in our moral
and social being, —the ‘‘staff of public life’? among us. And weare right. It is so.
But there are many other things which we have wzof been taught to appreciate as
they deserve, and the value of which we have gradually to grope our way to. Their
day, however, will come; though it cannot be expected that either a government
or a people, so youthful, so hurried, so fluctuating, can reach at once to the graces
and the ‘‘fair humanities’? of the old world. Remember that ‘‘The United States”’
are only some half-century old; and remember what we have been obliged to do and
to suffer meanwhile, and under what circumstances. But, as I said before, the time
is coming, if not come, when the heart of the nation shall acknowledge what is the
high duty and destiny of a country like this; and ¢hen, I need not tell you, all is
accomplished. Congress and the government must always represent the general, as
well as the political character of the nation. It will be refined, scientific, public-
spirited, or otherwise, as are the people. At this moment, as at all times, the repre-
sentative and the represented, bear this relation to each other as intimately as might
be expected from the nature of our institutions: and hence, from the signs which
have appeared in the legislative bodies, I derive hope, and feel authorized to say
what I have said of the advance, throughout our community, of what may be called
the graceful and genial system of civilization, as distinguished from the practical
and hard. This subject of observatories is quite in point. ‘True, nothing has yet
been done, but then a good deal has been said; and that is much: it is, in fact, doing
much, in a case like this. It was something for Congress to bear being told what
they had neglected, and patiently to discuss the subject.

The principal agent in bringing the subject forward has been Ex-President Adanis,
who, as you may be aware, is still an M.C.,at the age of between seventy and
eighty, and one of the halest and hardiest men in that body. His spirit is equal to
his iron constitution. He spares himself no labour. So well is this understood, that
it has been of late rather a practice to select the old gentleman for special burthens;
and there are many matters of- legislative action, which he really understands better,
or knows better at least how to explore and determine, than any member of the
House. ‘Thus the Observatory business came upon him, at least indirectly; for, to
some extent, he brought it on himself. You are, no doubt, familiar with the history
of the great Smithsonian Bequest. When that business came before Congress, and
especially as it was not a party one, all eyes were turned on Mr. Adams, and he was
appointed Chairman of the Comittee. In this capacity he has made sundry
Reports: the last and ablest reviews the whole subject. In this he labours to show
what general appropriation ought to be made of the fund—for that is not yet deter-
mined—and then to sustain a special recommendation, which is, to devote the
income for about ten years to an Odservatory, to be founded on national land, at
Washington, ‘‘ adapted to the most effective and continual observations of the phe-
nomena of the heavens, and to be provided with the necessary, best, and most per-
fect instruments and books, for the periodical publication of the said observations,
and for the annual composition and publication of a Nautical Almanack.’’ The
details of the plan may be omitted. Many, however, of the statistics connected with
them, are new to us here, and of interest, including a Report on the British establish-
ments, furnished on request by the Astronomer Airy. ‘To a greater extent these

NAT MUS 97, PT 2

20
306 Memorial of George Brown Coode.

may be familiar to English readers, but perhaps not wholly so. I hope they do not
know, for example, how much we deserve, as compared with other nations, the
caustic strictures and lectures of Mr. Adams, who really gives us no quarter, being
resolved not to spoil the child by sparing the rod, but rather to provoke us to find a
remedy for the evils he describes. You yourself adverted, not long since, to the state
of things among us, but only in general terms. The facts are these: —They have a
small Observatory in process of erection at Tuscaloosa, Alabama, for the use of the
University in that place. Professor Hopkins, of Williams’ College, Massachusetts,
has a little establishment of the sort, and ¢/7s is about all in that State,—all in New
England! The only other establishment in the United States, known to me, is that
in the Western Reserve College, Ohio, under the charge of Professor Loomis.
Nothing of the kind at our national seat of government, or anywhere near it!
Even Harvard University, ‘‘ with all its antiquity, revenue, science, and renown,”’
has thus far failed, though it appears that they are breaking ground at Cambridge;
a house or houses having been purchased and fitted up, and one of our ‘‘savans”’ is
already engaged in a series of magnetic and other observations. Now, how stands
the case on your side the water? Why, in the British islands alone, there are obsery-
atories at the Universities of Cambridge and Oxford—at Edinburgh and Glasgow,
in Scotland—and at Dublin and Armagh, in Ireland,—all receiving some patronage
from the government—to say nothing of an observatory at the Cape of Good Hope;
or of the establishments on the various remote and widely separated dependencies
of the British Empire, including Van Diemen’s Land, for the furnishing of which,
we understand, arrangements have been made, in connexion with Captain Ross’s
expedition. In France, I believe, the provision is not less ample. On this part of
the subject, Mr. Adams merely remarks, that the history of the Royal Observatory of
that country would show the benefits conferred on mankind by the slightest notice
bestowed by the rulers on the pursuit of knowledge: and that ‘‘the names of the
four Cassinis would range in honourable distinction by the side of Flamsteed, Brad-
ley, and Maskelyne.”’

Special reference is of course made to Greenwich, and Mr. Adams takes much-
pains to show how much that institution has done for science and for man. After
recapitulating how by preserving observations we are indebted for a fixed standard for
the measurement of ¢7777¢,—how, by the same science, man has acquired, so far as he
possesses it, a standard for the measurement of sface,—he observes, that the minutest
of these observations contribute to the ‘‘increase and diffusion of knowledge”? (the
expressed object in Smithson’s bequest). As tothe more 6r7//ian/, we are reminded of
an observation of Voltaire, that if the whole human race could be assembled from
the creation of man to /7s time, in the gradation of genius, /saac Newton would
stand at their head; and the discoveries of Newton were the results of calculations,
founded on the observations of others—of Copernicus, Tycho Brahe, Kepler, and
Flamsteed. Greenwich has been considered rather an expensive establishment
(among us), but Mr. Adams shows that, though costly, it has not been profitless.

Not to enter further into details of European countries, it appears that there are
about one hundred and twenty Odservatories in continental Lurope; and that the
most magnificent of them all has been lately founded by the Czar in the vicinity
of his capital;--an enterprise sufficiently glorious, Mr. Adams observes, for the
sovereign of such an empire; but the merit of which is vastly enhanced by the fact
of its being undertaken and accomplished in such a latitude and climate:—‘‘a region
so near the pole, that it offers to the inspection of the human eye only a scanty por-
tion of the northern hemisphere, with an atmosphere so chilled with cold and
obscured with vapours, that it yields scarcely sixty days in the year when obserya-
tion of the heavenly bodies is practicable.’’ ‘This last fact, it must be allowed, is
rather an aggravation, or ought to be, to us republicans, some among whom affect
to be special despisers of the bigoted Nicholas, and all his works. It seems, too, that
Mehemet Ali has come forward as the patron of philosophical inquiry.
Report of U. S. Nationa] Museum, 1897, Part Il. PLATE 60.

de
ws
‘

|

: National Scientific and educational Institutions. 307

Thus matters stand at present, and Mr. Adamis strongly urges prompt, practical
action; and this scheme, with some modifications, and after our customary delays
and discussions (in Congress) will be carried into execution, at least to a respectable
extent. I am the more inclined to the opinion as it has been made clear in the
progress of discussion that the establishments referred to zeed not be so enormously
expensive as they generally are. In this matter we have been misled and discour-
aged by your own example, among others. We found that Cambridge Observatory
cost £20,000, and that, among the instruments, the price of the mural circle alone
was over £1,000, to say nothing of an equatorial telescope at £750, or a transit instru-
ment at £600, and that as to Greenwich, the annual expenses, including salaries,
repairs, and printing, exceeded £3,000. Now, this may be ‘‘sport for you,’’ but it
knocked our calculations on the head. Our ideas are not yet enlarged to that extreme
point. To be sure, we can spend money for Florida wars; nay, for better things—
for internal improvements—for bridges over the Ohio river (St. Louis), or for market-
houses and meeting-houses of most liberal dimensions—for whatever, in a word, is
practicable—as we understand it--and especially so much of it as private enterprise
can execute without calling in government aid:—but ask for the adornments and
muniments of art and science, in the ornamental or even in the scholar-hke way, and
move slow: they button their

ee ”

it must be acknowledged the
breeches’ pockets and begin to ‘‘calculate.’’ As to the Observatories, however, the

sovereign people

case is better, for we find that much can be done at small expense. An establish-
ment,of the merely wsefud kind, may be set up for a trifle. Not that Mr. Adams pro-
poses to establish the National Observatory on such a scale. On the contrary, he
thinks the Smithson Fund should be devoted to it for the present, and that not less
than ten years of the income will be required. A more explicit estimate is also
added, but it will be sufficient to observe that it comprises, besides a salary of $3,600
for the astronomer, funds for the compensation of four assistants, at $1,500 each, and
two labourers, each at $600: for the purchase and procurement of instruments,
$30,000; of which $20,000 might be applied for an assortment of the best instruments
to be procured, and $10,000 for a fund, from the interest of which other instruments
may be from time to time procured, and for repairs: for the library, $30,000, being
$10,000 for first supply, and $20,000 for a fund for an income of $1,200 a year: and
finally $30,000 for a fund, from the income of which, $1,800 a year, shall go to defray
the expense of the yearly publication of the observations and of a Nautical Almanac.

It was the idea of Mr. Adams, in his later days, that the Smithson
bequest, or at least its income for ten years, should be applied to the
foundation of a national observatory and the publication of the Nauti-
cal Almanac, aiid he only abandoned it when an observatory had actu-
ally been established under the Navy Department in connection with the
department of charts and instruments.

The establishment of an observatory had indeed been prominent in the
minds of Washington and Jefferson, and was definitely proposed in Bar-
low’s plan for a national institution, as well as in the project for a coast
survey, submitted in 1837, in which it was proposed that there should
be two observatories, formed at a fixed point, around which the survey,
and particularly the nautical part of it, should be referred; their situation
preferably to be in the State of Maine or lower Louisiana, since from
them every celestial object observable, from the Tropics to the Arctic Cir-
cle and within about 20 degrees of longitude could be observed. — Still,
however, since various considerations might occasion the desire of placing
one of these observatories in the city of Washington, just as observato-
308 Memorial of George Lrown Goode.

ries had been placed in the principal capitals of Kurope, as a national
object of scientific ornament, as well as a means for nourishing science in
general, Hassler conceded that it might there be placed, since it would
then be the proper place for the deposit of the standards of weights and
measures, which also makes a special part the collection of instruments.
James Monroe, when Secretary of State, in 1812, strongly urged upon
Congress the establishment of an observatory, urging, first, the necessity
of establishing a first meridian for the continent, and, in the second
place, the fact that every enlightened nation had already established such
an institution of learning. ‘Ihe immediate occasion for the intervention
of the Secretary of State was the memorial of William Lambert, of Vir-
gitia, which was presented at various times from 18ro to 1821, and was
accompanied by an elaborate report in 1822.

The action of Congress during the Adams Administration has been
referred to. In 1830 Mr. Branch, of North Carolina, Secretary of the
Navy under Jackson, strongly urged the establishment of an observatory
for general astronomical purposes.

The beginning of the observatory seems to have been actually made
on Capitol Hill during Mr. Adams’s Administration, under instruction
of Astronomers Lambert and Elliott, employed by Congress to determine
the longitude of Washington. The President, in his diary of 1825,
described a visit to Capitol Hill in company with Colonel Roberdeau, and
spoke of witnessing an observation of the passage of the sun over the
meridian, made with a small transit instrument. ‘This instrument was
very probably the one obtained by Hassler in Kurope in 1815, which he
never was permitted to use in connection with the Coast Survey work,
and which passed into the hands of Lieutenant Wilkes in 1834, when it
was placed in the small observatory, erected at his own expense, about
a thousand feet north of the Dome of the Capitol.

It was at this establishment, which was known as the Naval Depot of
Instruments, that the 5-foot transit was used, mainly for the purpose of
reading the naval chronometer. When Wilkes went to sea with his
expedition in 1837, Lieutenant James M. Gilliss became superintendent of
the depot, and having obtained a 42-inch astronomical telescope, com-
menced a series of observations on the culmination of the moon and stars.
In 1842 the establishment of a permanent depot of charts and instruments
was authorized by Congress, and although the establishment of an observ-
atory was not authorized in the bill, every effort was made by Lieuten-
ant Gilliss and others interested in his work to secure suitable accommo-
dations for astronomical work, and his plans having been approved by
President ‘Tyler, work was begun on the Naval Observatory, now known
as the National Observatory.

There can be little doubt that the excellence of the work done by Gil-
liss himself, with his limited opportunrties, did much to hasten the estab-
lishment of the observatory, and there is in this connection a traditional

National Scientific and Educational Institutions. 309

history. Encke’s comet appeared in 1842, and was promptly observed by
him. He reada paper concerning it before the National Institute. Sen-
ator Preston, an enthusiastic member of that organization, was present
at the meeting. When Gilliss, still a very young man, shortly afterwards
made a visit to the Senate committee room, the Senator remarked to him :
“If you are the one who gave us notice of the comet, I will do all I can
to help you.”’

A week afterwards a bill passed the Senate and House without formal
discussion. ‘The appropriation was $25,000, and although it was
expressly for the establishment of a depot of charts and instruments, the
report of the committee which had secured it was so emphatically in
favor of astronomical, meteorological, and magnetic work that the Secre-
tary of the Navy felt justified in assuming that Congress had sanctioned
the broadest project for an observatory. Gilliss was at once sent abroad
to obtain instruments and plans, while Lieutenant Matthew F. Maury
was placed in charge of the depot, and when the observatory was com-
pleted in 1844 became its superintendent.

Maury’s attitude toward astronomical work has been severely criticised,
and, I think, misunderstood. He was, first of all, an enthusiastic officer
of the Navy; second, an astronomer, and he deemed it appropriate that
the chief effort of the office should be directed toward work which had a
direct professional bearing. Although not neglecting astronomy (for
under his direction two volumes of astronomical observations were pub-
lished), his own attention, and oftentimes that of almost the entire office
was devoted to hydrographic subjects. The work which he had accom-
plished was of the greatest practical importance to navigation, and noth-
ing of a scientific nature up to that time accomplished in America received
such universal attention and praise from abroad.

His personal popularity and his influence were very great, and the
necessity for the maintenance of a national observatory was not in his
day fully appreciated by the public. It is not at all impossible that,
indirectly, through his meteorological and hydrographic work, he may
have done more for the ultimate and permanent welfare of the National
Observatory than could have been possible through exclusive attention
to work of a purely astronomical character.

In 1861 Gilliss again became the Superintendent, and under his direc-
tion the Observatory took rank among the first in the world.

3efore leaving the subject of the Observatory, reference should be
made to astronomical work almost national in character accomplished in
colonial days at Philadelphia under the direction of the American Philo-
sophical Society, by which a committee of thirteen was appointed to
make observations upon the transit of Venus in 1769.

Three temporary observatories were built, one in Philadelphia, one at
Norristown, and one at Cape Henlopen. Instruments were imported
from England, one of them a reflecting telescope with a Dollond microm-
210 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

eter, purchased in London by Doctor Franklin with money voted by the
assembly of Pennsylvania. ‘The transit was successfully observed and
an elaborate report was published.

This enterprise is worthy of mention because it was the first serious
astronomical work ever undertaken in this country. Being under the
auspices of the only scientific society then in existence, it was in some
sense a national effort. Had not the Revolution taken place, it would
undoubtedly have resulted inthe establishment of a well-equipped observa-
tory in this country under the auspices of the home government. Doctor
Thomas Ewing, the provost of the University of Pennsylvania, who
seems to have been the first to propose the observations of 1769, and
under whose direction they were carried on, visited London a few years
later, and while there made interest with Lord North, the prime minister,
and with Mr. Maskelyne, the astronomer royal, for the establishment of
an observatory in Philadelphia, and that his efforts gave great promise
of success may be shown by the letter here presented, addressed to him
by Mr. Maskelyne in 1775:

GREENWICH, August 4, 1775.

Str: I received your late favor, together with your observations of the comet of
1770, and some [copies] of that of 1769, for which I thank you. I shall communi-
cate [them] to the Royal Society,as you give me leave. In the present unhappy
situation of American affairs, I have not the least idea that anything can be done
toward erecting an observatory at Philadelphia, and therefore can not think it
proper for me to take a part in any memorial you may think proper to lay before my
Lord North at present. I do not mean, however, to discourage you from presenting
a memorial from yourself. Were an observatory to be erected in that city, I do not
know any person there more capable of taking care of it than yourself. Should
Lord North do me the honor to ask my opinion about the utility of erecting an
observatory at Philadelphia, I should then be enabled to speak out, being always a
well-wisher to the promotion of science. You did not distinguish whether the times

of your observations were apparent or mean time.
Iam, your most humble servant,

N. MASKELYNE.

Rev. Dr. EWING,

No. 25 Ludgate street.

In this connection mention should be made of the extended astronom-
ical work done from 1763 to 1767, by Charles Mason, an assistant of
Maskeiyne, and Jeremiah Dixon, while surveying the boundary line
between Pennsylvania and Maryland, and especially of the successful
measurement by them of a meridian of latitude. Mason was a man of
high scientific standing, but, though he became a citizen of Philadelphia,
where he died in 1787, little is known of him beyond the record of his
scientific work. He had been one of the observers of a transit of Venus
at the Cape of Good Hope in 1761, and it was no doubt he who inspired
the American Philosophical Society to its effort in 1769.

Another event in the Adams Administration was the beginning of the
National Botanic Garden. ‘The foundation of such an institution was
one of the earliest of the projects for the improvement of the capital.
Washington decided that it should be closely connected with the
Report of U. S. National Museum, 1897. Part Il. PLATE 61.

)

c Le. Ce oe Ceety a 2 L¢ Le Z L2 Ot,
a.
National Scientific and Educational Institutions. aE

National University, on the site now occupied by the National Observa-
tory, and stipulated that, should this site not be found available, another
spot of ground, appropriated on the early maps to a marine hospital,
might be substituted. The Columbian Institute, already referred to,
had begun the formation of an arboretum as early as 1822, and in 1829
applied unsuccessfully to Congress for an appropriation to reimburse it
for its expenditures. ‘There was, however, no definite foundation until
1852, when the numerous living plants which had been brought back by
the Wilkes Exploring Expedition in the Pacific, and which had for
several years been kept in greenhouses adjoining the Patent Office, in
which the natural-history collections of the expedition were kept, were
removed to the present site of the Botanical Garden on the south side of
Pennsylvania avenue just west of the Capitol. This garden was first
under the direction of Mr. W. D. Brackenridge, who had been the horti-
culturist of the Wilkes Expedition. Mr. Brackenridge was succeeded by
Mr. William R. Smith, a pupil of the Kew Botanical Garden, who has since
been in charge of the establishment, and through whose industry it has
been developed into a most creditable institution, which, it is hoped,
may in time have an opportunity to exhibit its merits in a more suitable
and less crowded locality.

Under Jackson, from 1829 to 1837, notwithstanding the remarkable
commercial prosperity and an almost equal advance in literature, science
did not prosper, and of actual progress there is little to record. ‘The
Coast Survey was reorganized under its original Superintendent, Hassler,
in 1832, and Featherstonehaugh, an English geologist, made, in 1834,
a reconnoissance in the elevated region between the Missouri and the
Red River.

Van Buren’s Administration, which began in 1837 and ended in 1841,
presents more points of interest, for although the country was in a state
of financial depression, his Cabinet was composed of extremely liberal
and public-spirited men. Poinsett as Secretary of War, Kennedy as Sec-
retary of the Navy, and other public men did much to promote science.

The United States Exploring Expedition was sent out under Captain
Charles Wilkes, on a voyage of circumnavigation. Although published
in an extremely limited edition, the magnificent volumes of its report
are among the classics of scientific exploration.

The Wilkes Expedition was the first of the series of naval explora-
tions which have contributed largely to science—Lynch’s Dead Sea
I{xpedition, Gilliss’s Naval Astronomical Expedition to Chile, Herndon
and Gibbons’s Exploration of the Valley of the Amazons, Page’s Para-
guay Expedition, the Cruise of the Dolphin, Perry’s Japan Expedition,
Rogers’s North Pacific Exploring Expedition, and the various expedi-
tions made under the Hydrographic Office and the Coast Survey.

In 1840 two important national societies were founded—the National
Institution for the Promotion of Science, and the American Society of
Geologists and Naturalists—the one an association with a great mem-
212 Memortal of George Brown Goode.

bership, scientific and otherwise, including a large number of Govern-
ment officials; the other composed exclusively of professional naturalists.

The purpose of each was the advancement of the scientific interests of
the nation, which seemed more likely to receive substantial aid now that
the money bequeathed by Smithson was lying in the Treasury vaults,
waiting to be used.

The National Institution under the leadership of Joel R. Poinsett, of
South Carolina, then Secretary of War, assisted by General J. J. Abert,
F. A. Markoe, and others, had a short but brilliant career, which endured
until the close of the Tyler Administration, and had an important influ-
ence on public opinion, bringing about in the minds of the people and
of Congress a disposition to make proper use of the Smithson bequest,
and which also did much to prepare the way for the National Museum.
The extensive collections of the National Institution, and those of the
Wilkes Expedition and other Government surveys were in time merged
with those of the Smithsonian Institution, and having been greatly
increased at the close of the Centennial Exposition, began in 1879 to
receive substantial support from Congress.

The Society of Geologists was not so prominent at the time, but it
has had a longer history, for in 1850 it became the American Association
for the Advancement of Science. Although it dated its origin from
1840, it was essentially a revival and continuation of the old American
Geological Society, organized September 6, 1819, in the philosophical
room of Yale College, and in its day a most important body. Its mem-
bers, following European usage, appended to their names the symbols
M. A. G. S., and among them were many distinguished men, for at
that time almost every one who studied any other branch of science
cultivated geology also.

The American Association prepared the way for the National Acad-
emy of Sciences, which was established by Congress in 1863, having
for its first president Alexander Dallas Bache, who in his presidential
address at the second meeting of the American Association, twelve years
before, had pointed out the fact that ‘‘an institution of science supple-
mentary to existing ones is much needed to guide public action in ref-
erence to scientific matters,’’* and whose personal influence was very
potent in bringing that institution into existence. In advocating before
Congress the plan for the National Academy of Sciences, Senator Sum-
ner avowedly followed the lead of Joel Barlow, the projector of the
National Institution in 1806.°

lene

«Proceedings of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, 1851,
pp. 6, 48.

2’The idea of an Academy of Sciences with unlocalized membership and, like the
Royal Society and the French Academy, holding advisory relations with the General
Government, appears to have been present in the minds of many of the early states-
men. Washington, in his project for a great national university, doubtless intended
to include everything of this kind. Joel Barlow and Thomas Jefferson at the begin-

a a a ee ee ee
National Scientific and I:ducational Institutions. 313

The system of national scientific organizations thus inaugurated is
still expanding. Within the past few years there have sprung into
existence a considerable number of learned societies devoted to special
subjects, usually with unlocalized membership, and holding meetings
from year to year in different cities. Among these are those named
below:

The American Anatomical Society. The American Oriental Society.

The American Dialect Society. The American Ornithologists’ Union.

The American Folk-lore Society. The American Philological Association.

The American Geographical Society (of |The American Physiological Society.
New York) and the National Geo- | The American Society of Naturalists.

graphic Society (of Washington). The American Society for Psychical Re-
The American Geological Society. search.

The American Historical Association. The Archeeological Institute of America.

The American Institute of Mining En- | The Botanical Club of the American
gineers. | Association.

The American Meteorological Society. The Franklin Institute.

The American Metrological Society.

That the organization of such societies has been so long delayed was
perhaps due to the fact that during the first six decades of the century
the number of scientific investigators was comparatively small, and
scientific work of original character was confined to a few of the large
cities, so that local organizations, supplemented by the annual summer
meetings of the American Association for the Advancement of Science,
answered all needs. Since the close of the civil war, and of the period
of ten years which elapsed before our country was restored to commercial
prosperity, and indeed before it had begun to fully feel the effects of the
great scientific renaissance which originated in 1859 with the publication
of Darwin’s. Origin of Species, there has been a great increase in the
number of persons whose time is chiefly devoted to original scientific
work.

Nothing has contributed so materially to this state of affairs as the
passage by Congress in 1862 of the bill, introduced by the Hon. Justin
S. Morrill, of Vermont, to establish scientific and industrial educational
institutions in every State, supplemented in 1887 by the Hatch bill for
the founding of the agricultural experiment stations.’ The movement
was at first unpopular among American educators, but after a quarter of

ning of the century were engaged in correspondence ‘‘about learned societies,
universities, and public instruction.’? John Adams ina letter to Cutler, dated Quincy,
May I, 1802, referred to a scheme for the establishment of a national academy of
arts and sciences, in which Mitchill, of New York, was interested, and which was to
come up for discussion at a meeting in that city in the following month. (Life of
Manasseh Cutler, IT, p. 87.)

"See Appendix D, and also A. C. True’s A Brief Account of the Experiment
Station Movement in the United States, United States Department of Agriculture,
Experiment Station Bulletin No. 1, 1889, pp. 73-78.
314 Memortal of George Brown Goode.

a century of trial the land-grant college system has not only demon-
strated its right to exist, but is by many regarded as forming one of the
chief strongholds of our national scientific prosperity.’

One of the most important effects of the movement has been to stimulate
the establishment of State scientific schools and universities, and every
one of the forty-two Commonwealths has already a university or a college
performing, or intended to perform, university functions.

It is worthy of remark that with six exceptions every State has in less
than twenty years of its admission had a State college or university of
its own. Only twelve have delayed more than ten years, and fifteen
have come into the Union already equipped. ‘Ten of these were colonies
and original States. All but one of the remainder were those admitted
in 1889, for each of our four new States was provided with the nucleus
of a State university before it sought admission to the Union. ‘Twenty-
eight of the State and Territorial universities had their origin in land
grants from the General Government other than those for agricultural
and mechanical colleges.’

The completeness of the State system of scientific educational institu-
tions is in marked contrast with that of the scientific societies in the
same States, organized by the direct action of the people rather than by
government.

Academies of science bearing the names of the States of our confedera-
tion and often sanctioned by their laws, may be regarded as in some sense
national. Although nearly all of our States have historical societies, only
twelve of the forty-two have academies of science, or organizations which
are their equivalent. That there should be in 1889 thirty States with-
out academies of science, and fourteen States and Territories in which

"The following statements were made in a report of the committee of the House
of Representatives, March 3, 1886:

The act appropriating script to the amount of 30,000 acres for eacn Senator and
Representative in Congress for the endowment of colleges for the benefit of agricul-
ture and the mechanic arts, which was passed in 1862, has been fruitful. Some of
the States endowed single colleges while others divided the gift between two or
three. ‘There were 17,430,000 acres of script and land granted, and the fund arising
from their sales is $7,545,405. ‘This has been increased by gifts from the States and
from benevolent individuals of grounds, buildings, and apparatus to the amount of
$5,000,000 more. And the last reports show that these colleges employed more than
400 professors, and had under instruction more than 4,000 students. This donation
of the public funds has been eminently profitable for the Government and the country.
Many thousands of young men educated in science have already gone out from their
colleges to engage in the practical duties of life, and the provision is made for
sending out a continued succession of these for all future time. And as science is
not limited by State boundaries, it makes but little difference for the common good
which of these institutions or States these graduates come from; their attainments
are for the common good.

2 See Appendix E, and also F. W. Blackmar’s History of Federal and State Aid to
Higher Education, etc., Washington, 1890.

Report of U. S. National Museum, 1897. Part Il. PLATE 62.

National Scientific and educational /nstitutions. 255

there are no scientific societies of any description whatever, is a note-
worthy fact.’

During Van Buren’s Presidency, the Department of Agriculture had
its formal beginning.

The chief promoter of this idea was Henry L. Ellsworth, of Connect-
icut, Commissioner of Patents, whose efforts culminated twenty-six years
later in the establishment of a department, and, after another period of
twenty-six years, 1n the elevation of the head of that Department to the
dignity of a Cabinet officer. Ellsworth began work by distributing seeds
and plants for experimental culture, acquiring these without expense,
and sending them out under the franks of friendly Congressmen. After
three years (in 1839) Congress recognized the value of the work in this
direction by appropriating $1,000 from the Patent Office fund to enable
him to collect and distribute seeds, to collect agricultural statistics, and to
make agricultural investigations. Appointed by Jackson in 1836, Ells-
worth served through the two successive terms of Van Buren and Tyler,
and in his nine years of official work his devotion to the interests of agri-
culture produced excellent results, and placed the service on a firm
foundation. “Though Newton was in name the first Commissioner of
Agriculture, Ellsworth deserves tobe kept in memory as the real founder
of the Department.

The appropriations at first were insignificant, and occasionally; as in
1841, 1842, and 1846, Congress seems to have forgotten to make any
provision whatever for the work, which consequently went forward under
difficulties. In 1853 the first appropriation directly for agriculture was
made, in 1855 the whole amount up to that time withdrawn for this pur-
pose from the Patent Office fund was reimbursed, and from that time on
the money grants became yearly larger, and the work was allowed slowly
to expand. ‘The seed work increased, and in 1856 a propagating garden

' The following is a list of those already in existence:
State academies of science, etc., 18go

California.—The California Academy of Sciences, San Francisco, 1854.

Columbia.—The Affiliated Scientific Societies of Washington City; the Philo-
sophical Society, 1871; the Anthropological Society, 1879; the Biological
Society, 1880; the Chemical Society, 1889; the National Geographic Society,
1888.

Connecticut.—The Connecticut Academy of Arts and Sciences, 1799.

/ndiana.—'The Indiana Academy of Sciences, 1885.

Lowa.—The Iowa Academy of Sciences, Iowa City, 1875:

Kansas.—The Kansas Academy of Science, Topeka, 1868.

Maryland.—The Maryland Academy of Sciences, Baltimore, 1822.

Massachusetts.—The American Academy of Arts and Sciences, Boston, 1780.

Minnesota.—The Minnesota Academy of Natural Sciences, Minneapolis, 1873.

Missouri.—The St. Louis Academy of Science, St. Louis, 1857.

New York.—The New York Academy of Science, New York City, 1817.

Pennsylvania.—The American Philosophical Society, Philadelphia, 1743.

Wisconsin,—Wisconsin Academy of Arts, Science, and Letters, Madison, 1870.
216 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

was begun. The Agricultural Report, which began in 1841, and was
until 1862 printed as a part of that of the Patent Office, became yearly
more extensive, and showed a general average annual growth in value.
In 1854 work in economic entomology began, with the appointment
of Townend Glover to investigate and report upon the habits of
insects injurious and beneficial to agriculture. In 1855 the chemical and
botanical divisions were inaugurated.

David P. Holloway, of Indiana, the thirteenth Commissioner of Pat-
ents, was instrumental in effecting a most important reform in the scien-
tific administration of the Government. In his first annual report, made
in January, 1862, he advocated enthusiastically the creation of a depart-
ment of the productive arts, to be charged with the care of agriculture
and all the other industrial interests of the country, and he was so far
successful that on May 15 Congress established the Department of Agri-
culture. ‘The first Commissioner was Isaac Newton, who had been for
a year or more superintendent of the agricultural division of the Patent
Office. From 1862 to 1889 there were six Commissioners: Newton
(1862-1867), Capron (1867-1871), Watts (1871-1877), Le Duc (1877-
1881), Loring (1881-1885), and Colman (1885-1889), and under the
administration of each important advances were made, and the value of
the work became yearly greater. Buildings were erected, a chemical
laboratory established, the departments of animal industry, economic
ornithology and mammalogy, pomology, vegetable pathology, silk cul-
ture, microscopic, forestry, and experiment stations were added, and the
system of publications greatly extended. The Department, as now
organized, is one of the most vigorous of our national scientific institu-
tions, and with its powerful staff and close affiliations with the forty-six
State agricultural experiment stations, manned as they are by nearly
four hundred trained investigators, it has possibilities for the future
which can scarcely be overestimated.*

The term of the ninth President was too short to afford matter for

‘The first agricultural experiment station under that specific designation in
the United States was established at Middletown, Connecticut, in 1875, by the joint
action of Mr. Orange Judd, the trustees of the university at Middletown, and the
State legislature, with Professor W. O. Atwater as director, and was located in the
Orange Judd Hall of Natural Science. ‘The example was speedily followed else-
where, so that in 1880 there were four, and in 1886 some seventeen of these institu-
tions in fourteen States. ‘The appropriation by Congress of $15,000 per annum to
each of the States and Territories which have established agricultural colleges, or
agricultural departments of colleges, has led to the establishment of new stations or
the increased development of stations previously established under State authority,
so that there are to-day forty-six stations in the United States. Several of these
have substations working under their management. Every State has at least one
station, several have two, one has three, and Dakota has set the Territories an exam-
ple by establishing one within her boundaries.

These forty-six stations employ nearly four hundred men in the prosecution of
experimental inquiry. The appropriation by the United States Government for the
current year, for them and for the Office of Experiment Stations in this Department,
National Scientific and Educational Institutions. ong,

comment. It should be mentioned, however, that General Harrison pub-
lished in Cincinnati, in 1838, A Discourse on the Aborigines of the
Valley of the Ohio, and was the only President, except Jefferson and
John Quincy Adams, who has ever produced a treatise upon a scientific
theme.

In 1841 John Tyler, of Virginia, became President. His period of
administration was a stormy one, and the atmosphere of Washington at
that time was not favorable for scientific progress. During this Admin-
istration, however, important reforms took place in the organization of
the Navy, which resulted in great benefit to science. ‘These were largely
the result of the interest of Hon. A. P. Upshur, Secretary of the Navy,
at whose instance President Tyler abolished the existing Board of Naval
Commissioners and vested the authority formerly exercised by them in
separate bureaus. To many of the pressing necessities for reform of the
service, Lieutenant Maury had called attention in his essays, published
in the Southern Literary Messenger, under the title of Scraps from a
Lucky Bag, and over the signature of Harry Bluff. As a result of this
movement, experiments in applying steam to war vessels were actively
prosecuted, and the first bill was passed for the establishment at Annap-
olis of the United States Naval Academy, finally accomplished in 1845,
and a little later (in 1848) the position of the professors of mathematics
in the Navy was dignified and improved, and their numbers limited, with
manifest advantage to the scientific service of the Government.’

Indirectly, the reorganization of the Navy had a powerful influence in
the development of the Coast Survey, which was reorganized in 1843-44,
with Alexander Dallas Bache as its superintendent, for this new system
afforded ample means to that organization for ascertaining the topog-
raphy of this coast and making contributions to the science of ocean
physics.

Another enterprise was the sending of the Frémont exploring expedi-
tion to California and Oregon. It is interesting to know that Captain

sum total of about $725,000 given from public funds the present year for the support
of agricultural experiment stations in the United States.

Of all the scientific enterprises which the Government has undertaken, [wrote
Secretary Colman,] scarcely any other has impressed its value upon the people
and their representatives in the State and national legislatures so speedily and so
strongly as this. The rapid growth of an enterprise for elevating agriculture by the
aid of science, its espousal by the United States Government, its development to its
present dimensions in the short period of fourteen years, and, finally, the favor with
which it is received by the public at large, are a striking illustration of the apprecia-
tion on the part of the American people of the wisdom and the usefulness of calling
the highest science to the aid of the arts and industries of life.

‘The names of W. A. Chauvenet, J. H. C. Coffin, Mordecai Yarnall, Joseph Win-
lock, Simon Newcomb, Asaph Hall, William Harkness, and J. R. Eastman are a few
of those to be found on this list of astronomers and mathematicians.
318 Memortal of George Brown Goode.

nant protests of the topographical engineers, who insisted that a gradu-
ate of West Point should be chosen.*

The final establishment of the Naval Gbservatory took place also at
this time. The history of this enterprise from the scientific standpoint,
has already been discussed, but it may be well to note that it derived its
chief political support from Mr. Upshur, then Secretary of the Navy.’

‘The secret history of this appointment is told as follows by Doctor Silas Reed, of
Boston, in Lyon G. Tyler’s Letters and Times of the Tylers (II, p. 696):

I called upon Mr, Tyler the next day, and found him about as well pleased over
the result as I was, as it constituted a triumph that had never been achieved before
(nor since), as shown by the annals of the Senate. While in this: pleasant mood,
the President asked me if I could not suggest some means by which he might soften
the asperities of Senator Benton towards him and his administration. In an instant
the thought flashed through my mind as to how he could best accomplish his wish.
I said, ‘‘ You have it in your power to touch his heart through his domestic affec-
tions. Six months ago his pride was humbled by the marriage of his highly edu-
cated daughter, Jessie, to a mere lieutenant of the United States engineer corps,
and he refused them his house. I have just learned that lately he invited them to
return to his home, and know they have done so. Now you have a chance to glad-
den the senator’s pride, and by so doing serve both yourself and the country, by
taking Lieutenant Frémont by the hand, and giving him a chance to rise in the
world by appointing him to head an expedition to explore the Rocky Mountains
and some part of the Pacific coast.”’

Mr. Tyler thought it might stir an excitement with the higher grade officers of
the engineer corps (as it did), and that he might not be fully competent to execute
the high duties entrusted to him. I replied that these objections need not prevent
his appointment, for Lieutenant Frémont had spent the last two years aiding the
eminent French scientist, Nicolet in taking the hydrography of the valley of the
Mississippi, and’ must be familiar with all instruments and modes of using them in
such an expedition. And even if he should not prove judicious in selecting scientific
men suitable for that part of his corps, he would have the able assistance of Colonel
Benton and his talented wife to fall back upon; and that Senator Benton, on the
return of Mr. Frémont, would receive, examine, and present his report to the Senate,
and take great pride in making an eloquent speech of it (as he did), and thus cause

the American reader to examine and well consider its instructive contents—all of-

which events took place, and the report of his first, if not his second, expedition
gained sufficient notoriety to insure its republication in Germany.

At the close of our interview, the President, in his most earnest manner, said: ‘I
will at once appoint Lieutenant Frémont to the head of such an expedition, and
start him off this spring, so that the country may know as soon as possible what to
say and believe of that vast and unknown region, and I shall learn how much effort
to expend in striving to acquire it by purchase from Mexico by the time that Texas
can be annexed.”’

Frémont made ready to start from St. Louis with his expedition as soon as there
was green grass to subsist his animals upon, with an outfit of fifty to sixty men,
after leaving Independence, Missouri, he moved up the Platte river and its north
branches to the old ‘‘South Pass,’’ and thence to the head waters of Snake (or Lewis)
river, and down it and the Columbia river to Astoria, thus avoiding Mexican
Territory, but kept close along its northern border until after he entered Oregon
Territory.

2 Letters and Times of the Tylers, by Lyon Gardner Tyler, II, p. 387.
Report of

Part Il

PLATE

63.
National Scientific and Educational Institutions. 319

To this period belongs also the promotion of experiments with the
electric telegraph by our Government. The line from Washington to
Baltimore was erected by means of an appropriation of $30,000, the pas-
sage of which was warmly urged by the President, who fifteen years
later wrote the following letter, full of historical reminiscences:

SHERWOOD Forest, September sr, 1858.
To his Honor the mayor,and to the Honorable the Common Council of the City of

New York:

GENTLEMEN : In consequence of my absence from this place, I did not receive
until to-day your polite invitation to be present at the festivities of to-day, and the
municipal dinner to be given to Cyrus W. Field, Esq., and others at the Metropoli-
tan Hotel to-morrow, in commemoration of the laying of the ‘‘ Atlantic Cable.’’
To be present, therefore, at the time appointed is a thing impossible. All that I can
do is to express my cordial concurrence with you in according all praise to those
through whose indomitable energy this great work has been accomplished.

When, in 1843, a modest and retired gentleman, the favored child of science,
called upon me at the executive mansion, to obtain from me some assurance of my
cooperation with him in procuring from Congress a small appropriation to enable
him to test his great invention; and when at an after-day I had the satisfaction of
placing my signature in approval of the act making an appropriation of $30,000 to
enable him to connect Washington with Baltimore by his telegraph wire; and when
at a still later day I had the pleasure, from the basement of the Capitol, to exchange
greetings with the Chief-Justice of the United States, who was at the Baltimore end
of the line, I confess that it had not entered my mind that not only was lightning
to become the messenger of thought over continents of dry lands, but that the same
all pervading agent was to descend into the depths of the ocean, far below the habi-
tations of living things, and over those fathomless depths to convey, almost in the
twinkling of an eye, tidings from nation to nation, and continent to continent. ‘To
the great inventor of this, the greatest invention, is due the laurel wreath that can
. neyer wither, and to those that have given it a habitation and a home in the waters
of the great deep all praise is due.

With sentiments of high consideration, I have the honor to be, most respectfully
and truly yours, etc.,

JOHN TYLER.

President Polk served from 1845 to 1849. During this period was
organized the Smithsonian Institution, which, though it bears the name
of a private citizen and a foreigner, has been for nearly half a century
one of the principal rallying points of the scientific workers of America.
It has also been intimately connected with very many of the most impor-
tant scientific undertakings of the Government.

Many wise and enlightened scholars have given to the Smithsonian
Institution the best years of their lives. and some of the most eminent
scientific men of our country have passed their entire lifetime in work
for its success. Its publications, six hundred and seventy in number,
which when combined make up over one hundred dignified volumes, are
to be found in every important library in the world, and some of them,
itis ~~ *9 say, on the working table of every scientific investigator in

vho can read English.
320 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

Through these books, through the reputation of the men who have
worked for it and through it, and through the good accomplished by its
system of international exchange, by means of which within the past
thirty-eight years 1,262,114 packages of books and other scientific and
literary materials have been distributed to every region of the earth, it
has acquired a reputation at least as far-reaching as that of any other
institution of learning in the world.

No one has been able to show why Smithson selected the United States
as the seat of his foundation. He had no acquaintances in America, nor
does he appear to have had any books relating to America except two.
Rhees quotes from one of these, Travels through North America, by
Isaac Weld, secretary of the Royal Society, a paragraph concerning
Washington, then a small town of five thousand inhabitants, in which it
is predicted that “‘the Federal city, as soon as navigation is perfected,
will increase most rapidly, and that at a future day, if the affairs of the
United States go onas prosperously as they have done, it will become
the grand emporium of the West, and rival in magnitude and splendor
the cities of the old world.”’

Inspired by a belief in the future greatness of the new nation, realiz-
ing that while the needs of England were well met by existing organiza-
tions such as would not be likely to spring up for many years in a new,
poor, and growing country, he founded in the new England an institu-
tion of learning, the civilizing power of which has been of incalculable
value. Who can attempt to say what the condition of the United
States would have been to-day without this bequest?

In the words of John Quincy Adams:

Of all the foundations of establishments for pious or charitable uses which ever
signalized the spirit of the age, or the comprehensive beneficence of the founder,
none can be named more deserving the approbation of mankind,

The most important service by far which the Smithsonian Institution
has rendered to the nation from year to year since 1846—intangible, but

none the less appreciable—has been its constant cooperation with the
Government, public institutions, and individuals in every enterprise,
scientific or educational, which needed its advice, support, or aid from its
resources.

‘There have been, however, material results of its activities, the extent
of which can not fail to impress anyone who will look at them; the most
important of these are the library and the museum, which have grown
up under its fostering care.

The library has been accumulated without aid from the Treasury of
the United States; it has, in fact, been the result of an extensive system
of exchanges, the publications of the institution having been used to
obtain similar publications from institutions of learning in all parts of
the world.
National Scientific and F-ducational Institutions. 321

In return for its own publications the Institution has received the great
collection of books which form its library.

This library, consisting of more than a quarter of a million volumes
and parts of volumes, has for over twenty years been deposited at the
Capitol as a portion of the Congressional Library, and is constantly
being increased. In the last fiscal year nineteen thousand titles were
thus added to the national collection of books.

Chiefly through its exchange system the Smithsonian had, in 1865,
accumulated about forty thousand volumes, largely publications of
learned societies, containing the record of the actual progress of the
world in all that pertains to the mental and physical development of the
human family, and affording the means of tracing the history of at least
every branch of positive science since the days of revival of letters until
the present time.

The books, in many cases presents from old European libraries, and
not to be obtained by purchase, formed even then one of the best collec-
tions of the kind in the world.

The danger incurred from the fire of that year, and the fact that the
greater portion of these volumes, being unbound and crowded into insuf-
ficient space, could not be readily consulted, while the expense to be
incurred for this binding, enlarged room, and other purposes connected
with their use threatened to grow beyond the means of the Institution,
appear to have been the moving causes which determined the regents to
accept an arrangement by which Congress was to place the Smithsonian
library with its own in the Capitol, subject to the right of the Regents
to withdraw the books on paying the charges of binding, ete. Owing
to the same causes (which have affected the Library of Congress itself)
these principal conditions, except as regards their custody in a fireproof
building, have never been fulfilled.

The books are still deposited chiefly in the Capitol, but though they
have now increased from 40,000 to fully 250,000 volumes and parts of
volumes, forming one of the most valuable collections of the kind in
existence, they not only remain unbound, but in a far more crowded and
inaccessible condition than they were before the transfer. It is hardly
necessary to add that these facts are deplored by no one more than by
the Librarian of Congress.

The purchasing power of the publications of the Institution, when
offered in exchange, is far greater than that of money, and its benefit is
exerted chiefly in behalf of the National Library, and also, to a consid-
erable extent, in behalf of the National Museum.

The amount expended during the past forty years from the private
fund of the Institution in the publication of books for gratuitous distri-
bution has been $350,000, a sum nearly half as great as the original
Smithson bequest.

NAT MUS 97, PT 2

21
322 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

These publications have had their influence for good in many ways,
but, in addition to this, a library much more than equal in value to the
outlay has, through their buying power, come into the possession of the
nation.

In addition to all this, a large amount of material has been acquired
for the Museum by direct expenditure from the private fund of the
Smithsonian Institution. ‘The value of the collections thus acquired is
estimated to be more than equal to the whole amount of the Smithsonian
bequest.

The early history of the Museum was much like that of the library.
It was not until 1858 that it became the authorized depository of the
scientific collections of the Government, and it was not until after 1876
that it was officially recognized as the National Museum of the United
States.

But for the provident forethought of the organizers of the Smithso-
nian Institution the United States would probably still be without even
a reputable nucleus for a national museum or a scientific library.

For nearly half a century the Institution has been the object of the
watchful care of many of America’s most enlightened public men. Vice-
Presidents Fillmore and Dallas, and Roger B. Taney, Salmon P. Chase,
Morrison R. Waite, and Melville W. Fuller, Chief Justices of the United
States, have in succession occupied the Chancellor’s chair. George Ban-
croft, John C. Breckinridge, Lewis Cass, Rufus Choate, Samuel 5. Cox,
Schuyler Colfax, Garrett Davis, Jefferson Davis, Stephen A. Douglas,
William H. English, William P. Fessenden, James A. Garfield, Hanni-
bal Hamlin, Henry W. Hilliard, George P. Marsh, James M. Mason,
Justin S. Morrill, Robert Dale Owen, James A. Pearce, William C.
Preston, Richard Rush, General W.’T. Sherman, Lyman Trumbull, and
William A. Wheeler have been at various times leaders in the delibera-
tions of the Board of Regents.

The representatives of science on the Board, Professor Agassiz, Pro-
fessor Bache, Professor Coppee, Professor Dana, General Delafield, Pro-
fessor Felton, Professor Gray, Professor Mclean, General Meigs, Presi-
dent Porter, General Totten, and Dr. Welling, have usually held office
for long periods of years, and have given to its affairs the most careful
attention and thought.

The relation of the Smithsonian Institution to the Government has
been unique and unparalleled elsewhere. No one will question the asser-
tion that the results of its work have been far wider than those which its
annual reports have ever attempted to show forth.

During the administration of Van Buren and the succeeding ones,
governmental science, stimulated by Bache, Henry, and Maury, scien-
tific administrators of a new and more vigorous type than had been pre-
viously known in Washington, rapidly advanced, and prior to 1861 the
institutions then existing had made material progress.
Part Il.

ELIPHALET NoTT.

PLATE 64.

on

+

ee en

3
apo

oy
ee

SEONG a ek a atm sane neta © ny ae Oe

’

ai
ro  aalart

if ve a

'
Nattonal Scientific and Educational Institutions. 323

Those of more recent growth, such as the Army Medical Museum,
founded in 1862 ;' the Bureau of Education, founded in 1867 ;° the Fish
Commission, founded in 1870;* the Bureau of Ethnology, founded in 1879,‘
although not less important than many of those already discussed, are
so recent in origin that the events connected with their development have

not passed into the domain of history.
The material results of the scientific work of the Government during

the past ten years undoubtedly surpassin extent all that had been accom-
plished during the previous hundred years of the independent existence
of the nation. With this recent period the present paper has no concern,
for it has been written from the standpoint of Carlyle, who, in Sartor
Resartus, states his belief that ‘‘in every phenomenon the beginning
remains always the most notable moment.’’

It is nevertheless very encouraging to be assured that the attitude of

ions

our Government toward scientific and educational enterprises is every
year becoming more and more in harmony with the hopes of the founders
of our Republic, and in accord with the views of such men as Washing-
ton, Franklin, Jefferson, John Adams, Madison, Monroe, John Quincy
Adams, Gallatin, and Rush.

It is also encouraging to know that the national attitude toward science
is the subject of constant approving comment in Europe. Perhaps the
most significant recent utterance was that of Sir Lyon Playfair in his
address before the British Association for the Advancement of Science,
at the Aberdeen meeting. He said:

On September 14, 1859, I sat on this platform and listened to the eloquent address
and wise counsel of the Prince Consort. At one time a member of his household,
it was my privilege to cooperate with this illustrious prince in many questions
relating to the advancement of science. I naturally, therefore, turned to his presi-
dential address to see whether I might not now continue those counsels which he
then gave with all the breadth and comprehensiveness of his masterly speeches. I
found, as I expected, a text for my own discourse in some pregnant remarks which
he made upon the relation of Science to the State. They are as follows: ‘‘We may
be justified in hoping . . . that the Legislature and the State will more and more
recognize the claims of science to their attention, so that it may no longer require
the begging-box, but speak to the State like a favored child to its parent, sure of his
paternal solicitude for its welfare; that the State will recognize in science one of its
elements of strength and prosperity, to foster which the clearest dictates of self-
interest demand.”’

This opinion, in its broadest sense, means that the relations of science to the State
should be made more intimate because the advance of science is needful to the
public weal.

"See J. S. Billings, Medical Museums, with Special Reference to the Army Med-
ical Museum at Washington. President’s address, delivered before the Congress of
American Physicians and Surgeons, September 20, 1888.

? See the eighteen annual reports of the Commissioner of Education.

3See G. Brown Goode, The Status of the United States Fish Commission in 1884,
etc., Washington, 1884.

4See the six annual reports of the Bureau, and the Smithsonian reports, 1879-1888.
324 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

The importance of promoting science as a duty of statecraft was well enough
known to the ancients, especially to the Greeks and Arabs, but it ceased to be recog-
nised in the dark ages, and was lost to sight during the revival of letters in the fif-
teenth and sixteenth centuries. Germany and France, which are now in such active
competition in promoting science, have only publicly acknowledged its national impor-
tance in recent times. Even in the last century, though France had its Lavoisier
and Germany its Leibnitz, their Governments did not know the value of science.
When the former was condemned to death in the Reign of Terror, a petition was
presented to the rulers that his life might be spared for a few weeks in order that he
might complete some important experiments, but the reply was, ‘‘The Republic has
no need of savants.’’ Earlier in the century the much-praised Frederick William of
Prussia shouted with a loud voice, during a graduation ceremony in the University
of Frankfort, ‘‘An ounce of mother-wit is worth a ton of university wisdom.”’
Both France and Germany are now ashamed of these utterances of their rulers, and
make energetic efforts to advance science with the aid of their national resources.
More remarkable is it to see a young nation like the United States reserving large tracts
of its national lands for the promotion of scientific education. In some respects this
young country is in advance of all European nations in joining science to its admin-
istrative offices. Its scientific publications . . . . are anexample to other Goy-
ernments. The Minister of Agriculture is surrounded with a staff of botanists and
chemists. The Home Secretary is aided by a special Scientific Commission to inves-
tigate the habits, migrations, and food of fishes, and the latter has at his disposal
two specially-constructed steamers of large tonnage.

In the United Kingdom we are just beginning to understand the wisdom of Wash-
ington’s farewell address to his countrymen, when he said: ‘‘ Promote as an object
of primary importance institutions for the general diffusion of knowledge. In pro-
portion as the structure of a government gives force to public opinion, it is essential
that public opinion should be enlightened.”

APPENDIX AS
PLAN OF A FEDERAL UNIVERSITY.

[From the Pennsylvania Gazette, 1788. Quoted in ak aes Centinel, Saturday, Novem-
ber 29, 1788.

‘‘Your government cannot be executed. It is too extensive for a republick. It
is contrary to the habits of the people,’’ say the enemies of the Constitution of the
United States. However opposite to the opinions and wishes of a majority of the
citizens of the United States these declarations and predictions may be, they will
certainly come to pass, unless the people are prepared for our new form of govern-
ment, by an education adapted to the new and peculiar situation of our country.—
To effect this great and necessary work, let one of the first acts of the new Congress
be, to establish within the district to be allotted for them, a FEDERAI, UNIVERSITY
into which the youth of the United States shall be received after they have finished
their studies, and taken degrees in the -colleges of their respective States. In this
University let those branches of literature only be taught, which are calculated to
prepare our youth for civil and publick life. These branches should be taught by
means of lectures, and the following arts and sciences should be the subject of them:

1. The principles and forms of government, applied in a particular manner to the
explanation of every part of the constitution and laws of the United States, together
with the laws of nature and nations, which last should include everything that relates
to peace, war, treaties, ambassadors, and the like.

|
|
|
National Scientific and Educational Institutions. 325

2. History, both ancient and modern, and chronology.

3. Agriculture in all its numerous and extensive branches.

4. The principles and practice of manufactures.

5. The history, principles, objects, and channels of commerce.

6. Those parts of mathematicks which are necessary to the division of property,
to finance, and to the principles and practice of war—for there is too much reason to
fear that war will continue, for some time to come, to be the unchristian mode of
deciding disputes between christian nations,

7. Those parts of natural philosophy and chemistry, which admit of an application
to agriculture, manufacture, commerce, and war.

8. Natural history, which includes the history of animals, veget tables, and fossils.
‘To render instruction in these branches of science easy, it will be necessary to estab-
lish a museum, as also a garden, in which not only all the shrubs, etc., but all the
forest trees of the United States should be cultivated. The great Linnzeus, of Upsal
enlarged the commerce of Sweden, by his discoveries in natural history. He once
saved the Swedish navy by finding out the time in which a worm laid its eggs, and
recommending the immersion of the timber, of which the ships were built, at that
season wholly under water. So great were the services this illustrious naturalist
rendered his country by the application of his knowledge to agriculture, manufac-
tures, and commerce, that the present King of Sweden pronounced an eulogium upon
him from his throne, soon after his death.

9. Philology, which should include, besides rhetorick and criticism, lectures upon
the construction and pronunciation of the English language. Instruction in this
branch of literature will become the more necessary in America, as our intercourse
must soon cease with the bar, the stage, and the pulpits of Great Britain, from whence
we receive our knowledge of the pronunciation of the Englishlanguage. Even modern
English books should cease to be the models of stile in the United States. The
present is the age of simplicity in writing in America. The turgid stile of Johnson—
the purple glare of Gibbon, and even the studied and thicksct metaphours of Junius,
are all equally unnatural, and should not be admitted into our country. The cultiva-
tion and perfection of our language becomes a matter of consequence when viewed
in another light. It will probably be spoken by more people in the course of two or
three centuries, than ever spoke any one language at one time since the creation
of the world. When we consider the influence which the prevalence of only fwo
languages, viz, the English and the Spanish, in the extensive fegions of North and
South America, will have upon manners, commerce, knowledge, and civilization,
scenes of human happiness and glory open before us, which elude from their magni-
tude the utmost grasp of the human understanding.

to. The German and French languages should be taught in this University. The
many excellent books which are written in both these languages upon all subjects,
more especially upon those which relate to the advancement of national improve-
ments of all kinds, will render a knowledge of them an essential part of the educa-
tion of a legislator of the United States.

All those athletick and manly exercises should likewise be taught in the Uni-
versity, which are calculated to impart health, strength, and elegance to the human
body.

To render the instruction of our youth as easy and extensive as possible in several
of the above-mentioned branches of literature, let four young men of good education
and active minds be sent abroad at the publick expense, to collect and transmit to the
professors of the said branches all the improvements that are daily made in Europe,
in agriculture, manufactures, and commerce, and in the arts of war and practical
government. ‘This measure is rendered the more necessary from the distance of the
United States from Europe, by which means the rays of knowledge strike the United
States so partially, that they can be brought to a useful focus, only by employing suit-
3,26 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

able persons to collect and transmit them to our country. It is inthis manner that the
northern nations of Europe have imported so much knowledge from their southern
neighbors, that the history of the agriculture, manufactures, commerce, revenues,
and military art of ove of these nations will soon be alike applicable to all of them.

Besides sending four young men abroad to collect and transmit knowledge for the
benefit of our country, /wo young men of suitable capacities should be employed at
the publick expense in exploring the vegetable, mineral, and animal productions of
our country, in procuring histories and samples of each of them, and in transmitting
them to the professor of natural history. It is in consequence of the discoveries
made by young gentlemen employed for these purposes, that Sweden, Denmark, and
Russia have extended their manufactures and commerce, so as to rival in both the
oldest nations in Europe.

Let the Congress allow a liberal salary to the Principal of this University. Letit
be his business to govern the students, and to inspire them by his conversation, and
by occasional publick discourses, with federal and patriotick sentiments. Let this
Principal be a man of extensive education, liberal manners, and dignified deportment.

Let the Professors of each of the branches that have been mentioned, have a mod-
erate salary of 150 or 200 pounds a year, and let them depend upon the number of
their pupils to supply the deficiency of their maintenance from their salaries. Let
each pupil pay for each course of lectures two or three guineas.

Let the degrees conferred in this University receive a new name, that shall desig-
nate the design of an education for civil and publick life. Should this plan of a
federal University, or one like it be adopted, then will begin the golden age of the
United States. While the business of education in Europe, consists in lectures upon
the ruins of Palmyra and the antiquities of Herculaneum; or in dispute about Hebrew
points, Greek particles, or the accent and quantity of the Roman language, the youth
of America will be employed in acquiring those branches of knowledge which increase
the convenience of life, lessen human misery, improve our country, promote popula-
tion, exalt the human understanding, and establish domestick, social, and political
happiness.

Let it not be said, ‘‘that this is not the ¢z7e for such a literary and political estab-
lishment. et us first restore publick credit, by funding or paying our debts—let
us regulate our militia—let us build a navy—and let us protect and extend our com-

merce. After this, we shall have leisure and money to establish a University for the
purposes that have been mentioned.’’ This is false reasoning. We shall never restore
publick credit—regulate our militia—build a navyy—or revive our commerce, until we
remove the ignorance and prejudices, and change the habits of our citizens, and this
can never be done until we inspire them with federal principles, which can only be
effected by our young men meeting and spending two or three years together in a
national University, and afterwards disseminating their knowledge and principles
through every county, town, and village of the United States. Until this is done—
Senators and Representatives of the United States, you will undertake to make
bricks without straw. Your supposed union in Congress will be a rope of sand.
The inhabitants of Massachusetts began the business of government by establishing
the University of Cambridge, and the wisest kings in Europe have always found
their literary institutions the surest means of establishing their power, as well as of
promoting the prosperity of their people.

These hints for establishing the Constitution and happiness of the United States
upon a permanent foundation, are submitted to the friends of the federal govern-
ment, in each of the States, by a private CITIZEN OF PENNSYLANIA.
Report of U. S. National Museum, 1897. Part Il. PLATE 65.

THOMAS NUTTALL.
National Scientific and Educational Institutions. 327

APPENDIX B.

ADDRESS TO THE PEOPLE OF THE UNITED STATES, BY BENJAMIN
RUSH, M. D.,1787. /

[Reprinted from Niles’s Principles and Acts of the Revolution in America, pp. 234-236.]

There is nothing more common, than to confound the terms of American Revolu-
tion with those of the late American war. ‘The American war is over: but this is far
from being the case with the American revolution. On the contrary, nothing but
the first act of the great drama is closed. It remains yet to establish and perfect
our new forms of government; and to prepare the principles, morals, and manners
of our citizens, for these forms of government, after they are established and brought
to perfection.

The confederation, together with most of our state constitutions, were formed
under very unfavorable circumstances. We had just emerged from a corrupted
monarchy. Although we understood perfectly the principles of liberty, yet most of
us were ignorant of the forms and combinations of power in republics. Add to this,
the British army was in the heart of our country, spreading desolation wherever it
went: our resentments, of course, were awakened. We deserted the British name,
and unfortunately refused to copy some things in the administration of justice and
power, in the British government, which have made it the admiration and envy of
the world. In our opposition to monarchy, we forgot that the temple of tyranny has
two doors. We bolted one of them by proper restraints; but we left the other open,
by neglecting to guard against the effects of our own ignorance and licentiousness.
Most of the present difficulties of this country arise from the weakness and other
defects of our governments.

My business at present shall be only to suggest the defects of the confederation.
These consist—tst. In the deficiency of coercive power. 2d. Ina defect of exclusive
power to issue paper money and regulate commerce. 3d. In vesting the sovereign
power of the United States in a single legislature: and, 4th. In the too frequent
rotation of its members.

A conyention is to sit soon for the purpose of devising means of obviating part of
the two first defects that have been mentioned. But I wish they may add to their
recomendations to each state, to surrender up to congress their power of emitting
money. In this way, a uniform currency will be produced, that will facilitate trade,
and help to bind the states together. Nor will the states be deprived of large sums
of money by this means, when sudden emergencies require it; for they may always
borrow them, as they did during the war, out of the treasury of congress. Even a
loan office may be better instituted in this way, in each state than in any other.

The two last defects that have been mentioned, are not of less magnitude than the
first. Indeed, the single legislature of congress will become more dangerous, from
an increase of power, than ever. To remedy this, let the supreme federal power be
divided, like the legislatures of most of our states, into two distinct, independent
branches. Let one of them be styled the council of the states and the other the
assembly of the states. Let the first consist of a single delegate—and the second. of
two, three, or four delegates, chosen annually by each state. Let the president
be chosen annually by the joint ballot of both houses; and let him possess certain
powers, in conjunction with a privy council, especially the power of appointing
most of the officers of the United States. The officers will not only be better, when
appointed this way, but one of the principal causes of faction will be thereby removed
from congress. I apprehend this division of the power of congress will become more
necessary, as soon as they are invested with more ample powers of levying and
expending public money.

328 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

The custom of turning men out of power or office, as soon as they are qualified for
it, has been found to be absurd in practice. Is it virtuous to dismiss a general—a
physician—or even a domestic, as soon as they have acquired knowledge sufficient to
be useful to us, for the sake of increastng the number of able generals, skillful phy-
sicians—and faithful servants? Wedonot. Government is a science, and can never
be perfect in America, until we encourage men to devote not only three years, but
their whole lives to it. I believe the principal reason why so many men of abilities
object to serving in congress, is owing to their not thinking it worth while to spend
three years in acquiring a profession, which their country immediately afterwards
forbids them to follow.

There are two errors or prejudices on the subject of government in America, which
lead to the most dangerous consequences.

It is often said, ‘‘that the sovereign and all other power is seated 77 the people.”
This idea is unhappily expressed. It should be—‘‘all power is derived from the peo-
ple,’’ they possess it only on the days of their elections. After this, it is the prop-
erty of their rulers; nor can they exercise or resume it, unless it be abused. It is of
importance to circulate this idea, as it leads to order and good government.

The people of America have mistaken the meaning of the word sovereignty: hence
each state pretends to be sovereign. In Europe, it is applied only to those states
which possess the power of making war and peace—of forming treaties, and the like.
As this power belongs only to congress, they are the only sovereign power in the
United States.

We commit a similar mistake in our ideas of the word independent. No individual
state, as such, has any claim to independence. She is independent only in a union
with her sister states in congress.

To conform the principles, morals, and manners of our citizens, to our republican
forms of government, it is absolutely necessary, that knowledge of every kind should
be disseminated through every part of the United States.

For this purpose, let congress, instead of laying out a half million of dollars, in
building a federal town, appropriate only a fourth of that sum, in founding a federal
university. In this university let everything connected with government, such as
history—the law of nature and nations—the civil war—the municipal laws of our
country—and the principles of commerce—be taught by competent professors. Let
masters be employed, likewise, to teach gunnery—fortification—and everything con-
nected with defensive and offensive war. Above all, let a professor of, what is called
in the European universities, economy, be established in this federal seminary. His
business should be to unfold the principles and practice of agriculture and manu-
factures of all kind, and to enable him to make his lectures more extensively useful,
congress should support a traveling correspondent for him, who should visit all the
nations of Europe, and transmit to him, from time to time, all the discoveries and
improvements that are made in agriculture and manufactures. To this seminary,
young men should be encouraged to repair, after completing their academical studies
in the colleges of their respective states. The honors and offices of the United States
should, after a while, be confined to persons who had imbibed federal and republican
ideas in this university.

For the purpose of diffusing knowledge, as well as extending the living principle
of government to every part of the United States—every state—city
lage

county-—vil-
and township in the union should be tied together by means of the post-office.
This is the true nonelectric wire of government. It is the only means of conveying
heat and light to every individual in the federal commonwealth. ‘‘ Sweden lost her
liberties,’’ says the abbe Raynal, ‘‘ because her citizens were so scattered, that they
had no means of acting in concert with each other.’’ It should be a constant injunc-
tion to the postmasters, to convey newspapers free of all charge for postage. They
are not only the vehicles of knowledge and intelligence, but the sentinels of the
liberties of our country.

wl
National Scientific and Educational Institutions. 329

The conduct of some of those strangers, who have visited our country, since the
peace, and who fill the British papers with accounts of our distresses, shows as great
a want of good sense, as it does of good nature. ‘They see nothing but the founda-
tions and walls of the temple of liberty; and yet they undertake to judge of the
whole fabric.

Our own citizens act a still more absurd part, when they cry out, after the experi-
ence of three or four years, that we are not proper materials for republican govern-
ment. Remember, we assumed these forms of government in a hurry, before we
were prepared for them. Jet every man exert himself in promoting virtue and
knowledge in our country, and we shall soon become good republicans. Look at the
steps by which governments have been changed, or rendered stable in Kurope. Read
the history of Great Britain. Her boasted government has risen out of wars and
rebellions that lasted above six hundred years. The United States are traveling
peaceably into order and good government. They know no strife—but what arises
from the collision of opinions; and, in three years, they have advanced further in
the road to stability and happiness, than most of the nations of Europe have done,
i as many centuries.

There is but one path that can lead the United States to destruction; and that is
their extent of territory. It was probable to effect this, that Great Britain ceded to
us so much waste land. But even this path may be avoided, Tet but one new state
be exposed to sale at a time; and let the land office be shut up, till every part of this
new state be settled.

I am extremely sorry to find a passion for retirement so universal among the
patriots and heroes of the war. ‘They resemble skillful mariners who, after exert-
ing themselves to preserve a ship from sinking in a storm, in the middle of the ocean,
drop asleep as soon as the waves subside, and leave the care of their lives and prop-
erty, during the remainder of the voyage, to sailors without knowledge or experience.
Every man in a republic is public property. His time and talents—his youth—his
manhood—his old age—nay more, his life, his all, belong to his country.

Patriots of 1774, 1775, 1776—heroes of 1778, 1779, 1780! come forward! your country
demands your services !—Philosophers and friends of mankind, come forward! your
country demands your studies and speculations! Lovers of peace and order, who
declined taking part in the late war, come forward! your country forgives your
timidity and demands your influence and advice! MHear her proclaiming, in sighs
and groans, in her governments, in her finances, in her trade, in her manufactures,
in her morals, and in her manners, ‘‘’ THE REVOLUTION IS NOT OVER!”’

APPENDIX C.

PROSPECTUS OF A NATIONAL INSTITUTION TO BE ESTABLISHED IN
THE UNITED STATES.

By JOEL BARLOW, 1806.

[Reprinted froma defective copy of Barlow’s pamphlet in the Congressional Library, supplemented
by the reprint in the National Intelligencer of 1806, and a manuscript copy in the possession of
Doctor J. C. Welling.]

The project for erecting a university at the seat of the federal government is
brought forward at a happy moment, and on liberal principles. We may therefore
reasonably hope for an extensive endowment from the munificence of individuals,
as well as from government itself. ‘This expectation will naturally lead us to enlarge
our ideas on the subject, and to give a greater scope to its practical operation than
has usually been contemplated in institutions of a similar nature.
330 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

Two distinct objects, which, in other countries have been kept asunder, may and
ought to be united; they are both of great national importance; and by being
embraced in the same Institution they will aid each other in their acquisition. ‘These
are the advancement of knowledge by associations of scientific men, and the dissem-
ination of its rudiments by the instruction of youth. ‘he first has been the business
of learned corporations, such as the Royal Society of London and the National Insti-
tute of France; the second is pursued by collections of instructors, under the name
of universities, colleges, academies, etc.

The leading principle of uniting these two branches of improvement in one Insti-
tution, to be extended upon a scale that will render it truly national, requires some
development. We find ourselves in possession of a country so vast as to lead the
mind to anticipate a scene of social intercourse and interest unexampled in the expe-
rience of mankind. This territory presents and will present such a variety of pro-
ductions, natural and artificial, such a diversity of connections abroad, and of manners,
habits, and propensities at home, as will create a strong tendency to diverge and
separate the views of those who shall inhabit the different regions within our limits.

It is most essential to the happiness of the people and to the preservation of their
republican principles, that this tendency to a separation should be overbalanced by
superior motives to a harmony of sentiment; that they may habitually feel that
community of interest on which their federal system is founded. This desirable
object is to be attained, not only by the operations of the government in its several
departments, but by those of literature, sciences, and arts. ‘fhe liberal sciences are
in their nature republican; they delight in reciprocal communication; they cherish
fraternal feelings, and lead to a freedom of intercourse, combined with the restraints
of society, which contribute together to our improvement.

To explore the natural productions of our country, give an enlightened direction
to the labors of industry, explain the advantages of interior tranquillity, of moderation
and justice in the pursuits of self-interest, and to promote, as far as circumstances
will admit, an assimilation of civil regulations, political principles, and modes of
education, must engage the solicitude of every patriotic citizen; as he must perceive
in them the necessary means of securing good morals and every republican virtue; a
wholesome jealousy of right and a clear understanding of duty; without which, no
people can be expected to enjoy the one or perform the other for any number of
years.

The time is fast approaching when the United States, if no foreign disputes should
induce an extraordinary expenditure of money, will be out of debt. From that time
forward, the greater part of their public revenue may, and probably will, be applied
to publicimprovements of various kinds; such as facilitating the intercourse through
all parts of their dominion by roads, bridges, and canals; such as making more exact
surveys, and forming maps and charts of the interior country, and of the coasts, bays,
and harbors, perfecting the system of lights, buoys, and other nautical aids; such as
encouraging new branches of industry, so far as may be advantageous to the public,
either by offering premiums for discoveries, or by purchasing from their proprietors
such inventions as shall appear to be of immediate and general utility, and rendering
them free to the citizens at large; such as exploring the remaining parts of the wil-
derness of our continent, both within and without our own jurisdiction, and extend-
ing to their savage inhabitants, as far as may be practicable, a taste for civilization,
and the means of knowing the comforts that men are capable of yielding to each
other in the peaceable pursuits of industry, as they are understood in our stage of
society.

To prepare the way for the government to act on these great objects with intelli-
gence, economy, and effect, and to aid its operations when it shall be ready to apply
its funds to that purpose, will occupy in part the attention of that branch of the
Institution composed of men of scientific research; whose labors, it is expected, will
Report of U. S. National Museum, 1897, Part Il. PLATE 66.

Clte/ ot) LE
National Scientific and Educational Institutions. 430

be in a great measure gratuitous. It cannot be too early, even at this moment, to
direct the researches of science to occupations of this nature. By these means, at the
end of the eleven years, the epoch at which the government may expect to be free
of debt, the way can be prepared to begin with system, and proceed with regularity
in the various details of public improvement; a business which, if the rulers of all
nations did but know it, ought to be considered among the first of their duties, one
of the principal objects of their appointment.

The science of political economy is still in its infancy; as indeed is the whole sci-
ence of government, if we regard it as founded on principles analogous to the nature
of man, and designed to promote his happiness. As we believe our government to
be founded on these principles, we cannot but perceive an immense field of improve-
ment opening before us; a field in which all the physical as well as the moral sciences
should lend their aid and unite their operation, to place human society on such a
footing in this great section of the habitable world, as to secure it against further
convulsions from violence and war. Mankind have a right to expect this example
from us; we alone are in a situation to hold it up before them, to command their
esteem, and perhaps their imitation. Should we, by a narrowness of views, neglect
the opportunity of realising so many benefits, we ought to reflect that it never can
occur to us again; nor can we foresee that it will return to any age or nation. We
should grievously disappoint the expectations of all good men in other countries, we
should ourselves regret our error while we live; and if posterity did not load us with
the reproaches we should merit, it would be because our conduct will have kept them
ignorant of the possibility of obtaining the blessings of which it had deprived them.

It would be superfluous, in this Prospectus, to point out the objects merely scien-
tific, that will naturally engage the attention of this branch of the Institution. We
are sensible that many of the sciences, physical as well as moral, are very little
advanced; some of them, in which we seem to have made considerable progress, are
yet so uncertain as to leave it doubtful whether even their first principles do not
remain to be discovered; and in all of them, there is a great deficiency as to the mode
of familiarizing their results, and applying them to the useful arts of life, the true
object of all labor and research.

What a range is open in this country for mineralogy and botany! How many new
arts are to arise, and how far the old ones are to be advanced, by the pursuit of these
two sciencies, it is impossible even to imagine. Chemistry is making a rapid and
useful progress, though we still dispute about its elements. Our knowledge of
anatomy has laid a necessary and sure foundation for surgery and medicine; surgery
indeed is making great proficiency; but, after three thousand years of recorded
experience, how little do we know of medicine! Mechanics and hydraulics are
progressing fast, and wonderful are the facilities and comforts we draw from them;
but while it continues to be necessary to make use of animal force to move heavy
bodies in any direction by land or water, we havea right toanticipate new discoveries.
Could the genius of a Bacon place itself on the high ground of all the sciences in
their present state of advancement, and marshal them before him in so great a
country as this, and under a government like ours, he would point out their objects,
foretell their successes, and move them on their march, in a manner that should ani-
mate their votaries and greatly accelerate their progress.

The mathematics, considered as a science, may probably be susceptible of higher
powers than it has yet attained ; considered as the handmaid of all the sciences and
all the arts, it doubtless remains to be simplified. Some new processes, and perhaps
new modes of expressing quantities and numbers, may yet be discovered, to assist
the mind in climbing the difficult steps that lead to an elevation so much above our
crude conceptions; an elevation that subjects the material universe, with all its
abstractions of space and time, to our inspection; and opens, for their combinations,
so many useful and satisfying truths.
332 Memortal of George Brown Goode.

Researches in literature, to which may be united those in morals, government, and
laws, are so vague in their nature, and have been so little methodised, as scarcely to
have obtained the name of sciences. No man has denied the importance of these
pursuits; though the English nation, from whom we have borrowed so many useful
things, has not thought proper to give them that consistency and standing among
the objects of laudable ambition, to which they are entitled. Men the most eminent
in these studies have not been members of their learned associations. Iocke, Ber-
kely, Pope, Hume, Robertson, Gibbon, Adam Smith, and Blackstone, were never
admitted into the Royal Society. This is doubtless owing to the nature of tneir gov-
ernment; though the government itself exerts no influence in these elections. The
science of morals connects itself so intimately with the principles of political insti-
tutions, that where it is deemed expedient to keep the latter out of sight, it is not
strange that the former should meet no encouragement.

This policy is strikingly exemplified in the history of the French Institute. That
learned and respectable body was incorporated by the national convention in the
year 1795, and took place of all the old academies, which had been previously
abolished. It was composed of three classes, according to the objects to be pursued
by its members. ‘The first was the class for the physical sciences, the second was
the class for the moral and political sciences, the third was for the fine arts. Thus
it went on and made great progress in its several branches, till the year 1803, when
Bonaparte’s government assumed that character which rendered the pursuit of moral
and political science inconvenient to him. He then new modeled the Institute, and
abolished that class. But lest his real object should be perceived, and he be accused
of narrowing the compass of research, he created two new classes in the room of this;
one for ancient literature, and one for the French language. On the same occasion
an order was issued to all the colleges and great schools in France, suppressing the
professorships of moral and political philosophy.

But in our country, and at this early epoch in the course of republican experiment,
no subjects of research can be more important than those embraced by these branches
of science. Our representative system is new in practice, though some theories of
that sort have been framed by speculative writers; and partial trials have been made
in the British dominions. But our federal system, combined with democratical
representation is a magnificent stranger upon earth; a new world of experiment,
bursting with incalculable omens on the view of mankind. It was the result of
circumstances which no man could foresee, and no writer pretended to contemplate,
It represented itself to us from the necessity of the situation we were in; dreaded at
first as an evil by many good men in our country, as well as by our friends in
Europe; and it is at this day far from being understood, or properly appreciated, by
the generality of those who admire it. Our practice upon it, as far as we have gone,
and the vast regions of our continent that present themselves to its embrace, must
convince the world that it is the greatest improvement in the mechanism of govern-
ment that has ever been discovered, the most consoling to the friends of liberty,
humanity, and peace.

Men who have grown old in the intrigues of cabinets, and those who, in the
frenzy of youthful ambition, present themselves on the theatre of politics, at the
head of armies, which they cannot live without, are telling us that ‘‘no new principle
of government has been discovered for these two thousand years;’’* and that all
proposals to ameliorate the system are vain abstractions, unworthy of sound philos-
ophy. ‘They may tell us too that no new principle in mechanics had been discovered
since we came to the knowledge of the lever; no new principle in war, since we first
found that a man would cease to fight the moment he was killed. Yet we see in the

‘This is asserted in a book written to support the present government in France.
I forget the title

eT ee

|
.
National Scientific and Educational [nstitutions. 333

two latter cases that new combinations of principle have been discovered ; they are
daily now discovered and carried into practice. In these there are no books written
to inform us we can go no further; no imperial decrees to arrest our progress.
Why, then, should this be the case in those combinations of the moral sense of man,
which compose the science of government?

But whether we consider the principles themselves as new, or the combinations
only as new, the fact with respect to our government is this: although the principle
has long since been known that the powers necessarily exercised in the people at
large, and that these powers cannot conveniently be exercised by the people at large,
yet it was not discovered how these powers could be conveniently exercised by a
few delegates, in such a manner as to be constantly kept within the reach of the
people at large, so as to be controlled by them without a convulsion. But a mode
of doing this has been discovered in latter years, and is now for the first time car-
ried into practice in our country; I do not say in the utmost perfection of which
the principle is capable; yet in-a manner which greatly contributes, with our other
advantages, to render us the happiest people on earth. Again, although the principle
has long since been known, that good laws faithfully executed within a state,
would protect the industry of men, and preserve interior tranquillity; yet no method
was discovered which would effectually preserve exterior tranquillity between state
and state. ‘Treaties were made, oaths were exacted, the name of God was invoked,
forts, garrisons, and armies were established on their respective frontiers; all with
the sincere desire, no doubt, of preserving peace. ‘The whole of these precautions
have been constantly found ineffectual. But we at last, and almost by accident,
have discovered a mode of preserving peace among states without any of the old
precautions; which were always found extremely expensive, destructive to liberty,
and incapable of securing the object. We have found that states have some interests
that are common and mutual among themselves; that, so far as these interests go,
the states should not be independent; that, without losing anything of their dignity,
but rather increasing it, they can bind themselves together by a federal government,
composed of their own delegates, frequently and freely elected, to whom they can
confide these common interests; and that by giving up to these delegates the exercise
of certain acts of sovereignty, and retaining the rest to themselves, each state puts
it out of its own power to withdraw from the confederation, and out of the power
of the general government to deprive them of the rights they have retained.

If these are not new principles of government, they are at least new combinations
of principles, which require to be developed, studied, and understood better than
they have been, even by ourselves; but especially by the rising generation, and by
all foreign observers who shall study our institutions. Foreigners will thus give us
credit for what we have done, point out to our attention what we have omitted to
do, and perhaps aid us with their lights, in bringing towards perfection a system,
which may be destined to ameliorate the condition of the human race.

It is in this view that moral and political research ought to be regarded as one of
the most important objects of the National Institution, the highest theme of literary
emulation, whether in prose or verse, the constant stimulus to excite the ambition
of youth in the course of education.

What are called the fine arts, in distinction from what are called the useful, have
been but little cultivated in Amerioa. Indeed, few of them have yet arrived, in
modern times, to that degree of splendor which they had acquired among the
ancients. Here we must examine an opinion, entertained by some persons, that the
encouragement of the fine arts savors too much of luxury, and is unfavorable to
republican principles. It is true, as is alleged, they have usually flourished most
under despotic governments; but so have corn and cattle. Republican principles
have never been organised or understood, so as to form a government, in any coun-
334 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

try but our own. It is therefore from theory, rather than example, that we must
reason on this subject. There is no doubt but that the fine arts, both in those who
cultivate and those who only admire them, open and expand the mind to great ideas.
They inspire liberal feelings, create a harmony of temper, favorable to a sense of
justice and a habit of moderation in our social intercourse. By increasing the circle
of our pleasures, they moderate the intensity with which pleasures, not dependent on
them, would be pursued. In proportion as they multiply our wants, they stimulate
our industry, they diversify the objects of our ambition, they furnish new motives
for a constant activity of mind and body, highly favorable to the health of both.
The encouragement of a taste for elegant luxuries discourages the relish for lux-
uries that are gross and sensual, debilitating to the body, and demoralising to the
mind. ‘These last, it must be acknowledged, are prevailing in our country; they are
perhaps the natural growth of domestic affluence and civil liberty. The govern-
ment, however mild and paternal, cannot check them by any direct application of its
powers, without improper encroachments on the liberty and affluence, that give them
birth. Buta taste for the elegant enjoyments which spring from the culture of the fine
arts, excites passions not so irresistible, but that they are easily kept within the limits,
which the means of each individual will prescribe. It is the friend of morals and of
health ; it supposes a certain degree of information ; it necessitates liberal instruc-
tion; it cannot but be favorable to republican manners, principles, and discipline.

A taste for these arts is peculiarly desirable in those parts of our country, at the
southward and westward, where the earth yields her rich productions with little
labor, and leaves to the cultivator considerable vacancies of time and superfluities of
wealth, which otherwise will, in all probability, be worse employed. ‘The arts of
drawing, painting, statuary, engraving, music, poetry, ornamental architecture, and
ornamental gardening, would employ a portion of the surplus time and money of our
citizens; and at the same time be more likely to dispose their minds to devote another
portion to charitable and patriotic purposes, than if the first portion had not been
thus employed.

In England there is a Royal Academy for the fine arts, as well as a Royal Society
for the sciences; though men of merit in other learned labors are not associated.
In France the two classes of eminent men who pursue the sciences and the arts, are
united inthe National Institute. Besides those, and besides the colleges and univer-
sities, there exists in each of those countries a variety of institutions useful in their
different objects, and highly conducive to the general mass of public improvement,
as well as to private instruction.

The French Government supports,

1. The School of Mines, an extensive establishment; where is preserved a collec-
tion of specimens from all the mines, wrought and unwrought, that are known to
exist in that country ; where, with the free use of a laboratory, lectures are given
gratis one day inthe week for nine months in the year, and where young men receive
what is called a mineralogical education. At this place the proprietor of a mine,
whether of metals, coals, or other valuable fossils, may have them examined without
expense ; and here he can apply for an able and scientific artist, recommended by the
professors, to be the conductor of his works, as well in the engineering as the metallur-
gical branch.

2. The School of Roads and Bridges; whose title ought to extend likewise to
canals, river navigation, and hydraulic architecture; since it embraces all these
objects. Here are preserved models and drawings of all the great works, and many
of the abortive attempts, in these branches of business. It is a curious and useful
collection. ‘This establishment, too, maintains its professors, who give lectures
gratis, and produce among their pupils the ablest draftsmen and civil engineers,
ready to be employed where the public service or private enterprise may require.
Report of U. S. National Museum, 1897. Part Il. PLATE 67.

JOHN GRUBB PARKE.
. ud
ie ' : ‘ a
a 8
’
i
= .
a
‘ee
2
‘
a
”
‘ _
.
.
«
National Setentific and Educational Institutions. 335

3. The Conservatory of clrts; meaning the useful arts and trades. This, in
appearance, is a vast Babel of materials; consisting of tools, models, and entire
machines, ancient and modern, good and bad. For it is often useful to preserve for
inspection a bad machine. The professor explains the reason why it did not answer
the purpose; and this either prevents another person from spending his time and
money in pursuit of the same impracticable scheme, or it may lead his mind to some
ingenious invention to remedy the defect and make it a useful object. Here is a
professor for explaining the use of the machines, and for aiding the minister in dis-
charging the duties of the patent office. Here likewise several trades are carried on,
and persons are taught gratis the use of the tools by practice as well as by lectures.

4. The Museum of Natural History. ‘This consists of a botanical garden, an
extensive menagery, or collection of wild animals, and large cabinets of minerals.
To this institution are attached several professorships; and lectures are given on
every branch of natural history.

5. The Museum of Arts; meaning the fine arts. This is the school for painting,
statuary, music, ete. The great splendor of this establishment consists chiefly in
its vast gallery of pictures, and its awful synod of statues. These are as far beyond
description as they are above comparison, Since, to the collections of the kings of
France, the government has added so many of the best productions of Italy, Flan-
ders, and Holland, there is no other assemblage of the works of art where students
can be so well accommodated with variety and excellence, to excite their emulation
and form their taste.

6. Zhe National Library. This collection is likewise unparalleled both for the
number and variety of works it contains; having about five hundred thousand vol-
umes, in print and manuscript; besides all of value that is extant in maps, charts,
engravings; and a museum of coins, medals, and inscriptions, ancient and modern.

8. The Mint; which is a scientific, as well as a laboratorial establishment; where
lectures are given in mineralogy, metallurgy, and cheniistry

9g. The Military School, where field engineering, fortification, gunnery, attack
and defence of places, and the branches of mathematics, necessary to these sciences
are taught by experienced masters.

10. The Prvtaneum,; which is an excellent Betty of general science, more espe-
cially military and nautical; but it is exclusively devoted to what are called ex/fans
de la patric, children of the country, or boys adopted by the government, and edu-
cated at the public expense. They are generally those whose fathers have died
in the public service. But this distinction is often conferred on others, through
particular favor. The school is supplied with able instructors; and the pupils are
very numerous. They are taught to consider themselves entirely devoted to the
service of their country, as is indicated both by their own appellation and that of
their seminary.

t1. The College of France retains all its ancient advantages, and has been
improved by the revolution.

12. The School of Medicine, united with anatomy and surgery, is in able hands,
and well conducted.

13. Lhe Veterinary School; where practical and scientific lessons are given on
the constitution and diseases of animals.

14. The Observatory is an appellation still retained by an eminent school of
astronomy; though its importance has grown far beyond what is indicated by its
name. It publishes the annual work called /a connaissance des tems; a work not
only of national, but of universal utility for navigators and astronomers.

15. Another institution, whose functions have outgrown its name, is the Bureau
of Longitude. It not only offers premiums for discoveries, tending to the great
object of finding an easy method of ascertaining the longitude at sea, and judges of
336 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

their merit; but it is the encourager and depositary of all nautical and geographical
discoveries; and, in conjunction with the school of astronomy and that of natural
history, it directs and superintends such voyages of discovery as the government
chooses to undertake.

16. The last public establishment for liberal instruction, that I shall mention in
the capital, though not the only remaining one that might be named, is the Poly-
technic School. This, for the variety of sciences taught, the degree of previous
attainment necessary for admission, the eminent talents of the professors, and the
high state of erudition to which the pupils are carried, is doubtless the first institu-
tion in the world.

The Prytaneum, the Polytechnic School, the Museum of Arts, the Conservatory of
Arts, and the Veterinary School, are new institutions, established during the revolu_
tion. The others existed before; but most of them have been much improved:
There were likewise erected during the same period, a great number of provincial
colleges. The general provision was to have one in each county, or department, of
which there are upwards of a hundred in France. ‘The provision likewise extended
to what are called primary schools, to be erected and multiplied in every town and
village. This is also executed in part, but not completely.

On the whole, the business of education in France is on a much better footing at
present than it ever was before the revolution. The clamor that was raised by the
emigrants against the convention, reproaching them with having destroyed educa-
tion, were unfounded; and, we may almost say, the reverse of truth. Their plans
on this subject were great, and in general good; much good, indeed, has grown out
of them; though they have not been pursued by the government during its subse-
quent changes, in the manner contemplated by the projectors.

Besides the public foundations, established and partly supported by the govern-
ment, there is a variety of private associations for collecting and diffusing informa-
tion; such as agricultural societies, a society for the encouragement of arts and
manufactures; and another which, though neither scientific nor literary, is a great
encourager of literature. It is a charitable fund for giving relief to indigent authors,
and to their widows and orphans,

The Lyceum of Arts, as a private society, merits a distinguished place in this
hasty review of the liberal establishments in Paris. This foundation belongs to a
number of proprietors, who draw no other advantage from it than the right of
attending the lectures, and of using the laboratory, reading rooms, library, and
philosophical apparatus. It employs able professors in all the sciences, in tech-
nology, in literature, and in several modern languages. It admits annual subscrib-
ers, who enjoy these advantages during the year; and it is particularly useful to
strangers and to young men from the provinces, who might otherwise employ their
leisure hours in less profitable amusements.

If, in speaking of the state of public instruction in England, we are less particu-
lar than in those of her neighbors, it will not be for want of respect for her institu-
tions; but because most of them are better known in this country, and some of them
similar to those we have described. Her universities and colleges, her numerous
agricultural societies, her society of arts and manufactures, her royal society, royal
academy, royal observatory, British museum, marine and military academies, her
society for exploring the interior of Africa, her missionary society, and her board of
longitude, are probably familiar to most of the readers of this Prospectus. We shall
particularise only two or three others; which, being of recent date, are probably less
known.

The Literary Fund, for the relief of indigent authors and their families, is an
institution of extensive and increasing beneficence. It is not merely a charitable,
but a patriotic endowment; and its influence must extend to other nations, and to
posterity. For an author of merit belongs to the world at large; his genius is not

=~ ee
National Scientific and Educational Institutions. oe 7

the property of one age or nation, but the general heritage of all. When a fund
like this is administered by men of discernment and fidelity, worthy of their trust,
as the one in question certainly is, lending its aid to all proper objects, without
regard to party or system, whether in politics, science, or religion, it gives inde-
pendence to literary pursuits. Men who are fostered by it, or feel a confidence that
they may, in case of need, partake of its munificence, become bold in the deyelop-
ment of useful truths; they are not discouraged by the dread of opposing the
opinions of vulgar minds, whether among members of the government, or powerful
individuals.

This generous and energetic establishment owes it foundation to David Williams;
whose luminous writings, as well as other labors, in favor of liberty and morals, are
well known in this country. It was a new attempt to utilize the gifts of fortune, and
the efforts of timid merit. It was not till after many years of exertion by its patri-
otic founder, that the institution assumed a vigorous existence, became rich by the
donations of the opulent, and popular from the patronage of the first names in the
kingdom. It was from this fund that the one of a similar nature in Paris was copied;
but the latter is hitherto far inferior to the former, both in its endowments and its
activity.

On the other hand, the Royal /nstitution and the London Institution have been
copied from the Lyceum in Paris. But in these instances the copies have already
equaled, if not surpassed, the original.

We have traced this rapid sketch of what is doing for the advancement of liberal
knowledge and public improvements in other countries, for the sake of grouping the
whole in one general view; that we may compare their establishments with our situ-
ation, our wants, our means, and our prospects; reject what is unsuitable to us, adopt
such as would be useful, and organize them as shall be advantageous in our National
Institution.

It is proposed, as already observed, that this Institution should combine the two
great objects, vesearch and instruction. It is expected from every member that he
will employ his talents gratuitously in contributing to the fs? of these objects. The
second will be the special occupation of a branch of the Institution, to be styled the
Professorate. And, as it is expected from the members of this branch, that they
devote their time as well as talents to the labor of instruction, they will receive a
suitable compensation, to be fixed by the board of trustees.

The members of the National Institution shall be elected from citizens of the
United States, eminent in any of the liberal sciences, whether physical, moral, politi-
cal, or economical; in literature, arts, agriculture; in mechanical, nautical, or geo-
graphical discoveries. ‘The number of members shall at no time exceed the decuple
of the number of states, composing the confederation of the United States. But in
addition to these, it may elect honorary members abroad, not exceeding in number
one-half of that of its members. And it may likewise elect corresponding members
within the United States, or elsewhere, not exceeding the last-mentioned proportion.

The members of the Institution may divide themselves into several sections, for
their more convenient deliberations on the objects of their several pursuits, not
exceeding five sections. Each section shall keep a register of its proceedings. It
shall be the duty of each section to nominate candidates for members of the Insti-
tution, suitable for such section. Which nomination, if there be vacancies, shall
entitle such candidates to be balloted for at the general meetings.

There shall be a Chancellor of the National Institution; whose duty it shall be to
superintend its general concerns. He shall, in the first instance, be appointed by
the President of the United States; and hold his office during the pleasure of the
Institution. He shall preside in its general meetings; direct the order of its deliber-
ations, and sign the diplomas of its members. He shall be president of the board
of trustees; and, in consequence of their appropriations, order the payment of

NAT MUS 97, PT 2 22

338 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

monies, and otherwise carry into execution their ordinances and resolutions. He
shall be director of the Professorate; order the courses of lectures and other modes
of instruction and objects of study ; confer degrees in the central university ; appoint
examiners, either at the district colleges or at the central university, for the admis-
sion of students into the latter; fill vacancies in the Professorate, ‘until the next
meeting of the board of trustees; and he shall have power to suspend from office a
professor, until the time of such meeting. He shall instruct and direct in their mis-
sion, such traveling professors as the board of trustees shall employ, for the objects
of science, in our own country or abroad.

The board of trustees shall consist of fifteen members; they shall be first appointed
by the President of the United States, and hold their office during the pleasure of
the Institution. They shall give bonds with surety for the faithful execution of
their trust. They and the chancellor are, of course, members of the Institution. As
soon as convenient after their appointment, they are to assemble at the seat of goy-
ernment, elect by ballot fifteen additional members of the Institution, appoint three

‘professors, and transact such other business as they may think proper. But no more
than the second fifteen members of the Institution shall be elected, until the last
Wednesday in November next. On which day a general meeting of the Institution
shall be held at the seat of government; and the members then present may proceed
to elect fifteen additional members. ‘Two months after which, another election of
fifteen members may take place; but no more until the November then next. Thus
they may proceed to hold two elections in each year, of fifteen members each, if they
think proper, till the whole number allowed by law shall be elected. The Institu-
tion will fill its own vacancies, and those in the board of trustees, appoint its treas-
urer and secretaries and, on all occasions after the first, elect the chancellor.

The chancellor and board of trustees shall have the sole management of the funds
of the Institution, whether in lands or movables; they shall organize the Professorate,
appoint the professors and other masters and teachers; assign them their compensa-
tions, and remove them at pleasure. They shall establish a central university at or
near the seat of government, and such other universities, colleges, and schools of
education, as the funds of the Institution will enable them to do, whether in the city
of Washington, or in other parts of the United States; and make the necessary regu-
lations for the government and discipline of the same. They may likewise establish
printing presses for the use of the Institution, laboratories, libraries, and apparatus
for the sciences and the arts; and gardens for botany and agricultural experiments.

Thus organized, and with proper endowments, the National Institution will be able
to expand itself to a large breadth of public utility. It will, by its correspondence,
its various establishments, its premiums, its gratuities, and other encouragements,
excite a scrupulous attention to the duties of education in every part of the United
States. By printing school books in the vast quantities that are wanted, and selling
them at prime cost, it will furnish them at one-third of the price usually demanded ;
and by an able selection or composition of such as are best adapted to the purpose, it
will give a uniformity to the moral sentiment, a republican energy to the character,
a liberal cast to the mind and manners of the rising and following generations.
None will deny that these things are peculiarly essential to the people of this coun-
try; for the preservation of their republican principles, and especially of their federal
system.

Add to this the advantages that the government will draw, in its projected plans of
public improvement, from this facility of concentrating the rays of science upon the
most useful objects; from directing the researches of so many of the ablest men in
the country to the best modes of increasing its productions and its happiness; from
having a greater choice of young and well-taught engineers, civil and military; as
well as mechanicians, architects, geologists; and men versed in the mathematical
sciences and political economy.
Report of U. S. National Museum, 1897, Part Il.

PLATE 68.

- 5 a 7 a
: i an —s 7 oe ’ _ |
: 7 a Wee - =
4 at Oo, Se eee
; Be . : er a ‘ Pa s
ee hie oy = Wee : 7
oS ify 7 i - - vty, t : 7 _o 7 . o ' . t —~
fo — i - - re Ta | : ar %
a a Yo » a wn a n oth : — /2 4
roa ; a OS eet . <)- ‘i0cy os
: a Ss we al ets >. ‘Deh cael
; a - _ a. dae (ee cf. 5 oa
| _ . Ree va C/ caf - a 5 ;
=o. Ye 4, a) _ a a af Pay ae : ui
“ . ee. re ace Pa a a : i 5) ui ra a 4 hi)
pe ma _— Nie t aby a a ae 7 sie
ny gee ORL ee i
is ©& 4 ; <=
an" Tae og ae
pt a ; eis : t i
fe *,@, * <i oe nto
_ — i" 1 : A a y ey : 7 7 oon
- 7 ; a iT
‘ad - i] - rT : a 7 i a
i : * - = _ _ Re : > ee
= ia 7 - 7 ie a, -
Py 7 ¥t. - v> : ee: a
. oe a . . : > - oe = i
: oy . 7 Oo 4 -
x ia ‘ hy : - ae: ' : » ir a mn (ie Jeane Ae
. : oa 7 ae ts) cay 7
_ ot 78 ral 7 eg 7 hoes — _
7 ; ou 7 Pe a i Bs oe a n a re o4 A ‘ . Tele re 4
nO - cr Cre a a re a
ra * GS 4 et a ae .
Po: 7 > on i - oo. : ov ;
: Da 7 - 7 “ : - ie w
= Pgh . an ee
‘ - - ars , “=
at -
7 ” fe’
: = |
~~ , a
,

: an

7

National Scientific and Educational Institutions. 339

Attached to the university in Washington, and under the direction of the Institu-
tion, might be the best position for the military academy, now at West Point; as
likewise for the naval academy and for the mint of the United States. The patent
office is now an embarrassing appendage to the department of state. It might
occupy very usefully one of the professors of this university. The machines and
models belonging to it would be useful ornaments in a lecture room, where mechanics,
hydraulics, and other branches of natural philosophy are taught. Such professor
might be the proper person to examine the applications for patents, and report upon
their merits; the chancellor might grant the patents. It might likewise be advan-
tageous, that the trustees, when the state of their funds will permit, should purchase
from their proprietors such inventions as, in their opinion, might be of immediate and
general use; and perhaps the chancellor might be authorized to refuse patents for
impracticable things, and expose to public view such imposters as sometimes apply
for them, with the intention of imposing upon the credulous, by selling their fallacious
privileges either in whole or in part.

The geographical and mineralogical archives of the nation might be better placed
in this university than elsewhere. Being confided to professors, they might draw
advantages from them in the course of theirinstructions. Thus the Institution might
become a general depositary of the results of scientific research; of experiments in
arty manufactures, and husbandry; and of discoveries by voyages and travels. In
short, no rudiment of knowledge should be below its attention, no height of
improvement above its ambition, no corner of our empire beyond its vigilant activity
for collecting and diffusing information.

It is hoped that the legislature, as well as our opulent citizens, will assist in making
a liberal endowment for so great an object, and as soon as circumstances will admit;
as too much time has already been lost since the government has taken its definitive
stand, in so advantageous a position for the development of this part of our national
resources.

APPENDIX.

Such is the outline of a system of Public Instruction, that would seem to promise
the greatest benefits. And, although under present circumstances, it is doubtless too
extensive to be carried into immediate practice in all its parts; yet there are strong
reasons to wish that its general basis may be preserved entire, in the law for incor-
porating the Institution; and that such law may be enacted during the present session
of Congress. Believing that no possible disadvantage could arise from adopting
both of these propositions, we will endeavor to elucidate the advantages by a few
additional observations.

1. As we must solicit donations from individual citizens, and depend principally
on them for its endowment, we ought to have a basis on which they can repose their
confidence. This can only be done by a board of trustees, standing on the ground
of a corporation; whose object is clearly defined; and which is composed of men of
known character and responsibility, anxious themselves to promote the object, and
pledged in honor and reputation for its ultimate success.

2. The present appears to be a more favorable moment for an establishment of this
kind, and especially for obtaining donations, than can be expected to arrive hereafter.
A general opinion now prevails, that education has been too much and too long neg-
lected in most parts of our country; and this opinion is happily accompanied by a
liberal spirit on the subject; a spirit worthy of the age and country in which we live,
and of the government that conducts our affairs. It is a patriotic spirit, that only
requires to be directed; but if not directed, may soon be lost. The opinions and dis-
positions of men are changeable. The race of patriarchs who framed our political
systems, and are peculiarly solicitous to ensure their permanent support, are passing
off the stage of public life. Children are growing up, to_take the legacy we are
340 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

bequeathing them, insensible of its value, and ignorant of the means by which it can
be preserved. It will seem as if we had labored in vain, if we leave our work but
half accomplished. And surely the task of preserving liberty, if not as bold, is at
least as difficult, as that of acquiring it.

To acquire liberty, comparatively speaking, is the work of few; to preserve it is the
sober and watchful business of all. In the first operation, a group of well-informed,
enthusiastic, and patriotic leaders, step forward to the field of danger, impress their
own energy on the multitude of followers; who cannot go wrong, because the object
is palpable, and clearly understood ; but in the second, the impetuosity of enthusiasm
is no longer the weapon to be used; the mass of the people are masters; they must
be instructed in their work; and they may justly say, that when their leaders taught
them how to gain their liberty, they contracted the obligation to teach them how to
use it.

3. The Institution, though established on the broad foundation we here propose,
will begin upon a small scale; no larger than its means will render corivenient. And
the magnitude of the perspective will not discourage its infant exertions, but rather
increase them. Its expenditures will not be greater at the beginning than they
would be if it were always to be confined to the narrow compass in which it will
move at first. It will immediately opena few schools at Washington, where they are
much wanted. It may soon begin to receive donations for this and other objects;
and by its correspondence, it will be learning the wants of the different districts of the
United States, and directing its enquiries how to supply them.

4. It is believed that several men of science, without any compensation, but the
pleasure of being useful, may be engaged to give courses of lectures during the next
winter, on some of the higher branches of knowledge; such as chemistry, mathemat-
ics, natural and moral philosophy, political economy, medicine, and jurisprudence:
that it mgy no longer be said of the capital of the United States, that it offers no
attractions as a winter residence to strangers or citizens; no amusements but such as
are monotonous, and unimproving ; nothing to variegate the scene and enliven the
labors of those whom the confidence of their country has called to this place, to man-
age her great concerns. A few courses of lectures on these subjects, announced in
the public papers, to be delivered next winter, would draw to this place many young
men from the different states; who, being at a loss for the means of finishing their
education, are often driven to Europe for that purpose. This would be a beginning
for the university, and lead to its interior organisation. It would help to bring the
Institution into notice, be the means of augmenting its endowments, and enable the
trustees to devise measures for some of their buildings.

5. It ought not to be forgotten that a central Institution of this kind in the
United States would not only remove the disadvantages that our young men. now
experience, in being obliged to obtain a European education; but it would federalize,
as well as republicanise their education at home. Coming together from all parts of
the union, at an age, when impressions on the mind are not easily effaced, the bent
of intellect will attain a similarity in all, diversified only by what nature had done
before; their moral characters would be cast in a kindred mould; they would form
friendships, which their subsequent pursuits in life would never destroy. This
would greatly tend to strengthen the political union of the states, a union which,
though founded on permanent interest, can only be supported by a permanent sense
of that interest. In addition to the other advantages of study, we ought to notice
the great political school that will be open to the student, during the sessions of Con-
gress; the school of jurisprudence in the federal courts; the constant examples of
enlarged ideas, and paternal solicitude for the national welfare, which he will see in
the several departments of the executive government.

When the men, who shall have finished their education in this central seat, shall
return to it in maturer life, clothed with the confidence of their fellow citizens, to
assist in the councils of the nation, the scene will enliven the liberal impressions of

ee

atten
National Scientific and Educational Institutions. 341

youth, combined with the cautious that experience will have taught. They will
bring from home the feelings and interests of their own districts; and they will
mingle them here with those of the nation. From such men the Institution may
perceive the good it may have done; and from them it will learn what new openings
may be found in the different states, for the extension of its benefits.

WASHINGTON, 24h January, 1806,

APPEND IZ Dp:
THE MORRILL ACT.

AN ACT donating Public Lands to the several States and Territories which may provide Colleges
for the Benefit of Agriculture and Mechanic Arts,

Be tt enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of
America in Congress assenibled, That there be granted to the several States, for the
purposes hereinafter mentioned, an amount of public land, to be apportioned to each
State a quantity equal to thirty thousand acres for each senator and representative
in Congress to which the States are respectively entitled by the apportionment under
the census of eighteen hundred and sixty: Provided, That no mineral lands shall be
selected or purchased under the provisions of this act.

Src. 2. And be it further enacted, ‘That the land aforesaid, after being surveyed,
shall be apportioned to the several States in sections or subdivisions of sections, not
less than one-quarter of a section; and whenever there are public lands in a State
subject to sale at private entry at one dollar and twenty-five cents per acre, the
quantity to which said State shall be entitled shall be selected from such lands within
the limits of such State, and the Secretary of the Interior is hereby directed to issue to
each of the States in which there is not the quantity of public lands subject to sale at
private entry at one dollar and twenty-five cents per acre, to which said State may
be entitled under the provisions of this act, land scrip to the amount in acres for
the deficiency of its distributive share: said scrip to be sold by said States and the
proceeds thereof applied to the uses and purposes prescribed in this act, and for no
other use or purpose whatsoever: Provided, ‘That in no case shall any State to which
land scrip may thus be issued be allowed to locate the same within the limits of any
other State, or of any Territory of the United States, but their assignees may thus
locate said land scrip upon any of the unappropriated lands of the United States
subject to sale at private entry at one dollar and twenty-five cents, or less, per acre:
And provided, further, ‘That not more than one million acres shall be located by such
assignees in any one of the States: Aud provided, further, That no such location
shall be made before one year from the passage of this act.

Src. 3. dud be tt further enacted, ‘That all the expenses of management, superin-
tendence, and taxes from date of selection of said lands, previous to their sales, and
all expenses incurred in the management and disbursement of the moneys which may
be received therefrom, shall be paid by the States to which they may belong, out of
the treasury of said States, so that the entire proceeds of the sale of said lands shall
be applied without any diminution whatever to the purposes hereinafter mentioned.

Src. 4. ud be tt further enacted, That all moneys derived from the sale of the
lands aforesaid by the States to which the lands are apportioned, and from the sales
of land scrip hereinbefore provided for, shall be invested in stocks of the United
States, or of the States, or some other safe stocks yielding not less than five per
centum upon the par value of said stocks; and that the moneys so invested shall
constitute a perpetual fund, the capital of which shall remain forever undiminished,
(except so far as may be provided in section fifth of this act,) and the interest of

Vermont, and approved by President Lincoin, July 2, 1862.
342 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

which shall be inviolably appropriated, by each State which may take and claim the
benefit of this act, to the endowment, support, and maintenance of at least one col-
lege where the leading object shall be, without excluding other scientific and classical
studies, and including military tactics, to teach such branches of learning as are
related to agriculture and the mechanic arts, in such manner as the legislatures of
the States may respectively prescribe, in order to promote the liberal and practical
education of the industrial classes in the several pursuits and professions in life.

Src. 5. And be it further enacted, That the grant of land and land scrip hereby
authorized shall be made on the following conditions, to which, as well as to the
provisions hereinbefore contained, the previous assent of the several States shall be
signified by legislative acts:

First. If any portion of the fund invested, as provided by the foregoing section, or
any portion of the interest thereon, shall, by any action or contingency be diminished
or lost, it shall be replaced by the State to which it belongs, so that the capital of the
fund shall remain forever undiminished; and the annual interest shall be regularly
applied without diminution to the purposes mentioned in the fourth section of this
act, except that a sum, not exceeding ten per centum upon the amount received by
any State under the provisions of this act, may be expended for the purchase of lands
for sites or experimental farms, whenever authorized by the respective legislatures
of said States.

Second. No portion of said fund, nor the interest thereon, shall be applied, directly
or indirectly, under any pretence whatever, to the purchase, erection, preservation,
or repair of any building or buildings.

Third. Any State which may take and claim the benefit of the provisions of this
act shall provide, within five years, at least not less than one college, as described in
the fourth section of this act, or the grant to such State shall cease; and said State
shall be bound to pay the United States the amount received of any lands previously
sold, and that the title to purchasers under the State shall be valid.

Fourth. An annual report shall be made regarding the progress of each college,
recording any improvements and experiments made, with their costs and results, and
such other matters, including State industrial and economical statistics, as may be
supposed useful; one copy of which shall be transmitted by mail free, by each, to all
the other colleges which may be endowed under the provisions of this act, and also
one copy to the Secretary of the Interior.

Fifth. When lands shall be selected from those which have been raised to double
the minimum price, in consequence of railroad grants, they shall be computed to the
States at the maximum price, and the number of acres proportionally diminished.

Sixth. No State while in a condition of rebellion or insurrection against the gov-
ernment of the United States shall be entitled to the benefit of this act.

Seventh. No State shall be entitled to the benefits of this act unless it shall express
its acceptance thereof by its legislature within two years from the date of its approval
by the President.

Src. 6. And be it further enacted, That land scrip issued under the provisions of
this act shall not be subject to location until after the first day of January, one thou-
sand eight hundred and sixty-three.

Src. 7. And be it further enacted, That the land officers shall receive the same
fees for locating land scrip issued under the provisions of this act as is now allowed
for the location of military bounty land warrants under existing laws: Provided,
Their maximum compensation shall not be thereby increased.

Src. 8. And be it further enacted, That the Governors of the several States to
which scrip shall be issued under this act shall be required to report annually to
Congress all sales made of such scrip until the whole shall be disposed of, the amount
received for the same, and what appropriation has been made of the proceeds.

Approved, July 2, 1862.

Report of U. S. National Museum, 1897, Part Il. PLATE 69.

1)

i
~)
a3

National Scientific and Educational Institutions. 343

THE, WATCH ACT: }

[Forty-ninth Congress, second session, chapter 314, Statutes of the United States, Vol. XXIV,
page 440.]

AN ACT to establish agricultural experiment stations in connection with the colleges established
in the several States under the provisions of an act approved July second, eighteen hundred and
sixty-two, and of the acts supplementary thereto.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of
America in Congress assembled, That in order to aid in acquiring and diffusing
among the people of the United States useful and practical information on subjects
connected with agriculture, and to promote scientific investigation and experiment
respecting the principles and applications of agricultural science, there shall be
established, under direction of the college or colleges or agricultural department of
colleges in each State or Territory established, or which may hereafter be established,
in accordance with the provisions of an act approved July second, eighteen hundred
and sixty-two, entitled ‘‘An act donating public lands to the several States and Ter-
ritories which may provide colleges for the benefit of agriculture and the mechanic
arts,’ or any of the supplements to said act, a department to be known and desig-
nated as an ‘‘agricultural experiment station:”? Provided, That in any State or Ter-
ritory in which two such colleges have been or may be so established the appropria-
tion hereinafter made to such State or Territory shall be equally divided between
such colleges, unless the legislature of such State or Territory shall otherwise direct.

Src. 2. That it shall be the object and duty of said experiment stations to conduct
original researches or verify experiments on the physiology of plants and animals;
the diseases to which they are severally subject, with the remedies for the same;
the chemical composition of useful plants at their different stages of growth; the
comparative advantages of rotative cropping as pursued under a varying series of
crops; the capacity of new plants or trees for acclimation; the analysis of soils and
water; the chemical composition of manures, natural or artificial, with experiments
designed to test their comparative effects on crops of different kinds; the adaptation
and value of grasses and forage plants; the composition and digestibility of the dif-
ferent kinds of food for domestic animals; the scientific and economic questions
involved in the production of butter and cheese; and such other researches or experi-
ments bearing directly on the agricultural industry of the United States as may in
each case be deemed advisable, having due regard to the varying conditions and
needs of the respective States or Territories.

SEc. 3. That in order to secure, as far as practicable, uniformity of methods and
results in the work of said stations, it shall be the duty of the United States Com-
missioner of Agriculture to furnish forms, as far as practicable, for the tabulation of
results of investigation or experiments; to indicate, from time to time, such lines of
inquiry as to him shall seem most important; and, in general, to furnish such advice
and assistance as will best promote the purposes of this act. It shall be the duty of
each of said stations, annually, on or before the first day of February, to make to the
governor of the State or Territory in which it is located a full and detailed report of
its operations, including a statement of receipts and expenditures, a copy of which
report shall be sent to each of said stations, to the said Commissioner of Agriculture,
and to the Secretary of the Treasury of the United States.

Src. 4. That bulletins or reports of progress shall be published at said stations at
least once in three months, one copy of which shall be sent to each newspaper in the
States or Territories in which they are respectively located, and to such individuals
actually engaged in farming as may request the same, and as far as the means of the

‘Introduced in the House of Representatives in 1885 by the Hon. William H. Hatch
of Missouri, and approved by President Cleveland, March 2, 1887.
344 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

station will permit. Such bulletins or reports and the annual reports of said stations
shall be transmitted in the mails of the United States free of charge for postage,
under such regulations as the Postmaster-General may from time to time prescribe.

SEc. 5. That for the purpose of paying the necessary expenses of conducting inves-
tigations and experiments and printing and distributing the results as hereinbefore
prescribed, the sum of fifteen thousand dollars per annum is hereby appropriated to
each State, to be specially provided for by Congress in the appropriations from year
to year, and to each Territory entitled under the provisions of section eight of this
act, out of any money in the Treasury proceeding from the sales of public lands, to
be paid in equal quarterly payments, on the first day of January, April, July, and
October in each year, to the treasurer or other officer duly appointed by the govern-
ing boards of said colleges to receive the same, the first payment to be made on the
first day of October, eighteen hundred and eighty-seven: Provided, however, ‘That
out of the first annual appropriation so received by any station an amount not exceed-
ing one-fifth may be expended in the erection, enlargement, or repair of a building
or buildings necessary for carrying onthe work of such station; and thereafter an
amount not exceeding five per centum of such annual appropriation may be so
expended.

SEc. 6. That whenever it shall appear to the Secretary of the Treasury from the
annual statement of receipts and expenditures of any of said stations that a portion
of the preceding annual appropriation remains unexpended, such amount shall be
deducted from the next succeeding annual appropriation to such station, in order that
the amount of money appropriated to any station shall not exceed the amount actually
and necessarily required for its maintenance and support.

SEc. 7. That nothing in this act shall be construed to impair or modify the legal
relation existing between any of the said colleges and the government of the States
or Territories in which they are respectively located.

SEc. 8. That in States having colleges entitled under this section to the benefits
of this act and having also agricultural experiment stations established by law sep-
arate from said colleges, such States shall be authorized to apply such benefits to
experiments at stations so established by such States; and in case any State shall
have established under the provisions of said act of July second aforesaid, an agri-
cultural department or experimental station, in connection with any university, col-
lege, or institution not distinctively an agricultural college or school, and such State
shall have established or shall hereafter establish a separate agricultural college or
school, which shall have connected therewith an experimental farm or station, the
legislature of such State may apply in whole or in part the appropriation by this
act made, to such separate agricultural college or school, and no legislature shall by
contract express or implied disable itself from so doing.

SEc. 9. That the grants of moneys? authorized by this act are made subject to the
legislative assent of the several States and Territories to the purposes of said grants:
Provided, That payment of such instalments of the appropriation herein made as
shall become due to any State before the adjournment of the regular session of its
legislature meeting next after the passage of this act shall be made upon the assent
of the governor thereof duly certified to the Secretary of the Treasury.

SEc. 10. Nothing in this act shall be held or construed as binding the United
States to continue any payment from the Treasury to any or all the States or institu-
tions mentioned in this act, but Congress may at any time amend, suspend, or repeal
any or all the provisions of this act.

Approved, March 2, 1887.

* The grants of money to carry out the provisions of this act amounted in 1887-88
to $585,000, in 1888-89 to 595,000, in 1889-90 to $600,000, and for 1890-91 the amount
estimated is $630,000,

4 (tee et + eee
National Scientific and educational Institutions. 345

APPENDIX. E.

A LIST OF STATE UNIVERSITIES AND FEDERAL LAND-GRANT
COLLEGES, WITH THE DATES OF THEIR ORGANIZATION.

Notr.—Most of the State universities owe their origin wholly or in part to Fed-
eral land grants in connection with the Morrill act, or by special acts passed by Con-
gress. ‘The thirteen original States and six others have received no land grants,
except for agricultural and mechanical colleges. All the Territories have had land
grants for educational purposes except the District of Columbia and Alaska. Of
the thirteen original States only four— Virginia, Georgia, and North and South Caro-
lina—have founded and maintained State universities; six—Massachusetts, Connecti-

cut, Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Rhode Island, and New Hampshire—founded in

colonial days institutions which have become practically State universities; New
York, though fairly liberal to its colleges, has never concentrated its patronage;
Maryland and Delaware have practically ignored the university question. In the
other States without grants—Vermont, Maine, Kentucky, Tennessee, Texas, and
West Virginia—the efforts to found State institutions have been attended with much
difficulty, and it is evident to one who studies the subject that their educational sys-
tems are probably much less prosperous than they would have been had they received
assistance from the General Government similar to that given their sister States."

In the following list institutions wholly or in part supported by the State are des-
ignated by the symbol +. Institutions organized or extended in scope in connection
with the Morrill act of 1862 are designated by the symbol *. Institutions main-
tained in connection with the Hatch act are designated by the symbol /\. Institu-
tions whose names are indented are subordinated to those which precede them.

The total amount of land given by the General Government for State educational
work has been 1,995,920 acres. ‘The total amount appropriated by the States for
higher education is shown by Blackmar to have been $27,475,646.

I am indebted to Professor F. W. Blackmar, Professor W. O. Acwater, and Mr. A.
C. True for the facts embodied in the following tables:

ALABAMA.
(Territory, 1817; State, 1819; land grant, 1818-19, )
+ UNIVERSITY OF ALABAMA, Tuscaloosa, 1819-1821.
* ALABAMA AGRICULTURAL AND MECHANICAL COLLEGE, Auburn, 1872.
/\ AGRICULTURAL EXPERIMENT STATION, Auburn, 1883.
JAF CANEBRAKE AGRICULTURAL EXPERIMENT STATION, Uniontown, 1885.
Alabama Historical Society, Tuscaloosa, 1851.
No scientific society in the State.
ALASKA.
(Territory, 1872.)
No colleges.
Alaska Historical Society, Sitka, 18go.

Society of Alaskan Natural History and Ethnology, Sitka, 1887.

ARIZONA.
(Territory, 1863; land grant, 1881.)
UNIVERSITY OF ARIZONA, Tucson, 1889.
COLLEGE OF AGRICULTURE, UNIVERSITY OF ARIZONA, Tucson, 188g.
No historical or scientific society.

"See Blackmar’s Federal and State Aid to Higher Education.
346 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

ARKANSAS.
(Territory, 1819; State, 1836; land grant, 1836.)

*¢ ARKANSAS INDUSTRIAL UNIVERSITY, Fayetteville, 1868-1872.
A, ARKANSAS AGRICULTURAL EXPERIMENT STATION, Fayetteville, 1888.
(Substations at Pine Bluff, Newport, and Texarkana. )
Arkansas Historical Society, Little Rock.
No scientific society.

CALIFORNIA.
(Territory, 1846; State, 1850; land grant, 1853.)

t* UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, Berkeley, 1868-69.
COLLEGE OF AGRICULTURE, MECHANICS, MINING, ENGINEERING, AND CHEM-
ISTRY, UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, Berkeley, 1866-1868.
/\ AGRICULTURAL EXPERIMENT STATION, UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA,
Berkeley, 1876 and 1888.
(Outlying stations at Paso Robles, Tulare, Jackson, Cupertino, Fresno, Mission
San José. )
California Historical Society, San Francisco.
California Academy of Sciences, San Francisco, 1854.

COLORADO.
(Territory, 1861; State, 1876; land grant, 1875.)

t UNIVERSITY OF Cor1oRADO, Boulder, 1875-1877.
*SraTE AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE, Fort Collins, 1879.
/\ AGRICULTURAL EXPERIMENT STATION OF COLORADO, Fort Collins, 1888.
(Substations at Del Norte and Rocky Ford. )
{STATE SCHOOL, OF MINES, Golden, 1874.
Colorado State Historical Society, Denver.
Colorado Scientific Society, Denver.

CONNECTICUT.
(Settled, 1634; State, 1788.)

YALE UNIVERSITY, New Haven, 1700.
* SHEFFIELD SCIENTIFIC SCHOOL, OF YALE UNIVERSITY, 1847 and 1864.
At CONNECTICUT AGRICULTURAL EXPERIMENT STATION, New Haven, 1875
and 1877. :
STORRS AGRICULTURAL, SCHOOL, Mansfield, 1881.
STORRS SCHOOL AGRICULTURAL EXPERIMENT STATION, 1888.
Connecticut Academy of Sciences, New Haven, 1799.
Connecticut Historical Society, Hartford, 1825.

DAKOTA, NORTH.
(Territory of Dakota, 1861; State, 1889; land grant, 1881.)
(2) UNIVERSITY OF NORTH DAKOTA, Grand Forks, 1883-4.
NortTH DAKOTA AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE, Fargo, 1890.
No State historical or scientific society.
DAKOTA, SOUTH.
(State, 1889 ; land grant, 1881.)

(2?) UNIVERSITY OF SOUTH DAKOTA, Vermilion, 1883.
| SoutH DAKOTA AGRICULTURAT, COLLEGE, Brookings, 1889.
SoutH DAKOTA AGRICULTURAL EXPERIMENT STATION, Brookings, 1888.
SoutH DAKOTA SCHOOL OF MINES, Rapid City, 1886.

No State historical or scientific society.
Report of U. S. National Museum, 1897, Part ll. PLATE 70.

BENJAMIN PEIRCE.
National Scientific and Educational [nstitutions. 347

DELAWARE.
(Settled, 1 638; State, 1787.)

+* DELAWARE COLLEGE, Newark, 1834, 1851, and 1871.
/\ DELAWARE COLLEGE AGRICULTURAL EXPERIMENT STATION, Newark, 1888.
Historical Society of Delaware, Wilmington, 1884.
No scientific society.
FLORIDA.
(Territory, 1821; State, 1845; land grant, 1845.)

* FLORIDA STATE AGRICULTURAL AND MECHANICAL, COLLEGE, Lake City, 1854.
/\ AGRICULTURAL EXPERIMENT STATION OF FLORIDA, Lake City, 1888.

Historical Society of Florida, St. Augustine.

; GEORGIA.

(Settled, 1732; State; 1788:)

t* UNIVERSITY OF GEORGIA, Athens [1784], I8oI.
GEORGIA STATE COLLEGE OF AGRICULTURE AND MECHANIC ARTS, OF THE
UNIVERSITY OF GEORGIA, Athens, 1872.
/\GEORGIA AGRICULTURAL EXPERIMENT STATION, Athens, 1888.
SOUTHWEST GEORGIA AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE, UNIVERSITY OF GEORGIA,
Cuthbert, 1879.
NorTH GEORGIA AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE, UNIVERSITY OF GEORGIA, Dah-
lonega, 1873.
WEST GEORGIA AGRICULTURAL AND MECHANICAL COLLEGE, Hamilton, 1882.
MIDDLE GEORGIA MILITARY AND AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE, UNIVERSITY OF
GEorGIA, Milledgeville, 1880,
SouTH GEORGIA COLLEGE OF AGRICULTURE AND THE MECHANIC ARTS,
UNIVERSITY OF GEORGIA, Thomasville, 1879.
t ATLANTA UNIVERSITY (colored), Atlanta, 1859.
Georgia Historical Society, Sav annah, 1839.
No scientific society.

ILLINOIS.

(Territory, 1809; State, 1818; land grants, 1804 and 1818.)

| UNIVERSITY OF ILtINorIs, Urbana, 1868. (Formerly Illinois Industrial Uni-
versity.
* COLLEGE OF AGRICULTURE OF THE UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS, Urbana, 1867.
/\ AGRICULTURAL EXPERIMENT STATION OF THE UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS,
Champaign, 1888.
Illinois State Historical Society, Champaign.
No State scientific society.

INDIANA.

(Territory, 1800; State, 1816; land grants, 1804 and 1516.)

tINDIANA UNIVERSITY, Bloomington, 1820-26. (Successor to Vincennes Uni-
versity, 1806. )
PURDUE UNIVERSITY, Lafayette, 1874.
*SCHOOL OF AGRICULTURE, HORTICULTURE, AND VETERINARY SCIENCE OF
PURDUE UNIVERSITY, Lafayette, 1873.
A AGRICULTURAL STATION OF INDIANA, Lafayette, 1887.
Indiana Historical Society, Indianapolis, 1832.
Indiana Academy of Sciences (unlocalized), 1885.
348 Memortal of George Brown Goode.

IOWA.

(Territory, 1838; State, 1846; land grant, 1845.)

+ STATE UNIVERSITY OF Iowa, Iowa City, 1847-60.
*TOWA STATE COLLEGE OF AGRICULTURE AND MECHANIC ARTS, Ames, 1858;

opened for students October 21, 1868.
A\lowa AGRICULTURAL EXPERIMENT STATION, Ames, 1888.
Iowa State Historical Society, Iowa City.
Davenport Academy of Sciences, Davenport, 1867.
Iowa Academy of Sciences, Iowa City, 1875.

KANSAS.

(Territory, 1857; State, 1861; land grant, 1861.)

+ UNIVERSITY OF KANSAS, Lawrence, 1861-1866.
* KANSAS STATE AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE, Manhattan, 1863.
Z\ KANSAS AGRICULTURAL EXPERIMENT STATION, Manhattan, 1888.
Kansas State Historical Society, Topeka.
Kansas Academy of Science, Topeka, 1868.

KENTUCKY.

(State, 1792.)

* AGRICULTURAL AND MECHANICAL, COLLEGE OF KENTUCKY, Lexington, 1865;
reorganized, 1880. (Successor to Transylvania University, organized 1798. )
A, KENTUCKY AGRICULTURAL EXPERIMENT STATION, Lexington, 1885.
Kentucky Historical Society, Frankfort.
No State scientific society.

LOUISIANA.

(Territory, 1803; State, 1812; land grants, 1806, 1811, 1827.)

TULANE UNIVERSITY OF LOUISIANA, New Orleans, 1847.
+ SOUTHERN UNIVERSITY (colored), New Orleans, 1880.
t* LOUISIANA STATE UNIVERSITY AND AGRICULTURAL AND MECHANICAI, COL-
LEGE, Baton Rouge, 1873; reorganized, 1877.
SUGAR EXPERIMENT STATION No. 1, Kenner, 1885.
At j SUGAR EXPERIMENT STATION No. 2, Baton Rouge, 1886.
| NorTH LOUISIANA EXPERIMENT STATION, Calhoun, 1888,
Louisiana Historical Society, Baton Rouge.
No State scientific society.

MAINE.

(Settled, 1622 ; State, 1820.)

*MAINE STATE COLLEGE OF AGRICULTURE AND THE MECHANIC AR‘TS, Orono,
1865.1
A MAINE STATE COLLEGE AGRICULTURAL EXPERIMENT STATION, Orono,
1885 and 1887.
Maine Historical Society, Portland, 1822.
No State scientific society.

‘State grants have been made to Bowdoin College, 1794-1802, and to Colby Uni-
vetsity, formerly Waterville College, 1818.

a

oo
National Scientific and Educational Institutions. 349

MARYLAND.
(Settled, 1631; State, 1788.)
784; abandoned, 1805. ]
al College [1856], 1859.
Agricultural College,

RSIty OF MARYLAND, organized 1
AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE, Agricultur
ULTURAL EXPERIMENT STATION,

[UNIVE
* MARYLAND
/A\ MARYLAND AGRIC
1888.
Maryland Academy of Sciences, I
Maryland Historical Society, Baltimore.

822.

. MASSACHUSETTS.

(Settled, 1620 ; State, 1788.)

HARVARD UNIVERSITY, Cambridge, 1636."
* MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, Boston, 1863-1865.
Amherst, 1856, 1863, and 1867.

* MLASSACHUSETTS AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE,
+ MASSACHUSETTS Srate AGRICULTURAT, EXPERIMENT STATION, Amherst,
1882 and 1888.
AHatcH EXPERIMENT STATION OF
LEGE, Amherst, 1885.
American Academy of Arts and Sciences, 1750.

Massachusetts Historical Society, Boston.

MASSACHUSETTS AGRICULTURAT COoL-

MICHIGAN.
(Territory, 1505 ; State, 1836; land grant, 1836. )
{+ UNIVERSITY OF Micui1can, Ann Arbor [1817], 1836, 184o.
Agricultural College [1855], 1857.

* MICHIGAN AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE, £
A.EXPERIMENT STATION OF MICHIGAN AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE, Agricul-

tural College, 1888.
Historical Society of Michigan, Detroit.
No academy of sciences.

MINNESOTA.

(Territory, 1849 ; State, 1858; land grants, 1857, 1861, and 1870. )

sorta, Minneapolis [1857], 1868.

t{* UNIVERSITY OF MINNE
Ss OF THE UNIVERSITY OF

COLLEGE OF AGRICULTURE AND MrcHANic ART
MInnEsovA, Saint Anthony Park, 1868.
{STATE SCHOOL OF AGRICULTURE OF THE UNIVERSITY oF MINNESOTA,
Saint Anthony Park, 1885.
/\ AGRICULTURAL EXPERIMENT STATION OF T
sora, Saint Anthony Park, 1888.
Minnesota Historical Society, St. Paul.
Minnesota Academy of Science, Minneapolis, 1573.
St. Paul Academy of Sciences, 5t. Paul.

HE UNIVERSITY OF MINNE-

MISSISSIPPI.
(Territory, 1798; State, 1817; land grants, 1803, 1819.)
[JEFFERSON COLLEGE, Washington, 1803—discontinued. |
+ UNIVERSITY OF MISSISSIPPT, Oxford, 1874.

State to Harvard have amounted to $784,793, in addi-

The State has also given $157,500 to Williams, and

tThe appropriations by the.
tion to 46,000 acres of land.
$52,500 to Amherst. —BLACKMAR.
350 Memorval of George Brown Goode.

*AGRICULTURAL AND MECHANICAL COLLEGE OF Mississrppl, Agricultural College
(Starkville), 1880.
AMIsSISSIPPI AGRICULTURAL EXPERIMENT STATION, Agricultural College,
1888.
*ALCORN AGRICULTURAL AND MECHANICAL, COLLEGE (colored), Rodney, 1871,
reorganized in 1878.
Mississippi Historical Society, Jackson.
No academy of sciences.

MISSOURI.

(Territory, 1812; State, 1821; land grants, 1818 and 1820.)

{* UNIVERSITY OF MissourI, Columbia [1820], 1839.
MIssouRI AGRICULTURAL AND MECHANICAL COLLEGE OF THE UNIVERSITY
oF Missouri, Columbia, 1870.
/\MISSOURI AGRICULTURAL EXPERIMENT STATION, Columbia, r88r.
* MISSOURI SCHOOL OF MINES AND METALLURGY OF THE UNIVERSITY OF
MissourtI, Rolla, 1870.
Missouri Historical Society, St. Louis.
St. Louis Academy of Sciences, 1857.

MONTANA.

(Territory, 1864; land grant, 1881.)

COLLEGE OF MONTANA, Deer Lodge, 1883.
Montana Historical Society, Helena.

NEBRASKA.

(Territory, 1859; State, 1867; land grant, 1881.)

+* UNIVERSITY OF NEBRASKA, Lincoln, 1869.
INDUSTRIAL COLLEGE OF THE UNIVERSITY OF NEBRASKA, Lincoln, 1869;
opened for students 1871.
/A\AGRICULTURAL EXPERIMENT STATION OF NEBRASKA, Lincoln, 1887.
Nebraska State Historical Society, Lincoln, 1878.
No scientific society.

NEVADA.

(Territory, 1861; State, 1864; land grant, 1866.)

t* STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEVADA, Reno [1865], 1874.
ScHOOL, OF AGRICULTURE, OF THE NEVADA STATE UNIVERSITY, Reno, 1877.
/ANEVADA STATE AGRICULTURAL STATION, Reno,
No scientific or historical society.

NEW HAMPSHIRE.

(Settled, 1629; State, 1788.)

DARTMOUTH COLLEGE, Hanover [1758], £770.
*NEwW HAMPSHIRE COLLEGE OF AGRICULTURE AND THE MECHANIC ARTs (in
connection with Dartmouth College), Hanover [1866], 1868.
/\NEW HAMPSHIRE AGRICULTURAL EXPERIMENT STATION, Hanover, 1888.
New Hampshire Historical Society, Concord, 1823.
No academy of science.

Report of U, S. National Museum, 1897, Part II
PLATE 71

£205
Nattonal Scientific and Educational Institutions. 351

NEW JERSEY.

(Settled, 1614-20; State, 1787.)

CoLLEGE oF NEW JERSEY, Princeton, 1746.
* RUTGERS SCIENTIFIC SCHOOL, OF RUTGERS COLLEGE, New Brunswick. Made
State College of Agriculture and the Mechanic Arts [1564], 1865.
+ NEW JERSEY STATE AGRICULTURAL EXPERIMENT STATION, New Brunswick,
18So.
ANEW JERSEY AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE EXPERIMENT STATION, New Bruns-
wick, 1888.
New Jersey Historical Society, Newark, 1845.
No academy of science.

NEW MEXICO.

(Territory, 1850; land grant, 1854.)

UNIVERSITY OF NEW MEXICO, Santa Fe, 1881.
+AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE OF NEW MExIco, Las Cruces. Established by Ter-
ritorial legislature, 1888-89.
Historical Society of New Mexico, Santa Fe.

NEW YORK.

(Settled, 1613; State, 1788.)

THE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YorRK, 1787, is not a teaching body. It is in indirect
relationship with Columbia College, 1754, Union College, Hamilton College,
and numerous collegiate and technical schools.

* CORNELL UNIVERSITY, Ithaca [1865], 1868.

COLLEGE OF AGRICULTURE OF CORNELL UNIVERSITY, Ithaca, 1888.
/\ CORNELL, UNIVERSITY AGRICULTURAL EXPERIMENT STATION, Ithaca, 1879.

+NEW YORK AGRICULTURAL EXPERIMENT STATION, Geneva, 1882.

New York Historical Society, New York, 1804.
New York Academy of Sciences, 1817.

NORTH CAROLINA.

(Settled, 1653; State, 1789.)

+ UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA, Chapel Hill [1789], 1795.
*NorTH CAROLINA COLLEGE OF AGRICULTURE AND MECHANIC AR's, Raleigh.
Established by State, 1889. ;
At NorTH CAROLINA AGRICULTURAL EXPERIMENT STATION, Raleigh, 1877
and 1887.

OHIO.

Territory, 1788; State, 1803; land grants, 1792 and 1803.
A / 79 3

On10 UNIVERSITY, Athens, 1804.
Mtami UNIVERSITY, Oxford, 1809, 1816.
+*Onto STATE UNIVERSITY, Columbus. Chartered 1870; organized September
Lg ial a7}
A, Onto AGRICULTURAL EXPERIMENT STATION, Columbus, 1882 and 1888,
Historical and Philosophical Society of Ohio, Cincinnati,
No State scientific society.
352 Memortal of George Brown Goode.

OREGON.

(Territory, 1848 ; State, 1859.)

+ UNIVERSITY OF OREGON, Eugene City [1850], 1876.
* OREGON STATE AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE, Corvallis, 1888.
/\ OREGON EXPERIMENT STATION, Corvallis, 1888.
Pioneer and Historical Society, Astoria.
No scientific society.

PENNSYLVANIA.

(Settled, 1626 ; State, 1787.)

UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA, Philadelphia, 1751.
* PENNSYLVANIA STATE COLLEGE, State College, 1859, 1862, and 1874.
At PENNSYLVANIA STATE COLLEGE AGRICULTURAL EXPERIMENT STATION,
State College, 1887.
American Philosophical Society, Philadelphia, 1769.
Historical Society of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, 1824.

RHODE ISLAND.

(Settled, 1636; State, 1790.)

* BROWN UNIVERSITY, Providence, 1764.
AGRICULTURAL AND SCIENTIFIC DEPARTMENT OF BROWN UNIVERSITY, Prov-
idence.
+ RHODE Is}AND STATE AGRICULTURAL SCHOOL, Kingston, 1888.
JA. RHODE ISLAND STATE AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE EXPERIMENTAL STATION,
Kingston, 1888.

Rhode Island Historical Society, Providence.

SOUTH CAROLINA.

(Settled, 1670; State, 1788.)

*+ UNIVERSITY OF SOUTH CAROLINA, Columbia, 1801; reorganized, 1865.
SouTH CAROLINA COLLEGE OF AGRICULTURE AND MECHANIC ARTS, UNIVER-
sITy OF SouTH CAROLINA, Columbia 1879.
A. SouTH CAROLINA AGRICULTUAL EXPERIMENT STATION, Columbia, 1888.
*CLAFLIN UNIVERSITY AND SOUTH CAROLINA AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE AND
MECHANICS’ INSTITUTE (Department of University of South Carolina),
Orangeburg, 1872.

South Carolina Historical Society, Charleston.

TENNESSEE.

(Territory, 1790; State, 1796.)

UNIVERSITY OF NASHVILLE (Cumberland College), 1806; discontinued, 1875.
+* UNIVERSITY OF TENNESSEE, Knoxville, 1806.
State AGRICULTURAL AND MECHANICAL, COLLEGE OF THE UNIVERSITY OF
TENNESSEE, Knoxville, 1869.
A TENNESSEE AGRICULTURAL EXPERIMENT STATION, Knoxville, 1882 and
1887.

Tennessee Historical Society, Nashville.
National Scientific and Educational Institutions. 353
TEXAS.
(Annexed, 1846; State, 1845.)
t UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS, Austin [1839], 1866.

* STATE AGRICULTURAL, AND MECHANICAL COLLEGE OF TEXAS, College Station

[1871], 1876.
A TEXAS AGRICULTURAL EXPERIMENT STATION, College Station, 1888.

No historical or scientific society.

ULAH.
(Territory, 1850; land grant, 1855.)
UNIVERSITY OF DESERET, Salt Lake City, 1850.

{ UTAH AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE, Logan City. Established by Territorial legis.
lature, March 8, 1888.

VERMONT.

(Settled, 1755-55; State, 1791.)

»
* UNIVERSITY OF VERMONT [1791], 1800, and
STATE AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE, Burlington, 1865-67.
Af VERMONT STATE AGRICULTURAL EXPERIMENT STATION, Burlington, 18387,

Vermont Historical Society, Montpelier.

VIRGINIA.

(Settled, 1609; State, 1788.)

[COLLEGE OF HENRICO. Projected in 1620].

WILLIAM AND MARY COLLEGE, Williamsburgh, 1691.

t UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA, Charlottesville, 1819,

* VIRGINIA AGRICULTURAL AND MECHANICAL COLLEGE, Blacksburg, 1872.

A VIRGINIA AGRICULTURAL EXPERIMENT STATION, Blacksburg, 1888.

*HAMPTON NORMAL, AND AGRICULTURAL INSTITUTE, Hampton. Organized by
American Missionary Society, April, 1868; reorganized under charter from
State, June, 1870.

Virginia Historical Society, Richmond, 1831.

WASHINGTON.

(Territory, 1853 ; State, 1889.) ‘3

UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON, Seattle, 1862.

WEST VIRGINIA.
(State, 1862.)
+* WEST VIRGINIA UNIVERSITY, Morgantown, 1867.
AGRICULTURAL DEPARTMENT OF WEST. VIRGINIA UNIVERSITY, Morgantown.

J, WEST VIRGINIA EXPERIMENT STATION, Morgantown, 1888,
West Virginia Historical Society, Morgantown,

NAT MUS 97, PT 2 2s
gel: Memorial of George Brown Goode.

WISCONSIN.
(Territory, 1836; State, 1847; land grants, =e and 1854.)

{+ * UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN, Madison [1838], 1848.
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE OF THE UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN, Madiee
1866. .
Z\ t AGRICULTURAL EXPERIMENT STATION OF THE igmrReres OF Wisconsin
Madison, 1883 and 1888.
Wisconsin Historical Society, Madison.
Wisconsin Academy of Science, Arts, and Letters, Madison, 1870.

WYOMING.
(Territory, 1868; State, 1889.)

UNIVERSITY OF WYOMING, Laramie City.
Wyoming Academy of Arts, Science, and Letters, Cheyenne.
Report of U. S. National Museum, 1897. Part Il. PLATE 72

ZEBULON MONTGOMERY PIKE.
THE BEGINNINGS OF NATURAL HISTORY IN AMERICA.
BY

GEORGE BROWN GOODE,
President of the Biological Society of Washington.

THE BEGINNINGS OF NATURAL HISTORY IN AMERICA?

By GEORGE BROWN GOODE,
President of the Biological Society of Washington.

Is not science a growth? Has not science, too, its embryology? And must not the
neglect of itsembryology lead to a misunderstanding of the principles of its evolution
and of its existing organization ?

SPENCER: 7he Genests of Science.

ANALYSIS.
Page.
I. Thomas Harriot, the earliest English naturalist in America............... 357
II. Harriot’s Spanish and French predecessors and contemporaries........... 363
III. Garcilasso de la Vega and the biological lore of the native Americans .... 367
IV. Anglo-American naturalists of the seventeenth century .................. 371
V. European explorations in the New World, 1600-1800............-....++-. 379
VI. The founders of American natural history .............--2. 00. e eee ee eeee 384
VII. The debt which the naturalists of the present owe to those of the past .... 403

iG

Three centuries ago the only English settlement in America was the
little colony of one hundred and eight men which Raleigh had planted
five months before upon Roanoke Island, in North Carolina.

The 17th of August, 1885, was the anniversary of one of the most
noteworthy events in the history of America, for it marked the three
hundredth return of the date when Sir Richard Grenville brought to its
shores this sturdy company of pioneers, who, by their sojourn on this
side of the Atlantic, prepared the way for the great armies of immigrants
who were to follow.

It was also the anniversary of an important event in the history of
science, for among the colonists was ‘Thomas Harriot, the first Muglish
man of science who crossed the Atlantic. His name is familiar to few
save those who love the time-browned pages and quaint narrations of
Hakluyt, Purchas, and Pinkerton; yet Harriot was foremost among the
‘Annual presidential address delivered at the sixth anniversary meeting of the
siological Society of Washington, February 6, 1886, in the lecture room of the
United States National Museum.

ww
on
“I
358 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

scholars of his time—the Huxley or the Stokes of his day—a man of
wide culture, a skillful astronomer, a profound mathematician, the author
of a standard treatise upon algebra, and a botanist, zoologist, and anthro-
pologist withal. ‘‘ He had been the mathematical instructor of Raleigh,
and in obeying this summons to go forth upon the present expedition
gave to it,’’ says Anderson, ‘‘the most valuable aid which could be
derived from human strength.’’ *

This eminent man deserves more than a passing notice on this occasion,
and I have taken pains to bring together all that is known about him.
He was born at Oxford in 1560, or, as old Anthony Wood quaintly
expresses it, ‘“he tumbled out of his mother’s womb into the lap of the
Oxonian muses,’’ and at an early age was entered as a scholar in St.
Mary’s Hall, receiving his bachelor’s degree in 1579. He was soon
received into Raleigh’s family as his instructor in mathematics, and at
the age of twenty-five made his voyage to America.

After his return he was introduced by Raleigh to Henry Percy, Earl
of Northumberland, one of the most munificent patrons of science of that
day, who allowed him a pension of 4120 a year. ‘“‘About the same
time,’’ we are told, ‘‘Hues, well known by his Treatise upon the
Globes,? and Walter Warner, who is said to have given Harvey the first
hint concerning the circulation of the blood, being both of them mathe-
maticians, received from him (Northumberland) pensions of less value ;
so that in 1606, when the Earl was committed to the Tower for life,
Harriott, Hues, and Warner were his constant companions, and were
usually called the Earl of Northumberland’s Magi.’’?

One thing, at least, have three centuries accomplished for science. Its
greatest workers are not now, as they were at the beginning of the
seventeenth century, dependent upon the liberality and caprice of wealthy
men, classed as their ‘‘ pensioners’’ and “‘servants,’’ and assigned places
at their tables which they must needs accept or famish.

Harriot appears to have passed the latter years of his life at Sion
College, near Isleworth, where he died in 1621. He was buried in St.
Christopher’s Church, London, and the following eulogy was embodied
in his epitaph:

3).

QUI OMNES SCIENTIAS CALLUIT AC IN OMNIBUS EXCELLUIT
MATHEMATICIS, PHILOSOPHICIS, THEOLOGICIS,
VERITATIS, INDAGATOR STUDIOSISSIMUS,

“DEI TTRINIUNIUS PIISSIMUS.

‘James S. M. Anderson, History of the Church of England in the Colonies, p. 86,
London, 1845-56.

« ?Robert Hues, Tractatus de Globis, etc., 1611-63.

3 Harriot was also a friend and companion of Raleigh during his imprisonment in
the Tower (1603-1616), and was his collaborator in the preparation of the History
of the World. His fidelity was rewarded by that distinguished authority, Chief
Justice Popham, who denounced him from the bench as ‘‘a devil.”’
Nationa

Museun

PLATE 73.
Beginnings of Natural Flistory in America. 359

He was especially eminent in the field of mathematics. ‘‘ Harriott,’’
says Hallam, ‘‘ was destined to make the last great discovery in the pure
science of algebra. . .~. MHarriott arrived at a complete theory of
the genesis of equations, which Cardan and Vieta had but partially con-
Berved.’”4

His improvements in algebra were adopted, we are told, by Descartes,
and for a considerable time imposed upon the French as his own inven-
tion, but the theft was at last detected and exposed by Doctor Wallis in
his Treatise of Algebra, both Theoretical and Practical, London, 1685.’

‘“Oldys, in his Life of Sir Walter Raleigh, has shown,’’ says Stith,
‘that the famous French philosopher, Descartes, borrowed much of his
light from this excellent mathematician, and that the learned Doctor
Wallis gave the preference to Hariot’s improvements before Descarte’s,
although he had the advantage of coming after and being assisted by
aim.*”

Harriot’s papers were left after his death in the possession of the Percy
family at Petworth, where they were examined in 1787 by Doctor Zach,
and later by Professor Rigaud, of Oxford, who, in 1833, published
in his supplement to the works of James Bradley, An Account of
Thomas Harriot’s Astronomical Papers. His observations on Halley’s
comet in 1607 are still referred to as being of great importance. Zach
pronounced him an eminent astronomer, both theoretical and practical.
‘‘He was the first observer of the solar spots, on which he made a hun-
dred and ninety-nine observations; he also made many excellent obser-
vations on the satellites of Jupiter, and, indeed, it is probable that he dis-
covered them as early if not earlier than Galileo.’’ *

A posthumous work, Artes Analyticee Praxis ad 7Equationes alge-
braicas nova, expedita et generali Methodo resolvendas, e posthumis
Thomas Harriot, was published in 1631 by his friend and associate,
Walter Warner, and there is in the library of Sion College a manu-
script work of his entitled Ephemeris Chyrometrica.

Wood says that, ‘‘notwithstanding his great skill in mathematics, he
had strange thoughts of the Scriptures, always undervalued the old
story of the creation of the world, and would never believe that trite
proposition, ‘Ex nihilo nihil fit.’”’

Stith, the historian of Virginia, protests, however, against the charge

‘Henry Hallam, Introduction to the Literature of Furope in the Fifteenth, Six-
teenth, and Seventeenth Centuries, 4th ed., 1554; I, pp. 454, A456: Tl, p. 223; 111,
p. 181. See also J. E. Montucla, Histoire des Mathematiques* Ersch and Gruber,
Algemeine Encyklopzedie.

2 It would appear, however, that Wallis may have been too enthusiastic in his admi-
ration of the English mathematician. Hallam states that he ascribed to Harriot a
long list of discoveries which have since been reclaimed for Cardan and Vieta.

3 William Stith, History of The First Discovery and Settlement of Virginia,
Williamsburg, 1747, p. 20.

4John M. Good and Olinthus Gilbert Gregory, The Pantologia, V, 1813.
360 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

that Harriot had led his pupil Raleigh into atheism. ‘‘As to this
groundless Aspersion,’’ he remarked, ‘‘ the T'ruth of it, perhaps, was that
Sir Walter and Mr. Hlariot were the first who ventured to depart from
the beaten Tract of the Schools, and to throw off and combat some hoary
Follies and traditionary Errors which had been riveted by Age, and ren-
dered sacred and inviolable in the Hyes of weak and prejudiced Persons.
Sir Valter is said to have been first led to this by the manifest Detection,
from his own Experience, of their erroneous Opinions concerning the
Torrid Zone; and he intended to have proceeded farther in the Search
after more solid and important Truths ’till he was chid and restrained by
the Queen, into whom some Persons had infused a Notion that such
Doctrine was against God.’’’

The erroneous opinions concerning the torrid zone which were called
in question by Harriot and Raleigh were based upon a statement of
Aristotle, in those days accepted as an article of faith, that the equato-
rial zone of the earth was so scorched and dried by the sun’s heat as to
be uninhabitable. Even the experience of explorers was for many years
overpowered by the weight of this time-worn dogma. ‘The Jesuit,
Acosta, was accused of atheism on the same grounds by his Spanish con-
temporaries, but he rejoiced that he had seen for himself and that the
climate under the equator was so different from what he had expected
that ‘‘he could but laugh at Aristotle’s meteors and his philosophy.’’

Harriot’s Brief and True Report of the New Found Land of Vir-
ginia, a thin volume in quarto, printed at Frankfort on the Main in
1590,° is now one of the rarest and most precious works relating to
America® and is full of interest to the naturalist. Harriot’s description
of the Indians and their customs and beliefs, though strongly tinctured

3 ricer: of thea First Discovery ea Settlement of we W aiemepeee 1747,
p. 20.

21590. HARIOT (or Harriott), THOMAS. A Briefe and True Report | of the New
Found Land of Virginia | of the commodities and of the nature and man | ners of the
naturall inhabitants. Discouered by the English Colony there seated by Sir Rich-
ard | Greinuile Knight In the yeere 1585. Which rema | ined Vnder the gouern-
ment of twelue monethes, | At the special charge and direction of the Honou- | rable
SIR WALTER RALEIGH Knight lord Warden | of the stanneries Who therein
hath beene fauoured | and authorised by her MAIESTIE | : and her letters patents:

| This fore booke Is made in English | By Thomas Hariot, seruant to the above
named | Sir WALTER, a member of the Colony and there | imployed in discouer-
ing | CUM GRATIA ET PRIVILEGIO CAES. MATIS SPECIAt! | Francoforti ad
Mcenum | T'ypis Ioannis Wecheli, sumtibus vero Theodori | DeBry Anno CIC IC
XC, | venales reperuunter in officina Sigismundi Feirabendii. | 4°. pp. 1-33 (1).
Title page with ornamental border of architectural design.

>There are now only six or seven perfect copies in existence. ‘These, we are told
by Sabine, are in the British Museum and Bodleian libraries, and in the private col-
lections of Messrs. Lenox, Brown, Christie-Miller, and Mann, besides an imperfect
copy in the library of Harvard College and one in the possession of Sir Thomas
Phillipps. Ata sale in London in 1883 a copy sold for £300. A reproduction in
photolithographic facsimile was issued by Sabine in New York in 1875.

-
Beginnings of Natural [istory in America. 361

with prepossessed ideas concerning them, is thorough and scholarly, and
one of the fullest and most reliable of the early treatises upon the inhabi-
tants of North America.

The chief man of the Roanoke colony, Sir Ralph Lane, usually spoken
of as the first governor of Virginia, was a man of great energy and
enterprise,’ and with the help of Harriot planned and conducted expe-
ditions in every direction—southward, So leagues to Secotan, ‘fan Indian

5 ae

town, lying between the rivers Pampticoe and Neus;’’ to the northwest,
up the Albemarle Sound and Chowan River to the forks of the Meherrin
and Nottaway; and north, 130 miles to the Elizabeth River, on the south
side of Chesapeake Bay.

Besides his description of the Indians, Harriot wrote

‘

‘a particular
narrative of all the beasts, birds, fishes, fowls, fruits, and roots, and how
they may be useful.’’ A systematic report could hardly be expected
from one who lived a century and a half before Linnzeus, but if we keep
in mind the condition of zoology at that day we can but be pleased with
the fullness of his narrative.

He collected the names of twenty-eight species of mammals, twelve of
these, including the black bear, the gray squirrel, the cony or hare, the
otto, and the possum and raccoon (.Saguentickot and Maguoéwoc), he saw,
beside the civet cat or skunk, which he observed by means of another
sense. He was the first to distinguish the American from the Kuropean
deer, stating that the former have longer tails, and the snags of their
horns look backward—a brief diagnosis, but one which was not replaced
by a better one for nearly two centuries.

Of birds he collected the names of eighty-six ‘‘in the countrie lan-

guage,’’ and had pictures drawn of twenty-five. He mentions turkeys,
stockdoves, partridges, crows, herons, and, in winter, great storeof swans
and geese. .

With aquatic animals he seems to have been well acquainted. He
refers to some by English names, and to many others which had no names

)

“but in the countrey language.’’ In the plates accompanying the first

edition of his book are figured several familiar forms, then for the first
time made known in Europe, among them the gar pike (Lepidostcus ),*
and the horse shoe or king crab (Limadlus),* ‘‘ Seekanauk, a kinde of

™Edward Everett Hale’s Life of Sir Ralph Lane. Archzeologia Americana, IV,
PP- 317-344.

2 Subsequently referred to by Champlain in 1613, and Sagard in 1636, under the
name chaousarou, and figured by Champlain on his map of Nouvelle France.
Du Creux, in his Historiaze Canadensis, 1664, also mentions it.

>It has been generally supposed that Champlain was the first to notice this char-
acteristic American animal, and Slafter, in his notes upon Champlain’s works [Pub-
lications of the Prince Society, Champlain’s Voyages, II, p. 87], makes a statement
to that effect, and is followed by Higginson in his History of the United States.
Actually, the French explorer did not observe it until twenty years after Harriot,
and his account of it was not printed until 1613.
362 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

crustie shell fishe which is good meate, about a foot in breadth, having a
crustie tayle, many legges like a crabbe, and her eyes in her back.”’

Harriot also alludes to various kinds of trees and shrubs, usually by
their Indian names. Among them may easily be recognized the pitch
pine, sassafras, shoemake, chestnut, walnut, hickory, persimmon, prickly
pear, Nelumbium, Liriodendron, holly, beech, ash, and so on, beside the
maize and tobacco cultivated by the natives.

A companion of Harriot’s, whose labors are deserving of notice, was
John With or White, the first delineator of plants and animals who vis-
ited this continent. Concerning him and the ultimate utilization of his
work, Stith discourses as follows:

UPON this Voyage, Sir Walter Ralegh, by the Queen’s Advice and Directions,
sent, at no small Expence, Mr. John With, a skilful and ingenious Painter, to take
the Situation of the Country, and to paint, from the Life, the Figures and Habits of
the Natives, their Way of Living, and their several Fashions, Modes, and Supersti-
tions; which he did with great Beauty and Exactness. There was one Zheodore de
Bry, who afterwards published, in the Year 1624, the beautiful Latin Edition of

Voyages, in six Volumes, Folio, a most curious and valuable Work. He being in
England soon after, by the Means of the Rev. Mr. Richard Hackluyt, then of Christ’ s-
Church, in Oxford, who, De Bry tells us, had himself seen the Country, obtained
from Mr. With a’Sight of these Pieces, with Permission to take them off in Copper
Plates. These, being very lively and well done, he carried to Frankfort, on the

Maine, where he published a noble Edition of them, with Latin Explanations, out of
John Wechelius’s Press, in the Year 1590. And these are the Originals from which
Mr. Beverley’s, and the Cuts of many of our late Writers and Travellers, have been
chiefly imitated."

With’s drawings are still in the British Museum,’ where they were
examined in 1860 by Doctor E. E. Hale, who reported upon their condi-
tion to the American Antiquarian Society.’

This collection, he says, consists of one hundred and twelve drawings
in water color, very carefully preserved. They are very well drawn, col-
ored with skill, and even in the present state of art would be considered
anywhere valuable and creditable representations of the plants, birds,
beasts, and men of a new country. Mr. Hale gives a list of these draw-
ings as identified by Sloane and others. Among these were the bald
eagle, the red-headed, hairy, and golden-winged woodpeckers, the blue-
bird, red-wing blackbird, towhee, redbird, blue jay, and fox-colored
thrush, the crow blackbird, and apparently the mocking bird—‘‘A7/a-
mockes, the linguist; a bird that imitateth and useth the sounds and tones
of almost all birds in the countrie.’? Among the fish we recognize the
mullet (7e/szo), the menhaden or oldwife (Masunnehockeo), and the
sturgeon ( Coppauleo), and perhaps the squeteague or chigwit (Chzgwasso ).

« History of the First Discovery and Settlement of Virginia, Williamsburg, 1747,
p. 16.

2 Sir Hans Sloane and additional Manuscripts, 5270.

3 Archeelogia Americana, LV, pp. 21-24. :
Report of U. S. National Museum, 1897. Part ll. PLATE 74.

JOSEPH PRIESTLEY.
7
5
po

a: ¥ AR
= rs os 4 _
on
a 1 hh i 7
- rr

toy =i 7
a
=.
i :
\ "
5
» a =
, -
5 \
:
ae alec? hams Te elites maven
y -#
i - 1
4 - 7 i
7h 1 -
1 — 1 1
a i hs
i =
wi 4
i> 7 ' fe
1 7 - =) wk
i «a = in
9 = : =
‘ J
i
So ~ “AL ¢
aed : nt
Beginnings of Natural Flistory tn_America. 363

The science of North America, then, began with Thomas Harriot.
Let us review together to-night its progress for a period of two centu-
ries—a period coinciding almost exactly with the colonial portion of the
history of the United States.

‘“The present generation,’’ says Whewell, “‘ finds itself the heir of a
vast patrimony of science, and it must needs concern us to know the
steps by which these possessions were acquired and the documents by
which they are secured to us and our heirs forever. Our species from
the time of its creation has been traveling onward in pursuit of truth;
and now that we have reached a lofty and commanding position, with
the broad light of day around us, it must be grateful to look back on the
line of our past progress; to review the journey begun in early twilight
amid primeval wilds, for a long time continued with slow advance and
obscure prospects, and gradually and in later days followed along more
open and lightsome paths, in a wide and fertile region. ‘The historian
of science, from early periods to the present time, may hope for favor on
the score of the mere subject of his narrative, and in virtue of the curi-
osity which the men of the present day may naturally feel respecting the
events and persons of his story.’’

it.

Although Harriot was the first who described the natural character-
istics of North America, it would not be proper to ignore the fact that
the first scientific exploration of the Western Continent was accomplished
by Spaniards and Frenchmen.

Gonzalo Fernandez de Oviedo y Valdes, the first historian of the New
World [b. 1478, d. 1557], was an Asturian of noble birth, who began
life as a page 1n the palace of Ferdinand and Isabella. He saw Columbus
at Burgos on his second return from America in 1496. He came over in
1514 to Santo Domingo, having been appointed inspector of gold smelting,
and was subsequently governor of that island and royal historiographer
of the Indies. In 1525 he transmitted to Charles V his Sumario de la
Natural Historia de las Indias, printed at ‘Toledo two years later, and
in 1535 began the publication of his Historia Natural y General de las
Indias, a task which was finally completed only thirty years ago by the
Spanish Royal Academy of History.

Las Casas said that Oviedo’s books were ‘‘as full of lies almost as
pages,’’ but whatever may have been his methods in the discussion of
history and politics, he seems, in his descriptions, to have been both
minute and accurate. Among the American animals which he was first
to mention was the tapir or danx/—‘‘ of the bignesse of a meane mule,
without hornes, ash-coloured,’’ and the churchia, evidently a species of
Didelphys, allied to our possum. This was the first notice of any mem-
ber of the great group of marsupial mammals. I quote a portion of the
364 Memortal of George Brown Goode.

description in Oviedo’s Sumario, employing the quaint phraseology of
Purchas’s translation:

The Churchia is as bigge as a small Conie, tawnie, sharpe-snowted, dog-toothed,
long-tayled and eared likea Ra/. They do great harm to their Hennes, killing some-
times twenty or more at once to sucke their bloud: And if they then have young,
shee carrieth them with her in a bagge of skin under her belly, running alongst the
same like a Satchell, which shee opens and shuts at pleasure to let them in and out."

He characterized and described at length many other animals, among
them the manatee, the iguana (/zanna), the armadillos (ardatz), the
ant-eaters, the sloth, the pelican, the ivory-billed woodpecker, and the
humming birds.

There are found in the firme land [he wrote] certaine birds, so little that the
whole bodie of one of them is no bigger then the top of the biggest finger of a mans
hand, and yet is the bare body without the feathers not half so bigge. This Bird,
besides her littlenesse, is of such velocitie and swiftness in flying, that who so seeth
her flying in the aire, cannot see her flap or beate her wings after any other sort then
doe Dorres, or the Humble Bees, or Beetles... . . And I know not whereunto I may
better liken them, then to the little birds which the lymners of bookes are accustomed
to paint on the margent of Church Bookes, and other Bookes of Divine Service.
Their Feathers are of manie faire colours, golden, yellow, and greene.

That the spirit of Oviedo’s work was scientific and critical, and not
credulous and marvel-seeking, like that of many of his contemporaries,
is everywhere manifest. His materials are classified in systematically
arranged chapters. His methods may be illustrated by referring to his
chapter On tigers.

‘Tn Terra Firma,’’ he begins, ‘‘are found many terrible beasts which
the first Spaniards calied tigers—which thing, nevertheless, I dare not
.affirm.’’ He then reviews concisely and critically what is known of
tigers elsewhere, and goes on to describe the supposed American tiger at
length, and in such terms that it is at once evident that the mammal
under discussion is one of the spotted cats, doubtless the jaguar (/e/?s
onca ).”

The second in order of time to publish a book upon American natural
history was Jean de Lery [b. 1534, d. 1611], a Calvinistic minister, who
was a member of the Huguenot colony founded by the Chevalier de
Villegagnon in 1555, on the small island in the bay of Rio de Janeiro,
which still bears his name. He remained in Brazil less than five years,
and in 1578 published at Rouen a work entitled Voyage en Amerique,
avec la description des Animaux et Plantes de ce Pays.

Joseph d’ Acosta was another Spanish explorer who preceded Harriot,
and was a man of much the same school and temper of mind. Born
in the province of Leon about the year 1539, he entered the society of
Jesuits at the age of fourteen, and in 1571 went to Peru, where he tray-
eled as a missionary for seventeen years. After his return to Spain

‘Sumario, Chap. XXVII, p. 491. Purchas, His Pilgrimmes, Chapter III, 1625,

P. 995-
Idem, Chap. XI, p. 487.
Beginnings of Natural Flistory i America. 365

he filled several important ecclesiastical offices and died February 15,
1600, rector of the University of Salamanca. His first book, De Nat-
vra Novi Orbis Libri dvo, was published in-1589. His Historia Natvral
y Moral delas Indias appeared in 1590, and is one of the best known and
most useful of the early Spanish works on America, having passed through
numerous editions in many languages.

Acosta was, perhaps, the most learned of the early writers upon Amer-
ica, and his writings, though modeled after those of the medizeval
schoolmen, were full of suggestive observations, ‘‘touching the naturall
historie of the heavens, ayre, water, and earth at the West Indies, also
of their beasts, fishes, fowles, plants, and other remarkable varieties of
nature.’’ He discoursed ‘‘of the fashion and form of heaven at the
new-found world,’’ ‘‘of the ayre and the winds,’’ of ocean physics, of
volcanoes and earthquakes, as well as of metals, pearls, emeralds, trees,
beasts, and fowls.

He discussed the appearance and habits of the manatee and the croc-
odile, and described the Indian methods of whaling and pearl fishing.
He dwelt at length upon the condition of the domestic animals, sheep,
kine, goats, horses, asses, dogs, and cats which the Spaniards had intro-
duced into the New World and which were already thoroughly accli-
mated. It seems strange to learn from his pages that in the year 1587,
99,794 hides of domestic cattle were exported from Santo Domingo and
New Spain to Seville. Lynceus has suggested that some of these skins
were from the bison herds, believed at that time to have been abundant
in the north of Mexico.

He gives a formidable catalogue of the animals of Central and South
America, in which occur the familiar names of armadillo, iguana, chin-
chilla, viscacha, vicugna, paco, and guanaco, and describes many of them
at length, especially the peccary (.Sazvo), the tapirs, the sloths, and the
vicugna. He speaks of the cochineal insect, which had already become
of importance in the arts.

He was the first to call attention to the existence in South America of
immense fossil bones; these he supposed to be the remains of
individuals of the human species.

gigantic

His description of the flora is very full, and he dwells at length upon
the useful applications of the cacao bean and its product, the drink
which they call chocolate—‘‘ whereof they make great account in that
country, foolishly and without reason’’—the plantain, the yucca, the
cassava, the maguey, the tunall or cactus, and very many more.

It is, however, as a scientific theorist that Acosta has the highest
claim to our attention. He appears to have been the first to discuss
America from the standpoint of the zoogeographer.

In considering the question, ‘‘ How it should be possible that at the
Indies there should be any sorts of beasts, whereof the like are nowhere
else,’’ he owns that he is quite unable to determine whether they were
366 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

special creations or whether they came out of the ark. He evidently
prefers the first alternative, although so trammeled by the prevalent
opinions of his day and sect that he is unable to bring himself quite to
its avowal. He approaches so close to the limits of heterodoxy, how-
ever, that Purchas, in His Pilgrimmes, feels obliged to print a footnote,
pronouncing it ‘‘un-Christian to say that America was not drowned with
the flood.”’

Acosta thoroughly appreciated the peculiar character of the American
fauna, and remarked that ‘‘if the kinds of beasts are to be judged by
their properties, it would be as reasonable to call an egg a chestnut as
to seeke to reduce to the known kinds of Europe the divers kinds of the
Indies.’’ He was even willing to admit that it may not be necessary to
say that the creation of the world was finished in six days, and that
beasts of a more perfect character may have been made subsequently ;
and in his anxiety to escape the alternative of a Noah’s ark almost com-
mitted himself to a theory of evolution. ‘‘We may consider well upon
this subject,’’ he wrote, ‘‘whether these beasts differ in kinde and essen-
tially from all others, or if this difference be accidentall, which might
grow by divers accidents, as we see in the Images of men, some are
white, others black, some Giants, others Dwarfes; and in Apes, some
have no taile, others have; and in Sheepe, some are bare, others have
fleeces, some great and strong with a long necke, as those of Peru, others
weake and little, having a short necke, as those of Castile. But to
speak directly, who so would preserve the propagation of beasts at the
Indies and reduce them to those of Europe, hee shall undertake a
charge he will hardly discharge with his honour.’’

Francesco Hernandez, a representative physician and man of science,
was sent by Philip I] of Spain to Mexico, with unlimited facilities for explo-
ration, and remained in that country from 1593 to 1600. His notes and
collections seem to have been very extensive, and it 1s said that over 1,200
drawings of plants and animals were prepared under his direction. Edi-
tions of his works were published in Mexico in 1604 and 1615. I am
assured by Mexican naturalists that his work was careful and valuable,
the only defect being that he trusted too implicitly in what he was told
by the native Mexicans.

Among the animals not met with in previous writings are the coyote
(Aztec, Coyot/), the buffalo, the axolotl, the porcupine (//oztztlacuatzin),
the prong-buck (JZazame), the horned lizard ( 7apayaxin), the bison,
the peccary (Quapizotl), and the toucan.

Among those of which figures are for the first time published are the
ocelot ( Ocelot/), the rattlesnake ( 7euhtlacot zanhquz), the manatee (JZan-
att), the alligator (Aguetzpalin), the armadillo (Ayotochtiz), the pelican
(Ayototl).

The figures of plants are numerous, and in most instances, I should
judge, recognizable.
Report of U. S. National Museum, 1897. Part i PLATE 75.

SAMUEL PURCHAS.
Beginnings of Natural History tn America. 367

Many other Spaniards published their observations upon America in
the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries, but it 1s perhaps not necessary
to refer to them even by name. They were, as a rule, travelers, not
explorers. Purchas assures us that ‘‘ Acosta and Oviedo have best
deserved of the studious of Nature—that is, of the knowledge of God in
his workes.’’

TET:

A personage who must on no account be overlooked in the consid-
eration of these early days is Garcilasso de la Vega. Born in Peru in
1539, his father the Spanish governor of Cuzco, his mother a princess of
the Inca blood, he boasted of a lineage traced through the line of ancient
Peruvian monarchs back to Manco Capac and the Sun. He served asa
soldier in Europe and died in Spain about the year 1617. His Royal
Commentaries of Peru, constitutes a magnificent contribution to the
history of pre-Columbian America, and was said by some authorities to
have been first written in the Peruvian language."

Be this as it may, De la Vega’s commentaries, though more valuable
to the civil than to the natural historian, will always possess a peculiar
interest, not only because the author was the first native of America who
wrote concerning its animals and plants, but for the reason that it repre-
sents to us the historic and scientific lore of the aboriginal inhabitants of
this continent.

De la Vega describes in an intelligible manner the condor ( Crztur) of
South America, of which, as he tells us, there was a famous Indian paint-
ing in the temple at Cacha, the mountain cats or ocelots (Inca Ozcollo,
Aztec Ocelotl), the puma, the viscacha, the tapir, and the three-toed
ostrich. He was one of the first to notice the skunk (JZephitis, sp.),

‘which the Indians call Annas, the Spanish Zorzznas.’’ ‘‘It is well,’’
he remarks, ‘‘that these creatures are not in great numbers, for if they
were, they were able to poison and stench up a whole countrey.’’ He
devotes a chapter to ‘‘the tame cattel which God hath given to the
Indians of Peru’’—the llamia and the huanaco—and speaks also of the
paco and the vicuna, clearly distinguishing and describing the appear-
ance and habits of the four species of T'ylopoda which occur on the west
coast of South America, although European naturalists a century later
knew but two of them. He describes the annual vicuna hunts which
were conducted by the Inca kings in person, assisted by twenty or thirty
thousand Indians.

The fauna of Peru, as catalogued by him, included nearly oie) vas

TA pare maneon of 1633 had the iolloeine aes Gon enaire Royal ou I’ Fastone
des Yneas Roys de Peru, etc. Ensemble une description particuliére des Animaux,
des Fruits, des Mineraux, des Plantes, etc. Ecrite en langue Peruvienne et traduit
fur la version Espagnole par I. Baudouin, Paris, 1633; Amsterdam, 1704 and 1715.
See Artedi, Bibliotheca Ichthyologica, 1788, p. 65.

368 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

and the minuteness of his observations and the accuracy of his descrip-
tions are very surprising. He discusses at length the plants of Peru,
especially the maguey, the pineapple, the tobacco, and ‘‘the pretious
leaf called Cuca,’’ whose virtues pharmacologists now hold in such high
esteem, and devotes chapters to ‘‘ The Emeralds, Turquoises, and Pearls
of that Countrey;’’ to gold and silver, and to quicksilver.

De la Vega refers to a certain place in the city of Cuzco, where lions
and other fierce creatures are kept in captivity. The taste for menager-
ies and gardens seems to have been less pronounced in Peru, however,
than in Mexico.

Much has been written concerning the wonderful collection of animals
and plants which the Spanish conquistadors found in Montezuma’s cap-
ital city. Carus, in his Geschichte der Zoologie declares that at the
time of the discovery of Mexico, Europe had no menageries and botani-
cal gardens which could be compared with those of Chapoltepec and
Huextepec, a statement which is quite within the bounds of truth, for
the earliest botanical garden in the Old World was that founded at Pisa
in 1543." Our fellow member, Doctor Charles Rau, has also described
the zoological gardens of Mexico in glowing terms,” and Professor E. B.
Tylor states that in the palace gardens of Mexico all kinds of birds and
beasts were kept in well-appointed zoological gardens, where there were
homes even for alligators and snakes, and declares that this testifies to a
cultivation of natural history which was really beyond the European level
of the time.

Is it not to be regretted that the capital of the United States in 1885
is still unprovided with a means of public instruction which was to be
found in the capital of Mexico four hundred years ago?

I have examined the historians of Mexico with care, and must express
my conviction that the truth is more nearly touched in the bluff, soldier-
like narrative of Cortez himself than in the flowery and redundant para-
phrases of Prescott. We may, probably, safely accept the story as told
by Bernal Diaz del Castillo, one of the companions of Cortez, to whom
‘Torquemada, Robertson, Lockhart, Rau, and others give high praise as
a truthful narrator.

Diaz presents a most vivid word-painting of the city of Mexico, and
was particularly impressed by the royal aviaries:

We saw here every kind of eagle, from the king’s eagles to the smallest kind
included; and every species of bird, from the largest known to the little colibris,4 in
their full splendor of plumage. Here also were to be seen those birds from which
the Mexicans take the green-colored feathers, of which they manufacture their

‘William Whewell, A History of the Inductive Sciences, from the Earliest to the
Present Time, III, 1837, p. 325.

» Carl Rau, Thiergarten. New Yorker Staats-Zeitung, April 26, 1863.

>The golden eagle, says Aguilera.

4 Humming birds,
Beginnings of Natural Ffistory tt America. 369

beautiful feathered stuffs These last-mentioned birds very much resemble our
Spanish jays and are called by the Indians gueza/les."

The species of sparrows? were very curious, having five distinct colors in their
plumage—green, red, white, yellow, blue.

There were such vast numbers of parrots and such a variety of kinds that I can not
remember all their names; and geese of the richest plumage and other large birds,

These were at stated periods stripped of their feathers, that new ones might
grow in their place. All these birds had appropriate places to breed in and were
under the care of several Indians of both sexes, who had to keep their nests clean,
give to each kind its proper food, and set the birds for breeding.

In another place, near a temple, were kept all manner of beautiful
animals, the names of which were not noted by Diaz, nor their pecul-
iarities described.

In the building where the human sacrifices were perpetrated there were dens in
which were kept poisonous serpents, and among them ‘‘a species at the end of whose
tail there was a kind of rattle.’’ This last-mentioned serpent, which is the most
dangerous, was kept in a cabin in which a quantity of feathers had been strewed ;
here it laid its eggs, and it was fed with the flesh of dogs and of human beings which
had been sacrificed. . . . Whenall the tigers and lions} roared together with
the howlings of the jackals and foxes and hissing of the serpents, it was quite fearful,
and you could not suppose otherwise than that you were in hell.

This is the first record of the rattlesnake, and brings to mind the cap-
tive snakes of the Mokis, their annual snake dance, and their use of
feathers in the same connection.°®

Iam not yet prepared to believe in the marvelous aquaria described
by Prescott, although fish ponds there doubtless were.

I am assured by our fellow-member, Senor Aguilera, that the loca-
tions of the gardens of Montezuma are well identified, and that the Mex-
ican Indians still possess a marvelous knowledge of the medicinal virtues
of plants, which is handed down by tradition from generation to genera-
tion. From this he infers that in the daysof Aztec glory the knowledge
of the uses of plants must have been very comprehensive.

Who shall say that the spirit of true science did not inspire the Inca
Pachacutec, when many centuries ago he handed down to his descendants
maxims such as this:

A herbalist who knows the names but is ignorant of the virtues and qualities of
herbs, or he who knows few but is ignorant of most, isa mere quack and mounte-
bank, and deserves not the name and repute of a physician until he is skillful as
well in the noxious as in the salutiferous qualities of herbs.

Impressed with the extent of the knowledge of nature among the
aborigines of America, I asked one of the most learned of our anthro-

' Trogons, known as gwefza/es by the Mexican Indians of to-day. Excellent exam-
ples of their pictorial use of trogon feathers may be seen in the United States National
Museum, ; 2 Cyanopiza versicolor.

3 Ocelot, juguars, pumas, eyras, jaguarundis.

4 The coyote (coyvoll), Cants latrans.

5 John G. Bourke, The Snake Dance of the Moquis of Arizona, New York, 1884.

NAT MUS 97, PT 2 24

370 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

pologists for his opinion in regard to its character, and received the fol-
lowing statement:
WASHINGTON, January 5, 1886.
My DrEAR Mr. GoopE: We make a very grave mistake if we think there was no
study of nature before the science of natural history. In all branches of study what-
ever there was lore before there was science. Before the Weather Bureau was
weather lore, a kind of rough induction which the ancient people made, and which
was very far from erroneous, Doctor Washington Matthews read a paper before the
Washington Philosophical Society more than a year ago' to draw attention to the
marvelous intimacy of the Navajo Indians with the plant kingdom around them,
and their vocabulary, which contained names for many species constructed so as to
connote qualities well known to them. You are familiar with the stories concerning
the respect in which certain animals are held by the Eskimo, and the minute
acquaintance of all our aborigines of both continents with the life histories of many
animals. ‘The Eskimo, as well as the Indian tribes, carve and depict forms so well
that the naturalist can frequently determine the species. Mr. Lucien Turner col-
lected carvings in ivory of foetal forms.
Very truly, yours, O. T. Mason.

Professor Mason also called attention to a long paper upon Tame
Animals among the Red Men of America, by Doctor EK. F. im ‘Thurn,?
in which it is stated that the Indian of South America finds means to
tame almost every wild bird and beast of his country, so that these
domesticated animals are ever among the most prominent members of
his household, not because of any affection for them, but because he
enjoys their bright colors, makes use of them in various ways, and
employs them as a medium of exchange. ‘They even know how to
change the colors of a living bird from green to yellow. In one settle-
ment he counted twenty-one kinds of monkeys. Nearly all of the thirty
or more species of Guiana parrots are tamed, two species of deer, two of
peccaries, two of coati-mundis, jaguars, pacas, capybaras, agoutis, hawks,
owls, herons, plovers, toucans, troupials, rupicolas, and iguanas were
also observed in captivity. The mere fact that these animals are kept
in captivity is not in itself especially significant, but it renders it pos-
sible to understand how splendor-loving rulers of Mexico succeeded in
building up the great menageries.

Bearing in mind the animal myths which Major Powell has found so
prevalent among the Indians of Arizona and New Mexico, and has so
charmingly translated, and those which Schoolcraft and others recorded
in the north long ago, and which Longfellow has arranged in metric
form, we can not but be impressed with the idea that the red man of
old, living close to nature as he did, knew many of her secrets which
we should be glad to share with him at the present day.

* Washington Matthews, Natural Naturalists. Bulletin of the Philosophical Society
Washington, VII, 1885, p. 73 (abstract).

?’'Timehri, being the Journal of the Royal Agricultural and Commercial Society of
British Guiana, Demerara, I, 1882, pp. 25-43.
Report of U. S. National Museum, 1897. Part Il. PLATE 76-

CONSTANTINE SAMUEL RAFINESQUE.
Beginnings of Natural History tn America. ay

Garcilasso de la Vega was not the only descendant of the aboriginal
Americans who has written upon their history. Among the authors of
works upon Mexican archeology published in the seventeenth and
eighteenth centuries were Taddeo de Niza and Gabriel d’ Ayala, ‘‘ noble
Indians’’ of Tlazcala and Tezcuco, the three named Ixtlilxochitl, and
ten or twelve more. Gongora, a native Mexican, professor of mathe-
matics in the University of Mexico, was one of the earliest American
astronomers, the author of the Mexican Cyclography, printed two
centuries ago. Herrera, Martinez, Garcia, Torquemada, Castillejo, De
Betancourt, De Solis, Del Pulgar, and Beneducci have done what they
could to preserve a portion of this ancient American lore, and it seems
almost incredible that, sometime in the future when American arche-
ology shall have gained a firmer footing, some of the treasures of fact
which these men garnered up are not to have an important function in
elucidating anthropological problems which are as yet entirely unsolved.

IV.

The colony on Roanoke Island having been abandoned by the English,
twenty years elapsed before their next effort toward peopling America.
Then came the adventurers to Jamestown in 1606, and with them that
picturesque personage, Captain John Smith, who, though unversed in
the mathematics and astronomy which made up to a great extent the
science of the day, was a keen observer and an enterprising explorer.
His contributions to geography were important, and his descriptions of
the animals and plants of Virginia and New England supplement well
those of his predecessor, Harriot.

Captain Smith was the first to describe the raccoon, the musquash, and
the flying squirrel:

There is a beast they call Avoughcun (raccoon), much like a badger, but useth to
live on trees, as Squirrels doe. ‘Their Squirrels some are neare as great as our smallest
sort of wilde Rabbets, some blackish, or blacke and white, but most are gray. A
small beast they have they call Alssapanick, but we call them flying Squirrels,
because, spreading their legs, and so stretching the largenesse of their skins that
they have been seene to fly 30 or go yards. An Opossum hath a head like a Swine,
and a taile like a Rat, and is of the bignesse of a Cat. Wnder her belly she hath a
bagge, wherein she lodgeth, carrieth, and suckleth her young. A J/ussascus (mus-
quash) is a beast of the forme and nature of our water Rats, but many of them smell
exceedingly strongly of Muske.

And in the same strain he goes on to mention a score of mamuals,
identifying them with those of Europe with surprising accuracy.

His ‘‘ Utchun quoyes, which is like a Wild Cat,” is evidently the bay
lynx. With the birds he was less familiar, but he mentions a number
which resemble those of Europe, and states that many of them were
372 Memortal of George Brown Goode.

unfamiliar. He was the first to refer to the red-wing blackbird (Ageleus
pheniceus ).

He catalogues twenty-five kinds of fish and shellfish, using the names
by which many of them are known to this day.

He gives also a very judicious account of the useful trees of Virginia,
referring, among novel things, to the Chechinquamin (chinkapin), and
another which no one can fail to recognize.

Plums, [he says], are of three sorts. ... That which they call Putchamins
grow as high asa /a/meta,; the fruit is like a Medler; it is first greene, then yellow,
and red when it is ripe; if it be not ripe it will draw a man’s mouth awry with much
torment.*

In his description of New England, Smith mentions twelve species of
mamuials, including the ‘‘moos,’’ now spoken of for the first time,’
sixteen of birds, and twenty-seven ‘‘fishes.’’ His descriptions of the
abundance of fishes are often quoted.?

Smith’s first work upon Virginia was printed in 1612 and his General
History in 1624. In the interim, Ralphe Hamor, the younger, secretary
of the colony, issued his True Discourse of the Present Estate of Vir-
ginia, published in London in 1615.4 Hamor was not a naturalist, but
his name is usually referred to by zoological bibliographers, since he
mentions by name over sixty native animals. He was the first to describe
the great flocks of wild pigeons, of which he remarks: ‘‘In winter,
beyond number or imagination, myselfe hath seene three or foure houres
together flockes in the aire so thicke that even they have shadowed the
skie from us.’’> He gives an amusing description of the ‘‘opossume,”’
and also speaks of the introduction and successful acclimation of the
Chinese silkworm.

In 1620 the Plymouth Colony was planted, and itsimembers also began
to record their impressions of the birds and the beasts and the plants
which they found, for the instruction of their kinsfolk at home.

Bradford and Winslow’s Journal, printed in London in 1622, contains
various passing allusions to the animals and plants observed by the
Pilgrims, as does also Bradford’s History, which, however, was not
printed until long after its completion. They added nothing, however,
to what had already been said by Smith.

Edward Winslow’s News from New England, printed in London

*Generall Historie, 1624, p. 27.

?Vrom the Indian word J/oosoa. Slafter, in his notes on Champlain’s Voyages,
I, p. 265, supposes the Origuac referred to by this explorer in his De Sauvages, etc.,
Paris, 1607, to have been the Moose, and his Cerf to have been the Caribou.

>Generall Historie, 1624, pp. 216, 217.

4A copy of this rare work was sold in London, 1883, for £69. A reprint was issued
by Joel Munsell at Albany in 1860, but this privately printed edition consisted of only
200 copies and it is already scarce.

5 Page 21.
Beginnings of Natural History mm America. 78

in 1624, contains one of the earliest descriptions of the Indians of the
Northeast.

William Wood’s New England’s Prospect, which was issued in
London in 1634, and Morton’s New English Canaan, printed three
years later in Amsterdam, were the first formal treatises upon New
England and its animals and plants. The two authors were very unlike,
and their books even more so—yet complementing each other very
satisfactorily. Morton was the best educated man, brightest, and most
observant; Wood the most conscientious and the most laborious in
recording minute details.

‘Thomas Morton, of Clifford’s Inn, Gent.,’’ was by no means a rep-
resentative man in the Puritan community in which he lived. His habits
were those of an English man of fashion, and his Rabelaisian humor,
when directed against his fellow-colonists and their institutions, was no
recommendation to their favor. Wecan not wonder that he was hunted
from settlement to settlement and even cast into prison, to endure, with-
out bedding or fire, the rigor of a New England winter.

As a naturalist, Morton appears to have been the most accurate of the
two of this time. In those partsof his book which describe animals and
plants he manifests a definite scientific purpose. He discriminates
between species, and frequently points out characters by which American
and European forms may be distinguished. He was the first to banish
the lion from the catalogue of the mammals of eastern North America.
Even Wood, though he admitted that he could not say that he ever saw
one with his own eye, evidently believed that lions inhabited the woods
of Massachusetts. Morton was a skeptic because, as he said, ‘‘ it is con-
trary to the Nature of the beast to frequent places accustomed to snow;
being like the Catt, that will hazard the burning of her tayle, rather than
abide from the fire.’’ Huis brief biographies, especially those of mammals,
indicate that he was an observer of no slight acuteness.

‘Twenty species of mammals, thirty-two of birds, twenty of fishes, eight
of marine invertebrates, and twenty-seven of plants are mentioned,
usually in such definite terms that they may readily be identified.

A thorough pagan himself, he seems to have commanded the confidence
of the Indians more than others, to have lived in their society, and
learned to comprehend the meaning of their customs. His first book,
The Originall of the Natives, their Manners and Customs, seems to
have been the careful record of rather critical observations.

Wood’s book is no less deserving of praise. ‘The climate and the soil
are judiciously discussed, and the herbs, fruits, woods, waters, and
minerals, then ‘‘the beasts that live on land,’’ ‘‘ beasts living in the
water,’’ ‘“‘ birds and fowls both of land and water,’’ and fish, after which
follows a topographical description of the colony. His catalogues of
species are in verse, and his adjectives are so descriptive and _ pictorial
that his subsequent remarks in prose are often superfluous. I quote his
374 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

catalogue ot the trees of New England, an imitation in manner and
meter of Spenser’s famous catalogue in The Faerie Queene:

Trees both in hills and plaines in plenty be

The long liv’d Oake, and mourneful Cypris tree

Skie towring pines, and Chestnuts coated rough,

The lasting Cedar and the Walnut tough ;

The rozin dropping Firre for masts in use.

The boatmen seeke for Oares light neeate growne sprewse,
The brittle Ash, the ever trembling Aspes,

The broad-spread Elme, whose concave harbours waspes
The water-springie Alder, good for nought

Small Elderes by the Indian Fletchers sought

The knottie Maple, pallid Birtch, Hawthornes,

The Horne bound tree that to be cloven scornes;

Which from the tender Vine oft takes his spouse,

Who twinds embracing armes about his boughes.
Within this Indian Orchard fruites be some

The ruddie Cherrie, and the jettie Plumbe

Snake murthering Hazell, with sweet Saxaphrage
Whose steemes in beere allays hot fever’s rage.

The Diar’s Shumach, with more trees there be

That are both good to use and rare to see.

Thus he describes the Animals of New England:

The Kingly Lyon and the strong arm’d Beare

The large limbed Mooses, with the tripping Deare.
Quill darting Poreupines, and Rackcoones bee
Castelld in the hollow of an aged Tree

The skipping Squirrel, Rabbet, purblinde Hare
Immured in the selfe same Castle are

Least red-eyed Ferrets, wily Foxes should

Them undermine if ramperd but with mould.

The grim fac’t Ounce, and ravenous howling Woolfe
Whose meagre Paunch suckes like a swallowing Gulfe,
Black glistening Otters and rich coated Beaver

The Civet scented Musquash, smelling ever.

His subsequent remarks upon the mammals are expanded from his
rhyme, and extended by tales which he has heard from hunters. One
of the animals whose name would not lend itself to poesy is the
‘ sauuncke,’’ which he classified among the ‘‘ beasts of offence.’’ This
seems to be the first use of the name.

In the second part of Wood’s book the Indians are discussed, and a
very creditable vocabulary is given.

Most admirable work was now being done among the Indians by some
of the colonial clergymen. Chief among them was the Rev. John Eliot
[b. 1604, d. 1690], who, during a residence of more than half a century
at Roxbury, mastered the language of the Massachusetts branch of the
great Algonquin tribe and published his grammars and translations.
He was a graduate of Jesus College, Cambridge, and came to Massachu-
Report of U.S, National Museum, 1897. Part Il. PLATE 77.

ww

Cr eetantiiay
i

Beginnings of Natural History in America. 375

setts in 1631. The Rev. Abraham Peirson, one of the founders of the
colony at Newark, during his residence in New England made valuable
investigations upon the language of the Quiripi or Quinnipiac Indians of
the New Haven colony. The extensive bibliography of which Mr.
Pilling has recently published advance sheets gives an excellent idea of
the attention which American linguistics have since received.

That very eminent colonial statesman, John Winthrop the younger,
the first governor of Connecticut [b. 1587, d. 1649], stood high in the
esteem of English men of science, and was invited by the newly founded
Royal Society, of which he was a fellow, ‘‘to take upon himself the
charge of being the chief correspondent in the West, as Sir Philiberto
Vernatti was in the East Indies.’’ ‘The secretary of the Royal Society
said of him: ‘‘ His name, had he put it to his writings, would have been
as universally known as the Boyles, the Wilkins’s, and the Oldenburghs,
and been handed down to us with similar applause.’’’

Governor Winthrop’s name occurs from time to time in the Philo-
sophical Transactions, and it was to him that science was indebted for its
first knowledge of the genus Astrophyton.

John Winthrop, F. R. S. [b. 1606, d. 1676], son of the last, and also
governor of Connecticut in 1662, is said to have been ‘‘famous for his
philosophical knowledge.’’ He was a founder of the Royal Society,
being at the time of its origin in England as agent of the colony. And
the second governor’s grandson, John Winthrop, F. R. S. [b. 1681, d.
1747], who passed the latter part of his life in England, was declared to
have increased the Royal Society’s repository ‘‘ with more than six hun-
dred curious specimens, chiefly in the mineral kingdom,’’ and since the
founder of the museum of the Royal Society. ‘‘the benefactor who has
given the most numerous collections.’’?

The Rey. John Clayton, rector of Crofton, at Wakefield, in Yorkshire,
made a journey to Virginia in 1685, and in 1688 communicated to the
Royal Society An Account of several observables in Virginia and in his
Voyage thither.’ Clayton seems to have been a man of scientific cul-
ture, and to have been the author, 1n company with Doctor Moulin, of a
treatise upon comparative anatomy. He was of the same school with
Harriot and Wood, though more philosophical. His essay was, however,
the most important which had yet been published upon the natural history
of the South, and his annotated catalogue of mammals, birds, and reptiles
is creditably full.

Thomas Glover also published about this time An Account of Vir-

‘Doctor Cromwell Mortimer, in the dedication of Volume XI, Philosophical
Transactions.

2 Tuckerman, in Archzeologia Americana, IV, pp. 123-124. See also The Win-
throp Papers. Massachusetts Historical Society Collections, 5th ser., VIII, p. 571.

3 Philosophical Transactions, X VII, pp. 781-795, 978-999; X VIII, pp. 121-135, and
iu Miscellaneoua Curiosa, III; also reprinted in Force’s Historical Tracts, III.
276 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

ginia,* in which he discussed the natural history of the colony after the
manner of Wood and Morton. ‘The Rev. Hugh Jones also published a
similar but shorter paper upon Several Observables in Maryland,’ in
which, however, no new facts are mentioned. He collected insects and
plants for Petiver.

3enjamin Bullivant, of Boston, was another of the men who, to use the
language of the day, was ‘‘curious’’ 1n matters of natural history. One
of his letters was published in the Philosophical Transactions,* and his
notes on the “‘hum-bird’’ are sometimes referred to.

3ullivant was not a naturalist; he is less worthy of our consideration
than Harriot, although a century later. <A fit companion for Bullivant
was John Josselyn.

Josselyn’s famous work entitled New England’s Rarities Discovered in
Birds, Beasts, Fishes, Serpents, and Plants of that Country, was printed
in London in 1672; his Account of Iwo Voyages to New England, in
1675 (second edition). No writer of his period is more frequently quoted
than Josselyn, whose quaint language and picturesque style are very
attractive. Although no more in sympathy with his Puritan associations

‘

than the author of New England’s Prospect, he was evidently more
and his books are

ce ~

justly entitled to subscribe himself as ‘‘Gentleman,”’
not disfigured by personalities and political aspersions.

Josselyn does not seem to me to be the peer, asa naturalist, of many of
those who preceded him. Hewasa bright, though superficial, man, anda
ready compiler. He evidently had some botanical work in his possession,
possibly, as Tuckerman has suggested, a recently published edition of
Gerard’s Herbal, and this he used with such skill as to give him a cer-
tain standing in botanical literature. In his zoological chapters I find
little which had not been recorded before, while the author’s fondness for
startling anecdotes greatly mars the semblance of accuracy in his work.
His catalogue of fishes is a strange olla-podrida of names and scraps of
information, compiled, collected, and invented. His method of arrange-
ment is not more scientific than his spirit, and it 1s questionable whether
he is entitled to a place among naturalists.

Here is an example of his style:

«or )

The Lasse,’
fat in the bone of a Lasses head is his braines which is a lye.”’

writes he, ‘‘is a salt water fish too . . . . one writes that the

To this period belongs, also, Lawson, the author of a History of Carolina
and A New Voyage to Carolina, made in 1700 and the following years,
while acting as surveyor-general of the colony. Iawson was burnt at the
stake in 1709 by the Indians, who resented his encroachments upon their
territory. His lists of the animals and plants of the region are very full
aud his observations accurate. Coues’s ‘‘lawsonian period’’ in the

«Philosophical Transactions, XI, p. 6323.
2Tdem., XXI, p. 436.
3Idem., XX, p. 167.
Beginnings of Natural [istory in America. 377

history of American ornithology is hardly justifiable. Lawson belonged
to the school of Harriot and the first Clayton.

Edward Bohun and Job Lord, of Carolina, appear to have been inter-
ested in natural history at this time and to have been collecting spect-
mens for Petiver in London, while William Vernon was engaged in
similar occupations in Maryland.

In those early days all Kurope was anxious to hear of the wonders of
America, and still more eager to see the strange objects which explorers
might be able to preserve and bring back with them. Public museums
were as yet unknown, but the reigning princes sought eagerly to secure
novelties in the shape of animals and plants.

Columbus was charged by Queen Isabella to collect birds, and it is
recorded that he took back to Spain various skins of beasts. Even to
this day may be seen, in Siena, hanging over the walls of the old colle-
giate church, a votive offering, placed there nearly four centuries ago by
the discoverer of America, then in the prime of his glory. It consists of
the helmet and armor worn by him when he first stepped upon the soil
of the New World, and the rostrum of a swordfish killed on the American
coast.

The State papers of Great Britain contain many entries of interest to
naturalists. King James I was an enthusiastic collector. December 15,
1609, Lord Southampton wrote to Lord Salisbury that he had told the
King of the Virginia squirrels brought into England, which were said to
fly. The King very earnestly asked if none were provided for him—
whether Salisbury had none for him—and said he was sure Salisbury
would get himone. The writer apologizes for troubling Lord Salisbury,
**put,’’ he continues, ‘‘you know so well how he (the King) is affected
to such toys.’’

Charles I appears to have been equally curious in such matters. In
1637 he sent John Tradescant, the younger, to Virginia ‘‘to gather all
rarities of flowers, plants, and shells.’’

In 1625 we find Tradescant writing to one Nicholas that it is the Duke
of Buckingham’s pleasure that he should deal with all merchants from
all places, but especially from Virginia, Bermudas, Newfoundland, Guinea,
the Amazons, and the East Indies for all manner of rare beasts, fowls
and birds, shells and shining stones, ete.’

In the Domestic Correspondence of Charles I, in another place,’ July,
1625, isa “‘ Note of things desired from Guinea, for which letters are to
be written to the merchants of the Guinea Company.’’ Among other
items referred to are ‘‘an elephant’s head with the teeth very large; a
river horse’s head; strange sorts of fowls; birds and fishes’ skins; great
flying and sucking fishes; all sorts of serpents, dried fruits, shining stones,
ete.’’ Still further on is a note of one Jeremy Blackman’s charge, in all

"Calendar of Colonial Papers, IV, 1625, p. 77.
2Idem., III, p. 75, Nos. 155, 156.
378 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

#20, for transporting four deer from Virginia, including corn and a place
made of wood for them to lie in.*

Not only did the kings make collections, but the keepers of public
houses made museums then, as they do now, for the pleasure of their
patrons.

At the middle of the last century there appear to have been several
collections of curiosities.

In Artedi’s ichthyological works there are numerous references to
places where he had seen American fishes, especially at Spring-garden*
and at the Naggshead, and the White-bear, and the Green Dragon in
Stepney, in those days a famous hostelry in London. He speaks also of
collections at the houses of Mr. Lillia and Master Saltero’s? in Chelsey
and at Stratford, and also in the collection of Seba, in Amsterdam, and
in that of Hans Sloane.

With the exception of ‘‘the monk or Angel-fish, Anglis aliis ATermaia-
jish,’’ probably a species of Sgwzateza, which he saw at the Nag’s Head,
all the fishes in these London collections belonged to the order Plectog-
nathi.

Josselyn, after telling us how a Piscataway colonist had the fortune to
kill a Pilhannaw—the king of birds of prey—continues, ‘‘ How he dis-
posed of her I know not, but had he taken her alive and sent her over
into England neither Bartholomew nor Sturbridge Fair could have pro-
duced such another sight.’’4

Shakespeare’s mirror strongly reflects the spirit of the day. When
Trinculo, cast ashore upon a lonesome island, catches a glimpse of Cali-
ban he exclaims:

“What have we here,—a man or a fish? Dead or alive? A fish: he smells like
a fish; a very ancient and fish-like smell. ... Astrange fish! Were lin England
now, (as once I was, ) and had but this fish painted, not a holiday fool there but would
give a piece of silver; there would this monster make a man; any strange beast there

makes a man: when they will not give a doit to relieve a lame beggar, they will lay
out ten to see a dead Indian.’’s

The compilers of the great encyclopedialike works on natural history
were quick to pick up the names and descriptions of the American ani-
mals which had found their way to Europe, and many such are mentioned

in the writings of Gesner, Clusius and Aldrovandus, Lister, Laet, and
Willughby.°®

‘Calendar of Colonial Papers, I, 1638, p. 285.

2 ater known as Vauxhall Gardens, a famous place of resort.

3’The barber virtuoso, described in Bulwer’s Devereux.

4John Josselyn, An Account of Two Voyages to New England (made during the
years 1638, 1663), Boston, 1865.

5The Tempest, Act II, Scene 2.

In Nehemiah Grew’s Catalogue and description of the natural and artificial Rari-
ties, belonging to the Royal Society and preserved at Gresham College, Whereunto
is subjoined the comparative Anatomy of Stomachs and Guts, London, 1694, are
descriptions and figures of every American animal. ;
Report of U. S. National Museum, 1897 Part II. PLATE 78.

CHARLES VALENTINE RILEY.
1

i

Beginnings of Natural Fiistory in America. 379

Creatures of remarkable appearance, which could be preserved with
ease, were the first to become known. Among fishes, forinstance, those

4
4

with a hard, inflexible integument, such as the trunk fishes. Every
species of the family Ostraciontide was known in Europe as early as
1685; most of them probably a century before. We know that Colum-
bus caught a trunk fish and described it in his Voyages.

Professor ‘Tuckerman has traced in a most instructive manner the
beginnings of European acquaintance with American plants, finding
traces of the knowledge of a few at a very early period:

Dalechamp, Clusius, Lobel, and Alpinus—all authors of the sixteenth century—
must be cited occasionally in any complete synonymy of our /Vora. The Indian-
corn, the side-saddle flower (Sarracenia purpurea and S. flava), the columbine, the
common milkweed (Asclepias cornutz), the everlasting (Antennaria margaritacea),
and the Arbor vit@, were known to the just-mentioned botanists before 1600. Sar-
racenia flava was sent either from Virginia, or possibly from some Spanish monk in
Florida. Clusius’s figure of our well-known northern SS. purpurea . . . . was
derived from a specimen furnished to him by one Mr, Claude Gonier, apothecary
at Paris, who himself had it from Lisbon; whither we may suppose it was carried
by some fisherman from the Newfoundland coast. The evening primrose (@no-
thera biennis) was known in Europe, according to Linnzeus, asearly as 1614. Poly-
gonum sagittatum and arafolium (tear-thumb) were figured by De Laet, probably
from New York specimens, in his Novus Orbis, 1633. Johnson’s edition of

Gerard’s Herbal (1636) . . . . contains some dozen North American species,
furnished often from the garden of Mr. John Tradescant . . . . and John Park-

inson—whose Theatrum Botanicum (1640) is declared by Tournefort to embrace
a larger number of species than any work which had gone before it—describes, espec-
ially from Cornuti, a still larger number.

All the early voyagers were striving for the discovery of a western
passage to India, and the West Indies, so called, were considered simply
a stage on the journey toward the East Indies. It is not strange, there-
fore, that writers should often have failed to distinguish the faunal rela-
tions of the animals which they described. Many curious paradexes in
nomenclature have thus arisen—Cass?s madagascariensis, for instance, a
very misleading name for a common West India mollusk.

Lig

The seventeenth century bears upon its roll the names of many explor-
ers besides those of English origin who have already been named.
Within fifty years of the time of Harriot and of the planting of the col-
ony at Roanoke, the number and extent of the European settlements in
America had become very considerable. Virginia and the New England
plantations were growing populous and Maryland was fairly established.
Insular colonies were thriving at Newfoundland and Bermuda and on
Barbados and elsewhere in the West Indies.

New Spain and Florida marked the northern limits of the domain of
the Spaniards, who had already overrun almost all of South America.

*Archeeologia Americana, IV, pp. 116, I17.
380 Memorval of George Brown Goode.

New France bounded New England on the north, and the French
were pushing their military posts and missionary stations down into the
Mississippi Valley.

The Dutch were established on Manhattan Island and elsewhere in
the surrounding country, and the Dutch West India Company had
already a foothold in Brazil and Guiana. A colony of Scandinavians
had been planted by the Swedish West India Company near the present
site of Philadelphia, and the forsaken Danish colonies of Greenland were
soon to be reestablished. The Portuguese had flourishing settlements in
Brazil, for the possession of which they were contending with the Dutch.

«very Huropean nation was represented in the great struggle for ter-
ritory save Italy and Germany, Switzerland and Russia; but the Italians
and Germans, the Swiss and the Russians were to hold their own in the
more generous emulation of scientific exploration which was to follow.

During the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries numerous explora-
tions were made both in North and South America by Spanish, French,
Dutch, German, and Scandinavian explorers. Although these men
have been studied in the preparation of this address, I do not intend to
speak of them at any length, but to confine my attention in the main to
the growth of scientific opinions and institutions in the English colonies.

The number of volumes of reports and narratives, often sumptuously
printed and expensively illustrated, which were published during the
seventeenth and eighteenth centuries, impresses upon one most pow-
erfully the idea of the earnestness, diligence, and intelligence of their
writers.

The Spaniards.—Even as early as the beginning of the century, Span-
ish influence was less prominent in theaffairs of the New World; in no
respect more strikingly so thanin explorations. ‘The political supremacy
of Spain was gone, her intellectual activity was waning, and the mighty
storm of energy, by which her domain in America had been so sud-
denly and widely established, seemed to have completely exhausted the
energy of her people, depleted as it had been by wars without and relt-
gious prosecution within.

From this time forward the record of Spanish achievements in the
fields of science and discovery is very meager. Between the day of
Hernandez and that of Azara and Mutis, who explored South America
in the latter part of the eighteenth century, I find but two names worthy
of mention, and these seem properly to belong with the naturalists who
lived a hundred years before them. I refer to José Gumilla, who pub-
lished, in 1741, a work on the natural history of the Orinoco region,
and Miguel Venegas, whose Noticia de la California appeared in 1757.

The French.—One of the first French explorers who left a record of -
his observations was Samuel de Champlain, who made a voyage to the
West Indies and Mexico, 1599-1602, and began his travels in New
France in 1603. He was the founder of Quebec, where he died in 1635,
Beginnings of Natural Fitstory tn America. 381

and his geographical explorations and maps are of great value. His
observations upon the animals and plants are disappointing. He describes
the gar-pike and the king-crab, already described and figured by Harriot
many years before, and refers in unmistakable terms to the shearwater,
the caribou, the wild turkey, and the scarlet tanager. His lists of ani-
mals which occur now and again in the course of his narrative are too
vague to be of value."

Much higher in the esteem of naturalists was Gabriel Sagard Théodat,
a Franciscan friar, whose Le Grand Voyage du Pays des Hurons, printed
in 1632, was the most scholarly work upon America which had yet
appeared, and whose History of Canada and of the journeys made by the
Franciscans for the conversion of the infidels also contains most valuable
records.

The first work on the plants of North America was that of Cornuti—
Canadensium Plantarum, aliartimque nondum editarum historia—printed
in Paris in 1635, which described thirty-seven species, thirty-six of these
being illustrated by elaborate engravings upon copper. ‘The botanical
part of this treatise is usually ascribed to Vespasian Robin, and ‘Tucker-

mani supposes that the local notes, as well as the specimens described,
were probably the result of the labors of the worthy Franciscan mission-
ary, Sagard.’

A few years later, Pierre Francois Xavier de Charlevoix [b. 1682, d.
1761], a Jesuit priest, having by royal command traveled through the
northern part of North America, published his Histoire et Description
Générale de la Nouvelle France, Paris, 1744, which was full of impor-
tant biological and ethnological observations, the accuracy of which is
not questioned.

He subsequently traveled in South America, and published in 1760 a
work full of statements concerning the animals, plants, and fruits of
that country, and also particularly interesting from the account which it
gives of the singular Jesuit establishment in Paraguay.

Other French missionaries, Brebceuf, Du Poisson, Jaques, Joliet, La
Chaise, Lallemand, Marquette, Senat, and Souel, followed Charlevoix in
the exploration of these regions. ‘Their works contain many valuable
notes upon animals and plants.

Jean Baptiste du Tertre, in his Histoire Générale des Antilles, habitées
par les Francois, published in Paris in 1667 [ed. 1667-71], described and
illustrated many of the New World animals.

In 1672 Nicolas Denyse published in Paris two comprehensive works
upon America, viz: Histoire Naturelle des Peuples, des Animaux des
Arbres and Plantes de l Amérique,*? and Description Geographique des
Costes de l’ Amérique Septentrionale, avec 1’ Histoire Naturelle du Pais.*

"Publications of Prince Society, Boston, 1878; Hakluyt Society, XXIV, 1850.

?Archzeologia Americana, IV, p. 119.

3 Paris, 1672, octavo. 41672, duodecimo, 2 vols.
382 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

F. Froger, acompanion of De Gennes in his voyage made in 1695-1697
to the coast of Africa, the Straits of Magellan, Brazil, Cayenne, and the
Antilles, published a report in 1698." The book has been overlooked
by recent bibliographers, but, judging from Artedi’s remarks upon its
ichthyological portion, it was fully equal to similar works of its day.

Baron de la Hontan, lord lieutenant of the French colony at Pla-
centia, printed at the Hague in 1703 his Voyages dans Il’) Amérique,
which is sometimes referred to by zoologists.

Louis Feuillée, who traveled by royal commission from 1707 to 1712
in Central and South America, published four volumes of physical
mathematics and botanical observations, 1714-1725, 1n Paris.

The Pére Jean Baptiste Labat visited the West Indies as a missionary
early in the eighteenth ceytury, and Nouveau Voyage aux Isles de
l Amérique, printed in Paris, 1722, is very full of interesting and copious
details of natural history.

The Pére Laval visited Louisiana and published in Paris, 1728, his
Voyage de la Louisiane.

M. Le Page Du Pratz followed, in 1758, with his Histoire de la Loui-
siane,’ full of geographical, biological, and anthropological observations
upon the lower valley of the Mississippi, and Captain Bossu, of the French
marines, also published a book upon ‘the same region,’ translated into
English in 1771 by John Reinhold Forster, whose notes gave to the work
its only value. These men are all catalogued with the seventeenth-
century naturalists because they were of the old school of general
observers and only indirectly contributed to the progress of systematic
zoolog

Charles Plumier [b. 1646, d. 1704] was sent thrice by the King of
France to the Antilles during the latter years of the seventeenth century.
He published three magnificently illustrated works upon the plants of
America‘ and left an extensive collection of notes and drawings of ani-
mals and plants, many of which have proved of value to naturalists of
recent years. His colored drawings of fishes were of great service to
Cuvier in the preparation of his great work upon ichthyology, and in
some instances species were founded upon them.

The Dutch.—There were few lovers of nature among the colonists of
Manhattan, and with the exception of certain names which have clung
to well-known animals, such as the mossbunker and weakfish, naturalists
have little to remind them of the days of Van Twiller and Stuyvesant.
Van Der Donck, in 1659, described the fauna, and Jakob Steendam’s
poem, © Ii ee of the Netherlands,’’ catalogued many of the animals.

t Paris, 1698; Neer Peon: onion (cranainnionnt 1698.

2'Paris; 1758:

3 Nouveaux Voyages aux Indes Occidentales, etc., Paris, 1768.

4Nova Plantarum Americanarum Genera, 1703. Traité Des Fougéres de I’ Amérique

1705.

PLATE 79.

oO

a ie ‘
re re
DU GY tee

re

Beginnings of Natural Flistory in America. 383

The achievements of Prince Maurice of Nassau (b. 1604, d. 1679), the
conqueror of Brazil, during his residence in that country from 1636 to
1644, were far more important than those of any one man in the seven-
teenth century, and entitled the Netherlands to a leading place in the
early history of American scientific explorations. The notes and figures
which were collected by him and his scientific assistants, Marcgrave,
Piso, and Cralitz, were published in part under the editorship of Golius
and Laet, and have been frequently used by naturalists of the present
century. An atlas of colored drawings from the hand of Prince Maurice
is still preserved in the Royal Library in Berlin. Here are depicted 34
species of mamunals, 100 of birds, 55 of reptiles, 69 of fishes, and 77 of
insects, besides many of plants.

Marcgrave’s Historia Rerum Naturalium Brasilize was printed in
Amsterdam in 1648, four years after his untimely death while exploring
the coast of Guinea.

Piso’s Medicina Braziliensis, 1648, and his Natural History and Medi-
cine of both Indies, 1658, were also results of Prince Maurice’s expedi-
tion. ;

Among other contributions made by the Netherlands to the natural
history of America were the Relation du Voyage de Isle Tobago, Paris,
1606, and the Histoire Naturelle et Morale des Hes Antilles, Rotterdam,
1658,* written by N. Rochefort, a Protestant missionary to the West
Indies, and Jan Nieuhof’s See und Landreize benessens een bondege
Beschreyving van gantsch Nederland Brazil so van Landschappen Steden,
deren Gewaffen, etc., printed in 1682.

Jan Jacob Ear eainie. a Dutch traveler in Guiana, printed a book of
scientific travels at Amsterdam in 1770.

Philippe Fermin, a Dutch naturalist, resident for many years in Suri-
nam, published in Amsterdam two important works upon the natural
history of that region, in 1765 his Histoire Naturelle de la Hollande
Equinoxiale, and in 1769 his Description de Surinam. I refer to these
works as important, not because they are of great value to zoological
writers of to-day, but because they, in their day, marked distinct
advances in knowledge.

The Scandinavians.—Danish enterprise at an early day sent explorers
to the Western Continent, and the scholarly tendencies of the Scandina-
vian mind were soon manifest in a literature of geographical and scientific
observations.

Hans Kgede, a missionary who went to Greenland at least as early as
1715, published in 1741 his comprehensive work upon Greenland, of
which so many editions have been published.

Otho Fabricius [b. 1744, d. 1822], another missionary, long resident
in Greenland, pee in 1780 his Fauna Groenlandica, a work which

ares edition eaten name we author; others, Paris, 1665; Lyons, 1667; Amster-
dam, 1716,

384 Memortal of George Brown Goode.

in scientific accuracy has never been excelled—a most important contri-
bution to systematic zoology. David Crantz’s History of Greenland,
published in 1770, is another important scientific work from the hand of
a missionary, and Zorgdrager’s notices of the Greenland fisheries deserve
a passing notice.

The travels of Kalm, a Swede and a pupil of Linnzeus, are noticed else-
where. Peter Loefling, another pupil of Linnzeus, visited Spanish Amer-
ica, and in his Iter Hispanicum, printed in Stockholm, 1758, described
many animals and plants observed by him.

Olaf Swartz, a Swede, discovered and described 850 new species of
West Indian plants from 1785 to 1789. Hespent a year in the Southern
United States before going to the West Indies.’

The Germans.—Germany, too, soon began to send its students across
the Atlantic. Johann Anderson, a burgomaster of Hamburg, published
in 1746 his Tidings from Iceland, Greenland, and Davis Straits, for the
benefit of Science and Commerce. Hans Just Winkelmann published in
Oldenburg in 1664 Der Amerikanischen neuen Welt Bescreibung, etc.,
with descriptions and figures of animals and plants.

Christian Bullen in 1667 made a voyage to Greenland and Spitzber-
gen, an account of which, including interesting observations on whales
aud the whale fishery, was printed at Bremen in 1668.

Marcgrave, Krieg, the two Forsters, and Schoepf are referred to else-
where. Steller, Pallas, and Chamisso are mentioned in connection with
Russian explorations.

Madame Maria Sibilla Merian [b. 1647, d. 1717], who was a native of
Frankfort, was an enthusiastic entomologist who traveled in Surinam
from 1699 to 1701. Her paintings of tropical insects were reproduced
in a magnificent folio volume, printed 1705-1709, which was one of the
wonders of her day, and which, together with her other writings upon
insects, have secured her a prominent place in the early history of science.

VI.

The seventeenth century was not, upon the whole, a period favorable
to the promotion of science, for all Hurope was agitated by war and polit-
ical strife, and men had neither opportunity nor inclination for intel-
lectual pursuits. During its latter half, however, and with the return of
peace and tranquillity, science grew in favor as it had never done before.
The restoration of the Stuarts to the English throne was quickly followed
by the establishment of the Royal Society. Louis XIV made the period
of his accession memorable by founding the Royal Academy of Sciences,
and by building an observatory.

This was the period of intellectual activity which followed the revival
of letters in Kurope. Carus, in his Geschichte der Zoologie, 1872, p. 259,
calls it the period of encyclopeedia-making (Periode der encyklopadischen

* Brendel, American Naturalist, December, 1879, p. 757.
Beginnings of Natural Hrstory tn America. 385

vv

Darstellungen), filling the interspace between ‘‘The Zoology of the
Middle Ages’’ and ‘‘the period of Systematic Classification.’’ Students
of science had ceased to compile endless commentaries on the works
of Aristotle, and had begun to record their own observations and
thoughts, to gather new facts and materials, which were to serve as a
basis for the systematic work for their successors.

The greatest names of the day among naturalists were those of Ray,
Tournefort, Lister, Jonston, Goedart, Redi, Willughby, Swammerdam,
Sloane, Jung, and Morrison; names not often referred to at the present
day, but worthy of our recollection and veneration, for they were men of
a new era—the pioneers in systematic zoology and botany.

Among the earliest representatives of the new school in North America
were Banister, Clayton, Mitchell, and Garden. John Banister, a clergy-
man of the Church of England, emigrated to Virginia before 1668, and
in addition to his clerical duties applied himself assiduously to the study
of natural history. He was a disciple and also, no doubt, a pupil of the
great English naturalist, John Ray, who called him in his Historia Plan-
tarum, ‘‘erudissimus vir et consummatissimus Botanicus,’’ and corre-
sponded also with Lister, and Compton, Bishop of London. He was the
first to observe intelligently the mollusks and insects of North America.
In a paper communicated to the Royal Society in 1693 he refers to draw-
ings of ten or twelve kinds of land snails and six of fresh-water mussels.
The drawings were not published, nor were the notes, except those in
reference to the circulation of a species of snail.’

He sent to Petiver, in 1680, a collection of fifty-two species of insects,
his observations upon which, with notes by Petiver, were a few years
later communicated to the Royal Society.*, Among them many familiar
forms are recognizable—the mudwasp, seventeen-year locust, cimex,
cockroach, firefly, the spring beetle (//a¢er), and the tobacco moth. He
_appears to have drawn and described several phases of the life history
of the ichneumon fly. He had in his possession in 1686, and exhibited
to an English traveler, large bones and teeth of fossil mammals from the
interior of Virginia, the first of which we have any record in North
America.’

It was as a botanist, however, that he was best known. He made
drawings of the rarer species, and transmitted these with his notes and
dried specimens to Compton and Ray. Banister’s Catalogus Plantarum
in Virginia Observatarum, printed in 1686,* was the first systematic paper

* Philosophical Transactions, X VII, 1693, pp. 671, 672. See also Transactions of
the Linnzean Society, VII, p. 227.

Some Observations concerning Insects made by Mr. John Banister, in Virginia,
A. D. 1680, with Remarks on them by Mr. James Petiver, etc. Philosophical Trans-
actions, XXII, 17o1, pp. 807-814.

3 Perhaps the Wegalonyx jeffersonit, subsequently discovered.

+In Ray’s Historia Plantarum, London, 1686.

NAT MUS 97, PT 2 25

386 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

upon natural history which emanated from America. In one of his
botanical excursions, about the year 1692; he visited the falls of the
Roanoke, and, slipping among the rocks, was killed.*

Lawson, the historian of North Carolina, writing at the beginning of
the next century, remarked: ‘‘Had not the ingenious Mr. Banister (the
greatest virtuoso we ever had on this continent) been unfortunately
taken out of this world, he would have given the best account of the
plants of America of any that ever yet made such an attempt in these
parts.’’?* The memory of John Banister is still cherished in Virginia,
where his decendants are numerous.’

John Clayton was also an excellent representative of the new school,
and should not be confounded with the Rey. John Clayton who visited
America in 1685. John Clayton, the naturalist, as he is styled in Vir-
ginian history, appears to have been born in Fulham, a suburb of London,
in 1693, and to have accompanied his father, John Clayton, subsequently
attorney-general of Virginia, when he came to this country in 1705. He
was clerk of Gloucester County, Virginia, for fifty-one years, and died
December 15,1773. ‘‘He passed a long life,’’ says Thacher, ‘‘in explor-
ing and describing the plants of this country, and is supposed to have
enlarged the botanical catalogue as much as any man who ever lived.’’
He was a correspondent of Linnzeus, Gronovius, and other naturalists, as
well as of Collinson, who wrote of him in 1764 as ‘‘my friend John
Clayton, the greatest botanist of America.’’

Clayton’s Flora Virginica, which was edited by J. F. Gronovius, assisted
by the young Linnzeus, who was just entering upon his career of success
and was then resident in Leyden, began to appear in 1739, subsequent
portions being published in 1743 and 1762. It seems to be the opinion
of botanists that Gronovius deserves less credit for his share in this work
than has usually been allowed him, and that Clayton’s descriptions were
those of a thorough master of botanical science as then understood. He
communicated to the Royal Society various botanical papers, including
one upon the culture of the different kinds of tobacco. On his death he
left two volumes of manuscripts, and an herbarium, with marginal notes
and references for the engraver who should prepare the plates for his
proposed work. ‘These were in the possession of his son when the Revo-
lutionary war commenced, and were placed in the office of the clerk of
New Kent County for security from the invading enemy. ‘The building
was burned down by incendiaries, and thus perished not only the records
of the county, but probably one of the most important works on American
botany written before the days of Gray and Torrey.

* His papers and collections were sent to the Bishop of London. ‘The plants are
said to have passed into the hands of Sloane, and to be still preserved in the British
Museum. It would be interesting to know what has become of his manuscripts.

? John Lawson, History of North Carolina, Raleigh edition, p. 134.

3See The Bland Papers and Slaughter’s History of Bristol Parish, 1st and 2d
editions.
Report of U. S, National Museum, 1897. Part Il. PLaTE 80

JOHN RODGERS.
ly

Beginnings of Natural Fistory tn America. 207

Jefferson declares that Clayton was a native Virginian, and such is the
confusion in the records that it is quite possible that such may be the
fact.’

Still another pioneer was Doctor John Mitchell, born in England about
1680, and settled early in thelast century at Urbana, Virginia, on the Rap-
pahannock, where he remained nearly fifty years, practicing medicine and
promoting science. Heappears to have beenaman of geniusand broad cul-
ture, and was one of the earliest chemists and physicistsin America. His
political and botanical writings were well received, and his map of North
America is still an authority in boundary matters. He wasa correspondent
of Linnzeus, and in 1740 sent Collinson a paper in which thirty new genera
of Virginia plants were proposed.* His Dissertation upon the Elements
of Botany and Zoology* was dated Virginia, 1738, and was thus almost
contemporary with the first edition of the Systema Nature of Linnzeus,
though it was not printed until ten years after it was written. ‘This was
the first work upon the principles of science ever written in America.
In 1743 he communicated to the Royal Society An Essay upon the Causes
of the different Colours of People in different Climates,‘ writing from the
standpoint of an evolutionist. He also communicated An Account of the
Preparation and Uses of the various Kinds of Potash, °and a Letter
concerning the Force of electrical Cohesion.° His fame rests chiefly,
however, upon his investigations into the yellow fever epidemic of 1737-
1742, published after his death by his friends, Franklin and Rush.’ In
1743 he appears to have been engaged in physiological researches upon
the opossum, which, however, were never published. In 1746 Doctor
Mitchell returned to England, and upon the voyage was captured by
French or Spanish pirates, and his collections and apparently his manu-
scripts destroyed. He became a Fellow of the Royal Society, and in
1748 was writing a work upon the natural and medical history of North
America.” He died at an advanced age, about 1772. His name is per-
petuated in that of our beautiful little partridge berry, Witchella repens.
‘“‘Mitchell and Clayton together,’’ says Tuckerman, ‘‘gave to the botany
of Virginia a distinguished luster.’’

Doctor John Tennent, of Port Royal, Virginia, seems to have been a
man of botanical tastes. He it was who brought into view the virtues
of the Seneca snake root, publishing at Williamsburg, in 1736, an essay

*Spotswood Letters, I, pp.1, 8; Il, pp. 44, 58, 354.

* Darlington, Memorials of John Bartram and Humphrey Marshall, p. 21.

*Dissertatio brevis de Principiis Botanicorum et Zoologorum, deque novo stabil-
iendo nature rerum congruo cum Appendice aliquot generum plantarum recens con-
ditorum et in Virginia observatorum. Nuremburg, 1748.

4 Philosophical Transactions, XLIII, 1744, p. 102.

5Idem., XLV, 1748, p. 541.

eidem,, LT; Pt. 11750. pi 390:

7 American Medical and Philosophical Register, IV.

James Edward Smith, Correspondence of Linnzeus, II, pp. 442-451.
388 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

on pleurisy, in which he treats of the Seneca as an efficient remedy in
the cure of this disease.* He also wrote other botanical treatises.* Doctor
George Greham, of Dumfries, Virginia, was a man of similar tastes, and
it is said by Mr. Jefferson that we are indebted to him for the introduc-
tion to America of the tomato.

David Krieg, F. R. S., a German botanist, collected insects for Petiver
in Maryland, and gathered also hundreds of species of plants. He seems
to have returned to England very early in the century, for his name
appears in the Philosophical Transactions in 1701.

Colonel William Byrd, of Westover, Virginia [b. 1764, d. 1793], was
a man of European education, the owner of a magnificent library, in
which Stith wrote his history of Virginia, founder of the city of Rich-
mond, colonial agent in London, and president of the King’s council.
He was a Fellow of the Royal Society, to which he communicated a
paper An Account of a Negro Boy that is dappeld in several Places of
his Body with White spots,? and was a correspondent of Collinson,
Bartram, and other naturalists. His History of the Dividing Line, and
his Journey to the Land of Eden, in 1733, contain many interesting
observations upon Indians and general natural history. He it was who,
in 1694, carried to England a female opossum, which furnished the mate-
rials for the first dissertation upon the anatomy of the marsupiates.‘

One of the most eminent of our colonial naturalists was Doctor Alex-
ander Garden, born in Scotland about 1728 [d. 1791]. He emigrated to
America about 1750, and practiced medicine in Charleston, South Caro-
lina, until after the close of the Revolutionary war, when he returned to
England and became very prominent in scientific and literary circles, and
vice-president of the Royal Society in 1783. He was an excellent
botanist, but did his best work upon fishes and reptiles. He sent large
collections of fishes to Linnaeus, which were so well prepared that when
I examined the fishes in the Linnzean collection in London, in 1883, I
found nearly every specimen referred to by him in his letters in excellent
condition, though few collected by others were identifiable. Garden was
the discoverer of Amphiuma means, and was instrumental in first send-
ing the electrical eel to Europe. His letters to Linnzeus and to Ellis are
voluminous and abound in valuable information. In 1764 he published
a description of Spigelia marilandica, with an account of its medicinal
properties.

James Logan [b. 1664, d. 1751], a native of Ireland and member of

«James Thacher, Medical Biography, I, p. 73.

? Mitchell, writing to Linnzeus, in 1748, remarks: ‘‘I can now only send you
some dissertations of Mr. Tennent upon the Polygala, two of which only have come
out among his latest publications. His former ones, of inferior merit, are not now
to be had.”’

3 Philosophical Transactions, XIX, 1697, p. 781.

4Bdward ‘I'yson, Carigueya, seu Marsupialie Americanum, or the Anatomy of an
Opossum, etc. Philosophical Transactions, XX, 1698, p. 105.
Beginnings of Natural History tn America. 389

the Society of Friends, accompanied William Penn to this country in
1682 in the capacity of secretary, and became a public man of promi-
nence, serving for two years as governor of the colony of Pennsylvania.
He was a man of broad culture and was the author of a translation of
Cicero’s De Senectute, printed by Benjamin Franklinin 1744. To Logan
belongs the honor of having carried on the first American investigations
in physiological botany, the results of which were published in Leyden,
in 1739, in an essay entitled Experimenta et Meletemata de Plantarum
Generationis. This essay, which related to the fructification of the
Indian corn, was accepted in its day as a valuable contribution to
knowledge.

Cadwallader Colden [b. 1688, d. 1776] was also a statesman and a
naturalist. A native of Scotland, he came to America in 1708, and,
after a short residence in Pennsylvania, settled in New York, where he
held the office of surveyor-general and member of the King’s council,
and in later life was for many years lieutenant-governor, and frequently
acting governor of the province. His intellectual activity manifested
itself in various directions, and his History of the Five Indian Nations
of Canada, New York, 1727, was one of the earliest ethnological works
printed in America. He also was interested in meteorology and astron-
omy, and as a correspondent of Linnzeus and Collinson did much to
advance the study of American botany. His daughter, Miss Jane Colden,
was the first lady in America to become proficient in the study of plants.
She was the author of a Flora of New York, which was never published. '
Governor Colden’s Plantze Coldenhamiz, the first part of a catalogue of
the plants growing in the neighborhood of his country residence, Colden-
ham, near Newburg, was the first treatise on the flora of New York.
It was published in 1744 in the acts of the Royal Society of Upsala.* A
most interesting collection of papers from the scientific correspondence of
Colden was published many years ago by Doctor Asa Gray.

Hans Sloane, a young Irish physician [b. 1660, d. 1753], who had
been a pupil of Tournefort and Magnol, visited the West Indies in 1684,
and after his return printed a Catalogue of Jamaica Plants in 1696, and
later a sumptuously illustrated work on the natural history of Jamaica
(1707-1725). After his return he became an eminent physician, and in
1727 succeeded Isaac Newton as president of the Royal Society. ‘The
collection of animals and plants made by Sir Hans Sloane in America
was greatly increased by him during his long and active life, and, having
been bequeathed by him to the nation, became, upon his death in 1753,
the nucleus of the British Museum.

Another naturalist of the same general character was Mark Catesby
[b. 1679, d. 1749], who lived in Virginia, 1712 to 1721, collecting and

"Brendel in American Naturalist, December, 1879, p. 756.
?John Torrey, Flora of New York, Albany, 1843.
3American Journal of Science, XLIV, 1843, p. 85.
~

390 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

making paintings of birds and plants; inthe Carolinas, 1722 to 1725, and
a year also in the Bahamas. His magnificent illustrated work upon the
Natural History of Carolina, Florida, and the Bahama Islands," is still of
great value to students of natural history.

The name of John Bartram, the Quaker naturalist of Philadelphia, is
possibly better remembered than those of his contemporaries. This is no
doubt due to the fact that he left behind him a lasting monument in his
botanic gardenon the banks of the Schuylkill. He was the earliest native
American to prosecute studies in systematic botany, unless Jefferson’s
statement concerning Clayton proves tobe true. Ljinnzeus is said to
have called him ‘‘the greatest natural botanist in the world,’’ and George
III honored him in 1765 with the title of Botanist to his Majesty for
the Floridas and a pension of £50 a year. Bartram was a most pic-
turesque and interesting personage, and a true lover of nature. He did
great service to botany by supplying plants and seeds to Linnzeus, Dil-
lenius, Collinson, and other European botanists. He was a collector,
however, rather than an investigator, and his successes seem to have been
due, in the main, tothe patient promptings and advice of his friend Col-
linson in London. Garden, whom he visited at Charleston in 1765, after
his appointment as King’s Botanist, wrote of him to Ellis:

I have been several times into the country, and places adjacent to town, with him,
and have told him the classes, genera, and species of all the plants that occurred,
which I knew. I did this in order to facilitate his enquiries, as I find he knows
nothing of the generic characters of plants, and can neither class them nor describe
them; but I see that, from great natural strength of mind and long practice, he has
much acquaintance with the specific characters; though this knowledge is rude,

inaccurate, indistinct, and confused, seldom determining well between species and
varieties. He is, however, alert, active, industrious, and indefatigable in his pursuits.?

Fothergill says in his Memoir of Collinson ‘“‘that the eminent natur-
alist, John Bartram, may almost be said to have been created by my
friend’s assistance.’’

The foregoing remarks concerning the elder Bartram are simply for
the purpose of calling attention to his proper position among the Ameri-
can naturalists of his day. It is not that I esteem Bartram the less, but
that I esteem Garden, Clayton, Mitchell, and Colden more. The name
of Bartram brings up at once that of his friend and patron, Peter Collin-
son, just as that of Garden reminds us of John Ellis.

Collinson and Ellis were never in America, yet if any men deserve to
be called the fathers of American natural history it is they. Fora period
of thirty years or more, that period during which Linnzeus was bringing
about those reforms which have associated his name forever with the
history of the classificatory sciences, these enlightened and science-loving
London merchants seem to have held the welfare of American science in
their keeping and to have faithfully performed their trust. I know few

‘London, 1754-1771, 2 Smith, Correspondence of Linnaeus, I, p. 537.
PLATE 81.

Part Il

Report of U. S. National Museum, 1897.

Lj
14) , Wey
iy) ON

.
Beginnings of Natural Flistory tn America. 301

books which are more delightful than Darlington’s Memorial or Bartram
and Smith’s Correspondence of Linnaeus, made up as they are largely of
the letters which passed between Collinson and Ellis and their corre-
spondents in America, and with Linnzeus, to whom they were constantly
transmitting American notes and specimens. '

Humphrey Marshall [b. 1722, d. 1801] was a farmer-botanist of the
Bartram type, and the author of The American Grove, a treatise upon
the forest trees and shrubs of the United States, the first botanical work
which was entirely American. Darlington’s Memorials of Bartram and
Marshall is a worthy tribute to this useful man.

Moses Bartram, a nephew of John, was alsoa botanist, and William, his
son [b. 1739, d. 1823], was a much more prominent figure in American
science. His Travels through North and South Carolina, published in
1791, was, in the opinion of Coues, the starting point of the distinctively
American school of ornithology.

Collinson was a correspondent of Benjamin Franklin, and is said not
only to have procured and sent to him the first electrical machine which
came to America, but to have made known to him in 1743 the results of
the first experiments in electricity, the continuation of which gave to
Franklin his European reputation as a man of science. Collinson was
instrumental in introducing grape culture in Virginia, and in acclimating
here many foreign ornamental shrubs.

Ellis was a more eminent man of science, and his name is associated
with the beginnings of modern marine zoology.

Linnzus wrote to him in 1769: ‘‘ Your discoveries may be said to vie
with those of Columbus. He found out America, or a new India, in the
west ; you have laid open hitherto unknown Indies in the depths of the
ocean.’’ He was royal agent for West Florida, and had extraordinary
facilities for obtaining specimens from the colonies.

His nephew, Henry Ellis, F. R. S. [b. 1720, d. 1805], was the author
of A Voyage to Hudson’s Bay in 1746 and 1747 for Discovering a North
West Passage, which contains some valuable notes upon zoology. He
was in 1756 appointed governor of the colony of Georgia, and in 1758
published in the Philosophical Transactions an essay on The Heat of
the Weather in Georgia. In 1760 he made a voyage for the discovery
of a new passage to the Pacific, and later was governor of Nova Scotia,
where we can but believe he continued his observations and his corre-
spondence with the savans of Europe. ‘‘ Finally,’’ says Jones, ‘‘ having
attained a venerable age, and to the last intent upon the prosecution of
some favorite physical researches, he fell in sleep, as did Pliny the Elder,
within sight of Vesuvius, and upon the shores of the beautiful Bay of
INaples.7 7

‘William Darlington, Memorials of John Bartram and Humphrey Marshall. Phil-
adelphia, 1849, 1850.
? Charles C. Jones, History of Georgia. Boston and New York, 1863.
392 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

Jones, in his History of Georgia [I, p. 444], refers to the Rev. Stephen
Hales—‘‘ equally renowned as a naturalist and a divine’’ —who lived for
a time in Georgia during the last century. Can this have been the
famous author of Vegetable Statics? I have been unable to find any
allusion to a sojourn in America, in the published notices of the English
Hales, and equally unable to discover a second Hales in the annals of
science.

The central figure among eighteenth-century naturalists was of course
Linneeus. His Systema Naturee was an epoch-making work, and with
the publication of its first edition at Leyden in 1735 the study of the
biological sciences received an impress which was soon felt in America.

In 1738, while in Leyden, he assisted Gronovius in editing the notes
sent by Clayton from Virginia, and it isevident that Linnzeus was already,
at the age of thirty, recognized by European botanists as an authority
upon the plants of America. It was in this year that he visited Paris.
He at once made his way to the Garden of Plants, and entered the lecture
room of Bernard de Jussieu, who was describing some exotics to his
pupils in Latin. ‘There was one which the demonstrator had not yet
determined, and which seemed to puzzle him. "The Swede looked on in
silence at first, but observing the hesitation of the learned professor,
cried out: ‘‘Haec plantam faciem Americanam habet.’’? Jussieu turned
about quickly with the exclamation, ‘‘ You are Linnzeus.’’

It is interesting to notice how strongly the Linnzean reforms took root
in American soil, and how soon. Collinson wrote to Bartram in 1737:
‘“The Systema Naturee is a curious performance for a young man, but
his coining a new set of names for plants tends but to embarrass and
perplex the study of botany. As to hissystem . . . botanists are
not agreed about it. Very few likeit. Be that as it will, he is certainly .
avery ingenious man, and a great naturalist.’’* Six years later he wrote
to Linneeus himself :

Your system, I can tell you, obtains much in America. Mr. Clayton and Dr.

Colden at Albany on Hudson’s River in New York, are complete Professors; as is
Dr. Mitchell at Urbana on Rappahannock River, in Virginia.?

This may not seem a very numerous following, but twelve years after
this (1755) only seven English botanists were mentioned by Collinson
in response to a request from Linnzeus to know what botanical people in
London were skilled-in his plan.?

It isa fact not often referred to that during his period of poverty and
struggles, Linnzeus received, through the influence of his patron, Boer-
haave, an appointment in the colony of Surinam. His prospects for a
successful career in Europe had, however, brightened, and he decided
not to come to America.

! Darlington, Memorials of John Bartram and Humphrey Marshall. Philadelphia,
1849, 1850, p. 106.

2 Smith, Correspondence of Linnzeus, I, p. 9.

i Tideni, p33:
Beginnings of Natural Hrstory in America. 393

His interest in American natural history was always very great, and
his descriptions of New World forms seem to have been drawn up with
especial care. Garden, Colden, Bartram, Mitchell, Clayton, and Ellis
were all, as we have seen, active in supplying him with materials, and
his pupils, Kalm, Alstroem, Loefling, Kuhn, and Rolander (who col-
lected for many years in Surinam) sent him many notes and specimens.

The progress of systematic zoology in the interval between Ray and
Linnzeus may perhaps best be illustrated by some brief statistical refer-
ences. The former, in 1690, made an estimate of the number of animals
and plants known at that time.

The number of beasts, including serpents, he placed at 150, adding
that according to his belief not many that are of any considerable big-
ness in the known regions of the world have escaped the cognizance of
the curious.

Linnzeus in his twelfth edition (1766) described 210 species of beasts
or mammals, and 124 of reptiles, so called. Of the mammals known to
Linnzeus, 78, or more than one-third, were American, and 88 of the
reptiles were attributed to this country.

‘““The number of birds,’’ said Ray, ‘‘may be near 500.’’ Linnzeus
catalogued 790, of which about one-third were American.

Although at this time the Middle and Southern States were the most
active in the prosecution of scientific researches, there were in New Eng-
land at least two diligent students of nature. Paul Dudley, F. R. S.
[b. 1675], chief justice of the colony of Massachusetts, was the author of
several papers in the Philosophical ‘Transactions. Among these were A
Description of the Moose Deer in America," An Account of a Method
lately found out in New England for Discovering where the Bees Hive in
the Woods,? An Account of the Rattlesnake,* and An Essay upon the
Natural History of Whales, with a particular Account of the Ambergris
found in the Spermaceti Whale,* which is often quoted.

Others were An account of the Poyson Wood ‘Tree in New England,°
and Observations on some Plants in New England, with remarkable
Instances of the Nature and Power of Vegetation.° He also appears to
have sent to Collinson a treatise upon the evergreens of New England.’

The Rev. Jared Eliot [b. 1685, d. 1763], minister at Killingworth, in
Connecticut, and one of the earliest graduates of Yale College, described
by his contemporaries as ‘‘ the first physician of his day,’’ and as ‘‘ the
first botanist in New England,’’ appears to have been a correspondent of
Franklin and a scientific agriculturist.

* Philosophical Transactions, XXXI, 1721, pp. 165-168.
?Tdem., XXXI, 1721, pp. 148-150.

3Idem., XXXII, 1723, pp. 292-295.

4Tdem., XXXIII, 1725, pp. 256-269.

5Idem., XXI, 1721, pp. 145, 146.

6TIdem., XX XIII, 1724, pp. 194-200

7See Tuckerman in Archzeologia Americana, IV, pp. 125, 126.
394 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

In 1781 appeared Jefferson’s Notes on Virginia. This was the first
comprehensive treatise upon the topography, natural history, and natural
resources of one of the United States, and was the precursor of the great
library of scientific reports which have since been issued by the State and
Federal Governments.

The book, although hastily prepared to meet a special need, and not
put forth as a formal essay upon a scientific topic, was, if measured by its
influence, the most important scientific work as yet published in America.
The personal history and the public career of Thomas Jefferson are so
familiar to all that it would be an idle task to repeat them here. Had he
not been a master in statecraft he would have been a master of science.
It is probable that no two men have done so much for science in America
as. Jefferson and Agassiz—not so much by their direct contributions to
knowledge as by the immense weight which they gave to scientific inter-
ests by their advocacy.

Many pages of Jefferson’s Notes on Virginia are devoted to the discus-
sion of Buffon’s statements: (1) That the animals common to both
continents are smaller in the New World; (2) that those which are
peculiar to the New are ona smaller scale; (3) that those which have
been domesticated in both have degenerated in America, and (4) that,
on the whole, America exhibits fewer species. He successfully over-
throws the specious and superficial arguments of the eloquent French
naturalist, who, it must be remembered, was at this time considered the
highest authority living in such matters. Not content with this, when
minister plenipotentiary to Europe a few years later he forced Buffon
himself to admit his error.

‘The circumstance shall be related in the words of Daniel Webster, who
was very fond of relating the anecdote:

It was a dispute in relation to the moose, and in one of the circles of the beaw2-
esprits in Paris, Mr. Jefferson contended for some characteristics in the formation of
the animal, which Buffon stoutly denied. Whereupon Mr. Jefferson wrote from
Paris to General John Sullivan, then residing in Durham, New Hampshire, to pro-
cure and send him the whole frame of a mocse. ‘The General was no little astonished
at a request he deemed so extraordinary, but, well acquainted with Mr. Jefferson,
he knew he must have sufficient reason for it, so he made a hunting party of his neigh-
bors and took the field. They captured a moose of unusual proportions, stripped it
to the bone, and sent the skeleton to Mr. Jefferson at a cost of £50. On its arrival
Mr. Jefferson invited Buffon and some other savants to a supper at his house and
exhibited his dear-bought specimen. Buffon immediately acknowledged his error.

‘‘T should have consulted you, Monsieur,” he said, ‘‘ before publishing my book on
Natural History, and then I should have been sure of my facts.”’

In still another matter in which he was at variance with Buffon he
was inanifestly in the right. In a letter to President Madison, of Wil-
liam and Mary College, he wrote: :

Speaking one day with M. de Buffon on the present ardor of chemical inquiry, he
affected to consider chemistry but as cookery and to place the toils of the laboratory
Report of WU. S. National Museum, 1897. Part Il. PLATE 82.

Beginnings of Natural history in America. 395

on a footing with those of the kitchen. I think it, on the contrary, amon, the most
useful of sciences and big with future discoveries for the utility and safety of the
human race.

It was the scientific foresight of Jefferson, so manifest in such letters,
which led him to advocate so vigorously the idea that science must be
the corner stone of our Republic.

In 1789 he wrote from Paris to Doctor Willard, president of Harvard
College :

To Doctor WILLARD:

What a field have we at our doors to signalize ourselves in. The botany of America
is far from being exhausted, its mineralogy is untouched, and its natural history or
zoology totally mistaken and misrepresented. . . . It is for such institutions as
that over which you preside so worthily, sir, to do justice to our country, its produc-
tions, and its genius. It is the work to which the young men you are forming should
lay their hands. We have spent the prime of our lives in procuring them the precious
blessing of liberty. Let them spend theirs in showing that it is the great parent of
science and of virtue, and that a nation will be great in both always in proportion

as it is free.
THOMAS JEFFERSON.

To Jefferson’s interest was due the organization of the first Government
exploring expedition. As early as 1780 we find him anxious to promote
an expedition to the upper portion of the Mississippi Valley, and offering
to raise 1,000 guineas for the purpose from private sources, and while he
was President he dispatched Lewis and Clarke upon their famous expe-
dition into the Northwest—the precursor of all the similar enterprises
carried on by the General Government, which have culminated in our
magnificent Geological Survey.

Jefferson’s personal influence in favor of science was of incalculable
value. ‘Transferred from the presidency of the principal American scien-
tific society to the Presidency of the nation, he carried with him to the
Executive Mansion the tastes and habits of a scientific investigator. Mr.
Luther, in his recent essay upon Jefferson asa Naturalist," has shown
that during his residence in Paris he kept the four principal colleges—
Harvard, Yale, William and Mary, and the College of Philadelphia—
informed of all that happened in the scientific circles of Kurope.

He wrote to one correspondent: ‘‘ Nature intended me for the tranquil
pursuits of science, by rendering them my supreme delight.’’ ‘To another
he said: ‘‘ Your first gives me information in the line of natural history,
and the second promises political news. The first is my passion, the last
my duty, and therefore both desirable.’’

When Jefferson went to Philadelphia to be inaugurated Vice-President
he carried with him a collection of fossil bones which he had obtained in
Greenbrier County, West Virginia, together with a paper, in which were
formulated the results of his studies upon them. This was published in

" Magazine of American History, April, 1885, p. 379.
396 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

the Transactions of the American Philosophical Society, and the species
is still known as Megalonyx jeffersont.

‘The spectacle,’’ remarks Luther, ‘‘of an American statesman coming
to take part as a central figure in the greatest political ceremony of our
country and bringing with him an original contribution to the scien-
tific knowledge of the world, is certainly one we shall not soon see
repeated.”’ =

When Jefferson became President his scientific tastes were the subject
of much ridicule as well as of bitter opposition among the people in whose
eyes, even in that day, science was considered synonymous with atheism.
William Cullen Bryant, then a lad of thirteen, wrote a satirical poem,
The Embargo, since suppressed, in which the popular feeling seems
to have been voiced:

Go, wretch, resign the presidential chair,
Disclose thy secret measures, foul or fair.

Go, search with curious eyes for horned frogs,
’Mid the wild wastes of Louisianian bogs;

Or, where the Ohio rolls his turbid stream,
Dig for huge bones, thy glory and thy theme.

A prominent personage in the history of this period was Peter Kalm,a
pupil of Linnzeus and professor in the University of Aobo, who was sent
to America by the Swedish Government, and traveled through Canada,
New York, New Jersey, and Pennsylvania from 1748 to 1751. Although
the ostensible object of his mission was to find a species of mulberry suit-
able for acclimatization in Sweden, with a view to the introduction of silk
culture, it is very evident that he and his master were very willing to
make of applied science a beast of burden, upon whose back they could
heap up a heavy burden of investigations in pure science. Kalm’s
botanical collections were of great importance andare still preserved in the
Linnzean Herbarium in London. His Travels into North America are.
full of interesting observations upon animals and men, as well as upon
plants, and give us an insight into the life of the naturalists at that time
resident in America. After his return to Sweden he published several
papers relating to his discoveries in America.

Another traveler who deserves our attention, Johann David Schcepf
[b. 1752, d. in Baireuth, 1800], the author of one of the earliest mono-
graphs of the Testudinata, was a surgeon of mercenary troops under
the Marcgrave of Anspach, and was one of the hated Hessian aux-
iliaries during the Revolutionary war (1776-1783). While stationed at
New York he wrote a paper upon the Fishes of New York, which was
published in Berlin in 1787. This was the first special ichthyological
paper ever written in America or concerning American species. Imme-
diately after the treaty of peace in 1783, Schcepf made an extensive tour

* Magazine of American History, April, 1885, p. 356.
Beginnings of Natural Fiistory tn America. 307

through the United States, proceeding from New York south to Florida
and the Bahamas. He was accompanied in his more southern excur-
sions by Professor Marter and Doctor Stupicz, who, with several assist-
ants, had been sent to America from Vienna to make botanical explora-
tions. Schoepf’s Nord Amerikanische Reisen is full of interesting notes
upon natural history, and describes nearly all the scientific men at that
time resident in the United States. His Materia Medica Americana,
published in 1787 at Erlangen, was a standard in its day.* :

One of the most prominent names in American natural history is
that of John Reinhold Forster [b. 1729, d. 1798], who was a leader in
zoological studies in England during the last century. He was a native
of Germany, and at the time of his death professor of botany at Halle.
He spent many years in England, and was the naturalist of Cooke’s
second voyage around the world (1772-1775). In 1771 he published in
London, in an appendix to his translation of Kalm’s Travels, A Cata-
logue of the Animals of North America, compiled from the writings of Lin-
nzeus, Pennant, Brisson, Edwards, and Catesby, and in the same year a
similar nominal catalogue of the plants of North America. His account
of the birds sent from Hudson Bay, published in 1772, was a valuable
contribution to American ornithology, ‘‘notable,’’ says Coues, ‘‘as the
first formal treatise exclusively devoted to a collection of North Amer-
ican birds sent abroad.’’ Fifty-eight species were described, among
which were several new to science. Other papers of equal value were
published upon the quadrupeds and fishes of the same region. Forster
was one of the earliest students of the geographical distribution of ant-
mals, and his Enchiridion of Natural History was in its day a standard.
His son, John George Forster, who was his companion in the voyage of
circumnavigation, owes his fame to his literary rather than to his scien-
tific labors. He published a paper on the Patella or Limpet Fish found
at Bermuda.’

The annals of Russian explorations upon the west coast of North
America have been so exhaustivély recorded by Dall in his Alaska and
its Resources that only passing mention need be made of the two German
naturalists, Steller and Chamisso, whose names are identified with the
natural history work of the Russian explorer.

Among the other naturalists whose names are associated with Americé
during this period may be mentioned Sonnini de Manoncour, an eminent
French zoologist, who traveled in Surinam from 1771 to 1775 and made
important contributions to its ornithology. Don Felix de Azara [b.
1746, d. after 1806], who carried on researches in Spanish America from
1781 to r801; Don Antonio Parra, who published a useful treatise on the
natural history of Cuba in Havana, in 1787; Don Joseph C. Mutis, a learned
Spanish ecclesiastic and physician, professor of natural history in the

‘Erlangen, 1788, 2 vols., octavo.
2 Philosophical Transactions, L, Pt. 2, 1758, p. 859.
398 Memortal of George Brown Goode.

University of Santa Fe de Bogota, in Grenada, who carried on a volumi-
nous correspondence with Linnzeus and his son from 1763 to 1778,’ and
Joseph Jussieu, botanist to the King of France, who went to the west
coast of South America in 1734 as a member of the commission sent by
the Royal Academy of Sciences to make observations to determine more
accurately the shape and magnitude of the earth. ‘‘ His curiosity,’’ says
Flourens, ‘‘ held him captive for many years in these regions, so rich and
unexplored, where he often joined the labors of the engineer with those
of the botanist. To him Europe owes several new plants, the heliotrope,
the marvel of Peru, etc., with many curious and then unknown species.”’
Here, also, should be mentioned the eminent French ornithologist, Fran-
cois Levaillant [b. 1753, d. 1824], who was a native of America, and the
two Mexican naturalists, also native born, Jose A. Alzate [b. in Ozumba
1729, d. in Mexico February 2, 1790], a learned botanist, and Francisco
Xavier Clavigero.

Francisco Xavier Clavigero, the historian of Mexico, was one of the
earliest of American archzeologists. Born in Vera Cruz September 9,
1731, the son of a Spanish scholar, he was educated at the college of
Puebla, entered the Society of Jesus, and was sent out as a missionary
among the Indians, with whom he spent thirty-six years. He learned
their language, collected their traditions, and examined all their histori-
cal records and monuments for the purpose of correcting the misrepre-
sentations of early Spanish writers. When the Society of Jesus was
suppressed by Spain, in 1767, Clavigero went to Italy, where he wrote
his Storia Antica del Messico, printed in 1780-81.

Clavigero was a man who, in his spirit, was fully abreast of the science
of his day, but whose methods of thought and argument were already
antiquated.

His monastic training led him to write from the standpoint of a com-
mentator rather than that of an original observer, and his observations
upon the animals and plants of Mexico were subordinated in a very
unfortunate manner to those of his ‘predecessor, Hernandez. In the
Dissertations, which make up the fourth volume of his history, he
throws aside, in the ardor of his dispute with Buffon and his followers,
the trammels of tradition, and places upon record many facts concerning
American natural history which had never before been referred to. He
here presented a list of the quadrupeds of America, the first ever printed
for the entire continent, including 143 species; not systematically
arranged, it is true, but perhaps as scientific in its construction as was
possible at that time, even had its author been trained in the school of
Linnzus.

Clavigero’s dissertations are well worthy of the attention of naturalists
even of the present day. His essay upon the manner in which the conti-

«Smith, Correspondence of Linnzeus, II, pp. 507-550.
PLATE 83.

Report of U. S. National Museum

i]

4) 7

Beginnings of Natural flistory tn America. 399

nent of America was peopled with living forms, shows a remarkable
appreciation of the difficulties in the way of the solution of this still
unsolved problem. ‘The position taken by its author is not unlike that
held by zoogeographers of to-day, in considering it necessary to bridge
with land the waters between Asia and Northwestern America, and
Africa and South América.’ In his first Dissertation of the Animals of
Mexico he combats the prevailing European views as to the inferiority
of the soil and climate of the New World and the degeneracy of its
inhabitants, engaging in the same battle in which fought also Harriot,
Acosta, and Jefferson.

Clavigero’s contributions to archeology and ethnology are extensive
and valuable, and we can but admit that at the time of the issue of his
Storia Antica no work concerning America had been printed in English
which was equally valuable.

Although in his formal discussion of the natural history of Mexico he
follows closely the nomenclature and arrangement of Hernandez, there
are many important original observations inserted. I will instance only
the notes on the mechanism of the poison gland and fang of the rattle-
snake, the biographies of the possum, the coyote and the tapir, and the
Tuza or pouched rat, the mocking bird, the chegoe, and the cochineal
insect. Clavigero states that Father Inamma, a Jesuit missionary of
California, has made many experiments upon snakes which serve to
confirm those made by Mead upon vipers.

To the post-Revolutionary period belongs Doctor Manasseh Cutler,
for fifty-one years minister of Ipswich Hamlet, Massachusetts [b. 1743,
d. 1823], who in 1785 published An Account of some of the vegetable
Productions, naturally growing in this Part of America, botanically
arranged,’ in which he described about 370 species. Cutler was a cor-
respondent of Muhlenberg in Pennsylvania, Swartz and Payshull in
Sweden, and Withering and Stokes in England. He left unpublished
manuscripts of great value. He was one of the founders of the settle-
ment in Ohio, and at one time a member of Congress. After Cutler,
says Tuckerman, there appeared in the Northeastern States nothing of
importance until the new school of New England botanists, a school
characterized by the names of an Oakes, a Boott, and an Emerson, was
founded in 1814, by the publication of Bigelow’s Florula Bostoniensis.

Thomas Walter [b. in Hampshire, 1740] published in London, in 1787,
his Flora Caroliniana, a scholarly work describing the plants of a region
situate upon the Santee River.’

Doctor Hugh Williamson, of North Carolina [b. 1735, d. 1819], was a
prominent member of the American Philosophical Society. He was con-

See similar speculation in George Scot’s Model of the Government of the Pro-
vince of East New Jersey in America. Edinburgh, 1685.

? Memoirs of the American Academy of Sciences, 1785.

3Brendel, American Naturalist, December, 1879, p. 758.
400 Memortal of George Brown Goode.

cerned in some of the earliest astronomical and mathematical work in
America; published papers upon comets and climatology, which were
favorably received, and secured his election to many foreign societies,
and in 1775 printed in the Philosophical Transactions his Experiments
and Observations on the Gymnotus Electricus, or Electrical Eel.

Doctor Caspar Wistar [b. 1761, d. 1818] was one of the early profes-
sors of chemistry [1789] and anatomy [1793] in the College of Philadel-
phia. He was the discoverer of some important points in the structure
of the ethmoid bone, a man of eminence as a teacher, and versed in all
the sciences of his day.

Doctor James Woodhouse, of Philadelphia [b. 1770, d. 1809], made
investigations in chemistry, mineralogy, and vegetable physiology which
were considered of importance.

The story of the origin of American scientific societies has been so often
told that it need not be repeated here. The only institutions of the kind
which were in existence at the end of the period under consideration
were the American Philosophical Society, an outgrowth primarily of the
American Society for the Advancement of Natural Knowledge, founded
in Philadelphia in 1743, and secondarily of Franklin’s famous Junto,
whose origin dates back to 1727, and the American Academy of Arts
and Sciences, founded in 1780.

The relations of the colonial naturalists to the scientific societies of
England have not so often been referred to, and it does not seem to be
generally known that the early history of the Royal Society of London
was intimately connected with the foundation of New England, and that
the first proposition for the establishment of a scientific society in America
was under consideration early in the seventeenth century. ‘‘’ The great
Mr. Boyle,’’ writes Eliot, ‘‘ Bishop Wilkins, and several other learned
men, had proposed to leave England and establish a society for promoting
natural knowledge in the new colony, of which Mr. Winthrop, their
intimate friend and associate, was appointed governor. Such men were
too valuable to lose from Great Britain; and Charles II having taken
them under his protection, the society was there established, and obtained
the title of the Royal Society of London.’’*

For more than a hundred years the Royal Society was the chief resource
of naturalists in North America. The three Winthrops, Mitchell, Clay-
ton, Garden, Franklin, Byrd, Rittenhouse, and others were among its
fellows, and the Philosophical Transactions contained many American
papers.

As at an early date the Society of Arts in London began to offer prizes
for various industrial successes in the colonies, for instance, for the pro-
duction of potash and pearlash, for the culture of silk, and for the culture
of hemp, the vine, safflower, olives, logwood, opium, scammony, burilla,

‘John Eliot, Biographical Dictionary of Eminent Characters in New England.
Boston, 180g.
Beginnings of Natural Flistory tn America. 401

aloes, sarsaparilla, cinnamon, myrtle wax, the production of saltpeter,
cobalt, cochineal, the manufacture of wine, raisins, and olive oil, the col-
lection of gum from the persimmon tree, and the acclimation of silk grass.
A medal was given in 1861 to Doctor Jared Eliot, of Connecticut, for the
extraction of iron from ‘‘ black sand.’’' In 1757 we find their secretary
endeavoring to establish branch societies in the colonial cities, especially
in Charleston, Philadelphia, and New York, and Garden seems to have
tried to carry out the enterprise in Charleston. After two years he wrote
that the society organized had become ‘
painting, and sculpture.’’

In a subsequent letter he utters a pitiful plaint. He has often won-
dered, he says, ‘‘that there should be a country abounding with almost
every sort of plant, and almost every species of the animal kind, and yet
that it should not have pleased God to raise up one botanist.’

The American Academy of Arts and Sciences was founded by the
legislature of Massachusetts in 1780, and its first volume of memoirs
appeared in 1785.

In 1788 an effort was made by the Chevalier Quesnay de Beaurepaire
to found in Richmond, Virginia, the Academy of Arts and Sciences of
the United States of America, upon the model of the French Academy.
The plan was submitted to the Royal Academy of Sciences in Paris, and
received its unqualified indorsement, signed, among others, by Lavoisier.
A large subscription was made by the Virginians and a large building
erected, but an academy of sciences needs members as well as a president,
and the enterprise was soon abandoned.’

In 1799 was organized the Connecticut Academy of Arts and Sciences,
which, after publishing one volume of Transactions, went into a state
of inactivity from which it did not arouse itself until 1866.

This sketch would not be complete without some reference also to the
history of scientific instruction in America during the last century.

The first regular lectures upon a special natural history topic appear to
have been upon comparative anatomy. A course upon this topic was
delivered at Newport, Rhode Island, in 1754, by Doctor William Hunter,
a native of Scotland [b. about 1729], a kinsman of the famous English
anatomists, William and John Hunter, and a pupil of Munro. His course
upon comparative anatomy was given in connection with others upon
human anatomy and the history of anatomy, the first medical lectures in
America.

‘a mere society of drawing,

*See Dossie, Memoirs of Agriculture. Tondon, I, 1768, pp- 24-26; also Brock in
Richmond Standard, April 26, 1879, p. 4.

*Smith, Correspondence of Linnzeus, I, p. 477.

3Samuel Mordecai, Richmond in By-gone Days. Richmond, 1856. A copy of
the original pamphlet of proposals is still preserved in the Virginia State Library.

4 One of the original tickets to these courses is in the Library of the Surgeon-Gen-
eral’s Office in Washington.

NAT MUS 97, PT 2

26
402 Memorval of George Brown Goode.

The first instruction in botany was given in Philadelphia in 1768 by
Kuhn, who began in May of that year a course of lectures upon that
subject in connection with his professorship of materia medica and botany
in the College of Philadelphia. Adam Kuhn [b. in Germantown, Penn-
sylvania, 1741, d. 1817] was educated in Europe, and had been a favorite
pupil of Linneeus. He did not, however, continue his devotion to nat-
ural history, though he became an eminent physician. William Bartram,
son of John Bartram, was elected to the same professorship in 1782. In
1788 Professor Waterhouse, of Harvard College, read lectures upon nat-
ural history to his medical classes, and is said to have subsequently claimed
that these were the first public lectures upon natural history given in the
United States. ‘This was doubtless an error, for we find that in 1785 a
course upon the philosophy of chemistry and natural history was deliv-
ered in Philadelphia. ‘‘ People of every description, men and women,
flock to these lectures,’’ writes a contemporary. ‘‘They are held at the
university three evenings in a week.’”*

The first professor of chemistry was Doctor Benjamin Rush, who
lectured in the Philadelphia Medical School as early as 1769. Bishop
Madison was professor of chemistry and natural philosophy at William
and Mary College from 1774 to 1777; Aaron Dexter, of chemistry and
materia medica at Harvard, 1783 to 1816; John Maclean, at Princeton,
1795-1812, being the first to occupy a separate chair of chemistry.
Before the days of chemical professorships, the professor of mathematics
seems to have been the chief exponent of science in our institutions of
learning.

John Winthrop [b. 1714, d. 1779], for instance, who was Hollis pro-
fessor of mathematics and natural philosophy at Harvard from 1738 to
1779, was a prominent Fellow of the Royal Society, to whose Transac-
tions he communicated many important papers, chiefly astronomical.
We read, however, that Count Rumford imbibed from his lectures his
love for physical and chemical research, and from this it may be inferred
that he taught as much of chemistry as was known in his day. William
Small, professor of mathematics in William and Mary from 1758 to
1762, was a man of similar tastes, though less eminent. He was the
intimate friend of Erasmus Darwin. President Jefferson was his pupil,
attended his lectures on natural philosophy, and got from time to time
his ‘‘ first views of the expansion of science and of the system of things
in which we are placed.’’

Doctor Samuel Latham Mitchill [b. 1764, d. 1831] was the first man
to hold a professorship of natural history, lecturing upon that subject,
together with chemistry, in Columbia College in 1792. Doctor Mitchill
was eminent as a zoologist, mineralogist, and chemist, and not only
published many valuable papers, but in 1798 established the first Amer-
ican scientific journal.

* Darlington, Memorials of John Bartram and Humphrey Marshall, p. 535.
Report of U. S. National Museum, 1897. Part II. PLATE 84.

Vie dae
Sik
}

ers

cae
iy i ri

hy,
oH

7 Y ear my n nm i,| ; Nib i: x
sy iat uy al 1
i ~ ' i rh ie
i i ine
i 1 i Fein ia)

Beginnings of Natural History in America. 403

Harvard appears to have had the first separate professorship of natural
history, which was filled by William Dandridge Peck, a zoologist and
botanist of prominence in his day.

A professorship of botany was established in Columbia College, New
York, as early as 1795, at which time Doctor David Hosack [b. in New
York, 1769, d. 1835] was the incumbent. Doctor Hosack brought with
him from Europe, in 1790, the first cabinet of minerals ever seen in the
United States. In its arrangement he was assisted by one of his pupils,
Archibald Bruce, who became, in 1806, professor of mineralogy, and who,
soon after, in 1810, established the American Journal of Mineralogy.

Doctor Hosack was the founder of the first public botanic garden—
this was in New York in 1801; another was founded in Charleston in
1804. ‘These had disappeared forty years ago, and the one at Cambridge,
established in 1808, is the only one now in existence.

The first public museum was that founded in Philadelphia, in 1785, by
Charles Willson Peale, the bones of a mammoth and a stuffed paddlefish
forming its nucleus. This establishment had a useful career of nearly
fifty years.

WALT:

We have now rehearsed the story of the earliest investigators of Amer-
ican natural history, including two centuries of English endeavor, and
nearly three if we take into consideration the earlier explorations of the
naturalists of continental Europe. We have seen how, in the course of
many generations, the intellectual supremacy of the Western Continent
went from the Spaniards and the French and the Dutch to the new
people who were to be called Americans, and we have become acquainted
with the men who were most thoroughly identified with the scientific
endeavors of each successive period of activity.

The achievements of American science during the century which has
elapsed since the time when Franklin, Jefferson, Rittenhouse, and Rum-
ford were its chief exponents have been often the subject of presidential
addresses like this, and the record is a proud one. During the last fifty
years in England, and the last forty in America, discovery has followed
discovery with such rapid succession that it is somewhat hard to realize
that American science in the colonial period, or even that of Europe at
the same time, had any features which are worthy of consideration.

The naturalists whose names I have mentioned were the intellectual
ancestors of the naturalists of to-day. Upon the foundations which they
laid the superstructure of modern natural history is supported. Without
the encyclopedists and explorers there could have been no Ray, no Klein,
no Linneus. Without the systematists of the latter part of the eighteenth
century the school of comparative anatomists would never have arisen.
Had Cuvier and his disciples never lived there would have been no place
for the philosophic biologists of to-day,
404 Memortal of George Brown Goode.

The spirit of the early naturalists may be tested by passages in their
writings which show how well aware they were of the imperfections of
their work. Listen to what John Lawson, the Carolina naturalist, wrote
in the year 1700:

The reptiles or smaller insects are too numerous to relate here, this country
affording innumerable quantities thereof; as the flying stags with horns, beetles,
butterflies, grasshoppers, locusts, and several hundreds of uncouth shapes, which in
the summer season are discovered here in Carolina, the description of which requires
a large volume, which is not my intent at present; besides, what the mountainous
part of this land may hereafter open to our view, time and industry will discover,
for we that have settled but a small share of this large province can not imagine,
but there will be a great number of discoveries made by those that shall come here-
after into the back part of this land, and make inquiries therein, when, at least, we
consider that the westward of Carolina is quite different in soil, air, weather,
growth of vegetables, and several animals, too, which we at present are wholly
strangers to, and seek for. As toa right knowledge thereof, I say, when another
age is come, the ingenious then in being may stand upon the shoulders of those that
went before them, adding their own experiments to what was delivered down to
them by their predecessors, and then there will be something toward a complete
natural history, which, in these days, would be no easy undertaking to any author
that writes truly and compendiously as he ought to do.

-Herbert Spencer, in his essay on The Genesis of Science, lays stress
upon the fact that the most advanced sciences have attained to their
present power by a slow process of improvement, extending through
thousands of years, that science and the positive knowledge of the uncul-
tured can not be separated in nature, and that the one is but a pertected
and extended form of the other. ‘‘Is not science a growth?’’ says he.
‘‘Has not science its embryology? And must not the neglect of its
embryology lead to a misunderstanding of the principles of its evolution
and its existing organization?’’

It seems to me unfortunate, therefore, that we should allow the value
of the labors of our predecessors to be depreciated, or to refer to the
naturalists of the last century as belonging to the unscientific or to the
archaic period. It has been frequently said by naturalists that there was
no science in America until after the beginning of the present century.
This is, in one sense, true; in another very false. "There were then, it is
certain, many men equal in capacity, in culture, in enthusiasm, to the
naturalists of to-day, who were giving careful attention to the study of
precisely the same phenomena of nature. The misfortune of men of
science in the year of 1785 was that they had three generations fewer
of scientific predecessors than have we. Can it be doubted that the
scientists of some period long distant will look back upon the work of our
own time as archaic and crude, and catalogue our books among the
‘“curiosities of scientific literature?’’

Is it not incumbent upon workers in science to keep green the memory
of those whose traditions they have inherited? That it is, I do most
steadfastly believe, and with this purpose I have taken advantage of the
Beginnings of Natural History in America. 405

tercentenary of American biology to read this review of the work of the
men of old.

Monuments are not often erected to men of science. More enduring,
however, than monuments are those living and self-perpetuating memo-
rials, the plants and animals which bear the names of the masters who
knew them and loved them. Well have the Agassizs remarked that
‘“there is a world of meaning hidden under our zoological and botanical
nomenclature, known only to those who are intimately acquainted with
the annals of scientific life in its social as well as its professional aspect.’’ *

I hope Iam not at this day entirely alone in my appreciation of the
extreme appropriateness of this time-honored custom, although I know
that many of our too matter-of-fact naturalists are disposed to abandon
it, and that it is losing much of its former significance. In fact, in these
days of unstable nomenclature, such tributes are often very evanescent.
It seems fortunate that the names of some of the most honored of the
early naturalists are perpetuated in well-established generic and specific
combinations.”

When I see the Lzzn@a borealis, 1 am always reminded of the sage of
Upsala, as he is represented in the famous Amsterdam painting, clad in
Lapland fur, and holding a spray of that graceful arctic plant. J/agnolia
and W7staria call up the venerable professors of botany at Montpelier and
Philadelphia. 7vadescantia virginica reminds me of John ‘Tradescant
and the Ashmolean Museum, whose beginnings were gathered by him
in Virginia. The cape jessamine (Gardenia), the spring beauty ( C/ay-
tonia), the partridge berry (J7Ztchella), the iron weed ( Vernonia), the
Quercus bartramit (=Q. heterophylla), the Scarus catesbyt, Thalictrum
and Asclepias cornutt, Macrurus fabrictt, Didelphys and Canis azare,
Chauliodus sloanet, Alutera schefit, Stema forstert, Stolephorus mitchilli,
Malacanthus plumiert, Salix cutleri, and Pinus banksiana, the Kalmia, the
Jeffersonia, the Hernandia, the Comptonia, the Sarracenia, the Gaultheria,
the Auhnia, the Allista, the Coldenta, the Robinia, the Banisteria, the
Plumieria, the Collinsonia, the Bartramia, all bear the names of men
associated with the beginnings of natural history in America.

Yet, pleasant as it is to recall in such manner the achievements of the

™ Seaside Studies in Natural History, p. 25.

* The genus /farriotta has been dedicated by Goode and Bean to the memory of
Thomas Harriot. It is intended to embrace a long-rostrated chimezeroid fish from
deep water off the Atlantic coast of North America. The description is not yet
published. MHeriot’s Isle, named for Harriot by the early explorers, and shown
upon Vaughan’s map, in Smith’s General History of Virginia, has entirely dis-
appeared. It was situate on the north side of Albemarle Sound, about midway
between Roanoke Island and the mouth of Chowan River. Whether it has been
swept away by the tides, or has become a part of the mainland, it is difficult to say.
The latter supposition seems the most probable, and since it is in all likelihood
Reeds Point which now occupies its former location, the propriety is suggested of
calling this little cape Harriots Point, in memory of the explorer.
406 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

fathers of natural history, let us not do them the injustice to suppose
that posthumous fame was the object for which they worked. Like Sir
Thomas Browne, they believed that ‘‘the world was made to be inhabited
by beasts, but to be studied by man.’’ Let us emulate their works and
let us share with them the admonitions of the Religio Medici.

‘The wisdom of God,’’ says Browne, ‘‘receives small honor from
those vulgar heads that rudely stray about, and with a gross rusticity
admire His works; those highly magnify Him whose judicious inquiry
into His acts, and deliberate research into His creatures, return the duty
of a devout and learned admiration. ‘Therefore,’’ he continues—

Search while thou wilt and let thy reason go
To ransom truth, even to the abysse below,
Rally the scattered causes, and that line
Which nature twistssbe able to untwine.

It is thy Maker’s will, for unto none
But unto reason can He e’er be known.
Report of U. S. National Museum, 1897. Part Il. PLATE 85.

PlETRO ANGELO SECCHI.
mt i

ist

ah,

THE BEGINNINGS OF AMERICAN SCIENCE.
THE THIRD CENTURY.
=
GEORGE BROWN GOODE,

President of the Biological Sociely of Washington.

407
THE BEGINNINGS OF AMERICAN SCIENCE.

THE THIRD CENTURY.

By GEORGE BROWN GOODE,

President of the Biological Society of Washington.

es

In the address which it was my privilege one year ago to read in the
presence of this society I attempted to trace the progress of scientific
activity in America from the time of the first settlement by the English
in 1585 to the end of the Revolution, a period of nearly two hundred
years.

Resuming the subject, I shall now take up the consideration of the
third century, from 1782 to the present time. For convenience of dis-
cussion the time is divided, approximately, into decades, while the dec-
ades naturally fall into groups of three. From 1780 to 1810, from 1810
to 1840, from 1840 to 1870, and from 1870 to the close of the century
are periods in the history of American thought, each of which seems to
be marked by characteristics of its own. ‘These must have names, and
it may not be inappropriate to call the first the period of Jefferson, the
second that of Silliman, and the third that of Agassiz.

The first was, of course, an extension of the period of Linnzeus, the
second and third were during the mental supremacy of Cuvier and Von
Baer and their schools, and the fourth or present, beginning in 1870,
belongs to that of Darwin, the extension of whose influence to America
was delayed by the tumults of the civil convulsion which began in 1861
and ended in 1865.

The beginnings of American science do not belong entirely to the
past. Our science is still in its youth, and in the discussion of its history
I shall not hesitate to refer to instit::tions and to tendencies which are of
very recent origin.

‘Annual presidential address delivered at the seventh anniversary meeting of the
Biological Society of Washington, January 22, 1887, in the lecture room of the
United States National Museum.

409
410 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

It is somewhat unfortunate that the account book of national progress
was so thoroughly balanced in the centennial year. It is true that the
movement which resulted in the birth of our Republic first took tangible
form in 1776, but the infant nation was not born until 1783, when the
treaty of Paris was signed, and lay in swaddling clothes until 1789, when
the Constitution was adopted by the thirteen States.

In those days our forefathers had quite enough to do in adapting their
lives to the changed conditions of existence. The masses were strug-
gling for securer positions near home or were pushing out beyond the
frontiers to find dwelling places for themselves and their descendants.
The men of education were involved in political discussions as fierce,
uncandid, and unphilosophical in spirit as those which preceded the
French Revolution of the same period.

The master minds were absorbed in political and administrative prob-
lems and had little time for the peaceful pursuits of science, and many
of the men who were prominent in science—Franklin, Jefferson, Rush,
Mitchill, Seybert, Williamson, Morgan, Clinton, Rittenhouse, Patterson,
Williams, Cutler, Maclure, and others—were elected to Congress or were
called to other positions of official responsibility.

IX.

The literary and scientific activities of the infant nation were for many
years chiefly concentrated at Philadelphia, until 1800 the Federal capital
and largest of American cities. Here, after the return of Franklin from
France in 1785, the meetings of the American Philosophical Society were
resumed. Franklin continued to be its president until his death in 1790,
at the same time holding the presidency of the Commonwealth of Penn-
sylvania and a seat in the Constitutional Convention. The prestige of
its leader doubtless gave to the society greater prominence than its scien-
tific objects alone would have secured.

In the reminiscences of Doctor Manasseh Cutler there is to be found an
admirable pic’ 1re of Franklin in 1787. As we read it we are taken back
into the very presence of the philosopher and statesman, and can form a
very clear appreciation of the scientific atmosphere which surrounded the
scientific leaders of the post-Revolutionary period.

Doctor Cutler wrote:

Doctor Franklin lives in Market Street, between Second and Third Streets, but
his house stands up a court-yard at some distance from the street. We found him
in his garden, sitting upon a grass plat under a large mulberry tree, with several
other gentlemen and two or three ladies. When Mr. Gerry introduced me he rose
from his chair, took me by the hand, expressed his joy to see me, welcomed me to
the city, and begged me to seat myself close by him. His voice was low, his coun-
tenance open, frank, and pleasing. I delivered him my letters. After he had read
them he took me again by the hand and, with the usual compliments, introduced

me to the other gentlemen, who were, most of them, members of the Convention.
Here we entered into a free conversation, and spent the time most agreeably until
Report of U. S, National Museum, 1897. Part Il PLATE 86.

BENJAMIN SILLIMAN.
The Beginnings of American Science. 411

it was dark. The tea table was spread under the tree, and Mrs. Bache, who is the
only daughter of the Doctor and lives with him, served it out to the company.

The Doctor showed me a curiosity he had just received, and with which he was
much pleased. It was a snake with two heads, preserved in a large vial. It was
about ten inches long, well proportioned, the heads perfect, and united to the
body about one-fourth of an inch below the extremities of the jaws. He showed me
a drawing of one entirely similar, found near Lake Champlain. He spoke of the
situation of this snake, if it was traveling among bushes, and one head should choose
to go on one side of the stem of a bush and the other head should prefer the other
side, and neither of the heads would consent to come back or give way to the other.
He was then going to mention a humorous matter that had that day taken place
in the Convention, in consequence of his comparing the snake to America, for he
seemed to forget that everything in the Convention was to be kept a profound secret;
but this was suggested to him, and I was deprived of the story.

After it was dark we went into the house, and he invited me into his library, which
is likewise his study. It is a very large chamber and high-studded. The walls were
covered with shelves filled with books; besides, there were four large alcoves, ex-
tending two-thirds of the length of the chamber, filled in the same manner. I pre-
sume this is the largest and by far the best private library in America. He showed
us a glass machine for exhibiting the circulation of the blood in the arteries and
veins of the human body. The circulation is exhibited by the passing of a red fluid
from a reservoir into numerous capillary tubes of glass, ramified in every direction,
and then returning in similar tubes to the reservoir, which was done with great
velocity, and without any power to act visibly upon the fluid, and had the appear-
ance of perpetual motion. Another great curiosity was a rolling press for taking
- copies of letters or any other writing. A sheet of paper is completely copied in less
than two minutes, the copy as fair as the original, and without effacing it in the
smallest degree. It is an invention of his own, and extremely useful in many situa-
tions in life. He also showed us his long artificial arm and hand for taking down
and putting up books on high shelves, out of reach, and his great armchair with
rockers, and a large fan placed over it, with which he fans himself, while he sits
reading, with only a slight motion of his foot, and many other curiosities and inven-
tions, all his own, but of lesser note. Over his mantel-tree he has a prodigious
number of medals, busts, and casts in wax or plaster of paris, which are the effigies
of the most noted characters in Europe. But what the Doctor wished especially to
show me was a huge volume on botany, which indeed afforded me the greatest pleas-
ure of any one thing in his library. It was a single volume, but so large that it was
with great difficulty that the Doctor was able to raise it from a low shelf and lift it to
the table; but, with that senile ambition common to old people, he insisted on doing
it himself, and would permit no one to assist him, merely to show how much
strength he had remaining. It contained the whole of Linnaeus Systema Vege-
tabilium, with large cuts of every plant colored from nature. It wasa feast to me, and
the Doctor seemed to enjoy it as well as myself. We spent a couple of hours exam-
ining this volume, while the other gentlemen amused themselves with other matters.
The Doctor is not a botanist, but lamented that he did not in early life attend to this
science. He delights in natural history, and expressed an earnest wish that I would
pursue the plan I had begun, and hoped this science, so much neglected in America,
would be pursued with as much ardor here as it is now in every part of Europe. I
wanted, for three months at least, to have devoted myself entirely to this one volume,
but, fearing I should be tedious to the Doctor, I shut the book, though he urged me to
examine it longer. He seemed extremely fond, through the course of the visit, of
dwelling on philosophical subjects, and particularly that of natural history, while
the other gentlemen were swallowed up in politics. This was a favorable circum-
stance to me, for almost the whole of his conversation was addressed to me, and I
412 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

was highly delighted with the extensive knowledge he appeared to have of every
subject, the brightness of his memory, the clearness and vivacity of all his mental
faculties. Notwithstanding his age (eighty-four), his manners are perfectly easy,
and everything about him seems to diffuse an unrestrained freedom and happiness.
He has an incessant vein of humor, accompanied with an uncommon vivacity, which
seems as natural and involuntary as his breathing. J

To Franklin, as president of the Philosophical Society, succeeded
David Rittenhouse [b. 1732, d. 1796], a man of world-wide reputation,
known in his day as the American philosopher.’

He was an astronomer of repute, and his observatory, built at Norriton
in preparation of the transit of Venus in 1769, seems to have been the
first in America. His orrery, constructed upon an original plan, was
one of the wonders of the land. His most important contribution to
astronomy was the introduction of the use of spider lines in the focus of
transit instruments.*

He was an amateur botanist, and in 1770 made interesting physiolog-
ical experiments upon the electrical eel.’

He was a Fellow of the Royal Society of London, and the first director
of the United States Mint.

Next in prominence to Franklin and Rittenhouse were doubtless the
medical professors, Benjamin Rush, William Shippen, John Morgan,
Adam Kuhn, Samuel Powell Griffiths, and Caspar Wistar, all men of
scientific tastes, but too busy in public affairs and in medical instruction
to engage deeply in research, for Philadelphia, in those days as at pres-
ent, insisted that all her naturalists should be medical professors, and the
active investigators, outside of medical science, were not numerous.
Rush, however, was one of the earliest American writers upon ethnology,
and a pathologist of the highest rank. He is generally referred to as the
earliest professor of chemistry, having been appointed to the chair of
chemistry in the College of Philadelphia in 1769. It seems certain, how-
ever, that Doctor John Morgan lectured on chemistry as early as 1765.4

Doctor Shippen [b. 1735, d. 1808], the founder of the first medical
school [1765] and its professor of anatomy for forty-three years, was still
in his prime, and so was Doctor Morgan [b. 1735, d. 1789], a Fellow of
the Royal Society, a co-founder of the medical school, and a frequent
contributor to the Philosophical Transactions. Morgan was an eminent
pathologist, and is said to have been the one to originate the theory of
the formation of pus by the secretory action of the vessels of the part.5
He appears to have been the first who attempted to form a museum of
anatomy, having learned the methods of preparation from the Hunters

*See obituary in the European Magazine, July, 1796; also Memoirs of Rittenhouse,
by William Barton, 1813, and Eulogium by Benjamin Rush, 1796.

?Von Zach, Monatliche Correspondenz, IJ, p. 215.

3Philadelphia Medical and Physical Journal, I, Pt. 2, p. 96.

4Barton’s Memoirs of Rittenhouse, 1813, p. 614.

5James Thacher, American Medical Biography, I, 1828, p. 408.
The Beginnings of American Science. 413

and from Stie in Paris. The beginning was still earlier known, for a
collection of anatomical models in wax, obtained by Doctor Abraham
Chovet in Paris, wasin use by Philadelphia medical students before the
revolution. *

Another of the physicians of colonial days who lived until after the
revolution was Doctor Thomas Cadwallader [b. 1707, d. 1779], whose
dissections are said to have been among the earliest made in America,
and whose Essay on the West India Dry Gripes, 1775, was one of the
earliest medical treatises in America.

Doctor Caspar Wistar [b. 1761, d. 1818] was also a leader, and was at
various times professor of chemistry and anatomy. His contributions to
natural history were descriptions of bones of AZegal/onyx and other mam-
mals, a study of the human ethmoid, and experiments on evaporation.
He was long vice-president of the Philosophical Society, and in 1815
succeeded Jefferson in its presidency. The Wistar Anatomical Museum
of the university and the beautiful climbing shrub WV7zstarza are among
the memorials to his name.’

Still another memorial of the venerable naturalist may perhaps be worthy
of mention as an illustration of the social condition of science in Philadel-
phia in early days. A traveler visiting the city in 1829 thus described
this institution, which was continued until the late war and then discon-
tinued, but has been resumed within the last year:

Doctor Wistar in his lifetime had a party of his literary and scientific friends at
his house, one evening in every week—and to this party, strangers visiting the city,
were also invited. When he died, the same party was continued, and the members
of the Wistar party, in their tour, each have a meeting of the club at his house, on
some Saturday night in the year. This club consists of the men most distinguished
for learning, science, art, literature, and wealth in the city. It opens at early

candle-light, in the evening, where, not only the members themselves appear, but
they bring with them all the strangers of distinction then in the city.3

The Wistar parties were continued up to the beginning of the civil
war, in 1861, and have been resumed since 1887. A history of these
gatherings would cover a period of three-quarters of a century at the least,
and could be made a most valuable and entertaining contribution to sci-
entific literature.

Packard, in his History of Zoology,‘ states that zoology, the world over,
has sprung from the study of human anatomy, and that American zoology
took its rise and was fostered chiefly in Philadelphia by the professors in
the medical schools.

‘This eventually became the property of the university. See Barton’s Memoirs of
Rittenhouse, 1813, p. 377. Transactions of the American Philosophical Society, II,
p- 368.

? David Hosack, Tribute to the Memory of the late Caspar Wistar, New York, 1818.

3Caleb Atwater, Remarks made on a Tour to Prairie du Chien; thence to Wash-
ington City, in 1829. Columbus, Ohio, 1831, p. 238.

4Standard Natural History, pp. Ixii-Ixxii,
414 Memortal of George Brown Goode.

It was fully demonstrated, I think, in my former address, that there
were good zoologists in America long before there were medical schools,
and that Philadelphia was not the cradle of American natural history,
although during its period of political preeminence, immediately after the
Revolution, scientific activities of all kinds centered in that city. As for
the medical schools, it is at least probable that they have spoiled more
naturalists than they have fostered.

Doctor Adam Kuhn [b. 1741, d. 1817] was the professor of botany in
1768'—the first in America—and was labeled by his contemporaries the
favorite pupil of Linnzeus. Professor Gray, in a recent letter to the
writer, refers to this saying as a myth; and it surely seems strange that
a disciple beloved by the great Swede could have done so little for botany.
Barton, in a letter, in 1792, to Thunberg, who then occupied the seat of
Linnzeus in the University of Upsala, said:

The electricity of your immortal Linné has hardly been felt in this (/tima Thule
of science. Hada number of the pupils of that great man spread themselves along,
and settled in the countries of North America, the riches of this world of natural
treasures would have been better known. But alas! the one only pupil of your
predecessor that has made choice of America as the place of his residence has added
nothing to the stock of natural knowledge.?

The Rev. Nicholas Collin, rector of the Swedish churches in Pennsyl-
vania, was a fellow-countryman and acquaintance of Linnzeus* and an
accomplished botanist, having been one of the editors of Muhlenberg’s
work upon the grasses, and an early writer on American linguistics. He
read before the Philosophical Society, in 1789, An essay on those inquiries
in natural philosophy which at present are most beneficial to the United
States of North America, which was the first attempt to lay out a sys-
tematic plan for the direction of scientific research in America. One of
the most interesting suggestions he made was that the Mammoth was still
in existence.

The vast Mahmot [said he] is perhaps yet stalking through the western wilder-
ness; but if he is no more, let us carefully gather his remains, and even try to find a
whole skeleton of this giant, to whom the elephant was but a calf.4

General Jonathan Williams, U. S. A. [b. 1750, d. 1815], was first
superintendent of the Military Academy at West Point and father of the
Corps of Engineers. He was a nephew of Franklin and his secretary
of legation in France, and, after his return to Philadelphia, was for many
years a judge of the court of common pleas, his military career not begin-
ning till 1801. ‘This versatile man was a leading member of the Philo-

‘See previous address, p. 99. [This volume, p. 402. ]

? Benjamin S. Barton, Transactions of the American Philosophical Society, III,
P- 339.

3T often heard the great Linnaeus wish that he could have explored the continent
of North America. Collin, Transactions of the American Philosophical Society,
TELS poke

4Idem., p. xxiv,
PLATE 87.

Part Il

Report of U. S, National Museum, 1897.

SIR HANS SLOANE.
The Beginnings of American Science. 415

sophical Society and one of its vice-presidents. His paper On the use of
the thermometer in navigation was one of the first American contribu-
tions to scientific seamanship.

The Rev. Doctor John Ewing [b. 1732, d. 1802], also a vice-president,
was provost of the university. He had been one of the observers of the
transit in 1769, of which he published an account in the ‘Transactions
of the Philosophical Society. He early printed a volume of lectures on
natural philosophy, and was the strongest champion of John Godfrey, the
Philadelphian, in his claim to the invention of the reflecting quadrant.!

Doctor James Woodhouse [b. 1770, d. 1809] was author and editor of
several chemical text-books and professor of chemistry in the university,
a position which he took after it had been refused by Priestley. He made
experiments and observations on the vegetation of plants and investi-
gated the chemical and medical properties of the persimmon tree. He it
was who first demonstrated the superiority of anthracite to bituminous
coal by reason of its intensity and regularity of heating power.’

The Rev. Ebenezer Kinnersley [b. in Gloucester, England, November
30, 1711; d. in Philadelphia, July 4, 1778] survived the Revolution,
though, in his latter years, not a contributor to science. The associate
of Franklin in the Philadelphia experiments in electricity, his discoveries
were famous in Europe as well as in America.? It is claimed that he
originated the theory of the positive and negative in electricity; that
he first demonstrated the passage of electricity through water; and
that he first discovered that heat could be produced by electricity; besides
inventing numerous mechanical devices of scientific interest. From 1753
to 1772 he was connected with the University of Pennsylvania, where
there may still be seen a window dedicated to his memory.

Having already referred to the history of scientific instruction in
America,‘ and shown that Hunter lectured on comparative anatomy in
Newport in 1754; Kuhn on botany, in Philadelphia, in 1768; Water-
house on natural history and botany, at Cambridge, in 1788; and some
unidentified scholars upon chemistry and natural history, in Philadelphia,
in 1785, it would seem unjust not to speak of Kinnersley’s career as a
lecturer. He seems to have been the first to deliver public scientific

*Thomas Godfrey [says a recent authority] was born in Bristol, Pennsylvania,
in 1704, and died in Philadelphia in December, 1749. He followed the trade of a
glazier in the metropolis, and, having a fondness for mathematical studies, marked
such books as he met with, subsequently acquiring Latin, that he might become
familiar with the mathematical work in that language. Having obtained a copy of
Newton’s Principia, he described an improvement he had made in Davis’ quadrant
to James Logan, who was so impressed that he at once addressed a letter to Edmund
Halley in England, giving a full description of the construction and uses of God-
frey’s instrument.

* Benjamin Silliman, Jr., American Contributions to Chemistry, p. 13.

3See Priestley’s History of Electricity.

4See previous address, p. 99. [This volume, p. 4or. |
416 Memorval of George Brown Goode.

lectures in America, occupying the platform in Philadelphia, Newport,
New York, and Boston, from 1751 to the beginning of the Revolution.
The following advertisement was printed in the Pennsylvania Gazette for
Aypriliens 1750:

NOTICE is hereby given to the Curious, That on Wednesday next, Mr. Kinnersley
proposes to begin a Course of Experiments on the newly-discovered ELECTRICAL
FIRE, containing not only the most curious of those that have been made and pub-
lished in Huvope, but a considerable Number of new Ones lately made in this City;
to be accompanied with methodical L&cTrURES on the Nature and Properties of that
wonderful Element.

Francis Hopkinson [b. 1737, d. 1791], signer of the Declaration of
Independence, was treasurer of the Philosophical Society, and among
other papers communicated by him was one in 1783, calling attention to
the peculiar worm parasitic in the eye of a horse. ‘The horse with a
snake in its eye was on public exhibition in Philadelphia in 1782, and
was the object of much attention, for the nature and habits of this pecu-
liar /7/arza were not so well understood then as now.

The father of Francis, Thomas Hopkinson [b. in London, 1709; d. in
Philadelphia, 1751], who was overlooked in my previous address, deserves
at least a passing mention. Coming to Philadelphia in 1731, he became
lawyer, prothonotary, judge of the admiralty, and member of the provin-
cial council. As an incorporator of the Philadelphia Library Company,
and original trustee of the College of Philadelphia, and president of the
first American Philosophical Society in 1743, his public spirit is worthy
of our admiration. He was associated with Kinnersley and Franklin in
the Philadelphia experiments, and Franklin said of him:

The power of points to throw off the electrical fire was first communicated to me
by my ingenious friend, Mr. Thomas Hopkinson.'

The name of Philip Syng is also mentioned in connection with the
Philadelphia experiments, and it would be well if some memorials of
his work could be placed upon record.

William Bartram [b. 1739, d. 1823] was living in the famous botan-
ical garden at Kingsessing, which his father, the old King’s botanist, had
bequeathed him in 1777. He was for some years professor of botany in
the Philadelphia College, and in 1791 printed his charming volume
descriptive of his travels in Florida, the Carolinas, and Georgia. ‘The
latter years of his life appear to have been devoted to quiet observation.
William Bartram has been, perhaps, as much underrated as John Bartram
has been unduly exalted. He was one of the best observers America
has ever produced, and his book, which rapidly passed through several
editions in English and French, is a classic, and should stand beside
White’s Selborne in every naturalist’s library. Bartram was doubtless
discouraged, early in his career, by the failure of his patrons in London
to make any scientific use of the immense botanical collections made

*Cyclopzedia of American Biography, III, p. 260,
The Beginnings of American Sctence. 417

by him in the South before the Revolution, which many years later was
lying unutilized in the Banksian herbarium. Coues has called attention
very emphatically to the merits of his bird work, which he pronounces
the starting point of a distinctly American school of ornithology. ‘Two
of the most eminent of our early zoologists, Wilson and Say, were his
pupils; the latter, his kinsmen, and the former his neighbor, were
constantly with him at Kingsessing and drew much of their inspiration
from his conversation. Many birds which Wilson first fully described
and figured were really named and figured by Bartram in his Travels,
and several of his designations were simply adopted by Wilson.*

Bartram’s Observations on the Creek and Cherokee Indians * was
an admirable contribution to ethnography, and his general observations
were of the highest value.

In the introduction to his Travels, and interspersed through this vol-
ume, are reflections which show him to have been the possessor of a
very philosophic and original mind.

His Anecdotes of an American Crow and his Memoirs of John Bartram?
were worthy products of his pen, while his illustrations to Barton’s Ele-
ments of Botany show how facile and truthful was his pencil.

His love for botany was such, we are told, that he wrote a description
of a plant only a few minutes before his death, a statement which will
be readily believed by all who know the nature of his enthusiasm. ‘Thus,
for instance, he wrote of the Venus’s Flytrap:

Adinirable are the properties of the extraordinary Dionea muscipula! See the
incarnate lobes expanding, how gay and sportive they appear! ready on the spring
to intrap incautious, deluded insects! What artifice! There! behold one of the
leaves just closed upon a struggling fly; another has gotten a worm; its hold is sure;
its prey can never escape —carnivorous vegetable! Can we, after viewing this object,
hesitate a moment to confess that vegetable beings are endowed with some sensible
faculties or attributes, similar to those that dignify animal nature; they are organ-
ical, living, and seif-moving bodies, for we see here, in this plant, motion and
volition.#

Moses Bartram, a cousin of William, and also a botanist, was also liv-
ing near Philadelphia, and in 1879 published Observations on the Native
Silk Worms of North America, and Humphrey Marshall [1722-1801],
the farmer-botanist, had a botanical garden of his own, and in 1785 pub-
lished The American Grove—Arbustrium Americanum—a treatise on
the forest trees and shrubs of the United States, which was the first
strictly American botanical book, and which was republished in France
a few years later, in 1789.

Gotthilf Muhlenberg [b. 1753, d. 1815], a Lutheran clergyman, living

‘ Elliott Coues, Key to North American Birds, 1887, p. xvii.

* Transactions of the American Ethnological Society, III, 1851.

3 Nicholson’s Journal, 1805.

4Travels through North and South Carolina, Georgia, East and West Florida, 1794,
joepee DO

NAT MUS) 97, PL 2

iS)
“I
418 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

at Lancaster, was an eminent botanist, educated in Germany, though a

native of Pennsylvania. His Flora of Lancaster was a pioneer work.

In 1813 he published a full catalogue of the plants of North America, in

which about 2,800 species were mentioned. He supplied Hedwig with

many of the rare American mosses, which were published either in the
Stirpes Cryptogamicze of that author or in the Species Muscorum. To

Sir J. E. Smith and Mr. Dawson Turner he likewise sent many plants.

He made extensive preparations, writing a general flora of, North America, -
but death interfered with his project. The American Philosophical

Society preserves his herbarium, and the moss Funeria muhlenbergit,

the violet Vola muhlenbergti, and the grass JA7Zuhlenbergia are among
the memorials to his name.”

To Pennsylvania, but not to Philadelphia, came in 1794 Joseph Priest-
ley [1733-1804], the philosopher, theologian, and chemist. Although
his name is more famous in the history of chemistry than that of any liy-
ing contemporary, American or European, his work was nearly finished
before he left England. He never entered into the scientific life of the
country which he sought as an exile, and of which he never became a
citizen, and he is not properly to be considered an element in the history
of American science.

His coming, however, was an event of considerable political impor-
tance, and William Cobbett’s Observations on the Emigration of Doctor
Joseph Priestley, by Peter Porcupine, was followed by several other pam-
phlets equally vigorous in expression. McMaster is evidently unjust to
some of the public men who welcomed Priestley to America, though no
one will deny that there were unprincipled demagogues in America in
the year of grace 1794. Jefferson was undoubtedly sincere when he
wrote to him the words quoted elsewhere in this address.

Another eminent exile welcomed by Jefferson, and the writer, at the
President’s request, of a work on national education in the United States,
was M. Pierre Samuel Dupont de Nemours [b. in Paris, 1739; d. 1817].
He was a member of the Institute of France, a statesman, diplomatist,
and political economist, and author of many important works. He lived
in the United States at various times from 1799 till 1817, when he died
near Wilmington, Delaware. Like Priestley, he was a member of the
American Philosophical Society, and affiliated with its leading members.

The gunpowder works near Wilmington, Delaware, founded by his
son in 1798, are still of great importance, and the statue of one of his
grandsons, an Admiral in the United States Navy, adorns one of the
principal squares in the national capital.

Among other notable names on the roll of the society in the last cen-
tury were those of General Anthony Wayne and Thomas Payne. His
Excellency General Washington was also an active member, and seems

‘William J. Hooker, On the Botany of America, Edinburgh Journal of Science,
Lips 108.
Report of U. S, National Museum, 1897. Part Il. PLATE 88

JAMES EDWARD SMITH.
of

¥

ere

E

7 . + tay

7 is
ie
D af
'
ar
de)
i
a
eit
—
‘
i
‘

‘|
The Beginnings of American Science. 419

to have taken sufficient interest in the society to nominate for foreign
membership the Earl of Buchan, president of the Society of Scottish
Antiquarians, and Doctor James Anderson, of Scotland.

The following note written by Washington is published in the Memoirs
of Rittenhouse:

The President presents his compliments to Mr. Rittenhouse, and thanks him for
the attention he has given to the case of Mr. Anderson and the Earl of Buchan.

SUNDAY AFTERNOON, 20th April, 1794.

Of all the Philadelphia naturalists of those early days the one who
had the most salutary influence upon the progress of science was per-
haps Benjamin Smith Barton [b. 1766, d. 1815]. Barton was the
nephew of Rittenhouse and the son of Rev. Thomas Barton, a learned
Episcopal clergyman of Lancaster, who was one of the earliest members
of the Philosophical Society, and a man accomplished in science.

He studied at Edinburgh and Gottingen, and at the age of nineteen,
in 1785, he was the assistant of Rittenhouse and Ellicott in the work of
establishing the western boundary of Pennsylvania, and soon after was
sent to Europe, whence, having pursued an‘extended course of scientific
and medical study, he returned in 1789, and was elected professor of
natural history and botany in the University of Pennsylvania. He was
a leader in the Philosophical Society, and the founder of the Linnzean
Society of Philadelphia, before which in 1807 he delivered his famous
Discourse on some of the Principal Desiderata in Natural History,
which did much to excite an intelligent popular interest in the subject.
His essays upon natural history topics were the first of the kind to
appear in this country. He belonged to the school of Gilbert White and
Benjamin Stillingfleet, and was the first in America of a most useful and
interesting group of writers, among whom may be mentioned John D.
Godman, Samuel Lockwood, C. C. Abbott, Nicholas Pike, John Bur-
roughs, Wilson Flagg, Ernest Ingersoll, the Rev. Doctor McCook, Ham-
ilton Gibson, Maurice Thompson, and W. T. Hornaday, as well as
Matthew Jones, Campbell Hardy, Charles Waterton, P. H. Gosse, and
Grant Allen, to whom America and England both have claims.

Barton published certain descriptive papers, as well as manuals of
botany and materia medica, but in later life had become so absorbed in
medical affairs that he appears to have taken no interest in the struggles
of the infant Academy of Natural Sciences, which was founded three
years before his death, but of which he never became a member.

His nephew and successor in the presidency of the Linneean Society
and the University professorship, William P. C. Barton [b. 1786, d.
1856], was aman of similar tendencies, who in early life published papers
on the flora of Philadelphia [Floree Philadelphize Prodromus, 1815], but
later devoted himself chiefly to professional affairs, writing copiously
upon materia medica and medical botany.

The admirers of Benjamin Smith Barton have called him the father
420 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

of American natural history, but the propriety of this designation, is
questioned, since it is equally applicable to Mitchill or Jefferson, and per-
haps still more so to Peter Collinson, of London. ‘The praises of Barton
have been so well and so often sung that there can be no injustice in
passing him briefly by.’

The most remarkable naturalist of those days was Rafinesque [b. 1784,
d. 1872], a Sicilian by birth, who came to Philadelphia in 1802.

Nearly fifty years ago this man died, friendless and impoverished in
Philadelphia. His last words were these: Time renders justice to all
at last. Perhaps the day has not yet come when full justice can be
done to the memory of Constantine Rafinesque, but his name seems
yearly to grow more prominent in the history of American zoology. He
was in many respects the most gifted man who ever stood in our ranks.
When in his prime he far surpassed his American contemporaries in ver-
satility and comprehensiveness of grasp. He lived a century too scon.
His spirit was that of the present period. In the latter years of his life,
soured by disappointments, he seemed to become unsettled in mind, but as
I read the story of his life his eccentricities seem to me the outcome of a
boundless enthusiasm for the study of nature. The picturesque events
of his life have been so well described by Jordan,* Chase,? and Audubon‘
that they need not be referred to here. ‘The most satisfactory gauge of
his abilities is perhaps his masterly Survey of the Progress and Actual
State of Natural Sciences in the United States of America, printed in
1817.5 His own sorrowful estimate of the outcome of his mournful
career is very touching:

I have often been discouraged, but have never despaired long. I have lived to serve
mankind, but have often met with ungrateful returns. I have tried to enlarge the
limits of knowledge, but have ofted met with jealous rivals instead of friends. With
a greater fortune I might have imitated Humboldt or Linnzeus.

Doctor Robert Hare [b. 1781, d. 1858] began his long career of use-
fulness in 1801, at the age of twenty, by the invention of the oxyhydro-
gen blowpipe. ‘This was exhibited at a meeting of the Chemical Society
of Philadelphia in 1801.°

This apparatus was perhaps the most remarkable of his original con-
tributions to science, which he continued without interruption for more
than fifty years. It belongs to the end of the post-Revolutionary period,
and is therefore noticed, although it is not the purpose of this essay to
consider in detail the work of the specialists of the present century.

‘William P. C. Barton, Biography of Benjamin S. Barton, Philadelphia, 1815.

® David Starr Jordan, Bulletin U. S. National Museum, No. IX; also see article in
Popular Science Monthly, XXIX, p. 212, reprinted in Jordan’s Science Sketches,
p- 143.

3Chase, Potter’s American Monthly, VI, pp. 97-Io1.

4 Audubon, The Eccentric Naturalist, Ornithological Biography, p. 455.

5 American Monthly Magazine, I, p. 81.

ST dem -)10,/p. So:
The Beginnings of American Science. 421

Doctor Hugh Williamson [b. December 5, 1735; d. in New York
May 22, 1719] was a prominent but not particularly useful promoter of
science, a writer rather than a thinker. His work has already been
referred to. The names of Maclure, who came to Philadelphia about
1797, the Rev. John Heckewelder, and Albert Gallatin [b. 1761, d. in
1849], a native of Switzerland, a statesman and financier, subsequently
identified with the scientific circles of New York, complete the list of the
Philadelphia savants of the last century.

There is not in all American literature a passage which illustrates the
peculiar tendencies in the thought of this period so thoroughly as Jeffer-
son’s defense of the country against the charges of Buffon and Raynal,
which he published in 1783, which is particularly entertaining because
of its almost pettish depreciation of our motherland.

On doit etre etonné [says Raynal] que l’Amerique n’ait pas encore produit
un bon poéte, un habile mathematicien, un homme de génie dans un seul art, ou une
seule science.

When we shall have existed as a people as long as the Greeks did before they
produced a Homer, the Romans a Virgil, the French a Racine and Voltaire, the Eng-
lish a Shakespeare and Milton, should this reproach be still true, we will inquire
from what unfriendly causes it has proceeded, that the other countries of Europe
and quarters of the earth shall not have inscribed any name in the rdle of poets.

In war we have produced a Washington, whose memory will in future ages assume
its just station among the most celebrated worthies of the world, when that wretched
philosophy shall be forgotten which would have arranged him among the degenera-
cies of nature.

In physics we have produced a Franklin, than whom no one of the present age
has made more important discoveries, nor has enriched philosophy with more, or
more ingenious solutions of the phenomena of nature.

he must be the first, because he is self-taught. He has not indeed made a world;
but he has by imitation approached nearer its Maker than any man who has lived
from the creation to this day. There are various ways of keeping the truth out of
sight. Mr. Rittenhouse’s model of the planetary system has the plagiary appellation
of an orrery; and the quadrant invented by Godfrey, an American also, and with the
aid of which the European nations traverse the globe, is called Hadley’s quadrant.

We calculate thus: The United States contain three millions of inhabitants; France
twenty millions; and the British Islands ten. We produce a Washington, a Frank-
lin, a Rittenhouse. France then should have half a dozen in each of these lines,
and Great Britain half that number, equally eminent. It may be true that France
has; we are but just becoming acquainted with her, and our acquaintance so far
gives us high ideas of the genius of her inhabitants.

The present war having so long cut off all communication with Great Britain, we
are not able to make a fair estimate of the state of science in that country. ‘The
spirit in which she wages war is the only sample before our eyes, and that does not
seem the legitimate offspring either of science or of civilization. The sun of her
glory is fast descending to the horizon. Her philosophy has crossed the channel, her
freedom the Atlantic, and herself seems passing to that awful dissolution whose
issue is not given human foresight to scan.!

This was one phase of public sentiment. Another, no less instructive,

! Notes on the State of Virginia, 1788, pp. 69-71.
422 Memortal of George Brown Goode.

is that shown forth in the publications of Jefferson’s fierce political oppo-
nents in 1790, paraphrased, as follows, by McMaster in his History of
the People of the United States:

Why, it was asked, should a philosopher be made President? Is not the active,
anxious, and responsible station of Executive illy suited to the calm, retired, and
exploring tastes of a natural philosopher? Ability to impale butterflies and contrive
turn-about chairs may entitle one to a college professorship, but it no more consti-
tutes a claim to the Presidency than the genius of Cox, the great bridge-builder, or
the feats of Ricketts, the famous equestrian. Do not the pages of history teem with
evidences of the ignorance and mismanagement of philosophical politicians? John
Locke was a philosopher, and framed a constitution for the colony of Georgia; but
so full was it of whimsies that it had to be thrown aside. Condorcet, in 1793, made a
constitution for France; but it contained more absurdities than were ever before
piled up in a system of government, and was not even tried. Rittenhouse was
another philosopher; but the only proof he gave of political talents was suffering
himself to be wheedled into the presidency of the Democratic Society of Philadel-
phia. But, suppose that the title of philosopher is a good claim to the Presidency,
what claim has Thomas Jefferson to the title of philosopher? Why, forsooth!

He has refuted Moses, disproved the story of the Deluge, made a penal code,
drawn up a report on weights and measures, and speculated profoundly on the pri-
mary causes of the difference between the whites and blacks. Think of such a man
as President! ‘Think of a foreign minister surprising him in the act of anatomizing
the kidneys and glands of an African to find out why the negro is black and odor-
iferous !

He has denied that shells found on the mountain tops are parts of the great flood,
He has declared that if the contents of the whole atmosphere were water, the land
would only be overflowed to the depth of fifty-two and one-half feet. He does not
believe the Indians emigrated from Asia.

Every mail from the South brought accounts of rumblings and quakes in the Aile-
ghanies and strange lights and blazing meteors in the sky. These disturbances in
the natural world might have no connection with the troubles in the political world;
nevertheless it was impossible not to compare them with the prodigies all writers of
the day declare preceded the fatal Ides of March.

xX 2

In New York, although a flourishing medical school had been in
existence from 1769, there was an astonishing dearth of naturalists
until about 1790. Governor Colden, the botanist and ethnologist, had
died in 1776, and the principal medical men of the city, the Bards, Clossy,
Jones, Middleton, Dyckman, and others confined their attention entirely to
professional studies. A philosophical society was born in 1787, but died
before it could speak. A society for the promotion of agriculture, arts,
and manufactures, organized in 1791, was more successful, but not in the
least scientific. Up to the end of the century New York State had but
six men chosen to membership in the American Philosophical Society,
and up to 1809 but five in the American Academy. Leaders, however,
soon arose in Mitchill, Clinton, and Hosack. ;

Samuel Latham Mitchill, the son of a Quaker farmer [b. 1764, d. 1831],
was educated in the medical schools of New York and Edinburgh, and in
PLATE 89.

Report of U. S. National Museum, 1897. Partll

JOHN SMITH.
TOnranbae
A
pre

The Beginnings of American Science. 423

1792 was appointed professor of chemistry, natural history, and philoso-
phy in Columbia College. Although during most of his long life a med-
ical professor and editor and for many years Representative and Senator
in Congress, he continued active in the interests of general science. He
made many contributions to systematic natural history, notably a History
of the Fishes of New York, and his edition of Bewick’s General History
of Quadrupeds, published in New York in 1804 with notes and additions,
and some figures of American animals, was the earliest American work
of the kind. He was the first in America to lecture upon geology, and
published several papers upon this science. His mineralogical explora-
tion of the banks of the Hudson River in 1796, under the Society for
the Promotion of Agriculture, Manufactures, and Useful Arts, founded
by himself, was our earliest attempt at this kind of research, and in 1794
he published an essay on the Nomenclature of the New Chemistry, the
first American paper on chemical philosophy, and engaged in a contro-
versy with Priestley in defense of the nomenclature of Lavoisier, which
he was the first American to adopt.

His discourse on The Botanical History of North and South America
was also a pioneer effort. He was an early leader in ethnological inqui-
ries and a vigorous writer on political topics. His Life of Tammany, the
Indian chief (New York, 1795), is a classic, and he was well known to
our grandfathers as the author of An Address to the Fredes or People of
the United States, in which he proposed that Fredonia should be adopted
as the name of the nation.

Doctor Mitchill was a poet’ and a humorist and a member of the liter-
ary circles of his day. In The Croakers, Rodman Drake thus addressed
him as The Surgeon -General of New York:

It matters not how high or low it is

Thou knowest each hill and vale of knowledge,
Fellow of forty-nine societies

And lecturer in Hosack’s College.

Fitz-Greene Halleck also paid his compliments in the following terms:

‘Time was when Doctor Mitchill’s word was law,
When Monkeys, Monsters, Whales and Esquimaux,
Asked but a letter from his ready hand,

To be the theme and wonder of the land.

These and other pleasantries, of which many are quoted in Fairchild’s
admirable History of the New York Academy of Sciences, gives us an
idea of the provinciality of New York sixty years ago, when every citizen
would seem to have known the principal local representatives of science,

and to have felt a sense of personal proprietorship in him and in his
projects.

‘Examples of his verses may be found in Duyckinck’s Cyclopzdia of American
Literature, I, p. 520.
424 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

Mitchill was a leader in the New York Historical Society, founder of
the Literary and Philosophical Society, and of its successor, the Lyceum
of Natural History, of which he was long president. He was also presi-
dent of the New York Branch of the Linnzean Society of Paris, and of
the New York State Medical Society, and surgeon-general of the State
militia; a man of the widest influence and universally beloved. He
served four terms in the House of Representatives, and was five years
a member of the United States Senate. *

De Witt Clinton [b. 1769, d. 1828], statesman and philanthropist,
United States Senator and governor of New York, was a man of similar
tastes and capacities. What Benjamin Franklin was to Philadelphia in
the middle of the eighteenth century, De Witt Clinton was to New York
in the beginning of the nineteenth. He was the author of the Hibernicus
Letters on the Natural History and Internal Resources of the State of New
York (New York, 1822), a work of originality and merit. As president
of the Literary and Philosophical Society he delivered, in 1814, an Intro-
ductory Discourse, which, like Barton’s, in Philadelphia, ten years before,
was productive of great good. It was, moreover, laden with the results
of original and important observations in all departments of natural-
history. Another important paper was his Memoirs on the Antiquities
of Western New York, printed in 1818.

Clinton’s attention was devoted chiefly to public affairs, and especially
to the organization of the admirable school system of New York, and
other internal improvements. He did enough in science, however, to
place him in the highest ranks of our early naturalists.’

Hosack has been referred to elsewhere as a pioneer in mineralogy and
the founder of the first botanic garden. He was long president of the
Historical Society, and exercised a commanding influence in every direc-
tion. His researches were, however, chiefly medical.

Samuel Akerly [b. 1785, d. 1845], the brother-in-law of Mitchill, a
graduate of Columbia College, 1807, was an industrious worker in zoology
and botany, and the author of the Geology of the Hudson River. John
Griscom [b. 1774, d. 1852], one of the earliest teachers of chemistry,

*See John W. Francis, Life of Doctor Mitchill, in Williams’s American Medical
Biography, pp. 401-411, and eulogy in Discourse in Commemoration of Fifty-third
Anniversary of the New York Historical Society, 1857, pp. 56-60; and in his Old
New York; also—

Sketch by H. 1,. Fairchild, in History of the New York Academy of Sciences, 1887,
pp- 57-67; also Doctor Mitchill’s own pamphlet: Some of the Memorable Events
and Occurrences in the Life of Samuel L,. Mitchill, of New York, from the year 1786
to 1827.

A biography by Akerly was in existence, but has never been printed.

Numerous portraits are in existence, which are described by Fairchild.

» David Hosack, Memoirs of De Witt Clinton, New York, 1829. James Renwick,
Life of De Witt Clinton, New York, 1840. William W. Campbell, Life and Writings
of De Witt Clinton, New York, 1849.
The Beginnings of American Science. 425

began in 1806 a career of great usefulness. ‘‘For thirty years,’’ wrote
Francis, ‘‘he was the acknowledged head of all other teachers of chem-
istry among us (in New York), and he kept pace with the flood of light
which Davy, Murray, Gay Lussac, and Thenard and others shed on the
progress of chemical philosophy at that day.’’ About 1820 he went abroad
to study scientific institutions, and his charming book, A Year in Europe,
supplemented by his regular contributions to Silliman’s Journal, com-
menting on scientific affairs in other countries, did much to stimulate the
growth of scientific and educational institutions in America.

Francis tells us that he was for thirty years the acknowledged head of
the teachers of chemistry in New York.’

A zealous promoter of zoology in those days was F. Adrian Vander-
kemp, of Oldenbarnavelt, New York, who, in 1795, we are told, deliv-
ered an address before an agricultural society in Whitesburg, New York,
in which he offered premiums for essays upon certain subjects, among
which was one for the best anatomical and historical account of the
moose, $50, or for bringing one in alive, $60. *

Having mentioned several American naturalists of foreign birth, it
may not be out of place to refer to the American origin of an English
zoologist of high repute, Doctor Thomas Horsfield, born in Philadelphia,
in 1773, and after many years in the Hast became, in 1820, a resident of
London, where he died in 1859. His name is prominent among those
of the entomologists, botanists, and ornithologists of this century,
especially in connection with Java.

2a

In New England science was more highly appreciated than in New
York. Massachusetts hadin John Adams a man who, like Franklin and
Jefferson, realized that scientific institutions were the best protection for
a democratic government, and to his efforts America owes its second
scientific society—the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, founded
in 1780. When Mr. Adams traveled from Boston to Philadelphia, in
the days just before the Revolution, he several times visited at Norwalk,
we are told, a curious collection of American birds and insects made by
Mr. Arnold. ‘This was afterwards sold to Sir Ashton Lever, in whose
apartments in London Mr. Adamnis saw it again, and felt a new regret at
our imperfect knowledge of the productions of the three kingdoms of
nature in our land. In France his visits to the museums and other
establishments, with the inquiries of academicians and other men of
science and letters respecting this country and their encomiums on the
Philosophical Society of Philadelphia, suggested to him the idea of engag-

"John H. Griscom, Memoir of John Griscom, New York, 1859, p. 424.
De Witt Clinton, Transactions of the Literary and Philosophical Society, New
York, I, p. 59.
426 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

ing his native state to do something in the same good but neglected
calise.,

The academy, from the first, was devoted chiefly to the physical
sciences, and the papers in its memoirs for the most part relate to astron-
omy and meteorology.

Among its early members I find the names of but two naturalists:
The Rev. Manasseh Cutler, pastor of Ipswich Hamlet, one of the ear-
liest botanists of New England,’ and William Dandridge Peck [b. 1763,
d. 1882], the author of the first paper on systematic zoology ever pub-
lished in America, a Description of Four Remarkable Fishes taken near
the Piscataqua in New Hampshire, published in 1794.3 Peck, after
graduating at Harvard, lived at Kittery, New Hampshire, and first
became interested in natural history by reading a wave-worn copy of
Linnzeus’s System of Nature, which he obtained from the ship which was
wrecked near his house. He became a good entomologist, and commu-
nicated much valuable material to Kirby in England, and was also one
of our first writers on the fungi. He was the first to occupy the chair of
natural history in Harvard University, to which he wasappointed in 1800. |

The Rev. Doctor Jedediah Morse [b. 1761; graduate of Yale, 1783;
d. 1826] was the earliest of American geographers, and appears, espe-
cially in the later gazetteers published by him, to have printed important
facts concerning the number and geographical distribution of the various
Indian tribes.

The Connecticut Academy of Arts and Sciences was founded in 1799,
one of the chief promoters being President Dwight [b. 1752, d. 1817],
whose Travels in New England and New York, printed in 1821, abounds
with scientific observations.

Another was E. C. Herrick [b. 1811, d. 1862], for many years libra-
rian and subsequently treasurer of Yale College, whose observations
upon the aurora, made in the latter years of the last century, are still
frequently quoted; and later an active investigator of volcanic phenomena,
and the author of a treatise on the Hessian fly and its parasites, the
results of nine years’ study; and of another on the existence of a planet
between Mercury and the Sun.

Benjamin Silliman [b. in Trumbull, Connecticut, August 8, 1779; d.
in New Haven, November 27, 1869], who, in 1802, became professor of
chemistry at Yale, began there his career of usefulness as an organizer,
teacher, and critic. One of his introductions to popular favor was the
paper which he, in conjunction with Professor Kingsley, published, An
account of the meteor which burst over Weston, in Connecticut, in Decem-
ber, 1807. This paper attracted attention everywhere, for the nature
of meteors was not well understood in those days. Jefferson was reputed

‘John T. Kirkland, Memoirs of the American Academy, New Series, I, p. xxii.
2 See previous address, p. 95. [This volume, p. 399. ]
‘Memoirs of the American Academy of Sciences, II, Pt. 2, 1797, p. 46.
Report of U.S. National Museum, 1897. Part Il. PLaTe 90.

Bui oe the contour, counts Nance, aie, AY rand gas re,
STEENDAM here portrayed by hoomans shifid hand
We mental gyts, perused in his sweet yre lodves.
Provide Gods Church, a harp, whic does the ear enchant
With Davids heaxenty song. Ais art who ll Sully pres
hi a eee of the Lord above atl prasse “doas rise

iii hii

JAKOB STEENDAM.
i

a
ee 4 re

7

ra

vo

The Beginnings of American Science. 427

to have said in reference to it, that it was easier to believe that two
Yankee professors could lie than to admit that stones could fall from
heaven, but I think this must be pigeonholed with the mullions of
other slanders to which Jefferson was subjected in those days. I find in
the papers by Rittenhouse and Madison, published twenty years before,
by the Philosophical Society, matter-of-fact allusions to the falling of
meteors to the earth. j

Silliman was the earliest of American scientific lecturers who appeared
before popular audiences, and, as founder and editor of the Journal of
Science, did a service to science the value of which is beyond estimate
or computation.

Benjamin Waterhouse, professor of the theory and practice of medicine
in Harvard, 1783-1812, was one of the earliest teachers of natural history
in America, and the author of a poem entitled The Botanist.‘ The
Rev. Jeremy Belknap [b. 1744, d. 1798], in his History of New Hamp-
shire, and the Rev. Samuel Williams [b. 1743; d. 1817], in his Natural
and Civil History of Vermont,’ made contributions to local natural his-
tory, and Captain Jonathan Carver [b. 1732, d. 1780], in his Travels
Through the Interior Parts of America, 1778, gave some meager infor-
mation as to the zoology and botany of regions previously unknown.

In the South the prestige of colonial days seemed to have departed.
Except Jefferson, the only naturalist in Virginia was Doctor James Green-
way, of Dinwiddie County, a botanist of some merit. Mitchell returned
to England before the Revolution, and Garden followed in 1784.  H. B.
Latrobe, of Baltimore, was an amateur ichthyologist, and Doctor James
MacBride, of Pineville, South Carolina [b. 1784, d. 1817], was an active
botanist. Doctor Lionel Chalmers [b. 1715, d. 1777], who was for
many years the leader of scientific activity in South Carolina, was omitted
in the previous address. <A graduate of Edinburgh, he was for forty
years a physician in Charleston. He recorded observations on imeteor-
ology from 1750 to 1760, the foundation of his Treatise on the Weather
and Diseases of South Carolina [London, 1776], and published also
valuable papers on pathology. He was the host and patron of many
naturalists, such as the Bartrams.

There was no lack of men in the South who were capable of appre-
ciating scientific work. Virginia had fourteen members in the American
Philosophical Society from 1780 to 1800, while Massachusetts and New
York had only six each, the Carolinas had eight, and Maryland six.
The population of the South was, however, widely dispersed and no con-
centration of effort was possible. To this was due, no doubt, the speedy
dissolution of the Academy of Arts and Sciences founded in Richmond
in 1788.

‘Biography in Polyanthus, II. .
2 Walpole, New Hampshire, 1794, Svo, p. 416.
3See previous discourse, p. 98. [This volume, p. 4o1. ]
28 Memortal of George Brown Goode.
o

A name which should, perhaps, be mentioned in connection with this
is that of Doctor William Charles Wells, whom it has been the fashion
of late to claim as an American. It would be gratifying to be able to
vindicate this claim, for Wells was a man of whom any nation might be
proud. He was the originator of the generally accepted theory of the
origin of dew, and was also, as Darwin has shown, the first to recognize
and announce the theory of evolution by natural selection. Unfortu-
nately, Wells’s science was not American science. We might with equal
propriety claim as American the art of James Whistler, the politics of
Parnell, the fiction of Alexandre Dumas, the essays of Grant Allen, or
the science of Rumford and Le Vaillant.

Wells was the son of an English painter who emigrated in 1753 to
South Carolina, where he remained until the time of the Revolution,
when, with other loyalists, he returned to England. He was born during
his father’s residence in Charleston, but left the country in his minority;
was educated at Edinburgh, and though he, as a young physician, spent
four years in the United States, he was permanently established in Lon-
don practice fully twenty-eight years before he read his famous letter
before the Royal Society.

The first American naturalist who held definite views as to evolution
was, undoubtedly, Rafinesque. Ina letter to Doctor Torrey, December
I, 1932)he-wrote:

The truth is that species, and perhaps genera also, are forming in organized beings
by gradual deviations of shapes, forms, and organs taking place in the lapse of time.
There is a tendency to deviation and mutation in plants and animals by gradual
steps, at remote, irregular periods. ‘This is a part of the great universal law of
perpetual mutability in everything.

It is pleasant to remember that both Darwin and Wallace owed much
of their insight into the processes of nature to their American explora-
tions. It is also interesting to recall the closing lines, almost prophetic
as they seem to-day, of the Epistle to the author of the Botanic Gar-
den,’ written in 1798 by Elihu Hubbard Smith, of New York, and
prefixed to the American editions of The Botanic Garden:

Where Mississippi's turbid waters glide

And white Missouri pours its rapid tide ;

Where vast Superior spreads its inland sea

And the pale tribes near icy empires sway ;
Where now Alaska lifts its forests rude

And Nootka rolls her solitary flood.

Hence keen incitement prompt the prying mind
sy treacherous fears, nor palsied nor confined ;
Its curious search embrace the sea and shore
And imine and ocean, earth and air explore.

‘Charles Darwin, Origin of Species, 6th Amer. ed., p. xv. Edward S. Morse, Pro-
ceedings of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, XXV, p. 141.
?Hrasmus, grandfather of Charles Darwin.
The Beginnings of American Sctence. 429

Thus shall the years proceed —till growing time
Unfold the treasures of each different clime :

Till one vast brotherhood mankind unite

In equal bonds of knowledge and of right ;

Thus the proud column, to the smiling skies

In simple majesty sublime shall rise,

O’er ignorance foiled, their triumph loud proclaim,
And bear inscribed, immortal, Darwin’s name.

2ciT.

During the three decades which made up the post-revolutionary period
there were several beginnings which may not well be referred to in
connection with individuals or localities.

The first book upon American insects was published in 1797, a sump-
tuously illustrated work, in two volumes, with 104 colored plates, entitled
The Natural History of the rarer Lepidopterous Insects of Georgia. ‘This
was compiled by James E. Smith from the notes and drawings of John
Abbot [b. about 1760], living in England in 1840, an accomplished col-
lector and artist, who had been for several years a resident of Georgia,
gathering insects for sale in Europe. Mr. Scudder characterizes him as
the most prominent student of the life histories of insects we have ever
had.*

There had, however, been creditable work previously done in what our
entomologists are pleased to call the biological side of the science. As
early as 1768, Colonel Landon Carter, of Sabine Hall, Virginia, prepared
an elaborate paper, Observations concerning the Fly Weevil that Destroys
the Wheat, which was printed by the American Philosophical Society,’
accompanied by an extended report by The committee of husbandry. In
the same year Moses Bartram presented his Observations on the Native
Silkworms of North America. *

Organized effort in economic entomology appears to date from the year
1792, when the American Philosophical Society appointed a committe to
collect materials for a natural history of the Hessian fly, at that time mak-
ing frightful ravages in the wheat field, and so much dreaded in Great
Britain that the import of wheat from the United States was forbidden by
law. The Philosophical Society’s committee was composed of ‘Thomas
Jefferson, at that time Secretary of State in President Washington’s cabi-
net, Benjamin Smith Barton, James Hutchinson, and Caspar Wistar. In
their report, which was accompanied by large drawings, the history of the
little marauder was given in considerable detail.

The publication of Wilson’s American Ornithology, beginning in 1808,

"There is a whole series of quarto or folio volumes in the British Museum done by
him, and a few volumes are extant in this country. Besides, all the biological
material in Smith-Abbot’s Insects of Georgia is his.—lLetter of S. H. Scudder.

Transactions of the American Philosophical Society, I, 1789, p. 274.

3Idem., 1789, p. 294.
430 ' Memorral of George Brown Goode.

was an event of great importance. It was in 1804 that the author, a
schoolmaster near Philadelphia, decided upon his plan. In a letter to
Lawson he wrote:

I am most earnestly bent on pursuing my plan of making a Collection of all the
Birds of North America. Now, I don’t want you to throw cold water on this notice,
Quixotic as it may appear. I have been so long accustomed to the building of Airy

Castles and brain Windmills that it has become one of my comforts of life, a sort of
tough Bone, that amuses me when sated with the dull drudgery of Life.

I need not eulogize Wilson. Everyone knows how well he succeeded.
He has had learned commentators and eloquent biographers. Our chil-
dren pore over the narrative of the adventurous life of the weaver natu-
ralist, and we all are sensible of the charms which his graceful pen has
given to the life histories of the birds.

His poetical productions are immortal, and his lines to the Blue Bird
and the Fisherman’s Hymn are worthy to stand by the side of Bryant’s
Waterfowl, Trowbridge’s Wood Pewee, Emerson’s Titmouse, Thaxter’s
Sandpiper, and, possibly best of all, Walt Whitman’s Mocking-Bird in
Out of the Cradle endlessly Rocking.

Ichthyology in America dates also from these last years of the century.
Garden was our only resident ichthyologist until Peck and Mitchill began
their work, but Schcepf, the Hessian military surgeon, printed a paper
on the Fishes of New York in 1787, and William Bryant, of New Jersey,
and Henry Collins Flagg, of South Carolina, made observations upon the
electric eel, in addition to those which Williamson, of North Carolina, laid
before the Royal Society in 1775.

Paleontology had its beginning at about the same time in the publication
of Jefferson’s paper on the Megalonyx or Great Claw in 1797."

This early study of a fossil vertebrate was followed twenty years later
by the first paper which touched upon invertebrates—that by Say on
Fossil Zoology, in the first volume of Silliman’s Journal. Lesueur
seems to have brought from France some knowledge of the names of
fossils, and identified many species for the early American geologists.

Stratigraphical and physical geology also came in at this time, and will
be referred to later.

The science of mineralogy was brought to America in its infancy.
The first course of lectures upon this subject ever given in London was
in the winter of 1793-94, by Schmeisser, a pupil of Werner. Doctor
David Hosack, then a student of medicine at Edinburgh, was one of his
hearers, and inspired by his enthusiasm began at once to form the col-
lection of minerals which he brought to America on his return in 1794,

‘The first vertebrate fossils were found in Virginia. Samuel Maverick, of Massa-
chusetts, reported to the colony at Boston in 1636 that, at a place on the James
River, about 60 miles above its mouth, the colonists had found shells and bones,
among these bones that of a whale 18 feet below the surface.—Neill’s Virginia Caro-
lorum, p. 131.
Report of U. S. Nati ynal Museum, 1897. Part Il. PLATE 91.

ISAAC INGALLS STEVENS.
" yet

a

es

ics

fr

Pas
'
.
‘

=

oa

Bel

The Beginnings of American Science. 431

which was the first mineralogical cabinet ever seen on this side of the
Atlantic. This collection was exhibited for many years in New York
(and in 1821 was given to Princeton College). Howard soon after
obtained a select cabinet from Europe, and the museum of the American
Philosophical Society acquired the Smith collection. In 1802 Mr. B. D.
Perkins, a New York bookseller, brought from London a fine collection,
which soon passed into the possession of Yale College, and in 1803 Doc-
tor Archibald Bruce brought over one equally fine, which was made the
basis of lectures when, in 1806, he became professor of mineralogy in
Columbia College. George Gibbs, in 1805, imported the magnificent
collection which was long in the custody of the American Geological
Society. Seybert about the same time brought to Philadelphia the —
cabinet which, in 1813, was bought by the Academy of Natural Sciences
and was lectured upon by Troost in 1814.

Much of the early botanical exploration was, however, carried out by’
‘European botanists: André Michaux [b. near Versailles, 1746; d. Mada-
gascar, 1802], a pupil of the Jussieus and an experienced explorer, was
sent by his Government, in 1785, to collect useful trees and shrubs for
naturalization in France. He remained eleven years, made extensive
explorations in the regions then accessible and as far west as the Missis-
sippi, sent home immense numbers of living plants; and after his return,
in 1796, published his treatise on the American Oaks,* and prepared the
materials for his posthumous Flora Boreali- Americanas.

Francois André Michaux [b. near Versailles, 1770; d. at Vauréal,
1855] was his father’s assistant in these early travels, and in 1802 and
1806 himself made botanical explorations in the Mississippi Valley. His
botanical works were of great importance,’ especially that known in its
English translation as the North American Sylva, afterwards com-
pleted by Nuttall, and still the only work of the kind, though soon to be
supplemented, we hope, by Professor Sargent’s projected monographs.

Frederick Pursh [b. 1774, in Tobolsk, Siberia; d. June 11, 1820, in
Montreal, Canada] carried on botanical explorations between 1799 and
1819, living from 1802 to 1805 in Philadelphia and from 1807 to 1810
in New York. In 1814 he -published in London his Flora Americze
Septentrionalis. Pursh’s Flora was largely based upon the labors of the
American botanists Barton, Hosack, Le Conte, Peck, Clayton, Walter,
and Lyon, and the botanical collection of Lewis and Clarke, and enu-
merated about 3,000 species of plants, while Michaux’s, printed eleven
years before, had only about half that number.

A. von Enslen collected plants at this time, in the South and West,
for the Imperial Cabinet in Vienna. C. C. Robin, who traveled from
1802 to 1806 in what are now the Gulf States, wrote a botanical appen-

‘Histoire des Chénes de l Amerique Septentriorale, 1801; 36 plaies.
* Voyage a l’ouest des Monts Alléghanys, etc., octavo, pp. 684. Paris, 1808. His-
toire des Arbres Forésti¢res de ]’Amerique Septentrionale,
432 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

dix to his Travels, published in 1807, on which Rafinesque founded his
Florula Ludoviciana (New York, 1817).

Thaddeus Heenke [b. 1761, d. in Cochabamba, Bolivia, 1817] visited
western North America with the Spaniards late in the last century, and
made large collections of plants, which were sent to the National Museum
of Bohemia, at Prague, and in part described in Presl’s Reliquize Hzen-
kianze, 72 plates.

Archibald Menzies [b. 1754, d. 1842], an English naval surgeon, also
collected on our Pacific Coast, under Vancouver, in 1780-1795, and his
plants found their way to Edinburgh and Kew.

Captain Wangenheim, Surgeon Schoepf, of the Hessian contingent of
the British army, Olaf Swartz, a Swedish botanical explorer, and others,
also gathered plants in these early days, and in some instances published
in Europe their botanical observations.

Other collectors of this same class were L. A. G. Bose [1759-1828],
who made botanical researches in the Carolinas during the last two years
of the century, and returned to France in 1800 with a herbarium of
1,600 species. He also collected fishes, and his name is perpetuated in
connection with at least two well known American fauna. Another was
M. Milbert, who collected for Cuvier in Néw York, Canada, the Great
Lake region, and the Mississippi Valley from 1817 to 1823.

The Baron Palisot de Beauvois [b. 1755, d. 1820] came from Santo
Domingo to America in 1791. He traveled extensively, and being a
zoologist as well as a botanist, made observations upon our native animals,
particularly the reptiles.

It is to him that we owe the most carefully recorded of existing
observations of young rattlesnakes crawling down their parent snakes’
throats for protection from enemies.

Most of these men did not contribute largely to the advancement of
American scientific institutes or affiliate with the naturalists of the day.

Of quite another type was the Count Luigi Castiglioni, who traveled,
soon after the Revolution, throughout the Eastern States and published
in 1790 two volumes of his travels."

The Count Volney [b. at Craon February 3, 1757, d.in Paris April 25,
1820], traveler, statesman, and historian, traveled in this country from
1795 to 1798, and in 1803, while a senator of the French Republic, pub-
lished his famous work upon the United States, containing his observa-
tions upon its soil and its climate, and upon the Indians, together with
the first doctrines of the language of the Miamis,* and also giving a
description of the physical and botanical features of the country. Volney

‘Viaggio negli Stati Uniti del 1’America Settentrionale.

2’Tableau du climat et du sol des Etats-Unis d’Amérique, suivi d’éclaircissements
sur la Floride, sur la colonie frangaise 4 Scioto sur quelques colonies canadiennes,
et sur les sauvages. Paris, 1803. Octavo, 2 vols. 2d edition. Paris. Octavo, I
vol., pp. 494. Map.
The Beginnings of American Science. 433

was an admirer and intimate friend of Franklin, and it was in his home
at Passy, we are told, that he conceived the idea of his most famous
book, Les Ruines.’

Among the traditions of Fauquier County, Virginia, is one which is of
interest to naturalists, since it relates to an incident showing the interest
of our first President in science:

About the year 1796 [runs the story], at the close of a long summer’s day, a
stranger entered the village of Warrenton. He was alone and on foot, and his
appearance was anything but prepossessing. His garments, coarse and dust covered,
indicated an individual in the humble walks. From a cane across his shoulders
was suspended a handkerchief containing his clothing. Stopping in front of Tur-
ner’s tavern, he took from his hat a paper and handed it to a gentleman standing
on the steps; it read as follows:

The celebrated historian and naturalist
Volney needs no recommendation from
G. WASHINGTON.

In 1801 Jefferson began his eight years of Presidency. Since he was
the only man of science who has ever occupied the Chief Magistracy, he
has a right to a high place in the esteem of such a society as ours, and I
only regret that, having spoken of hii at length a year ago, I can not
now discuss his scientific career in all its aspects.

I then spoke of the credit which was due to him for beginning so early
as 1780 to agitate the idea of a Government exploring expedition to the
Pacific, which culminated in the sending out by Congress of the expedi-
tion of Lewis and Clarke, in 1803. Captain Lewis [b. 1774, d. 1809],
the ieader of this expedition, was a young Virginian, the neighbor and
for some years the private secretary of President Jefferson. He set out
in the summer of 1803, accompanied by his associate, Captain Clarke,
and twenty-eight men. They entered the Missouri May 14, 1804, before
the middle of the following July had reached the great falls, and by Octo-
ber were upon the western slope, where, embarking in canoes upon the
Kouskousky, a branch of the Columbia, they descended to its mouth,
where they arrived on the 15th of November, 1805. ‘The following
spring they retraced their course, arriving in St. Louis in September.’
‘The results of the expedition were first made known in Jefferson’s mes-
sage to Congress read February 19, 1806.

Doctor Asa Gray, in a recent letter, says:

I have reason to think that Michaux suggested to Jefferson the expedition which
the latter was active in sending over to the Pacific. I wonder if he put off Michaux
for the sake of having it in American hands?3

‘John Bigelow, Franklin’s Home and Host in France. The Century Magazine,
May, 1888, p. 743.

*See a complete bibliography of the various reports of this expedition, by Elliott
Coues, in the Bulletin of the United States Geological Survey.

3See American Journal of Science, XLII, 1842, p. 5.
NAD. MUS 97, P12 28

434 Memortal of George Brown Goode.

‘The idea of an expedition to the Pacific was one which was likely to
occur to any thoughtful American, and was, after all, simply the con-
tinuance of a plan as old as the Spanish days of discovery. : Jefferson, at
all events, was an active promoter of all such enterprises, and after a
quarter of a century’s effort the expedition was dispatched, while in 1805
General Z. M. Pike was sent to explore the sources of the Mississippi
River and the western parts of Louisiana, penetrating as far west as
Pike’s Peak, a name which still remains as a memento of this enter-
prise.

The organization of these early expeditions marked the beginning of
one of the most important portions of the scientific work of our Govern-
ment—the investigation of the resources and natural history of the public
domain. ‘The expeditions of Lewis and Clarke and of Pike were the
precursors and prototypes of the magnificent organization now accom-
plishing so much for science under the charge of Major J. W. Powell.

As early as 1806 Jefferson, inspired by Patterson and Hassler, urged
the establishment of a national coast survey, and in this was earnestly
supported by his Secretary of the Treasury, Albert Gallatin, who drew
up a learned and elaborate project for its organization, and an act author-
izing its establishment was passed in 1807. During his Administration,
in 1802 the first scientific school in this country was established—the
Military Academy at West Point. The Military Academy was a favorite
project of General Washington, who is said to have justified his anxiety
for its establishment by the remark that ‘‘An army of asses led by a lion
is vastly superior to an army of lions led by an ass.”’

Jefferson has been heartily abused for not gratifying Alexander Wil-
son’s request to be appointed naturalist to Pike’s expeditions. It is
possible that even in those days administrators were hampered by lack of
financial resources. It must also be remembered that in 1804 Wilson
was simply an enthusiastic projector of ornithological undertakings, and
had done nothing whatever to establish his reputation as an investigator.

One of Jefferson’s first official acts was to throw his Presidential mantle
over Priestley. ‘Iwo weeks after he became President of the United
States he wrote these words:

It is with heartfelt satisfaction that, in the first moments of my public action, I
can hail you with welcome to our land, tender to you the homage of its respect and
esteem, cover you under the protection of those laws which were made for the wise
and good like you, and disclaim the legitimacy of that libel on legislation which,
under the form of a law, was for sometime placed among them.

Yours is one of the few lives precious to mankind, and for the continu-
ance of which every thinking man is solicitous. Bigots may be an exception.
What an effort, my dear sir, of bigotry in politics and religion have we gone
through. . . . All advances in science were prescribed as innovations. They
pretended to praise and encourage education, but it was to be the education of our
ancestors. We were to look backwards, not forwards for improvement; the Presi-
dent [Washington] himself declaring in one of his answers to addresses that we
PLATE 92.

Santen

—

is

Part II

tional Museum, 1897.

Report of U.S. Na

pager

ISAIAH THOMAS.
The Beginnings of American Scrence. 435

were never to expect to go beyond them in real science. This was the real ground
of all the attacks on you; those who live by mystery and charlatanerte fearing you
would render them useless by simplifying the Christian philosophy, the most sub-
lime and benevolent but most perverted system that ever shone on man, endeavored
to crush your well-earned and well-deserved fame."

SEIKI.

With the close of the first decade ended the first third of a century
since the Declaration of Independence. We have now passed in review
a considerable number of illustrious names and have noted the inception
of many worthy undertakings.

‘Still, however,’’ in the words of Silliman, ‘‘ although individuals were
enlightened, no serious impression was produced on the public mind; a
few lights were indeed held out but they were lights twinkling in an
almost impervious gloom.*

This was a state of affairs not peculiar to America. A gloom no less
oppressive had long obscured the intellectual atmosphere of the Old
World. ‘There were a goodly number of men of science, and many tmnpor-
tant discoveries were being made, but no bonds had yet been formed to
connect the interests of the men of science and the men of affairs.

Speculative science, in the nature of things, can only interest and
attract scholarly men, and though its results, concisely and attractively
stated, may have a passing interest to a certain portion of every commu-
nity, it is only by its practical applications that it secures the hearty
support of the community at large.

Huxley, in his recent discourse upon ‘The Advance of Science in the
last Half Century,’ has touched upon this subject in a most suggestive
and instructive manner, and has shown that Bacon, with all his wisdom,
exerted little direct beneficial influence upon the advancement of natural
knowledge, which has after all been chiefly forwarded by men like Galileo
and Harvey, Boyle and Newton, ‘‘ who would have done their work quite
as well if neither Bacon nor Descartes had ever propounded their views
respecting the manner in which scientific investigation should be
pursued.”’

I think we should look upon Bacon as the prophet of modern scientific
thought, rather than its founder. It is no doubt true, as Huxley has
said, that his ‘‘ scientific insight ’’ was not sufficient to enable him to shape
the future course of scientific philosophy, but it is scarcely true that he
attached any undue value to the practical advantages which the world
as a whole and incidentally science itself were to reap from the applica-
tions of scientific methods to the investigation of nature.

‘Jefferson’s Works (edited by T. J. Randolph), 1830, III, p. 461.

2 American Journal of Science, I, 1819, 37.

3T. H. Wood, The Reign of Victoria; a survey of Fifty Years of Progress.
London, 1887.

436 Memortal of George Brown Goode.

Even though the investigations of Descartes, Newton, Leibnitz, Boyle,
Torricelli, and Malpighi had directly helped no man to either wealth or
comfort, the cumulative results of their labors, and those of their pupils
and associates, resulted in a condition of scientific knowledge from which,
sooner or later, utilitarian results must necessarily have sprung.

It is true, as Huxley tells us, that at the beginning of this century
weaving and spinning were still carried on with the old appliances; true
that nobody could travel faster by sea or by land than at any previous
time in the world’s history, and true that King George could send a
message from London to York no faster than King John might have
done. Metals were still worked from their ores by immemorial rule of
thumb, and the center of the iron trade of these islands was among the
oak forests of Sussex, while the utmost skill of the British mechanic did
not get beyond the production of a coarse watch.

It can not be denied that although the middle of the eighteenth cen-
tury was illuminated by a host of great names in science, chemists—hiol-
ogists, geologists—Hnglish, French, German, and Italian, the deepening
and broadening of natural knowledge had produced next to no immediate
practical benefits. Still I can not believe that Bacon, the prophet, would
have been so devoid of ‘‘ scientific insight’’ as to have failed to foresee
at this time the ultimate results of all this intellectual activity.

But Huxley says:

Even if, at this time, Francis Bacon could have returned to the scene of his great-
ness and of his littleness, he must have regarded the philosophic world which praised
and disregarded his precepts with great disfavor. If ghosts are consistent he would
have said, ‘‘these people are all wasting their time, just as Gilbert and Kepler and
Galileo and my worthy physician Harvey did in my day. Where are the fruits of
the restoration of science which I promised? This accumulation of bare knowledge
is all very well, but cwz bono? Not one of these people is doing what I told him
specially to do, and seeking that secret of the cause of forms which will enable him
to deal at will with matter and superinduce new nature upon old foundations.”’

As Huxley, however, proceeds himself to show in the discussion which
immediately follows this passage, a ‘‘new nature, begotten by science
upon fact,’’ has been born within the past few decades, and, pressing
itself daily and hourly upon our attention, has worked miracles which
have not only modified the whole future of the lives of mankind, but has
reacted constantly upon the progress of science itself.

It is to the development of this new nature, then in its very infancy,
that we must look for the revival of interest in science on this side of the
Atlantic.

The second decade of the century was marked by a great accession of
interest in the sciences. ‘he second war with Great Britain having
ended, the country, for the first time since colonial days, became suff-
ciently tranquil for peaceful attention to literature and philosophy. The
end of the Napoleonic wars and the restoration of tranquillity to Hurope
The Beginnings of American Science. 437

tended to scientific advances on the other side of the Atlantic, and the
results of the labors of Cuvier, whose glory was now approaching its
zenith, of Brongniart, of Blainville, of Jussieu, of Decandolle, of Werner,
of Hutton, of Buckland, of De la Beche, of Magendie, of Humboldt,
Daubuisson, Berzelius, Yon Buch, of Herschel, of Laplace, of Young, of
Fresnel, of Oersted, of Cavendish, of Lavoisier, Wollaston, Davy, and
Sir William Hooker, were eagerly welcomed by hundreds in America.

‘‘In truth,” wrote one who was among the most active in promoting
these tendencies—‘‘a thirst for the natural sciences seemed already to
pervade the United States like the progress of an epidemic.”’

The author of these enthusiastic words was Amos Eaton [b. in Chat-
ham, New York, 1776, d. May 6, 1842], one of the most interesting men
of his day. In 1816, at the age of forty, he abandoned the practice of
law and went to New Haven to attend Silliman’s lectures on mineralogy
and geology. Hewas a man of great force and untiring energy, and one
of the pioneers of American geology; though the name, Father of Ameri-
can Geology, sometimes applied to him, would seem to belong more
appropriately to Maclure, or, perhaps, to Mitchill. He was, however,
only some eight years later than Maclure in beginning geological field
work. Eaton’s Index to the Geology of the Northern States of America,
printed in 1817, was the first strictly American treatise, and seems to
have had a very stimulating effect. He was preeminently an agitator
and an educator. He traveled many thousands of miles on foot through-
out New England and New York, delivering in the meantime, at the
principal towns, short courses of lectures on natural history. In March,
1817, having received an invitation to aid in the introduction of the
natural sciences in Williams College, his Alma Mater, he delivered a
course of lectures in Williamstown. ‘‘Such,’’ he remarks, ‘‘was the
zeal at this institution, that an uncontrolable enthusiasm for Natural His-
tory, took possession of every mind; and other departments of learning
were, for a time, crowded out of College. ‘The College authorities
allowed twelve students each day (72 per week ) to devote their whole time
to the collection of minerals, plants, etc., in lieu of all other exercises.’’’

In April, 1818, he went to Albany, on the special invitation of Gov-
ernor De Witt Clinton, and delivered a course of letures on natural history.
“In Albany I found,’’ wrote he, ‘‘ Doctor T.. Romeyn Beck, and in Troy,
Doctors Burrett, Robbins, and Dale, zealous beyond description in the
cause of natural science. By the exertions of these gentlemen a taste for
the study of nature was strongly excited in those two cities, especially
for that of geology. They, together with several others, had become
members of the New York Lyceum of Natural History, and in the fall
of 1818 established a society of the same name and upon a similar plan in
Troy. Collections were made with such zeal that in the course of a few

"Geological Text-Book, 2d edition, 1832, p. 16.
438 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

months Troy could boast of a more extensive collection of American
geological specimens than Yale College or any other institution upon
this continent.’’ *

‘‘Tn this period,’’ remarked Bache, ‘‘the prosecution of mathematics
and physical science was neglected; indeed, barely kept alive by the calls
for boundary and land surveys of the more extended class, by the exer-
tions necessary in the lecture room, or by isolated volunteer efforts.

‘‘As the country was explored and settled the unworked mine of nat-
ural history was laid open, and the attention of almost all the cultivators
of science was turned toward the development of its riches.

‘Descriptive natural history is the pursuit which emphatically marks
that period. As its exponent, may be taken the admirable descriptive
mineralogy of Cleaveland, which seemed to fill the measures of that day
and be, as it were, its chief embodiment, appearing just as the era was
passing away.’’*

The leading spirits of the day seem to have been Silliman, Hare,
Maclure, Mitchill, Gibbs, Cleaveland, De Witt Clinton, and Caspar
Wistar.

Names familiar to us of the present generation began now to appear in
scientific literature Isaac Lea began to print his memoirs on the Union-
idze; Edward Hitchcock, principal of the Deerfield Academy, was writ-
ing his first papers on the geology of Massachusetts; Professor Chester
Dewey, of Williams College [b. 1781, d. 1867], afterwards known to us
all from his excellent work upon the Carices, was discussing the miner-
alogy and geology of Massachusetts; Doctor John Torrey, also to be
famous as a botanist, was then devoting his attention to mineralogy and
chemistry ; Doctor Jacob Porter was making botanical observations in
central Massachusetts; quaint old Caleb Atwater, at that time almost the
only scientific observer west of the Alleghenies, was discussing the origin
of prairies, meteorology, botany, geology, mineralogy, and scenery of the
Ohio country, and a little later the remains of mammoths.

Professor J. W. Webster, of Boston, was making general studies in
geology; the Rev. Elias Cornelius and Mr. John Grammer were writing
of the geology of Virginia; Mr. J. A. Kain, upon that of Tennessee, I. P.
Brace, that of Connecticut, and James Pierce, that of New Jersey.

To this period belonged the brilliant Constantine Rafinesque, with
Torrey, Silliman, Cleaveland, Gibbs, James, Schoolcraft, Gage, Akerly,
Mitchill, Dana, Beck, and icles el

«The Troy Lyceum of Natural History was incorporated in 1819, ae a iccoeeee
was created, filled by Mr. Eaton (American Journal of Science, II, p. 173). In
1820 a similar association, The Hudson Association for Improvement in Science,
was founded in the city of Hudson, and in 1821 the Delaware Chemical and Geolog-
ical Society.

Proceedings of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, VI,
1851, pp. VI, XLVI.

Report of U. S. National Museum, 1897. Part Il. PLATE 93.

at ih
SAR

it

BENJAMIN THOMPSON, COUNT RUMFORD.
j i
WN at
es, 7

sisi

: ot
ener gee =p fo ps lvewe
The 1 ey ‘

The Beginnings of American Science. 439

Doctor Henry R. Schoolcraft, afterwards prominent in ethnology,
printed, in 1819, his View of the Lead Mines of Missouri, the first from
American contributors to economic geology; and in the same year his
Transallegania, a mineralogical poem, probably the last as well as the
first of its kind written in America. In 1821 he published a scholarly
Account of the Native Copper on the Southern Shore of Lake Superior.’

Mineralogy and geology were the most popular of the sciences.

American geology dated its beginning from this previous decade. Pro-
fessor 5S. L. Mitchill was one of the first to call attention to the teachings
of Kirwan and the pioneers of European geology, and very early in the
century began to instruct the students of Columbia College in the prin-
ciples of geology as then understood. He published Observations on the
Geology of America, and also edited a New York edition of Cuvier’s His-
tory of the Earth, contributing to this work an appendix which was
constantly quoted by early writers.

The first geological explorer was William Maclure [b. in Ayr, Scot-
land, 1763; d. in San Angel, Mexico, March 23, 1840], a Scotch merchant
who amassed a large fortune by commercial connections with this country,
and became a citizen of the United States about 1796. His most impor-
tant service to American science was that of a patron, for he was a liberal
supporter of the infant Academy of Sciences in Philadelphia, and for
twenty-two years its president, besides being an upholder of other
important enterprises.

The publication, in 1809, of his Observations on the Geology of the
United States marks the beginning of American geographical geology
and the first attempt ata geological survey of the United States. This
had long been the object of his ambition, and in order to prepare himself
for the task he had spent several years in travel throughout Europe,
making observations and collecting objects in natural history, which he
forwarded to the country of his adoption.

His undertaking was undoubtedly a remarkable one. ‘‘He went forth
with his hammer in his hand and his wallet on his shoulder, pursuing
his researches in every direction, visiting almost every State and ‘Terri-
tory, wandering often amidst pathless tracts and dreary solitudes until
he had crossed and recrossed the Allegheny Mountains not less than fifty
times. He encountered all the privations of hunger, thirst, fatigue, and
exposure, month after month and year after year, until his indomitable
spirit had conquered every difficulty, and crowned his enterprise with suc-
cess,’’* and after the publication of his memoir he devoted eight years
more to collecting materials for a second and revised edition.

The geological map of the United States, published in 1809, appears
to have been the first of the kind ever attempted for an entire country.

American Journal of Science, III, 1821, pp. 201-216,
?Martin, Memoir of William Maclure, p. 11.
440 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

Smith’s geological map of England was six years later, and Greenough’s
still subsequent in date.

The publication in London in 1813 of Bakewell’s Introduction to Geol-
ogy seems to have given a great stimulus to geological researches in this
country, as may be judged from the publication of an American edition
a year or two later.

Mitchill, Bruce, and Maclure soon had a goodly band of associates.
Naturalists were not confined to limited specialties in those days, and we
find all the chemists, botanists, and zoologists absorbed in the considera-
tion of geological problems. Maclure and most of the Americans were
disciples of Werner.

Silliman, writing in 1818, said:

A grand outline has recently been drawn by Mr. Maclure with a masterly hand
and with a vast extent of personal observation and labor; but, to fill up the detail,
both observation and labor still more extensive are demanded; nor can the object be

effected till more good geologists are formed and distributed over our extensive
territory.

On the 6th of September, 1819, the American Geological Society was
organized in the philosophical room of Yale College, an event of great
importance in the history of science, hastening, as it seems to have done,
the establishment of State surveys and stimulating observation through-
out the country. ‘This society, which continued in existence until about
1826, may fairly be considered the nucleus of the Association of Ameri-
can Geologistsand Naturalists, and, consequently, of the American Asso-
ciation for the Advancement of Science. Members appended to their
names the symbols M. A. G. §., and it was for a time the most active
of American scientific societies.

The characteristics of the leading spirits were summed up by Eaton at
the time of its beginning:

The president of the American Geological Society, William M’Clure, has already
struck out the grand outline of North American geographical geology. The first vice-
president, Col. G. Gibbs, has collected more facts and amassed more geological and
mineralogical specimens than any other individual of the age. The second vice-
president, Professor Silliman, gives the true scientific dress to all the naked mineral-
ogical subjects which are furnished to hishand, The third vice-president, Professor
Cleaveland, is successfully employed in elucidating and familiarizing those interesting
sciences; and thus smoothing the rugged paths of the student. Professor Mitchill
has ainassed a large store of materials, and annexed them to the labors of Cuvier
and Jameson. But the drudgery of climbing cliffs and descending into fissures and
caverns, and of traversing in all directions our most rugged mountainous districts, to
ascertain the distinctive characters, number, and order of our strata, has devolved
on me.'

Eaton has very fairly defined his own position among the early geolo-
gists, which was that of an explorer and pioneer. ‘The epithet, Father
of American Geology, which has sometimes been applied to him, might

‘Index to the Geology of the Northern States, 2d edition, 1820, p. viii.
The Beginnings of American Science. 441

more justly be bestowed upon Maclure, or even upon Mitchill. The
name of Amos Eaton [b. 1776, d. 1872] will always be memorable, on
account of his connection with the geological survey of New York, which
was begun in 1820, at the private expense of Hon. Stephen Van Rens-
selaer; also as the founder, in 1824, of the Rensselaer Polytechnic Insti-
tute, the first of its class on the continent.

The State of New York was not preeminently prompt in establishing
an official survey, but the liberality of Van Rensselaer and the energy of
Eaton gave to New York the honor of attaching the names of its towns
and counties toa large number of the geological formations of North
America.

In these early surveys Eaton was associated with Doctor Theodore
Romeyn Beck and Mr. H. Webster, naturalist and collector, one of the
first being a survey of the county of Albany, under the special direction
of a County Agricultural Society, followed by similar surveys of Rens-
selaer County and Saratoga County and others along the Erie Canal.

In July, 1818, Professor Silliman began the publication of the Ameri-
can Journal of Science, which has been for more than two-thirds of a
century the most prominent register of the scientific progress of this
continent. Silliman’s journal succeeded, and far more than replaced,
the American Mineralogical Journal, the earliest of American scientific
periodicals, which was established in New York in 1810 by Doctor Archi-
bald Bruce, and which was discontinued after the close of the first vol-
ume, in 1814, on account of the illness and untimely death of its projec-
tor. The Mineralogical Journal was not so limited in scope as in name,
and was for a time the principal organ of our scientific specialists.

We can but admire the spirit of Silliman, who remarks in the preface
to the third volume:

It must require several years from the commencement of the work to decide the
question [whether it is to be supported], and the editor (if God continues his life and
health) will endeavor to prove himself neither impatient nor querulous during the
time that his countrymen hold the question undecided, whether there shall be an
almerican Journal of Science and Arts.

In the fall of 1822 he announced that a trial of four years had decided
the point that the American public would support this journal.

Prior to the establishing of Silliman’s journal, the principal organs
of American science were the Medical Repository, commenced in 1798,
of which Doctor Mitchill was the chief proprietor; the New York Med-
ical and Physical Journal, conducted chiefly by Doctor Hosack; the
Boston Journal of Philosophy and the Arts, and other similar periodicals.
Our students looked chiefly, however, to the English journals: ‘Tilloch’s

‘** No future historian of American science will fail to commemorate this work as
our earliest purely scientific Journal, supported by original American communica-
tions,’’ said Silliman in his prospectus, 1817.
442 Memortal of George Brown Goode.

Philosophical Magazine and Nicholson’s Journal of Natural Philosophy,
and later, Thomson’s Annals of Philosophy, the Annales de Chimie.

The American Monthly Magazine, established in 1814 by Charles
Brockden Brown, was fully as much devoted to science as to literature,
and an examination of this and other journals of the early portion of the
century will, I think, satisfy the student that scientific subjects were more
seriously considered by our ancestors than by the Americans of to-day.
The American Monthly published elaborate reviews of technical works,
such as Cleaveland’s Mineralogy, and summaries of the world’s progress
in science,as well as the monthly proceedings of all the scientific societies
in New York, and papers on systematic zoology and botany by Rafin-
esque.

In 1812 the American Antiquarian Society was established at Worces-
ter, and before 1820, when its first volume of Transactions appeared,
had collected 6,000 books and ‘‘a respectable cabinet.’’ This was a
pioneer effort in ethnological science. Archzeologia Americana contained
papers by Mitchill, Atwater, and others, chiefly relating to the aboriginal
population of America. ‘The name of Isaiah Thomas, LL.D. [b. in Boston
1749, d. in Worcester 1831], the founder and first president of the society,
who at his own expense erected a building for its accommodation and
endowed its first researches, should be remembered with gratitude by
American naturalists. He was one of the most eminent of American
printers, and was styled by DeWarville The Didot of America.

In 1812 the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia was founded,

‘

the outgrowth of a social club whose members, we are told, had no con-
ception of the importance of the work they were undertaking when, in
a spirit of burlesque, they assumed the title of an academy of learning.

In 1816 the Coast Survey, after years of discussion, was placed in
action under the supervision of Hassler (who had been appointed its
head as early as 1811), but two years later, the work going on too slowly
to please the Government, it was stopped.

The Linnzean Society of New England, established in Boston about
this time, was the precursor of the Boston Society of Natural Science.

The publication of an American edition of Rees’s Cyclopzedia, in Phila-
delphia, was begun in r81o, and the forty-seventh volume completed
in 1824. ‘This was an event in the history of American science, for it
furnished employment and thus fostered the investigatiors of several
eminent naturalists, among whom were Alexander Wilson, Thomas Say,
and Ord, while at the same time it fostered a taste for science in the
United States and gave currency to several rather epoch-making articles,
such as Say’s upon Conchology and Entomology.

Mr. Bradbury, the publisher of this cyclopzedia, was the first of a
goodly company of liberal and far-seeing publishers, who have done much
for science in this country by their patronage of important scientific
publications.
Report of U. S. National Museum, 1897. Part Il. PLATE 94.

The Beginnings of American Science. 443

In 1817 Josiah Meigs, Commissioner of the Land Office, issued a circu-
lar to the several registers of the land offices of the United States requir-
ing them to keep daily meteorological observations, and also to report
upon such phenomena as the times of the unfolding of leaves of plants
and the dates of flowering, the migrations of birds and fishes, the dates
of spawning of fishes, the hibernation of animals, the history of locusts
and other insects in large numbers, the falling of stones and other bodies
from the amosphere, the direction of meteors, and discoveries relative to
the antiquities of the country.

It does not appear that anything ever resulted from this step, but it is
referred to as an indication that, seventy years ago, our Government was
willing to use its civil-service officials in the interest of science. <A few
years later the same idea was carried into effect by the Smithsonian
Institution.

In those early days each of the principal cities had pubhe museums
founded and supported by private enterprise. Their proprietors were
men of scientific tastes, who affiliated with the naturalists of the day and
placed their collections freely at the disposal of investigators.

The earliest was the Philadelphia Museum, established by Charles
Willson Peale, and for a time housed in the building of the American
Philosophical Society. In 1800 it was full of popular attractions:

There were a mammoth’s tooth from the Ohio, and a woman’s shoe from Canton ;
nests of the kind used to make soup of, and a Chinese fan 6 feet long; bits of asbestus,
belts of wampum, stuffed birds and feathers from the Friendly Islands, scalps, toma-
hawks, and long lines of portraits of great men of the Revolutionary war. To visit
the Museum, to wander through the rooms, play upon the organ, examine the rude
electrical machine, and have a profile drawn by the physiognomitian, were pleasures
from which no stranger to the city ever refrained.

Doctor Hare’s oxyhydrogen blowpipe was shown in this museum by
Mr. Rubens Peale as early as 1810.

Fhe Baltimore Museum was managed by Rembrandt Peale, and was
in existence as early as 1815 and as late as 1830."

Harlier efforts were made, however, in Philadelphia. Doctor Chovet,
of that city, had a collection of wax anatomical models made by him in
furope, and Professor John Morgan, of the University of Pennsylvania,
who learned his methods from the Hunters in London and Sué in Paris,
was also forming such a collection before the Revolution.’

The Columbian Museum and Turrell’s Museum, in Boston, are spoken
of in the annals of the day, and there was a small collection in the attic
of the State House in Hartford.

‘Baltimore has a handsome museum, superintended by one of the Peale family,
well known for their devotion to natural science and to works of art. It is not their
fault if the specimens which they are enabled to display in the latter department are
very inferior to their splendid exhibitions in the former.—Mrs. Trollope, Domestic
Manners of the Americans. London, I, 1832, p. 296.

? Transactions of the American Philosophical Society, II, p. 366.
444 Memortal of George Brown Goode.

The Western Museum, in Cincinnati, was founded about 1815, by
Robert Best, M. D., afterwards of Lexington, Kentucky, who seems to
have been a capable collector, and who contributed matter to God-
man’s American Natural History. In 1818 asociety styled the Western
Museum Society was organized among the citizens, which, though scarcely
a scientific organization, seems to have taken a somewhat liberal and
public-spirited view of what a museum should be. ‘To the naturalists
of to-day there is something refreshing in such simple appeals as the
following:

In collecting the fishes and reptiles of the Ohio the managers will need all the aid
which their fellow-citizens may feel disposed to give them. Although not a very
interesting department of zoology, no object of the society offers so great a prospect
of novelty as that which embraces these animals.

The obscure and neglected race of insects will not be overlooked, and any speci-
men sufficiently perfect to be introduced into a cabinet of entomology will be
thankfully received.'

s

Major John Eatton LeConte, U. S. A. [b. 1784, d. 1860], was a very
successful student of botany and zoology. He published many botan-
ical papers and contributions to descriptive zoology, and also in Paris,
in conjunction with Boisduval, the first installment of a work, of which
he was really sole author, upon the Lepidoptera of North America.’

The elder brother, Doctor Lewis LeConte [b. 1782, d. 1838], was
equally eminent as an observer, and was for forty years one of the most
prominent naturalistsin the South. On his plantation in Liberty County,
Georgia, he established a botanical garden and a chemical laboratory.
His zoological manuscripts were destroyed in the burning of Columbia
just at the close of the civil war, but his observations, which he was
averse to publishing in his own name, were, we are told, embodied in
the writings of his brother, of Stephen Elliott, of the Scotch botanist,
Gordon,’ of Doctor William Baldwin and others.*®

Stephen Elliott, of Charleston, South Carolina [b. 1711, d. 1830], was
a graduate of Yale in the class of 1791, and, while prominent in the
political and financial circles of his State, found time to cultivate science.
He founded in 1813 the Literary and Philosophical Society of South
Carolina, and was its first president; and in 1829 was elected professor

"An address to the people of the Western Country, dated Cincinnati, September 15,
818, and signed by Elijah Slack, James Findlay, William Steele, Jesse Embrees, and
Daniel Drake, managers.
* Histoire Générale et Iconographie des Lépidoptéres et des Chenilles de 1’ Améri-
que Septentrionale, Paris, 1830.
3 Loudon’s Gardeners’ Magazine.
4A, H. Stephensin Johnson’s New Universal Cyclopzedia, New York, 1876, IT, p.1702.
5 The LeConte family deserves a place in Galton’s Hereditary Genius. Professor
John LeConte, the physicist, and Professor Joseph LeConte, the geologist, were sons
of Doctor Lewis LeConte, while Doctor J. L. LeConte was the son of Major John
Eatton LeConte.
The Beginnings of American Science. 445

of natural history and botany in the South Carolina Medical College,
which he aided to establish. He published the Botany of South Caro-
lina and Georgia (Charleston, 1821-1827), having been assisted in its
preparation by Doctor James McBride; and had an extensive museum of
his own gathering. ‘The Elliott Society of Natural History, founded
in 1853, or before, and subsequently continued under the name of the
Elliott Society of Science and Art, 1859-1875, was named in memory of
this public-spirited man.

Jacob Green [b. 1790, d. 1841], at different times professor in the
College of New Jersey and in Jefferson Medical College, was one of the
old school naturalists, equally at home in all of the sciences. His paper
on Trilobites (1832) was our first formal contribution to invertebrate
paleontology; his Account of some new Species of Salamanders,‘ one of the
earliest steps in American herpetology; his Remarks on the Unios of the
United States,*? the beginning of studies subsequently extensively prose-
cuted by Lea and some other entomologists. He also wrote upon the
crystallization of snow, and was the author of Chemical Philosophy,
Astronomical Researches, and a work upon Botany of the United States.

The earlier volumes of Silliman’s Journal were filled with notes of his
observations in all departments of natural history.

José Francisco Correa da Serra, secretary of the Royal Academy of
Lisbon, was resident in Philadelphia in 1813, in the capacity of Portu-
guese minister, and affiliated with our men of science in botanical and
geological interests. In 1814 he lectured on botany in the place of B.S.
Barton, and also published several botanical papers, as well as one upon
the soil of Kentucky.

Alire Raffenau Delile, formerly a member of Napoleon’s scientific
expedition to Egypt and the editor of the Flora of Egypt, was in
New York about this time, for the purpose of completing his medical
education, and seems to have done much to stimulate interest in botan-
ical studies.

To this as well as to the subsequent period belonged Doctor Gerard
Troost [b. in Holland, March 15, 1776; educated in Leyden; d. in Nash-
ville, August 17, 1850], a naturalist of Dutch birth and education, who
came to Philadelphia in 1810, and was a founder and the first president of
the Philadelphia Academy. In 1826 he founded a geological survey
of the environs of Philadelphia; in 1827 became professor of chemistry,
mineralogy, and geology in the University of Nashville. As State geol-
ogist of Tennessee from 1831 to 1849 he published some of the earliest
State geological reports.

Another expedition well worthy of mention, though not exceedingly
fruitful, was one made under the direction of Mr. Maclure, president of
the Philadelphia Academy, to the sea islands of Georgia and the Florida

* Contributions of the Maclurian Lyceum, I, January, 1827, p. 3.
Tdem;; 1, : p74,
446 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

peninsula. The party consisted of Maclure, Say, Ord, and Titian R.
Peale, and the results, though not embodied in a formal report, may be
detected in the scientific literature of the succeeding years. This was
early in 1818, while Florida was still under the dominion of Spain, and
the expedition was finally abandoned, owing to the hostile attitude of the
Seminole Indians in that territory.

XIV.

The third decade of the century, beginning with 1820, was marked by
a continuation of the activities of that which preceded. In 1826 there
were in existence twenty-five scientific societies, more than half of them
especially devoted to natural history’ and nearly all of very recent origin.

The leading spirits were Mitchill, Maclure, Webster, Torrey, Silliman,
Gibbs, LeConte, Dewey, Hare, Hitchcock, Olmsted, Eliot, and T. R. Beck.

Nathaniel Bowditch [b. 1773, d. 1838], in 1829, began the publication
of his magnificent translation of the Mécanique Celeste of La Place,
with those scholarly commentations which secured him so lofty a place
among the mathematicians of the world.

Still more important was the lesson of his noble devotion of his life and
fortune to science. ‘The greater part of his monumental work was com-
pleted, we are told, in 1817, but he found that to print it wovld cost
¢12,000, a sum far beyond his means. A few years later, however, he
began its publication from his own limited means, and the work was
continued, after his death, by his wife. The dedication is to his wife,
and tells us that ‘‘ without her approbation the work would not have
been undertaken.’’

Another person was W. C Redfield [b. 1789, d. 1857], who, in 1827,
promulgated the essential portions of the theory of storms, which is
now pretty generally accepted, and which was subsequently extended
by Sir William Reid in Barbados and Bermuda, and greatly modified by
Professor Loomis, of New Haven. An eloquent eulogy of Redfield was
pronounced by Professor Denison Olmsted at the Montreal meeting of
the American Association in 1857.7

Among the rising young investigators of this period were Joseph
Henry, A. D. Bache, C. U. Shepard, the younger Silliman, Henry Sey-
bert, William Mather, Ebenezer Emmons, Percival, the poet geologist,
DeKay, Godman, and Harlan.

The organization, in 1824, of the Rensselaer School, afterwards the
Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, at Troy, marked the beginning of a
new era in scientific and technological education. Its principal professors
were Amos Eaton and Doctor Lewis C. Beck.

In 1820 an expedition was sent by the General Government to explore

*American Journal of Science, X, 1826, p. 369.
*See History of the New York Academy of Sciences, 1887, p. 76.
PLaTe 95.

Part II.

Report of U. S. National Museum 1897.

JOHN TRADESCANT.
ae

Neen al wa

ce i a oe
Ti tie ay

ey
Jue! mal

Ee hy

1

1

The Beginnings of American Science. 447

the Northwestern Territory, especially the region around the Great
Lakes and the sources of the Mississippi. This was under charge of
General Lewis Cass, at that time governor of Michigan Territory. Henry
R. Schoolcraft accompanied this expedition as mineralogist, and Captain
D. B. Douglass, U. S. A., as topographical engineer; and both of these
sent home considerable collections reported upon by the specialists of the
day. Cass himself, though better known as a statesman, was a man of
scientific tastes and ability, and his Inquiries respecting the History,
Traditions, Languages, etc., of the Indians, published at Detroit in 1823,
is a work of high merit.

Long’s expeditions into the far West were also in progress at this
time, under the direction of the General Government; the first, or Rocky
Mountain, exploration in 1819-20; the second to the sources of the St.
Peter’s, in 1823. In the first expedition Major Long was accompanied
by Edwin James as botanist and geologist, who also wrote the Narrative
published in 1823. The second expedition was accompanied by William
H. Keating, professor of mineralogy and chemistry in the University of
Pennsylvania, who was its geologist and historiographer. Say was the
zoologist of both explorations. De Schweinitz worked up the botanical
material which he collected.

The English expeditions sent to Arctic North America under the com-
mand of Sir John Franklin were also out during these years, the first
from 1819 to 1822, the second from 1825 to 1827, and yielded many
important results. ‘To naturalists they have an especial interest, because
Sir John Richardson, who accompanied Franklin as surgeon and naturalist,
was one of the most eminent and successful zoological explorers of the
century, and had more to do with the development of our natural history
than any other man not an American.

His natural history papers in Franklin’s reports, 1823 and 1828, his
Fauna Boreali Americana, published between 1827 and 1836, his report
upon the Zoology of North America, are all among the classics of our
zoological literature.

The third decade was somewhat marked by a renewal of interest in
zoology and botany, which had, during the few preceding years, been
rather overshadowed by geology and mineralogy.

Rafinesque had retired to Kentucky, where, from his professor’s chair
in Transylvania University, he was issuing his Annals of Nature and his
Western Minerva; and his brilliancy being dimmed by distance, other
students of animals had a chance to work.

One of the most noteworthy of the workers was Thomas Say [b. 1787,
d. 1834], who was a pioneer in several departments of systematic zoology.
A kinsman of the Bartraim’s, he spent many of his boyhood days in the
old botanic garden at Kingsessing, in company with the old naturalist,

™See Rev. John MclIlwraith’s Life of Sir John Richardson, C. B., LL. D. London,
1868. Also Obituary in London Reader, 1865, p. 707.
448 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

William Bartram, and the ornithologist Wilson, At the age of twenty-
five, having been unsuccessful as an apothecary, he gave his whole time
to zoology. He slept in the hall of the Academy of Natural Sciences,
where he made his bed beneath the skeleton of a horse, and fed himself
upon bread and milk. He was wont, we are told, to regard eating as an
inconvenient interruption to scientific pursuits, and to wish that he had
been created with a hole in his side through which his food might be
introduced into his system. He built up the museum of the society,
and made extensive contributions to biological science. ;

His article on conchology, published in 1816 in the American edition
of Nicholson’s Cyclopzedia, was the foundation of that science in this
country, and was republished in Philadelphia in 1819, with the title,
A Description of the land and fresh-water Shells of the United States.

This work [remarked a contemporary] ought to be in the possession of every
American lover of natural science. It has been quoted by M. Lamarck and adopted
by M. de Ferrusac, and has thus taken its place in the scientific world.

Such was fame in America in the year of grace 1820.

In 1817 he did a similar service for systematic entomology, and his
contributions to herpetology, to the study of marine invertebrates, espe-
cially the crustacea, and to that of invertebrate paleontology, were equally
fundamental.

As naturalist of Long’s expeditions he described many Western verte-
brates, and also collected Indian vocabularies, and it is said that the
narrative of the expeditions was chiefly based upon the contents of his
note books.

In 1825 he removed from Philadelphia to New Harmony, Indiana, and,
in company with Maclure and Troost, became a member of the com-
munity founded there by Owen of Lanark. Comparatively little was
thenceforth done by him, and we can only regret the untimely close of
so brilliant a career.*

Charles Alexander Lesueur [b. at Havre-de-Grace, France, January 1,
1778; d. at Havre, December 12, 1846], the friend and associate of
Maclure and Say, accompanied them to New Harmony. ‘The romantic
life of this talented Frenchman has been well narrated in his biography
by Ord.* He was one of the staff of the Baudin expedition to Australia
in 1800, and to his efforts, seconding those of Peron, his associate, were
due most of the scientific results which France obtained from that ill-
fated enterprise. Lesueur, though a naturalist of considerable ability,
was, above all, an artist. The magnificent plates in the reports prepared

‘See a Memoir by B. H. Coates, read before American Philosophical Society, De-
cember 16, 1834; a memoir by George Ord; also a tribute to his memory in Dall’s
presidential address before the Biological Society of Washington in January, 1888.

?George Ord, Memoir of Charles Alexander Lesueur, American Journal of
Science, VIII, 1849, p. 189.
The Beginnings of American Science. 449

by Peron’ and Freycinet’ were all his. He was called the Raffaelle of
zoological painters, and his removal to America in 1815 was greatly
deplored by European naturalists. He traveled for three years with
Maclure, exploring the West Indies and the eastern United States, mak-
ing a magnificent collection of drawings of fishes and invertebrates, and
in 1818 settled in Philadelphia, where, supporting himself by giving
drawing lessons, he became an active member of the Academy of Sciences
and published many papers in its Journal.

No one ever drew such exquisite figures of fishes as Lesueur, and it is
greatly to be regretted that he never completed his projected work upon
North American Ichthyology. He issued a prospectus, with specimen
plates, of a Memoir on the Medusze, and his name will always be
associated with the earliest American work upon marine invertebrates
and invertebrate paleontology, because it was to him that Say undoubt-
edly owed his first acquaintance with these departments of zoology. In
1820, while at Albany in the service of the United States and Canadian
Boundary Commission, he gave lessons to Eaton and identified his fossils,
thus laying the foundations for the future work of the rising school of
New York paleontologists. .

Twelve years of his life were wasted at New Harmony, and in 1837,
after the death of Say, he returned to France, carrying his collections
and drawings to the Natural History Museum at Havre, of which he
became curator. His period of productiveness was limited to the six
years of his residence in Philadelphia. But for their sacrifice to the
socialistic ideas of Owen, Say and Lesueur would doubtless be counted
among the most distinguished of our naturalists, and the course of Amer-
ican zoological research would have been entirely different.

The Reverend Daniel H. Barnes [b. 1785, d. 1828], of New York, a grad-
uate of Union College and a Baptist preacher, was one of Say’s earliest
disciples, and from 1823 he published papers on conchology, beginning
with an élaborate study of the fresh-water mussels. This group was
taken up in 1827 by Doctor Isaac Lea, and discussed from year to year
in his well-known series of beautifully illustrated monographs.

Mr. Barnes published, also, papers on the Classification of the Chi-
tonidee, on Batrachian Animals and doubtful Reptiles, and on Magnetic
Polarity.

The officers of the Navy had already begun their contributions to natu-
ral history which have been so serviceable in later years. One of the
earliest contributions by Barnes was a description of five species of Chztorz,
collected in Peru by Captain C. S. Ridgely of the Cozstellation.

In this period (1828+ ) was begun the publication of Audubon’s folio
volumes of illustrations of North American birds—a most extraordinary

* Voyage des Decouvertes aux Terres Australes.
? Voyage aux Terres Australes, Paris, 1807.
NAT MUS 97, PT 2 29

450 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

work, of which Cuvier enthusiastically exclaimed: ‘‘C’est le plus mag-
nifique monument que I’ Art ait encore élevé a la Nature.”’

Wilson was the Wordsworth of American naturalists, but Audubon
was their Rubens. With pen as well as with brush he delineated those
wonderful pictures which have been the delight of the world.

Born in 1781, in Louisiana, while it was still a Spanish colony, he
became, at an early age,a pupil of the famous French painter David,
under whose tuition he acquired the rudiments of his art. Returning to
America, he began the career of an explorer, and for over half a century
his life was spent, for the most part, in the forests or in the preparation
of his ornithological publications—occasionally visiting England and
France, where he had many admirers. His devotion to his work was as
complete and self-sacrificing as that of Bowditch, the story of whose
translation of Ia Place has already been referred to. It was a great sur-
prise to his friends (though his own fervor did not permit him to doubt)
that the sale of his folio volumes was sufficient to pay his printer’s bills.
Audubon was not a very accomplished systematic zoologist, and when
serious discriminations of species was necessary, sometimes formed
alliances with others. Thus Bachman became his collaborator in the
study of mammals, and the youthful Baird was invited by him, shortly
before his death in 1851, to join him in an ornithological partnership.
His relations with Alexander Wilson form the subject of a most enter-
taining narration in the Ornithological Biography.’

Thomas Nuttall [b. in Yorkshire, 1786; d. in St. Helens, Lancashire,
September 10, 1859] was so thoroughly identified with American natural
history and so entirely unconnected with that of England that, although
he returned to his native land to die, we may fairly claim him as one of
our own worthies. He crossed the ocean when about twenty-one years
of age, and traveled in every part of the United States and in the Sand-
wich Islands studying birds and plants. From 1822 to 1828 he was
curator and lecturer at the Harvard Botanical Garden. Besides numerous
papers in the Proceedings of the Philadelphia Academy, he published in
Philadelphia, in 1818, his Genera of North American Plants, in his
Geological Sketch of the Valley of the Mississippi, in 1821; his Journal
of Travels into the Arkansas Territory, a work abounding in natural his-
tory observations ; in 1832-1834 his Manual of the Ornithology of the
United States and Canada; and in 1843-1849 his North American Sylva,
a continuation of the Sylva of Michaux. About 1850 he retired to a
rural estate in England, where he died in 1859.

Nuttall was not great as a botanist, as a geologist, or as a zoologist,
but was a man useful, beloved, and respected.

Richard Harlan, M. D. [b. 1796, d. 1843], who, with Mitchill, Say,
Rafinesque, and Gosse, was one of the earliest of our herpetologists, and
who was one of Audubon’s chief friends and supporters, published in

*Volume I, p. 4309.
Report of U. S. National Museum, 1897. Part Il. PLATE 96.

(

an

GERARD TROOST.
The Beginnings of American Science. 451

1825 the first installment of his Fauna Americana, which treated exclu-
sively of mammals. ‘This was followed, in 1826, by a rival work on
mammals by Godman. Harlan’s book was a compilation, based largely
on translations of portions of Desmarest’s Mammalogie, printed three
years before in Paris. It was so severely criticised that the second por-
tion, which was to have been devoted to reptiles, was never published,
and its author turned his attention to medical literature. Godman’s
North American National History, or Mastology, contained much original
matter, and, though his contemporaries received it with faint praise, it is
the only separate, compact, illustrated treatise on the mammals of North
America ever published, and is useful to the present day.

John D. Godman [b. in Annapolis, Maryland, December 20, 1794; d. in
Germantown, Pennsylvania, April 17, 1830] died an untimely death, but
gave promise of a brilliant and useful career as a teacher and investigator.
His Rambles of a Naturalist is one of the best series of essays of the
Selborne type ever produced by an American, and his American Natural
History is a work of much importance, even to the present day, embody-
ing, as it does, a large number of original observations.

Michaux’s Sylva was, as we have seen, continued by Nuttall. Wil-
son’s American Ornithology was, in like manner, continued by Charles
Lucien Bonaparte [b. in Paris, May 24, 1803;d.in Paris, July 30, 1857],
Prince of Canino, and nephew of Napoleon I, a master in systematic
zoology. Bonaparte came to the United States about the year 1822
and returned to Italy in 1828. His contributions to zoological sci-
ence were of greatimportance. In 1827 he published in Pisa his Specchio
comparativo delle ornithologie di Roma e di Filadelfia, and from 1825 to
1833 his American Ornithology, containing descriptions of over one
hundred species of birds discovered by himself.

The publication of Torrey’s Flora of the Middle and Northern Sections
of the United States was an event of importance, as was also Doctor
W. J. Hooker’s essay on the Botany of America,’ the first general treat-
ise upon the America flora or fauna by a master abroad, is pretty sure
evidence that the work of home naturalists was beginning to tell.

So also, in a different way, was the appearance in 1829 of the first edi-
tion of Mrs. Lincoln’s Familiar Lectures on Botany, a work which did
much toward swelling the army of amateur botanists.

Important work was also in progress in geology. Eaton and Beck
were carrying on the Van Rensselaer survey of New York, and in 1818
the former published his Index to the Geology of the Northern States.
Professor Denison Olmsted, of the University of North Carolina, was
completing the official survey of that State
the government of a State.

the first ever authorized by

Professor Lardner Vanuxem, of North Carolina, in 1828, made an

‘David Brewster, Edinburgh Journal of Science, II, 1825, p. 108.
452 Memorval of George Brown Goode.

important advance, being the first to avail himself successfully of pale-
ontology for the determination of the age of several of our formations,
and their approximate synchronism with European beds.'

Horace H. Hayden, of Baltimore [b. 1769, d. 1844], published in 1820
Geological Essays, or an Inquiry into Some of the Geological Phe-
nomena to be Found in Various Parts of America and Elsewhere,” which
was well received as a contribution to the history of alluvial formations
of the globe, and was apparently the first general work on geology pub-
lished in this country. Silliman said that it should be a text-book in all
the schools. He published, also, a New Method of Preserving Anatom-
ical Preparations,? A Singular Ore of Cobalt and Manganese,* A De-
scription of the Bare Hills near Baltimore,’ and on Silk Cocoons,°® and
was a founder and vice-president of the Maryland Academy of Sciences.

XV.

In the fourth decade (1830-1840) the leading spirits were Silliman,
Hare, Olmsted, Hitchcock, Torrey, De Kay, Henry, and Morse.

Among the men just coming into prominence were J. W. Draper, then
professor in Hampden Sidney College, in Virginia, the brothers W. B.
and H. D. Rogers, A. A. Gould, the conchologist, and James D. Dana.

Henry was just making his first discoveries in physics, having in 1829
pointed out the possibility of electro-magnetism as a motive power, and
in 1831 set up his first telegraphic circuit at Albany. In 1832 the United
Coast Survey, discontinued in 1818, was reorganized under the direction
of its first chief, Hassler, now advanced in years.’

The natural-history survey of New York was organized by the State
in 1836, and James Hall and Ebenezer Emmons were placed upon its
staff.

G. W. Featherstonhaugh [b. 1780, d. 1866] was conducting (1834-35)
a Government expedition, exploring the geology of the elevated coun-
try between the Missouri and Red rivers and the Wisconsin territories.
He bore the name of United States Geologist, and projected a geo-
logical map of the United States, which now, half a century later, is
being completed by the United States geologist of to-day. Beside his
report upon the survey just referred to, Featherstonhaugh printed a
Geological Reconnaissance, in 1835, from Green Bay to Coteau des
Prairies, and a Canoe Voyage up the Minnay Sotor, in London, 1847.

*’Theodore Gill.

2 Reviewed in American Journal of Science, III, 1821, p. 47, and in Blackwood’s
Magazine, XVI, 1824, p. 420; XVII, 1825, p. 56.

3 American Medical Recorder, VII, 1824, p. 223.

4 American Journal of Science, IV, 1822, p, 283.

5Idem., XXIV, 1833, p. 349.

© Journal of the American Silk Company, I, May, 1839, p. 179.

7 Proceedings of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, II,
1849, p. 163.
The Beginnings of American Science. 453

In 1838 the United States Exploring Expedition under Wilkes was
sent upon its voyage of circummnavigation, having upon its staff a young
naturalist named Dana, whose studies upon the crustaceans and radiates
of the expedition have made him a world-wide reputation, entirely inde-
pendent of that which he has since gained as a mineralogist and geologist.

It is customary to refer to the Wilkes expedition as having been sent
out entirely in the interests of science. As a matter of fact 1t was organ-
ized primarily in the interests of the whale fishery of the United States.

Dana, before his departure with Wilkes, had published, in 1837, the
first edition of his System of Mineralogy, a work which, in its subsequent
editions, has become the standard manual of the world.

The publication of Lyell’s Principles of Geology at the beginning of
this decade (1830) had given new direction to the thoughts of our geolo-
gists, and they were all hard at work under its inspiration.

With 1839 ended the second of our thirty-year periods—the one which
I have chosen to speak of as the period of Silliman—not so much because
of the investigations of the New Haven professor, as on account of his
influence in the promotion of American science and scientific institutions.

This was a time of hard work, and we must not withhold our praise
from the noble little company of pioneers who were in those years build-
ing the foundations upon which the scientific institutions of to-day are
resting. ;

The difficulties and drawbacks of scientific research at this time have
been well described by one who knew them :"

The professedly scientific institutions of our country issued from time to time,
though at considerable intervals, volumes of Transactions and Proceedings unques-
tionably not without their influence in keeping alive the scarcely kindled flame,
but whose contents, as might be expected, were for the most part rather in con-
formity with the then existing standard of excellence than in advance of it.
Natural History in the United States was the mere sorting of genera and species;
the highest requisite for distinction in any physical science was the knowledge
of what European students had attained;—astronomy was in general confined to
observations, and those not of the most refined character, and its merely descriptive
departments were estimated far more highly than the study of its laws. Astro-
nomical computation had hardly risen above the ciphering out of eclipses and occul-
tations. Indeed, I risk nothing in saying that Astronomy had lost ground in Amer-
ica since those Colonial times when men like Rittenhouse kept up a constant
scientific communication with students of Astronomy beyond the seas. And I
believe I may further say, that a single instance of a man’s devoting himself to
science as the only earthly guide, aim, and object of his life, while unassured of a
professor’s chair or some analogous appointment, upon which he might depend for
subsistence, was utterly unknown.

Such was the state of science in general. In Astronomy the expensive appliances
requisite for all observations of the higher class were wanting, and there was not
in the United States, with the exception of the Hudson Observatory, to which Pro-
fessor Loomis devoted such hours as he could spare from his duties in the College,

*B. A. Gould, Address in Commemoration of Sears Cook Walker. Proceedings of
the American Association for the Advancement of Science, VIII, 1854, p. 25.
454 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

a single establishment provided with the means of making an absolute determina.
tion of the place of any celestial body, or even relative determinations at all com-
mensurate in accuracy with the demands of the times. The only instrument that
could be thought of for the purpose was the Yale-College telescope, which, although
provided with a micrometer, was destitute of the means of identifying comparison—
stars. A better idea of American astronomy a dozen years ago can hardly be obtained
than by quoting from an article published at that time by the eminent geometer
who now retires from the position of President of this Association. He will forgive
me the liberty, for the sake of the illustration. ‘‘ The impossibility,’’ said he, ‘‘ of
great national progress in Astronomy while the materials are for the most part
imported can hardly need to be impressed upon the patrons of science in this. coun-
try. . . . And next to the support of observers is the establishment of observa-
tories. Something has been done for this purpose in various parts of the country,
and it is earnestly to be hoped that the intimations which we have heard regarding
the intentions of government may prove to be well founded ;—that we shall soon
have a permanent national observatory equal in its appointments to the best fur-
nished ones of Europe; and that American ships will ere long calculate their longi-
tudes and latitudes from an American nautical almanac. That there is on this side
of the Atlantic a sufficient capacity for celestial observations is amply attested by
the success which has attended the efforts, necessarily humble, which have hitherto
been made.’’?

eV.

Just before the middle of the century a wave, or, to speak more accu-
rately, a series of waves, of intellectual activity began to pass over
Europe and America. There was a renaissance quite as important as
that which occurred in Europe at the close of the middle ages. Draper
and other historians have pointed out the causes of this movement, prom-
inent among which were the introduction of steam and electricity, anni-
hilating space and relieving mankind from a great burden of mechanical
drudgery. It was the beginning of the ‘‘age of science,’’ and political
as well as social and industrial changes followed in rapid succession.

In Europe the great work began a little earlier. Professor Huxley,
in his address to the Royal Society in 1885, took for a fixed point his
own birthday in 1825, which was four months before the completion of
the railway between Stockton and Darlington—‘‘the ancestral represent-
ative of the vast reticulated fetching and carrying organism which
now extends its meshes over the civilized world.’’

29)

Since then, [he remarked, ] the greater part of the vast body of knowledge which
constitutes the modern sciences of physics, chemistry, biology, and geology has
been acquired, and the widest generalizations therefrom have been deduced, and,
furthermore, the majority of those applications of scientific knowledge to practical
ends which have brought about the most striking differences between our present
civilization and that of antiquity have been made within that period of time.

It is within the past half century, he continued, that the most brilliant
additions have been made to fact and theory and serviceable hypothesis
in the region of pure science, for within this time falls the establishment

‘Benjamin Peirce, Cambridge Miscellany, April, 1842, p. 25.
Report of U. S. National Museum, 1897. Part Il. PLATE 97.

The Beginnings of Amertcan Sctence. 455

on a safe basis of the greatest of all the generalizations of science, the
doctrines of the Conservation of Energy and of Evolution. Within this
time the larger moiety of our knowledge of light, heat, electricity, and
magnetism has been acquired. Our present chemistry has been, in great
part, created, while the whole science has been remodeled from founda-
tion to roof.

It may be natura: [continued Professor Huxley] that progress should appear most
striking to me among those sciences to which my own attention has been directed,
but I do not think this will wholly account for the apparent advance ‘‘ by leaps and
bounds”? of the biological sciences within my recollection. The cell theory was the
latest novelty when I began to work with the microscope, and I have watched the
building of the whole yast fabric of histology. I can say almost as much of
embryology, since Von Baer’s great work was published in 1828. Our knowledge
of the morphology of the lower plants and animals and a great deal of that of the
higher forms has very largely been obtained in my time; while physiology has been
put upon a totally new foundation and, as it were, reconstructed, by the thorough
application of the experimental method to the study of the phenomena of life, and
by the accurate determination of the purely physical and chemical components of
these phenomena. ‘The exact nature of the processes of sexual and nonsexual repro-
duction has been brought to light. Our knowledge of geographical and geological
distribution and of the extinct forms of life has been increased a hundredfold. As
for the progress of geological science, what more need be said than that the first
volume of Lyell’s Principles bears the date of 1830.

It can not be expected that, within the limits of this address, I should
attempt to show what America has done in the last half century. Iam
striving to trace the beginnings, not the results, of scientific work on
this side of the Atlantic. I will simply quote what was said by the
London Times in 1876:

In the natural distribution of subjects the history of enterprise, discovery, and
conquest, and the growth of republics fell to America, and she has dealt nobly with
them. In the wider and more multifarious provinces of art and science she runs
neck and neck with the mother country and is never left behind.

It is difficult to determine exactly the year when the first waves of this
renaissance reached the shores of America. Silliman, in his Priestley
address, placed the date at 1845. I should rather say 1840, when the
first national scientific association was organized, although signs of
awakening may be detected even before the beginning of the previous
decade. We must, however, carefully avoid giving too much prominence
to the influence of individuals. I have spoken of this period of thirty
years as the period of Agassiz. Agassiz, however, did not bring the

ives with him; he came in on the crest of one of them; he was not the
under of modern American natural history, but as a public teacher
and organizer of institutions, he exerted a most important influence upon
its growth.

One of the leading events of the decade was the reorganization of the
Coast Survey in 1844, under the sage administration of Alexander Dallas
456 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

Bache,’ speedily followed by the beginning of investigations upon the
Gulf Stream, and of the researches of Count Pourtaleés into its fauna,
which laid the foundations of modern deep-sea exploration. Others
were the founding of the Lawrence Scientific School, the Cincinnati
Observatory, the Yale Analytical Laboratory, the celebration of the Cen-
tennial Jubilee of the American Philosophical Society in 1843, and the
enlargement of Silliman’s American Journal of Science.

The Naval Astronomical Expedition was sent to Chili, under Gilliss
(1849), to make observations upon the parallax of the sun. Lieutenant
Lynch was sent to Palestine (in 1848) at the head of an expedition to
explore the Jordan and the Dead Sea.

Frémont conducted expeditions, in 1848, to explore the Rocky Moun-
tains and the territory beyond; and Stansbury, in 1849-50, a similar
exploration of the valley of the Great Salt Lake. David Dale Owen
was heading a Government geological survey in Wisconsin, Iowa, and
Minnesota (1848), and from all of these came results of importance to
science and to natural history.

In 1849 Professor W. H. Harvey, of Dublin, visited America and col-
lected materials for his Nereis Boreali- Americana, which was the founda-
tion of our marine botany.

Sir Charles Lyell, ex-president of the Geological Society of London,
visited the United States in 1841 and again in 1845, and published two
volumes of travels, which were, however, of much less importance than
the effects of his encouraging presence upon the rising school of American
geologists. His Principles of Geology, as has already been said, was an
epoch-making work, and he was to his generation almost what Darwin
was to the one which followed.

Certain successes of our astronomers and physicists had a bearing upon
the progress of American science in all its departments which was, per-
haps, even greater than their actual importance would seem to warrant.
These were the discovery, by the Bards of Cambridge, of Bards comet in
1846, of the satellite Hyperion in 1848, of the third ring of Saturn in
1850, the discovery by Herrick and Bradley, in 1846, of the bi-partition
of Belas comet, and the application of the telegraph to longitude deter-
mination after Locke had constructed (in 1848) his clock for the regis-
tration of time observations by means of electro-magnetism.

It is almost ludicrous at this day to observe the grateful sentiments
with which our men of science welcomed the adoption of this American
method in the observatory at Greenwich. Americans were still writhing
under the sting of Sidney Smith’s demand, Who reads an American
book? and the narrations of those critical observers of national cus-
toms, Dickens, Basil Tlall, and Mrs. Trollope. The continental approval

« Proceedings of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, 1849,
II, p. 164.
The Beginnings of American Science. 457

of American science was like balsam to the sensitive spirits of our coun-
trymen.

John William Draper’s versatile and original researches in physics
were also yielding weighty results, and as early as 1847 he had already
laid the foundations of the science of spectroscopy, which Kirchhoff so
boldly appropriated many years later.

Most important of all, by reason of its breadth of scope, was the foun-
dation of the Smithsonian Institution, which was organized in 1846 by
the election of Joseph Henry to its secretaryship. Who can attempt to
say what the conditions of science in the United States would be to-day
but for the bequest of Smithson? In the words of John Quincy Adams
‘“Of all the foundations or establishments for pious or charitable uses
which ever signalized the spirit of the age or the comprehensive benefi-
cence of the founder, none can be named more deserving the approba-
tion of mankind.”’

Among the leaders of this new enterprise and of the scientific activities
of the day may be named Silliman, Hare, Henry, Bache, Maury, Alex-
ander, Locke, Mitchel, Peirce, Walker, Draper, Dana, Wyman, Agassiz,
Gray, Torrey, Haldeman, Morton, Holbrook, Gibbes, Gould, DeKay,
Storer, Hitchcock, Redfield, the brothers Rogers, Jackson, Hays, and
Owen.

Anong the rising men were Baird, Adams the conchologist, Burnett,
Harris the entomologist, and the LeConte brothers among zoologists;
Lapham, D. C. Eaton, and Grant, among botanists; Sterry Hunt, Brush,
J. D. Whitney, Wolcott Gibbs, and Lesley, among chemists and geolo-
gists, as well as Schiel, of St. Louis, who had before 1842 discovered the
principle of chemical homology.

I have not time to say what ought to be said of the coming of Agassiz
in 1846. He lives in the hearts of his adopted countrymen. He has a
colossal monument in the museum which he reared, and a still greater one
in the lives and works of pupils such as Agassiz, Allen, Burgess, Burnett,
Brooks, Clarke, Cooke, Faxon, Fewkes, Gorman, Hartt, Hyatt, Joseph
LeConte, Lyman, McCrady, Morse, Mills, Niles, Packard, Putnam,
Scudder, St. John, Shaler, Verrill, Wilder, and David A. Wells.

Vil

They were glorious men who represented American science at the
middle of the century. We may well wonder whether the present decade
will make as good a showing forty years hence.

The next decade was its continuation. The old leaders were nearly
all active, and to their ranks were added many more.

An army of new men was rising up.

It was a period of great explorations, for the frontier of the United
States was sweeping westward, and there was need of a better knowledge
of the public domain,
458 Memortal of George Brown Gocde.

Sitgreaves explored the region of the Zufi and Colorado rivers in
1852, and Marcy the Red River of the North. The Mexican boundary
survey, under Emory, was in progress from 1854 to 1856, and at the
same time the various Pacific railroad surveys. ‘There was also the
Herndon exploration of the valley of the Amazon, and the North Pacific
exploring expedition under Rogers. "These were the days, too, when
that extensive exploration of British North America was begun through
the cooperation of the Hudson’s Bay Company with the Smithsonian
Institution.

It was the harvest time of the museums. Agassiz was building up
with immense rapidity his collections in Cambridge, utilizing to the
fullest extent the methods which he had learned in the great European
establishments and the public spirit and generosity of the Americans.
Baird was using his matchless powers of organization in equipping and
inspiring the officers of the various surveys and accumulating immense
collections to be used in the interest of the future National Museum.

Systematic natural history advanced with rapid strides. "The magnifi-
cent folio reports of the Wilkes expedition were now being published,
and some of them, particularly those by Dana on the crustaceans and the
zoophytes and geology, that of Gould upon the mollusks, those by Tor-
rey, Gray, and Eaton upon the plants, were of great importance.

The reports of the domestic surveys contained numerous papers upon
systematic natural history, prepared under the direction of Baird, assisted
by Girard, Gill, Cassin, Suckley, LeConte, Cooper, and others. ‘The
volumes relating to the mammals and the birds, prepared by Baird’s own
pen, were the first exhaustive treatises upon the mammalogy and orni-
thology of the United States.

The American Association was doing a great work in popular educa-
tion through its system of meeting each year ina different city. In 1850
it met in Charleston, and its entire expenses were paid by the city.
corporation as a valid mark of public approval, while the foundation of
the Charleston Museum of Natural History was one of the direct results
of the meeting.

In 1857 it met in Montreal, and delegates from the English scientific
societies were present. This was one of the earliest of those manifesta-
tions of international courtesy upon scientific ground of which there have
since been many. ;

In the seventh decade, which began with threatenings of civil war, the
growth of science was almost arrested. A meeting of the American Asso-
ciation was to have been held in Nashville in 1861, but none was called.
In 1866, at Buffalo, its sessions were resumed with the old board of offi-
cers elected in 1860. One of the vice-presidents, Gibbes, of South Caro-
lina, had not been heard from since the war began, and the Southern
members were all absent Many of the Northern members wrote explain-
ing that they could not attend this meeting because they could not afford
897. Part Il PLATE 98.

Report of U. S. Nationa

ei.
1a

i ! y
— i ete an pine
The Beginnings of American Science. 459

it, ‘‘such had been the increase of living expenses, without a correspond-
ing increase in the salaries of men of science.’’ Few scientists were
engaged in the war, though one, O. M. Mitchel, who left the director-
ship of the Dudley Observatory to accept the command of an Ohio brigade,
died in service in 1862, and another, Couthouy, sacrificed his life in the
Navy. Others, like Ordway, left the ranks of science never to resume
their places as investigators.

Scientific effort was paralyzed, and attention was directed to other mat-
ters. In 1864, when the Smithsonian building was burned, Lincoln, it
is said, looking at the flames from the windows of the Executive Man-
sion, remarked to some military officers who were present: ‘‘Gentlemen,
yonder is a national calamity. We have no time to think about it now;
we must attend to other things.”’

cs

The only important events during the war were two; one the organiza-
tion of the National Academy of Sciences, which soon became what Bache
had remarked the necessity for in 1851, when he said: An institution of
science, supplementary to existing ones, is much needed in our country to
guide public action in reference to scientific matters.’

The other was the passage, in 1862, of the bill for the establishment
of scientific educational institutions in every State. The agricultural
colleges were then, as they still are, unpopular among many scientific
men, but the wisdom of the measure is apparently before long to be
justified.

Before the end of the decade the Northern States* had begun a career
of renewed prosperity, and the scientific institutions were reorganized.
The leading spirits were such men as Pierce, Henry, Agassiz, Gray, Bar-
nard, the Goulds, Newberry, Lea, Whittlesey, Foster, Rood, Cooke,
Newcomb, Newton, Wyman, Winchell.

Among the rising men, some of them very prominent before 1870, were
Barker, Bolton, Chandler, Egleston, Hall, Harkness, Langley, Mayer,
Pickering, Young, Powell, Pumpelly, Abbe, Collett, Emerson, Hartt,
Lupton, Marsh, Whitfield, Williams, N. H. Winchell, Agassiz, the Allens,
Beale, Cope, Coues, Canby, Dall, Hoy, Hyatt, Morse, Orton, Perkins, Rey,
Riley, Scudder, Sidney Smith, Sterns, Tuttle, Verrill, Wood.

Soon after the war the surveys of the West, which have coalesced to
form the United States Geological Survey, were forming under the direc-
tion of Clarence King, Lieutenant Wheeler, F. V. Hayden, and Major
Powell.

The discovery of the nature of the corona of the sun by Young and
Harkness in 1869 was an event encouraging to the rising spirits of our
workers.

‘Proceedings of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, VI,
p. xlvili.

2See Andrew D. White’s Scientific and Industrial Education in the United States.
Popula: Science Monthly, V, 1874, p. 170.
460 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

XVITE

With 1869 we reach the end of the third period and the threshold of
that in which we are living. I shall not attempt to define the character-
istics of the natural history of to-day, though I wish to direct attention
to certain tendencies and conditions which exist. Let me, however, refer
once more to the past, since it leads again directly up to the present.

In a retrospect published in 1876," one of our leaders stated that
American science during the first forty years of the present century was
in ‘‘a state of general lethargy, broken now and then by the activity of
some first-class man, which, however, commonly ceased to be directed
into purely scientific channels.’’ This depiction was, no doubt, some-
what true of the physical and mathematical sciences concerned, but not
to the extent indicated by the writer quoted. What could be more
unjust to the men of the last generation than this? ‘‘It is,’’ continues he,
‘‘strikingly illustrative of the absence of everything like an effective
national pride in science that two generations should have passed without
America having produced anyone to continue the philosophical researches
of Franklin.’’

I may not presume to criticise the opinion of the writer from whom
these words are quoted, but I can not resist the temptation to repeat a
paragraph from Professor John W. Draper’s eloquent centennial address
upon Science in America:

In many of the addresses on the centennial occasion [he said], the shortcomings
of the United States in extending the boundaries of scientific knowledge, especially
in the physical and chemical departments, have been set forth. ‘‘ We must acknowl-
edge with shame our inferiority to other people,’’ saysone. ‘‘ We have done nothing,”’
says another. . . . But we must not forget that many of these humiliating
accusations are made by persons who are not of authority in the matter; who,
because they are ignorant of what has been done, think that nothing has been done.
They mistake what is merely a blank in their own information for a blank in reality.
In their alacrity to depreciate the merit of their own country they would have us
confess that, for the last century, we have been living on the reputation of Franklin
and his thunder rod.

These are the words of one who, himself an Englishman by birth,
could, with excellent grace, upbraid our countrymen for their lack of
patriotism.

The early American naturalists have been reproached for devoting
their time to explorations and descriptive natural history, and their work
depreciated, as being of a character beneath the dignity of the biologists
of to-day.

The zoological science of the country, [said the president of the Natural His-

tory section of the American Association a few years since], presents itself in two
distinct periods: The first period may be recognized as embracing the lowest stages

*North American Review, January, 1876, pp. 100, 107.
The Beginnings of American Science. 461

of the science; it included, among others, a class of men who busied themselves in
taking an inventory of the animals of the country, an important and necessary
work to be compared to that of the hewers and diggers who first settle a new
country, but in their work demanded no deep knowledge or breadth of view.

It is quite unnecessary to defend systematic zoology from such slurs as
this, nor do I believe that the writer quoted would really defend the ideas
which his words seem to convey, although, as Professor Judd has regret-
fully confessed in his recent address before the Zoological Society of
London, systematic zoologists and botanists have become somewhat rare
and out of fashion in Europe in modern times.

The best vindication of the wisdom of our early writers will be, I think,
the presentation of a counter quotation from another presidential address,
that of the venerable Doctor Bentham before the Linnzean Society of
London, in 1867:

°

It is scarcely half a century [wrote Bentham], since our American brethren
applied themselves in earnest to the investigation of the natural productions and
physical condition of their vast continent, their progress, especially during the
latter half of that period, had been very rapid until the outbreak of the recent war,
so deplorable in its effects in the interests of science as well as on the material pros-
perity of their country. The peculiar condition of the North American Continent
requires imperatively that its physical and biological statistics should be accurately
collected and authentically recorded, and that this should be speedily done. It is
more than any country, except our Australian colonies, in a state of transition. Vast
tracts of land are still in what may be called almost a primitive state, unmodified
by the effects of civilization, uninhabited, or tenanted only by the remnants of
ancient tribes, whose unsettled life never exercised much influence over the natural
productions of the country. But this state of things is rapidly passing away; the
invasion and steady progress of a civilized population, whilst changing generally
the face of nature, is obliterating many of the evidences of a former state of things.
It may be true that the call for recording the traces of previous conditions may be
particularly strong in Ethnology and Archeology; but in our own branches of the
science, the observations and consequent theories of Darwin having called special
attention to the history of species, it becomes particularly important that accurate
biological statistics should be obtained for future comparison in those countries
where the circumstances influencing those conditions are the most rapidly changing.
The larger races of wild animals are dwindling down, like the aboriginal inhabit-
ants, under the deadly influence of civilized man. Myriads of the lower orders of
animal life, as well as of plants, disappear with the destruction of forests, the drain-
age of swamps, and the gradual spread of cultivation, and their places are occupied
by foreign invaders. Other races, no doubt, without actually disappearing, undergo
a gradual change under the new order of things, which, if pereeptible only in the
course of successive generations, require so much the more for future proof an accu-
rate record of their state in the still unsettled condition of the country. In the Old
World almost every attempt to compare the present state of vegetation or animal
life with that which existed in uncivilized times is in a great measure frustrated by
the absolute want of evidence as to that former state; but in North America the
change is going forward as it were close under the eye of the observer. This con-
sideration may one day give great value to the reports of the naturalist sent by the
Government, as we have seen, at the instigation of the Smithsonian Institution and
other promoters of science, to accompany the surveys of new territories.
462 Memortal of George Brown Goode.

Having said this much in defense of the scientific men of the United
States, I wish, in conclusion, to prefer some very serious charges against
the country at large, or, rather, as a citizen of the United States, to
make some very melancholy and humiliating confessions.

The present century is often spoken of as ‘‘the age of science,’’ and
Americans are somewhat disposed to be proud of the manner in which
scientific institutions are fostered and Scientific investigators encouraged
on this side of the Atlantic.

Our countrymen have made very important advances in many depart-
ments of research. We have a few admirably organized laboratories
and observatories, a few good collections of scientific books, six or eight
museums worthy of the name, and a score or more of scientific and
technological schools, well organized and better provided with officers
than with money. We have several strong scientific societies, no one of
which, however, publishes transactions worthy of its own standing and
the collective reputation of its members. In fact, the combined publish-
ing funds of all our societies would not pay for the annual issue of a
volume of memoirs such as appears under the auspices of any one of a
dozen EKuropean societies which might be named.

Our Government, by a liberal support of its scientific departments,
has done much to atone for the really feeble manner in which local
institutions have been maintained. The Coast Survey, the Geological
Survey, the Department of Agriculture, the Fish Commission, the Army,
with its Meteorological Bureau, its Medical Museum and Library, and
its explorations; the Navy, with its Observatory, its laboratories and its
explorations; and, in addition to these, the Smithsonian Institution, with
its systematic promotion of all good works in science, have accomplished
more than is ordinarily placed to their credit. Many hundreds of volumes
of scientific memoirs have been issued from the Government Printing
Office since 1870, and these have been distributed in such a generous and
far-reaching way that they have not failed to reach every town and village
in the United States where a roof has been provided to protect them.

It may be that some one will accuse the Government of having usurped
the work of the private publisher. Very little of value in the way of
scientific literature has been issued during the same period by publishers,
except in reprints or translations of works of foreign investigators. It
should be borne in mind, however, that our Government has not only
published the results of investigations, but has supported the investigators
and provided them with laboratories, instruments, and material, and that
the memoirs which it has issued would never, as a rule, have been
accepted by private publishers.

I do not wish to underrate the efficiency of American men of science,
nor the enthusiasm with which many public men and capitalists have
promoted our scientific institutions. Our countrymen have had won-
derful successes in many directions. ‘They have borne their share in the
PLATE 99.

Part Il.

1897.

Report of U. S. National Museum

GARCILASO DE LA VEGA.
The Beginnings of American Science. 463

battle of science against the unknown. They have had abundant rec-
ognition from their fellow-workers in the Old World. ‘They have met
perhaps a more intelligent appreciation abroad than at home. It is the
absence of home appreciation that causes us very much foreboding in
the future.

In Boston or Cambridge, in New York, Philadelphia, Baltimore, Wash-
ington, Chicago, or San Francisco, and in most of the college towns, a
man interested in science may find others ready to talk over with him a
new scientific book or a discovery which has excited his interest. Else-
where the chances are he will have to keep his thoughts to himself.
One may quickly recite the names of the towns and cities in which may
be found ten or more people whose knowledge of any science is aught
than vague and rudimentary. Let me illustrate my idea by supposing
that every inhabitant of the United States over fifteen years of age
should be required to mention ten living men eminent in scientific work,
would one out of a hundred be able to respond? Does anyone suppose
that there are three or four hundred thousand people enlightened to
this degree?

Let us look at some statistics, or rather some facts, which it is con-
venient to arrange in statistical form. The total number of white inhab-
itants of the United States in 1880 was about 42,000,000. ‘The total
number of naturalists, as shown in the Naturalist’s Directory for 1886,
was a little over 4,600. This list includes not only the investigators,
who probably do not exceed 500 in number, and the advanced teachers,
who muster perhaps 1,000 strong, but all*who are sufficiently interested
in science to have selected special lines of study.

We have, then, 1 person interested in science to about 10,000 inhab-
itants. But the leaven of science is not evenly distributed through the
national loaf. It isthe tendency of scientific men to congregate together.
In Washington, for instance, there is 1 scientific man to every 500 inhab-
itants; in Cambridge, 1 to 830; and in New Haven, 1 tor,100o. In New
Orleans the proportion is 1 to 8,800; in Jersey City, 1 to 24,000; in New
York, 1 to 7,000; and in Brooklyn, 1 to 8,500. I have before me the pro-
portions worked out for the seventy-five principal cities of the United
States. The showing is suggestive, though no doubt in some instances
misleading. The tendency to gregariousness on the part of scientific
men may perhaps be further illustrated by a reference to certain socie-
ties. The membership of the National Academy of Sciences is almost
entirely concentrated about Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Washing-
ton, and New Haven. Missouri hasone member, Illinois one, Ohio one,
Maryland, New Jersey, and Rhode Island three, and California four,
while thirty-two States and Territories are not represeuted. A precisely
similar distribution of members is found in the American Society of Nat-
uralists. A majority of the members of the American Association for
the Advancement of Science live in New York, Massachusetts, Pennsyl-
464 Memorval of George Brown Goode.

vania, the District of Columbia, Michigan, Minnesota, Ohio, Illinois,
and New Jersey.

It has been stated that the average proportion of scientific men to the
population at large is 1 to 10,000. A more minute examination shows
that while fifteen of the States and Territories have more than the aver-
age proportion of scientific men, thirty-two have less. Oregon and Cal-
ifornia, Michigan and Delaware have very nearly the normal number.
Massachusetts, Rhode Island, Connecticut, Illinois, Colorado, and Florida
have about 1 to 4,000. West Virginia, Nevada, Arkansas, Mississippi,
Georgia, Kentucky, Texas, Alabama, and the Carolinas are the ones
least liberally furnished. Certain cities appear to be absolutely without
scientific men. ‘The worst cases of destitution seem to be Paterson,
New Jersey, a city of 50,000 inhabitants; Wheeling, West Virginia, with
30,000; Quincy, Illinois, with 26,000; Newport, Kentucky, with 20,000;
Williamsport, Pennsylvania, and Kingston, New York, with 18,000;
Council Bluffs, Iowa, and Zanesville, Ohio, with 17,000; Oshkosh, Wis-
consin, and Sandusky, Ohio, with 15,000; Lincoln, Rhode Island; Nor-
walk, Connecticut, and Brockton and Pittsfield, Massachusetts, with
13,000. In these there are no men of science recorded, and eight cities
of more than 15,000 inhabitants have only one, namely, Omaha,
Nebraska, and St. Joseph, Missouri; Chelsea, Massachusetts; Cohoes,
New York; Sacramento, California; Binghamton, New York; Portland,
Oregon; and Leadville, Colorado.

Of course these statistical statements are not properly statistics. I
have no doubt that some of these cities are misrepresented in what has
been said. This much, however, is probably true, that not one of them
has a scientific society, a museum, a school of science, or a sufficient
number of scientific men to insure even the occasional delivery of a
course of scientific lectures.

Studying the distribution of scientific societies, we find that there are
fourteen States and Territories in which there are no scientific societies
whatever. ‘There are fourteen States which have State academies of
science or societies which are so organized as to be equivalent to State
academies.

Perhaps the most discouraging feature of all is the diminutive circula-
tion of scientific periodicals. In addition to a certain number of special-
ists’ journals, we have in the United States three which are wide enough
in scope to be necessary to all who attempt to keep an abstract of the
progress of science. Of these the American Journal of Science has, we
are told, a circulation of less than 800; the American Naturalist less
than 1,100, and Science less than 6,000. A considerable proportion of
the copies printed go, as a matter of course, to public institutions, aad
not to individuals. Even the Popular Science Monthly and the Scien-
tific American, which appeal to large classes of unscientific readers, have
circulations absurdly small.
The Beginnings of American Science. 465

The most effective agents for the dissemination of scientific intelligence
are probably the religious journals, aided to some extent by the agri-
cultural journals and to a very limited degree by the weekly and daily
newspapers. It is much to be regretted that several influential journals,
which ten or fifteen years ago gave attention to the publication of trust-
worthy scientific intelligence, have of late almost entirely abandoned the
effort. The allusions to science in the majority of our newspapers are
singularly inaccurate and unscholarly, and too often science is referred
to only when some of its achievements offer opportunity for witticism.

The statements which I have just made may, as I have said, prove in
some instances erroneous and to some extent misleading, but I think the
general tendency of a careful study of the distribution of scientific men
and institutions is to show that the people of the United States, except
in so far as they sanction by their approval the work of the scientific
departments of the Government and the institutions established by pri-
vate munificence, have little reason to be proud of the national attitude
toward science.

I am, however, by no means despondent for the future. ‘The impor-
tance of scientific work is thoroughly appreciated, and it is well under-
stood that many important public duties can be performed properly only
by trained men of science. The claims of science to a prominent place
in every educational plan are every year more fully conceded. Science is
permeating the theory and the practice of every art and every industry, as
well as every department of learning. The greatest danger to science is
perhaps the fact that all who have studied at all within the last quarter
of a century have studied its rudiments and feel competent to employ its
methods and its language and to form judgments on the merits of current
work.

In the meantime the professional men of science, the scholars, and the
investigators seem to me to be strangely indifferent to the questions as to
how the public at large is to be made familiar with the results of their
labors. It may be that the tendency to specialization is destined to deprive
the sciences of their former hold upon popular interest, and that the study

_of zoology, botany and geology, mineralogy and chemistry, will become
so technical, that each will require the exclusive attention of its votaries
for a period of years. It may be that we are to have no more zoologists
such as Agassiz and Baird, no more botanists such as Gray, and that the
place which such men filled in the community will be supplied by com-
binations of a number of specialists, each of whom knows, with more
minuteness, limited portions of the subjects grasped bodily by the masters
of the last generation. It may be that the use of the word naturalist is
to become an anachronism, and that we are all destined to become gen-
erically biologists, and specifically morphologists, histologists, embry-
ologists, physiologists, or it may be cetologists, chiropterologists, oologists,
carcinologists, ophiologists, helminthologists, actinologists, coleopterists,

NAT MUS 97, PT 2 30

466 Memorval of George Brown Goode.

caricologists, mycologists, muscologists, bacteriologists, diatomologists,
paleobotanists, crystallographers, petrologists, and the like.

Ican but believe, however, that it is the duty of every scientific scholar,
however minute his specialty, to resist in himself and in the professional
circles which surround him, the tendency toward narrowing technicality
in thought and sympathy, and above all in the education of nonprofes-
sional students.

I can not resist the feeling that American men of science are ina large
degree responsible if their fellow-citizens are not fullyawake to the claims
of scientific endeavor in their midst.

I am not in sympathy with those who feel that their dignity is lowered
when their investigations lead toward improvement in the physical con-
dition of mankind, but I feel that the highest function of science is to
minister to their mental and moral welfare. Here in the United States,
more than in any other country, it is necessary that sound, accurate
knowledge and a scientific manner of thought should exist among the
people, and the man of science is becoming more than ever the natural
custodian of the treasured knowledge of the world. To him above all
others falls the duty of organizing and maintaining the institutions for
the diffusion of knowledge, many of which have been spoken of in these
addresses—the schools, the museums, the expositions, the societies, the
periodicals. ‘To him more than to any other American should be made
familiar the words of President Washington in his farewell address to the
American people:

‘“Promote, then, as an object of primary importance, institutions for
the general diffusion of knowledge. In proportion as the structure of a
government gives force to public opinions it should be enlightened.”’
Report of U. S. National Museum, 1897. Part Il PLate 100.

BENJAMIN WATERHOUSE.
4
Sah

= > a a res. nN *_

THE FIRST NATIONAL SCIENTIFIC CONGRESS (WASHINGTON,
APRIL, 1844), AND ITS CONNECTION WITH THE ORGAN-
IZATION OF THE AMERICAN ASSOCIATION.

BY

GEORGE BROWN GOODE,

Assistant Secretary, Smithsonian Institution, in charge of the
U.S. National Museum.

467
>

ay)

THE FIRST NATIONAL SCIENTIFIC CONGRESS CWASHINGTON,
APRIL, 1844), AND ITS CONNECTION WITH THE ORGAN-
IZATION OF THE AMERICAN ASSOCIATION:

By GEORGE BROWN GOODE,

Assistant Secretary, Smithsonian Institution, in charge of the
U.S. National Museum.

In telling the story of the American Association, it is generally said
that it was a direct continuation of the old Association of American
Geologists and Naturalists.* In a certain sense this is true. At its
meeting in New York in 1847, the Association of Geologists and Natu-
ralists voted to enlarge its scope, and to change its name to The
American Association for the Promotion of Science, and elected an
officer to preside at the meeting of the new society in the following year.
In September, 1847, the new association held its first meeting, and Profes-
sor William B. Rogers, the chairman of the last meeting of the old associa-
tion, presided during the proceedings, and, after the adoption of a constitu-
tion, introduced his successor, William C Redfield, president-elect. Thus
was the American Association born on the 26th of September, 1848, in
Philadelphia. Its subsequent history is accessible to all, and the thirty-
nine stout volumes which contain the records of its annual proceedings
are permanent monuments to the wisdom of the founders.

All the circumstances of its origin, the causes of its founding, and the
influences which shaped its development have not as yet been exhaus-
tively studied, and it is not impossible that valuable suggestions may be
derived from a consideration of the other societies which were organized
in the United States during the first half of the century.

Most powerful and important of all of these was the National Institu-
tion for the Promotion of Science, established in Washington only three
weeks after the Association of Geologists held its first session in Phila-
delphia—the two societies having been essentially contemporaneous in

* A paper presented at the meeting of the American Association for the Advance-
ment of Science, held in Washington on August 19-25, 1891, and reprinted from its
Proceedings, volume 40, page 39.

This was organized in 1840, under the name of the Association of American
Geologists,

469
470 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

origin. Besides these two there were no others which at that time
aspired to national influence. The American Philosophical Society and
the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, in earlier days more far-
reaching, were already limited by local bonds. The United States
Military Philosophical Society, organized in 1803, the first in America
to hold meetings from city to city, had disbanded soon after 1810. ‘The
_American Geological Society, organized in New Haven in 1819, endured
only until 1826. Others, like the Academy of Natural Sciences of
Philadelphia and the New York Lyceum of Natural History, while not
strictly local, were essentially professional societies, with interests
already intentionally restricted.

The American Association was undoubtedly a direct outgrowth of the
Association of Geologists and Naturalists, but it was not strictly a con-
tinuation. The older society was an assemblage of professional men.
They were all geologists, for in those days every naturalist was to some
extent a geologist, and the already extensive system of State geological
surveys offered many opportunities for research. There was not an
astronomer, mathematician, physician, anthropologist, or political econo-
mist among them. Their object was described in the constitution to be
‘the advancement of geology and the collateral branches of science,’’
and geology remained always the paramount and controlling interest.
The few papers on biological, chemical, and meteorological subjects
which were presented were written with geological problems in mind, and
in the discussions geological considerations always received the chief at-
tention. This tendency was especially pronounced previous to 1844, when
a change of policy began to take place. It is evident to whomsoever may
study the records that the American Association of Geologists was the
legitimate successor of the American Geological Society, more closely
akin to it (though separated by a period of fourteen years of lifelessness )
than to its administrative offspring, the American Association. The
Geological Society of America, separated from it by a gap of over forty
years, is also more closely akin to it than was its outgrowth, the American
Association.

The Association of Geologists was only one of the parents of the Ameri-
can Association. For the other we must look to the National Institution;
and since the achievements of this organization have hitherto received
but slight consideration it seems appropriate on this occasion to call atten-
tion to the principal facts in its history.

This society was from its start extremely comprehensive in its scope—
even more so, it may be, than the American Association for the Advance-
ment of Science has been at any period in its existence. Although its
meetings, like those of the already venerable sister societies of similar pur-
pose, the American Philosophical Society and the American Academy
of Arts and Sciences, were always held in one city, its scope was essen-
Report of U. S. National Museum, 1897. Part Il PLATE 101.

The First National Scientific Congress. 471

tially national, and at the time of its greatest prosperity it had nearly
1,600 names upon its membership roll.

Its most peculiar feature was the circumstance that its active sup-
porters were men of high official rank in the National Government, who
attended its meetings, occupied the chair, and delivered addresses and
communications. It is much to be regretted that this association of
public men with scientific organizations has not been continued in the
last half of the present century in the same way that it was in the first
seventy-five years of our national existence. The agency of John
Adams in founding The American Academy, the labors of Franklin,
Jefferson, Washington, Gallatin, Madison, John Quincy Adams in con-
nection with the American Philosophical Society are well known to all.
In the closing years of the last century, when the national seat of Gov-
ernment was in Philadelphia, the meetings of the American Philosoph-
ical Society were attended and largely kept up by high officials of the
Government.

When Washington became the National Capital attempts were made
from time to time to supply the want of scientific organizations, and
from 1808 when a meeting of the United States Military Philosophical
Society—the first national scientific society with a peripatetic system of
meetings—was held in Washington City there appears to have been
always a place of assemblage for men of scientific tastes at the National
Capital, where cultivators of the sciences met together for conference
and discussion.

Somewhere between 1810 and 1815 an organization known as the
Metropolitan Society was in existence in Washington. ‘This in 1816
became the Columbian Institute for the Promotion of Arts and Sciences,
of which John Quincy Adams, Samuel I. Southard, Daniel Webster,
Henry Clay, John C. Calhoun, Edward Everett, and many other public
men were supporters, and whose meetings were held in a room in the
Capitol. The Columbian Institute, dormant after 1825, in 1840 passed
into the National Institution for the Promotion of Science.

The National Institution in April, 1844, instituted in Washington the
first national congress of scientific men—the first cosmopolitan assem-
blage of the kind which in any respect foreshadowed the great con-
gresses of the American Association in later years. This gathering
was upon the occasion of the first annual or general meeting of the
institution, and to it were invited the members of the American Philo-
sophical Society, as the oldest scientific institution in the country; the
members of the American Association of Naturalists and Geologists,
and the members of all other scientific and learned societies in the
United States, and all others engaged and concerned in the increase and
diffusion of knowledge among men.

It is not necessary to describe at length the proceedings upon this
472 Memortal of George Brown Goode.

occasion. ‘They may be found in the Bulletin of the Institution which,
though rare, is usually possessed by all the older libraries. The opening
address was delivered by John Tyler, President of the United States, and
the introductory discourse by the Hon. Robert J. Walker, United States
Senator from Mississippi—a learned and judicious essay, which reviewed
very carefully the achievements of American science, and is well worthy
of a reading, even at the present time. Senator Woodbury of New
Hampshire, Ex-President John Quincy Adams, Member of Congress |
from Massachusetts; the Hon. J. R. Ingersoll, of Pennsylvania, and the
Hon. John C. Spencer, Secretary of War, occupied the chair from day
to day, and forty-three papers were read. So important were these that
it is a matter of regret that few of them appear to have been published.
They were prepared by representative men, and related to every branch
of scientific inquiry at that time enlisting attention.
They were distributed as follows:

GENERAL.

Prof. Alexander Dallas Bache, Superintendent of the United States
Coast Survey. On the Condition of Science in the United States and
Europe.

Peter Arrell Browne, LL. D:, of Philadelphia. On an Improved
Method of Teaching the Natural Sciences.

Hon. Richard Rush. On the Smithsonian Bequest.

Prof. Samuel Stehman Haldeman. On the Necessity of a National
Institution for the Encouragement of Science.

MATHEMATICS AND GEODESY.

Prof. Charles Gill, of New York. On the Improvement of the Math-
ematical Sciences, and the Consequent Advancement of the Natural
Sciences.

Capt. William Henry Swift, U.S.A. On the Measurement of Base
Lines.

ASTRONOMY.

Prof. John William Draper, of the University of New York. On the
Physical Constitution of the Rays of the Sun.

Prof. Elias Loomis, of Western Reserve College, Ohio. On the Great
Comet of 1843.

Prof. Richard Sears McCulloh, of Baltimore. On the Attraction of a
Planet upon a Material Point in Space.

Prof. William Augustus Norton, of Delaware College, Newark, Dela-
ware. On the Nebular Hypothesis.

Rev. Prof. James Curley, of Georgetown College, Washington, D. C.
Description of a Meridian Circle for the Observatory of Georgetown
College, District of Columbia.
The First Nattonal Scientific Congress. 473

PHYSICS:

Prof. Benjamin Hallowellof Maryland. On the Liberation of Caloric
in some Chemical Changes that are Attended with an Enlargement of
Bulk.

Capt. Alfred Mordecai, U. S. A. Notice of a Ballistic Pendulum, con-
structed at Washington Arsenal for Experiments in Gunnery.

John Tyler, jr., of Washington. In Support of the Theory of our

Electric Fluid.
METEOROLOGY.

Prof. Michael Jacobs of Pennsylvania. On the Indian Summer.

Prof. James Pollard Espy of Washington. On Meteorology.

Prof. James Hamilton of the University of Nashville. On certain
Meteorological Facts Observed at Nashville.

Lieut. Matthew Fontaine Maury, U. S. N. On the Gulf Stream.

George Baker and Isaac Thurber of Providence. On the Tides of
Providence River and Narragansett Bay.

Prof. Robert Hare of the University of Pennsylvania. A call for Obser-
vations of the Lake Storm.

Prof. Alexander Dallas Bache, LL. D. An abstract of Magnetical and
Meteorological Observations made under the direction of the War Depart-
ment, at the Observatory, Girard College, Philadelphia.

GEOLOGY.

Prof. William Williams Mather of Ohio University. On the Physical
Geology of the United States.

Rev. Eliphalet Nott, D. D., LL. D., president of Union College. On
the Origin, Duration and End of the World.

Prof. John Holmes Agnew of New York. On the Glacier System or
Ice Period of Agassiz.

Prof. John Locke of the Medical College of Ohio, Cincinnati. On
Lake Superior, embracing an account of Miscellaneous Observations on
the Geology, Mineralogy, Topography, Scenery, Climate, Meteorology,

etc., of the Lake.
PALEONTOLOGY.

William Ballantyne Hodgson, of Savannah, Georgia. On the Mega-
theroid Fossils of the Atlantic Coast of Georgia.
Aaron D. Chaloner, M. D., of Philadelphia. A Petrified Forest near
Cairo, Egypt.
ZOOLOGY.

Rev. John Gottlieb Morris, D. D., of Baltimore. On the Past and
Present State of Entomology in the United States.

Prof. Jacob Whitman Bailey, United States Military Academy. Notes
on American Polythalamia.
474 Memorval of George Brown Goode.

PHYSIOLOGY, PHARMACOLOGY.

Dr. William Holme Van Buren, U.S.A. On the Effects of Large
Doses of Sulphate of Quinine on the Human System as a Remedial
Agent.

Prof. John Richard Woodcock Dunbar of Maryland. On the Impor-
tance of Physiology as a Branch of General Education.

ANTHROPOLOGY, PHILOLOGY.

James Chamberlain Pickett, United States chargé d’affaires to Peru.
Remarkable Ruins in the Province of Chachapoyas, Peru.

George Edward Chase, U. S. A., Pensacola, Florida. A Method of
Settling the Orthography and Orthoepy of the English Language.

ADMINISTRATIONS, INSTITUTIONS, STATISTICS, ETC.

Rev. Hector Humphreys, D. D., president of St. John’s College,
Annapolis, Maryland. On the Economy of Science as Relating to the
Government.

Prof. Edward Foreman, of Baltimore. On Domestic Exchanges in
Natural History and Geology.

Prof. Thomas Sewall, M. D., of Washington. On the Design of the
Medical Department of the National Institute.

Prof. Robert Maskell Patterson of Philadelphia. On a method of
determining the center of population of a country.

POLITICAL ECONOMY, HISTORY, ETC.

Prof. George Tucker of the University of Virginia. On the Dangers
most to be Guarded Against in the Future Progress of the United States.

Francis Joseph Grund of Philadelphia. On the Modern Historical
Schools of France and Germany, and the Philosophy of History.

Prof. Walter Rogers Johnson of Philadelphia. On the Scientific Char-
acter and Researches of the late James Smithson.

Hon. Alexander Hill Everett of Massachusetts. On the Moral Ten-
dency of the Science and Learning of the Past and Present Centuries.

Francis Lieber, LL. D., of South Carolina. Remarks on Public
Institutions.

At the meeting of the Association of American Geologists, held in
Washington in the following month, out of thirty-one formal papers read,
while twenty-five were mostly geological or paleontological, four related
to zoology and two to chemistry or physics.

It was doubtless intended that the first annual meeting or congress of
the National Institution should be followed by a similar gathering each
year. This was clearly indicated in Senator Walker’s introductory
address, in which the opinion is forcibly expressed that the National
Report of U. S. National Museum, 1897. Part Il. PLATE 102.

i

The First National Scientific Congress. 475

Institution, with its central location, could, better than any other society
then in existence, bring together the varied State interests and form a
body truly national in its influence. *

This Institute is located at the home of the Federal Government, and its opera-
tions are designed to embrace the whole Union. Rising above local and sectional
influences, it appeals to the friends of science throughout the nation, and asks the
support of all, with a view to the general diffusion of knowledge, and advancement
of American science. It is not designed to impede the progress or impair the use-
fulness of any present or future scientific institutions or societies in any of the States,
but would desire to establish between them and this Institute the most cordial rela-
tions, together with reciprocal aid and encouragement. Experience has proved that
no one institution, however distinguished, of any State, can bring to its aid the
combined efforts and support of the whole Union. Each State will desire the ad-
vancement of its own institutions; and here only can all meet beyond the limits of
all the States, and unite, as Americans, in erecting and maintaining an institution
which shall be truly national, not only in its location, but in all its operations.
Whilst the hopes of this Institute are most elevated for the future, its present pre-
tentions are truly humble. It does not claim to have established the character or
assumed the position of a scientific institution; it does not pretend to teach the men
of science of the nation, but seeks instruction from them, and appeals to them, for
light, and aid, and encouragement. It asks them to come forward in a patriotic
spirit, and make this Institute worthy of the great nation at the seat of whose Gov-
ernment it is placed, and where only the now scattered lights of American science
can converge at a common centre, and radiate thence throughout the circle of the
whole Union.

Disaster soon befell The National Institution. Many of its founders
and supporters disappeared from public life. The Smithsonian fund,
which it aspired to control, was placed under other authority. The col-
lections and manuscripts of the exploring expeditions were removed from
its custody. The magnificent collections in natural history, ethnology,
and geology, which had accumulated as a result of its wonderful activity
and enthusiam, soon became a burden anda source of danger, for Con-
gress refused the financial aid which its projectors had counted upon as
certain, and which they doubtless would have received but for political
changes not foreseen at the start. Only one annual meeting was held, and
the publication of the bulletin containing its proceedings was its last
creditable effort. It lingered along, and in 1861 went out of existence by
the termination of its charter, having existed for twenty-one years, the
last sixteen of which, inglorious as they were, could not impair the bril-
liancy of its early history.

Not only did it accomplish a great work in preparing the way for
enlightened legislation regarding scientific matters in general, but it
achieved definite and tangible results in connection with the founding of
the Smithsonian Institution, the National Observatory, the National
Museum, the reorganization of the Coast Survey, and the publication of
the reports of the exploring expeditions; and it had, as an attempt will

‘Third Bulletin of the National Institute, 1845, p. 439.
476 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

now be made to show, a direct influence upon the origin of The American
Association for the Advancement of Science.

Several of the most influential members of the Association of Geolo-
gists and Naturalists took part in the general meeting of The National
Institution in 1844—Browne, Locke, Maury, Johnson, Morris, Bailey,
Mather, Haldeman, and Morton. Others, who joined the Association
for the Advancement of Science in its earliest years, were also present,
and saw for themselves the advantages and opportunities afforded by such
gatherings.

The leaven began to work. In the meeting for 1844 there were four
biological and two chemical papers. The Association of Geologists and
Naturalists in 1845 announced that ‘‘a constant effort has been made
to counteract the impression that the objects of the association are
exclusively geological or directed to those cognate subjects only which
have a direct bearing upon that subject,’’ and to throw open its doors
widely for all cultivators of science and the arts who choose to enter.
In 1847, at the eighth meeting, the papers belonged to all branches of
science. Thirty-seven were read, of which nine related to geology,
seven to paleontology, seven to zoology, five to chemistry and physics,
three to anthropology, two to meteorology, one to institutions. *

The new society was born, and it is significant that the name first
adopted was as nearly as possible a combination of the names of the two
parent organizations. The one contributed the first half of the name—
‘“The American Association;’’ the other the second half—‘‘ for the pro-
motion of science.’’ ‘The word ‘‘advancement’’ in place of ‘‘ promotion’’
was substituted afterwards, probably by the first committee on rules.
Even if it were possible it would be scarcely worth while to determine
the proportionate extent of the participation of either of the two socie-
ties in the early history of The American Association. The influence of
The National Institution should, however, have due recognition, and the
fact should not be forgotten that under its auspices, and in the city of
Washington forty-seven vears ago, took place the first national congress
of American men of science.

It seems appropriate that the remaining seven years of the first half
century of The American Association should be devoted by those con-
cerned in the organization of American science to a unification and
concentration of the forces which now, not purposely but actually, are in
part centrifugal. The midsummer meeting of the association this year has
brought around it a cluster of other meetings of kindred bodies. It is
worth the effort to endeavor to induce the other societies of professional
men of science to meet in conjunction with our great association. ‘To
bring this about it might be necessary to hold two meetings in the year—
one in midsummer at some city of hotels, as the seashore or in the

‘American Journal of Science, 2d ser., IV, 1847, p. 428.
The First National Scientific Congress. 477

mountains; another in the winter holidays in some large city, where the
associations would be brought into relationship with local institutions at
the time of greatest activity. A winter meeting would render it possible
for all of the kindred societies of specialists and professional workers to
meet in connection with the association occasionally, or it may be each
year. It would bea glorious occasion if, when the American Associa-
tion in 1898 enters upon the second half of its first century, it should
have actually assumed its natural functions as the central agency for all
American scientific effort,
het irate: ie a bier

a eee esi iiies pee
¥ phar Ves ee ae

Pe
‘ fi ae vane is fuitet nt Bille i

oe
ta
.
‘
i
Ny
ni
ty
i
i
i
~
i
H | .
| }
’ i hes A ts
(bs ) real i aot aha tid te OF
ire
i 1 mips ae eae 2") ¥ Ue
¥ : ’
— ; |
1h | a
7 5 \ Lo }
-
4 . y i J =e) } . i : ee
i) ; bai ow ” oh :
/ ‘ n iy) 1 tos
: r U.
‘ - ae - 4 a = ,
Report of U. S. National Museum, 1897. Part Il. PLaTeE 103.

WILLIAM DWIGHT WHITNEY.
it

THE PUBLISHED WRITINGS OF GEORGE BROWN GOODE,
ISOQ—1S90.

RANDOLPH Tht yD GEAR E,

479

THE PUBLISHED WRITINGS OF GEORGE BROWN GOODE,
1869—1896.

By RANDOLPH ILTYD GEARE,

Chief of Division of Correspondence and Documents.

Thecompilation of the following list of published writings of the late Doctor George
Brown Goode was begun some fifteen years ago, and additions have been made to
it from time to time as each new publication came to my notice. It has been my
endeavor to make the list as complete as I could, although it is quite possible that
some titles may still be omitted. I shall be under obligations to anyone who can
supply additional titles. It has been found convenient to arrange these papers in the
following groups: Papers by George Brown Goode; papers by George Brown Goode
and others; papers edited by George Brown Goode; and papers reviewed by George
Brown Goode.

PAPERS BY GEORGE BROWN GOODE.

1869. Summer Rambles.

College Argus, II, May 27, 1869, p.8s.
1870. Musca et Medica.

College Argus, III, March 2, 1870, p. 149.
1870. College Men in Congress.

College Argus, III, May 4, 1870, p. 180.
1870. The Colleges of the United States.

College Review, New York, June, 1870.
1870. History of Wesleyan University.

College Review, New York, 1870.

Also published in College Argus, IV, October 26, 1870, p. 34; November 9, 1870, p. 49.
1871. Our Museum.

College Argus, IV, March 22, 1871, p. 193.
1871. Rambling.

College Argus, IV, May 3, 1871, p. 210.
1871. The Billfish in Fresh Water.

American Naturalist, V, September, 1871, p. 439.
1871. Stray Glimpses of Old Harvard.

College Argus, V, November 29, 1871, p. 67.
1872. A Sea Bird Inland.

American Naturalist, VI, January, 1872, p. 49.
1873. Animals in the Drinking Water.

Sentinel and Witness, Middletown, Conn., September 18, 1873.
1873. Moon Sickness.

Forest and Stream, I, September 25, 1873, p. 99.
1873. Do Snakes Swallow their Young?

Forest and Stream, 1, October 2, 1873, p. 118.

Reprinted in American Agriculturist, XXXU, November, 1873, pp. 418, 410.
1873. The Urari Poison [Editorial].

Forest and Stream, 1, December 11, 1873, p. 281.

NAT MUS 97, PT 2

31 451
1876.

1876.

Memortal of George Brown Goode.

Mimicry in Snakes.
American Naturalist, VII, December, 1873, p. 747.
On the question ‘‘Do Snakes Swallow their Young?”’
Proceedings of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, XXII 1874,
pp. 176-185. (Portland Meeting.)
Reprinted in separate form.
Snakes Shedding their Skins.
Forest and Stream, 1, January 15, 1874, p. 356.

. Tarpum.

Forest and Stream, II, June 18, 1874, p. 292.

The United States Fish Commission.
American Sportsman, IV, July 25, 1874, p. 266.
Do Alligators Swallow their Young?
Forest and Stream, WI, August 6, 1874, p. 404.
The United States Fish Commission. Fish tales from Noank.
American Sportsman, IV, August 8, 1874, p. 291.
The United States Fish Commission. Dredging on the Coast of Connecticut.
American Sportsman, 1V, August 15, 1874, p. 313.
The United States Fish Commission. Noank—The Laboratory.
American Sportsman, IV, August 22, 1874, p. 273.
The Plagopterinze and the Ichthyology of Utah.
American Sportsman, IV, August 29, 1874, Pp. 333-
Description of two new Species of Fishes from the Bermuda Islands.
American Journal of Science and Arts, VIII, August, 1874, pp. 123-125.
Reprinted in separate form, and also in the Annals and Magazine of Natural History,
London, XIV, 1874, pp. 379-381, and in the Amerzcan Sportsman, IV, August 15, 1874,
PP. 307, 308.
The Orange Filefish ( Cevatacanthus aurantiacus Mitchill) Gill.
American Sportsman, IV, September 5, 1574, p. 353.
United States Fish Commission. The Experiments with Young Shad.
American Sportsman, IV, September 12, 1874, p. 376.
United States Fish Commission. The Fish Laboratory.
American Sportsman, IV, September 19, 1874, pp. 392, 393.
[The Shad and Shad Fishery of the St. Johns River, Florida. ]
Report of the U. S. Commissioner of Fish and Fishertes, Part 11 (1872-73), 1874, pp.
xviii, xlix.
About Snakes’ Eggs.
American Agriculturist, XXXIV, April, 1875, p. 141.
Philadelphia Zoological Garden.
Rod and Gun, May 8, 1875.
Albinoism in Fishes.
Forest and Stream, IV, May 20, 1875, p. 231.
Albino Fishes.
American Naturalist, YX, September, 1875, p. 517.
Parasitism in Fishes, notably in the Case of Avevoortia (Menhaden).
Field and Forest 1, December 1875, p. 53.

’

Notes on the ‘‘Salamander’’ of Florida (Geomys tuza).
Exploration of the Colorado River of the West, by J. W. Powell, Washington, 1875, pp.
281-285. :
Also printed separately with Coues’ Abstract of a Study of the Genera Geomys and
Thomomys.

The Short Pompano ( 7vachynotus ovatus) and the Amber Fish (.Serzo/a sp.).
Forest and Stream, V1, February 17, 1876, p. 20.

Catalogue of the Fishes of the Bermudas. Based chiefly upon the collections
of the United States National Museum.
Bulletin of the U.S. National Museum, No. 5, 1876, pp. (2) 1-82.
Report of U. S. National Museum, 1897. Part Il PLate 104.

ape
The Published Writings of George Brown Goode. 483

1876. International Exhibition, 1876. Board on behalf of the United States Execu-
tive Departments. National Museum, Smithsonian Institution. Collection
to illustrate the Animal Resources of the United States. Classification.
Washington, Government Printing Office, 1876.

Folio, pp. I-10.

1876. International Exhibition, 1876. Board on behalf of the United States Execu-
tive Departments. Classification of the Collections to illustrate the Animal
Resources of the United States. A list of substances derived from the
animal kingdom, with synopsis of the useful and injurious animals, and a
classification of the methods of capture and utilization. Washington, Goy-
ernment Printing Office, 1876.

Octavo, pp. 1-126.
A second edition was printed as Bulletin of the U. S. National Museum, No. 6, 1876,
pp. I-126.
1876. Bermuda and its Fish Markets.
Forest and Stream, V1, March 16, 1876, pp. 83, 84.
1877. Provisional Catalogue of the Fishes of Bermuda. Hamilton, Bermuda.
Octavo, May, 1877, pp. 1-8.
Reprinted in the Bermuda Almanac, 1878-1881 (1881), pp. 116-122.

1877. A Preliminary Catalogue of the Reptiles, Fishes, and Leptocardians of the

Bermudas, with Descriptions of four Species of Fishes believed to be New.
American Journal of Science and Arts, X1V, October, 1877, pp. 289-208.
Reprinted in separate torm: New Haven, 1877, octavo, pp. I-12.

1877. Statistics of American Fisheries. In Documents and Proceedings of the Hal-
ifax Commission, 1877, under the Treaty of Washington of May 8, 1877.
(Washington, 1878. )

First published in Halifax, 1877, as Appendix O to the official record. Also in 7yans-
actions of the American Fish-Cultural Association, 1878, pp, 99-108.

The earliest attempt at a statistical survey of the American fisheries as a whole, being
the foundation of the fishery works of the Tenth Census.

A. Estimated total of American Fisheries for 1876.

B. Product of Weirs arid Traps.

C. Products of Marine Fisheries of Southern Massachusetts and Rhode Island.

D. Products of Marine Fisheries of the Northern Atlantic States.

E. Table showing statistics of the manufactures of menhaden oil and guano in the
United States in the years 1872, 1874, 1875, 1876.

1877. Fifth and Sixth Annual Reports of the Curators of the Museum of Wesleyan
University. Including a history of the Museum from its formation. (First
of the Printed Series.) Middletown, Connecticut. Pelton and King,
Printers and Bookbinders.

1877, octavo, pp. I-30.
1877. Table showing Statistics of the Manufacture of Menhaden Oil and Guano in
the United States in the years 1873, 1874, 1875, 1876.
Halifax Commission, 1877, Appendix O, Table XVII.
1877. [The Bait Problem. ]
Report of the U.S. Commisstoner of Fish and Fisheries, pt. 5, 1877, pp. 960, 961.
A brief note contained in a paper on Artificial Refrigeration by John Gamgee.
1878. Coast Sketches. Provincetown in Summer. Netting Bluefish and Bonitoes.
Forest and Stream, X, March 7, 1878, p. 74, 1878.

1878. Confusion in the names of some of the American fishes of the Herring family

[ Editorial].

Forest and Stream, X, March 7

7, 1878, p. 82.
1878. A Revision of the American Species of the Genus 4vevoortia, with a description
of a New Species from the Gulf of Mexico.
Proceedings of the U. S. National Museum, 1, May 8, 1878, pp. 30-42.
1878. U.S. Commission of Fish and Fisheries. Questions relative to the Cod and
the Cod Fisheries.
1878, pp. 1-4.
A series of 90 questions.
Memorval of George Brown Goode.

Notes on the American Species of the Genus Cybium by Felipe Poey.
Proceedings of the U.S. National Museum, 1, June, 1878, pp. 3-5.
This is a translation from manuscript memoranda of Professor Felipe Poey.

The Clupea tyrannus of Latrobe.
Proceedings of the U. S. National Museum, I, June, 1878, pp. 5, 6.

The Occurrence of Belone latimanus in Buzzards Bay, Massachusetts.
Proceedings of the U. S. National Museum, I, June, 1878, pp. 6, 7.

The Voices of Crustaceans.
Proceedings of the U. S. National Museum, I, June, 1878, pp. 7, 8.
The Occurrence of A/ippocampus antiquorum, or an Allied Form, on Saint
Georges Banks.
Proceedings of the U. S. National Museum, I, July 1, 1878, pp. 45, 46.

. A Study of the Popular Names of the Menhaden.

American Naturalist, XII, November, 1878, pp. 735-739.

Published also in separate form.

The object of this paper was to show the great diversity of its nomenclature in
Colonial days, and the recent gradual dying out of many of the names as a result of
freer communication between the fishermen on different parts of the coast,

The Earliest American Naturalist.
Science News, New York, I, November 1, 1878, pp. 12, 13.

. The Occurrence of the Canada Porcupine in West Virginia.

Proceedings of the U.S. National Museum, 1, December 12, 1878, pp. 264, 265.

Migration of Fishes.
Transactions of the American Fish-Cullural Association, 1878, pp. 27-64, 2 pls.
This paper was read before the American Fish-Cultural Association.

. Seventh Annual Report of the Curators of the Museum of Wesleyan University,

including a Visitors’ Guide to the Museum. (Second of the Printed Series. )
Middletown, Connecticut, 1878.
Octavo, pp. I-24.
Game Fishes of the United States. [Text by G. Brown Goode; Plates bw S. A.
Kilbourne.] New York, Charles Scribner’s Sons, 1879-’S0-’Sr.
Folio, pp. (46), 20 plates and map.

Published in ten parts, each with two plates, lithographs from water color, and four
pages of text.

. The Bermuda Lizard.

Science News, I, January 15, 1879, p.96, and ature, London, XVII, March 28, p. 425.

. A letter on-the Influence of the Moon on Fish.

Forest and Stream, XI, January 16, 1879, p. 485.

American Ichthyology in 1878.
Science News, I, February 1, 1879, pp. 97-100.

. The National Museum Building [ Editorial].

Science News, 1, April 1, 1879, pp. 161-164.
On Two Fishes from the Bermudas, mistakenly described as new by Doctor
Gunther.
Proceedings of the U. S. National Museum, 1, April 22, 1879, pp. 462, 463.
This article appeared also in the American Journal of Science and Arts, XVII, April,
1879, Pp. 340.
Returns of a Circular Relating to the Fish Trade and the Consumption of Fish.
Folio, July, 1879, pp. 1-4.

Executive Proceedings of the United States Senate from which the injunction
of secrecy has been removed. ‘The North American Fisheries. Arrange-
ments with Great Britain. Memoranda in relation to statistics of the fish-
eries of North America, prepared for Senator Edmunds in response to his
request of December 31, 1878.

Congresstonal Record, 1X, No. 89, July 10, 1879, pp. 2-4.
1879.

1879.

18So.
188o.

18So.

18S8o.

188o.

18So.

1880.
1SSo.
18S8o.

188o.

1880.

The Published Writings of George Brown Goode. 485

A Preliminary Catalogue of the Fishes of Saint Johns River and the East
Coast of Florida, with Descriptions of a new Genus and three new Species.
Proceedings of the U. S. National Museum, II, September 19, 1879, pp. 108-121.
The Menhaden.
Scrence News, I, October 1, 1879, pp. 360-363; October 15, 1879, pp. 373-377.
The Gulf Threadfish.
Forest and Stream, XII, November 6, 1879, p. 785.

Eighth Annual Report of the Curators of the Museum of Wesleyan University.

(Third of the Printed Series.) Middletown, Connecticut, 1879.
Octavo, pp. I-17.
Plan of Inquiry into the History and Present Condition of the Fisheries of
the United States. Washington, Government Printing Office, 1879.
Octavo, pp. 54 (2).
Circular tssued by the Tenth Census.
Reprinted in the Report of the U. S. Commtsstoner of Fish and Fishertes, 1880 (1881),
Part 7, pp. I-54.
The Two Kinds of River Herring.
Report of the Commtsstoner of Fisheries of Virginia, Richmond, 1879, p. 14.

The Natural and Economical History of American Menhaden.

Report of the U. S. Commissioner of Fish and Fisheries, pt. 5, 1879, Appendix A, 'pp. 1-529,
pls. I-XXXI (XXX canceled).
A portion of this paper (pp. 194-267) is by Professor W. O. Atwater.

A Study of the Trunk Fishes (Ostraciontidze), with notes upon the American
Species of the Family.

Proceedings of the U.S. National Museum, 11, November 11, 1879, pp. 261-283.

Commercial Statistics of Animal Products in the United States: A Review of
a portion of the Report of the Chief of Statistics for the Fiscal Year ending
June 30, 1877.

Bulletin of the U.S. National Museum, No. 14, 1879, pp. 272-300.

A Distinguished Immigrant. Professor Baird’s European Carp.
American Agriculturist, XX XIX, January, 1880, pp. 13, 14.

[The Berlin Exhibition. ]
New York Times, March 20, 1880.

Internationale Fischerei-Ausstellung, Berlin 1880, Amerikanische Abtheilung.
Verzeichniss der Aussteller, nach dem von dem Deutschen Fischerei- Verein
festgestellten Programme geordnet.

Berlin, April 20, 1880, folio, pp. 1-7.

Contributions to the Gedenk-Blatter zur Eroffnung der Internationalen
Fischerei-Ausstellung zu Berlin 1880.

Berliner Tageblatt, April 20, 1880, evening edition, pp. 3, 4.

Hoch auf seine Majestat der Kaiser.

Berliner Tageblatt, June 17, 1880.

The Use of Agricultural Fertilizers by the American Indians and the Early
English Colonists.

American Naturalist, XIV, July, 1880, pp. 473-479.
Another new Fish on the Atlantic coast (Awaits roche’).
Forest and Stream, XV, August 12, 1880, p. 28.

The Census of the Fisheries. [Through reporter. ]
Newport Mercury, August 14, 1880.

Frigate Mackerel again heard from.
Forest and Stream, XV, August 26, 1880, p. 68.

The Turbot and Sole in America [Editorial].

Forest and Stream, XV, September 9g, 1880, pp. 103, 104.

New Fish [He/orus voraginorum].

Forest and Stream, XV, September 9g, 1880, p. 109.
486 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

1880, Description of Seven New Species of Fishes from Deep Soundings on the
Southern New England Coast, with Diagnoses of two undescribed Genera

of Flounders, and a Genus related to Werlucius.
Proceedings of the U.S. National Museum, III, November 23, 1880, pp. 337-350.

1880. The Frigate Mackerel, dwais rochei, on the New England Coast.
Proceedings of the U.S. National Museum, III, April 18, 1881, p. 532.
Published also in the American Naturalist, XIV, November, 1880, pp. 808-810.

1880. Address before the United States Menhaden Oil and Guano Association.
Seventh Annual Report of the Menhaden O1l and Guano Association, 1880, pp. 3-7.
This address was printed also in the O7/, Paint, and Drug Reporter, New York, XVII,
1880, pp. 61, 62.

1880. [Statistics of the Fisheries of the United States in 1880. ]
Compendium of the Tenth Census, Part 2, Table CvI, pp. 1402, 1403.
Reprinted in Bulletin of the U. S. Fish Commission, III, pp. 270, 271.
Printed also in Fishery Industries of the United States and in Part A of the Official
Catalogue of the London Fisheries Exhibition.

1880, International Fishery Exhibition, Berlin, 1880. Exhibit of the Fisheries and
Fish Culture of the United States of America at the Internationale Fischerei-
Ausstellung, held at Berlin, April 20, 1880, and forming a part of the
collections of the National Museum, made by the United States Fish

Commission.
Bulletin of the U.S. National Museum, No. 18, 1880, pp. 1-263.

1880. Perrywinkle and Pinnywinkle.

Angler's Note Book and Naturalist’s Record, London, 1881, p. 187.

In comment upon a statement in Professor Keat’s article on Anglo-Saxon Fish
Names.

1880. Das erste Jahrzehnt der Wirksamkeit der Fisch-Kommission der Vereinigten
Staaten, ihre Geschichte, ihr System und ihre Arbeiten fiir die Wissenschaft
und die offentliche Wohlfahrt. Vollstandige Uebersicht tiber eine Musterver-
waltung.

Circular Deutschen Fischeret-Verein, Berlin, 1880, pp. 190-197.

Also in Oesterreichisch-Ungarische Fischerei-Zeitung, Vienna, IV, 1881, pp. 7, 15, 20
(Jan. 1,8, 15).

1880, A short Biography of the Menhaden, an abstract of ‘‘A History of the Menha-
dens”

Octavo, pp. 15 (1). 1880.

Read before the Saratoga meeting of the American Association for the Advancement
of Science and the Chicago meeting of the Central Fish Cultural Association, and in
an extended form before the New York meeting of the United States Menhaden Oil
and Guano Association.

Printed also in the Proceedings of the American Association for the Advancement of
Science, XXVIII, 1880, pp. 425-437. (Saratoga meeting).

1881. The Saibling or Bavarian Char.

Forest and Stream, XVI, February 17, 1881, pp. 50, 51.

1881. Notacanthus phasganorus, a new species of Notacanthidee from the Grand
Banks of Newfoundland.

Proceedings of the U.S. National Museum, III, April 18, 1881, pp. 535-537.

1881. Fishermen of America.

New York Daily Tribune, June 23, 1881.

1881. Preliminary Statistical Report on the Fisheries of California, Oregon, Wash-
ington, and Alaska.

Census Bulletin, No. 176, folio, June, 1881, pp.6 (2).

1881. Plan of Organization and Regulations.

Circular of the U.S. National Museum, No.1, October 1, 1881, pp. 1-58.

1881. A Provisional Classification of the Food Collection.

Circular of the U.S. National Museum, No, 11, October 1, 1881, pp. 1-22.
Report of U. S. National Museum, 1897. Part Il. PLATE 105.

HUGH WILLIAMSON.
The Published Writings of George Brown Goode. 487

1881. Note onarticle by Captain E. T. Deblois on the origin of the menhaden industry.
Bulletin U.S. Fish Commisston, I, 881 (1882), p. 46.

1881. Letter to the Society of American Taxidermists.
First Annual Report of the American Taxidermists, 1880-1881, Rochester, 1881, p. 17.

1881. Epochs in the History of Fish Culture.

Transactions of the American Fish-Cultural Association, 1881, pp. 34-57:

Reprinted in forest and Stream, XVI, pp. 311, 332, 353-

Published also in Report of the U. S. Commission of Fish and Fisheries, pt. 7, 1880.

Extracts from this paper appeared in a memorial presented by the Council of the
Scotch Fisheries Improvement Association to the Under Secretary of State and Her
Majesty’s Lord Advocate for Scotland, asking for legislation forthe protection of the
salmon and trout fisheries. The memorial was printed separately in the Third
Annual Report of the Council, Edinburgh, May, 1583, pp. 41-43.

1881. The Carangoid Fishes of the United States, Pompanoes, Crevalles, Amber-
fishes, etc.
Bulletin of the U.S. Fish Commission, I, 1881 (1882), pp. 30-43.

1881. Notes on the Life-history of the Eel, chiefly derived from a Study of Recent
European Authorities.
Bulletin of the U.S. Fish Commitsston, I, 1881 (1882) pp. 71-124.
Reprinted in Zransactions of the American Fish-Cuiiural Association, 1881, pp. 81-123.

1881. The First Decade of the United States Fish Comunission, Its Plan of Work
and Accomplished Results, Scientific and Economical.
Proceedings of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, XXIX, 1881,
Ppp. 563-574. (Boston meeting.) - °
Published also in ature, London, XXII, October 21, 1880, pp. 597-599; Smethsonian
Report, 1880, pp. 140-149; Report of the U. S. Fish Commission, pt. 8, 1880 (1883), pp.
53-62; Bulletin U.S. Fish Commission, I, 1882 (1883), pp. 169-178, and as a separate,
pp. I-14.

1881. Fishes from the Deep Water on the South Coast of New England, obtained by

the United States Fish Commission in the summer of IS8o.
Proceedings of the U.S. National Museum, UII, 1881, pp. 467-486.

1881. The Fishermen of the United States.
Transactions of the Anthropological Society of Washington, I, 1581, pp. 62-66.
This paper was printed in abstract only.

1881. Natural History of the Mackerel.
Report of the U.S. Commtsstoner of Fish and Fisheries, 1881 (1584), pp. 93-138.
A brief paper on this subject was published in the Proceedings of the Biological Society
of Washington, I, 1882, p. 32.
First chapter of materials for a History of the Mackerel Fishery.
1882. The Eel Question.
Forest and Stream, XVIII, 1882, March 2, pp. 91-93; March 9, pp. 111-113; March 16, pp.
$32, 133:
1881. The Taxonomonic Relations and Geographical Distribution of the Members of
the Sword Fish Family, Xiphiidee.
Proceedings of the U.S. National Museum, IV, April 25, 1882, pp. 415-433.
1882. Outline of a Scheme of Museum Classification.
Circular of the U.S. National Museum, No. 13, April to, 1882, pp. 1-4.
Notice of reading with abstract and remarks in 7yvansactions of the Anthropological
Society of Washington, 11, 1883, pp. 5-7-
1883. Note on the Lampreys ( Petromyzontide ).
Bulletin of the U.S. Fish Commission, 11, 1882 (1883), pp. 349-354.
1883. The generic names Ammitrva and 7hyris replaced.
Proceedings of the U.S. National Museum, V1, July 27, 1883, p. 109.
1883. On the Fisher‘es of the World.
Cyclopedia of Political Economy, by J. L. Lalor, Chicago, I, 1883, pp. 211-231.
1883.

1883.

1883.

1883.

1883.

1883,

1883.

1883.

Memorial of George Brown Goode.

. The International Fisheries Exhibition.

Science, I, May 25, 1883, pp. 447-450; June 22, pp. 564, 565; II, August 3, pp. 179-131;
November 9, pp. 612-615, with illustrations.

. The Uses of the Round Clam in the United States.

Papers of the Conferences, International Fisheries Exhibition, tondon, June 21, 1883,
Pp. 19, 20.

. Salmon Culture in the United States.

Papers of the*Conferences, International Fisheries Exhtbition, London, June 21, 1883,
Ppp. 28, 29.
On the Land-locked Salmon.
Papers of the Conferences, International Fisheries Exhibition, Tondon, June 21, 1883,
Ppp. 29-31.
A review of the Fishery Industries of the United States and the work of the
U.S. Fish Commission.
Papers of the Conferences, International Fisheries Exhibition, London, June 25, 1883,

pp. 1-84.
Also in The Fisheries Exhibition Literature, London, 1889, V, pp. 3-82.

3. The Suitability of the Black Bass for Introduction into England. Letter to

R. B. Marston, esq.
Papers of the Conferences, International Fishertes Exhibition, London, June 29, 1883,
pp. 18, 19.
Recent Progress of the Canadian Fisheries.
Papers of the Conferences, International Fishertes Eahibition, Tondon, July 2, 1883,
PP. 46, 47.
American Investigations upon the Food of Fishes.
Papers of the Conferences, International Fisheries Exhibition, tonudon, July 12, 1883,
PP. 29-33.

. The Development of the American Mackerel Fisheries.

Papers of the Conferences, International Fishertes Exhibitton, London, July 13, 1883.
PP. 30-32.

3. The Successes of Fish Culture in the United States and Canada.

Papers of the Conferences, International Fisheries Exhibition, ondon, July 17, 1883,

PP. 27-29.

. The Scientific Results of the Fisheries Exhibition.

Papers of the Conferences, International Fishertes Exhibition, London, July 20, 1883,
Pprstsi32:

Importance of Forest Protection to Fish Culture in the United States.
Papers of the Conferences, International Fishertes Exhibition, ondon, July 20, 1883,
PP- 13, 14.

On the Methods of Protection of Fisheries.
Papers of the Conferences, International Fisheries Exhtbition, London, July 27, 1883,
PD. 36-38.

Bibliographies of American Naturalists. I. The Published Writings of Speucer
Fullerton Baird, 1843-1882.

Bulletin of the U.S. National Museum, No. 20, 1883, pp. i-xvi, 1-377.

The Fisheries of the United States.
Official Catalogue, Great International Fishertes Exhibition, Tondon, 1883, Ist ed.,
pp. 283-285; 2d ed., pp. 189-191.
Reprinted in separate form.

Materials for a History of the Sword Fishes.

Report of the U.S. Commisstoner of Fish and Fishertes, 1880 (1883), Pt. VIII, pp. 287-394;
Plates I-XXIV.

Published also in separate form, pp. 1-106, and in the 7ransactions of the American
Fish-Cultural Association (Eleventh Annual Meeting), 1882, pp. 84-150. Forest and
Stream, XVIII, 1882, June 22, p. 410; July 20, p. 492; XIX, 1882, August 17, p. 52;
August 24, p. 70; August 31, pp. 91, 92; September 7, pp. 111, 112; September 14, pp.
132, 133; September 21, pp. 149, 150; October 5, p. 193; October 19, pp. 231, 232.
1883.

18$4.

18$4.

1884.

TS&4.
1884.
1884.
1884.

1884.

1884.

1884.

1884.

1885.

1885.

1855.

1885.

1885.

The Published Writings of George Brown Goode. 489

Great International Fisheries Exhibition, London, 1883. United States of
America. A preliminary catalogue and synopsis of the collections exhibited
by the U.S. Fish Commission and by special exhibitors, with a concordance
to the official classification of the exhibition. Washington, Government
Printing Office, 1883.

Octavo, pp. I-107.
The Aims and Limitations of Modern Fish-culture.
Scrence, 111, No. 54, February 15, 1884, p. 208.

The discussion by the American Ornithologists’ Union of the system of
zoological nomenclature.

Sctence, III, No. 56, February 29, 1884, pp. 241, 242.

The Exploring Voyage of H. M. S. Challenger.

Science, III, No. 66, May 9, 1884, p. 576; IV, No. 79, August 8, 1884, p. 116; No. 82, August
29, 1884, p. 176.
The Invention of the Vertical Camera in Photography.

Sctence, III, No. 70, June 6, 1884, p. 672.

Professor Gill on the Assumptions of Museum Keepers.
Sctence, III, No. 71, June 13, 1884, p. 703.

An Ocean Monarch.
The Chautauguan, IV, 1883-1884, pp. 582-584.

The Whales and Porpoises.

The Fishertes and Fishery Industries of the United States, Section 1, Pt. 1, 1884, pp. 7-32.

The Food Fishes of the United States.

The Fisheries and Fishery Industrtes of the United States, Section I, Pt. 11, 1884, pp.
163-682, 218 plates.

The Status of the United States Fish Commission in 1884. A review of what
has been accomplished in fish culture and the investigation of the American
Fisheries.

Report of the U.S. Commtsstoner of Fish and Fishertes, 1884, pp. 1139-1180.
Printed also in separate form, pp. I-42.
Fishery Treaties.
Cyclopedia of Political Economy, Chicago, ITT, 1884, pp. 941-944.
The Oyster Industry of the World.
Bulletin of the U.S. Fish Commisston, IV, 1884, pp. 468, 460.
This paper was also printed in the 7ransactions of the American Fish-Cultural A ssocta-
tion, 1884, pp. 146-148, and an abstract was published in .Sezence, III, No. 71, June 13,
1884, Pp. 720. if
The Smithsonian Institution.
The Chautauguan, V, February, 1885, pp. 275-279.

. The Art of Fish-culture.

The Chautauquan, V, April, 1885, pp. 404-407; May, 1885, pp. 470-472.
De Forenede Nord Amerikanske Staters Fiskeritilsyn.
Fiskeritidende, Copenhagen, No. 15, April 14, 1885, pp. 133-135; No. 17, April 28, 1885,
PP. 149, 150.
A Brief Biography of the Halibut.
American Naturalist, XIX, October, 1855, pp. 953-069.
Printed also in separate form.

The Care of Pamphlets.

Science, VI, No. 141, October 16, 1885, p. 337.

Abstract in Bulletin of the Philosophical Society of Washington, VIII, 1885, p. 29.
The Oyster Industry.

Encyclopedia Britannica, 9th ed., XVIII, 1885, pp. 107-110.

Pisciculture.
Encyclopedia Britannica, 9th ed., XIX, 1885, pp. 126-120.
490
1886.

1886.

1887.

1887.

1887.

1887.

1887.

1888.

1888.
1888.

1888.

Memorial of George Brown Goode.

The Beginnings of Natural History in America. An address delivered at the

sixth anniversary meeting of the Biological Society of Washington.
Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington, III, 1884-1886, pp. 35-105.

The National Museum.
The Chautauguan, V1, 1885-1886, pp. 155-158; 283, 284; 333, 3343 526-528.

Scientific Men and Institutions in America.
The Epoch, New York, I, June 24, 1887, pp. 467-469.
On the inadequacy of the organization of science in the United States.

Provisional Regulations of the U. S. Commission of Fish and Fisheries.
Circular U.S. Commission of Fish and Fisheries, No. 2, November 1, 1887,pp. I-12.

An interesting Dialogue, in 1676, between Bacon, ‘‘the Rebel,’’ and John
Goode, of ‘‘ Whitby.”’
Magazine of American History, XVII, November, 1887, pp. 418-422.
Contains a paper, previously unpublished, recorded in the Colonial Entry Book (1on-
don), LXXI, pp. 232-240, with comments upon Bacon's attitude toward Governor
Berkeley and the King.

Virginia Cousins. A study of the Ancestry and Posterity of John Goode, of
Whitby, a Virginia Colonist of the Seventeenth Century, with Notes upon
Related Families; a Key to Southern Genealogy [etc.]. With a preface by
R. A. Brock. Richmond, Virginia: J. W. Randolph and English, 1887.

Small quarto, pp. i-xxxvi, 1-526. Many illustrations.

Reviewed in Magazine of American History, XXI, pp. 174, 175; New England Historic-
Genealogical Register, Southern Churchman, September 6, 1888; Central Presbyterian,
Richmond, September 12, 1888; Gloucestershire (England) Votes and Queries, January,
1889.

In the study of the American branch of the family an attempt has been made to
trace in female as well as male lines all the descendants for eight generations of a
Virginia colonist who settled on the frontier near the falls of the James about 1659.

Incidentally, in connection with the index, a key is given to the literature of all
Southern genealogy, and a catalogue of Virginia families which claimed the right
to use coats of arms.

The Swordfish Fishery.
The Fisheries and Fishery Industries of the United States, Section V, Pt. 4, 1887, pp.
315-326.

The Beginnings of American Science. The Third Century. An address
delivered at the eighth anniversary meeting of the Biological Society of
Washington, by G. Brown Goode, President of the Society, Washington.
Printed for the Society, 1888.

Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington, IV, 1886-88, pp. 9-94.

Memories of Professor Baird.
The Chautauquan, IX, October, 1888, pp. 21-24.

[A brief Biographical Sketch of Professor Baird. ]
Report of the Smithsonian Institution, 1888, pp. 79-89.

American Fishes: A popular treatise upon the Game and Food Fishes of
North America, with special reference to habits and methods of capture.
New York, Standard Book Company, 1888.

Royal octavo, pp. I-XV, 1-496.

Reviewed in Science, June 1; The New York Tribune, June 12; The New York Times,
June 17; The Epoch, June 29; The Nation, June 21; The New York Evening Post,
July 10; Popular Sctence Monthly, August; Forest and Stream, July 5; American
Angler, July; American Naturalist, August; The New York Star, July 15; The New
York Sun, May 27; Magazine of American History, August; The New York Journal,
August 12; The San Francisco Breeder and Sportsman, July 21; Shooting and Fishing,
November 8; Zhe Spectator, London, June, 1889; Nature, London, 1888, etc.

1889. The Depths of the Ocean.

Allantic Monthly, XIII, January, 1889, pp. 124-128.
Report of U.S. National Museum, 1897. Part Il. PLATE 106.

ALEXANDER WILSON.
1889.

1890.

1Sgo.

1S9gI.

ISQI.

1891.

1892.

The Published Writings of George Brown Goode. 491

Museum History and Museums of History.
Papers of the American Historical Assoctation, III, No. 2, pp. 252-275.
This paper was read before the American Historical Association, December, 1588.
Reprint: New York, The Knickerbocker Press, 1889, octavo, pp. 252-275.

The Color of Fishes. (Read at the Philadelphia meeting of the American
Fisheries Society, May 16, 1Sgo. )

Science, XV, No. 374, April 4, 1890, pp. 211-213, 3 text-figures.
Reprinted in 7vansactions of the American Fisheries Soctety.

The Literary Labors of Benjamin Franklin. (Address delivered before the
American Philosophical Society at the commemoration of the tooth anni-
versary of its illustrious founder and first President, April 17, 18go. )

Proceedings of the American Philosophical Society, XXVIII, 1890, No. 133, April 17, 1890,
PP. 177-197
Printed also as a separate; pp. I-21.

First Draft of a System of Classification for the World’s Columbian Exposi-
tion. Prepared at the request of the Commission by G. Brown Goode,
Assistant Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. Printed privately for
the World’s Columbian Commission, Chicago, 18go.

Reprinted in the Report of the Smithsonian Institution (U.S. National Museum), 1891
(1892), pp. 649-735.
The Origin of the National Scientific and Educational Institutions of the
United States.
Papers of the American Hrstorical Association, lV, 1890, pp. 53-161.
Reprinted with additions in the Report of the American Historical Assoctation, 1889
(1890), pp. 53-161, and as a separate.

The Museums of the Future.

Report of the Smithsonian Institution (U.S. National Museum), 1889 (1891), pp. 427-445.

An address delivered before the Brooklyn Institute, February 28, 1SSo.

Extracts were printed in the Public Library Bulletin, os Angeles, I, March, 1892,
PP- 54; 55:

Washington’s University a Nation’s Debt of Honor.

Lend a Hand, VII, No. 6, December, 1891, pp. 394-400.

Read at a meeting of the general committee of the Pan-Republic Congress, held in
the Academy of Music, Philadelphia, on October 13, 1891.

An abstract was published in A Memorial in regard to a National University, by John
W. Hoyt, Washington, 1892, pp. tog, 110.

Bibliographies of American Naturalists. V.—The Published Writings of Dr.
Charles Girard.

Bulletin of the U.S. National Museum, No. 41, 1891, pp. I-VI, 1-141, 1 plate.

The First National Scientific Congress (Washington, April, 1844) and its Con-
nection with the Organization of the American Association.

Proceedings of the American Association for the Advancement of Sctence, X1¥,, 1892,
Ppp. 39-47. (Washington Meeting.)

The Genesis of the National Museum.

Report of the Smithsonian Institution (U.S. National Museum), 1891 (1893), pp. 273-380.
Printed also as a separate.

The Relation of Scientific Research to Economic Problems. An Address

Delivered before the World’s Fisheries Congress, Chicago, 1893.
Bulletin of the U.S. Fish Commission, 1893, Art. 8, pp. 49-58.

Printed also asa separate.

Museums and Good Citizenship.
Public Opinion, XVII, No. 31, November 1, 1894, p. 758.
America’s Relation to the Advancement of Science.

Science (new series), I, No. 1, January 4, 1895, pp. 4-9.

The Ideal Index to Scientific Literature.
Science (new series), I, No. 16, April 19, 1895, pp. 433-437.
492 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

1895. The Relationships and Responsibilities of Museums.
Sctence (new series), II, No. 34, August 23, 1895, pp. 197-209.
1895. The Smithsonian Institution.
Johnson’s Universal Cyclopedia, New York, 1895, VII, pp. 583-585.
1895. An Account of the Smithsonian Institution, its Origin, History, Objects, and
Achievements. Washington. For Distribution at Atlanta, 1895.
Octavo, pp. 1-38, 6 plates.
1895. The Principles of Museum Administration.
Stxrth Annual Report of Proceedings of the Museums Association, 1895, pp. 69-141.
Reprinted as a separate, pp. I-73.
1895. The Exhibit of the Smithsonian Institution at the Cotton States Exposition,
Atlanta, 1895. Washington. For distribution at the Atlanta Exposition,
1895.
Octavo, pp. I-40, pl. I.
1896. On the Classifications of Museums.
Sctence (new series), III, No. 57, January 31, 1896, pp. 154-161.

1896. A Memorial Appreciation of Charles Valentine Riley.
Sezence (new series), III, No. 59, February 14, 1896, pp. 217-225
Also issued separately. :

1896. Admission of American Students to the French Universities.
Sctence (new series), III, No. 62, March 6, 1896, pp. 341-344.
1896. The Reception of Foreign Students in French Universities and Schools.
Science (new series), III, No. 65, March 27, 1896, pp. 467-470.
1896. Robert Edward Karll. :
Science (new series), III, No. 65, March 27, 1896, pp. 471, 472.
1896. Bibliography of the Published Writings of Philip Lutley Sclater, F. R. S.,
Secretary of the Zoological Society of London.
Bulletin of the U.S. National Museum, No. 49, 1896, pp. I-XIX, 1-135, I plate.
1896. The Iacoe Collection in the National Museum.
Scrence (new series), IV, No. 79, July 3, 1896, p. 8.
1896. Philip Lutley Sclater.
Science (new series), IV, No. 83, September 4, 1896, pp. 293-208.
_1897. ' The Founding of the [Smithsonian] Institution.
The Smithsonian Institution, 1846-1896 (1897), pp. 25-58.
1897. ‘The Establishment and the Board of Regents [of the Smithsonian Institution].
The Smithsonian Institution, 1846-1896 (1897), pp. 59-114.
1897. 'The Three Secretaries [of the Smithsonian Institution].
The Smithsonian Institution, 1846-1896 (1897), pp. 115-234.

1897. ‘The Smithsonian Building and Grounds.
The Smithsonian Institution, 1846-1896 (1897), pp. 247-264.

REPORTS OF GEORGE BROWN GOODE AS ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF THE U. S.
NATIONAI, MUSEUM? (1881-1886) AND AS ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF THE SMITH-
SONIAN INSTITUTION IN CHARGE OF U. S. NATIONAI, MUSEUM (1887-1896).

1883. Report of the Assistant Director of the U. S. National Museum for 1881.
Report of the Smithsonian Institution, 1881 (1883), pp. 81-159.
Reviewed in .Sczence, Boston, II, 1883, pp. 63-66; 119-123.

1884. Report of the Assistant Director of the U. S. National Museum for 1882.
Report of the Smithsonian Institution, 1882 (1884), pp. 119-263.
1885. Report of the Assistant Director and of the Curators of the U.S. National

Museum for 1883.
Report of the Smithsonian Institution, 1883 (1885), pp. 161-360.

t These articles, which were chapters in the History of the First Half Century of the Smithsonian
Institution, did not appear until after Doctor Goode’s death.
2 Published also in separate form.
The Published Writings of George Brown Goode. 493

1886. Report upon the Condition and Progress of the U. S. National Museum for
1884.
Report of the Smithsonian Institution (U.S. National Museum), 1584 (1886), pp. 1-72
1887. Report upon the Condition and Progress of the U. S. National Museum during

the half year ending June 30, 1885.
Report of the Smithsonian Institution (U.S, National Museum), 1885 (1887), pp. 1-264.

188g. Report upon the Condition and Progress of the U.S. National Museum during
the year ending June 30, 1856.
Report of the Smithsonian Institution (U.S. National Museum), 1886 (1889), pp. 1-83.
1889. Report upon the Condition and Progress of the U.S. National Museum during
the year ending June 30, 1887.
Report of the Smithsonian Institution (U.S. National Museum), 1887 (1889), pp. 1-62.
1890. Report upon the Condition and Progress of the U. S. National Museum during
the year ending June 30, 1888.
Report of the Smithsonian Institution (U.S, National Museum), 1888 (1890), pp. 1-84.
189i. Report upon the Condition and Progress of the U. S. National Museum during
the year ending June 30, 1889.
Report of the Smithsonian Institution (U.S, National Museum), 1889 (1891), pp. 1-277.
18g1. Report upon the Condition and Progress of the U.S. National Museum during
the year ending June 30, 1Sgo.
Report of the Smithsonian Institution (U.S, National Museum), 1890 (1891), pp. 1-116.
1892. Report upon the Condition and Progress of the U.S. National Museum during
the year ending June 30, 1891.
Report of the Smithsonian Institution (U.S. National Museum), 18g1 (1892), pp. 1-131.
1893. Report upon the Condition and Progress of the U.S. National Museum during
the year ending June 30, 1892.
Report of the Smithsonian Institution (U.S, National Museum), 1592 (1893), pp. 1-97.
1895. Report upon the Condition and Progress of the U. S. National Museum during
the year ending June 30, 1893.
Report of the Smithsonian Institution (U.S. National Museum), 1893 (1895), pp. 1-334, pls.
I-59.
1896. * Report upon the Condition and Progress of the U.S. National Museum during
the year ending June 30, 1894.
Report of the Smithsonian Institution (U.S. National Museum), 1894 (15896), pp. 1-233.
1898. * Report upon the Condition and Progress of the U.S. National Museum during
the year ending June 30, 1895.
Report of the Smithsonian Institution (U.S. National Museum), 1895 (1898), pp. 1-308.
1899. * Report upon the Condition and Progress of the U.S. National Museum during
the year ending June 30, 1896.
Report of the Smithsonian Institution (U.S. National Museum), 1896 (1899), pp. 1-284.

PAPERS BY GEORGI, BROWN GOODE AND OTHERS.

GooDE, G. Brown, and ATWATER, W. O. American Fisheries. A History of the
Menhaden, with an Account of the Agricultural Uses of Fish, and an introduc-
tion, bringing the subject down to date. 30 plates. New York, 1880, Orange
Judd Company.

Octavo, pp. i-x (1), ITI-XII, {-529 (1).
Reviewed in Nature, London, XXII, 1880, August 12, p. 335.

GoobE, G. Brown, and BEAN, T. H. Descriptions of two New Species of Fishes
(Macrurus bairdti and Lycodes verrillit) recently discovered by the U. S. Fish
Comission, with notes upon the occurrence of several unusual forms.

American Journal of Science and Arts (3) XIV, December, 1877, pp. 470-478.
Also issued as a separate, octavo, pp. 10 (17, 470-478).

Noticed in Nature, London, XVII, 1877-78, January 10, p. 213.

1 Posthumous.
494 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

GooprE, G. Brown, and BEAN, T. H. The Craig Flounder of Europe, Glypto-
cephalus cynoglossus, on the Coast of North America.

Proceedings of the U.S. National Museum, I, May 8, 1878, pp. 19-23.
Goopbk, G. Brown, and BEAN, IT. H. The Oceanic Bonito on the Coast of the United
States,

Proceedings of the U.S. National Museum, I, July 1, 1878, pp. 24-26.

Goopk, G. Brown, and BEAN, T. H. Description of Caw/olatilus microps, a New
Species of Fish from the Gulf Coast of Florida.

Proceedings of the U.S. National Museum, I, July 1, 1878, pp. 42-45.

GoopE, G. Brown, and BEAN, T. H. On a New Serranoid fish, “pinephelus drum-
mond-hayt, from the Bermudas and Florida.

Proceedings of the U.S. National Museum, I, October 2, 1878, PP. 173-175.

Goopk, G. Brown, and BEAN, T. H. Descriptions of two New Species of Fishes,
Lutjanus blackfordti and Lutjanus stearnsti, from the Coast of Florida.

Proceedings of the U.S. National Museum, I, October 4, 1878, pp. 176-181.

Goopbk, G. Brown, and BEAN, T. H. A Note on the Black Grouper (Zpinephelus
nigritus (Holbrook) Gill) of the Southern Coast.

Proceedings of the U. S. National Museum, I, October 15, 1878, pp. 182-184.

Goon, G. Brown, and BEAN, T. H. Descriptions of two Gadoid Fishes, Phycis
chestert and Flaloporphyrus viola, from the Deep-sea Fauna of the Northwestern
Atlantic.

Proceedings of the U.S. National Museum, 1, December 17, 1878, pp. 256-260.

Goopr, G. Brown, and BEAN, T.H. Description of Argentina syrtensium, a New
Deep-sea Fish from Sable Island Bank.

Proceedings of the U.S. Natronal Museum, 1, December 17, 1878, pp. 261-263.

GoobE, G. Brown, and BEAN, T. H. Discoveries of the U. S. Fish Commission.
Notices of fifty Species of East-Coast Fishes, many of which are new tc the Fauna.

American Journal of Sctence and Arts, XVII, January, 1879, pp. 39-48.
Also issued as a separate.

Goopbk, G. Brown, and BEAN, T.H. The Identity of Rhimonemus caudacuta (Storer)
Gill, with Gadus cimbrius Lannzeus.

Proceedings of the U.S. National Museum, I, February 14, 1879, pp. 348, 349.

Goopk, G. Brown, and BEAN, T. H. Note on Platessa ferruginea D. H. Storer, and
Platessa rostrata H. R. Storer.

Proceedings of the U. S. National Museum, I, February 14, 1879, pp. 361, 362.

Goopr, G. Brown, and BEAN, T. H. On the Identity of Brosmius americanus Gill
with Brosmius brosme (Muller) White.

Proceedings of the U.S. National Museum, I, March to, 1879 pp. 362, 363.

GoopvkE, G. Brown, and BEAN, T. H. Description of a Species of Lycodes (L. paxitl-
/us) obtained by the U. S. Fish Commission.

Proceedings of the U.S. National Museum, 11, May 23, 1879, pp. 44-46.

Goopr, G. Brown, and BEAN, T. H. Description of a New Species of Ziparis (L.
ranula) obtained by the U. S. Fish Commission off Halifax, Nova Scotia.

Proceedings of the U.S. National Museum, 11, May 23, 1879, pp. 46-48.

Goopk, G. Brown, and BEAN, T. H. Description of a New Species of Amber Fish

(.Seriola stearnsit) obtained near Pensacola, Florida, by Mr. Silas Stearns.
Proceedings of the U.S. National Museum, I, July 1, 1879, pp. 48-51.

Goopr, G. Brown, and BEAN, T. H. Description of Alepocephalus bairdii, a New

Species of Fish from the Deep-sea Fauna of the Western Atlantic.
Proceedings of the U.S. Nattonal Museum, 11, July 10, 1879, pp. 55-57.

Goop&, G. Brown, and BEAN, T. H. Catalogue of a Collection of Fishes sent from
Pensacola, Florida, and vicinity, by Mr. Silas Stearns, with Descriptions of six
New Species.

Proceedings of the U.S. National Museum, 1, September 19, November 5, 1879, pp. 121-156.
PLATE 107.

II

i

The Published Ut ‘ritings of George Brown Goode. 495

Goong, G. Brown, and BEAN, T. H. Description of a New Genus and Species of
Fish, Lopholatilus chameleonticeps, from the South Coast of New England.

Proceedings of the U. S. National Museum, 11, November 5, 1879, pp. 205-209.

Goopk, G. Brown, and BEAN, T. H. On the Occurrence of Lycodes vahlii Rein-
hardt on La Have and Grand Banks.

Proceedings of the U.S. Nattonal Museum, 11, December 6, 1870, pp. 209, 210.

Goong, G. Brown, and BEAN, T. H. A Catalogue of the Fishes of Essex County,
Massachusetts, including the Fauna of Massachusetts Bay and the contiguous
Deep Waters.

Bulletin of the Essex Institute, X1, 1879, pp. 1-38.

Also published separately under the following title: A List of the Fishes of Essex County,
including those of Massachusetts Bay, according to the latest Results of the Work of
the U. S. Fish Commission. (From the Audletin of the Essex Institute, XI.) Salem,
Printed at the Salem Press, 1879. Octavo, pp. (2) 38.

GoopE, G. Brown, and BEAN, T. H. Catalogue of a Collection of Fishes obtained
in the Gulf of Mexico, by Doctor J. W. Velie, with Descriptions of seven New
Species.

Proceedings of the U.S. Nattonal Museum, 11, March 25, 1880, pp. 333-345.

GoopE, G. Brown, and BEAN, T. H. Description of a New Species of Fish (.lpogonx
pandionts) from the Deep Waters off the Mouth of the Chesapeake Bay.

Proceedings of the U.S. National Museum, IV, August 11, 1851, pp. 160, 161.

GoopDE, G. Brown, and BEAN, T. H. Senthodesmus, a New Genus of Deep-sea
Fishes, allied to Lepidopus.

Proceedings of the U.S. Nattonal Museum, IV, December 30, 1881, pp. 379-3583.

GooDE, G. Brown, and BEAN, T. H. A List of the [296] Species of Fishes recorded
as occurring in the Gulf of Mexico.

Proceedings of the U. S. National Museum, V, July 29, 1882, pp. 234-240.

GoopE, G. Brown, and BEAN, T. H. Descriptions of Twenty-five New Species of
Fish from the Southern United States, and three new Genera, /etharcius,
Loglossus, and Chrtodorus.

Proceedings of the U.S. National Museum, V, September 12, 1882, pp. 412-437.

GOoopE, G. Brown, and BEAN, T. H. Reports on the results of dredging, under the
supervision of Alexander Agassiz, on the east coast of the United States during
the summer of 1880 by the U. S. Coast Survey Steamer 4/ake, Commander J. R.
Bartlett, U. S. N., commanding. Published by permission of Carlile P. Patter-
son and J. E. Hilgard, Superintendents of the U. S. Coast and Geodetic Survey.
XTX.—Report on the Fishes.

Bulletin of the Museum of Comparative Zoology at Harvard College, X, No. 5, April, 1883,
pp. 183-226.

Goopk, G. Brown, and BEAN, T. H. Notes on some Florida Fishes.
Proceedings of the U.S. National Museum, VII, June 3, 1884, pp. 42-47.
GooDkE, G. Brown, and BEAN, T. H. On the American Fishes in the Linnean
Collection.
Proceedings of the U.S. National Museum, VIII, June §, 1855, pp. 193-208.
GoopE, G. Brown, and BEAN, T. H. Description of Leplophidium cervinum and
L. marmoratum, new Fishes from Deep Water off the Atlantic and Gulf Coasts.

Proceedings of the U.S. National Museum, VIII, September 17, 1885, pp. 422-424.

Goopk, G. Brown, and BEAN, T. H. Descriptions of new Fishes obtained by the U. S.
Fish Commission, mainly from Deep Water off the Atlantic and Gulf Coasts.
Proceedings of the U.S. National Museum, VIII, October 20, 1885, p. 589.
GoopE, G. Brown, and BEAN, T. H. Description of a new Genus and Species of
Pediculate Fishes (Yalieutella lappa).
Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington, 11, 1885, p. 88.
496 Memortal of George Brown Goode.

GoobE, G. Brown, and BEAN, T. H. Reports on the Results of Dredging, under
the Supervision of Alexander Agassiz, in the Gulf of Mexico (1877-78) and in
the Caribbean Sea (1879-80), by the U. S. Coast Survey steamer Blake, Lieut.
Commander C. D. Sigsbee, U. S. N., and Commander J. R. Bartlett, U. S. N.,
commanding. Published by permission of Carlile P. Patterson and J. E.
Hilgard, Superintendents of the U. S. Coast and Geodetic Survey.

XX VIII.—Description of thirteen Species, and two Genera of Fishes from
the lake Collection.
Bulletin of the Museum of Comparative Zoology at Harvard College, X11, No. 5, July,
1886, pp. 153-170.

GoopE, G. Brown, and BEAN, T. H. ‘The Present Condition of the Study of Deep-
sea Fishes.

Proceedings of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, X1, 1892, p.
324. (Washington Meeting.)

GoobE, G. Brown, and BEAN, T. H. Scientific Results of Explorations by the U.S.
Fish Commission Steamer Albatross. No. XXVIII. On Cetomimidze and
Rondeletiidae, two new Families of Bathybial Fishes from the Northwestern

Atlantic.
Proceedings of the U.S. National Muszum, XVM, January 26, 1895, pp. 451-454, pl. XVII.

Goopk, G. Brown, and BEAN, TI. H. Scientific Results of Explorations by the U.S.
Fish Commission Steamer Albatross. No. XXIX. A Revision of the order
Heteromi, Deep-sea Fishes, with a description of the generic types Wacdonaldia
and Lipogenys.

Proceedings of the U.S. National Museum, XVI, January 26, 1895, pp. 455-470.

=<

Goopk, G. Brown, and BEAN, T. H. Scientific Results of Explorations by the U. S.
Fish Comunission Steamer dlbatross. No,.XXX. On Harriotta, a new type of

Chimzeroid Fish from the Deeper Waters of the Northwestern Atlantic.
Proceedings of the U.S. National Museum, XVII, January 26, 1895, pp. 471-473.

Goopbk, G. Brown, and BEAN, T.H. Oceanic Ichthyology, a treatise on the Deep-
sea and Pelagic Fishes of the World, based chiefly upon the collections made by
the Steamers Blake, Albatross,and Fish Hawk in the Northwestern Atlantic.

Special Bulletin of the U.S. National Museum, 1895 (1896), pp. i-xxxv, 1-529, pls. 1-123.
‘The plates constitute a separate volume,

Goopr, G. Brown, and CLARK, A. Howard. . The Menhaden Fishery.
The Fisheries and Fishery Industries of the United States, Section V, I, 1887, pp. 327-415,
32 plates.

Goobk, G. Brown, and COLLINS, Joseph W. The Fishermen of the United States.
The Fishertes and Fishery Industries of the United States, Section IV, 1887, pp. 1-129, 13
plates. Abstract printed in Zransactions of the Anthropological Society of Washing-

ton, I, pp. 62-66; also in the New York Tribune, June 23, 188.

Goopbk, G. Brown, and CoLLIns, Joseph W. The Bank Hand-line Cod Fishery.
The Fisheries and Fishery Industries of the United States, Section V, I, 1887, pp. 123-133,
2 plates. -

Goopr, G. Brown, and CoLLIns, Joseph W. The Labrador and Gulf of Saint
Lawrence Cod Fisheries.
The Fishertes and Fishery Industries of the United States, Section V, I, pp. 133-147, 6
plates.

Goopk, G. Brown, and CoLLins, Joseph W. The Bank Trawl-line Cod Fishery.
The Fishertes and Fishery Industries of the United States, Section V, I, pp. 148-187, 5
plates.

Goopk, G. Brown, and Collins, Joseph W. The George’s Bank Cod Fishery.

The Fisheries and Fishery Industries of the United States, Section V, I, pp. 187-198, 6
plates.
The Published Writings of George Brown Goode. 497

GoopE, G. Brown, and CorLLins, Joseph W. The Haddock Fishery of New

England.
The Fisheries and Fishery Industries of the United States, Section V, I, pp. 234-241, 3
plates.

Printed also in the Bulletin of the U. S. Fish Commission, I, 188t (1882), pp. 226-235,
the Zransactions of the American Fish-Cultural Association, Eleventh Annual
Meetin;~, New York, 1882, pp. 43-56, and J/vrest and Stream, XVIII, May 18, 1882,
PP. 311, 312.

GoopE, G. Brown, and CoLLins, Joseph W. The Hake Fishery.
The Fisheries and Fishery Industries of the United States, Section V, I, pp. 241-243, 3
plates.

GoopE, G. Brown, and CoLLins, Joseph W. ‘The Mackerel Fishery.
The Fisheries and Fishery Industries of the United States, Section V, 1, 1887, pp. 245-313,
28 plates.

GoopE, G. Brown, CoLIns, J. W., EARL, R. E., and Chark, A. Howard. Mate-
rials for a History of the American Mackerel Fishery.
Report of the U.S. Commissioner of Fish and Fisheries, 1881 (1883), pp. [1]-[441].

GoopDE, G. Brown, COLLINS, Joseph W., and ScupDER, Newton P. The Halibut

Fisheries.
The Fisheries and Fishery Industries of the United States, Section V, I, 1887, pp. 3-119, 22
plates.

GoopE, G. Brown, and ScuDDER, Newton P. Bibliography of the Writings of the

Alumni and Faculty of Wesleyan University.
Alumnt Record of Wesleyan Untversity, Middletown, Connecticut, 1883, octavo, pp.

529-668,
PAPERS EDITED BY GEORGE BROWN GOODE.

Statistics of American Fisheries submitted to the Superintendent of the Tenth
Census:

(1) Census Bulletin No. 176. Preliminary Report upon the Pacific States and ‘Territories.
Prepared by Mr. G. Brown Goode from returas of Special Agents Jordan, Swan, and
Bean. May 24, 1881. pp.6.

(2) Census Bulletin No, 261. Statistics of the Fisheries of the Great Lakes. Prepared by
Mr. Frederick W. True from notes of Special Agent Kumlien. September 1, 1881,
pp. 8. ;

(3) Census Bulletin No. 278. Statistics of the Fisheries of Maine. Prepared by Mr. R. EF.
EKarll from his own notes and those of Mr. C. G. Atkins. November 21, 1881. pp. 47.

(4) Census Bulletin No. 281. Statistics of the Fisheries of Virginia. Prepared by Colonel
Marshall McDonald. December 1, 1881. pp.8.

(5) Census Bulletin No. 291. Statistics of the Fisheries of New Hampshire, Rhode Island,
and Connecticut. Prepared by Mr. A. Howard Clark. April 5, 1882. pp. 7.

(6) Census Bulletin No. 295. Statistics of the Fisheries of Massachusetts. Prepared by Mr.
A. Howard Clark from returns of Special Agents Wilcox, Clark, ‘rue, Collins, and
Atwood. March, 1882. pp. 35.

(7) Census Bulletin No. 297. Commercial Fisheries of the Middle States. Prepared by
Mr R. EH. Earll and Colonel M. McDonald. June 5, 1882. pp. 14. (This bulletin
includes statistics of Census Bulletin No. 281.)

(8) Census Bulletin No. 298. Commercial Fisheries of the Southern Atlantic States. Pre-
pared by Mr. R. E. Earll and Colonel Marshall McDonald. June 5, 1882, pp. 18.
In all, 148 pages, quarto.

In addition to these certain special tables appeared, as follows:

(9) Statistical table. ‘Table showing by States the persons employed, capital invested, and
value of products in the oyster industry.

(10) Statistical table. Statistics of the Fisheries of the United States in 1880. Prepared by
Messrs. Goode and Earll from the reports of the special agents. Printed in the Com-
pendium of the Tenth Census, p. 1402. pp. 2. Reprinted in Bulletin of the United
States Fish Commission, III, 1883, pp. 270, 271, and inthe Preliminary Catalogue Interna-
tional Fisheries Exhibition, facing p. 5.

NAT MUS 97, PT 2 32

498 Memorial of George Brown Goode.

(11) Statistical table. Table showing by States the quantity of Spanish mackerel taken
in 1880 and the total catch for the United States. By R. Edward Earll. Report
of the United States Commissioner of Fish and Fisheries, Part VIII, 1880. p. 416.

Statistical summary, (Statistics of the Davis Strait Halibut Fishery.) By Newton P.
Scudder. Report of the United States Commissioner of Fish and Fisheries, Part VIII,
1880. pp. 190-192.

(13) Statistical summary. (Statistics of the Swordfish Fishery.) By G. Brown Goode.
Report of the United States Commissioner of Fish and Fisheries, Part VIII, 1880. pp.
361-367.

(14) Statistical summaries. Statistics of the Mackerel Fishery in 1880. By R. Edward Earll.
Report of the United States Commissioner of Fish and Fisheries, Part IX, 1881. p.
(124) (127).

Statistics of the Mackerel Canning Industry. By R. Edward Earll. Report of the
United States Commissioner of Fish and Fisheries, Part IX, 1881. p. (131).
Statistics of the Inspection of Mackerel from 1804 to 1880. By A. Howard Clark. Report
of the United States Commissioner of Fish and Fisheries, Part IX, 1881. pp. (162) (213).
Vessels in the Mackerel Fishery in 1880. Report of the United States Commissioner
of Fish and Fisheries, Part IX, 1881. p. 418.
Catch of Mackerel by Americans in Canadian Waters. 1873-1881. Report of the
United States Commissioner of Fish and Fisheries, Part IX, 1881. p. (430).
(15) Statistical summary. (Statistics of the use of fish guano as a fertilizer.) By Charles
W. Smiley. Report of the United States Commissioner of Fish and Fisheries, Part IX,
1881. pp. 673-693.

(16) Statistical summary. (A statistical review of the production and distribution to pub-
lic waters of young fish by the United States Fish Commission from its organization
in 1871 to the close of 1880.) By Charles W. Smiley. Report of the United States Com-
misstoner Of Fish and Fisheries,, Part 1X, 1881. pp. 826-842.

(12

—

The Fisheries and Fishery Industries of the United States. Prepared through the
cooperation of the U. S. Commissioner of Fish and Fisheries and the Superin-

tendent of the Tenth Census.
Quarto, 7 vols., 3,931 pp., 581 plates and charts. :
Section I (1884). Natural history of useful aquatic animals (with an atlas of 277 plates):
Part I. The Whales and Porpoises. By G. Brown Goode.
‘The Seals and Walruses. By Joel A. Allen.
‘The Habits of the Fur Seal. By Henry W. Elliott.
The Manatees and the Arctic Sea-cow. By Frederick W. ‘True.
II. Reptiles and Batrachians. By Frederick W. True.
Ill. The Food Fishes of the United States. By G. Brown Goode.
H. The File Fishes, Pipe Fishes, and Anglers. Pp. 169-174.
I. The Flat Fishes and Flounders. Pp. 175-199.
J. The Cod Family and its Kindred. Pp. 200-246,
K. Wolf-Fishes, Sculpins, and Wrasses. Pp. 247-280.
I,. The Mackerel and its Allies. Pp. 281-359.
M. The Tile-Fish Family, and Others. Pp. 360-361.
N. The Drum Family. Pp. 362-380.
O. Sheepshead, Bass, Bream, Perch, ete. Pp. 381-447.
P. Barracouta, Mullet, Pike, and Mummichogs. Pp. 448-467.
Q. The Salmon Tribe. Pp. 468-548.
R. The Herring Tribe. Pp. 549-577.
S. The Shad and the Alewives. Pp. 579-609.
‘T. Families related to the Clupeide. Pp. 610-613.
U. Carp, Suckers, Catfish, and Eels. Pp. 614-658.
V. Sturgeons, Skates, Sharks, and Lampreys. Pp. 659-682.
IV. Mollusks in General. By Ernest Ingersoll.
The Life History of the Oyster. By John A. Ryder.
V. Crustaceans, Worms, Radiates, and Sponges. By Richard Rathbun.
Section IT (1887): A geographical review of the fishery industries and fishing communi-
ties for the year 1880,
Part I. The Coast of Maine and its Fisheries. By R. Edward Earl.
II. The Fisheries of New Hampshire. By W. A. Wilcox.
III. The Fisheries of Massachusetts. By A. Howard Clark.
IV. The Fisheries of Rhode Island. By A. Howard Clark.
V. Connecticut and its Fisheries. By A. Howard Clark.
VI. New York and its Fisheries. By Fred Mather.
VII. New Jersey and its Fisheries. By R. Edward Earll.
VIII. Pennsylvania and its Fisheries. By R. Edward Earl],
Report of U. S. National Museum, 1897. Part Il. PLaTte 108.

The Published Writings of George Brown Goode.

Section IT (1887

XI.

XVII

Section III (1887): The fishing grounds of North America (with 49 charts).

. North Carolina and its Fisheries.
. The Fisheries of South Carolina and Georgia.

. The Fisheries of the Gulf of Mexico.
. The Fisheries of the Pacific Coast.

499

): A geographical review of the fishery industries and fishing communi-
ties for the year 1880— Continued.
Delaware and its Fisheries. By J. W. Collins.
Maryland and its Fisheries. By J. W. Collins.
Virginia and its Fisheries. By Marshall McDonald.
By R. Edward Earll.
By R. Edward Earll.
By R. Edward Earll.
By Silas Stearns.
By David S. Jordan.
By Frederick W. True.
By A. Howard Clark.
Edited by

Eastern Florida and its Fisheries.

The Fisheries of the Great Lakes.
Appendix : Historical References to Fisheries.

Richard Rathbun.

Part A. The Sea Fishing Grounds of the Eastern Coast of North America from

Greenland to Mexico. By Joseph W. Collins and Richard Rathbun.

B. The Sea Fishing Grounds of the Pacific Coast of the United States from the
Straits of Fuca to Lower California. By David S. Jordan.

Cc. The Fishing Resources and Fishing Grounds of Alaska. By Tarleton H.
Bean,

D. The Fishing Grounds of the Great Lakes. By Ludwig Kumlien and Fred-
erick W. True.

E. The Geographical Distribution of Freshwater Food Fishes in the Several

Hydrographic Basins of the United States. By David S. Jordan.
Appendix : Ocean Temperatures of the Eastern Coast of the United States,
with thirty-two charts.

Section IV (1887):

Section V, Vol.
Part A

Il.

Il.
EV.
Vi
VI.
VII.
VIII.
IX.
>. =
XI.
XII.

XIII.

XIV.

Section V, Vol.
Part XV.
XVI.
XVII.
XVIII.

XIX.
xX.
XI.

XXII.
XXIII.

The Fishermen of the United States. By G. Brown Goode and J. W.
Collins, with autobiography of Capt. N. EK. Atwood.

1 (1887): History and methods of the fisheries (with an atlas of 255 plates).

The Halibut Fisheries. By G. Brown Goode, J. W. Collins, and N. P.
Scudder.

The Cod, Haddock, and Hake Fisheries.
and Tarleton H. Bean.

The Mackerel Fishery. By G. Brown Goode and J. W. Collins.

The Swordfish Fishery. By G. Brown Goode.

The Menhaden Fishery. By G. Brown Goode and A. Howard Clark.

The Herring Fishery and the Sardine Industry. By R. Edward Earll.

The Shore Fisheries of Southern Delaware. By J. W. Collins.

The Spanish Mackerel Fishery. By R. Edward Earll.

The Mullet Fishery. By R. Edward Earl.

The Red-snapper and Havana Market Fisheries.

The Pound-net Fisheries of the Atlantic States. By Frederick W. True.

The River Fisheries of the Atlantic States. By Marshall McDonald,
Frederick W. True, W. A. Wilcox, and C. G. Atkins.

The Salmon Fishing and Canning Interests of the Pacific Coast.
S. Jordan and C. H, Gilbert.

The Fisheries of the Great Lakes.

II (1887):

The Whale Fishery. By A. Howard Clark and James ‘Templeman Brown.

The Blackfish and Porpoise Fisheries. By A. Howard Clark.

The Pacific Walrus Fishery. By A. Howard Clark.

The Seal and Sea-otter Industries. By Henry W. Elliott, James G. Swan,
and A. Howard Clark.

The Turtle and Terrapin Fisheries. By Frederick W. True.

The Oyster, Scallop, Clam, and Abalone Industries. By Ernest Ingersoll.

The Crab, Lobster, Crayfish, Rock-lobster, Shrimp, and Prawn’ Fisheries.
By Richard Rathbun.

The Leech Industry and Trepang Fishery. By Richard Rathbun,

The Sponge Fishery and Trade. By Richard Rathbun.

Reviewed in Naturwissenschaftliche Rundschau, August, 1887.

By G. Brown Goode, J. W. Collins,

By Silas Stearns.

By David

By Ludwig Kumlien.

(Associate Editor) Alumni Record of Wesleyan University, Middletown, Connec-
ticut. Boston, Press of Rand, Avery & Co., 1873.
Octavo, pp. I-X XVIII, 1-293. A second edition.
500 Memortal of George Brown Goode.

1879. International Exhibition, 1876. Catalogue of the Collection to illustrate the
Animal Resources and the Fisheries of the United States exhibited at
Philadelphia in 1876 by the Smithsonian Institution and the United
States Fish Commission and forming a part of the United States
National Museum. Washington, Government Printing Office.

Bulletin of the U.S. National Museum, No. 14, 1879, pp. I-35!.

Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington, I, November 19, 1880, to May
26, 1882.

Octavo, pp. I-IIo.

Descriptive catalogue of the collections sent from the United States to the Interna-
tional Fisheries Exhibition, London, 1883, constituting a report upon the
American section. Prepared under the direction of G. Brown Goode, U. S.
Commissioner, and a staff of associates.

Bulletin of the U. S. National Museum, No. 27, 1884, pp. 1-279.

Contributions to the Natural History of the Bermudas. G. Brown Goode and
J. Matthew Jones.

Bulletin of the U.S. National Museum, No. 25, 1884, pp. i-xxiii, 1-353.

Report of the United States Commission to the Columbian Historical Exposition at
Madrid, 1892-93. With special papers. Washington, Government Printing
Office. 1895.

Octavo, pp. 1-447, with plates and figures.
*The Smithsonian Institution, 1846-1896. ‘The history of its first half century.

Edited by George Brown Goode. City of Washington. 1897.
Royal octavo, pp. i-x, 1-856, with 26 full-page illustrations.

PAPERS REVIEWED BY GEORGE BROWN GOODE.

Commercial Statistics of Animal Products in the United States: A Review of a por:
tion of the Report of the Chief of the Bureau of Statistics for the Fiscal Yea
ending June 30, 1877.

Bulletin of the U.S. National Museum, No. 14, 1879, pp. 272-300.
The Commercial Products of the Sea, or Marine Contributions to Food, Industry and
Art. By P. L. Simmonds.
Chicago Field, April 26, 1879, p. 163. 4
A Century of Electricity. By T. C. Mendenhall.
The Epoch, New York, I, April 15, 1887, pp. 239, 240.
A New Work on American Birds. (Review of Ridgway’s ‘‘Key.’’)
The Epoch, V1, 1887, p. 336.
School of Life. By Theodore F. Seward.
Public Opinion.
The Life and Writings of Constantine Samuel Rafinesque. (Filson Club Publica-

tions, No. 10.) By R. Elsworth Call.
Science (new series), I, April 19, 1895, pp. 384-387.

1 Posthumous,
PLATE 109.

, 1897. Part Il.

luseum

WV

S. National

Report of U

j
PP}
a!

INDEX.

Abbe, Cleveland, meteorologist, 299, 301.

Abbot, John, 429. i

Abbott, C. C., 419.

Abbott, W. R., 186.

Abert, Col. John J., 87, 99, 106, 116, 124, 126, 127, 130,
131, 132, 133, 134, 136, 137 01, 139, 161, 175, 176, 178 n,
179, 180, 181, 182, 183, 185, 190, I9I, 312.

Academia Virginiensis et Oxoniensis, 272.

Académie Frangais, Paris, 211, 259.

Academy of Arts and Sciences of the United
States of America, Richmond, Va., 270, 271, 401,

427.
Academy of Natural Sciences, Philadelphia, 71,
419, 439, 442, 448, 449, 470.

Acosta, d’, Joseph, naturalist, 360, 363-366, 367, 399.

Acropolis Museum, Athens, 210.

Adams, Charles B., conchologist, 457.

Adams, H. B., 271, 272. 282.

Adams, Henry, 283 n, 284, 297 n.

Adams, John, President United States, interest
in science, 70, 268, 273, 280, 286, 313, 323, 425, 471.
Adams, John Quincy, 100, 106, 107, 110, 137, 183, 185,
284, 285, 294, 320; advocates establishment of_an
observatory with Smithsonian fund, 94 n, 95, 96,
97, 108; interest in science, 302, 303, 304, 317, 323,
471,472; recommendsa national university, 303,

recommends observatory, 303, 304, 305, 306, 307.

Adler, Cyrus, 21.

Affiliated Scientific Societies of Washington, 315.

Africa, specimens from, 135.

Agassiz, Alexander, 457.

Agassiz, Louis, 57, 459, 465; and Smithsonian In-
stitution, 322; influence on Goode, 18, 42, 43, 48;
period of, 409, 455, 457, 458.

Agate, Alfred, 120 n, 162, 173.

Agnew, Prof. J. H., 473.

Agriculture, Bureau of, established, 315-316.

Agrippa, 66, 245.

Airy, Sir George B., astronomer, 305.

Akerly, Samuel, geologist, 424, 438.

Alabama, colleges of, 345; scientific men in, 464.

Alaska, exploration, 27; learned societies of, 345.

Alexander, J. H., 457.

Alexander the Great, interestin museums, 66, 246.

Alexandria, museum of, 65, 66, 244.

Allen, Grant, 419.

Allen, J. M., 167.

Alutera schafit, 405.

Alzate, José A., naturalist, 398.

Amazons, the, 69 n.

Amenia, New York, Goode in, 42.

American Academy of Arts and Sciences, Bos- |

ton, 70, 270, 273, 315, 349, 425, 470, 471; Goode, a
fellow of, 58; John Adamsand, 269; John Quincy
Adams and, 302, 303; origin of, 268, gor.

|
|

American Anatomical Society, 313.

American Antiquarian Society, founded, 441.

American Association for the Advancement of
Science, 107, 294, 312, 313, 446, 469-477; Goode’s
contributions to, 21, 469-477; Goode vice-presi-
dent of, 58; influence on science in America,
458; location of members of, 463-464; organiza-
tion, 469. See American Soctety of Geologists
and Naluraltists.

American Dialect Society, 313.

American Folklore Society, 313.

American Geographical Society, 302, 313.

American Geological Society, '312, 313, 431, 470;
founded, 297, 440. See American Soctety of
Geologists and Naturalists.

American Historical Association, 16, 55, 58, 76,
265, 313; paper read before, by Goode, 65.

American Historical Society, 87, 158.

American Institute of Architects, action on death
of G. Brown Goode, 36.

American Institute of Mining Engineers, 313.

‘“American Journal of Science,’’ 92n, 299n, 464;
enlarged, 456; founded, 297, 427, 441.

American Meteorological Society, 313.

American Metrological Society, 313.

“American Mineralogical Journal,’’ succeeded
by ‘‘ American Journal of Science,”’ 441.
“American Monthly Magazine,” relation

science, 442.

American Museum of Arts, 113 0, 279.

American Museum of Natural History, New
York, 19, 78, 211, 235, 259.

“ American Naturalist,’ circulation, 464; Goode’s
contributions to, 21.

American Oriental Society, 313.

American Ornithologists’ Union, 313.

American Philological Association, 313.

“American Philosophical Miscellany,”
posed, 266.

American Philosophical Society, 3, 70, 107, 267,
268, 269, 270, 273, 280, 295, 399, 310, 315, 352, 400,
AIO, 413, 413, 414, 415, 416, 418, 425, 427, 429, 431,
470, 471; centennial of, 456; Goode, member of,

to

pro-

58; origin of, 266, 400.

“American Philosophical Transactions,” first
issue of, 267.

American Physiological Society, 313.

American Society, etc., 266.

American Society for Psychical Research, 313.

American Society of Geologists and Naturalists,
ait, 312. See American Association for the
Advancement of Science.

American Society of Naturalists, 3, 313; distri-
bution of members of, 463; Goode, a member

of, 58.
501
502

Ames, W. L., 167.

Amphiuma means, discovered, 388.

Amsterdam, museum of, 78, 211, 258.

Anderson, Dr. James, 273, 419.

Anderson, James S. M., 358.

Anderson, Johann, traveler, 384.

Angerstein, John J., 238.

Anthropological Society, Washington, founded,
315; Goode, a member of, 58.

Antwerp, museums of, 210, 211, 259.

““Archeeologia Americana,’’ 442.

Archeological Institute of America, 313.

Aristotle, 66, 67, 246, 360, 385.

Arizona, colleges of, 345.

Arkansas, colleges and learned societies, 346;
scientific men in, 464.

Arnold, Mr., collector, 70, 268, 269, 425.

Artedi, Peter, 68, 378, 382.

Asclepias cornuti, 405.

Ashmole, Elias, founder Ashmolean Museum,
Oxford, 68, 246.

Ashmolean Museum, 68, 69 n, 246, 405.

Asia, specimens from, 129.

Association of American Geologists and Natu-
ralists, 107, 469, 470, 471. 474,476. See American
Geological Society.

Assyria, museums in, 66, 245.

Athenzeus, 65, 244.

Athens, museum of, 210.

Athens, Museum of Greece at, 65, 244.

Atlanta, Goode at, 54.

Atlanta Exposition, Goode’s work for, 54, 55, 59.

Atwater, Caleb, naturalist, 438; quoted, 413 n.

Atwater, W. O., collaborator of Goode, 22, 50, 345.

Audubon, J. J., 55, 75, 223, 420; North American
Birds, 449-450.

Aurelian, 65, 244.

Australia, 55; museums in, 78.

Austria, museums in, 78.

Ayala, Gabriel d’, 371.

Azara, Don Felix de, naturalist, 380, 397.

Babylonia, museums in, 66.

Bache, Alexander Dallas, 25, 108, 139, 322, 438, 446,
457, 472, 473; president National Academy of
Sciences, 312; quoted, 459; Regent Smithsonian
Institution, 143, 144n, 148, 322; Superintendent
Coast Survey, 295, 296, 317, 455-456.

Bacon, Lord, 68, 74, 246, 255, 283, 435.

Badger, George E., 118.

Bagdad, 67.

Bailey, Jacob Whitman, 473.

Baker, George, and Thurber, Isaac, 473.

Baird, Spencer F., 18, 19, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 42,
43) 44, 45, 49, 48, 49, 50, 53, 58, 113, 142, 151, 156, 288,
457, 465; and National Museum, 9, 27; influence
on Goode, 18; relations with Audubon, 450; sci-
entific work under, 458; weather observations
under, 300.

Baldwin, Abraham, Senator, 281.

Baldwin, Dr. William, 444.

Balfour, Francis, 19.

Baltimore Museum, 70, 443.

Bancroft, George, Regent Smithsonian Institu-
tion, 322.

Banister, John, clergyman and naturalist, 285,
385-386.

Bantslerta, 405.

Index.

Banks, Sir Joseph, 239.

Barbour, Senator, 286 n.

Bard’s comet, discovered, 456.

Barlow, Joel, 287; National Institution of, 281-
284, 312, 329-341.

Barnard, Frederick A. P., 459.

Barnes, Rev. Daniel H., naturalist, 449.

Barron, Isaac, 15.

Barry, Garrett R., 123.

Bartholomew Fair, 68.

Barton, Benjamin Smith, naturalist, 419, 429, 445;
quoted, 414.

Barton, C. D., 167.

Barton, William P. C., botanist and physician,
419.

Bartram, John, botanist, 387 n, 390, 392, 393, 416.

Bartram, Moses, botanist, 391, 417, 429.

Bartram, William, ornithologist and botanist,
391, 448; scientific work of, 416-417.

Bartram, William, son of John, physician, 402.

Bartram’s Botanic Garden, 273.

Bartramta, 405.

Bather, F. A., 56.

Bavarian National Museum, Nuremberg, 79.

Bean, Tarleton H., collaborator of Goode, 22, 24,
50, 51,52; meeting with Goode, 20.

Beaumont, Sir George H., 239.

Beaurepaire, Chevalier Quesnay de, 270, 271, 272 n,
401.

Beauvois, Baron Palisot de, naturalist, 432.

Beck, Dr. Lewis C., 446.

Beck, T. Romeyn, geologist, 437, 438, 441, 446, 451.

Beethoven Museum, Bonn, 210.

Bela’s comet, bi-partition of, discovered, 456.

Belknap, Rev. Jeremy, 427.

Beneducci, Lorenzo Boturini, 371.

Bentham, George, quoted, 461.

Benton, Senator Thomas H., 318 n.

Berlin, museums of, 77, 78, 211, 213, 257, 258, 259, 260.

Berlin Internationale Fischerei Ausstellung, 19,
44, 55-

Bermuda, 69 n.

Bermudas, Goode in, 20, 44.

Bernice Pauahi Bishop Museum, Honolulu, 21.

Berrien, John McP., Regent Smithsonian Institu-
tion, 143, 285 n.

Besant, Walter, 252.

Best, Dr. Robert, founder Western Museum, Cin-
cinnati, 71, 444.

Billings, Dr. John S., 257, 258, 323.

Biological Society, Washington, 23, 57, 58, 315; ad-
dress of Goode before, 17, 56, 357, 409-

Blackman, Jeremy, 69 Nn, 377.

Blackmar, F. W., 313, 345.

Blackmore Museum, Salisbury, 78, 211, 258.

Blodget, Samuel, and a National University, 274,
275, 276.

Blumenbach, J. F., 67.

Boerhaave, patron of Linnzeus, 392.

Bohun, Edward, 377.

Boisduval, J. A., 444.

Bologna, museum of, 210.

Bomford, Col. George, 285 n.

Bonaparte, Charles Lucien, zoologist, 451.

Bond, Dr. Thomas, Franklin to, 266_n, 267 n.

Bonn, museum of, 210,

Boott, W. F., 399.
Index.

Bose, L. A. G., botanist, 432.

Bossu, Captain N., traveler, 382.

“Boston Journal of Philosophy and the Arts,”
44.

Boston Museum of Fine Arts, 201.

Boston Society of Natural Science, 442.

Botanic Garden, 122 n, 285 See National Botanic
Garden.

Botanical Club, of the American Association,
313.

Bourke, John G., 369 n.

Bowditch, Nathaniel, mathematician, 446.

Bowdoin College, 273.

Bowdoin, James, 265; President American Acad-
emy of Arts and Sciences, 268 n-269 n.

Boyle, Robert, 265, 435.

Brace, L. P., geologist, 438.

Brackenridge, William D., botanist, 120 n, 122,
161, 162, 165; director Botanic Garden, 311.

Bradley, James, astronomer royal, 306, 359.

Branch, John, Secretary of the Navy, urges
establishment of an observatory, 308.

Brandenburg Museum, Berlin, 210.

Brazil, specimens from, 165.

Breckenridge, John C., Regent Smithsonian In-
stitution, 322.

Brent, J. C., 184.

Brereton, Dr. John A., 285 n.

Brice, Capt. J.J., United States Commissioner of
Fish and Fisheries, 35, 44.

Brisson, Mathurin J., 397.

Bristol, Charles I,., 35.

British Association
Science, 323.

British Museum, 74, 76, 80, 87, 102, 115, 150, 199, 218,
229, 239, 250, 253, 386; Christy collection, 78, 211,
258; founded, 68, 69 n, 246.

British Museum of Natural History, 212, 221.

Brock, R.A., 271 n.

Brongniart, Adolphe T., 256.

Brooklyn, scientific men in, 463.

Brooklyn Institute, 243 n, 252, 256; Goode’s lec-
ture before, 55.

Brown, G., collaborator of Goode, 22.

Brown, Mrs. John Crosby, 259.

Brown, Rev. Obadiah B., 285 n.

Brown, Robert, 167.

Brown University, 273.

Browne, Peter Anell, 472.

Browne, Sir Thomas, quoted, 406.

Bruce, Archibald, mineralogist, 403, 431; founder
“American Mineralogical Journal,’ 441.

Brush, George J., chemist, 457.

Brussels, museums of, 210, 211, 213.

Bry, Theodore de, 362.

Bryant, William, ichthyologist, 430.

Bryant, William Cullen, 281, 396.

Buchan, Earl of, President Society of Scottish
Antiquaries, 273, 419.

Buck, M.C., 167.

Buckingham, Duke of, 69 n, 377.

Buckley, D. A., 167.

Birger, W., 212, 261.

Buffon and Jefferson, 394, 421.

Bullen, Christian, traveler, 384.

Bullivant, Benjamin, 376.

Bulwer, Edward Lytton, Lord, 68.

for the Advancement of

593

Buonarotti Museum, Florence, 210.

Burchard, FE. L., 34-

Bureau of Topographical Engineers, 298.

Burke, Edanus, 278.

Burnett, Waldo I., 457.

Burr, Aaron, 28.

Burroughs, John, 419.

Butler, Benjamin F., 186.

Byrd, Col. William, of Westover, naturalist, 265,
274, 388.

Byzantium, 67, 246.

Cadwalader, Lambert, 278.

Cadwallader, Thomas, physician, 413.

Ceesar, 65, 66, 244, 245.

Cairo, museum of, 210.

Calhoun, John C., 285 0, 471.

California, colleges and learned societies, 346;
scientific men in, 464; specimens from, 165, 173.

California Academy of Sciences, San Francisco,
315, 346.

Cambridge, American students in, 272.

Cambridge, Mass., museums of, 77, 259; scientifle
men in, 463.

Campbell, R. G., 162.

“Canadian Entomologist,” 273 n.

Canis azar@, 405.

Cap Cod, fishery census of, 20.

Cape de Verde Islands, specimens from, 165, 166,
174.

Cape of Good Hope, specimens from, 165, 166.

Cape Town, specimens from, 174.

Capron, Horace I,., Commissioner of Agriculture,
316.

Carr, Holwell, 239.

Carroll, Charles, 278.

Carter, Col. Landon, entomologist, 429.

Carus, Victor, 368, 384.

Carver, Capt. Jonathan, 427.

Casco Bay, Goode at, 20.

Cass, Gen. Lewis, expedition under, 114, 447; Re-
gent Smithsonian Institution, 143, 322; Senator,
137

Cassin, John, and Baird, 458.

Cassinis, the four, 306.

Castiglioni, Count Luigi, 432.

Castillejo, a historical writer, 371.

Castillo, Bernal Diaz del, 368.

Castleneau, C. F., naturalist, 158, 162.

Caswell, Alexis, 186.

Catesby, Mark, naturalist, 389-390, 397.

Catlin, George, 78.

Caustin, Dr. J. H., 167.

Centennial Exposition, 71, 247; relation to U.S.
National Museum, 27, 312.

Central America, specimens from, 170.

Chalmers, Dr. Lionel, 427.

Chaloner, Dr. A. D., 186, 473.

Chamisso, Adalbert von 384, 397.

Champlain, Samuel de, voyages, 361 n, 372 n, 380-
381.

Chapin, Stephen, recommendation respecting
use of Smithsonian fund, 94.

Charles I, King of England, 69 n, 247, 377.

Charles II, King of England, 265, 266 n.

Charles V, King of Spain, 363.

Charleston Museum of Natural History, founded,
458.
504

Charlevoix, Pierre Francois Xavier de, explorer,
381.

Chase,Chief Justice Salmon P.,chancellor Smith-
sonian Institution, 322.

Chase, George Edward, 474.

Chauliodus slonet, 405.

Chauvenet, W.A., 317 n.

Chelsea, museum of, 68.

Chemical Society, Washington, 315.

Chicago, Goode at, 54, 55.

Chicago Exposition, Goode’s work for, 55.

Chile, specimens from, 165, 174. ,

Choate, Rufus, Senator, 107, 108, 110, 136, 137, 139;
Regent Smithsonian Institution, 143, 144 n, 322;
resigns, 147.

Chovet, Dr. Abraham, 70, 413, 443.

Christiania, museum of, 78, 213, 257, 258.

Christy collection, British Museum, 78, 211, 258.

Cincinnati, Ohio, Goode in, 42, 54.

Cincinnati Observatory, bulletin of, 301; founded,
456.

Clapisson, Antonin Louis, founder, Musée Instru-
mental, 211, 259.

Clark, A. Howard, collaborator of Goode, 22.

Clark, Edward, 155.

Clarke, Gen. William, explorer, 281, 291, 433.

Clavigero, Francisco Xavier, historian and natu-
ralist, 398-399.

Clay, Henry, 285, 303, 471.

Clayton, John, naturalist, 385, 386, 392, 393.

Clayton, Rev. John, anatomist, 265, 375, 377-

Claytonta, 405.

Cleveland, Charles D., 186.

Cleveland, Grover, President of the United
States, 44.

Clinton, De Witt, interest in science, 424, 437.

Clinton, Governor George, 297.

Cluny Museum, Paris, 209, 210, 218, 253.

Cobbett, William, 418.

Coffin, JE: C:; 3172:

Colden, Governor Cadwallader, Franklin to, 266;
naturalist, 389, 392, 393, 422.

Colden, Jane, botanist, 389.

Coldenta, 405.

Cole; Sir Henry, 72, 239, 247.

Colfax, Schuyler, Regent, Smithsonian Institu-
tion, 322.

College of New Jersey, 273.

College of William and Mary, 272, 273.

Collin, Rev. Nicholas, naturalist, 414.

Collins, Joseph W., collaborator of Goode, 22.

Collinson, Peter, naturalist, 386, 388, 389, 390-391,
392.

Collinsonta, 405.

Colman, Norman J., Commissioner of Agricul-
ture, 316, 317.

Colorado colleges and learned societies, 346;
scientific men in, 464.

Columbia College, 273.

Columbian College, 284, 285, 286, 287; established,
283, 297.
Columbian Wistorical Society, Washington,

Goode member of, 58.

Columbian Institute, 86, 89, 90, 285, 286, 287, 303;
collections, 135, 158, 311; established, 283, 297, 471;
objects, 87. See National Institution.

Columbian Museum, Boston, 71, 443.

Index.

Columbus, Christopher, 69 n, 363,377.

Commissioner of Patents. See United States
Commissioner of Patents.

Comptonta, 405.

Condorcet, M. J. A. N.C., 270.

Connecticut, colleges and learned societies of,
scientific men in, 464.

Connecticut, Goode in, 44.

Connecticut Academy of Arts and Sciences, 315,
346, 401,426.

Conservatory of Music, Boston, 259.

Constantine, 66, 245.

Constantinople, museums of, 210, 215, 245.

Cook, Capt. James, 289.

Cook, Edward A., 186.

Cooke, Josiah P., 459.

Cooper, Rev. Dr. Samuel, vice-president Ameri-
can Academy of Artsand Sciences, 268.

Cooper, Thomas, M. D., recommendation re-
specting use of Smithsonian fund, 94.

Copenhagen, museums of, 211, 213, 257, 260.

Copernicus, 306.

Coppée, Henry,
tion, 322.

Corbin, Mrs. D. F. M., 288 n.

Cordova, 67.

Cornelius, Rev. Elias, geologist, 438.

Cornell University, library of, 271.

Cornuti, Jacques, 381.

Cornwallis, Lord, 88 n, 89 n.

Cortez, Hernando, 368.

Cory, Charles B., 34.

Coues, Eliot, 376, 391, 397, 417, 433 0.

Courtenay, James, 304 n.

Courtenay, William A., 304n.

Couthouy, J. P., naturalist, 120n, 122, 459.

Cowlitz River, specimens from, 166.

Cox, Samuel S., Regent Smithsonian Institution,

22.

Regent Smithsonian Institu-

Coxe, Daniel, explorer, 288.

Cracherode, Clayton M., 239.

Cralitz, an explorer, 383.

Cranch, Judge William, 283, 284, 285 n.

Crane, Sarah Woodruff, mother of G.
Goode, 41, 42.

Crantz, David, missionary and traveler, 384.

Crawford, John, 37.

Cunliffe-Owen, Sir Philip, 239, 253.

Curley, James, 186, 472.

Curtis, John G., 35.

Cutbush, Edward, 87, 88, 89, 90, 283, 284, 285 n; bi-
ography of, 91 n-92 n.

Cutbush, James, 91 n; biography of, 91 n-g2n.

Cutler, Manassah, 270 n, 313n; describes Frank-
lin, 410-412; scientific work, 399, 426.

Cuvier, George, 246, 382, 403, 409.

Dall, William Healey, paleontologist, 4, 25, 61, 397.

Dallas, George M., chancellor Smithsonian In-
stitution, 143, 322.

Daly, Judge Chas. P., 302.

Dana, James D., geologist, 120 n, 122, 161, 162, 165,
168, 438, 452, 453, 457, 458; Regent Smithsonian
Institution, 322.

Danish Ethnographical Museum, 78, 211.

Dante Museum, Florence, 210.

Darlington, William, 391, 392 n.

Dartmouth College, 273.

Brown
Index.

Darwin, Charles, 428; influence on America, 409.

Darwin, Erasmus, 402.

Daughters of the American Revolution, 59.

Davis, Garrett, Regent Smithsonian Institution,
322.

Davis, Jefferson, 110, 149; Regent Smithsonian
Institution, 143, 146, 322.

Dayton, A. O., 87, 116, 161, 190, IgI.

De Betancourt, Luis, 371.

De Gennes, a traveler, 382.

Delafield, Gen. Richard, Regent Smithsonian In-
stitution, 322.

Delaware colleges and learned societies, 347;
scientific men in, 464.

Delile, Alire Raffenan, botanist, 445.

Del Pulgar, Fernando, 371.

Denyse, Nicolas, naturalist and geographer, 351.

Descartes, René, 359.

De Schweinitz, Lewis David, 447.

De Solis, Antonio, 371,

Dewey, Chester, geologist, 438, 446.

Dexter, Aaron, chemist, 402.

Dezobry, C. H., 66, 245.

Diaz del Castillo, Bernal. See Casiillo.

Dickins, Asbury, secretary Columbian Institute,
87, 285 n.

Didelphys azar@, 405.

Dixon, Jeremiah, astronomer, 310.

Donaldson, S. C., 186.

Donatello Museum, 209,

Douglas, Stephen A., Regent Smithsonian Insti-
tution, 322.

Douglass, Captain D. B., 114, 447.

Drake, Dr. Daniel, 285; Josiah Meigs to, 298;
manager Western Museum, 444 n.

Draper, John William, physicist, 186, 452, 457, 472;
on science in America, 460.

Drayton, Joseph, 120 n, 162, 173, 174, 176, 180.

Dresden, museums of, 209, 211, 258.

Duane, William, editor Philadelphia ‘‘Aurora,”
88 n.

Du Creux, Francis, 361 n.

Dudley, Paul, 255; jurist and naturalist, 393.

Dugés, Dr. Alfred, 38.

Dunbar, Dr. John W., 186, 474.

Dunglison, Professor Robley, 94, 99.

Duponceau, Dr, Peter S., ror n, 105.

Du Pratz, Le Page, explorer, 382.

Durand, John, 268.

Dwight, President Timothy D., 426.

Dyce-Foster collection, 81, 210.

Earll, R. E., collaborator of Goode, 22.

East Indies, 69 n; specimens from, 172.

Eastman, J. R., 317 u.

Eastport, Me., Goode at, 18, 20, 43, 44.

Eaton, Amos, geologist, 447-438, 441, 446, 449, 451;
quoted, 440.

Eaton, D.C., botanist, 457, 458.

Edinburgh, American students in, 272.

Edwards, Edward, 196.

Edwards, Henry, 238.

Egede, Hans, traveler, 383.

Eggleston, Dr. Edward, 232.

Egypt, museums in, 66, 199, 245; specimens from,
135, 169.

Elgar, John, 186,

Elgin, Lord, 238.

Bie)

Eliot, Rev. Jared, physician and botanist, 393, 401,

Eliot, John, 265 n.

Eliot, Rev. John, linguist and missionary, 374-375

Ellicott, Andrew, 291, 308, 419.

Elliott, Stephen, botanist, 444-445.

Elliott Society of Natural History, 445; Science
and Art, 445.

Ellis, Henry, statesman, scientist, explorer, 258,
391, 393-

Ellis, John, zoologist, 390, 391.

Ellista, 405.

Ellsworth, H. L., Commissioner of Patents, 125,
130, 131; promotes establishment of Depart-
ment of Agriculture, 315.

Embrees, Jesse, manager Western
444n.

Emerson, George B., 399.

Emmons, Ebenezer, 446, 452.

Emory, W. H., Mexican boundary survey by, 458.

Encke’s Comet, observed, 309.

English, William H., Regent Smithsonian Insti-
tution, 322.

Enslen, A. von, botanist, 431.

Espy, James P., 186, 473.

Etruscan museums, 210.

Evans, Lewis, geographer, 274n.

Everett, A. H., 186, 474.

Everett, Edward, 285, 303, 471.

Ewing, Rev. Dr. John, 415.

Ewing, Dr. Thomas, astronomer, 310.

Fabricius, Otho, missionary and teacher, 383.

Fairchild, H. L., 423, 424 n.

Falconer, a carpenter, 162.

Farquhar, Edward, 279 n.

Farrington, O. C., 34.

Featherstonhaugh, G. W., expedition under, 115,
311; scientific work, 438, 452.

Felton, Prof. Cornelius C., Regent Smithsonian
Institution, 322.

Fermin, Philippe, naturalist, 383.

Fessenden, W. P., Regent Smithsonian Institu-
tion, 322.

Feuillée, Louis, mathematician and botanist, 382.

Field, Cyrus W., 319.

Field Columbian Museum, Chicago, resolutions
on death of G. Brown Goode, 34; specimens
in, 213.

Fiji Islands, specimens from, 162, 165, 166, 169, 170,
174.

Fillmore, Vice-President Millard W., Chancellor
Smithsonian Institution, 322.

Findlay, James,
444n.

Flagg, Henry Collins, ichthyologist, 430.

Flagg, Wilson, 419.

Flamsteed, John, Astronomer Royal, 306.

Fleischmann, Charles Lewis, recommendation
respecting use of Smithsonian fund, 96.

Florence, museums of, 78, 79, 80, 198, 210, 211, 213,
217, 218, 258, 260.

Florida, colleges and learned societies,
Goode in, 44; scientific men in, 464.

Flogurens, Life and Works of Blumenbach, 67;
quoted, 398.

Flower, Sir William H., director British Museum,
22, 36, 195, 238.

Forbes, Edward, 196.

Museum,

manager Western Museum,

347;
506

Force, Peter, 96, 100, 106, 139, 141, 190, II.

Foreman, Edward, 474.

Forster, John George, 397.

Forster, John Reinhold, naturalist, 382, 397.

Foster, John W., 459.

Foster, Sir Michael, naturalist, 18.

Franklin, Benjamin, 265, 268, 269n, 273, 277, 323,
389, 391, 403; and American Philosophical Soci-
ety, 266, 267, 310, 410, 471; and Kinnersley, 415;
and Volney, 433; printing press of, 135, 142; sci-
entific work, 298 n, 310, 387.

Franklin, Sir John, Arctic expedition under, 447.

Franklin Institute, 313.

Fraser River, specimens from, 166.

Frémont, John C., exploring expeditions under,
317, 318 n, 456.

French, B. B., assistant secretary Smithsonian
Institution, 112n.

Froger, F., traveler, 382.

Fuller, Chief Justice M. W., Chancellor Smith-
sonian Institution, 322.

Funeria muhlenbergit, 418.

Gales, Joseph, jr., 285 n.

Galileo Museum, Florence, 79, 210, 260.

Gallatin, Albert, 94 n, 281, 323; interest in science,
297, 421, 471; relation to Coast Survey, 292, 293,
294 Nl, 434.

Garden, Dr. Alexander, naturalist, 265, 388, 390,
393-

Gardenia, 405.

Garfield, James A., Regent Smithsonian Insti-
tution, 322.

Garibaldi, Guiseppe, 238.

Gaultheria, 405.

Geare, Randolph I., 21.

Gedney, Lieutenant, 135.

General Land Office, Commissioner of, 298.

Genet, Edmond C., 290.

“Gentlemen’s Magazine,” 88 n.

Geological Survey of Great Britain, 217.

George III, King of England, 239.

Georgia, colleges and learned societies, 347; scien-
tific men in, 464.

Germany, museums in, 78.

Ghent, museum of, 215.

Ghizeh Museum, Cairo, 210.

Gibbes, R. W., 457, 458.

Gibbs, Col. George, geologist, 431, 438, 440, 446.

Gibbs, Wolcott, 457.

Gibson, Hamilton, 419.

Giglioli, Prof. Enrico H., 36.

Gill, Charles, 186, 472.

Gill, Theodore Nicholas, 24, 48, 49, 58, 458.

Gillis, Thomas H., 163.

Gilliss, Lieut. James M., in charge Naval Ob-
servatory, 308, 309; naval astronomical expedi-
tion, 311, 456.

Girard, Charles, 18, 58, 458.

Gliddon, George R., 163, 167.

Glover, Thomas, 375-376.

Glover, Townsend, entomologist, 316.

Godfrey, John, 415.

Godfrey, Thomas, mathematician, 415 1.

Godman, John D., naturalist, 419, 446, 451.

Goethe Museum, Weimar, 210.

Gongora, astronomer, 371,

Good, John M., 359 n.

Index.

Goode, family, 41, 57.

Goode, Francis Collier, father of G. Brown
Goode, 41.

Goode, George Brown, 13, 14, I5, 16, 18, 19, 28, 29, 30,
31, 33) 34) 35s 36, 37, 41, 42, 43, 46, 47, 51, 52, 53, 54, 555
56, 57, 58, 59, 60, 61, 323 1, 357, 370, 409; and Centen-
nial Exposition, 11, 27, 43,53} assistant director
U.S. National Museum, 45; assistant secretary
Smithsonian Institution, 45; curator of Orange
Judd Hall of Natural Science, 43; degree of
doctor of laws conferred on, 43; diplomas and
medals, 55; editor ‘‘Alumni Record”’’ of Wes-
leyan University, 43; employed by Department
of State, 44, 59; family life, 11; fishery census
work, 20-21, 44,53; in charge of U.S. National
Museum, 9, 28; interest in a National Uni-
versity, 59-60; member council of American
Historical Association, 16,58; memorial exer-
cises, 3, 4, 7, 8; naturalist, 17, 20, 48, 50; U. S.
Commissioner to Berlin Internationale Fische-
rei Ausstellung, 19, 44, 54; U.'S. Commissioner
to Columbian Exposition, Madrid, 54; U. S.
Commissioner to London International Fish-
eries Exhibition, 44, 54.

Goode, John, of Whitby, 41.

Gosse, P. H., 419.

Gould, A. A., conchologist, 452, 457, 458, 459.

Gould, B. A., 459; quoted, 453.

Grammar, John, geologist, 438.

Grant, , botanist, 457.

Gray, Dr. Asa, botanist, 289 n, 290 n, 386, 389, 414,
433, 457, 458, 459, 465; Regent Smithsonian Insti-
tution, 322.

Greece, museumis in, 65, 66, 199, 244, 245.

Greely, Gen. A. W., 302.

Green, Jacob, naturalist, 445.

Green Dragon Stepney, American fishes exhib-
ited at, 68, 378.

Greenough, J. T., 167.

Greenway, Dr. James, botanist, 427.

Greer, Rear-Admiral James A., 33.

Gregory, Olinthus Gilbert, 359.

Greham, Dr. George, botanist, 388.

Grenville, Sir Richard, 357.

Gresham College, 266 n.

Griffiths, Samuel Powell, physician, 412.

Griscom, John, chemist, 424.

Gronovius, 386, 392.

Grund, Francis J., 186, 474.

Guinea, 69 n.

Gumilla, José, naturalist and explorer, 380.

Guyot, Arnold, meteorologist, 30r.

Haldeman, Samuel §S., 457, 472.

Hale, Edward Everett, 361 n, 362.

Hale, Horatio, philologist, 120 n, 122, 161, 162, 170.

Hales, Rev. Stephen, naturalist, 392.

Halifax, Goode at, 20.

Hall, Asaph, 317 n.

Hall, James, naturalist, 452.

Hallam, Henry, 359.

Halley, Edmund, mathematician, 288.

Halley's Comet, 359.

Hallowell, Benjamin, 186, 473.

Hamburg, museum of, 78, 258.

Hamilton, Prof. James, 473.

Hamlin, Hannibal, Regent Smithsonian Institu-
tion, 322.

Index.

Hammond, Dr. William A., 258.

Hamor, Ralphe, 372.

Hann, 67.

Hardy, Campbell, 419.

Hare, Dr. Robert, inventor of oxyhydrogen blow-
Pipe, 70, 420-421, 446, 452, 457, 473-

Harkness, William, 317 n.

Harlan, Richard, herpetologist, 450-451.

Harriot, Thomas, naturalist, career of, 357-363,375,
377; 379s 381, 399, 405-

Harriott, Thomas, 56,57. See Harrtot.

Haryriotta, discovered and named by Goode, 23,
405.

Harris, Thaddeus W., entomologist, 457.

Harrison, President William Henry, 317.

Hartford, Connecticut, museum at, 71.

Hartsinck, Jan Jacob, traveler, 383.

Harvard University, 18, 42, 268, 269, 273, 274 n,
306.

Harvey, William, 358, 435.

Harvey, Prof. W. H., naturalist, 456.

Hassler, F. R., recommendation respecting use
of Smithsonian fund, 96; Superintendent Coast
Survey, 25, 292, 294, 295, 296, 308, 311, 434, 442, 452.

Hatch, William H., bill establishing agricultural
experiment stations, 313, 343-344.

Hawaii, museum in, 211.

Hayden, F. V., 25, 292, 459.

Hayden, Horace H., geologist, 452.

Hays, Isaac, 457.

Hazard, Samuel, 186.

Hazen, Gen. W. P., 302.

Heckewelder, Rev. John, 421.

Helicon, museum in grove of, 65, 244.

Henry, Joseph, 25, 26, 27, 45. 58, 91, 113, 141, 143, 144,
146, 147, 148, 149, 150, 153, 288, 297, 322, 446, 452, 457,
459; plan for organizing Smithsonian Institu-
tion, 143, 146; views on a national museum, 150,
151, 152, 154-156; weather observations under,
299, 300, 301, 302.

Henry, Governor Patrick, 272 n.

Henry, William Wirt, 36.

Hernandez, Francisco, physician and naturalist,
366, 380, 399.

Hernandia, 405.

Herndon and Gibbon, expedition to Amazon,
31T, 458.

Herrera, Antonio de, 371.

Herrera, Prof. Alfonso I,., 37.

Herrick, E. C., 426, 456.

Hessian fly, 429.

Higgins, Rev. Henry H., 221.

Higginson, T. W., 361.

Hilgard, Julius E., superintendent Coast Survey,
2096.

Hilliard, Henry W., Regent Smithsonian Insti-
tution, 143, 146, 322.

Hitchcock, Edward, 186, 438, 446, 452, 457.

Hodgkins award, 47.

Hodgson, William B., 473.

Hoenke, Thaddeus, botanist, 432.

Hof-Museum, Vienna, 78, 258.

Hohenzollern Museum, Berlin, 79, 209, 210, 252,
260.

Holbrook, John E., 457.

Holloway, David P., Commissioner of Patents,
interest in agricultural department, 316.

5°7

Holmes, William H., 34.

Holt, J., United States Commissioner of Patents,
155.

Honolulu, museum of, 211.

Hontan, Baron de la, traveler, 382.

Hooker, W. J., botanist, 451.

Hopkins, Albert, astronomer, 306.

Hopkins, Samuel, first patent issued to, 278,

Hopkinson, Francis, 416.

Hopkinson, Thomas, 416.

Hornaday, William 'T., 35, 419.

Horsfield, Dr. Thomas, zoologist, 425.

Hosack, Dr. David, botonist, 70, 403, 424, 430, 441.

Hotel Canavelet, museum of Paris in, 210, 260.

H6tel des Invalides, Paris, museum at, 79.

Hough Bill, 111, 113.

Hough, W, J., first Secretary Smithsonian Insti-
tution, 112 n; Regent Smithsonian Institution,
143.

Howard University, 287.

Hozze, Dr. de, 274 n.

Hubbard, Gardiner G., President Joint Commis-
sion of Scientific Societies, Washington, 4, 5.

Hubbell, Horatio, recommendation respecting
use of Smithsonian fund, 94.

Hudson’s Bay territory, exploration, 27, 458.

Hudson Observatory, 453.

Hues, Robert, 358.

Humphreys, Rev. Hector, 186, 474.

Hunt, T. Sterry, chemist, 457.

Hunter, Alford, 85, 142.

Hunter, Dr. William, American anatomist, 4or,
415.

Hunter, John, 70, 258, gor.

Hunter, William, 258.

Hunterian Museum, London, 258.

Huntington, Benjamin, 278.

Huntington, Gen. Ebenezer, 277.

Hutchinson, James, 429.

Huntt, Dr. Henry, 285 n.

Huxley, Thomas H., naturalist, 18, 74, 250, 435;
quoted, 436, 454, 455-

Hyperion, discovered, 456.

Thering, Dr. H. von, 38.

Illinois, colleges and scientific societies, 347;
scientific men in, 464.

Inamima, Father, missionary, 399.

Indiana, colleges and learned societies, 347.

Indiana Academy of Sciences, 315, 347.

Ingersoll, C. J., 106.

Ingersoll, Ernest, 419.

Ingersoll, Joseph R., 107, 108, 111, 137, 149, 472.

International Congress of Meteorologists, 302.

International Meteorological Conference, 299.

Iowa, colleges and learned societies, 348.

Towa, Academy of Sciences, 315, 348.

Irvin, William A., 167.

Isabella, Queen of Spain, 69 n, 377.

Ixtlilxochitls, The three, 371.

Jackson, Charles T., 457.

Jackson, President Andrew, 286, 311, 315.

Jacobs, Prof. Michael, 473.

James I, King of England, 69 n, 273, 377.

James, Edwin, botanist and geologist, 114, 438,
447-

Japan, museums in, 78.

Jardin des Plantes, Paris, 103.
508

Jefferson, Thomas, 56, 57, 114, 277, 283; interest
in Patent Office, 278-279; interest in science, 273,
280, 281, 288, 289, 292, 293, 296, 307, 312 N, 317, 323,
387, 388, 394-396, 399, 402, 403, 409, 421, 427, 429, 430,
433, 434; relations with Michaux, 289-290; rela-
tion with Priestley, 418, 434-435.

Jeffersonia, 405.

Jenkins, Timothy, 110.

Jersey City, scientific men in, 463.

Jevons, William Stanley, 195, 196, 217, 218, 237, 239.

Jewett, C.C., r12 n.

Johnson Andrew, proposes establishment of the
Washington University, 145.

Johnson, Walter R., recommendation respecting
use of Smithsonian fund, 96, 474.

Johnston, Martin, 167.

Jomard, Edmé Frangois, geographer, 78, 258.

Jones, Charles C., 391, 392.

Jones, Rev. Hugh, 376.

Jones, Matthew, 419.

Jones, Owen, 223.

Jones, Sir William, 88 n.

Jordan, David Starr, 52, 58, 420.

Josselyn, John, naturalist, 68, 376, 378.

Judd, Orange, 42, 316.

Judd Hall. See Wesleyan University.

Jussieu, Bernard de, 256, 392.

Jussieu, Joseph, botanist, 398.

Kain, J. A., geologist, 438.

Kalm, Peter, naturalist, 396.

Kalmtia, 405.

Kansas, colleges and learned societies, 348.

Kansas Academy of Science, 315, 348.

Keating, William H., mineralogist, 114, 447.

Kelton, Gen. J. C., 277.

Kennedy, John P., Secretary of the Navy, inter-
est in science, 311.

Kentucky, colleges and learned societies, 348;
scientific men in, 464.

Kentucky State Agricultural Society, 348; recom-
mendation respecting use of Smithsonian
fund, 96.

Kepler, Johann, 306.

Kilbourne, S. A., 51.

King, Clarence, 292, 459.

King, Dr. Edward, geologist, 25, 102, 116, 118, 128,
129.

King, H., 159.

Kingsmill Islands, specimens from, 172, 174.

Kinnersley, Rev. Ebenezer, physicist, 415-416.

Kirtland, John T., 70 n.

Klemm, Dr., 79, 209.

Knapp, S. L..(Ignatius Loyola Robertson, LL. D.),
go 11.

Knox, Gen, Henry, 279.

Knudsen, Valdemar, 37.

Krieg, David, naturalist, 384, 388.

Kuhn, Adam, botanist and physician, 402, 412, 414,
415.

Kuhnia, 405.

Kunsthistorisches Museum, Vienna, 210.

Labat, Pére Jean Baptiste, missionary, 382.

Lecerda, Dr. J. B. de, 38.

Lamarck, J. B., 256.

Lamb, Charles, 75.

Lambert, William, astronomer, 308.

Lane, Sir Ralph, 361.

Index.

Langley, Samuel Pierpont, Secretary Smithson-
ian Institution, 4, 7, 36, 39, 41, 58, 288.

Lansdowne, Marquis of, 252.

Lapham, Increase A., botanist, 457.

La Plata Museum, Argentine, 213.

Las Casas, Bartolome de, 363.

Latimore, Capt. R., 167.

Latrobe, H. B., 427.

Laval, Pére, missionary and traveler, 382.

Lavoisier, Antonie L,., 270, 324, 401.

Law, John, Bishop of Elphin, 88 n.

Law, Edmund, 285 n.

Law, Edmund, Bishop of Carlisle, 88.

Law, Edward, Lord Ellenborough, 88 n.

Law, Edward (2d), Earle of Ellenborough,
88 n.

Law, George Henry, D. D., Bishop of Chester, of
bath and wells, 88 n.

Law, John, 90 n.

Law, Thomas, 88, 283, 285 n; biographical account
of, 88 n-gr n.

Lawrence, Abbott, 108, 139.

Lawrence Scientific School, founded, 456.

Lawson, John, traveler and naturalist, 376, 377,
386 n; quoted, 404, 430.

T,ea, Isaac, 18, 438, 445, 449, 459.

Le Conte, Dr. Louis, naturalist, 444, 457, 458.

Le Conte family, 444 n.

Le Conte, Maj. John Katton, naturalist, 444, 457.

Le Duc, William G.,Commissioner of Agricul-
ture, 316.

Ledyard, John, explorer, 289.

Lee, General Henry, 277.

Lee, Arthur, 268.

Leibnitz, Gottfried W. von, 324.

Leipzig, museums of, 79, 211, 258.

“Tend a Hand,” Goode’s contribution to, 60.

Lary, Jean de, 364.

Lesley, J. Peter, geologist, 457.

Lesueur, Charles Alexander,
artist, 448-449.

Levaillant, Francois, ornithologist, 398.

Lever, Sir Ashton, 70, 268, 425.

Leverrier, Urbain J. J., meteorologist, 299.

Lewis, Capt. Meriwether and Jefferson, 289, 291,
433-

Lewis and Clarke Expedition, 114, 291, 395, 433,
434.

Leyden, museums of, 78, 211, 213, 257, 258.

Library of Congress, 122, 123, 163, 274 1; deposi-
tory of books of Smithsonian Institution, 27,
321; joint committee on, 124, 125, 127-129,
131-133, 137, 141, 175, 179-183.

Lieber, Francis, 474.

Liege, museum of, 215.

Lillia, Mr., 68, 378.

Lincoln, Mrs. A. H., 451.

Lindsley, Philip, 94 n.

Linn, I. F., Senator, bill for organizing Smith-
sonian Institution, 97, Ioo.

Linnea borealis, 405.

Linnean Society, Philadelphia, 419.

Linnean Society of New England, founded, 442.

Linnzeus, 384, 386, 387, 388, 389, 390, 391, 397, 398, 402,
403, 406, 414; Scientific work of, 392-393.

Literary and Philosophical Society, New York,
founded, 424.

naturalist and

Index.

Literary and Philosophical Society of South
Carolina, 444.

Liverpool Museum, 221.

Locke, John W., 186, 456, 457, 473-

Locke collection, 122, 167.

Lockhart, John J., 368.

Lockwood, Samuel, 419.

Loefling, Peter, traveler, 384.

Logan, James, botanist, 388-359; Godfrey to, 415 n.

London, 55; American students in, 272; museums
of, 77, 79, 211, 213, 218, 257, 259.

London ‘‘ Athenzeum,”’ 304.

London Exhibition, 198.

Tondon ‘* Times,’? on
America, 455. ;

Long, Major Stephen H., expedition under, 114,
297, 447.

Loomis, Elias, meterologist, 186, 299, 306, 446, 453,
472.

Lord, Job, 377.

Lord Auckland Island, specimens from, 165.

Loring, George B., Commissioner of Agriculture,
316.

Louis XIV, King of France, 384.

Louis Philippe, King of I'rance, 135.

Louisiana, colleges and learned societies, 348.

T,ouisville, Goode at, 54.

Louvre Museum, 69, 212, 218, 246, 260, 261.

Lovell, Dr. Joseph, 285 n, 298.

Low Coral Islands, specimens from, 165, 171, 174.

Lower California, exploration, 27.

Lucas, Frederic A., 231.

Luther, Martin, 80; Memorial Exhibition, 198.

Luzerne, Chevalier A.C. de la, 268.

Lycodes verrillit, 22.

Lyell, Sir Charles, influence on science, 456.

Lyell’s Principles of Geology, influence of, 453,
455, 456.

Lynceus, 365.

Lynch, Lieutenant William F., Dead Sea expedi-
tion, 311, 456.

Macaulay, Thomas Babington, 15.

MacBride, Dr. James, 427, 445.

Maclean, John, chemist, 402.

Maclure, William, geologist, 439-441, 446, 445, 449;
expedition under, 445-446.

McCook, Rev. Henry C., 419.

McCulloh, Richard §S., 186, 472.

McGuigan, W., 116.

McLean, Prof. John, Regent Smithsonian Insti-
tution, 285 n, 322.

McMaster, John Bach, historian, quoted, 422.

Macrurus batrdti, 22.

Macrurus fabrictt, 405.

McWilliams, Dr. Alexander, 284, 285 n.

Madeira, specimens from, 165, 166, 174.

Madison, Bishop James, 289, 402.

Madison, President James, 297, 323, 394,471; anda
National University, 275; interest in science,
281.

Madrid, Goode at, 54,55; museums of, 211, 218, 236.

Markisch Provinzial Museum, Berlin, 79, 260.

Magnolia, 405.

Maine, colleges and societies of, 348.

Mainz, museum of, 210.

Matlacanthus plumtert, 405.

‘“Manchester Guardian,” on Goode’s death, 56.

scientific progress in

02

Mangsi Islands, specimens from, 165.

Manila, specimens from, 165.

Manoncour, Sonnini de, zoologist, 397.

Mantegazza, Paolo, 217.

Marbois, Francois de Barbe, 268.

Marcy, R. B., explorer, 458.

Marcgrave, Georg, 383, 384.

Markoe, Francis, jr., 85, 104, 113, 116, 124, 133, 134,
135, 161, 167, 175, 179, 180, 181, 182, 184, 190, I9gI.

Markoe, F. A., 87, 99, 312.

Marquesas Islands, specimens from, 171.

Marsh, George P., I10, 133, 135, 136; Regent Smith-
sonian Institution, 322.

Marshall, Humphrey, botanist, 387 n, 391, 417.

Martinez de la Puente, Joseph, 371.

Maryland, colleges or learned societies, 349.

Maryland Academy of Sciences, 315, 349.

Maskelyne, Sir Nevil, Astronomer Royal, 306, 310.

Mason, Charles, astronomer, 310.

Mason, James M., Regent Smithsonian Institu-
tion, 143, 322.

Mason, Otis T., 53, 370.

Massachusetts, colleges and learned societies,
349; scientific men in, 464.

““Massachusetts Centinel,”’ 324.

Mather, Cotton, 265.

Mather, W. W., 186, 446, 473.

Matthews, Washington, anthropologist, 370.

Maurice, Prince of Nassau, naturalist, 383.

Maury, Lieut. M. F., 107, 176, 190, 191, 288, 299, 317,
322, 457, 473; in charge naval observatory, 309.

Maury, Rev. James, instructor of Jefferson, 288.

Maverick, Samuel, 430 n.

Maxcy, Virgil, 1or.

Meacham, James, I11, 147.

Meade, Gen. George G., 298.

Mease, James, on silkworms, 274 n.

Mecklin, Mr., a donor of specimens, 167.

‘“Medical Repository,’ founded, 441.

Medici, Cosmo de, 209.

Megalonyx jeffersont, 396, 413, 430.

Meigs, Gen. Montgomery C.,
sonian Institution, 322.

Meigs, Josiah, 283, 284; president Columbian In-
stitute, 285; scientific work, 298, 443.

Mendenhall, Thomas C., superintendent Coast
Survey, 296.

Menzies, Archibald, 432.

Merian, Madame Maria Sibilla, naturalist, 384.

Metropolitan Museum, New York, 259.

Metropolitan Society, 86, 471.

Mexico, menageries in, 368, 370; specimens from,
129.

Michael Angelo, 80, 209, See Buonarolte,

Michaux, André, botanist, 289, 431, 433, 457; trav-
els, 289-290.

Michaux, Francois André, botanist, 431.

Michigan, colleges and learned societies, 349; sci-
entific men in, 464.

Middletown, Connecticut, first agricultural ex-
periment station established at, 316.

Milan, museums of, 198, 231.

Milbert, M., 432.

Millspaugh, C. F., 34.

Milton, John, quoted, 305.

Mindanao, specimens from, 165.

Minnesota, colleges and learned societies, 349.

Regent Smith-
510

Minnesota Academy of Natural Sciences, 315,
349.

Mississippi, colleges and learned societies, 349-
350; scientific men in, 464.

Missouri, colleges and learned societies, 350.

Missouri River, exploration of, 290, 291.

Mitchel, O. M., astronomer, 459.

Mitchell, Dr. John, naturalist, 265, 387, 392, 457.

Mitchella, 405.

Mitchella Repens, 387.

Mitchill, Dr. Samuel Latham, zoologist, miner-
alogist, chemist, 402, 437, 438, 439, 441, 446; scien-
tific work of, 422-424, 430, 440, 450.

Mobius, Dr. Karl, 37.

Momfanoi, Prince, of Spain, 135.

Monastery of St. Mark, Florence, 79, 218, 260.

Monroe, President James, 284, 297, 308, 323.

Montana, colleges and societies, 350.

Montezuma, gardens of, 368, 369.

Montucla, J. E., 359 0.

Mordecai, Capt. Alfred, 473.

Mordecai, Samuel, 271 n, gor n.

Morgan, Dr. John, 70, 265, 412, 443.

Morrill, Justin S., bill to establish educational
institutions, 313, 341-342; regent Smithsonian
Institution, 322.

Morris, Rev. John Gottlieb, 473.

Morse, Rev. Jedediah, geographer, 426.

Morse, Samuel F. B., 186.

Mortimer, Cromwell, 375 n.

Morton, Thomas, naturalist, 373, 457.

Moseley, Henry N., 231.

Muhlenberg, Gotthilf, botanist, scientific, work
of, 417-418.

Muhlenbergtia, 418.

Munich, museums of, 78, 210, 211, 258.

Musée d’Artillerie, Paris, 79, 211, 259.

Musée d’ Histoire Naturelle, Paris, 212, 256.

Musée de Marine, Paris, 79, 211, 259.

Musée de Melle, Ghent, 215.

Musée de Trocadero, Paris, 78, 211, 258.

Musée Dupuytren, Paris, 258.

Musée Gallo-Romain, St. Germain, 210, 218.

Musée Guimet, Paris, 79, 211, 218, 236, 259.

Musée Historique, Versailles, 310.

Musée Instrumental, Paris, 211, 259.

Musée Orfila, Paris, 258.

Museo Barbonico, Naples, 218.

Museo delle Belle Arti, Sienna, 218.

Museo de Ultramar, Madrid, 211, 218, 236.

Museo di Studii, Naples, 260.

Museo preistorico ed ethnografico, Rome, 78, 258.

Museo Psicologico, Florence, 217.

Museum Francisco-Carolinum, Linz, 38.

Museum fiir V6lkerkunde, Leipzig, 79, 211.

Museum of Comparative Zoology, Cambridge,
Mass., 74, 212, 221, 255, 257-

Museum of Practical Fish Culture, South Ken-
sington, 211, 259.

Museum of Practical Geology, London, 213, 215,
217, 218, 257.

Museum of the Uffizi, Florence, 209, 260.

Museums Association, Great Britain, action on
death of G. Brown Goode, 35; paper of Goode
before, 56, 195.

Mutis, Don Joseph C., naturalist, 380, 397-398.

Meyer, Gen, Albert J., Chief Signal Officer, 302.

Index.

Nag’s Head, London, American fishes exhibited
at, 68, 378.

Naples, museum of, 78, 198, 218, 221, 260.

National Academy of Sciences, 41; founded, 312,
459; Goode, member of, 58; members of, 463.

National Botanic Garden, 310.

National Cabinet of Curiosities, 111, 112, 113, 125,
150; end of, 142.

National Deaf-Mute College, 287.

National Gallery in Patent Office, 130, 131, 132;
end of, 142.

National Geographic Society, Washington, 313,
315; Goode a member of, 58.

National Institute, Washington, 69, 104-105, 107,
108, 109, III, 122, 123, 124, 126, 127, 128, 129, 130, I3I,
132, 133, 136, 137, 139, 140, 141, 144, 149, 150, 152, 161,
164, 167, 170, 174, 175, 176, 177, 178, 180, 183, 184, 185,
187, 188, 189, 190, 309; collections of, 134-135, 157-
174; collections of, removed to Smithsonian
Institution, 141; end of, 142; transactions of, 140.
See National Institution.

National Institution, 85, 86, 87,88, 90, 92, 93, 97, 98,
99, 100, IOI, 102, 104, 107, I10, 112, 113, 115, 116, 118,
IIg, 120, 122, 138, 146, 157, 158, 159-161, 312; bulle-
tins of, 191 See Columbian Institute; National
Institute; National Institution for the Promo-
tion of Science.

National Institution, Barlow’s, 281-284, 312, 329-
341.

National Institution for the Promotion of Science,
311, 469, 470, 471; bill incorporating, 97, 98, 100;
Congress of scientific men, 471-475. See Va-
tional Institution; National Institute.

National Intelligencer, 90 n, 282.

National Museum. See United States National
Museum.

National Observatory. See United States Naval
Observatory.

National Portrait Gallery, London, 81, 210, 239.

National, A, University, 281, 324-329; John
Quincy Adams and, 303; Washington and, 274,
275, 311.

Nautical Almanack, proposed, 305, 307.

Navigator Islands. See Samoa.

Nebraska, colleges and societies, 350.

Nelson, John, 190.

Nemours, Dupont de, to Jefferson, 282; treatise
by, 287; work of, 418.

Neuchatel, museum of, 78, 260.

Neumann, Julius, 37.

Nevada, colleges and learned societies, 350; Sci-
entific men in, 464.

Newberry, John §S., 459.

Newcomb, Simon, astronomer, 459.

New England Magazine, go n.

Newfoundland, 69 n.

New Hampshire, colleges and learned societies,
350.

New Haven, scientific men in, 463.

New Holland, specimens from, 165, 166, 169, 170,
174.

New Jersey, colleges and learned societies, 351.

New Jersey Historical Society, 148, 351.

New Mexico, colleges and societies, 351.

New Orleans, Goode at, 54; scientific men in, 463,

Newton, Isaac, first Commissioner of Agriculture,

315; 459-
Index.

Newton, Sir Isaac, 306, 435.

New York, colleges and learned societies, 351;
museums of, 77, 259.

New York Academy of Sciences, resolutions on
death of G. Brown Goode, 35; founded, 315, 351.

New York Institution, 297.

New York Lyceum of Natural History, 71, 437, 470.

““New York Medical and Physical Journal,”’ 441.

New Zealand, museums in, 78; specimens from,
165, 166, 172, 174.

Nicholas I, Czar of Russia, 306.

Nichols, H. W., 34.

Nicolet, Jean N., 102, 298, 318.

Nieuhof, Jan, traveler, 383.

Niza, Taddeo de, 371.

Noank, Long Island Sound, Goode at, 20, 44.

North, Lord, 310.

North American Telegraph Association, 300.

North Carolina, colleges of, 351; scientific men
in, 464.

North Dakota, colleges of, 346.

Norton, William A., 186, 472.

Norwalk, Conn., museum at, 70.

Nott, Eliphalet, 186, 473.

Nuremberg, museum of, 79, 210, 218.

Nuttall, Thomas, botanist, 122, 158, 159, 431; scien-
tific career, 450.

Oakes, William, botanist, 399.

Ohio, colleges and learned societies, 351.

Oldys, William, 359.

Olin, Stephen, 94 n.

Olmsted, Denison, 446, 451, 452.

Ontonagon, copper of the, 130.

Ord, George, 448.

Ordway, John M., 459.

Oregon, colleges and learned societies, 352; scien-
tific men in, 464; specimens from, 165, 166, 172,
174.

Orientalisches Museum, Vienna, 78, 258.

Osborn, Henry F., naturalist, 4, 17, 35, 44, 47, 48, 61.

Osten-Sacken, Baron C. R., 38.

Ottoman Empire, monuments of, 199.

Oviedo y Valdés, Gonzalo Fernandez de, histo-
rian and naturalist, 363-364.

Owen, David Dale, 102, 119, 167, 456, 457.

Owen, Robert Dale, 111, 158; Regent Smithsonian
Institution, 143, 144 n, 322; reports Smithsonian
bill, 110.

Owen, Sir Richard, 67 n.

Owen bill, 111, 149.

Owen Collection, 122.

Owen-Hough bill, 110.

Oxford, American students in, 272.

Oxford, Ashmolean museum at, 68; Pitt-Rivers
Collection, 211.

Page, John, of Rosewell, 272 n.

Page’s Paraguay expedition, 311.

Pallas, Peter S., 384.

Paris, museums of, 77, 78, 79, 210, 211, 213, 217, 257,
259, 260.

Paris Exposition of 1889, 199.

Parnassus, museum in grove of, 65, 244.

Parra, Don Antonio de, naturalist, 397.

Parsons, U., 167.

Patagonia, specimens from, 165, 174.

Patterson, Robert, and U.S. Coast Survey, 292,
294, 296, 434.

jpn

Patterson, R. M., 186, 474.

Paulding, James K., 115, 138.

Pavesi, Prof. Pietro, 38.

Payne, Thomas, 418.

Peabody Academy of Sciences, Salem, 78, 211, 259.

Peabody Museum of Archzeology, Cambridge,
78, 211, 259.

Peale, Charles Willson, establishes Philadelphia
Museum, 70, 114, 273, 403, 443.

Peale, Rembrandt, 70, 443.

Peale, Rubens, 70, 443.

Peale, Titian R., naturalist, 120 n.

Pearce, James A., Regent Smithsonian Institu-
tion, 143, 322.

Peck, William Dandridge, zoologist, 403, 426, 430.

Peel, Sir Robert, 252.

Peirce, Benjamin, Superintendent Coast Survey,
296; quoted, 453-454, 457-

Peirson, Rev. Abraham, linguist, 375.

Penn, William, 389.

Pennant, Thomas, 397.

Pennsylvania, colleges and learned societies, 352.

‘*Pennsylvania Gazette,” 275, 324, 416.

Pennsylvania Historical Society, 274 n.

Penrhyns Island, specimens from, 171.

People’s Palace, London, 252.

Percy, Henry, Earl of Northumberland, 358.

Perkins, B. D., 431.

Perry, Matthew C., commodore, expedition to
Japan, 311.

Persia, museums in, 66, 245.

Peru, specimens from, 165, 172, 174.

Peters, Richard, 186.

Petiver, James, 376, 377, 385.

Philadelphia, literary and scientific activities in
410, 413; museums of, 70.

Philadelphia Museum, 79, 102, 114, 115, 273, 443.

Philippines, specimens, 166, 174; Tagala gram-
mar, 162.

Phillips, Sir ‘Thomas, 360 n.

Philosophical Society, Washington, Goode, presi-
dent of, 58; founded, 315.

Pickering, Dr. Charles, naturalist, 113, 120 n, 121,
122, 123, 125, 128, 129, 132, 161, 163, 173, 174.

Pickering, John, 1o1 n.

Pickering, Timothy, Secretary of State,

Pickett, James C., 474.

Pierce, James, geologist, 438, 459.

Pike, Nicholas, 419.

Pike,General Zebulon, expedition under, 114, 291,
434-

Pilling, James C., philologist, 375.

Pinus banksiana, 405.

Pisa, University museum of, 221.

Piso, 383.

Pitti Museum, Florence, 210.

Pitt-Rivers Collection, Oxford, 78, 79, 209, 211, 259.

277, 278 n.

Playfair, Sir Lyon, on science in America, 323-324.

Pliny, 66, 245.

Plumier, Charles, botanist and zoologist, 382.

Plumier1a, 405.

Poinsett, Joel R., president National Institution,
97, 99, 100, IOI, 102, 103, 104, 106, 107, 108, 109, 112,
115, 116, 119, 124, 127, 129, 138, 312;
National Museum, tor; Secretary of War, 411.

Polk, President J. K., 319.

Pomotee Archipelago, specimens from, 171,

first to suggest
5i2

Pompeii, 78. See Naples.

‘Popular Science Mouthly,” circulation, 464.

Porter, Dr. Jacob, botanist, 438.

Porter, J. M., Secretary of War, 130.

Porter, President Noah, Regent Smithsonian In-
stitution, 322.

Potomac Company, 275.

Pourtalés, Count, L. F., naturalist, 456.

Powell, Maj. J. W., 25, 292, 370, 434, 459.

Prentiss, James, 186.

Prescott, Wm. H., 368, 369.

Preston, W. C., Senator, bill for organizing
Smithsonian Institution, 79, 190, Ior n, 104, 106,
108; interest in science, 120, 125, 177, 180, 181, 309;
Regent Smithsonian Institution, 143, 322.

Price, Dr. Richard, 275.

Priestley, Joseph, 415, 418.

Propaganda, museum of the, 78, 258.

Propyleum, Athens, 245.

Provincetown, Goode at, 20.

Puget Sound, specimens from, 166.

Pursh, Frederick, botanist, 431.

Quercus bartramtt, 405.

Rafinesque, Constantine, 92 1, 420, 428, 438, 442,
447, 450.

Raleigh, Sir Walter, 357, 358, 360.

Randolph, Edmund, 279.

Ratisbon, Valhalla at, 210.

Rau, Dr. Charles, 368.

Ray, John, naturalist, 56, 385, 393, 403.

Raynal, Abbé, and Thomas Jefferson, 42t.

Redfield, W.C., meteorologist, 299, 446, 457, 469.

Rees’s Cyclopedia, American edition of, 442.

Reid, Sir William, meteorologist, 446.

Rennie, George, 222.

Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, Troy, organ-
ized, 446.

Rhees, William J., 85, 94, 96, Ioo n, 105 n, 141 n,
145 1, 149 N, 153, 287 n, 320.

Rhode Island, colleges and learned societies,
352; scientific men in, 464.

Rice, Prof. William N., 43.

Rice, Rev. Luther, 286 n.

Rich, William, botanist, 120 n.

Richardson, Sir John, naturalist, influence on
America, 447.

Ridgely, Capt. C. S., 449.

Rigaud, Stephen P., 359.

Riggs, George W., jr., 190, I9I.

Rijks Ethnographisch Museum, Leyden, 78, 258.

Riley, C. V., on Hessian Fly, 273.

Rittenhouse, David, 265, 273, 403, 419; scientific
work of, 412, 453.

Rives, William C., 108.

Robbins, Asher, Senator, resolution respecting
Smithsonian fund, 95-96.

Roberdeau, Col. Isaac, 285 n, 308.”

Robertson, William, 368.

Robertson, Ignatius Loyola, 90 n.
iS ies

Robin, C. C., botanist, 431-432.

Robin, Vespasian, botanist, 381.

Robinia, 405.

Rochefort, N., traveler, 383.

Rogers, expedition to North Pacific, 311, 458.

Rogers, H. D., 452, 457.

Rogers, W. B., 452, 457, 469.

Romano-German Museum, Mainz, 210.

See Knapp,

Index.

Rome, museums of, 77, 198, 199, 211, 245, 259; art, 66.

Rood, Ogden N., 459.

Root, Oren, 167.

Rotterdam, museum of, 78, 211, 258.

Rouelle, John, mineralogist, 270.

Royal Academy, of France, 270. :

Royal Academy of History, Spain, 363.

Royal Botanical Garden, Kew, 213, 257, 311.

Royal College of Surgeons, London, museum of,
257, 258.

Royal Irish Academy, 210.

Royal Society, London, 270, 298, 310, 312 n, 385, 386,
387, 388, 402, 430; founded, 265; relation to sci-
ence in America, 265, 400, 412, 428.

Rumford, Count, 402, 403.

Rupel, Mr., U.S. consul at La Guaira, 163.

Ruschenberger, Dr. W.S. W., 285 n.

Rush, Dr. Benjamin, 92n, 267, 276, 387,402; on a
National University, 327-329; scientific work
of, 412.

Rush, Richard, 94, 99, IoI n, 108, 113, 137, 139, 186,
285 n, 323, 472; Regent Smithsonian Institution,
322.

Ruskin, John, 239.

Sabine, J., 360 n.

Sagard. See Théodat.

St. Germain, museum of, 78, 210, 218, 260.

St. Helena, specimens from, 165, 166, 174.

St. Hilaire, A. F.C. P. de, 256.

St. Louis Academy of Science, 315.

St. Paul’s, London, 79, 219.

St. Petersburg, museum of, 211 213; Royal Botan-
ical Garden, 213, 257.

Salisbury, Blackmore Museum at, 78, 211, 258.

Salisbury, Lord, 69 n, 377.

Salix cutlert, 405.

Saltero, Master, 68, 378.

Samoa, specimens from, 165, 166, 171, 174.

Sandwich Islands, specimens from, 165, 166, 171,
174.

Sargent, Charles S., 289 n, 290 n.

Sarvacenta, 405.

Saturn, third ring of, discovered, 456.

Savi, Paolo, 221.

Savonarola, Girolamo, 79, 260.

Say, Thomas, zoologist, 114, 417, 439, 442, 446; sci-
entific work of, 447-448, 450.

Sayinsch, Dr. Lewis, 167.

Scarus catesbyt, 405.

Schiel, James, chemist, 457.

Schmeisser, John G., mineralogist, 430.

Sch6ne, Dr. R., 38.

Schoepf, Johann David, naturalist and surgeon,
384, 396-397, 430, 432.

Schoolcraft, Henry R., mineralogist, 114, 186, 438;
439, 447; expedition under, 297, 370.

Schuyler, Gen. Philip, 277.

“ Science,’ Goode’s contributions to, 23.

“Science News,’’ Goode’s contributions to, 57.

“Scientific American,’ circulation, 464.

Sclater, Philip Lutley, 18, 58.

Scott, Robert H., 299.

Screven Collection, 167.

Scudder, Newton P., collaborator of Goode, 22.

Seaton, William Winston, 91n, 184, 195, 2851;
Regent Smithsonian Institution, 143.

Seba, museum of, Amsterdam, 68, 378.

Serra, José Francisco Correa da, naturalist, 445.
Index.

Sévres, museum of, 217.

Sewall, Dr. Thomas, 184, 284, 285 n, 474.

Seybert, Henry, 446.

Shakespeare, William, 68, 378.

Shakespeare Museum, Stratford, 79, 260.

Shepard, Charles U., 446.

Sherman, Gen. W. T., Regent Smithsonian Insti-
tution, 322.

Shippen, Dr. William, scientific work of, 412.

Siena, 69 n, 377.

Sienna, museum of, 218.

Silliman, Benjamin, chemist, 57, 427, 446; founder
“American Journal of Science," 427, 441; period
of, 409, 453, 455, 457; quoted, 435, 440, 452.

Silliman, Benjamin, jr., 446.

Sims, Alexander D., Ito.

Simms, S. A., 34.

Sinclair, Sir John, Washington to, 273.

Singapore, specimens from, 165, 166, 174.

Sitgreaves, Lorenzo, explorer, 458.

Skil; Foy. V., 34:

Slack, Elijah, manager Western Museum, 444 n.

Slafter, E. F., 361 n., 372 n.

Sloane, Sir Hans, 68, 102, 115, 238, 246 378, 386; visit
to America, 389.

Small, William, mathematician, 402.

Smith, Capt. John, 56, 371-372.

Smith, Elihu Hubbard, quoted, 428.

Smith, James Edward, entomologist, 387 n, 391,
429.

Smith, Samuel H., 285 n.

Smith, Sir J. E., 418.

Smith, William R., director Botanic Garden, 311.

Smithson, James, 25, 111, 144; bequest to the
United States, 85, 86, 93, 97, 136, 145, 158, 287, 305,
306, 307, 475; collection of, 122.

Smithsonian Institution, 42, 43, 44, 45, 53, 54, 70, 85,
86, 91, 93, 95, 56, 97, 98, 104, 105, L07, 109-110, III, 112,
113, 118, 136, 137, 141, 142, 145, 146, 147, 148, 151, 152,
153, 154, 156, 280, 287, 288, 298, 299, 312,475; history
of, 319-322; incorporation of, 142; influence on
science in America, 457, 458, 461, 462; regents of,
142, 143, 144, 145, 146, 147, 148, 149, 150, 151, 152; rela-
tion to National Museum, 150, 151, 152, 154-156;
report of committee on organization, 143 n,
I44 n; resolutions on death of G. Brown Goode,
33; Weather Bureau under, 300, 301, 302.

Soane Museum, London, 79, 209, 252, 260.

Société des Amis des Sciences Naturelles de
Moscow, Goode member of, 58.

Société Scientifique du Chile, Goode member of,
58.

Société ZoGlogique de France, Goode member of,
58.

Society for the Promotion of Science and the
Useful Arts, Dublin, 103.

Society Islands, specimens from, 166, 174.

Society of Arts, London, relation to American
scientific work, 400-401.

Society of Colonial Wars, 5, 59.

Sons of the American Revolution, District of
Columbia, 16, 33, 58.

Sons of the Revolution, District of Columbia, 16,
33) 59-

Sooloo Sea, specimens from, 166, 174.

South Carolina, colleges and learned societies,
352; scientific men in, 464.

NA MUS 97, PT 2

33

|
|

Tappan, Benjamin, Senator, 110, 124, 125, 179, 180

913

South Dakota, colleges of, 346.

South Kensington Museum, 71, 76, 80, 210, 211, 212,
221, 247, 253, 256, 259, 261.

South Sea, idols from, 135.

South Shetlands, specimens from, 166.

Southampton, Lord, 69 n, 377.

Southard, Samuel L., 285, 295, 471.

Southern Historical Society, Goode, member of,
58.

“Southern Literary Messenger,” 94, 140 n, 317.

Spencer, Herbert, quoted, 404.

Spencer, John C., 108, 157, 190, 472.

Spigelia marilandica, described, 388.

Spofford, A. R., 282.

Spotswood, Governor William,
under, 288.

Spring (Vauxhall) Garden, American fishes ex-
hibited at, 68.

Stansbury, C. F., 141; expedition under, 456.

Staughton, Rev. William, 285 n.

Steele, William, manager Western
444 1.

Steendam, Jakob, 382.

Steller, Georg W., 384, 397.

Stema forsteritz, 405.

Stephens, John L,., 170.

Stewart, F. D. (Stuart), 120 n.

Stillingfleet, Benjamin, 419.

Stith, William., 359.

Stockholm, museums of, 78, 258.

Stokes, Dr. Jonathan, 270 n.

Stolephorus mitchill, 405.

Stolpe, Dr. Hjalmar, 78, 258,

Storer, Frank H., 457.

Stratford, museum at, 68, 79, 260.

Strickland, William, 186.

Strong, M., 167.

Sturbridge Fair, 68.

Suckley, George, and Baird, Spencer F., 458.

Sué, an anatomist, 70, 413.

Sullivan, Gen. John, and Thomas Jefferson, 394.

Sullivan, J. ’T., 184.

Sumner, Senator Charles, 312.

Swartz, Olaf, botanist, 384, 432.

Swift, Capt. William Henry, 472.

Switzerland, museums of, 78, 260.

Syng, Philip, 416.

Tahiti, specimens from, 165, 171.

Talcott, A., 185.

Tallmadge, James, 186.

Taney, Chief Justice R.B., Regent Smithsonian
Institution, 143, 322.

explorations

Museum,

,
181, 182, 183.

‘Taylor, Zachary, President of the United States,
139, 140.

Tennent, Dr. John, botanist, 387-388.

‘Tennessee colleges and learned societies, 352.

‘Terguenett, Lord, 88 n.

Terra del Fuego, specimens from, 145, 172, 174.

Tertre, Jean Baptiste du, traveler, 381.

Texas, colleges of, 353; scientific men in, 464.

Thacher, John Boyd, 37.

Thalictrum cornutt, 405.

The Hague, museums of, 78, 211, 258.

Théodat, Gabriel Sagard, explorer, 361 n, 381.

‘Thomas, Francis, 285.
514

Thomas, Isaiah, 442.

‘Thomas, Dr. M., 184.

Thompson, J., Secretary of the Interior, 155.

Thompson, Maurice, 419.

Thornton, D. William, 285 n.

Thorpe, George, 272.

Thorwaldsen Museum, 209, 218, 260.

Thurber, Isaac, 473.

Thurn, E. Finn, 370.

Tippoo Saib, 88 n.

Todd, Charles B., 282 n.

Tongatabu, specimens from, 165, 171, 174.

Tornel, José M., minerals presented by, 134.

Torquemada, Juan de, 368, 371.

Torrey, Dr. John, botanist, 386, 438, 446, 451, 452,
457; 458.

Totten, Col. J. G., 99, 106, 139, 167, 176, 180; Regent
Smithsonian Institution, 143, 144 n, 190, I91,
322.

Totten Collection, 122.

Townsend, I. R., taxidermist, 159, 161.

Townsend, J. K., 122, 190.

Tradescant, John, the younger, naturalist, 69 n,
377s 379, 405.

Tradescantia virginica, 405.

Tradescants, father and son, naturalists, 68.

Troost, Dr. Gerard, naturalist, 445.

True, A. .\C.,.313,,345.

Trumbull, Lyman, Regent Smithsonian Institu-
tion, 322.

Tryon, Governor William, 268.

Tucker, George, 186, 474.

Tuckerman, H. T., 140 n, 375 n, 376, 379, 381.

Tulu (Sulu?) Islands, specimens from, 165.

Turgot, A.R. J., 275.

‘Turner, Dawson, 418.

Turner, Lucien, 370.

Turrell’s Museum, Boston, 71, 443.

Tycho Brake, 306.

Tyl-., Dr. Grafton, 186.

T ler, John, President of the United States,
10I N, 107, 138, 308, 315, 317, 318 n, 472; interest in
telegraph, 319.

Tyler, John, jr., 473.

Tyler, Lyon G., quoted, 318 n.

Tylor, Prof. E. B., 368.

Tyson, Edward, 388 n.

Uffizi Gallery, Florence, 221.
Uffizi.

United States Army Medical Museum, 211, 257,
258, 323.

United States Bureau of Education, founded,
323%

United States Bureau of Ethnology, founded,
323,

United States Coast Survey, 288, 311, 462; origin
of, 292-296, 297, 442, 475; reorganized, 311, 317,
452, 455-456.

United States Commissioner of Patents, 125,
129, 130, 132, 141, 142N, 149, 151, 152, 153, 154, 155,
280, 315, 316. See Ellsworth, H. L.,; Holloway,
DE:

United States Fish Commission, 18, 19, 27, 43, 44,
49, 53, 59, 462; founded, 323.

United States Geological Survey, 292, 459, 462.

United States Military Academy, 277, 434.

United States Military Philosophical Society, 86,
470; established, 277, 471.

See Museum of the

Index.

United States National Museum, 19, 23, 27, 28, 30,
33) 34) 35; 36, 44, 45, 46, 47, 50, 52, 56, 61, 70, 74, 75, 86,
93, 98, 102, 105, 107, I13, II5, 118, 130, 136, 137, 139,
145, 147, 149 01, 156, 201, 204, 211, 224, 227, 231, 233,
234, 237, 255, 257, 259, 278 n, 280, 312, 321, 322, 458,
475; beginnings of, 98, 99; lectures, 3, 6, 8, 9, 10;
relation to Smithsonian Institution. See Sm7th-
sonian Institution.

United States Naval Academy, 317, 462.

United States Naval Observatory, founded, 308,
318; work of, 309, 311, 462, 475.

United States Patent Office, 86, 104, 111, 113, 119,
122M, 123, 125, 127, 128, 130, 131, 132, 133, 134, 137,
140, 141, 142, 148, 149, 150, I5], 152, 153, 154, 155, 156,
157, 158, 159, 161, 298, 311; established, 277; rela-
tion to Department of Agriculture, 315, 316;
sketch of, 277-280.

United States Signal Service, sketch of, 298-302.

University of Maryland, 273.

University of North Carolina, 273.

University of Pennsylvania, 273; museum of, 211.

University of Pisa, 221.

University of the State of New York, regents of,
2098.

University of Vermont, 273.

Upper California, specimens from, 166.

Upshur, A. P., Secretary of the Navy, 123, 157, 3173
interest in Naval Observatory, 318.

Utah, colleges of, 353.

Vaillant, Dr. Leon, 38.

Valhalla, Ratisbon, 210,

Valparaiso, specimens from, 168.

Van Buren, Dr. William H., 474.

Van Buren, Martin, President of the United
States, 93,94, 115,311; Department of Agricul-
ture created, 315.

Van Der Donck, Adriaen, zoologist, 382.

Vanderkemp, F. Adrian, zoologist, 425.

Van Rensselaer, Stephen, 441.

Vanuxem, Prof. Lardner, zoologist, 451-452.

Varden, John, 122, 159, 161.

Vardin. See Varden,

Varigny, Henri de, 36.

Vatican, 218, 260.

Vauxhall Garden, Americai fishes exhibited
at, 68.

Vega, Garcilasso de la, historian, 367-368, 371.

Venegas, Miguél, explorer, 380.

Venice, museums of, 78, 80, 258.

Vermont, colleges and learned societies, 353.

Vernatti, Sir Philiberto, 375.

Vernet, Horace, 270.

Vernon, William, 377.

Vernonia, 405.

Versailles, museum at, 210.

Victoria, Queen of England, 135.

Vienna, museums of, 78, 210, 211, 213, 257, 258.

Vilas, William F., Secretary of the Interior, 153 n.

Villegagnon, Chevalier de, 364.

Viola muhlenbergii, 418.

Virginia, collegesand learned societies, 353; spec-
imens from, 69 n, 377. r

Virginia Company, of London, 272, 273.

Virginia Historical Society, Goode member of, 58.

Volney, Count, traveler, 432-433.

Voltaire, F. M. A. de, quoted, 306.

Waite, Chief Justice M. R., Chancellor Smithso-
nian Institution, 322.
Index.

Walker, Francis A., Superintendent Tenth Cen-
Sus, 53.

Walker, R. J., Senator, 103, 104, 106, 107, 108, 124,
125, 176, 179, 190, 191, 472; quoted, 474.

Walker, Sears C., 457.

Wallace, Alfred Russell, 212, 257, 428.

Wallis, Dr. John, 265 n, 359.

Walter, Thomas, botanist, 399.

Walter, Thomas U., 155.

Walton, Isaac, Io.

Wangenheim, Capt. Frederick A. J., 432.

Warner, Walter, 358, 359.

Warrington, Commodore Lewis, 176, 180.

Washington, D.C., museums of, 77, 259; scientific
men in, 463; societies of, 3, 315.

Washington, George, 278, 324; and internal im-
provements, 277; and Military Academy at
West Point, 277, 434; and a national university,
274, 275, 311, 312; interest in science, 273, 307, 323,
418-419, 433, 466, 471.

Washington College, 275.

Washington relics, disposition of, 140, 142.

Washington State, college of, 353.

Washington University, proposal to establish,
145.

Waterhouse, Prof. Benjamin, naturalist, 402, 415,
427.

Waterton, Charles, 419.

Watts, Frederick, Commissioner of Agriculture,
316.

Wayland, Francis, recommendation respecting
use of Smithsonian fund, 94.

Wayne, Gen. Anthony, 418.

Webster, Daniel, 394, 471.

Webster, H., naturalist, 441.

Webster, Prof. J. W., geologist, 438.

Weightman, Roger C., 285 n.

Weimar, museum of, 210.

Weld, Isaac, influence on Smithson, 287 n, 320.

Welling, Dr. J. C., 276, 284; Regent Smithsonian
Institution, 322.

Wells, Dr. William Charles, 428.

Wesleyan University, 18, 42, 43; “College Argus,”
21, 23, 42, 55; Orange Judd Hall of Natural Sci-
ence, 42, 55, 316.

Western Museum, Cincinnati, 71, 444; Society, 71,
444.

Western Reserve College, observatory of, 306.

Westminster Abbey, 210.

West Point, Military Academy at, 277.

West Virginia, colleges and learned societies,
353; scientific men in, 464.

Wheeler, Lieut. George M., 459.

Wheeler, William A., Regent Smithsonian Insti-
tution, 322.

Whewell, William, 363, 368 n.

White. See With.

White, Gilbert, 419.

White Bear, London, American fishes exhibited
at, 68, 378.

Whitney, Prof. Josiah D., 274 n, 457.

Whittlesey, Charles, 459.

Wickliffe, C. A., 190.

Wiertz, Antonie J., artist, 209.

Wilkes, Capt. Charles, expedition under, 69, 114,
115, 119, 120N-I21N, 122, 125, 126, 127, 128, 131, 311;
observations by, 308,

a)

Wilkes exploring expedition, 114, 115, 116, 117,
120 N-12IN, 122, 123, 124, 126, 127, 128, 129, 131, 135,
152, 153, 159, 161, 162, 164, 165, 166, 167, 168, 169, 170,
173, 174, 177, 178, 179, 180, 182, 311, 312, 453, 458.

Wilkins, Bishop John, 265, 266.

Wilkins, William, 190.

Willard, Dr. Joseph, Thomas Jefferson to, 395.

Willcox, Gen. Orlando B., 33.

Willett, Joseph, 167.

William the Conqueror, King of England, 135.

William and Mary College. See College of Wil-
liam and Mary.

Williams, Gen. Jonathan, first president West
Point Military Academy, 277; scientific work,
414-415.

Williams, I. R., 187.

Williams, Rev. Samuel, 427.

Williams College, observatory of, 306.

Williamson, Dr. Hugh, astronomer, 265, 399-400,
421, 430.

Wilmot, David, 110.

Wilson, Alexander, ornithologist, 291 n, 429-430,
434, 442, 448, 451; relations with Audubon, 450.

Wilson, Gen. John M., 277 n.

Wilson, William L., 4, 13, 59.

Winchell, Alexander, 459.

Winkelmann, Hans Just, traveler, 354.

Winlock, Joseph, 317 n.

Winslow, Edward, 372.

Winsor, Justin, 274 n.

Winthrop, John, 1st, correspondent of Royal
Society, 265, 375.

Winthrop, John, 2d,a founder of Royal Society,
265, 375:

Winthrop, John, 3rd, contributor to Royal Soci-
ety, 265, 375. :

Winthrop, John, professor at Harvard, 402.

Winthrop, Robert C., 269.

Wirt, William, 283 n, 285 n, 287.

Wisconsin, colleges and learned societies, 354.

Wisconsin Academy of Arts, Science, and Let-
CETS, 375; .354°

Wistar, Dr. Caspar, correspondence with Jeffer-
son, 281; scientific work, 400, 412, 413, 429.

Wistarta, 405.

With (or White), John, first artist to visit Amer-
ica, 362.

Wood, Anthony, 358, 359.

Wood, William, naturalist, 373-374, 375.

Woodbridge, William, Senator, 125, 183.

Woodbury, Levi, Senator, president National In-
stitution, 100, for mn, 103, 105, 106, 107, 109, 136, 139,
176, 180, 185, 190, 191, 472.

Woodhouse, Dr. James, chemist and mineralo-
gist, 400, 415.

World’s Fair, London, 140, 141.

Wyman, Jeffries, 457, 459.

Wyoming, college and learned society, 354.

Yale Analytical Laboratory, founded, 456.

Yale College, 273.

Yarnall, Mordecai, 317.

Yeomans, John W., 186.

Young, Arthur, Washington to, 273.

Zach, Dr. Franz von, 359.

Ziegler, Mr., specimens presented by, 167.

Zoological Society, London, Goode member of,
58; address before, 461,

O
“a aa Aq ae 4) ‘«é ae Bag
‘ y “a ; ‘a & a ‘9 wi! f) F oY ‘ahi ¥]
‘I se ry z

..» 4 % i tig
JW Jy iat 8 7.
ya 7 % a a
i if fy
x “ ; " ;

a id me
oe ." vast i a ri Je
(Se oo 8 et A a at e.

ie

f Re 4 ie: vp ee 7 X 1
eS x « | a at 3 ; oe
3 ‘& ? » a 4 hs B q
, 4 Po", a : SN ce q

fl

b a b -_ Ae J @ ta |
a fs tty er ee ae ¥ ; & ce
fe eR Sw Oa a ‘a a Vd et et i 3 4.9.9.8.)
on os we a ” aq ut ih eal ‘é ; ‘id af ee
— i “ww

a ot a
i a) we ’ <

Cee § be .
var

‘

fa f MMMM Oe
it 8 vf ok ‘ im ae ah at ea’
ies eh i ee ee o
i a at sie wad mae Me
i, ah mM ¥
en ia Hae es! pate ne xt at

ay tee , es
see |

a & be ieee es

: a
» —
ww

g - = B o— —
= Z 2 . - " 2
j 2 < : 4 : .
= 4 = 3 |
Pa ~ ie ; ; b J |
| 3 : s = : ; ‘ Aa , i
H © A = “hi aa S| A x | mt K ‘ j i
| : : : 5 24 k
3 . ‘j 5) 8} + ou

Lm - : 5 |
at 34 my ;
3 a) a}
| “3 ; i |
; pe *.., > ,
: | : | |
| ; A 4 y { 1 )
j ai} i } i
oh A 3
* ‘ ] 5 »s . zy
B] :
2
PS J
. *.
7 " " * - .
* ? - ; |
§ a
. 4
: 4
4 ; | ,
2 ¢ |
; :
> “ 4
-
> |
: ~ r .
is . . =
1 so > ‘-
‘ : : § |
| ! ‘ 2
4 i A #
: , ~~
% al J 2 ;
+ 4
é |
. 2 | | |
‘ is “ :
. ‘ ~~ >
3 gi | ,
_ * =~ :
4 4 ; :
4
\ a ;
: - |
, , = 4
= > a
E :
s+ 3
= 3 \
4
. °
> 4
" ;
: > 4
; .
‘ x
»- 7 :
{ ’
; 24 ‘
, -
=
:
¢
=
_ .
XX a
.
<3 a
& ZX :
4 “i J
; é Be =* ‘ ; ~
me Z 3
, a -
H ° ,
Sy

